

g
X
A
i m
mmm
m
k * j
ik A
Ik/ iM
8§| /M
Ins';' •'JaBBi
1937 Kodaks fit every
camera need! No matter
what kind of pictures you
want there’s a Kodak that
will suit you exactly.
vgam
mm
1
■
KODAK 620 DUO
wmm
If
■V.
mm
:
: . : •
m
Q
SSSi?
S
$
ft
.W
s
1
gives you album-size contact prints
—yet with miniature camera pre-
cision and convenience. Makes 16
exposures on F620 Film.
Compur Shutter. F/4.5 lens . . £8
F/3.5 lens . . . £10
36 exp. RETINA
gives you all the fascinating
advantages of 36 exp. 35mm.
film without undue expense or
complication. F/3.5 lens with
Speed Compur Shutter to 1 /500th.
Price £10/10/-
Chromium finish ........ £12
AMAZING VALUE 39'9
620 Kodak Junior with F/8.8 Anast. Lens
Nothing like this has ever been offered before
a magnificent opportunity to
bring your picture making up-
to-date. Has 12 special features
for better pictures. Size 2| x
31 inches. Outstanding in design
and workmanship. Has F/8.8
Anastigmat Lens and 8 A.G.C.
Shutter with two snapshot speeds,
T. and B., etc., etc.
CsSSIR
BE SURE TO SEE THE. . . .
KODAK HOME MOVIES
Snapshots are fine, but real movies capture the whole of the
action of any scene—and it’s ready to spring to life again
ft
c
5S
on the silver screen
in your home when-
ever you wish.
There’s no* finer
family investment
than a Cine-Kodak
Eight with F/3.5
lens.
Price ... £11/19/6
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS
KODAK AUSTi PTY LTD
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block," 284 Collins Street, Melbourne. Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
37 Rundie Street, Adelaide ; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobnc; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
East Street, Rockhampton ; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Chr'stchurch.
I
lf/8.8 Anast. Lens
rz.r\/.
The Bulletin
“Seventy-six More Deaths ” (Page 12)
Vol. 58.—N0. 2972.
Wednesday, January 27, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ĺ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne.
- CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
Prelude LVL
Rimbaud and Verlaine, precious pair of poets
Genius in both (but what is genius?) playing ’
Chess on a rparble table at an inn
With chestnut blossom falling in blond beer
And on their hair and between knight and bishop—
Sunlight squared between them on the chessboard
Cirrus in heaven, and a squeal of music
Blown from the leathern door of Ste. Sulpice—
Discussing, between moves, iamb and spondee
Anacoluthon and the open vowel
God the great peacock with his angel peacocks
And his dependent peacocks the bright stars:
Disputing too of fate as Plato loved it,
Or Sophocles, who hated and admired,
Or Socrates, who loved and was amused:
Verlaine puts down his pawn upon a leaf
And closes his long eyes, which are dishonest,
And says “Rimbaud, there is one thing to do:
We must take rhetoric, and wring its neck!” . . .
Rimbaud considers gravely, moves his Queen;
And then removes himself to Timbuctoo.
And Verlaine dead—with all his jades and mauves;
And Rimbaud dead in Marseilles with a vision,
His leg cut off, as once before his heart;
And all reported by a later lackey,
Whose virtue is his tardiness in time.
Let us describe the evening as it is:
The stars disposed in heaven as they are:
Verlaine and Shakspeare rotting, where they rot,
Rimbaud remembered, and too soon forgot;
Order in all things, logic in the dark;
Arrangement in the atom and the spark;
Time in the heart and sequence in the brain—
Such as destroyed Rimbaud and fooled Verlaine.
And let us then take godhead by the neck —
And strangle it, and with it, rhetoric.
—Conrad Aiken : “The Faber Book of Modern Verse.”
Australian Writers Abroad (II).
Last year a friend of mine, travelling in Spain,
had the good luck to meet Unamuno, the great
Spanish writer. When my friend admitted that he
was Australian Unamuno became immediately
interested.
“Australian?” he said. “Ah, yes. Australians
are not a strange people to me since I read Marcel
Aurousseau.”
And he began to talk enthusiastically about
Aurousseau’s books, Highway into Spain and Beyond
the Pyrenees. He knew them thoroughly ; he had
even translated parts of them, and he took them seri-
ously as works of distinction. This is a great com-
pliment from a writer whose own analyses of the
Spanish character have been penetrating and pro-
found, and who has always been a great reader in
many languages. It is unusual for such a man to
regard as anything but superficial the writing of
foreigners upon his own country.
Europeans are inclined to be ironic about bar-
barians from the new countries who criticise or
expound the character of their ancient civilisations.
“These Americans, these colonials,” they say, “trail-
ing around with open mouths like country visitors
at a museum.” But Marcel Aurousseau is better
equipped than most people from new countries, for
he has experienced Europe deeply through his imagi-
nation, his reading and his family associations. His
grandmother was English, his grandfather French ;
and this mixed ancestry gives variety and penetration
in his work. .His mind has a French clarity, and this
is reflected in his literary style, but his sources of
feeling are all Australian: the creative part of him
is only awakened by the country in which he was
born. He told me recently that when he thought
about writing all his thoughts invariably went back
to Sydney—-he would be quite happy if he could
make a satisfying little anthology of verses celebrat-
ing the town —some of Harpur, Kendall, Daley and
later writers: he knew practically everything that
had been written about this city in which he grew
up. And he is excited to discover anything in Europe
that reminds him of his own country, as when dis-
covering a plant with pink, cuplike flowers in the
Pyrenees: —•
It brought a vague sense of kinship, of the light
bonds that are thrown like gossamer web about the
world, to find in the remote Pyrenees plants that grow
in Australian gardens—the lavender here; the fleshy,
prim rosettes of green at some place further back which
we call “Irish roses” in Australia—refined old ladies who
grow pinks and candytufts use them for formal borders,
And underlying the sympathy which these plants estab-
lished was a.feeling of discovery: of having found the
true home of plants that are naturalised in my own
country.
My own country! It is the repetition of that
phrase, of that point of view that gives something
personal, intimate, sincere to Marcel Aurousseau’s
books of travel. They are not merely a record of
things seen: they are chiefly a record of things felt
and thought, and they have that subtle humor that
flows like good wine through all the best of such
literature. In spite of his knowledge of architecture,
art, modern languages and literature, Aurousseau is
primarily a poet: that is, his talent is rooted deeply
in the emotions.
Although his published works are all of travel
he would probably have written just as much if he
had never left Sydney. It was as a member of the
A.I.F. that he first went abroad, and he was led to
travel extensively over Europe and America, his pro-
fessional instincts as a geographer curiously combin-
ing with an absorption in the arts and a habit of
acquiring languages. Lately ill-health, the effect of
an old war wound, has curbed his wandering instincts
a little, and he has settled in London, but if circum-
stances were kindly he would probably be home
to-morrow. There is his interest as a geographer in
our great empty spaces: there is his feeling as a
patriot of the need for filling the great empty spaces
of our intellectual life.
Like Aurousseau as a traveller Dora Birtles has
the same kind of intellectual curiosity, the same air
of carrying an image of her own country around
wherever she goes. Miss Birtles would probably admit
that she owes something to Marcel Aurousseau, both
in style and in literary confidence. As a traveller
she has been more obviously adventurous than he
has. She shipped as one of the amateur crew on a
tiny cutter, setting out from Sydney to go round
the world. After a voyage of nine months, including
many dangers both from storms and calms, the boat
(the Gullmarn) finally came to rest, as far as its
crew was concerned, at Singapore, and North-West-
by-North is a record of its odyssey.
Miss Birtles is not quite on the same plane with
Marcel Aurousseau as a writer —she is less experi-
enced both in life and in her craft; but she has his
personal touch and varied interests. You don’t feel
when you are reading her that you are merely on
a little craft, slugging up, say, the coast of Borneo,
hemmed in by wooden planks on an empty sea : all
sorts of threads reach out to connect you with the
world of poetry, of social movements, of thought.
It was a very civilised place, the cockpit of the Gull-
marn, in spite of the cockroaches and the weevily
rice. The crew read Chekhov or books on
psychology when they weren’t taking their turn at the
tiller, or listened to the symphonies of Cesar Franck.
Yet they weren’t above working out the chart of
Cook’s voyages or learning how to troll for mackerel.
Dora Birtles is the modern traveller—sophisti-
cated, analytic and full of a malicious wit. She
also has the courage of her opinions on all sorts of
things. Courage—intellectual courage—isn’t a con-
spicuous feature of Australian life. In spite of our
proved physical courage, the air of Australia (one
notices it most sharply on coming back from abroad)
is uneasy with a mental timidity. We live far away
from the centres of civilisation. We are not sure
whether we have enough information about most
things to make up our minds about them. We are
inclined to hedge, to drift, to put our money (in
intellectual matters) on the favorite.
But Dora Birtles, like Marcel Aurousseau, is
fully grown-up, fully mature. This does not come
from living abroad, though she has been spending
the last year in Greece: it is a matter of character,
of inner intensity. After all, one can probe deeply
into life in Sydney as in London or Vienna, and
the essentials of civilisation aren’t concentrated in
any metropolis, notwithstanding Froude’s gibe that
old countries produced ideas and young countries
mutton and wool.
VANCE PALMER.
Index to Literary Interest.
“I like the local papers,” says John Doe in “John
o’ London’s Weekly.” “They are the mirror of our.
little intimate life.” With this in mind I made a
research in the Melbourne Public Library to test the
justice of the oft-aired grievance of Melbourne writers
that Australians generally are indifferent to literature,
especially the home product. If a man is interested
in a subject, I argued, he will be vocal about it. tie
will “write to the papers.” A wide survey of the
letters in a local paper should give a fairly accurate
picture of “the intimate life” of the people of that
district.
I went through 600 issues of 1935 and 1936
newspapers. They yielded but 190 letters, and this
is a summary of the subjects of correspondence:
Government (including Parliament, elections, Gov-
ernment policy, tariffs and taxes, local government): 33.
Transport and Traffic (efficiency, danger, noise): 19.
Government Departments (water supply, police; P. 0.,
pensions): .11.
Industry (chiefly marketing boards): 11.
Sport: 24.
Local Matters (appeals, thanks, correction of
reports): 18.
Religion (mainly eulogies of the Christian virtues):
16.
Health (housing, hospitals, food): 14.
Social Questions (divorce, cremation, “the right to
die,” teetotalism): 10.
Animals (coursing, Alsatians, zoos): 9.
Aesthetics (parks, gardens, scenery): 5.
Then one to three on diverse subjects, as mush-
rooms, international relations, King Billy, Eureka,
films, evolution, a beer strike, Russia.
Music was represented by two references to band
recitals ; sculpture, painting and drama did not receive
incidental notice.
Books? Two disputants quoted extensively from
Henry George ; there were two direct references to
books —one letter about the Bible, one on a free
library.
The proportional number of letters varied in
different papers, but so uniformly distributed were
the topics that this summary could be taken as typical
of any district in Victoria.
But I had followed a second line of inquiry. As
I went through those 600 papers, I scanned the weekly
supplements and magazine sections for what is loosely
called “creative literature,” and noted the number of
articles contributed by Australian writers. Here is
my estimate:
Essays and Sketches: None.
Original Poems: One on the death of the King,
one devotional poem. (Probably neither writer would
expect or desire payment.)
Serials: One, founded on local history, under a name
unknown to me, presumably Australian. One, syndi-
cated, by Jack McLaren.
There were many short stories—flapper fluff by
Jennifer This and Dorothy That —devoid of place-
names and local atmosphere; but not one bearing
an Australian brand.
These papers are to be seen in the Melbourne
Public Library, a few blocks away from halls and
clubrooms where writers are wont to moan over their
“lot austere.” Is it not time they ceased their wailing
over the devastating influence of countries overseas,
and tried by developing the home market to dissipate
that ignorance of Australian literature which they so
fervently deplore?
CLUAN.
"Possible Peace."
“The nations,” says W. McMahon Ball in Possible
Peace (Melbourne University Press), “are pursuing
to-day the same policies that produced a world disaster
in 1914. I have reiterated, ad nauseam, that the only
peace that armaments can produce is the peace that
lies in graveyards. I have tried to show that collec-
tive security based on a sense of justice is the only
ideal worth striving for, but that collective security
based, as it is to-day, upon armaments is a catch-
word for the credulous.”
This sums up the argument of the senior lecturer
in political philosophy at the university from which
the work is issued. Mr. Ball has not confined him-
self within orthodox ideas or theoretical systems.
He deals with the actual situation, which is a rare
thing in political philosophers, and he does not object
to handling the popular conceptions roughly. For
instance, he describes the methods of the Canberra
politicians as a combination of ignorance with apathy
which is appropriate to desert tribesmen.
In such a lowly stage of mental growth there seems
scarcely any limit to the readiness of dumb, ignorant
and courageous men to be martyred in some tribal
cause of which they understand nothing.
He claims that Canberra automatically accepts
the dictates of Downing-street, that Downing-street is
primarily concerned with protecting Londoners from
gas attacks, and that the British Navy in time of war
would be of little assistance to Australia. Australia
must look to its own security ; a democracy which
knows nothing and understands nothing and is main-
tained in that state of ignorance by equally ignorant
politicians is in a vulnerable position.
In this realm Mr. Ball is excellent. He finds a
conflict between impracticable ideals and practical
aims in the policies of every nation, including Britain,
and he is not afraid to say so. His proffered solution
is collective security based on wisdom.
A Book on Film Writing.
Successful Screen Writing (Methuen ; 7s. 6d.) by
Seton Margrave, film critic of London “Daily Mail,”
gives a clear explanation of what the screen requires
from the author.
Margrave has taken one of the most successful
films of the past year—“ The Ghost Goes West”—
to illustrate his advice. He prints the story as it
originally appeared (as “Sir Tristram Goes West” in
London “Punch”), shows treatment by the dramatist
and prints in full the finished scenario. By the time
the producer, dramatist, author and editor had
finished with it there was nothing left of the original
story but the idea.
Margrave claims that there is such a thing as
a film formula, in spite of statements to the contrary.
o Continued on page 9.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
'THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
ha IP yea rly.
/U n (
SALE
1
:
m
-
if *
m
ffl ■ M
I I
m
1
m
1
Furniture Bargains
Inset shows ingenious door
hingeing which gives a wider
hanging space.
196
The "Newmaster"
Man's Wardrobe
Compact and convenient'!. Doors are in figured Walnut and are excellently finished.
All metal work nickel plated. First-class workmanship throughout. Height sft. 9in.
Width 3ft. 7in. Depth 21-jin. Price .... £ 15/15/-. Sale Price .... £9/19/6,
for 1937
The "Brigadier"
Tallboy
The “Brigadier” Tallboy
has highly figured Walnut
doors, brightly polished.
Stands 6ft. high, is 3ft. 3in.
wide and 20in. deep. Two
trays and trouser rails on
right. Full hanging space
with shoe racks on left.
Mirror behind door.
Price .. .
Sale Price
£6/10/-
. . 79/6
79 iB
grig
m
The Allendale Bedroom Suite
This Suite is in matched figured Walnut. Has sft. fitted
Wardrobe, three doors, three trays and two shelves. The
Dressing Table is full-size and has seven drawers with
wooden handles and figured doors. Lowboy is 48in. high
and has three trays, tv/o shelves and ample hanging space.
Bedstead is full panelled and designed to match. Made ir.
r '" r own factory.
Price £32/10/-. Sale Price £24/10/
f24io-
;L1 Ll
LJ
m
£
• •
> &
fm
1
m
.3=:
£1319 6
Lounge Suite
Three-piece Lounge Suite. Frames are strongly constructed and fully
sprung. Coverings are of strong Tapestry in Fawn/Rust, Fawn/Blue,
Fawn/Green. Spring-filled cushions. Price ' £22/10/-
Sale Price £l3/19/6
Or with Genuine Dunloppillo Cushions.
f* r i ce £25/10/-. Sale Price £lB/9/6
w
i an
2z\ s
fl7'id
L
6-piece Dining Room Suite
Here’s a Dining Room Suite that will give you years and years of the mosl
satisfactory service. It comprises sft. Sideboard with figured Walnut front;
fitted two drawers and three cupboards. sft. x 2ft. 9in. Refectory Table and
four Dining Chairs with sprung seats. Price, £22/15/-. Sale Price, £l7/10/-.
59&
v
:
gss
5.V
Lounge
Chair
The “Dominion”
Easy Chair. High
back frames made
from selected timber. Brightly polished,
heavy front legs. Well-sprung seat, padded
back. Very comfortable. Price .. . .59/6
Sale Price ....... 39/6
Seagrass
Chair
Strongly constructed and comfortable
Seagrass Tub Chair with broad arms.
Relieved with Tango and Green lacings.
Price 25/-
Sale Price 16/9
i£r™d M N?g o ht:
ANTHONY HORDERN
and SONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


A Strong Yarn of Character
THE LIFELINE
BY
ANDREW STEWART
ILLUSTRATED BY G. K. TOWNSHEND .
ELUCTANTLY Dave Preston turned away
I V from the sea. In the sea he seemed to sense
I \ a kindred troubled spirit. He liked to watch
* it and forget about himself for a while, forget
everything. In the long, hot days he liked to battle
with the turbulent water that foamed round the Maori
Head, feel the fierce undertow clutching at his naked
body, and fight it.
Unlike the other, there was sanity in fighting
something that was real.
Twilight turned to dusk, dusk into darkness, with-
out his seeming to be aware of it. With a start he
awakened into reality, mounted, and rode slowly
through the starlight.
When the ridges shut off sound of the sea
Preston’s thoughts crowded in on him again, black,
stifling, bitter.
A pity that shell outside Mormel Forest hadn’t
finished him off properly! It had taken the rest of
the gun-crew; left him bodily unhurt but with some-
thing gone in his brain. A pity another war didn’t
happen along so that he might go out and get himself
shot decently!
“An encumbrance,” he said aloud. “A damned
encumbrance to everyone.”
A spasm of bitter laughter took him as he
thought about young Jim.
“You haven’t the guts of a louse, Dad!” That
from young Jim, his own son.
Jim believed
—as almost every-
one in the district
believed that
his infirmity was
a mere fallacy, an
excuse for the
hopeless mess he
had made of
everything, hi s
lack of interest in
his own affairs,
until he was
head-over-ears in
debt and his run
in the hands of
the agents.
Spiers entered
hi s thoughts—
Frank Spiers, the man the agents had
sent out to manage the run.
The little mare plunged as the
spurs ripped along her sides. He
snatched up the reins and checked
Dolly’s frightened dash.
“Sorry,” he muttered apologeti-
cally. “Sorry, old girl. Didn’t know
what I was doing.”
The worst of it was that there
was nothing of which he could accuse Spiers. Frank
Spiers was a white man. Preston liked him . . . and
hated him. Spiers had stolen the affection of his
children ; stolen the affections of Mary, his wife, but
with no intention of doing so.
There was something in Spiers’s eyes when he
looked at Mary ; something in Mary’s eyes also.
Preston laughed again. Just something in their
eyes. That was all; all there ever would be—-while
he himself lived.
He remembered that old automatic of his; it
had disappeared. That was Mary’s doing. She
needn’t have bothered. He had discarded that idea
long ago. He couldn’t leave them behind to bear
that stigma—Mary, Judy and young Jim.
Only yesterday he had watched Spiers and young
Jim riding together. Spiers was on Dandy, young
Jim on Princess. They had made a race of it. Jim
won by a yard or so. Then they rode into the home
paddock slowly, close together, laughing and talking.
A week ago Judy
had shown her new
frock to Spiers, but she
hadn’t shown it to her
father.
Brain - specialists!
Hell! A cure rested
entirely with himself,
they said. A healthier
outlook, and all that
sort of damned rot.
Why wouldn’t they
have him on an operat-
ing-table? Because
there was nothing
wrong with him—that
was the evidence of all their faces. But they didn’t
know.
Yet sometimes the ghastly suspicion did creep in.
Perhaps they were right, and he
No, they were wrong, damn them! They would
never know how hard he tried, groping blindly,
clutching with both hands for something he could
never grasp. Fighting ... nothing that was real.
With the sea it was different, though. With it
he could wage tangible warfare, and win. Defeat it
by sheer muscular strength when it tried to suck him
down into its treacherous depths or batter him to pulp
against the Maori Head.
H ARY PRESTON waited, standing on the veran-
-I*l dah of the Matangi homestead, listening intently
for the clatter of Dolly’s hooves on the shingle of the
river-flats.
Waiting thus for her husband to return from his
strange pilgrimages had become a habit with her.
Countless nights of anxiety, always expecting she
knew not what.
She murmured unconsciously, half-aloud: “Poor
Dave.”
Spiers tapped the dead ashes from his pipe on
the top rail of the verandah.
“I shouldn’t worry, Mrs. Preston,” he said. “He
always comes back.”
“Yes. But sometimes I wish he would never
come back.”
Her words brought him up with a jerk. She
continued calmly, only the slight huskiness in her
voice betraying her emotion and her great weariness.
“You won’t fail to understand me, of course, Mr.
Spiers. But it’s useless to try to evade it. Dave would
be better dead. In spite of what they say, I believe
his trouble is incurable. I’ve seen his suffering—and
suffered with him. I knew him before he went to the
war —the sort of fine man he was ; his ideals—every-
thing. And he wants to die, but not, as he has
expressed it himself, like a dog in a ditch. I some-
times ask that his wish be granted him —a fine death.
The sort of death he’d glory in fighting, leading
some forlorn hope. That’s Dave. You see —I know
him.”
Her outburst left Spiers moved, but with nothing
to say. Secretly he had blamed Preston for the years
of pain he had inflicted upon this fine woman. The
doctors couldn’t all be wrong.
(i Continued on page 6.)
The vessel, completely submerged from amidships to the stern, was rapidly going to pieces.


Tale of a Bright Young Thing
PRESENT FROM
SANTY CLAUS
. DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
BY FRANK GRAHAM
HELLO, Brenda! Is that you, darling?
Yes, Brenda, it’s me, all right. I- So I was
till yesterday. I’ve just got in this minute. I
had to tell you all about it. I’m No, no.
I’m ringing from Central. I’m so ex
I thought it was perfectly vile ; a terrible hole.
You see Oh, yes, I’m all right now ; I couldn’t
be better. For a while I was feeling anyhow, but
after I met Santy Claus I got No, I didn’t see
the reindeers, but he certainly filled the little old
stocking. It was
But, Brenda, that’s what I’m trying to tell you. I
met him at Brisbane. He
Yes, he paid my fare back No, but I will
soon. You’d find it
hard to remember a
chap’s name you’d only
seen twice too. But
I’ll Yes, Brenda,
it does sound a bit
cuckoo, but it’s true.
Oh, I remember it
now! It’s Henry Tom-
linson That’s what
I’m trying to teli
you
All right, then, I’ll
start at the beginning.
You know I was in
Brisbane with “Every-
thing’s Grand”? It
couldn’t have been
worse. The show was
a flop, and then the
manager ditched us and
cleared out with that
little red-head, third
from the left of the
front row
Well, I was broke,
so I had to think of
something. There were
no other shows on,
and I had to get back
here somehow. So I
go back to my room
at the house where I’m
stopping and I get an-
other sock in the eye.
The landlady’s taken
my trunk till I can pay
my room-rent. Things
couldn’t have been
much worse —five hun-
dred miles from the
home-town, stony broke, and with my trunk grabbed
so that I couldn’t even pop a few clothes at Uncle’s.
It’s situations like that that make a girl go wrong
No, indeed, Brenda Heathershaw. Of course I
didn’t. No, Henry just gave it to me for getting him
out of a mess.
| WAS stony broke, and just wondering if there was
1 any good in setting up as a masseuse or something,
when someone gives a feeble sort of knock at the
door. I didn’t care much who it was —when things
are that bad you don’t —so, without getting up, I
yells “Come in!” If you could’ve seen that door
opening you’d have died laughing. But I wasn’t feeling
in the laughing mood, and just watching the door
open inch by inch got my goat. So I yells again “For
Gawd’s sake come in if you’re ever going to! and
in creeps Henry. You never saw anything like it
outside of the comic cartoons. He’s the kind you
sometimes see carrying his wife’s shopping.
I half expected him to bolt, but
he just stood there fumbling with his
hat and gaping like a goldfish.
Of course I didn’t know he was
Santy Claus, so I just says “Millinery
on the next floor. I guess you got
off at the wrong stop.” He still
doesn’t move, but after stammering
a bit more manages to get out “Ex-
cuse me, madam, but are you Miss Goldie Corbett?”
“That’s me,” I says, “but what business of yours
is it?”
“It really isn’t any of my business, but you
see”- he says, and then he stops and just stutters
but says nothing.
“For Gawd’s sake, Horace,” I says, “say what
you want to and get out.”
“My name isn’t Horace,” he says, “it’s Henry
Tomlinson.”
“Really?” I snaps back. “This is a pleasure!”
“Thank you so much, Miss Corbett,” he burbles ;
“now I’ll be able to tell you—l mean ask you—what
1 wanted to. Will you please assist me in my matri-
monial troubles?”
“What?” says I.
“Will you have an affair with me?”
“Will you have an affair with me?’ he blurts
out, and I nearly fainted, because he’s such a little
scrap, and to
No, I didn’t. I told you before I didn t
No, he wasn’t disappointed ; he didn’t really want
to have an affair. When he'd calmed down a bit and
I got him sorted out he explains that lately he hasn t
hit it too well with his wife Yes, he was married,
all right No, no family at all
Yes, I suppose I know more about the Tomlin-
sons than they do themselves, although I only saw
Henry twice. He explains that Ethel that s his wife
—has grown cold lately
NO, he didn’t suspect another man. Just that she
was cold. When he came home at night she
didn’t smile the way she used to, and all that sort of
thing. She was so
interested in church
bazaars or Girl
Guides or tennis-club
socials that she had
no time for poor
Henry. And often
she’d go out to bridge
evenings and just teli
him to go and play
chess with one of his
cobbers.
Well, Henry got
mad with Ethel and
told her he knew
me No, he didn’t
know me; he just
said he did. You see,
he came home the
other night all tired, and Ethel just ignored him as
usual. That made him mad, but then she says they’re
going out to bridge, and that makes him madder; and
then she oversteps the mark by telling him that he has
to go in the car and fetch the pretty little widow Mrs.
Baker, as he was the only man in their crowd who
it was safe for her to be out with
No, Henry wasn’t exactly the dangerous type, but
it makes him see red to think that Ethel thinks he’s
got no S.A. for the Merry Widow when all the rest
have. So he ups and tells her this and that; and
then, to make out what a really brazen lad he is, he
says she’d be surprised if she knew some of the
women he’d been out with, and hints at an affair
with me
No, I told you before he didn’t know me at all.
He’s just seen my name on a poster for “Everything’s
Grand” before he came in, and it’s the first name that
comes into his head. Then he gets himself in worse
by telling Ethel that I’m an actress. That must have
given him away, because she told him she’d believe
it when she saw him out with me and not before
All right, all right, Brenda ; but if you don’t know
how he got mad and said he knew me when he didn’t
you wouldn’t understand why he came round.
All that night and next day Ethel keeps chipping
him about Goldie Corbett till he sees red and tells
her she’d be sorry she wasn’t nicer to him when she
sees how other ladies appreciated him, and off he
goes
That’s what I’m trying to tell you. He wants me
to go out with him so that Ethel can see us and get
jealous. He reckons it will fix everything up again
if she thinks I’m crazy on him.
Well, after Henry has spilled the beans I see that
I can play him for a few easy quid, so I asks casual-
like if he thinks a lady like me was going to lose
her reputation just to help him out of a hole. He
seems prepared for something like this, so he says
that I’d “receive ample monetary remuneration.” So
I says “How ample?”
“Would you consider thirty pounds?” he asks,
and I’m so stunned I just stares because I thought
No, I didn’t grab it; it came too sudden. I just
stares. Henry must’ve thought he’d quoted too low.
because he raises to fifty. By this time 1 m out of


“I’m leaving at the end of the week,” he said at
last.
She looked at him quickly. “Why?”
“Been recalled by my firm. Not satisfied, per-
haps.”
“That can’t be true.”
He decided to tell her the truth, or some of the
truth. “No, it isn’t true. But I’m an interloper here.
I’ve felt that for a long time. If I’d merely stuck to
the job of managing the run it would be different.
I can’t help liking those two fine kids Judy and
young Jim. I’ve stolen something that rightly belongs
to their father —their affection. Dave knows it, and
it doesn’t make it any easier for him. That—that’s one
of the reasons for my leaving.”
Her answer was a long time coming.
“Thanks, Mr. Spiers—Frank. I never asked you
before, for I knew you’d come to see it in that way.”
SPIERS’S place was taken by another —Prescott, a
quiet little man who confined his activities strictly
to the managing of the estate. The children went back
to school. There were letters from Spiers occasionally,
cheery letters that were sometimes addressed to Pres-
ton and sometimes to Mary.
Dave Preston, as the days grew longer, began to
spend more and more time out at the coast. Mary
had ceased to wonder at the attraction the sea held
for him. She never now questioned his going, which
had the effect of lifting him out of his black depression
for a time at least.
There followed a bad period for Matangi. Unsea-
sonable weather became general through the whole
of the South Island. A week of bitter cold and
furious storm took heavy toll in lambs.
Preston came in late one howling night, mud-
bespattered and weary from his long ride. Mary
was reading again the letter she had received from
Spiers.
“It’s from Mr. Spiers,” she said. “You might
like to read it. He’s been to see another doctor about
you —a brain-specialist here on holiday from the Old
Country. He’s interested in your case.”
“Specialists!” he said. “I’m sick of the damned
lot of them. The only specialist I’m interested in is
the one who’ll operate —kill or cure. I don’t give a
curse which!”
“You might be a little more reasonable,” she
said. “And I sometimes think you could do more
for yourself. Try to get a grip on things, fight your
way back.”
“So you’re coming round to their way of think-
ing,” he sneered. “I don’t look the part, eh? Well,
I don’t blame you. Maybe you’re right. Maybe
they’re all right. And I’m a poor bluffer as my son
says —without the guts of a louse.”
He stopped at the look on her face. “I’m sorry,
Mary. But there’s no road back.”
She laid her hand on his arm. “There is, Dave —
there must be. And I’ll always hope”
His laugh was mirthless, bitter. “That’s what I’m
always doing myself hoping. Hoping that some
dark night Dolly will make a mistake and stumble
over the top of the Bluff. I’m a damned encum-
brance”
“I won’t listen!” she broke in. “You”
“You will listen! You think I don’t know how
it is with you an’ Spiers, eh? There’s nothing crooked.
You’re both too damned decent for that. But you
can’t help your feelings, neither of you. And I’d
like to get out and leave you a clear field. It isn’t
that I haven’t the courage to do it, either ; but I
can’t—not that way. I’d like to leave something
behind—something decent—for the kids to remember
me by.”
She tried to stop his going, but he flung her
aside and went out.
PRESTON flogged his horse into the night, without
knowing where she headed. The blinding rain
cut against his face, drenched him.
He found relief in battling the gale, a fierce
exultation in fighting the choking wind. There was
freedom in fighting, fighting something real, like this
great storm or the sea.
Then, without warning, Dolly stumbled and fell.
A deeper darkness than that of the night closed in
on Preston.
He found consciousness at last, and sat up, his
hands pressed against his throbbing head. The
luminous dial of his watch told him that dawn was
not far away. When Dolly did not come at his call
he sat waiting for the light.
At length he could pick out the familiar contours
of the cliffs. When the light came more strongly he
stood up, staring out at the heaving mass of storm-
wracked ocean.
The* smoking water foamed round the Maori
Head, sweeping in and bursting clear over the head-
land in a wild slather of white. The great combers
broke on the hard sand with the deafening din of a
bombardment.
Preston saw it out of burning eyes. Almost indis-
tinguishable through the sheets of flying spray was a
vessel, a small steamer, hard on the Maori Head.
The vessel, completely submerged from amidships
to the stern, was rapidly going to pieces. A small
group of men were gathered on the high forecastle.
Two broken boats rolling among the breakers testi-
fied to a futile attempt to make the shore.
He saw a man go over with a rope; saw him
hammered against the steel plates and dragged back.
That was their only hope—a line.
Preston unlaced his boots. He could never swim
through those giant rollers, but in the lee of the Maori
Head, where the seas did not burst with the
same force and the water was merely deep and
treacherous
THE sea sucked him down fathoms deep. The
undertow was like the strangling grip of an
octopus, but he fought his way back up into the light.
The fierce water clutched at him, striving, when it could
not drown him, to drag him close in so that it might
batter him to death against the perpendicular wall.
By sheer muscular strength he staved off death.
He forgot the men watching from the deck; forgot
everything but the battle. He exulted in the ferocity
of the sea, in his own strength. He was living again-
living gloriously.
A sea lifted him up and swept him almost against
the rusty wall that was the vessel’s plates. Another
sea burst clear over the wreck and flung him back.
The terrific thunder was in his ears. His lungs were
choking for air. He was blind from the stinging
spindrift. Yet he was unconscious of it all.
Every yard was a mile, but Preston got there. He
snatched at the line they flung at him and looped it
round his waist.
It may have taken him an hour to get back or
two hours. Regaining the shore, he dragged in the
rope that the crew had bent to the lighter line and
lashed it round a splinter of rock. Then the vessel
slipped back, and the line fouled on a jagged slab.
He stood for a moment to regain some of his
strength. Then he went back. It was not so far to
g 0...
The rope was clear again and hauled taut from
the deck, when a gigantic sea caught Preston unawares.
A thousand tons of water, it swept him out and flung
him against the wall, all of its weight Njhind...
the trance and takes him up. I’m to go out with him
one night for fifty quid, and be nice to him in public,
especially if Ethel is on the horizon. He wanted
some mash notes, too, but I said no to that. Nothing
in writing from this chick
No, he didn’t hand me the fifty straight out. I
guess in his way Henry must have been a bit of a
businessman. He gave me twenty-five then and said
he’d give me the rest when I’d been out with him.
Then he arranges to meet me in town at seven that
night and buzzes off.
After he’d gone I had to keep pinching myself
to see if I was awake, but after looking at those five
fivers for a while I decides they must be real. Any-
how the landlady takes the one I give her and hands
me the change all right; and didn’t I tell her off for
not trusting a lady in unfortunate circumstances!
Then I grabbed a taxi and moved into the Metropole.
I SPENT the afternoon shopping and having my
1 wave set, and by seven o’clock I’m all dolled out
in a flame evening frock with gold shoes quite a
decent turnout, Brenda ; I’ll show you as soon as
you can get over
Henry didn’t think anything about it, Brenda ;
he didn’t see it Yes, he was to have met me at
seven, and I arrived at ten past because I thought he
wouldn’t like waiting long ; and he wasn’t there. Well,
I waited and waited and got madder and madder.
At half past I tried to look him up in the ’phone-book,
but either he hasn’t the ’phone on or Tomlinson isn’t
his name
You said it, Brenda ; I was mad—and to think
that I wasn’t only waiting for Henry but for that
other twenty-five quid too
Yes, I saw him again, but not for two more days.
Just when the cash was beginning to peter out and
I’m wondering what to do there’s a loud knock on
my door and a shout of “What-ho within!” and in
rolls Henry as blind I’ll say he was shot, but
just to the happy stage. He wore a grin he just
couldn’t wipe off
Yes, I told him off, or started to, but he just
puts his fingers in his ears and grins. After going
for five minutes I paused for breath, and then he
starts in to explain Yes, explain why he hadn’t
turned up. It seems that Ethel got a bit suspicious
after he’d left, found my address from the theatre,
and interviewed the landlady. The landlady described
Henry to her and said he’d been in my room for
nearly an hour. After the abuse I’d given her she
didn’t make me out as being any angel, and certainly
bad company for Henry
Did she swallow it? She rushes straight home,
packs up, and when Henry gets home there’s just a
note for him saying that she can’t live with an un-
faithful husband.
Well, Henry was knocked all of a heap, and he
just moped about, stunned to think of all the trouble
he’d gone to to get back her affection and now he’d
lost her altogether. He forgot all about me waiting
at the corner of the street in my glad rags. He writes
her a long letter telling all, and then just waits around.
Time begins to drag on Henry, and he does a few
things he’s never done before. First off he buys
himself a packet of cigarettes. It wouldn’t be excit-
ing for a chimney like you, but you see Ethel didn’t
like men smoking, so Henry hadn’t had a cigarette
for years. Then he switched on the wireless and got
a jazz orchestra, and he let it stay there as Ethel
couldn’t hear it and she couldn’t tell him to shut it
off. He told me he even wore his shoes in the house.
Ethel always made him wear slippers inside so he
wouldn’t dirty the carpet. Can you beat that?
Yes, she certainly had him under her thumb ; but
now Henry was on his own and having a gay time in
his own way. Fie went to the talkies that night instead
of to the bridge club, and had a hamburger on the
way home and stayed in bed till eight o’clock the
next morning.
One thing led to another, and he finished the
afternoon by having a spot or two. He was feeling
grand by then, and decides his good times all started
from when he met me, so he decides to look me up
No, he didn’t know where I was stopping, but he
finds out from the landlady that I left after he had
called before, and so he decides to give the hotels the
once-over.
I T wasn’t long before he found me at the Splen-
-1 diferous, but I guess he called at a few of the bars
as well, because he’s as pleased as Punch and keeps
calling himself the “Modern Homes,” which didn’t
make sense to me ■
Yes, that’s right. He’d say “You ran away,
Goldie, and left no clues, but the modern homes
found you at last in your lair.” Well, what does it
matter even if he called himself a “furnished flat”?
No, he didn’t want to go out again. He just wanted
to thank me. He tells me all the exciting things he’s
done in the last day and a half —like smoking cigar-
ettes and eating hamburgers, and ends up by saying:
“So you see, Goldie, my girl, now that I’m freed from
the yoke of domestic tyranny I’m having the time of
my life ; and it’s all due to you, and you shall have
your just reward. Though you hid yourself from the
public gaze and led me a merry chase the modern
homes has now unearthed his Goldie treasure, and
not only will he pay his debts but will add a bonus.”
Then he babbles a lot more about how no one
will ever know how clever he was at finding me, as
he didn’t have a cobber called Watson Yes, he
was shot, all right.
Th en believe it or not —he hands over an
envelope with some cash in it and buzzes off
No —better! There was the twenty-five quid he’d
promised me, and an extra fifty
He was Santy Claus, all right, even if he thought
he was a furnished flat. So I packed up as quick as
I could and got the first train back before he found
out what he’d done. Well, here I am No, I
don’t know if Ethel came back ; but he wrote to her,
he said, before he started on his spree, and I guess
no one would desert a goldmine for long. At any
rate
No, operator, I don’t want an extension... Did
you hear that, Brenda? That darned operator reckons
I’ve had more’n three minutes already. It’s like
her
Well, I’m darned if she didn’t cut me off!


Brief Study of Old Age
Mrs Hansen Sits at her Window
BY ETHEL-
FIELDING
DRAWING BY
GEO. H. BROWN.
OLD MRS. HANSEN had
sat at her window for ten
years before the little bride
came to live in the house opposite.
For ten years she had spent the greater
part of each day looking out in her patient
fashion. There was little to see, for the village
sprawled along the top of the ridge behind the
house, and in front the ground sloped to the
lake’s edge. Twice a day the fishing-boats set
out from the little lake to the river, and
thence to the large lakes where the fish came
with the tide. Mrs. Hansen knew to the moment
the time of the fishing crews’ departure and their
return, and she had so timed the routine of her tiny
home that she never missed seeing the boats set out.
It was her chief interest in life, for now she could only
hobble down to the end of the yard.
She managed to look after her fowls and, with
great labor, to do the washing for herself and Jens.
Jens Hansen was twenty years her junior, and
she herself was eighty-four years old. Jens found the
“old voman” dull, and spent his days under the great
fig-tree in the main street, where he could watch the
mail-cars arrive and leave. There he sat, hour after
hour, sucking at his filthy pipe and spitting with
practised accuracy.
He was as inquisitive as a monkey, and managed
to find out, even to anticipate, all the happenings of
the village.
At five minutes to noon exactly he would look at
his watch, stuff his pipe into his pocket and slouch
off towards home, his little rat eyes peering furtively
about.
On her part, old Mrs. Hansen would at five
minutes to noon exactly glance at the clock and pull
the coffee-pot farther on to the stove, where it had
simmered all morning.
Then she would dish up their meal of curried
corned beef, which was their dinner every day except
Sunday, when they had corned beef sliced. By the
time Jens had turned in at the gate his meal would be
waiting.
It had to be ready and waiting. He would brook
no delay.
Usually he would ignore the “old voman” until
he had eaten a few mouthfuls of his stew and swilled
it down with a gulp of scalding coffee.
It was like a ritual. Eagerly she watched for
those mouthfuls to be washed down, her blue eyes
in her russet-apple face bright with anticipation.
At last! “Any news to-day, Yens?”
He grunted, holding back the titbit of gossip that
she longed to hear and which he equally longed to
give. He took another mouthful, then: “Bierne’s
house is took,” he said with an outward indifference
but an inward glow of importance.
He was not disappointed in the reception of his
news. The old lady’s eyes sparkled with pleasure.
“Who is it, Yens?” she asked eagerly.
He extracted a straw from the broom and picked
his teeth. “Young couple,” he said; then: “Coming
next week.”
Old Mrs. Hansen rose after he had gone back to
his seat beneath the fig-tree and, walking to her
verandah, gazed at Bierne’s house with intense interest.
A rickety, badly-rebuilt house, it stood on high
blocks, almost in the lake. A month ago she had
watched with regret the last board being nailed into
place. Now it was to be tenanted. She would have
a neighbor. Someone who would be obliged to pass
close by her window on the way to the township.
Perhaps she would pass the time of day! The old
eyes were wistful. Only now that there was a chance
of companionship did she realise her loneliness.
"■PHE following w r eek was full of
excitement for Mrs. Hansen.
Her new neighbors arrived. She
watched each piece of furniture being
unloaded from the truck, trying to guess
from the shape the contents of each unwieldy
package.
Each day one of the young people passed her
window on the way to the shops, and her face
brightened with interest. The young man was
very tall and thin and unhealthily pale. Mrs. Hansen
shook her head over him and pursed up her lips.
“I t’ink he has the chest sickness,” she told her-
self.
She grew to love the little bride, who went by
with her earnest face set in a look of concentration,
often counting her money as she walked. She had a
little round black head and a pair of wide grey eyes
set in a pink face. It was a week before she observed
the old face at the window —then they exchanged shy
smiles.
The doings of her young neighbors colored old
Mrs. Hansen’s days. She hated to leave her window
for fear she would miss something. The day the little
bride’s clothes-line broke she wrung her hands dis-
tressfully. So upset was she over the mishap that
she went to the verandah and, forgetting her painful
shyness, called out “Oh, what a pity! Come and ’ave
a cup of coff!”
“A cup of coff” was her panacea for all ills.
However, she had not called loudly enough, or
the girl was too occupied in gathering her washing
from the ground to heed.
When her old crony Mrs. Jacques paid one of
her rare visits Mrs. Hansen had a rich topic of con-
versation ; and from behind the lace curtain of her
window she pointed out the little bride with an air
of proprietorship.
“And,” she said, “that voman, she ’ave a bath
every day !”
Mrs. Jacques, duly impressed, clicked her dis-
approval.
I T was after the young man had got a job with
* one of the fishing crews that Mrs. Hansen plucked
up courage enough to ask her young neighbor in.
It took her a week. Every day she would say to
herself “To-day when she go by I will say ‘Come and
’ave a cup of coff! ’ ”
But as she drew near Mrs. Hansen’s hand would
go cold and her tongue would not do her bidding.
She could only manage a shy smile and look after the
girl with a sense of keen disappointment.
But one day she said it. “Come and ’ave a cup
of coff!”
The girl looked surprised, hesitated, but came.
Thereafter it became a daily occurrence.
Out of her egg-money, which was all she could
claim as her own, Mrs. Hansen bought sugary biscuits
and proudly served them up with the morning coffee.
She never knew how the girl loathed the thick, strong
liquid.
They had not much to say to each other, and
sixty years lay between them ; but the girl was touched
at the wealth of affection that she had unwittingly
called up. Also it was companionship of a kind.
Mrs Hansen ventured a quaint confidence or two
after they had known each other for some weeks.
Jens, she confided, was her second husband. She
came to housekeep for him; but that was not proper,
so they got married. And: “Once I had a little girl
who looked yust like you, Mrs. Alison! ”
ROUBLE descended on the young couple. Sick
* and listless, the young husband lay on the couch
on the verandah. Mrs. Hansen could see him plainly.
She noticed the pettish movement of his hand as he
waved away the dishes with which the girl tried to
tempt his appetite. He did not go to work any more,
and there were no more cups of coffee in the stuffy
parlor.
Mrs. Hansen fretted and worried, longing for a
visit from her little neighbor. At last she came, red-
eyed. They were weeks behind with the rent, and
Bierne said they must pay or go.
Mrs. Hansen clucked her sympathy. After the
girl had gone she sat at the window, the thought that
her neighbors might leave like cold fingers laid on
her heart.
She sat a long time, then walked into the bed-
room. From beneath the feather mattress of her
bed she drew forth a long black stocking. Emptying
the contents on to the white quilt, she began to count.
Twenty-five pounds ten years’ egg-money!
Just enough to provide the oak coffin with the silver
mountings...
She divided the money into two little heaps.
Perhaps she could replace it in time —five years, maybe.
Eighty-nine!
She shook her head. “I don’t t’ink” she said.
I EE ALISON ran in a few days later. She was
' —' breathless with excitement as she told her news.
Someone had paid the back rent, and a month in
advance. Mr. Bierne would not say who... And
Michael’s father had sent for them! They were going
away!
“Going away?” the old lady echoed. She held
her hands tightly together to still their trembling and
managed a smile.
'"F WO weeks later she stood on her verandah and
* waved good-bye to her late neighbors. She smiled
until they were out of sight, then two difficult tears
spilled over the withered brown of her cheeks.


(UpntuMce4
THE BESJ Ml-FARM WORK
TRACTOR TYRE
huitfc /
3
Goodyear confidently offers farmers this
new tractor tyre. Actual tests over three
years have proved it to be the only tractor
tyre with full traction all ways!
Goodyear Engineers found, in tests far more
severe than ordinary farm work in soaked
bogs, sandy fields, on flat land, on hillsides,
on roads, in all weathers that this new
tractor tyre proved its all-round superiorities
beyond doubt.
To sum up its advantages to farmers, it has:
(1) "100% MORE SHOULDER TREAD". Thick
lug bars around the shoulders! Deep notches!
(2) "30% MORE DRAWBAR PULL." Increased
non-skid depth! More ground contact.
(3) "50% MORE TRACTION." Wide flat tread!
Deep-cut diamond blocks! Long lug bars!
(4) "48% MORE RUBBER." Greater strength !
Longer life! More puncture resistance!
(5) "30% BETTER CLEANING." Wide bevelled
grooves force out mud! No dust!
(6) TRACTION ALL WAYS! Positive grip for-
ward, backward, or on hillside in ruts, mud
or sand!
EASY TERMS! Goodyear Farm Tractor Tyres
and Wheels are available on Hire Purchase
Terms. For full particulars write to the
Goodyear Branch (in all capital cities).
THE
N E W
i, -ft
JO-C 4-37


He calls it the time-space factor, and says it is the
foundation upon which film form rests.
A film scenario written to occupy 7000 ft. must realise
the amount of dramatic material required for a film of
7000 ft. It must examine the importance of each indi-
vidual scene to the film as a whole. The film writer
must space his action. He must know the time which
any scene will take to show, and therefore the space
which any scene will occupy in the completed 7000 ft.
He has to consider a double problem of time and space.
Then Margrave gives the basic film table of arith-
metic: —
A film consists of a series of photographs projected
on a screen at the rate of 24 photographs a second.
Each individual photograph is called a frame. A frame
is three-quarters of an inch in depth. Sixteen frames
make a foot of film. In terms of footage a film is
projected at the rate of 90ft. a minute.
The author who would produce a film story of
suitable dramatic substance would space his incidents
according to a practical plan, and secure a correct
dramatic curve from opening to climax.
Margrave points out that film-making is an art,
a science and a business, but confines himself to an
explanation of the complexity of the work of pro-
ducing a film from the point of view, not of the
technician, but of the writer.
He deals with the devices provided for making
the succession of one scene by another, the variety
of effects produced by manipulation of the camera,
the dialogue, the speed of action, audience contact
(the writer must write with, not for, his audience ;
Charles Dickens is the ideal film writer), and the prin-
ciples to be observed in telling a story written within
the space limit.
As to the theme of film stories, Margrave gives
preference to romance, but romance that must be
capable of being accepted as reality. Simplicity and
sincerity are essential. The average filmgoer likes to
project himself or herself into the story of a film,
likes to imagine himself taking part in an adventure
in happier and more heroic circumstances than he
finds in drab reality. Stories of failure should not
be written for films. The theme must be emotional,
whether it be serious or humorous, heroic or tragic.
The audience must be moved. The “happy ending”
must not be forced upon a narrative ; it must be the
logical, the commonsense outcome of the situations
that preceded it. The intelligence of audiences should
not be underrated.
Alexander Korda writes a brief approving intro-
duction.
Continental Puppet-show.
Matila Ghyka’s novel Again, One Day, translated
from the French by Maud Bigge (Methuen ; 7s. 6d.),
is an obstinate book. It refuses to compose. Its
original title, Pluie d’Etoiles, suits it much better, for
the action is about as impossible as a “rain of stars.”
It is a period piece of the present day. The
author prepares the stage admirably. It is a vast
echoing stage with Vienna and Prague —the real, not
the Hollywood, cities —for background, with London
looming behind like the Promised Land. The stage
properties are brilliantly handled. They include a
lost antique shop, the canvases of Breughel, the legend
of the great condottiere Wallenstein, beautiful women
like decorative images, a procession of dreams, a
“ridiculous object, a cheese bell of the reign of George
the Fourth in striped Wedgwood that they call agate
ware.” All these things and many others recur and
recur. They are freighted with a significance that is
almost symbolic—but of what they are symbolic it
would be hard to say. Character after character is
introduced and expanded. They talk, and their con-
versation has flavor, but it lacks dramatic action.
After these preparations the reader expects something
momentous, but all that happens is a baroque little
story of a lost heir, signet ring and a prince in dis-
guise ; a romantic operetta.
Matila Ghyka is a Roumanian diplomat. He is
also a romantic. The sensitive romantic of to-day
smiles deprecatingly as he diffidently offers his work,
as if to say “I know it isn’t true, but couldn’t we
pretend for a little while and be happy—just so long
as nobody is taken in?” Ghyka wears just such a
smile. He displays his puppets in a world that at
once explains and negates them. It is a “tristful”
world, homesick for the past. The chief character,
Baron Maleen-Louis, is a period piece. He is Bieder-
meier and Joseph the Second and Marie Therese rolled
into one. The audience at the Rosenkavalier finds
mass relief in the past.
Dantherieu, looking round at the faces of the
audience and at his companions, was surprised at the
change in them. Richard Strauss, conducting his own
work, had drawn the best from the magnificent
orchestra, and in the excellence of the performance all
the intimate picturesque charm of the eighteenth century
Vienna had been resuscitated. The huge audience had
listened in complete silence and harmony of spirit. It
was as though fairy fingers had touched their fore-'
heads, brushing away their troubles and smoothing the
hard lines from their faces.
There is a tragic premise underlying this book.
It shows a world flowering out of despair. It depicts
a certain relief and release that society feels when it
no longer has anything to lose, when it is freed at last
from having and getting. In the characters sentiment
is not a luxury ; it is Hobson’s choice. It is the only
thing left to have and they may as well have it, for
it is free like the air. The book as a whole is like
one of those dreams of plenty that haunt the starving.
Again, One Day is not, as the publisher’s blurb
would seem to indicate, a contribution to international
politics, but it ends with a prophecy:
Professor Moessel had said one evening at Gitschin:
“One of these days all the Germans will follow the
magic flute of Hitler, and God knows what will come
of it.” What would come of it would be exactly the
same thing as in 1914, because the ruling powers at
Berlin, Hitler included, would think of everything except
Mahon’s law of sea power. Germany would follow
Hitler, as once the children followed the Pied Piper of
Hamelin —but it would be the five gentlemen at White-
hall who, once again, would pronounce their veto. As
before, it would be the iron curtain of the British fleet
which would bar the way to the blithe adventure, the
guns of the British fleet which would drown the shrill
flute of the enchanter.
It is a book for connoisseurs—and connoisseurs
often disagree. It deserves at least a hearing.
A Perfect Period Piece.
Mrs. Fred Reynolds’s latest novel, The Woman
Drives (Bodley Head ; 7s. 6d.), is the perfect period
piece—and nothing more. It is sleek and glossy with
the best macassar oil, and all the characters conform
conscientiously to expectations.
Mamma has nine children referred to as “a
chubby tide” —in the good Victorian tradition, and
Papa makes love to the governess, a naughtiness that
is punished by the death of his first-born, who has
a very period funeral and becomes a family repression.
All the little girls grow up and have prettily varied
and even exquisitely daring romances. Hugh refuses
to become a lawyer like Papa.
Mama’s eyes kindled. She turned to her husband.
“Have we made a mistake? Ought the boy perhaps
to be a clergyman?”
And all in a moment, mentally, she was introducing
a black-clad form to duly impressed acquaintances, “My
son, the Rector of So-and-so.” Or the Dean was it?
Why not the Bishop? My Lord Bishop! In a few
fleeting seconds Hugh might have become an Arch-
bishop had he not dashed down the ecclesiastical edifice
his mother was building.
Mamma was stung. He wanted still in the
impeccable tradition—to be an artist. And the twins
—the inevitable Victorian twins —went into the navy.
A chaste simplicity watches over the tale like a
guardian angel. It is almost incredibly perfect.
Civilisation in the Net.
There has been a plague of long books, their
length seldom justified. This is not so with Irene
Rathbone’s They Call It Peace (Dent, 95.). It is by
nature a large book ; its theme i 9 to-day, and it needs
every one of its 600-odd pages. The title indicates its
trend; the dedication is to Richard Aldington, and
there is a preliminary quotation from Tacitus: “They
make a wilderness and call it peace.”
The novel is in four parts: 1914 and after, the
war and its results; 1926 and after, the general strike ;
1929 and after, the depression ; 1934, the threat of
new wars, a vicious circle. The story is about a group
of people concerned with the publication of a mild
and prosperous art journal, “Color and Design.”
They are the owner and his family, the clerical stall:
and the packer—little people in safe jobs, embedded
deep in “rich England.” That is the starting-point
Through 20 years this little world is broken and scat-
tered. The paper dies slowly, but the men and women
have to go on living. In retrospect the catastrophe
of 1914 seems the least evil of the things that
happened.
The war and the peace were only different aspects
of the same barbarity. The one grew out of the other.
On page 77 the book breaks into propaganda, a
lucid, circumstantial and sustained attack on the
financial system, the stranglehold of money upon
life. But the book is not starved of its humanity in
the service of its doctrine. It is much more than a
dramatised thesis. It has a deep humanity and poig-
nancy. Its weakness is the weakness of all such books
when they are sincere and broad of view ; it is descrip-
tive and not constructive. It states with penetration
and understanding a problem it cannot solve. Many
books are stating and restating this problem with
intellectual acumen and emotional sincerity. It is one
phase of a general helplessness.
All the characters in They Call It Peace are
decent and likeable people, from Harry Berrington,
who always overtipped people—“ The habit came
from a dim, deep-seated discomfort at the unequal
state of society which he could do nothing personally
to mend” —down to the Goodbodys and the Burleys
in the most defenceless stratum of society. All are
caught, tormented and destroyed. The book is mov-
ing, pitiless.
She saw an elderly man, grimy, haggard, bristly
round the chin, and with defeated eyes. It was the man
she had seen for months, yet she saw him now newly.
It was her husband. And he saw an elderly, drab,
shapeless, sickly woman. It was his wife.
The book ends on Armistice Day.
At the foot of the Cenotaph, as darkness came
down, lay, among the flowers, the green-and-white
wreath. On the label were the words: “In memory of
those who died in vain.”
Life of a Judge.
The übiquitous Bechhofer Roberts now presents
Sir Travers Humphreys (John Lane ; 15s. net), and
displays a new technique in the compilation of a
biography: Take a prominent Judge, make a brief
synopsis of the more interesting cases in which he
has appeared during his career, especially murder '
cases, to make , a book of about 300 pages, write a
few lines around each to connect them up, and three
or four pages of biography about the man himself
(don’t forget this), garnish with suitable photographs
of the more notorious criminals (women where pos-
sible), with a nice picture of the subject, complete
with wig and robes, for a frontispiece, compile an
index, and there you are! Slick work, but it makes
up well. The method would hold good for any
professional man of prominence.
Roberts has summarised about 100 trials, includ-
ing those of Oscar Wilde, Dr. Crippen, Horatio
Bottomley, the “Mr. A.” (Maharajah of Kashmir)
blackmail case, Leopold Harris the firebug, Mrs.
Thompson and Bywaters, Mrs. Rattenbury and
Stoner. He suggests that Mrs. Thompson was
innocent of the murder of her husband, and the
mistake made in her case saved Mrs. Rattenbury from
the gallows. He also notes the trial of Mrs. Barney, -
who, at 31, died in Paris a year ago on the eve of
her marriage to a Frenchman. Mrs. Barney, living
apart from her husband, was tried in 1932 for the
murder of her lover, Michael Stephen, who was shot
straight through the chest in her flat. She explained
she had threatened to shoot herself because he had
been consorting with another woman, and in the
struggle for the revolver the dashed thing went off.
The verdict turned on the question whether he could
have shot himself with his wrist bent. Spilsbury, the
Sherlock Holmes of medicine, said it was impossible
in the circumstances. Sir Patrick Hastings, for the
defence, swung the jury with his greatest speech;
Judge Humphreys told the jury she was guilty of
manslaughter. The jury acquitted her altogether.
Judge Humphreys, unlike his usual custom, made no
comment on the verdict. The truth has probably
perished with Mrs. Barney.
Bechhofer’s book will interest students of crimin-
ology and authors looking for plots ; this book is full
of them.
Reviewed Briefly .
GENERAL . . .
The Moratorium Handbook : R. E. Tebbutt (Law
Book Co. of Australasia ; 7s. 6d.). This is a fourth
edition of a tome which sets forth the debt-
releasing legislation of N. S. Wales. The State Parlia-
ment has had three goes at the matter —1932, 1935
and 1936 —and a solid body of case law has banked
up against the original enactment. Some of the
problems the Moratorium Court was asked to Solo-
monise about in its first three years have been set
at rest for ever by the more definite subsequent enact-
ments. The subject, however, is still a knotty one,
and this work, which epitomises the statutes and the
case decisions made under them, is likely to be the
hardest-worked law book in N. S. Wales for at least
two years to come.
Savage Squadrons: Sergei Kournakoff (Harrap ;
Bs. 6d. net). Fast-moving, personal narrative by a
young Russian officer who was with the Caucasian
Native Cavalry—the “Savage Division” —operating
against the Austrians in Galicia and Rumania, 1915-
1917. It gets away from all the noise on the Western
front and gives a view of the war from a new angle.
The ineffectiveness of the Rumanian comic-opera
army and the demoralisation and collapse of the
Russian at the beginning of the revolution are vividly
depicted.
Seeing the World Twice: T. Allan McKay
(Robertson and Mullens ; 7s. 6d.). Journeys round
the world in 1926 and 1935 by a Melbourne business-
man. The author has a great mind for facts, but if
he experienced or witnessed any of the elemental
human emotions he has discreetly kept them all to
himself. Yet most travellers go further and see less.
Profits on the sale of the book go to help the. Clan
McKay ward in St. Andrew’s Hospital, Melbourne.
Various Verse
Madrigal.
Love that binds us
Has a chain
Will not soon come loose again;
Morning finds us,
Girl is gone,
But the chain
Still is on;
“Break, oh, break, break, break this chain!”
Lovers cry
And sigh in vain:
Chain will hold until they die
Or a kind girl passes by.
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
Perceived in Chill and Windy Dusk.
Perceived in chill and windy dusk
Night’s dark demand of tears and blood,
And still the ghost assumes my form
To freeze the heat of body’s mood.
Too calm for touch or terror still,
Aloof and cool as streams at night,
He stands within my body’s frame
With flesh of cold and yellow light,
As once he stood when two were parted,
A pillar of cold yellow light
Unmoved through silver storms of tears
And blood and anguish in the night:
As he will stand within my flesh
In sun or storm, in calm or flood,
To still with chill and yellow light
Life’s dark demands of tears and blood.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Slumber Song.
Death has benighted Helen, .
She is lost;
The lean-limbed Hector is dispersed,
A ghost;
The Shepherd Paris has the earth
For sky;
The years have put the red-haired
Nero by;
Time has despoiled all Arcady;
And woe is
For the sad, lovely, lost, quenched
Antinous.
So jealously I count
My senses five,
Their spendthrift miser—for the nonce
Alive !
Dust, in a shattered urn, is lovely
Lais.
Who treads the sullen earth that once
Was Thais? N
Many who were shaped like
- ~ • '• 'Melody - ’ ; .. y
Are formless now as the unstable
Sea;
And must I wrestle in the dark
With Chaos?
I —even I?
N.S;W.'
ADRIAN SUMMERS.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m m
WBSSmm 'Wmlm
am
ni
■ ...;'. ■
n h
n
.
-
■ £££s
.
mmmSKmm
ti 1
BB
BHH
■ B
®1 K
:' '■:
'
■
B
1
s
■
m ■
■
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.


The Bulletin
Vol- 58.—N0. 2972. ___
January 27, 1937.
SEQUEL TO THE FIRST STONE.
Gentlemen, gentlemen, silence is now best—especially for me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"WAR MUST COME!"
Scarcely less often than once a week since about
1925 some bursting intellect has pronounced a world
war inevitable—if! There is always this If. And
so far it has not mattered whether what has thus
been specifically qualified has turned up or not —the
inevitable world war, in either case, has been a squib.
World war was to be inevitable if Germany
rearmed, if Germany left the League of Nations, if
Germany moved into the Rhineland. Germany did
all these things, but there was no war —world or
otherwise. Similarly Japan’s doings in China and
Manchuria: more “inevitable” world cataclysm, and
not a blow struck. In the decade embracing these
happenings a hundred or two profound prophets
scrambled over the European and Asiatic scene, many
of them professional writers and publicists, like Gibbs,
Tuohy, Lockhart, and most of these bent upon writ-
ing a book or being featured in the newspapers.
Every one of them could see war certain from some
cause or other—always, that is, with the If. And
time has proved every one of them wrong.
Because most of those tipsters dealt largely with
abstract causes and currents in affairs the fact that
scores and scores of them falsely tipped war inevit-
able and imminent at any moment over these past
12 years is not held much to their discredit —is
scarcely even remembered. There have been bigger
and brighter and louder tipsters since to give the
sensation dailies the sort of news they chiefly want
and focus the apparently unquenchably credulous
public attention on the particular If at the moment
popular.
At no time have these seers been more voluble
or more vociferous than they were during the Italo-
Abyssinian skirmishing. Then, as everybody with
the faintest memory must readily recall, they excelled
themselves. All the war tipping of the preceding
decade was blanketed out in a volume of forecasting
couched in terms of staggering certainty. The world
was going to be “plunged into war” at every tick of
the clock.
Nothing came of any of it. The prominent
Geneva Parrot House, in behalf of which most of
this flood of false prophecy was let loose, retired from
the' glorious kingdom of News, trailing its secretariat
and other monstrous paraphernalia, and after it the
Negus, trailing his people’s money. For the preser-
vation of both these examples of shabbiness the world
was held to be ready any day to go voluntarily again
to war. The world didn’t, and wouldn’t. It has a
longer and sadder collective memory of the shambles
than any of its illustrious pulse-feelers seem to have,
and its answer to all the tipping of these busy gentry
was that not for 50 Leagues as poor as this one and
not for 10,000 Lions of Judah would it lightly rush
into war again.
That answer was emphatic, conclusive and not
so long ago. Meanwhile a civil war has broken out
in Spain. It occurred because a Russian form of
government, which Russia has now discarded, had
been exported to the land of bull-stickers. A
first principle of this form of government is
that those who live in the country where it prevails
have the choice of either agreeing with it or having
their throats cut. A large number of Spaniards hap-
pened to prefer neither alternative, and the war got
going.
Naturally, the defensive side in the argument
being Communist it is represented that the other side
is Fascist. Anything which opposes a graft of Com-
munism is Fascism. The civil war has been magnified
to represent a Communist-Fascist struggle. That gives
it size, and size is of first-class importance in news-
paper and other sensationalism. General, unbiased
opinion, however, has now concluded that whichever
side wins in Spain that country’s government will
henceforth be a wholly Spanish form of institution.
It probably will be, and the country will be healthier
for it; but until that is concluded the “inevitable war”
prophets are going to be loud in the land.
The tip of these seers now being most ardently
propagated is that “world war will be inevitable if
General Franco wins.” There is not the slightest
warrant for any such prophecy, but it is made and
its makers are patiently listened to, and in some
quarters applauded. They do not say who will make
the next step that will plunge the world into war
or offer any reason why the world should want to
plunge in. They talk this nonsense with intense
conviction, and, apparently, as long as somebody is
prepared to stand up on a box and spout there will
be others ready to stand around and swallow.
Like the old lady who foretells rain by a pain
in her shin, these prophets cannot go on for ever
without some day being right, however many decades
we may have to suffer their false prophecy before
that miracle comes off. Meanwhile, they contribute
notably towards keeping the world in a state of war
neurosis, in which condition it is more likely to justify
their frenzied tipping than it would be if they were
to follow their long line of blown-out predecessors
into silence.
Advice to Manufacturers.
Mr. F. P. Kneeshaw, M.L.C. (U.A.P.), who is
president of the N. S. Wales Chamber of Manufac-
tures, has “advised all manufacturers to take an
active part in politics and to encourage their
employees to do so.” The Bulletin, which was
working for Protection before Mr. Kneeshaw, M.L.C.
(U.A.P.), was born, considers it very bad advice, and
regards the example which Mr. Kneeshaw has set
as very unhappy.
Mr. Kneeshaw asserts, among other things, that
“manufacturers have, outside of Victoria, no press
to place their views before the public.” This seems
ungrateful; anyway, it is contradicted by the fact
that the appeal to manufacturers to become political
and to encourage their employees to do so has been
published in extenso in daily newspapers. In other
days it would have been tossed into the wastepaper-
basket or published in a garbled form, accompanied
by contemptuous leading articles. Most of the daily
newspapers were then Freetrade. Of not one can
this honestly be said now.
And the recommendation that manufacturers
should urge their employees to become active
members of their local branch of the A.L.P. is par-
ticularly fatuous. It suggests that Mr. Kneeshaw’s
reading is confined to newspapers which lard the
U.A.P. with praise. Obviously he never reads the
“Labor Daily” ; if he did he could scarcely have
forgotten that paper’s reports of and comments on
the deliberations of N. S. Wales Federal Labor mem-
bers on what they call their tariff policy. That policy
makes the giving of protective duties conditional on
the concession of rates of pay, working conditions
and prices congenial to the ruling bosses of the Labor
organisation; and there is no guarantee that the
demands will not be raised from time to time.
What is proposed is virtually job-control on an
immense scale.
Mr. Kneeshaw has been a U.A.P. politician for
three years, having been put into the local imitation
of the Irish Free State Senate (deceased) and re-
elected by the votes of U.A.P. members of both
State Houses. These have been his only triumphs
in the political field. His influence on U.A.P. policy
since he became a U.A.P. politician has been patheti-
cally null.
Although, as J. W. Leckie, the Protectionist
Senator from Victoria, pointed out, the Whiskard-
Gullett tariff did not give two-penn’orth of protection
to any Australian manufacturer, and although, as
post-settlement sales have since shown, it cost the
woolgrowers millions, Mr. Kneeshaw came out, quite
gratuitously, as a fervent champion of it. Thereby
he risked permanently antagonising the woolgrowers—-
many of whom, though deriving no direct benefit from
Protection, are good Protectionists —without gaining
anything for the manufacturing interest. Actually at
that very moment the Government championed by
Mr. Kneeshaw was passing sentence of death on
the protective duty which the Australian cement
industry has had for many years. Mr. Kneeshaw
should have known that, for he is a director and
general manager of Kandos Cement.
During the very month in which the U.A.P.
Government started the quarrel with Japan, the duty
on British cement was lowered by 50 p.c. to 7s. 6d.
a ton. The Government was with difficulty restrained
from removing it altogether; to conciliate a dissatis-
fied section of its supporters total abolition was post-
poned till December. The excuse for the adoption
of Freetrade in this instance was that the Tariff Board
had reported that Australian cement was too dear
and that companies were making excessive profits, and
that the Government was bound by its election pro-
gramme to accept Tariff Board recommendations.
The truth is that these Commonwealth Ministers
ignore the Tariff Board when it suits them ; witness
the duties imposed on Japanese textiles in May
and those substituted in December, in each case by
the “arbitrary Ministerial action” repudiated in the
election programme. Evidently Mr. Kneeshaw is too
obsequious a U.A.P. politiciari to remind them of
their inconsistencies.
At the annual meeting of Kandos Cement, the
chairman said:
The outlook for cement sales has never been better.
Yet the outlook for the Australian cement manufacturer,
as a result of recent tariff decisions, has never been worse.
That was in September. On December 1 the duty
of 7s. 6d. a ton came off, and an industry established
in every State and using none but Australian materials
became exposed to the full blast of competition from
British companies paying 20 p.c. and 30 p.c. dividends.
Not for many years has the cause of Protection
suffered so severe a jolt. . And the blow fell on the
particular industry while Mr. Kneeshaw was general
manager and director of Kandos Cement, and while
he was president of the N. S. Wales Chamber of
Manufactures and a U.A.P. politician.
If Mr. Kneeshaw’s advice and example become
infectious, the cause of Protection will be in real
danger, especially if the people should be annoyed by
squealers. Surely the people have shown that they
can be trusted to take care of it, recognising, as they
have done, that Protection is necessary to preserve
Australian standards of living, to give the country
a balanced economy, to put it in the way of becoming
self-contained in matters of defence, and to cultivate
an immense field for the energy and talents of their
sons.
"Seventy-six More Deaths."
Last year 539 persons lost their lives in N.S.W. road
accidents. Although a “safety campaign” was con-
ducted there were 76 more deaths than in 1935, the
increase being 16 p.c. December was the worst
month with 55 deaths, 19 of which were recorded
during the week that closed on Boxing Day. But
that wasn’t the grisliest week of 1936 ; during seven
February days (to the 23rd) 20 persons were killed.
The heavy mortality cannot be assigned to any
one cause. Bad driving, bad vehicles (cars, lorries,
cycles), bad highways and bad lighting all play their
parts, and careless walking and faulty traffic-control
contribute. About 12 p.c. of accidents may be
ascribed to cars running off the road at curves and
skidding on damp or highly-polished surfaces. Care-
less driving at intersections accounts for 40 p.c. of
mishaps, and railway crossings see a lot of blood
spilt. Booze is another factor —if anybody questions
it, let him drive from the Blue Mountains to Sydney
in the week-end or to any suburb during the late
hours of any afternoon.
There is a tendency to regard speed as the most
important cause of accidents, and when combined
with inefficiency, human or mechanical, or both, it is
undoubtedly a major factor. And for most of the
speeding there is no excuse. Even the perfect car doing
60 m.p.h. is moving 88 feet per second, and in an
emergency only a man in the prime of physical con-
dition can bring the vehicle to a standstill within
200 feet, in which space a lot of things can happen.
Yet on suburban roads 1935 and 1936 models are
habitually driven at 60 m.p.h. by people who are
not normally trained or physically constituted to
drive at 40 m.p.h.
The high speeds of modern cars set up a spirit
of emulation which sends youths in juggernauts with
bad springs, bad brakes and smooth tyres, built for
normal travel at about 30 m.p.h., hurtling along
crowded roads in competition with the new vehicles.
Some drivers are less dangerous at 70 m.p.h.
than others at 25 m.p.h. Some cars are dynamite at
any speed. There is nothing more dangerous than a
tangle of fast-moving traffic in which ancient chariots
with wornout brakes and difficult gear-changing
apparatus mingle with fast modern cars. The sale
of vehicles defective in braking, in tyres or in spring-
ing should be prohibited under heavy penalties. More-
over, every car over a certain age should be subject
to periodical inspection.
Again, control of intersections calls for drastic
changes. In some countries —Canada, for one—it
is mandatory for drivers to come to a standstill when
approaching a main highroad from a side street.
This condition would reduce accidents in Australia,
if rigidly enforced. Visibility on roads is another
point which needs a lot more attention. The ten-
dency in highway building seems to be to provide
plenty of swinging curves round which cars can
rush at relatively high speeds without the drivers
knowing what is round the corner. Lack of experi-
ence, resulting in all too high a rate of travel on
curves, sends many a carload of travellers over preci-
pices.
The time is coming when it will be necessary to
provide through one-way highways for fast traffic, as
already is being done in Germany, Britain and the
U.S.A.
A few months ago the late Fred Berry and an
observer made notes of cars encountered in a journey
of 51 miles on a Sydney road. They counted 40
which were being carelessly or riskily driven, and
the most dangerous were not travelling at the high-
est speeds. It suggests that there is a great deal
wanting in the examination and re-examination (if
any) of applicants for licenses, and that the
preventible sacrifice of life will go on at a dreadful
rate unless drivers are restrained from taking un-
necessary risks; riders and pedestrians, too. The
person who has “a couple” to keep his Courage up
needs the sort of discouragement which will teach
him that if he does not value his own life he must
show some respect for the lives of others. In cases
where having “a couple” leads to accidents the
Maoriland Government prescribes gaol; and, by all
accounts, the prescription is having excellent results.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parkhill's Folly.
The Minister of Defence has been baited into
publishing particulars of the American-model aero-
plane with which it is proposed to “defend” Australia.
The machine is a fighter-trainer, less than
nine-foot high, with an overall load capacity of
13551 b., two men, guns, ammunition and light bombs
and fuel included. It has a top speed of 218 m.p.h.
With 62.5 p.c. power, it can do 205 m.p.h., range
being 665 miles; at full power its range would be
considerably less.
It may be taken for granted that the Australian
companies would have preferred to build Australian
’planes. Why wasn’t an Australian like Edgar Percival
asked to design them? What better man could be got?
Mr. Parkhill declares that British companies
“were given special time to co-operate, but were
unwilling to do so ; none of them was prepared to
invest any capital.” A representative of the Airspeed
Envoy Co., which is building 300 machines for the
R.A.F., announces that it made a specific offer to build
machines in Australia.
The British Government refused to disclose secret
plans to the Commonwealth Government unless an
undertaking was given that they would not be disclosed
to a private firm; it has never been the practice of
the British Government to give such information
to private firms Mr. Parkhill again. Yet private
firms are building most of the new British aircraft.
In announcing the formation of the Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Prime Minister
said that “orders would be placed with the company
for British service types of aircraft as selected by
the Air Board from time to time.” He emphasised
“the necessity for the greatest degree of interchange-
ability between Royal Air Force machines and those
used in Australia.” At the same time his Government
approved of General Motors money going into C.A.C.
Now his Government has made such a mess of things
that, instead of C.A.C. making a start on “British
service types with the greatest degree of interchange-
ability,” it is to build three squadrons of baby fighters
with a two-gun capacity and a top speed of 218 m.p.h.
To-day the top speed of even medium-heavy British
bomber-fighters is about 350 m.p.h.
The R.A.F. has squadrons of machines in the
heavy class faster than the proposed new Australian
light machines. Even the heavy, formidable Fairey
battle ’plane, which has a range of 3000 miles and
only a single engine, and which compares with the
N.A.l6’s in size and armament as a heavy cruiser
compares with a flotilla-leader, has an equal speed.
The whole business is another sovereign instance
of the incompetence of Mr. Parkhill. It is of a piece
with the crass folly which has held up for two years
the contract for the carriage of air-mails between
Britain and Australia because “flying boats” guar-
anteed to do half the present schedule time are “too
slow” and postage at tuppence a letter is “too cheap.”
Strange Conflict of Authorities.
The American publicist Jesse Rainsford Sprague
begins a “Saturday Evening Post” article with the
statement that “there is no doubt Britain is more
prosperous now than at any time since its post-war
boom collapsed in 1920.”
The November Bulletin of the Department of
Overseas Trade reports “an all-round expansion in
U.K. trade,” in which “practically all branches of
industry have shared. The total of 10,966,000 persons
at work is the highest yet recorded.”
“Our Special Representative” of Associated Press
refers to “an acute shortage of skilled labor in the
North of England.”
“Time and Tide,” “summing up the evidence of
the trade boom,” states that “employment in Britain
is now a record for all time.”
All bunkum, of course. Federal Arbitration
Judge Beeby is not long back from Britain, and—in
articles published by two newspaper knights whose
admirers hotly argue whether Sir Tweedledum or Sir
Tweedledee has purchased and poleaxed the greater
number of journals reported that “drabness and
poverty” are “the lot of many millions” of Britons.
There seems no place in the economic world for
some 2,000,000 working people, and vast numbers of
those in work are on the barest of breadlines.
Federal Arbitration Judges are always right.
Misplaced Sympathy.
It is right that leniency should be extended to first
offenders, but the thing can be overdone. It is over-
done in N. S. Wales. There is no meaner form of
theft than the theft of valuables by post-office
employees, who have steady jobs and whose future is
provided for. There is no more dangerous form of
misappropriation of property than the abstraction of
cars —it leads to hit-and-run driving, and sometimes
to worse.
Postal thieves and “illegal users” of cars are
invariably released as first offenders in N. S.
Wales.
In Sydney the other day a young man got away
with a car valued at £llOO from a yard at Darling-
hurst. He drove it about a mile to Darling Point-
road and there crashed into a tree. Damage to the
car, the only one of its kind in the Commonwealth,
was assessed at £7OO. The youth had no license and
his excuse, not made from the witness-box but to a
policeman, was that he was suffering mentally from
the results of two other “accidents.”
The “punishment”? A nominal sentence of six
months, suspended on the signing of a £2O bond ;
£l2 175., payable in six months, for damage to a
toolshed; 10s. ? payable in seven days, for having
driven without a license.
The owner of the car or the insurance company
will presumably have to find the £7OO.
Abbott, Administrator?
In September it became general talk in the Canberra
lobbies that Mr. C. L. A. Abbott, M.H.R. for Gwydir
(N.S.W.), was to be appointed Administrator of the
Northern Territory. Mr. Blain, the N.T. member,
brought the matter up in the House and argued that,
apart from possessing neither the local knowledge nor
the experience required, Mr. Abbott had virtually dis-
qualified himself by becoming “the mouthpiece of a
group which has been trying to forward a scheme
for its own profit on the Barkly Tableland,” the
scheme being based on a Government loan or guar-
antee of £1,000,000.
Months later Mr. Paterson, the Minister for the
Interior, announced that “the Ministry, after inquiry,”
was “satisfied that the allegations of Mr. Blain were
without foundation.” Mr. Blain retorted that it must
have been a queer sort of inquiry, since he had not
been asked to give or produce evidence.
Protests against the proposed appointment have
been made by residents of Darwin and Tennant
Creek, by the Labor party and by U.A.P. newspapers.
Mr. Abbott has been active in the discussion of his
own merits and of the shortcomings of critics, and
he has found a champion in Mr. James White, the
chairman of the negotiating committee of the Barkly
Tableland Co-op. Development Co. Mr. White denied
that Mr. Abbott had been “an unsuccessful advo-
cate” for the scheme and had played “the role of a
partisan.”
It occurred to The Bulletin that a letter from
Mr. White, dated March 4, 1936, reposed in its
archives. A copy of the pertinent portions is sub-
joined:—
The Editor,
"The Bulletin",
252 George Street,
SYDNEY,
Dear Sir,
BARKLY TABLELAND DEVELOPMENT .
Please permit me to draw your attention
to the Pamphlet (enclosed) on the proposed scheme
for the development of the Barkly Tableland and
adjoining areas, .written by Mr. C, L. A. Abbott, M.P.
As chairman of the Negotiating Committee,
which, on behalf of the lessees in the area, has
been endeavouring for some considerable time to
secure the official approval of the Commonwealth
Government, I consider that Mr. .Abbott’s Pamphlet
states the case, not only for the lessees, but for
Australia, admirably.
It has been announced that Ministers will meet
on January 28 “to consider the appointment of Mr.
Abbott.” This writing may assist their deliberations,
if any.
The Stay-in Strike.
Maoriland’s Federation of Labor was formed after
Paddy Webb, now Minister of Mines, had led the
Blackball miners’ strike in 1908. Robert Semple, now
Minister of Works, was its first president; Comrade
Armstrong, now Minister of Labor, was a vice-
president, and Comrade Parry, now Minister of Inter-
nal Affairs, was a committeeman.
From the campaigns of the Federation, with Mr.
Semple as organiser, came the Maoriland Labor party
in 1913. Before and after its formation Messrs. Arm-
strong, Webb, Semple and Parry often heard Govern-
ments of the day refer to their activities and ask
“Who is going to govern this country?” Those very
words broke from Minister Armstrong in an agonised
wail when the unionists employed in North Island
freezing works launched their stay-in strike.
All along the Savage Government has been
bettering industrial conditions. It established the prin-
ciple of the 40-hour week, and provided fresh machinery
for arbitration between workers and employers.
Through the Arbitration Court the men in freezers
obtained a 44-hour week and better wages than
before. They struck for the 40-hour week and still
better pay. After listening to Mr. Armstrong, who
agreed to arrange a conference with the employers
and “rectify” a clause in the award by legislation if
“rectification” did not appeal to the Court, and who
gave it as his opinion that the rate of pay should be
raised as compensation for the 44-hour week, they
declared the strike off and returned to their jobs.
Strikes can make a Labor party; but where only
the interests —or fancied interests —of strikers are
considered they can break a Labor Government.
Government by Commission.
Huge gashes are being made in the landscape at
Circular Quay, Sydney, and through the neighboring
Rocks. They are vaguely understood to be prepara-
tory to the construction of the long-delayed Quay
railway and station, but nobody seems to have any
precise information about it.
There is a Circular Quay Association, formed
when the Harbor Bridge began to play ducks and
drakes with business and land values in the Quay
area. This association has not been consulted about
the changes in contemplation. Neither has the Insti-
tute of Architects nor the Town-planning Association.
Inquiries of the Government and the Commissioner
of Railways as to what exactly is proposed regarding
erection of the station and other buildings, remodel-
ling of wharves and foreshores and layout of new
roads and tramlines led to the amazing admission
from both quarters that there are “no plans.”
The Commissioner of Railways supplemented this
“information” when the rumpus began. He said:
Plans for the Quay station and superstructure have
not actually been completed. We have an outside archi-
tect consulting with our own architect; final details of
the construction, however, have not been decided upon.
The “we” is significant. N. S. Wales has not
only a Commissioner of Railways but a Commissioner
of Transport, and they have become laws to them-
selves.
Both gentlemen went abroad for several months.
Though tax-money finances such explorations, the
public has never been told in either case how much.
The Railways gentleman raised a huge building
in York-street “to house upwards of a thousand
officers,” as he complacently reports, and the Trans-
port potentate is to raise one in Macquarie-street or
thereabouts. Mr. Hartigan, has gone into the house-
to-house furniture-removal business in competition
with taxpayers, and has opened a huge restaurant at
Wynyard station in competition with other taxpayers.
In addition to their business being damaged in this
way, these taxpayers are expected to contribute their
share of the huge annual loss on the Government
railways. The 1935-36 loss was alleged to be only
£698,200. But £BOO,OOO of tax-money is annually
reckoned as railway receipts, and the Auditor-General
annually reports that, because no proper allowance is
made for depreciation, insurance and the like, the
annual loss, vast as it always is, is understated.
Mr. Maddocks, for his part, expropriates private
bus services when he feels like it, decides that this
neighborhood shall have trolley-buses and that
suburb stagger along, with trams or without any
means of transport whatever. And by means of regu-
lations and prosecutions both departments com-
bine with Canberra, which levies fantastic imposts
on motor vehicles, to restrict and hamper motor trac-
tion in every way.
The Government which employs these Commis-
sioners humbly approves of all their proceedings. Its
members are now about to stump the country urging a
“reform” of the Commonwealth Constitution which
must lead to an enormous increase in government
by commission, without even the shadow of an
appeal to Parliament which nominally exists now.
The "Week" Still Going Strong.
In a reference to Brisbane journalism (B. 20/1/’37),
“Bris,” a contributor, stated that his city once had
five daily newspapers ; “now there are only two, and
they’re much of a muchness.”
As an expression of private judgment this might
have passed, though the two newspapers mentioned
differ in policy, treatment of news and make-up;
but “Bris” went on to make a glaring misstatement:
“Lately the ‘Week,’ the weekly offshoot of the
‘Telegraph,’ faded out quietly.” It has done nothing
of the kind. The “Week” is coming out as usual,
and, on the score of improving circulation, has been
increased in size.
Publication of the paragraph is regretted. “Bris”
has now “faded quietly” off the list of Bulletin
contributors.
Satan Reproves Sin.
During its last session the Queensland Parliament
passed an Act insisting that local governing authorities
shall balance their yearly budgets. Discussing this
reform Councillor Jones, who is chairman of the
Bungil Shire Council, said it was “peculiar” coming
from a Government which had never balanced a
Budget. In reply, Acting-Treasurer Cooper said that
“by the careful handling of the State finances” the
Government was “able at the end of each year to
show a financial position much better than its Budget
anticipation.”
If this means anything it means that the Govern-
ment was not quite so reckless as it had planned and
expected to be. As a fact, budgetary deficits were
short of “anticipations” because of increased tax-
revenue.
A little investigation into State deficits is sug-
gested. In his Financial Statement last September
the Federal Treasurer gave (in £1000’5) the aggregate
State deficits in each of the last seven years. From
these and the Queensland records the following com-
parisons may be reached:
State Deficits.
Three Depression Four Recovery
(1929-30/1931-32). (1932-33 /1935-36).
£looo’s £looo’s
All States £43,220 ■ £20,640
Queensland 3,640 3,989
Other five States .. £39,580 £16,651
In the depression period the Moore Government
in Queensland was responsible for 8.5 per cent, of
the aggregate deficits of all States. In the recovery
period the Smith Government accounted for 19.3 per
cent, of the total shortages. The recovery-period
deficits of Queensland were 109 per cent, of the
depression deficits; in the other States combined, 42
per cent.
The average annual deficits were:
Queensland. Other States.
£looo’s. £looo’s.
Depression period £1213 £13,193
Recovery period 997 4,163
The ratio of improvement in Queensland was
from 1000 to 818 ; in the other States, from 1000 to
316. Yet the Queensland deficits, as Mr. Cooper has
said, were never so big as had been anticipated; in
fact, planned. This by reason of “the careful hand-
ling of the State’s finances.”
However, it may be something to the good that
the Parliament of the north-eastern State requires the
local governing bodies to be more careful than the
Government in handling their funds. They may not
even anticipate deficits, much less make them.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Xo”: The cable relating that Britain
was sending a plaster cast of an ideal
Englishman to the Paris Exhibition
prompted Melbourne “Herald” to chase
round Vic. sculptors to find what the
ideal Australian should look like. It
was generally agreed that he should have
an “eagle look,” that he should be tall
and thin with broad shoulders and nar-
row hips, and that he would probably
be found in the country. There was no
need to go that far. An artist drew the
“ideal” face and the “Herald” used it
with the story. By a queer coincidence
the artist’s impression was more than a
parsing likeness of a fairly frequent visi-
tor to the Melbourne City Court —and he
was actually up again the day the rest
of Melbourne was looking at the profile
of the “ideal” Australian!
* * *
“Uramao”: Touching on recent airing
of examples of bad handwriting, press-
men can generally make something like
sense out of the most illegible fist, but a
letter from Horace Greeley utterly beat
the lowa Press Association. Greeley
wrote (or meant to):
I have waited till longer waiting would be
discourteous, only to find that I cannot
attend your Press meeting next June, as I
would like to do. I find so many cares and
duties pressing me with the weight of years
that I feel obliged to decline any invitation
that takes me away a day’s journey from
home.
After the collective brains of the press
had wrestled with the document, the fol-
lowing interpretation was propounded:
I have wondered all along whether any
squirt had denied the scandal about the
President meeting Jane in the woods on
Saturday. I have hominy, carrots and R.H.
ties, more than I could move with eight
steers. If eels are blighted, dig them early.
Any insinuation that brick ovens are dan-
gerous to hams gives me the horrors.
Sjc
“Bris.”: The absent-minded professor
who posts his spectacles and puts a letter
back in his pocket is no myth. Bris-
bane G.P.0., in sorting the Dead Letter
Office collection accumulated over the
holiday season, finds that, as usual, spec-
tacle-cases posted in pillar-boxes head
the list. This year the haul broke all
previous records. One confiding person
posted two bottles of whisky to a friend
in the country. One bottle broke and its
contents were lost; the other bottle was
confiscated, as P.O. regulations prohibit
the sending of liquor through the post
in such quantities.
* * * *
“Siz”: Contributing the account of
doings in Australia during the war to the
official war history, Professor Ernest
Scott gives among the preliminary cables
from London one that all Diggers would
have cheered at any time during the war,
though they’d have suggested some addi-
tions. Received in Melbourne on August
5, T 4, and, as intended, immediately dis-
tributed in warning to the other States,
its complete text was: “War has broken
out with Germany. Send all State
Governors.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The pub lady
with the morning aspirins (B. 20/1/’37)
reminds me of Sydney Missioner Creagh,
with his canteen of hot tea for the
drunks at the Central Police station.
Creagh claims to have been himself a
brand plucked from the burning—by
Canon Bob Hammond, whose lieutenant
he now is—and as such to have a first-
hand knowledge of the sore head, the
parched throat and the morning-after
atmosphere generally. For years past he
has never missed with his solace of hot
tea; he stands by later to take the
pledges of those who are ready—eager,
in some cases —to sign off.
* * « * *
“Edenglassie”: A new variant in the
game of ringing the changes has been
worked on Queensland storekeepers. The
operator asks for a particular brand of
tobacco. Taking it away he steams off
the wrapper which binds the lid, removes
the contents, substitutes some worthless
“I told y before she don't Want none of y'r slimming mixture!"
makeweight and gums the wrapper on
again. On his next visit to the store he
asks for another tin of the same brand,
and when the change is being given sud-
denly changes his mind and requests an-
other variety. The storekeeper makes
the alteration, and the “loaded” tin is
palmed off on him for the good one.
Some retailers are becoming suspicious
of anyone who seeks to change a tin
of tobacco.
=!= * *
“Oran”: Although Australian papers
have given a lot of space to the Canadian
“Baby Marathon,” arising out of Charles
Vance Millar’s bequest of £lOO,OOO to
the mother of the largest number of
children born within a certain period,
there has been little, mention of two
other entertaining items in the eccentric
lawyer’s will. He left his race-club
shares to selected clergymen, and his
brewery interests to rigid temperance
adherents. Then he presumably looked
down from aloft and chuckled sardoni-
cally at the chaotic situations he had
created. Six mothers tied- for the
Marathon. Infuriated next-of-kin are
disputing the amazing will.
* * * *
“O. I. Saye”: In a circular explaining
the questions to be submitted at the
forthcoming referendum Federal Minis-
ter Menzies rings the changes on “dums”
and “da” as the plural of the word. His
uncertainty (or broadmindedness) re-
calls a story told of Mrs. Astor, mother-
in-law of Lady Astor, M.P., when she
was expressing to Lord Blandford, of
the Washington Legation staff, her in-
ability to understand how anyone in
her exalted circle could travel in one of
“those odious omnibi.” It is recorded
that Blandford, with a perfectly grave
face, replied, “Ah, Mrs. Astor, that is
one of the conundra of life.”
* $ * *
“Exdig”: One, of the cases which went
through in the N.S.W. Divorce Court rush
the other day was the annulment of a
Digger’s war-time marriage to a bigam-
ist. He was merely a youth then and
didn’t bother much, but at 40 he desired
to have everything shipshape before
entering into a legitimate union. Some
women had a hectic time during the
war. The Australian record is believed
to have been held by a Sydney woman
who “married” 11 departing Diggers,
collecting allotment and separation
allowance in each case, but at different
post offices, until a system of checks was
adopted. The world’s record for war-
time marriages was probably that which
brought Mrs. Theresa Vaughn (24) be-
fore the Sheffield Police Court in 1922.
She admitted to 61 bigamous marriages
since 1916. Her “husbands,” as cosmo-
politan a crowd as could be imagined,
included a couple of Australians.
* Hi Hi Hi
“Sabrina”: After all, Neville Cardus
(catalogued in Who’s Who as music
critic and cricket writer of the Man-
chester “Guardian”), whose highfalutin
literary style seems to have more amused
than impressed Australian readers, must
have been a reasonably good cricketer
himself a quarter of a century ago. No
mere amateur, either ; for four years
(1912-16) he was a paid cricket coach at
one of the most famous of English public
schools, Shrewsbury, and doubtless in-
structed hundreds of budding batsmen in
the art of getting down on yorkers and
steering loose off-balls through the slips,
The boss pro. at Shfewsbury in those
days was one Wainwright, a rough
diamond of a Yorkshireman who loathed
long words as much as unorthodox
strokes; he was in Australia with one or
two English teams in the ’eighties or
early ’nineties. I can’t help wondering
what Wainwright would have made of
his subordinate’s present methods of
chronicling cricket matches.
* * * *
“D.A.”: English newspapers which
support the Spanish Government repre-
sent Franco’s Moorish troops as fero-
cious, black savages. The Moors may
be ferocious, but they are far from being
black ; indeed, the average Moor is very
like the typical Spaniard of Andalusia.
This is not surprising, for there is a great
deal of Spanish blood in his make-up.
During the centuries when Islam was
supreme in Spain a large number of the
natives became Mohammedans, especially
in Andalusia. Their descendants formed
the bulk of the Moslems who fled to
Africa after the fall of Granada. Some
of the Moroccans are even said to bear
a distinct resemblance to certain types of
Irishmen. The late “Smiler” Hales de-
scribed the Riffs—from which tribe
Franco has recruited most of his Moorish
auxiliaries—as resembling Ulstermen,
both in appearance and character.
C. Mac , A London Judge who
lately decided against poker as a game of
skill—“l always understood that bluff
was the monosyllabic quality useful in
poker would have been assured of a
hearty welcome in all the best poker
schools I’ve attended. What you as a
poker-player can make the rest of the
class believe about you is an extremely
subtle art, requiring psychological acu-
men and histrionic ability—certainly an
exercise of skill. (The Judge agreed that
bridge was skilful, so the skill he had
in mind wasn’t the manual sort.) But
what you can put over the others—into
which bluff does enter —is only the rudi-
mentary part of the business. Where skill
incontestably enters is in assessing what
the four or five others are separately put-
ting over each other and over you. Com-
pared with becoming skilled in that , judg-
ing what opposing bridge-players hold to
the extent of being able to finesse a nine
in the first lead of a suit is elementary.
If, instead of spurning poker, all Judges
played it consistently as part of their
training towards the detection of skilful
liars the Bench would shortly be an
abode of super-Solomons.
* ijc $
“Nordbo”: The Queensland Govern-
ment Railway tarpaulins are of excellent
quality, very thick and strong. To pre-
vent their being stolen they are branded
with the letters QR, separated by a broad
arrow, in each corner and centre, where
the number also appears. Hoboes cut
out two pieces, each Bft. x 9ft., from be-
tween the brands —just the thing for tent
fly and ground sheet. My apologies to
the fraternity for bringing this trick to
the Q.G.R. Commissioner’s notice.
“Laetitia”: All these paragraphs about
the acuteness of Customs officers in nab-
bing opium-smugglers suggest that the
least devious methods are likely to pay
the best. I recall an old-time manner
who habitually carried a small black
bag with him when he disembarked. His
official status was such that the natuie
of its contents elicited only a perfunc-
tory, half-facetious inquiry when he
passed the Customs. His response was
a grunt of “Opium,” which always
elicited a friendly grin. But opium i
regularly was.
* * * *
“Dave”: Ihe seething queue swea e
outside a “certain” lottery office, bvery
now and then someone who had com-
pleted an “investment” would struggle
from the crowd and drop a copper into
the hat of a perspiring cornet-player on
the kerb. No glimmer of a grin showed
up in the milling mob as the musician
stolidly rendered “O Come, All Ye
Faithful.”
* * * *. .
“Pardon Me”: An inquirer m
Service column (B. 20/1/ 37) as to
process of boning shoes was told to use
“smooth iron or wood on his s
while in trees. The only memo
boning boots and shoes I have ever heara
of is to use a bone on them, in me
Army in my time a polished mu
bone was employed, but bootma e
London’s West End still sell potehea
deer bones (at any price up to a g
each) for the same purpose Boots or
shoes boned in this way will look ms
mirrors.
LA BELLE DAME SANS MERCERY.
“Sydney men dragged themselves along during the
recent heat wave, carrying about 81b. of clothing,
while girls managed with little over 2lb.” — “Sun,”
adding intimate details about every item, oj masculine
and feminine wear.
“O what can ail thee, brother mine,
Along the pavement sauntering?”
“My shirt and singlet weigh a pound,
And, ’struth! they cling.
“In Sydney dog-days it’s enough
To make a bloke feel woebegone.
Four pounds of wool are in the suit
That I have on.
“Shoes, braces, socks and underpants
Combine to add as much unto
The weight of clobber you and I
Must carry through.
“I met a lady yestere’en,
Full beautiful, a faery’s child.
And, well, she had so little on
It made me wild.
“Her frock and hat were feather-light,
A pound at most; and one might guess
Her brassiere, scanties, shoes and hose,
All told, went less.
“I took her to an elfin grot—
A ladies’ lounge, you hint, too true;
She said Tf I can dress like this,
Why cannot you?’
“I couldn’t tell her, either, though
She harped upon the theme full sore
Until I shut her rosebud mouth
With snifters four.
“But just as certainly I knew
Before we heard the ‘Time, gents!’ call
That ‘La Belle Dame sans Mercery’
Outmodes us all.
“And that is why I loiter here
Disconsolately wondering,
When maids keep cool, why men must
bake...
Mine’s a gin-sling.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Norbell”: Melbourne sleuths, a
whole platoon of them, are trying to
identify a skeleton hidden in a disused
mine shaft at Wedderburn. At time of
writing they are baffled, but they have
issued a minute description of the de-
ceased. Here is a bit of it from the
“Age”:
The man is aged between 35 and 40
years, sft. 7in. or Bin. high, thin to medium
build, brown hair, turning grey, clean
shaven, one eye turned up and looking
down.
A sort of human periscope, in fact —
probably a politician.
He s|: >|:
“S.T.S.”: A really polite thief is being
looked for in S.A. At Mount Gambier
he stole a car belonging to a visitor from
the city, 300 miles away ; but a week
later he left it for repair at an Adelaide
garage, mentioning the real owner’s name
and afterwards ringing up the owner’s
wife to inform her where she could find
-it. The car had meanwhile, been driven
1000 miles, and was a bit the worse for it.
* * $ *
“Kriz”:. A case of eatables sent from
Germany to the natives of the. Drysdale
River Mission —to show the appreciation
of the Government for the assistance given
to Bertram and Klausmann—has just
been delivered at that lonely outpost. It
recalls a previous gift of the same nature
which never reached those for whom it
was intended. In 1875 the Austrian ship
Stefano was wrecked on the coast near
Point Cloates. Ten of the crew reached
the shore; eight died. The two survivors
were in a weak state when wandering
abos. came on the scene, gave them food
and water, and carried them over 80
miles towards Geraldton. Eventually the
castaways reached Fremantle and made
their way back to their own country.
The Austrian Government sent two
cases of goods to be distributed among
“ Really, John, you'll have to buy me a new costume. I look an
absolute frump in this one."
the abos., who, however, could not be
located. So the cases were returned to
Fremantle and stored in bond, to go up
in smoke with the building soon after-
* * *
“Jack Point”: “Every modern con-
venience contributes to your comfort
when you go by rail. Practically all
through trains are air-conditioned,
cleaner, quieter, healthier. You have
modern lighting, excellent food, restful
seats, comfortable beds, plenty of room
to move about, you get there on
schedule, and, with all improvements,
fares have been steadily lowered.” From
an Australian Railway Commissioner’s
pipe-dream? Hardly! Instead, a propa-
ganda ad. inserted by American private
railway owners, where trains are still
successfully competing with absurdly
cheap motor traction on billiard-table
highways.
“She's ditched me! But go ahead, old chap — we mustn't disappoint the guests."
“Acton”: Federal Minister George
Pearce confided to a pack of Y.A.L. boys
visiting Canberra that the present Garden
City had more than its share of luck in
being chosen as the site for the Federal
Capital. Albury, it appears, was well in
the running when a party of Common-
wealth legislators was touring N.S.W.
looking for an ideal “possie,”but its pitch
was queered by “a Murrumbidgee dust-
storm” which came at a most inoppor-
tune moment and prejudiced the selec-
tors. After that there was a sort of dead-
heat between Canberra and Dalgety, the
House of Reps, favoring one and the
Senate the other, and it was only the
rather sudden death of a pro-Dalgety
Senator and the election in his place of a
pro-Canberra man that tipped the beam.
Pearce said nothing about Tumut, which
really had worse luck than either Albury
or Dalgety—for it was the first choice
of the Federal Parliament, though both
Houses subsequently went back on their
decision.
• H* $ H* *l*
“Bonnievale”: It’s 40 years ago, but
I don’t think F. C. B. Vosper’s satirical
comment on “Smiler” Hales’s announce-
ment that the universe had been “en-
riched” by the discovery of some new
gold-bearing reef on the Coolgardie field
was quite as “Ricardo” (B. 13/1 / ’37) puts
it. My recollection is that Vosper en-
visaged a land-boom on the moon (not
Mars) and added that town blocks fac-
ing the earth on that satellite had appre-
ciated 100 per cent, in value. This
exchange of amenities between the rival
editors went on from week to week, to
the huge delight of their goldfields
readers. In the end it was “Smiler” who
decided that the fist was mightier than
the pen. He went round and socked
Vosper on the jaw, and was fined £5 and
costs therefor. The. picturesque pair
made it up afterwards.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Odd finds in books (B.
20/1/’37)? . This was what I came on in
a tome purchased in a Sydney second-
hand shop:
Dear Biddles,—This is the fourth time
I’ve asked about marrying me. Next week
I’m going to Coolgardie. If I don’t hear
I won’t write any more.
Then followed some family small-talk
which ended in mid-sentence at the end
of the page. I’ve often wondered if
Biddles, too, went to Coolgardie.
,j T t *. „ * p, * ~ „
Kelhck : Hemp Parrels statement
(B. 13/1/ 37) that marine^dog
have been abolished needs correction.
There are still 2Thours m a day, so that,
no matter what name the watch i
given, the hours of 4 p.m.-8 p.n. still
have to be worked. Presumably H.P
refers to the splitting of the dogs, in
which each watch works two hours.
Even m three watches, as m two, it this
were not done, a man would get the
same watches every day and nighty No
seaman would relish the middle, i.e.,
midnight till 4 a.m., for the duration of
the trip to England, and that s pu ting
it mildly. Tramps often do years a a
stretchy away from their por .
“Sclvagee”: The pen-name “Hemp
Parrel” (B. 13/l/’37) moves me, to ask
if any Society mariner knows what the
thing is. A relative who served in the
Mediterranean fleet long ago told me
once of a skipper who prided himself on
his knowledge of old-time seamanship
and was always airing it. An ordinary
seaman was brought before him one day
asking to be rated as an A.B. Asked if
he knew what a hemp parrel was the
man said he had never heard of it.
Seeing a refusal in the Old Man’s eye,
the commander stepped in: “And the
Gunnery Lieutenant tells me, sir, this
man has not the remotest notion of the,
principles of bow-and-arrow drill.”
There was a deadly pause and a red-
faced skipper turned away with the sole
comment “Application granted.”
* * * *
“4 x 2”: Let me in on this General
Gough argument (B. 13/l/’37). Gough
twice protested to G.H.Q. about the
awful conditions of mud and weather
when he directed the attack at Passchen-
daele in 1917, but was curtly ordered to
carry on by superiors who never visited
the front for four mouths after the attack
opened. The result was over 400,000
casualties in the 14 weeks the battle
lasted, against 278,000 German casual-
ties on the whole 500-mile Western
front for the last five months of 1917.
Gough went south with the Fifth Army,
and there his bad luck followed him.
H.Q. ridiculed his reports that the Ger-
man offensive of March, 1918, would
break on his front, and he was left with
totally inadequate forces and equipment.
I speak from personal knowledge when
I state that we had practically no artil-
lery or m.g. support. Favored by the
dense morning mist Jerry got through
our defence and was behind the Field
Artillery before it was properly realised
that he had started. The few troops in
the front line were overrun by force of
numbers. Isolated companies held out
for a day or two and were then captured
or wiped out. According to Winston
Churchill the retreat of Gough’s Army
was the sole occasion in the war when
we inflicted heavier casualties on the
German forces than we sustained. But
someone had to be sacrificed for the
re treat, and Gough was made the scape-
goat.
* * * *
“Speed Maniac”: The toll of the road
took an extra pathetic turn in Perth at
the close of last year. After spending
thgir wedding-eve decorating the house
intended as their future home, a 21-year-
Q j d CO uple. mounted a motor-cycle for a
£ na j v j s j t to thgir parents. Inside a
q Uar t er 0 f a mile they were involved in
a collision. For over a month each
battled valiantly for life, being encour-
aged with reports that the other was
jmprovjng _ Then t h e , girl, whose case
had first appeare d the more hopeful,
relapsed a J P died> Still believing that
his fianc^e was getting better the man
for another 1Q d . then
t passed over,
„ _ *
“ R .x.W.”: “Fisher,” quoting Franklin
D u (B 2 0/l/’37), is behind the times,
jj^ e “ parson j c ” vo ice in a clergyman is
a rar j ty noW adays, at all events among
thg y ounger men . jt is only the older
genera ti on w hich bleats or drones. There
afe £ gw theological colleges nowadays
w h ere the students are not drilled out of
the parsonic sing-song if they show any
tendency thereto. The Australian episco-
P a bench (with nne exception) is smgu-
larly free, from the affliction. Broadcast-
mg is a good test. The Archbishops of
Sydney and Melbourne and the Bishops
of Newcastle and Armidale in particular
a re delightfully natural pver the air.
t( * „ * *„ , n
Agar; Both Tarry R p ( •
23/W 36) and Kelhck (B. 13/1/ 3 )
are wrong about the band instruments ot
Brisbane, now being broken
up m the U.K These instruments whicn
were presented to the battleship m
March 917 by Brisbane Cffy Council
on behalf of the citizens, have given
long and valuable service and are still
held in naval store at Sydney. Sets of
band instruments presented to warships
f e ™ aßly held for use J 3 /
to which they are presented whilst in
commission ; in the event of a vessel
paying off its set is issued to some other
warship requiring it or to later ships
of the same name. When the Brisbane
left for England and the shipbreakers,
she carried the presentation set belong-
ing to the Adelaide, as the instruments
were in better condition than her own,
and when the Sydney was commissioned
the loaned set was transferred to the new
ship for return to store on arrival in
Australia. Naval presentations of any
description whatever are accounted for
in the same manner as Government
stores, great value being attached to such
presentations from the naval viewpoint.
A FELLOW NEVER KNOWS.
A fellow never knows the breaks
Fate holds for him. He goes to sleep
Stiff as a crutch, mayhap, and wakes
To find he’s won a hefty sweep.
Mot that it’s ever been my lot,
Still, week by week, my money goes
Into the same old yawning pot.
You see, a fellow never knows.
The least productive mining show
May turn out trumps if you contrive
To sink another shaft, or go
Another foot along the drive.
The shares you’ve cursed for rubbish scrip
May yet, before quotations close,
Prove a remunerative tip.
My oath! a fellow never knows.
The girl on whom your fancy dwells,
With eyes of blue and locks of gold,
The pearl of pearls, the belle of belles,
Whom you have deemed so hard and cold,
May raptly fling into your arms
(Once you’ve the courage to propose)
Her bundle of entrancing charms.
Fact is, a fellow never knows.
Though times be hard and things look blue,
Reflect, for all your discontent, ,
That more unlikely chaps than you
Have ended up in Parliament.
And, as for me, I tell you straight,
1 doubt this jingle—stone the crows!
Has quite enough of wit and weight
To crash the editorial gate.
But there! —a fellow never knows.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


e
i>
20 forl'&
10/^9-i
J. 854
They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
■
CIGARETTE OF THIS
G E N E R A T
JLU
POLITICAL POINTS
The Lyons referendum may help Tas.
Labor to get back. Premier Ogilvie is to
lead the campaign against it in his island
and go electioneering at the same time,
and, as Tasmanians are strong for the
preservation of inter-State freetrade, he
will find the virtual concurrence of elec-
tion (Feb. 20) and referendum (March
6) advantageous.
The Tas. election of June, 1934, gave
Labor 15 seats and the Nats. 13. There
were also an Ind. Lab. (Becker, since re-
admitted to the party) and a Douglas
Credit man, the Rev. Carruthers, who
supports the Government. The indica-
tions are that Labor will be returned,
though Douglas Credit may lose its soli-
tary member.
An Associated Press cablegram of
“unquestioned veracity, completeness and
authority,” as Mr. Keith Murdoch would
say:
A report from Gibraltar states that 5000
more Italians landed at Cadiz. They were
poorly clad and came in an Italian steamer
which bore no name.
The absence of the name is a pity, for
a steamer carrying 5000 soldiers and
equipment and a crew must be another
Queen Mary.
Menzies’s visit to S.A. to bespeak
votes for “orderly” {i.e., bureaucratic)
marketing was not a success. As soon
as he got to Adelaide someone tartly re-
minded him of what he said in 1934:
Any restriction of inter-State trade should
be placed beyond the powers of all in-
vaders.
Ignoring the reminder, he declared in a
speech that the Victorian and S.A. Gov-
ernments “had interfered with inter-State
freetrade to protect the dried-fruits
grower,” and “this interference was very
proper”!
Makin, S.A.’s only Federal Labor mem-
ber, Richards, the former Labor Premier,
and the Butler Government have come
out against the “orderly”-marketing
referendum. Butler is quoting Menzies
Jo justify his opposition.
Spooner’s “County Council” continues
to furrow the foreheads of its unwise
parent and Stevens. Its latest infantile
prank was to reject the advice of its
g.m., his officers and one of two inde-
pendent electrical engineers consulted
about a contract for two turbo-alter-
nators for Bunnerong, and take that of
the engineer who was in a minority of
one. “It means throwing away £50,000
and £5OOO a year,” said the g.m.; and
Forbes Mackay ought to know.
A “confidential typiste” accompanied
the Prime Minister to Britain last
year, and he is taking another to the
Coronation. Typistes as a class are un-
derstood to be “confidential,” and one
could easily be borrowed from Australia
House, London, where there are about
60. A small matter, but it illustrates
how the people’s money is chucked
away.
Till last week S. A. Lloyd was one of
the U.A.P.’s two-jobs men —M.L.A. for
Concord (N.S.W.) and chairman of the
preposterous County Council. The
chairmanship was put to the vote last
week, and Lloyd got one vote. Two
other County Councillors —there are five
altogether—and McElhone voted for
McElhone, and McElhone becomes
chairman.
Melbourne “Argus” in a referendum
article bids electors to remember that
“the Ministry is not seeking a Yes vote
as support for itself and party.” Some-
body must have been reminding the
Ministry or the “Argus” of the fate of
Bruce’s referendum proposals in 1926.
They were rejected in all the States ; in
Victoria the voting was 296,548 for and
537,560 against.
N.S.W. Education Minister Drum-
mond, who is at least frank in admitting
provincial shortcomings, has confessed
at Newcastle that “technical education
in Australia” is in a dreadful way.
Buildings and equipment are inadequate
and in some cases obsolescent. In respect
of technical courses, hundreds of people are
on the waiting list. The lack of training
facilities in aviation mechanics and aerial
navigation is to be viewed with the great-
est apprehension.
They are all results of provincial control.
Why not try Commonwealth control?
The Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion, which visits dissatisfied States every
year, and takes voluminous evidence
about their “disabilities,” has gone tour-
ing again. At Perth the chairman denied
that the Lyons Government “dictated”
last year’s reduction of the Westralian
grant from £BOO,OOO to £500,000. The
denial is superfluous. In matters of this
kind the Lyons Government never does
any dictating. Under the Lyons regime
“Speed, be hanged! It's stayers you Want in this game, John, and
our entry can stay for years."
“recommendations” of commissions for
the expenditure of the people’s money
have the force of law.
In fees and travelling expenses the
Commonwealth Grants Commission
mops up between £4OOO and £5OOO a
year. It is an unnecessary addition to
the cost of government, and the whole
procedure is inexpressibly clumsy and
irresponsible. What is obviously re-
quired is a redistribution of Federal and
State functions and finances which would
enable State Governments to pay their
way without sponging or inventing ex-
cuses for sponging. But such a distribu-
tion would call for some hard thinking,
and Canberra never does any thinking
if thinking can be avoided.
Anthony Eden has infuriated the Reds
and their sympathisers in Britain —news-
papers and publishing houses are stiff
with them —by saying, in effect, that Red
agents are offering big money bribes and
unlimited free beer to get British
“volunteers” for Spain. He mentioned a
case of an unemployed miner who told
the British Vice-Consul in Marseilles that
he had been induced, while drunk, to
join other “volunteers.” Offers to
British airmen run to £4O a week, with
expenses, and a bonus of £5OO for every
enemy shot down.
Twelve months ago Eden was quite a
hero to the Reds. If he doesn’t look
out he’ll become as unpopular with them
as Radek and 15 other “old Bolsheviks,
all associates of Lenin,” who have figured
in another State “trial” at Moscow.
“Imperialist” and capitalist justice will,
however, save him from the fate which
awaits them —a bullet in the back of the
head.
J. C. Lamont, the A.W.U.’s Queens-
land president, at the branch’s annual
conference:
Prior to the Great War, the German
nation had attained a high level of efficiency
in every way, but the efforts of other
capitalist countries in the Great War re-
duced Germany to such a position economi- •
cally that the way to a dictatorship was
made easy.
A priceless example of the Britain’s-to-
blame-for-everything attitude.
Claude James, who was Chief Secre-
tary in McPhee’s time, is not coming
out for Bass (Tas.) again. He was in
England last year and, at Premier
Ogilvie’s request, reported on the mar-
keting of Tasmania’s apples, indulging in
some very pertinent criticism. Ogilvie
may send him back as Agent-General.
James will be a severe loss to the Nat.
ticket in Bass, for Ockerby (“Sparkling
Ock”) appeals to prohibitionists only.
It has never been authoritatively stated
how much Menzies got for arguing “the
case for Victoria” (he argued “the case
fop the Commonwealth” also) against
James of S. Aus., though it has been said
that some of it was dairy-produce-con-
trol money. Now we read things like
this:
Melbourne members of the Australian
Dairy Produce Export Board are recom-
mending the Commonwealth Dairy Produce
Equalisation Committee to vote £15,000 of
its “producer funds” to the Victorian State
Dairying Referendum Campaign Commit-
tee.
Of course it could be taken out of the
consumers if the consumers turned down
inter-State freetrade.
A royal commission is conducting an
inquiry into T. J. Hughes’s charges
against the Westralian Government. Pre-
mier Willcock has been the target for
the East Perth member’s fiercest attacks;
when Minister of Justice he allowed his
name to be put on a Yellowdine pros-
pectus. Hughes is conducting his own
case; the Ministers and ex-Ministers
named by him are represented by Walter
James, who was Premier long ago.
B. J. Pearsall, who represented Frank-
lin in two Tas. Parliaments as an Inde-
pendent, will stand next month as an
endorsed Nat. On paper that ought to
give the Nats, three of the six Franklin
seats, for Baker, now Opposition-leader,
and Speaker Evans were elected with
Pearsall three years ago, along with
Premier Ogilvie, J. J. Dwyer (the V.C.)
and Brooker. But John Evans is retir-
ing after 40 years in the House, and that
may mean the loss of a fairly substan-
tial personal vote. Ogilvie is certain to
head the poll. His preferences may give
the odd seat to one of the two others on
the Labor ticket. Franklin has a Labor
member (Frost) at Canberra.
The Vic. Police Commissionership has
been offered to Inspector Duncan, of
Scotland Yard. In other days Labor
opposition would have to be reckoned
with, but nowadays Labor seems per-
fectly tame.
Melbourne’s Metropolitan Board of
Works, which is in fairly good standing
with lenders—its credit is probably better
than that of one or two State Govern-
ments would be if they hadn’t the Loan
Council behind them —has tried London
for £749,000 at 3f p.c., the issue
price being £99. The underwriters were
left with 50 p.c. of it. Premier Wilcock
had been saying that the Loan Council
must look to London for future flota-
tions, and Premier Stevens that the Loan
Council would not dare to stop him
borrowing £12,000,000 in London for his
wonderful new electricity scheme. It
was a cruel blow.
Melbourne City Council is consider-
ing changing the names of its “little”
street's because certain property owners
“believe the prefix conveys a wrong im-
pression of a street’s importance and re-
calls unpleasant memories of a few
whose character has changed greatly.”
This is not a crack at Little Flinders-
street, which lost S. M. Bruce to Federal
and international politics, and which still
contains the warehouse, carrying the
Bruce name ; nor at Little Collins-street.
The “memories” are of Little Bourke-
street and of Little Lon., which ain’t
what it used to be.
The Assembly at Cape Town has
passed a bill designed to check Jewish
immigration. “S. M. Herald” headed its
report “Anti-Semitism in South Africa,”
which is unfair. Surely a country which
has had wars between Boers and Britons,
and wars of both with the blacks, is
entitled to protect itself against a pos-
sible great influx from Europe, which,
as Hertzog puts it, “might engender such
feeling as would lead to bloodshed.”
Unrestricted Jewish immigration to
Palestine has led to bloodshed.
British newspaper reports of Baldwin’s
narrative of the events that led up to
the abdication emphasise a feature not
brought out in the accounts cabled to
these parts. He broached the subject of
Mrs. Simpson without consulting any of
his colleagues, and when he judged that
consultations were, necessary he took
only four Ministers into his confidence.
The incident illustrates how even in
Britain, with its democratic traditions
and its doctrine of Cabinet responsibility,
a very small number of Ministers decides
matters for the rest. This is the case
even at Canberra, where the story goes
that Abbott was chosen for the N.T. job
at a Cabinet meeting at which three
Ministers were present.


THE LOVE CALL.
"A gramophone record of the love cry of a female orang-utan is to be sent to Sumatra in an attempt to capture a mate for Suzy, an orang-utan in the Washington
Sydney “D.T.”


!«S»R Wtfif UESS
ISIORITiOIN
.
m
m
mmm
22
M
■
• 2
24;
m
di
.UNDERWEAR
Cool as a summer breeze, fight,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed..
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known \ ®
... Red Label
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC.. NEW YORK.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
John Felix Booth, who passed out in
Sydney the other day, didn’t look his
73 years. A brother-in-law of Sam Hor-
dern of the last generation, much of his
life had been devoted to Hordern affairs ;
after “Old Sam’s” death the manage-
ment of the Hordern estate outside the
big store fell almost entirely on his
shoulders. He had an unequalled know-
ledge of Sydney and its property values,
and found time for a multitude of sport-
ing interests, including racing, homing-
pigeon breeding and bowls. But his
strong suit was conjuring: he could have
made a first-class living in rivalry with
the Thurstons and Dantes.
Clive Catt, whose substantial features
are lightheartedly pictured here by Frith,
leaves the assistant secretaryship of
Elliotts and the Australian Drug Co. to
become managing director of A. M.
Bickfords, the Adelaide chemical supply
firm which has spread its operations all
over the continent. Catt, now 43, was
CLIVE CATT, a founder of Legacy
Clubs.
born on a Carlingford (N.S.W.) orchard,
and had some early training in a bank,
but he has been in the wholesale chemi-
cal business since 1908, except for a
break of four years during which he
was in turn a stretcher-bearer on Galli-
poli, a footslogger in the 20th Bat-
talion and a machine-gunner. He won
the M.M. at La Sars. One of the
founders of the Legacy Club, he held a
vice-presidency for many years and last
year was N.S.W. president.
The John Sands printing business in
Sydney is one of those which celebrate
centenaries this year. The original John
Sands arrived in the Harbor township
as a young man of 20, just out of appren-
ticeship to a trade as engraver and
stationer which had been his father’s,
grandfather’s and great-grandfather’s. He
opened a shop at what is now Farmer’s
Pitt-street corner; the business went to
its present George-street address in 1849.
Robert Sands, not out of his apprentice-
ship when his father died in 1873, subse-
quently took control, and on his death
in 1925 his eldest son, Robert Sydney
Sands, present head of the firm, took
charge.
Some February birthdays:
Merchant-knight William Brunton (Melb.),
70, on Ist; W. F. Dunn (ex-Min. for Agric.,
N.S.W.), 60, and Archbishop Mowll (Sydney),
47, on 2nd; George Taylor (editor, “Sun-News
Pictorial,” Melb.), 45, and W. A. Deacon (ex-
Min. for Lands, Q’land), 65, on 4th; Rev. L. E.
Bennett, M.A., B.D. (Master of Wesley Coll.,
Sydney), 59, and David Maughan, K.C. (Syd.),
64, on sth; N.S.W. Min. for Mines R. S. Vin-
cent, 45, and Monsignor Nevin (president, St.
Patrick’s Coll., Manly), 51, on 6th; Richard
Linton (former Vic. Agent-Gen.), 59, on 7th; Dr.
A. B. Walkom (gen. sec., A’sian Science Assoc.),
48, and Prof. Jack Murray (Q’land), 48, on
Bth; Q’land ex-Premier A. E. Moore, 61, on
9th; knight Robt. Garran, 70, on 10th; N.S.W.
Min. for Educ. D. H. Drummond, 47, musician
Fritz Hart (Melb.), 63, Q’land Senator Gordon
Brown, 52, and Ida Leeson (Mitchell Librarian,
Syd.), on 11th; Prof. H. S. Carslaw (Syd.), 67,
Prof. A. J. Ewart, F.R.S. (Melb.), 65, Major-
Gen. Charles Rosenthal (Syd.), 62, on 12th;
Archbishop Kelly, 87, Melb. scientist Frederick
Chapman, 73, W.A. Crown Solicitor J. L.
Walker, 52, S.A. Govt. Astronomer Geo. Dod-
well, 58, on 13th; J. L. Price, M.H.R. (Boothby,
S.A.), 55, and Q’land Senator J. V. Macdonald,
57, on 14th; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Jess (Melb.), 53,
Justice McTiernan (Federal High Court), 45,
N.S.W. Collector of Customs G. F. A. Mitchell,
58, and N.S.W. Transport Commissioner S. A.
Maddocks, 56, on 16th; “Banjo” Paterson, 73,
H. T. Armitage (dep.-gov., Commonwealth
Bank), 56, S.A. Govt. Geologist L. K. Ward,
58, and Prof. T. Hytten (Syd.), 47, on 17th;
Prof. O. U. Vonwiller (Syd.), 55, on 18th;
Justice Macrossan (Q’land), 56, and novelist
Dorothy Langsford, on 20th; Judge Drake-
Brockman, 53, Henry Cohen, K.C., M.L.C.
(Vic.), 65, and Anthony Hordern (Syd.), 48, on
21st; Justice Starke (High Court), 66, Dr. lan
Clunies-Ross (Director, McMaster Laboratory),
38, Dr. M. J. Holmes (C’wealth Health Dept.),
53, on 22nd; Norman Lindsay, 58, and novelist
J. M. Walsh, 40, on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Regis-
trar of Syd. Uni.), 54, Prof. D. B. Copland, 43,
Prof. R. M. Allan (Melb.), 51, on 24th; artist
Percy Leason, 48, ex-Customs Comptroller
Ernest Hall, 66, and Justice J. A. Browne
(N.S.W. Chief Industrial Commissioner), 61,
on 25th; knight Mungo MacCallum (Syd.),
83, former S.A. Premier Henry Barwell, 60,
Prof. J. M. Holmes (Syd.), 41, and C. R.
Chapman (formerly N.S.W. Treasury), 62, on
26th; medico-knight James Barrett (Melb.), 75,
and airman L. J. Brain, 35, on 27th; S.A. Min.
for Educ. S. W. Jeffries, 51, on 28th.
Norris Garrett Bell, dead in Sydney at
76, was reckoned in his day the hand-
somest man in the Queensland railway
service. Tall, cleanly Scottish and cap-
able, he made his way during the Mc-
Ilwraith period, when railways were the
chief subject of political talk in the
North. After rising to the chief engi-
neership of the department, he was in
1914 chosen as chief engineer to the
Commonwealth, and bore the brunt of
supervising the East-West and Oodna-
datta lines. He became first Common-
wealth Railway Commissioner in 1917,
and held the position for 12 years.
Then he retired to live at Brighton (Vic.),
where he tilled his garden and played
golf and bowls, taking time off occasion-
ally to gather with old cronies at the
Yorick Club.
The death of Charles Bryant, R. 0.1.,
robs Australia of its leading marine
painter, for whose work there was
always a ready market. Bryant was
born in Sydney 53 years ago and studied
first under Lister-Lister and then in
England under Julius Olsson, R.A., and
others. He exhibited at most leading
European shows, and in 1917 became
official artist to the A.I.F. After the
war he put down his impressions of
the New Guinea affair under an official
commission, and his picture of the visit
of the U.S.A. fleet to Sydney Harbor in
1925, subscribed for by Sydney citizens,
hangs in the Capitol at Washington. A
cosmopolite, Bryant was better known
in European capitals than in Australia.
At the Savage Club in London he was a
familiar figure, and he was a councillor
of the Royal Institute of Oil Painters.
His art is represented in most Australian
galleries.
To have had a memorial fountain
erected during his lifetime and to have
added a new verb to the language were
the two unusual claims of Robert Bratten,
dead at Humby Bay (S.A.) at 74. He
was an Irishman, living in Australia since
1882, and as a district council overseer
of works he devised a new and cheap
road-making method in the limestone
country of S.A. “Brattenising,” now
usual there on the West Coast, is done
by simply running a specially heavy
plough through the rocky subsoil, then
rolling and grading. Result, a good
track ; cost, probably not one-fourth of
the old methods.
The silk hat—the last of its era —
which distinguished George Judah Cohen
from his fellow-men will be seen no
more outside. Sydney’s Union Club. The
veteran Jewish leader passed on quietly
over the week-end at 94. He was a man
of outstanding character, and his memory
of the past was unusually clear. He
could remember the days when the Tank
Stream flowed through the heart of the
city and when, as a boy, he was sent to
draw water from it. He had known, as
a man, every figure of importance in
Australian constitutional history—Don-
aldson, Wentworth, John Robertson and
Parkes among them. He lived actively
through the gold era, and had spoken
to men who knew Macquarie well. He
once recalled a personal description of
John Macarthur by an old servant who
had seen the. Camden country in the late
’nineties of the eighteenth century, the
man having gone on a trip to inspect the
wild cattle which had grown into a herd
there from Phillip’s nucleus. Always dig-
nified, with a fine, speaking voice and
good diction, he hated the limelight, es-
pecially in regard to his charities —he
gave away hundreds of thousands of
pounds in his lifetime. About the only
thing he-was vain about was his reputa-
tion for business integrity. Once a press-
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN.
man, after some difficulty, secured a
signed picture of him for publication,
“You will let me have it back?” said
G.J. Then he added with a smile: “I
am not afraid you will copy my signa-
ture. But my signed picture hanging
on your wall would be very impressive
to your banker.”
Kenya’s Governor and C.-in-C., Brig.-
General Joseph Byrne, who is visiting
Australia, began his experience nearly 40
years ago with the Inniskilling Fusiliers.
He was wounded in Ladysmith during
the siege; afterwards he was on the
Central Judicial Claims Commission in
Pretoria. The later war saw him in
Ireland as Deputy-Adjutant-General dur-
ing the stirring days of the 1916 rebel-
lion, and he was Inspector-General of
Kenya's Governor.
the Royal Irish Constabulary in the diffi-
cult and sometimes bloody days between
1916 and 1920. But with all these acti-
vities he found time to be called to the
Bar at Lincoln’s Inn in 1921. The next
year, when Irish peace had begun to
arrive, he was sent as Governor to the
Seychelles, once administered by N. S.
Wales Governor Walter Davidson. He
was transferred to Sierra Leone before
taking over his present job. A K.B.E.
recognised his services in 1918, and two
years ago he became a G.C.M.G.
Dead at 100, sturdy old David Doust,
a-Clarence River pioneer who settled in
the days when all good farmers wore
possum-skin caps and maize was culti-
vated with the hoe. In the ’nineties he
won a Department of Agriculture prize
for the best-worked farm on the North
Coast. Doust was a devout and regular
local preacher for more than three score
years and ten. He leaves a large family
of descendants.
Henry G. Shugg, who claims Bendigo
(Vic.) as his birthplace, has retired from
his job as principal of the Westra-
lian School of Agriculture at Narro-
gin. He has ably filled this post for the
past 21 years, and has been largely re-
sponsible for the sound progress made
and the good name gained by the
school. Hundreds of old boys will re-
member his kindly influence and sound
training.
Captain A. L. Elliot, who is to com-
mand Queensland’s detachment of the
Australian Coronation contingent, served
as a sergeant in the 4th Pioneers and the
13th “Suicide” Co. in France. After the
war he joined the 9th Battalion, to which
he was appointed lieut. in 1927 and cap-
tain in 1933. In civil life he is a survey
draughtsman in the Q. Lands Depart-
ment.
Most popular tip for chairman of Adel-
aide Tramways Trust in succession to
E. H. Bakewell is J. J. Leal, who has
been a trust member since 1922. He
won’t feel strange in a president’s chair;
he was first president of the S.A. schools
committee, and has held sundry chairman-
ships for Boy Scouts and other organisa-
tions. He has a wide municipal experi-
ence.


“7 j«
C^AVUcIi
- 1 11
A
SMOKE
£
.
m
vmmi.
S'**
GARRICK FILTER TIP
Aclentijjlc Aenutcve
Garrick Filter Tip delivers to your throat and
palate the pure benefits of an entirely new and different
blend of fine Virginia tobaccos (a Garrick Specialty
10 - 9d. : 20 -
And now in handy
Pocket Flat 50 Tins.
Also Round Airtight 50’s.
1/6
a
44108-9.6


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT FLOWS.
“Botfly Bill”: The Snowy River
country is perhaps the only part of
N.S.W. where the thrill of wild-horse
running can be had to-day, and there are
still “riders on Monaro” who can run
them. Recently “Joker” Johnson, a
noted horseman of the south, succeeded
in capturing a mob of 20-odd “scrubber”
ponies in the mountains on Willis station,
near Lob’s Hole. It was rough country
and hard going, but “Joker” was up to
the job. After a general handling to
tame them down a bit, the ponies were
driven overland to Bega on the coast and
sold. Yes, Monaro still breeds them!
* =£ * *
“Reload”: Queer sports? On Pitfield
Plains (Vic.) I met a lanky person carry-
ing a .22 Winchester repeater. In re-
sponse to my query he snorted:
“Rabbits be blowed! I’m after hares! ”
“No dogs?” “Dogs be damned! I run
’em down myself. Finest sport in the
world—and I should know. I’ve gone
after sambur and panther in Bundel-
khand, man-eatin’ pigs in the Punjab,
gazelle and wild dog in the Gczira and
niggers in the Nuba mountains. Hare-
chasing beats ’em all. There’s no ‘catch’
about it. As soo.n as I see two black
eartips I stalk ’em bellywise and bang
one in at six o’clock. If I miss the hare
lights out and I light out after it. When
it stops for a look-see 1 stop and stand
motionless until it commences ruminatin’
again. Then I stalk it again. Two miles
of this is nothing to the chase some of
the blighters lead me, but usually I get
’em in the end.” Ten minutes later I
saw his long legs taking him quickly
out of sight in the direction of Mount
Elephant, and two hours afterwards he
was heading homewards with two fine
hares hanging from 1 his shoulder. On
further acquaintance I found that he was
legally debarred from following the sport
nearest his heart, namely, the stalking
and exterminating of shotgun “sports-
men.”
* * * *
“A.V.McK.”: Shanghai-ing isn’t con-
fined to the waterfront. Shearing in the
Stanthorpe (Q.) district in the late ’twen-
ties, we had the best cook in Australasia ;
but half-way through the shearing his
thirst got the better of him and, seeing
us well started on our Sunday dinner, he
made for the homestead and connected
with the, mail-car, still attired in his
white cap and apron. When we missed
him, the rep. and two shearers set chase
in another car, and overtook him about
25 miles away. He was forcibly brought
back, and, in spite of several attempts
at escape, an unceasing vigilance kept
him with us until the cutout.
* * * *
“Ronel”: One northern N. S. Wales
wheat-farmer accounts himself stiff.
When the land was being prepared he
built a fire on an old gum stump, which
caught alight but apparently went out.
The crop was sown, grew to maturity
and was recently harvested, but through
lack of a late fall of rain the yield was
less than two bags to the acre. During
harvesting smoke was observed rising
from the old stump; the seven-months-
old fire was still smouldering, and at the
bottom of a hole about 14ft. deep coals
glowed strongly. The crop was covered
‘by insurance against fire for a 10-bag
yield!
* * * *
“Hanko”: After a sin. lift to the run-
ning rail on a “muck” length in Riverina
(N.S.W.) I pulled out the jack and
found spreadeagled where the heel-plate
had been a warty toad. Slowly it drew
itself together, took a series of deep
breaths, deflated and hopped away with-
out batting an eyelid. Tnere must have
been all of a ton in that lift, and it
puzzles me yet how the little batrachian
got back into shape again.
* * * *
“Gamma”: Carting water to the
homestead half a mile away, we were
on our way back with the first load
when a thunderstorm broke, deluging
the country. The road was running with
water. After the storm passed, the boss
reckoned it must have filled the tanks
at home, and let the water run out. We
got back with the empty tank, to find
that not a drop of rain had fallen at
the homestead. There stood the wagon
in the bright sunshine* its wheels thickly
coated with wet mud and nothing else
round about but plenty of dust. We
sadly slogged our way back through the
mud for another load, cursing the nar-
row limits of some rainstorms.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: When recently a cargo of
cement' arrived on Badu Island, my
Binghi assistants dived on the paper-
“Drop that gun, Sambo—it might go of!”
bag containers. Soon every black phiz
was surmounted by a jaunty chapeau,
modelled by moulding the paper round
the wearer’s head, fixing a crown by
means of stout string, and then coating
the whole with ship’s paint. A som-
brero effect was achieved, with the ad-
vantage of being at least temporarily
waterproof. I’m open to bet that white
women rush the fashion when in due
course it comes from Paris as a
“creation.”
* * * *
“Bamme”: Descendants of the
Kanakas who were brought to Queens-
land canefields in the early days of
sugargrowing have a better time than
their forebears. Around Mackay, the
few that are left are fairly prosperous.
They get plenty of work from the
farmers, including canecutting, at which
they can make up to a tenner a week. It
was not' until only recently that the
A.W.U. would issue them tickets, but
really they are very fine people, good
citizens and good spenders. In some
places they are treated as white men,
getting the same conditions and eating
at the boss’s table. In fact, it' is very
easy to forget their color when one
works with them every day; then ad-
miration and regard soon take the place
of stupid snobbishness.
❖ ❖ * *
“Con”: I have noticed that shearers
will never leave the hut for the shed
in a body ; one will leave and then the
rest will jump up and follow in single
file. The same thing happens when the
dough-roaster sounds the gong to eat up.
Another thing I’ve noticed about them
is the tendency they have to bump and
run into into one another ; yet, though
this would argue sight-weakness, I have
never seen a blade- or machine-artist
wearing specs.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The crocodile has three
methods of attack —jaws, tail or front
“arms” (as the native terms them) —but
which is the more general method of get-
ting away with his prey? I’ve seen a
croc, swimming at sea near Banks Island
(Torres Strait) carrying on its back a
fair-sized turtle, the captive held securely
just below the neck, and my island boys
have assured me that “that pfeller kadal
he always carry something he been catch
along back belong him,” relating in-
stances of humans who’d been trans-
ported in the same manner. Incidentally,
the croc, goes in for any amount of deep-
sea swimming in the Strait. When
Torres passed through three centuries
ago, one of his company (De Prado) re-
lated that he’d seen a “caiman” forty
feet in length off one island there, which,
if true, beats the 25ft. specimen (said to
be Australia’s record) captured at Mit-
chell River recently.
* * * *
“0.P.”: The corella in his cage was
playing with a bundle of grass when a
big yellow centipede crawled out of the
grass on to his leg. Cocky went to pluck
it off lively—he knew all about centi-
pedes. The insect was quicker—it caught
hold of the parrot’s leg before the bill
closed. Then there was something
doing! The corella first lifted up his
head and yelled blue murder, then he
snapped and bit the ’pede in two, pluck-
ing the bits from him and tossing them
aside. Next he threw fits, back-somer-
saults, bad language and his seed-tin.
He lay on the floor and gasped. Relays
of brandy soon had him on his back,
his legs kicking the air and trying to
sing. Since then that corella has been
on the lookout for another centipede.
Apparently he reckons it was worth it,
and every bundle of grass is pulled to
pieces, straw by straw, in a hope which
hasn’t so far produced another bottle.
* * * *
“Awani”: “Yer can have orl these ’ere
noofangled bag-lifters,” said old Bill
the bullocky &s he placed a bag of
wheat in position on the wagon, “but
th’ best lifter I ever seen was one me
son ’ad on a farm up in nor’-west N. S.
Wales. There wasn’t no bitzer iron or
steel about it, neither; it were a ’uman
one —almost, anyway, seein’ it was a fine
young white bull. When me son ’ad
’is wheat ready ter load, ’e'd take Snowy
th’ bull inter th’ paddick an’ lead ’im up
ter th’ bags. ’E used ter ’ave ter ’ave
’im on a chain when ’e was loadin’, as
Snowy was so fond of it it was a job
ter stop ’im once ’e started gettin’ his
’oms under th’ bags an’ ’eavin’ ’em up.
In fact, ’e looked on it as a reel game,
an’ if we didn’t git th’ whip ter ’im
ter make ’im stop ’e’d keep tossin’ bagser
wheat inter the air. Eh? What ’ap-
pened ’im? Well, in 1924 me son ’ad
such a record crop that ’e reckoned ’e’d
make a splash an’ ’ave things more up
ter date, so on th’ proceeds o’ what th’
crop’d bring when ’arvested ’e bought
a new ’eader an’ a bag-lifter. When
Snowy sees th’ bag-lifter being brought
’ome on th’ dray, ’e goes orf down th’
road bellowin’ real mournful. He wuz
meat fer the dorgs in the mornin’. ’E
knew what that bloomin’ machine lifter
was, though ’e’d never seen none before ;
so, sooner’n look on while it did ’is
work, ’e decided ter end matters an’
committed sueeside on clover —th’ pad-
dick wuz full of it. Course ’e knew what
’e were doin’.”
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: The hollow swish-sh-sh of
the big eagle as it drops like a bolt with
half-folded wings appears to terrify
everything within hearing. It is emu-
lated by the vicious little sparrow-hawk,
which is adept at snicking up mice in
this manner. While haymaking I have
watched a pair of them working the
stubble, and unless they were running a
refreshment-room for other hawks I’d
nominate them the greatest eaters in the
feathered world. They would catch mice
practically the whole day, working so
close that I could see the little blighters
wriggling in their claws.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: My reason for holding
the tinkle of a horse-bell to be the
sweetest of music: In the vast unfenced
Gulf Country (N.Q.) I was returning
alone through the bush from a droving
camp, and, not sure of my bearings,
struck a chain of drying-up waterholes.
I camped, and suddenly in the night I
woke and listened. No bell! I sat up.
Still no bell! I rolled a cigarette ; beads
of perspiration stood on my forehead.
Thoughts of knocking up tracking
horses, of perishing for water in that
droughty land, raced through my mind.
Then came music sweeter than any from
the costliest carillon —the tinkle of my
horse’s bell.
* * * *
“Wah”: Crow-catching? Make a
mortice in the top of a post so that an
egg placed in it will stay there. Place
a set rabbit-trap over the egg. It’s a
lure too attractive for Kelly to resist.
* * * *
“Prof. Watt-Shores”: Australia has
some queer fauna, but none stranger than
the little water sparrow (Spogii subaqua-
tica). Apart from its webbed feet, this
bird differs in no way from the ordinary
sparrow in appearance, but its habits are
totally dissimilar. During the dry season
it lives like a land bird, but with the first
winter rains it acquires a waterproof
plumage like that of the shag, and spends
the rest of the season diving and swim-
ming in lagoons, where it feeds on small
aquatic life, such as tadpoles. Its favor-
ite method of securing its prey is to dive
far under the surface and approach from
below. The wriggling toes of a swim-
ming wild duck seem to have an irresis-
tible fascination for these little chaps;
they swim up and tweak the duck’s toes
at every opportunity. When the sparrows
are numerous ducks get no peace on the
water.
WHERE HAWKESBURY FLOWS.
I hear the soft lap in the reaches
Of river-tides limpid and free;
The wind ripples over the shallows
And ruffles each murmuring tree,
And the waters are bright in the sunlight
Where Hawkesbury runs to the sea.
The blue herons wait by Mulwaree;
At dawn and at eve of the day
The black swans above Wollondilly
Are warily winging their way;
But the swallows are dancing like sylphids
Where Hawkesbury flows to the bay.
.5 have watched the wide Shoalhaven gliding
Where sands of Oallan lie white,
1 have heard the winds shout in the gorges
When the storm has come up with the night,
And the dark trees have groaned in the tempest
Or fall’n with a crash from the height.
But green orange-groves mock the winter
Where Hawkesbury flows to the sea,
And the golden fruit glows in the sunshine
While the blossoms still cling to the tree,
And the valleys are filled with their fragrance
When light rains are drenching the lea.
So tell me a tale of green rivers,
Of witched waters weave me a lay,
Of Mulwaree winding by Goulburn,
Of Shoalhaven’s long, lonely way,
And of Hawkesbury, tranquilly streaming
Its glittering miles to the bay.
N.S.W.
LYNDO.


“Pongo”: Hector had had a fall from
his horse and was taken to the local hos-
pital. “Good gracious,” gasped the
doctor’s wife, passing her hands over
him, “his ribs are shattered.” “Them
ain’t ribs, missus,” demurred Hector.
“Them’s biscuits.” They were, too.
* * * *
“Long Rifle”: I drew a bead on an
eagle-hawk perched on the post of a
fence. By his size and plumage I judged
him to be a mature rooster. At that
distance—about 60 yards—l could thread
a needle with a .22. I let him have it
slap in the side, but only a lone feather
floated down. The bird looked round
more or less casually, reckoned the mos-
quitoes were nipping him, and stretched
his wings and flew off. When I got
home I put the ends of three kerosene-
cases about a foot apart, distanced about
50 yards from me, and let a “short” into
them. The first two ends were bored
clean; the third was splintered slightly.
On the eagle I had used a “long,” which
is supposed to have greater penetrating
power. Then what sort of armor is it
an eagle wears wrapped round his body?
Hi ❖ ❖ 5k
“Leirum”: Binghi relies on footprints
rather than manual imprints to establish
“Go up ’long t’ chapel, an it's only a ’ op, step 'n' jump from theare."
identification. In Torres Strait islands
the native cop. is au fait with every
pedestrian conformation peculiar to every
member of a village population of some
500 or 600. In a case of marital infidelity
being tried under Binghi’s own laws I
heard one narrate his evidence in a clearly
flowing sequence, as though he had been
an eyewitness. Actually, he was merely
stating his reconstruction of the case, this
having been pieced together solely from
observations of the generous hoofprints
of the dusky Don Juan and the errant
spouse.
% * m m
“Vante”: Much has been said of emu
prowess in battle, but cassowaries are
even more formidable. I was out hunt-
ing them on horseback when two dogs
routed one out and put him on the run.
Soon tiring of being the pursued, he
turned on the dogs, and in two minutes
had stretched one out and sent the
“ Won't y' never back into them shafts?”
other off badly injured. As I rode up
he turned on me, lashing out at the horse
with powerful legs and butting with
horned head. By the time I’d got my
shot in the horse’s sides were badly
lacerated.
* ifc % :fc
“Nellie Cross, C.S.”: Morrissey, the
snake expert, once got permission from
a dairy-farmer at Karangi, on the N.S.W.
North Coast, to catch snakes for the pur-
pose of demonstrating his antidote. Later
he explained to a disappointed gathering
that owing to a particularly heavy dew
he was unable to sight a single serpent.
Is the belief sound that snakes won’t
travel over wet grass?
* ;Jt -Jf *
“Kali”: Easy fishing? I was on a
small irrigation farm at Koondrook
(Vic.), a few miles from the Murray. It
had been a dry summer, and even the
water in the main channels was fairly
low, while the one from which we irri-
gated showed only about four feet.
After watering five acres from it the
bed was exposed, except for about 20
feet near the stop. Here in Sin. of water
and mud swirled hundreds of yellow-
belly, and we caught enough for our
own and our neighbors’ dinners by
simply throwing them out with pitch-
forks.
* * * *
“Pack-bag”; Who said that the race
of pioneers was degenerating? I lived
near a tobacco-farmer at Dimbulah
(N.Q.) who owned three barns, a bulk-
shed and necessary plant, including three
horses, a pumping outfit and a motor-
truck. Except for a bag humpy home-
stead, the farm was well improved, and
the bushman had had five seasons grow-
ing tobacco. From September to May
last he worked 14 hours a day every
day, and often did contract carting at
night. He mostly employed two men,
and, toiling in rain and boiling sun, he
had the. show crop of the district, which
he stayed awake at nights to cure.
“Billy See”: The fox-rabbit-lamb com-
plex may still be a debatable question in
other parts of Australia, but there re-
mains no doubt in W.A. Given poul-
try, Reynard won’t bother lamb much ;
given lamb, he despises rabbit. Thus
bunny serves to carry him, and particu-
larly his missus, over the lean season
when a shortage of food would limit
the extent and strength of the litter.
Without the rabbit to fall back on he
would probably be capable of no greater
increase than in those countries where he
has existed for ages. The fact that he
kills a few bunnies is no excuse for
Reynard’s existence: he never kills
enough. Destroying the rabbit won’t
make him turn to lambs ; he turns there
naturally.
* * * *
“Eesee”: “I reckon it’s all lies about
them whip-snakes and ’oop-snakes,” said
old Albert. “Yer never can tell with
snakes, though. I saw two fightin’ once,
and each one got the other bloke’s tail
in his mouth and started to swaller.
Neither would give up, and I watched
’em with me own eyes till there was no-
thing to be seen but the mark in the dust
where they’d been scufflin’.”
* * * *
“Runa”: One of my most interesting
acquaintances is an ancient cockatoo
who chatters mostly in Maori, he having
spent his early days in a store in the
King Country (M.L.). When his owner
bought a town business the bird imme-
diately proved a first-class draw, dozens
of casual customers calling in to be
greeted with a hearty “Tenakoe” and
sped with a polite “Kia ora.” When the
cage was placed outside hordes of pre-
datory sparrows would gather on the
tray and gorge themselves with grain, to
a running commentary in Maori from
the indignajit owner of the fare. As all
who might do so declined to translate
Cocky’s remarks, we gathered that his
proficiency in the Maori language did
not end with mere social chatter.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Jacko Whoop”: What is the life of
a topknot pigeon (the crested pigeon
of the interior)? One I have was taken
from the nest on the Flinders River in
1925. Early in his career he slipped his
stifle, being caught in the netting of his
cage. He has shifted from the interior
to the coast, is now over 11 years old,
shows no bald patches and has his game
every morning with the missus when she
goes to feed him, stamping his feet, arch-
ing his neck, fluffing his feathers and
pecking as if he meant to do something.
The game over, with wingtips quivering,
he waits to be caressed.
* - * *
“W.P.T.”: Apparently certain trees
are especially attractive to lightning.
Near Wyndham, South Coast (N.S.W.),
an old gum has been struck so often
that there’s little of it left standing.
Scarcely a storm passes over this area
without this tree being struck. Near
Bemboka, in the same locality, an old
box-tree had been struck on many occa-
sions, while other trees in the immediate
surroundings escaped. A farmer whose
house was near by got fed up with the
excitement and rooted the much-blasted
offender right out.
“Erua”: Horse sense? In my youthful
days one. of the sights of our up-country
district was Old Macpherson going home,
On market days he drove his old mare
Maggie info town in the spring cart, and
invariably started back about three in
the afternoon, full as a little egg and
incapable of driving. For the first mile
or so he usually managed to sit on the.
seat and hold the reins; after that he
became somnolent and, linking the reins
over his elbow, retired to the floor of
the cart. Maggie was used to every
move. Having glanced round and assured
herself that the captain was no longer
on deck, she would amble along, stop-
ping occasionally to nibble a tempting
morsel or to take a nap herself. She
always selected a shady spot in which
to rest, and when there was a spurt of
traffic on the roads she invariably drew
to her correct side and waited until the
rush was over. Everybody knew her and
her master, and let them both proceed
without interference. She did it without
accident for years, and when she dropped
dead one hot day it was the end of her
master’s excursions. The next horse he
tried took fright at a traction engine
towing a chaffcutter, bolted and put the
old man into hospital for seven months.
* ■' * * *
“Kali”: Even Brer Rabbit is not in
it as a family-raiser with the common
house mouse. The first family arrives
before the rodent is six months old. As
the mouse carries its young for only 18
days before birth, the number of litters
can possibly be about 16 yearly, with
five or six mouselets per litter. It would
take a mathematician to work out the
progeny from one pair of mice and
their descendants over a two-year period ;
there’d be enough to make a fair-sized
plague. Only our bird-life keeps this
menace in check —alone sufficient reason
why every Australian should fight, and
keep on fighting, for the absolute pro-
tection of all our native birds.
* * * *
“Orion”: When a snake track is seen
in the dust it’s easy to come at which
way the wriggler was going. If examined
carefully, it will be seen that the dust
is slightly raised on the inside of one
curve and on the outside of the next. A
snake pushes itself along, and these
slight mounds are the result of pressure
backwards. Hence the snake travelled
in the direction away from the mounds.
Some argue that the snake pushes the
mound ahead of him, but I have abun-
dant proof to the contrary.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Those sea-snakes of
which “Nor’-West” (B. 30/12/’36) says
the Binghis around Broome have no fear
must differ from those frequenting
Torres Strait and Darwin shelling-beds.
I knew a Torres Strait native who suf-
fered a bite from one and died three
days later in excruciating agony; also
two Malayan brothers who suffered a
like fate. When last year the newly-
opened shell-beds off Darwin produced
a similar fatality, it was noticed that the
victim, a Japanese, turned quite black.
The snake fastened on to his wrist and
held on so tenaciously that the flesh had
to be torn to break the grip.
* * * *
“Superspeed”: Who doubts the lethal
properties of the .22 H.V. long-rifle
bullet? An initial velocity of 1400 ft.
per second enables it to ventilate a
couple of one-eighth-inch iron plates,
and with the hollow-point variety, other-
wise identical, I have turned rabbits
inside out at ranges up to 100yds., and
it’s a killer beyond that distance. The
careless crow which neglects to keep
abreast of the catalogues has only a slim
chance of reaching a ripe old age with
this ammunition available.
THE RIGHT TO SKITE.
When men who’ve left the bush behind them
meet
And talk of days gone by, they seem to care
Far more for memories of dust and heat
When months of drought had left the country
bare
Than those of years when tanks and dams
were full
And over all the spell of plenty lay,
While sheepmen spoke of weighty clips of wool
And record lambings in an airy way.
In reminiscences of years of drought
They fairly revel as they tell their tales,
Of losses suffered when the feed cut out,
Of clips deficient by some scores of bales.
Enlarging on the past, their thoughts hark back
To weeks of effort when they had to nurse
Frail, half-starved stock along some hungry
track
Where grass was poor and patchy, water
worse.
Of runs grown smaller as the years slip past,
Of rainfalls getting lighter every year,
Of native grasses disappearing fast,
Of seasons when it scarcely pays to shear.
They speak at length; in pessimistic tones
They gauge the future, shake their heads and
sigh
So sadly that one visions heaps of bones
Bleaching beneath a rainless western sky.
If in their stories lurks a vein of “skite”
Exposed just here and there to emphasise
The fact that they “came out of it all right”
In spite of droughts and fires, floods, dogs
and flies,
And many lesser evils, what of that?
They’ve every right to chuckle if they choose.
The men to whom the whole world lifts its hat
Are those who fight and win, not those who
lose.
QUEENSLAND.
M.K. BENNETT.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, 0:1 request.
Directors - .
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
STR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
O. E. FHIENI)
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager E. Y. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms. Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five: public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Net Pref.* Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. .. 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 585,402
Added preliminary exes,, £7B .. .. 585,480
ii P-c.
1931.. 66,631 66,914 Nil 585,763
74 p.c,
1932.. 106,153 100,710 Nil 586,320
8. Bennett shares written down,
£465,500 .. ~ .. ..1,051,820
Reserves.
Ord. capital written off, £1,052,121.. 3ul
1933.. 155,793 80,81l’ 22,347 22,648
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 . . 2,648
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1934.. 175,651 89,412 63,162 23,077 25,725
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 5,725
1935.. 176,771 89,437 63,187 24,147 29,872
Reserved for depreciation, £20,000 .. 9,872
From depreciation reserve, £7500 .. 17,372
1936.. 184,551 89,491 63,568 31,491 48,863
* Pref. div. subject to statutory cut of 224 p.c. from
i October 1, 1931, and to special tax (2s. in £)
on income from property.
It has been an eventful history. Formed
in 1929 this Associated co. merged the
interests of Sun Newspapers (paid capital,
£900,000; chief publications, daily and
Sunday “Sun”) and S. Bennett (paid
capital, £425,000; chief publication,
“Evening News”). It exchanged
£3,135,930 of its own scrip for the
shares, or all but a fraction of
them, in the other two. Next the
daily and Sunday “Guardian” were led
into the stable at a cost of £575,000 for
goodwill—£4oo,ooo in prefs. and the
balance cash. Then the economic
barometer began to fall. To protect the
earnings of the chief contributor to the
pool, publication of the “Guardian,”
“Telegraph Pictorial” and “Evening
News” was discontinued; the “Daily Tele-
graph” was afterwards revived. After that
10s. per share (£1,052,020) was lopped off
the ords. in 1933 ; in the same year they
got into the picture for the first time
with 5 p.c. The £1,052,020 was used to
rub out £577,470 at which the goodwill
of the “Guardian” figured and £9150 of
preliminary exes., and to slice £465,500
off the figure at which the Bennett co.’s
shares appeared.
Early in the last term the goodwill of
the “Telegraph” was sold to Consolidated
Press —in which E. G. Theodore and
D. F. H. Packer are largely interested —
for £125,000 in fully-paid ords. The
same buyers also took over the “Even-
ing News” building for £95,000 cash, and
the “Evening News” plant for £35,000 in
f.-p. ords. That left Associated with
one active subsidiary, Sun Newspapers,
Ltd. (paid capital, £900,000), to earn
dividends for £2,546,031 of Associated
capita 1—1,491,765 7 p.c. prefs. (subject to
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act)
and 1,054,266 ords. To reduce overhead
it is proposed to amalgamate the pair;
Sun Newspapers will go into voluntary
liquidation.
Here is the position at September 27
last as Associated’s published accounts
showed it:
1930. 1935. 1936.'
Preference .. £1,483,999 £1,490,830 £1,491,765
Ordinary .. 2,093,001 1,053,331 1,054,266
Sundry creditors.. 148,927 112,862 97,197
Smith’s Newspapers 140,000 -
Shares in other cos. 3,135,930 2,690,735 2,675,105
Stocks .. . . 41,500 39,218 6,765
Sundry debtors, etc. 101,530 58,586 61,476
Equipment . . 1,564 —-
The holding in Sun Newspapers appears
at £2,520,623 ; Consolidated Press,
£142,500 ; S. Bennett, £11,982. Whatever
profit there may have been on sale of
the goodwill of the “Telegraph,” plus
£52,500 from the depreciation reserve,
was swallowed in the' loss on sale
of most of the Bennett co.’s assets.
The remainder of Bennett’s assets is
considered to be conservatively valued
at £11,982. Of the 125,000 £1 Consoli-
dated ords. received for the goodwill of
Ale Telegraph,” 17,500 accrued to Sun
Newspapers for its interest in the old
“Telegraph Pictorial,” which had been
incorporated with the “Telegraph.” Asso-
ciated s holding in Consolidated is thus
142,500 ords., which appear at par. The
cash payment for Bennett’s building was
evidently used in liquidating that co.’s
liabilities. Outside shareholdings, chief
movements in Associated’s figures were a
reduction of £32,453 in stocks and of
£15,665 in the amount coming to sundry
creditors.
There was little change in the amount
of dividends, etc., received —all but a
fraction of the £194,978 came from the
highly-profitable Sun co.’s business:
1931. 1935. 1936.
From subsidiaries .. £103,908* £194,805 £194,978
Kxes 37,277 18,034 10,427
Net £66,631 £176,771 £184,551
* After deducting loss on “Guardian,” £15,777.
The reduction of £7607 in exes, was due
to the absence of provision for taxation
(£lO,OOO in the previous year), the special
5 p.c. tax on income from property hav-
ing been abolished. The £184,551 of
profit claimed was sufficient to pay the
prefs. their full contract rate (7 p.c.)
and show 7.6 p.c. on ord. capital. But
the board decided “it was wiser to hus-
band the resources of the c 0.,” and kept
the div. at an all-round 6 p.c.
Net earnings of Sun Newspapers are not
disclosed. Its free reserves and undis-
tributed profits at Sept. 30 last (£370,110)
were £53,742 greater than they were a
year earlier. That was after £22,260 net
had been added to the depreciation re-
serve (now £345,915). The Sun co.’s free-
hold figured at £637,622; leasehold,
£3288 ; plant, etc., £631,333; stocks,
£218,735 ; debtors, cash, etc., £295,294 ;
investments, £48,265 ; goodwill, £316,098.
There was £534,340 coming to sundry
creditors, including provision for taxa-
tion, contingencies and provident fund.
According to Associated’s chairman,
the Consolidated co. has recouped pre-
liminary losses, and is now in a position
to declare a div. on its small issue of
preference shares (£lOO,OOO, carrying a
* fixed cumulative 61 p.c., in a paid capi-
tal of £675,000). When the ords., which
have a tangible backing of about Is. 9d.
a share, are likely to contribute to the
pool remains to be seen.
At 245. Associated’s prefs. return 5 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. On the, same basis
the ords. at 245. 6d. yield 4.9 p.c. A lift
of 1 p.c. in the div. would increase the
yield by approximately 16s. p.c. in each
case. The net tangible backing is approxi-
mately 11s. Bd. per pref. share. The
ords. are entirely unrepresented by tan-
gibles.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
' Towards Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ di
1926.. 106,249 10 p.c. = 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ ~ 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. .. 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 131 p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 .. .. 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,412 291,461
1933.. 38,111 5 „ „ 38,016 95 291,556
1934.. 43,411 s*„ „ 41.821 1.590 293,146
1935.. 80,286 10 ~ „ 76,043 4,243 297,389
Profit on sale assets, £1426.. .. 298,815
1936.. 84,984 10 p.c. = 76,043 8,941 307,756
This co. (paid capital, £760,433) and
Kandos (paid capital, £673,862) each
own a million of the £2,000,000 of capi-
tal in Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
the operating co. in which the- two first-
named merged their interests in 1930.
The works are at Fyansford (Vic.) and
Kandos (N.S.W.), each capable of turn-
ing out 225,000 tons of cement annually,
or together equal to 40.3 p.c. of the total
plant capacity of the seven cement
manufacturers operating in N.S.W., Vic.
and Tas. The Fyansford plant is the
only one in Vic., where the Goliath co.,
Railton, Tas. (plant capacity 100,000
tons p.a.), has also won a market.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
pty.’s accounts. Nevertheless, it appears
to get its full share of whatever business
is offering in the two States, and there
has been a steady increase in output
since the low-water mark of 1932 was
passed. Taking Australia as a whole,
plant capacity is over 1,300,000 tons
p.a. Production dropped from 752,580
tons for 1927-28 to 247,396 tons for
1931-32. For the 12 months to the end
of 1935 the figure passed the 600,000-
ton mark; the estimate for 1936 is
650,000 tons or more.
Following tariff adjustments, the sell-
ing price of cement was lowered during
1936 by 10s. a ton in Sydney, reducing
the figure to 90s. a ton. The full effect
of the reduction will not be reflected in
the earnings of manufacturers until ac-
counts for the current year are pre-
sented. Last year Australian Portland
appears to have paid 8-y p.c. or there-
abouts, the same as for the previous
term.
The spring of £4698 in this hold-
ing co.’s net earnings (£84,984 = 11.1
p.c. on capital) was due to lighter pro-
vision for taxation—£soo as against
£6500 in 1935; the special 5 p.c. tax
on income from property has been abol-
ished. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
During the year the co.’s holding in
Stream-Line Filter (in at £16,168) was
sold. The profit on the deal was £1426,
which was sent direct to reserves. Share-
holding now consists of £1,000,000, Aus-
tralian Portland; £3750, Bates (Aus.),
Ltd., which turns out paper bags for
cement, etc.; £8303, Industrial Invest-
ments Pty., which is engaged in evolving
ways and means of widening the use of
cement. Debtors figure at £2120 ; Con-
sols, £14,061 ; cash, £80,233. There was
£2258 coming to creditors, including pro-
vision for taxation.
British cement is now admitted into
Australia duty free, provided the landed
cost is not less than 51s. 6d. per ton
sterling c.i.f. Australian ports, which
figure assumes an f.o.b. export price of
255. per ton. Since British manu-
facturers sell in the London market at
from 40s. to 425. per ton, the arrange-
ment admits of the possibility of dump-
ing. In the absence of severe com-
petition from overseas, prospects of local
manufacturers being able to earn satis-
factory profits appear to be bright
enough.
At 295. 6d. Australian Cement’s pound
shares return 6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.4 p.c. if the distribution
dropped to 8 p.c.
Australian General Insurance
To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
1926.. 10,577 10 p.c. = 5000 5,577 26,641
1927.. 10,580 10 „ „ 5000 5,580 32,221
1928.. 16,145 10 „ „ 6000 10,145 42,366
1929.. 16,938 10 „ „ 6993 9,945 52,311
1930.. 6,578 9 „ „ 6300 278 52,589
Loss.
1931.. 3,'937 4 „ ~ 2800 45,852
Profit.
1932.. 7,952 6 „ „ 4200 3,752 49,604
1933.. 10,640 8 „ ~ 5600 5,040 54,644
1934.. 12,031 8 „ „ 5600 6,431 61,075
1935.. 12,874 9 „ „ 6300 6,574 67,649
1936.. 12,345 9 „ „ 6300 5,945 73,594
This co. and the well-known Mercan-
tile Mutual have interlocking directo-
rates and managements. Slump inter-
rupted a run of 10 p.c. divs. ; but since
the co. withdrew from the very tricky
London marine market —results there
were responsible for the mishap in ’31 —
there has been a sharp contraction in
the loss ratio, to the benefit of under-
writing results. Look at these figures:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,475 £35,176 57.5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35.8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
1929.. 133,101 67,838 55,741 51 41.9
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 6*3.2 41.4
1931.. 85,822 60,504 36,450 70.5 42.4
1932.. 74,658 37,099 35,184 49.7 47.1
1933.. 67,259 30,642 31,848 45.5 47.3
1934.. 69,819 28,881 34,990 41.3 50.1
1935. . 70,907 30,125 34,411 42.4 48.5
1936.. 78,511 37,029 35,767 47.1 45.5
Last year an extra £7604 of net pre-
miums was gathered. Claims were
£6904 heavier, and exes, were up £1356,
leaving the underwriting surplus £656
lighter than the previous year’s at £5715,
or 8.1 p.c. on capital. Workers’ compen-
sation and motor-car business were the
troublesome lines, and have been for
some time ; so insurers in all the tariff
offices are to be asked for a little more
in the way of premiums. The £6630
(up £127) gathered in interest and rents
was 9.5 p.c. on capital. This and the
fact that the net return from all sources
was 17.6 p.c. on capital give the 9 p.c.
div. a solid look.
The market anticipates the future bv
pricing the pound shares paid to 7s. at
17s. 9d. The return at 17s. 9d. is 3.5
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis ; the investor
who looks for a shade under 4 p.c. on
his money counts on a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion. The cover is visibly 21s. in net
tangibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show‘it:
1926. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paul capital . . £50,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities . . . . 20,777 15,528 14,903 19,397
Freeholds .. . . 2,540 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages . . 23,910 40,902 42,648 43,347
Debentures • . . 6,000 9,000 9,000 9,000
Public securities.. 36,666 61,912 68,397 74 492
Book debts . . 5,728 7,246 5,509 5,690
Cash, etc 29,073 22,772 34,598 37,362
Public securities, up £6095 during the
year, appear at less than either face or
market value.
Policy-holders are well protected.
When the books closed they could see
net tangibles equal to over 182 p.c. of
the year’s net premiums, whereas 150
p.c. is usually considered adequate. In
addition shareholders could be called
upon to dredge up another £130,000 if
need be.
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1926.. 19,195 28jp.c.= 14,859 2994 1342 17,460
1927.. 18,141 26j„ ~13,995 6750 14,856
1928.. 16,362 26jj„ ~ 14,000 4080 13,138
1929.. 12,569 *2O „ „ 10,500 2303 12,904
1930.. 5,257 10 „ „ 5,250 3055 9,556
Loss.
1931.. 1,618 Nil 1958 6,280
Profit.
1932.. 261 Nil 261 6,541
1933.. 1,087 Nil 1087 7,628
1934.. 3,706 6 p.c. = 3,150 556 8,184
1935.. 4,691 8 „ „ 4,200 491 8,675
1936.. 9,425 10 „ „ 5,250 ) ..
Staff bonus, £1720 .. f 2405 11,130
This is one of Sydney’s leading real-
estate agency businesses. Earnings last
year were the best since the boom burst.
During the post-war decade high prices
for wool, wheat and other products,
combined with lavish spending of loan
money from overseas and promiscuous
speculation in city and suburban free-
holds —properties changed hands two
and three times a year—drove values to
highly-inflated levels. The market got
a sudden jolt when the spending stopped;
it collapsed when slump and Langism
destroyed confidence in the future of
property as an investment. Consider
these figures:
Sydney Property Sales.
City. Suburbs.
1924 . . . . £2,100,000 £3,500,000
1926 .. .. 7,000,000 3,750,000
1928 . . . . 2,750,000 4,816,024
1930 .. .. 698,575 1,339,977
1931 .. .. 364,420 484,528
1932 .. .. 66.0,695 580,782
1933 . . . . 786,385 793,852
1934 .. .. 850,964 1,563,503
1935 . . . . 1,238,058 2,338,785
1936 . . . . 1,174,431 2,993,843
Bottom was reached in 1931, when the
value of city sales had fallen to 5.2 p.c.
of the 1926 figure, and suburban sales
had receded to 10 p.c. of their 1928
peak, and a three-year drought began for
R. and W.’s shareholders. City turnover
continued to pick up until last year, when
there was a recession of £63,627 in the
aggregative figure. Chief sales were the
corner of Market and Castlereagh streets,
bought by David Jones, £390,000 ; Trust
Building, corner of King and Castle-
reagh streets, £273,000; King’s Cham-
bers, King-street through to Rowe-street,
£lOO,OOO. There has been no falter in
the advance of suburban sales, up
£655,058 last year. The most encourag-
ing features of the market in 1936 were
steady appreciation of values, absence of
undue speculation, continued improve-
ment in economic conditions, and, half-
way through the year, abolition of the
special tax on fncome from property.
R. and W.’s sales (£1,385,344) were
approximately 40 p.c. better than in
1935, and over 100 p.c. better than for
1934. Commissions, etc. (£28,244), were
up £4861. Exes. (£18,817) took £l2B of
the increase, leaving the net result at
17.9 p.c. on capital a § against 8.9, 7 and
a shade over 2 p.c. for the three preced-
ing years. A 2 p.c. bonus was sent out
with the 8 p.c. div., making 10 p.c. for
the year, and £1720 (= 3.2 p.c. on capi-
tal) was handed to the managing direc-
tors and staff. For the decade to the
{“Wild Cat" continued on page 24.)


The WORLD 5 GREATEST BRIDGE
Yi
as*
&5 m
Is*
•J 1
V
\
V?
St»
V
SM
/£
f
4
ytm.
m
*
: ■<■•>*•>»
SU&
322
04 «
k
<v?
jOJ-
*S
. <.-■y.C
#»’ . . *. . - —rit-,
■ •*£*&’
m
ar;
v3?S (>*>
i#3
SI
If
J
, »-S
£»7
war
si ip
■« V:
SI J *
v a v;
\ ’v
-V
5>'rK^u ; ;
y&.
ij?
m
I'T
isi
K
4llSi^ V
*
C^4\D
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS LTD
AUSTRALIA’S NAT 1.0 NAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


v A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
mmm
Molly Fox plans a
PENSION
MOLLY CHATFIELD FOX is a typiste. She gets
£4 a week. Out of that she plans to do two
things: one, to enjoy life while she is young; two,
to invest portion of her salary in an A.M.P. policy that
will give her £lO a month for life after she is 55.
“Whether I marry or not,” says Miss Fox, ‘Tve
made up my mind about one thing. I’m investing a bit
of my present income in the A.M.P. so that I can have
a private income at 55. When I get a larger salary I
shall arrange for a larger income at 55. I’m not going
to live on relatives.”
A very good move. Miss Fox is in a broker’s office,
and she knows how hard it is for a woman to build up
ordinary investments that will return a certain £lO a
month; a guaranteed income. She knows that when she
reaches 55 her cheque from the A.M.P. will arrive as
regularly as the moon; that under the A.M.P. plan she
will run no risks of bad investments; have no worry
about investments at all.
A wise plan. Now, what about you, Miss Earn-a-
Living, who read the story of Miss Fox’s plan? Shall
we send an experienced adviser round to talk this matter
over with you? Asking us to send him will put you
under no obligation whatever. We seek only to help
you. The Society is purely mutual. It belongs entirely
to its members. Ask us to-day.
AM P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON,
Actuary. General Mar ‘FA
ra ger.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspectdr.
D. E, WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 433
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
4c 4= * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8- Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
° * * * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., J8
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 17o Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.—Advt.
close of accounts in 1930 divs. averaged
20.6 p.c. ; but that cannot be accepted
as a reliable guide to what may still lie
ahead of the business.
If advances are readily realisable prac-
tically all the co.’s assets are liquid:
1930. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. .. £52,500 £52,500 £52,500 £52,500
Liabilities .. .. 7,316 13,484 17,230 16,614
Advances .. .. 43,986 46,111 48,040 43,558
Cash, etc 18,872 24.139 25,382 36,172
Odds and ends .. 2,277 2,137 3,571 3,408
Sundry debtors .. 7,163 3,957 4,413 4,502
No account is taken of the co.’s exten-
sive goodwill in the books.
At 30s. 6d. (255. a year ago) the fully-
paid 15s. shares return 4.9 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The cover is 18s. 2d. in
net tangibles.
Cuthbert’s Misima Goldmine
This co., which took over from Fred
Cuthbert the New Misima, on Misima
Island, in October, 1934, for approxi-
mately £99,000, has given a very good
account of itself, and prospects for
shareholders are promising. Despite ex-
ceptional rains, which interfered with
progress, the co. mined and treated
21,707 tons of oxidised ore from the
southern section of the property, assay-
ing 6dwt. 12gr. gold and 53dwt.
silver, for 26,1500 z. bullion, containing
63750 z. fine gold and 19,0080 z. silver.
Recoveries were. 91 p.c. gold and 33 p.c.
silver ; extraction of silver from this class
of ore is particularly difficult. The tail-
ings assayed 13gr. gold and 35dwt.
silver. Costs were 13s. 1.2 d. mining,
7s. 4.4 d. treatment.
The bullion realised £57,485, and £404
was gathered in interest, etc. ; total
£57,889. Including bonuses to the white
staff (£1125), expenditure totalled
£26,794, leaving a profit of £31,095 (=
2s. Ofd. per 10s. share), of which three 6d.
divs. (together equal to 15 p.c. on capi-
tal) took £22,500. Of the £8595 that was
left, £1460 was written off preliminary
exes., etc. (now £14,000), and £2OOO was
earmarked against a contingent liability
of £lO,OOO in respect of the promoter’s
agreement; the other £5135 is carried
forward.
When the books closed the mine figured
at £86,339 ; plant', £31,628 ; stores,
£8460 ; debtors, £204 ; cash and bullion,
£19,731. There was £3227 coming to
sundry creditors, including provision tor
taxation. Paid capital is £150,000 in
f.-p. 10s. shares.
The property is divided into two sec-
tions—north and south. Clif. Rutledge,
resident managing director, put positive
and probable ore in the oxidised zone ot
the southern section at 252,700 tons, and
there is a strong possibility of another
300,000 tons being developed above No.
9 level (about 180 ft. below outcrop) in
the same zone. The northern section has
not yet been opened up. Gold Mines
of Papua, operating on Misima’s north-
ern boundary, estimates its proved and
possible ore at 400,000 tons, averaging
465., with gold at £AB per ounce. Possi-
bilities are that Misima’s Umuna lode,
now being worked, runs through the co.’s
northern section into the adjoining
ground. No attempt has yet been made
to prove the value or tonnage of ore in
the sulphide zone.
It is expected to lift mill capacity, now
2000 tons monthly, to not less than
3400 tons monthly (= roughly 40,000
tons p.a.) by July next.
A geological and geophysical overhaul
of the Portland Road’s field, Weymouth
Bay district, Cape York Peninsula, was
begun toward the end of 1936 by the
Government party which is making an
aerial and geological survey of northern
Australia. The field is divided into four
sections —the large iron-ore deposits, the
iron-gold deposits and the northern and
southern schist zones. The iron-gold
deposits, to date the most important on
the field, lie to the east of the big iron
lode. Some of the gold lodes carry very
rich patches above water level, but doubt
is expressed as to whether they will be
payable below this point. The zone of
these gold reefs “probably extends
along the whole eastern flank of Iron
Range.” Samples taken from this area
averaged 3oz. Bdwt. gold, and those from
Scrubby Creek averaged loz. Samples
from other areas on the field also gave
high values. There are about 150 people
on the. field, where some 40 leases are
being developed. Gold was first dis-
covered there by John Gordon in 1934,
and so far his mine, the Iron Range,
has yielded over £20,000 worth of the
yellow metal. The future of the field
will depend largely upon the extent to
which the formations and values live
down. Machinery, stores and passengers
are landed by John Burke’s steamer at
the bay, whence a Government road is
being built to the field.
* * * *
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd., the veteran
Malayan c,0., is still going strong, and, if
the report that arrangements have been
made to dredge a large adjoining area
of low-grade ground, on a royalty basis,
with its modern No. 5 dredge is correct,
a long and profitable life is assured for
the co. Formed in March, 1914, with a
capital of £50,000 (£17,500 was credited
as fully paid), which was subsequently
increased to £lOO,OOO out of profits, and
later reduced to £66,666 by the return
of £33,333 to shareholders in cash, Larut
and its subsidiaries, Tupai and Kota,
have paid just on £600,000 in divs. The
original subscribed capital was only
£32,500, now valued on the market at
over £500,000. The Prattens always
had control. The late Hon. H. E. Pratten
and his brother, F.G., followed later by
their sons, H. G. and E. H. Pratten, were
the cd.’s directors. Larut has been
largely responsible for putting tin-dredg-
ing in. the category of a reliable invest-
ment, thanks to the directors for their
application of business principles to
mining.
* * * *
Lake View South, reckoned in the early
days to be one of the best positioned
blocks on the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile
(W.A.), broke a strongly financed London
co. in the ’nineties, and has been a
source of worry and expense to others
since. Australian capital was raised to
work it, but values shown on old plans
were not confirmed when the mine was
unwatered and sampled. Schemes for
further prospecting are now suggested,
but funds are lacking. There is talk of
letting tributes.
* * * *
London-controlled Tindals (W.A.) is
getting on. Borehole disclosures have
been followed by crosscutting and in-
tersection of large gold-carrying forma-
tions at 400 ft. vertical. Values so far
range from 4dwt. to upwards of 6dwt. a
ton. Installation of a treatment plant
is under consideration. Tindals was one
of the earliest mines opened at Cool-
gardie, and profits were won from quar-
ried low-grade ore. Early this century,
when deeper mining replaced opencut-
ting, the property was abandoned. It
yielded in all 31,6120 z. from 125,645
tons.
*** t *
In addition to working the Moon-
light group at Wiluna, Gold Fields Aus-
tralian Development has an option over
Spargo’s Reward, at Coolgardie (W.A.).
It also got into Yellowdine and Come-
ton on the ground floor. Its purchase of
Kintore for £lO,OOO was unofficially an-
nounced the other day.
* * * *
Golden Valley (W.A.) has resolved to
wind up. Co. was formed late in 1934
to acquire an old Kanowna show for
£13,000, plus a wad of shares. It sub-
sequently nibbled at the King of
Creation, Laverton (now one of the De
Bernales group), but a number of share-
holders, headed by three directors, ob-
jected, and the deal fell through.
* * * *
Star Exploration’s investments stand in
the books at £130,595 ; their composi-
tion is gold ventures 58 p.c., mining,
finance and exploration 30 p.c., tin 8 p.c.,
silver and base metals 3 p.c., and utili-
ties and miscellaneous 1 p.c. During the
last five years the co. has declared four
divs. of 10 p.c. each and one of \2\ p.c.
* * * *
Wooramel Oil, N.L., has made a
geological inspection of its holding in
the Gascoyne (W.A.), and some cases
of fossils have been sent to the Com-
monwealth Palaeontologist for examina-
tion. The co. was tipped as an early
winner at flotation, but so far it has
struggled in the ruck alongside its stable-
mate, Freneys.
* * * *
FromJo’burg: Rand miners have aban-
doned their demand for a 10 p.c. wage
increase, and accepted the S. African
Chamber of Mines offer, amounting
to £580,000 a year. The Chamber’s
offer includes an additional contribution
of 12s. 6d. a month to sick benefit fund,
the proceeds of which can be drawn
in cash on leaving a mine’s service, or
placed to the holiday fund at £7 10s. a
year, or be paid in cash monthly. The
holiday fund is increased from a maxi-
mum of £l2 10s. to £l5 annually, with
correspondingly lower benefits to juniors.
These concessions represent a total pay-
ment by the industry of £330,000.
Further benefits under the provident fund
involve another £250,000, lifting total
disbursement by the industry to the
£580,000 mentioned. Since 1934 bene-
fits aggregating £2,140,000 have been
conceded to Rand miners in lieu of in-
creased wages. The £2,140,000 repre-
sents an addition to actual wages of
around 15 p.c.
* * * *
In Eastern Tin Dredging Cos., W. K.
Garnsey, a Sydney stockbroker, has
compiled an informative summary of
tin cos. listed on Sydney and Melbourne
’Changes, giving details of constitution,
area, plant, quotas, earnings, production,
etc.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
(1) What mineral is likely to be found under-
ground when the surface is covered with
siliceous manganic ironstone ? (2) When the
surface is covered with chloropal (a hydrous
silicate of iron) ?■ —4289.
(1) Siliceous manganic ironstone may occur
on the outcrop of a vein consisting, in depth,
essentially of carbonate of iron and silica. The
carbonate of iron may contain a small amount
of manganese, concentrated at the surface. The
material should be sampled and assayed for
gold and silver. (2) Hydrous silicate of iron,
chloropal, occurs as a superficial alteration pro-
duct of many kinds of rocks. It cannot be
regarded as an indication of any special minerals
below the outcrop.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
V.N.: (1) There are some small areas of
alluvial ground around Tooloom and Tabulam.
(2) Lands Department, Sydney. The Mines
Department publishes a small-scale mineral
map of the State depicting gold-bearing areas
in a general manner. (3) Small quantities of
gold have been found in the following locali-
ties: Bilambil, Smith’s, Jerusalem and Nobby’s
Creeks, McAuley’s Lead, Esk River and beaches
from New Brunswick to Evans Head
L. : It is a speculation; if you cannot
afford to lose, keep out... .J.H.S.: Given the
right management, the co. has a fair chance of
becoming a satisfactory dividend-payer, though
it may be a while before divs. begin to flow
C.K.: Write Intercolonial Boring Co., 450 Ann-
street, Brisbane Doubtful: See page 22 this
issue... .C.G.T.: See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,”
December, 1936... .G.P.C.: It is a long-term
speculation; at the moment prospects are not
very bright.


SMOKE-OH!
“The financial half-year has now com-
menced.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Well, that’s optimistic!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In the ninth round, he located his opponent’s
jaw at last.” — Boxing report.
And then did his best to dislocate it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is your household wrinkle?”
—Evening paper.
The one caused by the bills.
“Country visitors find city nerve-racking,”
says a women’s paper.
Yes, when fast cars aren’t tearing up
the street, slow workmen are.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man, 35, good position, meet Lady, refitted,
25-35, homely, view above. 7777, Age.”
lust where would a lady go to be “re-
fitted” for matrimony— at that “Age”
or any other?
"Y' mug — that's the lunch-pack!
Ps.
He always knew how to mind his Ps
and Qs; was lucky with the s.ps.; ele-
vated to the. J.Ps.; joined in turn the
A.L.Ps., U.C.Ps., U.A.Ps., Y.A.Ps.,
S.A.Ps.; was unlucky enough to choke
whilst trying to swallow too many peas
at dinner and joined the R.I.Ps. Ps to
his ashes.
McM.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In divorce a wife complained that her hus-
band ‘trampled on her continually.’ ”
He must have taken her for a walk.
“Nowadays, Test cricket is too serious.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
We’d certainly like to see a few more
wags in Australia’s tail.
4* 4* •5* •i 1
“She Does a Man’s Job in a Tough Busi-
ness.” — “Design.”
A shilling hash-house carver?
4* *F 4* 4*
“Regarding an application for bores the
Minister for Agriculture said that some farmers
made no effort to conserve the water on their
land.”
m other words, he’d see them dammed
first.
4* 4 1 4 1 4 1
The Dries, intent on scotching drink,
Maintain a keen and constant watch.
The Wets, however, only wink;
They are intent on drinking Scotch.
4* 4* *1* 4”
Food Values.
There is more nourishment in one
sandwich than in half a dozen dinner
invitations.
Collars and cuffs contain more starch
than potatoes, but are not so easily
digested.
Lettuce is 100 p.c. leaves.
Chocolate almond bars are richer in
chocolate than in almonds.
There’s some oil in sardines, but there’s
a lot more sardines in oil.
Cuatro.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Has Mae West Reformed?”
—Movie magazine.
Certainly not; her curves are as
ample as ever.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man cannot be jugged by his appear-
ance.” — “D.T.”
No? What if he goes about with no
clothes on?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“No unemployment, no slum problem, no
worry or discontent.” — Description of Tonga.
And therefore one grave drawback —
nothing to growl about!
“Thomas Lang, alias Wright” ...
— “Sun.”
Ah, another Lang who was Wright!
“Beer is now made electrically.”
—Science mag.
Ohm brewed.
4* 4* 4*
“Magician claims he can make a whole
audience disappear.”
We’ve seen that sort of magician.
•5* '1* *1* *1*
Though you alone my heart can cheer
When l feel none too clever,
Joy of my life, the hour is near
When we must part for ever!
Ere to my soul despair creeps in,
Once more let me caress you,
And take you for a final spin
Before they repossess you.
Jim D.
►I*
“Singing is good for the nerves,” says a
doctor.
Not other people’s?
The Thirteenth Test (1950).
The thirteenth Test, which resulted in
a glorious victory for Australia, will go
down in history as the most spectacular
match since cricket became scientific.
Old-timers may sigh for what they call
“the good old days” when cricket was
actually played with bat and ball, with
players running about a big field ; but
in the modern game science is the only
thing that counts.
In place of a big oval is a patch of
sward which could be covered with a
blanket, and around this the players can
sit in comfort and concentrate on their
moves, instead of leaping about with
useless agility. Brawn has given way to
brain.
Australia’s hopes rested on its captain,
Professor Bradall, M.Sc., who lately won
his doctor’s degree with a learned thesis
on “The Influence of Cyclonic Distur-
bances on Cricket Conditions.’’ He was
ably supported by the finest team of
scientists meteorologists, geologists,
astronomers and psychologists that
ever took the field for this country. Some
comment, however, was aroused by the
inclusion of a dowser, or water diviner,
in the team. The official explanation
was that this was a reprisal for Eng-
land’s inclusion of a player with a rain-
predicting corn.
Professor Allman, B.Sc., who cap-
tained England, also had a highly scien-
tific team drawn from the leading
weather bureaux, observatories and
laboratories of the Old Country.
When the rival teams entered the
arena they were wildly cheered by a
crowd estimated at 250,000. The scene
reminded Seville Boredus of the Flavian
Circus when Christians were being
thrown to the lions.
Each team was followed by a motor
truck carrying the thermometers, bar-
ometers, theodolites, soil-testers, wind-
gauges, rain-gauges, telescopes, micro-
scopes, altimeters, seismographs, chron-
ometers and other appliances necessary
for scientific cricket.
Emerging victorious from the time-
honored rite of “tossing the coin,” the
English captain “elected to bat” (a curi-
ous expression surviving from the days
when bats were actually used). Noting
that the barometer stood at “Set fair,”
he opened confidently with a light
cirrus cloud, but Bradall countered with
a cumulus in the N.N.E., and a shift in
the wind soon had the Englishmen in
difficulties. Worse was to follow, as the
thermometer fell rapidly, with the Eng-
lishmen’s hopes also falling towards
zero.
In desperation, Allman appealed
against the sub-soil, but after an exhaus-
tive test the umpires ordered play to con-
tinue.
And so the great game went on amidst
an intense silence, in which a bomb could
have been heard falling on a glasshouse.
Seville Boredus, again dipping into his-
tory, said the scene reminded him of
that historic occasion at Old Trafford
when Henry VIII. signed the death war-
rant of William the Conqueror.
Late in the afternoon a north wind
came to England’s rescue; but it was
too late, as Australia had a comfortable
lead on all weather points, and a sudden
shower of rain completed the English
debacle.
The individual averages of registra-
tions by thermometer, barometer, wind-
gauge, soil-tester, etc., have not yet been
worked out, but it is interesting to note
that Bradall has scored 119 points of
rain in this Test series, breaking his own
previous world’s record.
A sensation was caused early in the
day by the discovery of rain-making and
fog-making machines concealed in the
grandstand. Both captains disclaimed
all knowledge of these forbidden appli-
ances, which were confiscated.
P. R. T.
Tension.
Come, let us go ! We’ll dance no more.
/ note the pallor of your face.
Let us, then, leave this crowded floor,
And seek a cooler, fresher place.
Upon your cheeks a greenness lies
In sickly contrast to the paint ;
A growing weakness dulls your eyes —
For heaven’s sake, my love, don’t
faint!
Bear up until we reach the door !
Kindly recall, I beg of you,
That I am only eight-stone-four,
While you’re at least eleven-two!
T.W.N.
The Papular Novelist’s Stock
Phrases Explained.
“Her face was drawn and pinched.” —
This well-known phrase does not refer to
extreme poverty or malnutrition. It per-
fectly epitomises, where it is desired to
avoid “padding,” a long and tedious ex-
planation of the theft of the heroine’s
portrait, which had been done in char-
coal, or even soot or invisible ink, by a
famous black-and-white artist.
“She looked at him softly.” —That is,
with mouth in the fly-catching position
and the general expression of a newly-
landed wirrah. In
short, the ga-ga
look of one. a bit
dull in the dome.
“His flaming
eyes held her
gaze.” —This adds
tone to a descrip-
tion. Where, how-
ever, it is desired
to stress vulgarity
( e.g., descriptions
of colonial social
life, or when the
novelist is churn-
ing out yellow-
backs for the
below - stair - Eng-
lish-slavey market)
the alternative
phrase “iZ i s
blasted eyes” is
employed.
“His arms ached
for her.” —The ad-
vantage of this
one is that it can
be used with
equally telling
effect for both the
single and the
married hero. For
the single hero it would be suitable
should he be suffering from rheumatism
after having been caught in a downpour
whilst walking home from a car ride
the heroine had taken him for. For the
married hero (all married men are
heroes) whose wife is knitting him one of
those miscalculated-row pullovers which
reach only to the fifth knob down his
vertebrae and have to be worn while
breathing at half speed, and which neces-
sitate the unwinding of innumerable
s v ~ins of wool, the phrase is completely
apt.
“An upright, clean-limbed young
man.” —It is an inviolable tradition
among English novelists (who hold the
copyright for it) that, this phrase be ex-
clusively applied to descriptions of old
Etonians or Harrovians, and must be used
at least six times in a 300-page novel.
The names of the characters enjoying
this distinction are limited to Rodney,
Trevor and Basil. The word “upright”
is included to dispel the reader’s pos-
sible impression that the. character’s
means of locomotion is on all fours.
The “clean-limbed” obviates the diffi-
culty experienced by all novelists in bath
sequences of accurately reproducing by
word-coinage the sound of the young
man’s bath-water running down the plug.
The phrase was generally adopted fol-
“How's my balance?"
“Six for three-sixty !”
lowing the tragic demise of the Mayfair
idol Arbuthnot Thneethagen, who com-
mitted suicide by reading his own novel
following his failure to coin such a word.
He had got as far as “glurgchorswish-
br-r-r” when, trying it out, he swallowed
a tonsil and gave, up the ghost.
S.W.K.
To a Tired Croesus.
“Owing to no response in four months, an
American millionaire has withdrawn his offer
of £2000 for a cure for insomnia.” — News item.
Don’t close your eyes and tally sheep
As they leap through a fancied gate :
You’ll toss from side to side, but sleep
Will not subdue your wakeful state.
No (though’you offer me no pelf),
Here’s how to snooze —a simple lurk :
Just stretch and yawn and kid yourself
You’re getting up to go to work!
P.O.M.C.


They Are Whips to Boast About.
TC OWVUL”
* V T-HE -PEfifECT
STOCK Wfll-P.
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—! 6-plait handle, 6ft. x 12-
plait thong 34/6
No. 15—16-plait handle, 7ft. x 12-
plait thong 36/9
No. 16 16-plait handle, Bft. x 12-
plait thong 39/-
“ KINGFISHER”
STOCK WHIPS
No. B—lo-plait Handle, 7ft. x I 0-plait
thong 19/6
No. 8 A—lo-plait handle, Bft. x 10-
plait thong 21/-
No. 9 12-plait handle, Bft. x 12-plait
thong 25/-
Postage 1/3 each.
WHITE FOR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER k STEVENSON ltd.
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ONE CERTIFICATE
Covers
TWENTY COMPANIES
f6R SECURiTy/*
By investing as little as £25 (approx.) in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST Certi-
ficates YOU obtain the same degree of Capital
security in 20 noted companies as does a big
investor—together with reasonable income.
Your money is safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY
OF CANTON, LTD., Union Building, Bond
Street, Sydney. Your investment is always
realisable.
Write or 'phone for a free descriptive booklet to your Stockbroker or to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 85294.
Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
BANKERS’ QUALIFICATIONS
Qualifying’ Degree examinations in Banking have
been designed for the convenience and assistance of
Bank Officers. Qualification is not only for the junior
officer, but for the older and more experienced
officer also. H. & R. are official coaches to the
Bankers’ Institute, with sectional courses in Practical
Banking and Securities, and Accountancy-Secretary-
ship. Special inducements are given to Bank Officers
to qualify.
An Organisation to help you.
The history and enterprise of H. & R. —founded in
1897 and now in their 40th year—is a record of
authoritative, nation-wide educational service. With
Branches in every State and each Branch staffed by
full-time, resiponsible, qualified officers, H. & R.
are thus enabled, irrespective cf State, to advise,
direct, and serve your best interests.
H. & R. Personal-Individual Tuition is thorough and
complete.
In your own interests, write to-night for particulars.
Department of Business Training
Hemingway & Robertson ,
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Newcastle: 38 A.M.P. Chambers, Hunter Street.
Offices also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
(11. & R. Nearest Capital City is sufficient address.)
POST TO-DAY.
To Hemingway & Robertson,
I am interested in Business Training. Please send
me Free copy 1936 edition “GUIDE TO BUSINESS
CAREERS.”
Name •••■
Address
Subject interested in
38/270
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The mere fact that copper is up to
£57 a ton in London doesn’t give any
precise idea of what Mt. Lyell shares
are worth. This stock has been awarded
much attention here since the scrip was
around par about 12 months ago ; last
week it fluctuated about 425. 6d. In the
quarter to Dec. 31 last, the first of the
new financial year, 3348 tons of elec-
trolytic was produced, which is a little
above, the average output for the full
previous term, when 12,707 tons was
turned out, to realise an average sterling
price of £4O 14s. Bd. and a total mining
profit of £116,712. Costs have been on
the downward trend ; provided they re-
main stationary, every lift of £1 sterling
a ton in the red metal means, on a
13,000-ton output, an extra 1 p.c. p.a.
of gross income on Mt. Lyell’s capital.
Last term, including income from invest
ments (£70,487), 12 p.c. was shown ; if
£55 sterling a ton is averaged for the
year now current, better than 26 p.c. on
capital is possible,
granted freedom from
water, power and
other troubles which
have occasionally
added to costs in the
past. Over 12 years’
ore is in sight; if 26
p.c. were netted regu-
larly for the next
dozen years (metal
prices and costs are
the governing factors')
the investor at 425. 6d.
would receive in divi-
dends or see added
to reserves 20s. more
than he paid for his
shares. There are
chances of the mine’s
life being consider-
ably lengthened, while
shares in other cos.
and surplus liquid in-
vestments have a
book value of 255. sd.
per share. Subject to
the metal market,
there are still pros-
pects in the concern
at present sharemarket quotations.
Overbuying and Overspending
Dear money causes slower circulation,
and results in less trade and reduced em-
ployment or retarded re-employment.
Higher prices for wool, wheat, metals
and other exports during the half-year
to Dec. 31 have brought no relief to the
tight condition of money apparent in
every State. And the reason is mainly
that as the extra money comes in it goes
out again in buying overseas goods.
Revenue duty on these goods is respon-
sible for giving the Micawbers at Can-
berra the appearance of financiers, be-
cause, with the help of an enormous
customs revenue, they are balancing the
Commonwealth annual Budget. But our
London funds are vanishing meantime,
and our factories are not getting the
chance to supply a proportion of the
Australian market which it is their
proper job to fill. Overbuying abroad is
at present a grave danger which the
Federal Government wm Uv ,t, or cannot,
see.
The banks look after our money for
us, and provide funds for those who can
make profitable use of them. That is,
they provide funds when they can. Just
at present they’d rather you didn’t ask
them. What with the bad overseas trade
position and the slowing-down in the
turnover of money by its deposit in sav-
ings banks and its investment in public
loans, trading banks are finding that
deposits still fall short of the level that
would make further credit extension
safe.
Aggregate banking figures for the
quarter to Dec. 31 last are just out;
allowing for seasonal fluctuations, they
“When did this happen?”
“I dunno. ’E Was this Way w’en I come ’ere four hours ago!”
show a continued tightening of bank
credit that cannot go on without some-
thing happening:,—
Excess
Quarter. Deposits. Advances. Deposits.
Dec., 1933.. £278.609,000 £239,269,000 £39,399,000
June, 1934.. 296,972,000 236,963,000 60,009,000
Dec., 1934.. 292,039,000 248,147,000 43,892,000
Mar., 1935.. 292,976,000 249,396,000 43,580,000
June, 1935.. 291,709,000 253,705,000 38,003,000
Sept., 1935.. 283,979,000 258,027,000 25,952,000
Dec., 1935.. 289,603,000 260,835,000 28,768,000
Mar.. 1936.. 293,398,000 258,563,000 34,835,000
June, 1936.. 291,483,000 262,403,000 29,080,000
Sept., 1936.. 284,279,000 266,527,000 17,752,000
Dec., 1936.. 291,328,000 267,629,000 23,699,000
In March last the banks lifted their
deposit rates by an all-round 10s. per-
cent. ; the increase in charges for ad-
vances was probably greater. As this
action has not righted the position one
wonders what the next move is to be.
Fixed deposits have shown practically
no increase over 12 months ; all deposits
are up only £1,700,000. In that time the
banks have managed to squeeze out an
extra £6,800,000 of aid to trade and in-
dustry, indicating a genuine effort on
their part to keep the ball of progressive
recovery rolling.
The banking institutions are obliged,
as sub-underwriters, to take a whack of
the leavings of each new Government
loan. Usually they don’t like holding
their parcel, and some of it is thrown
on the market. Result is that the yield
on Consols goes up further, mortgage
rates lift in sympathy, and competition
among borrowers increases, leaving the
banks in a ticklish situation.
The position can be relieved by less
importing and less public borrowing. If
such relief comes in time a crisis may
be avoided. Otherwise, in the end, im-
porting and borrowing curtailment will
be forced on us, probably at the worst
possible time. Then the irresponsibles
who have blandly led us into the mess
will be our “saviours” again.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) opinion is that
the prospects of anything worth while
coming out of the proposed stabilisation
of coal prices in N. S. Wales doesn’t
warrant the 12s. 6d. paid for J. and A.
Brown-Abermain Seaham scrip last week.
Unity has never been much in evidence
among coalowners.
* * * *
What a market! The share boom
moves onward —a bit steadier last week
—providing some of the most spectacular
rises of the after-depression period. Con-
gestion has been evident at times in both
Melbourne and Sydney ’Changes. British
Tobacco ords. at 525. 9d., Mt. Lyell at 425.
6d., Electro Zinc 565., G. J. Coles 995.,
Myers 395. 6d. and Meggitt at 355. were
among the most keenly sought, and recent
quotes mean very large market profits to
those who bought only a fortnight ago.
Barrier stocks are up to figures that call
for a strong lead and spelter market
during the next 10 years. Bank shares
are again popular. Bankers and
Traders Insurance, one of this page’s
selections when the scrip was 25s or
thereabouts, sold at 375. last week. Some
good stocks that are not “popular” invest-
ments (usually because they haven’t a
wide or speculative market) haven’t
moved much. They now offer the best
opportunity for buying and holding.
‘ jj.
The sharemarket rarely exhibits acute
rationality or commonsense in its be-
havior. For a couple of years this page
has pointed out the recurring lack of
harmony between the prices of the shares
in Australian Cement and Kandos, both
of which hold * a million shares in an
operating co. Last week they were almost
in line. But two other holding cos., in
the brown-paper and cardboard business,
were miles out of alignment; Cumber-
land Paper ords. were at 305., while Aus-
tralasian Paper ditto sold at 375. 6d. When
all new capital is called up these cos.
will have share-registers and holdings as
follows:
Cumberland. a.P. & P
Orel- £239,528 Ord. fi,226',601
p reL 208,111 Pref. 228,500
Shares (16s. each) held in mfg. co.
447,639 1,552,361
Cumberland holds one operating co.
share for each £1 of its own issued capi-
tal, A.P. 1.07 shares. This slight differ-
ence and the greater proportion of pref.
capital in Cumberland do not warrant
the 7s. 6d. premium on A.P. scrip. If the
latter are worth 375. 6d., Cumberland
should fetch 345. or 355.
* * * *
The jump to 31s. in Holeproof (Melb.)
scrip last week compared with a slight
easing in Yarra Falls, a firmer tendency
in Berlei ords., a partial recovery (to
7 s - 9d.) in Amalgamated Textiles, and an
inquiry for Warrnambool Woollen ords.
at 14s. 7d. (after sales at 155.). Prestige
ords. at 225. 6d. have been sought after ;
Lustre Hosiery scrip has also firmed. No
Australian woollen textile, co. is more
solidly entrenched than. Yarra Falls, and
as trade developments occur, by virtue of
its associations, it should be well in the
picture. Meantime the div. is 10 p.c.
(yield 5 p.c.) ; the lowest depression dis-
tribution was 5 p.c. It is a very live con-
cern.
* * * *
Commonwealth wheat yield for 1936-
37 is now estimated at 134,182,000
bushels, up about 5,000,000 bushels on
first predictions, but down 8,400,000
bushels on the previous harvest. The
market, which has seen over ss. 6d.
lately, weakened to around ss. a bushel
at Australian ports last week. This com-
pares with a mean export price of 3s.
7|d. for 1935-36. The increased return
per bushel now is being partly offset on
growers’ account by heavier costs; yields,
because of dry weather, are lighter.
*** ■ *
In Melbourne last week:
Mr. Morgan shares dropped a few pence,
but at 17s. still showed a welcome recovery from
the low figures of a few months ago. The
show is a real mine, bound to have its occa-
sional difficulties, but which in the long run
should win good profits from the property.
Holeproof ords. lifted to 315., the market
expecting more than 8 p.c. Trade informa-
tion suggests that the co. has had an excellent
year.
G. J. Coles ords. at 995. ex div. were never
more favorably regarded by the market.
Emperor 10s. shares were firm around 19s.
Soon after the kick-off they went to 285.,
then slumped to 9s. Bd., stayed a long time
under 155., and during the past month or so
have been more in demand. Market valuation
was £1,425,000 on Thursday. At that it will
call for a lot of gold to show a profit on the
scale one expects profits from goldmines.


Public Notice.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
Established 1849.
SPECIAL MEETING OF MEMBERS
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD I, CHARLES MOUNTSIDE MARTIN, Secretary
of Australian Mutual Provident Society,' do hereby pursuant to By-law 36 of the
Society’s By-laws call and convene a Special Meeting of the Society to be held at
the offices of the Society 87 Pitt Street Sydney New South Wales on FRIDAY the
FIFTH day of MARCH 1937 at 2 p.m. to consider and if thought fit to pass and
approve the following resolution: —•
THAT the Society’s By-laws be amended as follows:' —-
1. By inserting at the end of By-law 10 the following words:
“but the Board may act although its number be temporarily reduced below seven.”
2. By omitting from By-law 14 the words “and the Director so appointed shall hold office
until the hour of noon on the date of the next Annual Meeting.”
3. By omitting By-law 15 and •inserting in lieu thereof the following new By-law 15:
15. In each year the Directors due to retire shall be determined as follows:
If no Director shall have been appointed under By-law 14 during the period extending
from a day thirty-nine clear days before the date of the Annual Meeting held in the
previous year to a day forty clear days before the Annual Meeting to be held in the
then current year both days inclusive the two Directors who have been longest in office
shall be due to retire. If one Director shall have been appointed under By-law 14
during such period he and the Director who has been longest in office shall be due to
retire, and if two or more Directors have been appointed under By-law 14 during such
period they alone shall be due to retire. As between two or more Directors who have
been in office for an equal length of time the decision as to which of them shall be due
to retire under the provisions of this By-law shall failing mutual agreement .rest with
the Board. Every Director due to retire in terms of this By-law shall be eligible for
re-election and subject to By-law 21 his seat shall be filled by ballot as hereinafter
provided. A Director due to retire for the purposes of this By-law shall continue in
office until the first publication of the advertisement required by By-law 20 or by
By-law 21 declaring his successor or himself elected as the case may be. For the
purpose of this By-law the length of time a Director has been in office shall be
computed from his last election or appointment.
4. By inserting at the end of By-law 17 the following paragraph:
(f) When two or more persons are members by virtue of any policy the member whose
name first appears in the policy or in any assignment thereof (as the case may be) if
claiming to vote or if not claiming to vote then the next in succession and claiming
to vote shall be the person entitled to vote in respect of such policy.
5. By omitting from By-law 21 the words “as there are vacant seats” and inserting in lieu
thereof the words and figures “as the number of Directors due to retire under By-law 15.”
6. By adding after By-law 21 the following new By-law 21A: —
21A. Should any duly qualified candidate for election (whether he is or is not a Director)
die during the period coihmencing on a day thirty-nine clear days before any Annual
Meeting and ending on the day of the first publication of the advertisement required
by By-law 20 or by By-law 21 as the case may be or become ineligible for election
within the same period then in any such case
(a) Any ballot then pending for such election shall not be proceeded with and shall
be of no effect.
(b) The Board shall as soon as practicable extend the respective times fixed by the
By-laws for giving notice of candidature and for the taking of a ballot and the
Chairman shall thereupon cause an advertisement to be inserted in the several
newspapers provided for in By-law 17 (a) notifying such extension. The Board
shall allow a period of at least ten clear days between the first publication of
such advertisement and the last day thereby appointed for giving notice of
candidature.
1 (c) Should there be more candidates than there are Directors due to retire
(i) Notice of the intended taking of a ballot or of another ballot as the case
may be and of the names of the candidates shall be given in accordance
with the provisions of By-law 17 (a).
(ii) The provisions of By-laws 17 (a) (c) (e) (f), 18, 19, 20 and 21 shall apply
to such ballot.
(iii) A voting paper shall be supplied to any member who has applied for a voting
paper for the ineffective ballot and to any other member who applies therefor.
(iv) Voting shall be on the scale set out by By-law 45 (b).
AND I further give notice that if the said Resolution be passed or approved by the
requisite majority at the said Meeting a confirmatory Meeting will be held at the
Society’s said office on Monday the Twenty-second day of MARCH 1937 at 2 p.m.
for the purpose of finally passing and confirming the said Resolution and I hereby
call and convene such Meeting accordingly.
For the information of members of the Society the following By-laws are here
set forth: —-
By-law 10.
By-law 14.
By-law 15.
By-law 16.
By-law 17.
By-law 20.
The general management of the Society (subject to the provisions contained in the
“Australian Mutual Provident Society’s Act, 1910” and in these By-laws) shall
be vested in a Board of seven Directors.
Any vacancy in the Board occasioned by any cause other than retirement under
By-law 15 shall be filled by the Board at a meeting convened for that purpose,
and the Director so appointed shall hold office until the hour of noon on the
date of the next Annual Meeting.
At the hour of noon on the date of each Annual Meeting, if there shall have
been no Director appointed under By-law 14 since the last Annual Meeting, the
two Directors who shall have been longest in office shall retire. If one Director
shall have been appointed under By-law 14 then he and the Director who shall
have been longest in office shall retire, and if two or more Directors shall have
been appointed under By-law 14 then they alone shall retire. In the event of
several Directors having been in office for the same period of time the decision as
to which of them shall retire under the provisions of this By-law shall, failing
mutual agreement, rest with the Board. Every Director retiring in terms of this
By-law shall be eligible for re-election.
No member shall be eligible for election as a Director unless notice in writing
of his being a candidate shall have been given to the Board or to the Secretary
at least thirty clear days previous to the date of the Annual Meeting.
Directors shall be elected by ballot as follows:
(a) Notice of the intended taking of the ballot and of the names of the candidates
shall be given by public advertisement not less than twice in two newspapers
published in each of the States of the Commonwealth of Australia and also
in two newspapers published in the Dominion of New Zealand, the first of
such advertisements to be published at least fourteen clear days before the
day fixed for taking such ballot.
(c) There shall be kept at the Head Office, each Branch Office, and each District
Office of the Society a local register of Policies. Any member may vote
personally by ballot at the Office on the register; of which the Policy entitling
him to vote is entered, or may record his vote by forwarding to such Office
a signed voting paper as hereinafter provided for.
Each Returning Officer shall, on completion of the counting of the votes, report
to the Chairman the result of the polling for the several candidates, and the
Chairman shall thereupon cause an advertisement to be inserted in.the several
newspapers provided for in By-law 17 (a) declaring the result of such election,
and the declaration of the Chairman in this regard shall be conclusive.
By-law 21. Should there only be as many candidates as there are vacant seats the Chairman
' shall cause an advertisement to be inserted in the newspapers provided for in
By-law 17 (a) to the effect that such candidates are duly elected.
By-law 45. (b) A ballot may be demanded at any meeting on any question (except that of
an adjournment of a meeting) by twenty-five members present in person when
the voting shall be according to the following scale: That is to say: Every
member, not being a minor, shall have one vote for each aggregate £lOO of
assurance or endowment, and one vote for each aggregate £5 of annuity,
under any Policy or Policies registered in the books of the Society in his
name, but no member shall have more than twenty votes in all. _
(c) When two or more persons are members by virtue of any Policy, the
member whose name appears first in the Policy, or in any assignment thereof
(as the case may be), if present, or if not present, then the next in succession
being present shall be the person entitled to vote in respect of such Policy.
By-law. 17 (e) sets out the form of voting paper.
A circular explaining the reasons for and the intended effect of the proposed
amendments will be sent to all members entitled to vote.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
20th January, 1937.
Ngahere Gold Dredging, Ltd.
For £45,000 in cash Ngahere Gold
takes over a 615-acre alluvial area on
the west bank of the Grey River, 18 miles
from Greymouth, West Coast, Maori-
land. J. Malcolm Newman has fathered
the enterprise. On the property 84 bore
holes (five-chain intervals on lines across
the main deep channel, 10 chains apart)
have been put down; they show (a)
average depth, 71.5 ft.; (b) average value,
three grains fine per cubic yard ; and (c)
total yardage 48,000,000 c.y.
Of 44 contiguous holes in the richer
portion, only four give a field value of
less than 2£gr. and only three of more
than 4|gr. per cubic yard, indicating
uniformity of values.
The property is provisionally separated
into a “very high-grade area of 24,000,000
c.y.” yielding, on estimates, 3fgr., and an
area of similar yardage going 2|gr.
Working the richer area first at the
rate of 4,000,000 c.y. a year, after pay-
ment of M.L. gold tax (12s. 6d. per
ounce), a net profit of £200,000 a year
for six years is looked for with gold at
£8 an ounce. From the lower-grade area
£lOO,OOO p.a. is expected for six years.
After providing for income-tax, sur-
pluses available for divs. are estimated
at £170,000 p.a. for the first two years,
£140,000 for the next four, and £70,000
for the remaining six.
Capital, already fully subscribed, is in
200,000 £1 ords. and 100,000 shilling de-
ferreds. The deferreds rank share for
share with the ords. in profit-participa-
tion and voting power, but are deferred
as regards repayment of capital.
Malcolm Newman has had a long ex-
perience in Malayan tin-dredging ; it is
intended to work the Ngahere property
by dredging on the lines adopted by the
Rimu G.D. Co. at Hokitika (which has
used an American-designed dredge for
the last 11 years, and is reported to be
digging 3,000,000 c.y. a year for re-
coveries of 2ygr. at a total cost of
£40,000 p.a.), with, however, larger
buckets for digging and jigs for concen-
trating the gold.
If profits as suggested are realised, the
ords.’ share over 12 years would be
£BBO,OOO, and the deferreds’ £440,000. If
yields are discounted 40 p.c. and costs
(excepting taxation) left as originally esti-
mated, the ords. would get their capital
back and a profit of 110 p.c. out of gold
won, giving a net return of about 9 p.c.
p.a.
The property seems to have been
bored with unusual thoroughness, and to
be well beyond the prospecting stage.
The dredge is expected to start work
about the middle of 1938. The main
gamble appears to be on the points of
costs and the future price of gold. These
are not alarming.
Alluvial Prospectors, Ltd., and British
Development (N.Z.), Ltd., have taken the
deferred shares in equal parcels ; these
two cos. control N.Z. Prospecting and
Mining, Ltd., the co. which has pros-
pected and is now selling the property.
Though the deferred shares represent the
purchase of profit-participation rights at
a 95 p.c. discount, this privilege seems to
be almost the only advantage which the
associated cos. receive, as the cash con-
sideration is principally reimbursement
of outlay already made.
Ngahere will start off with a working
capital of £160,000, the vendor paying
preliminary exes. If estimates are realised
it promises to be a non-spectacular but
profitable venture. Tom Owen, of Mt.
Morgan and New Occidental, is the other
mining man in the show.
Rimu Gold Dredging Co., which is
controlled by Kerr Lake Mines, Ltd., of
Ontario, Canada, and N’York, has just
sponsored a new float of approximately
£300,000 capital to dredge an alluvial
area in the Grey Valley, Maori-
land, near Ngahere’s property. Rimu
is already directly interested in this
area. The whole capital of the new.show
was originally to be put out in U.S.A.,
but £125,000 was later reserved for
Maoriland, and the lot was oversub-
scribed in a few days, mostly in Christ-
church. On the Dominion’s west coast
the Argo, Worksop and Mossy Creek
dredging cos. paid regular divs. last year.
* ❖ * *
Wiluna’s December return of 87130 z.
from 46,614 tons makes the progressive
total and average yield for the current
financial year as under (comparisons
over the three preceding full years are
also given):
Average
Crushing Yield,
Year to Tons. Oz. Dwt.
Mar. 31, 1934 .. 469,362 for 124,531 5.30
„ „ 1935 .. 439,395 „ 108,373 4.94
„ „ 1936 .. 537,954 „ 123,952 4.64
9 months to
Dec. 31, 1936 ..425,172 „ 84,008 3.96
Yields include gold from cyanide residues.
Average recovery for December was
3.74dwt., showing a working profit of
about 11s. 6d. (Aust.) per ton. Prospects
of better-grade ore going through the
mill shortly are brightening, and the
smelters should increase extraction and
bring costs down. The £1 holding co.
shares are at 445. in Adelaide ; they have
prospects at the price.
* * * *
The method adopted by the share-
market of valuing Barrier mining shares
is absurd, but the only one available to
the average person. The custom at
present is to price shares, representing a
capital investment that requires the
results of many future years to justify it,
according to the daily strength or weak-
ness of the world’s metal markets. The
daily tone; and how little the long view
comes into the reckoning is illustrated by
the sharp marking down of Broken Hill
scrip following last week’s slackening in
lead and zinc quotes. Metals of them-
selves are no gamble for the uninitiated,
and in a boom like that of the present
it is only the close student of production
and consumption statistics, as well as of
world currencies and international poli-
tics, who can reasonably guess what the
future holds. Buyers of base-metal
shares-now must be prepared for market
setbacks, even if they are only tem-
porary. Barrier mines, with their great
potentialities, have a habit of “coming
good” even for mugs, provided the said
mugs can hold on for a period of years.
* * * *
For more than three months now
there has been almost, stability in the
principal overseas exchanges. Since
France devalued its currency last Sep-
tember £147 Australian has bought in
France what £202 previously would
barely obtain. In New York since Sep-
tember things have, been a little dearer
in Australian money. Stability, if only
of three months’ standing, is encourag-
ing, and it does seem to have revived
confidence in forward international deal-
ings; Money matters of this kind are
not easy to understand, but' most of us
have seen the effect, temporary or other-
wise, of currency devaluation on external
trade. Australia has fared better than
most countries. Our money, outside, has
been depreciated more than half; inside,
the paper pound-buys- considerably more
of the necessaries of life than it did ; in
1929. It is a state of affairs that poli-
ticians have had nothing to do with,
though they are doing their darnedest
to make money dear again;
* * * * .
Associated Pulp and Paper contribs.,
remarked on a month or so ago as offer-
ing an opportunity to buy into a future
paper-pulp industry at a discount of two
or three shillings, have been selling at a
slight premium (they are paid to IDs.) in
Melbourne recently. Div. prospects are
at least a couple of years off; but the
control is Al, and it liked prospects at
the time of flotation. The mill is to be
set up at Burnie (iTas.), where there is
a large area of hardwoods (the. co.’s free-
hold) in easy reach.
* * . * *
One way in which big city retailers
could help Australian manufacturers
and at the same time help themselves in
competition with chain stores would be
to take a more liberal view in the
marketing of branded lines. Anthony
Horderns in Sydney has never quibbled
about giving a manufacturer a little
publicity in advertising what the big
store has to sell, and Horderns has a
length of experience in trading that ho
other Australian concern near the size
can boast of. Men already appreciate
the value of standard proprietary lines,
even in clothing, and women could be
made brand-conscious also. Some re-
tailers, insis.t on marketing manufac-
turers’ products under their own name
or house-brand ; as a result there is no
definite standard of quality, and cheap
stuff sold by chain stores may appear to
the inexpert-little different from the un-
branded. .but high-quality article of the
department store.
sfc * * sfc * *
Copra continued to soar in London
until last week, South Seas touching £23
ss. sterling a few days ago, then showing
the first weakening for some months.
Morris Hedstrom and W. R. Carpenter
shares have firmed, as anticipated.
Rubber, though a trifle easier the last
few days, is well up on mid-1936 fates.
Koitaki shares have strengthened further,
and Steamships Trading Co., Port
Moresby, interested in copra and rubber
plantations as well as merchandising, has
wirelessed that net earnings for the Dec.
31 half-year (£7OOO-odd) show an increase
on corresponding 1935 figures.
Sugar has also been faring a little
better ,in the world’s markets.. This and
a bigger Queensland crop have been
responsible for a rise to £2,060,217 (from
£1,350,678 for the corresponding part of
the previous year) in the value of Com-
monwealth exports during the five
months July-November. " ' ~ - * '


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Few Victorians now dispute the uni-
versal Queensland opinion, confidently
expressed a year ago, that Pamelus is
the best horse in Australia up to a mile
and a quarter. Pamelus was unlucky
in the spring, but he began summer rac-
ing brilliantly by winning the William
Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley. Nothing
could have been finer than the style in
which he collared Studio and drew away
to score on the bit by a length from that
swallow-catching mare.
Studio might have done better if
Frank Dempsey had not restrained a
naturally free galloper after she tore to
the front. It wasn’t altogether a case of
the jockey fighting against his mount,
but Studio palpably did not extend her-
self thoroughly until a couple of fur-
longs had been traversed and Dempsey
found that Pamelus was looming up on
the outside.
In the circumstances Pamelus covered
himself with credit by traversing the six
furlongs in lmin. This is record
time for the course. The previous best
was lmin. 12sec. by the “Smithden”-
owned Kichaka in March, 1934. Until
Pamelus so greatly distinguished himself
the fastest time for the William Reid
Stakes was lmin. 12isec. by Heroic in
1927. The Night Patrol took lmin.
a year before when he van-
quished Whittier and Top Gallant —two
superlative sprinters.
H. Dukes, owner-trainer of Pamelus,
never is communicative concerning his
racing plans. At the spring meetings in
Melbourne the Bullhead stallion was nar-
rowly beaten by Gay Lover in the V.R.G.
Cantala Stakes and the V.A.T.C. Con-
solation Stakes. It then was presumed
that Pamelus would be set for the
Futurity Stakes and the Newmarket
Handicap in the autumn. Dukes thought
it worth while to incur a 71b. penalty in
the Futurity Stakes by picking up an
easy £7OO at Moonee Valley. Also, of
course, he will have compelled J. H.
Davis to award Pamelus a thumping im-
post in the Newmarket.
Asa three-year-old Pamelus gave
Regular Bachelor—of similar age—lllb.
and a beating in the Doomben New-
market Handicap. Regular Bachelor
came across to Victoria in the following
season and captured the Futurity Stakes
with 9st. and the V.R.C. Newmarket with
Bst. 111 b. R. P. Trihey, the fortunate pos-
sessor of Regular Bachelor, informed
Melbournites that his thoroughbred
wasn’t comparable with Pamelus, whom
he classed as another Phar Lap up to a
middle distance. This may have been
too high praise, but there is no telling
how glorious the deeds of Pamelus will
be in the near future.
Meeting Pamelus on 121 b. worse than
weight-for-age terms, Young Idea was at
a forlorn quote in the William Reid
Stakes, and ran accordingly. His stable-
mate, Press Gang, started at 6 to 1, and
was next in demand to Studio (6 to 4)
and Pamelus (9 to 4). These three each
claimed 51b. allowance for not having
won a race, other than a handicap, of
the value of £IOOO or over. Press Gang’s
chance was extinguished by his mouth
being caught in a rope of the barrier as
it ascended.
Cereza ended her turf career memor-
ably by giving Studio 121 b. and finishing
only half a length behind that mare. It
seems a pity that the daughter of Heroic
should be retiring to the stud so early
(she is only four years old); but she has
given a lot of trouble at the post in
Sydney and Melbourne. Asa member
of the A.J.C. committee, E. J. Watt no
doubt desires to remove a cause of em-
barrassment.
Even the high credit that Golden
Promise earned by pulling his 5-to-4
backers out of the fire in the Calder-
meade Handicap did not prevent some of
the flattites from voicing annoyance
over his defeat in the Anniversary Han-
dicap at Caulfield a week before when
an even-money favorite.
Yet it now seems clear that the Caul-
field defeat of Golden Promise resulted
from a muddling pace at the outset,
coupled with a bad passage over the final
few furlongs. J. M. Niall’s gelding again
showed that he is not nippy in a field.
Harold Skidmore had little better luck
than Ashley Reed as a jockey on Jack
Holt’s candidate. He ran into a pocket
at the half-mile. Pulled to the outside
at a critical stage, Golden Promise put
in a most phenomenal run to beat Mut-
able (15 to 1) by a head.
Another highlight of the Valley rac-
ing was the Cranmallan Trial triumph
of Pooley Bridge. After landing the last
Grand National Hurdle, this gelding was
turned out for a long spell with a view
to the exploitation of his galloping ability
in this year’s Australian Cup. The 21-
mile event at Flemington has been won
by former hurdlers in Marmont, Realm,
Wallalo and Lempriere, while Malua
was successful in the National after ap-
propriating an Australian Cup. Mar-
mont and Realm took the National-Aus-
tralian Cup double in reverse order to
Malua.
Pooley Bridge had very moderate
rivals in the Cranmallan Trial, but the
style in which he scored caused a sensa-
tion. Going out at 7 to 1, with High
Ideal a 3-to-l favorite, he appeared to
be out of the picture at the home turn.
The Moonee Valley straight is the short-
est in Melbourne, and this emphasises
the worth of Pooley Bridge’s last-stride
win by half a head from Magnum
Bonum, with Viator half a head behind
the High Syce stallion and Windarvel
only a head behind him. It was a finish
that rarely has been paralleled in excite-
ment. Pooley Bridge undoubtedly will
have to be reckoned with in the long
handicap at the V.R.C. autumn meeting.
Sarokos, another hurdler, demon-
strated unusual galloping ability by
“coming from the clouds” much after
the fashion of Pooley Bridge and annex-
ing the Warrook Handicap, in which,
moderately supported at 7 to 1, he set
lmin. 39|sec. for a mile. Rostrim, the
6-to-4 favorite, once more let his ad-
mirers down by missing a place.
The Tweedside Hurdle resulted in a
dead-heat for first between Boomberry
and old Nyerimilang. If Alick Fullar-
ton had not been caught napping at the
home turn and lost ground by fumbling
for his whip Boomberry would have won
outright. Sweet Gallantry, a smart filly
by Son o’ Mine, beat the late-finishing
favorite, Berani, by half a length in the
race for juveniles. She may win again
before long.
* ■ * * *
Had K. Cook on The Marne steered
a straight course in the Flying Handicap
at Rosehill his mount would have got
the race and the rider a winning fee.
Actually, the chestnut veered away from
the rails in the last furlong, interfered
with King’s Head and, placed first, lost
on protest. It was a fair decision, as Abel,
The Marne’s owner, sportingly acknow-
ledged. Cook was outed for a month.
The Marne and King’s Head will meet
again in the Challenge Stakes on Satur-
day. At Rosehill The Marne started
favorite at threes ; King’s Head, who was
not fancied, eased to sevens. The Marne
essayed to win all the way; but King’s
Head, pulling double, was within striking
distance at the turn. He is a very fit
horse, and has grown into a really beauti-
ful stallion.
Friar’s Switch (8 to 1) made hacks of
his opponents in the Rosehill Handicap.
He put in a long run over the last half-
mile, settled the leader, Hope, at the
Leger, and scored by two lengths. Jovial
Son, the favorite, was knocked from
pillar to post; he ran a dead-heat with
Brazeno for third prize. The fast pace
set by Sally and Hands Up did not suit
El Senorita, but she battled on gamely
under her nine stone. She may do better
at Randwick.
Mananui met a poor lot in the Car-
lingford Mile. From evens, the price
shortened to 11 to 8 on, and the money
was never in danger. McCarten gave
Mananui plenty of daylight, and, stretch-
ing out in fine style in the straight, his
mount won “in a walk” from Autoland
and Cognac. Mananui is an Anniversary
Handicap candidate, and owner W. C.
Douglass, who raced Claro, has high
hopes of winning with him. Jovial Son
is a stable-mate ; he also has a distinct
chance.
Picamar is a good advertisement for
the new sire Koomeela, a brother to
Amounis ; he has had three firsts. The
sturdy colt carried nine stone in the first
division of the Juvenile and defeated
Bourbon and Phosphonic handily.
Picamar, who carries the colors of Rand-
wick trainer Jack King, went out at
sixes. The second division went to Lady
Pola (14 to 1). She left Bliss at the turn
and scored comfortably from Tony, who
needs a longer journey. Fearless, from
Mack Sawyer’s stable, finished on well
to get third.
Bathurst-owned and -trained Brown
Betty (6 to 1) appeared lucky to beat
Ramdin in the first division of the Trial.
The latter got boxed up at the turn, and
did not get out until the race was prac-
tically over. Electron has pace to burn,
but can’t run seven furlongs. Arabia is
another who found the distance too far.
He had every chance in the second divi-
sion, but Punjab (5 to 1) had his measure
two furlongs from home.
Race times are somewhat misleading,
but Lucky Kid, in winning the Maiden
Handicap at sevens in lmin. 41sec.,
equalled Mananui’s time for the mile.
Leading throughout, Lucky Kid hadn’t
to be pushed to hold off Holbein and
Strathbogie. Killaloe, a Maoriland moke
owned by North Coast sportsman T. C.
Onus, would not gallop despite Darby
Munro’s vigor from barrier-rise to judge.
* * * *
The career of Ned (“Skinny”) Moss,
who died at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) the
other day, was the answer to a news-
boy’s prayer. Moss wax a newsboy ;he
sold “S. M. Heralds” and Bulletins
50 years ago at Circular Quay, and he
struck a £IOO double which enabled him
to make a business of punting. Then he
bought ponies and horses and prospered
in both departments of the game. His
most successful year was 1927, when
Vaals won two seven-furlong races for
him on the same day at Rosehill, and
a couple of weeks later won the Epsom.
(Incidentally, this Page tipped Vaals for
the double event and the Epsom, too.)
Besides backing his horse straight out for
the Epsom, Moss had coupled him with
Murillo, winner of the Metropolitan. In
previous years he had thrown in for big
wins on Erasmus, second in the 1920
Melbourne Cup to Poitrel, and Stony,
runner-up to Scarlet in the 1924 Sydney
Cup. He afterwards put Stony to hurd-
ling and ’chasing, and thereby came in
for some newspaper criticism. Stony
was a bad jumper, but was such an
honest and intelligent old fellow that
even when he fell he would stagger
up and continue after the field, taking
each fence clumsily as he came to it.
He broke his neck doing this, and it
was thought that so wealthy a man as
Moss might have had more consideration
for the poor old beggar. In other matters
Moss was a generous man, and he
helped many a down-and-out sport. His
proudest day as a racing man was when
his colt Theo won the A.J.C. Derby.
* * * *
For the last six months of 1930, N. S.
Wales racecourse-admission-tax collec-
tions were £31,900 —£8200 less than the
yield for the last six months of 1935. It
is a moral certainty that s.p.-joint receipts
increased substantially. The racecourse-
admission tax is a clumsy way of driving
people from the course, where they can
at least get some sport, to dens run
by lawbreakers who themselves in some
cases go in fear of being knocked over
the head by bandits.
* * * *
As usual, Australian buyers were con-
spicuous at the M.L. yearling sales.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt, owner
of Gold Rod, went to 1050 guineas for a
colt by imported Beau Pere out of Helen.
W. J. Smith bought three other Beau
Peres, paying 400 guineas for a filly out
of Rosellate and 425 guineas for a Silver
Rule filly. William Kelso, W. R. Kem-
ball and J. D. Jamieson each made
several purchases, Kelso buying a Lord
Quex-Courtesy. filly for 400 guineas.
And Dr. Nigel Smith, the owner of
Shakespeare, got a Limond-Anklet colt
for 700 guineas. There was a rush for
the Limonds, for there won’t be any
more ; and a brother to Loud Applause
(Limond-Curtain) fetched 1000 guineas.
The same price was given by Wheeler,
the South Australian, for a colt by
Beau Pere-Summertime.
* * * *
Korimako seems likely to go out
favorite for the Adrian Knox Stakes.
The Magpie filly did a capital trial for
that race in a division of the Flying
Handicap at Victoria Park, and some big
wagers brought the price to 5 to 4.
Korimako won nicely, though fairly hard
pressed by Inver, a colt from Maori-
land in Jamieson’s stable, and ran 6j
furlongs in lmin. 18£sec. —very good
time for the course.
* * * *
Not only in Victoria and N.S.W are
mares doing well this season. In Perth,
Gay Gipsy, who was unbeaten in three
races at the W.A.T.C. Christmas-New
Year meetings, has proved herself the
fastest thing in Westralia up to a mile.
In Maoriland all the racing people are
talking of Gold Boa, a four-year-old
chestnut mare by Balboa-March Off, who
started nine times at spring and summer
meetings for eight firsts. In one effort
at Trentham, she had to be eased
up in the straight to prevent her win-
ning by more than five lengths. The
track was not fast, but she galloped “six”
in lmin. 12£sec. Though not nominated
for any of the autumn handicaps in Mel-
bourne or Sydney, Gold Boa is pretty
certain to be brought to Australia.
Bns and Outs
In a rather dull game at Adelaide
Allen’s XI made 301 (Barnett 78, Wyatt
53, Allen 60, Fishlock 40, Ames 36;
Grimmett 4-77, Cotton 3-76) and S.A.
four for 194 (Ryan 71,. Walker 29).
Casualties: Fishlock right-hand fracture
and Bradman groin strain.
* * * *
Sacrificed to Test-match cricket, the
historic N.S.W.-Vic. game at Sydney
was poorly attended, but interesting
nevertheless. Victoria made 337 (Gregory
65, Barnett 59, Hassett 58, all very good;
Jackson 3-44, Hynes 1-51); N.S.W. 305
(Beattie 60, Hynes 54, Cheetham 49,
McGilvray 4s; Sievers 5-57). At the.
wickets and in the field Beattie showed
himself a better cricketer than at least
two men who have figured in the Eleven
this year.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: They are still toying with
the idea of a white cricket ball in Eng-
land, the idea being that it is easier to
see than the red variety. The trouble
would be keeping the thing clean. Base-
ballers find this hard enough, and in their
game the ball makes far less contact with
the ground than a cricket ball. On
English wickets the white pill would be
a greeny-black hue after an encounter
with the juicy turf. Here our flint-like
outfields would soon reduce it to a dirty
khaki, as they do with the scarlet pill
already in use.
(Continued on next page.)
“Torrens”: South Australian rowing
chiefs are debating the merits of Man-
num or Murray Bridge as the convincing
ground for the inter-State eight-oar race
this year. Mannum had been decided
on, but owing to doubts as to whether
there is nearly enough accommodation
for the crowds expected the heads are
thinking it over.
* * * *
“Blade”: One hears a lot about families
in cricket, but it is not often rowing runs
in the blood. The tentative selection of
N. P. Symonds for the Cambridge crew
marks an exception. Grandpa Symonds
started it by rowing in the Light Blue
eight, in those half-forgotten days when
Oxford used to win occasionally—lßßs,
to be exact. In 1928 grandson R.A.
rowed No. 7, and R.H. succeeded him
in the boat in 1931. N.P. makes the
third grandson and brother to wear the
Light Blue blazer.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Chesterfield Handicap: Double
Bard ; next, Gilt.
Inverness Handicap: Lord Car-
rington ; next, Orford.
Sandhurst Welter: Dunloe ; next,
Your Honor.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
C. F. Orr Stakes: Young Idea ;
next, Prince Quex.
Australia Day Cup: Alinura;
next, Pooley Bridge.
Ana Handicap: Gay Pop ; next,
Phenomenon.
FOR RANDWICK.
Bondi Handicap: Sal Volatile;
next, The Athenian or Punjab.
Challenge Stakes: Pavarti, 1;
Bonnie Legion, 2 ; Silver Rose, 3.
January Handicap: Mananui;
next, Friar’s Switch.
Paddington Handicap: Verdun ;
next, Pavarti or The Athenian.
Anniversary Handicap: Latharna,
1 ; Mananui, 2 ; Jovial Son, 3.


£2S
§
HOS
GOING TO WIN
MOSTOF THE
WOLFES SCHNj
/St
BONUSES?
IN the First Test England collected £29/6/- in
Bonuses, while Australia won £l5/10 7 -. This list
of winnings was headed by Barnett, whose 1 5
fours, 1 six and 1 catch brought him £7/10/-. The
game was full of surprises—the giants became
pygmies, while some of the lesser lights performed
doughty deeds!
The Second Test provided a surprise—the total
winnings amounted to £33/2/-, O’Reilly getting
the lion’s share of £l5/4/-.
In the Third Test, in which Australia romped
home, Wolfe’s Schnapps paid out Bonuses of
£34. England collected £l7/8/- and Australia
£l6/12/-. Wolfe’s Schnapps’ Bonuses Won to
date thus total £ 1 1 1/18/-.
What’s going to happen in the Fourth Test?
Will the century-makers come into their own
again and win a big share of the Wolfe’s Schnapps
awards for brighter cricket? Memorise the list
—it’s been increased this year! Watch the score
and see which players win the biggest Bonuses.
Wo L
s ch n
App s
b om o
$Es
atiy
Ct 'ck
et et
s c 0
Or
Of
Ust ral
e at s
3 *4
*25
tan
on
r u n
1930
f e c
or<j
est abj
a n
, e (/
ee C Is
atjy
*IQ
°w
o/
H'/,
tr/ ck
Perfi
°rtn
ally
ost
M
‘Pill
or
Pgs
eu e
*l6
r y
*nh
Ce Pt
13 0
U?y
Of
Ppn
otti Pii
u te s )
ft/
oth
ttal
iatj
’Wish
ap e
K a Se
an d
w *th
s
Pi
°sts
e st s
*5
ayetf
e st
PtO
and
vpJed
an
10
tak
**clc
ast
an
ats
Pot
ass
*1
or
ev e
F y
°Ver
Pee
or
ev e
fy
2
c atcij
/
or
ev e
°^d
dry
TEST MATCHES:
FOURTH TEST, Adelaide, January
29 February 3.
FIFTH TEST, Melbourne, February
26 March 3.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
THE PUREST OF ALL GIN SPIRITS


23 m
Smoky Exhaust may mean
you need new Champions/
Faulty ignition lets fuel escape from
your car in smoke. Nobody gets any
benefit from that. It is like burning
money. Get full value from the fuel you
use. Install new Champions once every
year. They save enough fuel to pay for
themselves.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
- • -AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
MADE IN WINDSOR. CANADA
*SILVER
EDGE"
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNtNQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different “RAYBESTOS” products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Belaco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep : John Arnold, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Viet
Three Sydney Fights.
If any of the old fighters who have
been fighting their battles over in recent
Bulletins found themselves resurrected
and matched by Charles Lucas at Sydney
Sports Ground they’d have no com-
plaints about the surroundings, at least.
Arrangements for the lightweight
championship and one worse and one
better scrap last week were excellent.
Overcast sky hung low and black over
the four 40ft. high gridiron squares of
electric globes floodlighting down on the
mostly empty bleachers where the foot-
ball crowds sit and the fairly-well-occu-
pied formations of chairs about the ring
in the middle of the playing field. The
ring well lighted by rows of powerful
globes above it; corner-posts mere 2in.
steel pipes—a good clear view from any-
where. It was a mild night, perfect for
sitting in the open air or for fighting
in it; clean atmosphere, fresh green
grass in the aisles and the surrounding
field and slopes, and none of the smoke
fog and stink of the ramshackle huddle
of a stadium at Rushcutter Bay. If
boxing can’t be revived in these condi-
tions it’s hopeless. All that is required
is the pugs.
There are one or two features of the
Sports Ground entertainment that box-
ing could do without. One is the bright
idea of having a chap to amuse the
crowd through loud speakers between
rounds and bouts. As an entertainer
this chap was good; his jokes were fresh
and some of them clinkers. But if
there’s anywhere that sort of thing isn’t
wanted, surely it’s at a fight! It de-
stroys the whole dramatic effect. After
watching a willing round nobody wants
a funny joke about boxing, or anything
else. The tense feelings the fighters have
caused are made ridiculous. The whole
thing is cheapened into a comic turn.
It isn’t comic; there’s nothing funny
about a fight—even a poor fight. It
would be all right with the burlesque
called wrestling; it completely flattens
boxing.
Another thing the Sports Ground show
could have done without was the voluble
vociferations of seconds. In
the last fight the ref. ordered
one of them to shut up, but
this one was a mild offender
to gents who did their bit to
help Alf Biatch retain the
championship. These were not
in Blatch’s corner; they were
on the other side, under the
delusion that they were help-
ing Joe Hall, the challenger.
Hall had little chance with
Biatch, anyhow; with the
“assistance” of his seconds he
had none whatever. They
never stopped yelling at him.
It’s on record that Russia was cleaned up
by Fritz in the war because the Russian
generals broadcast all intended moves
unciphered in advance. The information
from Hall’s corner would have let
Biatch win against twice as good a boy.
While the fighting was on the seconds
ordered every blow. They told the lad
when to lead in voices that must have
been heard in the bleachers.
For about three rounds, while he was
fresh, Hall took no notice of them and
put up a good show. But after each
round, when they got him in the corner,
they plugged away at him with enough
advice to lose a Battle of the Somme.
Back in the ring he had to hear it all re-
peated : “Now lead! Go in! The left! ”
Early he had gone in when he liked,
with a swift, classy move and a beauti-
ful left up to the body and away again
that made it look as if Biatch had struck
not only class boxing but a hitter, too.
As the fight went on Hall, bewildered
from a couple of beauties in the third,
took the damfool advice he was getting.
When they yelled “Lead!” the poor
wretch led. If that wouldn’t lose a fight
there’d be no losing it. Yet the fight
lasted into the eleventh. It did so some-
what by grace of Biatch. From the
fourth on he had it literally in his hands.
Over the last two and a half rounds
there was an impression that he was
carrying the lighter and smaller lad,
whose rugged little upright body was
the color of a sunburnt flapper—it might
have been blushing for the performance
of the loud-mouthed gentry in the
corner.
In the eleventh, still taking the noisy
advice, Hall led, shakily, and Biatch
hooked one to the jaw which had
the lad knocked out on his feet. Biatch
watched him totter and pitch. As
pretty and certain a knockout as anyone
could look at. Were the cornermen con-
vinced? Not on your life! Even now
they belted the canvas with their palms
and tried to bully the dead to rise. It
wasn’t in Hall to do so for several times
the length of referee Baker’s count.
Biatch has improved out of sight
since he won the championship on this
arena a year or so ago. He retained it
without any difficulty in a very clean,
one-sided fight. Biatch 9st. 71b.; Hall
9st. silb.
The man Biatch originally won the
title from, Herb Bishop (lOst. l|lb.), had
an even easier win over one Terry Reilly
(9st. 13f1b.), a sad-faced chap who hadn’t
“ Who's un sired by, laad?”
“ Dunno—but Vs bin damned by ev'ry punter in South Oss.”
a mark on him and was highly indignant
when the ref. called it good-night for
him in the ninth. Probably a good de-
cision ; Terry was outclassed, and,
though willing, was in line to stop some
serious damage at any tick of the clock.
In willingness and match the best fight
was the third and last, in which Dick
Humphries (lOst. s|lb.) and Jimmy
Purcell (lOst. lib.) went the scheduled
15 rounds in spite of crowding more
fighting into every single round than
both the previous scraps had contained
altogether. Humphries won with a lead-
ing left that played havoc with the
Purcell dial. He was lucky to open
Purcell’s right eye early in the piece, and
it shouldn’t have happened. One of the
rules this fighting goes under has it that
when the ref. calls “Break!” they must
break cleanly without hitting. Neither of
them followed this early, and it was a
left jab in these circumstances that made
Purcell’s face a gory patch for the resi
of the encounter. He retaliated by mak-
ing an equally effective job of the
Humphries right ear with a'wild wallop,
but it needed only a tap to start the eye
going early each round, to Purcell’s
great inconvenience. It was a finely-
matched fight, and full of fight. Hum-
phries, far the. better boxer, was a street
ahead at the end of the 12th. Purcell
won from there on, and was the fresher
at the finish; but there was nothing
wrong with the decision in the other’s
favor.
Jimmy Purcell is a blocky, heavy-fisted
pug with no great science, who mills
savagely for only half a minute in every
round and then shuts up and takes it.
Humphries flashed all over him, and
gave him as much a dancing as a box-
ing lesson.
Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Australia’s team for the
fourth Test at Adelaide looks the best
yet selected. Chipperfield’s return is a
matter of filling a place for which there
is no better choice as a bowler available.
One improvement which sentiment has
prevented would have been the substitu-
tion of Tallon for Oldfield. It would
have strengthened the batting, while the
’keeping would have been as good if not
better.
* * * *
“Gabba”: With characteristic Queens-
land hospitality Queensland did every-
thing it could to make the Sheffield
match with Victoria at Brisbane a
present to the visitors. When these were
not making runs quickly enough the
locals helped them with dud bowling,
muffed ground fielding, missed catches
and overthrows worth at least a
boundary. Then Queensland let Vic-
toria, 497 runs up, run the heavy roller
over it until 109 had accumulated. Going
in again the locals scored 447 in a style
good enough to win a Test. Brown
added to his 50 in the first spasm with 91
and Tallon played a fast-moving innings
for 96. Pretty well all the others belted
the Victorian bowling all over the place,
Fleetwood-Smith taking 1 for 167 —to
the great joy, no doubt, of Hammond,
Leyland and co. Victoria laboriously ac-
quired 129 runs to win by five wickets.
An interesting duel was that between
Barnett and Tallon, both certainties for
Aunt Sally’s job in the next Australian XI
for England. Tallon took a wicket in the
big Victorian first innings of 497 for only
three byes, and in the second dismissed
O’Brien again with three sundries ticked
off. Barnett stumped Oxenham in
Queensland’s first knock for 13 sundries.
* %■ v *
“Tenth Slip”: N.S.W. and Victoria
were asked to let their Test-match
players take part in the game at Sydney
on the eve of the fourth Test, to give the
faded interest in Sheffield cricket a fillip.
Both agreed to do so, but N.S.W.,
saying that the B. of C. had insisted on
its landing its players in Adelaide on
Wednesday for the fourth Test, with-
drew its Cracks. The Victorians fielded
their full strength against a depleted
N.S.W. side.
* * * *
“Staffs”: In spite of the inade-
quate accommodation, the N.S.W.C.A.
reports a net profit of £5067 on the
second Test match, not counting the
quarter-cut which goes to the Board of
Control. The Sydney game with Queens-
land showed a profit of £l3O, but the
South Australian match in Adelaide was
an awful slump, the biggest gate being
only £47.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: But for the Australian
visits—and in a lesser degree those from
South Africa —half the old cricket coun-
ties of England would have the shutters
up. Famous old Leicestershire, which
for years was the bone always given to
the visiting Australian dog to sharpen his
teeth on, is the latest to feel the pinch.
At the annual meeting it was revealed
that the club was eligible for the dole and
that all private efforts to raise money had
been futile. So bad were things that the
finance committee was thinking of ask-
ing the English Board of Control for an
advance on Leicester’s share of the next
Australian tour of England.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Suggestions as to im-
provements to Sydney C.G. continue to
be made. A great stand taking in the
stand backing on the Showground to
the south of the sightboard and part of
the hill is one of them —a basement in
Showground territory would be used by
the R.A.S. Estimated cost is £280,000.
Unlike their Melbourne brethren, the
Sydney trustees have no carefully con-
served funds to fall back on. Their only
resource is a chew at the Government’s
lug.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: A deputation to
Minister Buttenshaw asking for repre-
sentation on the Cricket Ground trust
of members of Sydney Cricket Ground to
the tune of one to every 1000 got a cold
reception. Buttenshaw said he thought
the present mob of 11 life trustees too
many, and the fact seemed to be over-
looked that other sports than cricket were
interested in the ground. What is wanted
is a complete revision of the trust origi-
nally granted for the furtherance of ama-
teur sport but now at the disposal of any
organisation with money enough to out-
bid competitors. Considering the hold
professional sport has in this regard
through political and other channels this
is too much to hope for.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Details of the solici-
tude taken by the Q.C.A. for the well-
being of cricketers under their control
continue to come in. In future no soul-
destroying intoxicating liquors will be
allowed on the ground during play. If
the players can’t manage ginger pop and
its kindred atrocities they can try the
ground water-taps and chance a frog
or two. Also no hard drinks will in


new 5FLaJrk make£
POWDER EASY TO USE
*7/<A
JUST
PRESS WITH THE
FINGER, &• THUMB
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans teeth
better than anything.
CALVERT’S Tooth
Powder comes to you
' in an Airflow Flask, a
new kind of package
which is ever so much
easier to use than
ordinary tins or tubes.
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Ltd., Eng.
CALVERTS
'
Patents.
FERROUS METAL AND PROCESS FOR
PRODUCING SAME.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
10129/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
PROCESS AND MECHANISM FOR
SEPARATING INTERMIXED DIVIDED
MATERIALS.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patents No.
13062/28 and 13063 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia. Particulars of the invention obtainable
from. Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
■
•m*J***&iiJ
anc/ f/ie ball
is going straight to the fence
Seething with interest and full of surprises,
cricket is like the Radioplayer which
brings it into your home — the apex of
exciting entertainment.
Made by the makers of the famous Philips
Lamps, each Radioplayer represents true
value for every penny spent. Ask your
Accredited Radioplayer retailer to demon-
strate these amazing musical instruments.
PHILIPS
' 6R47
future be allowed in the dressing-rooms,
and carefulness in the handling of cash
is being inculcated by the issue to players
of tokens with which to pay for pop —
or gaspers if desired.
Nineteenth Hole
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers in-
tend to impress on southerners that the
State championships are worth a visit.
The professional purse for the open is
£lOO, and clubs are collecting purses for
a handicap professional competition,
£l5O in all. The competition will run
from May 17 to May 22 to save visitors
an unduly long absence from home.
Sam Richardson, Von Nida, Alan Water-
son and Jim Ferrier will be there.
* * * *
“Heliopolis”: Conditions of the
N.S.W. A.I.F. Cup competition at Kil-
lara (N.S.W.) have been changed this
year, all men who enlisted with the
A.I.F. or B.E.F. being eligible and not
only, as of yore, men who had seen
active service. All entrants, save pro-
fessionals, must be members of recog-
nised golf clubs. The date is February
23.
% s{ ; ❖ *
“Divot Digger”: Still another Sydney
golf course. This one is to be on the
southern shores of Botany Bay, between
Miranda and Cronulla, and will be an
18-holer of championship class. The
Shire Council is behind the scheme, and
it is hoped to bite the Government’s ear
by the provision of features attractive
to tourists, notably the formation of a
country club with, in addition to the
golf course, a polo ground, tennis courts
and a bowling green.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: St. Andrews has ruled
that in future any player with a handi-
cap of one or less may enter for the ama-
teur championship, thus scrapping the
“eligibility lists” compiled with much
trouble by the four golf unions of Eng-
land, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. A
tremendous entry is now expected, and
the event will probably have, to be played
in batches at different courses, with a
play-off among the winners of the dif-
ferent mobs —unless someone can think
of a better way out of a troublesome
position.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Australia has challenged
for the Davis Cup in the American zone.
The team will be picked as soon as pos-
sible and will leave by the Niagara on
March 18. Among other matters dis-
closed at the A.L.T.A. meeting was that
the net profit from the last tour was
£3258 and that a woman’s team of five
will visit Australia at the end of the year.
'•* -i*
“Forest Hills”: Having challenged in
the American zone, Australian Davis
Cuppers are in fear of the U.S.A. insist-
ing on playing on hard courts instead of
grass. If no agreement can be reached,
Britain, as Cup holder, will step in and
fix the venue. In any case there is not
much to weep about. All our leading
players perform on hard courts.
* * & *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The first seces-
sion from the list of Davis Cup pos-
sibles was that of Turnbull, who has told
the A.L.T.A. that business will prevent
his making the trip. A pity, for he
proved a success as playing manager on
past tours, and even now is a formid-
able proposition on the courts when
in form.
* * * *
“Retired Gun”: Vines won his third
consecutive match with Perry at Boston
after being downed three successive times
by the limejuicer. Perry won the seventh
match, making him one up in profes-
sional tussles.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Queensland was
well beaten in the inter-State tennis
match in Sydney, going down by nine
rubbers to three. Moon, once Australian
champion, is still the best of the Banana-
landers, though he is far from what Kip-
ling once called “The Moon of other
days.” The northerners, especially the
women, should give a much better ac-
count of themselves in the champion-
ships.
* * * *
“Forest Hills”: Perry began his pro-
fessional tennis career with an ardent
appeal for the introduction of open
tennis, in which amateurs and profes-
sionals can meet without question as to
status. In spite of the claims of those
opposing it that the professionals would
be too strong for the opposition, there
has been no actual proof. In golf the
professionals have by no means out-
shone the amateurs when the two have
met.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: A cable that Von
Cramm, with the others of the German
Davis Cup team, would visit Australia
after this year’s Davis Cup series sur-
prised everyone here. Under present
conditions in Germany it would be
almost impossible for men like Von C.
and his mates to leave their native land
for so long a tour —Japan and the
U.S.A. are also included in the itinerary.
The Berlin Tennis Association says the
report is premature ; in any case, no-
thing can be settled for months.
Miscellaneous
“Hotham”: The Victorian Rugby
Union, which has done a great deal to
push the code in Westralia, South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, will have the South
Australians in Melbourne this season in
addition to the Springboks, who will
play in Melbourne on June 7. A wel-
come innovation will be a visit from a
Westralian XV in August. It will be a
costly business, but as there is a good
deal of the old amateur spirit about these
unions, players putting their hands in
their own pocket to help with expenses,
the show ought to be a success.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park”: The first of the
British international matches at Twicken-
ham between England and Wales was
won by the English 4-3 —a dropped goal
to a fry. Twickenham has always been
looked on as Wales’s hoodoo ground,
and the 60,000 Taffies who travelled all
the way from Wales by road and rail
will be more confirmed in the belief than
ever. Campbell, of King’s School, Syd-
ney, played a great game for England
as a breakaway.
*** i *
“Stoush”: Determined to check the
rough and dirty play which has been in-
creasing in Sydney Rugby League foot-
ball, the League has resolved that in
future players sent off by the referee
shall not receive their cash share of the
match takings. It should work well, for
in inter-State and international matches
the sum involved is worth considering.
A pity that something of the sort cannot
be done with the amateur Union players.
# * * *
“Spike”: The Empire Games com-
mittee has earmarked £6200 for import-
ing Dominion athletes from overseas in
February, 1938. Quotas for Canada and
England are 15 each, for South Africa
and M.L. 10 each, for Scotland six, for
Wales and India three each, for Rho-
desia and Northern Ireland two each, and
for Bermuda, British Guiana, Ceylon,
Malta, Trinidad, Hong Kong, Fiji,
Jamaica and Newfoundland one apiece,
The Games last from February 5-12, and
selections will be made, by the countries
concerned. A measly £5O has been
voted to helping athletes in other States
to visit Sydney, but it is expected their
State associations will lend a hand.
* * * *
“Watersail”: Queensland’s superiority
in 18-footer racing on the Brisbane
River is pronounced nowadays. For the
Australian championships beginning
January 31 only two craft, Yendys and
Britannia, are going from Sydney, but, in
spite of the heavy cost of shipping boats
and crews for the long journey, Westralia
will be there. North Queensland is also
contributing a couple of craft. The title
will go to the best performer in three
heats, the last on February 7.
* * *
“Fitzcray”: The Henley-on-Yarra
people have awakened to the horrid fact
that their profit-and-loss account is badly
in the red. The discovery is a periodic
one; this time the weather is blamed,
Actually, Melburnians have learned that
while they have to pay to watch the fun
from the south bank they can do it for
nix from the north.
* * * *
“Poppet”: N.S.W. oarsmen and scullers
are sharpening up for the State cham-
pionships on the Nepean on February 6.
Pearce, holder of the sculling title, is to
be seriously challenged by fellow-police-
man Turner, whose long string of vie-
tories Pearce so unexpectedly upset last
season. Turner is satisfied that he was
under some hostile influence or other
on that occasion.
* * * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. Police crew
brought back from Berlin a set of the
long oars now coming into fashion, and
North Shore is also sporting the things,
In the old days oars were solid, and
measured 12ft. and more, but for light-
ness sake hollow looms were adopted,
and length reduced to lift. lOin. Rowers
are divided on the merits of the long
’uns. They give a longer sweep, but in-
crease the work. As Mosman and Syd-
ney stick to the old measurements the
two styles will be well tested in the Feb-
ruary race. In Europe the long oars are
almost universal, and they were used by
the London crew so successful in Aus-
tralia in 1934.
*.* * *
‘Booroodabin’ ; The barge as to
whether the Yankee swimmer Medica
would show in the Brisbane section of
fh® Australian championships has been
settled by the sporting visitor, who will
fly direct to Brisbane after getting off
the American boat. But N.S.W. cham-
pion Noel Ryan, whose meetings with
Medica are expected to be the high lights
of the American’s tour, will not, un-
happily, be able to go to Brisbane.
* * .♦ *
_ “Spare Walton”: The statement that
big-game fish abound close to Sydney
(B. 13/1 /’37) was borne out when two
Sydney rod men caught three marlin
running far over 2001 b. each off Long
Reef within sight of Manly. After all
one cannot blame Sydney fishermen for
ignoring the fact that big-game fishing
of the best is just outside the harbor
Heads, though The Bulletin has been
telling them so for years. For a long
time English big-fish hunters used to
make the wearisome trip to California
for the tunny fishing until one day it was
discovered that bigger and more sport-
ing tunny than California has ever seen
are thick in season off the Yorkshire
coast. Result is that many thousands of
pounds that used to go to Californian
fishermen are now being pouched by the
lads of Scarborough, Whitby and the
like, than whom none need it more, in
these days of the herring slump,
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The Australian rifle
team for Bisley is now all dressed up
and waiting to go to London by the
Largs Bay on May 8. Colonel Merrett,
of Victoria, commands, A. Spencer
(N.S.W.) is adjutant, and W. J. Duncan
(Queensland) is shooting captain. The
officers were elected after each State had
nominated two candidates. In addition
to these officials, there are 13 shooters;
Lee, James and Motton (N.S.W.); Pavey,
Mues and Aikenhead (Vic.); Mathews
and Armstrong (Q.); Collyer and Lucas
(S.A.); Burton and Mellows (W.A.) ; and
Gillies (Tassie).


ARNOTT’S
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL BISCUITS
MOST VALUABLE, DELICIOUS AND EASILY DIGESTED
Try also SAVOURETTE and GINGER NUT BISCUITS
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Champagne Waltz.”
FRANZ STRAUSS Fritz Leiber
HIS DAUGHTER .. Gladys Swarthout
JAZZ-BANDERS,
Fred Mac Murray and Jack Oakie
There are four Strausses who have left
some sort of a mark on the pages of
musical history by reason of their con-
nection with the manufacture of the
Viennese waltz —Johann the elder and his
sons Johann, Joseph and Eduard. It was
Johann 11. who scored the “Blue
Danube” and 849 other waltzes, polkas
and mazurkas. Possibly there are dozens
of authentic sprigs of, the family now
flourishing.
Adolph Zukor celebrates his 25th anni-
versary as a purveyor of moving pictures
by hypothecating a Franz Strauss, who
runs a dance hall in Vienna, and whose
Fritz Leiber as Franz Strauss in “Cham-
pagne Waltz,” at Sydney Prince Edward.
business is wrecked by opposition from an
American collection of saxophonists and
crooners entrenched in neighboring prem-
ises. The dear old soul faces ruin and
bankruptcy, but his beauteous daughter,
spurred on by the chief crooner next
door (none other than F. Mac Murray,
who doesn’t even pretend to be a com-
petent purveyor of dull low moans), gets
the bright idea of invading Broadway
with a real Austrian band that plays the
old-time waltzes.
Experiment is immensely successful,
and the Austrians hang out the “House
Full” sign each night. But poor F.
Mac Murray has holes in his shoes and
no dimes in his jeans. Strolling one day
through the gilded foyer of her Broad-
way theatre Miss Swarthout discovers a
Wrigley’s chewing-gum paper folded
into the form of a dart. F. Mac Murray
is addicted to chewing gum and makes
darts out of the wrappers. Glancing
round she sees the poor fish sitting there
disconsolately. Thus —but you know the
rest, save for a fade-out that would
occur only to Mr. Zukor in a jubilee
mood.
Franz Strauss and F. Mac Murray,
backed by an orchestra of about 300 per-
formers, are on little wheeled platforms.
They are shoved out from the wings to
join Miss Swarthout at centre stage.
There, while the lady sings, Strauss hands
his fiddle to Mr, Mac Murray, accepting
in exchange that gentleman’s saxophone,
and the strains of the “Champagne
Waltz,” which is a cross between “The
Blue Danube” and the collected works of
Irving Berlin, bring the business to a
cldse.
Neat comedy work by Jack Oakie,
Herman Bing and Vivienne Osborne
helps to keep the show moving. At Syd-
ney Prince Edward.
“My American Wife.”
FRUITY OLD PIONEER, Fred Stone
HUNGARIAN COUNT, Francis Lederer
GOIL Ann Sothern
Paramount always kicks off a new year
well, and this piece from that studio
is good entertainment. Glamorous
European aristocrat marries into filthily
rich American family. Pop, who made
the fortune, has retired to the ranch on
which he made it. His contempt for
son-in-law is enormous, and when the
effete alien announces that his family has
ridden on horses for 700 years the old
man puts him up on a bad buckjumper.
Son-in-law takes his falls in a good spirit;
imbibes a few spirits with Pop in the
saloon of One-eyed Ike, where the pair
have to hand out straight lefts to de-
risive habitues; shows his commercial
acumen by saving wife from heavy finan-
cial loss, and finally achieves his am-
bition to become a 100 p.c. American,
driving a tractor, raising hawgs and
coping with a mortgage.
Lederer, for once in a way, has a role
that suits him ; Stone does a good job
as a rough old diamond who despises
his social-climbing family; Billie Burke
butterflies socially in her best manner,
and Miss Sothern is not only decorative
but puts in a spot of vigorous acting.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Wedding Present.”
REPORTERS,
Joan Bennett and Cary Grant
CITY EDITOR George Bancroft
BENEVOLENT GANGSTER,
William Demarest
BEST-SELLING AUTHOR,
Conrad Nagel
ARCHDUKE .... Gene Lockhart
Paul Gallico’s “Saturday Evening
Post” yarn gave this scenario its spring-
board, but it dives off into the deep end
and develops into a series of more or
less amusing adventures, very slightly
connected. Demarest’s impersonation of
a law-breaking American (who neverthe-
less has a rigid moral code) and Nagel’s
very neat picture of a rather priggish
novelist are redeeming features. The
newspaper people —and this goes for
Bennett, Grant, Bancroft and about a
dozen others —are caricatured to an ex-
tent that exceeds even farce limits. How-
ever, in a mad sort of way, the fantasia
is interesting, and it is very well pro-
duced. At Sydney Civic.
“Straight from the Shoulder.”
J. M. PYNE Andy Clyde
HIS GRANDDARTER,
Katharine Locke
YOUNG WIDOWER .. Ralph Bellamy
WIDOWER’S SMALL BOY, David Holt
The “Saturday Evening Post,” from
which Paramount seems to get most of
its scenarios, gave Anglo-Saxon pub-
licity to Lucien Carey’s old gunsmith,
J. M. Pyne. As a fictional character he’s
lovely. One of the world’s greatest
marksmen, he potters around in a home
workshop filling up the last years of his
century by building beautiful shotguns
for connoisseurs. Carey knows enough
about guns not to enter into details of
workshop equipment. The film shows
the old chap doing his marvels with a
lathe which looks as if it would make a
hard job of whittling stair-rails. Pyne,
according to Carey, is a precise old
gentleman with a white beard. Clyde
looks more like Hiram in “Mrs. Wiggs
of the Cabbage Patch” —a gangling,
straggle-moustached rural character.
The film story doesn’t use any of J. M.
Pyne’s exploits. He’s there only to give
a few elementary instructions in gun-
craft to the boy hero. Boy’s father has
been put on spot' by gangsters and is
hiding-out at Pyne’s ranch. When the
wicked men arrive Bellamy is away get-
ting married to Pyne’s granddarter and
the child is at home alone. The bad
coves immediately fall asleep, and the kid
is able to fill their shotguns up with
molten lead, replacing said guns exactly
where they fell from grasp of villains.
When Mr. Bellamy comes riding home
with bride the villains discharge their
mucked-up firearms in his direction, to the
undoing of one of them. But the other
pulls a venomous-looking pistol, and the
heroine, well-trained by grand-dad, shoots
the. ruffian right through the middle of
the forehead. This causes small boy to
accept her as a stepmother. What would
have ensued had he withheld his con-
sent is too heartrending to contemplate.
At Sydney Civic.
“Blackmailer.”
COMIC DETECTIVE-INSPECTOR,
Paul Hurst
SUSPECTED MURDERERS,
William Gargan, Florence Rice,
H. B. Warner, Nana Bryant
TIMID CORONER .... Herman Bing
Starting off on a straight mystery-
murder yarn, the authors (it took three
of them to write it) seem to have decided
half-way through that this would be an
excellent opportunity for a skit on the
Hollywooden multiple-suspect murder, in
which the least likely one turns out to
be the guilty party. Thus it is that an
impossible detective enters, and there-
upon Momus gives the K.O. to Mel-
pomene, who, however, recovers suffi-
ciently to put in a brief but unconvinc-
ing appearance at hat-reaching time.
There is a clever slap at the aggravat-
ing screen reporter who always makes
the police look silly: two of them cross-
examine the detective-inspector himself
so severely that, rattled, he almost con-
fesses to the crime. There is also some
good fun with a chicken-hearted coroner
who works overtime shuddering as the
Arliss in “East Meets West,” at Sydney
Lyceum.
bodies pile up. Apart from these bright
spots, the action drags and presentation
is crude.
H. B. Warner’s ability is wasted, and
William Gargan’s reputation slips back
several cogs. The women just stand
around trying to look as if they’re there
for a purpose. Paul Hurst has a juicy
role from which he extracts the. last
drop, and Herman Bing does dreadful
things to the English language. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“Can This Be Dixie?”
SWEET LITTLE IMP .. Jane Withers
HER DOPY UNCLE, Slim Summerville
COL. ROBERT E. LEE PEACHTREE,
Claude Gillingwater
THE PEACH Helen Wood
A jumble of cotton plantations, singin’
mammies, mint-juleps, radio turns and
mortgagee diddling, with a real old
Southern colonel who would have de-
lighted O. Henry, and a gentle grafter
who would have made him shudder.
Obviously intended as a satire on the
old Southern melodramas, the film has
itself developed into one; it will keep
audiences guessing as to where burlesque
ends and seriousness begins.
It' nevertheless makes fair entertain-
ment, with the bucolic Slim as a foil for
the effervescent Jane, who, though her
scope is more limited than in previous
films, performs creditably. One cause
for a hosanna is that her voice hasn’t
that awful blare that makes so many
other screen prodigies a headache for
George Bancroft as the City Editor in
“Wedding Present,” at Sydney Civic.
long-suffering patrons. A final twist to a
rambling plot is given when, the tradi-
tional racehorse failing to confound the
rapacious mortgagee, the Col., swallow-
ing his pride, barges into Big Business
by canning his mint-juleps.
The histrionic thunder meant to rumble
exclusively for the child star has been
collared by Claude Gillingwater, who as
the fiery old Southerner, complete to
four-in-hand tie, walrus moustache and
a perennial threat to suicide to save the
moth-eaten family honor (which he re-
frains from doing because his insurance
policy has lapsed), gives a classical per-
formance. Helen Wood has little to do
but look luscious, and the supporting
players are capable. At Sydney Capitol.
“Ladies in Love.”
THE LADIES .. J. Gaynor, L. Young,
C. Bennett, S. Simon
THE GENTLEMEN .. D. Ameche,
P. Lukas, A. Mowbray, T. Power
Imagine them put into a story by
Thackeray—Janet, Loretta and Con-
stance at their glamorous (and ripened)
best, and Miss Simon irradiating her
funny mixture of the very young and the
woman-who-knows-everything. The three
older girls room together in (here the
dope-sheet comes in handy) “Budapest,
one of Europe’s most modern and worldly
cities.” But for this one might think that
they were just Hollywood graduates doing
their stuff.
The girls who pin their affections on
men who are far above them in social
status take to strong drink and then to
poison. The lass who loves the honest
young doctor (D. Ameche) who experi-
ments on white rabbits gets her man.
Miss Simon captures P. Lukas by coiling
herself up on a sofa in his apartment and
being discovered there whenever he
should be declaring his intentions to an
older lady.
J. E. Bromberg puts in a good sketch
as a lecherous villain, and the inconse-
quential story is kept alive by clever dia-
logue and smooth acting. But it is all
very unconvincing. Goils like Loretta
and Janet shouldn’t have such a hard
spin with their sweethearts even in the
post-depression world. Previewed at the
State Theatre, Sydney.


WORK YOUR LAND AT LESS
COST .. with an EFFICIENT FORDSON
; ;
</
ZJ
ZjJ
im
2®
m
_
14 H.P. AT DRAWBAR—26 H.P. ON BELT
(Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melb. University)
FORDSON IS POUNDS UNDER THE PRICE OF
ANY OTHER TRACTOR OF EQUIVALENT POWER
COUNTER-BALANCED CRANKSHAFT...HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
...GOVERNOR CONTROL ... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING SYSTEM...
CRANKCASE VENTILATION ... “HOT-SPOT” VAPORISER ... CLUTCH
PULLEY... POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost).
The English Fordson is the lowest-priced tractor per horse-
power on the market. And because it has ample economical
power, it will save time and money for you on every job—
ploughing, harvesting, haulage or stationary work. Fordson
is available with pneumatic tyres or approved wheel grips.
A special Fordson Purchase Plan makes it possible for your
Tractor to earn its cost before you pay. Your local Ford
dealer will supply full particulars.
m
Fordsoiv
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORD DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD.. Corner Bridge &
Young Streets, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria & Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE
Ltd.. City Shrms.: 601-3
Lit. Collins Street, Melb.
South Amt.: POWER PLANT LTD..
98«100 Currie Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS
LTD., Hay Street, Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F61.27.T
DESIGNED
AND BUILT
AT. DAG EN HAM, ENG LAN D
STAGE SHOWS.
Russian Ballet.
Opening item in the current bill at the
Royal is a matter called “Cotillon,” hav-
ing its first Sydney airing. Scenery is
“executed by Prince A. Schervachidze.”
An unhappy word “executed,” as applied
to Russian princes. Some have been
lucky to escape. This “scenery” is an
angular surround of plain, light, drab,
washy walls, with rose-red horizontal
windows let in low down for leaping
through—histrionic afterthoughts in an
unsatisfactory ballet. For some reason—
probably the uninspired surround —the
stage looks drably bare and the effects
Iook tawdry. This impression was in-
creased by the male lead’s white waist-
coat bursting, an embarrassment never
before witnessed on stage or off it. Rose-
colored window, Right, handy for dis-
posing of remnants. Props for the piece
a couple of folding screens symbolically
decorated to represent cards, horses and
other posts along the Road to Ruin.
With these and some cane-bottomed
chairs straight from a slum scene in
amateur Grand Guignol has to be con-
jured up, among other things, an illu-
sion of a Pleasure Garden! Even Syd-
ney’s night life is hardly more desolate.
A sorry piece, saved from utter medi-
ocrity by Nina Youchevitch’s graceful
and Sonia Woizikowska’s sprightly per-
formances. The former makes what there
is to make of a dolefully-conceived Des-
tiny collaring the young blood who
comes in to do a bit of wild-oating. The
Woizikowska lass still keeping that
schoolgirl figure, but compact of inter-
esting liveliness. A busy little person
doubtless destined to bemuse the wits
of balletomaniacs before she’s 20; said
now to be 15. A very volatile miss, with
a capital sense of comedy.
The piece has one virtue: it permits
the excellence of the second offering,
“L’Oiseau de Feu” (“The Firebird”), to
take the onlooker by surprise. A grand
ballet, this. Arabian Nights plot has
to do with young hero, having caught the
Firebird flitting about the garden, given
by her one of her golden feathers, which
amulet sustains him scathless against
bad magician’s very potent magic, enab-
ling hero to win heroine and marry her
to massed rejoicings in a closing mar-
riage scene of Oriental opulence, enacted
against a background of onion domes
and minarets. Lighting is used with
excellent effect, suggesting first the
moonlit garden scene, increasing to early
breaking dawn and subsequently to the
glare of bright daylight. Into this time-
space is crowded a largely-constructed
romance, with numerous and varied
character, bright action, effective scenery,
colorful costuming and brilliant perform-
ance. Setting is all Oriental, and Igor
Yousskevitch histrionically dominates. A
supreme control of gesture, every move-
ment as full of meaning as a spoken sen-
tence, he sustains the character—a figure
that might have stepped out of a Ghengis
Khan frieze, trappings and all—as if it
were himself. The dance is subservient
to the miming, as it must be to any such
excellent acting. Not behind him in per-
formance, but different, the Kirsova
dances the Firebird most beautifully.
An aloof but vital presence, she is an
embodiment of those romantic mystical
longings which beautified the folklore of
all lands with such lovely, inaccessible
beings. Together they personify the
Dance in its clearest expression. Sup-
port is very good, and few scenes any-
where in Ballet are more lavish and pic-
turesque than the two in quick succes-
sion with which the piece closes. The
plot requires the presence of the wicked
magician and evil assistants, retinue for
the high-born heroine, and, at the end,
crowded gathering of all parties for a
wedding carried out with an ambitiously
huge loaf of the bread of fertility pre-
sented to the bride and other Oriental
marriage ritual. The entire piece a spec-
tacle of much size and romantic mag-
nificence.
The other item on the bill, “Le
Mariage d'Aurore,” is as much concerned
with Aurora’s wedding as a turkey is
with a sultan’s hashish. It’s really a
stringing together of divertissements —a
jolly good idea, obviating delays be-
tween ; doing for Ballet exactly what
Revue does for Vaudeville. There are a
dozen dances in it, all pretty enough and
several exquisite, including a charming
Bluebird representation by Nina Golo-
vina and Roland Guerard, the man un-
commonly good, but the lady graceful,
too. Valentina Blinova makes three
appearances in this general medley, the
last of them with her Prince Charming,
Valentin troman, one of the loveliest
of the night.
“These Three” in Fleshandblood.
Brett Randall chose the contentious
Lillian Heilman three-act tragedy “The
Children’s Hour” to open the Savoy
Theatre Pty.’s series of 1937 plays at
Melbourne Princess, and the difficult
task of creating atmosphere was done
exceptionally well by a cast almost en-
tirely amateur. The skilfully-written
play gave producer and cast good
material to work on, and they handled
it sympathetically. The story is built on
a half-heard conversation that is twisted
by a schoolgirl who hates her two young
mistresses. Much depended on how that
character was created, and Florence Eng-
lish played it with easy sincerity. Nance
Summers and Irene Mitchell as Karen
Wright and Martha Dobie, the two
young teachers, worked together well and
got away with even the tensely emotional
scenes. Lighter moments came from
Josephine Ambler as the irritating Mrs.
Lily Mortar, the older actress-aunt.
Robert Bennett, the dqctor Karen was
to marry, was the only male—except
Henry Allan, who played the simpering
grocer’s boy—and made a fair enough
fist of his part. The role of Mrs. Amelia
Tilford, who spread the gossip, gave
Lorna Forbes opportunities of which she
took advantage.
•I* v -I- -I*
Horrors at Sydney Kursaal.
At Sydney Kursaal Scott Alexander
put on a Grand Guignol revival, Phyllis
Busby, Shirley Geddes and Raymond
Irons supporting him well. Mad women
jagged out a nurse’s eyes; a surgeon
accidentally drugged himself to death (he
deserved death ; for a major operation
he did not wash his hands) ; a schoolgirl
egged another on to murder; parents
murdered their unrecognised son for
jewels he had brought as presents. Yet
these horrific climaxes were known to be
inevitable, so the shock was dulled ; that
line of effect was much stronger when
Mr. Alexander, in “The Wager,” simply
and with apparent enjoyment sucked a
hollow tooth free of his evening frank-
furt.
A Night of Vaudeville.
Clever turns, snappy ballets and some
capital fun make a good show of Syd-
ney Tivoli’s “Okay for Sound.” Eddie
One of the Youngi primitives at
Rubery Bennett’s galleries, Sydney.
Gordon’s antics on a bicycle provide a
quencher for the laughter-thirsty. Clad
in a suit which gets snatched up in his
iron steed, he performs some amazing
feats of balance. Bennie Ross puts his
faith —not without justification—in per-
sonality, and, with Maxine Stone, enter-
tains with ease and subtlety. Other
bright items are musical Coral Gun-
ning, banjoists Morgan and Hadley,
eccentric dancers Johnny Clayton and
Jack and Falls, Reading and Royce, the
strong and agile Cresso Bros., comedian
Frank O’Brian and singer Freda Bohn-
ing. Comedy sketches help further to
make it a jolly good evening’s entertain-
ment.
•F ‘I- *F
Something New About Bikes.
Klimo and Keldine, the cyclists who
diversified the hours’ sessions at Sydney
Capitol, deserve a brief mention because
they put some new frills on a turn
that was 15 years.old at the beginning
of the century and was then believed, like
the bicycle itself, to have reached the
summit of its evolutionary progress. K.
and K. do the usual evolutions neatly,
and one of them rides a tandem rampant
(hind wheel only on the ground). But
there’s a two-wheel stunt that this critic
hasn’t struck before. Performer propels
wheel with pedals (the old one-wheel
balancing stunt), but this wheel is geared,
and he steers with a detached front wheel
with conventional forks and handle-bar.
Looks easy, Mr. Gallagher, but you just
try it, Mr. Shean!
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Daryl Lindsay Draws the Russian Ballet.
Like all the' Lindsays Daryl likes his
female figures to be strong on the hoof,
and some of his depictions of members
of the Monte Carlo Russian Ballet sug-
gest that the young ladies, in bounding
over the steppes, had cultivated the sort
of ankles that adversely affected Mr.
Wainwright.
Otherwise the girls limned by this
artist, whose drawings occupy the funny
little corridors on the first floor of Syd-
ney’s only surviving professional stage
theatre, are comely and graceful.
The moujiks, who also have muscular
legs, but cover them with baggy pants
and those remarkable boots used by
Cossacks to save wear and tear on their
horses, are shown in characteristic atti-
tudes. Very active people, these Rus-
sians.


X 5
A
©
©
m
m
A*
&
in
iil
ni
in
mi
SS
111
<5
<3
&
s»
$
(4
a
®i
ft
&
G
o
V
ism
/
'O
**
&k
❖
/j
\
&
. . . then the only
hotel that can offer
you this is
"THE WENTWORTH"
Personal and Missing Friends.
CARDWELL, Austin, a son of Janies Cardwell,
deceased, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
is requested to communicate with ARTHUR
ROBINSON & CO., Solicitors, 360 Collins
Street, Melbourne, as it is believed he is
entitled to certain moneys under the will of
Robert Lucas, late of England, deceased.
JERVIS, Frederick, aged 48 years, son of
James Henry Jervis and Rosa (Lancaster) de-
ceased, or his children, kindly communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, regarding estate of May
Jervis, deceased.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
BRANDAUERS
G^
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
c. BRANDAUER A CO, Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, ENG
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Fashionables found their way to No..
1a Darling Harbor in the heat of Satur-
day’s noon. Lady Gowrie and son Pat
Hore-Ruthven were sailing in the Nieuw
Zeeland for Malta. Later her Ex. goes
to England. In the Admiral’s barge
Lord Gowrie accompanied the Nieuw
Zeeland almost to the Heads.
In sight of hundreds of helpless gazers
last Sunday afternoon three women were
burned to death at Mascot aerodrome.
This is the most tragic air disaster New
South Wales has known. The ’plane, a
Klemm-Eagle, was named “The Golden
Eagle” by its owner and pilot, May
Bradford, who was one of Sunday’s vic-
tims. The other two women were pas-
sengers anxious for a flight over the
harbor. They had bought their ten-shil-
ling tickets, and were irresistibly at-
tracted by Miss Bradford’s ’plane—it was
fitted with little grey silk curtains and
cushions. They heard it was Miss Brad-
ford’s, so they stepped into the dainty
nest, which almost immediately after
became a raging inferno. ■ 'Cause of dis-
aster was collision with another ’plane.
Miss Bradford (in private life she was
Mrs. Shepherd) was the only woman in
Australia to hold a first-class pilot’s
license in addition to A and B electrical
engineer’s ground certificate. She was
born at Bega (N.S.W.).
There was an unusual romance for
people in the millionaire class in the life
of the just-dead George Judah Cohen.
He and his wife, who was his cousin,
were lifelong lovers. Every afternoon
about four Mrs. Cohen was to be, seen
in her brougham and later her car wait-
ing in front of the building in which
her husband had his office ; presently he
would emerge and they would go off
to afternoon-tea together. The insepar-
able pair lived to celebrate the diamond
jubilee of their wedding. The million-
aire was never the same after the death
of his partner.
Daryl Lindsay showed his drawings of
the Ballet in the foyer of the Theatre
Royal last week. They hung on the
side of the stairway and all about the
entrance to the dress-circle. Here were
swirls and sworls of ballerina skirts and
ladies of the Ballet, their skirts Greek
curves as they bent forward to tie a
slipper. Here were the pretty creatures
Sydney watches from the front of the
house, caught by the artist “on the
points.” Here was Helene Kirsova, as
versatile as she is graceful, as the giddy
little doll of “Petrouchka.”
Before the afternoon was over Daryl
had sold half the show out, and Sydney
Ure Smith’s collar was just so much pulp.
Most of the once-starched collars present
were in the same condition. The day
was a steamer, and it came after the
hottest night on record. Charles Young,
who managed the show, gallantly sup-
plied expiring (and perspiring) ladies
with oddments of stationery from the
J.C.W. office to be used as fans. Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones, who had given a
lunch for Helene Kirsova, arrived with
a party which included the art-loving
Admiral Lane-Poole and daughter Ann.
Sister Mrs. Long, of Moree, was also
in this party, and Mrs. Ross Nott.
Arnold Haskell opened the show, intro-
duced by E. J. Tait. Dorothea Mackel-
far (a Ballet enthusiast) was there with
Sylvia Bedford, and John Lane Mullins
was there with his own sane and sensible
ideas on the arts. Kirsova, if you’d like
to know, wore flowered chiffons of
length, crowned by a large white hat.
Serve tea with orchestra and it remains
tea; introduce vocalists to your pro-
gramme and your tea becomes Con-
tinental. The Australia Hotel made a
good start with this form of social enter-
tainment last week by unleashing singers
Raymond Beatty and Heather Kinnaird.
Italy, Germany, France and England
were represented in a programme which
the two sang with great verve in spite
of the wilting afternoon. Heather wore
long, diaphanous sleeves in her black net
frock. She wore no hat, and carried a
bouquet of deep-red roses and carna-
tions to tea. By four o’clock the winter-
garden was crowded, the art-minded
(from the Daryl Lindsay show next door)
and the musical being thick among the
patrons. Mrs. C. L. Jones brought a
party of the former; Mrs. H. C. Bott
had many songsters in her aviary by the
Martin-place windows.
Mrs. Jones’s frock of pale-honey color
was made with a deep berthe. Sister Mrs.
Long had her black hat decked with
lacquered flowers; her black frock
showed a flash of white at throat and
wrists. Mrs. John Woods, of Neutral
Bay, drank tea with actress Mary Mac-
gregor. Mrs. Harold Bott’s small white,
hat was upturned, her blue frock peri-
winkle in tone. Her guest of honor was
Mrs. J. G. McDonald, whose husband
is manager for Mcllwraith McEacharn,
and a newcomer to Sydney. Very cool-
looking in her wide white hat and
flowered ninons sat Mrs. John Collins,
who was with a group hostessed by Mrs.
W. A. Hagon. Mrs. James Melrose clus-
tered her wide black hat with white
flowers; Mrs. Dan Kelly’s toque was of
white petals, her ensemble pink in tone.
Mrs. Bristol, from Maoriland, was a slim
figure in black sheer. An interested tea-
drinker was Mrs. Sherfesee, of the
Riviera.
The girl with the direct gaze is Mary
Gilmore, of Eastwood, just engaged to
Walter Furneaux Burfitt, elder son of
the Dr. Walter Burfitts, of Elizabeth
Bay. Walter, junior, is the latest to
qualify in carrying on the medical tradi-
tion in a family that has medicoes among
its women as well as its men. He’s
started in the Parramatta Hospital. Mrs.
Walter Burfitt (at present sampling the
hot and the cold of Maoriland) was one
of the widely-known Mann family.
The Honorable Mrs. Pitt-Rivers used
to give intimate little dances in Admiralty
House when her parents, Lord and Lady
Forster, were in residence. In the years
between the ballroom had almost for-
gotten the beat of jazz. Last Wednesday
night broke the spell, and Pat Hore-
Ruthven, son of the G.-G. Gowries, was
the. cause. The upstanding young man,
who left last Saturday to rejoin his regi-
ment at Malta, was the night’s honored.
Those who arranged the affair were Cap-
tain Blacker, Captain Ponsonby and Lord
Ranfurly. The ballroom, painted mist-
blue, provided an effective background’
for the. chiffon and net frocks worn by
many of the guests.
Mrs. Fred Payne, from Melbourne,
gave a large-size dinner party at
the Macquarie Club. Her list seemed
to include about half the night s
dancers. The Polloks (he’s Lady
Cowrie’s brother) were among this
group. Lord and Lady Gowrie were in
the fun. Her lilac lame frock drew a
short train. Anne Gordon’s white tulle
might have, been designed by Main-
bocher. It fitted to her neat waist, and
thence was full and swaying. Squadron-
leader Wincott was there with Mrs. Win-
cott; so was their relation Jack Cramer-
Roberts with his Joan Waddell. _ She was
another who proved how alluring white
can be.. Valerie Crowther, a guest at
Admiralty House, and most of the city’s
attractive girls were among those present.
Hilda Gill, of the staff of the Elder
Conservatorium in Adelaide, is visiting
Sydney, and lifting her rich mezzo with
the A.B.C. Listeners to this singer have
had the benefit of her recent two years’
study in Europe. Some of this was
done with Elena Gerhard; and much
with Von Warlich. With this famed
teacher, the Australian made a study of
early Italian and French composers. A
summer school at Portofino gave her a
chance, to see life on the Italian Riviera
—motoring being her transport along a
sea front as blue as our own South
Coast. One happy day she spent helping
with the vintage. She saw, too, in its
old garden, the little castle which was
the setting for Enchanted April. She
spent a day at the. villa of the author
(she’s the Elizabeth of Elizabeth and Her
German Garden ). Two Salzburg festivals
were attended by Miss Gill, and here,
too, she became a student.
A party given by American friends at
Salzburg had such glamorous surround-
ings it is worth telling over. This started
with a dinner, and later the Vienna Phil-
harmonic Orchestra poured itself out in
French music. Later, in the natural
theatre of Mirabell gardens, the ballet
of the Vienna Opera danced “Apres-
Midi d’un Faune.” After supper the
guests were once more led to the garden,
where beneath a tall tree that seemed to
brush a starry sky. a grand piano stood.
This was the signal for Pierre Bernac (a
well-known tenor) to sing Ravel and
Debussy to the accompaniment of
Poulene —a pianist-composer.
In Perry’s circus, somewhere at the
back of Oxford-street, this Letter formed
some new friendships last week. First
there was Dolly, the cream pony, whose
back, almost as wide as a bed, is danced
upon gaily by a slim, golden-skirted Perry
girl. Dolly, with arched head and pranc-
ing hooves, swings happily around the
circus ring, and doesn’t seem to notice,
when her rider, from standing erect, hops
blithely over some ribbon hurdles and
lands once again on the good-natured
cream back. Then there was Jenny, the
elephant, who bowed so graciously three
times before retiring to private life. As
for Jenny’s waltzing, no ballerina’s
fouettes could win greater applause. Ask
the kiddies round about Oxford-street.
Philipoff, of the De Basil Russian
Ballet, sat at the head of the table at the
Burlakov-Lightfoot studio party to the
Ballet. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, in the palest
lavender chiffons, sat on his right, and
on his left sat Mrs. Philipoff in black-
and-red patterned crepes. Bertie Kelly
was there ; so was E. J. Tait; also
Helene Kirsova, her slimness sustaining
something diaphanous in white and rose.
Nathalia Branitzka wore with a black
frock a high little black hat with a top-
knot of violets. Louise Lightfoot helped
to preside in trailing black velvets girdled
in gold. The dinner was of Russian
meats to the accompaniment of beer and
vodka. Groups of girl students in Rus-
sian costume—grey skirt, full-sleeved
white blouse of crisp muslin, red hand-
kerchiefs binding their hair—waited on
table. Other girls dressed as Cossacks,
high red boots and all, helped juggle the
dishes.
After the dishes were cleared tenor
Charles Nicis sang Russian songs. There
was a balalaika orchestra, the players in
bright-hued costumes. Over all host
Burlakov smiled benignly above his
bright-blue Russian blouse. The place
swarmed with small beginning ballerinas,
all armed with autograph books. Mrs.
C. V. Walker arrived about ten o’clock,
very graceful in black, with blistered
pearls about throat and in ears.
Stepped off the Mongolia gangway on
Thursday, after a sea-breezy glimpse of
Noumea, Mrs. Frank Nixon, of Bris-
bane. A composer of many tuneful lays
and an accomplished musician, the slim
Queenslander continues her health trip
by the same P. and O. liner to Colombo,
• where relatives have a tea plantation on
the hills near Kandy. She’ll unpack there
and stay till it’s time to see them off to
London and the Coronation crush. On
Friday afternoon Mrs. Nixon, who’s on
the Brisbane Lyceum’s executive, was a
guest of the Lyceum Club in Sydney,
where an informal party circled round
Mrs. Thomas’s filmy mauve draperies (in
the presidential chair) and Esther Kahn
at the piano.
The popular Boyles Were farewelled at
the United Service Institution on Friday.
The time was cocktail hour. The Major
goes off to Tasmania next week to take
up his military duties, so there was a
record roll-up. Mrs. Boyle came, look-
ing very French in her trig black crepe
frock with its silver buttons. On her
shoulder she wore orchids, and on her
head a small affair of stitched black
taffeta. Mrs. A. A. Brackpool, who was
with her colonel, passed on to her the
flower greeting from the 70 or 80 friends
present. Mrs. Brackpool’s smart black
taffeta tunic, worn over a frock of black
and white sheer, was worthy the camera’s
eye. Colonel Alfred Spain, who is the
deputy-president of the institution, was
the afternoon’s host. Brigadier J. L.
Hardie and Mrs. Hardie lent a hand.
Mrs. Pat Manley’s white bonnet was
the right finish to her pink suit; Mrs.
Keith Morris, too, was a smart wearer
of black and white. The Colonel Keat-
inges were there ; so was Honor Keatinge,
navy and white her choice. The blue
coque plume in Mrs. Davis’s hat attracted
interest. Mrs. Hardie wore a snowy jabot
on her blurred black-and-white crepes;
Colonel and Mrs. Richard Dowse were
among the stirrup-cup drinkers. Captain
and Mrs. Keith Morris rounded off the
affair with a dinner in honor of the Major
and Mrs. Boyle.
Joan Waddell, one of Sydney’s pretty
girls and the only daughter of Dr. G. W.
Waddell, of Birtley Towers, Elizabeth
Bay, has just become engaged to Jack
Cramer-Roberts, of Adelaide. Joan has
been spending a holiday in Adelaide.
Now the young man is in Sydney stay-
ing with the C. B. Wincotts (Mrs. Win-
cott is his sister), of Potts Point.
Chief Justice Jordan’s lady made the
most gazed-on entry to the Ballet on
Saturday night. On each hand she had a
tiny niece, in toe-length organdie of pink
and primrose. Little hooded cloaks of
the same color were the finishing touch.
Mark Sheldon’s lady, five weeks back
from her wor§ pale-rose chiffons.
Noreen Dangar’s black lace frock had a
tailored line ; Dorothea Mackellar’s net
and tulle were as blue as the plumage of
the Blue Bird in “Aurora’s Wedding.”


i M
custowi&l
it
M
(S-
V2 /Cr
U
6T'
cr- —\
mJmjj
;« fu!
m
■^PiKfsv
ar\
wt
\>
'SO
Oo e
\p
to 6
oO
vo°
sto
6^
V e
t e
0
do
0o e
d
do 6
Stf
d
0O
6
0O
tV e
d
e s
d& 6
to
e s
dsw
so
O
Y>*
d
V
to
<o
3ft
ttf
eV
\6 e
t®
V°
V®
do
6®
to
0
\o*
v&
d
to
0>
03
!d>
v
00
\) e
tV e
tt°
V
0 s
oO
to
60
V e
c®
0
<OY
s
do
t 3
&
tv
dTV®
g>*°
0
\0
V^
VtO^
oO
d^o
to
e 3
ft
eO
*®
d^
\0
o°
do
s£*
\o°
dv 6
?>®
to
aK
e 3
fcc°
t®
<®
tV e
to
do'
0
V^O
vd e
s
V e
55
s&
0
ftd
V>o^
<0
oO
V e
>JV>d
0
tV e
tov
o c
to
V°s
ot
tJV
ftvO
d
d> e
oo
d
0^
V
V^O 6
d
ft
0O
00
VO
et
5o
\ft e
d
VO
ct
t®*
iot
V e
so
eo
dft e
\o
d*
VO
60
\V e
do
to
60
Vo
to
eo
dd
<o^
\et
V°
Vvo
eo
d*- e
t
0
6t
0O
oO
d*
G'O
V°
do
0 S
Sect
to e
Vo
d^l
v*
6^
v°
Vt
\0
-sN
tV e
0* e
v e
d
0O
tV e
d®^
VO
V> e
et
tV e
td>
03
<v s
tt c
e
6t
to
\d
d^ e
W
V>o
eo
to
0
s
tV e
do
V°
tto
to
d\
0>
GO
C 0
to
0
d
\t
0
9
dO
eO
o c
0O
v^e6
tVo
dVe
d
0i
V e *
Vo
0
■sN
to
to
to
0* e
50°
\eO
to
6^
dtVo
to
0
VO
«v©' {V
o*\ 6 \
■
t<^>s
t^*
eO
to
9
v*
0
fd X
xO e
0
0 s
ft
S
\t
v,°o
ddvO
tV e
go
VtO
oO
a hi
M
Ht»«/f 1 U»w '^ N
PRODUCE OF AUS TRAP A
MILNE & CO.
DISTILLERS, APEkAJDE.
N6T. CONTtMTS I PINT 6 FLUID OZS
MILNE’S GIN
is guaranteed absolutely pure,
and taken with iced squash and
soda makes a delightful cooling
and health-giving drink.
Ask for MILNE’S GIN always,
and protect both your health
and your pocket.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
New South Wales Distributors for the House of MILNE:
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S., LTD.,
447 Kent Street, Sydney.


Established
1924.
The only even-
ing Newspaper
in the North of
Tasmania.
T-H£ SATURDA^rktVCNING
•U-C
Is published and circulates in Launceston, and
reaches the principal towns on the North-
East, North-West and the Midlands. No
papers are published on Sundays in Tas-
mania ; therefore, advertise in “The
Evening Express” for the Sunday
readers.
A
cHmnbm*
"AUDIT
•bureau op-
.CIRCULATIONS.
Full information, copies and advertising rates obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
National
Advertisers:
LEX
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paner
bought voluntarily by people of Broker
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from F. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt,
Department, News, Ltd„, Adelaide.
Legal Notice.
ALFRED TWIBLE (OR TWIBBLE) GORMAN
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
Equitable Jurisdiction dated the sth day of June
1936 and made in the matter Number 1105 of
1933 intituled “In the matter of the Trusts ol
the Will of James Martin late of Surry Hills in
the State of New South Wales Gentleman de-
ceased Between the Permanent Trustee Com-
pany of New South Wales Limited Plaintiff and
Cyril Percy Twible Gorman Ivy May Quigley
Olive Lavina Leale Reginald Thomas Francis
Gorman and Sara Lilias Smith Defendants"
whereby the following enquiry was directed
namely:
Who were the next-of-kin of ALFRED
GORMAN the son of Ellen Louisa Gorman
on his mother’s side at the date of his death
that is the 22nd day of April 1924 and if
any of them have since died and if so who
if any are his her or their legal personal
representatives in the State of New South
Wales.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said enquin
are to send by post prepaid to the Permanent
Trustee Company of New South Wales Limited
of O’Connell Street Sydney so as to reach «
on or before the 31st day of March 1937 their
full Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their claims or
in default thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order unless the
Court or a Judge thereof or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders. Claim-
ants are to attend personally or by their Solici
tors before the Master in Equity at the Suprem
Court Elizabeth Street Sydney on Tuesday the
6th day of April 1937 at 11 o’clock in the fore-
noon being the time appointed for adjudicatm.-
upon the claims or so soon thereafter as
course of business will permit. w )
A claimant not residing in New South Wai -
must send with particulars of his claim tn
name and address of a person in New Soutn
Wales to whom notice to the claimant can
SC DATED this 9th day of December, 1936.
(Sgd.) DEANE & DEANE,
Rowe Street, Sydney,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff Company*
Melbourne
Chatter
A social event which marked the first
day of the Vic. Teachers’ Conference was
a presentation to James Mcßae, formerly
Director of Education, of a radio set.
All the teachers contributed and every
district was represented in the gather-
ing, at which there were present
over 100 members of the Teachers’
Union. The party was held at the Wind-
sor, with G. T. Fryer as principal spokes-
man. Mrs. Mcßae was taken under the
wing of Miss H. Gilbert, who, as vice-
president of the union, spoke on behalf
of women members.
Prominent among the 50 women who
(with 200 men) were delegates to the
conference were Miss M. C. Thomas, of
East Camberwell, the only headmistress
in Vic, Margaret Flynn (no relation to
Julia), who is president of the women’s
branch, and Miss H. Gilbert, tall with
a quiet, charming manner, who is senior
mistress at Collingwood Girls’ School
and has been elected, for the fourth time,
as unopposed vice-president of the union.
Miss H. McGarvin is a humorist, and
made one of the brightest speeches at
the meetings. She scored a point in a
discussion of men’s superior pay, and
Dr. Harris’s argument that men need
more money for wives and children. Her
reasoning was that if the big jobs are
for family men, then the family should
outweigh all other considerations, and a
man’s pay should be allotted according
to the number of his progeny. Every-
body laughed when she suggested that
in such a system no single men need
apply for jobs, but smiles faded at her
picture of no promotions for men with
fewer than five children.
A succession of parties has been given
for Mrs. H. McL. Duigan and Mrs. Ben
Lewis, who are travelling companions
leaving for England via Singapore by
the Merkur on Saturday (30th). Mrs.
Duigan will break her journey during its
first lap ; she is flying from Sydney to
Brisbane to have several days with her
son Dick, his wife and small daughter.
In Java she and Mrs. Lewis will travel
overland and spend a couple of days
at the mountain plantation home of the
Alan Cobhams. By making early reser-
vations they have taken precautions
against being stranded with their ward-
robe trunks in Singapore, where their
arrival coincides with an air display and
a naval pageant.
One of the parties which Mrs. Duigan
most appreciated was given her by the
Red Cross workers at Caulfield Military
Hospital. The last day she spent at the
Home for Adult Blind at Brighton, where
for several years she has given up a day
a week to read to the patients. Mrs.
Duigan arrived carrying an enormous
basket filled with chocolates, barley-
sugar, etc., for her old friends.
Another bon voyage party was a lun-
cheon given by Mrs. Leslie Moran. Mrs.
Buller Allen, Mrs. Clive King, Mrs. Tom
Hudson, Mrs. J. M. Pittendrigh and
Cynthia Duigan were among the guests,
all of whom were advanced enough to
scrap the Victorian aphorism whereby
polite society never made remarks about
the food. The iced sweet was a piece
of craftsmanship in sculpture deserving
of all the praise it received. In the centre
of a large dish was a pineapple, the lower
half synthetic and electrically lighted,
the upper portion real. Decorations were
of caramel feather fluff, and around the
centrepiece were easily-lifted portions
for each guest —baskets of frozen fruit
all made of ice-cream. Wafer biscuits
were manoeuvred upon a salver with tiny
electric bulbs glowing through china
rosebuds.
As so many of the swimming and
revelry guests were all “up at the, Shop”
together the lounge in the Walker
family’s seaside cottage was decorated
with royal blue and black streamers?
Sue Broadhurst, who has acquired a
coat of coffee-colored suntan, which suits
her very well; Joy Robertson, who last
year was one of the two students to
complete third-year Japanese, and
Eugenie La Gerche, who not only
studies but makes pocket money from
delicate embroidery and trains students’
amateur ballets, were among young folk
present who are pursuing serious careers.
Among the lads were John Liston, who
has a sixth year of Law to get through;
Hugh Johnston, with a similar amount
of Med. left; Ray Grover, Ivan Smith
and Arthur Downing. Brenda Payne
looked particularly attractive in her blue-
and-white linen beach frock which but-
toned over little shorts of the same ma-
terial. Dorothy Banks’s pale-green linen
suit was a feather in the cap of the
manufacturers who invented the bless-
ing of uncrushable summer fabrics —it
looked as fresh at the end of the day as
at the beginning.
The Frank Tait couple, with Peggy
and Ruth, are now in London. As plans
are at present they expect to leave for
Australia some time in February. In
America they saw celebrities on the stage
and ate with them afterwards. They
hugged cities generally, except for a
break to accept an invitation from the
Menuhin family to visit Yehudi’s ranch.
The Gretna Green sideshow at the
Union House fete, may have put ideas
into the heads of Del Ethridge and Mar-
chant Penfold. For Del was present
every day as Lady Hamilton in the
pageant. She and her Marchant were
married without any preambles of en-
gagement announcement or parties. Not
even their most intimate friends knew of
the wedding at All Saints’, East St. Kilda,
until it was over and the bride and
’groom were, off per car and sans con-
fetti for a honeymoon tour to Sydney.
When Lord and Lady Somers are first-
nighters at “Cornelius” on Feb. 6 they
will see for the first time a Power House
show in aid of the Somers Camp. A
Broothorn camera provide this glimpse
of Dorothy Ratcliffe, who has been com-
ing up regularly from Mornington for
rehearsals. She had useful experience in
Warwick Old Girls’ Dramatic Club, and
is to play Judy Evison, the charming
though inefficient secretary in J. B.
Priestley’s drama of commerce.
It was no usual first-night audience at
the Princess for the premier production
in Australia of “The Children’s Hour.”
Diamonds, furs and artificial frivolity
were absent; the majority looked as
though they had clamped on hats and
running shoes in haste to snatch the
chance of forming their own opinions
before any censors dictated. Judging by
the serious discussions in the foyer, the
play gave everybody incentive for earnest
thought, a point which counterparries
moralists who have been threatening the
producers so that no one knew if the
work of preparation and rehearsals
would ever eventuate in a first night, and,
if a first night, in a season.
Among representatives sent by various
bodies was the N.C.W.’s Mrs. H. Fossett,
who, being practical and intelligent, does
not advocate shutting eyes and ears to
life and such a clever play. Florence
English did remarkably well by modelling
herself on the extraordinarily clever
juvenile who played the problem child
in the film. Irene Mitchell scored as
Martha Dobie (Miriam Hopkins’s role)
and Lorna Forbes, of deep voice and
Shakspearean training, returned to the
boards to be the grandmother.
A. T. Creswick, a strong supporter of
polo, put his property, Allendale, near
Mentone, at the disposal of Melbourne
Hunt Club and Peninsula polo teams for
friendly matches. Visitors came from
far and near to make a picnic of the
day and see something of the form ot
well-established players and of new
recruits. G.H. was well represented, for
Colonel Pott, Captain Wilbraham and
Captain Robertson are all players. Tom
Guest had many changes of ponies to
carry his big weight. Aubrey Gibson
was among new playing members who
took the chance for practice. Mrs. H.
F. Creswick came up for the day from
Flinders. Among the younger folk were
her daughter Sheila, son Alec and his
fiancee Claudia Palmer.
Herewith Yvonne Swift, LL.B., only
daughter of Flight-Lieutenant and Mrs.
J Swift. Yvonne has finished with the
w'orry of exams., is now serving her
articles and will reap the reward of
several years of hard work next May
when she is admitted to the Bar. Re-
cently as the guest of Leah Gooden she
spent a fortnight’s summer holiday
at Camperdown. Dickinson-Monteath
made the portrait.
Fat men, thin men and women either
clever and solemn or coy with hands on
hearts and eyes gazing soulfully at the
ceiling are nailed up on the walls at
Robertson and Mullens’s library as a
collection of signed authors’ photographs.
V. C. Buckley finds his head too heavy
to support without the aid of his hand.
Gilbert Frankau is pictured on the tan
as an equestrian with very uncomfortable
looking hands and elbows; De Vere
Stacpoole wears a stock which he prob-
ably owned in 1910 ; Noel Coward has
a look about him that may be caused
by either blighted affection or stomach-
ache. Stephen McKenna presents a sig-
nature as illegible as a doctor’s prescrip-
tion, and Andrew Soutar adds a foot-
note : “Not nearly so handsome as this.”
Lord Somers and a friend occupied a
box at the Tivoli one night, but they had
bad luck, for by coming late they missed
the most interesting item on the pro-
gramme, an “Egyptian with two
stomachs.” First of all this man drinks
.30 glasses of water. After shooting up
the couple of gallons in the manner of
a whale, he swallows 30 nuts, including
one almond. Then he beats upon his
stomach and makes the nuts rattle and
shoots them forth one by one with the
almond in its proper order —No. 13 in
the procession. Next he pours into him-
self half a gallon of water and straight
on top of it a bowl of kerosene. Strik-
ing a light he produces a geyser of kero-
sene which makes a spectacular fire,
finally quelled by a follow-on geyser of
water.
The cake made by Mrs. Harold
Walker for her only daughter’s party
;was ornamented with a bar from “The
Belle of New York” and flowers of nuts
and angelica. It had neither candles
nor toy statuary, for by request it was
all-to-be-eaten. Among other gifts for
the new young citizen were two clocks,
a picnic ice-box and a dressing-case all
ready to be taken to Sydney. Lynette
will stay at the same guest-house as her
pals in the Victorian women’s tennis
team, who will be competing in various
tournament events.
There were no bad-weather statics to
interfere with “Clyde calling Oliver’s
Hill, Frankston, on the air continuously
for a seven-hour session of swimming
and revelry sponsored by Lynette
Walker.” Thus with the decoration of
a radio dial and instructions how to find
the station did Lynette word her invita-
tions to her twenty-first birthday picnic.
A young man whose feet, figuratively
speaking, have not touched solid ground
for the last two weeks is Harry Nichols.
From to-day (27th) he will also actually
be aloft when he leaves for Sydney by
’plane on the first stage of an all-air
journey to England. The news of his
job, aviation adviser in London for the
Vacuum Oil Co., came as such a surprise
and was given at such short notice that
he still can’t realise his luck.
A Chapel-street poultry shop proprietor
has had increases in trade turnover as
a result of the interest he has caused to
passers-by. One window is stocked with
dressed fowls, next to another window
filled with their plucked feathers. There
are wings, tufts and single quills, cleaned
and spruced up ready to fly away on
hats or clip into belts.
Gwyn Dawborn and the Hornabrook
twins are a threesome off next week
(Feb. 2) to the other side of the world
by the Ormonde. The girls have been
pals ever since their schooldays at The
Hermitage. On arrival in London they
intend buying a car for a month’s motor-
ing tour. They have booked accommo-
dation near Hyde Park for May and the
Coronation, with a look at Europe after-
wards. Then the twins will make tracks
for Scotland, and Miss Dawborn, who is
a masseuse, will do post-graduate work
at the rheumatoid clinic of Dr. Copeman,
a Harley-street specialist.
Modern flat-dwellers are as canny as
modern architects at conversions and
disguises: thus a bachelor flat can be
filled to capacity with guests so its whole
interior looks like a series of reception-
rooms. Mrs. Leslie Benjamin gave such
a party and made a great success of it.
To begin with, there were cocktails in
the lounge, and later the guests, though
no one guessed it,-moved to the kitchen
for a buffet supper. A panel of polished
wood slid across the recess where the
gas stove lives, and check-linen covers
disguised the long low cupboards. The
principal decorations were bowls of par-
ticularly succulent-looking vegetables—
chillies, tomatoes, lettuces, onions, etc.,
mixed with polished apples and here and
there a squash melon prickling with
bristles of speared savories.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
B. RAWNSLEY MOSS, Chairman. R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager-: J. G. H. .Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Northern Populations
According to the newly-issued census
there were in the Northern Territory in
June, 1933, 4850 persons of all ages,
exclusive of abos. Of these 3306 were
full-blooded Europeans and 1653 had
been born in the Territory. There were
744 Asiatics of eight races, including 462
Chinese, and there were 800 half-castes
of mixed vintage.
Only two districts in the 523,000 sq.
miles of country had populations over
500—Darwin 1566 and Alice Springs,
1000 miles away, 526. Parap had 472.
The preponderance of males is striking
—there are only 1472 females in the
Territory, and it is singular that more
males than females seem to be born
there. There are 441 boys under nine
years and 413 girls.
Out of 1051 residents born outside
Australia, one hardy veteran has lived
in the N.T. for over 75 years and 371
for over 25 years. Occupations in the
Territory when the census was taken
included 11 typists, 10 bullockies, 15
builders’ laborers and six parsons.
“Echo”: This year’s Brunton Stephens
Prize was won by James Dunn (15) with
an essay on newspapers. James cer-
tainly should know something about the
subject. His father managed the virile
Rockhampton “Bulletin,” on which
James Edmond had his first press ex-
perience, his uncles were all newspaper-
men, and his grandfather owned several
provincial papers. James proposes to
be a pressman, too.
* * * *
“Paterson’s Ghost”: Who wouldn’t
like to live at Tennant Creek? Follow-
ing recent rain, supplies were almost cut
off. Cars and wagons were bogged along
the road to the Alice. As soon as the
downpour came every centipede over a
foot long, every snake that was fit to
travel, plus frogs, mosquitoes, sandflies,
lizards, goannas and other bush denizens,
made a beeline for the township and
shelter. (In one hut alone 34 centipedes
were caught the other day.) Beer is at a
premium, and that’s saying something, l
since even in normal times the Tennant
isn’t an easy place to live in with bread
Is. a loaf, sugar Bd., tea 3s. 3d., salt 5d.,
tobacco 12s. per pound, tomato sauce
3s. per bottle and oranges—when cheap
—4s. a dozen.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Those who have been groan-
ing about the “dreadful heat” in Sydney,
where there are shower baths and swim-
ming pools, should pay a visit to western
Queensland. Charleville last week had
one day with a maximum of 119 in the
shade. Quilpie weighed in with 114 deg.,
and five other towns reported midday
heats ranging from 103 deg. to 112 deg.
And those aren’t records. Innamincka
can do far better when it likes.
* * *. *
“Zedo”: Queensland’s Education Min-
ister is “delighted” with the genius of
Mr. Zane Grey, who has made an Aus-
tralian film called “Rangle River” —the
best Australian film Mr. Cooper has
seen, “suitable alike for adults and
children.” The story centres in the dry-
ing-up of a river, which gradually bank-
rupts a station-owner. The remarkable
manager of this odd property is so
ignorant of rivers and their habits and of
what is going on in his district that he is
unaware that a neighbor is responsible.
Unbeknown to anybody this scoundrel
has built a dam of such dimensions that
it soon puts the river almost out of
existence. At last a highly-ingenious
flight-lieutenant discovers what is the
matter, and everybody is saved from
ruin except the villain of the piece,
whom the hero, an Australian from
Amurrica, knocks about a good deal as
a preliminary to a vicious stockwhip
duel carried on in the typical Australian
manner. The Minister should see that
it’s shown in the schools —to cultivate a
sense of humor in small Australians.
* * * *
“Cowan”: “Rufus” (B. 13/l/’37) slips
when he credits D. C. McConnell,
a pioneer squatter, with having imported
Queensland’s deer in 1842. It was not
until 1873 that the animals were intro-
duced, and they were brought in by the
“Thanks for the tucker, missus. Hope I can do same for you some day”
Queensland Acclimatisation Society.
They were given to several station-
owners, including the late J. H. McCon-
nell. Red deer were placed on Cress-
brook, where they are still plentiful, and
fallow deer on Maryvale, on the Downs,
from which they have spread to other
properties. A few red deer were also
placed on Hinchinbrook Island, but
hunters wiped them out.
(•
“Gourier”: Canberra is calling ten-
ders for a service to connect Sydney and
New Guinea by air via the Queensland
coast on a five-year contract. Unless
conditions are made progressive, the ser-
vice will be out of date long before the
contract finishes. Specifications call for
a cruising range of 500 miles against a
30-m.p.h. wind, and a cruising speed of
at least 140 m.p.h. Within two years
there will scarcely be an air service over
such a distance anywhere in the world
outside the backblocks of Asia in which
cruising speed will not be at least ISO
m.p.h. Even the huge flying-boats due
to go on the London-Australia route
cruise at 160 m.p.h., and in their trials
did over 200 m.p.h. Their range is about
three times that specified in the New
Guinea plan—one of them the other day
did a 1500-mile stage from the Mediter-
ranean to London under a gross loaded
weight of 45,0001 b. From a defence
point of view, the greater the speed and
the longer the range the better.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
In spite of unseasonable, droughty
weather, January continues as popular
a marriage month as June. When this
Budget was compiled Vere. Calcino,
whose parents own much property in and
around Charleville, was due to keep a
wedding date on the 26th with Jack
Fletcher, son of the J. W. Fletchers, of
Bonus Downs. The affair was at St.
John’s Cathedral, and the wedding break-
fast at the National. After the honey-
moon, the young couple will start house-
keeping at Aorthoringa station, which is
a wedding present from the bridegroom’s
parents. Vere. herself received a parental
gift of £l2OO, to spend on the trappings
for the new home’s linen chest'.
Jan. 22 saw the wedding of Eve
McFadden, of Townsville, to Robert
George Byres, who also is well known
to N.Q. R. J. McFadden gave, his daugh-
ter away. Bride wore dusky-pink georg-
ette, cut on tailored lines, and black
accessories, and the ’maid, Vera
McFadden, chose hydrangea-blue and
navy. Later Ethel McFadden, wearing
aqua-green check, received guests at the
Belle Vue. The bride was a teacher of
modern languages at Townsville High
School and a tower of strength to ama-
teur concert parties and musical societies,
as no doubt she’ll continue to be. She
plays and sings well.
Ron Adair, one of Queensland’s best-
known pilots, was married at St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church to Bertha
Savery, daughter of the S. W. Saverys, of
McMahon’s Point, Sydney. The recep-
tion was at the National, where guests
were received by the ’groom’s mother,
Mrs. J. H. Adair, wearing black georg-
ette and lace. The pair left by the
Manunda for the south ; a fleet of aero-
planes, piloted by Ron’s friends, hovered
above the ship when it pulled out.
Eileen McMahon, until recently matron
of the Adavale Hospital, was married in
Brisbane to Charles Edwin Wade, son of
the J. R. Wades, of Adavale. Mrs. D. F.
Longland, who was matron of honor, lent
her home for the reception.
It isn’t often that pretty girls take to
figures like ducks do to water, but Beth
Iliff is a very pretty one who has the
right to add A.F.I.A. after her name. She
is in the State Income Tax department,
and outside hours is sec. of All Hallows’
Past Students’ Association and is on the
social committee of the Victoria Park
(associates) Golf Club.
Mrs. Stanley Trout, of Melbourne,
who was Elizabeth Nimmo, of Brisbane,
is having a holiday here, and a few days
ago gave a tea-party for her girl friends
at Rowe’s.
Miss P. Bothamley, another of this
month’s brides —the ’groom, Jack Moran
—had a perfect welter of wedding teas
right up to the day of the ceremony.
Jean McDiarmid hostessed one at Rowe’s
and the F. Z. and George Eagers were
hosts and hostesses at another.
The powers that be have decided that
a war nurse shall accompany the, Queens-
land contingent of returned men to the
Coronation.
Judging by the overseas booking list,
this will be a deserted township in a
month or two. Aileen Bell (of Coochin),
Nancy Gibson (of Bingera) and her sister,
presswoman Audrey Herring, Jo and
Connie Spencer, the two Buss girls (of
Bundaberg), Mrs. Willie Collins and her
daughter Mrs. Dudley Persse, the Bruce
Shearers (she a leading light in the Arts
and Crafts Society), Lyla Bell and Rita
Cardew, the J. J. Knights and their two
daughters, Phyllis Lusby, and the E. J.
Ruddles and their girls are just a few of
the crowds of Queenslanders who are
popping off for the Coronation.
Dr. Lilian Cooper, whose adventures
have included being the first woman to
own and drive a motor-car in Brisbane
and working single-handed on the
wounded in a hospital in Serbia (once
she worked 24 hours on end operating
and bandaging, while her great friend
Miss M. J. Bedford toiled with a motor-
lorry, bringing the wounded in), has just
had another thrill—her first aeroplane
ride. It was to Sydney to meet her niece
Dr. Elizabeth White, whose husband has
been appointed lecturer in physics to
Christchurch Uni.
Years ago the Kelman brothers took a
vow that, if it were humanly possible,
each would be at the other’s wedding.
Which is partly why Colin Kelman and
his wife chartered a ’plane, in England to
fly out to Australia, for l brother Alan is
to be married very soon to Helen Shaw,
daughter of the E. Gordon Shaws, of
Bombala (N.S.W.). The Colin Kelmans
visited their station in Queensland before
going south. Both of them carry pilots’
licenses.
Marjorie Mant, back from England after
studying and practising dramatic art for
two years, is of the opinion that there is
a definite revival of the theatre in Great
Britain. Marjorie studied with the Neil-
son-Terry Guild of Dramatic Art, which
famous academy will associate itself with
the, school she intends to open in Bris-
bane.
Dora Joan Cue, daughter of Canon
Cue, of Townsville, was married in Mel-
bourne to Henry Hopkins, son of the
Spencer Hopkins couple, of Townsville.
Clara Cue was the only ’maid, and Dr.
Charles Hopkins, brother of the ’groom,
best man.


| II
■mmm
■mm
: X-x : ;•.
SaSSffgBSagaftagMM
■
m WmgrnMm&m
“Only 4d. a mile to buy and operate
my V-8 Truck for 70,000 miles!
"pOR 70,000 miles I have carefully
recorded costs of my V-8 Truck—
every charge: original cost of truck,
fuel, oil, insurance, tyres, etc. With
an average loading of 5| tons
this unit has cost me only 4d. a
mile to buy and operate. I doubted
whether a truck priced as low as
the V-8 would stand up to my
heavy work, but today I am a
very satisfied V-8 Truck owner."
Like thousands of other Ford
operators this owner has proved by
results that V-8 Trucks give him
better service with lower operating
costs. See your Ford Dealer about
an "on-the-job" test under your own
working conditions. Prove for your-
self the power, dependability and
operating economy of the Ford
V-8 Truck. Easy and convenient
purchase terms may be arranged.
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD V‘B TRUCKS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD
MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN_
VICTORIA)
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Eric Heenan, the youngest member of
the Legislative Council, attended the Lady
Chapel at St. Mary’s Cathedral with
Joan McKenna at nuptial mass. The
bride’s tailored suit of dusty-pink cloque
wrought with navy circles was cut with
Gibson sleeves, wide revers, simple skirt
and jigger-button fastening ; the match-
ing Swiss rough straw hat was tied with
navy ribbon, and white heather mingled
with tiger lilies and erica in her bouquet.
Doreen Heenan attended in self-spot del-
phinium-blue crepes with puff sleeves,
flared collar and short basque, the whole
topped with an upturned matching straw
hat. Both members of the legal frater-
nity, the couple, after ’mooning in the
Eastern States, will seal their partnership
as Heenan and Heenan of Kalgoorlie.
The January race-meeting was sparsely
attended, though the regulars were there
in force, appreciating the elbowroom in
the stand and weajing the furbelows
they’d guarded from the earlier madding
throngs. Mrs. Edgar Grant’s wide, trans-
parent-edged black hat topped a chic,
short frock of variegated pastel chiffon,
with two-tiered skirt and wispy sleeves ;
Mrs. Ross Smith’s symphony in bois de
rose was sunray-tucked and French-
kilted ; and Mrs. Karl Knapp draped a
wreath of flowers round the blue hat
which shaded her self-checked white
voile. The green pipings on Mrs. Athol
Norrie’s white hat toned with the floral
design on her summery silks ; the Baker
twins, Dorothy and Beatrice, fixed wide-
pleated white collars on their navy georg-
ettes ; Mrs. Edgar Meares finished her
creamy creation with violet accessories.
Aileen, younger daughter of the Charles
Lee Steeres, of Cottesloe, became Mrs.
Harold Cooper in the Primate’s private
chapel. Her nut-brown waves were held
in place by her coronet of parchment
chiffon leaves and tiny pearls; her
pleated parchment chiffon gown was
banded at the waist with crystal beads
and diamente; similar adornments
fastened the neck of the waist-length
pleated cape. Lone ’maid Hilda Lee
Steere surcharged lavender taffeta with
yards of matching chiffon, the skirt
flounced with godets and the shoulder
cape sewn with glistening violet beads.
After toasts and dancing at the Lee Steere
home (with the hostess in satin-banded
black silk net) the bride flung a coat of
embossed green velvet over her wedding
gown to set off on the honeymoon tour
of the south.
The newly-formed company of Inde-
pendent Players put on the year’s first
am. dram, production at the Repertory
Theatre. Their offering, the “Circle of
Chalk,” based on the French version of
one of the Chinese theatre’s “Hundred
Pieces,” lent itself to the co.’s scenic sug-
gestions, which were admirably carried
out. Roger Merrybridge produced,
Melva Bartlett and Lelle Day carried the
main feminine roles, and Frederick
Davies, Robert Thomas and Wallace
Thomas shared the burden of the stern
sex.
While the Narkunda was berthed at
Fremantle on its homeward-bound
voyage, Gertrude Drayton, C.8.E., secre-
tary of the Victoria League in England,
entertained some two score guests with
tea at the Karrakatta Club. The gay
zinnias and deep pink and mauve Mexi-
can creepers in the lounge backgrounded
the green-spotted black crepe de Chine
of the hostess, who thanked the league’s
W.A.'president, Rabbi Freedman, for his
valedictory speech.
Marjorie, attractive daughter of the late
John Anderson and Mrs. Anderson, of
Swanbourne, is the sole Westralienne to
secure a position as air-hostess in the
National Airways corps. After a nurse’s
training at Perth Children’s Hospital and
King Edward Memorial, the young
brunette did private nursing in various
parts of the State, and was on the staff
of Devonleigh Hospital when she re-
ceived her new appointment.
Melva Day left in the Queen Adelaide
for Britain —she is to marry Dr. A. Sut-
cliffe at Bettws-y-Coed. Before sailing
she was guest of honor at a party given
by Doris Dival at the Adelphi. Hostess
was set about with figured black-and-
white matt crepe, and the bride-elect
slipped silk net panels into the sleeves of
her spring-green two-piece suit.
A brace of bridge parties had Nedlands
Golf Club as rendezvous. One was an
afternoon affair to farewell Mrs. Morris
Samuels, with the ladies’ president, Mrs.
F. Mallabone, as hostess, and the other
an evening inter-club shivoo, with
entertaining members of the Nedlands
tennis club.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Fine weather made Gawler Jockey
Club’s meeting a cheery picnic affair.
Mrs. L. Barnet, wife of the chairman,
wore a smart navy floral silk frock with
a white collar, and wide-brimmed navy
straw hat. The Whitmore Carrs and
Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Benson represented
the city racing clubs. Mrs. Carr wore a
grey tailored suit, with an oyster satin
blouse and navy straw hat, Mrs. Benson
a black-and-white figured silk toilette,
and hat of black straw. Mrs. A. L.
Sweetland, of Sydney, came in leal-
brown crepe ensemble, with tango revers
and sash and brown straw hat. Mrs.
Baden Pattinson favored yellow mate-
lasse and yellow hat. Mrs. E. A. Brookes,
of Virginia, was in black-and-white silk
and large white straw hat. Mrs. Ken-
neth Steele, with the doctor, both keen
racegoers, was frocked in brown-and-
white check silk and brown straw hat.
After thinking that every possible con-
ference, club, league, society and sport
association had visited us, we now have
the Victorian Parliamentary Sports and
Social Club. These visitors are here for
a week with their wives. On arrival
they were motored to the Mount Osmond
country club for afternoon-tea, the wives
in charge of Mesdames A. P. Blesing,
R. D. Nicholls, A. W. Lacey and Miss
Jenkins. The same evening there was a
social at Parliament House, where A.
Kinnear screened a colored film depicting
the floral pageantry that was a feature
of the centenary. The film was specially
made for the Government. Next after-
noon Mrs. H. S. Hudd had the women-
kind at her charming home at Glenelg
for tennis, she wearing a blue floral silk
ensemble and hat to match. In the even-
ing the Ritchie lady and Mrs. and Miss
Parker took the party to the Regent.
Other entertainings included an all-day
trip to the wine district, with luncheon
at Chateau Tanunda and afternoon-tea
at Seppeltsfield. Then a bridge party at
Parliament House arranged by Mes-
dames Perry, Stott and Matters, and for
the men a billiard tournament.
Guli Hack, daughter of Mrs. N. Hack,
of Edwin-terrace, Gilberton, just returned
from the Eastern States, announces her
engagement to Arthur, son of S. Gordon
Lavers, of the N.S.W. Con., and Mrs.
Lavers. The wedding will be in Adelaide
in February ; future home in Brisbane.
Brigadier and Mrs. A. M. Martyn have
left Braested, Parkside, and after several
weeks’ country holiday, their young
daughters, Joan and Merris, with them,
will move into the new quarters being
built at Keswick Barracks as a resi-
dence for the Military Commandant.
The A. Maegraiths are to arrive in
Adelaide shortly from England on a visit
to their daughter and her husband, the
Sholto Stacys, of Salisbury-terrace, Col-
linswood. Sons Harry and Dr. Brian
Maegraith remain in England. The doc.
is a Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford ;
he is the present holder of the Stains
Fellowship, and was recently awarded
the Rolleston prize for the most out-
standing medical research at Cambridge
or Oxford Universities for the year.
When Dr. Georgina Sweet arrives in
Adelaide by the Oronsay after a trip
overseas a busy day arranged for her
will include morning-tea spread by the
South Australian sub-branch of the
Women’s Pan-Pacific Association, of
which Dr. Constance Davey is chair-
man. Dr. Sweet is the first vice-president
of the Women’s Pan-Pacific Association.
Miss Lorna Dawson, daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Dean Dawson, of Hyde Park,
is leaving the stage for matrimony, and
recently arrived from London to wed
Lieutenant-Commander John Walsh in
May. At present she is staying with her
mother at the doctor’s hills residence at
Mount Lofty. Future home will be in
Sydney.
Pretty Bronte Wiltshire had to cancel
her trip to Queensland for the inter-
’varsity swimming carnival, and Yvonne
Richardson turned down the trip to
accompany her parents, Professor and
Mrs. E. A. V. Richardson, to Maoriland,
where the doctor attended the Science
Conference. Ann McTaggart may fill the
gap. The ’Varsity girls left on January
25 by the Westralia, and will be away a
month. Lorraine Woods (captain), Bea
Black (secretary), Maisie Cooper and
Jean Edwards complete the team.
TASMANIA.
The Elwick meeting happened in cold
weather, which hardened racegoers coun-
tered with thick clothes. Mainland
visitors, ail complaining bitterly about
our climate, swelled the throng. They
included Mrs. Sam Cox (Sydney), Mrs.
Hytten (Sydney), Mrs. C. Bray (Sydney),
• Mrs. Lindsay Clarke (Melbourne), Miss
Beulah Bolton (Sydney), Miss N. Mc-
Laren (M.L.) and many others. Lady
Clark was in navy, as were, nine-tenths
of the women present. Chairman and
Mrs. E. M. Johnson received the v.-r.
party, Mrs. Johnson wearing a navy suit
with white spots.
Not much ceremony for Hetty Crisp
and Ellis Blain for their wedding. They
nipped off and were married quietly at
New Norfolk, and later at a cocktail
party at Clovelly, the Basil Crisps' home,
received the congrats, of about 100
guests.
Stuart Walch, ending a holiday from
Point Cook, was given a jolly send-off
by his family when his sister Brenda go*,
up a dance at the Continental. Mrs.
Walch, with married daughter Mrs.
Jones and Brenda, received the guests,
most of them recruited from Stuart s
contemporaries. It was a very bright
affair —pretty frocks, youth and gaiety.
Mrs. Gerald Adams, bound for Syd-
ney to live, and Mrs. Colin Perkins,
starting on a holiday trip to England,
were farewelled at a bridge party by
Mrs. Seager at her home.
Rhonda Whitehorn (Rhonda Clarke
that was) came on a visit to her old
home, Quorn, Campbell Town, before
joining her husband, Commander Ivan
Whitehorn, at Singapore, where he wil.
be stationed for some time.
Pre-wedding parties for Elvina Mac-
kinnon (Montford Longford), whose
marriage to Terence Brown is drawing
near, have kept country folk on the go
in the Midlands and western districts
The John Taylors (Winton) gave her a
“storeroom” party, the enormous result'
from which should make housekeeping
easy for months. The Keith Gatenbys-
Rhodes, gave another afternoon party in
honor of the bride-to-be This was a
linen tea, with tennis, bridge and, later,
cocktails as a wind-up. Rhoda an
Zelda Gatenby helped their mother to
entertain the guests.


-comz-xo>3:
I MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
JOHN HEINE
SYDNEY
p-tr-ZdiM*
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth ■— E.S.C.A., Brisbane
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
January Issue Now on Sale.
WHAT WILL 1937 BRING?
SECURITY AND COMMODITY MARKETS
REVIEWED.
SURVEY OF BASE METALS.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post'’
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Long White Cloud
Political See-sawing.
Maoriland’s sales-tax returns show
hefty 1936 increases. While the figures
are a fair-enough indication of internal
trade improvement, the very existence of
the tax is a Labor party contradiction.
It's imposition in February-March,
1933, was vigorously opposed by Labor.
Mr. Savage protested that it was “wrong
and could not be applied with equity to
any of the necessities of life.” The late
Harry Holland, then Opposition-leader,
said it would reduce “the purchasing
power of the rank and file” and repre-
sented “yet another substantial decrease
in wages.”
The Forbes Government pleaded
“special circumstances,” and clapped on
the tax; annual returns have steadily
increased.
To-day the original “circumstances”
have disappeared, and in their place are
the additional expenditure demands of a
Labor Government —just as important to
the Prime Minister of the time. The tax
still rides on Maoriland business, and next
session it is a safe bet that the Opposi-
tion, originally responsible, will be as
indignant with the tax as Labor was in
1933. Politics are like that.
“Hutiwai”: Australian States could
follow the Maoriland Labor Govern-
ment’s example and “regulate” pedes-
trians as well as motorists. The M.L.
traffic code aims at placing an obligation
on every road-user to honor rules de-
signed for safety; pedestrians are no
longer regarded as a separate section of
the community. In populated areas there
are authorised pedestrian crossings where
motorists are expected to give right-of-
way ; elsewhere, pedestrians, having given
right-of-way to motor traffic, must hurry
across the road at right-angles to the
kerb. In country districts, where pedes-
trians invariably prefer the roadway, they
must in future stick to any available foot-
path. Breach of a pedestrian regulation
earns a £2 fine, and there are lots of new
traffic inspectors.
* He r
“Motu”: Writers who persist in call-
ing Maoriland the “Shaky Isles” are as
popular as rats in the barn on this side of
the Tasman ; even Australian Maoriland-
ers get tired of explaining that parts of
the country have never felt an earth-
quake—and don’t .want to. Anyhow,
even earthquakes leave useful lega-
cies. Napier has about 7500 acres of land
that, prior to February, 1931, was occu-
pied only by seaweed and fish. In the
five years since that ’quake, Government
research officers have been preparing the
area for cultivation, and parts have
already been ploughed and planted.
Much of the, block still needs draining,
but the major problem is getting surplus
salt out of the soil. It is expected that
this old seabed will be available for cul-
tivation by the end of the year.
* * % $
“Xo”: The Runanga miners’ hall, a
few miles out of Greymouth, saw the
official birth of the Maoriland Labor
party and, more than 20 years later, the
accession of that party to the Govern-
ment benches. Miners’ contributions
built it in 1908, and present Minister
of Public Works Semple and Minister of
Mines Webb led the levy campaign. It
was the headquarters of the miners’ strike
in 1913, and it was in the same year
that the old Federation of Labor became
the Labor party. During the war the hall
was mortgaged to provide bail bonds for
Labor leaders arrested as conscientious
objectors, and on another occasion it
was mortgaged to keep alive a Labor
weekly newspaper. After as hectic a his-
tory as any Maoriland building, it was
destroyed by fire early in the New Year.
“Kohi”: Health Department restrictions
arising from the infantile-paralysis epi-
demic in Maoriland have kept children
away from camps and sports meetings—
and revived such simple pleasures as eel-
ing. Some South Islanders recently offered
prizes for the most eels caught by local
children in a day; the tally was 500, and
two boys accounted for 166. Trout
fishermen are throwing their hats in the
air, as it has been estimated by acclima-
tisation societies that the average eel eats
“Are you afraid to be alone in the dark?”
”I've never BEEN alone in the dark”
four trout a day. The fishermen them-
selves have declared war on the shag, the
other big trout-poacher, but it is hard
going, as these birds invariably choose in-
accessible and dangerous nesting-grounds.
Shags have about 12 young ones a year,
and, according to other acclimatisation
society estimates, it takes about 20 young
trout to give each nest its daily feed.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Islands have had an attrac-
tion for world-weary men ever since
cities began. Some years ago two Auck-
landers went to the Kennadec group
north-east of Maoriland proper, and
settled on Sunday Island. From time to
time, deep-sea yachting parties returned
with news of their island life—and now
there are seven more Sunday Island
settlers. They have three iron-roofed
wooden huts and a flourishing vegetable
garden ; the Auckland ketch that trans-
ported the last three settlers to the island
took up a full load of stores. Goats,
oranges and fish are plentiful enough,
and there is a total absence of anything
resembling a tax-collector, a postman or
a policeman.
* * * * .
“Waitot”: Moa bones (B. 13/1 /’37)
are still being found in Maoriland, and
the Hawke’s Bay coastline has been a
happy hunting-ground in recent years.
The other day a Havelock North doctor
dug up what he believes is a chunk of a
million-year-old moa’s leg-bone. Its fos-
silised condition has interested Maoriland
geologists, but the doc., busily searching
the locality for other relics, has no inten-
tion of having the area disturbed by
curious visitors until he has completed his
investigations; he says he found the
leg-bone within a hundred miles of
Napier!
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Beards, shovels and loneli-
ness are disappearing from gold-prospect-
ing in Westland (M.L.); the Labor Gov-
ernment is hunting them out. Lines of
packhorses, equipped with all the modern
paraphernalia of the geophysical sur-
veyor, are pushing deep into the wild,
unmined territory of South Westland.
Old workings further north are receiving
the attentions of geologists and geo-
physicists, and the first of the Govern-
ment miners and laborers are chasing
lost reefs with the latest types of diamond
drill. But the old miners who have been
Westland characters since the days of
earlier gold rushes are not wagging doubt-
ful beards; they maintain that Westland
has only been “scratched,” and that
modern methods and appliances will un-
earth payable reefs the shovel would
never find.
* * * *
“Mak”: Mention of the Maori lan-
guage taking the air (B. 20/l/’37) re-
calls that the Rotorua Arawas, who two
years ago “adopted” Jean Batten as a
tribal daughter, have now christened her
Hinerangi, “daughter of the skies.” Tai
Mitchell, a Maori leader in Rotorua and
the Bay of Plenty, conferred the native
title on Miss Batten at a Maori and civic
welcome late in ’36—when some more
tribal treasures were given away. The
christening and native, welcome were par-
ticularly pleasing to Jean Batten ; she was
born in Rotorua, where she lived until
her family shifted to Auckland. The
Maori Hinerangi bears a curious simi-
larity to the titlg bestowed on the aviatrix
by the South Americans after her South
Atlantic crossing; they called her
“Flower of the Sky.” To the London
“Times” she is the New Diana, and to
the “Morning Post” Atlanta uf the Air.
It must be quite a job for Jean Batten
to keep track of herself.
* * *
“Korero”: Electrical massage for fish
is a Maoriland novelty in Canterbury’s
irrigation scheme (B. 6/1/’37). Through
some peculiarity of their sensory organs
fish notice even the smallest electrical
current —and immediately attempt to
escape from the locality. To keep fresh-
water fish from venturing into the irri-
gation races, electrical barriers are being
installed; their shocks become increas-
ingly stronger on the downstream side
of the races, but the current is never of
sufficient voltage to do more than scare
the fish away.
% * * *
“D.N.”: In Check to Your King, her
splendid “life history of Charles, Baron
de Thierry, Sovereign Chief of New
Zealand,” Robin Hyde relates two more
stories of Maori chivalry in war:
A hundred years ago there were still
some touches [in war] I shall always
approve of Hone Heke’s herald who
appeared among the startled whites to
inform them that Heke would not think of
disturbing the Sabbath, but would begin his
war punctually on Tuesday morning....
And there was that time—in ’48 —when a
regiment lay encamped in the newly-forti-
fied settlement of Wanganui. The fact was
the Maoris outside so outnumbered the red-
coats, and the latter knew so little of the
lie of the land, that they were not enthusi-
astic about a sortie, and played cards in-
stead. For weeks and weeks, large brown
men 'kept appearing out of the horizon to
sit on their haunches and 101 l out their
tougues like patient dogs waiting to be
taken rabbit-hunting. Steadfastly, the red-
coats declined to come forth. The chiefs
- at last conferred and sent a message under
a flag of truce. They must now withdraw
as they had to go fishing—a seasonal occu-
pation ; but they would gladly return and
fight the regiment, any time, any place,
given one week’s notice.
As Robin Hyde remarks, “What a lot
they could teach some of the. roughnecks
let loose in Europe to-day!”


THE ULTIMATE
6-Valve ** BABY GRAND ” All-wave.
(Xbe set that received 603 verified stations
on the broadcast band.)
Send for Catalogue.
GEO. BROWN & CO., LTD.
267 Clarence Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents and Factory Service for
Kola Keproducers,
Van Ruyten Car and Launch Radio,
Milliard Radio Valves.
Q’land Distributors: National Radio,
Cnr. Wharf & Queen Sts., Brisbane.
1
\>
A
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/—; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6 ;
42, 6/-; CA7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage,
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal —
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radiokes, Lid., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
IMPEX
-
OXYGENATED
Made expressly for local conditions by the
largest Australian-owned and -operated Dry
Battery Factory in the Commonwealth.
The Guaranteed Battery
IMPEX, LTD., Abbotsford, Vic., and
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RADIO NEWS
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
Note to announcers: In “oboes” the
“h” is particularly silent.
Is there anything on the air anywhere
in Australia at the moment more delight-
ful than the playing of the two Spiva-
kowskys? They are to be heard on Sun-
day evenings over the national stations
from Melbourne., Jascha at the piano
and Tossy fiddling. Their playing is ex-
ceptionally clean-cut. The fingers go
down on the keys, the bow cuts across
the strings so cleanly and surely that it’s
like listening to something somenow
done in crystal. These instruments run
perfectly together for broadcasting—at
any rate, they do as these two play them.
There is not really a fusion of sound:
the piano is a background to the more
assertive violin, but each is quite clear
and separate. It is very fresh and grace-
ful playing, warranted to make anyone
grateful for a wet Sunday. When last
heard they played Mozart’s Sonata in C
Major, the music as excellent for broad-
casting as the performance.
On the same night the Melbourne
national “Symphony Hour” included
more Mozart, Mendelssohn and Handel,
with Browning Mummery in good voice
in tenor solos, the whole performance
admirably conducted, with just enough
informative comment from the an-
nouncer. This last a rather too rare ex-
ception. More pure rubbish is uttered
about music than about any other human
product whatever, not excluding poetry.
There’s only one way to learn about
either of these much-mystified things, and
that is by absorbing them copiously.
Nine-tenths of what’s uttered about them
is critic’s jargon. On two counts, then,
this listener can’t pat the A.B.C. people
heartily enough on the back for their
musical arrangements for this year: (1)
they are making each Sunday (particu-
larly) a grand feast day of good music ;
(2) they’re giving it with a minimum of
gas. It is a notable contribution to im-
proving the cultural condition of the
whole country.
There is no pat coming for the same
people’s repetition last week of the
broadcast of the Paul Robeson film
“Song of Freedom.” Once was more
than enough. To give the songs of
Paul Robeson from the film would
be another horse, and a very fine
one. But even such singing is hardly
compensation for listening to a broadcast
of the background blah out of which
the film is made. It is put over as repre-
senting actual incidents in the career of
Robeson ; actually, it is pure fiction, and
weak and incredible fiction at that. It
suggests, put over like this, a sentimental
career for the negro singer wildly con-
trary to facts ; and, anyway, the. visual
procession—which is nine-tenths of the
entertainment even in talkies—is absent.
Television might some day make some-
thing of broadcasting films, but the
8.8.C.’s director of television is doubt-
ful about their suitability for broadcast-
ing even with that aid. Without it they’re
a washout, taking up time that could
better be used for pieces specially written
for radio by Australians for Australians
to broadcast.
The A.8.C., it should be mentioned, is
not unconscious of such claims, and even
promises that henceforth payment for
radio dramatics is going to be consider-
ably higher than in the past. And Aus-
tralian music-makers are not being
neglected either. This Bulletin was
heading for the bookstalls before a
promised bill of all-Australian composers
came, up for hearing in commemoration
of Foundation Day, and these music
people of the A.B.C. have been having
other ideas as well. One of the best of
these is earmarking a bit of time one
night each week in which some young
Australian player is given a chance to
go through his or her paces over the air,
the first of these this listener has heard
being Mary Baker last week in a grace-
ful pianoforte recital. This young lady,
it was said, is not really new to broad-
“ ’Ear that, Ma? 'E's ’it another one down the gully—heats me 'ow
these city blokes cant find a bit o' level ground t' play cricket on.”
casting; she had broadcast through one
of the main Sydney stations when she
was eight', so she must be a very young
young lady. Heard the same evening
(also from 2BL) more evidence of special
encouragement of Australian music-
makers, this time an item for piano,
violin and ’cello composed in Sydney by
Curt Prerauer and having its first per-
formance. It was a pleasant romantic
piece, with some lively bright moments,
but, as done, not much of an ending.
The composer was at the piano; the
performance, on the whole, most attrac-
tive for the ’celloing of Kathleen Tuohy.
The ’cello dominates the composition, or
so it sounded, and the lady’s playing
swept a good measure of life into it.
A fine series of talks is being done
through 2BL Sydney, experts in various
possible avenues of employment for boys
outlining what offers at the moment in
all sorts of occupations. These are
broadcasts in which how the talk’s done
hardly matters as long as the informa-
tion is clear and comprehensive, and the
two talks bracketed on Tuesday night
last week had that merit. One covered
the public service, giving details of what
examinations have to be passed by the
boy, beginning salaries and future possi-
bilities. It was mentioned that in 1935
over 400 boys qualified (apparently in
N.S.W.) and every one of these was given
an appointment —an occupation in
which, the speaker said, there was no get-
ting rich quick, but a good steady
career, with a 36-hour week. The other
speaker covered the electrical trades.
When this series of talks has been put
through the panjandrums of the A.B.C.
will want their bumps read if they don’t
issue the lot in inexpensive book form.
It would be a helpful service to thou-
sands of parents; also, the book would
sell and pay.
AH Round the Dial.
At the time this page was shaping for
the printer pretty well every second
nationals announcement had to do with
the then forthcoming appearance at the
mike in Sydney of Harry Lauder. The
A.B.C. was reputed to have paid the
Lauder a hitherto unheard of sum —
something over £5OO for the hour he was
to put in at the studio. This was criti-
cised by earnest patriots, who reckoned
the money could be better spent on Aus-
tralians ; but the A.B.C. was here show-
ing itself conscious of the fact that its
main excuse for existence is entertaining
the greatest possible number of possible
listeners, and few had any doubt that the
Lauder broadcast would bag most of
these for the scheduled hour. The A.8.C.,
too, was getting its money’s worth out of
the hardy Scot. The broadcast was billed
to be put over every station in the entire
nationals circuit, so that in Sydney both
2FC and 2BL would be putting it over
together, and so on everywhere else.
When this is worked out in terms of
stations engaged and probable number
of listeners the cost could not be
reckoned heavy, even though it pays for
the entire Lauder holiday and a wee bit
over.
* * * *
For the past half-dozen years Captain
A. C. Stevens, who died in Sydney last
week, had a big following as a radio
entertainer. Before tackling broadcast-
ing he had been a restless roamer of the
earth, was a District Commissioner in
Northern Nigeria, a journalist, an actor,
a businessman and a farmer. His long
suit on the air was character speaking—
there was scarcely a dialect or accent of
the British Isles that he couldn’t put
over convincingly, and he was also an
uncommonly convincing Yankee. He
began in radio with story-telling from
2BL, transferred to 2UE, and shortly
before he died returned to the national
circuit, on which he was to tour this
year.
“M.C.”: Rosalind Kennerdale is the
name of the lady singled out for bouquets
in last week’s Sundry Broadcasts com-
ment on the A.B.C. Australian saga
serial “As Ye Sow.” A stage-experi-
enced actress, she won an “Australian
talkie quest” some time back against
4000 competitors. Afterwards she played
in 87 stage performances of “Laughing
Eyes,” which E. C. Rolls put on, and she
has been a touring J. C. Williamson lead
in half a dozen plays, among them
“Tons of Money” and “Ten-Minute
Alibi.” Over the air she has helped
make successes of such varied play fare
as “Seventh Heaven,” “The Wild Duck,”
“Daddy Long Legs” and “The Romantic
Young Lady.” In “As Ye Sow” she is
playing the lag Prudence Grant.
* * * *
“O’G.”: Edmund Barclay, described
by the Sundry Broadcaster as the
A.B.C.’s industrious playwright, certainly
is industrious. After youth in England
and flying and a severe knocking about
at the war he came to Australia for a
change of luck, and doubtless isn’t regret-
ting it. Here he had a shot at journal-
ism, advertising and fruit-growing be-
fore drifting into radio about three years
ago. Since then he has written and
adapted hundreds of plays, written 40-
odd revues for the air and short stories
and scenarios as well. Additionally, he
has somehow found time to write three
radio serials, each of which has been a
national stations success —“Khyber,”
which was book-published by Angus and
Robertson; “Shanghai,” which is to go
between book covers this year; and the
present “As Ye Sow,” a romantic saga
of Australia from the earlies. Barclay
has a gifted wife who wrote the lyrics
for the Australian musical romance “The
Cedar Tree,” in which Barclay did the
book and Varney Monk the music.
* * * *
Further A.B.C. bookings of tourers
for this year include the Australian tenor
Oswald Rippon and Australian duettists
Victoria Anderson and Viola Morris.
This pair, after having been absent for
eight years, are dropping in en route for
America ; they are billed to start their
Australian tour at Perth.
* * * *
Chappell and Co., who in spite of all
sorts of discouragements maintain a Syd-
ney office and occasionally publish a bit
of music by an Australian composer,
have sent along a song, “The Silent
Waltz.” Composer is Meta Maclean, one
of whose lyrics was reckoned good
enough to be sung by Madame Austral.
“The Silent Waltz” has a fool of a title
and the words are pretty dreadful, but
The Bulletin tried the melody on its
piano and found it pretty —anyway, no
worse than the flood of such facile com-
positions that pours out of New York
and London factories every week, and
which gets itself plugged by the A.B.C.
*
“D. 8.”: The art of the Hollywood
trick photographer has invaded the tech-
nical side of television. At Alexandra
Palace, London, the use of models was
demonstrated in a very effective trans-
mission, in which the scene depicted a
graveyard at dawn, with tumbled crosses
silhouetted against a grey sky. Artillery
smoke drifted across to the distant
rumble of guns. The effect was obtained
with a small cardboard model, across
which from behind puffs of smoke were
blown from miniature bellows. “Artil-
lery” was supplied by the tympani of
the television orchestra. It foreshadows
trick scenery and effects used as con-
vincingly in future broadcast entertain-
ment as on the screen to-day.


DO YOU KNOW?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal, quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
RADIOTRIHS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
V 25.6
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
Don B.KNOCK'S
PAGE.
COMBINED VACUUM TUBE AND
D.C. VOLTMETER.
The V.T. voltmeter, not nearly so ex-
pensive as the cathode-ray oscilloscope,
can be used in many ways that place it
a long way ahead of moving-coil-and-
rectifier types of measuring instruments
in performing unusual work. Having
need of a moderately sensitive V.T.
meter in combination with a multi-range
D.C. type the writer evolved the instru-
ment' here described. It is based on a
method developed by Philips techni-
cians.
The design called
for an r.f. pentode
(E 446) connected as
a triode and suitably
biased for three-
range working—o-5
volts, 0-15 volts and
0-50 volts. The
three - point switch
SW3 in Fig. 1 is
used to alter the
range of the volt-
meter, the scale of
the plate meter read-
ing 0-5 volts when the arm is at the
extreme right, and reading 0-50 volts
when it connects with the 30,000-ohm
bias resistor. The intermediate range,
of course, is obtained with the switch
at midway connecting with the 6400-
ohm resistor. The two d.p.d.t. switches
(marked SW2 and SW4) are included
for the purpose of terminal and meter
switching. To avoid confusion, the
circuit has been drawn in two sections,
with the points marked “X” and “Z”
forming the junctions between the two
sections of the instrument. More of
this later.
Construction.
A black iron case was chosen, lOin.
high, Bin. wide and 12in.' deep, which
gives ample room for the components
and plenty of air space to absorb the
heat given off by the two valves. The
chassis-shelf within the case is set 2|in.
up from the bottom of the case and is
held in place by four bolts. In the
original model nuts were soldered to the
Fig. 2. —The front panel of the meter.
The two selector switches can be seen,
between them the pilot light and below
them the voltage and current terminals.
lid and floor of the case over the top
of the bolt holes. With this arrange-
ment the bolts screw in from the out-
side without trouble, and the strength
of the case is improved.
In Fig. 2 can be seen the outside
appearance of the instrument. The
flush-mounting meter is placed at the
top centre with the two switches, SW2
(left) and SW4 (right), alongside.
Immediately below the meter is the
pilot light, and on the sides the D.C.
Fig. 1.
selector (left) and the three-point V.T.
range switch (right). At the bottom of
the panel are the voltage terminals
(with shorting link), the A.C. power
switch SWI and the current terminals.
The power flex is brought out through
a rubber grummett at the rear of the
case. Insulating bushes are used on all
items on the panel (except, of course,
the milliammeter and the toggle switches).
The only connections to the case are
from the electrostatic shield on the
power transformer, and from the metal
coating of the E 446.
When mounting the components it
will be as well to leave the power trans-
former until about last, since it adds so
much weight to the work. All holes
should be carefully marked out and
drilled and the rough edges cleaned up.
If no tool is available for cutting the
hole to take the plate ma. meter no
doubt the firm supplying the case will
cut it. When all the holes for bolts and
components are made the case may be
sprayed or treated in whatever way
appeals to the constructor. Writer
applied crackle finish, which in contrast
with bright nickel bolts and carrying
handle looks very effective.
Component Values.
When looking over the circuit and
list of parts it will be noticed .that one
or two rather odd values are called for.
These are necessary on account of the
demands of the valve used as a voltage
rectifier. They need, however, present
no great difficulties. As a 16,000-ohm
resistor couldn’t be obtained, a 1000
of suitable capacity was wired in series
with a 15,000-ohm light-duty voltage
divider. The 640-ohm resistor was
obtained in a somewhat different way.
A friend in a radfo shop obliged by
putting several 650 wire-wounds on an
ohmmeter and quickly found one the
required 10 ohms short. (In passing, let
it be added that he failed to find one in
the batch that read 650, and found none
to read more than 650!)
The only other items worthy of men-
tion as being unusual are the 16mf. con-
densers and the power transformer. The
former are merely two BxB duals, each
wired in parallel, while the latter was
wound specially for the job. The speci-
fications are given in the parts list.
When wiring the job do not parallel
the plates of the full-wave rectifier;
leave one blank. If the plates are tied
together the voltages throughout the
circuit are upset and a great deal of
trouble will result. While on the sub-
ject of voltage values it is relevant to
warn against leaving the voltage termi-
nals of the meter open if the power is
on or likely to be switched on. Since
the “detector” tube gets its bias through
the external circuit —that which develops
the voltage to be measured —from the
bias network within the meter the termi-
nals should at all times have some con-
ductive path between them. Resistances
greater than 250,000 ohms should be
avoided, since the tendency exists for
the zero to creep up the meter scale and
spoil calibration.
The Resistor Panels.
The small components are mounted
on resistor panels, one for the V.T. sec-
tion and the other for the D.C. portion.
That carrying the resistors associated
with the V.T. voltmeter is mounted be-
neath the chassis, and is to be seen in
Fig. 3. The 15,000-ohm voltage divider
mentioned earlier is mounted right
above this panel, and is, of course, out of
sight. The leads trom the power trans-
former come down through a half-inch
hole just to the rear of the 1561 socket.
If, instead of an upright type, a lateral-
mounting transformer is used there is no
need for any alteration to the layout,
and the terminal plate may be brought
through the chassis, as is usual.
The meter shunt “S” will depend on
the type of meter to be used. Where
the internal resistance of the 0-lma.
meter is known it is simply a matter of
buying or making up a resistor of
identical value. Where the meter resist-
ance is not known it will be necessary
to experiment until the correct valve is
found which converts the 0-1 to a
0-2 ma. meter. It is inadvisable to pur-
chase a 0-2 meter, even though this will
simplify matters as far as the V.T. volt-
meter is concerned. Such a meter would
not be at all efficient in the other por-
tion of this meter, since it would only
be possible to secure 5000-ohms-per-volt
characteristics. In the writer’s case it
was found that two old c.t. resistors,
wired in series, gave the correct value
for doubling the reading of the ma.
meter used (Ferranti).
Fig. 3.—Underneath view of the
instrument.
The D.C. Portion.
Reference to the circuit of this (Fig.
4) will show that it necessitates very
little work. The points marked “X” and
“Z” correspond with those similarly
marked in Fig. 1, and the polarity
should be rigidly observed. As far as
Fig. 4.
the V.T. voltmeter is concerned there is
no real need for positive or negative
connections, although if this portion of
the instrument is to be used for D.C.
measurements (such as automatic
volume control bias), the positive should
connect to grid and the negative to the
Fig. 5. —The layout of the components
within the case. The resistor panel car-
ries the shunts and multipliers for the
D.C. section of the instrument.
0.1-megohmi resistor (Fig. 1). The points
marked “C” in Fig. 4 are the current
terminals. It will be seen that separate
input terminals are used for voltage and
current readings, although the voltage
terminals are switched at will from the
V.T. circuit to the multimeter network.
Points 1,2, 3 and 4 on the selector
switch (SWS) are the current shunts, and
are respectively for readings of 50, 100,
250 and 500 ma. They are made up by
trial-and-error method, using another
meter as a calibration standard. Thirty-
two D.S.C. was used for the 50ma.
shunt, 30 gauge for the 100 ma., 24
enamelled for the 250 ma. and 22
enamelled for the 500 ma. Of course
such a mixed family of insulations need
not be followed ; the main thing to make
sure of is that the gauge of the wire
used for each shunt is capable of carry-
ing its current without heating, and
thereby moving out of calibration.
Resistance wire can be used, of course,
but ordinary winding wire will be found
quite satisfactory.
Points 5,6, 7, 8 and 9 on the switch
carry the multipliers for the D.C. volt-
ages. In that order they are: 10,000,
100,000, 250,000, 500,000 ohms and
(Continued on page 50.)


LYSACHTTS
m
-
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
ŀ
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
: ■
■ '■ t-fc .
fjry.
fe.
Mg
mu
v *~™*
„ v "
x»
mMSm
m
\r %^M
m'M
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co,, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Hogget Wool.
; “Sheepo”:' Real hogget wool is from
a two-tooth that has not been shorn as a
lhmb—-many have the idea that all two-
tooths are hoggets. Two-tooths that have
been shorn as lambs will at the second
shearing cut a fleece closely resembling
that from older sheep ; real hogget’s wool
will show a pointed and curly tip.
All things being equal, the wool from
real hoggets is of more taking' appear-
ance than that from older sheep. On the
other hand, where seeds, burrs and the
like are prevalent, hogget wool will prob-
ably contain, especially about the neck,
more of this rubbish than will the wool
from the older sheep. For both reasons,
hogget wool should be kept separate.
As a general rule the wool from true
hoggets will top the clip. Buyers don't
like to see this type of wool baled with
that from older sheep.
Wool Hints.
“Murrawong”: The top line should
be kept free of burr or should carry
light burr only. Should short-woolled
sheep be shorn at the general shearing,
distinguish their lines from the rest of
the clip by altering the sex mark to WW
or EE. Thus the top line would be
AAA/EE. If the
range of quality is
so wide that it is
necessary to take out
the stronger wool, or
if there is great
variation in condi-
tion, brand the
second line AA/EE.
The skirtings, bel-
lies, etc., if clean and
bulky, may be
branded A/EE,, but
if short, dusty or
very burry, call
them PCS/EE.
The separation of
the AAA and AA
lines will have, to be
done by the classer
from the good wool
picked out by the
shedhands unless
they happen to have
a knowledge of sort-
ing and conditions which render it pos-
sible for them to work the lines apart.
A Way with ’Hoppers.
“Upilio”: In going for the ’hoppers
1 use the prickly-pear standard atom-
iser (£4 10s.), as supplied by the Lands
Department (N.S.W.), with a mixture of
lib. arsenic of soda dissolved in 3gals.
water. I drench the young swarms
with the spray and 95 p.c. are killed.
To destroy a horde quickly and effec-
tively, the poison must be carefully
strained into the atomiser. The last hour
before dark, when they “go to roost”
and are less easily disturbed, is the best
time to attack, as the spray remains
moist on the grass Tongef than if used
earlier. My method is to spray round
the outside of the horde and keep work-
ing to the centre.
In this way, countless millions of
’hoppers can be killed in an hour —while
they are young.
The Placing of Sheep-licks.
“B-gar”: Some manufacturers of
licks advise placing their product about
the watering-places. Were seasonal con-
ditions always fair and the sheep in
the best of health and condition, that
. might be advisable; but usually when
sheep most need a lick their, condition
and. health are poor, and, as feed is eaten
off about watering-places first, there is
a danger that weak and low-conditioned
sheep will try to exist on water and lick
alone.
I have always used troughs that could
be transported. Placed near watering-
places first until the sheep had become
broken-in, these containers were then re-
moved to pads frequented by the sheep
coming and going to and from water.
The sheep always found them.
“Doggy” Wool.
“Valerin”: Woolbrokers’ complaints
.about so much “doggy” or “breechy”
wool in the high grades of well-known
clips are justified. The presence of this
hair lowers the price because its admix-
“I'm just flushing out my fountain-pen!”
ture with wool causes trouble in manu-
ture ; one result is patchy or streakily-
dyed fabric. ~
Years ago the least indication of “dog-
giness” in a ram was a fatal fault, but
now it is a common thing to see rams
carrying characterless straight-fibred
fleeces.
Principal causes of the trouble are cull
rams, poor classing of young ewes and
incompetent work at the classing-table.'
Rabbit-eradication by Jflague.
“Corriedale”: A Commonwealth pro-
clamation that graziers and farmers from
February 10 must be prepared to give
every assistance in an organised “wipe-
out-the-rabbit” campaign - indicates that.
the. research work of the C.S. and I.R.
is nearing completion. Intentions are
that a scheme that has been devised will
operate, subject first to a trial on a tiny
Bass Strait island, when the effect of the
Myxoma virus on our native wild life
will be studied.
The remarkable thing about the virus
of myxomatosis is that it appears to
affect only the English domestic rabbit.
Since our rabbits are pure descendants,
they too are included, but American Jack-
rabbits, cottontails and hares, together
with all other rodents, are not attacked,.
and there is .no,. cas.e on record of any
infection by this virus of a domestic
animal or man. £
An infected rabbit, loosed-in Mel-
bourne ; in a wirernetted-enclosure con-
taining a colony of over 50 mates, spread
the disease so effectually - that most of
the rabbits were killed within 30 days
and all within 51 days: :
Fat-lamb Mothers. 1 -
“Sheepo”: Unless there’s a break
away from indiscriminate breeding
methods, there’ll be a surfeit of inferior
grades of lamb carcasses damaging the
Australian trade at Smithfield.
Quality seems to be a secondary con-
sideration , with some f.-l. /raisers, but
poor stuff won’t pass muster at Smith-
field. Uniformity and quality, with
weights not excessive, are demanded
abroad ; shoddy stuff is not tolerated.
Shortage of good even lines of breeders
is the trouble at present, and there is a
tendency to use ewes far removed in
cross and unculled. .
Rams can’t achieve o the impossible,
.no matter how pure they be. r... V
One good, ewe is worth' a paddockful
of nondescripts.
' . Calf Management.
“Aerogenes”: It is important to con-
trol the allowance of. water* to young,
hand-fed calves ; they .are liable to de-
velop habits, of . drinking, which upset
their, appetite, interfere with their nour-
ishment or lead to death from scours.
Immediately after feeding a calf should
have room and appetite for more. An
occasional calf will take to .filling the
gap with water.’ Also, just: before fqed-
ing many calves learn. tp stop their,
hunger with a big swill at* the. trough.'
Then when they come to be fed they
either take on a load that is too big
tor digestion or refuse to take the milk.
In such cases calves should be denied
access to water for about two hours
before and one hour after feeding.
Another cause of trouble is defective
water. Troughs can become the home of
bacteria which cause trouble in young
stock; they may become fouled or
get very hot in the sun. Remedies sug-
gest themselves.
The drain from bails and dairy should
r.ot discharge into the calves’ paddock.
This slush often contains acid or soda
solutions 1 , but the milkiness of some of
it makes it attractive to calves, and they
get a perverted taste 1 for it which is hard
to break, and which plays havoc with
their stomachs.
Proper Pig Raising.
“Pappamosca”: Australia carriers about
a third as many pigs as Denmark, which
is only the size of a couple of Northern
Territory stations. We are never likely
to catch up while present methods of
hygiene prevail. ' Those in use in many
< Australian piggeries were out of date
when Noah took his grunters into the
Ark ; hence contagious pneumonia and
necrotic enteritis, which every now and
;then clean up dozens of valuable animals.
Drainage in many piggeries leaves a lot
to be, desired ; and some farmers, who
would not think of sleeping in a Vic-
torian fourposter with the curtains drawn
and the bedroom windows closed in the
middle of summer,, seem under , the im-
pression that a pig can do without air
altogether.
In the Argentine fortunes have been
made by treating swine as Australians
treat sheep : —running them in big herds
in open paddocks with lucerne and root
grazing. This system of husbandry
would suit parts of Australia well, and,
provided the right class of stock were
carried, it could be as profitable as sheep
or dairying.
Clean, aify pens, clean paddocks (which
should be allowed to rest frequently),
plenty of clean running water, a field of
lucerne, artichokes or mangolds for root-
ing, good fresh milk these are the
essentials for health in pigs.
Three-day Sickness.
Losses from three-day , sickness have
been heavy in Queensland, and the N. S.
Wales Agricultural Department has called
on farmers noticing the disease in their
herds to report it immediately.
The symptoms are three or four days
of fever, loss of appetite, swelling round
the eyes and limb stiffness. The disease
breaks out like human influenza epi-
demics, and nobody seems to know what
causes it, where it comes from or what
the most effective cure is.
. Unless there is immediate isolation of
affected animals and of herds heavy dis-
trict losses are almost certain.
Care of Horses’ Hooves.
“Jay”: Every summer horses are
troubled by hoof disease caused by
excessive heat and dryness. The first
care should be to see the blacksmith
does not rasp the horn and that' the shoes
are made to fit.
Examine hooves periodically. Flighty
horses should be put into a crush, so that
they can be worked on with a long
chisel and mallet, to cut away rough
and jagged hoof edges. Paint brittle
hooves with a mixture of equal parts
warm resin and castor oil. “Greasy
heels” can be cured by first clipping the
hair away and washing twice daily with
methylated spirit. Zinc ointment is a
good dressing.
Thrush, a, smelly discharge, is caused
by decomposition of the frog. Open out
the centre 1 of the. frog,. pare off rough
edges and the spongy diseased parts,


1
i
A
S^:s:?B::SS£*:
:f #
W U V ./.
i
jjra.lfe*.... . . xMW
m
■iiiviX-Xv
51
Y 2156
The World's Best Truck Investment
Tie BoiA'MtUHH
JUimdofiAe
fiuAmeM aAia/tf:
Look at the fleet he’s
built up —INTERNATIONALS
“He went nap on Internationals two years ago—because we
talked it out. We had a mixed lot then—half a dozen different
makes —trying them out. ‘What’s the verdict? ’ he asked.
‘There’s only cine thing Jn it’—l told him ‘lnternational.’
“When you’re running a big show like ours, with men
handling all sorts of loads in city, traffic and on long up-country
trips, every truck must be ready for any job, any day.
Internationals do it. Internationals are built to take all the
rough knocks on big haulage jobs. In the heavy-duty and
light-delivery units alike, International all-truck engines stand
the gaff. That’s why I told the Boss —bank on Internationals.”
The comprehensive International range includes the following models:
Utilities and J-ton vans, 113 and
- 125-in. wheelbases.
20-cwt., 136-in; wheelbase.
30-cwt.,~133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
Also six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- .155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheel-
bases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase,
capacities in various wheelbases.
Write to us for full details and catalogues—we will be pleased to give you an
exacting on-the-job demonstration. Chassis prices from £277 up, plus tax. .
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
- - . . .. - (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY j MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
and wash with disinfectant. Dust the
feet with boracic powder and dress daily.
Most of the diseases of the hoof are
due to horses standing about on foul
manure and moisture. A clean stable
is the first essential.
Cotton Spacing.
“X.T.”: Queensland Agricultural De-
partment' has been experimenting to de-
termine the best spacings for cotton. Soil
and climate have a good deal to do with
the matter. ,
Plants which are not thinned out are
sensitive to weather; if the season is wet
and the land rich in nitrate, they will grow
tall and spindly, with few lower fruit-
ing branches, bolls will set late and the
lint will usually be wasty and stained. In
dry weather lack of thinning causes loss
of bolls and smaller yield.
The department has come to the con-
clusion that on alluvial soils Miller, New
Boykin, Ferguson and Indio Acala plants
should be spaced from 12in. to 18in.
when they are from sin. to Bin. high.
Durango, which gives a heavier top crop,
should be spaced from 20in. to 24in.
Biscuit Wheats.
“Nabawa”: There is a limited market
for wheat suitable for biscuit flour. Until
recently, cereal chemists apparently were
not unanimous as to the right sorts, and
many growers were confused on the sub-
ject.
Flour for the most popular types of
biscuits is largely supplied by Tasmania.
Much Australian grain has a too-high
quantity and quality of gluten: The
desired type can be produced only in
cool and moist districts, and even cer-
tain of them may be unsuitable. Growers
should sow a limited quantity until ex-
periment has shown whether their soil
can produce the right wheat. Try Apollo,
Free. Gallipoli, Penny and Dart’s Im-
perial.
Field Peas.
“Stump Jump”: Field peas are one of
the most profitable straightout grain
crops to grow on 18in. and over wheat
land. They both renovate the soil and
give a bulk of straw stubble for sheep
|g ed
This summer the price of thrashed peas
has never been less than 4s. 6d. a bushel.
At time of writing it is ss. 10d., and
millers are going without their require-
ments. At these prices, the cost of a pea-
harvesting attachment for the header
would be soon cut out.
Sheep—two and up to six to the acre —
can be fattened on the leguminous 2 p.c.
protein stubble for at least two months
in summer.
■ In dry dairying areas the peas are
worth their weight in pound notes. No
harvester is needed. The crop is mown
when the peas are full-sized but milky,
and is made into a dry hay. This is
chaffed and put through a winnowing
attachment which retains the peas. As
these do not grind well (unless the crop
is very ripe when cut) it is best to roll
them for cow-feed. This makes a2O p.c.
protein concentrate. If there is no roller
they may be soaked 24 hours in water.
There is no better pig food than these
rather soft peas —especially for fattening.
Oats for N S. Wales.
“Hortus”: That there’s nothing like
oats to resurrect worn-out wheat land or
maintain general soil fertility (B.
20/1 /’37) is true, but it must be the right
kind of oats.
In the N. S. Wales wheat belt, Belar
is my pick. It is suitable for milling and
feed (either hay or grain). Other points
in its favor are that the straw, though a
little fine, stands up well to adverse con-
ditions, it resists smut (an important
matter in the Riverina), and it has heavy
stock-carrying capacity.
Another variety becoming popular in
wheat' areas is Fulghum. Brought from
o Continued on page 44.)


Have foot comfort
BY WEARING FOOT-FORM SHOES.
Orthopedic Shoes
are made with
eight different fit-
tings to every size,
so a perfect fit is
assured.
Write for a
Catalogue.
WHY not have perfectly comfortable feet? It costs no
more and is easily obtained. Abbey Orthopedic Shoes,
made on special foot-form lasts, allow perfect freedom for all
joints and muscles, but support the foot under the arches so
that it will be free from all strain. You can relax in Abbey
Orthopedics and feel perfectly fresh after a hard day’s work.
ABBEY ORTHOPEDIC SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS," SYDNEY
VI
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
PUMPS
FOR ALL
PURPOSES
"Ajax"
Double-
Acting
Hand
Pump
hersons
Proprietary limited s
51 Bathurst Street Sydney
546 Collins Street .... Melbourne
And at Adelaide and Perth.
"Mocson"
Double-
Acting
Piston
Pump
Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES' ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
gyJSgyg
ETC LOTION
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., Kino St„ Sydney
U.S.A., it is proving a good winter-graz-
ing crop, developing later into a useful
hay or grain crop. Fulghum is also
smut-resistant. It has one weakness—its
straw is poor. Kareela is something like
Fulghum, but its straw is much stronger.
It produces good grain after grazing, but
Fulghum’s grain is of better quality.
For autumn sowing on the N.S.W.
tablelands and in the most favored dis-
tricts farmers still swear by Algerian,
and there’s no getting away from the
fact that it has great grazing and hay
qualities.
On the Central and Northern Table-
lands (N.S.W.) Lampton is coming into
its own as an autumn-sown oat for grain
and hay. It is proving a better grain-
producer than Algerian, and is more rust-
and smut-resistant.
For spring sowing on Northern Table-
lands (N.S.W.) White Tartarian still holds
sway, but Lampton is being recom-
mended, and seems more satisfactory.
Burke, an early maturer, is doing well
in most districts, particularly in the drier
ones, where Palestine has held first place.
On the N.S.W. Western Slopes also it
is becoming popular; it is highly rust-
resistant and recovers well after feeding-
off. Palestine, although an early-grain
oat, is particularly weak-strawed.
In recent Riverina tests stubble-sown
oat crops made profitable responses to
super, plus sulphate of ammonia. Except
in a few cases, increases of from scwt.
to 15cwt. of hay were obtained with
lewt. of a mixture of equal parts of the
two fertilisers per acre. Two hundred-
weights per acre of mixture produced
increases of from lOcwt. to 30cwt.
Groundsel Bush.
“Walliew”: Hailing originally from
America, this bush is beginning to worry
pastoralists and agriculturists in Queens-
land, particularly between Cabool-
ture and Gympie. Though not definitely
poisonous, it is suspected of obstruct-
ing further development of animals that
eat it, and it has no food value.
It is a tall, light-green shrub, with
sticky young shoots. The leaves are
serrated at the tips, gradually tapering
to the stalk at the base. The female
plant bears a showy white flower, giving
the appearance of a covering of snow.
The male is insignificant.
Blue Field Lupins.
“Wongi”: in 1931-32 a Perth (W.A.)
daily ran a competition for best field of
blue lupins grown. The prizes amounted
to £llOO, and the object was to further
the utilisation of lignt lands tor sneep
grazing.
The blue lupin is not poisonous, but
is not palatable to stock during the grow-
ing period ; hence, the ripened seed comes
in as reserve feed during the summer.
Thousands of acres are now grown even
in the low-rainfall areas on what was
practically waste land. Planted in drills
naif-chain apart the bursting of the
ripened seedpod scatters the seed to fill
up the intervening spaces for the follow-
ing years. The sheep treading in a cer-
tain quantity of seed, there is practically
no further labor except top-dressing.
Spreading Skeleton Weed.
“Zeoo”: There are continued com-
plaints in N. S. Wales wheat districts
about the spread of skeleton - weed
seed through imperfectly-cleaned wheat
graders.
The seed ripened last month, and tons
of it were unavoidably harvested with
wheat and other crops. Very light—-
Nature intending it to travel by air—it is
easily blown on to bags or vehicles and
is carried by them.
All bags leaving wheat-farms should
be carefully looked over, and so should
second-hand bags bought for farm use.
It doesn’t take many seeds to start a
crop of the weed, and once it begins to
grow the work entailed in getting rid
of it will make examining bags and farm
implements which come on to the prop-
erty seem a pleasant light entertainment.
Vigorous Lucerne Stands.
“Grasses”: On W. Toney’s farm
at Woodenbong (N.S.W.) is 30 acres of
lucerne which is one of the best in the
Northern Rivers district.
It is laid down on creek loam to clay
loam flats, of which there are many
hundreds of acres in the Upper Clarence.
This winter, although one of the driest
on record, the lucerne was cut every
seven or eight weeks, and was by far
the most productive fodder crop or pas-
ture in the district. The successful
growth of this area of lucerne in all
kinds of seasons is undoubtedly due to
the careful management.
The 30 acres is sown in five pad-
docks, cut in rotation. It provides a one-
hour feed daily for 50 cows. During
the summer, when cuts are obtained
every four weeks, the surplus is made
into hay and stacked. While stock hava
been starving in this district during the
recent drought 400 bags of chaffed hay
were sold and a considerable quantity fed
to horses on the farm.
In 1935 140 tons was stacked for hay*
By harrowing after every cut, drasti-
cally renovating and occasionally hoeing,
the crop is kept absolutely free from
weeds and paspalum, and the surface soil
kept loose.
In addition a top-dressing of 2cwt.
super, per acre is applied annually, usu-
ally after a heavy renovation in the early
spring. Response to super, is most obvi-
ous, and its use on lucerne under such 1
conditions is an economic necessity.
By employing these methods, the
grower has maintained heavily-produc-,
ing, dense, vigorous lucerne stands for
six years, and expects them to retain
their vitality for at least ten —this though
many N.S.W. North Coast farmers be-
lieve lucerne is good for only three or
four years.
A Lucerne Pest.
“C. Real”: If there is thinning in
localised areas of the lucerne stand, look
for dwarfed and distorted plants, then
for brown, brittle, swollen and split
stems and clustered leaves towards the
ends of diseased shoots. There may be
new buds swollen, spongy and pale yel-
low. These symptoms indicate stem
nematode, an eelworm lucerne parasite
about one-twentieth of an inch long.
The worm penetrates the tender tis-
sues of new growth and matures within
the stem.
Treat seed before, sowing by immers-
ing for at least 15 minutes in water
at 118 to 120 deg. Fahr., then spread
out thinly to dry, afterwards placing in
clean bags. Where the parasite is already
in the stand, the best thing is to cut the
lucerne, later burn it, then plough out
and resow the area with pastures,
potatoes or cereals—all non-susceptible
—and keep it under such crops for
three years. Don’t sow red clover or
other medics —they are susceptible.
Keep stock off infested stands, and if
you must use implements on them, clean
with boiling water afterwards.
Brackish Water for Irrigation.
“Aerogenes”: A farmer on the Clar-
ence River (N.S.W.) has been successful
in an experiment that might well be tried
on all our tidal rivers. With water
pumped from the tidal stream he irri-
gated enough lucerne to feed his cattle
through the dry time.
Though this simply “isn’t done,” on
account of the brackishness of tidal
waters, he reasoned that the fresh
water, being lighter, would tend to
remain near the surface until eventu-
ally mixed by the churning of the tide.
So he floated his suction pipe, with the
intake a couple of feet below the sur-
face.
Whether such practice will remain
innocent of harm to the soil or whether
it is only a last resort to get feed at any
cost' deserves to be thoroughly investi-
gated.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gumblegubbin”: You can expedite
the whitewashing of the fowlhouse and
roosts by making the wash a little thinner
than is required for the brush, and spray-
ing it on with a garden syringe. This
gets it into all the cracks, and is quick
and efficient on rough, splintery walls
that are hard to cover by other means.
“Sandy”: When ploughing near
orchard trees, hook one end of a snig-
ging chain on to the beam (just above the
mould-board) and the other to the
swinglebar. This allows the horse
greater movement and the plough gets
nearer the tree.
To make good use of maize
cobs dig a pit, light a fire and put some
cobs in; as they glow, keep adding till
the pit is full; empty a drum or two of
salt water on the glowing cobs; cover
with flat iron sheets and seal with earth
round the edges. Within 24 hours Dennis
can be served his cob charcoal.
“Gumblegubbin”: Old motor tyres
split into halves round the centre make
good feeders or water-holders for
chickens. They are especially convenient
for small chicks, which can spread round
outside and inside the ring.


house
$ II :
\ -Si
an
2>
f : :• : :'' .«
MI
V v — !
J
Abolishes
the Shadow
of “Black
Monday”
from your
home for
ever !
ł
ONCE—Six o’clock on Monday .. . The
week’s washing to be done! Steamy drudgery
in a cheerless laundry, back-breaking scrub-
bing and wringing, and at the end of the day
tired, temper frayed, and dispirited
• • •
BUT NOW—No more back-breaking toil at the washtub. At the snap
of a switch the Westinghouse “Cushioned” Washing Machine washes,
blues and rinses from 55 to 651 b. of clothes an hour, at the cost of
Id. for current, giving whiter, cleaner clothes. The unique
“Cushioned” washing feature will not injure the most dainty fabrics,
scientifically removing all dirt, speedily, economically, safely and
gently. “Cushioned” washing saves money by eliminating clothes
wear.
Deposits from
£3llOlO
and very easy terms
Ring 83501 for a Free Demonstration in your Home
Queensland Distributors
0
fTIK/JIWitjUN PNh
443 Adelaide Street, Petrie Bight, Brisbane
XI
ms®
East Street, Roekhampton-
“Flinders Street, Townsville.
l


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
( Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . .You learn
how to Wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School ©£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
WEMMOETNEIMD
smi/i/)j?£AD r//£B/G/?i/mM'cm
£y£/?y JV££/r/// • — —'
THE AUSTRALASIAN
0//jAl£'~Mlfl4T£S~P£/CE O?
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be crafined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Mothercraft nurse (34), wants position in
Q. or N.S.W. after April. Refs. —4377.
Young man, N.S.W., general legal experience,
wants position as law clerk with country solici-
tor.—43s7.
Young qualified veterinary surgeon required
as partner in a business that offers good pros-
pects.—436o.
Journalist, N.S.W., city and country exp.,
general and agricultural reporting, seeks job
anywhere. Refs.—437o.
Workman, N.S.W., used to station life and
machinery, was aero mechanic during war, re-
quires position.—437B.
Young man, 26, exp. stamp battery and
cyanide plant, New Guinea, also hydra-sluicing
and alluvial mining, used to controlling native
labor, wants employment. Refs. —4399.
To buy seeds of Australian native trees,
shrubs and palms; also books on palms. —4355.
Words of recitations, “The Face on the Bar-
room Floor” and “Lasca.”—43s3.
Certificated mine manager (50), N.S.W.,
recent registration, ex-officer A.1.F., wants posi-
tion as manager or under-manager anywhere.
Wide exp. in gold and silver-lead-zinc.—44l2.
Advertising representative, Brisbane, would
like to get into touch with Sydney or Mel-
bourne weekly or monthly publications on com-
mission basis.—44ll.
To buy Mark Twain’s What Is Man ?
4410.
Young married man, Sydney, commercial and
legal exp., wants employment in country town.
4419.
Elderly gentleman, fairly active, good educa-
tion, good knowledge of stock but unable to
ride or do heavy work, wants home with cul-
tured people; will do light stock work, accounts,
etc., N.S.W. preferred. Refs. —4408.
Information Sought.
Did J. Scott, umpire in this year’s Tests, ever
play in Test or Sheffield Shield cricket? If so,
his averages? What is his age ? —4436.
Scott, who was a fast bowler, never played
in Tests; but with N.S.W. and S.A. in S.S.
competitions took 117 wickets for 3722 runs,
averaging 32.33. Scott was 47 on Jan. 24.
* * * *
Details of performances of Woodfull, Pons-
ford, W. Brown and Fingleton as opening bats-
men in Test matches? —4286.
England v. Australia matches. —Woodfull:
In Australia, 1928-29: First Test, 0 and 30 not
out; second, 68 and 111; third, 7 and 107;
fourth, 1 and 30; fifth, 102 and 35. 1932-33 :
First Test, 7 and 0; second, 10 and 26; third,
22 and 73 not out; fourth, 67 and 19; fifth,
14 and 67. In England, 1926: Third Test, 141;
fourth, 117; fifth, 35 and 0. 1930: First Test,
2 and 4; second, 155 and 26 not out; third, 50;
fourth, 54; fifth, 54. 1934: First Test, 26 and
2; second, 22 and 43. Ponsford: In Australia,
1928-29: First Test, 2 and 6. 1932-33: First Test,
32 and 2. In England, 1930: First Test, 3 and 39 ;
second, 81 and 14; fourth, 83; fifth, 110. 1934:
First Test, 53 and 5; third, 12 and 30 not out;
fourth, 181; fifth, 266 and 22. Fingleton: In
Australia, 1932-33 : Second Test, 8 and 31;
Third Test, 0 and 0. 1936-37: First Test, 100
and 0; second, 12 and 73; third, 38 and 136.
Brown: In England, 1934: Second Test, 105
and 2; third, 72 and 0; fourth, 15; fifth, 10
and 1. In Australia, 1936-37: Third Test, 1
and 20. Australia v. South Africa matches.—
Woodfull: In Australia, 1932-33: First Test,
76; second, 58; third, 7 and 161; fourth, 83
and 37 not out; fifth, 0. Ponsford: In Aus-
tralia, 1932-33 : First Test, 19; second, 5 ; third,
7 and 34; fourth, 5 and 27 not out. Fingleton:
In Australia, 1932-33: Fifth Test, 40. In South
Africa, 1935: First Test, 2 and 36 not out;
second, 62 and 40; third, 112; fourth, 109;
fifth, 118. Brown: In South Africa, 1935:
First Test, 66 and 55; second, 51 and 6; third,
121; fourth, 34; fifth, 84.
* * * *
(1) What Australian universities will grant
degrees in arts or economics to undergraduates
without insisting upon their attendance at lec-
tures? (2) Are there any universities of this
type in England? (3) Any in M.L.? —4315.
(1) The universities of Melbourne, Queens-
land, Adelaide and W.A. grant degrees to extra-
mural students in arts and economics under
certain conditions. (2) The University of
London conducts examinations for matriculated
students other than internal students. The
representative of London Uni. in N.S.W. is
the Director of Education (G. Ross Thomas).
(3) In M.L. the Professorial Board may grant
a student exemption from attendance at lectures
while himself qualifying for the degree of B.A.
or B.Comm.
* * * *
Value of Australian produce exported to
Italy for the years 1934-35 and 1935-36 ? Give
figures for different articles. —4350.
Meat: 1934-35, £1915; 1935-36, £232.
Wheat: ’34-35, £3120; ’35-36, £326,990. Cattle
skins: ’34-35, £80,288; ’35-36, £40,545. Rabbit
skins: ’34-35, £1995; ’35-36, nil. Other skins:
’34-35, £15,682; ’35-36, £9983. Wool (greasy):
’34-35, £738,260; ’35-36, £251,589. Wool
(scoured): ’34-35, £69,515; ’35-36, £21,960.
Silver and lead-lead concentrates: ’34-35,
£39,190; ’35-36, Tallow (unrefined): ’34-35,
£30,579; ’35-36, £20,355. All other articles:
’34-35, £15,283 ; ’35-36, £17,571. Total: ’34-35,
£995,827; ’35-36, £689,225.
* * * *
(1) Is there a sequel to Dumas’s “Forty-five
Guardsmen” ? (2) Particulars of the settings
of some of his books, where obtainable and
cost? —4143.
(1) The Forty-five is the last book of a series,
the two former being Marguerite de Valois and
Chicot the Jester. (2) Alexandre Dumas the
elder wrote a great number of historical novels
and plays, perhaps his greatest achievement
being the series of romances having their set-
ting in the reign of Louis XIV., these being
The Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After,
Vicomte de Bragelonne, Louise de la Valliere,
The Man in the Iron Mask and The Son of
Porthos. The Conspirators and its sequel The
Regent’s Daughter have their setting in the be-
ginning of the eighteenth century. The Queen’s
Necklace, The Chevalier de Maison Rouge,
The Count of Monte Cristo and others cover
the period immediately preceding the Revolu-
tion and beyond. These books are published
in cheap editions by Collins and others and are
obtainable at most booksellers.
* * H= *
Particulars of Queen Victoria’s nine children,
and whom they married? —4409.
Princess Victoria Adelaide Mary Louisa, born
November 21, 1840, married January 25, 1858,
Friedrich William, Prince Imperial, later Em-
peror, of Germany, and became the mother of
the now ex-Emperor of Germany. Prince Albert
Victor, later King Edward VII., born Novem-
ber 9, 1841, while Prince of Wales married
Princess Alexandra, eldest daughter of the King
of Denmark, March 10, 1863. Princess Alice,
born April 5, 1843, married July 1, 1862, Prince
Friedrich Wilhelm, Grand Duke of Hesse-
Darmstadt, her eldest daughter, Victoria
Alberta, becoming the wife of Prince Louis of
Battenberg. Prince Alfred Ernest Albert (the
Duke of Edinburgh), born August 6, 1844, mar-
ried January 23, 1874, the Grand Duchess
Marie Alexandrovna of Russia. Princess
Helena Augusta Victoria, born May 25, 1846,
married July, 1866, Prince Frederick Christian
of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg.
Princess Louise, bom March 18, 1848, married
March, 1871, the Marquis of Lome, eldest son
of the Duke of Argyll. Prince Arthur (the
Duke of Connaught), born May 1, 1850, mar-
ried March, 1879, Princess Louise, cousin of
the Emperor Friedrich of Germany. Prince
Leopold George (Duke of Albany), born April
7, 1853, married April, 1882, Princess Helen of
Waldeck-Pyrmont, sister to Queen Emma of
the Netherlands. Princess Beatrice Mary Vic-
toria, born April 14, 1857, married July, 1885,
Prince Henry of Battenberg.
* * * *
What is the meaning of “Trinity House” in
relation to seamen ? —4416.
A seamen’s association incorporated in 1514
and responsible for pilotage round the British
coasts and at Gibraltar, involving also the
upkeep of lighthouses and ships, the buoying of
channels and complementary activities.
* * * *
What is parallelism ? —4242.
In anthropology, parallelism is the develop-
ment of culture traits in similar sequences and
forms independently among distant tribes. The
theory was formulated by Spinoza. Psycho-
physical parallelism, as interpreted by Fechner,
is a theory of mind and body relations accord-
ing to which for every variation in conscious
processes there is a concomitant variation in
neutral processes.
* * * *
What are the principles of Taoism ? Is it
still practised in China? Where can 1 obtain
information on the subject? —439o.
One of the great doctrinal systems of China,
it is based on the Canon of Reason and Virtue,
an ancient script traditionally ascribed to the
sage Lao-tse (who lived in the sixth century
b.c. and was a contemporary of Confucius),
but believed to have been compiled from his
teachings several centuries after his death. He
taught that the universe is based upon an ele-
mental principle, whence all reality is derived;
also that contemplation and reason, avoidance
of force and disregard of ceremonies are means
of regeneration. .
* * * *
(1) How was news spread before the advent
of newspapers ? (2) Date of first newspaper?
(3) Date of first English newspaper? —426B.
(1) Announcements of chief daily happenings
were posted up in public places in Imperial
Rome, and similar notices were known in China
in the seventh century. (2) The earliest printed
newspaper appeared in Germany in 1609 with
the title “Avisa Relation oder Zeitung.” (3)
“Mercurius Britannicus,” which appeared from
1625 to 1627. The “English Mercurie,” copies
of which exist dated 1588, has been proved a
forgery.
* * * *
(1) What is the Plimsoll litre? (2) Origin of
name ? —4283.
(1) A line 18in. long painted through a cir-
cular disc, 12in. in diameter, on the side of a
vessel to mark the level above which it may not
legally be submerged in salt water. Lines at
different levels indicate load lines for different
oceans and different seasons. (2) Named after
Samuel Plimsoll, an English politician, born at
Bristol, 1824. Load lines were made compulsory
on all British ships by the Merchant Shipping
Act of 1876, largely sponsored by Plimsoll,
whose object was to increase the safety of
mariners and prevent overloading of ships.
* * * *
What is meant by the terms Iron Age, Bronze
Age, etc. ? Do they refer to definite periods ?
4440.
Successive stages of man’s development have
been divided into four ages—the Palaeolithic
or Ancient Stone Age, when roughly-worked
flints, stones, bone, wood and horn were used
for tools and weapons; the Neolithic or Newer
Stone Age, when man ground and polished his
stone implements, hafting his axes and lances
and shaping his weapons, as in barbed arrow-
heads ; the Bronze Age, significant for the dis-
covery and working of metals; the Iron Age,
when advances in the working of this metal
caused it to supersede the others as man’s chief
weapon in the conquest of the earth.
* * * *
Who was Granny Smith, of apple fame, and
where did she live? —426l.
Mrs. Maria Ann Smith, wife of Thomas Smith,
lived with her husband and two sons on an
orchard property on North-road, between Ryde
and Eastwood, near Sydney. The famous apple
first made its appearance on a tree which
“Granny” Smith had raised from seed, the
original pips, so the legend runs, having been
those of some rotted Tasmanian “French Crab”
apples at the bottom of a case her husband had
obtained from the city markets. “Granny”
Smith is buried in St. Anne’s churchyard, Ryde.
* * * *
Names suitable for a property in a flat, windy
locality, with beautiful view of distant moun-
tains ?— 4221.
Booligal, “windy place”; Camira, “wind”;
Coolangatta, “splendid view”; Cudgewa, “small
plain”; Kadina, “plain with lizards”; Kareelah,
“south wind”; Kielli, “extended plain”;
Merrigum, “little plain”; Minimine, “clear
country”; Munna, “flat”; Murruba, “beauti-
ful”; Taronga, “beautiful view”; Tingha, “flat
or level”; Warrangesda, “camp on flat
country”; Woolandoon, “little plain”; Yuruga,
“extensive view.”
* * * *
Native name suitable for property embrac-
ing open, ironbark country, with small plains
and a mountain ? —3988.
Arribri, “a high mountain”; Attunga, “high
place”; Binalong, “towards the high place”;
Bolwarra, “high”; Bywong, “big hill”;
Cudgewa, “small plain”; Cundumbil, “big
mountain”; Darly, “large hill”; Kittahn, “big
mountain”; Kobada, “hill”; Merrigum, “a
little plain”; Minimine, “clear country”;
Pylara, “a mountain”; Tugrabakh, “place of
ironbark”; Tyagarah, “open grass country”;
Weogo, “an isolated mountain.”
* * * *
(1) How do cicadas emit such a loud noise
when singing? (2) Why do they sing? (3)
When one cicada starts singing, they all join
in. Why is this? (4) Is it a fact that their
song is one of lament which is uttered soon
before their death approaches? —432o.
(1) The sound-producing organs consist of
a pair of drums at the base of the abdomen.
The drums vibrate by the action of powerful
muscles. The forcing to and fro of the bottom
of a tin dish has been likened to the insect’s
method of producing its song. Such tympanal
organs occur in both sexes among cicadas. (2)
and (3) Not known. (4) No. Their life is
short, but it can’t be said that their shrilling
is a death-song.
* * * *
How is time signified by ship’s bells? —4432.
A ship’s day starts at noon (eight bells) and is
divided into four-hour watches. One bell is
struck progressively for each half-hour during
each watch except during the “dog” watches
between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m., when four bells are
struck at 6 p.m., one bell at 6.30 instead of
five, two bells at 7 p.m. instead of six, and three
bells at 7.30 instead of seven.
* * * *
Please explain following description of coat
of arms: “Barry of four or and sa three water
bougets vert on a chief gu three cups of the
first covered” ? Also approximate date? —3833.
Four bars of gold and sable (black), three
green water bougets (a bouget being an ancient
water-vessel conventionalised for use on a
charge), on a red (gules) ground three gold cups
with lids (cups in heraldry being usually of the
long-stemmed goblet variety). Hardly possible
to trace date of grant; but the Society of Aus-
tralian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-street, Sydney,
may be able to help you.
* * * *
Meaning of the word “allotropy” ? —4240.
The name given to the phenomenon of one
and the same chemical element existing in
various forms having widely different physical
properties. Examples are carbon, which exists
in the form of graphite and diamond; oxygen,
found in the common form and as the highly-
active ozone; phosphorus, which occurs as the
highly inflammable and poisonous yellow
variety and the red form which is burnt only
with difficulty and is not poisonous when eaten.
* * * *
Simple method of estimating the flow of
water through a sluice in cub. feet per minute ?
—4256.
First calculate the area “A” of the opening
in sq. feet, and multiply by 336. Measure the
distance “D” from centre of opening to sur-
face of water. Multiply square root of this
distance by figure obtained above, and the
product will represent flow in cub. feet per
minute. For example, area “A” is 3 sq. feet
and distance “D” is 4ft. 3 x 336 equals 1008.
Square root of 4 is 2, which, multiplied by
1008, gives 2016 cub. feet of water per minute.
* * * *
How to protect working designs and draw-
ings from dirt and dust? —4163.
Prepare a solution of collodion to which 24
p.c. of parings from a good stearine candle
has been added. Lay the drawing on a glass
plate or board and pour on the collodion as a
photographer treats his plates. After 10 or 20
minutes the design will be dry and perfectly
white, possessing a dull lustre.
* * * *
Recipe for glaziers’ putty?— 434B.
Whiting 5 parts, raw linseed oil 1 part (by
weight), well beaten up. Whiting must be dry
and of good color, free from grit.
Brief Answers.
J.A.: There is no law against the publication
of patent specifications and drawings, and there
is no copyright therein. The specifications and
drawings have been already published by filing
in the Patent Office library, which issues copies
to the public at Is. 6d. each... ,O.B.: A.
Goodwin, Box 796, G.P.O., Sydney H.C.G.:
The books listed are of no value L.S.: As
Princess Elizabeth at her birth was in direct
succession to the throne, and, failing the birth
of an heir to the then Prince of Wales or of a
son to her parents, would have eventually
succeeded in the natural course, no special Act
of Parliament was necessary to enable this to
take place. A number of British sovereigns
have been children of mothers who were born
commoners, including Queen Elizabeth and the
second Queen Mary and her sister Queen Anne.
J.I.H.: Fruit-tree nurseries buy peach pits
for raising peach stock for budding. Henry
Jones and Co., Golden Grove-street, Darling-
ton, Sydney, would probably inform you
whether there is any other demand D.V.:
No such provision is made in the N.S.W.
Marriage Act A.M.: Copyright in a portrait
made to the order of a customer and paid for
by him vests in the customer and not in the
photographer. The owner of the copyright
could, however, assign his rights to the photo-
grapher, in which event the latter may sue for
any infringement of such rights. Otherwise
you have no claim J.D.: Australian Press
Cuttings Agency, 443 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne; Country Press, Ltd., 5 Barrack-street,
Sydney... .J.T.: “Walkabout,” Railway Build-
ing, Flinders-street, Melbourne (Is., monthly).
S.F.: (1) Formal, to Mr. and Mrs. William
Blank from Mr. and Mrs. John Blank; less
formal, to Mr. and Mrs. William Blank from
John and Mary Blank. (2) To Mr. and Mrs.
William Blank from John Blank J.H.C.:
(1) Yes. (2) Twenty-four, approximately two
gallons. (3) Twelve, approximately two gallons.
(4) At its best from six years; some types im-
prove up to 10 years and “live” for 30....
W.H.: Any positions that occur in the Depart-
ment of External Affairs are usually advertised
in the “Commonwealth Gazette” and notified in
the press, when full particulars of qualifications
and method of application are given
A.J.M.O.: The amateur you mention has never
been a representative N.S.W. heavyweight boxer.
The N.S.W. Amateur Sports Club states that
he has figured several times under its auspices
in both boxing and wrestling, but without
winning a bout J.B.McH.: Australian Paper
Manufacturers, 77 York-street, Sydney. The
mills are at McCauley-street, Matraville, Sydney.
... .H.H.: Glamis Castle, ancestral home of
Queen Elizabeth, is pronounced Glahms. To-
ward (archaic) is correctly toe-erd; towards
is given by Fowler as tordz, to-erdz, twordz
or to-wordz. Grease is grees (as lease);
greasy, greazy L.K.G.: Price, district and
so forth being satisfactory, a sugar farm should
be a safe investment... .D.C.: Business Publi-
cations, 12 O’Connell-street, Sydney; subscrip-
tion, £2 2s. p.a D.M.: Write Dept, ot
Defence, Melbourne... .R.G.C.: Full particu-
lars may be obtained from the Naval Staff
Office, Edgecliff, Sydney A.D.: Oil Engines
for Road, Rail and Air Transport, compiled by
the staffs of the “Commercial Motor,” the
“Oil Engine” and the “Aeroplane.” 7s. 6d.
Obtainable from Dymock’s, 426 George-street.
Sydney G.S.: (1) If it can be shown that
the complaint was contracted in the course of,
and arose out of, her employment as a nurse,
she can claim compensation. Probably the
proprietors of the hospital have their nurses
covered by insurance. (2) The member of the
family who ordered the enlargement is respon-
sible for the payment unless the contract was
entered into with your knowledge and endorsed
by you. In the case of a wife, she may pledge
her husband’s credit for necessaries, but not
beyond that N.A.: World’s boxing cham-
pions are: Flyweight, Benny Lynch (Scotland);
bantamweight, Sisto Escobar (Mexico); feather,
Pete Sarron (U.S.A.); light, Lou Ambers
(U.S.A.); welter, Barney Ross (U.S.A.);
middle, Marcel Thil (France); light-heavy, J.
H. Lewis (U.S.A.); and heavy, J. J. Braddock
(U.S.A.) S.J.K.: Nonsuch Press, Ltd., 16
Great St. James-street, W.C.l; Scholartis Press,
30 Museum-street, W.C.l; Golden Cockerel
Press, 10 Staple Inn, W.C.l —all London—
P.T.P.: The Columbia River, 1064 tons, a
wooden four-masted schooner of San Francisco,
was wrecked while voyaging from Auckland to
Portland, Oregon, on Sunday Island, Ker-
madecs, September 8, 1921. All hands landed
on the island, and six men in a boat sailed to
Suva for help. No lives were lost—L.T.:
See Gould’s Mammals of Australia and Lucas
and Le Souef’s The Animals of Australia ... •
A.C.: Calve, with Gasparri (Italian tenor) and
Jaques Pintel (Russian pianist), visited Australia
in 1910 T.M.: The common whipsnake grows
to over 4ft., is not usually regarded as danger-
ous and is found practically throughout Aus-
tralia, as well as in Papua. In captivity it
appears to prefer a diet of small lizards....
E.S.L.: The Custodian of the Sydney Cenotaph
is Col. G. F. Murphy, Sheriff of N. S. Wales,
Supreme Court, Sydney C.J.W.: Upper
Lansdowne is 244 miles north from Sydney, J-
miles from Coopernook, and 20 miles from
Taree. Rail to Lansdowne, thence car eight
miles. Population, 500....P.Q.: The small
number or figure at the foot of the first page
of each of the sections in which a book is
bound are there to help the binder in collating
the sections before binding (Many others
mailed.)


n
M
S'-:
jni
r J
Wk
SsX
XX
m
1
II
v
L
s'
yz
America’s unique para-
dox, the blend of rural
interests with the vib r ant
• streams of city life. You
will sense it at Chicago’s
Live Stock Show, where
this metropolis of rhyth-
mic stone and steel retains a genial village
sentiment —or at the great Des Moines State
Fair, where city and country are for the mo-
ment one. This is a key to America’s appeal,
an index to the contrasting variety pervading
her communities, h<*r towering mountains,
sweeping plains, and verdured countrysides
from one ocean to the other.
Rail travel helps to make this possible, just
as it enables the traveler to extract the utmost
from his visit in America. Time, distance,
climate, are no barriers. Fast, air-conditioned
trains provide the same even comfort on a
mountain pass in Colorado, a sagebrush
desert in New Mexico, along a silver strand
in Florida or the rugged New England shore.
Comfort accentuated by service. Featured by
striking economy in fares, and liberal stop-
over allowances en route.
During the 18-day voyage to America you
store many vivid memories-r-New Zealand,
Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii, sunswept South Sea
sailing, and the delightful luxury of your
Matson-Oceanic liners—the “Mariposa” or
“Monterey”. Disembarking at Los Angeles
or San Francisco, you then select the trans-
continental route which most appeals to you.
There is no quicker, more enjoyable, more
economical way to reach Old England. Find
out about this modern highway by reading
“England Across America”, our illustrated
b ooklet sent upon request,without obligation.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
Mm li
(Incorporated in U.S.A.)
12 Bridge Street, Sydney, Phone: B-7981-3
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
C.P.M.: That pup didn’t deserve to be let
out for a run A.L.: Too loosely strung
together... .W.F.J.C.: Gave us a pain in the
head searching for the point... .J.C.: Missed,
but not by a great deal F.L.: Trite....
R. : Has been covered over and over again.
E.W.: Hard to read; impossible to
appreciate A.J.W.: No more exhilarating
than the milk-bars it sings 0f... .J.H.T.:
Original, we don’t doubt; acceptable, emphati-
cally not Pat: The wheels of your verse-
wagon need a lot of axle-grease R.C.: No
hope F.R.H.: “Let me know if this sort
of stuff is any good.” Not to us... .F.McC.:
“Fishing” caught nothing G.M.S.: Sad
doggerel G.L.C.: If that is a fair sample
of your verse it will be a long time before
you lift a newspaper cheque Lyndo: The
weak ending marred it F.S.D.: Doubt if
it would have any meaning for the average
reader..: .J.L.8.: Not enough meat on it
J.D.S.: Nothing wrong with the writing, only
with what’s written E.N.M.: You have some
aptitude for light verse, but the lyrics fall
short J.H.: It would be hard to imagine
prosier verse T.W.N.: “This is my first
attempt at anything in the line of poems.”
Make it your last, son H.N.: Sawdust it is.
R.H.: Dead jingle on a dead whale
D.8.0’C.: Lacks punch G.T.: Very un-
impressive stuff... .R.H.L.: Alleged poems far
from usable C.J.M.: Laudable sentiments
tamely phrased... .C.E.D.: “The ’Weight-
Chaser” failed to pan out a c010r... .J.D.L.:
Snapless... .A.M.T.: Slab of conventional
philosophy in halting rhyme C.K.: The
funeral service was read over “Never Say Die.”
C.C.: Dreadful is the only word for it....
C.E.D.: You versify, as the Scot was once
accused of joking, “wi’ deeficulty”... .M.H.M.:
You have a long way to go before you become
a successful parodist. Still, there’s a gleam of
promise 0.A.M.: Carefully done, but never
reaches a high level J.S.: Not swallowing
that 0ne....K.C.: Flopped towards the finish.
G.J.W.: As commonplace as its only
character... .M.P.H.: “Seven Days” was given
an equal stretch in the office clink E.W.:
Take your murderer away... .G.R.R.: We
hardly think the kiss was worth the eight pages.
J.EJ.: Len is about the hundredth burglar
to mistake the voice of a radio-announcer for
that of a householder W.W.T.: The John
Hop comes into the picture too late... .8.5. G.:
Hasn’t a genuine ring M.L.G.: Just missed.
—J.L.B.: Not sufficiently rounded 0ff....
G.M.8.: Weak ending M.F.P.: More for
the American than the Australian market....
0.M.5.: Worth only a brief par T.E.S.:
A neat problem piece that didn’t stay the dis-
tance 1.N.C.: Missed again L.0’8.: No
shelter here for the old ’un and his dog
J. 0.: No interest for readers... .G.E.8.:
Among the down-and-outs R.T.: Tell him
to add more water to his drinks J.M.M.:
It’s been covered before 0.C.: Familiar
old good-girl-wins-nasty-girl-loses plot E.L.:
The effect you aimed at producing wasn’t clearly
enough achieved D.C.D.: Hopeless; also,
don’t turn in copy written in pencil J.N.:
We receive at least one description annually of
much the same spendthrift F.J.H.C.: Needs
to be more direct R.E.F.H.: Commonplace
and obvious... .R.H.: A yawn-provoker
A.V.: A brace of featherweights D.S.H.:
Only the slightest of episodes R.A.: Char-
acters well etched, but ending fails to satisfy.
J.McG.: Fair study of a nymphomaniac,
but it doesn’t make a pretty story 1.J.H.:
But would any archaeological society be so
boneheaded? B.C. and F.F.M.: Not so much
a story as snippets from early history 8.W.:
Your Brobdingnagian bird is—alas! —given it.
F.V.: Can’t hold out hope of publication,
but you should have no difficulty in placing it
with any insomnia sufferer L. 8.: You’ve
improved it so much that the yarn is now
merely pointless, the dialogue wooden and the
characters impossible R.T.: “I have en-
deavored to create a symphony in words”;
you’ve succeeded—but it’s a silly symphony....
S.T.: Just historical shandygaff Lar. L.:
“The loss cut him up; though strong, he be-
came jumpy.” What are you describing—your
hero or a Stilton cheese? S.C.: Our old
friend the burglar who rescues from death the
man who had saved him from choky 20 years
before!... .H.H.: “Jealousy” lacks vitality;
other is too slight... .G. 5.8.: Thin story padded
heavily with weak dialogue J.O’D.G.:
Wouldn’t doubt truth of alleged happening;
well enough written, but bagmen stories are a
drug on the market Plug: “The Mugs”
came close.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S. : Looks more like a problem in
geometry than anything else M.D.: Every
summer brings a couple of visits from that old
chestnut... .R.H.F.: Either burial or cremation
would meet the case... .S.L.: Conversation be-
tween scrawny person on right and decrepit
creature on left is extremely dull J.8.H.:
You might have told us what the urchin in the
gutter had to say to the gent, with the bag-
pipes... .A.8.H.: Drawings are within coo-ee
of publication standard, but gags are very flat.
E.S.K.: Art does not seem to be your voca-
tion ; neither does the manufacture of jokes
T. 8.: Showed caricature to several who know
the subject well and all thought it was some-
body else P.-J.: Abdication cartoon is poor
and hopelessly belated... .H.H.: Cricketing
kangaroo was hopped out M.D.: What are
they riding—rocking horses? C.W.M.:
Thanks; but no use for fashion-plates
J. 8.: From the sketch it is difficult to pick
which is abo., which Chinaman and which Indian
hawker; anyhow, the gag is as old as the White
Australia policy P.N.: No need to tell us
that it is the work of an untrained hand
R.J.S.: They range from completely hopeless
to just below mediocre A.T.; Jest belongs
to a children’s funny column and drawing to the
w.p.b E.D.: Promising; use black masses
more sparingly and get more balance into your
work G.S.: We are not looking out for
artists who draw with a stopwatch in one hand
—quality, not speed, counts... .8.R.: Have
sighted that couple on a desert island many
times before A.W.H.: Sorely tempted to
print it as an example of what we do not
want J.F.: Careless cranedriver finished his
downward flight in the basket... .M.R.: A
seven-year-old could hardly do worse....
E.P.C.: Try us with something larger C.D.:
Tiger looks like a misshapen porcupine.
“Centre Court”: They all do it.
Helen Jacobs, who has been consider-
ing her retirement from tennis after win-
ning the All-England championship, will
defend her title this year. Simul-
taneously, the Wills-Moody, who backed
out a season ago to write poems, paint
pictures and design dresses, announces a
comeback with the other Helen's scalp as
her objective. Miss Jacobs, away from
tennis, likes to affect a huntin’, shootin’
pose in opposition to Mrs. Wills-Moody’s
pursuit of culture, so, apart from tennis,
the battle this year will take on a special
interest.
* * * *
“Centurion”: In his reminiscences,
]yj a j or “Jarvis Bey,” Governor of Sinai
s j nce t h e warj p Uts forward a theory of
drowning of the host spur-
° *
Israelltes which will interest
Light Horsemen who served in the
desert. These will recall the long “bar-
dawills,” or dry salt lakes, which run
a Jong the Mediterranean shore separated
from the sea only by a narrow strip of
dry land. Ordinarily these dry lakebeds
can be crossed in safety even by an
P rovi dcd it travels mostly on foot
“ no h r “h-?a°st gate “"blowing the
comes j n and converts the “bardawills”
into quagmires in a few minutes. Jarvis’s
theory is that the fleeing Israelites, travel-
ling light, got across in safety, while their
pursuers were caught in the flooded lake-
beds and perished.


f?
\
1
■MH9
« i \jh
ft
MM
m
I*ll
■I
I
•pilig
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD, !,»“>£,)
247 GEOR GE STREET, SYDNEY.
“TORPEDO BILLY” MURPHY
The ultimatum was written on Blen-
heim Club letter-paper:
I have been a subscriber for a number
of years, but I have absolutely got fed up
of your reference to New Zealand as
Maoriland or as M.L. There seems
nothing clever about it to me and some of
our friends. Several of us are so disgusted
with your term that we have decided to dis-
continue taking it unless you refrain from
doing so. Trusting you can see your way
clear to call us just plain “N.Z.”
It so happened that a member of The
Bulletin staff was looking up the ring
career of Billy (“Torpedo”) Murphy, the
wonderful little Auckland-born bantam
who fought lightweights and welter-
weights, middleweights and heavyweights,
and brought across the. Pacific, as owner,
the only world championship belt ever
seen in these parts. He dug up a refer-
ence to Billy as a “Maorilander” in The
Bulletin of March 27, 1886.
The Bulletin will have to risk the
loss of the Blenheim gentleman’s custom.
Billy Murphy never minded being
called a Maorilander, and during his 26
years as a fighter he had to face weapons
more formidable than reporters’ pencils
and pens, so the chances are he did not
repine or lose his temper because The
Bulletin’s first impressions of him were
unfavorable. “We have seen a few flash
boxers in our time,” it wrote, “but Mr.
Murphy is without doubt the rowdiest
piece of goods we ever saw. However,
the Maorilander may be persuaded to
see the error of his ways.”
On May 8, 1886, there was mention
of a night at Foley’s during which
“Murphy boxed with rather a smart lad
from Adelaide, and was not showing his
best.” On May 29 “excitable little
Murphy ding-donged with ‘Deerfoot’
until the couple were a pair of busted
bruisers. At the finish neither retained
the hitting power to hurt the. other.”
On August 26, Murphy met a still
tougher man, in a contest limited to four
rounds. “It looked a white man to a
Chinaman on the clean-built Stewart,
who had thrashed everyone yet opposed
to him in the field.” But “so soon as
time was called for the final round, the
slim-built Murphy, weighing but Bst.
51b., landed four blows such as few 12-
stone men could deliver and knocked his
opponent groggy. Stewart stuck to his
man, and when time was called both
were tired, though Murphy had a bit
the best of it.”
The "Little Wonder.”
By November 13, 1886, the Maori-
lander had become “that little wonder.”
“Murphy was at it again at Foley’s on
Saturday night, November 6. Murphy
is a tailor, of which trade, it is said, it
takes nine, men to make a man. Despite
the proverb, and although he weighed
only Bst. 41b., Murphy proved a better
man than the ’Frisco 12-stoner McCaull,
who had undertaken to knock the little
man out in four rounds. Murphy re-
versed matters by persuading the Murkan
that enough was as good as a feast
before two rounds had been fought.”
Exactly a week later, “Murphy was
the hero again at Foley’s, when he suc-
cessfully withstood the Well-meant efforts
of Mulholland to knock him out in four
rounds.” Mulholland was a lightweight
of repute, who afterwards went to the
U.S.A. and did well there. “Murphy, as
usual, was giving away a lump of avoir-
dupois, but' he more than held his own,
delivering severe punishment to his
plucky opponent.”
Now taken fairly into the favor of
newspapers and crowds the Maorilander
was kept busy. On Feb. 26, 1887, it is
recorded that “Foley’s was crowded, at
‘half a caser a nob,’ when two fights to a
finish were billed: Murphy v. Burgess
and Nolan v. Fogarty.” Fogarty v.
Nolan did not come on. Time did not
permit; for “Murphy and Burgess took
possession of the boards shortly after
eight o’clock” and remained there until
the police said “Time, gentlemen,
please!” or the old Que\en’s jubilee-year
equivalent. In the beginning “Murphy
brought the ruby from his opponent’s
eye and ear, Burgess returning the com-
pliment with a heavy right-hander on
Murphy’s left ear. For an hour and a
half”—that is, 30 rounds, with 30 minutes
in between —“the men fought, Murphy
severely punishing but unable to knock
out his opponent, who was a perfect
glutton at taking punishment.
“Foley asked Murphy to make a draw
of it, but this the little ’un refused to
do. At eleven o’clock Burgess appeared
pretty well done up, but the minute’s
rest pulled him together again and the
slaughter continued for another few
rounds, when a draw was declared.
Burgess weighed lOst. 101 b. against
Murphy’s Bst. 61b., but Murphy’s science
more than balanced Burgess’s weight,
and, barring a chance blow from the
heavier man, Murphy must have won if
the bout had been fought out.”
"To a Finish."
On the following Wednesday night,
Murphy had another fight to a finish at
Foley’s, described as “the long-pending
match between the phenomenal feather-
weight Murphy and Fuller” —another
clever lightweight of the period. “It was
thought that Murphy’s prolonged effort
with Burgess would have taken some-
thing out of him, but he appeared as
fresh as paint, and Fuller showed that
he had gone through a careful prepara-
tion. Fuller commenced to make play,
but was short in his leads. Murphy con-
tented himself with getting away and
now and then popping in an ugly one
with his left. The affair grew mono-
tonous till the eleventh round, when the
men warmed up and came together,
Fuller getting all the worst of the pun-
ishment.
“In the twelfth round Murphy served
it out hot and strong until Fuller, tired
of standing a mere chopping block, tried
rushing tactics. He had no show at this
game with Murphy, who fought him on
the retreat, jobbing him severely with, the
left till time, was called. So soon as the
men toed the scratch for the thirteenth
round, Murphy went to work and
knocked Fuller off his legs, a perform-
ance which he repeated five or six times,
when Fuller’s second carried his man to
his corner and threw up the sponge.
“Murphy showed himself a great
general in the matter of ring tactics.
. Slight and light as he is, he hits with a
force one would look for in a heavy-
weight, and certain it is that there is no-
where in the colony, if in the world, a
man within pounds of his weight who
MURPHY, when he became champion.
He was tall (5ft. 6½in.) for his weight
and had a long reach (69½inf) Speed
was his main asset in offence and
defence.
can ‘put him in the pack.’ ” An asser-
tion which would almost certainly have
been proved had Murphy been given the
opportunity of fighting featherweight
champions. Unfortunately, he was fated
to meet much bigger men for years, and
no little man can fight big men for any
length of time without suffering some de-
cline of his natural powers.
After beating Murphy was
matched with the American Young
Mitchell (Hergott) “for a purse of £SO”
(so poor were the rewards of first-class
boxers in those days); and they met on
March 14, 1887, at Foley’s. It was to
have been another fight to a finish. Young
Mitchell left for Australia a welter-
weight, but doubtless developed into a
middleweight after the voyage across the
Pacific and some experience of good
Australian food, liquor and air. Very
few American pugs who have come this
way have remained at their recognised
weights; Cyclone Johnnie Thompson,
who was a reputed lightweight in his own
country—anyway, he fought lightweights
there —became a light-heavyweight in
Australia.
In The Bulletin report, Mitchell
was described as “a splendidly built
youngster who could not have scaled
less than lOst. 71b.” ; Murphy as “a mus-
cular but attenuated Bst'. 41b. map.
Murphy boxed right hand and foot in
front, and in his usual shifty style com-
pletely outfought the Yankee in the first
three rounds, dealing out all the pun-
ishment that was inflicted. In the fourth
round he tired and Mitchell’s weight
and strength told. He knocked Murphy
pretty well to a standstill. But had he
had seconds with any knowledge of ring
tactics or the simplest acquaintance with
Queensberry rules, the little fellow would
have been awarded the fight, as Mitchell
repeatedly held him by the nape of the
neck with one hand while he uppercut
with the other.
“In this round Murphy severely hurt
his right wrist, but he came up game as
a pebble for the fifth. At the termina-
tion of the. three minutes he was all bub
done, with Mitchell completely blown.
Had the timekeeper sent, the men to
their corners there is no knowing how
the fight would have ended, as Murphy
had condition on his side and the
minute’s spell might have pulled him to-
gether again. The timekeeper appeared
to have gone for a nap, and four minutes
having passed, with no time called, Foley
humanely jumped on the stage and threw
up the sponge on behalf of Murphy.”
After that “Torpedo Billy” went back
to Maoriland. A note in The Bulletin
of May 14, 1887, mentions that he had at
Auckland given “a recently-imported
Yank, Taylor, two stone and a thrashing.
For 11 rounds Taylor led ; then he was
put to sleep with a right-hander under
the jaw.”
Thereupon the small marvel toured his
native islands, meeting anyone who
would take him on. He barred no man,
and it is on record that he beat three
fellows in short order on the same night.
He even met Harry Laing, who was to
go six rounds with Slavin and to beat
Goddard in 12 rounds in Melbourne;
and the three-round go between the
heavyweight and the featherweight was
called a draw.
Returning to Australia, Murphy fought
an eight-round draw with Jack Hall, a
very skilful boxer and much weightier,
beat Jerry Marshall in a round (in 1892
Marshall fought Griffo twice and looked
very like beating him on one occasion),
but was knocked out' in six rounds by
Ben Seth, a Jewish lightweight from
England.
To 'Frisco and Fame.
In 1889, Murphy worked his passage
to San Francisco as a pantry boy aboard
the old Zealandia. He was in his twenty-
seventh year and probably a bit past his
prime, but he was still good enough to
win the featherweight championship of
the. world and Richard K. Fox’s diamond
belt. A three-round victory over Johnnie
Griffen and a 27-round draw with Frank
Murphy got him the match with the
recognised featherweight champion, Ike
Weir, known as “the Belfast Spider.”
Like Jack Burke, “the Irish Lad,” Weir
was his own press agent and a very
smart one. He also had the knack of
interesting newspapermen who could
give him free publicity. One of these
worthies described Weir as a regular
Admirable Crichton of a gloveman—
“he is a first-class jockey, an expert
swimmer (having saved two lives), plays
the piano, can shoot copper cents from
between his wife’s fingers, dances jigs,
sings character songs and has written a
play called ‘Muscle Wins a Wife.’ ”
Weir could also box a bit, and as a
ring comedian he stood alone. He guyed
Murphy so much that the Maorilander
lost his temper, the Spider meanwhile
cutting capers that had the crowd in
fits of laughter. He contrived to land
a punishing blow now and then, and at
the end of the sixth round Murphy went
to his corner groggy. In the eighth
round a right in the stomach made Weir
look serious for the first time. In the
twelfth Murphy got him against the
ropes, whaling away with left and right.
The thirteenth round was all fight.
Murphy put Weir down with a right to
the head. Before corners saved him
the Belfast man had been floored five
times. In the fourteenth round Murphy
knocked him out.
As soon as the dissevered frag-
ments of Weir had been pieced to-
gether, Ike made his way to his
newspaperman and informed that
gentleman, who duly presented the
“facts,” that if his hands had been sound
he “could have trounced two Murphys
in the same ring. He was compelled
to fight with a bullet wound through one
of his fingers, and even thus handicapped
he made a punching-bag of Murphy
until his hands became so sore that he
could no longer use them. Then, find-
ing that Murphy was comparatively
strong and fresh, and that if he, Weir,
continued the struggle he was in f° r
a first-class hiding, he took advantage
of the first punch in the stomach h £
received to go to the floor and double
up like a jack-knife. He wasn’t out, bu
he could fight no more. This wasm
strictly true, for his hands were useless,
and he wasn’t in the mood to let him-
self become a chopping-block, arid so
he let his seconds cry ‘Enough!’ for


OPEN A
CHEQUE ACCOUNT
Money lodged in your cheque account with the Bank of New
South Wales is protected against loss or theft. It is safer and
more business-like to pay by cheque and there is a certain
prestige in drawing your cheque upon the largest Bank in
Australasia.
It is unnecessary to keep a large credit balance. When you
have a surplus of £5 or more you can turn it into an interest
bearing deposit, having the interest credited regularly to your
cheque account.
The various services that the Bank makes available to its cus-
tomers will be courteously explained at any of the Bank’s 782
branches.
'■Mf
ESTABLISHED 1817
243 A. IM*
1U
LX
8
After the
f .
pjp
W P
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON
dk
fa
*
SPRING STREET, GARMISCH
THE CATHEDRAL, COLOGNE
Crown your trip with
a Holiday in
GERMANY
England !—the Coronation celebrations—then the crowning
event of your trip—a glorious holiday in Germany, Travel
by modern streamlined trains, your own car or by ’plane
in perfect comfort over Europe’s most colourful country.
Climb in the Bavarian Alps—laze on Baltic beaches—golf
on excellent courses J Tour the romantic Rhine by steamer,
or the beautiful Neckar Valley by canoe. Living costs little
under the present special exchange system, and rail fares
are reduced 60%. You will be welcomed most courteously,
and when you leave you will not say “ Good-bye ”, but
‘‘Auf Wiedersehen ” as your charming hosts always do.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
(Dept. 0.V.) 19. Regent Street, London, S.W. I.
or Offices of Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and other recognized Travel Agencies.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
him. The affair was a ‘cross,’ and he
got five, thousand dollars for losing.”
All moonshine, of course. Weir came
to Sydney later on ; the “facts” had then
escaped his recollection.
Champion—and Dethroned.
Now featherweight champion, Mur-
phy was back in Sydney five months
after he scotched the Spider. The Bul-
letin of August 2, 1890, records that
“his march down the gangway of the
Alameda fairly fetched the unwashed
waiting for him at Woolloomooloo.
“William was attired in a very pee-
wee hat and a long ulster. He carried
in his smashing right hand three presen-
tation walking-sticks, and was followed
by a faithful henchman who humped a
box containing the 550-guinea cham-
pionship belt. He is said to have cleared
£2OOO in the States. In Honolulu the
King gave him a walking-stick and a
purse of sovereigns.”
Then came his very unfortunate affair
with Griffo —and adversity. He ac-
cepted the contest too early after his
arrival, did not train properly, and was
never told that Griffo was a wonder,
though he should have known. Before
and during the fight he was never seen
to worse advantage in Sydney.
Said The Bulletin of September 13,
1890: “Murphy had the cheek to keep
several hundred people waiting for over
an hour, and arrived in the ring with-
out deigning to make an explanation of
any sort. Then he began the business as
if he had a contract to knock Griffo out
in half a round, rushing at him and
swinging terrific right and left hits at
Griffo’s jaw. The Australian, who is a
very clever boxer, and looks every inch
a born pugilist, would duck and get out
of harm’s way every time. Murphy kept
WEIR, who lost the belt to Murphy.
this going till he was really well done
up; then he calmly said, ‘I give this fight
to Mr. Griffo.’ He. was not apparently
injured, though he said his hands were
damaged; certainly he was not ex-
hausted, and his excuse that the gloves
were faked has for ever shut him out
from the light of the Sydney Gymnastic
Club.”
The truth is that in Griffo he met a
younger and cleverer man who was also
the heavier by five pounds—Murphy
came in at 8st. 41b. Griffo was down
two or three times, but he was not a bit
hurt and took his time, grinning. A right
to the jaw shook Murphy in the last
round, though apparently he could have
gone on.
He was to have another match with
Griffo —on July 22, 1891. On that occa-
sion it was Griffo who didn’t train, but,
outpointing Murphy all the way, he got
the decision in the twenty-second round.
Battles with Jim Burge.
In the meantime, the ex-champion
had had several fights, mostly with
heavier men. At Broken Hill on Jan.
18, 1891, he was beaten in 30 rounds
by “Ironbark” Jim Burge, a lightweight of
whose toughness many stories are told.
Once he fell 30 feet down the Bondi
sewer. “Dam’ it all,” he said, recount-
ing the incident, “I broke me fav’rite
pipe.” In one of his fights skin and
hair were being knocked off him by the
other pug and his right eyebrow seemed
about to leave its moorings. “Another
clout an’ y’r eyebrow’ll be off,” mut-
tered his second. “Better turn it up,
Jim! ” “Not me,” said Jim. “Got a pin,
ain’t y’? Then pin it up.”
After that Broken Hill fight Mel-
bourne “Herald” published a telegram
saying that Murphy lay dying of the
punishment inflicted on him, his injuries
being so fearful that, among other dis-
abilities, he could not swallow. When
the sad news reached the Barrier the
dying man was drinking his conqueror’s
health in a pub.
On Nov. 23, 1891, the pair had a
return match at Sydney. The chronicle
said that “for 23 rounds Burge belted
Murphy terribly about the ribs, Burge
relieving the monotony by now and then
standing in the middle of the ring, his
jaw buried in his immense shoulder,
while Murphy made savage attempts to
knock him out. Murphy’s hands
smashed up badly on the iron man. As
the pair merely looked round and looked
at each other for the twenty-seventh and
twenty-eighth round the referee declared
it no fight. The Sydney Amateur Gym-
nastic Club awarded Murphy £4O.
Burge got nothing.”
On Feb. 16, 1892, Murphy was
knocked out in three rounds by Jim
Barron, then a ten-stoner. Barron, who
was born in Parramatta (he is still to
be seen about Sydney, and has taught
thousands of college boys how to put
’em up), afterwards went to the U.S.A.,
where he defeated good middleweights
and went ten rounds with Kid McCoy,
next to Fitzsimmons the finest middle-
weight ever seen in the U.S.A. and con-
queror of many heavyweights.
Murphy returned to the U.S.A. the
same year, 1892. He was now in his
thirtieth year, and the best had been
seen of him as a boxer. Yet for ten
more years he figured in American rings,
winning now and then, but losing more
often. Among the men he whipped were
Jack Grace, Jack Collins, Kid McGraw,
Jim Connors and Johnnie Van
Heest; among the men who
whipped him were Ike Weir (in
six rounds), George Dixon,
Johnnie Griffin and Oscar
Gardner.
Sydney saw him again in 1904, when
Tim Hegarty beat him in three rounds
and Peter Toohey in two rounds. From
Sydney he went back to his native
country and to his old trade —what a
terrible little tailor! At New Plymouth
on August 8, 1907, at the age of 44, he
had the last of hundreds of fights. He
knocked out an American named Tom
Toohey in two rounds.
The Other Murphys.
Billy had two brothers, also bom in
Auckland, who made good in the ring.
Jimmy Murphy, a lightweight, went to
the U.S.A. while the elder brother was
there, but was not very successful. It
has been said that he did not look after
himself, and there is a story that his
“big” brother sailed into him after an un-
satisfactory exhibition at San Francisco,
swearing that he would send the mis-
guided youth back to Auckland if he
would not give up the “lemonade.”
In later years Jimmy Murphy travelled
to Johannesburg at the same time as
Doherty, Dooley, Goddard, Tut Ryan,
Herb McKell, Tully, “Denver Ed.”
Smith and Kid McCoy—McCoy stayed
just long enough to beat Doherty in nine
rounds —and fought some splendid fights.
He was hailed as a possible world
champion at his weight, but unfortu-
nately he died before he reached his
prime.
Tim Murphy, who was younger than
Billy and Jimmy, did become a champion.
After cleaning up most of the middle-
weights in Australia, he went to the
U.S.A., where he fought for a couple of
years with some success. He was really
only a welterweight in those days, though
he had to fight middleweights, and
American middleweight form was then,
generally speaking, very good. Return-
ing to Australia Tim found an inferior
lot of heavyweights in the business, and
actually became heavyweight champion
of the continent in 1905 by knocking out
Billy McCall at Sydney in 11 rounds. He
held the title, such as it was, for a little
over seven months; then Bill Squires
knocked him out. He had few victories
afterwards.
When Billy Murphy entered the busi-
ness, Larry Foley was still scrapping in
Australia and Jem Mace in England.
Billy has outlived all the champions of
the ’eighties and ’nineties and a good
many of those who held titles in the first
decade of the present century. A few
months ago the old warrior was reported
to have died in hospital. He denied it.


IS YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
SUCCESSFUL?
If not, get in touch with the
Perth’s Leading Weekly—the
Journal with the
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney— P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London— P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Che mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in. Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C.-certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds, that of the
combined totals of the : other dailies in
Tasmania. . That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. R1EUSSET, Representative.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its new's columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that -which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
..You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE ACE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or —
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
1 megohm. Other values to suit the
requirements of the individual may be
substituted.
The layout of the components in the
section above the chassis may be fol-
lowed by reference to Fig. 5, which will
also assist in the construction of the
V.T. section.
The selector switch *(SWS) which is
obscured in part by the ma. meter and
SW2, calls for special comment. Buy
a good switch for this position in the
circuit. Cheap articles usually possess
faulty contact (fatal in current measure-
ments where uncertain contact on the
high ranges may lead to burning out
the meter) and other disadvantages
which make their use unprofitable.
Other Points to Watch.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised
that the value of the meter depends
upon the accuracy of resistors used.
Use good types and, if possible, have
them tested for exact resistance before
buying. Very often a radio dealer will
oblige in such cases by allowing you the
choice of his stock for nearest to marked
value. This helps a lot’ towards getting
the meter to work properly.
The polarity of the electrolytic con-
densers should be observed ; red leads
connect respectively to the free fend of
the 311-volt winding on the transformer
and to the 10,000-ohm “smoothing”
resistor. The paper-type condensers
used for grid decoupling, bias by-pas-
sing and plate by-passing may be of
standard 400-volt working variety.
Sockets for the valves should ensure
good and permanent contact. The con-
nections to the E 446, looking at the
socket from beneath and going clock-
wise from filament (two thick pins), are:
Filament 1, cathode and suppressor,
screen-grid, metal coating, control-grid,
blank, filament 2. The plate connects
to the top cap.
Uses of the Meter.
The uses of such a meter are almost
endless, and such jobs as the measure-
ment of the output of receivers, effect
of A.V.C., audio level in amplifiers,
oscillator voltages (r.f.) and plain A.C.
readings within the scales of the instru-
ment are readily performed. On the
D.C. side the instrument has hosts of
uses which will present themselves to
the experimenter in the course of his
work. Considering its compact nature
and its relatively low cost, the combined
V.T. and D.C. voltmeter should prove
a very useful instrument.
List of Parts.
Case (mild steel, black iron, etc.) 12in. x lOin.
x Bin., with shelf fitted 2Jin. from bottom.
0-lma. moving coil ma. meter (of good make).
One each of Philips E 446 (metal-clad and with
large 7-pin base), and 1561 rectifier (UX
base).
Power transformer wound as follows: Primary,
240 v. 50c.; filament, 4v. 1 amp.; do, 4v. 2amp.;
half-wave secondary, 311 volts at 30ma. Elec-
trostatic shield between primary and secondaries.
Two only electro, condensers 8 x Bmfd. (carton
type).
Two only d.p.d.t. toggle switches.
Two only 2mfd. x 400 v. fixed condensers.
One only lmfd. x 400 v. fixed condensers.
One only three-point selector switch (with bush-
ing).
One only single-pole nine-way switch (with
bushing).
Four insulated terminals.
One only d.p.s.t toggle switch.
Two pointer knobs. Power flex and plug.
One only UX valve socket.
One only large 7-pin valve socket.
Two resistor panels. Four insulating pillars.
One only O.lmeg. 1-watt resistor.
One only 640-ohm resistor (wire wound).
One only 16,000-ohm resistor (wire wound).
One only 10,000-ohm resistor (wire wound).
One only 30,000-ohm 1-watt resistor.
One only 6400-ohm 1-watt resistor.
Four shunts (made up from winding wire).
One only 1-watt resistor, 10,000 ohms.
One only 1-watt resistor, 100,000 ohms.
One only 1-watt resistor, 250,000 ohms.
One only 1-watt resistor, 500,000 ohms.
One only 1-watt resistor, 1 meg.
Machine screws, tinned copper busbar, spa-
ghetti sleeving, hook-up wire, solder lugs,
etc.
R.H.A.
Amateur Chatter.
Advance plans have been laid for
Sydney’s 1937 Amateur Radio and
Short-wave Exhibition, which is expected
to eclipse the previous successful effort.
It is intended to open on May 3 and
close on May 8. The question of loca-
tion has yet to be decided. Officers have
been appointed as follows: Exhibition
secretary, W. M. Moore (VK2HZ);
treasurer, F. Goyen (VK2UX); lecture
organisation, P. Adams (VK2JX); trade-
exhibit organisation, J. Moyle (VK2JU)
and D. B. Knock (VK2NO); working
exhibit organisation, W. J. Ryan
(VK2TI); amateur exhibits, H. F. Peter-
son (VK2HP). This year more scope
will be given to short-wave exhibits. All
amateurs are asked to take note of the
dates and start work on their entries for
competition.
On the five-metre band a much-needed
fillip has been afforded by the return of
VK2BP, again located at Hazelbrook,
Blue Mountains. This station is using
All keen ultra-short-wave experimenters interested in five-
metre communication in Sydney are talking about the
efficiency of the Bruce directive aerial systems used by
VK2NO and VK2AZ. Illustrated is the one in use at the
latter station, situated at Kogarah, N.S.W. As can be seen,
it is quite easy to erect for rotation. Details of construction
were given in B. 6/1/'37.
a Bruce aerial directed on Sydney, and
the effect is extraordinary. In ordinarily
good receiving locations his signal is
always full strength, and even in places
where reception would have been con-
sidered impossible a year or so ago,
owing to screening, the carrier is well
audible and the voice can be understood
at R 5. With a similar directive aerial
at the receiving location the signal can'
be brought up to R 7-8, though hills and
steel buildings intervene. Many new
arrivals are exploring the band and are
enthusiastic about its possibilties. New
stations heard at the writer’s location in-
clude VKs 2W, 2MV, 2IF, 2QR, 208,
2RG,\ 2IP, 2LE, 2TR and 2EM. Many
of ‘ these' have been worked, but others
are too far down in the noise level to be
comfortable.
Some stations have been heard to re-,
mark that it is hard to get a QSO when
prominent stations tie up for a long
period. This is due mainly to prolonged
testing on Bruce arrays. When this is
completed there will be no trouble. Out-
lying stations should make every effort
to improve their aerials. One failing is
the excessive use of .“duplex.”. There
can be too much of this, and new arri-
vals are apt to think that the band is a
selfish one. ... . 7 .
The writer, having arrived at the con-
clusion that the Bruce aerial system
cannot be excelled, is now working on
a completely rotatable structure. The
aerial framework is bolted to a pole
which revolves in ball bearings and is
controlled from the operating room by
a system of grooved pulley wheels with
rope drive. One turn of the “steering
wheel” corresponds to a complete rota-
tion of the aerial. Thus, when a station
is heard, the aerial can be immediately
focused. This is essential, as the Bruce
array has a very narrow beam. VK2AZ,
of Kogarah (N.S.W.), has a similar array
in action, and finds it wonderfully effec-
tive. He is keeping C.W. schedules on
Sunday mornings, trying to attract DX
reports. The frequency of VK2AZ is
56,580 kc., crystal-controlled.
Both 40 and 20 metres are good for
South African and European DX in the
early mornings, and a few VKs report
having made W.A.C. on ’phone lately.
After the experiences of five metres with
special aerials, the writer envies those in
country locations with a few spare acres
in which to erect Bruce aerials for the
lower frequencies. An American com-
ments on the short and sweet ’phone
CQ he noticed from a new W station
on 20; the outcome
was that DX
answered immedi-
ately, whereas some
“hams” yell CQ till
their breath gives
out, and the distant
man is too fed up to
wait for the callsign.
The casual short-
wave listener often
wonders who on earth
“Seekew” can be.
A plea went forth
for better receivers
and transmitters on
five metres this year.
Many are tackling
the problem, but the
last week or so has
seen an airing of
“left-over squeggers”
to the detriment of
work generally. One
transceiver has radi-
ated squawks and squeals over several
miles. It would be so easy to incor-
porate even an untuned R.F. valve. The
enjoyment of listening to contacts could
still be had, and those engaged in serious
transmission tests would be relieved of a
prehistoric form of interference.
VK2NO.
Alexandra Palace Heard in
South Africa.
The brief report (B. 6/1/’37) that a
South African listener heard the sound
transmission accompanying an Alex-
andra Palace seven-metre television is
confirmed in the latest issue of “Wire-
less World.”
The amateur in question was S. C.
Pleass (ZT6K), of Johannesburg, and
his log of the reception removes all
shadow of doubt. His receiver was a
revamped Pilot Wasp, an earlier-day
regenerative detector arrangement with
two audio stages. He had been using
this receiver with suitable home-made
coils for five-metre C.W. work, and
decided to make coils for approximately
seven metres. Having no calibration
source on hand, the harmonics from
local experimenters and commercial
stations were used to locate the region.
Eventually he heard a lady’s voice say-
ing “Good morning, everybody. This
is the 8.8. C., Alexandra Palace, Lon-
don.” ? This was at 11.03 G.M.T.,
13/10/’36. From this point his log, as
published completely by “Wireless
World,” deals in detail with transmis-
sions he overheard up to 27/10/’36.
Not only is this achievement note-
worthy for long-distance coverage of
ultra-short waves on telephony, but it
indicates that sooner or later the recep-
tion of the vision on a closely adjacent
frequency might be possible. T. L.
Eckersley, of the Marconi Co., points
out that “it is also possible on these
high frequencies to build arrays for both
transmission and reception which pro-
vide very large power gains and have
very sharp diagrams on both vertical
and horizontal planes.... Theoretical
considerations show that Africa is very
favorably placed for ultra-high-frequency
reception from England during the noon
and afternoon period, and, what is still
more fascinating, it is also favorably
placed for retransmission on the ultra-
high frequencies to other parts of the
Empire.” So perhaps on some not-far-
distant day British television will be re-
ceivable in Australia via Africa.
The success of the South African
should be an inspiration to Australian
ultra-short-wave experimenters, especi-
ally as many Australians are well aware
of the advantage of directive arrays for
transmission and reception and are mak-
ing good use of them. Not long ago 10-
metre communication with England was
looked on as impossible. It has been
almost an everyday occurrence for well
over a year. It is not too much to sug-
gest, therefore, that with special re-
ceivers and receiving “beams” something
may perhaps be heard of Alexandra
Palace on seven metres.
D.B.K.
“Spehrmidaze”: Radio-gramophone
combinations, even those that automati-
cally change records, six or more on
end, have one failing: the needle has to
be changed. Now a French inventor has
produced a device by which the needles
are fed up from below the motor board
in a belt; as the pick-up returns to the
starting position a needle, is driven into
a self-gripping chuck, and the old needle
drops out.
The Question Box.
(1) Enclosed is a circuit for a crystal set.
What’s your opinion of it ? (2) Can you suggest
any improvements? (3) Approximate range?
(4) Could it be adapted for use with .00035 mfd.
and .00025 mfd. variable condensers ? —482.
(1) Particularly good, as independent tuning
of the aerial circuit is incorporated. (2) No.
(3) Cannot be estimated. Depends on the
efficacy of the aerial, which could be quite long
and should be as high and as well insulated as
possible. (4) Certainly. Coils would need more
turns correspondingly.
*l ; .
Best books for a beginner in wireless? I
want books that will explain everything, includ-
ing valves and their uses and how to find
faults?- —483.
A very good one for the beginner is The
Book of Practical Radio, by John Scott-Tag-
gart, obtainable in Sydney from Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., Castlereagh-street. Another is
Wireless for Beginners, by C. L. Boltz.


ItiU masterpiece is (Perfection —
J the spirit he always serves .
(> '
55#
ts
tzy
m,
v m
»
5 ’.••.<
,::+m -
if' M
it yjW,
;# : r
rr
r
mdr
•*:'« -ks
m
i-r
A
<1 wlIrtHH«iliu»M«ifniiv.Ht»n , B»iiraMUM*«*»<»»Mf*M<m«<i»i T*twnwH(i» r nt* l «M»iniiiu>>ii>«iiLii/iiii.H»aiui>
(D c CaUum's
(IFGaUums
Scots (Ubisky
( row«#«» «%••<•••
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĺ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME .
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
vS>
O \> e >
\P _ <b K<
&
< a v \o ,cS>' ni’
v A av
vV e t\> e !sO^ . &
J I*-•• 1 * -•• ••" ••-•• ~
pf)
4$
\oV
t^ vV .•■ .••’ >
#•• ..••••■ ...••" c»si&3r*


w
w
6
o
♦
/
/•
6/J
%
<4
- ' * :••'•!, . "* ■ •'*''
' /' ; \ ‘ ' V*
■ -
m
* r -.
SS*
ft;.5:. : » *
! S
H^MHb
L>*
Ni&
58SS*Vi»
Wm
BY APPOINTMENT
m
MS
m
«3
•’V/.l
:.r-r*5
JjS#
Xft:
£
:
o.
5%
¥
m
! ?
- .<@£&$ss
%
»
■•■ g y s 4&zmm
’ v:vSS4Ks^SS
’ ‘.V
63
%
Z&
*i-
%
%
A
Of
%
A
'*o
%
6
S:
%
«S
p
*><
>S
tyrf.ty
85sSS
Kmas
Z?avr 5>4K
Ml
3*
i-y
gggPi
Tte
? Q \
T&)>
(
S£S
%
%
m
°s y y+
If
XV
X
»
■
4.
fO.
#<9.
'
3|
w
%
£■
%
%
v%
<?/
Af
*9
■ -
X
H,
*4
'4/
2?<&C*
«o77<
4*
.-..**ux.
i'.'.*
MJ*'
xp
7
04
DRV GIN
IN WORK OR PLAY A
CHEERY SPOT OF GILBEY’S
DISPELS DISAPPOINTMENT
AND RESTORES FRESH
ENERGY FOR FURTHER
EFFORT.
