

Makers
m «
&£Lg% : .
,:>-
-■••
O
.4 3*
&
*s>.
A*
£3
©
VS
*2,
m
i* < •
Cl
Mfe.
■m
V<
V
« t
m ;
*£o'
* -s:
o**#:
<®fsjj
Q
&
Aerial view of the Melbourne Factory of the
Australian Glass Manufacturers Company
Limited, 195 6.
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
THE Associated Glass Companies—
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co. Ltd. Crown Crystal Glass Co. Ltd.
Australian Window Glass Pty. Ltd. Dott & Co. Pty. Ltd.
in their ten factories in the capital cities of Australia and New Zealand,
manufacture a greater variety of glassware than any other company in the
world.
Glass containers of every description; the famous "Grimwade” Handout
Crystal of unsurpassed quality of workmanship and beauty of design;
exquisite pressed table ware; "Agee” Pyrex Ware; modern lighting ware of all
descriptions; "Koala” Sheet Glass; Figured Rolled Glass; Bent Glass; Grave-
treated Glass; and the wonderful modern building masonry— "Agee” Glass
Bricks —are some of the lines produced.
Within the space of just a few years, the glass industry has grown to be one
of the greatest in the Commonwealth, and directly and indirectly creates
employment for many thousands of Australian workmen.
w
"Agee” Glass Bricks are exceptionally strong, light in weight,
and easy for bricklayers to handle. They lay-up quickly in the
same manner as other masonry units.
DAYLIGHT through SOLID WALLS
Nowadays, brick walls need not shut out daylight and the health-giving rays of the sun.
They can and are being erected as striking expanses of water-clear Glass Bricks, which admit
an abundance of soft diffused daylight, and at the same time provide cool and pleasant
seclusion, for they are translucent, but not transparent.
"Agee” Glass Bricks are the most modern and versatile of all constructional units. They
transmit an abundance of soft, diffused daylight without glare, but resist the penetration of
both heat and cold. They are moisture-proof, sound-deadening, and of great structural
strength. They are proof against attacks of moisture, vermin and acid; impervious to air and
gases, and do not absorb odours or grease. Their cost compares very favourably with that of
other high-class building material. Their unbounded possibilities have already been widely
recognised abroad, where they are being used in all types of construction, particularly of
houses, shops, offices, factories and schools, and now modern Australians .are making use of
this most wonderful building material.
Write or phone (L 3333) Australian Window Glass Pty. Ltd., Euston Road, Alexandria,
N.S.W., for further particulars.
ŵ
" Agee” Holloiv Glass Brick, 6f ’
x 6\" x 4” thick—insulating —
low in cost and with ample
strength for self-support to any
practical height.
ẁ
"Agee” Corner Hollou/ Glass
Brick, 6\" high x 4" square —
patterned on two adjacent sides.
Illifelllfel
'
; ■ '
t
I m
ẃ
Australian Glass
MANUFACTURERS
COMPANY
LIMI T E D
The Bulletin
The Famous Fighters Series (Pages 48 and 49)
Vol. 58.—N0. 2974.
Wednesday, February 10, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SECONDHAND BOOKS.
Send for our lists of Boots of History and Biography or
any other subject that interests you.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
jm
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HEBE AJvD MAIL.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ..
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
• Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS ABROAD.
A little over ten years ago, because of something
I had written about her work, Henry Handel Richard-
son sent me a copy of the first volume of Richard
Mahony. The book was practically unknown at the
time. It had appeared during the war and had not
attracted much notice. One critic had said that it had
apparently been written by a retired grocer, and most
of the other comment was just as unenlightened.
But somehow or other, in the mysterious way
such news gets about, people who take interest in
such things as our literature had begun to suspect
that the story of Richard Mahony was supremely
important. Primarily to us Australians, of course,
but also in the absolute sense as well. The trouble
was that the first volume was already unprocurable.
I know that my copy (I was living on the Queensland
coast at the time) travelled through the post over
Australia to the scattered retreats of our writers and
critics. It seemed at the time that it would be only
by people of her own craft and in her own country
that Henry Handel Richardson would be appreciated.
We hardly knew at the time of her reputation in
Germany and in the Scandinavian countries.
Then the third volume appeared ( Ultima Thule),
and at once it was recognised in England as a master-
piece. Henry Handel Richardson’s name began to
appear in the cables. There was a hint that this
mysterious writer was a woman, and the women’s
papers became interested. Inquiries were made about
her early days, her schooling at the P.L.C. in Mel-
bourne. There was even a widespread desire to read
the book itself. The greatest tragic novel of our genera-
tion, a novel that penetrates deeply into the beauty,
mystery and terror of life on our planet, was on
its way to a popular success. I think the person most
surprised at this development was Henry Handel
Richardson. Seven years ago, when I was in London,
she asked me to come and see her, and I found a
quiet, withdrawn woman of about fifty, living in a
comfortable house overlooking Regent’s Park, pre-
occupied with her work and inclined to be ironic
about the publicity she was getting.
“I’m not interested in it,” she said. “It might
have been of some use to me if it had come years ago
when I published Maurice Guest."
Maurice Guest was her first novel, and though
it had had a great success in Germany and the
Scandinavian countries few English-speaking people
seemed to have read it. This in spite of the glowing
tributes to its power by Somerset Maugham, John
Masefield and other literary men.
Yet I think Henry Handel Richardson was glad
that her work was becoming known in her own
country. Although she left Australia as a girl and
has returned to it only once since, it has always been
in her mind. She has never, like some other emigres,
become absorbed into the English background.
There is something in her that defies absorption—
something hard, individual, jealous of its own integrity.
For all her deep culture, the aristocratic cast of her
mind, you feel immediately you meet her that she is
an Australian woman, bred on a bony, dry soil, in
close contact with realities—our particular Australian
realities.
And she does not want to forget this and become
part of a shapeless, cosmopolitan world. I was even
more definitely conscious of that last year when I met-
her again. The literature of all Europe is at her
fingertips, yet she keeps aware of anything of im-
portance written in Australia. She is rather laconic
in criticism, yet in private letters, covering the last
ten years, I have received a running stream of com-
ment from her that touches on practically every work
of merit published during that time. She is emphatic
in asserting that Australian writers should not go
outside their own country for their themes.
“Why is it necessary?” she repeats, “A writer
should deal with the background he knows intimately.
Breadth is not reached by carrying readers round the
globe. And, anyhow, a writer’s real aim is not breadth
so much as depth.”
It is depth of understanding she aims at in her
own work. In her quiet study (she lives in Sussex
since her husband’s death) she ponders on the experi-
ences of her own life, her girlhood in Australia, her
adolescence in Germany, trying to distil their true
meaning and render them into literature. There is
something strong, ruthless, indomitable about her.
She hates sentimentality or falsifying with pretty
ornament the stark beauty of life itself. For all her
physical frailness, her gracious manners, she is robust
in the way Tolstoi, Hardy, Flaubert were robust, and
it is to the circle of such masters she belongs rather
than to that of the accomplished minors of to-day—
Huxley, Hemingway, Virginia Woolf.
It may seem a contrast to turn from Henry
Handel Richardson to a younger writer, Christina
Stead, but I think they have qualities in common,
They both, for instance, believe passionately in
literature —not merely as a means of earning money
or making a reputation, but as something absolute,
an art, a vehicle of expression, a way of life. And
they both believe that it is necessary to deal with
immediate realities. • Christina Stead is naturally a
romantic, in that she is interested in her own emo-
tional reactions to a thing rather than the thing itself.
One side of her tempts her* to deal with the
froth and show of an elegant, sophisticated world.
It was inevitable that her first book should be some-
thing like Salzburg Tales —dealing in an ornate, arti-
ficial way with an ornate, artificial subject.
But there is a realistic side to Christina Stead
that fights; with her romanticism and will probably
win. Destiny took her into business: she was em-
ployed in a bank in Paris, and she has a thorough
grasp of the financial and industrial institutions of the
modern world. Then she has taken her place decidedly
to the Left in politics she was one of the three
Australian representatives at the International Con-
gress for the Defence of Culture in Paris, and has
thrown herself wholeheartedly into the fight against
Fascism which is absorbing most of the younger
writers in Europe.
I think Christina Stead’s development will be
towards realism. She started off from Salzburg, but
her second novel was concerned with places she knew
in girlhood, and although Seven Poor Men of Sydney
was not quite a satisfying work it showed a great
immature talent struggling with stubborn material.
There is no doubt whatever about Christina Stead’s
brilliance. She has an extraordinary intensity of
vision, and a power of revealing a scene or a mood
by a flashing phrase a gleam of lightning. What
hampers her is the conflict between romanticism—her
natural emotional surge—and the drive of her intellect
to render objectively the world about her.
It is an old conflict with novelists —particularly
women writers. I remember the difficulties Katharine
Prichard had when she started out to write twenty
years ago, and I think Christina Stead’s development
will be similar. At present her talents are dazzling
enough to turn the heads even of sober critics. But
they haven’t turned her own head.
“Though I would like to write one novel whose
value everyone would recognise,” she said recently.
Well, perhaps she will.
VANCE PALMER.
"Famous Plays of 1936."
The compact volumes of six plays apiece pub-
lished twice a year have become an institution. The
twelfth, Famous Plays of 1936 (Gollancz'; Dymock’s ;
Bs. 3d.), has just come out.
These twelve volumes form a practical if limited
history of the drama over the last few years. They
have preserved to us some very fine plays, such as
Marc Connelly’s “Green Pastures,” the “Socrates” of
Clifford Bax, Daviot’s “Richard of Bordeaux” and
“The Laughing Woman,” and Sherwood’s “Reunion
in Vienna.” Their scope is large, covering English
and American drama as well as Continental transla-
tions. They are all tried plays that have accomplished
something, either a succes d’estime or a box-office
triumph, and they range from farce to black tragedy.
They trace a rough graph of the ups and downs
of the drama. Between 1930 and 1934 there was a
burst of riches, a series of memorable dramas and
first-class comedies. Between 1934 and 1936 came a
period of drought, derivative plays rehashed from
novels, “well-made” plays without significance and
with no intention beyond amusement. The series
reached rock-bottom with a thump in Famous Plays
of 1935. With the latest volume, however, there is a
quickening, a renewed contact with life. Its six plays
fall symmetrically into two groups. Three are plays
of escape and three attack problems of the day.
In the first group there are Eleanor and Herbert
Farjeon’s “The Two Bouquets,” Bella and Samuel
Spewack’s “Boy Meets Girl,” and, less obviously,
Elsie T. Schauffler’s “Parnell.” In the second group
are Arthur Schnitzler’s “Professor Bernhardi,” Irwin
Shaw’s “Bury the Dead” and Clifford Odets’s “Till the
Day I Die.” “The Two Bouquets” is a delightful,
irresponsible Victorian fantasy interspersed with songs,
delicately comic'. It bristles with situations and period
absurdities and is a complete rest from politics and
the income tax. “Boy Meets Girl” is an American
extravaganza of to-day, a farce at the expense of the
motion-picture industry—a butt so large that no one
could miss it—with random shots at anything else that
comes within range. (A young man is going to retire
to Vermont to write a masterpiece: “I’m going to
bare my soul. I’m going to write life in the raw.
I’ve got the beginning all planned two rats in a
sewer.”) It’s good fun for as long as it lasts. “Par-
nell” is the dramatised love-story, ending on a
top note with Parnell’s death. Katherine’s husband
fills the role of villain and her strong-minded
old aunt is the comic relief, applied with dis-
cretion. It is a well-made conventional play, fulfils
in entertainment the function of a good romantic
novel and gives a slighting portrait of Gladstone. Its
country of origin is America. It reads innocently
enough, but it was the victim of the censor in England,
although the ban on its production has now been
raised. The point at issue was political, not moral.
Of the second group Schnitzler’s “Professor Bern-
hardi” is the most solid and impressive. It tells the
story of a racial and religious clash in a Viennese
hospital, the Elizabeth Institute. Its basis is a trifling
incident and the magnified reverberations that follow
through many lives. There -is no romantic interest;
all the characters, except the very minor role of
a nurse, are men. It is full of finely-drawn portraits
and is handled with telling moderation.
“Bury the Dead” is a blow struck for Peace. It
is set during the next world war and tells how six
private soldiers, though indubitably dead, refused to be
buried. They had not had a fair deal from life and
they refused to go. This strike eventually ended the
war. The play has a certain stature, grimness and
pathos. Its treatment is stylised. It is written in
many short scenes set simultaneously on the stage
and picked out here and there by spotlights. The
play relies for its effectiveness on something more than
its argument. It has a concealed emotional appeal.
“Till the Day I Die” has already been played and
discussed in Australia. Read, it can be more coldly
analysed than when seen. It portrays the sufferings
inflicted by Nazis on a group of “underground” com-
munists in Berlin. It shows itself as a play of genuine
strength and sincerity, but over-emphatic and choked
in its own emotion. It overlooks its own greater part,
for it is most effective considered as a warning against
government by armed political absolutists, no matter
what social doctrines they profess.
The important thing about these three plays is
not the particular gospel each sets out to preach, but
the proof they offer that the drama to-day is in touch
with the problems of life, that it is aggressive and
alive.
Mary Borden's Pine Story.
Major Daviot, of the Twenty-first Lancaster
Dragoons, played poker for high stakes and his luck
was in. James Grant, .a bad loser who had been
drinking all the evening, accused him of cheating
and overturned the card-table. Sobered and a little
frightened by what he had done, Grant was about
to withdraw the charge, when Captain Bradford, also
of the Lancaster Dragoons, declared that he had seen
Major Daviot cheat not once but three times. The
host and other guests, all prominent men, persuaded
the furious major to take no legal action because of
the scandal it would pull down on themselves and
on his regiment, and because it would not be possible
for him to tell the truth in court. The truth was that
the captain had seized this chance of revenging him-
self on his senior officer because he knew that the
major was his wife’s lover. A soldier and a gentle-
man could not bring a lady’s name into court. Mrs.
Bradford, after divorcing two husbands and taking
numerous lovers, was still, technically, a respectable
woman, an object of chivalry. After a year, the story
of the poker game having got abroad and damaged
his reputation, Major Daviot took legal action against
James Grant and Captain Bradford.
That is the situation in Mary Borden’s new novel.
Action for Slander (Heinemann ; 7s. 6d.), and very
skilfully she handles it, expressing the very last drop
of interest and significance from it and working out
its ramifications in the lives of all concerned. The
book is a tour de force. The story is told again and
again from different angles without wearying the
reader; each telling reveals something new and
slowly builds up the character of Major Daviot. He
comes alive, and, with everything against him, wins
sympathy as he is “sucked down very slowly and
steadily into the mud.” This gradual illumination of
the central character saves the book from being either
just a sordid story or just a display of literary
virtuosity.
Mary Borden has always been a literary experi-
mentalist, but she has not, like so many experimenters,
allowed her skill to devour her art. Action for
Slander applies the technique of the detective novel
to a story whose only mystery is that of human
nature; but it does much more than that. Objective
and subjective treatment are alternated, and the two
(Continued on page 9.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and.
in every act.
‘THE SENIOR STORE."
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Hdlft yea rly.
SALE
SALE SPECIALS FOR THE SMALL FARMER
JS»
WESTON'S
Pattern
PULLEY
BLOCKS
346
BloB—The Sale en-
ables you to save con-
siderably on this neces-
sary item of farming
equipment. Weston’s
P attern Differential
Pulley Blocks, suitable
for various lifting pur-
poses. Complete with
40ft. chain, to lift 10
feet. (No guides.)
To lift, tons: \ 1
D rices, ea.: 37/6 457-
Sale Prices: 34/6 41/-
JOHN DEERE
CORN SHELLERS
ms-'- c~J
Blol—One of the most reliable one-
hole hand corn shellers made. Frame
is heavy angle steel, sides are of heavy
gauge galvanised steel. .
Price, each £7/1 57-
Sale Price £7
w
JOHN DEERE 2-HOLE
CORN SHELLER
dfrtfk f|s
BI 02 John Deere’s Two-hole Corn Sheller. Has
heavy angle steel frame and can be worked by hand
or engine power. Capacity, 25 to 35 bushels per
hour. Price .. £l6/17/6. Sale Price .. £l5
Elevator and bagging attachment extra.
10/- SCYTHE HANDLES
BI 03—Here’s an opportunity to
procure a dependable handle for
your Scythe at a considerable
saving. Made of selected timber by
Derby and Ball. Price, each . . 107-
Sale Price 7/6
7'6
29/6 IRON BARROWS
BI 05 A Barrow will facilitate jobs
in the garden and about the farm.
These are sturdily built with gal-
vanised tray, tubular pipe frame and
wrought iron wheel. Price . . 29/6
Sale Prce 26/6
" UNI ”
(Reg.)
HOSE
Blo9—We recommend “Uni” (Regd.)
Garden Hose for durability and long service.
Made expressly for us from the best black
rubber, it has proved satisfactory to
hundreds of our customers. Complete with
fittings. Half-inch diameter. Sold in
coils of 30ft. and 60ft. only.
Prices, each . . . 30ft., 18/- ; 60ft., 32/6
Sale Prices .... 30ft., 15/9; 60ft., 28/9
UN
1
MARK
TRADE
266
8/-
8104-
8.8. A. SHEEP SHEARS
-A pair of these should be on
every farm. 8.8-A- Sheep Shears
fitted with special “Stop Gap”
attachment and 7 Jin. double
hollow-ground blades.
Price, pair 8/-
73
Sale Price 7/3
27/6 "A” MODEL
PRESSURE
BUCKET
PUMP
HIGH
B 1 06 S uitable for
Spraying Lime Sulphur
and preparations based
on Liver of Sulphur,
Sulphoids, Emulsions,
Oils, Lime and White-
wash Sprays, etc. Dis-
infecting Dairies, Stables,
Fowlhouses, Piggeries, Stagnant Pools. Washing
Windows, Cars, Carts, etc. Equipment: J x 3-ply
Spray Hose and Brass Director to each model.
Nozzle: Patent Combination Bordeaux-Cyclone to
Models Al, A, and B. The well-known Bordeaux
to Model D.
Model “A 1” De Luxe. Price 31/6
Sale Price 29/-
Model “A” Standard. Price 27/6
Sale Price 25/6
Model “B” Junior Standard. Price 24/6
Sale Price 22/6
Model “D” General Purposes. Price 22/6
Sale Price 18/9
Brass throughout.
POMONAX"
PNEUMATIC
SPRAY PUMP
Blo7—One of the best
all-round spray pumps
for use in the orchard
and on the farm. The
“Pomonax” Pneumatic
Spray Pump is con-
structed to give satis-
faction through years of
service. Equipment in-
cludes brass tank of
capacity, hose,
lance and nozzle.
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR NEW SALE CATALOGUE
POST FREE !
Price, each £7
Sale Price £6
19/6 “BRICKFIELD” GARDEN
SEAT
© Agricultural—Fourth
Floor. Free delivery City
and Suburbs only.
Blolo—Enjoy the comfort of one of these Seats in your
garden . . . and buy it while these savings are available.
The “Brickfield,” constructed of selected timber and
fitted with a steel understay to ensure rigidity.
Sizes 4ft.
Prices, each 19/6
Sale Prices 18/-
6ft.
22/6
21/-
62/6 “TRIUMPH" SPECIAL
MOWER
12-INCH CUT
52e
BlOll—A high-grade lightweight Mower for those desir-
ing a dependable mower at a moderate price. The
“Triumph Special” is suitable for all types of grasses. With
self adjusting ball bearings, 1 Oin. drive wheel and five
cutter blades. Size of cut, 12in. Price, each .... 62/6
Sale Price 52/6


Two Men and a Goat
BRIDGET
BY
F. RHODIS FARMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
JAMES G. PHILLIPS.
RUSTY MICK and Billy
the Dog lived at oppo-
site ends of a limestone
hill, some five miles
from the little mining township of Hooley’s Luck.
Five years previously, after a ferocious argument as
to whether it was Tuesday or Wednesday, they had
turned their backs on each other. They had not
spoken since.
Billy the Dog was tall and spare, with piercing
grey eyes and a neatly-clipped grey beard ; his clothes
were always well patched and scrupulously clean, and
as for his corrugated-iron hut, no old maid could
have kept it cleaner.
Mick, on the other hand, lived in a sagging,
tumbledown shanty that he shared with a swarm of
cats and three mongrel dogs and some poultry. Mick
also owned a herd of goats ; and all day
long his little, eager figure could be
seen shuffling about the hill, every now
and again pausing and peering among
the low, thick scrub into the fissures
and potholes which covered the hill.
These holes were the bane of
Mick’s life. When he found a goat in
a hole he shambled off to his hut for
a rope, yelling excitedly to his dogs
for God’s sake to keep out of the way,
will yiz?
Billy detested goats. If Mick’s
goats came too near his hut he went
for them with a huge waddy he kept
especially for that purpose. Sometimes
he went purple in the face with rage
because, not being on speaking terms
with Mick, he could not, of course,
complain about the goats. Once when
an old nanny actually rubbed its horns
against his front doorpost Billy nearly
had a stroke. Even then he said nothing
to Mick.
THEN one morning as Billy came
from his hut he saw Mick running
in his direction as fast as he could put
his feet to the ground.
“Hi!” yelled Mick as soon as he
got out of the scrub. “Hi, you!”
Out of the corner of his eye Billy
watched Mick come closer and closer.
Surely he would stop short of actually
addressipg him! But, no. Mick came
to a halt in front of the hut.
“I’m at me wits’ end! ” he exclaimed, panting and
blowing. “Bridget’s down a crack, so she is!”
Billy felt his knees shake; his eyeballs twitched.
He glared at Mick.
“You’ve gone mad!” he croaked.
Mick took no notice of this remark ; he waved
his dirty paws in front of Billy’s nose.
“It’s me Bridget!” he cried distractedly. “She’s
disappeared, and there’s not the strength in me two
arms to fetch her up again.”
“You m-mean to say,” stuttered Billy incredu-
lously, “that one of your goats is down a hole?”
“Sure.”
“And you want me to give you a hand?”
“She’ll weigh quarter of a ton,” interjected Mick,
“and her down there on an empty stomach”-
“I will not!” shouted Billy, turning away.
“Will not what?”
“Give you a hand with your goat!”
“But she’s dyin’.”
“Might they all die!”
“And might you die, too, God’s curse on you!”
shrilled Mick, bobbing up and down with fury.
Billy again faced him. “Don’t you put God’s
curse on me”
“I’ll put more curses on you than St. Patrick did
the devil! Ye grey-bearded auld loon!”
“Say no more! Say no more!” roared Billy.
“It’s not too much I could say to a man would
see a dumb animal die!”
“A goat ain’t dumb,” retorted Billy.
“You’d see it starve to death, would yiz?”
“It ain’t my goat!”
“Sure, if your own mother was in a hole in the
ground” began Mick.
Billy’s eyes fell. He glared at the ground. The
big Adam’s apple on his skinny, hairy neck moved
rapidly up and down.
“All right,” he growled. “I’ll give youse a hand
—but on’y this once, mind!”
“May the dew of heaven bless ye!” exclaimed
Mick fervently. “Come this way now”...
MICK shuffled rapidly towards the little group of
messmate-trees near his hut. Calling to his red
cattle-dog lying stretched out in the sun, Billy strode
after him diagonally, as though not actually follow-
ing, staring across the plain that surrounded the hill.
He did not, however, see the huge expanse of gum-
trees and mulga-s, nor the little sharp hills that stuck
up here and there, nor towards the north a dry creek-
bed lined with pandanus. He was profoundly
agitated ; his pipe clattered against his teeth. A bloke
never knew what this might lead to.
Mick came to a halt under a messmate-tree.
“There she is!” he exclaimed, pointing eagerly.
“There’s Bridget, God help her!”
Billy saw a deep, narrow fissure; from its depths
peered the yellow eyes of a big nannygoat. The
goat in the semi-darkness looked positively diabolic.
Billy blinked his eyes uneasily.
“We’ll never get ’er out!” he muttered.
“Jez, it’s half-done already!” exclaimed Mick,
seizing hold of a rope. “See! It’s twitched to the
tree. The other end’s around St. Bridget. We’ll give
a heave”
“She’s a heavy goat,” objected Billy, fingering
his beard.
“For auld miners the like of us!”
cried Mick, taking a strain on the rope.
“She’ll be out like the cork out of a
bottle, so she will!”
Billy said nothing. He grimaced
as his flannel brushed the ragged clothes
of Mick.
“Now!” exclaimed Mick, spitting
first on to his right hand, then into the
hole. “One, two, three —heave-ho!"
A startled bleat was followed by
violent scufflings. Mick’s mongrels and
Billy’s cattle-dog began to race round
and round the hole, barking vocifer-
ously.
“Be quiet!” yelled Mick, snorting
and puffing. “She’s tighter than I
thought!” he gasped, and all at once
let go the rope. Billy, who was heaving
with might and main, only just saved
himself from pitching forward.
“Damme!” he roared, waving his
long, thin arms on the edge of the hole.
“You should’ve warned me!”
“Me strength gave!”
“What about me?”
“Me arm-sockets was breakin’ ”...
“There’s only one way to get up
that goat,” said Billy tersely.
“What’s that?”
“In joints!”
“Slaughter me Bridget!” gasped
Mick.
“It’s the on’y way.”
“I’ll see us dead first!” rejoined
Mick. “Now, listen, will yiz? I’ll
lower meself down the hole. Then I’ll rope poor
Bridget the way she won’t prod the sides with her
legs when we heave on her.”
SEIZING the rope, Mick was down in a twinkling.
“Throw down a rope, will ye?” he asked Billy,
very businesslike.
“Can ye truss a goat?” asked Billy, throwing
down a length of dirty, knotted rope.
“Huh! I’d truss a camel itself!”
Billy crouched down, his hands on the edge o
the fissure, watching.
“That ain’t the way! ” he exclaimed after a short
interval. “It’s the near forefoot and the off hind
foot”-^
Mick promptly dashed the rope the ground.
“If you can do better, come on down!
“I will,” grunted Billy. “I’ll show youse. T e
knot’s fast, ain’t it?”
Commencing in Next Week's "Bulletin,"
A Splendid New Australian Serial
By
VANCE PALMER.
" LEGEND FOR SANDERSON.”
ZCHE latest novel by one of Australia’s most outstanding writers. The
setting is North Queensland, in the sugarcane country and out fishing
along the Barrier Reef. It is the sort of setting that Vance Palmer is alone
in handling.
Life in the canefields, in the coastal town, along the waterfront and at
sea out to Barrier islets is superbly depicted. More clearly and completely
than anyone else has ever done it, better than he had hitherto done
it himself, Vance Palmer has captured in this new novel the color and
picturesqueness of life in the North.
Characters are excellent — fleetingly, the old Sanderson, once contractor,
employer of men, road-builder and Cabinet Minister; then, the novel’s
leading character, his son Neil, with the legend of his father’s not
unmixed reputation influencing his life; Neil’s older, sardonic companion
Besanck; the girls Freda and Myra and their effects upon the lives and
companionship of the two men ; and characters like the old boatbuilder,
“the woman at Cayley’s,” the journalist Corcoran. Equally with his
treatment of the Australian scene Vance Palmer depicts such characters
as these with complete sureness.
“Legend for Sanderson,” a fine, thoroughly Australian story, is
offered to Bulletin readers with complete confidence. It is a sterling story
that grows on the reader by reason of its truth.
IN NEXT WEEK'S "BULLETIN."


f as *' Why shouldn’t it be? Didn’t I run away
ni fourteen to be a sailor?”
f popped aghast as Billy, crashing to the bottom
1 , e h ° le > tended on- the broad of his back. The
rope s-end accompanied him.
‘Holy Mother!” cried Mick, totally aghast. “It’s
ourwe lg ht! h e we nt on, hovering over the glaring,
r^ a , ’f SS ° man - “The knot was for me own
weight ...
Billy took no notice. Slowly heaving himself to
ns eet he felt his weight first on one foot, then on
, C ° ler ' s hook the sand and pebbles out of his
teara. Then deliberately he turned to face Mick,
iiis fists were knotted.
Mick meanwhile had squeezed himself down one
end of the crevice as far as he could go.
inelv Cre Sno hones broke?” he remarked ingratiat-
“lt’s not your fault,” retorted Billy, breathing
eavi y, if there ain t! You and your —— goats!”
t , ,^ neant , no harm to yiz, Bill! Now, listen”...
11l not listen!” let out Billy in a roar. “We’ll
see who’s boss—me or your goats!” Slowly he
b f gan 1° advance °n Mick, rolling up the sleeves
of his flannel as he came.
Mick shrank back.
“Listen a minute”...
11l listen no more!” grunted Billy.
T3-n° U got *° ! isten! ” cr ted Mick despairingly.
Billy, continuing to advance grimly, made no
reply.
“But we can’t get out!” shrilled Mick at the
of his voice. “We’re trapped, I’m telling yiz!”
Billy came to a halt.
Trapped!” he repeated. He glanced at the steep,
polished limestone walls. His voice dropped.
Y mean there’s no way out?”
Thats it,” rejoined Mick, coming boldly out
of his crevice. “It’s what I’m tellin’ yiz, ye auld
baboon!”
“Well, what the hell”
Let me think now,” interrupted Mick, running
both hands through his shock of rusty hair. “Maybe
ye could lift me out wid your height.”
Maybe I could,” agreed Billy hopefully. “Here,
give us a holt of you!”
TEN minutes later Billy was again shaking dust and
1 pebbles out of his beard.
Two foot short!” he muttered.
“Two foot!” repeated Mick, gazing wistfully at
the hard, distant sapphire sky. “Like bein’ in a grave,
ain’t it?”
Billy gave a shudder. “Wish I’d brought my
pouch!” And then, after a long pause, “You reckon
there’s no other way out?”
Mick shook his head.
“Ain’t I been pullin’ goats out of here for
years? It’s me worst hole!”
Standing together, backs against the limestone
wall, the two old men continued to stare fixedly at
the sky.
“Where’s the goat?” asked Billy suddenly.
“If T didn’t ferget her intirely! ” cried Mick with
a start. He began to search energetically along the
bottom of the fissure. “I can’t set eyes on ’er,” he
added in a puzzled voice.
“Maybe there’s a cave beyond,” suggested Billy.
“Oh! She’ll be pokin’ after a few leaves. Trust
Bridget! She’ll keep the life in her.”
“More like keep the life in us,” retorted Billy
grimly.
“What d’ye mean?”
“We’ll eat her.”
“Eat Bridget!”
“It’s her or us.”
“I’ll no’ touch a hair of her!”
“Wait till yer hungry.”
“Ye murtherin’ auld spalpeen!” spluttered Mick.
“It’s her brought us to this, don’t forget.”
“How about yourself, wantin’ to truss the poor
baste”...
“There’s leaves and twigs,” went on Billy impas-
sively, “to make a fire. She’ll keep us alive a long
time, will that goat.”
Mick raised one small, clenched, quivering fist.
“You say another word”
He stopped as a remarkable change came over
Billy’s face. His jaw dropped. His nostrils quivered.
His eyes all but started from his head. At last he
slowly raised one long, skinny arm.
“Look!” he croaked. “Look at that!”
Mick, iooking up sharply, encountered over the
rim of the crevice the yellow, supercilious gaze of
P idget herself. He could scarcely believe his eyes.
“Be jiggery!” he whispered. “She’s out! It’s a
miracle, so it is!”
At his words Bridget, with a toss of her horns,
disappeared from view.
A miracle, thats what it is!” repeated Mick
firmly, taking off his hat.
Billy, with one raking, scornful glance, rammed
his hat more firmly on his head.
“Miracle!” he growled. “Then you wait for
another blasted miracle. I’m following the goat!”
He turned on his heel. At the end of the fissure
he had noticed an oblong, ragged-edged slot, and,
lowering himself carefully on to his hands and knees,
he insinuated his long, creaking figure into this open-
ing. He crawled into pitch darkness, but a moment
later, progressing cautiously, he saw ahead of him
the faint loom of daylight. A few minutes later, find-
ing himself in a small, dim, sandy-bottomed cave,
Billy crawled out into the fierce light of day.
He got stiffly to his feet, blinking rapidly, and
carefully brushed the sand off the knees of his mole-
skins ; then calling his old cattle-dog he stalked
moodily off to his own hut. He did not once look
behind him.
HOW THEY GOT OUT
By CUATRO.
/.
44 |" ROTTEN thing shot. Never rose an inch. And
the one before got up miles over my head —
I \ did you see it? Putrid bowling, too. Look
Jat that another shooter. Lucky for old
George it wasn’t straight. The wicket’s positively
dangerous. In fact, between you and me, I’m not at
all sorry to be out. Not at all sorry”...
11.
“In front? Of course I was. No harm in getting
in front when the ball pitches outsidb the off-stump—
not with a proper umpire. .Broke a yard if it broke
an inch. You ask old George when he comes out.
Look here—l stepped across like this”...
111.
“Well, I know it wasn’t my call, and old George
was quite right not to come if he didn’t want to,
though we had tons of time. And if the umpire gives
you out you’re out and that’s all there is to it. But
I was back all right. In by yards. Of course if I
hadn’t had my bat down —but I did. Suppose this is
the crease and this is my bat”...
IV.
“Didn’t get a sight of the ball from the moment
it left the bowler’s hand. It’s absolutely impossible
against those trees you ask old George when he
comes out. Why they don’t have a proper bowling
screen’s a mystery to me. Might as well bat in the
dark. Don’t you see, when a chap’s bowling round
the wicket, like this, with his arm out”...
V.
“Off my pads. Old George’ll tell you that.
Fourth time running I’ve been out like that. When
a man’s bowled off his pads they ought to put it down
in the score-book. Just grazed the right pad and
then just grazed the leg-stump”...
VL
“Never touched the thing. Why, it was so wide
I don’t believe I could have reached it if I’d tried.
You should have seen old George’s face when he
heard the decision. There may have been a click, but
a wisp of grass or anything can make that. You must
go by the sight. Of course I’m not complaining. It’s all
in the game. But it does make me laugh”...
VII.
“Bowled —stumped—caught—hit ball twice — I
don’t know. I was given out, so I’ve come out. Wait
and see what old George has to say. All I know is
I carefully let the ball alone and the umpire’s hand
went up. Ask him. Ask the groundsman. Ask the
station-master. He’ll know as much as anyone”...
VIII.
“Bump ball, my dear fellow. Bump ball. Why
don’t they appeal against old George for bump balls?
I’m not making excuses. But it stands to reason
that if you hold your bat at this angle and hit the
ball like this —on to the ground and then point
catches it — are you out?”
IX.
“Hit my wrist. Look—on the bone here. I can
feel it now”...
X.
“Well, I’m really not a batsman, so it doesn’t
matter ; but if I were I should be annoyed. I mean,
when the ball rebounds off the wicketkeeper’s pads
and you’re given out bowled”
i 1 OOD old George! Well played, George! I
Vs ~-* say, George! You know that ball of mine
You know that ball of mine You know that
ball of mine”
“She’ll be out like the cork out of a bottle.”


On the Road
DARKIE
BY
CON DREW
DRAWINGS BY SCORFIELD.
jr\ BOUT six months after the Burns-Johnson
f \ slaughter I was workin’ off a little steam one
I mornin’ with the punchin’-ball in Peter Ryan’s
Pitt-street gym when in floats Sam Thompson.
Sam was the youngest showman in the boxin’ business,
and could take more than his own part in a scrap
if necessary. I’d thought he was away in the country
with a team of boxers, and told him so.
“I was,” said Sam, “but I was called back in a
hurry. I left the team in Singleton. They’ll be eatin’
their heads off, I suppose.”
“Bad luck,” says I.
“It is bad luck,” says Sam, “unless you can come
to the rescue.”
“Me?” says I, kind of surprised.
“Yes, you,” Sam come back. “That’s why I’ve
been huntin’ the town to find you. My business will
keep me here about two weeks, but in the meantime
I want you to go to Singleton, collect the team and
the horse-wagon and take them out on the road.’
He pulls a sheet of paper out of his pocket and
gives me a bird’s-eye view of a tour he s got mapped
out. “You’ll be workin’ parallel with the railway
all the time,” he winds up, “and when I finish me
business here I’ll jump aboard the rattler and catch
you up. We’ll share fifty-fifty of the spoils. Is it a
bet?”
“Well, seein’ that you’re in a bit of a jamb, I
suppose it’ll have to be,” says I, “although I’d been
reckoning on havin’ a spell for
a time.”
“You’ll have plenty of time
to hit the high spots when you
come back,” Sam answers. “I’ll
wire the boys to meet you in
Singleton.” He yanked a roll of
notes from his pocket and handed
me five tenners. “You can look
out for me in about two weeks’
time,” says he ; an’ with that he
ducks away.
WELL, to dispense with the
harrowin’ details, I took the
rattler to Singleton, collected the
team and the horse-wagon, and
off we sailed.
There was six boxers in the
lay-out, includin’ a heavy called
Smasher Malone. Smash wasn’t
a high card in the fistic game, but
he had the necessary punch to
skittle the come-ons, and he was
game as most of ’em. He didn’t
get much chance to show his,
ability, though. We hadn’t been
on the road more than a week
when I seen that the trip was
goin’ to be a washout.
Talk about that hoodoo tour
1 took with Thumper Rogers! It
was only a joke compared with
the one we were on. The route
we follered took us through
the cocky country, and we showed to practically
empty houses. All those blokes seemed to think of
was pigs, ploughs, pumpkins and pertaters. If we d
been travellin’ with a patent plough or a marvel per-
tater-peeler we’d have filled the tent every night. It
was enough to make a man join the Rainmakers
Union.
The further we went the worse it got. We might
have been showin’ in the middle of the Sahara Desert
for all the coin we snared.
After two weeks of this my gold reserve began
to get low, but I kept me heart up by thinkin’ that
Sam would be with us in two or three days. But the
two or three days went past and extended
to a week and still there was no sign of
Sam. I sent him a wire at Wallo and pushed
on to Began.
At Began they almost shooed us away,
so we pulled out without showing and took
the road again. I’d heard that Balzo was
a good show town, so we made tracks for
there. We just cleared exes, at Balzo and
made towards the Queensland border. We
were in a pretty bad way when, after bein’
four weeks on the road all told, we lumbered
into a fairly big town called Goongin and
pitched the tent on a vacant allotment a
block away from the post office.
THE people at Goongin had more of the
city touch about them than the wire-
whiskered gents we had been dealin’ with,
so when I lined my boys up on the board that night
I expected to do a fair business. What 1 didn’t know
was that a snide boxin’ show had passed through the
town about two weeks previous and had left a nasty
taste in the mouths of the locals.
When I started to introdooce the team to the
crowd a couple of Flash Alecks kept interjectin’.
There was a lot of horseplay goin’ on, too. You’ll
bump that sort of thing in almost any crowd, so I
didn’t take much notice ; but after a while it got a
bit too hot.
“What sort of mugs do you take us for?” yelled
a big, dark-headed gent, at the back of the crowd when
I was introdoocin’- Smasher. “That ain’t Smasher
Malone.”
“Oh, ain’t it?” says I. “Who says so?”
“I do,” says the bloke, stepping forward. “I
seen Smasher Malone boxin’ at the Sydney Stadium,
and your chap ain’t a bit like him.”
“Is that so?” says I, sarcastic. “You wouldn’t
like to step in the ring with him and prove that he
ain’t the dinkum Smasher?”
“Go on, Darkie! ” yelled the crowd. “Have ago
at him! ” I heard later that this bird Darkie, as they
called him, had only been in the town a few days, but
had made a bit of a name for himself as a scrapper.
He looked the part, too. He had a pretty solid chin,
and I noticed that one of his ears was slightly cauli-
flowered. Still and all he didn’t show any urgent
desire to rush into the ring with Smash.
“What do I get out of fightin’ with that bloke?”
he says in answer to the crowd. I ain t ere for the
good of me health.”
► “You’ll earn a fiver if you stay three rounds
with him,” says I.
“A fiver!” sneers Darkie. “I could earn that
much in a prelim.”
“You could earn a lot more if you were game to
bet,” I come back. “I’ll bet you a tenner that you
can’t stay three rounds with him, and I’ll throw in an
extra fiver if you do.”
The crowd was well worked up by this time and
they jollied him along. “Go on, Darkie! ” they yelled.
“Call his bluff!”
The dark bloke was silent, and I put in my run.
“He ain’t above sayin’ that my boxer here ain’t
Smasher Malone,” says I to the crowd, “but when he
is offered a chance to prove his words he does a
crawfish:”
Everyone looked at Darkie, and he seemed a bit
(Continued on next page)
Smasher unloaded a terrific right hook.


upset. “I ain’t no crawfish,” he said after a while,
“but I ain’t got a tenner.”
A tall chap who I was told was the local
auctioneer stepped forward. “I’ll back this man to
stay three rounds with your bruiser under the condi-
tions named,” he said, and handed me a tenner.
WELL, there ain’t no need for me to tell you that
there was a wild scramble for the tent. We jambed
them in so tight that after we’d squeezed the last
man in we could hardly get in ourselves. Darkie
prepared for the debate by pullm oft his shirt and
singlet. He was a well-built bloke, and the muscles
at the back of his shoulders denoted solid hittin
power. I appointed meself as referee, of course. As
a concession to the auctioneer I put him on as time-
keeper. When everything was ready I gave the signal
to commence.
Gripes! Whatever else might have been said
about Darkie’s ability as a scrapper, he was certainly
willing. In a bound he was across the ring and nailed
Smasher on the side of the head with a solid right-
hand wallop. My bloke countered with a left hook,
but it lahded too high to do much damage. Darkie
shook his head and sailed in again. This time
Smasher was ready for him, and sent him scuttling
backwards with a beautiful left to the dial. It nettled
the dark bloke, and he rushed at Smasher with both
arms goin’ like steam engines.
In a mix-up near our corner Smasher got jambed
with his back agen the ropes and the crowd nearly
took the roof off the tent.
“Give it to him, Darkie!” they yelled. “You’ve
got him where you want him. Give it to him good
and hard.”
Darkle didn t need any tellm to step on it. Twice
with mighty right hooks he would have skittled
Smasher if my boy hadn t kept his chin well covered.
Smasher managed to get clear at last and the affray
drifted to the middle of the ring with both men sloggin’
for all they’re worth. It was bad policy on Darkie’s
part, of course, for he should have let Smasher do
all the work. Instead he made the pace a regular
cracker, and all the time the crowd was eggin’ him on.
The end came when there was about half a
minute of the round left to go. Darkie was pepperin’
Smasher around the ring when, all of a sudden, my
bloke feinted at Darkie’s bread-basket, Darkie fell
into the trap and doubled up to dodge the blow. That
brought his head well forward, and Smasher unloaded
a terrific right hook. It seemed to catch Darkie fair
on the side of the jaw, and ten seconds later the
auctioneer had counted him out.
All my life I’ve been mixed up with boxin’, but
I never seen a more disappointed crowd. They walked
out of the tent without sayin’ a word, and Darkie
we nt with them,
(
1 KNEW we had captured all the coin we were likely
1 snare ; that d so we packed up our gear
, ha , , h , and made read (or an ear] start in the
morn j n ’
’
About a mile from the town next day a man
s f e PPed out from behind a bush on the roadside and
signalled for us to stop. It was Smasher s opponent
°‘ P rev i° us night, and I pulled up the wagon,
“Jump in, Sam,” says I. “You were a long time
cornin’, but you saved the situation.”
“My business kept me longer in Sydney than I
expected,” says Sam. “You can branch off here to
Inverell. They tell me that’s a slap-up show town.”
Haggles the Ratcatcher
TAILS
BY
G.C.B.
ILLUSTRATED BY LOCK.
\“PVHEN Mr.
\A/ Wallis ’ the
V V town clerk,
went on ’olidays
’is place was took by
Mr. Quirk, one of the young
clerks, and first day he takes
over he starts. to find fault with
me. “Mr. Wallis seems to ’ave been
rather lax with you, Raggles,” he sez.
“I can’t find no records of the number
of rats caught. Don’t you furnish a report?”
“It ain’t necessary, Mr. Quirk,” I sez. J
“And it ain’t possible neither. Why, if you tallied
up the number of rats I keeps down in a year it
would run into millions.”
“Wot rot! ” he ses, sharp.
“It’s like this, Mr. Quirk,” I ses, patient. “Rats
is old-fashioned animals and they ’ave old-fashioned
families. When two rats starts their ’appy ’ome, as
the sayin’ is, they ’ave little ’uns thick and fast; and
in no time the little ’uns leave ’ome and starts ’omes
of their own ; so if I catch the first two”
“All right,” he puts in, “I ain’t interested in rats’
domestic arrangements. I just want to know exactly
’ow many you catch each day. Bring me in a report
every night, startin’ from to-night. I ain’t sure the
council needs a permanent ratcatcher.”
“Very well,” I ses. “Just as you say, Mr. Quirk.”
“One minute, Raggles,” he ses as I turns. “I want
you to bring me the tails of the rats you catch.”
“The tails!” I ses, very slow. “That’s goin’ to
be awkward, Mr. Quirk. Very awkward.”
“’Ow’s that?” he ses.
“ ’Ave you tried carryin’ dead rats about without
their tails?” I ses quietly.
“You’ll ’ave to get used to it,” he ses. “I want
them tails brought in every night, understand? That’s
all. Get about your work now.”
A S luck would have it, I didn’t do too good that
'*• day, and when I lays four tails on Mr. Quirk’s
desk that evenin’ he nods to ’imself in a way I didn’t
like. I ’ad eight tails for ’im next day, but three of
my pet rats at ’ome was tryin’ to grow new ones.
And then, as I watched Mr. Quirk carefully
puttin’ them tails in a little box, I begins to wonder
wot he wants ’em for. He wasn’t the sort of bloke
to collect things just for the sake of ’avin’ ’em ; and
suddenly it dawns on me that I ’ad read somewhere
a long time ago that rats’ tails ’ave a valuable oil in
them wot’s good for rheumatics or some such com-
plaint ; and the more I thinks over it the surer I am
that Mr. Quirk is experimentin’ with that oil.
Somehow or other Mr. Quirk’s name come up
in the bar of the Shelterin’ Palm that night, and no
one there ’ad a good word to say for ’im. Bert
'Pilcher says he’s stuck-up, and McNeil, the publican,
says he only got the job relievin’ Mr. Wallis because
he’s engaged to Alderman Pomfrey’s daughter.
“I can’t stand ’im and ’is airs,” ses McNeil,
severe. “Comes into the saloon sometimes with ’is
nose in the air and ’as one drink— one, mind you!
and stalks out as if he’s spent quids. I’ve never known
’im to shout a man a drink in ’is life —never!”
It ain’t my nature to stand by and ’ear any man
talked about behind ’is back, so I tells ’em straight
that Mr. Quirk ain’t such a bad chap as they think.
“He’s a smart young feller, too,” I ses, warmin’
up. “I ’appen to know that he’s spendin’ all ’is spare
time experimentin’ with a cure for rheumatics.”
“Wot’s that?” ses old Gribble, ’obblin’ over on
’is sticks. “Rheumatics?”
“Yes,” I ses. “From wot I’ve ’eard about this
cure it’s wonderful. Makes old fellers like you wot’s
’arf dead ’op about like kids.”
They was all curious, and kept askin’ me about
this wonderful cure, but I tells ’em that Mr. Quirk was
the man to ask. They was still talkin’ about it when
I left, and old Gribble was ’obblin’ round the bar
askin’ everyone where Mr. Quirk lived.
WHEN I goes up to the office next evenin’ I passes
old Ma Parker on ’er way out. She’s about eighty,
and she’s been a martyr to rheumatics for about ’arf
that time, and from the savage look of ’er just then
they seemed to be troublin’ ’er more than ever. But
when I gets inside Mr. Quirk looks just as savage.
“The ’ole town’s gone mad! ” he ses. “There’s
been people cornin’ in ’ere all day askin’ me to cure
their blasted rheumatics. Where the devil
did they get the idea that I can cure
rheumatics? Wot do they think I am —
a faith ’ealer or wot?”
“I’m sorry you’ve been troubled, Mr.
Quirk,” I ses. “Very sorry. I s'pose I’ve
'ad something to do with it. You see, sir,
1 guessed wot you was doin’ with them
tails I’ve been ’elpin’ you to collect.”
“Wot?” he ses, starin’. “ ’Elpin’ me
to Wot are you talkin’ about?”
“But you are gettin’ the oil out of
them tails to cure rheumatics?” I ses, sur-
prised.
“Oil!” he ses, ’is eyes bulgin’. “Rheu-
matics! ’Ave you gone mad too?”
“I appear to ’ave been mistook, Mr.
Quirk,” I ses. “But naturally I thought
that was wot you was doin’. If I’adn’t
felt so sure I wouldn’t ’ave mentioned it
up at the Shelterin’ Palm. Blest if 1 can think wot
else you wanted them tails for.”
“Oil from rats’ tails!” ses Mr. Quirk in a faint
voice. “Great Scott! They’ll think I’m mad! No
wonder everyone was starin’ at me to-day. Wot will
old Pomfrey think? Wot will Miss Pom”
He stops, ’is face workin’ with temper. “So
that’s your game, eh?” he ses. “You’ve made me the
laughin’-stock of the town. You’ll suffer for this,
you—you”
“No, I ’aven’t, Mr. Quirk,” I puts in quietly.
“It’s nothin’ to be ashamed of. And as it ’appens I
’aven’t mentioned where I thought you was gettin’
the oil from.”
“Wot’s that?” he ses, quick. “You haven’t said
nothin’ about —about rats’ tails, you mean?”
“Not a word,” I ses. “I ’aven’t even told no one
yet that I’m ’elpin’ you to save them tails. But I’m
sorry you ain’t experimentin’ with the oil, Mr. Quirk.
There’s ’undreds of people would give anything to be
cured of rheumatics. It will be a awful disappoint-
ment to ’em when I tells ’em I’ve made a mistake.”
“We all make mistakes, Raggles,” he ses,
speakin’ quite civil. “You’d better tell ’em about
yours as soon as possible. We don’t want to raise no
more false ’opes in them pore sufferers. And—er—
you needn’t mention nothin’ about rats’ tails.”
“I know!” I ses, struck by a sudden idea. “Sup-
pose you let me keep them tails and do a bit of
experimentin’?”
Mr. Quirk gives a little gasp and looks at me as
though he’s seein’ me for the first time.
“Very well, Raggles,” he ses, very slow.
“Right,” I ses. “I’ll go straight up to the Shel-
terin’ Palm and tell ’em my mistake.” And then I
remembers. “No,” I ses. “I’m sorry, Mr. Quirk, but
I can’t manage it to-night. I’m broke. I’ll ’ave to
wait till payday.”
Mr. Quirk made a chokin’ noise in ’is throat ;
but ten minutes later I was able to tell McNeil that
he was wrong about Mr. Quirk never shoutin’ a drink
for no one.


’T—;
!' y r %
mm.
mm
■ ■ :
': £
i: :
:■
SSSSS
l
5050-i Z-6


methods a£t and react on each other, tightening and
relaxing the tension of the story, showing it from
within and from without. The book begins in court,
the reader picks up the situation from the evidence ;
as bare and gaunt a method of narration as can be
attempted. Then the story is retold subjectively
through the minds of the chief actors. The style is
now pliant and suggestive, half in and half out of
the stream-of-consciousness method of narration.
Suppose you were slow-witted and very thin-skinned,
the sort of inarticulate fool who cares rather more than
most men for his friends, but who can never show what
he feels, and suppose you have exaggerated notions
about honor and what’s called your good name, and
loyalty among friends, and then suppose your friends
let you down when men call you a cheat in their
presence, tell you you’d better swallow it, tell you you’d
better do nothing about it, wouldn’t you be likeiy to
think they doubted you? And if you thought that,
would you want to see them again?
This informal style can, in the mass, become
very convincing. It circles slowly round and round,
revealing complexity within complexity.
In its last section the book returns to the law
court. Out of the tangle, of which the Judge and
jury, with their private thoughts and prejudices, have
now become a part, comes justice ; a justice that is
not only literal but poetic, and the reader closes the
book with a feeling of satisfaction.
Implicit in the story is an indictment of Society—
Society with a large S. Mary Borden depicts a world
in which values have gone astray, where a class code
is everything and morality nothing, and because of
this disparity scandal is a mighty weapon.
English Period Piece.
There was a time when an advance in novel
technique was an advance in the novel ; to-day, when
there are so many well-written, competently stage-
managed, neatly-turned novels, skill is becoming
merely a modern convenience like the typewriter.
Technical perfection has been achieved so often and
so mechanically that it no longer stimulates either
the reader or the writer; and so it is possible to read
Doris Leslie’s Fair Company (The Bodley Head ; Bs.
6d.) with no more than polite acquiescence in the
existence of still one more long, deftly-handled
romance.
It is a chronicle novel, something in the manner
of Clemence Dane’s Broome Stages, covering the years
from 1806 to the death of George V. It tells the
life stories of four women: Sabrina, who from a
rebellious ragamuffin lived through love, Waterloo
and a great many other things to be ninety, the child-
less matriarch of the Wrothams ; Clare, who could
manage life very adequately and so got least from
it; Charlotte, who loved, suffered and survived, like
Sabrina; and Lillian Rose, who was defeated and
died by aeroplane in 1934.
It is a very feminine book, and the gentlemen
are, generally speaking, hardly used. A fine tapestry
woven by delicate fingers, it has a subtly-contrived
pattern with a recurring Romeo-and Juliet motif and
a great deal of period bric-a-brac. The colors are
pastel, with here and there a bright splash—like old
Jess Pinkerton’s spiced Regency talk—to save it from
insipidity.
Behind the story of the Wrotham women and
their male appendages the public events of 130 years
are lightly pencilled in—all a little rarified and dandi-
fied. Chartism, Waterloo, Victoria’s accession, the
Crimean War, the 1870 exhibition, Oscar Wilde ; all
move slowly on toward the Great War in their
appointed order. Fair Company is also a veritable
museum of fashions. We see the beginnings of the
phonograph, of Gilbert and Sullivan, of the police
force, cigarettes and suffragrettes, the first waltz, the
first bachelor girl and the latest Mae West story. We
witness the great transition:
The sex novel had replaced the love story, and “the
woman who did” was acclaimed by the women who
didn’t.
Fair Company has so much and yet is—nothing.
Margaret Kennedy's New Novel.
Years ago Margaret Kennedy leaped into fame
with The Constant Nymph, and she has been leaping
into much the same place ever since. Her consider-
able following of admirers expect her to give them
at fairly frequent intervals well-made books seasoned
with wit and leavened with the brand of originality
that she has made conventional. Her new novel,
Together and Apart (Cassell; Angus and Robertson;
7s. 6d.), is about people who are “amusing and well-
bred, not rich but decently well off.” We feel that
we have heard everything possible about such people,
but Margaret Kennedy gives her material a little
twist of her own, and what she has to say about them
may not be very feasible, but it is certainly a little
different.
Betsy and Alec Canning reach middle-age and
the doldrums. Divorce is in the air, so they have
one. It was to have been a well-managed divorce,
friendly and sensible, bujt somehow it did not turn
out like that. It got out of hand, and they were both
very much surprised by the crudity of their reactions.
Later, when they had each married someone else —
Alec a beautiful but stupid girl, Betsy a plain but
philanthropic peer—they discover that there had been
no real need for the divorce after all. With great
self-restraint Miss Kennedy refrains from killing off
the unwanted spouses, and leaves Alec and Betsy
making the best of the beds they have, with so
much toil, trouble and excitement, made for them-
selves.
The real interest of the book is in the Canning
children, Kenneth, Eliza and Daphne, especially Eliza,
“fat, hopeful, earnest Eliza,” who “thought that it
would be interesting to have a broken heart. In fact,
she sometimes felt as if she could hardly wait to be
grown up to have one.” The little girl is charming,
and the passage where she discovers the new-born
baby, her half-brother, has genuine tenderness and
beauty. As Eliza grows up and becomes beautiful
she becomes less interesting. The book ends with a
new beginning. Eliza and her young soldier arrange
their lives. He is going to be a Leader, and, as an
apprenticeship, in order to achieve “the common
touch/’ he is serving for three years as a private
soldier. He is rich, but they decide to live in penury
on six hundred a year. He has decided also to marry
young to “settle the problem of women in his life.”
The author manages to be ironic and tenderly serious
at one and the same time.
Margaret Kennedy has thriven on just this sort
of paradox. Her star turn is always the portrait of
a hard-boiled innocent. Tessa, the constant nymph,
hangs like an albatross round her neck. Tessa has
had many descendants, the most effective being
Semma in Escape Me Never. Joy, Alec’s second wife,
belongs to the tradition, but she does not wear well.
Eliza has a touch of it. The character is, in fact,
divided between them, and neither is completely
“Nymph,” though both in separate ways suggest her.
Margaret Kennedy can always be trusted to express
herself with point and wit, and many of the details
of Together and Apart are very well executed.
Short Story Competition.
Entries for The Bulletin £55 short story com-
petition came with a rush during the two closing
weeks. A rough count makes the total approximately
900!
That being about twice as many as the highest
guess estimated, it will necessarily be some weeks
before the prize-winners can be announced. Entries
have been read as fast as possible as they came to
hand, but more than half remain to be read.
All entries that have already been published will,
of course, have as good a chance of winning as any
in the still unread stack. Also, all entries selected for
publication will be paid for at Bulletin rates irre-
spective of whether or not they share in the prize-
money.
First prize is £3O, second £l5 and third £5, with
a special prize of £5 for the best brief story, it to
have an equal chance with any other of taking one
of the first three prizes as well.
American Historical Romance.
If, as his publisher assures us, Kenneth Roberts
is “acknowledged as the foremost historical novelist
of America,” we have proof that the heart of that
great continent is still young. Roberts’s latest book,
Arundel (The Bodley Head; Bs. 6d.), is in the im-
mortal tradition of Fenimore Cooper, with just a dash
of Evangeline. It is a long, very solid book, full of
excursions and discussions.
Its actual story is slight and romantic. On his
twelfth birthday in 1759 Steven Nason, son of the
blacksmith-innkeeper of Arundel, meets a golden-
haired little t girl of 10, Mary Mallinson, and they
plight their innocent troth. But next day Mary’s
father is murdered and Mary kidnapped by a sinister
stranger and his party of Indians. Steven goes with
his father to attempt a rescue, but Captain Guerlac
de Sabrevois, for that is the sinister stranger’s name,
gets clean away with his prize. Steven grows up,
but he does not forget Mary, and his dearest hope
is to find her again. Sometimes he hears an echo of
news —Mary is in France, she is back in Quebec,
she is passing as sister of De Sabrevois. It is to find
Mary that he joins Arnold’s ill-fated expedition
against Quebec. One girl marches with the army
and shares all its hardships with unfailing courage.
This is Phcebe, Steven’s “intimate enemy” from child-
hood. In Quebec, at a desperate risk, Steven finds
his phantom Mary, but she is utterly changed, and
rescue is the last thing she wants. The end of the
book can be safely left to the imagination.
The story is systematically filled out by a wealth
of detail—a picture of log-cabin days, much wood
lore, stories of the Red Indians, full-length portraits
of casual characters, disquisitions on the political
situation —all delivered in extenso and with a certain
solid zest and conviction that every word is worth
writing and will be of interest. It is of interest. The
story goes slowly and with many halts, but the halts
are more interesting than the story.
The tale of Arnold’s expedition is the backbone
of the book. The record of that long march through
wild country of the ill-equipped army, starving,
frozen, betrayed but somehow struggling on to be
exterminated before Quebec, is admirably done. It
is a genuine historical reconstruction, and it rings
true. It is a pity that Roberts is not more historian
and less novelist, for it is in the narration of actual
happenings and in the portraiture of living char-
acters that the value of the book lies. He even regales
us now and then with one of those historical tit-
bits that have become the mainstay of the most
modern biographers, as, for instance, his explanation
of Washington’s grim mouth:
General Washington spoke through tight lips, which
made him seem a little angry, though I learned later he
compressed his lips to prevent his teeth from slipping or
clacking, they being badly fitted to his mouth and there-
fore insecure.
The Red Indians play an important part in the
book. It goes out of its way again and again to
vindicate their loyalty, honesty and intelligence.
Arundel appears to be the fourth and most remote
of a series of linked novels moving backwards into
American history. Its predecessors are Rabble in
Arms, The Lively Lady and Captain Caution.
Ivory Poacher.
Ivory Poaching and Cannibals in Africa , by
J. T. Muirhead (Macmillan ; 10s. 6d. net), published
in 1933, is forwarded from Africa for review. It is
an autobiographical account of its author’s adven-
tures from leaving Maoriland late last century—a
taste of Boer War, some diamond digging, general
knocking about South Africa, and tusk and other
hunting through the heart of that continent. Most
of it was in the days before animals were rationed,
as they now are, so many to each hunter, and the
physical school of writers can go along, in proper
season, collect their bag and in due course write a
highly-colored book about it, after the style of the
last Hemingway. Muirhead has had enough adven-
tures to fill a dozen such books ; he sets them down
as an unvarnished account without much exploiting
their dramatic possibilities.
He has seen as many as 823 elephants migrating
together, has had white-ants half-eat his blankets off
him in one night’s sleeping in the open (this must
have impressed him ; he mentions it more than once),
has had a lioness leap by him so close that a claw
left a scratch across his face, has thought nothing of
doing 1000 miles on foot in a hunt, and has ended
up safe, but convinced that “you are bound to get
killed sooner or later if you continue long after
elephant.” He has gathered that hippos, and crocs,
nevei. interfere with one another, that elephants dis-
tinguish the white man from the black as their real
enemy and charge accordingly, and that baboons can
count up to two but no more; if two men go into
a field and one leaves the baboons know there’s one
left, but if three go in and two leave the babs. think
the coast s clear, and walk in. Much such lore and
some good plain accounts of hunting come out in the
simply-recorded story. Africa being a very remark-
able place, the reader can make what he will of such
matters as this:
/ noticed the skeleton of a croc, jammed in a
forked tree, and on making inquiries from the natives
of the district was told that a croc, sometimes got
hold of an elephant’s trunk when they were drinking.
Some of the other elephants would then seize the croco-
dile, while others split a forked tree and held it open.
The croc, was then carried and dropped in. Then the
elephants let go both sides of the fork, which, when
closing, gripped the croc, and he was unable to get out.
Reviewed Briefly.
GENERAL . . .
A Chronicle of English Literature : S. P. B. Mais
(Heinemann ; 7s. 6d. net). As happy an introduction as
anyone could desire. In brief chapters the author
pleasantly converses on all the writers of note, giving
personal pictures of them, his pick of the best work
of each and a sample or two of that work.
This is not a comprehensive history. It is a record
only of the best authors, and only of the best work
of the best authors. A writer is no more at his best
all his life than a tennis champion or a runner is.
At the end there is a list of recommended books that
makes an excellent small library.
FICTION ...
Housemaster, by lan Hay (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), begins:
“All over. You may remove yourself now.”
Mr. Donkin restored the cane to its residence in the
locked cupboard below the study window. The very
young gentleman addressed, Master Bimbo Faringdon,
was at the moment occupying two chairs simultaneously.
These were set back to back in the middle of the study,
and Bimbo was kneeling on a Liddell and Scott laid
upon the one with his head well down upon the seat of
the second, his slender form thus presenting the maxi-
mum surface for chastisement.
Upon hearing his housemaster’s words, Bimbo gave
a resolute gulp, straightened himself painfully and
descended from his lexicographical perch. The Moke
had only given him a quick five, but the Moke was an
experienced and conscientious performer over any
distance.
“Did it hurt?” enquired Mr. Donkin, his back
turned. He possessed more tact that his House gave
him credit for.
“Yes, sir,” replied Bimbo, applying clandestine mas-
sage.
And in this vein Housemaster continues for 320
pages. It is lan Hay’s fifteenth novel and, the pub-
lisher states, 2,800,000 copies of his books have been
sold.
“Vailima”: After waiting 30 years for a copy
to turn up, the Mitchell Library, Sydney, has acquired
one of the rarest items among what are known as
Stevensoniana. It is entitled:
An Object of Pity, or the Man Haggard:
A Romance by Many Competent Hands.
The skit was privately printed in Sydney in 1892 in
an edition of some 35 copies only by Jady Jersey
for distribution among her own and her collabora-
tors’ friends. The collaborators included her brother,
Captain Rupert Leigh, Stevenson himself, his wife,
his stepdaughter, Isobel Strong, and his cousin,
Graham Balfour. The idea was that each contributor
should draw a self-portrait on “Ouida” lines and
link the lot together, introducing Rider Haggard as
the hero. Stevenson wrote the dedication, “To Lady
Ouida,” in addition to one of the chapters. Worth
a few shillings at most for its literary value, this book-
let, daintily turned out, with the usual printer’s mark
of secrecy on the title-page, “Imprinted at Amster-
dam,” is now catalogued on the rare occasions when
a copy comes to light at about £3O. It drew from
Haggard a reply, “Objects of Pity, by a Gentleman
of Quality,” in an exactly similar format.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
Il93i8& ■■■' ;?£ :: ife£p
;
■
:
~jr ,/^if
|||f|i ?'?v
■
mm
H SP
■NNfli
■
SH
j&s
H
ai
? 4
3*
Grape Picking in Seppelt’s Royal Purple Para Vineyard .


The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2974.
February 10, 1937.
NO THOROUGHFARE.
“While the borrowing Premiers were converging on Melbourne for a Loan Council meeting, Mr. Bruce reported that it would be futile to approach London for a loan.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell. Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"FOLLOW AMERICA!"
Scots and Jews have a fine capacity for laughing at
their own racial idiosyncrasies. Americans are
distinguished for their frankness in admitting national
shortcomings. It is an equally admirable gift, and
it can be turned to good account; but politicians
like Mr. Archdale Parkhill are incapable of profiting
by bad American examples, set down with disarming
candor, when they are bent on giving imitations where
imitations are undesirable.
General Johnson Hagood has been writing a
series of articles on his country’s Great War effort
for the “Saturday Evening Post.” One reached
Australia just about the time Mr. Parkhill announced
that a contract had been given to the Commonwealth
Aircraft Corporation for the construction of “40
fighting aeroplanes” of the N.A.16 (American) type.
“All authorities agree,” said Mr. Parkhill, “that
the N.A.16 type is the latest and most up-to-date
machine suitable to Australian conditions.” “When
the war clouds lowered in 1917” all Americans agreed
that the Liberty ’plane was the latest and most up-to-
date machine suitable to Western Front conditions.
General Hagood relates what happened:
The cost of our victory in France was $45,000,000,000.
Of this $1,500,000,000 went for airplanes, but we did
not fly a single combat ’plane, except some so-called
“flying coffins” that were used for observation.
But that was only the beginning:
One billion ($1,000,000,000) went for artillery and
artillery ammunition, but .no American fired a shot from
an American cannon with American ammunition.
For the rest:
We called out 4,300,000 men, but we sent only
2,000,000 to France, and of these 1,000,000 spent an
average of 30 days in active operations, and 40 days in
quiet sectors.
Nevertheless the army got $16,000,000,000 of the
$45,000,000,000 appropriated. Its share of the expen-
diture was equivalent to “three times as much as all
the money in the United States the year before the
war. The army bought 4,000,000 pairs of rubber
boots, “although soldiers could not march in rubber
boots, carry them in their packs or find room for
them in the baggage trucks.” Besides the 4,000,000
pairs of rubber boots there were 9,000,000 raincoats
and 8,000,000 “regular” overcoats ; 7,000,000 suits of
khaki “manufactured for the summer of 1919” (there
was, of course, no summer campaign); 5,000,000 over-
seas caps, 1,000,000 oilskin hats and 8,000,000 cam-
paign hats, “made of rabbit-fur from Australia, Maori-
land and Russia” (most of them were cut up for
bedroom slippers); 7,000,000 pairs of old-style long
trousers (none of them got to France); 650,000 pairs
of oilskin pants; 10,000,000 suits of brown denim
overalls; 20,000,000 khaki blankets; 500,000 feather
pillows; 1,000,000 sets of harness ; 800,000 pairs of
spurs, and 225 miles of barracks for men in back
areas.
The general does not mention transport, but
during the autumn campaign in the Argonne and
thereabouts the American transport notoriously went
to pot. And the U.S.A. War Department had had
three full years to prepare for that campaign, war
being at least a possibility from the beginning of
1915; and it had abundant opportunities of studying
the performances and profiting by the blunders of
both sides. A year after the Lusitania was sunk it
was actually buying Lewis guns from the British for
the expedition against Villa and his Mexicans. And
in France it was reduced to requisitioning British
tanks, British and French aircraft, howitzers, field-
pieces, machine-guns, trench mortars, bombs, shells,
cartridges and whizz-bangs.
Splendid as their achievements in the paths of
peace have been, and bravely as they have fought
in their few wars, the Americans can scarcely be said
to have produced one improved type of weapon or
ammunition, or made a single contribution to the
science of war on the mechanical side. And yet it
is to this peaceful people, amateurs in war, that Mr.
Parkhill, himself the rawest of amateurs, has gone for
the model of the first R.A.A.F. machines to be built
in Australia, though the Prime Minister distinctly
declared that “orders from the Government to be
given to the Australian factory will be for British
service types, because of the necessity for the greatest
degree of interchangeability between Royal Air Force
machines and those used in Australia.”
Peopling Australia.
Provided the birthrate can be brought back to the
1921 level and immigration can be resumed on the
same year’s scale, it will take 20 years for the popu-
lation of Australia to reach 8,625,000. If the birth-
and deathrates continue to decline as at present, our
numbers in 30 years will be stationary at 7,750,000.
These are the estimates of Mr. Casey, the Common-
wealth Treasurer, and the prospect is not cheerful.
Philip Goldfinch, general manager of the
C.S.R., pointed out at Canberra a few days ago that
between 1860, when the total population was only
1,145,000, and 1914, when it was 5,882,000, there
was never a five-year increase of less than 244,000.
In five years to the end of 1914, the improvement
was 515,000; in five years to the end of 1935, start-
ing with 6,500,000 people, the addition was only
253,000. In a generation the crude birthrate fell
from 27.16 to 16.55 per 1000, and the crude death-
rate only from 12.22 to 9.46.
Other countries from which desirable immi-
grants used to be drawn are suffering from the same
malady. Except in Asia and Russia the birthrate
has fallen everywhere. But other white countries
have far more excuse. Britain, at the last census
(1931), had 45,000,000 people packed into an area
a little larger than Victoria. Its birthrate, however,
has fallen from 24.9 before the war to 14.7 —very
low, but higher than that of S. Australia, where it has
declined to 14.1. The rates of Germany (18.9), the Irish
Free State (19.2), Holland (20.2), Czechoslovakia
(17.7) and Denmark (17.7), though they have shown
substantial decreases since pre-war days, are all higher
than that of the Commonwealth, despite the fact that
some of these countries are uncomfortably congested.
Emigration from the United Kingdom in 1935
was only 7400, against 121,000 in 1929. Since 1930
Australia has lost over 19,000 persons by emigration.
Since 1920 Japan has gained 12,000,000 people,
through natural increase ; 8,000,000 since 1925. Even
the “sparsely” settled islands held by Japan under man-
date—which lie within 300 miles of Australian man-
dated territory—carry 48 persons to the square mile,
and Japan proper carries 181 to the square mile.
Australia has about 2.8 persons per square mile, most
of them herded into east-coast cities which every
year become more bloated. Its natural increase, which
reached its peak of 17.44 per 1000 in 1914, had
dwindled to 7.1 per 1000 in 1935.
As Mr. Goldfinch pointed out, artificial immi-
gration schemes are unlikely to establish permanent
settlers. In the past they have been failures, and the
most recent failure—the Westralian group-settlement
scheme —was the worst. The sugar industry, which
was no loan-settlement business, has yielded im-
measurably better results. Though only a little over
300,000 acres—the size of a moderate sheep farm a
few years ago—is under sugar in Queensland, pro-
duction is worth more than that of the whole dairying
industry, and population of actual sugar farms has
been expanded from 4097 in 1921 to 15,653 in 1933.
And tobacco-growing has put 1500 people on the
land in the Far North, though, as a business, it is
only in its infancy.
There are plenty of other resources which, on
comparatively small areas, could provide for new
population. Mr. Goldfinch suggests power-alcohol
production. His company is already using surplus
cane and molasses waste, and he declared that
times the present sugar area put under sweet potatoes
could provide Australia with a national fuel supply.
The money which Federal Governments have
spent or are spending on subsidies to borers of empty
oil wells would have been sufficient to put up eight
or nine alcohol factories, capable of producing about
one-seventh of our present fuel requirements. And with
these factories it would already have been possible for
Australia to adopt the almost general European policy
of blending imported petrol with alcohol for motor-
car use. Queensland is the only State which has legis-
lation in this direction. Thus far the Federal Govern-
ment has been at cross purposes with the State, and
has discouraged rather than encouraged the develop-
ment of an agricultural fuel industry which, in view
of a statement by Sir John Cadman, head of Anglo-
Iranian Oil, that petrol is a waning world asset of
which there is only 20 years’ supply in sight, is likely
to become not only an Australian but a British
Empire asset. Australia is about the only country
in the world which has a sufficient area in the right
kind of climate to enable it to produce on a world
scale.
Development of fisheries and of manufactures
offers other great opportunities of accommodating
population. The obstacles have been erected by bad
politicians and could be removed by better ones.
The fall of the birthrate has been in line with
increase of burdens, as has the fall in immigration.
Commonwealth tax-revenue alone increased from
£16,600,000 the year before the war to £58,754,000
in 1934-35, and Commonwealth-and-State collections in
1935-36 reached £104,599,100. So tremendous a drain
is prejudicial to reduction of production costs and
expansion of industry, more especially as six of Aus-
tralia’s seven squandering Governments incessantly
demand the “right” to add to the pile of public debts.
Make taxation reasonable, do away with super-
fluous authorities and cut down the excessive cost of
government, and Australia will get more industries
and more population.
Calling B-Class Stations.
So swift has been the advance [of radio broadcasting],
so rapidly does development follow development, so
keenly do experts take advantage of every new discovery,
that the layman finds himself baffled by its ever-
growing complexities.
An extract from a Sydney speech in which the Prime
Minister “opened” Melbourne “Argus’s” new radio
station, “Heart of Victoria,” at Shepparton. A few
weeks ago Mr. Lyons obliged the Melbourne “Herald”
by “opening” its new station, “Central Victoria,” at
Horsham. It is odd to find one of these enterprises
in the “heart” and the other in the “centre” of Vic-
toria —Shepparton and Horsham are widely separated
—but commercial broadcasting bristles with “com-
plexities,” as the Prime Minister says.
And it has developed rapidly. Midway through
1936 Australia had nearly 80 commercial stations and
21 national stations. Radio offers careers for engineers,
clerks, artists, writers and advertising men, as well
as talkers; it provides a field for manufacturing
specialists, and supports about 15 specialised publi-
cations. It is near enough to a major Australian
industry.
For that reason Mr. Lyons was right in part
when he told Shepparton that “those who con-
trol radio to-day know it is no longer a plaything,
a luxury, a hobby for the experimenter.”
It is something that has become a necessity in our
daily lives —a disseminator, not only of entertainment,
but of information and instruction.
Although talking to a B-class station, he must
have been thinking of the national stations. They are
“disseminating” better services than ever before.
Radio offers the ear nearly the same sort of
service as newspapers give the eye, the major differ-
ence being that radio specialises in entertainment and
papers in news and views. They are complementary
rather than antagonistic. A late arrival in the adver-
tising field, radio could not offer circulation figures
as newspapers do, but it did sell the type of entertain-
ment advertisers thought would attract most listeners.
So sponsors made their own stipulations, and presum-
ably found that radio paid.
Mr. Lyons’s constant “development” has made
radio so complex that businessmen are now in no
position to judge what type of programme will please
listeners or how it should be presented. Musical
numbers are interrupted to wedge in another adver-
tising blurb, and many programmes carry ridiculous
superlatives and crossbred gags. Often the quality
and cheapness of goods mentioned in the blurb are
personally vouched for by station employees who
can’t possibly have first-hand knowledge.
Long ago newspaper advertisers learned that
purchase of space could not influence editorial policy
or color newspaper reports, and the time has come
when commercial broadcasting will have to reinforce
the lesson. If radio advertising has the pull claimed
for it, businessmen are not likely to drop it just
because station managers who know radio values insist
on the right to plan their own programmes.
The problem is probably more acute in Victoria
than in any other State. A Sydney station manager
told the Australian Federation of Broadcasting
Stations in 1935 that Sydney stations needed a weekly
revenue of four figures to pay expenses. Experts
estimate the average weekly revenue for major Mel-
bourne stations at about £7OO and expenses at £3SC.
Even the Melbourne margin is sufficient for stations
to have accumulated reserves to help them back
their judgment, and the value of their medium, against
the risk of temporarily displeasing some advertisers,
especially when the action must eventually benefit
those advertisers.
In Victoria the “Herald-Sun,” “Age” and
“Argus” each control a B-class radio chain, and dailies
in Geelong, Ballarat and Mildura operate their own
stations. It is the old scramble for “circulation” in
another field. In the process national stations come
in for frequent knocks. Expert Melbourne opinion
considers that national stations are winning on the
merits of their entertainment.
Commercial radio rates of pay should interest
the Prime Minister. Technicians and clerks have
trade-union protection, but copy or continuity writers
and announcers exist at the whims of their employers.
Though one of Melbourne’s best staff radio. writers
earns £9 a week, the average is about half that, and
some are on as little as £2. They work long hours
twisting gags, churning out commercial credits for the
beginning and end of recorded sessions and manufac-
turing script for announcers. Announcers average
more ; but there is no inter-station bidding for micro-
phone “personalities.” Few B-class staff announcers,
in Victoria anyway, are as cheerful and pleasant over
the size of their pay envelopes as they are over the
mike.
An experiment that became an industry almost
overnight has not yet learned to shoulder the respon-
sibilities of an industry. Mr. Lyons would help
to make the future of commercial radio more
attractive if, instead of paying out platitudes
when requested, he advised B-class stations to
do some stocktaking and raise programmes, salaries
and conditions to the level of the national broad-
casting institutions.
MERE LISTENER.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
They Don't Wont "Control."
Anyone reading U.A.P. editorials and reports of
U.A.P. and U.C.P. speeches would imagine that all
land men are demanding the emasculation of the
inter-State freetrade section of the Commonwealth
Constitution so that “orderly-marketing” schemes may
be thrust on the people. This is very far from being
the case.
The woolgrowers don’t want “orderly market-
ing.” Exports of Australian produce in 1935-36,
gold and silver included, were valued at £131,513,400.
Wool alone was worth £52,345,500, and sheepskins
(£2,824,300), mutton (£587,400) and lamb (£445,500)
contributed another £3,857,200.
The woolgrowers have done pretty well without
“orderly marketing.” They would have done
much better this year if the “orderly-marketing”
Government had not meddled in their business, with
the result that the Japanese were out of the disordered
market for nearly seven months. The woolgrowers
would hate to have “control” forced on them on the
initiative of some State Government, with a clumsy
and obedient Lyons, Page and Paterson to legislate
for the “scheme” and boards to “implement” it.
Nor will the fruitgrowers cast a unanimous Yes
vote. There is in N. S. Wales a Citrus-growers’
Defence Association which makes embarrassing
remarks about the Government at Canberra because
it lost citrus-growers their once-profitable Maoriland
market, and about the Government at Sydney, which
smites them with a tax on orchards. At its last
meeting the executive of the Citrus-growers’ Defence
Association decided unanimously to vote No at the
marketing referendum and to prepare a manifesto
giving its reasons. The reasons are shortly that inter-
state freetrade is worth preserving ; that the proposed
amendment is “vaguely worded” and sets no limit
to the establishment of boards; that “board control
penalises the efficient grower,” and that “it is not
in the interests of Australia to expand an export
market where goods are sold under the cost of pro-
duction” ; and they are very good reasons.
About the same time Mr. Stevens was talking
rubbish on the subject in his new dictatorial fashion.
“Without this referendum,” he blithered, “the whole
system of orderly marketing might break down.”
The home price is the primary producer’s protection,
and its sudden withdrawal would create chaos. In terms
of trade and purchasing power, it is difficult to tell where
the reverberations of such a calamity would cease. We
must preserve our Australian standards, for the secon-
dary industries are involved as well as the primary indus-
tries. Only by a solid front and a Yes vote can these
standards be preserved.
Assuredly Mr. Stevens and his fellow-politicians have
“front” enough. Whether it will be sufficiently “solid”
to carry the referendum is doubted. Meanwhile his
reference to secondary industries has failed to con-
vince the council of the N. S. Wales Chamber of
Manufactures. That body agrees with the citrus-
growers that the proposed amendment is “vague,”
and avers that if carried it will transfer power from
the people to Parliament, which may “determine and
fix conditions under which factory products may be
marketed inter-State,” and may “require the rational-
isation of an industry or industries as a condition
precedent to marketing.”
Solving the Youth Problem.
When preparing to go to the country in 1934, the
U.A.P. Prime Minister promised that his Government
would address itself with sleepless vigilance and
ferocious energy to the problem of unemployed youth.
The election was won; time crept on; and at length
the P.M. decided to solve the problem in the grand
old Canberra fashion —by calling a conference.
The conference was held in Melbourne last week
after the Loan Council meeting had fizzled out.
Naturally, it was dominated by State Ministers. The
Prime Minister’s department came to light with
distressing figures which showed that at the latest
computation unemployed youths numbered 25,748,
and that nearly half were in N. S. Wales, whose
Government does so much bragging about its very
small achievements. Then the State Ministers weighed
in with their invariable prescription for the solving
qf problems —a Commonwealth grant. Two millions
was mentioned.
It never occurs to these politicians to enlist the
co-operation of employers by guaranteeing them
something off their huge income taxes, so large a
proportion of which is for unemployed-relief, for
every lad added to their staffs and put in the way of
learning a calling, if not of earning his living. They
can think of nothing fresh but fresh demands on tax-
revenue, resulting in more taxes.
The Victorian Way Is Better.
At the end of 1936 13 superfluous pubs were
delicensed in Victoria. The public benefited, and
fair compensation was paid to the owners and lessees
out of a fund to which they themselves had contri-
buted for years.
The N. S. Wales licensing laws are modelled
on the Victorian, which, except in one particular, six
o’clock closing—and the very efficient Court is guilt-
less of that —are about the best in the world ; but
nowadays superfluous pubs are never closed in N. S.
Wales. Instead, licenses are transferred from place
to place. After one of these transfers —to Katoomba,
it was —the public was informed in a company pros-
pectus that “the consideration for the purchase of
the license” was “19,500 fully-paid-up shares of £1
each,” and that an ex-chairman of the Licenses
Reduction Board valued it at £23,000.
Now an order has been issued for the transfer
of the license of the Settlers’ Arms, a St. Albans house
upwards of a century old, to premises proposed to be
erected at Clarendon. The application for the transfer
was opposed by St. Albans and Windsor people, but
their objections were overruled on the following
grounds:—
In regard to the proposed site at Clarendon, Mr.
Laidlaw, S.M., said that until recently the personnel
of the Air Force at the Clarendon aerodrome had
been about 120 men. At present the strength was stated
to be 410 men and 40 officers, and the Licensing Court
was satisfied that at the end of next June the strength
would be 700 men and 60 officers. The Clarendon
aerodrome was the largest in the Commonwealth, and
many visitors went there. There was, at present, no
licensed accommodation.
Still, even people who like their beer might allow
that an aerodrome would be better without a pub.
The “S. M. Herald” report concludes:
The evidence disclosed that the St. Albans Hotel and
the proposed site at Clarendon were both owned by Mr.
T. W. Trautwein.
A Trautwein (pronounce “Troutwine”) also
figured in the Katoomba case ; and a Trautwein who
is an M.L.C. was socked for six figures by the
Commonwealth Taxation Department.
There are no Trautweins in the Victorian hotel
trade, as far as is known.
Alarm-clock for the Loan Council.
After wage-, rent- and interest-reduction laws had
been passed throughout the Commonwealth, and after
payment of many private and all fixed public debts
had been postponed for various periods of years, poli-
ticians who had anything to do with the Premiers’
Plan began to believe they were financial saviors. So
many financial facts have been thrown in the faces of
State Premiers lately, however, that they are begin-
ning to resent the sight of anything that looks like
a financial fact.
In 1938 Australia must convert £74,800,000 of
internal loans, mostly carrying 4 p.c., as well as
£23,770,000 in London at 3£ p.c. Already it would
be difficult to convert on even terms. In the six
years after 1938 £170,000,000 of debt will fall due
within the Commonwealth. And meantime certain
members of the Loan Council, with haloes slightly
askew, are clamoring for new loans from a market
that will not look at 4 p.c.
Banks are taxed just about to their limit by bor-
rowers, and for too long the balance on our overseas
trading account has been short of London interest
and invisible obligations, so that there has been no
surplus there to make money conditions easier.
Mr. Stevens and some of his friends want to
continue to get us “round the corner” by borrowing
prosperity. If an alarm-clock is the only thing that
will wake these gentlemen up to themselves one should
at once be donated by public subscription. Next
year’s £100,000.000 conversion is a fleabite to those
which follow.
Melbourne's Traffic Medley.
Melbourne traffic congestion has a local parallel in
the medley of chaotic suggestions it has drawn from
men who should know that the. solution lies in com-
promise and co-operation rather than in fruitless news-
paper wrangles.
Lord Mayor Wales would change a few tram
routes; Swanston-street would be widened by Cr.
Connelly ; Tramways Board chairman Bell would kick
cars out of their city parking places ; C. A. Pullman,
secretary of the Commercial Motor Users, and J. M.
Ramsay, president of the R.A.C.V., suggest the aboli-
tion from city streets of nearly all the trams. And
so on.
Police Chief Duncan, with London in mind,
believes in more free circulation of traffic, and in his
final report on the Victorian police force he offers
gentle criticism of constables who delay cars too long
at intersections.
Swanston-street is the city’s main traffic artery,
and congestion is most noticeable, at its Flinders-street
approaches. The proposed Punt-road bridge should
offer some future relief, but it will scarcely solve the
major difficulty; nor will fewer trams. The Duncan
hint' on free traffic circulation is incorporated in one
of the few series of remedial suggestions likely to even
partially please Melbourne’s civic purse., its tram-
riders, motorists and pedestrians. It comes from J.
Hooworth, managing director of the 18-months-old
Colonial Automobile Service Association. He recom-
mends :
One-way vehicular traffic into Swanston-street during
morning peak hours, and out in the late afternoon.
Trams to stop at Princes Bridge in the south and
Victoria-street in the north, with tramway buses operat-
ing continuous city round-trips from Princes Bridge to
Victoria—street, down Queen-street, over the Yarra at
Queen’s Bridge to City-road, and thence to St. Kilda-
road and back to Princes Bridge.
Opposite way peak-hour traffic to use the Spencer,
Queen’s and eastern Yarra bridges, with a tramline
loop south of Princes Bridge to clear trams stopped
there.
Pedestrian subways at Flinders-street intersections
with Swanston and Elizabeth streets, connecting their
individual corners and providing direct access to the
busy Flinders-street railway station.
Police control at the corner of Swanston and Flinders
streets to prevent unnecessary vehicular holdups.
To these might be added the obvious suggestion
that city traffic should be controlled by one body
and not harried here and there by several authorities.
It is a police job even if the change-over should
deprive the City Council of its parking-fee harvest.
A Busted Birthright.
Towards the end of last year Lord Mayor Jones and
his brother Labor aldermen were happily proclaiming
that Brisbane had at long last “come into its birth-
right,” having been permitted by the State Govern-
ment, with the consent of the Loan Council, to go on
the open market for £400,000. The “birthright” was
not quite worthy of the jubilation, the loan being
considerably undersubscribed.
Soon afterwards—though not sooner than usual
—-Alderman Jones wanted more loan money. The
birthright was abandoned, and off he went to
Melbourne, there to “negotiate” for an advance of
£480,000, just to carry him on till next June.
The Lord Mayor returned minus his loan. He
handed the job over to Premier Forgan Smith, then
(and still at time of writing) visiting Melbourne.
Brother Jones’s coadjutor has been only partly
successful. He has arranged privately for £250,000
at 4i per cent, issue price £9B 10s., half the amount
to be available immediately and the rest later.
How the good Lord Mayor is going to finance his
“works” if he is to be £230,000 short is not explained.
Mr. Jones has been called “a radiant optimist,” but
his optimism, however radiant, may be strained by
the exigencies of an imminent municipal election.
And why should the Brisbane municipality bor-
row in Melbourne?
Something to Study.
It is to be hoped that the Society for the Promotion
of Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia will not
exclude recent political developments in the U.S.S.R.
from its studies.
The great Stalin Constitution, for example. For
months prior to its “adoption” the world was assured
by Soviet organs that a normal Parliamentary system
was to be introduced, along with adult suffrage, free-
dom of speech and of the press, freedom of worship
and freedom from secret arrest. Proletarians from
all over the U.S.S.R. were toted to Moscow to hear
the glad news of the arrival of the millennium, and
invited to bring along suggested amendments to the
Constitution. They responded with 43,000 sugges-
tions. Neither Stalin nor anybody else took the
slightest notice of them.
A bold soul asked Stalin whether the Communist
party, representing a whole 2 p.c. of the population,
would hand over its control to the new Parliament.
Stallin bluntly said “No.” It was to remain the ulti-
mate authority in all matters.
Freedom of worship was one of the things
demanded—for Americans —by the United States
Government before it would send an ambassador to
Moscow. In November a U.S.A. Embassy official
desired to be publicly married ip the presence of the
diplomatic corps. All the preparations were made.
The bride arrived in Moscow. But on the wedding
morn the pastor—one of two Protestants who had
been carrying on unobtrusively—had disappeared.
(When the last mails left Russia he was still miss-
ing, and his church had been closed.) After stern
representations had been made by the U.S.A charge
d’affaires, another trembling parson was allowed to
perform the ceremony. He had to be brought from
Leningrad, for in the New Russia, which so intrigues
Protestant bishops, Protestant pastors are scarce.
Then came the trials of the Old Bolshevists, who
presumably had shared in the guarantee of “freedom
from secret arrest.” Like Zinovieff and Kameneff,
Piatokoff and 13 others have been “liquidated.”
On their own showing, the two ’eft's and the ’off,
together with Radek and Sokolnikoff, who have been
merely imprisoned, were thoroughpaced villains:
saboteurs, train-wreckers, traitors, assassins. Yet they
were in the first rank of original Soviet officials,
fathers of the Constitution. Since 1920 they had been
boomed in Soviet publications as saviors of Russia
from capitalism and imperialism; and potential
saviors of the world.
In their zeal to promote cultural relations with
Russia Australian bishops should not approach it too
closely. Bishops as well as pastors are liable to
disappear in Russia.
Against Slogans.
“N.L.”: I hate slogans. I refuse to be sloganised into
a new and better life. I prefer my old and worse life.
Slogans may be all very well for right-thinking
persons. If so, I prefer to be a wrong-thinking
person.
What is a slogan? Before the word was misused
it was a battle-cry, but now very often it is a bottle-
cry. “Drink more milk.” “Gorge more ginger-beer.”
“Children —yes, and grown-ups, too—orange-juice is
good for you.”
I refuse to drink more milk, orange-juice, home-
made hop-beer, clear soup, methylated spirit or pinky.
I am on the wagon from anything I don’t want. Why
should I be implored to leave the wagon to please
someone I don’t know and don’t want to know?
I will not eat more cheese, butter more bread,
chew more fish-and-chips, carve more calf’s-head, peel
more peaches or apply for more apples. Someone,
no doubt, does all these things at once, but how does
he survive the surfeit?
I loathe the tumult and the shouting of Vote for
Jiggs, Vote for Joggs, Vote Yes, Vote No, Attend
the Dog Show, Gaze at the Monkeys, Make Our City
Brighter, Save Our City for Wowserdom.
It irks me that the Post Office should waste time
and money by branding my private and paid-for
correspondence with such inane or unnecessary
remarks as Post Early Each Day, Say It by Telephone,
Say It by Telegram, Voting Compulsory, Air Mail
Saves Time.
Slogan? Imagine the ancient warrior inspiring
his comrades by shouting “Voting Compulsory!”


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Effboo”: Tired of waiting in the
lottery-ticket queue, we had strolled
along York-streef (Sydney) and entered
one of the many manufacturers’ show-
rooms there. Poking around in the odd
assortment of samples, we came on a
large jug of the, Royal Doulton, Old
Charlie, John Barleycorn type, represent-
ing “Our Don,” complete with cricket-
ing cap, famous grin and cricket-bat
handle. It looked like a good example
of Australian enterprise, but the, label
was “Made in Japan”!
* * * *
“Condamine”: I have just read an
exciting magazine yarn with a Papuan
setting. Hero, an ex-gaolbird wrongly
convicted, is in charge of a timber camp.
Villain, a Dutchman in cahoots with
niggers, pinches hero’s timber ; and, by
way of diversion, the nigs, make off witji
a party of tourists whose yacht has been
wrecked. Niggers being plentiful, hero
enlists a rival tribe, and arrives in the
nick of time to save the castaways from
being converted into long-pig. Two of
them, a girl and her brother, turn out
to be the offspring of the unjust Judge
who sentenced the rescuer to years in
prison. His hour of revenge has come:
he sets them to toil in the timber camp.
But when, as you surmise, he falls for
the girl, remorse assails him. He frees
his prisoners. The girl is next repre-
sented as glancing at some hectic head-
lines in a newspaper:
DEATH OF GANGSTER.
ECHO OF ROBBERY.
INNOCENT MAN VINDICATED.
A complete understanding naturally fol-
lows, with the usual wedding-bells. And
the newspaper which set up those happy
headlines? The Bulletin!
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Caricaturing the
Fiihrer is now forbidden by English
law. In the mid-’nineties the ex-Kaiser,
annoyed over the, liberties taken with
him by the English press, absented him-
self from Albion’s shores for some years.
However, a reconciliation was effected,
and when the War Lord was due to land
in Portsmouth dockyard the, Royal
Marine band was there in full strength
to help the formal reception. As the
monarch appeared at the head of the
gangway, to stand rigidly at the salute,
the band helpfully struck up: “Oh,
Willie, We Have Missed You.”
* * *
“Veld Cornet”: South Africa is setting
Australia an example in giving its war-
disabled men a chance to see the Corona-
tion. An official party of 100 of all
ranks will go under the eye of the Gov-
ernment, which will find uniform, equip-
ment, etc. The unofficial crowd, wounded
and crippled to a man, though it will
have the Government’s blessing, will not
be supplied with transport or accommo-
dation and must find its own uniform.
This is all being provided by private citi-
zens who are raising a fund —Abe Bailey
threw in £2OO0 —and as many will be
sent as the money will run to. At the
Government’s request, the British Empire
League, which is handling the details of
the official lot, will look after the cripples
as well. This is in strong contrast to
the Australian plan of sending the hale
and hearty while leaving the lame and
broken at home. No one would expect
Parkhill to move in the matter, but there
must be one or two of our moneyed
patriots with some of the right feeling.
* * * *
“Binduli”: Recent references to Larry
Foley, who loomed so large in Austra-
lian boxing a generation and more ago,
remind me that he was one of the cele-
brities from Sydneyside who attended
the official opening of the Coolgardie
Water Scheme in 1903—the festive occa-
sion when George Reid remarked that
he had never heard so much talk about
water and seen so little of it drunk.
Foley was understood to be there as a
sort of offsider or bodyguard of N.S.W.
Minister O’Sullivan, though why a poli-
tician should have needed an ex-pugilist
to trail behind him on such an occasion
was never explained. Anyhow the
veteran bruiser got his share of the lime-
light—rather more, in fact, that his
patron. When the Perth express was dis-
gorging its cargo of distinguished visitors
on the Kalgoorlie railway platform a
wildly-excited man pushed his way into
the front rank of the crowd. “Where is
he? Which is him?” he demanded.
Somebody obligingly pointed out Bigjohn
Forrest, the lion of the moment, and
“They tell me you saved my wife's life yesterday. Well , let me tell YOU I'm quite capable of managing
my family affairs."
another bystander indicated George
Reid, whose fame was already continent-
wide. The late arrival snorted contemp-
tuously. “I wouldn’t go across the road
to see either of them blokes,” he
grumbled. “Which is Larry?”
•i 5 $ *r
“O. de V.”: The recent gale that
wrought so much havoc in Sydney
suburbs swooped down on Pittwater with
hurricane force and without a moment’s
warning. When I found time to take a
breath after frantically shutting doors
and windows in the teeth of roaring wind
and drenching rain, I caught a glimpse
of my neighbor, an author of some
repute, performing a wild pas-de-ballet
among the raging elements. The air
was full of debris and flying papers as
he. darted hither and thither waving his
arms and plucking things out of the
air and off the ground. When the rain
slackened he was still garnering scraps
of sodden paper off my fence, a tragic
figure, if ever I saw one. The sudden
blast had swept through his house,
snatching up the loose MS. of his almost
completed book and scattering the results
of a year’s work in the space of seconds.
If a forlorn form should ever be reported
haunting the foreshores of Pittwater you
will know that it’s only an author vainly
searching for the missing pages of the
Great Australian Novel.
“G.A.”: “D.A.” is quite right when
he states that the average Moor is not
unlike the typical Andalusian (B.
27/1/’37), but this is doubtfully due to
the presence of Spanish blood. The
Moor is mainly an Arab-Berber cross,
and the Berber is the same stock as that
which originally peopled Southern
France, Spain and Italy. The Riff is a
different proposition. They are a fair-
haired, grey-eyed race with hardly as
dark a skin as most Australian surfers,
The men are trustworthy and brave, the
women noted for their chastity.
..... ~ T , , c . • i
Jlc : 1 Tf hCar !ir of
resemblance between Moors and Ulster
Irishmen, but there are plenty of Riffs
with fair hair and freckled complexions ;
the tradition goes that this is a heritage
from shipwrecked Dutch manners who,
to escape death, turned Mohammedan
and lived with their captors. I might
add that the coal-black Moor is not a
myth. There are many of them, and
their ancestry may be traced back to the
good old days when Nubian slaves were
a common commodity among the Moor-
ish aristocracy. #
“Exdig”: A cable mentions that the
gas masks which are to become general
in Britain cost 2s. 6d. each to the public ;
but some of the servicemen’s masks run
to £4. The half-crown touch seems
reasonable enough ; the £4 model prob-
ably includes a complete suit for men
who will have to be specially active
during a gas-drenching. During the later
stages of the war troops were urged to
remain as inactive as possible in the event
of a gas attack, there being little chance
of hand-to-hand fighting whilst the stuff
was in the air. There are other means
besides masks of opposing gas. Four
.men occupying a dugout at the Bluff,
near Ypres, found themselves with faulty
masks ; before the masks could be re-
placed Fritz began a drenching with gas-
shells. The four held damped socks
before their mouths and nostrils and
lighted twig fires in their dugout to drive
out the gas. It was a painful experience ;
but none of the quartet was included
among casualties resulting from that gas
attack
auacß.
, „ . _ , , , ~
Bookworm : A Sydney bookseller
reckons that the queerest bookmark he
ever found left in a volume (B. 3/2/’37)
....
was something covered with soft tissue-
paper and marked in indelible lead pencil
“Baby’s Caul, 4/7/TO.” When, after six
months, no claim had been made the
u i ii e a ,th
bookseller found a superstitious buyer
prepared to give a guinea for it—cheap
enough, considering the prices some-
times mid
* ‘ *
ttTI tt h » o i. , • •
Ike Hollar . Queer shanghai-ings (B.
3/2/’37)? Writers, too, have been sub-
jected to this form of pressure. When
Marcus Clarke was engaged on His
Naturol Life, to be delivered by instal-
ments, he showed himself so unreliable
that he was eventually lured to a room
and locked in, with the intimation that
he would not get his freedom or an-
other drink until the job was finished.
A somewhat similar story is told of
Victor Daley, who, as a bread-and-
butter line of verse-writing, occa-
sionally ground out “In Memoriam”
verses which a Sydney undertaking
firm retailed to its clients. Daley
induced the firm to make him an
advance for a batch of the stuff, but
showed himself so dilatory in delivering
it that the manager seized the opportu-
nity of incarcerating him in a room
among a batch of stock coffins until he
had fulfilled his contract. If Daley ever
needed inspiration he should have found
it there.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: I disagree with “C. Mac”
(B. 27/1/’37) that bridge requires less
skill than poker. In poker, if his bluff
is called (and in regular poker-schools
there aren’t any dunces), the confirmed
bluffer almost invariably loses. In
bridge, by skilful bidding, clever finess-
ing and by exploiting game-winning con-
ventions, a pair of players may consis-
tently defeat strong cards with weaker
ones. I will admit, however, that people
who think they can play bridge out-
number those who imagine they can play
poker by about ten to one.
* * * *
“Giaour”: Can anyone enlighten me
as to what is the. English for the word
“Ataturk”? Is it the Turkish equivalent
of the German “Fiihrer” or the Italian
“Duce”? Up to a few years ago the
President of the Turkish Republic always
appeared in the cables as “Mustafa
Kemal” or “Kemal Pasha.” The States-
man’s Almanack, I notice, lists him as
“Gazi Mustafa Kemal Pasha,” and
Whitaker’s supplements this with the in-
formation that “Gazi” means “The Vic-
torious.” But nowadays he has become
“Kemal Ataturk.” The affix intrigues
me all the more because it is so reminis-
cent of the American “Attaboy.”
* * * *
“1001”: Whatever were Goughs
merits or deficiencies as commander ot
tde Fifth Army when it broke in 1918,
his tactics at the first Battle of Bulle-
court were beyond defence. This is what
Bean says in Vol. IV of the A.I.F. His-
tory, page 351:
The army commander broke at every
stage through rules recognised even by
platoon commanders. He attempted a
deep penetration on a narrow front, and
that at the head of a deep re-entrant. When,
despite impetuous efforts, he was unable to
bring forward his artillery and ammunition
dme to cut tbe w j re be ado pted on the
spur 0 f the moment a scheme devised by
an inexperienced officer of an experimental
f™, nd . called th .e attack on again for
e following morning. Finally, alter the
tanks on th | first tri h had confirmed the
worst fears of his subordinates, he insisted
on repeating the identical operation next
clay. Within two hours of the attack being
delivered every one of his impetuous pre-
dictions was being paid for by the crushing
G f be magnificent force which had been
given him to handle,
I fancy the Fourth Divvy will always
rate him a great social lion but an abso-
lute washout as a military commander,
However, I confidently expect him to
finish up as a field-marshal.
JOE’S OFFSIDERS.
"Mr. Lyons will take with him to the Coronation
(1) the secretary to the Prime Minister’s depart-
ment, (2) his own private secretary, (3) his assist-
ant private secretary, and (4) his confidential steno-
grapher.”
He’s going to view a monarch crowned;
the thick of the spree you’ll find him,
With his trio of trusty secs, around
_ And his typist close behind him.
For a man so great must travel in state,
With ready hands to tally
His lightest words, as is surely meet.
But, seeing his country’s standing treat,
I own that it has me fairly beat
Why Joe doesn’t take a valet.
He’ll be feted and dined and wined, you’ll find,
As in Fame’s fierce light he’s basking;
Iced punch will be his, if he’s so inclined,
And turtle-soup for the asking.
There’ll be greeting glad for our Tassie lad
From Poplar to Piccadilly;
But, seeing he’ll hardly end his tour
Without a day on some Scottish moor,
It sets me wondering, straight and sure,
Why Joe doesn’t take a gillie.
He’ll fraternise with dukes in loads,
And many an earl and markis;
And over a hundred pleasant roads
Swift cars will tote his carcass.
We never grudge him these holiday bouts,
But the cause I can’t discover,
Seeing the land he lives in shouts
For all these secretarial scouts
He carries with him, I’m lost in doubts
Why Joe doesn’t add a “shover.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


J.R.D.”: Few of Sydney’s thousands
attracted by the big three-engined mono-
plane droning overhead through the night
with its message in huge fiery letters on
the undersurface of the wings know
that the ’plane pioneering this type of
advertising the first in the Southern
Hemisphere—is that historic old bus of
Charlie Ulm’s, Faith in Australia. Six
huge letters measuring 6ft. x 3ft. have
been let into the underside of each wing.
Each of the 12 letters has 25 combina-
tions—it may be changed to any other
letter of the alphabet outlined in power-
ful red lights. They are controlled from
the cockpit of the ’plane by a most in-
genious set of switches, so that, instead
of being restricted to one fixed ad., the
’plane in flight can advertise any number
of commodities or firms, or can throw
off a consecutive string of words to form
a sentence. Next we’ll have election
speeches burning holes in the night sky.
* * * *
“Fisher”: Gallipoli rather astounded
a world in which landings in the face of
armed opposition had become almost a
lost exploit since the days of Napoleon.
The transfer of the centre of world-
gravity to the Pacific has set Staff Col-
lege minds at work in this direction, as
evidenced by the large-scale manoeuvres
at present taking place round Singapore
and the descent upon Jervis Bay by
Australian armed forces the other day.
Had this form of warfare been experi-
mented with in pre-war years, there is
little doubt that the Diggers would have
“Henry, you've forgotten your galoshes!"
had a much better view of the Bos-
phorus from the heights than that they
actually achieved at the top of Monash
Gully.
* * * *
“Oran”: The only clean k.o. I’ve ever
seen was at a kids’ party (B. 3/2/’37).
The hostess, aged five, was receiving her
guests, all in fancy rig, when a proud
mother arrived with a Red Indian, aged
seven. The hostess took one distasteful
look at him, and, without a word, dealt
him a straight right. He went down like
a log. A screaming parent alleged he
was dead, and he certainly looked it
after sudden contact with a paved floor.
didn’t cnmp tn fnr fpn minntps dur
. £ come ror ten minutes, dur
mg Which time the hoStCSS Was Smacked
and put t O bed; then the local doctor
arrived ’ and after a half-hearted attempt
at § aiet y the P art y broke UP-
......
“Kriz”: 1 once saw two clean k.os.
Withi " th , e paCe ° f , fiVe ha P-
P ened at Broome (nor’-W.A.) when to
“But, honest. Sheik, I'm not a bit of good at cooking!"
save a chap from getting run in the publi-
can sent for his teetotaller mate. The
t.t., after vainly trying to coax the
hilarious one away, hauled off and
dropped him with a clinker on the jaw.
The Samaritan was gathering the outed
one up when a stranger off the boat,
unaware of the circumstances, butted in
with “Cowardly skunk!” and a wallop
which stretched the t.t. —out to the world
—on the pub floor beside the mate he had
come to take away.
* * *
“Surf”: Evidently W.A. isn’t to be a
victim of the no-shorts morality cru-
saders ; scores of men walk the beaches
clothed only in the scantiest of trunks.
Regulations say that such trunks must be
held up by a belt, but many prance
round in rolled-down bathers. Yet no-
body seems shocked. In fact, we are
waiting to see if the girls will follow suit.
A generation reared to the cult of semi-
nudity sees nothing wrong with this
lavish display of bare skin. Anyway,
has nudity any influence towards im-
morality, or is it the other way about?
The ’nineties, when the female was
clothed from the ground to the ears, are
not remembered as particularly moral,
* * * *
“Fergus”: Carbon monoxide gas from
leaky exhaust pipes may have contributed
to the 1936 increase in N.S.W. road deaths
(B. 27/l/’37). A Melbourne engineer
insists that this insidious gas is responsible
for much of the, drowsiness experienced
by drivers of sedan cars, especially old
models. “When a man collapses at the
wheel of his car, the medical verdict is
generally heart failure,” he says. “There
should be blood tests; death might be
due to the saturation of the haemoglobin
of the blood by carbon monoxide. The
theory is worth official investigation.
“Selma": Aspirins? Many big firms
nowadays, with armies of employee's,
buy them wholesale and distribute them
gratis to those who feel the need of a
stimulant in working hours. In the old
days when a typist developed a headache
she went home ; now she retires to the
couch in a lounge-room, takes a couple
of aspirins and presently emerges again
ready for the fray. It’s not only the
girls who request an aspirin to enable
them to carry on ; an astonishing num-
ber of men may be seen swallowing a
couple at odd times.
* j i= * *
“Brix”: What warriors some of those
ancient typewriters were (B. 3/2/’37)!
I once worked with an American firm
which cherished an antediluvian machine
called a Yost, with double keyboard,
blind writing and the most beautiful type
I’ve ever seen, plus perfect alignment
and ability to stand up to anything. We
were changing over the typist’s office
one day, and some nitwit stood the Yost
on a window-ledge, whence it toppled
10ft. into the street. Ruined? Not at
all. Not even broken, merely reasonably
bent. The typist was knocking out the
mail on it that same afternoon.
* * * *
“Rouge Dragon”: Some bright lad in
England has been suggesting that each
Dominion should have its own Herald
of Arms, wearing the royal arms and
those of the
Dominion, to offici-
ate at such functions
as coronations, the
opening of Parlia-
ments and other
ceremonies. I rush
in to nominate
Archdale Par khill
for the Australian
job. His round,
rubicund visage with
the pursed lips has
the air of blowing
the ceremonial
trumpet, and his
figure is exactly the
thing for the stiff,
pinafore-like tabard
with its armorial
bearings. The quar-
terings would have
to be altered; a
friend suggests the
kangaroo in place of
the royal leopards,
but I am all in
favor of Billy Blue-
gum.
“Erka”: Famous as the yacht on
which the draft of the proposed Com-
monwealth Constitution was signed in
1899, the Lucinda, a paddle-wheeler, has
ended its career on a Moreton Bay
island. It was built in Scotland in 1884
for the Queensland Government, which
used it principally for school-children’s
bay trips. King George V. and Queen
Mary, when Duke and Duchess of York,
were its most distinguished passengers.
It was sold and stripped in 1923, and
until lately was used as a coal lighter.
“Samivel”: The pronunciation of
proper names and hereditary titles is
always an arbitrary thing and often
“ ou * h » stumbling-block to an outsider,
*he Question whether an initial G
should be a hard or soft letter is a case
in point. An A.D.C. to a recent N.S.W.
Governor, one Gifford, was invariably
“Jiff.” to his intimates in Sydney, and
now that he has inherited a title I find
from the authorities that it is sounded
Jifford, gainsay it whoso may. Never-
theless, every Gifford I ever knew or
heard of in England—and it is far from
an uncommon surname, including an
eminent literary critic of other days and
a Lord Chancellor of last century —made
the “G” hard, and no one would ever
think of referring to one of Australia’s
most famous cricketers as’ “Jiffen.” When
I was a newchum in this country I re-
member bringing derision on myself by
mispronouncing Gippsland as “Jipps-
land,” although the only Gipps I ever
knew —and he “claimed kin” with the
old-time Governor —insisted that the
“G” in the family name was really soft
and had been unjustifiably hardened in
Australia.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: How the Bedouin must
treasure a firearm! A Digger friend has
as a war souvenir an ancient flintlock
pistol, with goatskin holster, which he
picked up near Romani during the
Palestine campaign. A date on it shows
that it is nearly two centuries old;
wherever the beechwood stock has worn
or become damaged it has been repaired
with bands of copper, brass or neat in-
lays of silver. The bore resembles a
corroded waterpipe and the sights have
worn down to a couple of barely-distin-
guishable lumps, but the lock still works,
and it had been recently fired when my
friend acquired it. A mate to it is a
scimitar owned by another friend, who
took it from the body of a tribesman
on the nor’-west frontier of India. Near
the hilt can be seen traces of the rich
gold and silver inlay which once cov-
ered the blade, but the rest of the
weapon has been so worn down by re-
peated sharpenings that it now resembles
an ancient butcher’s knife.
* * * *
“High St.”: Chasing further oppor-
tunities of making asses of themselves 50
Oxford undergraduates have announced
their adherence to Prince Rupprecht of
Bavaria as lawful King of England, he
being the direct descendant of the
Stuarts. Apparently they are prepared
to take up arms, if the chance offers, to
secure his restoration to the throne of
his ancestors. Australians find it hard to
understand this sort of childishness, but
it is perennial in Britain, where there are
several societies upholding the Stuart
claim. I once saw a parade of one of
these gangs in Edinburgh. It was led
through the streets by one Ogilvie-Some-
thing-or-other. I was struck by the look
of grim determination on the face of
the mounted leader, who wore the kilt
instead of the trews usual for High-
landers on horseback. Later it occurred
to me that the expression was probably
due to the fact that, with no protection
between his own and the pig’s skin, the
rider probably found the saddle cold and
slippery and full of sharp and unexpected
buckles.
THE LOST REEF.
The whole story of Lasseter’s reef is a mvth. I
‘ l 5f C covere , c L e y er / inch of the ground twice and
thene is definitely nothing there.” — Dr. Harris .
geologist of the Cutlack .Hr Expedition.
Lasseter’s reef! Lasseter’s reef!
a S twas hinted, would beggar belief.
Are there foreheads will wrinkle or hearts that
will ache
To learn it’s a fable, a fraud and a fake,
A ramp in vernacular pungent and crisp,
A baseless delusion, a will-o’-the-wisp?
iney re booked for misfortune and headed for
grief,
The chaps who go searching for Lasseter’s reef.
Lasseter’s reef! Lasseter’s reef!
Of tales to beguile the unwary the chief.
You may traverse a desert, forbidding and bare,
Hut there s nothing remotely resembling it there.
iL s t* l ® latest to add to the lengthening list
Of fictions and myths, for it doesn’t exist.
Ihe gold at the foot of the rainbow, in brief,
is as real as the riches in Lasseter’s reef.
Lasseter’s reef! Lasseter’s reef!
What a liar is Rumor and eke what a thief!
You may bung in your brass, if your fancy
inclines,
On the wildest of cats in the matter of mines,
Or in hunts for the treasure reputedly hid
On desolate islets by Morgan or Kidd.
But don t, if you’d pay for your beer and your
beef,
Don t take any tickets on Lasseter’s reef.
Lasseter’s reef! Lasseter’s reef!
No hope of a harvest—not even *a sheaf.
It s a traveller’s tale, of Munchausen’s own
type,
A figment of fancy, the dream of a pipe.
Its as real as the fantods a fellow may see,
Or reckon he does, at the end of a spree.
So let s merely record, with a sigh of relief,
That burst is the bubble of Lasseter’s reef.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


e^Av
A
\Ofor 9 d
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat's sake
smoke
cravena
are made specially to prevent sore throats.
tipped
CIGARETTE
THIS
GENERATION
THE
R K
POLITICAL POINTS
“S. M. Herald,” barracking for
“orderly marketing,” asserts that “a Yes
vote will save the dried-fruits industry
in three States.” Said industry exists in
four States, and in two the local Gov-
ernments are recommending a No vote.
It is seven months since the James de-
cision was given, and since then the in-
dustry has been carrying on famously,
having for one thing sold most of its ex-
portable surplus at good prices. This
suggests that it can save itself by its own
exertions and doesn’t need to be saved
by electors misled by the “Herald’s” bad
example.
“Mr. Paterson, the Minister for the
Interior, will shortly leave for Tasmania
to open the Government’s Yes cam-
paign.” It is authoritatively denied at
Canberra that he. will have Mrs. Freer
on one side of him and Kelly the bruiser
on the other.
Pearce, who found it hard to get a
hearing in Westralia four years ago, has
been chosen to go there and induce the
people, to vote away their right “to move
their goods around the continent without
interference,” as Maurice Blackburn puts
it—in other words to vote Yes on March
6. In one respect the choice is appro-
priate. Pearce has always been a Yes-
man.
Parkhill severs an old friendship:
I have no further statement to make to
the Sydney “Morning Herald.”
It should be added to collections of
famous farewell messages. For years
Archdale was “Nationalism’s” archangel
and the “Herald” was his trumpet. He
has a new and noisier trumpet now —
a newspaper controlled by Theodore,
once his political aversion.
Brisbane has received a belated return
visit from the leader of the “Lasseter’s
lost reef” expedition, who set out in a
’plane on January 5, first telling a
“Courier-Mail” reporter that “by this day
week we will be on our way home with
the reef discovered, pegged out and
secured.” The gentleman returned with-
out the reef because, as Mrs. Betsy Prig
would have said, “there ain’t no sich
thing.” Still, other aspiring expedition
leaders need not feel downhearted. These
are times in which two are born every
minute.
It has been vaguely suggested by new-
found friends of Parkhill that Maoriland
may buy American war-’planes to be
made in' Melbourne. Wing-Commander
Cochrane, of the R.A.F., is in Maori-
land for two years on loan from the
British Air Ministry. It is, of course,
possible that the air force he is to re-
organise will buy Parkhill ’planes., Pigs
have flown.
Now it’s H. H. Newell, the N.S.W.
Commissioner for Main Roads, who is
going “on special duties overseas” with
t!ie blessing of the Stevens Government,
four of whose members were “on special
duties overseas” last year. The thou-
sands of N.S.W. taxpayers who have
been receiving assessments for three
income taxes rejoice to know that the
gentleman will reach London in time for
the Coronation and the Derby.
On one point the Tas. Labor Premier
and Opposition-leader are fairly unani-
mous: both are in favor of lightening
the land tax, and would begin where
unimproved value exceeds £2500. But
Baker would extend the relief to all land-
owners ; Ogilvie would restrict it to
“rural properties used for production.”
And he says “the remission of £20,000”
(Baker calculates his “remission” at
£50,000) “might have to be made up by
an alteration in the land-tax scale or
other measures.”
“The time may come before long when
a fairer share of the. tremendous wealth
of the community will be diverted to
the benefit of the community.”—Tas.
Premier Ogilvie in his policy speech.
Value of production in the latest
year recorded by the Commonwealth
Statistician —and that was a “good” year
—was calculated at £380,500,000 —not
much more than £5O a head. Out of
that the seven Governments took
£104,599,100. So the wealth that is not at
all enormous is already being “diverted”
at a great rate.
N.S.W. Government railway reports
are silent as to cost of the grandiose re-
freshment joint at Wynyard station,
which serves suburban traffic only, nor
do they mention that the concern com-
petes with the hotelkeepers and restaura-
teurs who pay rates and taxes when it
has to pay neither; but the Auditor-
General furnishes a little information.
He says “the equipment of the Wynyard
HE WON’T BE HAPPY TILL HE GETS IT.
grillroom, buffet and milk bar ac-
counted for £28,857,” and “three months’
operations brought in £12,833.” Annual
profit claimed since 1933-34 (before that
there was a succession of annual losses)
dropped from £6866 in 1934-35 to £5939
in 1935-36. Looks as if another white
elephant is growing up.
A fall in excise revenue is worrying
Casey, last month’s returns being the
lowest since January, 1935. Excise on
rum and gin is 28s. a gallon; on brandy
and whisky 265.; on beer Is. 9d. On
cigarettes the rates are 6s. 9d. to 7s. 3d.
a pound hand-made and 7s. and 7s. 6d.
machine-made. Revenue must fall sooner
or later when duties are so excessive.
Shopkeepers in Smith-street, Colling-
wood (Vic.), have joined the Bourke-street
men in the agitation to have cable-
trams on that route replaced by trolley-
buses instead of electric trams. Colling-
wood, Fitzroy and Northcote Councils
are to have a transport conference on
February 12. The lion in the path is
tramway-chairman Bell, who will not
allow that buses are better than trams,
though most other world cities now re-
gard trams as antiquated.
Nearly every fighting-drunk larrikin
who is “lumbered” in Sydney these days
alleges that he was brutally assaulted by
the arresting constable. It is an unfor-
tunate consequence of a recent Supreme
Court judgment as to the powers of the
police and of the royal commission s
report on s.p. betting—or, rather, of the
wholesale dismissals that followed it.
Appeals against these dismissals are now
in progress. Things that came out at
the first hearing must have disturbed the
equanimity of the cocksure Stevens, who
towards the end of the year made a
blundering “statement on the situation”
which he had to take back.
While the British authorities at Singa-
pore were preparing manoeuvres on the
grand scale, the managing editor of the
“Straits Times” landed in North Aus-
tralia. After a good look round he said:
Frankly, I am surprised at the apparent
paucity of Darwin’s defences.
He must be a very polite gentleman.
Australians don’t call them “defences.”
Grayndler, of the A.W.U., reported to
the annual conference of his union at
Hobart that he had completed 25 years
as general secretary ; and he was com-
plimented, re-elected without opposition
and voted another £lOO p.a., making his
salary £lOOO. He also mentioned that
after three years “on the outer” he had
been re-elected to the N.S.W. Leg.
Council; and this is how he did it:
I won the seat, and am thus able to
present to the A.W.U., once again, a free
pass over all the railway lines in Australia.
Rather startling; but after all the old
union has a better title to a free pass
than many a deadhead who has one.
It seems doubtful whether the 14 Old
Bolshevists sentenced by the Stalinists
were “removed” by machine-gun fire or
by revolver bullets in the back of the
head. Perhaps the point would be
cleared up if pickers-up of news from
“trustworthy sources” were not anxious
to return to the more congenial subject
of Fascist atrocities in Spain and other
countries which have somehow failed to
go completely Red.
The trial of the alleged Trotskyists was
staged just six weeks after the adoption
of the new Russian Constitution. “Free-
dom of conscience, of religious worship,
of speech, of assembly and of the press”
is guaranteed to Stalin’s subjects, but
not to “capitalists.” Perhaps Sockemoff
and the rest were “capitalists”—under the
blessed Constitution a “capitalist” is any
person whom the Government chooses
to describe as such.
S.A. is getting £1,300,000 from the
Commonwealth this year in one special
grant; and there are lots of other sub-
ventions. When the Grants Commission
arrived at Adelaide the local Govern-
ment asked for an increase to £2,186,000.
That’s over £3 10s. a head, and only
provincial requirements to provide for.
There are countries that have to defend
as well as govern themselves on £3 10s.
a head.
More points for police chiefs in other
States are contained in the final Duncan
report on Victoria’s force. The new Com-
missioner finds the strength inadequate
and misused ; some cops are doing cleri-
cal and cleaning work which civilians
could do as well or better. He recom-
mends the amalgamation of gaming and
licensing branches, with frequent changes
of personnel, use of more and lighter
patrol cars and a C. 1.8. promotion
system that will give younger men more
chances as well as improve its numerical
strength. The more expensive reforms
will probably be delayed by lack of
funds. .
The resumption of relations with Japan
has already had a striking effect on the
trade figures; excess of exports for
six months of 1936-37 amounted to
£12,324,000 sterling. But with Corona-
tion trippers to be provided for an excess
of £26,000,000 or £27,000,000 sterling
will be necessary for the full year, it
would have been provided easily enough
if the Government had not indulged in
the luxury of quarrelling with Australia’s
second-best customer, and with the
U.S.A. for good measure.
Total abolition of the toll is demanded
by the people who use the George’s
River (N.S.W.) bridge, headed by the
Sutherland Shire Council. The Suther-
land Shire Council built the thing, and
the Sydney Government guaranteed in-
terest on a loan of £305,000, which was
raised in London in two parcels, interest
being 54 p.c. and the issue price £984.
The council has never been able to pay
the interest, and since July, 1931, the
Government has had to meet anything
from £8745 to £14,140 a year; the
amount owing at June 30 last was
£55,746. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of
the U.A.P., our great Premier Mr.
Stevens is breaking his neck to raise more
loans in London for “works” like the
George’s River bridge!
“Stained Pieces”: A visitor from Eng-
land, connected with the wool trade, has
been giving us his ideas about the late
Japanese trouble.
Japanese mills are equipped with
machinery to handle Australian wools, and
they must have Australian wools. Had Mr.
Lyons stood firm, the Japanese would have
had to accept any terms we liked to hand
out to them.
I heard that sort of speech delivered in
Darwin long ago. The speaker said
Vesteys just had to keep going; they
had so much capital involved they
couldn’t afford to shut; the workers
could demand anything they wanted, and
Vesteys would have to give way. Those
million-pound meatworks haven’t turned
a wheel for many years.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 25-
George-street North, Sydney.]


SALESMANSHIP.


mm
SJft
i MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
BY
M
A
C
H
I
N
E
R
Y
K
Representatives: McPHERSONS PTY. LTD., Melbourne!
Adelaide, Perth E.S.C.A., Brisbane
DHr-ZDuif*
Public Notice.
TRITON GOLD MINES NO
LIABILITY.
Collins House, Melbourne.
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend (the
3rd) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Friday, the
12th day of March, 1937.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 18th day of Febru-
ary, and reopen at 10 a.m. on Saturday, the
20th day of February, 1937, and shareholders
registered on Friday, the 19th day of Febru-
ary, 1937, will be entitled to receive the divi-
dend.
Dividend Warrants will be posted direct to
shareholders.
By Order of the Board,
HUGH G. BRAIN, Manager.
4th February, 1937.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
We extend to Southern visitors a
hearty welcome to the TRITTON Art
Gallery, George Street, Brisbane, to
view the magnificent display of
Antiques, Eastern Furniture, Marble
and Bronze Statuary, Oil Paintings
and Water-colors. Admission to the
TRITTON Art Gallery is free. —
F. TRITTON (PTY.), LTD., Com-
plete Home Furnishers, George Street,
Brisbane.
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
DEAF
TMfcfol Month
Write for Booklet
and Details
of Trial Offer.
and PROVE that the
VIBRAPHONE defeats
DEAFNESS
NOW available in Australia.
A perfectly safe hearing aid.
Non-electrical Practically
invisible—No wires —No
batteries—No head-bands.
The VIBRAPHONE is
not an artificial ear-drum.
B. NATHAN
37 Austral Buildings,
115 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l
PERSONAL ITEM S
Australia’s most cosmopolitan archi-
tect is J. F. Hennessy, Sydney-born and
for years in charge of the building and
construction department at Sydney Uni.
He supplemented his Australian studies
at American universities, and spent
several years in U.S.A. and Europe be-
fore settling down in his native city to
a practice which has extended to S’Africa
and which now takes him by air to Eng-
land. He has just been commissioned to
design large office buildings in London,
Birmingham and other cities for a big
finance show.
Sydney Stock Exchange has followed
a Melbourne example by founding a re-
search and statistical bureau, and has
chosen as head of it W. Judd, a towns-
man of Norman Lindsay, born at Cres-
wick (Vic.). Judd took his M.A. degree
at Melbourne University, where he won
the Dwight Medal and the London-
awarded Cobden Club Medal. He lec-
W. JUDD, Research Officer, Sydney
Stock Exchange.
tured at the Victorian Teachers’ College,
and afterwards was a lecturer in eco-
nomics at Tasmania University. Then
he moved to Sydney to become research
and publicity officer in the Premier’s
department. For a generation he was a
vigorous club cricketer.
J. T. Jones will become g.m. of the
Victorian State Savings Bank when man-
ager Cooch retires in March. Jones has
been 50 years with the bank and assistant
g.m. ior the past six.
Melbourne’s Anzac march this year
will be led by Nevill Smyth, V.C., in the
absence of Harry Chauvel at the Coro-
nation. Smyth belongs to an able Cor-
nish family—his father, who stroked the
Cambridge eight a century ago, became
an F.R.S. The son put the traditional
tailcoat and top-hat of Westminster
School aside to graduate with honors at
Sandhurst. He was with the Queen’s
Bays in Zhob Valley (Indian North-west),
won his V.C. in the Sudan and was the
first man into the citadel at Omdurman.
Then he worked on the Sudan survey
and charted the Nile cataracts into south
Abyssinia. He took up flying before the
war, commanded the Khartoum District
1913-15, was in command of the First Aus-
tralian Brigade at Lone Pine, the Somme,
Pozieres and Mouquet Farm, was given
the 2nd Div. A.1.F., and then transferred
to British divisional commands. He has
eight bars to his Khedive’s medal, and
was mentioned in dispatches 12 times
during the Big Scrap. He had conceived
such an affection for Australia that when
he retired in 1924 he decided to make
his permanent home in Victoria. With
all his other accomplishments he has
found time to become a more than pass-
able artist.
Keith Palmer, at present circling Aus-
tralia by regular air services and record-
ing his impressions for several news-
papers, is a Maoriland journalist whom
.Ralph Simmonds, Melbourne “Herald’s”
editor, found after Christchurch “Sun”
shut up shop. He’s been in the air before
—as a Union Airways passenger on one
of the early service flights between Dun-
edin and Palmerston North; he de-
scribed the jaunt by microphone for
Maoriland’s national stations. He ex-
pects to cover the present 7700-mile trip
in less than a fortnight.
“A.P.T.”: The irony of fate! S.
Hamilton, a Scot who passed on in
Queensland recently at 55, served with
the Royal Navy in the war, was
captured near Heligoland when
his destroyer was torpedoed, and
was taken prisoner, but two
months later was released. His
fighting experiences also in-
cluded going through several
fierce naval battles unscathed.
Cause of his death, which oc-
curred at Chinchilla, was the ex-
plosion of a tiny petrol stove. A
representative of the Australian
Engineering Supply Co., he
travelled outback Queensland
with his wife by caravan.
Christchurch “Press” (M.L.)
lost an old servant when its
manager, A. M. Burns, died the
other day. Burns joined the
staff in 1889, had held most
offices on the editorial side, and became
g.m. in 1925. He was a fine journalist,
concise in his writing and an active news-
getter. He paid Australia a visit a couple
of months ago.
W. D. Euler, Canadian Trade and
Commerce Minister, now in Australia,
served a useful four years’ apprenticeship
to the job as Minister for National
Revenue. He owns the local newspaper
in Kitchener (Ontario), which is a thriv-
ing town about the size of Bendigo (Vic.)
and, on the strength of its manutactures,
has doubled in size since before the war,
meanwhile changing its name from
Berlin. Euler has been its Mayor, and
has been in the Canadian House of
Commons since 1917.
“El V.”: Just-dead Percival Phillips,
U.S.A.-born British war correspondent,
was in Australia for the “Daily Mail”
during the 1925 Imperial Press Confer-
ence. One of the five pressmen at Haig’s
headquarters he. was knighted when the
war ended. He was a tall, fair person
with a nose for news and no airs except
an air of boredom acquired in a dozen
wars —he reported every scrap from the
Greco-Turkish dust-up of ’97 to recent
disturbances in China. The last time I
saw him he was on his way to Afghan-
istan to see some of Amanullah’s last
phases through, and, though the guest of
potentates and feared by viceroys, he
was unassumingly at work, with a wad
of folded copy paper in his fist and the
guileless air of a junior reporter, extract-
ing information from a Eurasian station-
master. He was in Portugal during the
revolution, in Belgium when war was
declared, in Antwerp at its fall, in
Jamaica during the 1907 earthquake, with
Edward VIII. in the Orient, Canada and
S’Africa, in Italy after the March to
Rome, in Asia Minor and Mespot dur-
ing the reform years, in Afghanistan
during its last revolution, in China when
Borodin was at work, at the coronation
of Haile Silassie and the inauguration of
New Delhi.
Accompanying Gilbert Dyett to the
Coronation in the special R.S.L. delega-
tion is George Holland, who has been
much the same sort of Melbourne-branch
fixture as Dyett has been permanent
general president. (Dyett has held the
job since 1919.) A rotund, genial chap
with marks of his war service upon him,
Holland has made his presidency almost
a full-time job, being continually on the
move for some benefit for returned men
or seeking jobs for out-of-work mem-
bers. If Edward had remained King Hol-
land would have been just the sort of
man he would have liked to fraternise
with.
George Harper, of Christchurch
(M.L.), knighted at 93, holds two
records. He. is the oldest living Etonian
and the oldest man upon whom knight-
hood has ever been conferred. Son of
the man who was first Primate of Maori-
land and first Bishop of Christchurch, he
left his native Berkshire in 1858, but was
in England again eight years later to
study for the. Bar. In 1870 he settled in
Christchurch, where he practised for 60
years, retiring in 1930. Since then he
has been chairman of the city’s Relief
Association, which had plenty of work
to do in the depression years, and is still
a member of several local bodies. He is
to be seen almost every day in the
streets of the town he has seen grow
from a stretch of swamp land.
Wilfred Blacket, K.C., dead at 76, was
The Bulletin’s first formally-named
sub-editor. W. H. Traill found him, and
he remained with the paper until Dec.,
1886, when he was called to the
Bar. He shone on royal-commission
The late WILFRED BLACKET, K.C.
work, but a busy practice did not muzzle
his pen, which remained active up to a
few years ago.
Before he came to The Bulletin
Blacket had been a regular contributor
of paragraphs and verse, including a
1600-line “Hymn to Humbug.” He was
a sound sub-editor, with a pungent gift
in knocking other people’s work into
shape. He discovered Alexina Wildman,
pioneer of The Bulletin’s women’s
pages, and also was probably the first to
appreciate fully the ability of James
Edmond, whose paragraphs he handled
as they came along in the mail from
Rockhampton (Q.). When he resigned
he urged Archibald to fill the vacancy
with Edmond.
Donald Mackay, C.B.E. in the Birth-
day honors, is an Australian who de-
serves the gratitude of the Common-
An Australian Explorer.
wealth. Of independent means, his
hobby has been exploration. He began
with a bicycle trip round Australia, had
some experience in New Guinea, took
to the inland with a camel team in
1926 and had a look at Arnhem Land a
couple of years later. Since then he has
done, most of his travelling by air. He
invariably does a thorough job with com-
petent chart-makers and scientific equip-
ment, and his work has materially altered
the maps of Central Australia west of
the O.T. line. His records are always
made over to the. Mitchell Library for
students’ reference.
Passed on last week-end the Rev. J. E.
Moulton, known to familiars as “Tonga”
in honor of his birthplace, where his
father founded Tubou College. While
at school at Newington he represented
N. S. Wales at Rugby against Queens-
land and Great' Britain and was gener-
ally acknowledged to be one of the finest
and fastest players who ever held a place
on a three-quarter line. He served on
many circuits of the Methodist ministry,
and latterly lived at Austinmer (N.S.W.).
Dead in Brisbane, John Graham
Brown, who before his retirement 12 years
ago was g.m. of the Northern and Bris-
bane divisions of Queensland Railways.
An Irishman, he came to Australia in
1885. His two sons are well-known
medicoes —one a Brisbane and the other
(L.G.) a London specialist. L.G., Queens-
land Rhodes scholar for 1909, went from
the captaincy of Brisbane Grammar
School Rugby team to that of Oxford
and later of England. Before, the war he
was in Russia for a while as tutor in a
nobleman’s family. The end of the Big
Scrap saw him a colonel in the R.M.C.;
then he settled down in St. James-square.


■;<
|MJ
I* / //
/
Jillll;;
SK&S&SiB#
g! -
ii j
'’ ‘ V
fe
IS
a
vxm
~r
Vs*
\ j* WWW -
"ar" ■***'
■
IliMpi
r ;
M
; -
-
■
' - -•-■ ■■' ■'
tf- J
'
l" , *
If.. 4l
■
x
i
■
■-> ■
s*ml
;
all, and one to go! The
■“* greatest of all Test series will
culminate in the final clash of the
Test teams in Melbourne. Don’t
miss a run of this exciting finish —
you’ll be on your toes listening each
thrilling moment with a Philips
Radioplayer, made by the world’s
largest radio manufacturers, and
makers of the famous Philips Lamps.
Your local Accredited Radioplayer
Retailer will gladly arrange a
demonstration.
MODEL 6608
27 GUINEAS. TERMS AVAILABLE.
—and nou)
for the final test!
BROADCAST MODELS—A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6506, 5 Valves 15 guineas
Model 6507, 5 Valves 19 guineas
Model 6500, 5 Valves 23 guineas
WORLD-WIDE MODELS—
A.C. OPERATED.
Model 6608, 6 Valves 27 guineas
Model 6709, 7 Valves 34 guineas
BATTERY-OPERATED RECEIVERS.
Model 6517, for Broadcast Reception, 5 Valves 27 guineas
Model 6612, for World-wide Reception, 6 Valves, . . 37 guineas
TERMS AVAILABLE.
Listen with a
PHILIPS
ALSO MAKERS OF LAMPS, VALVES, RECTIFIERS, TRANSMITTING, NEON AND X-RAY APPARATUS.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“The 0.D.”: About dark an 11-year-
old boy staggered into the bush nurse at
Merriwagga (N.S.W.) and gasped “Me
stomach! ” A quick look disclosed all
symptoms of burst appendix. This in
the middle of a raging storm and pour-
ing rain, and the nearest doctor at Grif-
fith, 50 miles away. The nurse tried
to raise the doc. by ’phone, but the lines
were down. An old car was requisitioned.
With no curtains or chains, and with a
leaking hood, it was a forlorn hope. A
tyre burst and was replaced. It was 10
p.m. before they got away, the. boy
packed in rugs. Water stopped the
engine, but they got it going again and
battled on, the bushman-driver holding
the bus on a waterlogged, slithery track.
“Me stomach is dead,” mumbled the kid
once. Later he said “If I die me father
lives in Griffith.” But you can’t kill his
kind. He’s now recovering from the
midnight operation.
* * * *
“D. 8.”: Stealthily we crept down the
glade. The “sug-sug” of a rhythmically-
swung axe rang out. I held up a caution-
ing finger: “Menura,” I whispered.
Newchum paused ; puzzled, then a bright
smile split his homely face: “Oh, I
know,” he. said, “men who’re a-choppin’
of wood.” I shook my head violently:
“Not men, but a bird,” I whispered.
“Sug-sug,” continued the axe and
stopped. Came a new sound ; a tearing
rasp of noise. “A crosscut saw now,” I
hissed delightedly. Newchum gaped:
“Any cut be sore,” he mumbled. “But
this is a bird imitating a saw,” I said.
Newchum winked: “Happen it have a
boil,” he grinned. Then came a rend-
ing crackling ; a swooshing as of sud-
denly-displaced air. “The fall of a forest
giant,” I exulted; “what marvellous
mimicry!”—and thereupon jumped -for
my life. We levered the mountain ash
off Newchum with a lifting-jack. “Bub-
bub-bird!” he groaned. “That were a
liar’s tale, an’ all, that were.”
* * * *
“M 8”: A friend’s white cockatoo, an
ancient and learned bird, suddenly de-
veloped symptoms of madness. It was
placed, chained to its perch, close to the
woodheap, to which it descended and
began busily collecting small chips.
When it had a little heap gathered, Cocky
would proceed to put them carefully side
by side, giving each chip three or four
taps with its bill. This went on for some
days, while we puzzled over the mystery.
Then we remembered the bricklayer who
built the new chimney, laying his bricks
side by side, and giving each a couple of
taps with the handle of the trowel.
Hi * * *
“Falconer”: Old Thompson had some
of the best dogs in the district, and it
always beat me why he didn’t enter one
of them in the dog trials. One day I
asked him. His reply was couched in
his usual florid style. “B lot o’ use
that d be! The dogs wouldn’t
know what the hell I was saying
to them!” “Why?” I asked. “Why!”
he snorted. “ ’Cos the cows at the
trials won’t allow any language! ”
* «= * *
“Yangardook”: I have driven teams
of horses, bullocks and goats, run a team
of 20 mules in a dam scoop in the Dead
Centre, and shifted a boring plant a hun-
dred miles in the far nor’-west with a
team of 30 sturdy little donks, but never
could I be again persuaded to associate
with that loathsome-smelling, vile-tem-
pered brute the camel. Sinking for
water along the Trans, railway, my mate
and I used one to haul the dirt. Bill, at
the 60ft., lit the fuses in three charged
holes and gave the order to haul up.
The oont refused to go beyond funeral
pace. With language and order from my
mate in the kibble to drop a stick on the
swine, it responded by throwing itself
flat and inviting me to a game of kick
for kick. Rushing to the shaft I saw the
kibble hanging at the end of the rope
some 30ft. down, the shaft filled with
smoke from the burning fuses and Bill
pulling himself up hand over hand by
that half-inch wire rope. Just about done
"I'm chuckin' the job, boss! Your bull's too blanky sentimental."
in, he staggered to the shelter of a near-
by tree just in time to miss three showers
of rocks.
* * * *
“B. the D.”: Touching on butting
powers of rams. While I was feeding his
mate with bits of bread and ignoring him
the lord of my lawns delivered his full
weight on the outside flat of my knee-
joint. Result: Two visits to Macquarie-
street, X-rays and 2\ months’ massage
and electrical treatment —and still limp-
ing. Sixty years in the battle and the
breeze, then sent to hospital by a
ram! Could a man be in more shame?
* * * *
“Kriz”: We used to wonder why
Kyokkoh, the diminutive No. 2 Jap diver
on our lugger, always staggered when
we helped him aboard after a “dip.”
We gathered why when one day at
Broome Kyokkoh was induced to get on
the scales. Despite the fact that he was
clothed in a heavy white woollen suit—
the temperature was 103 —he tipped the
beam at only 911 b. Then we put his
diving gear separately on the scales.
Helmet weighed 221 b., corselet and bands
231 b., underclothing 101 b., boots 321 b.
and lead 611 b 4 stone lib. more
than his own frail weight.
* * * *
“Lucullus”: An ancient beachcomber
of my acquaintance who has dined on
monkey scores of times declares it to be
similar to chicken. And why shouldn’t
it be? Epicures who accompanied
Ghengis Khan and Tamerlane acclaimed
the human infant as the very apex of
dainty eating. How many succulent
dishes do we pass by merely through pre-
judice! My namesake was wont to dine
on nightingale-tongue pie—yet we waste-
fully cast away the tongues of our poul-
try. John Chinaman, however, doesn’t;
neither the tongue nor the brain of his
barnyard product goes to waste. Of
course, age greatly influences palata-
bility of all flesh. Offer a Papuan epicure
a surfing flapper plumped up on choco-
lates and ice-cream and one of Oswald
Pryor’s Cousin Jacks impregnated with
the juices of a pipe that’s been “frying
steak” for 10 years, and gather his
opinion afterwards.
“Hanko”: I’ve struck only one Amen-
can negro engaged in the jumbuck-barber-
ing businesl That was on Kooba,
Riverina (N.S.W.), and the cullud pusson
was a gentlemanly Joker, with a pleasing
warble and a craze for the thrills of our
national pastime. A game of zwei
wherein he and a sprinkling of abos. took
part was good entertainment even if it
came hard on the pocket. At cut-out a
Whitton publican got the jovial darky’s
goaf by refusing to serve him. In fault-
less English Billy pointed out that he
was a free-born American citizen, etc.
Bung stemmed the flow of Robesonese
with a hastily-filled noggin.
* * * *
“Ming”; When the stray collie pup
came to the poultry farm Mum refused
to let him stay. There were plenty of
live things as it was, and she determined
to look round for an owner for the pup,
despite the agonised petitions of the
youngsters. Two days later young Bill
killed a small snake, and bore it home
in triumph. Outside the back door the
baby was parked in its pram in the sun,
the pup lying on the bench beside it.
BiH had a brainwave. He arranged the
snake on the ground beside the pram,
ordered the pup to lie down near by and
stole away. Mum came out to take a
look at the baby, saw the snake and the
pup, and the rest was easy. The pup,
now fully grown, is still introduced as the
noble dog that saved the baby’s life.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Explorers Leichhardt and
Sturt were probably right in describing
as kites the flocks of voracious birds they
encountered in the Gulf country and
along the Barcoo (B. 13/1 /’37). Accord-
ing to naturalist Charles Barrett (and
what better authority?) kites are sporadic
visitors to Australia and are identical
with the birds which scavenge in the vil-
lages and towns of Egypt. By way of ex-
change, many of our hawks are common
to Malaya, the Near Orient and the
S’African veld.
* * * *
“Tie”: Bob Marshall, the amateur bil-
liards champion, has brought back from
S’Africa a presentation snakeskin neck-
tie. Somebody might try the idea as a
means of using up our own Joe Blakes,
but I doubt if any of these could pro-
vide as striking an effect as the black-
and-white diamonds of the S’African.
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: The simple belief I once
held that a sheep, if given a patch of
green grass and drinking water, would
display immediate and lasting content in-
duced me to buy one for use as a
natural lawnmower. In the course of
intensive study of its menu from lamb-
hood to mutton, my early theories, peace
of mind, patience, and powers of ex-
pression were entirely revolutionised, but
even so I find it hard to credit
“M.L.W.’s” yarn of drought-stricken
sheep being fed on an onion crop (B.
13/1/ ’37). My merino gave proof of
his gastronomic versatility by going
everything from prize carnations to roses.
Fruit was his long suit, nor did he scorn
even the frun-fly gru b. The only thi
he jibbed at eating were oleander, arum-
lilies, mint and onions. A depraved
taste for silk stockings led to his ulti-
mate downfall, and in death he was not
divided from two of the things he
spurned in life—mint and onions.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: It is not the little black ants
that do the damage to a beehive (B.
6/1/’37). The real villains are the meat-
or road-ants, which wait at the entrance
to the hive and pounce on honey-laden
bees as they return. If unchecked they
will invade the brood chamber and carry
away the larvae. I’ve seen them reduce
a five-storey hive to a nucleus inside a
few weeks.
* * * *
“Loch Fyne”: Oil not only attracts
sharks but also many other denizens of
the deep—herrings and garfish, for in-
stance. But it must be animal oil. Not
the most voracious fish will succumb to
the lure of castor oil or eucalyptus.
On the other hand, mineral oil, nowadays
spilled around the globe in considerable
quantities, acts as a deterrent to sharks,
and even destroys fish.
* * * *
“James W.”: The camel’s snaky-
looking head and neck are not his only
reptilian characteristics. His blood com-
position has elements resembling that
of reptiles, and alone among mammals
he has the reptilian varying of bodily
temperature, rising and falling with that
of the surrounding atmosphere: his tem-
perature chart would show fluctuations
of up to nine degrees Fahrenheit during
a sudden rise or fall of the thermometer.
The skeleton, too, resembles that of a
reptile in its almost perfect balance. Inci-
dentally, oont bones are the finest thing
Nature has ever done in the osseous line.
They are the densest and hardest known,
and huge quantities are used in and
exported from Asia and Northern Africa
as ivory. Tip for prospectors and others
in camel-using areas in Australia—bag
any camel skeletons you can find.
* * * *
“Vario”: One of the oddest collec-
tions I’ve ever come across was that
gathered by a Central Queensland store-
keeper—outback “letters” ordering
goods. One from an old prospector was
scratched with the point of a penknife
on the lid of a tobacco-tin, and another
was scratched with a similar instrument
on a piece of bullock hide. Another was
burnt on a piece of timber with a hot
iron. The biggest was one from a
settler’s wife, who inscribed a large order
in pencil on both sides of a piece of
pine from a petrol-case. No writing
materials were ordered.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: A produce merchant of
Cairns (N.Q.) breasted the pub bar,
called for a whisky and gravely placed
a pumpkin on the counter in payment,
explaining that he was a Douglas
Crediter. Bung took the pumpkin to the
newsagent’s and paid with it for his
papers ; the newsagent exchanged it for
21b. of chops ; the butcher used it to
obtain something which he required. And
so the pumpkin circulated until it re-
turned to the produce merchant as part-
payment on a bag of chaff. Everybody
had got something, the. pumpkin was still
there, and the gaiety of Cairns had been
considerably increased.
WHEN YOU GO TO RIDE THAT
COLT.
When a neighbor comes and asks you if you’ll
ride, his outlaw colt
On some Sunday—well, you justly puff with
pride
At the thought that he should choose you, for
you know - ’twill give a jolt
To some coves around who fancy they can
ride.
On arrival there that Sunday you’ll be startled
at the bunch
Of the neighbors round who “called in as
they passed”;
For the news has spread like measles, and you
sort of feel a hunch
That they’ve come to see you well and truly
“grassed.”
And among them there’ll be riders who’d
fall off a double bed,
Like old kookaburras, perched along the cap.
They’ll all tell you how to ride him —warn you
not to “lose your head,”
And they’ll take their oaths “he’ll buck a bit,
that chap.”
Then they'll lie about the outlaws that they
rode “some years ago”
On old Hungry Someone’s station, Starve-
’em-all,
And in low asides they’ll mutter that you're
“pretty blanky siow,”
And they’ll take more oaths you’re bound to
get a fall.
Then a living, whirling cyclone and tornado
wrapped in hide
Rises with you like a hoop, and, reefing hard,
Landing with a jolt that jars you, as he sways
from side to side,
With your toecaps ploughing furrows through
the yard.
When at last he gives in, beaten, in a bath of
foam and sweat,
And you’re waiting for the bouquets they
may throw,
Then you’ll hear those dismal Jimmies croak,
as if in deep regret,
Ar! they don’t buck like they useter years
ago.”
N.S.W.
PAUL CUPID.


“Gravelsnatcher”: “Dirty Dick,” the
boundary-rider, was unfamiliar with
both letters and soap. One night he
found something scribbled across the.
door of his shack and, deciding that it
must be a message from the boss, but
being utterly unable to decipher it,
knocked the door off its hinges and
carted it to the next hut, 10 miles away.
After some, hesitation his mate read it
to him. It ran:
Dirty Dick from Fiddler’s Green,
The dirtiest loafer that ever was seen.
* * * *
“Espie"’: Apart from their remarkable
toughness, some ironwood piles removed
from the Darwin jetty after 40 years’
service gave off, where the axe had
bitten into them, the strong ironwood
odor. My theory is that it’s the taste
or smell rather than the toughness which
makes this timber so impervious to
borers.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: A packhorse broke away
from a traveller near Mount Mulligan
(N.Q.) and weeks later was found dead.
It was not “hooked up,” and there was
plenty of water and grass about. Too
much grass, in fact; for examination
showed that with the abundant food
available the horse had grown fat, and
the tough saddle-girth, sinking into the
swelling belly, was the cause of death.
* * # *
“Eureka”: An old chap I camped near
always got a supply of wild ducks in or
out of open seasons, though he never
“Play him , son; play him!”
fired a shot during a close season. He
baited fishing lines with small frogs,
grubs and tiny fish, and hung the lines
over limbs so that the bait just touched
the water. Of course, the lines were
set for fish, and he couldn’t help it if a
duck took the bait.
“Lower Tops’l”: Flower scents act
strangely. Off the coast between Albany
and Esperance (W.A.) I’ve whiffed the
strong perfume of boronia miles out to
sea, and camped later beside a waving
swamp of this scrub I’ve been over-
powered by the fragrance. Yet after
three days beside that gardener’s para-
dise I defy anyone to smell the stuff.
* * * $
“Stinger”: Why do people think
stingrays are out to kill? I’ve mixed
with them a lot, and, on the whole, they
possess gentlemanly instincts. Their haste
to dodge me has been about equal to mine
to evade them. I’ve trodden on them
half a dozen times or so when, putting
my boat to bed in the creek —and no-
thing other than a mutual scare has
occurred. I have been stung, and I’ve
seen others pierced. That invariably
happens if a man treads on a ’ray and
doesn’t lift his foot lively enough, or if
he gets tangled up with one in a net.
Like a snake, if a ’ray can get away
it will do so ; if it’s cornered it will fight
for its life. But its barb is much too
precious to waste on promiscuous stab-
bing ; it keeps it as a last line of defence.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: A cobber riding with a
gun near Cairns (N.Q.) came across a
7ft. brown-snake and a hawk, facing
each other on the ground without a
movement. He watched for five minutes
or so, then shot the snake. The hawk,
still dazed, allowed him to approach
almost within hand’s reach before taking
wing. I have known small birds to fall
victims to Joe Blake’s spellbinding
powers, but hitherto I had thought the
king of the air immune.
* * * * ,
“Osh”: Just before the bullocks
stopped my mate stepped up to his
wagon, which was loaded with 4000
super, of pine, and a wheel rolled over
his foot. I raced up to find him unhurt
but a sickly green about the gills, with
his foot buried in soft ground between
two roots.
* * * *
“Runa”: Accidental memorials? The
Whangarei district, North Auckland
(M.L.), abounds in huge rocks of lime-
stone formation that have been commer-
cially worked for many years. It was
decided to abandon ope of the. crushing
plants, and the last sacks of bulk lime
were hauled away on a wagon. The load
being found too heavy, a dozen sacks
were left in a paddock to be called for
later. They were never collected. Time
solidified the stuff again, the bags became
petrified also, and the “last load” won
fame as a tourist sight. Last time I was
there an artist was sketching them.
“Sixty-five”: An old-timer at Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) had two trained sheep
which would confound those who be-
lieve the. jumbuck has no nous what-
ever. By cracking a whip he could make
them jump on the ends of a see-saw,
where they would rock themselves up
and down. One of them would also
climb several rungs of a ladder and then
• ■ , 'V , , , , , ,
jump into an outstretched bag under-
neath.
* * * *
“C.E.D.”: When about five years old
I was playing with three or four boys
on a piece of heath-country in the
“Oh, I beg your p-p-p-p-p-p I-I-I-I b-b-b-b-b-beg y-y-y-y”
Western District of Victoria. My mates
were about 100 yards away when a
diving wedge-tailed eagle missed my
head by inches, bushes impeding it in
the strike. Others hovered over me as
sparrow-hawks will when locating an
insect. I yelled, and the others saw and,
yelling, too, scared the attacker. Years
afterwards one struck at my fox-terrier,
The dog, a real fighter, raised bristles
that would have done credit to a wolf-
dog, and, snapping and barking, drove it
off. Yes, as some Aboliar has lately
asserted, wedge-tails are nice, harmless
birds, living peacefully on grasshoppers!
* * * *
“Brix”: Flavoring by diet? Anyone
who has eaten mutton-bird would not
need to be told that the bird’s diet Comes
out of the sea. In M.L. before dairying
became specialised it was usual for the
milkman to apologise to customers when
he had to supplement his cows’ diet with
turnips ; otherwise the clients would cer-
tainly have mentioned it to him. And if
there’s anyone who’ll own to sampling
koala flesh he will probably add that he
noticed a strong flavor of eucalyptus.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: One season some
Westralian fishing genius discovered that
bream wouldn’t look at anything except
blood worms, a species of river Me that
flourished exclusively near the effluence
of the sewerage scheme I hung off
for a while, but the darn things wouldn t
take prawns, so I gave it a fly. Two
hours hard work gave me a tin of worms
and a severe bilious attack, and I stag-
gered up to the bridge to try them out.
Too late! I’d missed by half an hour.
The fish had just switched over to shark’s
liver.
* * * *
“Amen”: Few people know how to
handle a mango. If a fork is inserted at
the stalk-end of the fruit right into the
kernel, the skin can be stripped off and
the fruit sliced without making a mess.
* * * *
“Osh”: The missus and I nearly parted
over a dog ; I swore her mongrel was
eating the eggs. “Oh no! Skookums
wouldn’t touch them! It must be that
wonderful thoroughbred of yours.”
“Right!” I said, “I’ll soon find out!”
and brought out the strychnine. I admit
I sweated inwardly for fear I might be
wrong, and while I was putting the
poisoned eggs in the nest the missus tied
her dog up . . . rotten sports, women!
The real culprit, an old ginger tomcat
was stiff as a board next mnrnina Anv’
111 d uudiu nexi morning. Any-
one else know of a cat eating eggs?
* * * *
“Werrimee”; Shortly after their recent
wedding the spouse of a North Aus-
tralian abo. cleared out with the bride-
groom’s rival. The aggrieved Binghi
tramped into Darwin and requested the
police to punish the “cheeky pfeller,”
and, the northern cop being practically
“big chief belonga all-about black-
pfeller,” an ultimatum by message stick
went out to the bold brigand. In the
old days the injured husband would
have followed the track in fighting
panoply. On Tomki station, near Casino
(N.S.W.), there was a gin who had no
feet. .She had eloped, was tracked and
brought back, and a wrathful spouse’s
tomahawk did the rest. Another gin,
who belonged to Wooroowoolgen, also
near Casino, was hamstrung by her hus-
band for running away, and always after-
wards had to move about on her hands
and knees.
* . * .* *
“Jabu”: Being duly impressed by the
prowess of “Osh” (B. 20/1/’37), who
can shoot dingoes in the dark by their
howl and wallabies by the thud of their
tail, I showed the par. to an American
friend. “Waal, Buddy,” he commented,
“it’s quaite pahsible. Nah, Ah dahn t
want yuh to think Ah m exahgerating,
but back in Ahmurrica Ah could shoot
skunks on the blackest night without
seeing or hearing them. All Ah had t’
guide me was the smelly
* * provi ded
material foi > leath J P liver . oil and
fertm shark is now becoming po p U lar
as food J n N Queensland . young shark
- s eV£n pronounced by gas tronomical
experts as supe rior to barramundi. John
Chinaman> who knows as much about
bsb as an y bod y ? esteems shark highly—
and no j on jy the fins, as is commonly
supposed
*'* * *
“Laetitia”: Australian vegetation is
for the most part faintly scented, but the
gidya is a strong exception. Decayed
bsb j s adar 0 f roses to the aroma of wet
gidya as wafted across the plains after
a shower of rain. In sou’-west Queens-
]and I’ve seen new hands suffer pro-
longed spells of nausea until they be-
came inured to its noisome influence.
Yet burning gidya gives off a sweet
scent. In the Torres Strait islands I
found another odoriferous shrub, which
Binghi knows as the aubo. Somewhat
similar in contour to the guava, there
the resemblance ends. Burst the shell-
like skin and the odor is like ancient eggs,
Yet Binghi relishes the obnoxious fruit;
he believes it endows him with melodious
vocal powers.
EMUS.
When home was just a lonely bark caboose,
And virgin forests hemmed the homestead
rise,
Where curlews set the weirdest fancies loose
In witching hours of night with eerie cries,
The emus came to see
What that queer place could be,
And strode around it with inquiring eyes.
The splitter’s thudding maul, resounding far,
The clang of wedges in the riven log,
The thumping of the fencer’s iron bar,
Ihe axe-strokes muffled in the morning fog,
The crosscut’s swish and hum
In ironbark and gum—
All these were sounds that set those birds
agog.
Plainly they queried “What is that?” and soon
From camping-mound and feeding-ground
they’d go,
And where and while the billy boiled at noon,
Like mannequins parading to and fro,
They’d slowly strut and pry,
With solemn heads flung high,
And sometimes with a banded brood in tow.
'Twas grand to see them speeding through the
grass,
Their shaking tails and tufts so quaintly
loose;
Twas grand to see a quiet procession pass,
Each statuesque, though stupid as a goose;
And aye ’twas good to hear
Their drumming through the year,
When home was just a lonely bark caboose.
N.S.W.
E.S. SORENSON.


“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRiCLS!
?. ■
llflft 'V
i
m
m
«?S ,X\ ■s*>*s
S|" *
__ _ ,sW|liilf
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. 1-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families,
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
How Much Time
can yoti give to your friend’s affairs? He can probably only give as
much to yours. Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited), if appointed as
your Executor, Trustee or Agent, will attend to the affairs of your
Estate all the time —your friend can probably only attend to part of
them for part of the time.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
liieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.E.C., E. R. Knox. K. de E. Cudmorr.
H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for Explanatory Booklet. **• Cureton, Manager.
CiWEPFii
LIMEJUKZ
&> OtnCR CORDIALS ’ ■
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths (N.Z.), Ltd.
f— -Dividends — A To Re— Rc—
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.f
£ £ £ £
1931.. 20,217 9 p.c. 15 p.c. = 10,460 9,757 13,394
1932.. 32,773 9 „ 20 „ „ 14,338 ( 7 Iri
Estab. a/c written off, £10,667 ) ‘ 11
Goodwill written up, £65,812.. .. 86,973
Reserves disappear, £1402 .. .. 85,571
1933.. 42,383 9 p.c. 20 p.c.*= 19,746 22,637 108,208
Reserves capitalised, £43,560 .. .. 64,648
1934.. 48,225 9 p.c. p.c.= 26,552 21,673 86,321
Goodwill written up, £238,417 .. 324,738
Reserves disappear, £5500 .. .. 319,238
Reserves capitalised, £147,015 .. . . 172,223
1935.. 60,104 9 p.c. 14 p.c. = 38,803 21,301 193,524
Reserves capitalised, £98,010 . . . . 95,514
1936.. 72,787 9 p.c..17} p.c.= 59,630 13,157 108,671
* Includes 10 p.c. on- bonus shares issued Oct., 1933.
t Subject to goodwill, £304,229 at Oct. 1, 1936.
Growth of the variety chain store, has
been one of the most profitable develop-
ments of modern merchandising methods,
and the figures in the table are elo-
quent testimony. The system rests on
quick cash sales (capital is turned over
five or six times a year), which means,
among other things, good buying if
mark-downs are to be kept at a minimum
and best results obtained. Most lines
are cleared, the bill paid and profit
pocketed all within time, allowed under
ordinary trade credit, thus keeping capi-
tal investment in the chief earning asset
(stocks) relatively low, and reducing the
risk of losses arising from price fluctua-
tions. Also, small personal service—
salesmanship is reduced to a minimum,
there are no deliveries and few book
debts—keeps overhead down. Cos.
working closely to these principles have
won extraordinarily good results as busi-
nesses expanded.
This offshoot of Woolworths, Sydney,
set up in Maoriland with two stores and
a capital of £50,000-odd in 1929. Now
there are 16 stores, and paid capital has
advanced to £393,035 in 50,000 9 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 343,035 ords. Good-
will has been valued at £304,229 in the
books, and bonus scrip to the amount of
£288,585 has been issued against it. The
last gift was £98,010 (two for five), made,
at the beginning of July, 1936. Thus
16s. lOd. of every £1 of ord. capital at
October 1 last represented gift issues.
Also, the gifts made last year’s 17| p.c.
div. worth no less than 101 p.c. on the
£54,450 of cash-paid ordinary capital.
Apart from the possibilities of legislative
interference, there is, of course, a limit
to the expansion of the business. The
co. does not yet appear to have arrived
at this point, nor has it so far encoun-
tered very serious opposition. Neverthe-
less, competition looks like a factor that
will have to be reckoned with in future,
and expansion of turnover during the
next few years is likely to be much less
rapid than it was over the last half-
dozen.
Four new stores were, opened during
the last term. After setting aside £63,000
(up £34,750) for the taxgatherer and
adding £15,135 net to the depreciation
reserve (now £45,240, not included with
the lay-by in the table) net earnings were
£12,683 better at £72,787. This was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£4500) and
show 19.9 p.c. on £343,035 of ord.
capital.
The immediate outlook favors further
growth of earnings, and recent Dominion
legislation is likely to add less to the
overhead of chain stores than to the
costs of most other traders. Since the
close of accounts anew store has been
opened at Greymouth, two more are ex-
pected to be in operation by Easter, and
the premises of some existing units are
to be enlarged. To help meet the out-
lay 34,304 new ords. were issued at par
(one for ten) in December.
The quick expansion of the business
is further reflected in this comparison
of balance-sheet figures:
p-i , „„ 1931 - 1934 - 7935. 1936.
Paul capital . . £84,450 £148,010 £295,025 £393,035
Mortgage 39,531 68,749 79,967
Sundry creditors 42,987 33,697 94,051 114,091
Freehold .. 53,108 115,515 143,213
Leasehold .. 20,912 8,950 2 125 —-
* s4ant '• 301 ’ 064 75,084 90,’932 120,549
Shares other cos. 15,000 15,000 15,000
Stocks .. 81,036 139,898 206,274 276.685
Debtors, etc. .. 2,414 24,488 21,514 15 154
( ash, etc. .. 1,172 6,482 3,504 3’130
To anchor goodwill, a policy of prop-
erty purchase has been adopted. Last
year £27,698 was added to the book
value of freeholds, while plant increased
by £29,617 and stocks by £70,411. To
help meet the outlay the. co. leant upon
sundry creditors for an extra £20,040
and tacked £11,218 on to mortgages ; the
allowance for taxation, etc., and surplus
earnings provided the balance. Exclud-
ing shares in other cos., the more or less
liquid surplus (£100,911) was £32,419
stronger than at the previous balance.
The market, which sees no cloud in
the co.’s sky, heavily discounts the future
by paying £7 2s. for the fully-paid pound
shares as against £5 15s. 6d. a year ago.
At £7 2s. the. immediate return is 2.4 p.c.
on a 17y p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on his
money counts on a 30 p.c.. div. or a
one-for-one issue at par. A ohe-for-two
bonus issue and maintenance of the
div. at Yl\ p.c. would lift the return to
3.7 p.c. The bonus would also lift paid
capital to £564,552, on which the pref.
div. and 17£ p.c. to the ords. would call
for £21,759 more profit than was claimed
last year. The prefs. at 375. 6d. return
4.8 p.c. Excluding the depreciation re-
serve, the net tangible cover is £3 19s.
prefs. and Bs. 7d. ords.
Taubmans, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1933.. 24,892 8 p.c. = 20,939 3,953 102,956
1934.. 53,162 15 ~ „ 39,261 13,901 110,857
Unexplained addition, £4 .. .. 116,861
1935.. 60,124 17£ p.c. = 45,806 14,318 131,179
Specific reserves disclosed, £18,120.. 149,299
Share premiums, etc., £18,310 .. 167,609
1936.. 71,350 17J p.c. = 53,05 S 18,292 185,901
This well-handled and soundly-financed
concern manufactures paints, varnishes,
enamels, lacquers, etc., and it has an
extensive goodwill of which no account
is taken in the books. The. main factory,
at St. Peters, near Sydney, covers four
acres, and there are branches at Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth,
and a factory also at Wellington (M.L.).
The business was founded by G. H.
Taubman (now chairman of the co.) in
1902 with a capital of £6OO. The figure
had grown to £3OOO in 1912. Meanwhile
the fight was largely one against preju-
dice ; then the war provided the indus-
try with the protection that the poli-
ticians failed to give, and, with every-
thing right on the technical side, Taub-
mans’ products soon won a ready
market, and selling prices were lowered
as turnover expanded and costs were
reduced. Expansion over the last 24
years has been so rapid that share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) totalled £520,163 at September 30
last, when there was no more than
£35,898 of outside money in the busi-
ness.
With the passing of slump, turnover
picked up rapidly, thanks to the revival
of building and home renovating and
expansion of the motor-body building,
furniture, electrical, leather and other
trades that use the co.’s products. After
making “adequate” provision for depre-
ciation and contingencies, last year’s net
earnings sprang £11,226, reaching
£71,350, or nearly three times the 1933
figure, notwithstanding that the shipping
holdup early in the term affected
the co.’s Westralian earnings. The
£71,350 was 23.5 p.c. on average capital
as against 22.9, 20.3 and 9.5 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div., which
advanced from 8 p.c. in 1933 to 15 p.c.
in 1934, followed by p.c., was kept
at the higher figure. Also, an issue ot
72,000 new £1 ords. was made at a pre-
mium of ss. each. The premiums
(£18,310) were added to reserves.
Since the scrip fetched 625. immedi-
ately it was listed in September last, the
issue was in the nature of a bonus to
shareholders. Also, after the close of
accounts, £56,981 of bonus scrip was
handed out, one for six, raising paid
capital to £391,886, on which \l\ p.c.
would call for £2771 less than was netted
last year.
Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
1933. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £261,740 £261,749 £261,748 £334,262
Sundry creditors 44,336* 51,903* 62,750* 35,898
Freeholds . . 98,463 98,456 102,739 105,058
Plant, etc. .. 44,882 41,443 39,821 42,176
Stocks .. 88,187 88,464 90,205 117,538
Debtors . . 123,415 156,773 78,345 71,331
Investments.. 64,874 63,936 169,061 201,221
Cash, etc. . . 3,608 7,604 2,225 49,161
* Including contingency reserves.
The capital and share premiums gathered
last year, together with surplus earnings,
went mainly into investments in sub-
sidiary interests (up £32,160), stocks (up
£21,333) and cash (up £46,936). On fixed
assets only £4674 more was spent than
was written off, despite extensions and
additions. The contraction of £26,852 in
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
which previously included provision for
contingencies, was due partly to dis-
closure of £18,120 of specific reserves,
and appearances are that it has some
connection with the drop of £7014 net in
debtors’ balances, too. Excluding in-
vestments, more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £202,132 when the books
closed.
The subsidiaries are a healthy lot. For
the year to Sept. 30 they netted £23,681,
or 11.2 p.c. on their aggregate capital
(£209,847). Net tangibles amounted to
£232,251, subject to whatever dividend
was declared. More or less liquids
totalled £174,241, and there was £18,224
coming to sundry creditors.
On the market the pound shares ad-
vanced from 625. 6d. in September to
81s. 6d. (including rights to the bonus
issue) in December. They are now at
725., at which figure the. return is 4.9
p.c. on a \l\ p.c. div. basis. The cover
is visibly 31s. 4d. in net tangibles.
Queensland Meat Export Cos.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 26,751 4 p.c. = 26,199 552 54,840
Loss.
1926.. 13,488 Nil 41,352
Profit.
1927.. 12,677 Nil 12,677 54,029
1928.. 34,158 5 p.c. = 32, 1 ’49 1,409 55,438
1929.. 3,137 Nil 3,137 58,575
Loss.
1930.. 2,628 Nil 55,947
1931.. 5,296 Nil 50,651
Trade-marks disclosed, £IOOO .. 49,651
Profit.
1932.. 18,409 21 p.c. = 16,374 2,035 51,686
1933.. 11,875 2* „ „ 12,281 51,280
1934.. 13,038 2| ~ „ 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 2i „ ~ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
The chilled-beef trade, now well on the
road to establishment here, promises to
be the brightest chapter in the history of
the Australian meat industry since the
profitable war-time contracts ran out
and Argentina got a stranglehold on the
British and Continental markets with
chilled baby beef. Last year Queensland,
the biggest beef-exporting State in the
Commonwealth, shipped 61,427 tons
frozen and 14,769 tons chilled to the
U.K. This represented a total killing of
over 457,000 head as against approxi-
mately 300,000 head for the previous
season, and prices strengthened, too. The
increased killing was due mainly to im-
proved seasonal conditions in the far-
western cattle areas of the State.
The slip in this co.’s profits for 1935
was due to an unspecified loss on chilled
shipments. During the same term it
spent £45,000 on its Ross River (Towns-
ville) works, mainly in connection with
chilling, thus increasing its capacity to
handle this class of business at lower
cost. At the same time it reorganised and
strengthened its London selling arrange-
ments. Last year s larger turnover was
therefore handled with greater facility.
Declared net earnings sprang £8989,
reaching a shade over 4 p.c. on capital]
and the div., which had been steady at
2j P-C. for the four preceding years, was
lifted to 4 p.c. That was after striking
off £12,626 (up- £1792) for depreciation.
The brisker trading is further reflected
in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:
„ . 1923 - 193 1- 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £654,976 £654,975 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors .. 119,806 17,610 190,827 206,968
Property, live-
stock, shares
in other cos. 425,798 423,532 399,091 396,665
Stock.. .. 85,557 35,243 141,332 155!943
Stoics . . 45,865 20,180 19,698 17,768
Debtors & cash 270,688 244,282 185,033 195,683
To carry an extra £17,611 of stocks, add
£7037 to debtors’ balances (£88,458) and
£3613 to cash and Consols (together
£107,225), the co. increased its advances
against shipments (£131,602) by £5848
and the amount coming to other credi-
tors (£75,366, which includes something
for contingencies) by £10,293. On fixed
assets £2426 more was written off than
was spent. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£165,426)
was £10,190.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is better than it has been for
several years, Britain has withdrawn re-
strictions on shipments of chilled beef
from Australia and will not levy import
duties on beef from the Dominions,
while the new U.K.-Argentine agreement
provides for import duties plus quanti-
tative restrictions on shipments from S.
America. Apart from seasonal condi-
tions, the future of the industry in
Australia will be governed largely by
quality of the product and costs. Costs,
now on the up-grade, have been the bug-
bear of the industry for years ; much
depends upon what happens in connec-
tion with selling prices in Britain.
The market prices the fully-paid 15s.
shares (ss. was returned in 1933) at 9s.
3d., as against 7s. 9d. a year ago. The
return at 9s. 3d. is 6.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis ; and the cover is 16s. 7d. in net
tangibles.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 24,130 124 P-e. = 24,066 64 70,047
1927.. 25,303 12j „ „ 24,066 1237 71,284
Profit on sale of land, £4016 .. 75,300
Bonus shares received, £5460 .. 80,760
1928.. 17,974 10 p.c. = 19,253 79.451
Profit on sale of land, £406 .. 79,887
1929.. 11,672 8| p.c. = 16,846 74,713
Profit on sale of land, £516.. .. 75,229
1930.. 4,315 5 p.c. = 9,626 69,918
Loss.
1931.. 8.267 Nil 61,651
Written off, £6383 55,268
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
Profit on sale property, £6301 .. 57,481
Profit.
1933.. 184 24 p.c. = 4,813 52.852
1934.. 3,054 24 „ „ 4,813 51,093
1935.. 9,944 5 „ „ 9,626 318 51,411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
Water-pipe and art-pottery manufacture
help, but earnings depend mainly upon
making bricks for home-building. The
value of building permits issued in
Greater Melbourne over the last eight
years has varied in this way:
Year to
Oct. 31, Value. Index.
1929.. .. £7,414,318 100
1932.. -.. 2,250,349 30
1933.. .. 2,906,510 39
1934.. .. 4,930,629 67
1935.. .. 6,234,903 84
1936.. .. 7,282,005 98
The jump of £1,047,102 in last year's
figure was mostly on account of steel-
('Continued on next page.)


LJcwi golden opportunity
to own a Y*B !
'tmm.
FOR A STRICTLY LIMITED PERIOD
£lOO
ZIUU DEPOSIT
(OR SPECIAL LIBERAL TRADE-IN ALLOWANCE
Now is your opportunity to own and enjoy
the luxury of a Ford V-8. Special easy terms
make the purchase of this world-famed car
a matter of simple convenience. See us
immediately for full particulars. To delay
may mean disappointment.
Also SPECIAL 2-CROP PAYMENT PLAN for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
F137.1GV
SEE YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
(Announcement inserted on behalf of Australian Ford Dealers)
V**
\5
Good Tools Are Cheap
“Van-Chrome”: the
name tells the
quality chr o m e
vanadium steel, the
toughest steel known.
From this material
the wrenches are hot
forged in the “double-
hexagon” pattern,
which gives a firm,
non-slip grip on the
nut with greater
turning power.
These are the best
wrenches obtainable.
For a slightly higher
price they will give
many times the ser-
vice you get from
ordinary wrenches.
A splendid gift for
your motorist friend.
"VAN CHROME-
SOCKET SET No. $A.72>/ 2
STANDARD SERIES-i/ 2 " DRIVE
The set consists of 16 pieces: 10 “Van-Chrome” 12 point
sockets, 7/16in., Jin,, 9/16in., fin., 21/32in., 11/16in., Jin.,
25/32in., 13/16in., |in.; Reversible Ratchet, Speed Handle,
Sliding T Handle, Extension sin. long, Extension lOin long
with revolving grip, and Universal Joint. Packed in a'metal
tool box. Weight, llilb. Price, complete 67/6.
With this set the mechanic can build any combination required
to suit the need of the moment.
£Pliers(
Proprietary Limited.
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
546 Collins Street, Melbourne
And at Adelaide, Perth.
METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE AND
DRAINAGE BOARD, SYDNEY
£1,375,000 LOAN
INTEREST, 4i% P.A. PRICE OF ISSUE, £9B/12/6
REPAYABLE 1949. ANNUAL YIELD, £4/8/-%
LOAN OPENS TO-DAY.
CLOSES NOT LATER THAN 3rd MARCH, 1937.
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board, from what-
ever source arising.
Applications for subscriptions and instalments will be accepted
free of exchange at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Adelaide and
Hobart.
Interest will be payable and principal repayable at any of the
above Commonwealth Bank of Australia branches.
Prospectuses and application forms are obtainable at any of the
Bank’s branches and the Board’s Head Office and branches.
Stock or debentures will be issued at the option of the applicant,
debentures in denominations of £lOO, £5OO ©r £lOOO, and stock in
multiples of £lOO.
The minimum amount that may be applied for in the Loan is
£lOO, and amounts in excess of £lOO must be for multiples of
£lOO. Applications for each £lOO may be paid in accordance
with the following:—•
Option 1.
Option 2.
Option 3.
£9B/12/6 with application.
£lO with application.
£3O by 10th April, 1937.
£3O by 10th May, 1937.
£2B/12/6 by 10th June, 1937.
Or
£lO with application.
£BB/12/6 by 10th June, 1937.
The Loan is a trustee investment in New South Wales, Queensland
and Tasmania. Application will be made for the listing of the
Loan on the principal Stock Exchanges in the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
The Board reserves the right to close the Loan at any earlier date
without notice and partially to allot subscription.
SYDNEY.
T. Haynes Upton, President.
F. J. Henry, Secretary.
and-concrete constructions in the city.
Since Bs. per thousand had been lopped
off the selling price of bricks in the first
half of the term, this co. received small
benefit. Moreover, with delivery charges
calculated on a mileage basis, the co. has
had to forego much business in the
northern suburbs.
Still, turnover improved, and gross
earnings (£14,149) moved up £SOB. After
openly allowing an extra £lO9l for de-
preciation (£1604), exes, were £1294
heavier at £6603 ; sundry income (£1642)
contributed an extra £29, leaving the net
result £757 lighter at £9IBB, which was
£4lB less than the 5 p.c. div. called for. A
disappointed market now prices the £1
shares at 18s. 6d., as against 19s. 12
months ago. The return at 18s. 6d. is
5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 255. 3d. in net tangibles—ss. surplus
liquids and the balance mainly plant,
worth what it can earn.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:—
1 929. 3932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. 8,112 8,235 5,242 8,354
freeholds .. 79,432 79,588 75,210 75,767
Plant, stores, etc. 85,187 80,887 71,964 71,839
Stock.. .. 24,699 20,863 18,614 21,169
Shares other cos. 41,821 41,821 41,821 41,821
Book debts .. 21,840 12,018 18,190 18,695
Cash, etc. .. 32,001 23,148 34,719 28,536
Public securities (£27,757), debtors’ bal-
ances (£18,075) and cash, etc. (£778), to-
gether exceeded the small outside debt
by £38,877, or £8790 less than at the
previous balance.
As for the current term, those in the
brick business have agreed to restore
last year’s price cuts, plus 2s. per thou-
sand ; but costs have risen. Much will
depend upon building activity, the
volume of which is showing a tendency
to flatten out.
New Guinea Goldfields
It has been a disappointment to share-
holders, who have had two divs. of 4 p.c.
each and have lost three-quarters
(£3,354,225) of their capital, reducing the
figure to £1,118,083 in ss. shares. The
amount lopped off capital was used
mainly to reduce the book value of mine
property by £2,891,728, and to rub out
the prospecting account, £439,549.
Formed in 1929 the co. consolidated
various interests on the Edie Creek Gold-
field, New Guinea, where it owns rights
over about 15 square miles of auriferous
reef and alluvial country. The property
is divided into the upper or Plateau area
and the lower or Wau section, which is
at some 3000 ft. lower elevation. In addi-
tion to alluvial equipment, there is the
Golden Ridges mill on the lower area
(capacity 4500 tons monthly), and a 20-
head stamp battery and cyaniding plant
on the Edie (upper area) properties came
into production at the beginning of
1936.
After striking off £15,237 for deprecia-
tion, but making no provision for amor-
tisation of mine property, the co. netted
£113,303, or 10.1 p.c. on capital last year
as against 13.6 p.c. and 16.1 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. No div. was paid,
owing to possible capital requirements in
connection with the Wau alluvials and
the Upper Ridges ore deposit. The
year’s profit is made up in this way:
Proceeds. Exes.
Golden Ridges .. .. £155,421 £90,063
Edie Mill . . . . 88,886 70,959
Alluvial 69,329 27,035
Depreciation . . .. 15,237
Board fees, etc. .. 12,050
Tribute . . . . . . 10,493
Sundry . . .. .. 4,518 •
Profit 113,303
Total .. .. £328,647 £328,647
Capital and ore development expendi-
ture amounted to £92,924, mostly for
completion of the Edie mill, the operat-
ing profit from which was insufficient to
offset anticipated decrease in revenue
from the Golden Ridges mill and allu-
vial operations.
The Edie mill treated 28,468 tons ore
for 94390 z. fine gold and 26,3400 z. fine
silver, working profit being £17,927. The
average head value of the ore was
,4260 z. gold and 19.220 z. silver. At
Golden Ridges 35,835 tons ore (average
grade .7060 z. gold and 3.3610 z. silver)
and 20,399 tons tailings were put through
for a total production of 17,7400 z. gold
and 11,5880 z. silver. The working profit
was £65,358. On the alluvial section the
co. produced 80370 z. gold and 64150 z.
silver, and tributors 518 loz. gold and
32310 z. silver, together yielding a work-
ing profit of £52,787.
The most important work in hand is
testing of the Wau alluvials and the
Upper Ridges ore desposit. Results
from the last-named will decide whether
the Golden Ridges mill is to be rebuilt,
When the books closed, there was £32,605
coming to outsiders ; debtors and cash
totalled £194,703, No estimate of ore
reserves and values is given, which makes
the venture, highly speculative for the
ordinary investor. Much depends upon
what prospecting discloses.
_ ~ ,
New Occidental
The outlook for New Occidental,
Cobar (N.S.W.), has brightened consider-
ably over the last 12 months, thanks to
the good work done by the management
in reorganising plant and the under-
ground workings, to the benefit of costs,
and to purchase of the New Cobar near
by for £50,000 in fully-paid ss. shares.
For the, year to the end of November
last, 72,104 tons,' drawn mostly from
Nos. 6 to 9 levels in the New Occidental,
and averaging 7.84dwt., was put through
the mill for 24,0050 z. fine gold, worth
£A208,948. The working profit was
£68,027, or 18s. lOd. per ton of ore
treated. The net result was £62,214, of
which £11,827 was struck off under-
ground development and £17,665 off
mine property, leaving £32,722. A
6d. div., which will call for £25,312, has
been declared. During the first half of
(Continued on next page.)


AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
Investment in
HAPPINESS
Public invested in £27,970,000
worth of New A.M.P. Policies
last year
Average of one family in two
now protected by the Society
ANOTHER year of immense progress was the A.M.P.
Society’s record for 1936. The Nation’s faith in the
Society grows day by day, month by month, and year
by year. The year that closed on 31 st December was the
greatest in the Society’s history. The Society again made a
large increase in the volume of its business. See:
New policies issued in each of these years:
The A.M.P. Society is a truly co-operative and mutual
Society. It belongs to the members absolutely. An average
of one family in two in Australia and New Zealand now
enjoys the benefit of its protection. Become a member if you
are not one already. If you are a member, make the most
of the opportunity to strengthen your finances that member-
ship presents. Get in touch with the nearest A.M.P. office
and say that you want an experienced adviser sent to discuss
the matter with you. If you live far from an A.M.P. office,
get ir ouch by mail. Don’t delay. The Society will keep on
growing in strength, but for YOU even to-morrow may be too
late. Seize on membership while you may.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN.
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SQUARE PEGS
—in Round Holes.
Get into a career in Business. Whether you have
had any experience or not doesn’t matter. H. &R.
have helped hundreds to treble their incomes in less
than three years—men and women who, prior to
taking an H. & R. course of tuition, had had no
business training. Choose the career you would like
from this list—and write for our Free Handbook.
Enclose advertisement.
Accountancy, Secretaryship, Cost Accountancy, Book-
keeping, Banking and Securities, Local Govt. Clerks’,
Company Auditors, Marketing and Selling, Advertis-
ing, Retail Selling, General Business Training,
Commercial Law.
Our 40 th Year
Personal-Individual Tuition.
Hemingway and Robertson.
Modern Business Education.
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack Street.
Newcastle: 38 C.M.L. Building, 73 Hunter St.
Offices all Capital Cities.
POST TO-DAY.
To Hemingway and Robertson,
I am interested in Business. Please send me
free copy of new edition “The Guide to Business
Careers.”
Name A& e
Address -
Subject Interested in
38/273.
the term 28,556 tons ore was treated at
an average cost of 41s. 6d., and in the
second half 43,584 tons was put through,
average cost 335. Id., or Bs. sd. lower
than for the first half.
Further reduction can be expected
when the extended power and treat-
ment plants are in operation and
New Cos bar ore (to be treated by flota-
tion) begins to go through about the
end of the current term. The mill
will then be treating in the vicinity of
14,000 tons monthly. The estimated cost
of bringing the New Cobar into produc-
tion is £82,000-odd, of which £13,700 has
already been spent. To help meet the
remaining outlay, shareholders will
presently be offered 200,000 new ss. 10
p.c. cumulative participating prefs., re-
deemable at the co.’s option after three
years at a premium of 10 p.c.
Despite extractions, New Occidental’s
ore reserves are conservatively put
at 375,000 tons, averaging B.sdwt., above
No. 10 level, an increase of 12,500
tons on the February, 1936, esti-
mate. No. 11 level has not yet
been opened up, and anew ore-body,
sft. wide, has been proved on No. 6
level for a length of 70ft. New Cobar’s
ore reserves are figured positive at
140,000 tons, of which 102,000 tons has
been proved to average 7.3dwt. gold and
1.75 p.c. copper, and probable 155,000
tons; total, 295,000 tons.
At a cost of £7700-odd, Oriomo Ex-
plorations has tested nearly 300 of the
400 acres of alluvial sluicing ground
over which it holds a free option at Hill
End (N.S.W.). The tested portion is
estimated to contain approximately
1,312,000 c.y., average value 6s. Bd.,
with gold at £AB per ounce. The aver-
age depth is slightly under 9ft. The
area remaining to be sampled is the last
half of Golden Gully ; the first half is
figured to contain 700,000 c.y., average
value 6s. 2d. Before deciding to exer-
cise the option, the board, which has
applied for 1100 acres of adjoining
ground of similar character, has called
for a report on the. cost of equipping
and working the property and of con-
structing a water-conservation dam on
Tambaroora Creek. At the end of
August last the co. had £16,344 in hand.
* * * *
A couple of promising old workings
in the Broughton district (N.Q.) are the
New Venture and the Picnic. The New
Venture, where water beat early-day
miners, has been unwatered to 160 ft.
vertical depth, and a patch of rich ore
has been found on the floor. The last
46 tons treated at Chillagoe yielded
720 z. of gold. At the Picnic, opened up
30 years ago, an underlie shaft is down
50ft. on a strong reef 4ft. thick. A drive
on the eastern side of the shaft, near the
bottom, shows a reef 6ft. thick. Although
the last 20 tons crushed averaged only
the tailings assayed Bdwt. 22gr.
* * * *
A profitable little Charters Towers
(N.Q.) show is the Kroko, near the old
Just in Time workings. A shaft is down
80ft. on the underlie, and a drive has
been carried 30ft. on an 18in. reef. The
last 14 tons yielded 460 z. smelted gold
by amalgamation, and the tailings sold
for £538. Last year six crushings, aggre-
gating 89 tons 13cwt., were put through
for 116 oz. Idwt. over the plates, worth
£4OO. A better yield was obtained from
the residues.
* * * *
Unable to raise £IOO,OOO for its origi-
nal dredging operations, Gympie Gold
Dredging No. 1 (Q.) proposes to adopt a
modified scheme to work the river channel
with a smaller type of dredge. Initial
outlay will now be about £20,000. The
co. has been granted four months’
exemption ; meanwhile, steps are being
taken to form an operating subsidiary.
* * * *
Carshalton, an offshoot of the B.M.L.
organisation, which has floated a team
of Bendigo (Vic.) cos. largely on over-
seas money, has struck what look like
payable spurs in Nos. 3 and 4 levels,
where development work is at present
concentrated. Stoping of two ore-shoots,
expected to provide steady production
for a while, is shortly to commence. The
co. crushes mainly at the Napoleon bat-
tery ; a recent parcel of 441 tons from
the 390 ft. intermediate level yielded 740 z.
9dwt. fine gold. Little worth while has
been encountered between Nos. 5
(500 ft.) and 10 (1000 ft.) levels, but at
the greater depth east dipping faults, in-
tersected in the main shaft, pass through
centre country, giving indications of ore.
Exploration is to be undertaken at No.
5 level near areas which have yielded
prospects at shallower depths. To Oct.
31 the co. had won gold worth £6740
from development.
* * * *
Amalgamated Gold Estate’s proposal
to take over the Magnet silver-lead mine
(Tas.) has been agreed to by the
liquidator and the Government on con-
dition that about £30,000 of working
capital is put up to prospect and develop
the mine. For years the Magnet Silver
Mining Cos., which went into liquidation
about five years ago, successfully worked
several veins of galena and antimonial
lead. Then, on the share-and-share-alike
principle, the employees produced con-
centrates valued at £43,000 in two years
and eight months. Subsequently the
plant broke down, and lack of capital
stood in the way of continued opera-
tions. What ore is figured to remain in
the deposit is not mentioned.
* * * *
North Mt. Farrell mine, Tullah (Tas.),
looks as if it has taken anew lease of
life. Just' when the. end of the show
appeared to be in sight, a high-grade
galena ore-body was exposed in a shallow
trench, about half a mile north of the
old workings. The main shaft was taken
down to 300 ft., and the lode averaged
about 2ft. of clean galena. An output of
about 100 tons of silver-lead concen-
trates weekly is being maintained and
shipped from Burnie. A start has been
made to sink the main shaft another
100 ft.
* * * *
On March 24 Lancefield (W.A.) will
pay its third dividend (Is.), requiring
£50,000, making the. amount so dis-
tributed since the present co. resurrected
the old Beria mine £150,000. The table
summarises operations over the last four
months:
Oct. Nov. Dec. Jan.
Short tons .. 10,733 10,121 7,460 9,686
Return .. .. £27,617 £24,234 £19,729 £22,737
Working cost . . 13,031 11.841 9,866 11,727
Working profit . . 14,586 12,393 9,863 11,01 C
Capital expenditure 2,428 2,316 1,675 2,294
Holidays interfered with the Jan.
throughput. Capital expenditure last
month included £1976 in respect of de-
velopment and diamond-drilling. The
board puts visible ore reserves at 330,000
tons. At June 30 last there was also a
probable tonnage of 850,000 below No.
11 level.
* * * *
After one or two unlucky flutters,
Linden Gold (W.A.) appears to have
located something promising. Director
T. R. Victor reckons that in the mine at
Joyner’s Find there is 14,000 tons ore,
averaging Bdwt. over the plates, within
sight to a depth of 100 ft., and, subject
to water being struck —the property is
dry to 200 ft. —a 10-head battery is
mooted. The ore-body (average width
sft.) has been proved for 400 ft., and con-
tinues north and south with 2dwt. to
6dwt. values showing. A winze from
the 100 ft. to 200 ft. levels indicates a
further 14,000 tons ore. A 6d. call is
expected to bring the mine to produc-
tion. On a treatment basis of 800 tons
to 1000 tons monthly £1 a ton profit is
looked for. Of the 165,000 shares out,
160,000 are confribs., paid to 2s. 6d.
* * * *
“O.B.” on four Westralian shows
which have failed to pull their weight:
Lady Shenton continues to figure on the list
of producers, but its contributions are small,
and its prospects but a skeleton of what they
were formerly represented to be. Receipts are
practically offset by expenditure.
Lake Austin, formerly Lake Austin-Eureka,
struggles on. Operations are restricted owing
to disappointed shareholders failing to come
forward with more cash. At present two men
are working on a small shoot of gold.
Yilgarn Gold Mine started badly, and has
had a dismal record since. Chief trouble is in-
sufficient gold in the ore. There doesn’t appear
to be any future worth mentioning for this
property.
An expenditure of £15,000 or thereabouts on
Sydney-controlled Lake View South Extended,
on the southern fringe of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile, has not been profitable. Development
didn’t disclose the values shown on the old
plans, and an apathetic market has stood in
the way of further capital being raised.
* * * *
Imperial Gold Mines (W.A.) is not
overwhelmed with prospects ; but it has
£20,000 cash. Metallurgical tests of ore
from one of its blocks show that treat-
ment presents difficulties. Another block
has been let on tribute, and proceeds
from gold won during the last quarter
met all the co.’s expenditure. Boring
from the 500 ft. level has been decided
on. The co. owns three blocks, Aber-
dare, Idaho and §outh Star Deeps, situ-
ated at the extreme south end of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp.’s search for
gold in Westralia has been costly. Since
formation early jn 1933, £1,211,000 has
been spent in investigating, exploring and
developing properties in that State. Of
this sum £128,869 was sunk in options
since abandoned. Most of the balance
was mopped up in bringing mines on
which options were exercised to the pro-
ducing stage. In all, over 500 properties
were given consideration. The corpora-
tion has big holdings in three producers
which it placed on the market.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) remains hopeful. The
managing director says that 1200 tons,
head value 7dwt. a ton (actual re-
covery not given), has been crushed
to date, that the slimes plant is giving
better results, that the various ore-bodies
in the mine are holding their value, and
that 1700 tons was expected to be treated
in January.
ŵ


SMOKE-OH!
“Women are eating less,” says a doctor.
And figures prove it.
•b *b *b *b
“What job is there for the young man whose
only asset is an ability to run long distances
in record times?”
Well, there’s welshing.
*b -I- -I* ■b
“Why did hundreds of people go to Los
Angeles theatres one night in pyjamas and
nightdresses?”— Melbourne “Herald.”
Well, what better wear for most per-
formances?
•b *b *b *b
“The politicians are taking the field again.”
— “S.M.H.”
Armed with referendum-dum bullets.
•J* *l* *l*
Things to Come.
Because the technique of staying at
the wicket and doing nothing will have
developed to such an extent in future
Test matches, many novel sights will be
witnessed.
If, by some chance, a run is scored off
the first eighty overs, all ships in port
will be dressed and bunting flown from
public buildings.
By the time the first 50 is reached the
players will have their Old Boys’ Union
and become reminiscent with reporters
about the grand old days when the match
first started.
Bowlers will have developed such a
long walk before turning to run up to
the wicket that they will be accompanied
by a local guide and blacktracker.
Players will be assured that they are
still remembered at home by an occa-
sional “Go it, Grandpa!”
And probably when the stumps take
root and develop into big healthy trees
and the Tree-lovers’ Guild objects to any
interference with them, dour, defensive
batsmen will become unpopular. Let us
hope so.
D. McM.
•b *b *b *3*
What woman would not rather be two-
faced than double-chinned?
•b *b *b *b
“What can be worse than the loss of one’s
natural teeth?” — Dental advt.
The loss of the false ones.
•b *b *b *b
“Is there anything a man can say to his
wife when she catches him out with another
woman?” — “D.T.”
Certainly! Tell her that a wife’s
proper place is in the home.
•b *b *b *b
“I’ll be for ever in your debt,”
He said. ’Twas twenty years ago;
l haven’t seen my money yet —
His promise will be kept, I know.
H. M.
“Perfume helps to win a husband.”
—Beauty note.
Provided, girls, you don’t put him on
the wrong scent.
•b *b *b *b
“A superior family wishes to rent a semi-
modern house.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
The house for a semi-superior family,
of course, need only be demi-semi-
modern.
*|«
Their Favorite Books.
Major Douglas: Miracles by Arrange-
ment.
Mae West: The Way of All Flesh.
G. O. B. Allen: Quiet Flows the Don.
Col. White: Eric, or Little by Little.
Cresswell O’Reilly: Vile Bodies.
Archdale Parkhill: Farewell to Arms.
Neville Cardus: Roget’s Thesaurus.
Gee.
-!- *b ■£• *b
“The artist appeals to women, but not
namby-pamby art. Women like their art
strong.”— Woman’s paper.
Of course ; faint art never won fair
lady.
•b *b *b *b
In one Christian virtue the cannibal
is beyond the Christian —his love for
his fellow-men.
“A woman’s No is merely the cork in the
champagne bottle of her Yes,” says a woman’s
paper.
Which is why she frequently goes off
pop.
•b *b *b »b
“His mother did not care what happened to
him.”— “Sun.”
A mater of complete indifference.
*b -I* * *b
Garden Thoughts.
If you do your own gardening you’re
a gardener. If you employ a gardener
you’re a horticulturist.
Birds eat destructive insects, but when
birds peck large holes in your best fruit
you wish sometimes that there were
garden insects big enough to eat birds.
If you don’t call a snapdragon an
antirrhinum, a columbine an aquilegia
or a larkspur a delphinium you’re no
class.
It is a pleasant and noble thing to
spend pounds to win at your suburban
show a half-crown prize.
Y.
It Was This Way.
Jack and Jill went up the hill to fetch
a pail of water. Jack fell down and
broke his crown and Jill said: “Uh!
Just what I’ve, been expecting! If you’d
look where you’re going instead of
watching those flappers you wouldn’t be
in need of an ambulance!”
Old King Cole was a merry old soul.
A merry old soul was he. He called for
his pipe and he called for his bowl and
he called for his fiddlers three, and said:
“If you start “The Music Goes Round
and Round” it’s the bullet for the lot of
you. Now get goin’.”
Little Jack Horner sat in a corner
eating his Christmas pie. He stuck in
his thumb, pulled out a plum and said:
“Aw, Mum, why do you always make
these old plum pies? Why don’t you
ever make gooseberry?”
Little Miss Muffet sat on a tuffet, eat-
ing her curds and whey. A big black
spider sat down beside her and fright-
ened Miss Muffet so that she ran home
and told her people that three big men
in an expensive car tried to kidnap her.
Uno.
Hamletta da Eggo.
“He come to the cafe. He have supper.
He ask me play mandoline. I play. He
punch my face. He drunk.”
—ltalian witness in Melbourne Police Court.
To be or not a bene is da quest a,
I tella you ;
To leeve or cult a da neck, through
indigesta,
I tella true !
You go to bye-bye, haf da bonza night-
mare,
You fight da cray ;
You getta da nth an’ spoil da appetitaire,
A n so you say :
“Largo, largo, veloce con brio,
Presto, presto allegro da capo —
Prestissimo, prestissimo —
Andante moderato mobile capriccio!
Da drunk ’e come ’e t’row da sauce
tomata,
’E do ees block ;
You sweara like ’ell an’ roar appas-
sionato —
’E maka da mock !
’E pulla da nose an’ keek in your
lumbago,
’E calla you “cow !”
’E say, “You damn’ spaghetti, lousy
Dago!”
’E maka da row,
Rondo, rondo, staccato scherzando,
Sonata, cantata, adagio duo —
Fortissimo, fortissimo —
Pizzicato, obbligato allegretto concerto!
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
The Thrifty Spirit.
As a lad I had the desire to save
money. A passion for ice-creams kept
me back in the early years, but I was
“Now, then , Canute, do your stuff!"
determined that when I earned a quid
a week 1 would sock away two bob of
it regularly.
Unfortunately I had started on fags
then ; but, anyway, when I got a rise to
30s. half a crown was going to be socked
away.
Of course, five quid a week wasn’t
much when a man had married and had
all those t.p. instalments to keep up.
Soon there would be six pounds a week,
and I felt confident of saving at least
ten bob of it.
It was funny how ten quid a week
got eaten up when a few years before
I reckoned on being able to save at
least a couple of hundred a year if ever
that salary came along. There was the
car, of course —that tore it. I reckoned
that when I reached £750 a year I’d
start saving in real earnest.
Life is pretty tough on a man who is
getting £lOOO p.a. There are things he
has to belong to, and his wife insists on
living up to his station. If he tries to
cheapen his mode of life he is considered
mean. I made up my mind that every-
thing I got over the thou, would go
away.
Dammit, if it hadn’t been so easy for
a man on £2OOO p.a. to get an overdraft
I might have satisfied my lifelong wish
to save money. I was determined —in a
few months —to cut down my expenses
so as to save a little money.
Of course, when a man is suddenly
reduced to £5OO it upends all his plans.
But I’d had my lesson. When I started
to make a little more I was going to
save money regularly.
It’s pretty hard to make the old-age
pension pan out. All my life I’ve had a
longing to save money. I’m going to
do it —at least a couple of bob a week
—if they lift the O.A.P. to 255. per
week.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
Jungled Jardine.
“The Australian barracker has ruined cricket.
.... I am more interested in big-game hunting
than cricket now.” — D. R. Jardine.
Since Mr. Jardine bade our shores a
sailor’s curt farewell,
He much prefers the jungle beasts to
barrackers that yell;
For when he aims at elephants and
bullets miss their mark,
No wretched “Get a bag!” is heard
from some Australian nark.
And he can draw a bead and drop some
prowling leopard cat,
With not a nasty Hillite voice to ques-
tion his “ ’Ow’s that ?’’
And when some charging buffalo by
chance becomes the boss,
No crude colonials will roar, “ Ooray,
’e’s lost the toss!”
D. McM.
The Whole Hog.
When I think of a motor-car it’s fruity —
A limousine that’s absolutely posh;
A grey-and-silver, streamlined, air-
wheeled beauty,
With sixteen lungs and super-charger.
Gosh !
I contemplate the flashest car in Sydney
With ultra-modern gadgets and the
like —
For thinking of an auto of this kidney
Costs nothing more than thinking of a
bike !
P.O.M.C.
More of the Popular Novelist’s Stock
Phrases Explained.
“Maurice was reserved and rather
shy.”—- Reserved: i.e., booked. Maurice
is obviously a motorist who has had the
temerity to park his car in a city street.
After having been “booked” and having
satisfied the resultant “blue,” he would
naturally be rather “shy.”
“‘lt augurs well!’ Aubrey jubilantly
cried.” —Here is the satisfied expression
of the methodical carpenter who obvi-
ously takes an especial pride in keeping
his kit in perfect condition.
“Ruth trembled with anger; she was
beside herself.” —The reader will at once
recognise Ruth as one of those dual per-
sonalities. By being beside herself she
would thus be in a handy position to
undo her own bodice, corsage and other
habiliments in case she became plethoric
and threw an apoplectic fit.
“She took him apart for a few
moments.” —Another example of the in-
satiable curiosity of women. Doubtless,
having found out what made him go, she
would leave the restoration to somebody
else. This phrase invariably brings to
the publisher a strongly-worded protest
from the Anti-vivisection Society.
“Meadows attended his Lordship in
person.”— This action by his valet is in
contradistinction to that shown by so
many other gentlemen’s gentlemen, who
are content merely to do their valeting by
proxy, in absentia, or even by telepathy.
“Judith smiled her encouragement,
knowing he would do his best.” —How
many punters’ wives, fully aware that
their spouses, setting out hopefully to
clean up McShortodds, were foredoomed
to “do” their “best,” would give them
an encouraging smile? Judy would
naturally be the perfect partner for one
who regularly played the horses and
dogs.
“With a snarl he burst through the
door.” —This is not strictly correct anato-
mically, as he couldn’t possibly snarl
at exactly the same time as he burst.
He could, however, snarl immediately
before —in fact, knowing he was about
to burst, especially through a tough
Oregon door, he would be entitled to
register a snarl. But it adequately con-
veys his inconsiderateness for the feelings
of the office cleaner.
“She was surprised to find him but a
beardless boy.” —And she might have been
still more surprised to discover that he
was one of those juveniles whose long-
flowing ziffs keep getting caught in the
pedals of their three-wheeled bikes or
the brakes on their scooters.
“Ermyntrude was willowy and svelte.”
—Long and scrawny.
“With a haughty look she swept
through the magnificent reception hall.’’ —
In other words, she was too stingy to
keep a maid, so she did her own house-
work.
“Cedric had the engagement ring, but
—when to give it to Gwenneth ? Would
her birthday suit ?” —Extreme delicacy
forbids our commenting on this. Suffice
it to say that Cedric is no gentleman.
S.W.K.


Cheapest Base-metal Stock.
Mt. Lyell scrip firmed slightly
last week, yielding 4.7 p.c. at 43s.
(10 p.c. div.), or 7 p.c. if 15 p.c.
goes out for the current term. If
metal prices keep at their present
figure and nothing untoward hap-
pens as regards costs or output, 3s.
a share should be paid with ease
out of profits of more, than 5s. a
share in 1936-37. The metal is up
to £60 in London. Future prices
depend to some extent on world
copper-production policy and on
continued absorption of the metal.
These are the gambles in most base-
metal shares. Mt. Lyell’s chemical
investments (showing nearly 5 p.c.
on the co.’s capital last year) have
been a standby in depressed times.
ẃ
ẅ
Dunlop-Perdriau Rubber Co.,
Ltd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A’sia, Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
YOU, and every other investor, would like to have shares in
all the above companies wouldn’t you? You can secure an
interest in them all by buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
and your investment is safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
as Custodian Trustees. Amounts as little as £25 approx, accepted.
Write for free descriptive booklet to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028V.V., G.V.O.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra, F.C.I.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Sad Story of Mandated Alluvials
On last Wednesday morning it was
here suggested that, owing to the absence
for some time of definite information
concerning the mine from Mandated
Alluvials’ office, Sydney Stock Exchange
should ask the management for the latest
on the position. On Wednesday after-
noon a report was issued by the board
—and what a fall in the shares was
there!
Mandated Alluvials was formed in
June, 1935 ; out of several options held,
the Moresby King, Papua, was concen-
trated on. In September last a Bulletin
account of operations—it said, inter alia,
that the ore-body had “not been proved
on an extensive scale,” and mentioned
the presence of copper in some of the
ore —was rather aggressively criticised
by R. Dermer Smith, formerly manager
at the mine, and then in Sydney.
He spoke of the show as being
“the biggest thing for years,” referring
more particuarly to the Sapphire leases,
which this paper’s article hadn’t men-
tioned.
About this time the ss. shares were
bucking between 30s. and 40s. ; a new
issue was made, raising the number out
to 98,000. Turnover in the scrip was
enormous, and several Sydney share-
brokers did a particularly large business
in the stock. Bears, of course, were
active.
E. W. Bonwick, science-master at
Sydney Grammar School, visited the
mine on behalf of a syndicate in the
capacity of engineer. Following his re-
port, which expressed the opinion that
the ore-body did not go downwards but
was a synclinal structure, the shares
slumped heavily, the inference being
that the ore deposit was a more or less
flat stratum that extended through a hill.
Bonwick, who said it was a promising
prospecting venture and nothing more,
suggested modifying the prospecting
programme (driving from several shafts
and adits was the existing method), and
recommended that boring be com-
menced to prove the westward continua-
tion of the ore-body. He was soon after-
wards appointed consulting engineer.
On Nov. 9, 1936, a report was issued
stating that the boring plant was on the
ground ; also it said:
In No. 7 territory there is still a little
work to be done, but sampling has estab-
lished an average width of 10ft. for a value
of loz., decreasing south to 3ft. 2in. at
lldwt. This sampling covers a length of
600 ft.; every 100 ft. on the dip should give
30,000 tons of ore.
What the last sentence was really in-
tended to mean goodness knows; one
newspaper assumed that there was
180,000 tons of ore, and some punters
thought likewise. With values “9dwt.
through 13dwt. to 15dwt.” in No. 6 terri-
tory it looked a good thing ; the shares,
which had been below 10s., jumped again
to near 20s.
The Bulletin, on the point of going
to press, rang the co.’s office and then
tried to contact Mr. Bonwick at the
S.G.S. for an explanation of the report.
It failed to get him, and the report was
not published in this paper.
Unofficial accounts of unpromising
bore results started to filter through ; the
shares began dipping again, and distinct
nervousness was apparent about a fort-
night ago.
Then, on Wednesday last week, a
long-awaited report by Bonwick came
out; it was much more staggering
than even the pessimists expected. A
boring campaign over 800 ft. of ground,
ic said, showed that the ore-body was not
synclinal; by reason of a fault, after
existence as a shallow bed the body
dropped 70ft., “the depressed portion
consisting of unpayable sulphides.” The
No. 6 and No. 7 workings on the
Sapphire contained 7765 tons valued at
“Cornin’, Mr. Trelawney? W e be goiri to hold stay-in strike down at
Noonan's pub!”
£52,824 (only small copper content); in
the Moresby King there was 6867 tons,
with a high percentage of copper, valued
at £27,434. With 80 p.c. extraction and
50s. costs there were possibilities of a
profit of £27,626.
The scrip slumped to 3s. If the esti-
mated profit can be returned to share-
holders it would be a bit over ss. 7d. per
share, provided capital was enough to
carry the job through. The co.’s liquid
position has not recently been made
public.
Sharemarket dealings in the stock
have been ruinous to a few, and almost
as disastrous to a number. Mining
“opinion” of the show has been widely
varied. Several of the directors not so
long ago seemed to have great faith in the
property ; and they were backed by the
opinion of more than one person who
had been in the mining game for years.
Which just goes to show what a lot of
guesswork enters into the prospecting
stage of goldmining.
Shareholders in Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
some, of whom had sorrowful dealings
with a concern called Hodson’s Invest-
ments, Ltd., about nine months ago, have
in a few instances lately been canvassed :
by other interests. This time the story
is that the shares aren’t worth much ;
but, amazingly, the tale-spinner wants to
buy them—at a few shillings each, to
be paid in scrip in the buying concern.
If holders feel compelled to sell their '
Pacific Forests shares —one of the best
Maoriland forestry speculations, as these
things go—the terms should be cash or
nothing.
* * * *
In B. 9/12/’36 the affairs of several
Malayan tin cos. under Anglo-Oriental
management were discussed, and Kuala
Kampar, Kampong Lanjut and Kramat
were picked as having most attractions.
There have been few dealings in the last-
named since, but quotes are firmer;
Kuala Kampar shares have lifted 4s. 4d.
to 225., and Kampong Lanjuts are up
4s. at 31s. 6d. Larut, another member
of the group, following recent develop-
ments has risen 4s. 6d. to 19s. In
London the metal, which followed the
downward trend in lead, zinc and copper,
began to steady last week, and was
fetching £229 on Thursday.
* * * *
On a weaker market Emperor shares
weren’t traded in heavily last week in
Melbourne. Turnover for the first three
days aggregated only 4650 shares. In
Adelaide activity slowed down also.
New money brought into the undertaking
after Theodore and other vendors had
been paid their £300,000 cash and
£300,000 in shares was £150,000. At last
balance day £26,493 of this had gone in
preliminary exes., etc., and the holding
co. had £42,973 in hand. Total plant
cost is estimated at £170,000, of which
part has already been expended.
* * * *
Berlei ords. were picked just before
Christmas as offering an unusual oppor-
tunity at 375. Last
week there were
sales at 40s. This
concern has a pretty
balance sheet—the
parent’s plant figures
at only Is. Id. per
pref. and ord. share,
while outside com-
mitments at £33,576
are a trifle—and
operations of the
subsidiaries, includ-
ing those in Maori-
Jand and England,
are profitable. The
parent co. disclosed
15.4 p.c. on ord.
capital last year and
paid 10 p.c. This
year’s ‘ interim was
at the same rate.
* *
Cash-order cos.,
the shares in some
of which exercise a
fascination over a
certain type of dab-
bler because of the
big yield often offer-
ing, have gone stale
on the market. Cash
Orders (Amalg.) 12s.
6d.-paids last sold
at 245., showing 7.8
p.c. on the current 15 p.c. div. basis.
Producers and General Finance £1 ords.
at 255. yield 12 p.c. on the interim rate
of distribution. The market is not au
fait with P. and G. ; it is a progressive
concern, doing an increasing business,
but it is in a field that is more com-
petitive than a few years ago. It will be
interesting to find out' eventually, how-
ever, whether the lower yield on the
Amalgamated scrip is really justified on
performances. * .
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Holeproof Hosiery justified expectations of
an ord. div. increase with a distribution of 10
p.c. (as against 8 p.c. last year).
Pelaco, Ltd., showed a profits-increase of
£5075 for 1936. There being still pref. div.
arrears,' the ords. kept out of the picture.
Yarra Falls shares dropped back to 405.,
and at that figure were good buying.


mm.
m
m
m
ADD YEARS TO YOUR LIFE AND LIFE TO YOUR YEARS...
The left illustration shows your colon clogged with
fermenting food waste. Because your bowels act
regularly is not proof that all the waste is being evacu-
ated. Instead, it encrusts on the colon walls and
poisons your whole system. You suffer from muscular
pains, rheumatism, neuritis. You are troubled with
bloating, flatulence, headaches, indigestion, dizziness,
constipation. Bladder complaint makes your days miser-
able and spoils your rest at night. You feel tired, ex-
hausted, depressed, peevish. Laxatives are useless—they only purge
the lower end of the bowel. They do not clean away the acid-forming
food wastes from the colon walls. 'Coloseptic/ however,
clears the entire colon of waste matter as shown in the
right-hand illustration. It neutralises all acid conditions.
It restores the body's alkaline reserve. 'Coloseptic' also
activates the kidneys, skin pores and the lungs—other
vital organs which your body uses to get rid of surplus
poisons. Learn what it is like to be without pain or
ache. Enjoy the evening of your years as they should
be spent—in peace, comfort and contentment. Clear
your clogged colon with 'Coloseptic' NOW.
TESTIMONIAL Auckland,
Sept. 8, 1936.
“J wish to slate it is wonderful how much good ‘Coloseptic’ has done me. 1
have suffered for 12 months and had tried every known supposed cure from
the chemists’. They had nothing else they could give me. All I can say is that
it is wonderful. I feel 50 times better than I did this time last month. I must
thank you for your truly wonderful health restorer.”
ED EC Mail the coupon for a free liberal sample of
rIxCC“‘COIiOSEPTIC’ to-day, and you will receive a book
telling- you all about the intimate and hig-hly important subject of
lost vitality.
AT ALL CHEMISTS: INDIVIDUAL SIZE, 2/9 . . . ECONOMY SIZE, 5/6
If unobtainable locally write to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Clogged
Colon
Unclogged
Colon.
NEW
HEALTH
FOR MEN &
WOMEN PAST
50
LATEST SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT
RESTORES VIGOR AND VITALITY—
Qukk
Nature never meant that old age
should be a time of pain and suffer-
ing. Nature intended the evening of
life to be a period of calm repose and health.
Unfortunately, now-a-days most everyone past
50 suffers from some kind of ache or pain, such
as rheumatism, sciatica, stomach distress, high
blood pressure, kidney acidity, bladder weak-
ness, bronchitis, exhaustion, lack of vitality,
stiffness and trembling.
Medical scientists now say that these ailments
and over 300 other diseases are due to self-
poisoning (Autoxima), arising from a clogged
colon.
HOW SELF POISONING CAUSES DISEASE
Civilised life guards us against many dangers
and diseases, but exposes us to hidden ones,
such as self-poisoning. Devitalised, demineral-
ised foods and lack of exercise give insufficient
work to the walls of the colon (large intestine),
thereby losing their power to completely empty
the colon of all the waste-matter left over from
digestion. This fermenting acid-waste encrusts
in the folds of the colon walls and the essential
alkalising elements, which maintain the normal
alkaline reserve of the body, are not extracted
from your food. Worse still, these acids from
the fermenting refuse are absorbed into the
bloodstream and carried throughout the body
to attack and weaken the vital organs
and functions, causing premature
old age, sickness, weakness and
loss of vitality.
Si'
FOR BETTER INTERNAL CLEANNESS
>♦
_ v°
o v
V v&- c o* v
aaaEBaaaBBBBBB
Educational;
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
By
CORRESPONDENCE.
CORRESPONDENCE COURSES in the follow-
ing subjects are available only to students re-
siding outside the metropolitan area, or whose
hours of employment preclude the possibility of
their attendenace at oral classes, in which case
application to the Correspondence Courses
Committee for permission to enrol will be
necessary:
agriculture accountancy
CARE OF ANIMALS BOOKKEEPING
FARM MECHANICS BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
SHEEP AND WOOL SHORTHAND
CLASSING PENMANSHIP AND
STATION COMMERCIAL
BOOKKEEPING CORRESPONDENCE
COUNTRY-TOWN DRAINAGE AND WATERFITTING
HEALTH AND MEAT INSPECTION
SEWER PLUMBING
ELEMENTARY AND CARPENTRY AND JOINERY
APPLIED ART BUILDING C INSTRUCTION
ELECTRICAL TRADES CONSTRUCT.ON DRAWING
TRADES CALCULATIONS
LOCAL GOVERNMENT CLERKS’ COURSE
COMPOSING AND PRINTE IS’ ENGLISH
DRESSMAKING AND MILLINERY
FEES.
Senior Scale —
Trade Courses —25/- per term, or 65/-
per annum. Single Subjects, 10/- per
term, or 25/- per annum.
Junior Scale —
Students under 21 years who receive less
than 30/- weekly in wages, half the above
rates.
SEND FOR SYLLABUS
to
Secretary, Correspondence Courses,
Technical College, Sydney.
A. W. HICKS,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
Public Notice.
FIFTY POUNDS (£5O) REWARD.
Information is sought concerning GEORGE
LIMBERG, formerly of Erinstein, Nullamanna,
in the State of New South Wales, Grazier, who
disappeared from that property on the Twenty-
lifth day of August One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-six.
The above reward is offered for any informa-
tion disclosing the present whereabouts or
establishing the death of the abovenamed
GEORGE LIMBERG.
Description.
Sixty-six years of age.
Five feet ten inches in height.
Fair complexion.
Grey moustache.
Blue eyes.
Medium to light build.
ANDERSON, WILTSHIRE & MANNING,
Solicitors, Inverell.
__ Patent.
SURFACING METHODS AND
APPARATUS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
18951/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Next of Kin.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
RE ALICE STOREY, the wife of Herbert
Storey, otherwise known as ALICE LOF-
GREN, late of Kingaroy, in the State of
Queensland, but formerly of Bourke, in
the State of New South Wales, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed
Alice Storey, the wife of Herbert Storey, other-
wise known as Alice Lofgren, late of Kingaroy,
in the State of Queensland, but formerly of
Bourke, in the State of New South Wales, de-
ceased, who died on or about the ninth day of
September, a.d. 1932, at Kingaroy, in the said
State, are hereby required to forward proof
of their relationship to the PUBLIC
CURATOR, Brisbane, on or before the
Thirty-first day of July, 1937. AND that after
the expiration of the last-mentioned date the
Public Curator will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the parties
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
claims of which he shall then have had notice.
DATED this Thirtieth day of January, 1937
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
CARDWELL, Austin, a son of James Card-
well, deceased, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with
ARTHUR ROBINSON AND CO., Solicitors,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, as it is believed
he is entitled to certain moneys under the will
of Robert Lucas, late of England, deceased.
National
Advertisers:
LEI
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
"The Barrier Miner” is the only paner
bought voluntarily by people of Broker
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd.., Adelaide.
Australia and the Trade World
That part of Australian industry
which depends particularly on overseas
markets for its income is at present con-
cerned with trade, and financial condi-
tions abroad, especially in London. We
have our own peculiar financial and
political affairs within the Common-
wealth also. Here and in other countries
there are indications that trade increase
must soon steady ; and the problem is to
level the wave off rather than let it
reach a sharp peak, followed by a dis-
concerting drop.
In Britain, where money is still cheap,
bankers and economists have been put-
ting forward suggestions for the “main-
tenance of prosperity.” It is realised that
the gap in people’s buying orders during
the depression was followed by some-
thing like a boom in many trades
when the shortage began to be made
good during the past two years or so.
The boom created speculative activity
in commodities and industrial equities
that may not be maintained now that
most households have been re-equipped
with furniture, radios, motor-cars, etc.
After a period of under-consumption of
the necessities and luxuries of life, re-
vival in demand for a time has set a
high level of buying not likely to be
maintained when the inevitable levelling-
off arrives.
It takes a wise man to distinguish be-
tween high levels and the year-in-year-
out average. It is a banker’s job to make
the distinction, because shares, land, etc.,
which, with goods, represent the banker’s
main security for extension of credit, are
valued in the ultimate by their average,
profit-earning capacity— not by peak
figures.
A good deal has been said on this
page about unhealthy speculation in
shares. The after-slump recovery t in
metals and other commodities overseas
has been accentuated by gambling, aided
and abetted by war talk and actual re-
armament. There are obvious possibili-
ties of a relapse unless ordinary com-
mercial demand justifies metal, wool,
wheat, rubber, copra and other com-
modity prices.
How, then, is trade in Britain? In
1934 recovery slowed down for a while.
Then in 1935 industrial production rose
steeply to 6 p.c. above the 1929 level,
and for 1936 the figure was about 17 p.c.
above the last pre-depression year, with
employment 1\ p.c. higher.
Improvement has been mostly internal.
The export trades haven’t recovered on
anything like the general scale of ex-
pansion. Britain is undergoing a pro-
cess of industrial re-equipment; new
dwellings have been going up at the rate
of 300,000 a year, and big outlay has
gone into factory buildings and plant.
The mercantile marine has seen a lot of
scrappings and renewals, with consequent
shipyard activity. Large-scale electrifi-
cation schemes help to explain the Old
Country’s great consumption of copper
and lead over the last two years.
What will happen when Britain’s indus-
trial equipment is complete? Construc-
tion activity is always good for trade
and employment, but when it ceases stag-
nation sometimes follows. The chief
danger lies in misdirection of capital
outlay—that is, the 'sinking of money
into industries that will pay only in the
most favorable circumstances. Britain
has made many such mistakes in the
past, and its financiers are likely to be on
their guard ; the trouble is that company
promoters are handling a large quantity
of the money now being laid out.
But though construction trades have
shown the most marked recovery in
Britain, other industries have exhibited
encouraging expansion also. Wages
and prices are rising, but not so as to be
any embarrassment yet; money is still
dirt-cheap.
To “maintain prosperity” in Britain the
consensus of banking opinion is that the
export trade should be further developed,
and that such development must not be
defeated by over-rapid internal expan-
sion, with attendant runaway costs —costs
are the bugbear of export traders.
Some authorities suggest a return to
foreign lending in order to encourage
overseas orders. That is a delicate sub-
ject.
In the Commonwealth we have had
a boom in the sharemarkets. Lately we
have been getting excellent prices for
wool, wheat and metals. Notwithstand-
ing this there has been no appreciable
increase in the price of manufactured
goods, nor in compulsory rates of wages.
The fact that costs and prices have been
kept down, irrespective of heavy taxes
and other Government imposts, is a big
source of strength to us just now. It
enables industries to carry on and give
employment where otherwise there would
be no industries.
From the lowest point during the de-
pression the average of Melbourne
wholesale commodity prices had risen
only 14 p.c. up to the end of 1936. Most
of the lift was in products we export;
the computed cost of living has gone up
only about 10 p.c., the greater part of
it in rents and the price of meat follow-
ing a generally dry season. Sydney’s
index of prices shows still smaller up-
ward movements; “non-rural” items
show hardly any increase. As most in-
dustries seem to be at' least reasonably
prosperous at the present level of things,
this comparative stability is good for
everyone. It gives our exporters a better
chance, and removes any excuse for big
adjustments in arbitration awards and
the like.
* * * *
North Kalgurli shares could again be
got in Melbourne last Thursday at 19s.
They have come back to this figure
periodically during the past 12 months,
after rising at times to near 245. It is
a sound mine, giving a favorable immedi-
ate yield, and there are prospects.


20,000 -
to 4 000
\
soo.
000
forty
thp fthi
is hardest
0 0,000
I 7 <? average Life
ends at
i fifty-five
80,000
WtHIIIIII i i». i
•JO,OOO
The fight
for ChiUl life
i» partly won
T
i
Co,ooo
wmr
if
50,000
rX^yrr.-'
A
40.000
a*
Aft
30.000
&
Steeper vV
Steeper N
ftante the Line
=)\
; wif > / >
*
(Wears 5 W i 5 20 125 30 35 4Q 45 50 55 00 65 70 75 80 $5 90 95 too 105
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point” or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may now be
extended; 5, 1 o—or more-
years of healthy, active life
being gained by timely atten-
tion to the symptoms of disorder.
Why Age 40
is often the turning point in health
. . . guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40”
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women ...
A CCORDING to averages, you and I will
LA die at fifty-five— or very near to that
age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
HARRISON'S
KI-.-cV * BLADDER “
o PILLS
CSfll r»
-HARDISON'S
KIIfNcY AND DL^oDUL
PI LLS
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Flarrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison’s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrison’s Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten —even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high-
class prescription chemists in bottles of IS
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CA USE of Ageing Aches & Pains fc
Make You QUICKLY Young & Well Again!


w
ŵ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Golden Promise is Public Enemy No.
1 with Melbourne punters. Following
upon other shocks in the past few weeks
he let them down at Williamstown to
the extent of merely making a dead-heat
for first place in a race, that appeared to
be a gift for J. M. Niall’s brown stallion.
In the Williamstown Stakes, worth
£lO5O to the winner, Golden Promise had
bare weight-for-age and five seemingly
indifferent opponents, two of whom-
Silver Reign and Prince Quex —each car-
ried a 51b. penalty. It looked like
“money from home” for Jack Holt’s
candidate. Yet, by reason of previous
experience, backers were frankly fear-
ful. Even money actually was obtained,
the closing quote being only 10 to 9 on.
Several circumstances contributed to
the Williamstown Stakes having a sen-
sational ending. First, there was the
muddling pace ; it took 2min. 12sec. to
run the mile and a quarter, as compared
with the race record of 2min. 6|sec., es-
tablished by Bustard last year. Turoa
Webster tried to sit against Donaster,
and in doing so his saddle slipped on to
the withers of the chestnut at the turn
out of the straight.
Boongarry and Donaster made play
along the back of the course, while Skid-
more was content to have Golden
Promise three lengths behind them, with
Silver Reign on his whip hand. The
leaders did not open up on the home
bend. Skidmore surrendered hope of get-
ting through on the rails and changed
his course. Just then Donaster began
to hang out, hampering the favorite in
settling down to serious business.
Meanwhile the wily O’Brien had
brought Prince Quex from second-last on
the extreme outside of the, field. Gal-
loping magnificently, the M.L. colt (third
favorite at 7 to 1) dashed to the front
half-way down the, straight, deposing
Golden Promise, who had obtained the
measure of Boongarry and Donaster.
Staggered spectators prepared them-
selves for an unwelcome verdict from
the man in the box, but Golden Promise
answered well to the whip and made
matters even in the final stride. Critics
blamed Skidmore for not having gone
to the outside at a much earlier stage.
The fact stands out that Golden Promise
is disposed to “climb” unless there be
plenty of daylight in advance of him.
Though he claimed 71b. allowance and
had an advantage of 121 b. over Prince
Quex, his equal in age, Boongarry re-
vealed a glimpse of inherent worth,
which would be pleasing to trainer Foul-
sham. But the form of Prince Quex
was much more impressive. After the
race George Jones announced that the
colt would be withdrawn from the New-
market Handicap and reserved for the
V.R.C. St. Leger. A rich owner, W. R.
Kemball would much prefer a classic vic-
tory to success in the big sprint.
Beaustone (Beau Fils-Rollingstone),
who belongs to R. P. Trihey, the owner-
trainer of Regular Bachelor, was a cer-
tainty beaten in the Electric Handicap,
for which he started a 2-to-l favorite.
Conceding Dazzling Star an appalling
start from the home turn, Beaustone ran
that rival to half a length. Dazzling Star
(Gay Lothario-Tallulah) is in the Men-
tone stable of H. Freedman, who has
reached the top of his form as a trainer
and wins with remarkable regularity on
Melbourne and provincial courses.
Three horses trained at Williamstown
were successful there on Saturday, Sidcup
(6 to 1) taking the Maiden Plate, Mutable
(5 to 2) the Wyndham Handicap, and
Aurie’s Star (9 to 4) the Marine Handi-
cap. Nothing could have been more
convincing than the win achieved by
Aurie’s Star. This smart sprinter from
Adelaide is engaged in both the Oakleigh
Plate and Newmarket Handicap. In the
spring he won several races on end in
Victoria and established a six-furlongs
record at Moonee Valley.
In the Oakleigh Plate Aurie’s Star goes
up 61b. to Bst. 41b. He will be getting
31b. from fellow-Adelaidean Cluniac,
who recently won a five-furlong race at
Victoria Park (S.A.) in lmin. flat. He is
very speedy but is a bleeder.
* * * *
J. H. Davis, the V.R.C. handicapper,
has paid a great compliment to Queens-
land form by placing Pamelus and
Regular Bachelor at the top of the
weights for the Newmarket Handicap, to
be run on February 27. Cuddle shares
the distinction with them, all three hav-
ing 9st. 71b. Victorians reckon Pamelus
the best of the, three, up to a mile any-
way, and have made him favorite ; and
no one can say the position is
undeserved.
Young Idea and King’s Head are
bracketed with 9s. 51b. Garrio has
9st. 31b., and on the 9st. lib. list are
Press Gang, Charles FoX, Gay Blonde
and Hostile, with Plymouth Sound 9st.
Then come a warm lot of eight-stoners:
Gay Lover, Studio and Hadrian (Bst.
131 b.); Gold Rod, The Marne, Bar-
racker, Ogwell and Petit Fils (Bst. 111 b.).
Next to Gold Rod, Beechwood is
reckoned the best of the three-year-old
colts, having Bst. 71b.; then, also among
the three-year-olds, are Prince Quex
(Bst. 21b.) and Silver Rose (7st. 51b.). Mel-
bourne retains vivid memories of Coun-
try Party, and his handicap (7st. 91b.)
will not discourage his admirers; and
Belle Silhouette (7st. 61b.) is voted a
chance.
Cuddle is alone, at the head of the
Australian Cup weights with 9st. 51b.
Golden Promise gets 9st. 21b., Amalia
9st., Plymouth Sound Bst. 131 b., Wotan
and Queen of Song Bst. 1 lib. Maori-
landers will have a strong team if all
its representatives start. There are doubts
about Wotan, although his party can-
not complain of the weight. The. four-
year-olds are also a taking lot: Pal-
fresco (Bst. 91b.), Donaster (Bst. 61b.),
Loud Applause (Bst.), Conandale (7st.
121b.)j Salamander (7st. 81b.), Latharna
(7st. 51b.) and Viceroy (7st. 31b.); and
of the three-year-olds Iva is nicely in
with 7st. 51b. So is Pooley Bridge with
the same burden.
This Page fancies Country Party and
Donaster.
* * * *
Talking is not to go to Melbourne for
the St. Leger. He has not been doing
as well on the track as his new trainer,
Williams, would have liked, and possibly
his spring campaign was a bit too much
for him. It was a plucky thing to give
£19,000 for the colt, but it now seems
highly improbable that Cooper will get
it back on the racecourse.
* * * *
Philip Russell has resigned from the
V.R.C. committee after long service. A
noted owner and breeder, he won the
Australian Cup with Idolator and Harriet
Graham. The latter mare was imported
from England. After capturing the 2}
miles handicap at Flemington in 1917 she
was runner-up to The Fortune Hunter
in the Sydney Cup. Maid of the Mist,
bred by Russell, was perhaps the most
brilliant mare of her day in Victoria.
The late George Russell (brother of
Philip) let his fancy run to jumpers,
rather than gallopers, and figured over
fences in opposition to professional
riders. The great Busaco, who received
his jumping education frbm J. E. Brewer,
credited George Russell with an Austra-
lian Steeplechase (then known as the
Caulfield Grand National Steeple).
Domino and Beau Brummell also did
him high credit “between the flags.”
Already in the field for the vacancy on
the V.R.C. committee are T. C. Mani-
fold and Eugene Gorman, K.C. Latter
races under the name of “G. Ornong.”
Several horses bred by Sol Green have
carried his colors; these include Bon
Cretien (a winner at Randwick), Royal
Armour and Charles Fox. Probabilities
are that Manifold will head the poll.
His Uncle Edward was a member of the
committee until his death several years
ago. The Manifolds bred many famous
jumpers in the Western District, one of
them being the 1916 Grand National
Steeple winner, Coradjill. Before that
they made turf history with Apsley and
Dungan.
* * * *
The Moorefield club gives rather
better prizes than other Sydney proprie-
tary “clubs,” and profits accordingly.
The St. George Handicap attracted some
of the best N.S.W. milers in training.
First prize went to the owner of the New-
castle horse Tuckiar (sixes to 9 to 2), who
was admirably ridden by Knox. Third-
last half a mile from home, the son of
Heroic swept round the field at the turn
and in the run home beat the pacemaker,
Goorka, and The Marne with ease. Many
thought that Panrose was third. The
favorite, Heroina, beat only two home.
Two old battlers, Celebrate (2 to 1) and
Double Dutch (9 to 2), had a ding-dong
go in the Moorefield Handicap. Double
Dutch races best in front, and McCar-
ten made every post a winner. Cook,
however, had Celebrate trailing him
throughout, and near the post Cele-
brate appeared to have the lead, but
Double Dutch hung on gamely. This
time Dudley Smith’s decision, a dead
heat, could not be questioned. Friar’s
Switch was too much of a handful for
young Cox. He made a fast run at the
turn, but tired in the straight and was
an indifferent third.
Sydney businessman Stanley Crick had
no luck with Lady Ida and Idavale, but
his Sir Regent' is pretty good. Going out
at eights, the Maoriland-bred gelding
took the Three- and Four-year-old Han-
dicap in a manner that suggested that he
will score again ; he won by four lengths
from Jim Pike’s Timurkhan and Bengal
Lancer. The favorite, Imbiber, was
under the whip at the turn, and squibbed
it. Sir Regent ran the mile in lmin.
41 sec., only a second outside Cherry
King’s track record.
The plain-looking Samurai (5 to 1)
made no mistake in the colts and geld-
ings’ division of the Juvenile. He was
drawn wide, but had sufficient speed to
get a winning position early, and he went
past the pacemaker, Camsion, in the
straight. Tartanus narrowly beat the
favorite, Monopoly, for third prize.
Monopoly ran greenly, and will do better
on a bigger track.
Lady Pola (6 to 1), raced by S. Beau-
mont but bred by A.J.C. committeeman
R. C. Allen, won the first division of the
Juvenile for fillies from Phosphonic and
Lady Ivy. The second division went to
Fred Williams’s Hazrat filly To-morrow
(12 to 1). She was lucky to beat Goorka’s
stable-mate Delmestor, who was stand-
ing flat-footed when the barrier was re-
leased. Rushed from last to first she
naturally weakened.
John o’ Groats on his day is a top-
hole galloper. Ridden by the apprentice
Silburn, he cleared away from a big field
in the first division of the Flying Welter.
He started at 15 to 1 because of a poor
display at Kensington; Misnomer and
Belgravia filled the places. The second
division was won by E. A. Haley’s
Marina, who is by Bullhead-Lovebox;
she scored narrowly from Mort and
Medallist. The favorite, Kurrawid, was
chopped back at the start.
* * * *
“Agar”: Melbourne punters make idols
of jockeys as well as horses. When a
notice was posted on the scratching board
at Ascot summoning Fullarton’s father to
the casualty room, many inquiries were
made as to that jockey’s condition. The
day Duncan rode his last race at Wil-
liamstown (he has not had a mount since
his accident on Rose Valais in June, 1933)
anxious racegoers besieged the casualty-
room where the injured jockey lay. In-
cidentally, Ascot is becoming notorious
for the number of falls on the flat. Skid-
more only recently returned to the saddle
after a nasty spill on that course, and
the promising little apprentice Tim
Meagher was seriously injured the same
day. No fault can be found with the
track, and it must be assumed that the
numerous accidents are due chiefly to
overanxiety on the part of inexperienced
riders.
* * * *
Taken to Armidale (N.S.W.) for the
local cup meeting, Allunga won the City
Handicap in a rather taking style. True,
he had nothing much to beat, Ruffian
having the best credentials of his half-
dozen opponents, and Ruffian failed to
get a place ; but Allunga had a substan-
tial weight—9st. 101 b untroubled
at the finish, cut out a mile and a fur-
long in the good time of lmin. 54 2-ssec.
Allunga was not nominated for any of
the Melbourne handicaps, and presum-
ably the Sydney Cup is to be his autumn
mission. He looks the sort of horse that
requires plenty of racing.
* * * *
A Sydney daily which now enjoys the
favor of the U.A.P. came out one day
last week with a full-page blurb in which
a gentleman who conducts what he calls
a “racing organisation” asserted that
Gold Rod was “all to pieces fin-
ished.” On the previous morning the
alleged wreck had galloped “seven” in
lmin. 27sec. at Victoria Park —the first
furlong in “11,” the second in “12.” The
“all-to-pieces” neddy is now one of the
favorites for the Newmarket.
* * * *
“Sturt ”: Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing
Club, which holds on Easter Monday its
only fixture of the year, but has seen this
grow from a picnic to a big thing, an-
nounced at its annual meeting that it has
arranged to buy the course (in the hills,
20 miles from Adelaide) for £lO,OOO
when the present lease runs out in 1939.
More than that is to be spent at once in
installing a Duplex automatic tote. It is
proposed to terrace the hill by the river
behind the stand, Flemington fashion.
Mosman, stroked by Burrell, rowed
splendidly to win the N.S.W. champion
eights on the Nepean on Saturday. North
Shore, thought to have a good chance,
paced it with Mosman over the first two
miles, but couldn’t go the distance, and
was cut out of second place by Sydney.
The Police crew, last year’s winners,
were tailed off —the time for the three
miles, 16min. 9 l-ssec., over a minute
better than last year’s event. Cecil
Pearce, better now than before he went
to the Games, had an easy win in the
heavyweight sculls —eight lengths from
Bradley, who won the Henley Diamond
Sculls.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Rugby team from
The King’s School, Parramatta, which
has been touring England, with a sight-
seeing trip round the Continent thrown
in, has cast' up in Australia full of praises
for all and everything connected with
their holiday. Manager Martin said the
success of our boys—they won 12 of
16 matches against the leading Rugby
schools of England—was largely due to
the greater age and weight of the tourists,
in addition to the combination they
would naturally work up by travelling
and playing together. They were re-
ceived with open arms everywhere, and
finished up with a run through Western
Europe, including Monte Carlo but cut-
ting out Spain.
s|c , * * sic
“Marija”: In the competition for
Wolfe’s Schnapps prizes Barnett tops the
list with £lB odd. Second is O’Reilly
with £16 —three sixes brought in £ls—
Allen is third with £l2 16s. Ham-
mond (£9 Bs.) is ahead of Bradman (£8
165.) and Chipperfield is holding Leyland
to a draw —£6 12s. apiece. Ames’s tally
is mounting—lo catches at £1 each. The
English amateurs turn their prizes over
to the pros,
* ♦ • * ar.
Australia had a good win in the fifth
motor-cycle test at Sydney Showground
on Saturday night to regain the ashes
lost in England last year. Wilkinson,
the Australian captain, won two of his
heats, and was leading in the third when
his chain broke; and Little and Huxley
each had two wins and a second. Final
points were 31 to 22. It gives Australia
a lead of 26 to 24 in all matches, and
the aggregate points are: Australia
20391, England 20361.
* * * *
“M.M.”: As a reader of The Bulle-
tin since the first issue, I wish to say
how very much I enjoy the boxing remi-
niscences now appearing, and how vividly
they recall those great fighters and fights
of the long ago! I saw Jackson and
Farnan fight in Sydney, and wonder
how many of the small number of us
who witnessed that brief tussle are now
living.
* * * *
“Jachris”: The shipping strike- being
over, Hagen and Kirkwood are definitely
going to show in Australia this year.
They left ’Frisco by the Monterey on
Monday, and after picking up what they
can up and down Maoriland are due in
Sydney about the end of next month.
o Continued on next page.)


"SILVER
£DGE»
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
You Must Have Reliable Brakes!
DO you realise that the brakes of a normal weight of touring car
are called upon to perform work at the rate of approximately
90 horse-power?
Practically the whole of the energy stored in your moving car
has to be converted into heat at the brakes before the car can come
to rest.
Your brakes must be reliable and capable of withstanding these
high loads and temperatures, so use only high quality brake lining.
Asf{ for “Raybestos,” which has proved itself over many years of service*
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
m
ABIE
m
RS
mm
M
m
6//R
H
-<<9*
irA
(S
a»
Sparking
Champion
Plugs
MADE IN WINDSOR. CANADA - • •AN EMPIRE PRODUCT^-
Out with EXCESS CARBON/
- it makes engines noisy
The best way to keep excess carbon'
out of your engine is to install new
Champion Sparking Plugs once every
year. They give lull, powerful sparks.
They ignite and bum the full charge of
fuel every time. They reduce carbon
formation to its minimum.
Ins and Outs
The Australians won the fourth Test
match at Adelaide by 148 runs despite
some infamous fielding, especially in the
air. Catches were dropped like hot lino,
slugs in both innings.
Our men started the second knock 42
down. They reached 433, though the
usual collapse of the tail was witnessed ;
the last four wickets brought only 11.
Bradman carried the side on his
shoulders. McCabe did his bit with a
sparkling 55, and Gregory played a de-
fensive innings for 50 run out; with
these men helping Bradman made a mag-
nificent 212, almost half the score. Then
Hammond caught him off his own bowl-
ing. Chipperfield’s addition of 31 to his
first-innings shot of 57 n.o. must not be
forgotten.
Hammond bowled finely on a slightly-
wearing pitch to take 5 for 57, includ-
ing Fingleton as well as Bradman.
Fames got Rigg and O’Reilly for 89
and showed his best form of the tour.
Needing 392 to win, England opened
again with Verity and Barnett, whom
Fleetwood-Smith soon sent back for 17
and 21. Hardstaff provided a brisk in-
terlude until O’Reilly dismissed him for
43. Then Hammond and Leyland settled
down in ominous fashion, batting soundly
and confidently until stumps on Wednes-
day. To have reached the required
total would have set a Test record for
a fourth innings, but with these two fac-
ing a new day and Ames, Wyatt, Allen
and Robins to come few felt inclined to
offer long odds against its being done.
However, the hoodoo worked again.
Hammond (32) was bowled by F.-Smith
with the second ball of the day. Wyatt
joined Leyland, and for a time another
long stand promised, but F.-Smith had
Leyland caught in the slips for 32 by
Chipperfield, and got Ames l.b.w. next
ball. Allen stopped the hat trick, bui
lost Wyatt, who was caught by Oldfield
off McCabe for a useful 50. The cap-
tain scratched up nine.. Robins, Voce
and Fames completed the collapse: all
out 243.
Twenty sundries helped the total, Old-
field showing poorly in faking Fleetwood-
Smith’s stuff. That worthy took 6 for
110 in the innings, or 10 for 239 in the
match. McCormick got 2 for 43 and
O’Reilly 1 for 55.
Indications are that there will be
changes in our team for the Melbourne
match. Rigg may be rested, and Oldfield
should be —Ames is now his superior
behind the. sticks as well as in front of
them. Barnett, of Victoria, is a better
batsman than Oldfield, and would have
the advantage of playing on his home
ground, besides being thoroughly used to
the eccentricities of Fleetwood-Smith.
One would also like to see Grimmett in
again in place of McCormick. He would
be an excellent foil to Fleetwood-Smith.
Australia and England have now played
136 Tests. Australia has won 55 and
England 54.
* Hs *
“Sock ’Em”: Bradman’s 214 at Adel-
aide brings his total of Test centuries to
11, only one less than the record of
J. B. Hobbs. Curious that of the five
three-figure innings he has made in Aus-
tralia this score in S. Aus. is his first
off the Melbourne C.G. In England,
Bradman has turned the trick at Notts,
Leeds, Lord’s and the Oval, but has yet
to do it at Old Trafford.
* * * *
“Yum-Yum”: Ross Gregory and Keith
Rigg went to the same school —Wesley
College. Rigg returned as teacher and
sports master, finally leaving about five
years ago ; Gregory left about two years
ago, and pupil and master played in the
same Test side.
“Hotham”: Len Darling, who left his
native. South Aus. to pursue the fleeting
crown of cricket fame in Victoria, has
returned to Adelaide, where he is taking
up a job with Adelaide Quarries. Darling
certainly achieved Australian Eleven and
Test-match honors, but he has never
risen to his first brilliant promise. A
topnotch left-hander, such as he promised
to be, would have relieved us of the
wearisome spectacle of bowlers like.
Verity pinning the best right-hand bats-
men down with nothing more than con-
sistent length and direction. Darling
says he will not play in big cricket, even
Sheffield Shield, again, but a change of
heart may come with time.
* * * *
Newington College in Sydney pays a
graceful compliment to a great cricketer
on February 16, when Tom Garrett will
be given a dinner by the Old Boys.
Garrett is the sole survivor of the first
team (1878), which astonished the English
cricket world under the leadership of
Ned Gregory.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: If the color of the
cricket ball be changed to white (B.
27/1 / ’37), all sorts of other changes
“But I know nothing about cricket”
“ That's all right. All you got t' do
is to say out when I say ’ ows-zat.”
must logically follow. The idea
of the change is to make the
ball more visible by contrast
with it's surroundings. It would
be impossible, for batsmen to
see it against the white clothing
of bowlers and fieldsmen, and
these would have to be clad in
black or scarlet with black faces,
the sightboards and umpires
being similarly tinted. Even the
pitch and the field generally
might call for alteration as
regards color. The problems are un-
ending.
S« Jje * *
“Tenakoe”: Matters are in train for
dispatching a Maoriland side to England
this season. M. L. Page is to be skipper
and T. C. Lowry manager ; both are well
known in Australia. The team proper
is to be selected before the end of this
month.
“Five Ways”: Sydney newspapers are
everlastingly urging that it's solitary Test
match be taken from Brisbane and given
to Sydney or Melbourne as occasion
demands, the excuse being that the small
Brisbane, gates amount to robbing Eng-
land of a fair cut of the Test swag. Bris-
bane papers are now rejoicing over the
fact that, whereas Brisbane receipts for
the first Test were £10,336, those for the
Sydney match, with three times the popu-
lation to draw on, were £2OOO le 0 "
Nineteenth Hole
“Marino”: English professional golfers
are up in arms against a press statement
that many in the first class are earning
£2OOO a year and over, outside the big
prizes. Even with the crack clubs, some
of which pay their men a big fixed
salary and give them a free leg chasing
tournament prizes for the sake of the re-
nown it brings the. clubs, very few get
anything like that. Most clubs pay their
professionals a retainer and expect them
to make the rest of their fortunes from
shop sales and coaching fees, and £5 a
week is a No. 1 retainer. Players of
promise must play in big tournaments in
order to advertise, and though a few
clubs pay the fees of their men many do
not, and a promising youngster must
cough up as much as £2OO in a season
with no return. A sound estimate is that
70 p.c. of British professionals haven’t
more than £l5O when the yearly balance
is struck. It would be interesting to
know how much better off our paid
players are —if at all.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A new idea which is
catching on in England is “time-pay-
ment” golf —it would better be called
“letter-of-credit” golf. A player must
belong to a club that belongs to the
county union, as it is called ; on pay-
ment of ss. he gets a card with the. names
of all the affiliated clubs. Armed with
this one can play a round a year on
every course mentioned on the card, the
name of the club being crossed out as
it is used. The. scheme is available only
from Mondays till Fridays, but is
spreading like wildfire.
* * * *
“Prince’s”: St. Andrews is continuing
its campaign against freak clubs designed
to play special shots without any special
skill being required from the player. The
process began some years ago with the
graded irons, until nowadays few players
bother about the nuances of swing and
touch, but just let a numbered iron hit
the ball and trust to it to do the rest.
The latest H.Q. ban has fallen on the
heavy niblick known as the “sand
wedge,” which has come to us from
America, of course. This tool makes the
getting of a ball out of a sand bunker,
once deemed the trickiest shot in golf
and one calling for special skill and long
practice, an everyday matter. In future
St. A. will allow no club with a sole
thicker than half an inch or a front edge
not flush with the ground.
Racquet and Bawl
“Forest Hills”: The draw for the open-
ing round of the Davis Cup in America,
which particularly interests Australia,
sees America against the Japanese and
Australia taking on Mexico. The Ameri-
cans may have to go to California to
meet Japan, and should have no
trouble in winning unless the
Nipponese, have been nursing a
team of dark horses during their
temporary retirement from the
Cup tourney.
* * *
“Top Spin”: The Australian
tennis championships ended in
at least one win for the Old
’Uns when Quist and Turnbull
downed Bromwich and Harper
in the doubles, the go extending
to five sets. In the mixed doubles the
Hopman pair proved too good for Turn-
bull and Miss Stevenson. Miss Nancy
Wynne took the women’s singles from
Mrs. Westacott by two sets to one.
* * *
“Linesman”: A fine point of law
cropped up at the Australian tennis cham-
pionships in Sydney when Harper was
serving to Turnbull in the final of the
doubles. Harper’s first service to Turn-
bull bounced towards the latter’s partner,
Quist, who banged it out' of the court
before it had landed. To Quist’s


CRICKET
ENGLAND v. NEW SOUTH WALES
w
SYDNEY CRICKET GROUND—FEB. 13, 15, 16, 17.
Play Commences 12 Noon.
ADMISSION:
Outer Ground—Adults, 1/8| plus £d. tax, 1/9;
Children, 9d.
Grandstand—Adults, 3 3| plus 2£d. tax, 3/6;
Children, 1/6.
H. HEYDON, Secretary, N.S.W, Cricket Association, 254 a George Street, Sydney.
a
so
9A
er
f. p
«os
vft
'/a?;
o
a#
d*
v°^
\o c
N
\v
SQ
*v£
d
s~
r£
v\^
*v£
v°
h.o*
i &
s&
ve
tV e
\v®
o?
v&
0^
tCV
355
r>
A®*
\\*3
XV'
\hl'
a®
V- 0 ®:
o<
ICI
w '-
WET ZAAKE $ •
NO d.ifference
THE “BILLABONC” PISTON PUMP
AND MOTOR ASSEMBLY
This is an adaption of our well-known double-acting piston pump
electrically driven.
It may be automatically operated if desired.
FOR GENERAL PUMPING, BUT IS PARTICU-
LARLY USEFUL FOR SEPTIC - TANK WORK
OR HOUSEHOLD WATER SUPPLY.
And is also used for press work in hat factories.
We supply it in various sizes for heads up to 250 feet.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
STANDARD IRRIGATION AND BUILDING
SUPPLIES AT LOWEST MARKET PRICES
lokiMkhkini
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone M 6505.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. ’Phone CB3BO.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
astonishment the umpire gave the point
in favor of the server under a rule which
enjoins that a player who touches a ball
on the full when the ball is still in play
loses the point. If Quist had let the.
service bounce he would have been O.K.
in hitting it.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: Bromwich, now packing
for the Davis Cup tour, has had an
unusually rapid climb from obscurity to
the headlines. He emerged in 1934 when
the Melbourne centenary brought some
overseas champions here. On that occa-
sion he woke the public up by beating
Malcolm and Kirby, of South Africa,
and Maier, of Spain. Australians he
overcame that season included Hopman,
Turnbull, Hassett and Kay, and Craw-
ford has been a recent addition to the
bag. Bromwich at one time acquired a
reputation for “temperament.” He has
dropped any sign of this, which is more
than at least one of his distinguished
contemporaries can say.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: China’s team for the
Davis Cup this year includes Gordon
Lum, who for some, years played for
Victoria in inter-State doubles. He hails
from Hong Kong nowadays, as does
Choy, a Cambridge man. Cheng and
Kho come from Shanghai and Java re-
spectively.
Miscellaneous
“Mak”: Playing Rugby Union
matches “hundreds of miles away in
another State” (B. 3/2/’37) does stimu-
late Vic. interest in the code, as “Hooker”
would know if he were acquainted with
R.U. administration in Melbourne. The
V.F.L. has been built up on a team
patriotism that makes inter-club games
more, interesting to supporters than any
inter-State exhibition. Amateur R.U.
enjoys its club games, but gets a bigger
kick out of inter-State stuff. The only
reward R.U. players can hope for is
State selection —and an inter-State. trip.
Attracting enough people to a Melbourne
inter-State game for the gate to meet
exes, is a tough job at the. present stage
of the code's Vic. development. While
Australian Rulers appreciate Rugby
when they see it, they are not keen
enough to desert their inter-club games
—which leaves few winter Saturdays on
which the V.R.U. can stage big games
with reasonable hope of paying its way.
* * * *
“Spare Petrie”: Some Rugby archae-
ologist has discovered that two Eng-
lish Rugby Union clubs played a match
in London by “the new electric lamps”
in 1875. The dynamo for these was run
by the ground steam roller and found
the job too stiff at one period, giving up
the ghost. In the subsequent darkness
an enterprising player scored a try, but
whether the all-important goal was kicked
from it —the only score which counted
in those days—is not recorded. There
were numerous accidents, and one chap
went down with pneumonia, so the inno-
vation was abandoned.
* * * *
“Cash Grabber”: The Queensland
Soccer folk asked Brisbane Rugby
League to postpone its club matches on
July 17, when Australia will be playing
the second Test against the English ama-
teurs at Brisbane. The Rugby Union,
asked the same question, agreed ; the
League has refused. The Soccerites take
it the harder, since last year, when the
English Rugby professionals were here,
both the Union and Soccer postponed all
their matches.
* * * *
“Secesh”: The latest rebellion against
the Australian Olympic Federation is
that of the Victorian Council. Like the
swimmers, the council is fed up with the
ghastly mismanagement which cul-
minated in the selection for the last
Olympic team, with the flapper press and
politicians racing to get protegees into
the side ; it is determined that the athletes
must have the management of their own
affairs in their own hands. Chief pro-
posal is an alteration of the. Australian
Olympic constitution whereby athletic
bodies will be directly represented on the
Federal executive, at present a close pre-
serve for the officials of two or three
organisations.
* * * *
“Spring Hill”: Percy Oliver, of West-
ralia, put up a wonderful show in the
Australian medley championship swim in
Brisbane, knocking 13 4-ssec. off the
Australian record. Weir, the title-holder,
led off by taking the breaststroke sec-
tion, but Oliver galloped away with the
backstroke and freestyle divisions. The
time, 4min. 13 4-ssec., not only bettered
Weir’s figures but took 23sec. off Peter-
sen’s State figures.
* * * *
“Valley”: In the Australian 1500-
metres championship at Brisbane, Medica
—never pressed and only just off the
ship—finished in 21 min. 32sec. —lmin.
16s. slower than Noel Ryan's Australian
best. When last here Arne Borg put up
T9min. 48sec., and Medica’s own world’s
figures are 19min. 17 2-ssec.
* * * *
“Splash”: N.S.W. swimmers will see
Medica in four carnivals in Sydney—the
first at North Sydney on February 20.
Others will follow at the same place on
February 23 and 25, with a finale at
Manly on February 27. The North
Sydney shows will be at night, Manly’s
in the afternoon. Worth noting that the
latest list of world’s swimming records
to hand gives Medica credit for 10, from
the 200 to 1000 freestyle.
“Booroodabin”: Medica is talking of
putting in a short tour of Queensland
after his southern engagements are over.
Medica may show at the N.Q. towns, for
he is keen on seeing the Barrier Reef
and some of its wonders. Local authori-
ties are said to be breaking in a nice
fresh lot of young turtles for him to ride,
so he will have some tales to take back
to Uncle Sam.
* * * * *
Melbourne bowlers will miss T. W.
Gordon, dead in Victoria. “Tom,” as he
was universally known, was in his early
days a leading light in New England
Rugby football, playing for the district
against England, the All-Blacks and
Queensland, and he was also a mighty
man in amateur cycling and tennis. In
Victoria he turned to bowls, and soon
took the lead both as a player and ad-
ministrator, representing the State often
and being a member of the Victorian
bowls executive for years. All the other
States knew him well as manager of
touring teams.
* * * *
“Torrens”: After some argument about
it and about, the S.A. rowing folk have
resolved to stage the 1937 King’s Cup race
at Murray Bridge on April 24. There
was a difference of opinion as to whether
it was not Mannum’s turn, but, the matter
having been referred by post to the.
other States, a verdict for Murray Bridge
was recorded.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: Three of the Ashton polo-
playing brothers have left Sydney for
England to play the season there. The
fourth of the tribe departed some time
ago with a batch of ponies, and these
will be reinforced by a dozen others
accompanying the. trio. In England the
side will be completed by Bob Skene,
who is on his way across from India.
The brethren are anxious for an Aus-
tralia-England match, but the Hurling-
ham authorities are said to be looking
coldly on the proposal.
* * $ *
“Bung”: Ice-hockey is the latest sport to
be swallowed up by the gambling dragon
in England. The dogs have been suc-
ceeded as a poor man’s gamble by Soccer
football pools, and now the pool pro-
moters have attacked ice-hockey. All
attempts, by domestic and other legisla-
tion, to stop the football pools have
proved useless, and the same looks like
happening in ice-hockey. It is said that
the women have gone mad over the skat-
ing game, which, like the dogs, blooms
at night after the washing-up is done.
The fact that the game is a particularly
rough and dirty as played by the
professional teams, with lashings of gore,
may account for this. The darlings
always did cotton to the cave-man stuff
in sport.


BRANDAUERS
G''
*
0
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDADJ2R * CO.. Ltd, BIRMINGHAM. ENG
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
„ N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd, W. H. Mackay, J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(I WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Garden of Allah.”
RUNAWAY MONK .. Charles Boyer
GYPPO POET .... Joseph Schildkraut
MARLENE DIETRICH,
Marlene Dietrich
This is in technicolor, and bristles with
impossibilities. Struck with the idea
that the Dietrich might the better exert
her charm if given full opportunity to
display her cosmetics, the director chose
what he thought would be the ideal set-
ting for the coloring process. So far as
the lady was concerned he was un-
doubtedly inspired: she has never ap-
peared more exotically beautiful, and
has never registered passion, sophisti-
cated simplicity and motherly love more
Dietrichishly.
A simple, religious maiden, rich and
beautiful, she tries to find the key to
happiness in a pilgrimage to the desert.
Arrived in a small village on the desert
fringe, she finds instead a man whom she
hastily marries. They take to camels for
the honeymoon, and amongst the sands
she discovers that he is a Trappist monk,
under vows of chastity and perpetual
silence, who has fled his monastery.
Thereupon she returns him to the mon-
astery gates, and —apparently sure of a
welcome—he enters anew to spend his
life in expiation.
Charles Boyer does his utmost with
the unwieldy material at his disposal, but
others are weak, with the notable excep-
tion of Tilly Losch,- who contributes an
amazingly clever, seductive dance. The
color, while it has to do with costumes,
nuns, monks and dancing girls, is care-
fully done, but once it embarks on the
desert with the camels it follows the
worst traditions of chocolate-box art.
Dietrich, during the “aimless wander-
ings,” startles whatever may be startled
in a desert with the flimsiness and variety
of her dinner gowns. When Boyer, his
clobber a credit to his man, goes off
alone for a day’s hunting (?), she guides
his return by waving a flare from the
top of a ruined tower. The table appoint-
ments leave nothing to be desired. At
Sydney Regent.
“Pennies from Heaven.”
QUIXOTIC CROONER .. Bing Crosby
POOR LITTLE ORPHAN, Edith Fellows
HER GRANDPOP .... Donald Meek
SOFT-HARD-HEARTED
WELFARER Madge Evans
Bing Crosby on the headlines usually
means a neck-pain for the audience, but
here, though he yowls soulfully in a few
mushy and tuneless songs, the agony is
fortunately brief and the rest is enjoy-
able.
Bing’s fellow-prisoner, due for the
“chair,” gives him a letter to deliver on
his discharge. He has heard Bing croon-
ing and playing a lute in his cell (it’s
that sort of clink), so he goes to his
happy release with a blithe step.
Bing ferrets out the addressee, who is
the father of the condemned one’s
victim. But grandpop, who is trying to
look after his orphaned granddaughter,
is broke, so Bing, himself on his uppers,
takes charge. Comes a clash with the
welfare authorities and the discovery that
the repentant murderer had left a country
house to his victim’s dependants. There-
after Bing, who describes himself as “the
last of the troubadours,” works at keep-
ing the wolf from his friends’ door, with
varying success. In this he is abetted by
the stern yet kind lady; from the Welfare
Department.
The film’s merit lies in the many true-
to-life touches and the naturalness of the
acting. Bing goes several rungs up the
histrionic ladder—it is only when he
reaches for his lute that the thought in-
trudes that they “burned up” the wrong
man. Edith Fellows is brightly attractive,
Donald Meek adds a neat character
sketch and Madge Evans is fair. At
Sydney Plaza.
“The Smartest Girl in Town.”
SMART GIRL Ann Sothern
WISECRACKING SISTER,
Helen Broderick
WEALTHY NITWIT .. Gene Raymond
PESSIMISTIC MANSERVANT,
Eric Blore
When this piece opens the smart girl
is hard at work as a photographer’s
model for an advertising agency, but,
aided and abetted by the wisecracking
sister, she’s determined on marrying
money. The w.s. is pushing the claims
of a French Count, a collector of birds’
eggs, but the s.g. doesn’t like his accent.
Comes the day when the s.g., having
been smuggled aboard a palatial yacht,
is waiting for a male model to pose for
yachting pictures. Owner, a wealthy
“This gives you an idea of what the people in Madrid are going
through , Mrs. FitzDollo p.”
nitwit, arrives and, naturally, is mistaken
for the model. Approximately 60
minutes later the w.n. succeeds in con-
vincing the s.g. that she loves him in
spite of the fact that he hasn’t got a
bean, and, having confessed all, shapes
up for the final clinch.
Eric Blore scores quite a few laughs,
Helen Broderick not so many,, the others
scarcely a titter. At Sydney Regent.
“The Plot Thickens.”
DET.-INSPECTOR .... James Gleason
HIS DOPY SECRETARY .. Zasu Pitts
TWO INNOCENTS,
Louise Latimer, Owen Davis, Jnr.
Of all screen players most unlikely to
impress as a sleuth, Zasu Pitts stands
alone. So Hollywood makes her a
detective’s offsider, and the onlooker
hopes she’ll be a comic foil to the gal-
vanic Mr. Gleason. She isn’t. Instead of
stumbling boneheadedly on a few clues
and wringing her hands in the Pitts
manner, she figures as a skirted Sherlock.
When Gleason is assigned to the intricate
job of mustering an international gang
of art thieves, she barges in and becomes
a veritable bloodhound, mopping up clues
and making her boss look silly.
The plot is ingenious. A wealthy man
is mysteriously murdered. There are
several suspects, and motives galore. The
victim’s interest in art having been estab-
lished, the venue moves to an art
museum, with a priceless Cellini bauble
and its fake as the cause of yet another
murder. There’s a display of good deduc-
tive work before the villains are snared,
and a pinch of excitement and a few
comic touches help it along. But it
would have been better either as straight
mystery or burlesque. As it is it’s a
shandygaff. James Gleason gives a fine
exposition of cigar-chewing. At Sydney
Plaza.
“Wanted—Jane Turner!”
SLICK POSTAL INSPECTOR,
Lee Tracy
OFFICIAL SIDEKICK .. Gloria Stuart
In Hollywood’s U.S.A. when a known
killer bumps off a few people with a
blast of his sub-machine-gun the police
never think of arresting him on a simple
charge like murder. He’d get out of that
too easily. It would only mean a squad
of his bullet-headed friends marching
into court with their right hands clutch-
ing the revolvers slung under their arm-
pits and the intimidated Judge would
discharge him. The only unfailing way
to ensure a 99-year stretch is to arrest
the culprit on a charge of falsifying taxa-
tion returns or contravening the U.S.
Mails Act.
At any rate, that’s Yewnited States
custom as represented by a thousand
films. Present opus appears to be a mix-
ture of propaganda against crime and a
cheap ad. for the P.M.G. When a
criminal shoots a mails-van driver and
grabs a few thousand “grand” the police,
of course, are helpless, so a postal in-
spector is deputed to get him, and does
so with magnificent ease. In that en-
lightened land a postal inspector’s job
is no armchair business of handling
petty complaints like Aunt Martha’s tele-
gram that' went astray. No, sir! It’s a
most hazardous game, his fingers habitu-
ally clasping the butt of a Colt. To
• have a beauteous secretary sharing his
dangers naturally gives the life an added
zest, and all the more so when she’s a
topnotch sleuth.
Lee Tracy looks the part of a live-
wire inspector, and Gloria Stuart is
blase when the. bullets whiz. The film
doesn’t lack excitement and there are
some apparently authentic glimpses of
the U.S. mails organisation. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Phantom Rider.”
BULLET-PROOF HERO, “Buck” Jones
It’s a toss-up which makes the most
noise at Sydney Civic —the thunder of
hooves, the roar of the bad men’s hip
artillery or the shrieks of the juveniles
in the audience.
This latest of Wild West serials closely
follows a well-tried plot. The two-gun
hahmbres who simultaneously talk
through their noses and shoot streams
of tobacco-juice out of the comers of
their mouths, and who get around in pla-
toons, are obviously rustlers trying to
oust the hahnest nesters from the coveted
range. They are beginning to get the
upper hand. But who can stop them?
Why, who else but “Buck” Jones, who,
as the phantom rider, must wear a fancy
dress white hood with eyeslits so that
he will make an easier target for the law-
busters. Even with this help 16 of
them keeping up a bombardment at
point-blank range just can’t hit him. And
all will be well! Honesty has its inde-
structible champion, and the bad men,
though they are still intact and may be
for several more instalments, are bound
eventually to hit the mesquite or sage-
brush in some arroyo or canyon, filled
with more lead than an amateur snapper
fisherman's basket. The youngsters lap
it up!
STAGE SHOWS.
Russian Ballet
Rimsky-Korsakoff was responsible for
two of the ballets presented at Sydney
Royal on Saturday, and the wide differ-
ence in the composer’s works is strikingly
apparent. As with the music, so it is with
the attractiveness of the ballets.
“Soleil de Minuit,” to anyone not deeply
versed in the intricacies of Russian folk-
lore, is just a senseless jumble of dances.
Fast-moving and a riot of color, it gives
Leon Woizikowsky, as the Midnight Sun,
and Irena Bondireva, as the Snow Maiden,
a chance to display their excellent tech-
nique, though why the Woizikowsky
brow should be indented with vertical
lines to make him appear as if he had
just received his income-tax assessment
remains a mystery. There is also some
neat concerted dancing by the groups of
peasant women, shepherds and jesters.
But the whole thing leaves the beholder
cold. With undistinguished music upon
which to base it Massine appears to have
put in a lot of hard work (as did its in-
terpreters) to little avail.
In sharp contrast came “Scheherazade,”
with its hauntingly beautiful music
wedded to as warm a human story as
ever came out of the Arabian Nights.
Here are laughter, passion, life, tragedy
enacted with realism, the piece moving
with extraordinary swiftness against a
fine Oriental setting to a dramatic climax.
Nina Raievska dances voluptuously as
the Shah’s favorite wife, with Leon
Woizikowsky pursuing her in mighty
bounds and with amazing vitality.
In “Scuola di Ballo,” danced to Boc-
cherini’s dainty music, Massine has
created a most attractive ballet. The
scene is set in a dancing academy, where
the Professor is having trouble with a
very fractious class. When a wealthy
impresario arrives in search of talent,
the Professor foists upon him his inevit-
able “dud” pupil. Enraged, the impres-
ario brings a notary to dissolve the con-
tract. The crossplay resulting from this
situation is rich in comedy. Nina Raiev-
ska as the hopeless one completely cap-
tures the spirit of the piece. Helene Kir-
sova dances graciously as Rosine, the
new pupil; Thadee Slavinsky gives a
splendidly-sustained character sketch as
the Professor; Serge Unger and Jean
Hoyer supply the strong comedy element.
In “Carnaval” (Schumann-Fokine)
Helene Kirsova took the role of Colum-
bine in place of Valentina Blinova, who
had an injured foot. Against the un-
imaginative background (the scenic
effects in this ballet must cost fully 14s.
6d.) flit the various characters in the
fantasy; the dashing Harlequin, fickle
Columbine, gay Eusebeus, impetuous
Florestan and the rest. Igor Yousske-
vitch is an ideal partner for the Kirsova,
and the two lift the piece to a high level.
Thomas Armour as the Pierrot gives a
well-defined study, and Thadee Slavinsky
is an impressive Pantalon.
The orchestra throughout the four
ballets maintains a high standard, Ivan


7he mohair
POWDER
EASY TO USE
y
Dentists know that
POWDER cleans
teeth better than
anything. Calvert's
Tooth Powder comes
to you in an Airflow
Flask, a new kind
of package which is
ever so much easier
to use than ordinary
tins or tubes.
F. C. Calvert & Co.. Ltd.
England.
Sill
I vj
EASY TO USE
%
'r°wcf e s
■HRs
mikiki
m.
mmmMm
ill
mm
Mi
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
ALSO BLACK AND WHI TE FINE CUT THE FINEST MONEY CA N BUY
Clayton conducting “Carnaval” and
‘ Scuola di Ballo,” with Jascha Horen-
stein in charge of the remaining two.
* * *
Mostly Dress and Scenery.
Melbourne is wonderfully faithful to
“romances, with music,” and J. C. Wil-
liamson’s “Princess Charming” kept a lot
of citizens out late to see its Saturday
premiere at His Majesty’s. The familiar
musical-comedy princess is betrothed to
the customary king ; there is a revolu-
tion, and her insurance agent marries her
to a naval officer to save her for royalty
—and £50,Q00 for the insurance co.
Romola Hansen, princess, gives a pas-
sionate description of the naval officer’s
gallantry in saving her from a bunch of
ruffians. Presumably the toughs didn’t
do so badly, for Herbert Browne ap-
pears with an arm in a sling. But the
ruffians —or was it a crank-handle? —
have not affected his singing.
The smartly-uniformed male chorus is
good, and its voices blend attractively.
Kenneth Tuckfield, who reached the pro-
fessional stage in “Wild Violets” after a
Gregan McMahon training, shows more
confidence in a song-and-dance turn.
Among the girls, Lois Green has a re-
grettably small part. Welcome fun
comes from Alfred Frith and Marie La
Varre, though some of the gags long ago
qualified for a pension. Frith plays the
Cecil Kellaway part of Albert Chuff,
insurance man, and Marie La Varre is
the dancer intent on social uplift who
eventually consoles the king. Latter
part is well played by Leslie Holland.
Outside the principals there is a dearth
of good voices. In the last act “The Man
I Love” establishes the suicidal musical-
comedy precedent of coming through a
microphone from back-stage. Most
people have gramophones and radios at
home; they expect to see the soloists
whose names have lured them into the
city. A marathon last-act conversation,
in which Marie La Varre. pleads with
the king for the happiness of the lovers,
completes the slowing down of a show
whose second act was not over until
II p.m.
First nights are never a joy for the
cast, but seldom has a prompter grown
so hoarse.
4* »I*
“Cornelius.”
For the first time, in its life Melbourne’s
Power House Dramatic Club put on at
the Garrick a play that didn’t come off
the crime bookshelves. “Cornelius” has
a suicide, but it’s no tragedy ; anyway,
it happens between acts. All action takes
place in the office of a tottering firm of
aluminium brokers, whose staff is bluff-
ing itself that the senior partner is a
splendid businessman when he’s a de-
mented wreck. J. B. Priestley draws his
characters from life, and to produce a
well-constructed drama balances with
comedy the serious themes of commercial
battles and unemployment. Without hear-
ing direct aspersions the onlooker gathers
that more efficient managers would have
saved the firm from financial wreckage.
The junior partner is non-practical, a
man in the wrong environment. There
are a middle-aged typist, negative and irri-
tating ; a vacuous younger woman ; an
office boy youthfully bitter over having
had no promotions; an elderly clerk
with a narrow mind as mechanical as a
filing system.
After an uninteresting first act of jerky
dialogue, a stage too small for much
office furniture and the cast stiff and
nervous, things warmed up to an excel-
lent second act and a third that was
effective with less action. Alec Smith
did well as Cornelius —a gruelling role,
for not only is it a long part but the
player must psychologically dominate the
stage, the plot developing according to
his versatility and the way his character
is unfolded. Cynthia Sutton was daunt-
less in interpreting the drab but patheti-
cally lovelorn typist. As the only woman
among the creditors Hettie Smith was
as charmless, tactless and vapid as she. had
to be to make the men around her bristle
with hostility. N. H. Straus, John
McFarlane and Austin Jolly gave credit-
able snapshots of three very dissimilar
creditors. The piece was produced by
Terence Crisp, who, because he also
played the part of the suicide, refused in
the name of anticlimax the honor and
glory of a curtain call.
•b *l* *l* T-
Sydney Tomholt’s one-acter “Anoli:
the Blind” led off the Independent
Theatre’s bill of three short plays at the
Sydney Savoy on Saturday night. It suf-
fered through missed cues and indistinct
enunciation, but even such disabilities
could not entirely obscure the stark
strength of its drama of love and bitter
hatred played out in a North Queensland
setting. David Ratner put up the best
performance, conveying admirably the
paralysing influence of the blind man’s
personality.
G. B. Shaw’s “Press Cuttings,” a de-
licious bit of satirical fooling dealing with
womanhood suffrage, women, war and
a variety of unrelated matters, provided
some bright moments, as well as proving
occasionally topical; General Mitchener’s
invariable panacea for social, political
and diplomatic ills, “Shoot ’em down!”
has been popular enough lately. A well-
balanced cast included Hawdon Wilson
as Mitchener, John Stacy as the un-
soldierly barber-cwra-corporal, and O. D.
Bissett as Prime Minister Balsquith, all
doing excellent work, as did also Agnes
Cullen, Sylvia Lance Thomson and Jane
Connolly as widely-differing feminine
types.
In “The Tents of the Arabs” Dunsany’s
beautiful language was delivered admir-
ably by a cast headed by William Gates
(the King), Doris Fitton (the gipsy for
whom he abandons his throne), Howard
Craven and Jack Needham. Setting and
costuming for this were most effective.
The bill is to be repeated next Satur-
day night.
-I* *£■ v
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
“Bulletin” Black-and-white Show.
Judging by the crowds the weekly dis-
plays of black-and-whites attract to the
front windows of The Bulletin office
there is extraordinarily keen general in-
terest in these originals of The Bulle-
tin's humorous drawings. A comfort-
able view of a representative collection
of many present-day Bulletin originals
can now be had at David Jones’s George-
street store, opposite Martin-place.
The show is warranted to assay a dozen
laughs to the minute. Practically all the
regular contributors of cartoons, carica-
tures and joke-blocks are represented,
and the variety of styles and mediums
employed is an eye-opener. An out-
standing feature is the freedom of
expression which marks most of the
exhibits, proving that the Australian
black-and-white humorous artist, like
his contemporaries abroad, has out-
grown the more stilted formula of a
generation ago. There is also evidence
of a tendency to let the picture tell the
story and of a more pungent, crisper
style of joke.
The artists range from talented young-
sters who have not long completed their
art studies to veteran B. E. Minns, who
has been drawing for The Bulletin
since the ’eighties, and is showing some
of his delightful sketches of aboriginal
and outback humor. Norman Lindsay’s
versatile penmanship is represented by
some of his most effective recent car-
toons. Ted Scorfield, though he hails
from Newcastle-on-Tyne (England), is
held by many to draw the typical Aus-
tralian face better than any local artist;
the show is brightened by varying ex-
amples of his vigorous, clean-cut style.
Frith has a large panel of his lightning,
but highly diverting and amazingly
authentic, impressions of screen stars.
It wouldn’t be a Bulletin show without
a few pictures of a couple of Oswald
Pryor’s bearded Cousin Jacks conversing
while a billygoat browses on a dump in
the backyard. Pretty well every Cornish-
Australian home must now have a Pryor
original on one of its walls. There are also,
of course, drawings by that conscientious
draughtsman G. K. Townshend, who is
reputed to take longer to produce a two-
column drawing than any brother artist,
but the result is always an excellent
arrangement of figures, novel back-
grounds and freshness. Since Sherlock,
who lives in the same seaside suburb as
Townshend, was once an officer in the
R.A.N. it is natural that a great deal
of his work should have to do with life
aboard a man-o’-war. Unk White, wield-
ing a fluent pen in Fleet-street at present,
can take liberties which would land a
less-confident and less-talented craftsman
in all sorts of trouble. Others in the
brightest art show that can be seen in
Sydney at the moment include Syd Miller,
Such, Finey, Percy Lindsay, Gill, Horse-
man, Horner and Lance Mattinson.
•b •b
James Quinn’s show at S.A. Society
of Arts gallery has more versatility than
could be expected from a display mainly
of portrait figures. A lady with a mutin-
ous mouth might be an Orpen, a girl
with daffodils a Millais. A finely-
wrinkled grandmother, looking out of a
blackened canvas, might well have come
down from one of the eighteenth-century
masters of portraiture. A portrait of the
author’s son is one of the best things,
and Queen Elizabeth of to-day surveys
the collection from the place of honor
on the north wall. Landscapes and clever
nudes brighten a good show.


WE OFFER;
WHAT
Most
it
WENTWORTH Hotel
People
Desire
Homely com-
fort, peaceful
and quiet sur-
roundings and
at the same time
within conveni-
ent walking dis-
tance of the
business centre
of Sydney.
BRIDGE PARR
SYDNEY
BWI3GI
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them■
although “worry” is hardly the word fo
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with c ot ns >
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feSfaf after A'CORN SILK has remog
all your soft or hard corns—a 60. pacKet
do this for you without P ain ,°f ““ matter of
Corns are killed while you sleep-a matter
a few hours. Chemists sell A CORN SU-k
6d! per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Just a sprinkling of women leavened
the male atmosphere of the Yacht
Squadron at Kirribilli on Saturday after-
noon. It was the club’s 75th anniversary
meeting. G.-G. Lord Gowrie, who is
commodore, watched the. racing from the
Sayonara, vice-commodore Paul Ross’s
yacht.
Past great bowls of rhodendrons and
the Daryl Lindsay drawings, Sydney
rustled into another first night of ballet.
Once again the Royal had a capacity
audience, once again there was the scent
of frangipanni from innumerable shoul-
der sprays, once again the brilliance of
the “Scheherazade” costumes turned the
frocking in the audience pallid. Mrs.
Alan McGregor, however, caught the
eye with her black frock that had an
unusual arrangement of white. From
being very narrow, practically jus<t a
binding, at the back of the neckline, it
grew gradually wider as it came down
the front, and finally slipped through a
narrow white kid belt. Dorothea Mac-
kellar’s satins shone like a dark-red
dahlia. Joan Preston Stanley, who came
with the Crawford Vaughans, wore a
Slav-looking coronet in silver on her
dark head. Mrs. Leon Lyons’s palely-
pink chiffons were patterned with chry-
santhemums in a deeper tone. Mrs. G.
Baker, from New Guinea, wore her
brown hair coronet fashion. Her satin
frock was emerald, her shoes gold.
Hilda Abbott trailed white crepes, and
Mrs. George Elwood wore a black lace
scarf with her mist-blue chiffons. Nedra
Ryrie was attractive in white broderie
anglaise. Lieutenant-Governor Street’s
lady brought a party that included the
Kenneth Streets, Philippa Street, Valen-
tine Adams and Captain Lassen.
Mangoes gleaming through ice, the
block electrically lit, was the colorful
and cool table decoration chosen by
Mrs. Harold Bott for her dinner-party
at the Australia last week. This was an
intimate affair for the Noel Jennings
couple and daughter Elizabeth. The
other daughter, Margaret, who accom-
panied her parents to Australia, met swift
romance in Melbourne. A fortnight
after meeting Dr. Lawrence Stokes she
was married to him in the chapel of
Melbourne Grammar. So she was not
a partaker of the mangoes. Sister Eliza-
beth was, and wore a long and graceful
frock of marquisette, the shade of a
tawny chrysanthemum. The hostess was
vivid in amethyst lace and taffeta. Dame
Constance D’Arcy brought claret-toned
lace, her famed chuckle and a black lace
fan —country of origin, Spain. The Waley
lady and Mrs. Moxham were diners.
Mrs. Noel Jennings’s frock of lilac georg-
ette struck a note of sophisticated
romance. The Noel Jennings are the
high chieftains of Mcllwraith, Mc-
Eacharn.
Sydney friends of the late Charlie
Bryant will miss him when they go to
London for the Coronation. The artist,
who spent much of his life in England,
had a way of showing newcomers to
London more of that city in a day than
would otherwise be seen in a month.
There wasn’t a fine bit of architecture
along the Thames from Westminster
steps to Greenwich and beyond of which
he didn’t know the intimate history. He
knew the darksome spots, too. He and
Thomas Burke, of Limehouse Nights,
had gone many a night exploring to-
gether. Bryant had neither art jargon nor
art swank. He had been too busy paint-
ing to acquire them. He was chairman
of the London Sketch Club, one of the
most popular members of the Savage
Club, and quite a personality in English
art circles. If so modest a man can be
said to have a vanity it was his hands.
They were smaller and finer of grain
than many a woman’s.
Maoriland writer Elsie Morton has a
particular interest in the new King George
and Queen Elizabeth —as special writer
for the “Herald,” Auckland, she jour-
neyed in their train when as Duke and
Duchess of York they toured Enzed. Just
to round things off, she’s now making
tracks for Westminster to see them safely
crowned. She goes by way of Java, with
a glimpse of Bali thrown in. Two of
Elsie Morton’s books on the beauties
of M.L. lake and other scenes are worth
the reading by any traveller to Maori-
land. They arc Along the Road and
Joy of the Road. Scribes and artists
rolled up in numbers to Violet Roche’s
party to the visitor midway through last
week. The guest, managing to look cool
on a broiling afternoon, wore amber-
patterned chiffons and a wide black hat.
Sherry glasses were drained also in
jubilation over Australia’s first Dame in
Literature. Dame Mary Gilmore!
Doesn’t it sound right? The Dame
came wearing a cool, thin frock of
flowered sheer, and waving an outsize in
palm-leaf fans. The hostess trailed a
cocktail frock in the new style. Mrs.
John Woods was there with latest news
of son John, busy again in British films.
Artist Jo Collins told of daughter Kath-
leen’s trek for England and a job as
commercial artist. Colin McKay, of
Invercargill, a real Southlander who has
been studying the East, was there ; he
seems to think Australia’s a good place
to anchor in. Frank Dalby Davison,
Isabel Gullett, Dora Payter and Eric
Baume were others the party attracted.
Probably there is no better-known
family in Australia than knight Harry
Budge’s. Father was official secretary
to a procession of the State’s Governors,
starting 30-odd years ago. For 14 years
the knight and his lady lived with their
family at The Cottage in Government
House grounds, and made it one of the
happiest bits of social Sydney. Now,
Elise Budge, the middle of a trio of
popular daughters, has decided to take
up matrimony as a career. Dr. Harold
Cribb, of Bexley (his family were Bris-
baneites), will be the partner. Photo, by
Dayne.
Fifty of the Monte Carlo Ballet com-
pany made colorful progress in a double-
decker bus from the Theatre Royal to
the Trocadero on Thursday. At the
doorway a Cossack in dazzling white
acted as commissionaire. Within, samo-
vars of burnished copper and silver
chuckled as sociably as they do in a
Tolstoy novel. Jelly and lemon in
Slavonic fashion were served with the
tea; so was a mountain of small
cakes, the baking of which had kept Rus-
sian cooks busy in the Trocadero for
two and a half days. Tenor Charles
Nicis, who had arranged the music, was
a dashing figure dressed as a Caucasian
gipsy in a brilliant red suit and wide
white hat. Behind him the Balalaika
orchestra was a vivid background of
greens and reds. The girls who took
part in the programme were dressed as
gipsies, their brilliant costumes reaching
a high note in tall and jewelled head-
dresses.
A fashion parade by Anthony Hor-
dern’s showed the Russian influence in
the styles of to-day. Frank Coughlan,
as an officer of the Russian Guard,
wielded his baton. Helene Kirsova made
a speech, Nathalie Branitzka and Nina
Golovina were there ; also the Philipofts
and Jean Hoyer. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
brought a party; so did Lach. Beaton
and Ruby Adams. Mrs. Ernest Watt
and Mrs. Jack Musgrove were glimpsed ;
so were conductors Jascha Horenstein
and Ivan Clayton. June Munro, whose
Chinese hat suggested the latest millinery
news from Tartary, Nola Gough, Sheila
and Nina Bragg sold frangipanni for
the funds, which go to the endowment
of the Dimina cot in Adelaide Children s
Hospital in memory of the lovely young
ballerina who died there.
Dr. Corrie Saunders brings all the
freshness and brightness of a day at the
seaside to her patients’ bedsides. She is
one of Sydney’s clever fledgling doctors,
and her home is at Coogee. Last year
she was in residence at Sydney Hospital.
Her next medical appointment is the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. Photo,
by Freeman.
Lieutenant-Commander Gifford was
one of the city's brightest when he was
aide-de-camp to Governor Philip Game.
Since succeeding the other day to the
title created over 100 years ago, he is
Lord Gifford. As organising secretary
to the Royal Prince Alfred, a job he took
over when the Games departed, he had
success enough to prompt him to face
an organising job for one of London’s
big messenger companies. His Christmas
card to Sydney friends had on the left
cover a group of disconsolate hospital
nurses waving tearful farewell, and on
the other a bevy of young messengers
with outstretched hands gazing skyward
with a beatific expression. Skimming the
blue air between the two was an aero-
plane in which a cherubic “Giff” was
being transported to England.
While visiting knight Laurence Phillips
(he’s the man who spent £7OOO on his
’plane trip from Java to Sydney), his
lady and daughter Gwenllian were in
Sydney they spent a day as guests of the
Harold Botts at Palm Beach. They were
full of exclamations at the beauty of the
coast and the glittering stretches of sand
their car flashed along. They took their
bathers with them, but that day the
surf foamed overmuch at the mouth for
the visitors. Randwick and Rosehill also
were tucked into their itinerary.
Countess Haig, looking rather tired,
flew to Sydney from Brisbane last week,
and was met at Mascot by R.S.S.I.L.
president Robb. She is on a world tour
to give publicity to her Life of her late
husband, the book having the title The
Man / Knew. It is being sold for the
benefit of ex-service men throughout the
Empire. After her stay in Maoriland,
Lady Haig will return to Sydney on her
way to South Africa.
With the recent death of artist Maude
Russell (widely known, also, for her
hobby specialty of making sundials) the
patients in the Prince of Wales Hos-
pital, Randwick, lost a great friend. Miss
Russell, who was a delicate water-color-
ist and principal of one of the city’s
commercial art schools, taught drawing
to the soldier patients. Sales of Rem-
nants from Randwick, which she com-
piled from drawings of her Randwick
students, brought the blessing of wheel
beds to some of the incapacitated men.
The artist died at her seaside cottage in
Collaroy.
Nathalie Branitzka and Xenia Kalinov-
ska, of the Russian Ballet, wore their
capes with an air at the lunch given by
the Industrial Arts Society for the visit-
ing company. This wearing of a cape is
not such a simple thing. Italian women
have it to perfection. Nathalie’s light-
weight ensemble was navy, and had its
cape lined with white. Xenia’s color
scheme was mignonette green. The lunch
was in the clubrooms, served from a
buffet. Members of the Ballet were given
little labels with their names, and there-
after went ticketed on the shoulder.
Helene Kirsova clothed her fluent lines
in linens printed in greens, blues and
yellows. Nina Golovina sported a long
quill in the tam that topped her navy-
and-white outfit. A small group of men
from the company were present, among
them Guerard, whose fine figure was
notable in “Aurora’s Wedding.” The
Hon. Anne Vanneck, daughter of Vic-
toria’s Governor, came to the party with
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, whose guest she
was. Crowds of Sydney’s young and
bright fluttered about the rooms.
Adelaide pianist Miriam Hyde is back
in Sydney after spending her first Christ-
mas for five years with her family. She
has been in England and Europe study-
ing and blossoming as a composer. One
work from her pen, “Prelude and
Dance,” was played by the 8.8. C. orches-
tra in an end-of-the-year programme.
Miriam and Helen Bainton have decided
on some two-piano recitals during the
year, and the Adelaide girl is going to
Killara to visit friends, so she will be
just round the corner from the Conser-
vatorium director and his family. A
broadcast with the A.B.C. is another part
of Miriam’s schedule.
The Nellie Stewart Memorial Club
must have had some forewarning of Fri-
day’s heat when it decided to hold its
afternoon parly on the Merkur. Once
on board the ship a cool breeze was found
lurking around the corner. Mayoress
Parkes was a guest of honor ; so wa>
Mrs. C. J. Pao, wife of China’s Consul-
General. Miss Bina Addy, the Indian
singer now visiting Sydney, was another
of the important; so was Mrs. Caswell.
There was a music programme arranged
by Mrs. Stephen Herford, and card-
tables were in charge of Mrs. C. E.
Maddrell and Mrs. P. Keillor.
Lunch was cool, but the reception
given to Daphne Dean was warm when
the Pickwick Club had her for its guest
of honor. The lunch was a buffet one
for all but the chosen few at the top
table. Daphne, in her tunic frock of
black sheer with a flyaway black ostrich
tippet, gave an illuminating talk on art
movements in Paris and London. Her
knowledge of the ballet is so intimate
that she rattles off Russian, Lithuanian,
Spanish and other names with a celerity
that leaves most listeners a bit breath-
less. The slim Mrs. C. V. Walker was
not one of these. Her knowledge of the
classic dance is as complete, as were her
tailored frock of thin black sheer, her
wide black hat and blistered pearls.
Isabel Fraser, in a dress of flower blue
sprinkled with white dots, turned an
eager ear. She was with friend Mrs.
Scott Fell. Bradley, K.C., made the
speech of thanks.
A robe that had once belonged to the
Dowager Empress of China and a lotus
headdress cunningly fashioned in black-
and-gold by a . one-time lady-in-waiting
at the imperial palace of Pekin were
worn by one of the singers at the Arts
Club International Night. These were
part of the costumes of the Chinese set.
In all 13 countries were represented on
the programme. The Consuls and their
wives were all at this party, which was
held in the ballroom of the Australia. A
son-in-law of Belgium’s Consul-General
Segaert sang operatic numbers in a fine
voice. Charles Nicis sang songs of
Russia. The Burlakov-Lightfoot ballet
danced. Lute Drummond arranged the
programme to which two or three hun-
dred listened. Mrs. Florence Taylor
presided.
Barrister Stanley V. Toose, reputed to
have legally assisted at the unsoldering
of some 5000 marriage bonds, extended
his own hands for the gyves last week.
Those who saw bride Enid Mary Fuller
in her trig yellow suit with its frilly jabot
and shoulder knot of frangipannt de-
cided he was more than justified. Brides
father J. H. Fuller, of Killara, gave her
away, and mother received the guests at
the small and very legal reception in the
Carlton. St. Philip’s on Church Hill
blessed the vows. The bride is an asso-
ciate of Roseville Golf Club, where hus-
band and father are president and senior
vice-president respectively.
National Gallery’s new director Will
Ashton had a wedding in the family at
the week-end. Son Adrian married his
Lesly Willis at St. Thomas’s, North Syd-
ney. The bridegroom being an archi-
tect, the wedding cake was appropriated
decorated with a model house.


ill
||
; :
lillt
gslll-s
m
z>.
;
888
I
9 REASONS WHY BIDOMAK
MAKES YOU WELL
1. Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum,
calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphates, glycero-
phosphates and sucrose.
2. Gives you a good appetite.
3. Brings sweet sleep.
4. Strengthens nerves.
5. Relieves stomach upsets.
6. Builds energy, “pep” and endurance.
7. Clea rs out body wastes from every cell of the
body by increasing the amount of oxygen in the
blood stream.
8. Creates rich, red blood, new healthy nerve cells,
and nerve fluid.
9. Makes you feel well all overl
down THIS SUMMER!
'umm,
m
BUILD UP
NERVE FORCE
VITALITY STAMINA
BIDOMAK
Don t think you are born to be friendless, run-down, listless and nervy—lacking in drive and
self-confidence.
Thousands with this new treatment have gained vigorous physical fitness, confidence and pep
within a few days. Indeed, the discoverer of “BIDOMAK” guarantees to refund your money
in terms of the guarantee given below, if you can honestly say you have taken ‘ BIDOMAK
according to directions and not derived real benefit.
The reason why great numbers of nervy women and children can’t seem to keep really fit and
well is that they fail to get enough of the vitality-building, health-giving minerals, which are
the very keystone of health, and the proper functions of the human body.
This Mineral Starvation is caused by the drastic changes which have taken place in the nature
and preparation of modern foods as well as the terrific strain of modern living. These changes
have been so gradual that most of us are unaware of them. But they have taken place just as
surely as the march of civilisation has changed almost every one of the other conditions of
human life.
We drain from our body the vital mineral salts necessary for our well-being, by hard work,
worry, over-indulgence and over-active emotions. The normal food supply does not replace
them.
We Suffer From NERVES
SLEEPLESSNESS DEPRESSION LISTLESSNESS ANAEMIA NERVOUS
INDIGESTION NEURALGIA NERVE PAINS LACK OF CONFIDENCE
HEADACHES AND SIMILAR CONSTITUTIONAL DISORDERS.
“BIDOMAK” has been developed to replace the mineral losses and to correct the disorders referred to above.
“BIDOMAK” restores to the blood stream all the most necessary elements which include Ferrum, Potash,
Calcium, Sodium, Phosphates, and Glycerophosphates, as well as Sucrose, for quick dynamic energy.
It creates a store of energy and nerve force. You feel better within a few days, you look better and sleep
better. This is the result, not' of drugging the system, but of feeding it with the vital minerals which we have
mentioned in accordance with the most modern researches of medical science.
Don’t bother with old-fashioned bitter mixtures, when you can be sure that pleasant-tasting "BIDOMAK” will
make you well.
Your chemist or local store sells “BIDOMAK.” Start a course of “BIDOMAK” to-day! You must feel
better for it.
BIDOM
Benefit
Guaranteed
OR YOU PAY
NOTHING
So many nerve
sufferers have obtained
immediate relief from
“BIDOMAK” that if
you do not benefit from
the first bottle we will
refund your money
within 14 days of pur-
chase on its return,
nearly empty, to the
Douglas Drug Coy.
Thus we guarantee you
positive relief or you
pay nothing.
THE TONIC OF THE CENTURY
BIDOMAK INCREASES
YOUR SUPPLY OF
LIFE GIVING OXYGEN
w
<
Fivers carry oxygen in tanks when
they ascend to high altitudes be-
cause the air up there contains less
oxygen than is necessary to keep
the brain and senses alert. In
Mineral Starvation the number of
the red corpuscles, which are the
oxygen carriers, are decreased.
Take BIDOMAK and the red cor-
puscles are increased, and there-
fore they can carry more oxygen
through the blood vessels to elim-
inate waste tissues and make you
feel well. That is why BIDOMAK
„o quickly makes you mentally
and physically alive and well.
(Original letter on our files.)
Permanent Benefit from Bidomak
West Ryde, 28/8/’36.
The Douglas Drug Co.
At last I am writing to let you know the results of the
course of Bidomak taken by my wife. I purposely refrained
from writing to you until I saw whether the good results
would continue after the tonic was stopped and am now
only too pleased to let you have my honest opinion.
As I told you, my wife was feeling very run down and
nervy, but after taking only a few doses of Bidomak the
improvement was noticeable and my wife said herself she
felt much better. She had nearly completed one bottle when
she had the misfortune to have to go to bed with a severe
attack of influenza. She continued with a second bottle of
Bidomak, and so good were the results that within a week
she was well and about again with every trace of ’flu gone.
Our little boy, aged 44 years, also had the ’flu, and
would not eat his meals, and so we gave him some
Bidomak, and he only had taken 3 doses when his appetite
returned and he soon shook off the ’flu.
We had previously taken other well-known tonics and
found them to be effective only whilst they were being
taken. Whatever good they did vanished when the tonics
were discontinued.
With Bidomak, however, we found that the beneficial
effects were permanent, and also found that it is not
necessary to continue taking Bidomak to insure feeling
well and fit.
Yours faithfully
(Sgd.) H. E.
(Full name and address on request.)
Bidomak is a product of the Douglas Drug Co., Adelaide,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
Wholesale Agents for Tasmania: L. Fairthorne & Son,
Pty. Ltd.
c? a
ALL N
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
„3 4
'
ww>«iVn(i>V g \nV»ViV,-.Vi
mi
is
. ?$£&&&
Mi
x*y.>
£>x
vXvX
(£*««*.*s s*<>s f . o) y. p
| : ; : ; ; ; ;-:-; v . .
AMAZING BOOK FOR YOU
We have published a remarkable book, printed on
real antique book paper. It tells you how you may
be affected by the terrible Australian Tragedy of
Mineral Starvation, and how you may counter its
dangers for you and your family. Send 3d. in stamps
with this Coupon, and a copy will be posted you by
return.
SEND THIS COUPON TODAY
DOUGLAS DRUG COY.,
52 Carrington Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send trie a copy of your book,
“The Great Australian Tragedy.” I
enclose threepence in stamps.
NAME
ADDRESS
5.8.2.


Legal Notice.
TO JAMES COTTERELL PHILLIPS.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Western Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of EDITH EMILY PHILLIPS o.
Wiluna praying for a dissolution of marriage
In default of your so appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court
will proceed to hear the Petition proved and
pronounce sentence in respect thereto. AoL
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaic
you are within forty-five days after the date ot
the last publication hereof to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office o.
the Supreme Court in Perth and enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose.
(l.s. h.s.) F. T. DAVIES,
Registrar.
To be inserted once in each of. the following
newspapers: the “Western Mail, “The Bul-
letin,” “The Australasian.” , _
W. E. B. SOLOMON, 70 St. George s Terrace.
Perth, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
WHAT TO READ
Coz/SULT m L/T£MRY ftEWTWS /H
THE AUSTRALASIAN
0//SAL£~MSTAT£S-P#/C£6».
Melbourne
Chatter
Looking very brown and with a
curious assortment of luggage, the
Banks Islands expedition returned home
a few days ago. Some of these young
scientists had degrees conferred at the
end of last year, others will figure at
the March graduation, a few more are
already doing post-graduate research.
The camp lasted seven weeks, and at
one time there were 15 members in resi-
dence under canvas. The expedition took
its own cook, and feminine zoologists and
botanists lent a hand now and again at
varying the menu. The one permanent
inhabitant of the island used as head-
quarters breeds sheep, so mutton was
the foundation of most meals and coffee
the general drink. Calls on the sheep-
breeder’s camp were considered a
special treat, for he owns the only water
supply on the island which makes palat-
able tea.
While Professor Wood Jones was in
residence everybody rolled out of
blankets at 5 a.m., for the Prof, believes
that no field day is too long. In spite
of the biting worms and goggle-eyed
spiny monsters which the expedition pur-
sued in shallow water, bathing was good
and very popular. Among specimens
brought back alive were 20 tiger snakes,
whose venom (a beautiful shade of
liquid amber) was a present to the Com-
monwealth serum lab.
Lord Huntingfield kept an engagement
last week to open the Salvation Army s
newly-constructed Bethesda Hospital at
Richmond. Modern additions include
two new wings with kitchens, service
block and extra accommodation. There
are now 100 beds instead of 80. There
is, of course, an overdraft (it is doubt-
ful if we would have, any big hospitals
if they were not launched by optimistic
committees), but £30,000, including an
anonymous donation for £5OOO, has
already been collected or promised.
The forerunner of this modern hos-
pital was a lowly Richmond cottage,
once a guest-house, which was leased by
the “Army” nearly 40 years ago. It had
beds for only nine or ten sick poor.
Matron McGregor and Miss Elizabeth
Spargo shared responsibilities and the
brunt of the nursing. Gradually the
scheme grew, the property was bought
and paid for, the adjoining cottage was
also acquired, more beds were procured
and the staff increased. There is nothing
left of the old site but the name
Bethesda, which means “power of heal-
ing.”
There is at present a League of
Nations on the medical staff of the
Queen Victoria Hospital. A few weeks
ago two new additions were Dr. Wil-
helmina Wagenmaker and Dr. Peggy
Heron, the former naturalised Dutch,
the latter Irish. These two are great
friends, and together they saw an adver-
tisement in London for residents for the
Queen Vic. —a very unusual happening,
for only when there is a particular short-
age of meds. does the hospital seek staff
abroad. Dr. Anna L'ewin is German, and
took her degrees and practised some
years in Germany. Then she left her
country and pluckily settled down in
Edinburgh to do another medical course
almost from the beginning—she was suc-
cessful, but a great difficulty at that time
was that she knew practically no Eng-
lish. The fourth from overseas is Dr.
Heyes, a young Englishwoman who is
endeavoring to see something of the
world before practising in her homeland.
After leaving the Queen Vic. a couple of
months hence she is off to the east coast
of Tasmania to take on a locum’s job.
From her too-small lab. the hospital’s
pathologist, Dr. Phyllis Tewsley, can
look out of the window at the cheering
sight of the new path. lab. at last in the
course, of construction. Dr. Tewsley is
voted a particularly “good scout” by
the rest of the staff, for no matter how
late they bring along work to her she
gets it done.
While she was living in Australia Lady
Somers took particular interest in the
C.W.A. and the Guide movement. Soon
after her return to Melbourne, a fort-
night ago she was hearing of the activi-
ties of both societies and accepting invi-
tations to see for herself how much pro-
gress had been made. Her first afternoon
with the C.W.A. was at Black Rock,
where, instead of finding the small Somers
House of six years ago, she was intro-
duced to a pleasant roomy building with
accommodation for about 50 women
and children. Among visitors who shared
informal cups of tea with the guest of
honor were State president Mrs. W. E.
Sargood, sec. Miss D. Harland, Miss R.
Watson, Mrs. R. J. Larking, several
members of the Yarra, St. Kilda and
Heidelberg branches, and English visitors
Mrs. J. E. Cubitt and her daughter Janet.
Mrs. Cubitt is a sister of the late Mrs.
J. S. Fraser, who donated the new wing
of Somers House, and who was the
second State president of the C.W.A.
During the year she was hon. organiser
Mrs. Fraser travelled Victoria to the
most inaccessible places, and what she
saw of country women decided her to
bequeath financial help to the movement,
not in her will but in her lifetime. The
outcome was the Fraser wing of Somers
House, opened in 1935. The house is a
paradise for country women in need of
a holiday. It is panelled in light tulip,
with furniture in light pastels or cheer-
ful lacquer. There are green and prim-
rose. linen curtains, and the green-and-
primrose kitchen is a picture of glisten-
ing tiles, stainless sinks, plenty of cup-
boards and an electric refrigerator.
There is also a sewing room for mothers
who, even on holidays, can’t afford to let
their fingers idle.
Dr. Georgina Sweet is known as vice-
president of the Pan-Pacific Women’s
Conference, also as a former president,
and she is a speaker of note whose name
carries meaning to women in European
and Asiatic countries ; but to one genera-
tion of women meds. and science gradu-
ates now scattered over Australia she is
remembered, above all, as “the only
woman who could keep the men in
order.” This distinction was acquired
when she was lecturer in biology, and
somehow kept order even among her
friskiest young students.
Since her recent return from abroad
Dr. Sweet has been welcomed at several
functions, one of which was put on at
the Lyceum by members of the Aus-
tralian Pan-Pacific women’s committee
and the State sub-committee. Dr. Sweet
spoke of her visits to London, Geneva
and India, the problems which had been
discussed abroad by women delegates
and the approaching Pan-Pacific confer-
ence at Vancouver. She believes younger
women should be given every encour-
agement to think for themselves and take
part in national affairs, and so does not
mean to continue executive committee
work, but will give the benefit of her
experience to the young women whom
she hopes will take advantage of the op-
portunities of the future.
Here is Jean Mclnnes, eldest of the
W. B. Mclnnes couple’s family of two
daughters and four sons. Jean, an old
girl of the P.L.C., is just commencing
her third year at the National Gallery.
So far her work looks very promising, as
might be expected from a student whose
father makes almost a habit of winning
the Archibald Prize and whose mother’s
flower pieces when exhibited pick up red
seals with ease and regularity. Jean’s
brother Malcolm, aged eighteen, was
among this year’s cadets chosen for the
Air Force. He started training at Point
Cook three weeks ago. The six Mclnnes
steps-and-stairs have been brought up to
cherish a loyalty for their north-of-the-
Tweed ancestry; in each of their ward-
robes is a complete kilt outfit.
After all, Lord and Lady Somers were
not first-nighters at “Cornelius,” the J. B.
Priestley play produced by the Power
House Dramatic Club in aid of the
Somers Camp. The popular ex-Gover-
nor and his lady were invited to the
country for a week-end, but they have
promised to be present at the Garrick
one night this week. It was on the whole
a youthful first-night audience, and youth
sold flowers and programmes in the
foyer. Marjorie Carney, looking charm-
ing in lilac, strung her basket round her
neck and helped her sales with an ever-
ready packet of pins. Among others
with posies were Margaret Kiddle, in
black velvet; sister Elizabeth in pat-
terned chiffon with twig-green sash and
collar ; Moya Dredge, in blue lace, and
Betty Eyval, also in blue. Auxiliary sec.
Gonza McGregor wore a king among
tiger-lilies cm the corsage of her wine-
red frock. Margaret Rhoden, in tur-
quoise and a white fur cape; Lorna
Rundle, in floral ninon, and Nancy Swift,
with a complexity of plaited shoulder
straps to her azure-blue gown, were
among girls who coaxed programme-
buyers to ask for no change from a
“silver coin.”
In the audience the Dalziel Kellys
were prominent for Mrs. Kelly’s honey-
bee dress —it fairly buzzed with black-
and-yellow stripes and its wings were
gold tulle. Old Somers “boys” Jim Mc-
Glashan and Bert Morgan were present
with wives. Treasurer Felix Craig was
round and about, and Dr. McAdam was
sitting with his mother, Mrs. R. V. Mc-
Adam. Up in the circle was Dorothy
Raws, wrapped in a blue velvet coat,
and in the stalls glimpses were caught
of the H. O. Whites and the E. H. Kin-
nears. The Sutherland and the Shepherd
familities found themselves with claims
to a box of chocolates for the lucky pro-
gramme number. J. S. Sutherland had
presented the winning programme to Hal
Shepherd, who, in his turn, presented the
chocs, to Mr. Sutherland’s sister.
Seen through a Broothorn camera
is Mrs. E. F. Lind, whose husband,
Colonel Lind, is commanding the Aus-
tralian Coronation Contingent leaving
on Feb. 16. Much as she would enjoy a
sea journey and the splendors of the
Coronation, Mrs. Lind believes that both
parents in London would be too far
away from three children in Australia.
She is therefore remaining at home,
where her interests outside her family
are concerned chiefly with child-welfare.
Colonel Lind is a doctor, and went to
the war as a medico. Since then he has
had a distinguished career with the
militia force.
Joan Henry got her passport in order
and had arrived in South Africa almost
before anybody realised sbe. had left Mel-
bourne. She was bound for South
America, and is probably there by now.
Joan is of the stuff of which heioines
are made, for, in spite of the handicap
of a disabled hand, she has succeeded at
several creative arts —dancing (which she
taught at her own studio), designing cos-
tumes and scenery, making masks and
stage properties, drawing and painting.
Last year she had a successful exhibi-
tion of her pictures, which were particu-
larly interesting for color and costume.
Miss Henry is by nature a student, and
has the ordered mind of a critic. Every-
thing she takes up she does thoroughly
for instance, she is an expert on histori-
cal costumes. With so many developed
talents at her command, with youth, self-
confidence, a fluency at languages and
friends in all parts of the world, this
enterprising Australian should find scope
for her individuality in making a liveli-
hood in other places. Eventually she will
get to London. She has made no plans
as to how long she’ll be away.
Before her marriage Mrs. Frank
Walker, who died last week after a short
illness, was Henrietta McGowan, one of
Victoria’s pioneer women journalists.
She wrote capably, and for 17 years
conducted the women’s pages of a Mel-
bourne daily. Mrs. Walker was well
known (as Mrs. Henrietta Walker) for
her craft work, raffia, weaving of reed
and rush baskets, for designing and
making rag and hooked rugs, teaching
her ideas to men and women who had
livings to earn, and afterwards helping
to market their work, and for travelling
through the country in all weathers in-
structing members of the C.W.A. in
making useful and artistic things with
inexpensive materials. Except for some
raffia from Madagascar and a little M.L.
flax, practically everything required for
the construction of baskets grew near
Mrs. Walker’s home at Ringwood. To
cut these reeds and rushes she always
employed men out of jobs or on sus-
tenance or lads who really needed the
money. The Walker couple had hosts
of friends and kept open house at Ring-
wood every week-end. They had no
luxury instincts, and were content to
travel between Ringwood and Melbourne
and in the country by tram, train or ’bus,
instead of private car.
Australians off to the Coronation on
crowded all-one-class mail boats are not
carrying an oversubscribed load of envy
with them. By the time the ships leave
Melbourne passengers are swarming all
over them, and more have to be taken
on board at Adelaide and Fremantle.
A few years ago regulators for gas and
electric ovens brought joy to domestic
hearts. Heat regulators have now been
attached to permanent-wave machines,
and women who hoped for the best as
they sat hooked to the ceiling for the
sake of a perm, need no longer feel un-
comfortable. One new waving machine
has a safety gadget a sort of thermo-
meter-cwm-barometer called a capi-
meter. It has signals cool, medium
and danger—and is attached to one of
the curls which are screwed up and ready
for heat. The mercury needle works
according to the type of hair. After the
hot clamps have been put on, the hair-
dresser watching the instrument knows
exactly how much time should be allowed
for “cooking.” An interesting point
about the new apparatus is that the small
capimeter costs 20 per cent, of the total
machine cost.
Often bitter complaints are aired
against girls on manual telephone ex-
changes, but there is at least one woman
in Brighton who has nothing but good
to say for her exchange and trunk lines.
Recently she had an official but very
shortly-worded notice that her husband,
then in Brisbane, had been in an
accident. She put through a night
trunk-line personal call to the hotel
in Brisbane where he had been stay-
ing. After a short delay the exchange
rang to say that the husband was not at
the hotel nor at any other likely hotel in
Brisbane. The worried wife then sug-
gested hospitals, but the exchange rang
ten minutes later with the information
that he had left on the express for
Sydney. Knowing that he was evi-
dently well enough to travel, the wife
ceased to worry.
Melbourne women are beginning to
wonder if the fact that silver poplars
are already shedding golden leaves is an
indication that autumn will arrive before
they have had any sort of wear out of
summer frocks and hats. “Bargains'
picked up at the sales mightn’t be bar-
gains after all, for they’re sure to be out
of date next season. Shoe departments
of big stores report that, in spite of in-
creased vigilance, thieving of new shoes
goes on during busy sales days, cus-
tomers walking out in unpaid-for new
shoes after pushing their discards as far
as possible under the seats. Somehow
the stealing of new hats has never be-
come so popular ; perhaps it doesn’t feel
so safe to have stolen goods right next
to a guilty face.


FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
ac lhe Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why GAM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
‘Palmer”: The proposal to drain
Sandgate’s main lagoon—it is in one of
Brisbane’s most popular seaside suburbs
—and turn it into a park shows lack of
imagination. That lagoon used to be
a park in itself. Many a day I’ve spent
wading among its waters watching the
birdlife and collecting the leeches, and
1 have found all sorts of people and
things among the reeds —Alex. Chisholm,
the bird man, in his shirt, shiver-
ing with his camera among his nesting
favorites; a night-faring householder
who had banqueted too well; the local
milkeart, whose horse on a quiet Sun-
day afternoon espied some extra tempt-
ing herbage in the water and left his
owner, in his best clobber, “a single sav-
age yelling on the beach.” Also, there
was every kind of bird and animal life
which finds its way to the water’s edge,
including snakes. In an earlier day,
when there was less civilisation about,
every serpent in those parts was lined
with squab provided by the Sandgate
lagoon.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Edward Taylor, of the
Mandated Territory service, who got an
M. in the Birthday Honors, went to
N. with the expeditionary force. His
flair for handling natives sent him to the
fringes of the. controlled lands as soon as
the Administration was established, and
for a good many years he was in almost
daily danger of meeting a shower of
arrows or spears. His first job was in
the Bainings (New Britain), where a few
years before natives had wiped out a
whole mission, and he was the first Aus-
tralian to make contact with the Molkol-
kols, across the island from Rabaul. As
New Britain district officer, he cleaned
up after the Nakenai massacre, in which
four men were killed (1926). Five years
ago he was sent to the Morobe district,
which includes the gold area. He pene-
trated the country as far as Mt. Hagen,
and has the responsibility of a number
of patrols and substations, most of which
now have their own aerodromes. Every-
where he has been he is voted by the
darkies “good fella kiap, strong fella
too much,” which is the greatest com-
pliment a native can pay his ruler. He
is marked down in New Guinea as a
future Native Affairs Department head.
* * * *
“Zedo”: The Federal Government
has deferred appointing an N.T. Admin-
istrator, affairs being left in the hands
of an official who is normally chief clerk
to the Administration. Meantime, Cabi-
net is to consider the appointment of
a third member of the Payne Commis-
sion, which is to inquire into N.T. affairs
after the rains. The course followed
is about the most sensible one possible.
The N.T. has been neglected so long
that it can be treated neutrally for a few
months more until a concrete scheme has
been framed. Then the Government, if
prepared to follow the Commission’s
advice, will probably have a concrete
plan to work on which will justify ap-
pointing a first-class man with more than
an office-boy’s authority.
* * * *
“Zircon”: Coolangatta (Q.), at the
Tweed mouth, may run a pier out into
its wide bay, which would give Queens-
land another moderately-deep-water
port. Suggested plans are for a 1500 ft.
jetty 40ft. wide, with 25ft. water at the
outer end at high tide. This would allow
Sydney steamers to land passengers.
Communication over the Tweed bar is
irregular and difficult for shipping.
Coolangatta has a splendid beach and
plenty of tourist accommodation, and is
open for a longer surfing season than
southern beaches. It knocks much-
advertised overseas resorts flat for beauty
and safety.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Why isn't more done to
market Australian gems? Queensland
stones are. equal to anything in their
class in the world, particularly the blue
and yellow sapphires and alexandrites and
parti-colored stones. All they need to
make them fashionable is a right lead
from the right people. Between £60,000
and £70,000 worth used to be sold from
the Anakie field, and the German trade
in blues was promising to reach big pro-
portions when the war came along.
Lately the demand has declined almost
“ Right-oh , Ma. You start diggin' ’ere. Y’ought t’ strike Water ’bout two ’undred foot. ”
to nothing—£3ooo p.a. would probably
cover Queensland sales. Yet they can be
sold. I showed a few from the Ruby
Vale Miners’ Association to a couple of
tourists a few weeks ago, and a sale was
made- in three minutes of nearly £4O
worth. Meanwhile Sydney shops dis-
play synthetic rubbish and black-mined
stones of Ceylon and elsewhere.
* * * *
“East Point”: Northern Territory
mailmen are at their prayers, for this
year’s monsoon is a corker! Flying men
report that a lot of country has been
turned into an inland sea. Common-
sense would suggest that a regular fast
launch capable of dealing with ordinary
flood conditions should run to northern
river settlements which have a direct and
normally easy outlet to the sea. But no ;
the great-grandfather of the present Ad-
ministration carried mail overland to
and from the Daly and other such places
across flooded creeks, tropic swamps,
wet grass, slippery limestone and other
impedimenta —and so the job continues
to be done.
“Marama”: The Rev. Mother Agnes,
who got an M.B.E. in the Fijian Birth-
day Honors, had earned the bauble 50
times over. A cheerful soul, she has
been 45 years in the Islands tending the
sick, and in 1911 became one of a little
group of sisters who took charge of 200
lepers. For quarter of a century she
has lived with the afflicted, and now has
charge of the Makogi settlement, where
there is a leper population of 600.
"Australia Jan©'s" Budget
Elizabeth and Bubbles Bell leave for
Tasmania by the Orion to explore the
Apple Isle, and will go on to stay in Mel-
bourne with sister Mrs. Alistair McKin-
non. Elizabeth will have only about a
fortnight in Melbourne, as she is to be
a bridesmaid at Pat Gardiner’s wedding
early in March.
Another engagement in the Bell family
has just been announced—“ Jim” (James
Thomas Norton), to Minette Eileen
Joyce, third daughter of the late Fitz-
pierce Joyce and Mrs. Joyce, of Bids-
void, and granddaughter of the Tabra-
galba De Burgh Persses. Jim is only
son of E. T. Bell, M.L.A., who died a
couple of years ago and was once chair-
man of the Australian Meat Council.
This week Joan Lethbridge, whose
people hold pastoral properties in North
Queensland and in the Mitchell district,
marries Colin Curr, of Julia Creek.
Bride’s sister Flora was booked as brides-
maid.
Neena Poyser topped her rose-em-
bossed gown of white chenille with a
lovely headdress when she married Pat
Murphy, elder son of the T. Murphys,
formerly of Gatton, now of Brisbane.
Her veil, lent by Mrs. C. H. Cormac, of
Wynnum, was a two-centuries-old trea-
sure of hand-woven Limerick lace. She
wore it a la Mary of Scotland, with a
spray of orange-blossom to finish the
cap arrangement. Bridesmaids May
Stephens and Joyce Davies were frocked
in lavender chiffon, and wore quaint
bonnets of lavender tulle.
Tasmanian Governor Clark’s lady paid
a very hurried visit to our city. She
arrived on Sunday week by the Oronsay,
dashed from the boat to Southport to
spend the day by the sea with the Gover-
nor and Lady Wilson, and next day was
off south again.
During the week Lady Somers, wife
of a former Governor of Victoria, also
blew in very briefly, coming by ’plane
from overseas. She continued south in
the Stinson, and will see the last Test,
collect her husband, and be off to Eng-
land again before the end of the month,
Pretty Regina Warry, elder daughte*
G f the R. Maryborough, was
married at her home town’s St. Stephen’s
to J. H. Hoare, son of G. J. Hoare, of
Cairns. Their address will be Brisbane,
Whe n the Kindergarte n Training Col-
lege reopened after recess, the principal,
Miss M, Cochrane, was hostess to about
40 old and new students. Ann Clark,
assistant principal, gave a hand with the
entertaining, part of the purpose of
which was farewelling Mrs. Bruce
Shearer, president of the association,
who is bound for England and Europe,
Lady Haig arrived in Brisbane by air
on Monday of last week, and settled at
the Belle Vue. Next day was a busy
one. The R.S.S.I.L.A. took her to Lone
Pine in the morning and entertained her
at morning-tea. In the afternoon she
called on Acting-Premier Hynes and
Lord Mayor Jones ; in the evening, after
broadcasting from two stations, she was
present at the annual reunion of the
Sandgate sub-branch of the R.S.S.I.L.A.
The A. S. Huybers couple, who leave
by the Orion for England this month,
are being farewelled to the point of ex-
haustion. Parties have included a five-
to-seven affair at Lennon’s, given by Mrs.
Huy'bers’s friends, and a tea at Rowe’s
arranged by Mrs. C. E. Wassail.
Mrs. T. C. Beirne and granddaughter
Sybil Douglas left by the Oronsay for
Maoriland. The trip will also include
Sydney and Melbourne.
Noel Stephens, only child of the R. C.
Stephenses, of New Farm, is to wed
Archie Douglas, eldest son of the W. A.
Douglases, Bowen Hills, at St. John’s
Cathedral on April 12.
Before boarding the More ton Bay for
Scotland, Mrs. J. T. Allardyce gave a
bridge party to old friends at Rowe’s.
Jean Allardyce helped her mother look
after the guests, who were tea’d at tables
bright with roses.
Mrs. Graeme Gibson, who was Mary
Cameron, of Brisbane, before she mar-
ried a soldier in Canada, gave a fare-
well cocktail party for Vivienne Ruddle
before Ernie Ruddle packed his wife and
daughters aboard the liner Oronsay,
bound for England.
All 10 of their children and several
lifelong friends went along to help the
J. Linds celebrate their golden wedding.
Mrs. Lind was born in Dublin, Mr. Lind
in Gothenburg, Sweden. He arrived in
Queensland at 17, and became a pilot in
the Brisbane River. Mrs. Lind reached
Brisbane four years later. A meeting, a
brief courtship, and the knot was tied 50
years ago in All Saints’ Church.


I
X
Being the Observations and
Recollections of a Social
Editress (Retired) who is now
allowed to write what she likes.
MIKI
UNMASKS THE SHAMS
HOLLOWNESS OF THE
“SOCIAL COLUMN.”
AND
Commence reading No. 1 of this delightful series
in Friday’s issue .
Other Interesting Features:
KNITTING —BABY’S FROCK AND BONNET.
A “GOOD LOOKS” TALK BY JANINE.
£25 FOR A CLEVER “MIRRAWIRE”
Special Free Pattern Offer—
YOUR CHOICE OF ELEVEN PATTERNS.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
ON SALE FRIDAY.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
‘ The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Instead of a post-ceremonial reception
Deborah Ambrose’s marriage to Bryan
Carson was celebrated by a large cock-
tail party on the eve of the wedding.
The Ambrose home, lonely warrior of
the fast-declining regiment of private
houses in St. George’s Terrace, was
massed with blue and white hydrangeas,
roses and polyanthus, a fitting decor for
the bride-elect’s pastel flowered French
crepe ninon and her mother’s caped and
frilled black satin. For the knot-tying at
St. Mary’s, West Perth, Deborah’s soft
beige cloque ensemble, cut with wide
revers and full sleeves, was topped with
ballibuntal straw banded with ribbon.
Dr. Betty Ambrose attended in parch-
ment crepes pintucked into fine stripes
and finished at the neck with pink
flowers.
“What a perfect day for the races!”
was a general remark at headquarters on
the opening day of the holiday week-end
meetings. One of the smartest frocks
on the lawns was Mrs. Roy Mitchell s
black French georgette; its green-and-
white buttons matched the green-over-
white Peter Pan collars, and an overskirt
of loose, tubular pipings swung fringe-
wise over the full ankle-length skirt.
Violet Holmes had a white picket-fence
edging on her bottle-green matt crepes,
Mamie Brown wore her veiled navy
goblin hat well on the back of her head,
and Mrs. Langlois Lefroy panelled her
pastel silks with ecru lace.
First act of the Benporath-Seager
romance was situated in South Africa,
with Digby Leonard Benporath, in the
role of advance director and publicity
manager for a Y.A.L. tour, meeting and
falling in love with Alfreda Louie Seager.
In the second act (time: one year later,
1936) the hero returns to the scene of
his conquest by the maiden and extracts
a promise from her to become his bride.
j be c jj max was reached with the couple
exchanging vows at Christ Church, Clare-
mont, the bride trailing traditional white
satins with flowing tulle veil and attended
by Winnie Benporath in blue floral silks.
The epilogue will be staged in the Eastern
wi “ h the vista of B p ermanent jetfle-
men( in Jo - burg in the offlng
writers f , hered at xhe
~ , ,
Cave to munch a valedictory luncheon
with philanthropist Mrs. A. R. Robert-
son and club past-president Miss Dolly
Ferguson, who have passages booked to
Eng i anc j j eS sie Macgregor, set about
w j tb nav y-and-white figured crepes, pre-
sided over the doings and presented the
departing ones with fragrant bouquets,
guests Qf honQr ch()se navy outfits>
Mrs. Robertson’s unrelieved and worn
w qh a matching hat; Miss Ferguson’s
checked with white and topped with
white neora straw.
Anglers are all of a twit and a doodah
a t the thought of catching trout in the
south and sou’-west. Hatchings from
the ova brought to Perth from Ballarat
j as t y ea r have taken kindly to the waters
of Big grook, Pemberton, Angove Creek,
A , b and t he Wellington dam at
CollJ In spite of the ho..season am,
lack of ram, young five-mchers arc
swimming round in thousands (fish
story?), and strong hopes are entertained
that in 12 months they will have at-
tained a length of one foot and a weight
0 f iik Annlications to iom the expen-
fish?sJg party in February, 1938,
pQUring in
Bunbury was agog with visitors and
festivities during the tennis-tournament
week-end. Hotels were crammed, and
most private homes housed anything
from one to half a dozen guests. Joan
Rose made up beds for Pat Wheatley
and Joan Salom ; Joyce Burridge and
Betty Piesse were among Dr. and Mrs.
Michael Kelly’s guests ; the Edwin Roses
had a houseful; Barbara Messer and
Dee Meecham stayed with Mrs. Jack
Money ; Mrs. Conrad Chase put up her
sister, Pat Saw, and the Clifton home,
Australind, was another shelter.
Visiting A.B.C. artists Alice Prowse,
Phyllis MacDonald and Marjorie Hesse
were introduced visually to Perth at a
couple of parties in their honor. Mrs.
F. W. Carter’s was a musical affair with
tea at gladioli-decked tables and a sep-
tet of item-givers. Hazel Prowse put
hers on at the Adelphi, and provided
the star players with posies of roses.
Gwenda Richards made a happy
choice of cool linens for herself and
attendant when she kept her matri-
monial date with Alan Cameron. The
bride’s trim white suit was embroidered
in navy, finished with navy accessories
and surmounted by a navy poke bonnet.
’Maid Gwladys Richards carried white
accessories with her soft-pink linen and
shaded them with a headgear of white
ballibuntle straw.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The warm weather brought out quite
a show of frocking color for the Test
match. Lady Dugan, who was with his
Ex. and Mrs. J. O. Haselden, chose
pale carnation pink, with revers and
collar in hyacinth blue, pale-blue ribbon
trimming her hat of pink straw. Mrs.
Haselden wore a white satin blouse with
her black ensemble, and wide-brimmed
black straw hat. New knight Lud Mayor
Cain had with him as Lady Mayoress
daughter Mrs. H. Dunstan, wearing leaf-
brown flowered marocain and wide-
brimmed brown straw hat. The Bony-
thon lady wore an ensemble suit of navy
crepe de Chine flowered in white, with
navy hat. Daughter Katherine was in a
white suit with dark-blue accessories.
Dr. Roy Burston and daughter Betty
sat in the official box with the v.-r. party.
Many women seemed to lose their
heads completely at the Test, literally
screaming every time Bradman touched
the ball. Men who had been present at
the earlier Tests complained at the ab-
surdity of their display, dubbing them
“the shrieking sisterhood.”
Despite the Test there was a good
attendance at both Adelaide Racing Club
meetings. The Saturday and Monday
being proper summer weather, light
frocks came out and three-quarter lace
and net coats had their deferred oppor-
tunity. Chairman James Hall and
youngest daughter Gwen entertained
members of the committee at luncheon
and afternoon-tea, she wearing white
tailored linen suit with white straw hat
and a chiffon scarf in tones of blue.
Glimpsed about during the two days
were Mrs. Whitmore Carr, Mrs. H. Allan
Morris, Mrs. J. H. Morish, Mrs. Allan
McFarlane, Mrs. F. A. Tennant, Mrs.
Albyn Rankine, Mrs. Harold McGregor,
Mrs. A. V. Benson, Mrs. -Guy Makin,
Mrs. W. P. A. Lapthorne, Mrs. W. A.
Blackler, Mrs. Stanley Skipper and Mrs.
Irvine Wald.
One of the first charity-ball efforts for
the coming season has pretty Mrs. Clive
Bonython as its convener and will aid
the Junior Red Cross home for sick and
crippled children at Henley Beach. It
is to be a Story Book Ball, dancers repre-
senting nursery rhymes and fairy tales.
Mrs. George S. Milne, of Glenelg, gave
lunch for her cousin Mrs. Norman L.
Smith and daughter Marjorie, of Glen-
wood Station, Wellington (N.S.W.), who
were on the Mongolia, heading for the
Coronation. Mrs. Smith is a grand-
daughter of Henry Rotton, pioneer and
member of N.S.W.’s first Legislative
Assembly.
Lieutenant-Commander and Mrs. Max-
well Hole, who have resided abroad since
their marriage, he having been stationed
in the Mediterranean, expect to leave
England in June for Sydney, where Mrs.
Hole (she was Nan Gosse, of Adelaide)
will make her home.
TASMANIA.
It was a heavily disguised mid-
summer the annual racing carnival en-
countered. The day before the Cup
there was a deluge, and Cup Day was
cold and showery. Town was full, many
country people having come down for
the wool sales and stayed on. Lady
Clark was still in Melbourne, so his Ex.
attended as a grass-widower. Dr. and
Mrs. G. E. Clemons were there from the
north. Mrs. T. W. H. Clarke (Quorn)
had with her her daughter, Mrs. White-
horn. The Nicholls lady was in green;
Mrs. A. G. Ogilvie in a wool ensemble in
navy with red quill in blue hat.
Steeplechase Day saw all the pretty
summer frocks come into their own at
last. Chairman A. J. Miller and the
committee entertained many guests, and
afterwards there were cocktail and
dinner parties at Hadley’s. Among coun-
try folk who entertained at that address
during Race Week were the Tom Rig-
galls (Somercotes, Ross), whose big
sherry party was a gay affair.
One of the highlights of Race Week
was Sybil Lyons’s dance at the Conti-
nental in honor of her cousin, Mrs. Ivan
Whitehorn (she was Ronda' Clarke), who
is staying in the Speck before joining
her husband in Singapore, and her sister,
Mrs. John Clarke, whose husband has
just arrived from Burma. About 230
guests enjoyed the fray.
Mrs. G. A. Adams and Mrs. Colin
Perkins shared honors as guests at
morning-tea at the Queen Mary Club
before their flitting—Mrs. Adams to live
in Sydney, Mrs. Perkins for a trip to
England. Mrs. G. A. Walch was hostess.
The southern section of the Tas. Aero
Club ran a dance at the Cambridge Hall,
when the results of the flying scholar-
ship exams, were announced. One
of the six finalists was Margaret Henry.
Peggy Gurney, before her marriage to
Dr. Hiller, had a long series of pre-wed-
ding parties in her honor. Dora Grant’s
“linen tea” at High Peak was one of
the latest. The same hostess also gave
a dance for Sheila Parsons, just back
from England.
Mrs. F. Mary Parker tea’d about 70
guests at the A.W.N. League’s rooms by
way of send-off to three members—
Rymer Maxwell (the league’s treasurer),
the Ashbolt lady and Mrs. Frankcomb,
who, with Mrs. Riddell Stanley, left in
the Ormonde.
The Governor opened the Loan Exhi-
bition of English pictures at the Art
Gallery, and a big crowd rolled up to
inspect the largest and most valuable
collection yet seen in Hobart. Man)
old friends—known through reproduc-
tion —were recognised with pleasure. The
portraits were perhaps the most interest-
ing feature of the show. A small collec-
tion of sculpture drew a lot of attention.
Author Will Lawson told the Ship-
lovers at their reunion the other night
that he would be staying some time in
Tassie writing the history of shipping in
our island.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Australia 9 s Leading Financial Journal .
February Issue Now on Sale.
AUSTRALIA’S FINANCIAL POLICY.
DANGER OF CAPITALISING FUTURE PROFITS.
WILL SHARE PRICES HOLD?
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
The Long White Cloud
Are Politics Worth It?
“K.D.”: Alienating women voters is
bad politics, and Maoriland has an in-
creasing number of country husbands
who are beginning to wish Prime Min-
ister Savage could shoulder his share of
tea-table tongue-bashing resulting from
some effects of his policy measures.
Educated Maoriland women, in bulk,
agree with the ideals behind Labor Gov-
ernment legislation planned to better the
lot of the people. But they do their
shopping individually—and they dislike
rising prices. Country women, buying
once a week instead of running across
the street every day, notice increases
more quickly.
District dances in most of rural Maori-
land are regular social gatherings of
ancient standing; but some halls have
been without flesh-and-blood musicians
since early last winter, when, in conform-
ity with Labor policy, the Arbitration
Court entered a better-pay schedule for
orchestra players. There aren’t many
entertainments in the country, and the
women miss these dances.
Then came the Christmas-New Year
farm-labor shortage (B. 20/1/’37), which
still shows little improvement. It robbed
many farmers’ wives and daughters of
the holidays they had postponed during
depression years.
Their bachelor Prime Minister could
banish this growing resentment by one
adroit move, for even in the country
women are practical in an unreasonable
way —and their husbands have some
sympathies. Mr. Savage would save
Labor a number of rural seats if he pro-
duced a Mrs. Savage for the Coronation
trip. Australia’s Mr. Lyons is still a
hit with women’s meetings—and there’s
time enough yet before M.L. Labor goes
to the country for judgment!
“Xo” : Talking of Maoriland’s housing
scheme, Prime Minister Savage says his
men have already made cheaper homes
available to the people by forcing down
the general market price of sites. Land
has been offered the Housing Ministry
so cheap that “people trying to drive
harsh bargains” have been kicked off their
original quotes. But Mr. Savage’s com-
ment that the “capacity of the depart-
ment to negotiate land purchases is only
equalled by its capacity to enter into
reasonable agreements for the supply ol
other basic materials” is perturbing tim-
ber and allied building trades. So much
depends on that airy “reasonable.”
* * * *
“Waitot”: Fishiftg rights conferred on
the Maori race by the Treaty of Wal-
tangi (B. 3/2/’37) were mentioned in a
1918 Temuka case when some natives,
charged with breaches of Fisheries
Act regulations, claimed special privileges
under the treaty. However, in final court
proceedings the plea was not pressed.
Incidentally, while the treaty is alleged to
entitle natives to take fish at will, it
could never apply to fish imported or
acclimatised since Waitangi. The white-
bait mentioned by “ Hutiwai ” are in-
digenous, but, while many tribal elders
still sneer at Fisheries Act restrictions,
they restrain out-of-season netting as
much as possible. The reason is not so
much an acknowledgment of the law as
a desire that there will still be some
whitebait for their children to catch and
enjoy.
“Cluny”: Gorse was one of the first
four Maoriland weed pests the Cawthron
Institute determined in 1927 to bring
under insect control. The native long-
horned beetle certainly kills gorse-bushes
from the top (B. 3/2/’37), but Cawthron
entomologists aim at checking germina-
tion ; the gorse-seed weevil, now destroy-
ing a high percentage of seeds in Maori-
land gorse country, was found to be the
ideal bug for the job. Because gorse
is a botanical relation to plants of eco-
nomic value, the weevil was not released
until it proved in quarantine to dislike
the gorse-plant’s relatives. The Chilean
sawfly fills the bidi-bidi bill, while the
seedfly and the cinnabar moth specialise
on a ragwort diet. Blackberry is prov-
ing the toughest of the foursome ; an
insect that will control this weed and
still abstain from another set of plant
relatives has yet to be tabbed.
>y. * * #
“Kiwit”: Earthquake research in
Maoriland (B. 3/2/’37) shows that
tremors have occurred more frequently
“Oh, Captain , what time do We land ?”
in March and September than in other
months. From 15 to 30 per cent, of
those on record have shaken the central
part of the North Island and Nelson, and
experts say the Hawke’s Bay and Wel-
lington provinces and the South Island
from Kaikoura northwards register more
severe tremors than other parts of the
country. These minor shocks are re-
garded quite happily; the scientists re-
gard them as safety valves for under-
ground stresses. Hawke’s Bay’s earthy
foundations are still settling into place
after the 1931 ’quake, and on the sixth
anniversary (February 3) Hastings regis-
tered a couple more minor jolts.
* * * *
“Mak”: The Savage Government is
indulging some curious whims. Flock
House passes under Agriculture Depart-
ment control' this month and is to pro-
vide farm-training for medically-fit boys
of good character. The 60 successful
applicants will be trained and maintained
free of charge at first glance, a good
scheme. But Maoriland is already
maintaining several agricultural high
schools and a couple of agricultural
“universities,” as well as a number of
high schools, like New Plymouth, which
specialise in excellent agricultural courses.
For local free-place students these are
costless; for boys from other centres
board is the only expense. The Labor
Government would achieve the end it
aims at through a new Flock House by
paying high-school board for boys unable
to foot that expense.
* * * *
“Tokaanu”; Traces of the early whal-
ing fleets may be found near Cape Run-
away on Maoriland’s East Coast. There
in native whares strings of old Mexican
silver dollars, with holes in the centres,
hang from ceilings. When they recruited
native labor to assist in boiling-down
work, the Americans used to pay in
Mexican currency because the Maoris
found the pierced coins easy to keep.
They had nowhere to spend the money
in 1850, so it has just been kept all these
years.
:p * *
“Ripiro”: What gave “Xo” the idea
(B. 6/l/’37) that Maoriland’s export
trade in flax fibre began in 1864? Dressed
flax shares with kauri spars and human
heads (smoke-dried) the distinction of
having been shipped from its shores
long before the British flag flew or the
Queen’s writ ran. When the tribes had
to have, guns, powder and ball or be
rubbed out by the next-door neighbor,
flax was one of the leading articles of
barter with shipmasters who traded out
of Sydney, and an elderly Maori gave me
a hank of fibre produced by ancestral
methods. It was as soft, fine and lustrous
as silk, resembling the commercial article
of to-day as much as georgette resembles
a jute sack.
* * * *
“A.O’H.”: The loss of the Rangi in
Hauraki Gulf with four lives recalls a
bit of war-time history. When Von
Luckner and party got away from
Motuitu Island in a launch the scows
Moa and Rangi were in the vicinity. Von
Luckner seized the Moa and made her
crew prisoners of war. The Rangi es-
caped to Auckland and gave, the authori-
ties the information which led to the
early recapture of the Germans, this time
at the Kermadecs.
* * * *
“John Dory”: In Maoriland, as in
Australia, strong effort is being made to
work up excitement about the possibili-
ties of tuna fishing. A co. is offering
cash prizes for yachtsmen and others
bringing in any of the several species of
the creature. It is not an attempt to
widen the attractions of sea-angling and
bring millionaires across the world to
fish ; a cold commercial proposition is
represented as possible. It may be all
right, but a few years ago Maorilanders
were told that the swordfish heartlessly
dumped after being weighed and photo-
graphed alongside their triumphant cap-
tors were highly esteemed articles of
food in Europe and America. When
Zane Grey brought the first recorded
broadbill captured at the Bay of Islands
into Russell one of the boarding-houses
got a lump and served grilled swordfish
steaks at breakfast next morning. Every-
one tried them, and the general verdict
was that they had about as much flavor
as wet flannel.


MODERN SETS
NEED MODERN POWER
IMPEX
OXYGENATED
DRY BATTERIES
i
4m
I
Oxygen Reserve
gives these Bat-
teries extra life,
and tits them for
the exacting re-
quirements o f
modern receivers.
Dealers, write jor
proposition.
IMPEX, LTI).,
Abbotsford, Vic.;
and 181 Clarence
Street, Sydney.
ŵ
Radio Constructors ,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Owing to an increase in the price of this
magazine, subscriptions are now 16/6 per
year in Australia, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy !
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. v «™bh>
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/®- Val '“;
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6, 224, 4/6.
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Gnp
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAL, ARCADE. SYDNEY.
ft A DIOKES
VI BRAT OR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to lnstal
marvellously economical— loo /o satisfactory S
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY bat.e .
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, jor free illustrated
literature ROW.
We are the Australian Representatives for
RAYMART
CERAMIC MICRO-VARIABLES
The best midget condenser available, at an)
price. The construction will %
“HAMS.” All
metal parts are
brass, and a
large surface
bearing with
special short-
circuited ball
thrust race
"Vf means long noise-
f free life. The
insulation is RMX, a
ceramic which is
superior to isolantite.
These condensers can
be ganged.
'RttX'
WWW
3/9
VCISX — ,
VC4OX —40mmf J,
VCIOOX —lOOmmf
NCI5 —lammf., double spaced ” '
T 40 —lOnunf., double spaced ‘
PRICE’S RADIO SERVICE,
D. G. Mclntyre,
5 aud 6 AN GEL PLACE, SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS
SUNDRY BROADCASTS.
In the past six months there have
been some staggering broadcasts ; none
more so than that of Hitler about a
week back. Perfectly heard in Sydney
in direct short-wave transmission
through the Berlin station DJA, Hitler’s
speech lasted for three hours, from 10
p.m. to 1 a.m. Sydney time. For that
long stretch Hitler spoke;, continuously,
with scarcely even a pause, except when
tremendous applause broke in on him.
Those who heard : t should no longer
have any doubts concerning Hitler’s re-
putation as a spellbinder. His eloquence
is amazing. Words pour from him in a
ceaseless flood. An inspired speaker if
ever there was one, it is no wonder he
has the German people in his hand. One
with his terrific eloquence would thrill
the mass of any people.
In Germany, evidently, people listened
by royal command. Those who were
abroad at the time had the speech
blared af them from loudspeakers on
every street corner. When Hitler had
done Goering came on and gave listeners
about another hour’s talk for their
money. Then, by way of supporting
chorus, prolonged outbursts of “Heils!”
and after that massed singing of
“Deutschland Über Alles” and the
“Horst Wessel” song. The staggering
broadcast still went on, pretty well
throughout the night, with repetition of
Hitler’s speech in English translation and
in practically every other important lan-
guage. To make a certainty of nobody
missing it the entire business was again
put over per recorded broadcast on the
following night! As an example of the
propaganda power of radio there has
scarcely ever been anything to equal it.
Last week, of course, more Tests, with
ball-for-bawlers becoming even more
careless, though what they’re broadcast-
ing makes them interesting enough.
Somebody really ought to tell them that
the job might be. done much more effec-
tively with just about half as many
words. With their continuous gas they
lose the most important of all dramatic
ingredients—suspense. Each ball sent
down competently dealt with, then a
slight pause before the next, and this
cricket broadcasting could be as dramatic
as the briskest drama on the air. In
another way, too, the ball-for-bawlers
miss through their continuous talk —they
are frequently gassing away when a
wicket falls, or a chance, is missed, or a
fine hit made. Then their efforts to do
what they should have been ready to
do at the time make very tame hearing.
Another tendency is to give a running
commentary of the play, instead of the
much better thing—a direct objective
description. Apart from the fact that
this is the. much more effective method,
there is the increasingly painful fact that
some aftermath commentators are just
about the very worst broadcasters any-
where on the air.
For bright light entertainment, uncom-
monly well put over, a comedy from
(
Melbourne, “The Bishop’s Dream,” as
good as anything heard for months,
Ninety per cent, of its success might be
put down to idea. This was to have a
bishop—English variety—"ive out in an
anti-gambling address thatheTbd a
dream about two hZ.T. L t J n .
but woke nn h P erby>
Given an idea like wh >ch won
hp „ hlp m fu bke f , 1 anyone should
the Possible devplonm o in^ b e -fh°m edy 0t
sfarHnl th P P 1 ’ ? the P ress
Up„_ nn pre i SU lif- Brought to
cartloads of i him dream / n ’
forth ‘ U n d te l egra c ms anc i ? 0
t™ 'thp r,.?h^r e h l f S ? rt l £° S r b u!“
pst of , -fvf St i* Ck ° the ,gh u
of mvphiu Uh - a b r°u r0 u US to “ cb
nn a Y hh hv B th m havmg f the blsh - P Llffed
A P "nprformp? e -f UnaCCUSton i ed pubbcity -
warrant thl d hrLdp S /°° d eno , ugh to
marking /Ac ?firslratAP pe ? ? °
the Mondav pvp inrr i f P ' Ca dem 101
Melbmirne C,in 8 nCXt
Melbourne Cup.
“I simply LOVE your new radio set!”
“So does the feller We bought it from — he's always tryin to take it back”
All Round the Dial.
“W.R.0.”: A Queensland country
station recently broadcast the following
attractive advertisement:
Birds of Paradise are to be found in all
their glory in the jungles of New Guinea,
but beds which send you straight to
Paradise in perfect slumber are manufac-
tured at ’s.
Besides being a cabinet-maker is
the local undertaker.
* * * *
“Macann”: What is the most remark-
able message —accidental ones barred —
ever put over the air in Australia? A
8.8. C. publicity sheet records as one of
Britain’s oddest an appeal made after
a big sports meeting in the North of
England for the return of some 4000
hired cushions which patrons had
absent-mindedly taken home with them.
Another good one was put over the
8.8. C more senses than one —when
Lauder wound up a programme by in-
forming his wife of the time of his de-
parture from London and when he’d
arrive at Dunoon. “That,” he con-
cluded, “will save me the price of a wire,
ye ken!” Another odd 8.8. C. effort was
a message hoping that a party that storm
had marooned on an island were listen-
ing-in, and that “the seas would soon
subside.” One other, sent out when the
Spanish disturbance started, advised Brit-
ish subjects to leave Spain as soon as
possible, said to be the first broadcast of
the kind ever sent out.
* . * . * . * a
Slz : Austraha 1S hke }y to bea V a
new opera while the Itaban c u ondu T cl ° r
Baron Patti is here on tour for the A.B C.
Tbe Baron admitted to having it in his
swag when he stepped ashore at Fre-
mantle last week—or rather his fiancee,
Austraiian soprano Silvia Bernita, who is
booked to sing on the same circuit, ad-
mitted it for him, since so far the con-
ductor speaks no English. The opera,
Bearing the interesting title “Ave Maria,
had its first Performance only a few
montbs ago at La Scala, Milan. It was
also admitted that the conductor and
singer are likely to marry in Sydney,
which is the Bernita’s home, city, her real
name being Joan Allen. She is a cousin
of En B llsh Test team Allen.
*„ * * *
/ M,C I Probab,y U ~w as a ®P ort,n S
gesture when no opposition station, as
far as I know, came on to the air with
a Lauder recorded programme, while the
genial Scot was doing his hour for the
A.B.C. But evidently such rules of war-
fare aren’t always going to apply ; the
A. is shortly importing Lotte Leh-
mann, Essie Ackland and others, and B
stations are already in the field advertis-
ing that they will put on these artists,
as, of course, they will —per can. If
carefully chosen, there’s no reason why
the records shouldn’t make entertainment
every bit as good over the air as the
direct broadcasts of the artistsi Improv-
ing every day, radio is already at the
stage where it takes an expert to swear
whether many a broadcast item is re-
corded or not.
❖ * *
“D.8.K.”: A second report has been
received from South Africa by the
B. of successful reception of the
ultra-short-wave sound from Alexandra
Palace television station. London tele-
vision, both sound and sight, is being
received regularly in the North of Eng-
land and Ireland. It seems probable that
television will eventually be to present-
day broadcasting what the talkies are to
the old silent movies. One who has
seen it reports that even now, “after you
have seen a television demonstration and
go back to listen to plain radio, you feel
there’s something missing.”
“Lou : Sydney 2BL’s “early bird*
Watt, pictured here a month or two
back, is evidently going to be an earlier
bird still. From March 1 the station
from which he enlivens the morning will
be on the air at 6.30 instead of 7 a.m.
So will 3AR Melbourne and the national
and associated regional stations in other
States.
* * * *
“Querex” : An interesting feature from
Daventry heard recently in Sydney was
“Scrapbook of 1922,” in which the be-
ginnings of the 8.8. C. were recalled.
Performers included Stanton Jefferies,
Cecil Lewis, Arthur Burrows and other
early-day broadcast artists. Difficulties
of 1922 were recounted, including those
of the opening night of the old SNO
Newcastle-on-Tyne station, when it was
found impossible to get landlines in time
between transmitter and studio. That
was overcome by the artists, who had
never seen a microphone before, doing
their piece in the open air of a stable yard,
where the transmitter was located. It
was typical of the prevailing spirit of
“the broadcast must go through.”
Arthur Burrows, speaking of the old 2LO
station at Marconi House, said that “the
venture was a gamble ; it was not known
how the public would receive broad-
casting, or if they would receive it at
all.” That was broadcasting only a hand-
ful of years ago.
“0.1. C.”: The A.B.C.
has'early in its 1937
importing arrange-
ments run up against
the problem of the
booked artist who later
finds he can’t manage
the trip. The one
who’ll be missing from
this year’s programmes
is Horowitz; “a serious
illness has compelled
him to cancel all ar-
rangements for some
time to come.” In his
stead violinist Bronis-
law Huberman has
been booked ; due here
in June. Like pretty
well all musical top-
liners, Huberman was
an infant prodigy, and was far from
home —birthplace Warsaw —playing in
London at 11. Patti heard him there,
and engaged him on the spot as support-
ing artist for her European tour, since
when he has reached the top rungs of
popularity. His playing a couple of
years ago drew this from Neville Cardus:
There are moments when Huberman per-
suades us he is the most powerful violinist
of them all, the most possessed by the
daemonic. His tone has rare range; it
goes through many gradations, from a
soft sinuousness to which Huberman him-
self seems to be listening, or overhearing
as though in the distance, to a symphonic
bigness and swell, with cavalier attacks
and releases of the bow... .Huberman is
the modern Doktor Faust of the violin —two
souls do dwell within his breast, the surging
romantic and the contemplative.
Evidently the Spofforth-Bradman of the
violin. *


DO YOU KNOW ?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal, quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
ẁ
iMiieii i
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Syd ney
Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
(Advertisement Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
DON B. KNOCK'S
PAGE.
YK2NO Professional or
Amateur U.H.F. Superhet.
This new ultra-short-wave superhet
was designed and built by the writer
mainly with an eye to requirements of
advanced amateur apparatus for the five-
metre band, but with consideration also
for possible commercial development in
the future. Such a receiver would be
ideal, for example, for the sound side
of modern television.
It would have been easy to take valves
designed expressly for ultra-high fre-
quencies and build this superhet to in-
clude them in the signal frequency cir-
cuits, but with the cost of such valves
in mind it was decided to stick to stan-
dard valves. As the circuit diagram
shows, they are a mixture of 6C6’s, 6D6’s,
76’s and an 80. There was some doubt
about the efficiency of a tuned R.F. am-
plifier at 60 megacycles using ordinary
valves, but it was found that the 6D6,
properly applied, is surprisingly useful.
There is nothing lacking in the 6C6
as a detector or oscillator, either, and I.F.
amplification and demodulation, etc., are
straightforward processes.
Circuit Pointers.
It will be seen that there are three
tuned circuits at the signal frequency,
and these are all ganged. This is not
Circuit diagram of the professional or amateur ultra-high-frequency superhet. All necessary values are indicated.
an easy job to perfect. Tuning simplifi-
cation can be introduced by ganging the
R.F. and detector stages and separately
controlling the oscillator. The I.F. am-
plifier is interesting and very effective.
The frequency chosen is around 5000 kc.
This gives a broad enough characteristic
The new
U.H.F. superhet
seen from the controls.
The long shaft controls a
“spade” trimmer in proximity to
the stator of the R.F. condenser gang.
to take in the more stable modulated
oscillator, and provides ample selectivity.
To avoid possible regeneration and
self-oscillation, primaries and secondaries
are separately “canned” and link-coupled.
Standard 465 kc. I.F.Ts. were secured and
rebuilt. A coil was wound on a lin.
former, having 35 turns of 9-38 Litz. At
the “cold” end of the coil two turns of
push-back flex are wound for the link.
The 35-turn coil is tuned by orie of the
35mmfd. mica compression trimmers in
the isolantite block of the transformer.
(Note that wherever insulation is em-
ployed in this receiver, it is of isolantite
or ceramic.) A beat frequency oscillator
is provided for C.W., and this has a coil
similar to the I.Fs., but tapped about one-
third of the way up for electron coupling
of this oscillator. Coupling to the second
detector is by means of a very small
capacity, consisting of two insulated wires
twisted together for about half an inch ;
this should be the only coupling. The
8.F.0. should be otherwise completely
screened off.
The most difficult part in the construc-
tion and lining up of the receiver is
concerned with the tuned circuits. Every-
thing must be as low-loss as possible.
The variable condensers are 15mmfd.
Raymart type, ganged with flexible
couplings, and the coils for five metres
are self-supporting. The mountings used
for these coils were a well-made English
job designed for ultra-shorts. These
mountings consist of two ceramic bars
carrying six side contacts, the whole
arranged on two steel angle brackets.
The plug-in coil former is on a ceramic
base, with corresponding contacts, and
ribbed former l£in. diameter. Four turns
of 14 copper were first tried for the coils,
and the circuits tracked up fairly well
with a little trouble.
A rough
check was taken
against a five-
metre t r a n s-
mitter, and the
circuits were
arranged with
the intention of
putting this
57mc. signal at
mid-scale. After
several hours of
calling and no
answers, sus-
picions were
aroused, and the
frequency was found to be
around seven metres. The
signal used for calibration had
been a powerful odd harmonic.
The ceramic-ribbed formers
were removed and conven-
tional smaller-diameter coils
made. Still, the circuits would
not quite, go to five metres.
Eventually it was discovered
that the considerable capacity
to earth through the metal
brackets on the mountings was
loading the circuits. The
brackets were removed and the
mountings fitted on insulating
pillars about \\ inches above
chassis, and everything was
normal.
Coil Data.
Range
in R.
Me. Aerial. F. Detector. Oscillator.
64-48 lj 04 6* tap U-3J i>4 tap 2}
48-30 2i 104 94 tap IJ-4 j 74 tap 3:1
30-27 2$ 144 134 tap lj-6f 104 tap 4}
Coils are of 14 enamelled'
copper wound on a fin. rod
and stretched to occupy about
If in. length. This chart was
worked out for these valves
and capacities by “W6CLH”
in “Radio,” and is a good
guide.
The chokes, RFCI and
RFC 2, are small multi-section
honeycombs and RFC 3 an
ordinary B.C. type slot-wound
choke. The power supply is
quite conventional, except for
the separate heater windings indicated.
The 8.F.0. has its own heater winding
to avoid introduction of hum on a signal
where the oscillator may be incompletely
screened.
Apart from the tracking of the signal
frequency circuits, which calls for a
great deal of care, and the assistance of
a modulated oscillator, the rest of the
receiver is straightforward. No trouble
will be found in lining up the 5000 kc.
I.F. amplifier, which gives sufficient gain.
R.F. coils are tracked by bending and
spacing turns as required.
In use the receiver has proved ex-
tremely efficient. Stations using modern
five-metre transmitters can be listened
to with all the ease of an 80-metre
transmission, minus the aggravating hiss
of a super-regenerator. Tuning is quite
easy, and the only refinement which
would be considered a material advan-
tage would be a noise suppressor for
motor-car ignition interference. A super-
het of this nature is much more sensi-
tive than a super-regenerator; conse-
quently the noise from the ignition of
passing cars can be annoying.
The tuned circuits and layout of the
U.H.F. superhet.
As the receiver stands it is designed for
headphone work. Another audio valve
would be necessary loud-speaker
operation. The regeneration on the R.F.
stage is important; the receiver is not
the same if this feature is omitted.
Alternatively, regeneration could be
applied to the first detector.
D.B.K.
Adjusting the Bruce
56mc. Aerial.
This bi-directional array (described B.
6/1 /’37) is not the kind of thing to erect
and trust to luck, especially on ultra-
high frequencies. If properly adjusted it
will give excellent results, but if insuffi-
cient thought is given to accurate, reson-
ance, both for transmission and recep-
tion, it will be no better than any other
“five-minute” aerial. Some doubt
appears to exist as to the method of ad-
justment to the transmitter. The stub
line, which is closed at the bottom, does
{Continued on page 50.)


LYSAGHITS
A
fa
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
TV
- I
'jp> || jy r .....
v- * .'fii '
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPEC
F Y "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
The Universal Tally.
“Bungaree”: Another effort is being
made, to introduce the universal shear-
ing tally, and a plebiscite of shearers is
proposed. The reasons advanced for its
adoption are that the present system is
conducive to the sweating of boy labor
and engenders hostility between em-
ployer and employee.
The basis of the universal tally is that
a competent shearer should shear an
average of 100 sheep per day. Under the
proposed system, before each day’s work
commenced the shearers’ rep. (who
should be the fastest shearer of the team)
and the boss of the board would go into
conference to decide the day’s tally,
which varies according to the class of
sheep. Big, rough wethers would de-
crease the tally, and good lambs or
rosellas would bump it up. The pace
would be set by the rep. and no shearer
would attempt to pass him.
The fastest men are not the roughest
shearers —rather the reverse. Most of
the bad shearing and cutting of sheep
is done by the snagger, whose safe limit
is 80-90, and who is trying to run a
faster or make a tally at all
costs. Such men can never become fast
or good shearers because of their bad
style. With their short jabs, most of
them finishing in the air and seldom
keeping on the skin, they work twice
as hard as the man who is deucing them.
They have to shear a sheep twice to
get it past the boss of the board.
The universal tally will not make such
men better shearers, and its effect on the
good fast shearer will be to drive, him
out of the game, to the detriment of the
industry. If a man accustomed to shear
200 sheep a day is restricted to a tally
of 100 he will not' slacken his pace by
half. A steam engine, may be successfully
worked at a pressure of 251 b. instead of
the usual 501 b., but the driver does not
fill the firebox and tie down the governor
valve in doing it.
To my mind, introduction of the uni-
versal tally would more than double the
cost of shearing. The shearer would
expect higher rates as compensation for
being held back. A two-week shed
under present conditions would run. for
three weeks or more, and extra wages
and keep for shedhands and musterers
would double costs. If feed was scarce,
sheep could not be held in the vicinity
of the shed, or if the weather were
showery delays from wet sheep would
be more numerous. In the southern
States the shearing season would have
to he extended or twice the . present
number of shearers made available. The
system would have to be enforced by a
horde of inspectors, and would not only
be open to collusion and shady practice,
but would cause widespread dissension.
Improving Fat Sheep.
“San Luis Rey”: I can’t agree with
those who say the pastoral industry is
nearing saturation point, - especially as
regards sheep. ' I bought a property in
Central Queensland “desert” country 10
years ago, and have increased its safe
carrying capacity from 1500 to 3000
sheep, and it is still only half improved.
There is a belt of forest country be-
tween the 20- and 30-inch rainbelts in
Central and North Queensland capable
of running 10 sheep for every one it
carries now. True, one has to drench
two or three times a year, and very ex-
tensive improvements have to be put on ;
but the work pays. Also, there are parts
of the Territory that will grow sheep,
and the Kimberleys are already running
sheep in parts.
A large part of Australia hasn't been
scratched yet. If all our sheep country
“Care to join me and Man; at lunch, mister? Were havin' rabbit
en casserole!”
were improved as well as that of N. S.
Wales and Victoria our sheep numbers
could be raised to 200,000,000.
Noogoora Costs.
“J. Want”: Dr. A. G. Currie, who re-
cently investigated weed control for the
C.S. and 1.R., places Noogoora burr as
the most important of sheep-area weeds
which need special attention. Apart
from the amount spent on eradication —
he cites one property on which the cost
was £2OOO in a single year—he estimates
the. loss, to the wool industry from burr
at £50,000 p.a.
Solution seems difficult to find; but
just now is a favorable time for exter-
mination measures to be undertaken--
while wool prices are high and promis-
ing enough to warrant the outlay. The
same applies with a lot of other weeds
and pests which hit the pocket hardest
in depression times when it is hard to
find ready money to deal with them.
Out-of-season Lambs.
“Albarmount”: Producing three crops
of lambs in two years a flock of four-
year-old Romney Marsh-merino ewes re-
turned B. J. Stocks, of Harden (N.S.W.),
455. per head a year. In this calculation
wool was valued at 10s. per fleece and
lambs at 20s. per head. The experiment
was carried out to test the possibility of
raising suitable out-of-season export
lambs. Southdown sires were used. A
summary of the results is as follows:
Price
(Home-
Mated. Drop. Sold. bush).
(2nd) Aug., 35 .. 122 Apr., ’36 23/-
(3rd) Apr.-May,’36 110 Jan., ’37 20/6
After producing 340 lambs in two years,
this flock of 125 matrons finished in ex-
cellent condition, but on account of age
are now being topped off for market.
Throughout the trials the sheep were
run on the highly-improved pastures at
Linden Hills, and oaten chaff in self-
feeders was always available. Only
under such favorable conditions would
raising out-of-season export lambs be
successful.
The second crop, which were dropped
in January, ’35, were shipped direct to
Smithfield and exhibited in the grower’s
name. • These realised 7-|d. per pound,
beating the choicest Maoriland product
by id.
Losses in Dipping.
“Corriedale”: One point in “B-gar’s”
advice on dip poisoning (B. 13/l/’37) de-
mands correction: many sheep do die
after dipping through drinking the arseni-
cal liquid. It isn’t that the sheep are
thirsty ; just that some find difficulty in
keeping their mouths closed when im-
mersed.
The only preventive is gentler treat-
ment of sheep as they enter the dip and
in pushing them under while they are
swimming.
Poisoning due to the arsenic penetrat-
ing the wool-fibre follicles is rare with
standard mixed dips, though there may
be irritation of sheep dipped hot and
sweating.
Calcium Arsenite and Blowfly.
“Wundi”: N. S. Wales Assistant Agri-
cultural Entomologist R. N. McCulloch
is a strong advocate of calcium arsenite
mixture for sheep jetting as an anti-blow-
fly precaution.
Last season’s experiments at Trangie
State farm showed crutchings from sheep
jetted with the mixture to be worth
about lid. per head more than those
from unjetted, which would be enough to
pay for a couple of spring treatments.
It was found that one man could pre-
pare enough concentrate for 640 gallons
in four hours. Including labor, the mix-
ture cost about 7s. 6d. per 100 gallons.
Sheep on the farm were jetted three times
in the spring to carry them over to
February crutching.
The department will give advice to
graziers interested in the treatment.
Speciality Superfines.
“C.V.S.”: Speciality superfine weft
wools (B. 13/1 /’37) do bring Is. per
pound more than mediums and strongs.
At the Launceston sales on Jan. 20 the
well-known L over ROC clip realised up
to 46|d. for five bales, and 69 bales
brought 30d. and over.
While, as has been stated, French de-
rharid has eased for this wool, other com-
petition has come in. Last year, for the
first time, Japan bought all the top lines
at- the Tasmanian sales, and competed
strongly-again this year. U.S.A. is also
a keen competitor.
„ It is really very difficult to determine
whether < superfine or medium wool is
the more profitable. The L over ROC
sheep, I should say, would cut about 61b.
per head, and they are run on light but
not very hilly: country, where the advan-
tage of ''big : framed sheep would be
largely offset by the land’s inability to
turn .them off in prime condition. Also
the medium wools would cut lighter on
this class of land. Probably the super-
fines are as profitable as any on that
country.
- Lambs on the Coast.
“Ghanarii”: There is not the slightest
reason why most developed mixed farms
along the coast should not have their
small fat-lamb flocks turning off a few
head every year for the butchers or ex-
port market.
Of course, in very wet districts sheep-
raising is out of the question, but usually
where it is not too wet for dairying it is
not too wet for sheep-fattening.
February is a good month to start in
most areas. British-breed rams are neces-
sary—the Romney is satisfactory, especi-
ally in the wetter districts. Most suit-
able ewes are crossbred Romney-merino
or Corriedale, but if these cannot be
obtained plain merinos will fill the bill.
Ewes should have about six weeks with
the rams, so that lambing should be
through at the beginning of August, the
lambs marked that month and shearing


® • V
*Jk£em atiumq
Thuc&sfol /5 y&fis
and this is my advice
4 INTERNATIONAL
¥
“Put your money on Internationals . . . whether you
) want a single truck or a fleet, Internationals are the best
investment * . . My reasons? Internationals prove
their quality more the longer you use them. They are
sound to the core. Engine, transmission, frame you
can never put your finger on a part that hasn’t the right
strength for its job and something thrown in for
good measure.
“Take these heavy-duty units 4-tonners, 5-tonners,
and the big six-wheelers - loaded or empty they work
with perfect balance . . . You never need to worry about
fuel wastage in Internationals. They always give you a
fair run for your money.
/ “ ‘Dependable?’ Why, I never met a man who didn’t
want to drive—and keep on driving—an International.
And they always run to schedule - out and back, on
the longest run you can set your watch by them.
“And look at the service Internationals get! sound,
economical, friendly it stands alone.”
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) . 4
BRISBANE • SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
The comprehensive International range includes
the following models:
. Utilities and vans
(113 and 125-in. wheelbases).
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 ail'd 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
4- 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases.
5- 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton
capacities in various wheelbases.
Chassis Prices from £277
(f>lws tax)
Call on us for full information on any truck in the
International line.
MLAJL
c
r
Y
o
N
Y 2159
INTERNATIONAL
I The World's Best Truck Investment
completed in September. Lambs should
be ready for market about December.
There is one unalterable rule—merino
ewes should not be kept on the coast for
more than two seasons.
Bruised Mutton.
“Sheepo”: Many complaints have
been made of late, by carcass butchers
about bruises on dressed sheep, particu-
larly lambs. The bruising usually occurs
when sheep are being trucked, and obser-
vance of a few simple rules would avoid
most of it.
Biting dogs should be muzzled. Sheep
or limbs should not be grasped by the
wool, nor should pointed sticks for
poking them be tolerated.
A rattle —one can easily be made by
threading some lids of tobacco-tins on
a piece of fencing wire—will help to
keep sheep moving up the race. A chaff-
bag is also useful for keeping stubborn
sheep on the move, and another handy
adjunct is a “flapper”—two light pieces
of leather or motor tubing tacked on to
the end of a stick. These will do the job
with no risk of bruising.
One of the chief causes of bruising is
the common practice of train drovers
using long poles to stir up sheep when
“down.” A light iron horn-hook on the
end of the 'pole is the thing to use.
“Johne’s” Hereditary?
“Silky Bag”: Every case of Johne’s
disease Australian authorities have
handled, until the recent one in N. S.
Wales, was in the progeny of an im-
ported Jersey bull which arrived in Vic-
toria 20 years ago. In the recent N. S.
Wales case the bull was another pure
Imported Jersey.
What is so far known indicates that
Johne’s has a hereditary kink in Aus-
tralia, and may never be. very contagious.
Still, it started in the same quiet way in
Europe 40 years ago, so efforts should
be made to stamp it out.
Johnin (an equivalent to tuberculin)
has no wonderful record here, although
widely used abroad. Avian tuberculin
has given more consistent results, used
as a subcutaneous inoculation.
Diagnosis in Johne’s is difficult, but if
no reason can be found for wasting in
cattle the owner should get into touch
with a State vet. In Victoria compen-
sation is now paid for slaughtered
reactors..
Disappearing Horse?
“S.J.”: The horse is not vanishing as
completely as “Bill Ding” (B. 13 /1 / ’37)
suggests. The big users of horses in
town —breweries, flourmills and sugar
interests —prefer Dobbin, not' out of sen-
timent, but because the horse is more
■efficient on short hauls than motors, and
cheaper.
In the country it is distance work that
the horse has been cut out of —probably
all to the good. On farms, the same, story
applies as in the city, where small car-
riers, unable to buy horses at present
prices, fall back on trucks which can be
had on terms. Farmers not able to pay
cash for an eight-horse team take to
tractors in the. same way.
Sufficient indication that the horse is
not altogether vanishing is the fact that
more mares are being mated annually
now than three years ago. I predict a
horse boom, in the near future.
Branding Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Which is the best pig-
branding method? Most farmers these,
days favor body tattoo, though it has its
disadvantages—it is not much use in
identifying live pigs readily in saleyarc^s.
Some use the firebrand with disastrous
results. It needs the greatest care. Two
things to avoid are. having the brand too
big and holding it on too long. Breeders
o Continued on page 44.)


w
THE THRIFTY MAN
Buys Quality
Be sure to obtain your money’s
worth when buying footwear.
The Shoe that lasts the longest is the
cheapest in the end: the longer it
lasts the cheaper it becomes. That
is why when bpying Abbey Shoes you
are sure of getting your money back
over and over again.
A model made in Black Box Calf
47/6, and in rich Cherry Calf 48/6.
Stocked in full and half sizes, with
medium and wide fittings.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“Abbey Boots, Sydney.”
:pf
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT
*J%2 next wove/
wmw. mm
Sfl^te
y .': i j^ifs
- v
u
t^l:
£ ,
®\W*
■
r_\ / 5
<L
On '?J
£
¥*2
zi.
Ifljpiii;
111
Ata/ne
pTallum s
3te CuJu'sAl/ ss-ffyJzcU
Distributors for the House of McCallurrr
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - ■
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantlt
- - - Hobart
4
muter
Women’s
Supplement
‘The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Supplement
for Women containing all the social news and specialised
features concerning the woman and the home. It is the
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia’s best. It not
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
A
CJlombt*
>uDir
■BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS.
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
yTuT^ixlldz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
can generally take it that badly-branded
pigs will be ruled out by export buyers ;
no carcass shows signs of ill-treatment
more than pork.
To avoid damage make sure the pig’s
skin is dry and clean, use a small, very
hot brand and apply gently and quickly.
Sheafed Lucerne Hay.
“Stump Jump”: Provided it can be
cured evenly and dried out well, lucerne
hay bound in sheafs is economical. Cart-
ing, stacking and reloading or breaking
the stack are easy, and there is less loss
of leaf than with loose hay.
The greatest advantage, however, is in
the chaffing. The difficulty of feeding
loose hay along the cutter chute puts
many off chaffing lucerne; the hay is
fed loose in the paddocks and at least
30 p.c. is wasted.
Werribee (Vic.) farmers cut lucerne hay
in sheafs as follows: An ordinary 6ft.
binder has too much draught in a thick
crop, so Ift. to 18in. of the platform is
cut off, making a machine with 4ft. 6in.
or sft. of cut —ideal for three horses to
manage in lucerne. All attachments, in-
cluding lanclwheel fittings, are easily re-
moved ; adjustments to the lengths of
girder, steel sheet and wood backing-
pieces are not difficult, and the conver-
sion costs only from £5 to £7. The knife
and canvas have, of course, to be cut
down to fit the new length, but this is
simple, and no other alteration of the
machine is needed.
When hay is being made from the
sheaves cut by the short-binder, two
points need care. The sheaf must not be
tied tightly, and the stooks should be
long and not more than three sheaves
thick anywhere.
Coastal Fodder Trees.
“Booraby”: Can’t follow “J.W.” when
he mentions Moreton Bay fig as a coastal
fodder tree (B. 13 /1 / ’37). And why
bother about mahoganies when there are
dozens of first-class fodder trees and
shrubs whose tops are not in the clouds
and which are drought-resistant and
stand severe lopping? These serve the
purpose in many paddocks as stored hay,
while the matured trees provide timber
and fuel. The best trees are myall, kur-
rajong, quandong, weeping willow (along
creeks and gullies), bottle-tree (where it
will grow), motherimbong (Acacia cheelii ),
swamp and forest oak. The foliage of
river oak is also good, but the tree is
a skyscraper. A forage tree should be
easy to handle from a ladder.
The best shrubs grow outback, such
as cotton-bush, hop-bush, blue-bush, pin-
bush, emu-bush and cattle-bush, but
they will grow in warm coastal districts
if planted in the driest parts of the pad-
docks. They do well on the poorest
soils and on sandy and stony rises that
are never otherwise worth much as graz-
ing areas. I have not seen mulga on
the coast, but where it can be established
it is a wonderful standby.
Wilga (also called sheep’s-bush and
geljera), a graceful small tree with pen-
dulous branches, grows plentifully near
the Queensland coast, and is relished by
all kinds of stock. Lapunya and bau-
hinia are two other handsome trees. We
put condition into 700 starving bullocks
with the foliage of these near Tambo
(N.Q.). They grew in light scrubby
situations where ‘their roots were in
moisture, and, therefore, should be suit-
able for planting along fences or in
clumps—on coastal farms. The leopard-
tree (a Flindersia), which is strikingly
ornamental, does well from coastal dis-
tricts to the western plains. Stock relish
and fatten on the leaves.
Seed-potato Hints.
“Hortus”: Have a small stud plot to
supply seed for the main crop. Pick out
from the bulk more than enough seed.
If seed has already long sprouts, break
them off, pack the tubers in cases and
store in a dark place to sprout a second
time. ,
When the selected seed is sprouting
well, go over it carefully and cull out
all weak-sprouted seed tubers. In this
way you will probably get rid of those
infected with disease. In any case, the
weak are more liable to disease than the
strong.
bpiead out the selected tubers in a
well-lighted shed to green for a few
weeks before planting. This hardens off
the shoots.
Look over seed when planting, keep-
ing a watch for aphis. In New England
(N.S.W.) this season many crops showed
from 40 to 50 p.c. infection, leaf-roll the
chief trouble. By using a stud plot one
farmer in the same district has reduced
leaf-roll from over 50 p.c. down to 5 p.c.
in four seasons.
Lucerne in Autumn.
Sandy : Now is the time to prepare
land for autumn sowing of lucerne, in
the warm coastal districts.
Work the land to a fine tilth and free
from weeds. If sown with a drill (about
151 b. per acre), mix with super, and
drill with hoses tied outside the hoes.
1 his gives a more even sowing. If
broadcast, harrow in with reversed
harrows and roll. This is important;
rna.ny failures are caused by deep sow-
ing , lucerne needs only a shallow seed
covering. In S. Queensland, April-May
are the best sowing months.
Lucerne should never be grazed right
away. It should be mowed when about
6in. high and left lying on the paddock
—this gives the stand an even start. All
big weeds can be hoed out. When the
growth is short give a good harrowing—
lucerne, likes a loose surface. Super, can
be profitably applied up to 2cwt. per
acre.
Use the Department.
“Salmon Gums”: When for the third
year in succession my W.A. lettuce crop
was a failure this summer, I did what
I should have done in the first place-
consulted the Agricultural Department.
Immediately experts investigated, and
had no difficulty in sheeting the blame
home to eelworm. Now I am faced with
the problem of eradicating a tenacious
disease with which the whole of my
garden is infested, and which, if attacked
in the early stages, could have been
confined to a small area and eliminated.
Not the least problem with which
Agricultural Departments are faced is
that of inducing producers to co-operate
with them. For 10 years my neighbor
wrestled with a beautiful piece of ground
which it was impossible to mulch; then,
acting on advice, he applied a dressing
of gypsum, with astonishing results.
Again, when a river from which settlers
irrigated became impregnated with salt
owing to abnormally high ocean tides,
the only man who saved anything out
of the wreck was one who was advised
to grow beetroot.
Some never once consult the depart-
ment. It should be the man on the
land’s first thought when in trouble or
doubt.
Hints for the Farm.
“Scot”: If a horse’s skin becomes
covered with hard lumps, like hives in
human beings, the blood should be
cleansed by dosing with about an ounce
of Epsom salts in the food night and
morning for a week. Drinking cold
water when hot from work will some-
times cause the lumps.
“Sandy”: Ironbark makes the best
slide runners. Split them out of a solid
tree and trim down to 4in. wide and 12in.
high. Cut the holes for the cross pieces
well up to give good clearance. Old
dray tyres make first-class shoes, and
can easily be shaped.
“A.Y.”: Chou-moellier is a handy feed
for cows and pigs. Sow in February in
drills wide enough to be scuffled. Thin
out to 18in. apart. A pound of seed
will plant an acre; a hundredweight
dressing of super, will help. C.-m. does
not taint milkj and the marrow stem is
excellent for pigs.
“Stump Jump”: As substitute for a
lost petrol- or kero.-tank cap try an old
tennis ball with a piece sliced cleanly
off to make a hole just big enough for
the ball to grip the outer surface of the
tank-pipe tightly.
“Buggins”: Those whitewash experts
who advocate the liberal addition of salt
to their mixture need to study the
locality where the wash is to be applied.
I used a standard American formula for
the interior of a seaside cottage. The
salt sea air acting on the salt in the
whitewash brings about a constant “frit-
.ting,” so that whenever the wind blows
we have an interior stage snowstorm.
On the other hand salt was an excellent
addition in bone-dry Kalgoorlie, where
thousands of tolerable homes were built
with whitewashed canvas.


1 V # i
mt HOUR ENAMEL
GLAZALL ENAMEL
DRIES IN FOUR HOURS
Made in 16 beautiful colors
*l-
- you require a Superior finish on the
article you wish to renovate do not
hesitate to use this Quick-drying,
Brilliant and Durable Enamel for
Furniture, Woodwork and
Metalwork, Indoor or
Outdoor. Prices:
Pints, 1/3
Quarts, 8/9
18/-
PER GALLON
a
sur
non-poisonousJ
DURALASTIC
/ ZINC PAINT
NON-POISONOUS made in 26 durable colors .
This household paint is manufactured by modern
methods, finely ground in powerful mills to
perfect smoothness, giving maximum cover-
ing power and an evenness of color —
flowing freely from the brush it is a
pleasure to work with.
Being made with Genuine Linseed
Oil and specially-tested pig-
ments on a zinc base, a
durable, bright sur-
face is ensured.
NO BETTER PAINT
IS MADE AT
THIS PRICE
6d.
per 2oz. Tin.
fflarbritfioductf
BRILLIANT SILVER ENAMEL
For
all classes
of work, both
indoor and out, you
cannot obtain a finer
silver-like finish than
HARBUTT’S SILVERAY
Transforms old rusty ironwork
and makes it look like new.
Country Sales
Freight Extra.
Sold by All Paint Dealers.
Manufactured by
Queensland Agents:
Crouch, Connah and Gordon Pty., Ltd., Brisbane.
Harbutt
Paint
Pty., Ltd.
Godfrey and O’Riordan Sts.,
Alexandria,
Sydney.
Western Australia:
J. H. Wilberforce and Co., Perth.


V hort Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School o£ Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F, E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A, Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also .representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
I Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be cipnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Grazier’s daughter (27) desires position com-
panion-help with refined, homely people in
Sydney suburb. —4506.
Belgian schoolmaster, writing a history of
the Messines district, including the Great War
and part played by Australians, would like to
hear from members of the A.I.F. who could
assist him in any way with anecdotes or photo-
graphs. (To Joseph Dondeyne, Chef d’Ecole,
Messines, Belgium.)
Position as valet, attendant or companion to
gentleman travelling to South Africa or Eng-
land ; have been five times through South
Africa. —4524.
To buy modern Greek grammar; also chil-
dren’s books in modern Greek, new or second-
hand.—4s2B.
To buy book Criminals I Have Met and De-
fended, by R. D. Meagher.—44B7.
Information Sought.
(1) Did cricket-critic Neville Cardus ever play
Test cricket? (2) What were (a) Arthur
Mailey’s bowling figures, (b) Jack Worrall’s bat-
ting figures in Tests? —4551.
(1) No. (2) Mailey’s Test figures are 784.2
overs, 5197 balls, 91 maidens, 2935 runs, 86
wickets, average 34.12; Worrall played in 11
matches, 22 innings, 76 highest score, 3 not
outs, 478 runs, average 25.15.
H*
(1) How was Bradman dismissed in his two
big innings in England in 1934 ? (2) Could you
give the names of the present English team in
Australia who played in Tests in 1934, and
those who didn’t ? (3) Ages of Hammond,
Voce and Leyland? —4s6s.
(1) Bradman was bowled by Bowes for 304
in the fourth Test at Leeds; caught Ames,
bowled Bowes, for 244 in the fifth Test at
Kennington Oval. (2) Allen, Leyland, Ham-
mond, Ames, Wyatt, Verity and Fames played
in Tests in 1934; Worthington, Barnett, Fagg,
Hardstaff, Robins, Voce, Sims, Fishlock,
Copson and Duckworth didn’t. (3) Hammond,
33 on June 19 last year; Voce, 27 on August
8; Leyland, 36 on July 20.
* * * *
(1) Can a player from any cricket club, pro-
vided his averages make him eligible to be
among the foremost, play in a Test? (2) Is
there any class distinction regarding professional
and amateur in Tests in Australia? (3) High-
est innings by Australia and England in Tests ?
—4495.
(1) Yes. Rule 2 for Test matches states that
“a cricketer can be qualified to play in a Test
match either by birth or residence”; but any
player who has once played in a Test match
for any country shall not afterwards be eligible
to play in a Test match against that country
without the consent of its Board of Control.
(2) No. (3) England—636 at Sydney, 1928-29;
627 for 9 wickets (closed) at Manchester, 1934;
589 at Melbourne 1911-12. Australia —729 for
6 wickets (closed) at Lord’s, 1930; 701 at the
Oval, 1934; 695 at the Oval, 1930; 600 at
Melbourne, 1924-25.
* * * *
(1) First recorded prizefight to take place in
Australia? (2) Where and when did Logan beat
Young Bailey? —4s76.
(1) That in which John Berringer defeated
Charles Lifton on January 7, 1814, at the
Sydney racecourse (now known as Hyde Park).
The contestants had to run half a mile before
fighting. At the end of 56 rounds (occupying
two hours) Berringer was declared the winner.
(2) At Parramatta, May 28, 1827.
* * * *
(1) What is the purpose for which the forth-
coming Federal referendums are being held ?
(2) Is voting compulsory ? (3) 1 am 22; am I
liable to prosecution for not having my name
on the roll? If so, what is the penalty? (4)
Where and how can I get my name on the roll ?
—4496.
(1) To submit to electors proposed laws to
alter the Constitution with respect to (a) Air
Navigation and Aircraft and ( b ) Marketing. (2)
Yes. (3) Yes, provided you are otherwise en-
titled to enrolment; but this will be avoided
if your claim is received by the Electoral Regis-
trar before the institution of proceedings against
you. Failure to comply with the law in regard
to enrolment or transfer of enrolment or change
of address renders the person concerned liable
to a penalty not exceeding £2. (4) Forms of
claim and envelopes bearing full particulars re-
lating to enrolment are obtainable at all elec-
toral offices and post offices. Your claim for
enrolment should be sent to the Electoral Regis-
trar for the subdivision in which you live.
* * * *
Quantity and value of sandalwood exported
from Australia to various countries during 1935-
36 ?— 4556.
Ceylon, 227 cwt., valued at £351; Hong Kong,
24,171 cwt., £32,842; India, 1510 cwt., £2339;
British Malaya, 1978 cwt., £2997; China,
18,638 cwt., £27,513; other countries, 519 cwt.,
£BO3.
* * « *
Expenditure incurred by N.S.W. Royal Com-
mission which inquired into allegations against
police in connection with prosecutions for start-
ing-price and street betting, from appointment
of commission to June 30, 1936 ? —4562.
Barristers’ fees, £3862 75.; solicitors’ costs,
£700; witnesses’ expenses, £152 3s. 7d.; report-
ing, typing and transcription of evidence, £l7O
10s.; wages of attendant and messenger, £4B
Bs. 9d.; sundries, £8 os. lOd.; total, £4941
10s. 2d.
* * * *
Can Maoris and Maori half-castes vote at
Parliamentary elections in New Zealand? —
4560.
Maoris are qualified to vote only at elections
of the four members representing the Maori
race. A Maori half-caste may register on the
general roll, but may not then vote at an elec-
tion of Maori members.
* * # *
Reason for the foundation of the Common-
wealth Solar Observatory at Canberra .''—4s6B.
Established for the study of solar phenomena,
allied stellar and spectroscopic research, and in-
vestigation of associated terrestrial phenomena.
It is so situated to complete a chain of astro-
physical observatories round the globe, sepa-
rated by 90 degrees of longitude.
* * # *
(1) Progress made with the Australian
memorial at Villers-Bretonneux? (2) Prob-
able date of unveiling? (3) Is it proposed to
form a party of ex-A.I.F. men to attend the
Unveiling ? —4255.
(1) The site has been fenced and a pine belt
and hornbeam hedge planted on three sides.
Foundations have been completed and con-
struction of the memorial, including carving of
the names of the missing on special stones, is
proceeding. (2) and (3) Completion not ex-
pected before January or February, 1938; date
and form of unveiling ceremony have not yet
been determined.
* * * *
(1) Brief account of the movements of lif
Australian Div. from the time it left Liverpool
camp until the “Landing” ? (2) Any books
dealing in detail ? —4474.
(1) The Ist Division concentrated in King
George’s Sound (Albany) towards the end of
Oct., 1914; put to sea on Nov. 1 escorted by
H.M.S. Minotaur, H.M.A.Ss. Sydney and Mel-
bourne and the Japanese cruiser Ibuki; arrived
in Egypt at the beginning of December; com-
pleted its training at Mena camp, on the desert
below the Pyramids, Dec., 1914 to Mar., 1915,
and in April concentrated at Mudros Harbor
(Lemnos). (2) Vol. I of the Australian Official
History of the War, by Dr. C. E. W. Bean.
* * * *
(1) A brief description of the Trobriand
Islands? (2) What type and of what disposition
are the natives there ? (3) Chief products of
the islands ? —4481.
(1) A group of coral islands —Kiriwina,
Kitava, Vakuta, Kaileuna and others—off the
New Guinea coast, about 30 miles north of the
D’Entrecasteaux group. Some of the islands
rise abruptly from the shore 200 ft. to 300 ft., the
cliffs crowned with large trees. Others are
only just above water. (2) More like Poly-
nesians than Melanesians in appearance and dis-
position ; friendly, hospitable and industrious.
(3) Yams, coconuts and beche-de-mer.
* * * *
(1) How did Tonga become a kingdom? (2)
Place of residence of the royal family ? (3)
Are the Tongans wealthy? (4) What is the
status of the Queen ? (5) Is English spoken in
the royal domain? —4547.
(1) The kingdom was put on an official basis
by Shirley Baker, a missionary, who drafted
a Constitution in 1862. This was amplified
later, but is still the basis of Tonga’s Admini-
stration. It converted a feudal savage chief,
lord over a nation of serfs, to a royalty reign-
ing on modern lines over a freed community.
In 1900 the group was declared a British pro-
tectorate. (2) Nukualofa. (3) Sound financi-
ally. There is usually a considerable annual
surplus. (4) Queen Salote has the status of a
reigning monarch under British protection.
(5) Yes; it is the official language.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrase,
and who was the author: “Promiscuam habere
et vulgarem clementiam non decet; et tarn
ignoscere omnibus crudelitas est quam nulli” ?
—4554.
Written by Seneca, and in English reads:
“It is not right to show promiscuous and
general clemency; and to forgive everyone is as
much cruelty as to forgive no one.”
* * * *
Names of four or five literary societies in
Sydney, with names .and addresses of secretaries
and annual subscriptions? —4s79.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers (W. E.
Fitz Henry, Box 3448 R, G.P.0., Sydney), ss.
p.a.; the Henry Lawson Society (J. Vincent,
37 Young-street, Croydon), ss. p.a.; John
o’ London’s Literary Circle (M. F. Parsons, c/o
Hunt and Hunt, 15 Bligh-street, Sydney), ss.
p.a.; the Sydney Literary Society (Miss Pat-
ricia Baxter, Room 14a, 333 George-street,
Sydney), 2s. entrance, 6d. per week; the
Writers’ League (G. W. R. Southern, Box 153,
Post Office, Haymarket), ss. p.a.
* Sfc * Sfc
Could a dentist and his nurse be affected bv
working on a consumptive patient’s mouth? Is
this complaint catching to others? What pre-
caution should be taken ?-y45 11.
Pulmonary tuberculosis is an infectious dis-
ease, and it is therefore possible for a patient
to give it to other people. The opinion of ex-
perts, however, is that cases of such infection
are very uncommon in adults. It is exceed-
ingly rare for nurses attending consumptives
to contract tuberculosis. It is wise to keep out
of range when the patient coughs. All vessels
into which he spits should be sterilised by
boiling.
* * * *
My youngster goes in for stamp-collecting.
Can you give a few hints as to points that
should be observed when making purchases ?
—4544.
Refuse any but perfect copies, free from
cuts, tears, stains or fingermarks. Unused
stamps should preferably have the original gum
on the back. In the case of used stamps,
select lightly postmarked copies. See that per-
foration teeth are intact, and that margins of
alleged imperforated stamps are sufficiently
wide to make it certain that they are not per-
forated stamps cut down. The print of a
stamp should be well centred, and the color
well preserved; the paper should not be rubbed
or thinned down at the back. Stamp Collect-
ing (Nelson) will be found helpful.
s|e :Je # i'fi
(1) When and where did the dingo come to
Australia? (2) Did the abos. bring him? (3)
Do they run in packs? —44BB.
(1) and (2) As remains of dingoes and ex-
tinct marsupials, diprodotons, etc., have been
found together it is believed that the dingo
migrated from Asia thousands of years ago,
before the arrival of the abos. (3) No, although
they will combine to tackle cattle. As a
general rule Warrigal hunts alone or with his
lifelong mate.
* * * *
Origin and source of ambergris ? How much
do pieces generally weigh when found? —4492.
Occasionally found in the intestine of the
spermaceti whale. If ejected soon after it
forms it is soft and black; if it remains and
accumulates it causes death, the carcass is
broken up and eaten by fish and the compact
brown or grey material, which is much harder
than the black variety, floats and may be
washed ashore. This variety has been found
in pieces weighing up to 2001 b. Mostly, how-
ever, pieces vary from a fraction of an ounce
to something under 101 b.
* * * *
What influence have the Australian forests
on the climate of the country? —4sl2.
Forests, especially in equatorial regions and
during the warmest portions of the year, con-
siderably reduce the mean temperature of the
air. They also reduce the diurnal extremes of
shade temperatures, altering the extent of radi-
ating surface by the evaporation and checking
the movements of air. By decreasing evapora-
tion from the ground they increase humidity.
Vegetation greatly diminishes the rate of flow-
off of rain and the washing away of surface
soil. When a region is protected by trees a
steadier water supply is ensured and the rain-
fall is better conserved. In regions of snowfall
the supply of water to rivers is similarly regu-
lated ; without such protection and the shelter-
ing influence of ravines and gullies watercourses
supplied mainly by melting snow would be sub-
ject to alternate periods of flooding and dry-
ness. This is borne out in the case of such
inland rivers as the Murray, which has never
been known to become dry.
' , !|C * * *
(1) From what birds are Jacobin, Oriental
frill and magpie pigeons evolved? (2) Suitable
feeders for Jacobins? (3) What is a mealy
pigeon ? (4) Coloration for blue rock ? (5)
Illustrated books, covering types other than
homers? (6) Name of breeder of fancy pigeons
in Brisbane? —3726.
(1) These breeds are of ancient standing, and
it is impossible to trace their ancestry; all
varieties of pigeons are believed to have evolved
from the common blue rock. (2) Any long-
faced bird, the homer for preference; the Jaco-
bin itself is useless for this. (3) A creamy bird,
with brown bars on coverlet feathers of wing
and on neck, it has a metallic sheen and the
head is mealy (cream). (4) Blue, carrying a
slight greyish tone, with pronounced metallic
sheen on neck. (5) Pigeons, obtainable from
the “Feathered World,” 9 Arundel-street,
London; cost, less than 2s. ( plus exchange and
postage). The same paper issues a series of
colored postcards illustrative of a wide variety
of pigeons, having the standards and colors of
all birds on the back; cost, a few pence each.
(6) R. M. Morrison, Holmesbrook-street, Bris-
bane.
* * * *
Simple recipe for a cheap fly spray ? —4465.
Oil of eucalyptus 1 drachm, benzine 20z.,
turpentine 2oz, sufficient kerosene to make the
whole up to 16oz. Mix thoroughly together.
Equal parts of benzine and turpentine, with a
small quantity of oil of wintergreen, will give
good results. All are inflammable with naked
lamps.
* * * *
Recipe for curing bacon ? —4482.
Allow lib. salt to every 201 b. bacon, and add
to the salt saltpetre, |lb. salt prunella and
lib. coarse brown sugar (prunella may be
omitted if difficult to procure). Pound the mix-
ture well, and rub into the side of bacon as
soon as possible after being cut up. Daily
remove the brine which forms, and continue to
rub in the mixture for three weeks, turning
every day so that the meat never rests too
long on one side. Drain; dry or smoke; then
hang in a cool place.
* * * *
(1) When was the magneto-generator in-
vented? (2) Particulars of the early machines?
(3) Voltage and current? (4) Was the current
A.C. or D.C.?—4473.
(1) In 1858, by Dr. Siemens. (2) The arma-
ture had a resistance of about 500 ohms, and
consisted of silk-covered wire, four or six mils
diameter, wound on a soft iron core. It was
driven by a crank handle making about five
revolutions for each one of the crank. (3) In
a good form of generator the E.M.F. reached
75 to 80 volts at normal speeds, the current
depending upon the resistance of the circuit.
(4) A.C. of a frequency depending upon the
r.p.s. of the armature.
Brief Answers.
G.F.: Write direct to the various goldmining
cos. operating in New Guinea W.E.G.:
Obtainable from General Register Office, Somer-
set House, London; fee, ss. Id E.H.W.:
(1) Write to the Registrar, General Register
Office, Somerset House, W.C.2, London, giving
him particulars of the information you require.
(2) The Registrar in Divorce, Supreme Court
Buildings, Elizabeth-street, Sydney. (3) and (4)
Yes, with the District Registrar of Births, but
see (6). (5) The mother’s surname. (6) Not
automatically; but after the marriage applica-
tion may be made under the Legitimation Act
(Q) for the legitimation of the child pro-
vided that at the time of birth there was no
legal impediment to the marriage of the parents.
The child would then be registered as the
lawful issue of the parents and be entitled to
all the rights of a child born in wedlock. See
the District Registrar D.C.: Have never
heard of it, and can find no trace in textbooks
on soapmaking J.H.T.: Write Prime Minis-
ter’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T T. 8.:
Write British Color Council, Ltd., 76 Wells-
street, W.l, and British Standards Institution,
28 Victoria-street, S.W.l —both London
H.J.M.: At present, none; but it is not un-
likely that, when the relationship of these glands
to others ( e.g., the pituitary, thyroid) is better
understood, rational treatment will follow
R. 8.: For stamper batteries and mining
machinery, D. Williams, 48 Salisbury-road,
Stanmore, N.S.W. For rock drills and com-
pressors, Sullivan Machinery Co., 58 Margaret-
street, Sydney... .A.H.: “Couldn’t Be Done,”
by Edgar A. Best. That’s all there is of it.
. ...E.H.: Any of the cold-water dyes sold in
packets will do this quite well: follow direc-
tions carefully. Better still is to tan it brown
with the bark used for preserving fishing lines
and nets, procurable from B. M. Corrigan and
Co., 189 Sussex-street, Sydney, at 2d. per pound,
postage extra. Ask for directions when order-
ing A.HJ.: It was erected to commemorate
the pioneers of the district. Jack Moses’s poem
“Nine Miles from Gundagai” furnished the
idea for the statue P.LJ.: Wash in hot
soapy water, and scour off the worst of the
stain with sandsoap. Finish scouring with
Bon Ami H.M.8.: Such speech defect is
usually of long standing and difficult to eradi-
cate. Consult a specialist in phonetics and
voice production A.A.H.: Elliott Bros.,
O’Connell-street, Sydney, manufacture a reliable
article... .J.E.8.: The term “nephritis” is the
general title for a large number of conditions
marked by inflammation of the kidneys. Diag-
nosis could be given only after inspection
A.8.L.: Probably a low-grade inflammation,
due to germs present on the skin and aggra-
vated by chafing. If very inflamed, apply hot
foments of salt and water (one teaspoonful
to the pint), then cover with mercurial ointment
(1 p.c.). Inadvisable to continue milking
H.C.W.: The trouble is known as intermittent
claudication, and is commonly associated with
arterial disorders. Treatment cannot be pre-
scribed without examination 8.G.M.: With
great regret it has to be admitted that in ad-
vanced cases such as yours there is little hope
for the recovery of vision E.S.: (1) At
Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Cairns. (2) Between £lO,OOO and £20,000
P.F.: Condition is urticaria, a so-called allergic
state in which various substances, harmless to
other people, produce constitutional upset and
eruptions on the skin. In young children the
trouble is mostly produced by some article of
diet —the flours are ofte'i to blame. External
treatment is useless until the offending article
is discovered. The Allergic Clinic at Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital will help you C.J.F.:
The Rhodes scholarship is of the value of £4OO
a year for a period of three years. The money
for the scholarships is derived from the fund
established by Cecil Rhodes ; it is administered
by trustees in Great Britain... .R.M.K.: De-
pends on the efficiency of the machine: 25 h.p.
is equivalent to 18.65 kilowatts; therefore,
assuming an efficiency of, say, 80 p.c., 23.3
units would be consumed per hour on full load.
. ...AJ.D.: Write Curator, Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney G.K.: Yes.
The wearing of suitable apparatus or operation
give satisfactory results in children; in adults,
treatment presents greater difficulties. Surgical
interference requires infinite precautions to
avoid infection of the bones, and can be carried
out only by an expert bone-surgeon E.A.S.:
Cannot trace.. . .T.W.: Write Department of
Agriculture, Brisbane, for pamphlet on olive-
growing... .A.F.: N0....T.T.: Agent in Aus-
tralia for Chapman and Hall, Ltd., is E. E.
Bartholomew, 205 Flinders-lane, Melbourne
T.R.: Haydn Taylor swam the English Channel
on August 22, 1935, in 14hr. 50min P.D.:
Constant Lambert, composer and music critic,
is the son of the late George Lambert, Aus-
tralian artist. He studied at the Royal Col-
lege of Music, and composed ballet music for
Diaghileff. His “Rio Grande” won him fame,
and he has written a variety of other composi-
tions... .C.K.: Youlbung means “water
scarce”; Wantabadgery, “fighting-place”; and
Murandah, “mud” —all are N.S.W. abo. place-
names... .S.Y.: (1) The tax was rightly de-
ducted from the wage. (2) Know of no author-
ity for the payment of a board allowance
G.L.F.: Through the N.S.W. Taxation Reduc-
tion Act, 1933, special income tax and wages
tax replaced, from December 1, 1933, those
formerly imposed under the Unemployment-
relief Tax Acts... .E.D.: Not possible to de-
termine the particular fungus disease from the
description. Spraying with Bordeaux powder
(11b. to 15 gallons) would check and probably
kill it. Flowers of sulphur also could be dusted
over the plants regularly. Sprayings or dustings
should be repeated about every 10 days. Gener-
ally speaking, fungus diseases are caused by
over-dampness; good drainage should be pro-
vided (Many others mailed.)


Smoke, stains on MYteeth ?
NEVER!
rr
m
THIS SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE
Vi**
No other leading dentifrice contains the special STAIN-REMOVING] ingredient
that is in Pepsodent. Nor can any other restore the natural ivhiteness and sparkle
to dull, ugly, smoke-stained teeth ... so speedily, effectively and safely.
You smoke, then you have
noticed stains on your teeth,
or ugly yellow smudges.
Pepsodent, the special film-remov-
ing tooth paste, removes that film,
those ugly stains, keeps teeth white
and sparkling. If you use Pepso-
dent, not the faintest smoke stain
will show.
Safest and Most Effective Way
The special ingredient in Pepso-
dent is designed especially for the
removal of film. It is this film that
absorbs the smoke stains. To re-
move the ugly yellow colour, the
film must be removed, and Pepso-
dent will remove it. Your dentist
too, will tell you the advantage of
removing film to avoid tooth decay
and other dental troubles.
In addition, Pepsodent is the softest
. . . therefore the safest, of 15
leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth
powders. Scientific tests have
proved it.
Try Pepsodent today, then you will
know how really white your teeth
are, how smilingly attractive your
mouth can be!
PEPSODENT
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
MORE TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICA
rr
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
akes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Concentrated Cover
The mass of the circulation among the mass of
the population is the cover offered by
The Courier-Mail
The rich Queensland areas of the North Coast, the
South Coast and the Darling Downs, and the Northern
Rivers district of New South Wales all come within a radius
of 100 miles of Brisbane. Within this circle resides a popu-
lation of approximately 700,000, concentrated in some of
the richest farming and pastoral areas in Australia.
This is the mass market covered by The Courier-Mail,
rich in possibilities for the National Advertiser; and- here
are the circulation figures for the various areas:—
Within a radius of 25 miles of Brisbane-;
43,353
Within a radius of 50 miles of Brisbane:
48,905
Within a radius of 100 miles of Brisbane:
60,781
( Average net daily circulation for six months'
period ended September, 1936, 69,837.)
THE COURIER-MAIL, Queensland’s National
Daily, offers the most complete and effective cover
of this rich market.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.J.N.: A string of commonplaces. And
you can’t make an anapaest out of “horizon.”
J.H.C.: No time for “Waiting”....
C.M.R.: 111-rhymed and worse-phrased; also,
the metre is full of jolts and jars. Once more,
we cannot send criticisms by post... .J.8.C.:
Nothing arresting in it... .C.J.T.: Not unpleas-
ing, but falls a bit short... .G.F.S.: A mediocre
pastoral H.T.8.: “This may not be poetry,
but it’s the truth.” Still, we can’t offer verse
prices for self-evident propositions cut into
lengths... .A.E.S.: What’s this?:
Thrice noble Edward, now you stand
An exile in a foreign land
• AYho once was England’s king!
But never mind where you may be,
While England’s ships still sail the sea
Thy praises shall I sing.
Not here you shan’t... .R.H.L.V.: We don’t
want verse that’s been printed elsewhere; the
other pieces have little merit. Short stories
(of the right sort) are always in demand....
H.G.: Well, you’re none the worse for having
read Horace, but did you ever see in these
pages anything remotely resembling your
“attempt at humorous pedantic verse”?
5.D.8.: No snap in it... .A.M.L.: Quite good
of its kind, but hardly ours... .Sac: Your neat
style outstripped the rather thin yarn; search
for a meatier p10t... .8.5.: Too gently senti-
mental W.E.R.: Arabia a bit off our beat,
and the story didn’t appeal N.M.: Well,
if it isn’t our old circus friend who cuts the
rival’s trapeze rope half-way through!
M. : Booze artists and their nocturnal
cemetery wanderings rarely raise a grin nowa-
days D.J.F.: A few humorous touches to
that melodramatic story and it would make an
excellent burlesque of itself I.B.: “Courage”
nicely done, though very slight; other not suffi-
ciently worked out H.A.L.: You stretch
coincidence a bit far....A.J.8.: Subtle com-
ment on recent history, but it scarcely makes a
story... .Honi Pikau : Nothing in it....K.P.:
Character sketch showed observation, but your
style needs pepping up J.J.: Uncle’s beauty
contest didn’t raise any enthusiasm... .L.C.R.:
Another of those nicely-handled, pitifully-thin
yarns... .A.S.A.: A very wicked girl, when she
knew very well her mother didn’t like her read-
ing those modern novels! A.H.R.: Would
a chap as astute as all that put money into
goldmines he knew nothing at all about?....
E.D.: A burglary, two murders and a suicide
in 2000 words; it’s too rich for us 8.H.:
Break it down, brother C.F.C.: “The sweet
scent of hawthorn wafted on the evening air”
brought on a severe attack of hay fever
N. Microscopic pencil notes scrawled on
both sides of the paper put four experts on
a bender... .S.W.R.: Boy cricketer, after
many vicissitudes chosen for Australia and
saving side by scoring double century, the first
in 90 minutes, coincided with some Great
Batsman making 10 in similar time
S.C.: Hackneyed... .C.F.8.: Mystery horse
declared a crock... .G.S.M.: Not the ghost of
a shiver in that ghost yarn... .0.5.: Account
of walking tour from Darwin to Adelaide now
itself on tour... .J.H.F.: Deserted wife touches
the heart, but nae the purrse S.V.: Try it
on a daily S.R.C.: The parish magazine
might be interested... .H.S.L.: Confirmed lady-
killer reforms when he meets a blonde with eyes
like his mother. Whack! 8.P.: Don’t like
that swaggie any better than when he pre-
viously came in D.F.: No pasture here for
Strawberry... .J.M.D.: Out of season....
C.8.K.: An eminent authority declares there
never was whisky as strong as that... .R.C.M.:
Not in these columns... .T.G.M.: “Humorous,
I hope.” Your faith’s misplaced C.E.D.:
Some good images, but the verse is creaky.
.... A.C.: Quite a good theme, but you haven’t
done it justice.... M.G.: Immature. Still, if
you are only 16, there is plenty of time to
improve... .L.J.D.: “The Swagman’s Farewell
to His Boots” compares unfavorably with “The
Arab’s Farewell to His Steed”... .P.C.: Quite
a long way 0ff....J.A.: Poem on “A Heap
of Bricks” as heavy as the subject R.D.P.:
The short story gets nearer the mark than
the verse, without getting very near H.C.:
Afraid we can’t use them. Those “unicorn”
lines at the end of a stanza show poor work-
manship. .. .8.C.:
Here Governor Hindmarsh, ’neath a tree,
Proclaimed our land a colony.
We always thought that S. Aus. started its
existence as a “province” R.H.M.: The
idea of a Phoenix rising from the ashes to pro-
duce a clutch of young Phoenixes strikes us
as distinctly novel A.M.: Not even
Children’s Page stuff —if we had such a feature.
W.C.: It makes hard reading M.M.:
Thanks for the posthumous verses, but they
hardly make the grade.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.D.: Antiquity of gags suggests that you’ve
gone in for archaeology... .8.R.: You’re work-
ing with too fine a nib, and the jests wouldn’t
raise a smile at a bunfight A.W.M.: Take
more time over the drawings and make them
fit the letterpress better... .W.S.: Thousands
of juveniles could equal those efforts... .G.H.:
When The Bulletin is printed on asbestos we
will be able to say what we think of your
sketches A.J.M.: Doubt your fitness for a
cartoonist’s job A.S.: Figures neatly orna-
mental, but they don’t illustrate the gag....
S.C.F.: Cricketing cartoon was run out during
the first over... .E.N.: Not a winner among
the half-dozen P. 8.: Those scrawny gents
constitute a strong argument for the Spooner
bathing costume... .W.G.D.: Wait until we
print in color before opening your paintbox
to do comic sketches L.T.: It’s still in
doubt E.R.M.: They seem to have been
drawn with the top end of a cricket stump....
F.C.: Hardly a week passes without that tramp
being turned away... .K.M.: Sent back for re-
pairs 0.G.: Shows faint promise; spend
a few years attending a life class A.C.H.:
Has. all the appearance of having first seen
the light of day in London “Punch” 1.R.:
You have an idea of composition, but linework
is too scratchy J. 8.: Washwork too pale
and streaky... .H.T.: Destroy the sketches and
keep the gags for the next smoke concert.
A MIXED GRILL.
Had a 92nd birthday in Adelaide, with
a special cablegram of congratulation
from the Science Congress at Auckland,
Walter Howchin, authority on local
rocks, and still holder of an Honorary
Professorship of Geology at Adelaide
University.
* * * *
“Boulder”: A curious fact about the
late “Smiler” Hales is that, although right
in the thick of the most hectic days of
Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie, he never
used scenes from them in any of his
books once he quitted Australia. Even
in his life-story, he hardly mentions that
interesting part of his career.
* * * *
Premier Stevens, Ministers Dunning-
ham, Manning and Drummond and
Commissioners Hartigan and Maddocks
having been abroad within the last 15
months or so, the president of the Rural
Bank is now going. He is to “inquire
into rural finance and home-building, and
expects to be absent for eight months.”
How happy it is that such inquiries co-
incide with jubilees and Coronations and
Wimbledon and the Darby, and enable
the investigators to see rural England
at its best!
* * * *
Back in his native S.A. after four
years’ absence, Kenneth Duffield, odd
mixture of pastoralist, composer and
stage producer. What with Cambridge,
the war and London West End seasons
his life has been fairly well divided be-
tween Australia and England. He comes
back now to have a look at the Koo-
noona (S.A.) merino stud, of which he
is a.director ; then he returns to London
to produce a new musical comedy at
Coronation time. His elder brother was
formerly Government Astronomer at
Canberra.
* * * *
Big-hearted Mary Gilmore is delighted
with the news that her Old Days, Old
Ways is to be. written in Braille. “Now,”
said Dame Mary happily, “Australians
who are born blind will be able to see
what a beautiful land they live in.”
* * * *
Hartley Grattan, the dark-haired,
round-faced American who is writing a
book about Australian conditions, had
the cutlet of comradeship passed to him
in Sydney by the. Fellowship of Austra-
lian Writers. Mr. Grattan is amiable in
smile, if a trifle didactic in speech. He
shook about 50 hands, and looked as if
he would remember everybody separately.
* * * *
The search for gold has extended to
the deep blue sea. Someone has placed
a number of zinc plates coated with a
potassium-cyanide solution of silver in
the Indian Ocean, near Fremantle, and
is hopeful of obtaining payable results.
The Westralian Mines Department, which
has been told all about the process, isn’t
greatly interested.
* * * *
Among interested spectators at the
Raycophone (Aust.) preview of “The
Charge of the Light Brigade” were Air
Vice-Marshal Williams and General. O. F.
Phillips. Those were the days when an
officer took 10 minutes to button him-
self into his skin-tight uniform and rode
into battle with shoulders heavy with
gold epaulets and a 12ft. lance in his
hand. But, as General Phillips explained,
the short-range guns of the eighteen-fif-
ties were not as harmful as they looked,
which was why any of the Six Hundred
rode through the Valley of Death.


After ill©
COROMTIOM
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON
M
w
it,
i
m
*
SPRING STREET, GARMISCH
THE CATHEDRAL, COLOGNE
Crown your trip with
a Holiday in
dEBMMY
England !—the Coronation celebrations—then the crowning
event of your trip—a glorious holiday in Germany. Travel
by modern streamlined trains, your own car or by ’plane
in perfect comfort over Europe’s most colourful country.
Climb in the Bavarian Alps—laze on Baltic beaches —golf
on excellent courses 1 Tour the romantic Rhine by steamer,
or the beautiful Neckar Valley by canoe. Living costs little
under the present special exchange system, and rail fares
are reduced 60%. Vou will be welcomed most courteously,
and when vou leave you will not say “ Good-bye ”, but
“ Auf Wiedersehen ” as your charming hosts always do.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
(Dept. 0.V.) 19. Regent Street, London, S.W. I.
or Offices of Thos. Cook & Son, Ltd., and other recognized Travel Agencies.
The Second “Gentleman” JacKson
' I "HIS is the second article on Peter Jackson’s career and the
seventh of a series devoted to the Australasian boxers of
the ’eighties and ’nineties—the greatest that any country
has had.
In San Francisco Jackson found that
his fame had preceded him. Sullivan
straightway drew the color line, and
after seeing Jackson spar at the Cali-
fornia Athletic Club no other white
boxer hanging round ’Frisco wanted any-
thing to do with him.
Jackson began to think he had come
to the wrong country. He was meditat-
ing deeply on Jem Smith’s profuse offers,
issued from England, to whip anyone in
the world at any weight, black and
brown men preferred, when President
Fulda, of the C.A.C., informed the Aus-
tralian —a description nearly always given
to him in the U.S.A.—that arrangements
had been made for him to meet George
Godfrey at the club for a purse of £3OO,
the winner to take £240 and the loser
£6O, and the club to allow Godfrey £BO
for his expenses from Boston to ’Frisco.
Godfrey, known as “Old Chocolate,”
had proved himself the best of America’s
colored pugs. A solid block of a man,
he could absorb heaps of punishment and
was awkwardly clever. Very early in
their bout Jackson made it evident that
he was much the better man in every
department of the game, but he let God-
frey stay 19 rounds. Afterwards he con-
fided to a friend that he was never in
any trouble ; the only thing that wor-
ried him was whether he mightn’t have
to knock Godfrey’s head off before, the
latter would give in, “Old Chocolate”
being dead game.
“How do you feel, George?” Godfrey
was asked. “Tol’ably well, sah,” the
beaten pug replied. “Just as well as any
fellah would feel after stopping a heap
of hard thumps.”
McAuliffe, the Mission Boy, was
present at that fight, and, not being
apprised of the fact that Jackson was
boxing “under wraps,” he formed the
opinion that he could lower the invader’s
colors. McAuliffe was a big fellow, taller
and heavier than Jackson: 6ft. 3in. in
his socks and 15 stone trained to the
minute. He was called champion of the
Pacific Slope. Neither Sullivan nor
Corbett seemed anxious for a meeting
with him, though “Professor” Miller,
pausing at San Francisco on his way
back to Australia from a wrestling tour
of the eastern States, had offered to box
the Mission Boy six rounds—he explained
that he could not be expected to sign
for a fight to a finish, being 201 b. in ex-
cess of his proper weight. McAuliffe
ignored the “Professor’s” challenge and
made the match with Jackson on a
“winner-take-all” basis —he was so con-
fident that he insisted on that.
In later years McAuliffe was to become
a trial horse for Australian heavyweights
in search of fame. Slavin knocked him
out in a round and a half and Goddard
disposed of him in 15 rounds. No doubt
Jackson lightened their task for them.
His own job with McAuliffe took 24
rounds, but he could have completed it
long before. Never in his ring career did
he punish a beaten man unnecessarily,
and when he had an antagonist “going”
he. invariably played light, hoping that the
referee or the other fellow’s seconds
would spare him the necessity of admin-
istering the knockout.
After his victory, Jackson told the club
to give the dejected McAuliffe a third
of the purse. He never advertised the
fact, but it became known, and along
with other acts of generosity and for-
bearance it helped to make less rough the
rocky way of the colored bruiser in the
America of that period.
Already Peter had found admirers and
champions among the ’Frisco pressmen.
One remarked in the “Newsletter” of
March 16, 1889: “How quickly the vic-
tories of Jackson have made the Kilrain-
Mitchell coterie of sluggers hedge on all
propositions to fight! Kilrah. does not
want to fight Jackson at all, and Mit-
chell’s proposition to the California Ath-
letic Club that this wind champion be
allowed £lOOO for training expenses is
preposterous. Sullivan’s latest ultimatum,
which is to the effect that he will not
fight a colored man or face any pugilist
who has fought one, is downright idiocy.
Sullivan’s skin is white, but his heart is
of another color. He is a brutal bully.
Jackson’s skin is dark, but his heart is
white, and his manners are those of a
gentleman.”
Farnan, who beat Jackson when Jackson
was a youngster.
In a subsequent issue the “Newsletter”
referred to a report that Sullivan had
“cast aside the color-line barrier behind
which he has sheltered himself. It is
better for him to take the chances of
being whipped by Jackson than to be
hooted out of the Game for refusing to
fight one of the cleverest and most
humane pugilists that the world has ever
known.”
About the same time a Bulletin
writer, in an article on London Prize Ring
and Queensberry champions, pronounced
Jackson “well-nigh invincible in a box-
ing match on the boards. He is tall and
strong with a tremendous reach, and pos-
sesses a panther-like activity which is
really marvellous in so big a man. One
of the Mace school, he can use both
hands well, and his straight left gives
him an enormous advantage over those
modern boxers w'ho rush in and depend
on the right hand for a chance knock-
out.”
Another Bulletin man vouched for
a fine example of self-restraint in the
most trying situation in which a profes-
sional boxer can find himself: “Not long
before Jackson left Australia a big, hulk-
ing, half-drunken, flash personage who
was champion of some bush town, and
who fancied he could fight, but whom
Jackson could have killed with a couple
of blows, suddenly hit the darky in the
face and cut him badly. Jackson, in-
stead of making reprisals, took the blow
squarely and quietly pushed his assailant
away with one hand.”
In that year Peter must have felt that
it was raining tributes. One of the San
Francisco dailies testified that' “the great
heart of the Golden State has reached
out and enfolded Peter Jackson irrespec-
tive of nativity as well as of race, color
and previous condition of servitude.
There can be no doubt of that, for we
have all admitted it. Who would have
thought that our hero had come here
for the first time only a year ago? It
does not take long to naturalise a man
among us when he deserves it. Jackson
is a Californian through and through,
and we should like to see the Inspector
of Election who should refuse, his vote.”
But all this praise got Jackson no
match with Sullivan. Neither did the
conquest of a host of second- and third-
raters, most of whom were settled in
two or three rounds (Patsy Cardiff,
Shorty Kinkaid, Mike Lynch, Paddy
Brennan, Ginger McCormick, Sailor
Brown, Alf Mitchell and many more),
bring him any nearer the satisfaction of
his ambition. Towards the end of the
year he received an offer from London’s
Pelican Club, and crossed the herring
pond to fight the club’s cheese champion
Jem Smith. On this occasion Smith’s
shoes were not spiked and there were no
ruffians with knuckledusters at the ring-
side to help the burly Jem. But he had
one way out, and he took it when he
was getting a hiding. The record baldly
says that Jackson won on a foul in the
second round.
Back in the. U.S.A., Jackson figured in
a three-round exhibition with Jack Ash-
ton, Sullivan’s sparring partner, at
Brooklyn, and had three other brief
bouts in different parts of the U.S.A. One
of them was with Jack Fallon, known as
the Strong Boy of Boston, who had ac-
companied Jackson to London and put
on several exhibitions with him. Their
association was cut short by Fallon’s
sudden death. A cynical chronicler
wrote: “He died of brain paralysis, which
shows that he possessed some brain any-
how.”
Jackson was on his way back to San
Francisco, but he made a leisurely tour
of the U.S.A., pausing in some towns to
receive the adoration of the local negroes.
At Chicago he boxed Denver Ed Smith,
who, though his nickname was sugges-
tive of Wild Bill Hickok and Deadwood
Dick, was an Englishman. Smith had
made himself talked of wherever pugs
and their followers resorted by knocking
out Mike Cleary, somewhat famous in
his day, in 33 seconds.
Accounts of the Jackson-Smith fight
that reached Australia brought the first
suggestion that easy living was begin-
ning to leave its mark on Jackson. “They
say Jackson is walking the paths of most
pugs,” one story began. “For this we
are sorry ; barring his skin, Peter is the
whitest man of the whole boiling of
them.... He nearly made a mistake
with one Ed Smith, of Denver, Colorado,
whom he undertook to knock out in five
rounds. On his return to America he
was not the Jackson he ought to have
been, and faced Smith a lot above his
proper weight—tin anything but good
trim. He smashed Smith about for three
rounds, when he fell weak. Peter re-
covered in the fourth round, but was
unable to knock his man out in the
fifth.”
On his return to San Francisco, Jackson
was cordially received by his friends of
the California Athletic Club. But the
news they had to convey to him was bad.
California’s boxing boom had burst.
There had been a recent death in the ring,
and the game was about to be put under
the ban. As for Sullivan, he would fight
Jackson nowhere in the world ; nor was
Corbett, now the conqueror of Choynski
and Kilrain, prepared to do business.
Lees, from whom Jackson lifted the Aus-
tralian championship. Lees, who was
little more than a middleweight, fought
in Australia, England and North America
over a period of 30 years.
As far as Jackson was concerned, Cor-
bett would talk only of the black’s pros-
pects of inducing Sullivan to accept his
challenges —which had never ceased.
Said Corbett, “Sullivan has gone all to
pieces—weighs 2601 b. and can’t get much
off without endangering his health. He
will never box Jackson” ; and he never
did,
Jackson began to long for Australia
again. There was little for him to do in
the country which he regarded as home,
though a certain Joe Goddard had flashec
into prominence, but there were old
friends to be seen and new tales to be
told.
The Mariposa bore him back to Syd-
ney in August, 1890. His friends hafl
a small steamer waiting for him when
the Mariposa cast anchor, and having
made his landfall he was borne to the
Sydney Athletic Clubrooms in a four-m-
--hand drag. There he drew from a Bulle-
tin scribe that he had it in him to be-
come a more eloquent preacher, than
Bendigo, as he was assuredly a much
greater boxer: “Hitherto the rule has


lEuibcipe
wife
m
j ;
C»»* tVv«
°& Ifc&y
?£■•
pri9 e *- a«‘*! 1
tooa^ {re C»«* e
cu‘ 9itl
travel paC
■s^', v .
c ’
M**
vice
s'"-
ire** 1
son*
ltvd *’ 9 ai\'^ec'u°*.
*s<>•* 9
■'•“ . ««»‘S
Qt
ot*UU&64i(^lli^tC
World's Greatest Travel System
59 William Street, Melbourne.
247 George St., Sydney. 15.6.7
Canadian Pacific Pailway Company,
Incorporated in Canada.
s
■ -
The
■WINTON'
STOCK
SADDLE
£l5/13/6
(Complete)
Is a first-quality
saddle.
It is made of
best-quality kip
leather, with kip
or hogskin seat, and
the tree is our best
“Fouright.” It has a
narrow, non - chafing
grip, raised knee pads,
and the panel has broad
leather points down
sides and leather facings
at back.
N.S.W. freight paid for cash with order.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHERt. STEVENSON ltd
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
A RELIABLE
INVESTMENT
An Interest Bearing Deposit with the Bank of New South
Wales is a secure investment that does not fluctuate in value.
It provides a steady and reliable income for the depositor.
Interest is paid half-yearly during the period for which the
money is lodged, at the rate ruling at the time the deposit
is made. The Bank makes no charges of any kind.
Deposits of £5 and upwards are accepted by the Bank’s
branches in Australia at the following rates:
ESTABLISHED 1817
The Oldest and Largest Bank in Australia
244A.1936
RELAXATION!
Modern comfort and service are assured when travelling by
vessels of the Canadian-Australasian Line (inc. in Canada).
to EUROPE via
NEW ZEALAND—FIJI—HONOLULU and VANCOUVER
Enjoy the wonders of the Canadian Rockies!
Fares, Itineraries and all Particulars on application to: — /inc in \
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD., ( Vz. )
247 George Street, Sydney, 59 William Street, Melbourne.
been, ‘the better the speaker the worse the
fighter,’ but Peter Jackson showed last
week that it was possible to raise a man
who can talk as well as box. In reply to
the splendid reception given him at the
Sydney Athletic Club, Jackson spoke for
upwards of half an hour with pleasant
delivery and in well-chosen words ; and,
as Jackson previous to his travels was
usually tongue-tied when compelled to
speak before an audience, his modest,
manly and really eloquent address struck
his hearers as hard as one of his right-
handers.”
The maritime strike was then raging,
and as good democrats Foley and all the
boxing brotherhood were behind the
strikers. Jackson was one of those who
sparred at a show arranged by Foley in
their cause. He also sparred with Mick
Dooley on the night of the Griffo-
Murphy bout, winding up his perform-
ance with a speech. Some of the sports
felt that oratory was out of place, and
an interrupter implored Peter to “shur-
rup. In October came his eight-rounder
with Joe Goddard at the Crystal Palace,
Richmond (Vic.), “winner to get £3OO
and loser £100.” There was no winner,
nor was it ever intended that there should
be a decision ; but in a small ring the
rushing Goddard made things very will-
ing for Jackson.
His friends proclaimed that the white
man had had all the better of it, and
would prove that he was Jackson’s
master in a return match. Joseph must
have been of a different opinion, for,
when offered a match for an £llOO purse
at Sydney, he refused. Afterwards he
said that he had been paid £3OO by “a
Melbourne institution,” which had him
tied up, not to face Jackson again, but
privately he acknowledged that Peter
was too good for him.
November, 1890, found Jackson re-
turning to the U.S.A. by the Mariposa.
On May 30, 1891, he had his queer bout
at San Francisco with Corbett. It lasted
61 rounds, and for the last 90 minutes or
so the men did little but spar and use
their feet. Jackson entered the ring with
an ankle bandaged up, and on his mid-
region he sported a porous plaster! It is
conceded that he had the better of the
first 30 rounds, but, in spite of the extra-
ordinary duration, no harm was done on
either side, and the arrangement for a
draw made by the club officials when it
looked as if proceedings might drag on
till sunrise was received by principals,
seconds and spectators with perfect
amity.
The C.A.C. gave each man £SOO, and
announced that they would meet again
for a purse of £SOO. They never did
meet again, but on the strength of hav-
ing taken Jackson to a draw Corbett
forced Sullivan to give him a fight for
the championship. Possibly that was
part of the calculation.
By this time Jackson had acquired an
interest in a ’Frisco saloon, his partner
being one Hess. As the S.F. “Daily Re-
porter” told the story, a few nights after
the Jackson-Corbett fight John L. Sulli-
van visited Jackson’s saloon with a few
friends. Hess was behind the bar; he
recognised Sullivan, and the conversa-
tion naturally turned on the May 21
fight. Said Sullivan: “Corbett ought to
have licked him. I wish he had, for I
don’t like the coon, and I don’t think
he is a fighter either.” At this stage Jack-
son appeared: he had been in an inner
room. Jackson deliberately went up to
the big fellow, pretending not to know
him, and tapping him on the back said,
“Look here, young man, you are talking
through your hat.” Sullivan glared like
a lion, but Jackson didn’t flinch. “Who
are you talking to?” Sullivan roared. “I
don’t stand that sort of thing from your
sort of people.” “I am talking to you,”
Jackson replied ; “and I repeat that you
are talking through your hat.” Sullivan
took off his coat; Jackson was on the
point of pulling off both coat and vest
when Sullivan’s friends crowded round
and induced him to leave the saloon.
That was the nearest Jackson ever
got to fighting the champion of the
U.S.A. He had won the championship
of Australia, and that title may be said
to have reverted to him when he fought
Goddard ; and he was to fight in Lon-
don on May 30, 1892, the Australian who
had knocked out everybody sent up
against him in England, beginning with
the “champion” Jem Smith.
That fight at the National Sporting
Club has been described by the vivid pen
of the late “Smiler” Hales, whose story,
written for the “Referee,” was here re-
printed on December 30. It has been
told how, after giving and taking fear-
ful punishment for half an hour, neither
man was ever the same again. Jackson
frankly admitted it, for his part, in talks
with close friends: “Paddy’s body
punches broke me,” he said, smiling
sadly. *■
He stayed in England for five or six
years, having a good time and seeking
no more matches. Lord Lonsdale made
a fuss of him, and Lord Marcus Beres-
ford and other peers were not too proud
to be seen in his company. Young
bloods of the Naughty ’Nineties sought
him out as a companion for their merry
meetings. He was the champion of Eng-
land, and unlike. Molyneux, his table
manners were above reproach; unlike
Cribb, and even Sayers, he could talk
intelligently on a wide range of subjects,
and he could behave like a gentleman
even in his cups. He became a sort of
institution at the National Sporting Club
—always on hand to give a private show
with an aspiring middleweight or heavy-
weight or to demonstrate to a persever-
ing aristocrat how to lead with the left
and block with the right or —as his edu-
cation advanced —how to duck or side-
step, uppercut or cross. But the times
were too gay, the life too easy; and
Jackson’s health suffered.
In 1898 he went back to San Fran-
cisco once more for what was fated to be
his last fight. It was with the stronger,
heavier and younger Jeffries, and it was
all over in three rounds. “There was
nothing in the first round,” a newspaper
report said ; “but as soon as the second
commenced Jeffries landed heavily on the
body and then knocked Peter off his feet
with a left on the jaw. From this out
to the third round, when the referee
mercifully gave the fight to Jeffries, the
once-mighty Jackson merely stood up to
be knocked down again. The pity of it!”
Another account had it that Jackson,
for some reason, failed to use the left:
that had reduced so many opponents to
impotence and sought to finish Jeffries
by landing his right under the white
man’s heart. He got home several times,
but took delivery at last of a round-and-
upward swing with the left; and that
was the beginning of the end. All the
stories of the unhappy affair agree that
Jackson began as if conscious of his fail-
ing powers and traded punches with a
far more powerful youngster as if de-
termined that his exit from the ring
would be honorable—that he would go
down fighting.
His ring career over and his money
all gone—he had made plenty, and given
a lot of it away—Jackson received a
friendly letter from the man who had
given him his greatest fight. “I am off to
the Klondyke, Peter,” wrote Slavin from
the Canadian side of the border. “Come
along with me.” Jackson gladly ac-
cepted. But pneumonia got him, and he
spent three months in hospital at Vic-
toria, British Columbia, and Slavin was
obliged to go to the Yukon alone.
Tossing on his sick bed, the black
longed to see Australia again. He made
his situation known to the late Bill Cor-
bett, of the “Referee,” and sufficient was
collected to bring him home and pro-
vide for him until he got suitable em-
ployment. The old Mariposa carried
him back to Sydney in April, 1900.
Staunch friends met the boat and opened
wine.
They were shocked at the change in
Jackson’s appearance. Consumption had
gripped him, and he looked an old and
broken man.
The good-hearted Fitzgerald Brothers
gave him a light job in their circus, but
while he was travelling through Gipps-
land he caught a chill and had to be
left in hospital.
A change to the climate of Roma (Q.)
was prescribed. At Roma he seemed to
rally ; but the sands were running out.
All that could be done was to make the
few months left to him as full of friend-
ship and free from care as possible ; and
the good people of Roma took these
kindly duties on themselves.
Peter Jackson died at Roma on July
13, 1901. His passing was made the
occasion for an uncommon display of
pity for a stricken fellow-creature, a
black man and a stranger, who had
come to the place only to die.
It was decided that the body should
be buried in Brisbane. At night the
coffin was borne to the Roma railway
station, the hearse being headed by a
band, behind whom walked members of
Roma athletic clubs carrying flaming
torches. The Mayor of Roma was one
of the pallbearers. It was a shopping
night, but on Jackson’s last journey in
Roma the shops were shuttered, and
almost the entire population lined the
main street. At Brisbane a procession
three-quarters of a mile long formed up
behind the hearse.
Jackson sleeps in Toowong cemetery
on a hill overlooking the city. A stone
raised by public subscription records his
manly virtues and proclaims that he
fought the good fight.


SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
§!tnfoi9
PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN.
368 Collins Street.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:—AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne—Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor. Newspaper House,
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London — P. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Rill, E.C.4.
Clk Iflmury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every corner of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
,which gives an A.B.C. certificate of circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L: WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Oflice: Newspaper House, Collins St
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Offices 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
not connect to the aerial on both sides.
Only one side of the stub connects to
the aerial, with one feeder also attached
at this point. The other feeder attaches
to the opposite point on the other side
of the stub.
For a 600-ohm line the approximate
distance, of feeder attachment to both
aerial and stub is 18in. from the closed
end. This means that the open ends of
the stub project 2ft. 6in. on the other
side of the attachment position. With
a 72-ohm line (twisted pair) the position
is naturally different; it falls about 6in.
from the. open end of the stub. The
position for either kind of line can be
determined only with a current-indicat-.
ing device. A simple method is to cut
one of the quarter-wave vertical sec-
tions temporarily at the centre and in-
sert a 3.5-volt “pea-lamp.”
With a stable transmitter, such as
M.O.P.A. or Crystal, the point of maxi-
mum current indication will be sharply
defined ; with a modulated oscillator
it will be broader. The stub (or “trom-
bone”) is slid along until the lamp is
brightest, with the feedline; coupled to
the transmitter. Both 600-ohm or 72-
ohm lines should be coupled to the
transmitter by a single turn around the
“cold” portion of the tank coil.
Coupling to the receiver is equally im-
portant. It is advantageous to use a
tuned coupling, which can consist of a
single turn of wire, sin. in diameter and
tuned by a five-plate midget. The
feeders are also attached across this coil.
If a loop of flex wire is tied with cotton
to the sin. coil, and the ends of the flex-
loop twisted (not connected) together, a
simple means of tuned coupling can be
provided. One end of the twisted lead
is joined through a small two-plate con-
denser to the grid circuit of the de-
tector ; the other end is left hanging free.
Remarkable signal gain is obtained at
five metres by using a coupling of this
kind. It is important to try reversing
the feeders from the aerial to the re-
ceiver. There is a right and a wrong
way.
Several amateur stations in the Syd-
ney area have erected Bruce, aerials and
fail to obtain the best results.
Without correct resonance, which is
much more important at high frequen-
cies, the effect is akin to that of a
“Zepp” aerial at low frequencies, with
the feeders and flat-top well off tune.
The signal is heard locally, but covers
no distance. However, two stations in
Sydney are obtaining excellent results
on five metres with properly adjusted
Bruce aerials. A full-strength telephony
signal can be put into locations which
would otherwise be considered impos-
sible to reach.
Outstanding proof of this is provided
by tests between experimental stations
VK2BP and VK2EM, the former located
at Hazelbrook, Blue Mountains, nearly
60 miles from Sydney, and the other on
water level at Darling Point, Sydney.
With a Bruce array aimed on Sydney,
centring about the Harbor Bridge, the
Darling Point station can hear every
word at R 5, despite the fact that the
signal has to pass through the steel mass
of the bridge. It is not a case of
“optical range.” The receiving aerial
was a simple dipole standing in a space
between two high blocks of flats-. With
a Bruce array at both ends it is antici-
pated that the signal strength will go to
RB. These experiments go to prove that
in ultra-short-wave the radiating and
receiving systems are nine-tenths of the
job. The amateur work of to-day will
be the commercial application of to-
morrow.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
On the afternoon of 24/1/’37 a test
was run off on five metres in a northerly
direction from Sydney, a few W.I.A. men
having taken mobile gear to a position
between Lisarow and Terrigal. Dis-
tance is about 40 miles, and R 8 plus con-
tacts were had with VK2NO and
VK2LZ. VK.2XK was also worked, and
VK2AZ was heard. The advantage ot
beam arrays was very evident, though
a plain twisted pair doublet was used
at the mobile end. A dipole of this
nature seems the most useful and adapt-
able for portable tests.
Many more stations have appeared on
five metres in . the Sydney area, and
gradually more advanced apparatus is
being tested. A new station to five
metres, but about the oldest “ham” in
Australia, is Jack Pike, VK2JP. He puts,
The Reinartz. form of directive aerial for
ultra-short-wave transmission and recep-
tion is a particularly compact form. Two
half-wave radiators are formed into a
33in. circle, spaced 6in. part. Don B.
Knock is shown examining one recently
erected for test at VK2NO. The advan-
tage of such an aerial is that it can be
easily arranged for rotation. As with all
ultra-short-wave aerials, it must be reso-
nated correctly for the chosen frequency.
an R 6 ’phone over most of the Sydney
district. The most interesting item of
news again comes from Hazelbrook,
where Ferguson, of 2BP, reports hear-
ing during the early evening of 25/1/’37
a harmonic of VKSCR on telegraphy
calling CQ. The signal rose to R 5 and
faded rapidly. It will be interesting to
learn if the South Australian was actu-
ally on five metres or not. During the
same evening harmonics were heard of
Sydney stations on lower-frequency
bands, also the commercial station LL4
referred to previously. VK2BP is in an
excellent position in the Blue Mountains,
and Maorilanders particularly should
note that this station is in operation
almost nightly with a directive Bruce
array trained on Sydney. The direction
is almost due east, so M.L. may possibly
get some trace of a signal from this
2500 ft. elevation.
It is high time some five-metre “CQ
parties” were properly organised for
inter-State tests. One suspects that often
when a station is trying to reach DX
nobody is concentrating at the other end.
Conditions on the lower-frequency
bands are not the most interesting, for
static rules unceasingly. Casual obser-
vation shows that despite such handicap
the keen DX man with a pair of well-
trained ears can sort out the weak signal
from the barrage. Despite the fact that
40 is ever a crowded band, the effect
of the rush of a year or so ago to the
"20-metre foam band” is noticeable.
There is a little more room to breathe
on 40, but the 20-metre band is the
Mecca of all new licensees, and con-
sequently there is much “foaming, at the
mouth.” A few diehards stick to 80
through the summer months, and some
even succeed in hearing and working
Englishmen there. Which is quite an
achievement even in winter!
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The special Year-Book number of
“Radio” (U.S.A.) for January is almost
a handbook itself in size—in all 194
pages of interesting material. In the
technical constructional articles the
popular 6L6 tube is given a great deal
of attention; it is shown applied in
various exciters and transmitters. In-
variably the glass 6L6 is used, but this
appears to arise from a liking for “see-
ing the works.” An interesting article
by “W6DHG” deals with obtaining higher
efficiency on the higher frequencies, and
the new T 55 tube is shown applied as a
buffer stage, amplifying straight on 10
metres, and doubling to five metres. The.
issue contains more advanced technical
information on transmitters, receivers
-and aerials than any monthly radio
magazine out of U.S.A. Subscriptions
are accepted at The Bulletin Office,
252 George-street, Sydney, at the rate
of 16s. 6d. p.a. Back or individual
copies are not available.
* * * *
A.W.A. Valve Co.’s current “Radio-
tronics” (No. 72) introduces some new
valves. Of particular interest to the
transmitting experimenter is the Radio-
tron 808. This is a triode suitable for
operation on frequencies up to 272 mega-
cycles and with a maximum plate dis-
sipation of 50 watts. This valve has the
plate brought out at the top and the grid
at the side, to give the utmost efficiency
at the higher frequencies. It should be
most popular. Supplies are expected at
the end of February.
Radiotron'9l3 is the small metal-con-
struction .cathode ray' tube featured in
advertisements recently in “QST” and
“Radio” (U.S.A.). It has a screen
approximately lin. in diameter. The
type will be much cheaper than other
cathode-ray tubes and should enable tak-
ing much wider advantage of cathode-
ray oscillographs. Radiotron 25L6 is also
announced. This is a beam power ampli-
fier tube similar in action to the 6L6,
but designed for A.C.-D.C. operation.
In the circuit data there are some use-
ful articles on “How testing should be.
done on fidelity receivers,” “Measure-
ment of harmonic distortion,”. “.Tone
compensation and bass boosting,” “In-
verse feedback, applied to Radiotron
1D4,” “Tests for absolute sensitivity”
and “Matching of output valves.” A
most interesting announcement is that
A.W.A. Valve Co. will give the circuit of
a good amateur communications receiver
in the next issue. This type of receiver
has been sadly neglected commercially
in Australia, but leading manufacturers
are now realising that amateur radio as
a hobby is growing rapidly. The “Radio-
tronics are free to Bulletin readers,
but postage should be included on appli-
cation to A.W.A. Valve Co., Ltd., 47
York-street, Sydney.
* • * * *
Nothing is of more importance to the
experimenter—whether transmitting or
receiving, or both—than aerials. Any-
one with experience of DX from both
angles knows that the collector or
radiator of energy represents nine-tenths
of the job of securing high efficiency.
To all interested in the subject the new
Jones Antenna Handbook (50 cents list),
published by the Pacific Radio Publish-
ing Co., Inc., Pacific Building, San
Francisco, California, comes at an in-
teresting time, when ultra-short waves
are in the melting pot. In these par-
ticularly antennae play an increasingly
important part, and this book is a
practical guide in the selection and con-
struction of a type for every radio pur-
pose—short-wave broadcasts, amateur,
commercial, ship, shore and also special
purpose types for both transmitting and
receiving. A number of antennae are
described for the first time, principal
among these being the non-fading type
for short-wave, communication, new
rotary beams and directive arrays for
amateur and experimental operation and
two-direction semi-rotatable high-fre-
quency antennae. Every known type is
treated, and there are. new charts on
antenna and feeder-length calculation for
any frequency from -228mc. (1| metres)
to the broadcast band of 550 metres.
There are chapters on concentric lines,
loading systems for small seagoing craft,
solution of space-limitation and other
problems likely to confront the radio
man concerned with transmission. As
an example of how the book deals with
the process of getting the utmost from
a radiator, Fig. 87 illustrates a two-band
(10 and 20 metres) “tilt” antenna, a simple
arrangement, used vertically for 20
metres, and tilted’ by means of a rope
and pulley to 54 degrees from the hori-
zontal for 10 metres. Considerable dif-
ference in the long-distance behavior on
the two bands is made by this provision
for altering the angle. Most would just
erect a vertical rod, tune it to either
band, and hope for the best.
The book is the most thorough and
complete work of its kind.
The Question Box.
(1) I have a small transformer giving 6 and
12 volts at 10 amperes. Would the six-volt tap
be suitable for charging a four-volt wireless
accumulator? (2) The house power sockets
are rated at 220 volts 5 amperes. Will this
allow only five amperes to be drawn from the
secondary without blowing the main fuse? (3)
I have heard that a lead and aluminium plate
immersed in a solution of ammonium phos-
phate makes a good rectifier. Is it suitable?
(4) What kind of safety device could be intro-
duced between the socket and transformer
primary to eliminate risk of blowing the main
fuse? Would a four-ampere fuse in series
with each wire be suitable? Would a 60- or
100 -watt lamp do in place of fuses? (5) Can
the voltage be reduced to 10, 8,4, or 2 volts
in the secondary circuit without overheating or
damaging the transformer, or must the voltage
of 6 or 12 be maintained? —490.
(1) The 12-volt tap would be needed, as
there will be a voltage drop through the recti-
fier. (2) The main house fuse is of the 25-
ampere variety, and the five-amp. fuses are the
subsidiary ones. A five-amp. overload should
blow one of the latter, but not the main fuses.
Main fuses are in ironclad cases and sealed by
. the electrical authorities. (3) This is quite a
good rectifier, but inclined to be messy. It is
suitable for your job, but one of the Westing-
house L.T. rectifiers is suggested. (4) Two
fuses to blow at around five amperes, one in
each lead. A lamp would not be suitable. This
will drop voltage considerably as a resistance.
.(5) The voltage can be dropped conveniently
after rectification. Maintain the full voltage
to the rectifier, and resistances can be used
afterward.


r '. .
■MUK-m
vf ;
•v
r
»
Biliousness ! Oh, what an awful feeling!
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
BsM
bbD
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
illeviate the distress. The symptoms of
■his disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
■he general conduct of the child is such
is to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ail watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
ind biting, and not infrequently of a
/ague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
s a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
lose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ng with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
ropious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
ipper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
Imposition to grind the teeth during sleep
re other characteristic symptoms.
NOW PACKED
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for. the eradication of Stomach and
Thread worms which infest the intestines.
They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Parish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
[f writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
71
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30j-.)
o°V~ ,
X
9>
G e
V
>&
**v
r&
x
o%
ejp
o'i


Australia’s Most Progressive
Life Assurance Institution —
Uhe A.C.A.
An “A.C.A.” assurance policy
provides a profitable form of invest-
ment and at the same time affords
family protection in the event of
death. For an annual outlay of
£4/15/8 (approximately 1/10 per
week) a man aged 25 years next
birthday can effect an “A.C.A.”
policy for £lOO, payable at the
expiration of twenty years, and his
investment will yield a return of
£135 (based on the present rate of
bonus). If the same amount was
deposited in a Savings Bank every
year the return at the end of 20 years
would be £122/3/9 (based on the
present rate of interest). In the
event of' prior death the full amount
of £lOO, plus accrued bonuses,
would be payable under an
“A.C.A.” policy.
i iiii? i ¥<i\ x,
Jjtal f,f*l silivi< '• ff’ : *
jl IHrt 1 ' f |’ i i , I ' !! , •
i i|i i|gs i ■
*?' j- ilf’%l.Si. *. 4. .? Jrlmt , ik.iU L 3.1/
i ill
11
feiil
II
m
m 3
;|» 1: #ii
. ‘ i, ftr ~ -1 * t ?
: 5
lilill
■
tiSiPiij
li
in
nm
■
ill
8 if
IS
mmiM
ill
ini
is
II
li
a
ifii
-
il
HI
I
Wn
r. !
'Mi if
« 1 si
m
SiJffm! j* I j • pjpfi
> .-•li* ; /!|j;
K * , ’%/ !•* * ..Sj " *
Si
The following instance, taken
from our claims records, illustrates
the advantages of a life-assurance
policy as compared with any other
form of saving. In March, 1935,
J K- effected a policy
for £250 under Table B (whole of
life) for an annual premium of
£5/7/6 and died in September,
1935, as the result of injuries sus-
tained in a motor accident. The
amount payable to his widow was as
follows: —
Sum Assured £250 0 0
Bonus for year ending
30/6/35 ...... 611 3
£256 11 3
It will be noted that, although the
policy had been in force for only six
months, the bonus addition amounted
to £l/3/9 more than the annual
premium.
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC ASSURANCE CO., LTD.,
HEAD OFFICE:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary. E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
BRANCH OFFICES:
A.C.A. BUILDING, 118-126 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
C. A. ADAMS, Resident Secretary.
WARWICK HOUSE, ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH.
B. MURPHY, Resident Secretary.
A.C.A. BUILDING, 270-272 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
M. J. HOGAN, Resident Secretary.
PARINGA BUILDING, 13 HINDLEY STREET, ADELAIDE.
F. C. LOCK, Resident Secretary.
DISTRICT OFFICES & AGENCIES TFIROUGHOUT THE STATES.
