

ķ
or me
mseen
?
The Completely New 1937
HUDSON.jTERRAPLaNE
This is going to make a perfect picture!”
m
flte
'item
111
8
II
SC"
1
m
m
■I
■
m
m
m
m.
Illustrated: 1937 Hudson Sedan.
3H nvi! ctfdc zuimn
mMwk%m - »9 nl mmm wM ■ mk AßJb4i wLMJr
MORE AND MORE, HUDSON AND TERRAPLANE
ARE THE CHIEF TOPIC OF CONVERSATION
AMONG MOTORISTS. MORE AND MORE OF
THESE COMPLETELY NEW 1937 CARS ARE
APPEARING EVERYWHERE. MORE AND MORE
PEOPLE ARE CHOOSING THE CARS THAT ARE
3 BIG STEPS AHEAD.
HAVE YOU DRIVEN
ONE?
Arrange for Your Trial Drive To-day
(1) A Big Step Ahead in DRIVING AND RIDING COMFORT with Hudson’s new
Selective Automatic Shift. No need to push a clutch pedal or tug at a hand gear
lever. Yet you shift smoothly and surely at any engine or car speed you desire. An
optional extra on all models. (For the few who may prefer it, the conventional gear
shift lever is available without cost.) A step ahead in riding, too . . . with lower
centre of gravity for maximum steadiness at any speed.
(2) A Big Step Ahead in STYLE AND ROOM with new bodies, on longer wheelbases
. . . lower, wider, roomier. A front seat with 55 full inches of solid comfort for three.
Higher, wider doors. And in quality of upholstery, smartness of tailoring, richness of
equipment, these interiors match the luxury leaders of motordom regardless of price!
(3) A Big Step Ahead in PERFORMANCE already proved in the most gruelling test
eve given a stock car, on the Utah Salt Flats, U.S.A. . . . where Sir Malcolm
Campbell made history with his "Bluebird.” Even greater power, with the smoothness
and flexibility that only Hudson owners know. And proved economy, too . . . certified
after rigid tests under official supervision.
Vftlvc »» e , A i? s »v HUDSON
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY.and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
136 Phillip Street, Sydney
Queensland Distributors:
Mclntosh motors pty. limited
Desntond Chambers
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
Western Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, Perth
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
Hobart Launceston
H. 4.48
H O
RIS E D
DEALERS
A T
ALL MAIN
C O
UNT R Y
CENTRES
The Bulletin
The Spanish War
Vol. 58.—N0, 2982.
Wednesday, April 7, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
4?.4'426 George Street, Sydney.
m
i mi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT hers; and maul
Please send, without obligation 3 your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 3.37
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
elimble to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to year’s Prize.
The Red Page
EILEEN DUGGAN.
“In this book there is much of hides and butter,
meat and wool,” said the “New York Times” when
reviewing Condliffe’s New Zealand in the Making,
“but nothing of the arts. The culture of New Zealand,
we take it, is derivative.” At the time that statement
was true ; since then the people of Maoriland, through
their elected representatives, have done little to remove
the reproach that the creative writer is held in less
esteem than the competent civil servant or the faithful
party man.
True, our leaders have not been altogether indif-
ferent to the claims of the workers in words, but
when they have let fall their infrequent manna it has
been, for the most part, upon diligent historians whose
ability in field-work has overshadowed their gifts of
critical analysis. But in the latest Honors List there
was a hopeful sign ; not only was a writer honored,
but a writer of distinction and a writer who, in a
vote of her colleagues, would have been declared
most worthy of recognition.
Eileen Duggan, 0.8. E., is a Maorilander; she
writes of her homeland, and if she is to have recog-
nition she prefers that it shall be in her own country.
She was nurtured at Tuamarina, in Marlborough, at
the site of the Wairau massacre. It is a place of
history which has been celebrated by such poets as
Hubert Church. Miss Duggan began with something
rare in this new-hewn country —a sense of tradition,
a sharp awareness of the fact that our country was
created by the effort and courage of the people of an
older land. Her origin gave her the temperament to
enjoy the mystic melancholy of the Irish mind and
her course was finally lighted, perhaps, by the dazzling
gleams which iingefed in English literature after the
Celtic Renaissance. Synge and Yeats determined the
emotional, if not the formal, content of her poems.
This revelation of modern literature, however,
was not the sole factor in her training as a writer.
She had shown considerable ability in scholarship;
had taken first-class honors in Arts, gained appoint-
ment as lecturer in English literature at Victoria
College, won a coveted scholarship and proved her
knowledge of the past. And, while she was greatly
influenced by that immense spiritual outpouring which
gave us things as different as The Hour Glass and
Esther Waters, she, from the first, added something
of her own. It was apparent in the first book of
poems which she brought out over twelve years ago that
this was no imitator, no amateur in romantic melan-
choly. There was, and always has been, ,a certain
nostalgia ; but there have been challenge, tenderness
and a definite music, expanding at times to very
moving chords. And there has been increasing success
in the fusion of form and feeling, until to-day one
can read her poems without being conscious of their
technique, though she sometimes sets herself problems
in rhythm, with the beat of the rhyme overpowered
by a more stirring melody, implicit in the theme itself,
warmly imagined, simply and directly set down.
It is not necessary to read her poems for long
before discovering the immense importance of her
faith to her. Reared in that faith, she has fpund
comfort and sustenance in it, for she has suffered
bereavement and illness. She has taken the tales of
this faith and given them new settings in her own
country. In one of her best-known poems she regrets
that her land was not able to be the home of the Christ
story, and makes for herself a picture:
Had my Lord been bom here in the time of rata
Three dark-eyed chieftains would have knelt to Him
With greenstone and mats and the proud huia feather,
And the eyes of Mary, seeing, would grow dim.
Another of her most famous poems is homage to Saint
Peter, whose “ancient infidelity” was yet “rewarded
by a risen God.” Looking over these verses, one is
reminded not of the Celtic twilight but of the slow
magic of George Herbert in “Love”; Love has taken
the speaker’s hand and said “Who made the eyes
but 1?”
“Truth, Lord, but I have marred them; let my shame
Go where it doth deserve.”
“And know you not,” says Love, “Who bore the blame?”
“My dear, then I will serve.”
“You must sit down,” says Love, “and taste my meat.”
So I did sit and eat.
There is the same gentleness, the same facility
and felicity of phrase, the same faith. But in all these
verses there is something which, as a Maorilander,
appeals to me, too. It is that, for all their appearance
of having been written in the forms and with the
approach of an older land, there is something about
them which is very definitely of the land of the fern
and could not have been given by any writer anywhere
else. This is not due to the imagery of Maoriland
alone ; it is not to be seen in the faint ache to be
found in so many excellent writers in new lands that
they do not happen to be living in an old one. It is
to be felt rather than to be found ; it is to be seen in
the fact that Miss Duggan herself considers her
Maoriland work her best work, and it is recognisable
in a deeper quality of feeling, a swifter and more
soaring line. It has been due to a slow accretion in
the mind of this writer, whose work has never been
a means of escape for her, whose writing has always
represented a period of heightened consciousness and
quicker understanding.
Through the years the reputation of Miss Duggan
has grown to such an extent that she is already quarry
for the first-edition hunter. She has published only
two books of verse the small, excellent, ill-printed
Poems of 1924 and the more mature, diverse, but by
no means altogether superior New Zealand Bird
Songs, which came out in 1929 and has gone through
more than one edition. In the second book there is
greater range of metre and more courage to adven-
ture. Within this apparently sharply circumscribed
field she accomplishes much, and one comes away
from a re-reading with the feeling that her growth
is constant and her hand is all the more cunning
with the elapsed years. But the spread of her reputa-
tion has been rendered slower than was to be expected
by her own retiring nature. It is to be doubted if
anyone has seen the whole body of her work ; she
prunes and rigidly selects whenever she sends anything
to the printer. Her own standards seem never satis-
fied. Years ago I endeavored to obtain from her
some verses for reprinting in England. She refused
to surrender them ; if anything was to be sent she
insisted she should select it herself in the first instance,
leaving me to do my worst after that. Finally, she
sent me new copies of poems I had already seen in
print. In almost every case there were revisions,
rewritten lines, changed adjectives. She re-orchestrates
her poems (in Moore’s word), it seems, as the mood
moves her, and is never the completely satisfied crafts-
man. In fact, for all her considerable gifts, she is the
most modest of persons ; one has the feeling that when
there is talk of the poetic quality of her work she
feels that too much fuss is made about it, that the
main satisfaction is to be found in the work of writing
—the principal gain to her is the fact that she has
been able to crystallise some truth for herself.
QUENTIN POPE.
G. J. Coates, Portraitist.
George Coates, His Art and His Life, by Dora
Meeson Coates (Dent; 12s. 6d.), is a record, by his
widow, of the quiet life of a quiet man. Tom Roberts,
when Coates died in 1930, penned the best epitaph:
“A fine artist, faithful friend and honorable man.”
Save for the accident of birth (he saw the light at
North Melbourne in 1869, his father, an artist litho-
grapher, being the second white child to be born in
the Vic. capital), Coates had little claim to be con-
sidered as an Australian artist in the; proper sense of
the term. He was solely a portraitist, and, though he
revisited his native city and did some commissions
there in 1921, the rest of his mature work was done
in England. He had twelve years’ training at
Melbourne National Gallery under Fred McCubbin,
won the travelling scholarship in 1896, and worked
it out at in Paris, where he met Conder and
Quinn. Whistler was teaching in Paris at that time
(one of his pupils was Jimmy MacDonald, whom
Coates knew well), and Mrs. Coates records one of
J.W.’s smart sayings. A pupil was smoking in class.
“I shouldn’t do that if I were you,” said Whistler.
“Spoils a fellow’s work, eh?” asked the student.
“No,” said Whistler; “spoils a fellow’s smoke.”
Coates’s struggles in a Chelsea attic, his climbing,
by serious hard work, to acceptance by the Royal
Academy and the Paris Salon, make a not very
eventful chronicle. He did his war bit as a hospital
orderly, and found time to paint a lot of brass-hats.
His wife (Dora Meeson that was, also acclaimed as
an Australian artist because she was born in Mel-
bourne) was a policewoman in a powder factory. She
helped her husband with many of. his big pictures,
despite the fact that he, under Dutch influence,
painted in a low key, whereas she was all for airy
brightness.
Coates, in addition to being a very sound and
conscientious painter, was of a philosophical and
analytical turn of mind, though he seldom spoke his
thoughts. It was he who first perceived the essentially
Latin flavor of Sydney. On his second visit there, in
1921, after an absence from Australia of a quarter
of a century, he was captured by an interviewer and
compelled to talk. He marvelled at “the blend of
Latin and English characteristics which has developed
in Australia. Greece seems almost to rise before me.
The climate seems to warm one to artistic activity, and
the air and character of the country to stimulate
inspiration to the highest forms of art. The Southern
European tendency grafted on to English thought and
character should surely produce something very great.
1 think the greatest artistic fruit of the future will
arise from this combination.” He explained his long
absence from Australia by saying that he would
rather be a minnow in a well-populated sea than a
whale in a lonely ocean —perfectly understandable, if
not very complimentary to this country.
But though Coates was an absentee Australian
he is well represented in Australian art collections.
Thirty-six of his portraits are in national or public
galleries, and sixteen are in private collections.
A Surgeon at Jutland.
Surgeon Rear-Admiral John R. Muir served in
H.M.S. Tiger through the Scarborough raid, the
action on the Dogger Bank and the battle of Jutland.
His story of it all —Years of Endurance (Philip Allan
and Co.)—reaches a lively climax with his descrip-
tion of his work as M.O. during this last fight.
In a modern battleship the M.O.’s action station,
owing to restrictions of space, is only a modernised
version of the cockpit in Nelson’s Victory. In the
Tiger (33,000 tons; 1500 men) the doctors were
provided with a theatre 25 feet in diameter, sub-
divided into four compartments, each further occu-
pied by ammunition hoists. Light, water and potted
air were provided, but all were likely to go on strike
whenever the ship was seriously hit. Naturally, only
emergency surgery could be practised in such a place,
and if the ship received a deathblow there was no
escape for either patients or doctors.
In the Jutland action, while Muir, assisted by the
Chief Paymaster, was in the middle of an operation,
the ship suddenly heeled to such an angle that the
patient began to slide from the operating-table.
“Good-bye, Muir,” said the imperturbable paymaster ;
but the ship came slowly back to an even keel and
the operation proceeded. The Queen Mary, the
Tiger’s next-ahead, had disappeared in a thousand-
foot column of smoke and flame, and her going
caused not so much a tidal wave as a redistribution
of the German Ocean ; hence the Tiger’s close shave.
Though the writer feels somewhat bitter towards
press, public and Admiralty, he has the naval man’s
deep loyalty to his superiors. Recognising, probably,
that doctors who take part in controversial politics
often make fools of themselves, he has no part
in the Jellicoe-Beatty row, which he believes had its
origins among nagging stay-at-homes outside the
service. The book is a fine record of the adventures
of a brave man and a skilful and unmelodramatic
writer.
The Book Hospital.
From an English literary weekly I arose mentally
stimulated after reading that
The monks at the Greek Abbey at Grotteferrata,
near Rome, run a book hospital, to which ancient
manuscripts from all over the world are sent. All the
ravages caused by time are dealt with, and the patient
is returned completely restored.
Of course I introduce this topic not for the
purpose of working-in a wisecrack about the number
of ancient manuscripts, grievously wounded in many
editorial encounters, which I propose to send to these
good monks, but rather to envisage the possibilities
of an extension of such hospital services. As things
are, the infant-mortality rate amongst books is simply
shocking, for the majority of new books perish in
their first year of life. Obviously, neurotic and other-
wise sick books would benefit by a spell in such a
hospital, and if they came back completely restored
to health they might have some hope of reaching the
allotted reading span.
In the first six months of the year about 10,000
books are published in the United Kingdom, but of
these approximately 6000 are reprints which have
enjoyed a previous existence ; upwards of 4000 of
these books are “little strangers,” some trailing clouds
of glory, perhaps, but the majority are destined for
the briefest of lives.
The most serious defect I can see in the present
haphazard method of producing books is that con-
nected with the business of reviewing. Let the press
review the book, by all means, soon after it makes
its appearance, but why not, as an extension of the
book-hospital services idea, devise a scheme of review-
ing (or pre-viewing) which would come into action
before the book makes its appearance? In this
respect the Arabs of old had a very commendable
principle akin to trying it on the dog. The pre-
Moslem Arabian poets used to submit their verses
to the judgment of their countrymen assembled at
the great annual fairs. The acclamation of the multi-
tude decided the event, and the poet who won the
Arabian substitute for the Nobel Prize became the
Tribal Poet, and he alone produced the poems until
next year, when the same business was gone through
again. In Mohammedan times the criticism of
authors was conducted in an equally public manner.
When an author was safely delivered of his opus he
hurried along to the mosque and tried it on all
assembled there. The listeners were keen critics and
had a way of expressing their opinions more forcible
(<Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Business Integrity.
“THE SENIOR STORE.'
V
\
I
'•V '
m-
W
■
RELIABLE GUNS
ARE INDISPENSABLE
TO GOOD SHOOTING
—Be Sure Your Equipment comes from
ANTHONY
HORDERN S'
HAMMERLESS PIGEON GUN
Anson and Deeley action, side
clips, 30in. steel barrels, both
full choke bored, chambered
for 2fin. cartridges, high flat
file-cut rib, Greener cross bolt, proved for nitro
powders. Walnut stock. Price £37/10/-
£57/10/
MSS
12
GAUGE
W. W. GREENER D. B. GUN
Hammerless Gun. 30in. steel
barrels, both choke, side safety.
Price £3O
£3O
CHARLES BOSWELL D.8.8.L.
Best quality steel barrels. Finely
carved, leaves on action. Handsome
stock. 30in. barrels. Side clips.
Price '• • £6O
£6O
12 G. BELGIAN D. B. GUN
Hammerless Gun, Anson action,
with treble Greener cross bolt, side
clips, fine black steel barrels, left
choke bored, matted rib, neat en-
graving, selected walnut stock, push-down rod fore-
end, English hardening; proved for smokeless powder.
Price
£9/5/-
TOP LEVER TREBLE BOLT ACTION
I. Hollis and Sons’ 12 Gauge Top
Lever D.8.8.L. Gun, treble bolted
action on the cross-bolt principle.
Steel barrels, left choke bore,
good steel rebounding bar locks,
well grown walnut heart stock, half pistol grip, snap fore-
end fastener. Engine-turned rib, proved for mtro powders.
As above, 16 gauge, 30in. barrels. Price £l3/10/-
IT
®l‘
Win. CASHMORE PIGEON GUN
£l3'io'-
Bar action, top lever, cross bolt
and side clips, rebounding locks,
hammers below line of sight, steel
barrels, choke bored chambers for
2£in. cartridges, flat file-cut rib,
dark walnut pistol hand stock, Deeley and Edge lore-end,
well finished. Specially proved for nitro powders.
Price £l7/10/-
£l7/io/-
These Rifles represent Accuracy and Quality
MODEL 1892 WINCHESTER CARBINE
Full or half magazine, 20in. round barrel,
military sight. Weight, about 5-glb. Model
1892. 25/20. .32 calibre. Price .. £9/17/6
£9/17,6
22 CAL "SURE SHOT" RIFLE, 25/-
Bolt action; 1 Bin. barrel. Price 25/'-'
.22 calibre “Sportsman” Rifle, bolt action, 24in. barrel, grooved
fore-end. Price _ 35/-
■*—
*303 SPORTING RIFLES, £5/15/-
rhese rifles are the used Long Lee-Enfield cut down and recon-
ditioned. Price .. £5/15/-
A good Kangaroo Rifle Ammunition for same, .303 Mark VI.
Price, per 100 12 / 6
RELIABLE
RIFLE AND
SHOT GUN
CARTRIDGES
.22 Nobel’s Short Rust-
less 2/9
.22 Nobel’s Long Rust-
less 3/3
.22 Nobel’s Long Rifle
Rustless 3/9
Eley’s Special Quail, 8 and
10 Shot. 12 gauge. 2Jin.
case. Price per iOO, 19/-.
Nobel’s Ballistite Powder.
12 gauge. 2fin. case.
Price per 100 26/-,
Nobel’s “Nile” Ballistite.
12 gauge. 2jin. • case.
Price, per 100 22/-
Eley’s Grand Prix, Diamond,
S'mokeless, 12 and 16 gauge.
2+in. case. Price, per
100 19/6
Eley’s Diamond, Smokeless.
20 gauge. 2 Jin. case.
Price per 100 19/0
Eley’s Fourlong, Smokeless.
410 gauge. 2in. case.
Price per 100 17/
Eley’s Fourten, Smokeless.
410 gauge, 2in. case.
Price, per 100 14/—.
• Guns — Lower Ground Floor,
Pitt Street. We pay freight on
all Guns and Rifles priced at
22 CAL. MAUSER SINGLE SHOT
Barrel 25 weight Bilb. A Class
Rifle. Price £6/15/-
£6/15/-
k
BROWNING AUTO LOADING
RIFLE
Solid breech, hammerless, will fire Rim Fire .22
calibre long rifle smokeless cartridges. 20in. round
barrel. Weight 4£lb. Magazine holds eight cart-
ridges. Price 92/6
As above, for .22 short, magazine holds 1 1 cartridges.
926
Price, 92/6.
BROWNIN
G TROMBONE
REPEATER
.22 calibre (15 short or 12 long or 11 long
rifle). Will shoot these different cartridges
mixed. 22in. barrel. Exceptionally accurate.
Weight 51b. Price £5/2/6
£5/2/6


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter VIII.
/.
O|ESANCK’S feet were unsteady as he came
down the long gangway. The sight of the
Chinese boat had excited him, brought a
tumult to his blood, so that colored lights
danced through his brain and the world
around him faded into smoke. Smells of
strange food, almond-eyed stewards moving about on
noiseless slippered feet, echoes of rhythmical singsong
from the darkness of the fo’c’sle where sailors sat
talking! And the quiet of the floodlit poop-deck, of
the handful of kimono-clad women curled up in the
shadows, passive, incurious, as if they had withdrawn
into their innermost recesses and would not come out
till the boat anchored in familiar waters and the
crowded, myriad life of Asia flowed over them again.
He saw the port through their eyes, a tiny cluster
of lights on the edge of a great darkness. A huddle
of fugitive buildings around which a few people moved
like ghosts, making meaningless gestures, lost, listen-
ing to the echoes of their own voices from the void.
A place cut off from all that gave life continuity and
significance.
“When a limb is cut off the nerves still flicker,
there is spasmodic movement. But it is not life. Life
is in the mind. I think, therefore I am. To be warm
and have one’s belly filled —that is not enough. In
the end the nerves will cease to flicker, there will be
the content of death... But perhaps there is another
form of life that has its own sensation. That of the
shellfish when the tide washes over it. To remain
on the rock, stirred by a pulse from outside.”
He was a little drunk. Standing in the shadow
of the tin shed, he uncertainly fingered the eight notes
in his pocket, looking back at the brightness of the
lit deck above him, mustard-yellow against the dark-
ness of the night sky. The head steward had come
out and was leaning over the rails, his body bulky
in its full clothes, his face a mere smudge. Waiting
for him to slink back and make a better offer, the
cunning devil! Perhaps if he had bargained hard
enough, Besanck felt, the old rogue would have found
a place for him among the cargo or in some corner
of the galley ; but there had been a repulsiveness in
that fixed smile, those opaque, predatory eyes.
And did he really want to go, or was it just an
impulse that had swept over him when, enlivened by
a good dinner and a few drinks, he had seen the boat
moored against the wharf, wandered across to read
the Chinese characters on the stern? Comfort of the
cockpit with the Kestrel at anchor, the light falling
clear on the printed page. Horror of the dark,
nostalgic wave rising in an under-swell during the
night’s quiet, sinking in the emptiness of a flat sea-
plain.
If he went it would mean going further than
China. Perhaps, after all, he would get no peace till
he returned, took on the flesh and substance of a full
man again.
uCO you’re a moth, too. Attracted here out of
the dark.” Coming quietly out of the shadows
the voice startled him, brought him to the surface
with a jerk. It was a moment before he recognised
the open, challenging eyes, the crooked, wavering
smile, dimly seen, swimming into his vision as through
water. His face brightened: moodiness fell away
from him. The play-instinct awoke in him as he
moved over to the girl.
“Attracted?” he said lightly. “Yes, I confess to
being attracted. But what is it to be a moth?”
The jerky laugh held a hint of resentment. “They
have stuffy habits. They live in the dark, in holes
and cupboards: tuck themselves away from everyone’s
sight. But they have wings when they want to use
them... You were thinking of flitting off.”
“What makes you believe that?”
“I was watching your face as you came down the
gangway. It was all lit up, yet uncertain about some-
thing. To go or not to go. You looked as if for
two pins you’d book your passage and go away in
the morning.”
“Two pins? It is not done so easily. There was
a smug-looking pirate aboard there—he would have
stowed me away for twenty pounds. A parcel of
contraband. Less risky than opium, but not so profit-
able. At the moment, though, twenty pounds is not
come by without effort.”
“You wanted to go, then? It was just a matter
of money.”
“Or of mood. A little while ago I wanted
nothing but to be away from here. At present —no.
Certainly, no.”
There was mechanical gallantry in his voice, in
the swift movement of his eyes. The girl frowned.
“That’s just blarney. You’re not really so change-
able as all that.”
“Not deep down in the mind, but in the will-
yes. It is no real change in me whether I go or stay.
In China, supposing China is my goal, there is still
the problem of myself... But you—is it possible you
had this restlessness too?”
“It always gives me a fillip to come down to the
wharves and see the boats.”
“Excitement? You were looking for that, eh?
Then let us look for it together.”
“Where?”
“Anywhere. The night is still young.”
She hung back. “I feel frowsy. Not fit to be
seen in a decent light. I only slipped out for half-
an-hour.”
“Please,” he said, putting his hand on her
shoulder.
A ramshackle taxi was prowling about the back
of the wharves, its driver’s face a blob of yellow
in the dark as he bent forward to catch the murmur
of voices. In a moment Besanck had hailed it, helped
the girl in, sprung in beside her. He was suddenly
airy and lightheaded, alive to the tips of his fingers:
his talk bubbled on jerkily, broken by the jolting of
the car. “Let us see what the town has to offer us.
Food, wine, music. To-night we shall be tourists, eh,
looking at it with eyes not yet disillusioned. Moving-
pictures—no, you do not want that. There is nothing
but gangsters and sentiment for the mob —more life
is in the streets themselves... I remember your
name now: it is Freda. Your face I remembered
at the first moment —it does not go so easily from the
mind. How is it we have not met since we were on
the island? You are friends with Neil, yet you do
not come to his boat.”
“I’m not so often here. Neither are you.”
“Then let us make the most of when we happen
to meet. You agree?”
WARM breezes blowing in from the sea, dazzle
of lights, of tangled Neon signs as they whirled
up the main street, turned into the esplanade, moved
slowly along the front. Dim stars burned on the
water where small boats rode at anchor. Heat-
lightning flickered on the far horizon, sheets of thin
flame that burst from the night’s darkness, quivered
a moment and were gone. There came a medley of
sound from the beach pavilion, voices of people alight-
ing from cars, thresh of feet jazzing to the music of
a loud-speaker.
Freda leant her body back, her shoe tapping
on the iron bar under the driver’s seat. “Why not
go there and dance?”
“Why not?” Besanck agreed. “But let us have
something to drink first. I am not yet carried out of
myself, nor are you.”
“I don’t know that I want to be.”
“Yet you have something on your mind. An
unhappy love-affair, eh?”
“No: what makes you think that?”
“You are moody. You seek out dark places and
stare at the water.”
She suddenly threw her head back recklessly. “I
suppose I do want to be carried out of myself. Let’s
drink.”
They were back in the main street, moving
through the Saturday-night crowd that drifted aim-
lessly to and fro, staring into shop-windows, drugged
with fluid light. Cayley’s cocktail-bar was empty
except for two elderly men who stood fingering their
empty glasses, each with a foot on the brass rail, each
with a pool of light gleaming from his skull. They
turned pale eyes in unison, holding their bald heads
as consciously as if they were eggs that might fall and
smash at a careless movement. Mild surprise spread
slowly over their heavy faces. Freda’s hair was
rumpled, her legs bare. Besanck’s holland suit hung
in crumpled folds on his lean body: his soiled white
sandshoes looked like rags bound around his feet.
“They do not approve of me —none of them,” he
grinned, noticing the look in the girl’s eyes as she
brought their drinks. “There is something about me
—it is not just that I am a foreigner. Why should
Ibe lively when obviously not yet drunk? But what
matter? You have no reputation to lose, eh?”
“None that I value. Mine was torn to tatters
long ago.”
“By these people?”
“They’re all strangers. I’m nothing to them:
they’re certainly nothing to me.”
“Good! We can be simple and enjoy ourselves,
as on the island. To be simple—that is the privilege
of the civilised. Once in a while to laugh at our-
selves, at the complicated screen we put between us
and reality... Ah, there is Laura. She sees me:
no, she does not see me.”
He stared suddenly into the big glass that reflected
the foyer, the open door of the lounge, a dim, far
interior like the inside of a shell. A waiter was moving
about with coffee-cups, his figure dwarfed by the
perspective. Miniature women were strewn about the
chairs and sofas, their heads inclined to one another,
their crossed feet looking like the tails of mermaids.
“Who?” .
“Laura. You must surely know Mrs. Clune.
The woman Neil has conceived such a hatred for
because of his father. She has her head turned toward
THE STORY SO FAR . . .
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well,” dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son —they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder—he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensens daughter.
There are increasing signs of a break
between Neil and Besanck.


the door: she is talking to someone else and is bored.
Shall we go in there, eh, and rescue her?”
“No, please, for the love of Heaven! Let’s get
away.”
“But we must have another drink. Yes: there
is still a cloud about you. Your eyes are restless: you
are not yet liberated from yourself.”
People were trickling into the bar from the
adjoining card-room, a couple of fattish men in even-
ing-dress, a woman with platinum hair and gold-
studded teeth, a young owlish-eyed man, slightly
drunk. Their high-pitched voices filled the room:
they were playing the last hand of bridge over again.
Across the foyer Laura Clune came flowing with a
jangle of bracelets, a rustle of silk. She glanced inside
the bar as if she was looking for someone, drummed
with her fingers a moment on the lintel of the door,
swept the room with a swift exploring look and sailed
away again.
Besanck’s face fell as he put down the glass. “Ah,
she does not recognise me. Perhaps it is that she
does not want to. There are expensive guests here:
their feelings must be taken into account... Never
mind. We will go down to the beach and dance.”
T”HEY were in the car, racketing off to the esplanade
* again, tang of the seaweed and the uncovered
mud-flats meeting them as they reached the front.
Freda lolled back against the cushions, alert of mind
but passive, her blood pleasantly stimulated, her will
buried in woolly depths. Besanck’s light talk washed
over her, held her captive as it had done that day on
the island. Had he drunk too much or was it his
nature to be volatile like this? His face was a play-
ground of changing expressions in the flickering street-
lights: it had looked quite different, remote, heavy
with thought, when he was coming down the gangway
of the boat.
She suddenly stiffened as they drew up at the
beach pavilion and the arc-lights spread a sickly
primrose wash over faces she knew in the doorway:
the faces of girls with plucked brows and carmined
lips, of youths whose oiled hair clung to their skulls
like tonsures. “No: I don’t want to go in there, after
all.”
Besanck’s eyes rested on her in amused under-
standing. “Well, let us find somewhere else. There
are other places. You have been to Albert’s, in
Luggertown?”
“Once or twice. That was years ago.”
“It might be they are dancing there. Luggerboys,
fishermen, colored people. It is at least more lively
than here. You are not too shy to come?”
“No: why should I be? Most of the boys know
me.”
They sheered off into the night, past the wharves
W'here the Chinese boat lay bathed in its own light,
through the mean streets at the back of the town,
along the mangrove-fringed arms of the estuary.
Fireflies of lanterns danced on the water: voices of
men fishing with lines came faintly from boatsheds
on the banks. The car was tossed from one rut to
another, imposing close contact on the two inside,
stifling any impulse to talk. From the depths of a
long silence Freda dragged herself up to say with
sudden directness “Tell me —how do you get on with
Sandy?”
Besanck looked at her, gave a light laugh. “With
Neil? Well, what is there to say? You know how
men live. Talking about their work, trying to find a
common fun in things about them. We have dif-
ferences sometimes: we make them up. He is a
likeable boy.”
“A boy? You think of him like that?”
“How else? Is it an outrage, then, to call him
a boy? We are friends: we have had good times
together. It is not because of any quarrel with him
I thought of going away... But let us not discuss
him now. It is you 1 am curious about.”
“He’s twenty-three,” she said. “You’re not so
very old yourself.”
“I have forgotten my age. At least once I have
died and risen again. Or perhaps it is only I feel life
stir within the tomb. Tell me what you think about
when you sit alone there in the hills.”
She said stolidly “You’ve no right to treat Sandy
so lightly. He’s not just a boy: he’s got character.
No one could help feeling a sort of power in him.”
“My dear girl, do I deny that? He is everything
you say. Some day, perhaps, he will make a greater
name than his father. Become a man of importance
in this town where success is so simple to measure...
No, I must not be false and ironic. There is a life,
a warmth, about Neil that attracts me in spite of
myself. More and more I have come to depend
on him. There are many flattering things I could say
of him, but to-night—is it so wrong of me?—l am
interested in talking about you.”
He slipped his arm around her in the jolting
darkness. A sceptical smile hovered about her mouth.
She gave him a sidelong glance, looked away again.
“Really interested, Leo? Or is that way of talking
just a habit?”
“No, I have no fixed habits. Certainly no habit
of making love.”
LIGHTS shone through the greenery of the under-
house where the car had stopped. There was a
clatter of voices, faint threads of music, a smell of
fish, of night-blooming flowers. The taxi-driver
glanced round at them inquiringly, eyes suspicious
under the broken peak of his cap. Was this the joint
they were looking for? And did they want him to
wait?
“Yes, wait if you like,” said Besanck, tossing him
a note. We may be an hour: we may be till morn-
ing.”
Half-a-hundred eyes flashed toward them and
then fluttered delicately away as they entered the
underhouse, eyes of fishermen, of luggerboys, of
colored women and girls. None of the mixed crowd
seemed to resent their coming. Some were squatting
around the walls, others twirled about the floor to
the sound of a wheezy gramophone, shuffling feet,
naked or in sandshoes, feeling for the rhythm, follow-
ing it a few moments, losing it again. The men
were sober and a little clumsy, the girls graceful and
spirited, making vigorous movements of the hips,
smiling to one another over their partners’ shoulders.
Dust rose from the powdered floor. Lights swam in
a yellow haze, smells of mud and mangrove floated in
from the dark outside.
Dancing with Besanck, feeling something personal
and provocative in the pressure of his arm, the way
his eyes rested on her own, Freda let her blood take
charge of her. Recklessness was in her laugh, in the
swing and dip of her body. She hummed the air of
the foxtrot beneath her breath, leant her head back
provocatively, smiled over to Albert, whose big figure
stood blocking the entrance of an inner doorway. A
sense of release poured through her, as if something
had lifted, freeing her limbs, her spirit. “This is
great. I feel completely at home here. More than
I did among those spectres in Calyey’s bar. I believe
I could live with these people.”
“Strip yourself bare, eh? Become the thoughtless
savage.”
“What’s the essence of savagery? You’re talking
like any old local councillor now... Did I ever tell
you about Guthrie?”
“No: who is Guthrie?”
“His eyes watch me across the table at every
meal, try to probe my past... I was in love with
a colored boy once. It was a scandal.”
“Yet you have survived?”
“Neither of us took it tragically. He went off
in a Thursday Island lugger. We were both about
eighteen.”
“The idea, eh—that was the important thing to
you.”
“No he had wonderful eyes. 1 believe I’d have
burnt my boats and gone off with him if he’d really
wanted it... There’s Charlie, your deckhand, over
there. He’s shy of me because I used to teach him.
I must go over and ask him to dance.”
STE moved across to where Charlie was sitting on
an upturned kerosene-box whittling at the model
of a boat, two young girls standing beside him and
staring at him in open-mouthed admiration. Besanck
passed into the little room at the side that was cur-
tained off with hessian and reeked of smoke and
spilt beer. Three or four luggerboys squatted round
on their heels rolling cigarettes while Albert argued
with a big man whose head was wrapped in a woollen
comforter, dark eyes peering out like those of an
octopus from a crevice.
They looked at Besanck with suspicion ; Albert
lifted an empty bottle from the table and flung if
behind him violently. “No, clear out, you boys: you
full of drink already. I ainfi a-goin’ to bring the cops
down on me. They got me in the gun already, those
fellow. Nab me for this, nab me for that. Clear out,
I tella you. I don’t want to give this house a bad
name.”
He put a heavy hand on the shoulder of the man
with the woollen comforter. Besanck skinned a note
from the roll in his pocket. “One more, Ot’ello ; one
more for them all. You know me that I am not a
pimp? You must not close down because I come.
This one, it is on me. There will be no bad name
for the house while drink still flows.”
He was aware of a simmering in his blood that
might pass away at any moment. He pulled a bottle
from beneath a heap of banana-leaves and jerked the
metal top off on the edge of the table. “Hey, how
much more have you hidden away, Ot’ello? There
is no need to fear the cops: is it not true they shiver
when they hear your name? The man with red in
his eye. The great bull it is not safe to bait. Let us
all drink. It is still a long time till morning.”
In the other room the clamor was becoming
louder, the dancing less decorous. A fresh party of
boys had come in from a newly-arrived lugger: they
stood around with caps tilted askew, impatience in
their eyes, their bodies charged with a violence born
of cramped quarters, long days at sea. They hummed
songs beneath their breath, called to one another
across the room. Suddenly they stopped the gramo-
phone and took charge of the floor, singing, thudding
their feet, moving to the kettledrum time of a shock-
headed youngster who tapped with two sticks on a
tin. “Ayee, ayee... Huh, huh, huh!”
Drum of naked feet on the boards, glow of dark,
distorted faces under the swinging lights, movement
of thick-set bodies intent on spilling out their pent-up
life. The atmosphere of the room changed, became
charged with vital heat. In the throaty voices there
were echoes of conches, of metal on wood, spears
rattling, war-canoes moving over the water. A hurri-
cane-lamp was knocked over and went out with a
flare: a child set up a scream: some of the older
women were whispering together and slipping off
home. Still the thud-thud shook the boards, the
brawny figures pranced, the air was filled with grunts
that revealed, more than any articulate sound, the
dark underground sea of human passion.
When the luggerboys finished and rolled off to
the inner room the gramophone was set going again,
but there was an emptiness in its thin, metallic sound.
The dancers moved listlessly, losing the rhythm.
Besanck, his feet unsteady, his eyes flickering, wan-
dered over to where Freda was standing talking to
a tall, loose-limbed boy in singlet and shorts. “Well,
have you had enough, eh?”
She looked him up and down, reckless but cool.
“No, I’m quite at home here. I’m not going till they
all go.”
“It was with me you
came. I claim the privilege
. . . your protector.”
“I don’t need one . . .
You’ve been drinking, Leo.”
“Only a little. Do I
look carried out of myself?
It is only because” He
hesitated, smiled foolishly.
She answered his glance
with level, faintly ironic eyes.
“Well?”
“No,” he said, breaking
off. “You despise me for
talking like this. It is grow-
ing stuffy and tiresome here.
Let us go.”
'“THERE came a sudden
1 shriek, a scurry of
figures, and the lean man
with the woollen comforter
was propelled into the room,
falling heavily,- knocking
over the gramophone. Before
he could struggle to his feet
Albert was towering over
him, his small eyes sparks of
fire, his big figure heavy with
bullish power. He gave a
quick flick of his foot: a
knife rattled across the floor


and struck a kerosene-box. Triumphantly he turned
to the men standing under the lights, the girls shrink-
ing against the walls. “You see? That is what he
would fight with. Pull out the knife like a Dago . . .
Clear out now —finish. Everyone get out. The cops
—you wanta bring the cops down on me. Everyone
go out.”
He made emphatic gestures with his arms, as if
sweeping them all out before him. Anger radiated
from his big body, brought an ugly tinge of white to
his skin. No one knew what had caused the explosion,
no one wanted to ask. The room emptied like a
sheepyard when the gates have been swung open.
Freda was standing under the stephanotis outside,
with Besanck holding her arm. She was dizzy, un-
steady at the knees, overcome by the smell of crushed
flowers, the cool flicker of wind from the estuary.
Voices were flowing away down the hill, lanterns
bobbing about among the greenery. Only a few
lights showed on the black velvet of the water.
She became conscious of Neil beside her, a
lantern in his hand, his face spotted with shadows
in the upward-streaming glow. He spoke brusquely
to Besanck. “You get back to the boat, Leo. I’ll see
Freda home.”
Besanck hesitated, showed a flicker of self-
assertion. “There was a taxi. Hey, where is our
taxi vanished? The devil —he promised to wait.”
“Never mind about him. He’s probably gone
hours ago. You get back to the boat and have some
sleep before daylight. We’ll foot it unless we strike
a truck.”
Freda, her hand on Neil’s arm, said impulsively:
“Give me a blanket, Sandy, and I’ll curl up on your
deck. I don’t need to go home.”
“Nonsense! ”
“Please. It’ll be easy for me to make myself
snug, and it’ll be only a little while till morning.”
“No,” he told her, “we’re going out before day-
light.”
“Really? Is it so fixed as all that?”
“We’re going out before daylight,” he repeated
doggedly. “We’ve got loading for Sharon River. I’ve
been looking all over the town for Leo and Charlie...
Come on! You’re not going to make a song about a
little walk of a mile or so.”
He took her arm, bundled her off peremptorily
down the hill, neither speaking as they stumbled
through the darkness, feeling for the path, slipping
on the loose stones.
//.
NEIL was late back at the estuary, for he had sat
nearly an hour under one of the tattered palms
of the esplanade, chewing over words of Freda’s
that began to turn round and round in his head
as soon as she left him. Their walk home had been
exasperating, full of covert thrusts and dark silences,
Freda dropping behind every little while, stopping to
stare at some boat on the water.
She had mocked at the heavy air of authority he
had put on when he appeared, as if Besanck and
Charlie were youngsters who had broken bounds, as if
she herself were a poor motherless creature he had to
keep under his eye. “What’s come over you, Sandy?
I thought Bsanck had at least as much right...
Suffering from a swollen sense of responsibility, are
you?”
“That’s how it looks, does it? You know well
enough it was no place for you —a joint like Albert’s.
On Saturday night, too.”
“My dear boy, don’t be spinsterish. I wasn’t
afraid of getting my throat cut.”
“If anything had happened it would have been
the talk of the town.”
“What the butcher-boy might say to the girls at
the back-door. That’s so frightfully important.”
“It isn’t just a matter of caring what people say.”
“What is it, then? Tell me.”
“If you’re set on pretending you don’t know”
“I don’t... Anyway, I didn’t go alone.”
Was there a feminine duplicity in her challenge,
her show of openness? He couldn’t discuss Leo with
her, his secret contempt for women, his Lothario
habits, what he might infer from her readiness to go
to a place like Albert’s with him. He felt that, for
all her talk, she knew very little about the world.
And he was afraid (there was a pulse drumming
at the back of his head) that when they spoke of the
affair over their coffee Leo would say something so
ruthless, penetrating, provocative, about her that he
would lose his self-control and hit Leo in the mouth.
There was a kind of comment you couldn’t tolerate.
The only retort was a blow.
He was back again in the front room of a frowsy
notel, listening to a voice running on and on. Slip-
pers shuffling over the carpet, shaky fingers dropping
tobacco-ash, eyes shot with reddish, cantankerous
light. “But your mother —flung herself at my head.”
Daylight was breaking over the estuary. The
mangroves along the edge still held the darkness of
night, but a pearly sheen had spread over the sky,
the still water, and every black boat stood poised on
its inverted shadow. A couple of youngsters waded
about silently in the mud near one of the jetties, throw-
ing a casting-net for shrimps. Here and there a plume
of smoke rose from a hovel hidden in a gully. Several
little craft were moving out, among them a towering
Thursday Island lugger with a small monkeyish figure
perched high in the rigging, waving with slow rhyth-
mical movements to some girl among the mangroves.
Neil watched it waft toward the entrance, the soiled
towel in the native boy’s hand beating up and down
pathetically till the tall masts were lost to view.
“If he looks at me with that knowing little laugh
of his” he was thinking.
He was troubled by his own heat. What had
come over his feeling for Leo that made the thought
of blows possible, the idea of an outbreak something
like release? It was he who had run after Leo. He
had wanted him for a mate, had persuaded him to
take a share in the Kestrel, still felt an inner loyalty
to him. Memories of the rollicking days and nights
they had spent together during the winter months
worked in his blood like wine. If it were merely a
matter of sticking to Leo in a jamb
BUT his fears of a chance word bringing about a
thunderstorm were dissipated when he arrived
back at the boat. Besanck was doctoring Charlie,
who had cut his foot badly on a broken bottle when
wading after the flattie. Neither of them had had
any sleep, yet Leo’s voice was cheerful as he brisked
around the cockpit, pulling out an old shirt from his
grip and tearing off the tail, bantering Charlie about
the toughness of his skin. “Must have been sharp,
eh, to go through that leather you have grown on
your footsoles. Or have you spoilt yourself by wear-
ing shoes? Become soft like any other of us.”
He was at his best in an emergency like this. He
had a smattering of medical knowledge and the deft,
delicate hands of a woman.
As they sat around sipping their coffee before
moving out he began to talk about wounds he had
seen in war, operations carried out without anaes-
thetics, the nature of pain. All men, he argued
lightly, did not suffer in the same degree. To feel
pain acutely was the doom of the highly-organised,
the sensitive, the decadent : it was the penalty Nature
imposed on those who dragged themselves out of
her own unconsciousness. A peasant could examine
with interest a gash in his body that would make an
imaginative man writhe in mental torture: a fish
would take as bait the eye that had been foul-hooked
from his head. “So one need not be too proud of
one’s stoicism, eh, Charlie?”
He grinned across the table at the boy, who
only half-understood him yet flashed back a look of
sullen resentment.
The incident at Albert’s faded into the back-
ground. There was nothing in Besanck’s manner to
show that it had any significance for him or that he
had given it a thought. By the time they had come
back from their journey up the coast Neil was per-
suaded that he had taken it too seriously, made a
fool of himself again. That infernal edginess of his!
It kept cropping up at unexpected times, making it
hard for anyone to live on level terms with him.
Yet how could you avoid these collisions with
a fellow like Leo? He had come back more seriously
than ever to his idea of taking the Kestrel on a
voyage to the Dutch islands. He ransacked the
School of Arts for books on navigation and the
handling of small boats and lay on the hatch poring
over them, jotting down notes and drawing diagrams.
“So blow, ye winds, aho ; a-roving I would go,”
he sang in a tuneless tenor as he juggled the cooking-
pots in the galley.
THEY did not talk so much together now when
they anchored behind one of the little islands or
lay among the mangroves of the estuary waiting for
the ice and stores to come aboard. Talk had so
often led to argument, argument to the display of
feeling. And the warmth, Neil recognised sourly,
was always on his side. It was increasingly hard for
him to stomach Leo’s airy pessimism, to accept the
assumption that they were living in a world that was
kept going only by the impetus it had received in the
past.
What, he asked himself in a baffled way, was
this world that Leo was so convinced had begun to
crumble? Not the solid earth and rock on which
you trod. And if it was only the social system that
was collapsing people would easily make another to
suit themselves. But you didn’t need to trouble over
questions like that in a place like Port Cowrie. Time
enough when the crash came, if it did come... There
was Leo’s mocking attitude to the life of the port,
though, to that of the whole country. An entertaining
sideshow it was to him, something in which he was
not involved. That irritating smile in the blue,
quizzical eyes when he showed pride in the amount
of shipping at the wharves or the look of the lights
along the front as they swung in through the beacons.
“Beginning to feel part of it, eh, Neil? This great
town of which my father was pioneer.”
There was a sting in these continual quips about
his father.
A sting, too, in Leo’s gibes about his interest in
the affairs of the town —the site of the new aerodrome,
for instance. For months there had been talk of
building one, and nowhere was the discussion keener
than along the waterfront. It would make a difference
to small craft along the Reef if a ’plane could be
sent out to give warning of approaching cyclones:
but the work had been held up because of the local
councillors. Some wanted new land reclaimed for
the site from the outlying swamps.
With little stories of Peter’s in his mind Neil
pored over letters in the weekly paper, went to the
labor of writing one himself ; yet when he spoke of
it he was always conscious of Leo’s sardonic smile.
“My dear Neil, you still worry over that? Why let
yourself become worked-up about it? It does not
matter.”
“What doesn’t? Would you allow a handful of
bumbles ....?”
“That is the privilege of the elected. Why not
find amusement in the humbug of their arguments?
“Treat it all as just entertainment, eh? Thanks —
I’m not capable of getting fun out of things that
come so near home as this. These fellows make me
want to go out with an axe. You’re so damned
superior, Leo. Nothing’s important to you.”
“Nothing, at least, of these small politics. What
happens here —how can it be important? This is a
part of the world that —what shall I say? does not
exist.”
“You think so? Yet it gives you a living.”
“For the moment. But that does not compel me
to take it seriously. It is sometimes dull, sometimes
amusing, but it does not matter. The people—they
are pleasant, but they do not matter. I am unable
to respect their ideas or what they live for.”
Neil could only meet this with an explosion.
“What the hell do you respect, Leo? Only yourself.”
“Not myself, my dear boy, but my reason. I can
allow it to work, even at the expense of my feeling,
my prejudices. What it tells me I take for truth.
“And you mean to say I don’t?”
There was a friendly, ruthless smile in Besanck’s
eyes! “Only when it tells you pleasant things. If the
truth is not comfortable no, you do not want to
hear.”
“You’re getting away from the point. We’re
talking about this aerodrome affair.”
“No: about your excitement over it your
illusion that these small things matter. Let us
occupy all our minds with them, you say. Let us
build up a romance about the life around us that will
make it important.” There was not the usual
mockery in his voice. There was, instead, a sober
tolerance, as if he was intent on explaining his mate
to himself.
Neil’s only answer was to grunt and to turn to
something else. He had come to hate this continual
analysis, this cold-blooded play of the mind. It
aroused an irritation in him, left him fuddled, spread
a restlessness through his blood, took away some of
his zest in his daily work. Yet he was uneasy about
his own reactions against it. Was he gradually losing
his keenness of intellect, his capacity for general ideas,
relapsing into the state of a primitive being, with no
impulse or power to organise the thoughts that came
to him?
So many of his days went by in a dream. There
was something about this light but continuous labor
that subdued the mind to its rhythm, kept it peacefully
submerged. After a night out in the flattie, fishing
along some reef, one could only spend the next day
in broken sleep or in lolling about the decks, mending
gear. Physical sensations repeated themselves just
below the level of consciousness. Rip of the taut
line through the fingers as a shark tore the caught
fish from the hook, rock of the tiny boat on the long
swell, prick of coral on the bare footsoles, thrill of
the wave breaking green over the bows. That was
life! Wasn’t it enough to satisfy any man with
healthy blood in him? If Leo was determined to
make no response to it, to spend all his leisure in
fantastic plans for getting away
111.
“7" HEY lay behind Broke Island, forty miles from
f home, sheltered from a rising wind by the
v j rugged hump of timber-clad mountain with its
granite cliffs, its horseshoe reef. For five days
they had been out, beating about from one familiar
spot to another, netting the shallows each evening
for fresh bait and burleying their favorite grounds:
but all without luck. Now that the summer was well
advanced the kingfish had gone from the heated water
and there was little use in trolling. They had to
depend on what reef-fish they could pick up with the
lines, and night after night Neil had nothing to show
for his long vigil in the dark.,
“Yet this is the game some fools follow for sport,”
he muttered wryly to Besanck as he stripped off his
wet clothes. “They ought to be set adrift with line
and flattie till they’ve had a bellyful for life.”
For once they were without Charlie. The boy’s
cut foot had healed, broken open again, finally turned
septic, and he was forced to lie-up in hospital: it might
be weeks before he was able to walk again. They
missed both his craft and his company. Barefooted
he would move about the cluttered deck like a monkey,
watching with bright, sparrowhawk eyes for anything
out of order, and his instinct seemed to draw him to
places where fish were to be found. Then his careless
chatter, his singing, helped to make the night hours
pass easily. He had picked up the songs o t e
luggerboys, and would hum them over and over m


She became conscious of Neil
beside her. He spoke brusquely
to Besanck. “I’ll see Freda
home.”
a low voice that had a throaty undertone like the
groundswell of an organ.
“Kalem kabilyeh-eh,
Daido kabilyeh.”
Though he rarely knew the meaning of the words
he communicated their feeling as though it was celled
in his blood.
Squatting on the still deck, poking about the
reefs in his flattie, Neil felt lost without him. While
Charlie was there he did not mind Besanck’s stubborn
objection to going out at night. It had become an
accepted thing that Besanck’s work was to do the
cooking and look after the engine: while they were
trolling the arrangement worked easily, but now it
jarred on him to see the equanimity with which his
mate would let him go off alone when night fell.
That fondness of Leo’s for his bunk and his petrol-
lantern !
“Damn it all, does he think I only go out because
I like it? I could enjoy curling up with a book too.”
(But could he? There was this drive in him, this
urge to keep moving all his waking hours.)
L_J E awoke late one afternoon from light sleep to
1 1 feel a change in the air, a jumble of movement
in the enclosed water. Grape-hued clouds were mass-
ing behind the peak of the island, and though there
was little wind the platinum sky had a look of tensity,
of awed expectation. Neil stood watching a frigate-
bird, creature of ill-omen, soar round and round as
if its axis was the top of the bare mast. He was
fascinated by its movement; he remembered sinister
tales of the other fishermen about the way it heralded
storm and disaster. What was the wise thing for
them to do? Haul up the hook and run for home?
But the market was empty of fish and they had
nothing but unused ice in their boxes.
He said casually to Besanck as they ate their
evening meal: “What about coming out to-night,
Leo, and beating round the edge of the reef? I don’t
want to shift the boat, but the sea’s still smooth
enough for the flattie. It might be our last chance of
a catch. If the wind rises we’ll have to make for
port.”
Besanck lifted heavy, preoccupied eyes. “Again
you ask me, Neil. No: once more I refuse. I am
sorry, but my answer must be always the same. To
do my own job—that is quite enough... Hell, how
I have come to hate the sight and smell of fish.
Filth!”
There was emphasis in his voice, disgust in his
grimace, the movement of his shoulders. Neil said
drily “Yet you depend on it as much as I do. And
neither of us is making a very fat living these days.”
“No. Yet I am moderately content.”
“Well, I’m damned if I am. We’ll have to foot
Charlie’s bill when he comes out of hospital. There’s
even talk of him losing his leg: if he does it’s up to
us to compensate his family. Make it up to him and
Myra, anyway. And we’ve been going back steadily
since the kingfish season closed.”
Besanck made an impatient gesture as he rose
from the table. “Money! Money! It has got you
down, Neil, chained you up fast. These days you
have no other thought. Are you wasting too much
oil? This trip—will it pay? Have we taken too
many stores aboard?... One might as well be a
small tradesman with his nose in accounts. Save a
penny, gain a penny. Why not lie back sometimes
and forget the expense? This boat is it not a
comfortable enough home?”
“Perhaps. For those who can take things easy
and push the work on to others.”
There was deliberate provocation in his eyes. A
faint flush came to Besanck’s forehead, a sudden
rigidity to his body, but he only smiled. “So that is
how you regard it, eh? I am the useless one, the one
you have to carry. Well, let us make other arrange-
ments, more profitable to us both. Myself—l am not
a good fisherman. To take a share of the boat, you
admit, was not my choice. It should be easy for you,
Neil, to get a more useful partner. Either black or
white.”
His poise as he rolled a cigarette, licked the paper,
coolly struck a match, brought Neil to himself with
a jerk. He said in a conciliatory tone, shying away
from the suggestion of a break, “I don’t want to
growl, Leo, but we’re in this game together. And the
point of it is getting fish. Neither of us can say he’s
not interested in that.”
“Yet I find myself not interested.”
“Not in making the thing pay?”
“Not in giving to this work all my time and
thought.”
“Oh, well, if you’ve finally made up your mind
about that”
1 Na huff he went up on deck. He knew the final
* break had come: he was secretly glad of it. There
was no harmony on the boat now ; there never would
be again. Deep down he had a sense of conflict
between himself and Leo, not a temporary disagree-
ment about this or that, but a clash of wills, each
trying to dominate, to impose on the other ideas and
habits of life that had root in their separate natures.
And there was no settling this conflict: if they lived
together it would become more acute, more deadly.
He took the flattie and rowed out along the reef
in the dark, looking back, looking forward. Charlie
didn’t like Besanck. The boy had so often been
picked up short in one of his long rigmaroles by some
facetious remark, some question he couldn’t under-
stand. What if he seized on this trouble with his foot
as an excuse for cutting clear? There would never
be any difficulty for Charlie in finding a job. And
he was more essential to the boat’s smooth working
than Leo.
He sat in the anchored flattie with his slack
line between his fingers, the rising wind blowing round
his ears, his eyes turned inward. “He’s given you an
opening now, and you’ve got to take it. Cut the
painter, set him adrift. You’ve been living in his
shadow, letting him put it over you... ‘lt is not
important.’ ‘These small politics!’ ‘Why not find
amusement?’... You’ll never be yourself till you’ve
left him behind.”
Images appeared in the dark. Charlie’s baffled
eyes across the table, smoky, resentful; Leo leaning
back, lids narrowed, smoke trickling from his nostrils ;
the face of Katie Cleves, shining in the daffodil wash
of the cinema lights, smiling, slightly malicious. “No,
I haven’t seen Freda for months. She always seems
fully occupied when she comes to town. Probably
with that attractive friend of yours.”
“Besanck? They’ve only met a couple of times.”
“Can you only count up to two?... But
perhaps I’m on the wrong track.”
Biting on the stem of his unfilled pipe, he sat
immobile in the flattie while rising seas broke over
him, drenched him to the skin.
\\J HEN at last he rowed back to the boat, cold and
cramped but without fish, there was a light burn-
ing in the cockpit and a jug of hot coffee waiting for
him. An almost feminine concern showed in
Besanck’s eyes as he hovered about him, finding him
a dry sweater, producing a flask of whisky from under
his pillow. It was not the mere expediency of a man
seeking to patch up a quarrel: something warm,
spontaneous, intimate had been awakened in him.
While Neil silently drained the jug of coffee he sat
opposite him, waiting for a friendly sign, watching
with sober eyes. “Well, you are ready to go back
now, Neil?”
Neil’s face became stubborn, heavy with will.
“No: we’ve still got nothing to go home with.”
“But is there any more chance now? You have
seen there is bad weather coming.”
“What odds! If it’s going to blow we may as
well ride it out here as anywhere else.”
He was in an ugly mood, drunk with a sense of
his own power. There was something flattering in
that diffidence of Leo’s. Leo was never so confident
out here on the water; his voice lacked assurance, his
whole personality seemed to shrink. Ever since the
beginning it had been the same. It was only in port
that Leo could exercise that subtle dominance over
him: well, then, keep him out of port as long as
possible. He sprawled over the table, one arm prop-
ping up his head, every line of his drowsy body
rubbing in his authority.
“I’m the boss now,” it said. “We don’t move till
I give the word. Better get that into your head right
away.”
Pleasure in Besanck’s uneasiness worked like
mercury through his blood, made him revel in the
{Continued, on page 50.)


than kind. The author’s diction would probably be
challenged, and he would have to produce his authori-
ties. Possibly the plot of the story would be torn to
smithereens, and the author would have to reassemble
the resulting chaos. If he tried to work in an indeli-
cate theme of which the elders disapproved he would
be cut up with remorseless verbal vivisection. And
of course he always profited by the heckling of the
critics and was openly convinced of his sins. Then
he went away and amended his principles and pro-
duced better works later on. Obviously such a scheme
of reviewing has more to commend it than the present
system, whereby, if the author is taken to task by
the reviewers, he merely retorts that they do not know
what they are writing about. Indeed, the Moham-
medan plan contains all the essential features of
reviewing and censorship combined.
GERALD DILLON.
A Private Kingdom in Burma.
On the face of it, Burmese Silver, by Edward
Thompson (Faber and Faber ; 7s. 6d.), is a story of
adventure in upper Burma ; in fact, it is a vehicle
for the writer’s knowledge of a picturesque country
and for his tempered criticism of the British Raj.
Clive Powell, recently retired from the Indian
Civil Service, penetrates the Burmese mountains,
bordering China, in search of a friend who, thirty
years before, had to leave the I.C.S. because of a
scandal and who has since established himself as
chieftain of a tribe of headhunters. “Jack and Jill
Burman” of the lowlands, it seems, are happy folk.
Work is almost unknown to them. “They have only
to shove a stick in the ground and presently it is
chucking mangoes and custard-apples at them.” They
divide their time between lovemaking, dancing,
decorating themselves with flowers and swimming—
with much laughter—in the Irawadi. There are some
pleasant descriptions of village life along the river-
banks ; also some vivid ones of the hill jungles through
which Powell was carried on a litter:
The vegetable world seemed to merge in the animal,
and almost to pass to it and from it at will. That
immense leaf that suddenly shut up on unsuspected
hinges, and showed under-wings of more than peacock
dies, was an insect. This mottle of purple on leathery
thickness, from which you shrank because it looked to
be living, was the matted base of an orchid. You
stared at the living greenness at the foot of a wet
rock, and it slowly unfolded into the deliberate sluggish
stirrings of a snake....or a portion of the herbage
humped itself into an iguana and slipped away.
The tiny kingdom of Travers, Powell’s friend,
has been discovered to be rich in mineral wealth, and
is caught between the closing pincers of Chinese and
British imperial aims. He is living in a wooden palace
surrounded by what barbaric magnificence the locality
affords and by a legend of semi-deity carefully
fostered by himself. His life has been one long and
dangerous protest against Imperialism’s treatment of
native races. Loneliness and singleness of aim have
rendered him, if not crazy, at least widely out of
touch with reality. His realm is invaded by a Chinese
provincial Governor. Powell arrives in time to per-
suade him that the game is up and that of the two
evils that confront him recognition of British power
is the lesser. And so the way is opened for the
economic enslavement of the simple headhunter.
Princess Perdita, Travers’s daughter, has her own
objections to the coming of the British Raj. Her
royal status will become merely nominal, and, though
educated in France and England, she will become
“just another half-caste Burmese girl.” Gussie,
Powell’s personal servant, a Eurasian, one of many
chance-begotten children of an English major, has
a hysterical wail to put up from his particular social
level :
“They despise us,” concluded poor Gussie, bursting
into tears, “because they say we are not pukka,” he
said, making use of the meanest word in Anglo-India’s
whole mean vocabulary of mean phrases. “Yet we
exist because your great officials and your proud soldiers
came to this country and lived with its women. But
they will not marry them! Because in the whole world
there are no people so unjust and so proud as the
English.”
Powell, a rather decent fellow, has done the best
he can - all round —having an eye to the uncompro-
mising realities. He bequeaths Gussie a hundred
rupees a month as a reward for his courage and
loyal service, but otherwise —of necessity—leaves the
situation pretty much as the author found it. Burmese
Silver is a competently-written book, but rather
exhausting to the reader owing to Thompson’s indirect
method of narration.
A Maoriland Saga.
In Sheep Kings (Harry H. Tombs, Ltd., Welling-
ton ; 75.) Joyce M. West tells the story of the Kings
of Enderby during four generations. It covers the
period of ninety years from 1840 —when Stafford
King, a penniless gentleman, worked his passage to
Maoriland, married the daughter of a Maori princess
and a well-born Englishman, and received, through
his wife, a tract of land in the wilderness that was
to become one of the largest and most famous sheep-
runs —till 1930, when his great-grandson lost Enderbv
in the depression and died in the hour of his failure.
This is a story of thoroughbreds, men, horses and.
you might almost add, motor-cars. It is a book about
gentlemen who lived hard, rode straight and died
game, their staunch retainers, their brave and deli-
cate women. Here is the picture of Valentine, the
last of the Kings:
She was a slim young woman, clad in a rose-
heather suit with a frill of white between her coat
lapels, white gauntlet gloves and a white felt hat. You
might have called her plain or beautiful, but you could
never have made the mistake of describing her as
pretty. She had her father’s contemptuous carving of
brow and cheekbones and chin, and his faintly-hooded
dark eyes. Her posture was as alert as his, but her
whipcord hardness of figure was contradicted by some
curious virginal sweetness about her mouth. Withal
there was a little swagger to her ways, not very pro-
nounced, but somehow pleasant.
There are also a couple of villains for dramatic
contrast, Hoare King and Vincent Le Moyne ; both
cads to women. Behind them all is glimpsed the
Maoriland primal scene:
Behind was the bush, miles of it, leagues of it. It
hung in a never-ending back curtain of dark-green and
blue-green and grey-green, of emerald and olive and
jade, of all the greens that ever were in the world,
and yet, to look at, it was not green at all, but blue as
the sea is blue.
Here is the pastoral scene of later days:
On the one hand were the sheep-grazed slopes of
Enderby, on the other small-farm country—cropping
paddocks, the green of new grass, ploughed strips,
blue-green potato fields. There were wattle hedges,
Lombardy poplars in twos and threes and avenues.
There were dairy cattle grazing placidly, milking sheds
perched on the edges of hill-slopes.
The book is delicate rather than strong. It is
like a fine pencil study. Happenings and characters
are subdued to the general pattern ; they march to
slow music, and the shadow of the end is over Ender-
by from the beginning. Even in its most vigorous
moments —in Stafford King, for example, giving his
life for his servant when a surf boat overturns —there
is a graceful and idyllic flavor about the story that
subdues it.
For chapter headings we have dates, lime and
time passing are never absent from the reader’s con-
sciousness, and perhaps it is this that gives the book
its measured quality. Valentine, the only child of
a romantic marriage, is left stripped of the world
she grew up to, but, though one life has ended for
her, another begins. She has youth and love, and in the
brave new world it is always possible to begin again.
The book’s format is a credit to the publishers, and
the absence of a blurb bespeaks an unusual reliance
on the merit of the contents.
Lawson's Prose.
The difficulty of getting together a reasonably
complete collection of Henry Lawson’s stories has
been overcome at last by Angus and Robertson’s
publication of the Prose Works of Henry Lawson in
two well-bound octavo volumes at 12s. 6d. As nine
books of 143 stories are included in this edition it
must be considered a bargain for all students of
Lawsoniana. The publishers advise that only a
limited number has been issued and that this edition
will not be reprinted.
The collection contains all the prose work of
Lawson that has been published in various forms by
Angus and Robertson and is thoroughly represen-
tative, including “While the Billy Boils” (both series),
“Joe Wilson,” “Joe Wilson’s Mates,” “On the Track,”
“Over the Sliprails,” “Send Round the Hat,” “The
Romance of the Swag” and “The Rising of the
Court.”
What one would be glad to see is a thin-paper
edition of Lawson in one volume, with introduction,
brief biography, annotations and an index. This
suggestion is offered to the publishers for considera-
tion when the present edition is sold out.
Tom Bracken's Biographers.
There has lately been a striking revival of interest
in Tom Bracken, the Irishman who flourished in Maori-
land in the late ’nineties and adventured for a while
in Victoria, his fame to-day resting wholly on his
poem “Not Understood.”
Last October, after putting Richard Seddon and
George Grey over the air from 2YA Wellington,
Tom L. Mills, until recently editor of the Feilding
“Star,” was commissioned by the Broadcasting Service
to do a talk on Bracken. When Mills went to Well-
ington to do the job he discovered that no fewer
than four prominent writers had been gathering
material for a Life of Bracken.
Some seven years ago Alan Mulgan began a
Bracken effort, but later dropped it. A few years
later T. Lindsay Buick, who has done much historical
work, took advantage of his location in the Turn-
bull Library to delve into Brackensia. These two
Toms (Buick and Bracken) were members of the
House of Reps, in their day, and both journalists.
The Not Understooder died in 1898. Buick is on
the payroll of the civil service with a roving commis-
sion as a writer and is doing fine research work. But
he also did not pursue the Bracken urge.
Quite recently Dr. Guy Scholefield, an ex-jour-
nalist, now General Assembly librarian, and Eileen
Duggan decided to collaborate on a Life of Bracken
—the poetess to write up the verse and journalese of
their subject and the doctor to do the political and
historical phases. They have gathered an astonishing
amount of material—and have also ceased further
operations. In the Christmas supplement of the Wel-
lington “Post” for 1936 Miss Duggan contributed an
excellent story-article, “Unwary Manna,” with
Bracken the politician as the hero.
The latest item is a newspaper article by J. A.
Walsh, telling the story of how Bracken missed the
appointment to the editorship of the then new
Catholic organ, the “Tablet,” printed in Dunedin, to
which Tom was one of the first and most popular
contributors. The directors of the weekly wanted to
retain the clever creator of the famous “Paddy
Murphy” verses and comments for the chair ’
Bishop Moran would not have it. A few
later “Not Understood” was published; and Waisn
suggests that the poem was inspired by the interview
and was the poet’s reply to the Bishop.
TE NGAKARA.
"Of Mortal Love."
To think of William Gerhardi writing a love story
is almost a contradiction in terms, and indeed in
Of Mortal Love (Arthur Barker; Bs. 6d.) he has
produced a book calculated to embarrass and deflate
those suffering from the immortal malady.
Boiled down to its facts, the story is romantic
and far from unusual. Dinah Fry is young and very
beautiful: She is married to a man who neglects
her in favor of phrenology and electric gramophones,
so she falls in love with Walter Smith, a composer,
the “white hope of English music.” When Jim sets
about divorcing Dinah, Walter is angry and dismayed.
The comic and humiliating predicaments into which
the divorce throws the lovers takes the gilt off the
romance. They quarrel. It is only when Dinah
is lost to him ihat Walter realises how deeply he
loves and needs her. Suitors gather round Dinah,
but the man she now loves —with the inspiring name
of Beano—is tired of her and no one else can win
her, for she dies, very gently, of heart failure one
rainy day when she is recovering from diphtheria.
On this story Gerhardi sheds a pitiless light. He
tells it in its entirety, instead of, as would most
authors, contenting himself with its romantic aspect.
Dinah is beautiful, tender and passionate, but she
is also exasperating. Walter is a creative artist with
an artist’s sensitive apprehensions, but there is also
a blind, petty and selfish side to his character. Love
is sweet, but it is no insurance against the hundred
absurd contingencies of everyday life. Of Mortal
Love is not a satire ; it is something far less gentle—
an unbiased account.
The story begins with an effect of thinness which
is only the first step in the author’s long, intricate
and subtle game with his reader. The reader thinks:
“This is simple, an idyll,” and plunges ahead only to
find himself in a labyrinth. The truth of it all turns
and twists and doubles upon itself, changing in his
hand to something not less true but different. The
book is rich in impressionistic transcriptions of life
that surprise with their naturalness —a night journey
by train, a family week-end, an unsuccessful party.
In the last resort it is rich in philosophic insight and
beauty. Yet none of these qualities functions evenly.
Gerhardi is an adept in disappointing and bewildering
his reader, in entangling him in brilliant but arid dis-
plays of virtuosity. It is all part of the entertainment.
Like Dinah, the book is beautiful but exasperating.
There are touches of sweetness and understand-
ing to surprise and sustain the reader. One of many
is a glimpse of Walter’s feeling for Dinah after he
has lost her love.
When, in the days in which she had loved him, she
said she looked on him as her husband, the words
had filled him with tragic gloom. Now that they went
about together he felt as if he were newly married to
her; as if in those far-away days he had been lost in
profound sleep, hibernating under a deep white mantle
of snow which had thawed and was revealing to the
eye all sorts of quaint and delightful surprises.
Reviewed Briefly .
FICTION . . .
A Case of Conscience, by Martin Armstrong
(Gollancz; 7s. 6d.). Short stories mainly with an
English urban setting. Above magazine level, but a
little below the plane of literature. The aim, on the
whole, is not insight but smartly contrived effects.
They succeed in their intention.
Old Man Murray, by Will Lawson (Angus and
Robertson ; 65.). Here the author of When Cobb and
Co. Was King tells a story of a search for a long-lost
brother and of a love affair that looks like prosper-
ing when the last page is reached. The setting is the
Murray and Darling River steamboat life of fifty
years ago. Lawson favors the plots of light romance
—many readers favor them, too —and he is very
dependable in the matters of atmosphere and histori-
cal accuracy. To get the right feeling for this book
he made a long steamboat journey on the Murray.
The good result is apparent in his pages.
GENERAL . . .
Florence G. Fidler, who classifies herself as a
“middle-aged gentlewoman,” has written an acid little
book in criticism of English hospitals, The Patient
Looks at the Hospital (Robert Hale, Ltd.). The
book is of no value to those interested in Australian
hospitals and their workings, even if true of conditions
in England. In Australia the great hospitals are well-
manned and well-staffed, and are becoming so popular
with the public that the “house-full” sign is always
on display and outside practitioners begin to worry
about a living.
Vance Palmer is to be congratulated on
“Legend for Sanderson,” now running in The Bul-
letin. His portrayal of the cane-cutter and of life
in the canefields is probably the most authentic yet.
His fine tale is a little marred by such inaccuracies
as “he saw the big figure stretched out on one of the
lower bunks” — there are no double-tier bunks in
cane barracks and “they threw down their cane-
knives under the unfruitful mango-tree by the tank
and took turns for a wash” —the knives are invariably
left in the field, stuck in the drill where each cutter
leaves off. But, on the whole, his story rings true.


V
i
GOOD TASTES
Skilfully* treated diskes . . . Highly
efficient hut unobtrusive service . . .
Appointments whose beauty lies in their
simplicity and exact fitness for the
purpose .... On Orient liners, the
satisfaction of ' good taste,” whether
of eye or palate, enriches the life
of shifting scenes and happy days I
TASTE
HEARING • SCENT • SIGHT • FEELING
Whether you travel across the world
or cruise to Papua, Fiji, New Guinea,
New Zealand or Tasmania
AN ORIENT LUIE VOVflGE
G R A Tl F I E SENSE
ORIENT LINE
ROVflL MAIL STEAMERS
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCOR PORATED IN ENG LAND


ROYAL
mMn
n
: H
Wm
■
■
wm
m
■
IH
ypsr
■
x
i
Vi
Sli
m
R
1
BP
wm
i
vm
m
MR
mmm
mm
mmmmmmw
■ m Wm
m
i
n
HI
# *■
•T - f * :- t c t # ■
gR£?,. J' , . I " 5 f s
■Rj&k t - i : ! i
vfssm* «wm# * * *
,* i ,f
#I?U
v '■* pr
f## I jri
r # J *:Hfl
iff
„ i
Mi
m
wm
' 1;
. P
w
rf
I- *
«. ,*:*
l 3 s - % 4■>
l t pr t
i Ipy : t. i
C\fe‘v-J
I t* . t
81 « v € 4
* 4 p *
** * ■:,-... fc I
•It ' I ,■ ' * ■'
. t
|M v •- -. f
Aerial View of Seppeltsfield, Showing Vast Storage and Maturing Cellars.


LOOKING BACKWARD—
Like one that on a lonesome road
Doth walk in fear and dread,
And, halving once turned round, walks on
And turns no more his head,
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.
"One looks back at the past for lessons that will help one to face the problems of the next decade."— Federal Labor-leader Curtin at the Victorian A.L.P. conference.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252J88; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
SPAIN'S CIVIL WAR.
What is going on in Spain is a civil war. That, and
nothing else. It is being fought mainly between
Spanish people, on purely Spanish issues and on
Spanish ground. Yet so well have cablecrammers
done their work that many in Australia—where people
are peculiarly at the mercy of mendacious propaganda
from outside—believe that this civil war is a war
brought to Spain by Italy, specifically by Mussolini,
and is being waged by hordes of Italians, armed with
’planes, incendiary bombs, gas and tanks, against a
small section of Spanish men, women and children,
some of them armed with scythes and pitchforks.
This anti-Italy propaganda is carried on to such
an extent that in “news” of this Spanish civil war
the name of Italy occurs as frequently as that of Spain
itself. The explanation is not particularly obscure.
The propaganda is a carry-over from that lavishly
used to bolster up the League of Nations, collective
security and sanctions. Even a world that has proved
itself over and over again fearfully unwilling to go
voluntarily into the shambles of another big war went
very close to being dragooned into one in support
of that hollow trio. It was then that all this lying
about Mussolini and Italy had its genesis, and the
lie-factory did achieve one thing. It created an
outsize in bogeys. Also, it found that this bogey-
Mussolini worked. There was plenty of proof that
it had a startling effect on childlike minds.
There is now a clear purpose in its use. Which-
ever side wins the civil war in Spain a period of
virtual dictatorship is likely to ensue. It is as much
a misstatement to call the one side in this civil war
FascisL as it is to call the other side Anarchist,
though the respective sides include elements that could
be thus fairly described.
The Government side is composed mainly of the
Republican Union, Republican Left, Socialists, Syndi-
calists, Unified Marxists, Communists and Anarch-
ists. The anti-Government side includes Fascists,
Traditionalists, a large part 'of the army and others
who are, as one close observer has put it, “opposed
to a Government which had trampled underfoot so
much that they and their fathers had held dear.”
It is plain from the composition of these two con-
glomerate bodies what countries the respective sides
would consider as their friends. The Government
side would favor France and Russia ; the anti-Govern-
ment side would favor Germany and Italy.
That is precisely why the Mussolini-bogey is
conjured up. In England parlor-Communism has for
some time been a fashion of the pseudo-intelligentsia.
Open enough in private profession, it masquerades
in the press mainly as anti-Fascism. There is anti-
Fascism that is genuine, and, with the affliction of
Mosleys, reasonable too. But there, as here, sup-
porters of Communism find that belting the anti-
Fascist drum is far more effective on generally
democratic-minded people than advocating Com-
munism itself could ever be. In this disguise Eng-
land’s parlor-Communists support their cause. It is
the readiest way in which they can get their propa-
ganda into the press, outside those newspapers whose
owners are undisguisedly pro-Soviet. From such
sources, through the offices of cablecrammers, Aus-
tralia takes its share of those parlor-Communists’
staple products.
That is the plain explanation of what would
otherwise be a purposeless propagation of distorted
“news.” For it is a damnable distortion of news that
puts continuous emphasis on the part Italians are
taking in Spain’s civil war, with increasingly exag-
gerated figures, until the impression is left that the
war is an Italian invasion. In Australia people are
completely at the mercy of all such propaganda,
because there is no means of making an immediate
check and will not be until Government establishes
an official, independent, comprehensive news service—
an enlargement of the small service the A.B.C. now
provides. As it is, the lie gets such a start that there
is no hope of the truth ever catching up with it.
Even now the truth has not half caught up with
the “collective security” lying, and Spain’s civil war
will be old history before a fair perspective of it is
available here. The only method of check at present
is to make comparisons with the uncabled news that
appears in overseas papers when these come to hand,
weeks after the cables have done their job. Few have
this facility ; therefore few read such figures as these,
from the “English Review,” giving recruits sent to
Spain from France in the period specified:
Departs. ParleParthus . ParCerbere.
17 Novembre .. .. 480 Volontaires
19 .. .. „ 1000 Volontaires
24 .. .. „ 900
26 .. .. 450 „
29 „ .. .. 600 „
6 Decembre .. .. 320 „ 1000 „
13 .. 1500
20 ” .. .. 350
27 „ .. .. 240 „
3 Janvier .. .. 420 »
4 400
7 .... 280
10 .. .. 200 „
That, though nobody would guess it from the
cables, is how Italian the Spanish tragedy appears
along the French border. For every Italian fighting
in Spain there are assuredly three Frenchmen. Rus-
sian money, as well as volunteers, is admitted to have
poured into Madrid, and on one side or the other
there are adventurers from England, Ireland, Scot-
land, Canada, U.S.A. and even Australia. But in the
main, when all the pro-Communist propaganda and
customary fantastic “news” sensationalism is stripped
away, it remains a Spanish civil war fought mainly
by Spaniards to clear up a peculiarly Spanish issue.
The rising under Franco in Morocco which led
to this open civil war was not an expression of
Fascism, but a crisis sprung naturally out of chaos.
Facts that can be verified are that in the 57
months of the Spanish Republic up to last year there
had been 28 Governments, one every two months ;
that immediately after the Popular Front victory
last year extremist supporters of that party, impatient
because the wild promises of the hustings had not
been instantly fulfilled, launched a widespread cam-
paign of disorder, with incendiarism and an epi-
demic of murders; that this and the responses to
it by those who would call themselves Spanish patriots
led to a state of lawlessness exceeding anything that
Spaniards with long experience could remember ; that
early last year, within a period of four months, 170
churches, 69 clubs and offices and 10 newspaper build-
ings had been set on fire, and attempts made to
destroy 284 other buildings, including 251 churches.
It was out of that boiling that Spain’s civil war
arose. The country had fallen into a state of anarchy,
and to many a Spaniard it must have seemed that his
choice was the simple one of fighting or having his
throat cut. The persistent object of pro-Com-
munist propagandists is to have this private dispute
enlarged into an international war. Despite their
efforts, and the misrepresentation that it already is an
international war, a Spanish civil war, fought mainly
between Spaniards to clear a way out of internal
chaos, it remains.
Crash After Crash.
The first Stinson aeroplane to be destroyed was
flying without wireless and without the aid of radio
beacons. Though it came to grief exactly on its
normal route, and within 60 miles by airline of its
point of departure, it was nine days before its wreckage
and survivors were found, and they might not have
been found for years. The disaster was followed by
a Ministerial scuttle to instal radio beacons and other
facilities.
Before anything practical had been done another
Stinson came to grief. It left Brisbane’s Archerfield.
aerodrome in a fog. It had a single pilot, a heavy
load of cargo—mainly newspapers, which are highly
inflammable —and a passenger.
The pilot arrived at the decision to leave. There
was practically no visibility. He made a “long take-
off,” scattering the bystanders with dust—which
shows the kind of aerodromes Australian capitals
possess. He rose and circled. In a minute or two
a crash was heard. It was discovered that within
walking distance of the aerodrome the machine had
struck some trees, risen above some others, struck
some more —which all suggest that it was controllable
—and fallen to the ground, a tangled ruin. It burst
into flames and was soon a mass of molten frame-
work. Pilot and passenger were probably dead when
they crashed ; their bodies were reduced to ashes.
Various startling facts were obvious. The deci-
sion to set out was left to the pilot. In overseas
services the pilot is under ground officers’ orders
from the moment he reaches his machine till the
moment he signs off. Routes, methods of flying
and other details are all determined for him. It was
necessary for this pilot to get out of the fog and find
a landmark. He was alone.
In a large three-engined machine, loaded with
inflammable cargo, anything may happen. The pilot
or a passenger may fall ill. Fire may break out. A
petrol pipe may leak. A door may open accidentally.
An engine or a wing may pick up an obstruction.
There are a score of possibilities, any one of which
may mean disaster. Even if they do not happen, the
pilot must divide his attention between actual
mechanical flying, , navigation and wireless and
weather. It is appalling to think that the responsi-
bility should be left on the shoulders of one man.
It does not, however, appal the authorities.
Minister Thorby, who is making a show of attending
to civil aviation while Mr. Parkhill is on the high seas,
thinks it is tragic that such an accident should happen,
and regrettable that a pilot should have to assume the
responsibility of deciding whether to take off or not.
But Mr. Thorby says “there was no power to prevent
him taking off; the Commonwealth Government has
no power to lay down uniform regulations to ensure
the greatest degree of safety unless the regulations are
agreed to by the International Air Convention.” So
Mr. Thorby is adopting the “remedy” to which his
breed always flies in emergencies calling a con-
ference.
There are answers enough to Mr. Thorby’s lame
excuses for official failure to provide safety regu-
lations. One is that until November 10, when the
High Court gave its decision in the Goya Henry case,
the Commonwealth Government believed that it had
full power to make any safety regulations it cared
to make. Although Parliament sat on till December,
and although two High Court Justices specifically
declared that “Section 4 of the Air Navigation Act
is valid so far as it authorises the Executive to carry
out within Australia the International Air Conven-
tions,” the Government issued no safety regulations,
even as a temporary measure. Another obvious
answer is that the Government could gain control by
acquiring all the leading aerodromes for defence pur-
poses. In war-time these landing-grounds would
have to be taken over.
In pronouncements on these Stinson crashes
there is an unsavory air of attempt to convert both
into political capital. Few will be taken in. Failure
to control aviation in Australia is a political failure,
and Commonwealth and State politicians look equally
futile in attempts to shift the blame.
Few flights by passenger machines are direct
inter-State flights. The flight on which this latest
tragedy occurred was within the State of Queensland.
N. S. Wales ’planes going to Brisbane and beyond
have intermediate stopping places within N. S. Wales.
Flights between Melbourne and Sydney break the
journey at Canberra. Except at Canberra the States
can in these cases exercise full authority. They con-
trol intra-State road transport, and if any bus
containing passengers were discovered setting out on
a journey inadequate in personnel or with bad brakes
or any other dangerous disability—there was no hint
of mechanical weakness as a contributory factor in
the Stinson accidents—the police would not hesitate
to take action. Or if a bus-driver started on a
journey with passengers into a potential flood means
would be found on the instant to prevent passengers’
lives being risked.
Nothing can bring back the dead, but the two
disasters involve a drastic lesson. The U.S. regulations
governing commercial passenger flying are a model
to Australia. If the Commonwealth Government
pleads that it could not enforce them they should be
immediately adopted by the States. The Common-
wealth Government, for its part, should make arrange-
ments with States willing to transfer aviation control
by legislation, meanwhile “carrying out within Austra-
lia the International Air Conventions.” There can be
little room for disagreement even between politicians
about matters on which the safety of life and the
future of civil flying depend.
Mr. Curtin and Mr. Lang.
Mr. Curtin is an earnest man, and he can make a
pleasant-sounding speech, but Australians will want
to be sure that he is independent of Mr. Lang before
they accept him as their leader. That independence
is in no way suggested by newspaper reports of Mr.
Curtin’s remarks at the State Labor gatherings he
attended in Sydney, or by the passion of admiration
to which they moved Mr. Lang —“a fine oration
a brilliant and inspiring address a great Australian
who when he visits us next Easter will address us as
Prime Minister.”
It has not been forgotten that Mr. Lang, when
seeking power as he is now, referred to Mr. Scullin
as “an able Prime Minister.” Within six months he
had made the able Prime Minister’s life a misery to
him by proposing interest-default. Within twelve
months his obedient Mr. Beasley had brought down
what was left of the able Prime Minister’s Govern-
ment by challenging it on an alleged grievance so
trumpery that it was scarcely mentioned at the ensuing
general election, and has now been completely
forgotten.
“The State conference must be supreme in the
State arena. The Federal conference must be supreme
in the Federal arena.”
It is impossible for me to cany through the
decisions of two State executives when those decisions
are contradictory.
These were the particular observations of Mr.
Curtin that prompted Mr. Lang to praise him so
effusively. They so worked on the feelings of Mr.
Lang’s Inner Group that the appeals of “most of
the ‘rebels’” (four of them Labor Parliamentarians)
“who were expelled for the heinous offence of attend-
ing a trade-union conference” —appeals lodged “on
the advice of members of the Federal executive” and
in the faith that Mr. Curtin would be their champion
—were, as the “Worker” puts it, “incontinendy
rejected.” Rejected by whom?
Men steeped in the venom of factionalism who
substituted cowardly blows with their big stick for the
faculty of reason There is no vein of generosity in
them. Mr. Curtin didn’t realise how little they were,
how temperamentally incapable of the magnanimous
spirit to which he had so confidently appealed. His
subsequent enlightenment must have been a shock to
him. He had wasted his eloquence.
These “rebels,” according to the “Worker,’
which speaks for the greatest trade-union in Australia,
are “striving for nothing revolutionary.’
They want no more than obtains in all the othei
States and in the Federal sphere. They ask that the
rules of the party in N.S.W. be brought into line,
because the present rules are undemocratic and can
too readily be manipulated. They ask for the abolition
of the dictatorship that has made N.S.W. notorious all
over the Commonwealth.
This dictatorship stands, and by many good Labor
men Mr. Curtin is considered to have given it a ne\v
lease of life. He will have to think up some way ot
ending it, even if Mr. Scully wins the Gwydtr b\-
election, in which Mr. Lang is preparing to take part
as if it were his show.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The People Were Right.
Melbourne “Age” announces that a conference of
“representatives of all sections of the dried-fruits
industry” in Victoria, N. S. Wales and South Aus-
tralia has resulted in an agreement which has given
“great satisfaction throughout the industry.”
The effect of the agreement will be to continue unin-
terruptedly the existing system of orderly marketing of
dried fruits which has been in operation since 1925.
Six weeks ago the “Age” published a dried-fruits
article —the first of a series of Referendum Papers
for the People—which closed with a regular bone-
shaker of a warning:
Only a Yes Vote Will Save This Industry.
In subsequent “Age” editorials people who
objected to voting inter-State freetrade out of the
Constitution were told they were “conservative
wreckers”:
A No vote would now wreck the marketing system
and place the dried-fruits and dairying industries in
extreme peril.
A majority for No would demolish the present system
and create chaos where order now prevails.
An adverse vote would extinguish with one devas-
tating sweep organisations which have been operating for
eight years.
Now, No having been voted and the Referen-
dum Papers consigned to the kitchen fire, “the system
of orderly marketing of dried fruits which has been
in operation since 1925” is “to continue uninterrupt-
edly.” So the “ignorant” people were right and the
politicians and Great Dailies (the “Age” was only
one of a horde) were wrong.
Something Like Organisation.
The first spanning of the South Pacific by a commer-
cial flying-boat was accomplished last week with
precautions such as the Southern Hemisphere had
never seen before in the air. The machine came from
San Francisco in four hops, the longest of which was
2410 miles, San Francisco to Honolulu, the others
being to Kingman Reef, Pago Pago and Auckland.
The scheme was born of the dream of an Aus-
tralian, Kingsford Smith, and the negotiations which
brought it to fruition were carried out by another
Australian, Harold Gatty, who flew round the world
with Wiley Post.
The job was done, as such jobs should be done,
with detailed organisation. Pan-American Airways
even went to the length of installing its own direction-
finding radio station at Auckland for the trials, and
its own auxiliary power plant lest Auckland power
supply should fail. By contrast, with commercial
’planes flying millions of miles a year, the Australian
Government is only now putting direction-finding
apparatus on capital-city aerodromes. Till a few'
weeks ago Mr. Parkhill regarded such gadgets as
“experimental.”
By the end of the year Maoriland will be linked
with U.S.A. by seaplanes capable of carrying 42
passengers which will cut 12 days off the sea trip.
Australia? The Australian Government can’t make
up its mind about a trans-Tasman service; in any
case, it is waging a sort-of-a-kind of trade war with
the U.S.A.
Imperial Airways is evidently determined not to
be beaten for the Asian trade by the Pan-Americans
who send their Martin clippers to Hong Kong. With
only a few of the 17-ton flying-boats for the Aus-
tralian run in commission, work has been begun on
42-passenger giants to fly to Singapore.
Why Not in Australia?
Britain’s naval preparations in the Indian Ocean and
the China Seas show a complete change of policy.
Until recently it had only two operating naval bases
between Suez and Japan, and neither had dockage
accommodation for heavy ships. A small force could
have dealt with Wei-hai-wei in a night.
Under the new policy Singapore has become one
of the strongest sea fortresses in the world ; Trin-
comalee is being turned into a naval depot comparable
with the strongest Japanese bases ; Aden is being
strengthened, and £8,000,000 is to be spent on fortifi-
cations and air-base preparations at Hong Kong.
Meanwhile, Australia and Maoriland remain ill-
guarded, though the new bases will screen them from
one direction. Darwin is 1900 miles from Singapore
and 2500 miles from Hainan, with tortuous and
difficult seas in between. There is not a dry dock in
Australia jto accommodate a first-class battleship, not
a gun to ward off a battle-cruiser. The new 9000-ton
cruisers being built by several nations have double
the weight of broadside and more speed than any of
the Australian cruisers. We are without submarines
or the light ultra-fast shock craft which are being
developed by every first-class naval nation. Our oil
storage is limited and exposed.
The safe operating range of a modern battle fleet
is certainly not more than 2000 miles from a first-class
base, but battle-cruisers and trade-protection cruisers
now carry fuel for up to 10,000 miles. Australia and
Maoriland are exposed to the danger of raids which
might wreck their cities and destroy their communi-
cations. Yet Darwin could be turned into a strong
base adequately defended and commanding all the
main northern and eastern routes, and men qualified
to judge have reported favorably on the possibilities
of Napier Broome Bay.
Australia will never be navally safe till a base
of this sort is provided, with at least one first-class
battle-cruiser. And to complete the defending of
British Pacific sea routes during war-time a further
base in Fiji is desirable.
S.P. Betting and Crime.
In Sydney the other day a young woman held on a
manslaughter charge was liberated as a result of the
Coroner’s finding that it was justifiable homicide.
The young woman ran a starting-price betting
business in a house at Glebe, and the man went to the
place and demanded money. Refused it, he threatened
her, grabbed some betting slips and tried to rob
her sister. While the pair were struggling the accused
got a Winchester and shot him twice in the back.
It was the ruffian’s second visit to the house, and
on the first occasion he struck two women and terri-
fied them into giving him £l. The police described
him as “a desperate gunman who was in the habit
of holding-up s.p. bookmakers.”
The day before he was shot we received a report
that he intended to hold up s.p. bookmakers in
Eastern Suburbs hotels. In consequence a squad of
police had the hotels in that district under observation.
It seems that blackmailing s.p. bookmakers has
become a regular practice in the underworld. Not
only have squads of police to be detailed to protect
the bookmakers, themselves lawbreakers, but Other
squads or platoons have to be detached from other
duties to harry the latter. And a royal commission
was appointed to go into charges that in the pursuit
of bookmakers there had been gross abuse of police
powers, and policemen dismissed in consequence of
recommendations of the Judge to whom the com-
mission was handed have been reinstated on the
recommendation of an appeals board headed by
another Judge, and other dismissed policemen who
have not been reinstated (the appeals board reported
that it had “no jurisdiction”) are claiming heavy
damages from the Government.
It is all very confusing, and the only definite
conclusion that can be arrived at is that the Govern-
ments concerned are making a mess of things.
If people must gamble on horses it is immeasur-
ably better that they should back their fancies on the
racecourse, where betting is legal and they can be
protected in every way, than do their wagering in
starting-price joints. But the Commonwealth Govern-
ment caters to the craze for s.p. betting by providing
these joints with as many telephones as they ask for,
and delivering telegrams to them, and permitting
reports of races to be broadcast even to the extent
of letting wireless men quote the odds beforehand,
although publication of ante-post odds has been for-
bidden to newspapers for many years. And the State
Government discourages people from going to the
racecourse by charging them double fares on its trams
and trains and stinging them with imposts such as
those set out in Randwick racebooks:
Charges at Entrance Gates —
Each person, Is.
State admission tax, 2d.
Saddling Paddock —
Gentlemen, 10s.
State admission tax, 3s. 2d
St. Leger Reserve—
Each person, including children, 2s.
State admission tax, lOd.
And there is a 9 p.c. tax on the value of every tote
ticket. Because of this crazy taxation the State has
lost heaps of revenue, directly and indirectly, besides
having to increase its expenditure materially to finance
the fruitless campaign against s.p. betting and its
grim accompaniments.
The 9 p.c. tote tax yielded only £115,600 in 1935-
36, compared with £193,800 in 1928-29. In the latter
year £129,700 was derived from racecourse-admission
tax, in 1935-36 only £87,700.
If a substantial part of the money that nourishes
the s.p. brotherhood and the ruffians who prey on
it were diverted to racecourses, not only would the
crime and revenue figures improve, but clubs could
give bigger prizes, and breeders would get better
prices for their yearlings, and owners for proved
stock, since Indians and Afrikanders are in the market
again. As things are, racing has never been in a
worse plight in N. S. Wales, except in 1931 and 1893.
"Follow Britain!"
One of the U.S. Supreme Court judgments which
goaded President Roosevelt into taking action' to
increase the number of Judges was the annulling of
a New York law enabling the declaration of a living
wage for laundry women. Such a constitutional
interpretation meant that none of the 49 U.S. Legis-
latures had power to pass a minimum-wage law for
female employees.
Now the same Supreme Court, by five to four,
has ruled that the State of Washington was within
its constitutional rights when it fixed a minimum wage
for women. One of the Judges who invalidated the
New York law sat on the Washington case and
changed his mind.
Australia has witnessed at least one disquieting
parallel case. Like the U.S.A., it has a Federal system
which admits of such things, and the system will have
to be altered.
In Britain, with its supreme and unchallengeable
Parliament and its definite separation between national
and provincial powers, the difficulties and dangers
connected with constitutional interpretations which are
irreconcilable or which tie the hands of Governments
in national emergencies can never arise. It will be
all to the good when Australia follows Britain, as
Maoriland and South Africa have done. But the
process is necessarily slow, and it is retarded by
politicians who are all for following Britain in other
matters, particularly those in which British examples
could not be adopted with advantage.
Not Australian—Alien!
The world's second-largest steam trawler, 950 tons,
is approaching completion in Japan. Its owners, the
Kyodo Fishery Co., intend it “for operation in open
seas outside Australian waters,” which is to say in
any of the best trawling areas off the Australian
coast. They are all outside the three-mile limit from
actual land, which is all that constitutes “Australian
waters.”
The same company is also building two whaling
factory-ships, of 20,000 tons each, for the Antarctic
seas, from which Japanese have recently brought
back £300,000 worth of oil.
Meanwhile, Australia’s Minister “for” Develop-
ment refuses to do anything whatever for Australia’s
sea-industries, which are dying of neglect.
Japanese-British Textiles.
A Sydney U.A.P. daily last week published “Canberra
news” to the effect that a special staff at Australia
House and a lift in the required British content
of imported goods had stopped British-dyed and
-finished Japanese textiles coming into Australia under
the preferential tariff. Action was said to have
been taken “shortly after the imposition last May
of higher duties on cheap Japanese textiles.”
That the measures referred to have been effective
is news to Australian textile-makers. On March 22 the
largest of them protested that, though Canberra regu-
lations provided against goods coming in under the
British preferential tariff unless 50 p.c. of the work was
done in Britain, Japanese goods that were merely dyed
and finished in the Old Country were still being
allowed in.
If the preferential tariff is to mean anything
much still remains to be done in this case. Textile-
makers —and they should know —say that the dyeing
and finishing in Britain of Japanese-spun and -woven
goods doesn’t represent 50 p.c. of the work ; and that
spinning, weaving and finishing in Britain should be
necessary to claim preference.
The Birthrate—Various Views.
“M.T.”: “I’d like to have children, especially as we’ve
been married three years now, and I’m 26. But, you
know, we couldn’t stay on in the flat with even one.
There’s no room, and, besides, it wouldn’t be fair to
the child. There’s the expense, too. Bill’s only getting
six-ten a week, and it’s a tight fit as it is to keep
ourselves decent and get about a bit. It’s all rot
about girls being frightened—Mum had six of us,
and I’m stronger than she ever was. You aren’t let
have any pain nowadays. That’s got nothing to do
with it. Neither has all this ‘cannon-fodder’ tosh.
“But these old politicians talking about woman’s
duty and national responsibilities just make me ill.
They don’t realise things have changed since their
young days. If it’s so important for Bill and me to
have children, why don’t they do something to help us
to afford it? Why can’t they pay a child pension for
a year or so to its parents? Baby bonus my foot!
I mean something real. Like the old-age pension for
a year or so for the first child, and six months for
each of the next.”
“If the wife wants kids I’m game. It’s her job,
anyhow. But it’d be a rough spin on my screw.”
“It’s all very well to talk about falling birth-
rates, but if you’d ever invested your money in flats
and had to keep them occupied you’d know that
there is nothing like kids to lose you your best tenants.
Anyhow, no kid of any age is going to be allowed
to annoy people in my flats!”
“Modern children are extremely badly brought
up. If there were less of the non-repression, sweet-
flowering-life talk and a lot more of the good old
strap which I got it would be better for the present
and future world. By 1875 I was taught my place
in the house, and it was the right place for children.
Even my young brothers and sisters never squalled.
If children are ever allowed to make a bear-garden
of these flats I shall certainly leave.”
“it’s good publicity stuff, but if we were to start
anything real it would mean a lot of extra taxa-
tion. That ‘Let Posterity Pay’ joker was a lot
cleverer than anyone thought, now that it looks as
if there’s not going to be any posterity. Anyhow,
at 65 I’m not worrying about posterity. Got more
important things to think of since those flaming fools
let us down over marketing.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Dungeness”: According to a recent
cable from London a throwing-knife was
found wrapped up in a map of the Coro-
nation procession route, and was held
to be evidence of some sort of Anarchist
plot. If the weapon is no better than
the average article of the kind sold in
London sports shops there is no need for
anyone to feel perturbed. Such are often
bought by introverted small boys who
have been refused admission to the
Boy Scouts. They never can learn to
throw them —indeed, no really expert
knife-thrower could make decent prac-
tice with such things. With the genuine
article, blade, specially proportioned and
haft weighted to exactness with lead, I
have seen Malays hit a wooden match-
box at 35 paces. But in this case the
operators practised since childhood.
Most novelists’ yarns of deadly knife-
throwing by swarthy villains are utter rot.
* * * *
“350”: As “K. Lee” (B. 31/3/’37)
admits that his record of important Aus-
tralian events in 1937’s first quarter is
without reference to news files, he can be
pardoned for missing this:
A youth pitching a tent in the Glen
Murray Valley practically severed a finger.
The Premier (Mr. Stevens) was batching
with his family near by. Although only
garbed in khaki shorts, sports shirt and
sandshoes, he had the great presence of
mind to jump into his motor-car and take
the victim to the Kangaroo Valley police
station. The sergeant and his wife rendered
first aid.
So far the “S. M. Herald” hasn’t opened
a subscription list in recognition of this
noble deed.
* * $ *
“Bacalao”: Recently noticed in the
“People’s Journal,” a north of Scotland
newspaper with a wide circulation, an
advertisement for Australian “Walleroo
Port,” 2s. 6d. a bottle. This brand is a
newy to me. But the animal depicted on
the bottle is familiar enough. He’s a
North American bison.
* * * #
“Kali”: Dunno whether the recent
Bulletin discussion on cauls had any
bearing on the case, but a new arrival
in a Sydney suburb the other day had
to have one of the rarities removed be-
fore he could get his first look at the
world. That the superstition connected
with cauls has not died out was proved
by the proud father’s refusal to allow
any but his own family even to handle
the mascot; he asserted that it would
spoil the luck. This particular caul
adorned the head of a seventh child ;
a happening, according to local experts,
that should give it extra potency.
* * * *
“Vino”: Where would you look for
the modern Lucullus in Australia, the
man whose taste in meat and drink has
been cultivated beyond that of all his
fellows? Let the “S.M.H.” tell:
At the conference of the United Com-
mercial Travellers’ Association in Sydney,
the toast of the evening was honored in
goblets from Central Europe worth two
guineas apiece. The port in them was 97
years old.
Ii must have been the vintage of 1840,
perhaps the most famous of all in the
judgment of British connoisseurs. When
I was young, experts in these matters
used to talk learnedly and appreciatively
of the “great” port years of the eight-
eenth century —’20, ’34 and ’63 were
among those most frequently mentioned.
But, above all those, ’4O port was spoken
of with a smack of the lips approaching
reverence. And it seems that, even in
this country, there is some of it left still.
But surely only commercial travellers
can afford to drink their port out of
goblets.
“Thank goodness Easter's over!"
“Mako”: High waves? I’d back the
Manukau bar (M.L.) when it’s really in
form against all of them. It once wrecked
a British man-o’-war, and when perform-
ing at top speed breaks 21 miles out at
sea. From the Manukau Heads it looks
like the Southern Alps standing in mid-
ocean. The steamer Rimu, a ship built
for bar work, was at times completely
buried by the huge breakers, which went
over even the tips of her masts. M.L.
has many spots where seas rise to extra-
ordinary heights.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: The Chief Justice of Vic-
toria has drawn pointed attention to the
exaggerated ideas entertained by the
public about powers of police officers
to search, or to use force, in the execu-
tion of their duties. Apart from cer-
tain carefully specified conditions, laid
down by Acts of Parliament, there are
few occasions on which police are en-
titled, with or without a warrant, to
search premises or suspected persons.
Shooting at a person who is running
away to avoid arrest is only justifiable
if the offence is punishable by imprison-
ment for life. If a person has been actu-
ally arrested for a felony (not a mis-
demeanor), reasonable force may be
used to prevent escape from arrest. There
are catches in it —breaking and entering
a dwelling at night is a crime justifying
shooting, but not if it is a shop. Few
citizens realise that they have powers
of arrest against wrongdoers very little
short of those of policemen.
“Three-Water”: The decision of the
Admiralty to serve stronger grog in
future shows that the British naval re-
forms are a very real thing. Instead of
three parts of water to one of rum the
tot will now be a two-to-one nip. Tee-
totallers at present get a small cash al-
lowance instead of the abjured spot.
Whether this will be raised in confor-
mity with the rum content is not an-
nounced, but the Temperance Alliance
will probably take the matter up. In
the days when sail and steam were mix-
ing in the navy, there were few teetotal-
lers on the lower deck. To stop a de-
faulter’s grog was a much-dreaded pun-
ishment, but the ingenuity of the British
tar found a way of circumventing it. In
those days the rum was served from a
tub in public, and a man had to step
up and down his issue instanter under
the eye of the master-at-arms. The lad
whose pal was under stoppage did not
swallow his lot. With distended cheeks
he sought a secluded spot where his
friend was waiting with a pannikin. Into
this the mouthful was disgorged and the
pair shared the contents in amity.
* * # *
“Ike Hollar”: A cable mentions that
“the only Tristan da Cunha exile,” one
Donald Glass, who left the island a year
or two ago, has died, being unable to
stand up against contact with modern
civilisation. But many Tristanites had
transferred themselves elsewhere before
ever he did. The first parson to mis-
sionise there, Rev. W. F. Taylor, took
with him, when he left in 1856, 45 of
the islanders, who settled in Cape Colony.
In 1889 Rev. E. H. Dodgson (brother
of Lewis Carroll), after spending nine
years on Tristan, left with ten of his
parishioners; others went to the Boer
War and the Great War when they
heard about those happenings in the
world outside; and individuals some-
times left in whaling ships. The Glass
of whom the cable tells is doubtless a
descendant of the Corp. Glass who, with
his wife and two children, elected to
remain on the island when in 1817 the
British Government withdrew the garri-
son.
❖ ❖ * *
“Runa”: A Maoriland insurance com-
pany thinks it has touched bottom in
queer claims. A client put in a bill on
account of his maid, who had been in-
jured in the elbow and rendered unfit
for work in the course of her duty, which
at the moment of injury was feeding the
family fowls. The details set out that
she had been pecked by a rooster.
& * *
“Whaffor”: Anyone know of a more
natural way of suiciding than that used
by Ah Keong, a Warwick (Q.) Chinese
gardener? Wrapping a coil of his three-
footer pigtail around his neck, he tied
the end of it' to the bottom rail of a
fence bordering the steep bank of the
Condamine River, and then threw him-
self off. Wagging from school, I
stumbled across the tragedy. It cured
me of wagging.
“Centurion”: Some are inclined to
scoff at Mussolini’s hurried abandonment
of his tour of Libya because of a sand-
storm. To be fair, it is a darned good
reason, for it is the season of the kham-
sin, the blazing wind which blows from
the Sahara, carrying cutting sandblasts
across Egypt for 40 days. In 1915 the
Light Horse had a bad time in Egypt
manoeuvring in this fog, which hid the
sun and made it impossible to keep direc-
tion or see more than a horse’s length
ahead.
“O. de V.”: The composition of the
hot-dog had always been a mystery to
me. A frankfurt merchant at Sydney
Show unconsciously provided the solu-
tion. He arrived at his stand with
his apparatus in two parts. First, he
opened up the folding legs of an alu-
minium-oven arrangement and set it
going. Then from a wooden packing-
case he extracted a supply of provender
to fill the oven. It was a nice well-made
box, and stencilled across it in bold,
black letters was “Crude Rubber.”
# * ❖ ❖
“Captain Pintle”: Among the many
public bodies called upon to lend a hand
in arranging for the Coronation cere-
monies is the Port of London Authority.
Thames-side merchants and residents
want to hang out lights on their build-
ings, and some even visualise brilliant
festoons across the river. As applications
have been received for special berths
from over 100 tourist liners from
America and Europe, the pilots, who
often have to work to inches in negotiat-
ing dockgates and dog-leg wharves with
overhanging gear, would deserve a lot
of sympathy were the river made a mix-
ture of blinding glare and black shadows,
with leadlights multiplied and misplaced
according to the fancy of any riverside
property-owner. The business of the sea
has to go on if London is to be fed, and
if a luxury cruiser full of American tour-
ists got holed by a fish-carrier in a hurry
for Billingsgate market I’d feel sorry for
the P.L.A. But it’s a wise old bird and
may be trusted not to let that happen.
* * * *
“Coif”: The long-drawn-out “taxi
suicide case” is drawing to an end with
the British Court' of Appeal’s decision
that the insurance co. is not liable. Major
Rowlandson, after paying premiums on
£42,000, shot himself in a taxi a few
minutes before the policy expired, asking
the taxi-driver to note the time. The
company refused to pay on the ground
that under the common law the Major
had taken his own life and that he could
not benefit by a deliberate felony. In
support of the claim it was pleaded that
he was insane at the time of the sell-
killing. An early jury agreed with this
view, but the judgment which followed
has been upset by the Court of Appeal
on the ground that the principle or
allowing the representatives of a criminal
to benefit' by his crime could not be
upheld in law.
THE STORY-TELLER.
(Chinese Village Scene.)
There come the thump of a drum from the
crossroads teashop,
And the three-stringed fiddle’s shrilly keening
tune,
And the zigzag voice of the aged story-teller
Who squats on the ground and chants to the
drum’s stiff rune.
The village halts in the sliding willow-shadows
To hark to the old gnarl’d man with his
mystic face,
And the fiddler loudly stroking his lagging
fiddle,
And the little apprentice beating the drum
apace.
This is a tale of noble deeds and glory
Revealed in a singsong of archaic style;
This is a tale a thousand years in painting
Its pictures over many an ancient mile;
This is a tale of boldly-marching heroes
Who rode to war and, wielding pious spears,
Destroyed the dragons which beset the empire,
And lived as honored men for many years.
This is a brave kaleidoscopic legend
Told by the bearded man with shouts and
wails —
Learnt as a child from a story-teller father
Whose fathers Jived by the chant of the same
bright tales.
The people sit in the sun and the willow-
shadows —
Strong brown men whom the fields have made
robust,
Placid wives, with their black hair neatly
shining,
And children curling their small bare toes
in the dust,
Eager to act these deeds in their noisy playtimes
In the cedar copse behind the village shrine —
Till the drum tale scales a cliff of thrilling
action,
And the old man halts with a sudden drop-
ping whine.
He leaves his hearers longing for the climax
While he waits for the coins to tinkle at his
feet.
Then, knowing the rice-bowl’s filled for himself
and his helpless,
He resumes the chant until, his tale complete,
The humming squeal of the plaintive three-
string’d fiddle
Pales into silence with a final strain,
And the thrumming, throbbing drum’s emphatic
cadence
Echoes the rhythm of the last refrain.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN STRONG.


“Sixenate”: As usual there were
mostly women waiting around the tele-
phone-box, and, jambed close to the
door for my turn, I couldn’t help hear-
ing some of the intimate affairs of my
immediate predecessor. She made two
calls. One was obviously to the Chil-
dren’s Court, an inquiry about money
which appeared to receive a satisfactory
reply. The next ring raised someone the
lady addressed variously as “Tom dar-
ling” and “Sweetheart.” It became clear
that Tom had explained that he was
broke, for her next remark ran: “That
doesn’t matter, Sweetheart; my hus-
band’s paid the money down at the
court. It’s my shout to-night.” She
dropped something as she left the box
and I retrieved it for her. It was a
prayer-book.
“Mind if I leave this here for the man next door? I can't make 'em hear."
( “D. A”: Though often referred to as
‘pensions,” the annuities settled by
Parliament on the royal family are, in
reality, nothing of the sort (B. 24/3/’37).
The recipients are just as much entitled
to them as a landowner to the income
from his property, or a bondholder to the
interest on his stock. Before the reign
of George 111. the members of the reign-
ing house were maintained from the
hereditary revenues of the Crown.
George agreed to pay most of these
revenues to the Treasury in return for
annual grants to himself and his family,
a practice that has been continued by all
his successors. The taxpayer has been
the gainer by this arrangement, the sur-
rendered revenues far exceeding all royal
allowances.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Failed suicides are by
no means uncommon —not failure to
achieve death, but failure to achieve it
in the manner intended. About one in
every ten who attempt suicide by drown-
ing actually dies of heart failure before
having time to drown. In a recent Eng-
lish case a worried business man left a
tragic note of farewell to his family, and
was found dying a few hours later. A
jar of creosote was near the note, so it
was naturally presumed at first that he
had poisoned himself with it. Post-
mortem examination showed no trace of
poisoning or injury. The excitement
arising from an obvious suicidal inten-
tion had caused his already diseased
heart to fail, and the coroner gave a cer-
tificate of death from natural causes.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The supposedly bottomless
crater of the. Blue Lake at Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) has given up the car which a year
ago plunged down the 200 ft. bank,
shedding its driver, miraculously little
harmed, on the way and dropping into
an estimated 200 ft. of water. An en-
thusiastic engineer lately bought up the
Buckley’s chance of the insurance com-
pany and started dragging; up the car
came, tyres still inflated, petrol still in
tank, body battered, but wdrking parts
surprisingly little damaged, considering
everything.
* * * s?
“Oran”: The Adelaide musical expert
who prophesied the extinction of con-
traltos in Australia (B. 31/3/’37) had a
supporter in a music examiner who some
years ago conducted singing exams, in
the Commonwealth and M.L. He
noticed the predominance of soprano
voices in the former, and put it down
to the dry atmosphere, whereas the
damper air of M.L. was favorable to the
production of contraltos. But his chief
plaint was over the passing of the tenor.
The world over, he said, the tenor voice
was disappearing.
X
“Aspirant”: In Britain, according to
a cable item, there were 824 millionaires
last year, compared with 775 a year
earlier. Forty-nine new millionaires in
a year ; and the metal boom should add
a few more. Shipping, cigarettes, cotton
thread, brewing, distilling and motor
manufacture loom large among the
steady lines for advancement to the mil-
lionaire class in Britain. Ten members
of the Wills tobacco family left amounts
ranging between £10,000,000 and
£1,755,000, and an eleventh was just
under the million. Nine of the Coats
cotton kinsmen died millionaires; Lord
Glentanar was near the £5,000,000 mark,
Lord Iveagh (stout) had £11,000,000 at
the finish. Sir David Yule (shipping)
was estimated to have left £15,000,000 ;
and a widow with several shipping mil-
lions to play with was the late Lady
Houston. There are some London news-
paper lords, too, whose wills should sing
a song of more than sixpence.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The unit with which the
writer went to the. Boer War—the old
Ist Australian Horse, raised by the late
“Shut up, boays—my old woman can't hear what I be talkin' about!"
Kenneth Mackay—held its annual dinner
one night last week, 37 years after play-
ing about in the veld between Bloem-
fontein and Pretoria with Botha and De
Wet. Persons present included the man
who was C.O. of the Ist Light Horse
in the Great War, a captain in an in-
fantry unit of the A.1.F., a recently-
retired Sergeant-at-Arms of the N.S.W.
State Parliament, a police superin-
dent, a successful dentist and an alleged
author, but the man whom everybody
found of most interest was a chap who
had never been in Sydney before. It
was 36 years since anyone present had
seen him, and it was delightful to hear
the others insisting that he hadn’t
changed a bit, and that they would have
recognised him anywhere. They usedn’t
to be so polite to one another, but, of
course, age mellows many things, in-
eluding old soldiers.
“Ar Gee”: “Ex-Hobo” (B. 31/3/’37)
hasn’t fraternised with many professional
train-jumpers if he regards as an oddity
one of the gentry who voluntarily sur-
rendered to the police for the sake of
regular meals in the lockup. That’s part
of the technique. They all do it, know-
ing they can bank on good food and a
bed for a couple of days (“Ex-Hobo”
was dead unlucky if he copped seven
days) in return for the trifling service of
clipping the courthouse lawn. Inciden-
tally, the rattler-jumping brotherhood
refer to themselves as “train jockeys,”
and on the court records their names
usually appear as “James Pike,” “James
Munro,” “Maurice McCarten,” etc.
“Ass. Engineer”: Remarkable how
many errors are made by well-informed
people in certain aspects of simple
mechanics. “Quert Yuiop” (B. 17/3/’37)
says that “a stewardess in an aeroplane
went out to CO from the exhausts, blown
by a strong rear wind into an after com-
partment.” Unless the ’plane was going
backwards there could have been no rear
wind blowing relatively to the ’plane.
The intake of carbon monoxide was due
to rear suction. Hervey Allen, the com-
petent author of Anthony Adverse,
makes an even worse howler. The
schooner Areostatica was drifting up the
Rio Pongo in a dead calm. All sail had
been stripped from the ship. There was
a scrimmage with mutineers, and we get
this:
The pilot had let the wheel go and the
bow of the Areostatica was pointing towards
the bank. The tide luckily enough drifted
her sidewise upstream. Anthony seized the
wheel and turned the ship’s head up the
stream again.
As any intelligent boy over 12 will see
instantly, the vessel had no steerage way,
and her rudder, for the time being, was
useless.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: No doubt that we are
letting cur cradles get empty. Official
figures, quoted by W. M. Hughes at the
first National Health and Research
Council meeting at Hobart in February,
show that, taking the 1901-21 average
birthrate as a base, Australia had lost
half a million potential citizens up to
last year. Since 1921 the loss through
birthrate fall was nearly ten times as
great as that caused by four years of
war. The loss each year now is greater
than the aggregate Australian loss in the
war, about 65,000.
* * * *
“Noache”: “Acher” (B. 24/3/’37)
suggests that ferric salts in pipeline-
water are a main cause of bad teeth. As
one who has examined and treated West-
ralian school and orphanage children
in bulk for years past, I must dissent
from him. The teeth of goldfields
children are no worse than those of
Perth youngsters; in my experience
almost every town shows much the same
percentage of decay. Frequently I have
had letters from country papers asking
what quantities of lime should be added
to tanks of a certain size so that the
children might have a chance of good
teeth, the inference being that the water
which goes through iron pipes is no
worse than any other. As a matter of
fact, children in Perth orphanages have
just as good teeth as those at the Fail-
bridge settlement. I might go further
and state definitely that orphanage
children generally have far superior teeth
to those of children brought up in their
own homes. This is due partly to the
almost entire absence of lollies and
biscuits from the diet and partly to the
regular professional attention which the
youngsters receive.
OBESE OR NOT OBESE?
“A Melbourne newspaper correspondent says that
*the one great change in politics over the last 30
years has been in the waistline of politicians.’ ”
Are our politicians slimmer? Are their figures
growing trimmer?
Do they exercise and simmer in the cause
of being slight?
Do they cultivate a waistline—not a wide and
much misplaced line,
But an orthodoxly based line that’s impressive
to the sight?
Do they think a life is hollow if the owner
fails to follow
The ideal of Apollo as a type of manly
grace?
Do they preface each election with a prelude
of reflection
On the beauty of perfection both in figure
and in face?
Arc their tailors saved the trouble of supply-
ing almost double?
Has the bingey like a bubble gone from legis-
lative ways?
Are the warnings that the cutter once dis-
creetly used to utter,
Or but inwardly to mutter, now replaced by
candid praise?
Is the form that each man prizes qualified to
wear stock sizes?
Are the delicate disguises of the tailor’s art
unused?
Does the modern politician add to skill as
rhetorician
A most notable ambition —that all fat shall
be refused?
With the brightness of the zealous, those who
know may quickly tell us,
And I never will be jealous of the knowledge
they have dealt;
But I offer the reflection that a greater imper-
fection
May be in the upper section than in bulkiness
of belt.
Is a member wise or foolish? Is he sensible
or mulish?
To ideas is he coolish? Does he work with
mind or jaw?
Be his body plump or slender, what’s the
brain he has to tender
As a maker or a mender of' the body of
the law?
VICTORIA.
O’FIPP.


WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVEN A
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
'
' ft'
ft a
m
THE
TIPPED CIGARETTE OF THIS GENERfIT
POLITICAL POINTS
Tasmanian editors are never stuck for
a subject; if a column needs filling they
can always fill it with Lyons on Ogilvie
or Ogilvie on Lyons. These statesmen
were in the same party for 10 years
(1919-29), and in the same Ministry for
four years (1924-27). It must have been
an immense strain to conceal their con-
tempt for one another as statesmen for
so long.
All unwittingly, Dunstan left a peck
of trouble behind for his substitute.
In the case of the 13 coalminers killed
at Wonthaggi, the coroner’s jury attri-
buted the explosion to “contact of a
naked light with an accumulation of
methane gas,” and found “negligence
on the part of the management in not
having the mine inspected that day.”
And Wonthaggi is a State mine.
The Sydney Government has struck
trouble in several forms and large quanti-
ties since it placed railways, tramways,
buses and police under Commissioner
control. One thing is now certain ; these
shiftless experiments in bureaucracy are
doomed.
Canberra reports that the erection on
Crown land of a £6OOO house for Casey,
chargeable to Canberra account, has been
suspended, it being expected that Casey
will succeed Bruce as High Commis-
sioner. Casey is U.A.P., and the U.A.P.
reckons itself the hope of the democratic
side. In other days democracy did not
demand £6OOO houses for Ministers
(Australia has 73); but these are more
spacious days.
Somewhat dejected since the defeat of
the marketing referendum, and other
matters, Stevens rallied at the. U.A.P.
convention sufficiently to proclaim it
"the duty of the Federal authorities so
to regulate the monetary system that
adequate funds are available for works.”
A free translation: “Gimme all the loan
money I want.”
An old and piffling Victorian con-
troversy was thought to have ended when
the Dunstans had the Licensing (Good
Friday) Act passed. It was designed to
prevent the sale of beer and whisky, but
it seems to have gone farther than the
sapient authors intended; anyway, on
Good Friday motorists couldn’t buy a
drink for thirsty motor vehicles.
“Debt redemption and abnormal ex-
penditure on the fighting services” have
left Britain with a deficit of £5,597,000
for the year to March 31. A deficit was
anticipated when rearmament was de-
cided upon, but these things are never
exactly agreeable.
Last financial year Maoriland spent
more on the defunct League than
on civil aviation. Its contribution to
League secretariat expenses was £19,020 ;
other charges brought the amount to
£21,290. The Aero Clubs, nursery of
military pilots, received £20,983, of which
a whole £4OOO was devoted to the pur-
chase of new machines for loan to the
clubs.
At the instance of the Police Appeals
Board, which is headed by a Judge, the
N.S.W. Government has reinstated a
sergeant and a constable who were dis-
missed as a result of the report of the
Judge who inquired into the s.p. cases.
The pair were sacked by the Deputy-
Commissioner of Police; in 13 other
cases the Appeals Board ruling is that it
has “no jurisdiction” because the men
were sacked by the Minister, Chaffey.
The 13 had already issued writs claiming
heavy damages for wrongful dismissal.
While Garden, M.H.R., was eating
humble pie in Sydney to no purpose,
Blackburn, M.H.R., was readmitted to
Vic. Labor “with full continuity of mem-
bership and without any qualification”
—virtually on his own terms. He said:
I will not in advance give an undertaking
to accept any interpretation the [State
party] executive likes to make as to the
rules, constitution and platform. I am not
prepared to give a written promise on the
way I shall cast my vote in Parliament.
This is courage of a sort rarely shown
in Labor politics. Still, it is just as well
for Blackburn that he lives in Mel-
bourne and not in Sydney.
The Vic. Labor conference authorised
the State Parliamentary party to continue
the support it has given for two years
to Dunstan’s Agrarian Government. “It
has never been an alliance,” Cain, M.L.A.,
explained—“just a sort of gentleman’s
agreement.” Unfortunately for this
beautiful friendship, the conference pro-
ceeded to demand “redistribution of
Assembly seats this year on a more equit-
“Ministers going to the Coronation are entering enthusiastically into the shipboard
amusements.”
“What character are you impersonating, again? Oh, yes, Minister of Defence.
Well, here’s a consolation prize."
able basis of representation.” If this
goes to Dunstan as an ultimatum, Mel-
bourne “Age” will see how parties to a
gentleman’s agreement can disagree.
The U.A.P. at its annual convention
decided to stick to its bob-a-nob pre-
selection system, which has inflicted on
N.S.W. some of the poorest specimens of
politicians in Australia. “The deletion
of pre-selection,” said a horrified member
of the council, “might wreck the U.A.P.”
A day or two later the Country party,
which has found “the deletion of pre-
selection” a source of strength—and in
proportion of seats contested it has
everywhere been more successful than
the U.A.P. —resolved to run three can-
didates for Gwydir.
Warned by the experience of Spain,
whose “democratic” politicians supped
with the Red devil at Moscow, Yugo-
slavia has made a pact with Italy—after
the Fiume business and for many later
years “the enemy.” It is a blow to
French Popular Front policy, and Mos-
cow is so alarmed that it has “now
officially recognised Bessarabia as a
province of Rumania,” which wrested it
from the Reds in 1918. An ignominious
proceeding, for the Bessarabians are as
Russian as the Ukrainians.
Before N.S.W. Deputy-Premier Brux-
ner boarded his Coronation boat, he
counted the blessings his Government
has thrust on Gwydir, where there is to
be a by-election next month:
Twenty-seven new silos at £305,345,
£114,161 on water supplies, £109,728 on
sewerage, £100,174 on hospitals, £62,096
on schools, £21,000 on public buildings,
£160,000 for emergency relief works,
£300,000 for 20 councils (£136,000 grants
and the remainder loans on easy terms),
main roads, the Oxley Highway and the
Sandy Hollow-Maryvale railway [estimated
loss, £90,000 p.a.]. Then there are the
great Namoi and Gwydir water schemes.
It is dreadful to think that the Govern-
ment should risk a breakdown of its
massive mind thinking out all these boons.
Wouldn’t it be simpler, and cheaper
in the long run, to offer the electors a
tenner apiece for their votes?
A parcel of farm produce sent from a
railway station in south Queensland to
another in N.S.W. attracted Is. 7d. of
freight revenue to the border. As entire
ignorance of N.S.W. freight rates was
professed, the consignor had to wire (cost
Is. 4d.) to the station of destination to
learn that the additional charge would
be Is. 2d. For transferring the goods
across a station platform 2s. 2d. was
exacted. The goods could have been
sent six times the distance in either State
for the combined charges. Inter-State
trade and commerce will never be “abso-
lutely free” if State transport depart-
ments can prevent it.
Rothermere, the newspaper baron,
who travels a lot, has written a ferocious
indictment of “that synthetic and spuri-
ous State called Czechoslovakia,” and
predicts a sudden and sticky finish to
its “baneful and fraudulent existence."
Gracious heavens, and the ink is scarcely
dry on Gullett’s trade treaty with
Czetc.!
The chairmanship of the new Sydney
Milk Board has been accepted by the
gentleman who, as he acknowledged when
the offer was made, has “never even
seen a dairy farm, much less milked a
cow.” But he is an accountant, and
Stevens and Spooner and Railways Com-
missioner Hartigan are accountants, so
all is held to be for the best in this
best of all little worlds for accountants.
The British Home Secretary has re-
buked the idiots who “repeat the phrase
‘collective security’ as though it were a
charm or an incantation.”
They view collective security not as an
ideal but as a going concern.
And now the going concern of their
furious fancy is a gone coon.
A U.A.P. newspaper gaily reports that,
“when the Lake George Mining Corp.
reaches its anticipated production, annual
profit of £1,250,000 should be earned.”
If so, the corp. could easily meet the
estimated cost (£160,000) and the esti-
mated losses (£7300 a year) on the
Captain’s Flat-Bungendore railway, which
is an essential part of the enterprise ;
but a “mug” Government has agreed to
pass them on to the public.
The Communist olive-branch proffered
to the Labor conferences held in Easter
week was rejected by all. After Sydney,
Melbourne and Peterborough (S.A.) had
had their say, the worst rebuff was ad-
ministered at Wellington (M.L.); voting,
498 to 14. It was proposed to form a
Popular Front, Labor to supply the popu-
larity and Communism the front.
Nearly all the Little Peoples—Swedes,
Danes, Norwegians, Finns, Hungarians,
Latvians, Esthonians, Belgians, Portu-
guese, Southern Slavs —have now turned
against Moscow or turned away from
France because its Government is too
thick with Moscow. It is a result of
the world-revolution madness which
made Fascist countries of Germany and
Italy. In its extremity Moscow has been
reduced to desperate shifts like the
cession of Bessarabia. The warning for
Britain is to steer clear of any Russian
alliance, even if it means offending the
Sydney flapper-paper which has asked
for one.
The Columbia university professor who
is looking into our taxation systems re-
ports that his country has 44 income-
tax laws and 17 income-tax formulae, and
that States and even counties can impose
excise taxes. No wonder he regards the
transfer of his studies from the unspeak-
able to the asinine as an agreeable
change.
“S. M. Herald” has backed the wrong
horse so often that the old girl is getting
sour, even with her customers. After the
second Stinson crash it shrieked that “a
stupid popular vote, stupidly misled, has
denied the Federal Government the con-
stitutional right to control aerial naviga-
tion.” Two High Court Justices have
laid it down that the Air Navigation Act,
though misapplied in the Goya Henry
affair, “authorises the Government to
carry out within Australia the In-
ternational Air Conventions,” which,
short of being fool-proof, contain every-
thing necessary to the proper control of
aerial navigation. And Herbert Evatt
and Edward McTiernan are not “stupid.”
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


THE UNHAPPY WARRIOR.
“London women have gone wild about the Australian Coronation contingent, and their attentions have become embarrassing.*’


FOR FAULTLESS
IGNITION
LONGEST USEFUL LIFE
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy is
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
tyre gauge gives you best value. It is made with
precision—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always.
Get a Kismet—the extra cost
comes back to you in longer
useful service.
9'6
Calibrated
m/r- 0-50 pounds,
y \S%gO ' clearly marked
i on w ide flat sur-
faces in single
pounds ; in neat leather
wallet.
: I
ISKliffl
m
m
m
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & PRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield. 1, England.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEM S
G. C. Gollan, N.S.W. Government
Whip, will sign “approved” to official
papers and be polite to deputations as
Assistant-Minister to Premier Stevens
while Ministers Bruxner, Hawkins and
Shand are coronating. Gollan, a Rich-
mond River native, is in his second term
as M.L.A. for Parramatta.
The caricaturist hasn’t flattered John
Curtin, but that kindest and most toler-
ant of Labor politicians won’t mind.
Like the Lindsay family of artists, Curtin
is a native of Creswick (Vic.); unlike
Norman and Lionel and Percy and the
rest, he went to Perth, after sitting at
the feet of Tom Mann and Frank
Anstey and serving an apprenticeship as
JACK CURTIN.
union secretary, and became editor of
the “Worker.” It was 11 years before
he entered Parliament as M.H.R. for
Fremantle, the patriarchal William Wat-
son blocking the path. Elected leader
when Scullin stepped down, he has ac-
credited himself admirably in debate.
Three things against which Jack Cur-
tin will have to guard are Langism,
worry and overwork. At the 1919 gen-
eral election he nearly killed himself
running his paper (he wrote nearly the
whole of it) and addressing two or three
meetings a day in a vain effort to un-
seat J. M. Fowler; and he was only
35 then.
George Davis, who came from
Maoriland 20 years ago to show Aus-
tralia how to make gelatine from rabbit-
skins, will sign up this week with the
Commonwealth and State Governments
to work the Newnes shale deposits. He’s
the man who took over Cockatoo Dock
when it and a number of other State
enterprises passed out of Government
control.
“H.M.”: Rhodes scholar and K.C. in
England, Wilfred Barton is a son of Aus-
tralia’s Noblest Son and first Prime Min-
ister. He is apparently specialising in
Dominion constitutional law. Early last
year he appeared before the Privy Coun-
cil on behalf of objectors against the
Canadian “New Deal” laws, which
were declared unconstitutional; and he
was again successful in the James v.
Commonwealth action.
Major-General Charles Rosenthal —
“Rosie” to the A.l.F.—has retired from
his command of the 2nd Division. In
the war “Rosie” was accounted one of
the most efficient of artillery com-
manders. When he heard that a general
divisional command was coming his way
“Rosie” decided to add as much as pos-
sible to his knowledge of the work and
feelings of the infantry, and actually
“hopped over” with the footsloggers in
a couple of stunts. Acts like that made
him popular; but although his work in
the last year of the war stamped him as
an outstanding soldier he was ignored
by the Commonwealth when the scrap-
ping was over.
New head of the Kanematsu Medical
Research Institute, given by a Japanese
wool merchant and housed at Sydney
Hospital, is John Carew Eccles, Vic-
toria’s Rhodes scholar for 1924. He was
a Warrnambool High School boy who
floated into Melbourne University on a
strong raft of scholarships and was com-
pleting his medical course when the
Rhodes money enabled him to go to
Oxford.
In University medical faculties Aus-
tralia seems to become more closely
bound every year to the Orient. Bril-
liant Queenslander Argyle Campbell held
the professorship of physiology at Singa-
pore University before Professor Schaef-
fer set eyes on him and took him to
Britain to do research work. Another
Queenslander, Professor Lee, was later
offered the job, but chose, instead to join
the medical faculty of Queensland Uni.
Now S. Aus. has turned to Hong Kong
University for Professor Goldby, who
becomes head of the Anatomy Depart-
ment at Adelaide Uni. Goldby married
a daughter of Lord Tomlin, a High
Court Chancery Judge who sat on a
number of Australian Privy Council
appeals.
The second Lord Kitchener of Khar-
toum, who passed out the other day at
91, succeeded his brother after the
Hampshire disaster in 1916. One of the
many British peers who have settled in
Kenya, he was, like his two brothers, a
soldier who saw plenty of active service
in India. He was older than K. of K.
His own son, next heir to the peerage,
died in 1928, so a grandson succeeds.
There is not much chance of the Kit-
chener title dying out —the descendants
of sons and daughters of the family are
all entitled to succeed. The new Lord
was born in 1919.
Eldest son of the late George-Judah,
Samuel Sydney Cohen takes the place
of his father in the commercial life of
S. S. COHEN.
the city of his birth, helping to direct the
fortunes of Aus. Gas, Tooths, David
Cohen (grandfather’s firm), Bennie S.
Cohen (no relation, offshoot of Lloyd’s),
John McGrath and many other firms.
A genial soul who has carried his smile
into the mid-sixties, he finds time to pre-
side over the Civic Reform League, and
supports educational movements from
the Kindergarten Union to the Univer-
sity..
Alderman H. Massey, now challenging
Alfie. Jones to a contest for the rabbit-
skin and gold chain attaching to Lud-
mayorship of Brisbane, came north from
Melbourne about 12 years ago to run a
manufacturing business. Made a Civic
Reform alderman six years later, he re-
fused to take any screw for three years,
and he’s been an inconvenient critic of
the council’s financial antics. His massive
and popular opponent deals in mining
affairs, and was Minister for Mines for
12 years prior to Labor’s crash in 1929.
He achieved Ludmayorship at his first
shot, three years ago. He is tipped to
keep the job.
Monsignor John Kavanagh, who
answered the call at Waratah (N.S.W.)
the other day, was born in the same
Hunter River coalfields district in which
he died. He read a brilliant course in
Rome and was ordained there in 1903.
Students at Manly (N.S.W.) and Mosgiel
(M.L.) colleges reaped a harvest from
his learning. As parish priest of Branx-
ton and Singleton, where he labored till
the end, he shunned limelight, but honors
came unsought. When he was created
a Domestic Prelate by Pius XI. in 1934
some timid parishioners inquired how
they should address him. “Father Kav-
anagh will do,” he said. His 12 years at
Singleton saw many additions to church
grounds and buildings a village in
themselves.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s fourteenth Vet-
erans’ Day brought to the bowling-green
112 men of an average of 83 years. Pro-
minent were Castine, politician and rifle-
shot ; Lucas, former Agent-General ;
Vaughan, Crawford Vaughan’s father;
Hall, chairman of Adelaide Racing Club,
and old cricketers Pettinger, Slight, Dyer
and Walter Giffen. The first rink ran
from 91 to 84; and a crowd of dis-
appointed 70-odds had to make a day of
their own.
“El V.” on a visitor:
Montague Peregrine Albemarle Bertie (pro-
nounced Bartie), 12th Earl of Lindsey, is back
in a country which he liked so well that when
he was here as A.D.C. to N.S.W. Governor
Lord Carrington he married one of its native-
born, a daughter of J. H. Cox, of Sydney.
The first earl got his title from Charles 1., and
was killed fighting for that monarch at Edghill.
Before that the heirs of the family had held
the Barony of Willoughby de Eresby for 12
generations, so there has been a title continu-
ously in the family since 1313, when an early
ancestor was helping Edward I. with his wars.
After the Stuart period the Berties went from
honor to honor, becoming Dukes of Ancaster
in the days of George 1., but this title died and
the various family dignities were divided be-
tween two branches.
We’ll soon have a crew for the Cutty
Sark (B. 17-24/3/’37). A. J. Hornsey
blows in:
1 was a fellow-apprentice of Millett’s on the
Cutty Sark’s second voyage to Newcastle. The
apprentices were Jackson, Sykes, Millett,
Vaughan (?), Chittenden, Farrell, Le Grand
(first voyager) and myself. Millett had an uncle
who was a captain in the Union Line, and two
cousins, Maud and Mabel Millett, who were
on the stage. The Log of the Cutty Sark
mixes the first and second voyages to New-
castle. Shellback and Digger, I served with
the 11th Batt., A.1.F., in Egypt and France.
“Morehead” knows another:
John Hammond Pearce, late of Bingara
(N.S.W.), and now the same State’s Glou-
cester, joined the Cutty Sark in October, 1876,
at the West Indies Dock, London, as a.b.,
and reached Sydney in 83 days after calling at
Tristan da Cunha to leave supplies for the
inhabitants. At Sydney 11 of the crew left
the ship; they included Pearce and W. F.
Calcroft, also Dover-born, and two years
Pearce’s senior. Both stuck to the sea for
some years afterwards, and then worked to-
gether in a Sydney wholesale firm for more
than quarter of a century. Calcroft recently
died at Cronulla, near Sydney.
In the Easter Monday procession at
Bendigo were two veterans of the days
when the Golden City was known as
Sandhurst. Frank Smiley, who drove
for Cobb and Co., handled the ribbons
of one of the old original coaches;
handled them so expertly that, when the
leaders of the four-horse team bolted
just after they had been harnessed up,
he guided the runaways between the
booths edging the showground, often
turning corners on two wheels. An
older veteran was at the reins in the next
turnout. W. Whalebone, 95, who came
to the diggings in 1857 and set up in
business as a waterseller, drove an
antique, two-wheeled dray laden with
barrels bearing placards: “Water, 6d. per
bucket.” Whalebone is now living at
Hawthorn (Vic.).
George C. Morphett has a bit both ways
—he is chairman of Amscol (Adelaide
Milk Supply Co-operative, Ltd.) and a
director of the S.A. Brewing Co. ; mem-
MILK AND BEER.
ber of one of the State’s oldest families,
he lives at Morphettville ; part-owner of
Woods Point station, Murray Bridge, he
represents Murray in S.A. House of
Assembly.
Home for a holiday Bishop Chambers,
of Tanganyika (Africa). Born in Sydney
and educated at its University, he trans-
ferred from a Mosman curacy to Moore
College, where he helped train a band
of clergy whose activities now range
from East Finchley to Tasmania. He
left the college to become warden of
Trinity Grammar School (Sydney) and
chaplain to the local archbishop. He
had his call from Central Africa in 1928-
E. M. Luxmoore, master of Adelaide
Hunt Club, is retiring after long ser-
vice. He is succeeded by F. C. Bickford,
of the old hunting family, a nephew
of Harold Bickford, the former racing
judge.
Exit, at Brisbane, Pierce Carney, for
years the most notable figure in the
Queensland branch of the Meat Industry
Employees’ Union and a member of the
State executive of the A.L.P. Born at
Charters Towers, he was for long the
northern organiser of the A.M.I.E. From
1925 he showed himself an able advocate
in proceedings before, the Industrial
Courts, and, though a very sick man,
fought the case of the abattoirs strikers
at Brisbane to a finish. He was 53 when
the end came.


Introduced in 1934
nut/ MjdMdtiWM'fjj m
sS^ft/9S3k
mm
i
«
m
F
I
111
1
0
w
i
fl
it
MU
**p
i
The spotlight of success singles out the star of modern motor fuels Atlantic Ethyl. For
its unbroken record of brilliant performances in the last three years this fuel
has been voted firm public favourite— and its popularity is still increasing!
Why not enjoy the company of this star-performer yourself ? Drive with Atlantic Ethyl!
In low compression cars (almost all models built before 1934) Atlantic Petrol is sufficient to develop full power output.
lAE 4.48.371


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM "MINE TINK IT BEST"
“Kahu”: A man from the bush
stopped me in our main street. “I say,
mate,” he said, “is there a fire-escape in
this township?” Puzzled, I was about
to ask for further information, when he
continued: “Me cobber’s dead crook in
the ’orspital ’ere an’ they don’t reckon
’e can larst till the mornin’, so ’e wants
ter see one.” I directed him to the Manse.
* * * *
“First Blue”: None of those recently
paraded vegetable-growing swaggies had
anything on Buffalo Grass Bill as an out-
back oddity. A beer-soaking wanderer
in the back parts of Vic. in pre-war days,
Bill was a cut above growing mundane
things like vegetables. Camp beautifi-
cation was his long suit, and in that
cause he’d go to all sorts of trouble.
Then, his bush surroundings suitably
beautified, he would hang notices on the
near-by trees warning the world at large
to “keep off the adjectival grass.”
* t- * *
“Hanko”: In Victoria 30 stubble quail
may be taken, but in a mixed bag of 30
birds the inclusion of brown quail is
limited to 10. Which prompts the ques-
tion: How about shooters who can’t
distinguish between a brown and a
stubble quail in flight? And how many
can? As the birds often mix, what are
sportsmen to do should they get their
quota of browns early in the piece—go
home? From long observation, I don’t
think it possible to tell with absolute
certainty a stubble from a brown quail
on the wing. With the birds in hand it’s
different —they seem to have architec-
tured their feather-ends to guard against
wrongful identification. The stubble
quail’s feather ends are pointed, the
brown’s rounded, and, apparently for the
benefit of the color-blind, the painted
quail wears its feather ends square-cut.
* * * *
“James W.”: That pig an Aboliar
lately saw chewing a detonator had a
charmed life, or the det. was a dud.
When the main sewerage tunnel was
being constructed along the Eagle Farm-
road, Hamilton, Brisbane, some girls
from the local State school souvenired
a score or so of the “crackers” from a
box at the top of one of the shafts.
During recess eager hands tried to assist
a damsel who, holding three detonators
in the palm of her hand, was exploring
the innards of another with a hairpin.
When the tumult died three of the lassies
shared fairly equally the loss of eight
fingers.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Briggs Withers, of Millaa
Millaa (Atherton Tableland, N.Q.),
climbed a huge tree using one spring-
board and axe. First chopping a high
hold, he fitted the board in and swung
himself on to it. He then chopped an-
other hold, drove the axe securely into
the trunk, and, grasping the handle with
one hand and clinging to the tree with
his legs, moved the board from the lower
to the higher position ; and so on, up.
Seventy-eight feet from the ground he
cut the trunk through, dodging the fall-
ing top nimbly. I have “taken in” the
royal of a 1700-ton full-rigger in a
hurricane south of Cape Horn, but I
shouldn’t care to duplicate Withers’s feat.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Nicknames given shearers’
and rousies’ cooks are apt and easily ap-
parent in most cases, but some take
nutting out. F’rinstance, we expected
the “khaki” cook at a Victorian shed
would go all military either in orders or
garb when he came into action for the
“hurry-up” stew. But, no ; he was silent
and dressed in whites! His first duff,
however, gave us the clue we’d been
looking for ; it was khaki-colored! A
touch of treacle, we decided ; but our
collective palates could detect no trace
of cockies’ joy in it, nor in his khaki
scones and pastries either. We’d begun
an anxious check-up on the sheep-dip
when the poisoner’s offsider allayed our
fears by producing a bottle of saffron.
* * * *
“Wang”: When entries for the old
buffers’ race at the district picnic sports
were being accepted, young Joe Griggs,
who had earlier won the 100 yards race,
approached the secretary. “I see old
Larkins has entered,” he remarked. “Y’
oughter put th’ ole cow on scratch.”
The secretary grinned. It was well
known that Larkins had warned Joe
off the course as far as Hetty, his daugh-
ter, was concerned. “Oh, I dunno,” the
sec. said. “We can’t handicap the old
bloke out of the race; we ain’t got any-
thing to justify us doin’ so.” “Well, I’m
tellin’ yer y’ have,” said Joe emphati-
cally. “I’ve raced him a quarter-mile
sprint from th’ house to th’ road gate,
an’ on’y beat him by a coupla yards
or so. An’ he wus carryin’ extra weight
—a double-barrelled gun!”
“I suppose you know Mr. Stubble will soon be leaving us for a bettah life."
“Wot, did ’E win the lottery?"
“Bull-ant Bill”: I reckon there’s an
opening for some new breeds of dogs.
My ideal watchdog is a Dachshund-bull
cross, a yard-long barrel of pluck, in-
telligence and teeth, and only a foot
high, so that a burglar would fall over
him in the dark. He’d be safe for sheep,
for they’d only need to walk away. Peke-
St. Bernard would make a lordly car-
dog for a Rolls Royce. A dingoat should
beat the best of all dogs for sheep once
the goat part preponderated sufficiently.
Then there’s the anteaterrier, too spiky
to pat, but sudden death on ants, cock-
roaches and insect pests generally. The
lobsterrier would be ideal for the sea-
side, and wholly proof against ticks.
And Australia’s fishing industry really
needs a Sealyham with a whole lot more
seal in it to catch and retrieve fish. Get
busy, some of you fancy dog-mixers!
* y: * %
“Gumblegubbin”: Recent discussion
of universal shearing tallies reminds me
of the brake that rain puts on the “guns”
and the necessity to speed up afterwards
to recover some of the loss. But while
wet weather is expensive for shearers,
who have to loaf in the huts “eating their
heads off,” it means wealth for the cooks
and rouseabouts. At Mungadal station,
in the Hay (N.S.W.) district, the shear-
ing was unduly prolonged through
showery weather. At the cut-out the
chief dough-banger, who was cooking
for both gangs (shearers and shedhands)
drew £l2B and his offsider £B5. The
cheque of each shedhand was £42 ; the
shearers came a bad last. Rain has made
many a shearer hump his swag, and it
has put the dinkum cook in a buggy or
a motor-car.
“Rob Roy” : Driving along a Queens-
land country road I overtook one kid
carrying another pickaback. “Mister,
can you take me cobber to the doctor?”
said the beast of burden. “He’s been
bitten by a brown-snake.” It turned out
that one of the lads (11 and 10) had
pinched his old man’s .32 to go shooting,
Both barefooted, they were walking
through the scrub when one was nipped,
The other immediately applied a tour-
niquet made from the rubber rings of
his shanghai, and, having no knife to
cut the bite, chewed a piece out of his
cobber's leg where he was bitten (on the
calf). That explained the tearful con-
dition of the sufferer, I thought, but he
soon put me right. “Aw, the bite’s no-
thin'," he said. “It's what the old man’ll
do when he finds out we shot a cow.
That’s got me worried.” This country’s
all right while it’s producing kids like
those
’ :i . * * ' *
“Bushy Park”: When I went to see
how my new neighbors, Tony and
Guido, were getting on I thought that I
had walked in on the last act of an
Italian vendetta. They rushed out to
meet me, Tony waving a bloodstained
beet knife and Guido brandishing an
equally bloody axe. Their hut seemed
to be the centre of attraction for all the
local flies, and a horde of assorted dogs
were snarling over the stream of blood
that was coming out of the open door,
When I had reduced the stream of
yabber to recognisable terms I found out
that there was no need for alarm. They
had brought their old dray horse into the
kitchen for shelter during a thunder-
storm and the old nag had repaid them
by dyirg on the spot. After a vain
attempt to drag it out they decided to
cut up the carcass and cart it out piece
by piece. One more squib “atrocity.”
* * * *
“Abbey Angler”: My old monks knew
all about “Plankton’s” idea of soaking
fresh-water fish in vinegar to remove
muddy flavors (B. 3/ 3 / ’37); but, how-
ever efficacious with the carnivorous
perch, etc., that doesn’t act with the vege l
tarian carp. The carp is estimated to
consume and excrete its own weight of
matter per day. It thus pollutes any
non-flowing water, and it is largely this
pollution that gives the muddy taste. In
Central Europe carp ponds are drained
every five to seven years, the adult fish
—l5- to 20-pounders—being removed to
cleansing stews. The pond bed is then
sown with rye or other legume, the crop
taken off and the soil removed to the
original depth of the pond—usually 4ft.
or sft. The soil is sold to gardeners as
the richest possible manure, and the pond
is sown again with succulent grass, re-
filled and restocked, the small fry thus
getting a good start in life. Cleansed in
the stews, the adult fish go to market
and are there carved into steaks for
people whose fish diet would otherwise
be at a minimum. It is the complete
fish-farming.
* * * *
“Nitchevo”: He was a raw newchum
of the chummiest type, but very willing,
even though it was 115 deg. in the shade
with no shade handy, and he pushed the
mob along, trying to get them home
before midday. Suddenly the woollies
began to stagger and act as though they
were sozzled. When they hadn’t arrived
by one o’clock the boss set out to in-
vestigate. He found the mob about five
miles from home afflicted with the siag-
gers and Choom with splints of gum-
saplings and the last of his shirt torn
in strips bandaging a jumbuck’s legs to
try to make it walk straight. He was
on his twenty-fifth.
* * , * , i; f
Naturalist : Despite popular belief
the kookaburra is not in the habit of
making flying grabs at anything m the
shape of tucker. No matter how grea,
the hurp% the boisterous one flops down
m front of the object to be picked up.
a snake not excepted. Flying snaps arc
onl y. made at reptiles top large to be
carried off and other weighty enemies
°* the
* * „ „ „ ..
The Buster : If Walkabout s esti-
mate (B. 10/3/’37) is correct, I, after
15 years’ association with shearing-sheds,
have not met many “average” wool-
gougers. Eighty pounds is a generous
average for store sheep, so that the
“greasy” who carries his eight tons a
day chews out approximately 220, which
is certainly shearin’ ’em. Actually, the
average throughout Australia is about
100 or less, so the average daily load
(which, by the way, is more of a drag
than a carry) would be something less
than four tons. When it is considered
that an ordinary day’s wheat-lumping
means carrying 90 to 100 tons, it must
be admitted that the weight carried on
the mile constitutional (if it be a mile)
would not steady a fourteen-two. It’s
getting them off the board, not on, that
makes us look for the blow-up.
“Hoc”: “Talkin’ about snakes,” said
“Clawhammer” Jack, “me Uncle Tom
was asleep one day under some bushes
at the side, of the ’ouse, when up shuffles
a big black ’un an’ bites ’im on the
neck. Now, you’d ’ave thought Uncle
Tom’d never ’ave seen daylight again,
wouldn’t yer? But he was pretty tough,
an’ later on ’e just woke up as if nothing
’ad ’appened. But ever since ’e was
bitten ’e gets peculiar about the same
time every year. Just goes an’ lays
under them same bushes an’ goes to
sleep.” “Very peculiar,” I commented.
“But that’s not all,” continued Jack.
“Yer see, while ’e’s asleep ’e sheds his
skin!”
* * *
“Nor’-west”: Why are some persons
practically immune from mosquito bites
while others suffer greatly? My only
vulnerable spots are the ears —the mos-
sies zooming around wondering whether
to make a landing or not. I never feel
their bites even there, while after-effects
are nil. Yet I strip almost milk-white,
and an hour’s surfing would make me
a cot case. Opposed to this, I had a
Nor’-west mate with a hide like leather;
he felt every bite, with lumps like peas
springing up almost instantly on all ex-
posed areas until not a square quarter
of an inch would be free.
* * * *
“CD1”: What’s the record registra-
tion for a sun-shower? The best I’ve
seen was at Wint'on (Q.), rain falling
hard for a quarter of an hour while the
sun shone brilliantly and when it was
over 65 points in the gauge.
THE COW COCKY.
The crystalled frost is crunching ’neath our
plodding, frozen feet,
Our fingers are all stiff and numbed from
cold;
Some stubborn sore-teat milker makes our
misery complete,
As across the messy floor we’re kicked and
rolled.
The waiting pigs and poddies squeal and bawl
their hungry claim
As, at dark, we turn adrift our final cow;
We gorge them into silence as we hear the
household dame
Also bawling that our tea awaits us now.
The cowyard with its odors has been sluiced
from hands and face;
We eat, but in a rueful vision see
The dirty cans and buckets that are scattered
round the place,
To be gathered, washed and scalded after
tea.
But what’s the use of talking? Townies never
know the folk
Who start their toil before the break of day,
And for sixteen dragging hours keep their
shoulders at the yoke—
Seven double days a week to make it pay.
N.S.W.
PAUL CUPID.


“Cooie-Bird”: Next to friend go. the
greatest whale on eggs I’ve ever come
across was a brother broad-axe swinger
on a sleeper-chopping job in the Blackall
Ranges (S.Q.). He regularly demolished
12 fried eggs at teatime, besides a liberal
helping of vegetables and damper. Eggs
were cheap, but Tom’s weekly egg bill
was round about 10s. He reckoned
anything less than a dozen eggs left him
hungry. At Sydney Egg Board prices
he’d starve to death.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: A stalking feat of
which any native might be proud. A
bronzewing pigeon settled in a fruit-
tree in a friend’s back yard and he de-
cided to catch it. Fixing his gaze on
the bird, he approached inch by inch,
slowly raising his arms. Progress was
slow—he was half an hour covering 20
yards—but the pigeon was not dis-
turbed until suddenly plucked off its
perch. Placed in a pen with two homers,
the bronzewing lasted exactly 60 seconds.
* * sfc
“Creel”: That angling fish of Groper-
land's north-west coast which lately in-
terested an Aboit'e has a much weirder
cousin—the oceanic angler which lives
below about 3000 ft. The female o.a.
grows to 4ft., and has a “fishing line”
projecting from the top of her head
equipped with a luminous “bait” that is
flicked to and fro to attract other fish.
The lady has a distensible stomach,
enabling her to digest fish larger than
herself, and she acts as breadwinner for
herself and husband, who is a dwarf
rarely more than five inches long. At
birth he attaches himself to the body of
the first available female, remaining
there for life. Their skins become fused
and he is nourished externally from the
lady's bloodstream. He is. sightless and
without fishing line, his only duty being
to ensure the continuance of the species
"While y'r 'avin' a spell will y' pass me up them logs ?”
when the time comes for the eggs to be
laid. This is the only instance known
of a male fish being attached to a female
as a parasite.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: I came upon the old-
man goanna in a stunted gidya on the
Maranoa (Q.). He underestimated the
length of my whip, and I playfully cut
at him on the top of the shrub. Sensing
his vulnerability, the go. took off and
volplaned for another and larger tree.
He alighted on a limb, but it snapped
and hurtled earthwards with him. I
expected him to crash to the ground ;
instead, he got on to the trunk of the
tree and shinned up to safety. Now,
he had fallen at least 10ft. perpendicu-
larly, and to get on the tree it was neces-
sary for him to fly two to three feet, and
I’ll swear that this is exactly what he did.
The tiny geckos of the North defy New-
ton’s law—apparently their larger cousins
can do likewise.
“I envy our neighbors their trip to the Coronation, don't you?"
“Aw, I dunno. They're goin' t' miss the Culoobooloo Show!"
“L. de F”: If “Garda” (B. 3/3/ ’37)
will allow a little for American jour-
nalistic overcoloring he will find the
snow-gums of the Australian Alps are
real. The “great trunks” are mislead-
ing, for they are a stunted lot—2oft. the
usual run. But the cold of the moun-
tains lends deeper, richer colors to the
changing barks of several smooth-
stemmed types growing above the snow-
line, just as only the cold brings out the
most vivid color in maples and suchlike
autumn-foliage plants. Coloring is at-
tenuated, more insipid, in warmer places.
Never have 1 seen such a riot of color
in gum-trunks as in those that
struggle through snowy winters. Fami-
liar creamy-white, flesh tints, pastel
hues meeting with deep salmon pink
and reddish purple, all laid on in
mad streaks and splashes and mix-
ings. I don’t know about the changing
of color after rain, but any colored sur-
face looks darker when wet and a stormy
sunset can play tricks. When Hans Hey-
sen translated gum-trees into painting
he caused many people to see for the
first time the real color in these trees.
Is there any other tree, by the way, that
has so much individuality about it?
“Nitchevo”: I hand the prize for
chicken-raising to the wife. One of her
prize Minorcas laid an outside in eggs,
and when it was broken for a cake the
cook discovered three separate yolks.
The hen repeated the performance, and
this time the wife gave the large egg to
an old broody to see what she could do.
Three weeks later to the day Broody
sallied forth with three black youngsters,
small but sturdy.
“ACM.”: Recently I was in a C.Q.
shearing-shed that was the centre of the
big ’9l strike, and I fell to comparing
things then and now. To-day it costs a
shearer about 30 bob a week for food ;
then the cost of living was 12s. 9d. per
man, including 4s. for the cook. Then
the shearer got £1 a hundred ; to-day he
gets 325. 6d. One other comparison, the
weight of fleece (greasy) then was about
s|lb.; to-day it is about B|lb. The
ringer that year shore 1879 sheep in 14
days, including two Saturdays.
=;= * * *
“Splodger”: A dog can’t work in
boots. No matter how well the boots
are made, or how light they are —and
I’ve tried the best to be procured —a dog
labors with them on and his capacity to
wheel a wing is cut to less than half.
Multiply by ten the effect of a heavy
set of shoes on a galloping horse or a
pair of studded blucher boots on a foot
runner, and you have the result of the
best pair of boots ever put on a dog.
To protect Towser’s feet when travelling
they’re good ; to help him in his work
—no.
* * * *
“Celon”: Gins make an easy job of
catching fresh-water eels. Lying flat on
the bank with a dilly-bag held ready,
they imitate the eels’ own “talk,” a rising
“Utie, utie, utie.” As soon as the
wriggler, irresistibly attracted, gets close
enough, one quick scoop with the dilly-
bag makes it a prisoner.
* * * *
“Gonorth”: Sheep, if not exactly
meteorologists, are highly qualified
weathercocks. They
like to feed in open
formation against
the breeze ; seem
never happier than
when sun-shower
or night wind beats
on their faces; in
calm weather are
among the first
animals to sense a
change of direc-
tion or a freshen-
ing of the wind ;
are notorious for
packing themselves
in column of lump along boundary
fences to the windward, where the
turf becomes scarified like a drafting-
pen or a camping “break.” They will
face the music of a howling northerly
for days, retreating only for water and
shade, or, in winter, for the warmth of
timbered country.
* * # *
“Tid’apa”: Mention of the M.L.
neddy that sported a wonderful bloom
after tucking away half a gallon of oil
reminds me of a Vic. farmer who in-
variably took first prize with the show
porkers. Dunno whether it is a trade
secret or a common practice, but for
about a month prior to the show he
dosed each porker daily with the con-
tents of a 21b. tin of cockies’ joy. When
they left' for the show the grunters had
a sheen like satin.
* * * *
“Wandi”: The deciduous Tasmanian
myrtle-tree, mentioned in a recent par.,
walks In pieces all over Australia, for
the wood is used for making heels of
women’s shoes. Another wood exten-
sively used for the purpose is Antarctic
beech (known also as niggerhead). A
related beech on the Macpherson Range,
near where the Stinson aeroplane
crashed, is claimed to be the oldest tree
in the world. The ancient is hugely but-
tressed, partly covered with moss and
about 100 ft. in circumference at the butt.
Botanists estimate its age to be 3000
years. But for its inaccessibility on top
of the jungle-clad range, it would prob-
ably long since have gone the way of
other giants of national interest. It is now
likely to become a tourist attraction.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Nomads who plant
vegetable seeds along their beats could
take a lesson from the Murray whalers,
who not only have garden plots in the
sheltered river bends, but also keep up
circulating libraries. These are in hollow
trees known to the initiated, and there is
only one rule to be observed take a
book and leave a book. One bearded
member complained to me that the
general literary standard of the libraries
was slipping badly. “Nothing else but
gangster stories an’ Edgar Wallaces
nowadays,” he said bitterly. “I ’ad to
row thirty-three miles last week before I
could get hold of a ‘True Romance’
mag.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Long Ned and Calico,
man and boy, rode into the Murrum-
yarram country, south of Moulamein
(N.S.W.), one bleak July to muster
cattle before the river and its creeks
overran their banks. It was a race
against the waters, and by nightfall they
had about 1100 wild-eyed beasts in the
hut paddock. Next morning, in sleety
rain, they discovered the cattle had
broken the fence, swum the creek (now
a banker) and scattered in the wild
tangle of giant lignum bush and swamp
gum on the other side. They left the
pise hut, swam their nags over the creek
and drove through the squelchy waste
all day, their mounts flagging, their
clothes and skin torn by the lignum,
their bodies drooping with fatigue. They
bulldozed those cattle back across the
creek (now a flood), crossed it twice
more to get them into a securely-fenced
paddock, and returned to find the hut
reduced by the flood, their blankets under
water and tucker ruined. They spent
the night in the freezing and wet open bv
a poor fire, and were away at dawn in
continued rain. By nightfall of the third
awful day, hungry, cold and exhausted,
they had the cattle securely in the
Craggie Mains yards. The manager
there handed Long Ned a message:
“Return at once. Sold cattle. Owner
will muster himself.” Long Ned sighed,
looked at Calico, grinned and said, “And
people wonder why station-hands go on.
the booze!”
THE SLACK.
’Tis I, who sleep on a vagrant’s bed
In canelands hilly,
No stake at all but the road ahead,
A swag and a billy,
Who lately stooped, through the blazing noons,
Lopping and thrashing,
Over the stools of heavy ratoons,
With a keen blade flashing.
But ever a star, when night came down,
Was where I found it,
On feet that stepped to a sugar town
And the songs around it.
Reaping the full of a flawless “cut,”
June to December;
Then gath’ring many an “if” and “but”
That I can’t remember.
And now?—the end of a season’s toil,
“Wet” months and hollow;
I find no stake, ’tween the sky and soil,
Save a road I follow.
N.S.W.
FRANK McCALL.


“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABJLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRtCtS!
. ' IfiJ
x. f pip m
■
m
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
ADAMS’ (TA'ITERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
TO THOSE ABOUT TO TRAVEL
and who require expert management and undoubted security for their
Estates during their absence —Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
is specially qualified to act as Attorney under Power or Agent. It
offers the services of a highly qualified staff to attend to all of your
affairs and can arrange to make regular payments to you in any
part of the world. You are invited to arrange an appointment with
a senior officer of tjie Company to discuss its methods and charges
or write for an explanatory booklet.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaglit. 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair. M.L.C., E. fii. Knox,
IC. de L. Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Call or write for explanatory booklet. p. Cureton, Manager.
XJ OTfiER-COtPi*
The [?]
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1920 .. 464.079 158.487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 ..1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1928 .. 1,223.304 516,262 126,903 53,351 526 848
1929 ..1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 ..1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 .. 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 7 234 m
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 ( ’
1932 ..1,316,891 767,756 163,556 7 C2 1 284 817
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO j ’
1933 .. 1,230,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 t 22g 66g
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO j “ ’
1934 . . 1,039,535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 . . 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 . . 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,590 ]
From bonus equalisation account, j- 579,467
£30,000 .. J
The business continues to step along
nicely, and the society—it is one of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual offices —still
claims to pay larger bonuses than any
other life office in the British Empire.
The spring in last year’s net premiums
(£768,390) was £47,694, and in interest
and rents (£409,797) £59,375. Considera-
tion for annuities (£61,866) was down
£19,216, a reflection of the times, making
the net growth in total income
(£1,240,053) £87,853. A pleasing feature
of the accounts was a contraction of
£51,668 in surrender values exhausted
(£3833), due to liberalisation of the sur-
render value of the co.’s policies, of
which fewer thus lapsed.
Actual excess of income over outgo was
£67,530 better at £549,467, to which was
added £30,000 from the bonus equalisa-
tion reserve (now £70,000), raising the
assurance fund to £8,223,648. The fund
has the support and assistance of
£452,950 set aside for contingencies and
of the bonus equalisation reserve, making
the total amount belonging to policy-
holders at the end of 1936 £8,746,599.
Another feature of last year’s accounts
was the growth of £509,769 in the book
value of properties, due to completion of
the co.’s new and imposing-looking
headquarters at the corner of Hunter
and Castlereagh streets, Sydney. Practi-
cally all available letting space has been
taken. The disposition of assets com-
pares as follows: —-
1935 p q 1936* p.c.
Govt, securities. . £1,782,721 '■ 21.4 £1,994,630 22.5.
Mortgages .. 2,995,216 36.0 3,009,436 34.0
Loans on policies 1,153,931 13.8 1,239,734 14.0
Properties.. .. 1,297,721 15.6 1,807,490 20.4
Shares and
debentures, etc. 621,469 7.5 723,835 8.2
Cash and sundries 476,894 5.7 84,275 0.9
Government securities were up £211,909,
and £102,366 was added to the holding
of shares and debentures, etc. To meet
the outlay, cash and sundries were drawn
upon for £392,619. Since 1928 the pro-
portion of funds invested in mortgages
has dropped from 57.7 p.c. to 34 p.c., while
the proportion in Government securi-
ties has risen from 16.1 p.c. to 22.5 p.c.,
and properties from 7.2 p.c. to 20.4 p.c.
Thus, in addition to giving more atten-
tion to Government securities, there has
been a partial change in the character
of property investments from equities
to ownership. One effect of this is to
sidestep the worst aspects of moratorium
legislation.
Interest and rents appear to be the
source from which the co. scored
heaviest in the past. The net effective
return reached nearly 6 p.c. in 1929.
Thanks to the hardening of interest and
rents, improvement in the real-estate
market generally and better collections,
the net effective return last year on all
funds belonging to policy-holders was
4.72 p.c. as against 4.28 p.c. for the
previous term, notwithstanding that a
lot of money, represented by the new
building, was not earning anything for
most of the term.
For the three years to the end of 1934,
bonuses on whole-of-life contracts ranged
from £2 17s. 6d. on those five years in
force to £4 ss. p.c. on those 40 years
old or more. The rates were reduced
slightly in 1935 ; those for last year have
not yet been declared.
The increase in the amount of new
business put on the books last year was
£135,900 as against £655,152 in ’35:
, 1934. 1935. 1930.
Policies . . . . 4,737 6,424 6,825
Assuring . . .. £1,657,050 £2,312,202 £2,448,102
First premiums .. 54,387 74,038 83,410
Renewal premiums 636,701 646,658 G 84.980
Annuities . . . . 24,895 81,082 61,866
Interest,, etc. . . 323,552 350,422 409,797
Exes, took 12.2 p.c. of total income as
against 11.7, 10.7, 14.9, 16.5 and 15.7
p.c. back to 1931.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
r— —Dividends Total
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Div. Reserves.
£ £ £
1927.. 217,261 10 p.c. 6 A 7 p.c. 115,714 337,120
1928.. 214,479 10 ~ 6 & 7 ~. 117,273 434,326
1929.. 229,322 10 ~ 0 & 7 ~ 120,303 543,345
1930.. 230,366 10 ~ 6 & 7 ~ 128,297 645,414
1931.. 226,265 9 „ 6&7 „ 122,170 749,509
1932.. 171,833 8 „ 6&7 „ 110,208 810,134
1933.. 181,967 8 ~ 6 & 7 ~ 110,208 881,893
1934.. 126,487 8 ~ 6 & 7 ~ 110,208 898,172
1935.. 86,740 64 „ 6&7 „ 91,410 893,502
1930.. 119,541 7-J ~ 6 & 7 „ 103,942 909,101
1937.. 182,863 72 „ 6&7 „ 103,942 988,022
There is £1,398,226 of capital to feed
in 20,000 6 p.c. non-cumulative and
125,000 7 p.c. cumulative prefs. and
1,253,226 ords. The prefs. are preferen-
tial as to dividends only ; for capital they
rank equally with the ords., after de-
ducting reserved profits. The 6 per
cents, at 245. 9d. and the 7 per cents, at
28s. Id. each return 4.9 p.c. The ords.
at 295. Id. yield 5.1 p.c. on a 74 p.c.
div. basis.
Earnings on shareholders’ account are
restricted to 7 p.c. p.a. on actual capital
invested in assets used for the purpose of
electric supply (actual capital is the value
of the assets after allowing for depre-
ciation), and out of the 7 p.c. the co. has
to meet the demands of the taxgatherer.
Here is the financial structure as the
published accounts show it:
1921. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . .. £740,648 £1,398,226 £1.398,226
Sundry creditors.. 42,200 58,978 91,107
Property, plant, mains,
etc. .. .. 769,184 1,850,223 1,979,551
Stock . . . . 63,784 70,163
Cash, public securities,
etc. ... .. 27,629 454,703 397,817
Book debts, etc... 47,869 ' 50,566 82,796
There is obviously nothing to worry
about in the liquid position. The year s
growth of £129,328 in the book value
of fixed assets (in at cost) was due largely
to additions to city sub-stations and un-
derground mains. To meet the outlay,
add £6379 to stocks and carry an extra
£32,230 of debtors’ balances, etc., cash
(£329,661) was drawn upon for £56,886
and £32,129 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. How much
of the £803,252 (up £62,903) set aside for
renewals, replacements and contingen-
cies—it is equal to 40.5 p.c. of the book
value of fixed assets —is intended as cover
for depreciation is not clear from the
published accounts. Much depends upon
what has been spent out of earnings
on repairs, renewals, etc., and charged
as working exes. Seven per cent, of the
figure at which fixed assets appeared at
the end of Jan. would be sufficient to
cover the pref. divs. and show a shade
over 10 p.c. on ord. capital. If the
£803,252 is deducted, 7 p.c. of the balance
would cover the pref. divs. and show
only 5.7 p.c. on ord. capital.
During the year two cuts were made
in consumers’ tariff—it is the lowest in
the State —and there was a marked in-
crease in consumption of juice, due partly
to extension of mains. The board called
£89,985 (up £18,243) of the year's takings
net profit. The difference between that
figure and the £182,863 shown in the
table is accounted for by transfer of
£13,982 first to and then from the re-
serve fund (unchanged at £45,889), a net
addition of £15.993 to the tax reserve
(£135,870), and of £62,903 to the re-
newals and contingencies account already
referred to. The div. was kept at 7} p.c.;
prospects of a bit more are encouraging.
Expansion in Brisbane is limited owing
to operation of the. City Council under-
taking, but the co. continues to extend
its mains to rural areas. Since the close
of accounts, the undertaking of theCooi-
angatta Electric Supply Co. has been
bought (price not stated), and the co. s
mains are to be extended to the Tweed
shire in N. S. Wales. This and the
board’s big scheme for electrification of
south-eastern Queensland will call for
substantial capital outlay. The large
cash holding, however, suggests that
shareholders may not be asked for more.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,324 2,276
Added Intangibles, £32 .. .. 2,308
Dee., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. -. 9,114
1929.. 39.590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 .. -■ 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576,
Added Intangibles, £9O .. .. 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil = 8,005 2,424 49,910
Added Intangibles, £8 .. •• 49,902
1932. .14,830 14.4 p.c. Nil = 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added Intangibles, £64 .. .. 52,638
1933. .24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. = 21,250 3,328 55,9.66
1934.. 32.331 7f ~ 73 „ ~ 19,375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29.824 7| „ 7f „ ~19,375 10,449 79,371
Intangibles disappear, £196 .. •• 79,567
Insurance policies surrendered,
£2OOB 77,559
Written off, £2900 74,659
1936. .20,931 7 3 p.c. 7$ p.c.= 22,822 72,768
Pref. div. subject 22* p.c. cut from 1/10/’3l.
*Six months.
Better was expected, and the market
shortened its bid for the prefs. and ords.
from 275. and 265. 4d. respectively a
year ago to 245. 6d. and 225. 6d. respec-
tively last week-end. Meanwhile, the
ords. had touched par. On a 7} p.c. div.
basis the prefs. return 6.3 p.c. at 245. 6d.
and the ords. 6.8 p.c. at 225. 6d. Under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act
the prefs. are entitled to advance with the
ords. from 7} p.c. to 10 p.c., their original
contract rate. The net tangible cover is
£4 12s. 2d. prefs. and 255. 4d. ords.
Although there was more money about
and trade generally continued to im-
prove last year, competition in the
hosiery and lingerie trades —here aggre-
gate plant capacity is able to take care
of a yet larger demand —became a little
more aggressive. Also, delay in comple-
tion of the new building and installation
of new plant interfered with the year’s
results. The contract provided for
completion of the new premises by May
5, 1936, but they were not finally handed
over till October 12. The board sums
up the position in this way:
The eo., which derived no benefit during
the year from capital expended on the
new mill and plant, experienced consider-
able loss of trade and additional expense
as a result of the great delay in com-
pletion of the new building As a result
valuable machinery, which had been
ordered to synchronise approximately with
the contract date of completion, had to
be kept in bond for months, and very
substantial additional expense incurred.
The change-over of departments, especi-
ally at the height of the production period,
seriously hampered operations and added
considerably to operating costs... .These
difficulties were merely of a temporary
nature, attributable to the circumstances,
and have now been overcome, and the
board views operations for the current
year with confidence.
Including the results of the Maoriland
subsidiary, which appears to have made
a small loss, there was a contraction of
£19,289 in the year’s gross earnings
(£141,446). Exes. (£120,515) were got
back £10,568. Allowing for minor re-
serve adjustments in the previous term,
the net result was £8893 lighter at 7.1
p.c. on average capital (pref. and ord.
combined) as against 11.9 p.c. and 12.9
p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div. was kept at an all-round p.c.,
reserves being drawn upon for £lB9l for
the purpose, reducing them to £72,768.
Goodwill, etc. (£10,258), is not treated as
an asset herein.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1929. 1934. 1935. 1936.
£££ . £
Ord. capital } o iQ i^ o f 166,667 181,183 226,667
Pref. capital j j 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages .. 31,928
Overdraft . . 43,171 27,483 28,677 45,718
Creditors . . 94,940 40,163 48,650 26,324
Freeholds .. 40,472* 45,620* 46,980* 120.148
Plant.. .. 135,934 142,732 139,044 158,990
Stocks .. 180,527 127,689 151.824 133,572
Debtors .. 85,239 97,770 94,415 85.463
Cash, etc. . . 1,352 2,722 2,891 481
Investments .. ■ — 10,919 10,777
* Less mortgage.
The addition of £73,168 to the book
value of freeholds is due partly to dis-
closure of a mortgage of £31,928. To
meet the balance, add £19,946 to the
plant item and reduce the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors by £22,326,
£45,484 of fresh capital was gathered.
£17,041 was added to the overdraft,
stocks were reduced by £18,252, debtors
balances by £8952 and cash, etc., by
£2410. The decline in debtors’ balances
was due to a much larger volume of col-
lections than usual in December, the
board says. Excluding investments,
mainly shares in the Maoriland subsi-
diary, the year’s contraction in the more
or less liquid surplus (£115,546) was
£56,257.
With the new plant in operation, the
co. should be able to head net earnings
in the opposite direction by the close of
next accounts. Much will depend upon
the course of competition.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
SI £> £ £ £
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 1,02,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~ 46,080 17,680119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ ~ 46,127 18,129 137,907
1929.. 63,293 1200 15 „ ~ 46,292 15,801153,708
‘1930 . . .39,410 1200 lli„ „ 34,837 3,373 157,081
1931.. 20,251 1200 0 „ ~ 18,580 471 157,552
1932. . 20,529 2312 6 „ ~ 15,793 2,424 159,976
1933.. 22,998 8 „ „ 15,638 7,360167.33 6
1934.. 23,886 124 „ ~19,354 4,532171,868
Staff fund, £5OO .. .. .. 171,368
1935.. 28,954 15 p.c. = 23,255 5,699 177,067
Staff fund, £5OO 176,567
Inner reserves capitalised, £37,800.. 176,567
1936.. 30,040 15 p.c. = 28,986 1,054 177,621
Staff fund, £5OO .177,121
Tax reserve, etc., taken in, £20,000.. 197,121
This well-handled and soundly-financed
co., with a more or less hand-picked
cash-order connection —it was one of the
earliest in the field—superimposed on an
established furnishing and furnishing-
drapery business, has been an oustanding
success, and, subject to economic de-
velopments, it looks like being a very
good dividend-payer in the future.
Though growth of competition and
other things raise, doubts whether the
future will be so rich as the past, bonus
scrip has begun to flow again.
For 18 years to the close of accounts
in 1930, the ords. received divs. averag-
ing 12.7 p.c., sweetened with £222,400
of bonus shares, making paid capital
£329,667. Also, over a quarter of a
million had been invested outside the
business in more or less readily-realisable
securities. So, when slump, unemploy-
ment and moratoriums played havoc
with the trade, the co. was able to re-
turn £174,833 of the capital—more than
shareholders had subscribed —leaving the
door still open for payment of a rela-
tively high rate of dividend from reduced
earnings. Though the div. dropped
from 15 p.c. in ’29 to 6 p.c. in ’3l, it
rose to 8 p.c. in ’33, and then sprang to
12} p.c., followed by 15 p.c. in ’35.
The new furnishing which accom-
panies new building was supplemented


Your lank holds
more miles
when filled with
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
CONTAINING BENZOL
COR
* BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
C64/12/SP
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1330-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates,
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestoue).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company's
offices, viz.:—•
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Keinbla.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
tk
t
0
0
&
n
A
FOR POWER.STAMINA & DEPEN DABILITY
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
April Issue Now on Sale.
SHARE AND COMMODITY MARKETS ANALYSED.
RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES IN UNIT TRUSTS.
LEAD—ZINC—COPPER—TIN.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Kewspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
last year by a strong demand on account
of renovations and replacements, delayed
because of slump and owing to com-
petition in the flat business, etc. Em-
ployment continued to improve, and so
did the co.’s turnover and collection of
book debts, in which substantial pro-
vision appears to have been made for
contingencies. After making whatever
provisions were considered necessary, the
board figured net earnings £lOB6 better
than the previous year’s at £30,040, or
15.5 p.c. on capital as against 18.6, 15.4
and 11.7 p.c. for the three preceding
years. The div. was kept at 15 p.c.
Early in the term, however, £37,800 of
bonus scrip was scattered, one for four,
which makes 15 p.c. worth 18* p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift, and
which accounts for the apparent reces-
sion in the ratio of net earnings to capi-
tal. The gift was made from inner re-
serves ; so there was no change in the
visible lay-by, except that £20,000 that
had been earmarked for taxation, etc.,
has now been tossed into general reserves,
it being no longer required for specific
purposes. That leaves visible accumu-
lations still £3883 in excess of paid capi-
tal ; so shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) need turn in only a
shade under l-\ p.c. to cover a 15 p.c.
div.
A little more detail of the financial
structure of the business is now dis-
closed :
1924. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £275,005 £154,834 £155,031 £193,238
Sundry creditors 40,815 57,491 68,538 70,532
Overdraft . . 19,182 95 1,645 973
Property and
plant . . 14,152 116,933 115,686 119,684
Stock 1 19,190
Hire agree-}- 107,376 90,110 90,046-
ments J 93,279
Book debts . . 84,867 40,894 43,245 67,232
Shares, deben-
short loans 123,046] f 62,369
Mortgages .. 85,525 I m 401 189 8 7 0 J 8 ’ 468
Government I
securities .. 19,744 J [ 73,600
Cash, etc. ... 274 656 655 38,208
The net growth of £3998 in fixed assets
mainly reflects purchase of premises,
portion of which was previously rented,
at ‘Newtown. Shares, mortgages and
Government securities were together re-
duced by £45,433, and cash, etc., was
strengthened by £37,553, while £23,987
was added to debtors’ balances and
£22,423 to stocks and hire agreements.
The two last-mentioned movements
appear to have some connection with the
disclosure of inner reserves and the issue
of bonus scrip. The apparent increase
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£290,837) was £37,204.
The market, which sees no cloud in
the co.’s sky, prices the fully-paid pound
shares, covered by 40s. sd. in net tan-
gibles, at 635. The return at this figure
is 4.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Wellington Gas Co., Ltd. (M.L.).
Dividends * Written
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. Reserves.
1927.. 63,461 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 26,533 21,533 127,147
i 928 . . 5", B\, 26,533 21,666 141,012
Reduction in tax reserve, £18,596.. 122,416
1929.. 63,512 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 26,533 22,710 136,680
1930.. 62,489 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 21,123 101,518
1931.. 62,092 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 20,823 166,204
1932.. 58,385 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 21,413 176,693
Residual, etc., res. taken in, £-2500.. 179,193
1933.. 60,638 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 26,533 19,092 101.206
1934.. 57,696 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 18,301 207,068
1935.. 58,717 5 „ 8 „ 26,533 19,554 219,698
Reserves disappear, £99,499 .. 120,199
1936.. 46,219 5 p.c. 8 p.c. 26,533 16,858 122,727
Recent legislative lengthening of pay-
rolls and shortening of hours have added
more to gas cos.’ than to most other
Dominion traders’ costs, and for the first
time since 1922 this gas supplier last
term came near to earning insufficient
to cover its 8 p.c. div. After satisfying
pref. requirements, net earnings dropped
from 12.8 p.c. to 9 p.c. on ord. capital.
Taxation is another thorn: it now
amounts to 7s. 6d. in the £l, as against
ss. 10.2 d. a year ago, and looks like
increasing further yet. For maintenance
of the div. at 8 p.c., despite slump and
other difficulties, shareholders can chiefly
thank the management for its policy of
providing liberally for depreciation and
other charges in preference to raising the
dividend in the past.
During the last term 1322 new ser-
vices were connected and another two
miles of mains laid, increasing the length
of the co.’s reticulation system to 269
miles. Sales of gas and residuals, etc.,
increased by £13,277:
Revenue—• 1935. 1936.
Gas sales, etc £229,937 £243,214
Interest, etc. .. . . 5,921 3,369
£235,858 £246,583
Outgo—
Manufac. and distrib. .. 118,375 136,960
Administration .. .. 58,766 63,404
Depreciation . . .. 19,554 16,858
£196,695 £217,222
Net profit .. .. 39,163 29,361
Interest turned in £2552 less, while manu-
facturing and distribution costs and ad-
ministration and other exes, mounted
£18,585 and £4638 respectively. After
making £2696 lighter provision for de-
preciation, the net result thus slipped
£9802 to £29,361, of which shareholders
took all but £2828.
To discharge £200,000 of debentures
in October last, £86,250 of one-to-two-
year deposits was gathered. Consols and
cash (down £103,787) provided most of
the balance:
1926. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital .. .. £363,370 £363,370 £363,370
Debentures, etc. . . 183,950 200,000 86,250
Other liabilities . . 9,495 19,105 50,824
Property, plant, etc. . . 572,483 615,539 512,439
Stocks 15,233 34,810 42,637
Book debts .. .. 22,088 48,787 66,804
Investments .. .. 20,005 9,615 9,615
Cash, etc 54,410 106,615 2,828
The net reduction of £103,100 in the
mains, plant, etc., item may have some
connection with the reduction of £99,499
in reserves. An increase of £18,017 in
debtors and of £7827 in stocks, mainly
the outcome of the growing popularity
of the modern gas appliances that the co.
sells on a hire-purchase basis, was ac-
companied by a growth of £31,719 in
the amount coming to trade creditors.
Assuming that the holding of Consols
(face value, £100,315) was netting 3|
p.c. and that the new deposits will cost
4 p.c., liquidation of the debenture bur-
den should result in an annual saving
to the co. of approximately £3OOO. Also,
revived building activity has increased
demand, while extension of the purify-
ing plant and two new gas compressors
at present under order should assist in
keeping costs down. Subject to Gov-
ernment interference, the 8 p.c. div. is
thus securer than the last line in the in-
troductory table suggests. As for the
(“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


A SUAE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
m
■
m
*
\
Can he afford another
A.M.P. POLICY?
HE believes he can. Eight shillings a week would
add £5OO to the Estate that he is building up
for the comfort of his old age, and the security
of his wife and babes.
Eight shillings a week put in a Savings Bank would
take a long time to grow to £5OO. Put into an A.M.P.
policy it tvould provide an immediate estate of £5OO
with the probability that the £5OO would be £7s°
4 before it became payable at 55. Come wars or depres-
sions it would still go on multiplying, whereas if it
were put into stocks and shares—well, anything might
happen.
The other day a man of 55 drew a little cheque for
£1,572 from the A.M.P., the proceeds of an Endow-
ment Policy for £l,OOO, taken out at 30 years of age,
on which the premium was less than 15/- a week.
During last year the Society paid out £5,156,000 in
claims—£l4,l26 in cash every calendar day.
Are you “in on this good thing?” Are you in on it
to the limit? You ought to be. Ask the nearest A.M.P.
office to send a man to talk it over with you.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS. —Those wishing to sell
F N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN tiniberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue, write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.—Advt.
price charged for gas to consumers, the
question of a lift in the tariff “has not
been considered.”
At 38s. the £1 ords. return 4.1 p.c.
from current div. payments; the 5 p.c.
prefs. yield only 4 p.c. at 255. On book
values, net tangible backing is £5 15s.
prefs. and 28s. 9d. ords., which doesn’t
mean much in a gas undertaking.
The London average (middle) prices of
metals for February and March compare
as follows:
, Per Ton
February. Mai’ch.
Copper, stan., spot .. £59/5/6 £72/8/11
Copper, stan., 3 mos. .. £59/6/9 £7l/1/5
Copper, electrolytic .. £64/11/10 £77/0/11
Copper, best selected .. £64/10/6 £77/6/-
Lead, soft spot . . .. £2B/6/5* £33*
Spelter, spot . . . . £25/4/5* £33/5/11*
Tin, stan., spot .. .. £233/19/7 £283/5/7
Tin, stan., 3 mos. .. £234/16/8 £278/19/6
, Per Oz. — —^
Gold, fine (open market
price) £7/2/1.27 £7/2/4.31
Silver, stan., spot .. 1/8.08 1/8.67
Silver, fine spot .. .. 1/9.65 1/10.3
* Mean.
The high figures reached during March
resulted in some profit-taking, and as the
month closed prices eased in all cases
and the sharemarket reacted.
* * * *
With lead and zinc at £lB per ton,
copper at £4O a ton, silver at Is. 9d. a
fine ounce and gold at £7 an ounce in
London, Lake George Mining Corp., the
£1,100,000 (stg.) English co. formed to
take over the N.S.W. zinc-lead deposits
at Captain’s Flat (B. 17/3/’37), reckons
on an annual mine profit of £A202,000
on a 500-ton-a-day throughput, the pro-
posed initial installation, or £A400,000
when plant capacity has been increased to
1000 tons a day, when costs are expected
to be reduced by 2s. to 245. a ton. Actu-
ally, with metal prices as they were on
Mar. 8, a profit of £A 1,288,000 will be
nearer the mark when proposed maximum
production is reached. Initial outlay on
plant, and on opening up and developing
the mine, expected to occupy 18 months
from commencement of operations, is
put at £A682,000. T. C. Baker and T. M.
Owen estimate ore reserves down to
800 ft. at 2,113,129 long tons —504,048
proved, 346,582 probable and 1,226,499
prospective—assaying 7.67 p.c. lead, 13.06
p.c. zinc, 0.75 p.c. copper, 2.340 z. silver
and I.3dwt. gold. That leaves out of the
reckoning ore below the deep drillholes,
which have shown improved widths and
assays. The primary sulphides consist of
an intimate mixture of iron pyrites,
galena and zinc-blende, but modern selec-
tive treatment methods are expected to
yield an 85 p.c. to 90 p.c. separation of
the lead content of the ore, the concen-
trate assaying 55 p.c. to 60 p.c. pure lead.
In the case of the zinc sulphide, which is
exceptionally pure and floats easily, an
87 p.c. to 90 p.c. recovery is counted on,
the concentrate assaying 60 p.c. to 62
p.c. zinc. Since the ore is more or less
friable, fine-grinding costs should be
moderate. The mine has been unwatered
down to 600 ft.
* * * *
To equip and work auriferous alluvial
deposits over which it has exercised an
option at Hill End (N.S.W.), Oriomo
Explorations, together with Mineral Ex-
plorations (the vendor), has decided to
form a subsidiary, Hill End Alluvials
Pty., in which each will have an
equal interest. Within three of the four
leases, 1,342,000 c.y., average depth from
s.Bft. to 9ft., has been measured up,
and the average value is put at 6.835. per
yard, with gold at £AB an ounce. On an
annual turnover of 150,000 c.y., all-in
costs are not expected to exceed I.Bs. a
yard, leaving a profit of a shade
over 55., or approximately £335,500 for
the three leases. Including a 25,000.000-
gallon dam on Tambaroora Creek, the
maximum cost of equipping the property
with a sluicing plant and electric power
is £28,000, of which Oriomo is to con-
tribute £21,500 and the vendor the
balance. The Mineral Co. will also re-
ceive £15,000 of fully-paids as vendor’s
consideration. On the basis of estimates,
profits from the proved area should aver-
age above £36,000 p.a. over an operating
life of nine years. The remaining lease,
believed to contain several rich chan-
nels and not less than a million cubic
yards of payable but deeper ground, will
be tested by the new operating co., which
will also sample some 1100 acres of ad-
joining ground held under prospecting
license. Preliminary tests indicate that
portion of the adjoining ground contains
payable values. Oriomo, which will be-
come managing agent for the operating
co., has sufficient in the bank to finance
its part of the project.
* * * *
Owing to production and values falling
short of anticipations, accounts of
Georgetown Gold Mines, Georgetown
(N.Q.), for the year to August 31 show a
working loss of £3096. Unsatisfactory
running of the power plant and holding
up of development work because of labor
shortage were partly responsible.
Altogether, 4244 tons of ore was put
through the mill for 1103 oz. gold and
5610 z. silver, an average recovery of
s.2dwt. gold and 2.l4dwt. silver. The
table shows the trend of recent results:
19/1/’S7. 2/2/'37. 16/2/’37. 2/3/’37.
Tonnage. . . . 286.0 248.0 335.0 233.0
Head value, d'wt. 9.0 6.7 6.6 7.4
Gold, oz. . . 55.5 63.4 75.6 67.8
Dwt. per ton .. 3.9 5.1 4,5 5.S
Hopes at present hinge on the behavior
of the ore-body below 262 ft. At a
depth of 75ft. a winze from this level
has cut a new make of stone going loz.
over a width of 6ft., and to open up
this new lode all other underground
work has been suspended. Shareholders
and others are wondering what has be-
come of the 22,000 tons (assay value.
14.3dwt.) about the 260 ft. level men-
tioned in the prospectus. These have
dwindled to 6000 tons of “payable” ore
as per the latest estimate, though driving
east and west from present faces of levels
“might” add to the tonnage. A lot of
gold seems to be going into the tailings.
4= * * *
“Ex-Prospector”: The Queensland
Museum, Brisbane, has received a unique
relic of the early goldmining days at
Blackfellow's Gully, on the old Morinish
goldfield, near Rockhampton (Q.). The
place was the scene of a mild rush in
1867, and there are still a few hardy
prospectors at work there. The relic is
a primitive crushing mill, consisting of a
big pan and a pair of rollers, all of solid
granite. The rollers are 28in. in diameter
and slightly over 12in. thick. Including
the pan, the lot weighs about three tons,
and was cut by hand out of solid granite
by the Wilson family, who were among
the first miners at Blackfellow’s Gully.
The mill was so efficient that it was in
use continuously until 1903, crushing
most of the ore from the Gully. In the
early days the rollers were rotated in
the pan by horses, but later a steam
engine was used.
* * * 4=
Four of Westralia’s smaller mines—
New Golconda, Gambier Lass, First Hit
and Linden—have lately been doing a
little broadcasting. New Golconda is
crushing ore. at a five-head mill leased
from its less fortunate neighbor, Lake
Austin, and is reconditioning another
five-head, giving an anticipated treatment
capacity of 800 tons a month. Dividends
some day are hoped for. Gambier Lass
has sunk a shaft, and is preparing to
open out at 200 ft. in a property over
which it took an option six months ago,
after spending £14,000 on another in the
same locality. First Hit claims promis-
ing results from recent developments. A
crosscut is being continued in the Queens-
land Menzies section of the co.’s mine
towards a point where “some particularly
good ore” is expected. Melbourne-con-
trolled Linden reports that the show over
which it holds an option warrants pur-
chase and equipment. No estimate of
ore reserves is given, but the manager
opines that 14,000 tons of rock, averag-
ing Bdwt. over the plates, is likely to be
got in every 100 ft. of vertical sinking.
He suggests the installation of either a
second-hand power and treatment plant,
costing £7OOO, or a new one, “which may
easily run into £10,000.” Cash in hand
totals £3281.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development,
Ltd., a Westralian concern controlled by
the same, crowd as Wiluna, announces
that ore reserves in the Moonlight
group, adjoining Wiluna, now total
338,000 tons of 6.l6dwt. ore, an increase
of 208,000 tons in 12 months. During
the last quarter of 1936, 24,375 tons of
Moonlight ore was treated at Wiluna’s
plant for an average return of 6.2Bdwt.
The co. is substantially interested in
Yellowdine and Comet, and lately exer-
cised one option (Kintore) and turned
down another (Spargo’s Reward), both
near Coolgardie.
**' * _ *
In view of the high price of glycerine—
the figure has jumped from £7O to £l9O
a ton, and the stuff may presently be
almost unprocurable—the big gold-
mining cos. in the West are changing
over from nitro-glycerine to nitrate-
ammonia for firing out and blasting.
Quicksilver has also risen, £24 10s. being
now demanded for a 751 b. bottle,
formerly priced at £lO. The rise here
will not affect mining cos. which use
flotation and other more, highly-special-
ised methods of gold recovery, but it
will affect prospectors and small mine-
owners who crush at State batteries.
The quicksilver, however, is recovered
after each crushing, and there is little
volatilisation. The main loss is in the
battery, where some of the stuff is likely
to go into the residues.
* * * *
Memories of Dunnsville (W.A.) and
its Wealth of Nations bonanza have been
revived by the extraction by two local
prospectors of 5450 z. of gold from
liewt. of rock. The return has caused
a rush to the field, and as usual a large
area of country has been pegged.
* * * *
From London: Union Corp. estimates
that the world’s gold production rose
by over 4,000,0000 z. to 35,000,0000 z. in
1936. S. Africa produced 11,336,0000 z.,
Russia 7,850,0000 z., Canada 3,720,0000 z.,
United States 3,714,0000 z. and Australia
1,169,0000 z. British Empire contribution
to the total was 18,630,0000 z. Apart from
the continued increase of Russian pro-
duction (up 26 p.c.), one of the most
interesting features is the competition
between Canada and United States for
third place. The Philippines, with a
yield of 599,0000 z., account for the
largest individual increase (34 p.c.) over
the previous year. Elsewhere production
for the most part has shown progressive
increase, the most outstanding cases be-
ing the Gold Coast, Colombia, New
Guinea, Japan and Mexico, all of which
account for rises of more than 10 p.c.
over the previous year’s outputs.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Yount; Streets, Sydney
ill
I | |
ill
•liirtw
it
u sliii
liii
■
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless'
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“The Duce rose at 5 a.m. and took a soldier’s
breakfast.” — Cable.
Must have thought he was still a cor-
poral.
4* 4* 4* 4
“A detective disguised as a railway porter
and a policewoman.”
— Melb. “Sun News-Pictorial.”
That, Watson, is what comes of im-
porting inspectors from Scotland Yard.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A boy is a noise with dirt on it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Boys and girls who were 15 ten years ago
are now 25.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
After that tremendous effort the
‘ ’Erald” must want a new calculating-
machine.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Her husband, formerly a musician, pawned
his cornet and spent the money in drink.”
—Divorce report.
He blew his comet in a band,
Then rashly (how he rued it!)
He changed his tune for cash in hand —
And then he went and blewed it!
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Quite Zoological.
“There is something very animal about the
attitude of some women to men.”
—Woman’s paper.
Yes ; a woman is like a lamb —before
we marry her. She makes us think her
a regular deer, if not a duck. Married,
she’s a horse of another color. She
ferrets out all our secrets, badgers us
for money, and dogs us if we try to get
a free leg. Annoyed, she faces us like
a tiger, and takes a harsh lion with us.
She will monkey with our affairs, and is
often cattish with relatives.
Ah, who’s zoo in our household?
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Latest dance is just a discreet sag in one
knee, a tiny twist of one ankle and lots of
steps.”— Dance expert.
Sounds like a perfect alibi for the
husband who’s had a few.
*l*
“A stage dancer has had a dress painted on
her body for a special dance.”
Should be all right until the novelty
wears off.
4 4 4* 4*
“A man named Helfur claims to have found
a new substitute for leather.”
Helfur-leather soles should be popular
on football boots.
4 4 4* 4
As You Were.
“To combat malnutrition, the British War
Office has decided to provide soldiers with an
extra meal per day and better food.” — Cable.
’Tis true old soldiers never die
( That’s more than mere tradition);
Nor need they, as in days gone by,
Now fade through malnutrition.
For, thanks to dietetics that
Staff officahs have read up,
They should become extremely fat —
And more than ever fed up !
C. G.
4 4 4 4
“He was shot in the window embrasure.”
—Serial story.
What a paneful fate!
4 4 4 4
“Energy produced by a person speaking for
five years would light a 25-watt electric lamp
for only one minute.”
So we get at the real value of those
chaps at last!
4 4 4 4*
A short cut is the roughest distance
between two points.
Schooners for Mugs.
The ignorance of our young men re-
garding things nautical is appalling. Ask
any one of them the difference between
a bowsprit and a bos’n’s bilge and you’ll
be able to sail a four-masted wind-
jammer through his vacant stare.
As an old shellback I’ve been asked
to give a few points on sailing.
First, procure a suitable boat; then
find your slice of water to sail it on.
Pick an oblong piece for preference;
there’s always one short side to swim
home to then in case of accidents. Place
the boat gently but firmly in the water,
making sure that the stern is at the rear
and the starboard side is away from the
sun.
'Now make a thorough search for stow-
aways, live sea-serpents, dead marines,
discarded wives and other flotsam and
jetsam of the deep. Throw in an oar and
a spare singlet, X.O.S. if possible, for
signalling purposes in case you meet a
typhoon, harpoon or blowhole. When
procuring the singlet it is just as well to
“You seem to like my fancy cakes, Vicar."
"Yes, I simply dote on interior decorations .”
take the girl, too, for ballast. Then
settle comfortably in stern with ballast
and hope for the best.
J. M. C.
4 4 4 4
“Brazil nuts are not eaten in Brazil.”
Nor china eggs in China.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What would any man say who had had a
favorite dog poisoned?”
He’d probably use the American for
it—“ Doggone! ”
*!« *j*
Saxophone: An ill wind that nobody
blows good.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman’s paper says that girls should
learn that they look their best when in repose.”
It’s then they look ripping—not when
they tear along.
4* -I- *l* *l*
Putting the Question.
In a tense silence they sat there hold-
ing hands.
She had a feeling—yes, something
told her he was about to ask the ques-
tion.
She nerved herself for the words she
knew must surely come, and with appeal-
ing eyes she turned her face towards
him.
And sure enough in a voice of thunder
it came: “Why the hell did you trump
my ace?”
4- 4* *2* •!•
“Woman found who has never heard of the
Great War.” —Brisbane “Telegraph.”
There are Defence Ministers who don’t
seem to have heard of it either.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The will disposes of a £65,000 estate, the
bunk going to charity.”— “Sun.”
It sounds as if somebody else got the
de-bunk.
“For Sale. —A number of 8.0. cockerels.”
—Lismore ( N.S.W .) “Northern Star.”
Still, a cockerel’s a bit young to have
a best friend.
4 4 4 4
“It is folly for a girl to marry a man she
knows nothing about,” says a divorce Judge.
And even greater folly to marry one
she knows a lot about.
4 4 4 4
Plunging Into Society.
“For £4OOO a debutante can be launched on
a London season, living as one of the family
in a duchess’s home.”
Ducal boarding-houses must have put
up their rates. When papa launched
Ermyntrude and me in the year of the
jubilee (whose is our business) we got
quite decent board with the Duchess of
Soho for thirty shillings a week and do
your own washing. If it had cost any
more I’m sure papa wouldn’t have
launched us at all; he’d simply have
sunk us at our moorings. Mind you.
by the time we girls had taught the
Duchess poker and papa had taken
charge of his Grace’s punting, we really
showed a handsome profit.
Of course, there was a good deal
of give-and-take about it. In return for
the Duchess introducing us to the right
people we’d often give her a hand with
the washing-up after a big dinner, or
papa would relieve in the cellar on the
butler’s night off.
Girls of to-day make such a fuss of
being presented at Court. Why, we at-
tended two Courts in the one day,
although it was a bit of a rush to get
to the palace in time after papa’s acquit-
tal at the Old Bailey.
Clothes cost us practically nothing, as
we wore them on a commission basis.
It was before the days of foundation
garments. We simply dropped a discreet
hint here and there as to the merits of
Ferdinand’s Time-payment Frocking or
Madame Lulu’s Lay-by Lingerie; and
we finally got enough for our Court
dresses down the Mile End-road to pay
our fares back to Sydney.
Don’t let anybody tell you it will cost
you £4OOO for a London season. My
dears, it can be done for a fiftieth of
that if you play your cards right; and
don’t bank too often on filling the middle
pin to a straight.
Aggie McWhoosh.
Hints for Husbands.
lll.— Miscellaneous Washing Jobs.
Having pegged all the clothes out, the
next job is to empty the copper of its
consomme- like fluid. First take the pre-
caution, though, of straining the mess
through the colander. After all, when
a fur coat is boiled, no matter how care-
fully, one must expect it to moult a little.
The fur thus shed would otherwise choke
up the sink.
Now collect all the buttons from the
left-hand tub. Whereas the beginner
invariably breaks the buttons as he puts
the clothes through the wringer, the
expert washerman’s buttons will come
off whole.
You will now be free to concentrate
on the most ticklish task of all—unravel-
ling the nightie that is hopelessly tangled
both ways through the wringer. If your
wife is a small woman you may approach
your task with a certain optimism.
Should, however, she be of the battle-
ship standard in beam, and of a com-
manding height (which is most prob-
able), with the garment consequently of
the dimensions of a small marquee, you
will be confronted with a problem far
greater than a fisherman with the whole
of his 100 yards of gut line a “bunch
of grapes.”
Try working the wringer forward ;it
will promptly jamb. Next reverse it; it
will jamb again. Loosen the wringer.
It will then go more freely, but the
nightie, like the music, will just keep
going round and round. Try jerking it
out, but don’t forget to put a precaution-
ary foot out behind to save your head
banging against the wall when the sleeve
comes off. Eventually, after wrestling
with it profanely for an hour or so, you
will do what you’d have done in the first
place if you’d had any nous —hack it out
with a knife. After all, wives always
cut their old nighties up for dusters (an
X.O.S. one may yield up to three dozen),
so it may as well be now as a year hence.
To save any possible fuss over its mys-
terious disappearance, it is best to cut it
up quietly and put the pieces away in the
toolshed among the old rags that you
clean the paintbrushes with.
By this time, weather permitting, the
clothes should be dry enough to bring
in. You may at first have difficulty in
recognising the bunch of mud-streaked
ribbons hanging down as the wife’s best
hemstitched sheet. Before drop-kicking
the p p recover the mangled remains of
the sheer-silk stocking—it might be pos-
sible to have it mended.
Regarding the sheet. If the torn strips
are very long, they should be chopped
off cleanly with the tomahawk, but be
sure to keep a straight edge, otherwise
the wife may notice the raggedness. If
neatly done it should quite easily pass
for a single-bed sheet. Should the strips
be short, the sheet can be redipped
sfeveral times in the stiff starch. This will
fill in the holes admirably and may even
defy detection.
Disposing of the pegs when “bringing
in” presents a serious problem. As the
old gardening trousers you will be wear-
ing will have only holes where the
pockets should be these will be of little
use —a dozen may fit in the hip pocket.
You might also get a few in your mouth
—men with large mouths have a distinct
advantage here. But, after juggling hope-
lessly with two hands full, pegs clutched
under both armpits and more inside your
shirt, you’ll probably finish up by sling-
ing the lot down on the ground and get-
ting one of the kids to pick them up later.
When, with the basket piled high up to
your chin, you stagger blindly across the
lawn and trip over little Oscar’s dinkie,
be grateful as you pick them up and re-
stack them that the clothes are dry-
enough—or almost dry enough—for the
dirt to shake off.
S. W. K.
Force of Logic.
To show my lady she was wrong,
I learned the art of dialectic.
I studied late and deep and long;
/ e’en eschewed my habits hectic.
Well armed with cool satiric sting,
On premises of weighty matter,
With syllogistic reasoning
I built a case she couldn’t shatter.
Thought I, “ ’Twill make her look an ass.
She’ll want to cry as l display it!”
But when the time arrived, alas,
/ didn’t get a chance to say it!
T. W. N.


MOW
S Afjr
' M»0 L -
a&SSwSI
f*TS
irn
m
p&SStf** B
vs®*?;
x>\otia
°A Vm
“f£Jßoivr/c
Co.v
c °Op J ,° T fisT\ z l(£ CQOF
j,*J™ALASIAhI
£§!Alth
m
Paper c pmp
soffit*,
A;®
Aust^°^
£?- IT'D
More Baskets for
a few Eggs!
’"THAT is what every investor wants. If • you have a
A few hundred pounds or,, more particularly, only
£25 you hesitate to put all your capital “ into one
basket.” Here, however, is an investment with, a wide
spread and attractive interest yield. FIRST AUSTRA-
LIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES provide 20
carefully-chosen, sound “baskets”—the securities shown
above—for investors of £25 and upwards. The interest
yield is approx. 4|%, and a world-famous institution,
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney), acts as
your Custodian Trustees. The Certificates can be sold
at any time.
Send for explanatory booklet No. 1
to the Managers of the Trust: —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
BOX 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
and
GERRARD WIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
* GERRARD
The customer is always right when he gives a clean
acceptance receipt for cased goods wire-seal strapped
for safe transport with GERRARD.
f^GERRARDi
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
THE AUSTRALIAN EXPORT
AND IMPORT CO.
Buying-Selling—Shipping Insurance
British Industries House,
Marble Arch, LONDON, W.l, England.
Inquiries invited. Cables: Kangaroo.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Litchfields (Australasia), Ltd.
.Some sales-literature concerning the
“1936 issue” of “Litchfields’ Selective
Security Certificates” has come to hand,
One green-covered booklet has a picture
on the outside labelled “The Bank of
England,” with “Security” superimposed
in black lettering. At the back of the
book it is mentioned that
Any further information regarding Selec-
five Security Certificates can be obtained
from—
Litchfields (A/asia), Ltd.,
801 to 804 Colonial Mutual Life Building,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
This direction to readers, even if it
comes only on the last page, is in no
measure superfluous; the information
not included in the booklet, which
is necessary for enlightened investment
in the certificates, might easily fill half
a dozen booklets of similar size. The
document says: “Litchfields are intro-
ducing for the first time to Australia a
form of investment which is particularly
popular in England, where it has grown
to huge proportions within the last few
years.” The reference would seem to
be to the fixed-trust movement; but it
is notable that nowhere in the green-
covered booklet, “1936 issue,” do the
words “fixed trust” occur. In February,
however, Litchfields wrote to The Bui-
letin “correcting” a statement in this
paper to the effect that the Australian
Fixed Trusts were the first people to
introduce the “trust movement” to Aus-
tralia, and added that “Litchfields was
registered on July 16, 1936.”
The 1936 issue of “security certifi-
cates” is represented by shares in 13
listed cos., and the cost of one
unit was £3O. An “approximate.
percentage” which each particular hold-
ing bears to the whole is given, but there
is no mention of the total number of
shares held in various cos. on behalf of
certificate-holders or the number of
certificates which may be sold in respect
of any one issue. The 1936 certificates
were said to bear interest at 5 p.c. p.a.;
a 1937 issue (£5O each) is advertised as
bearing p.c.
Information offered on the working
of the scheme is meagre and ‘ uri-
satisfactory. There have been great
opportunities for the fixed-trust move-
ment in the past in Australia; to the
inexperienced investor, well - handled
trusts may provide a valuable service in
the future. It is difficult from the data
available, however, to gather whether
Litchfields proposition is a fixed
trust > an unfixed trust or just what is
lt ‘ Not being subject to company law
the form of any trust depends on its
constitution ; and that full details of the
regulations governing Litchfields’ “secu-
rity certificates” should be included in
the co.’s booklet it is hardly necessary
to emphasise,
“The purchaser... .wi11... .virtually be
the holder of an interest in each of the
cos, listed”—to what extent not stipu-
lated. “The co. undertakes to complete
its purchase of these investments within
90 days of the issuance of any fully-paid
certificate.” “The E., S. and A. Bank
will accept and hold in safe custody the
stocks and shares....” “The original
selection of the investments to be used
as a backing for this issue, and the deci-
sion to sell any investment and to dis-
tribute or to reinvest the proceeds of
sale, rest solely with Litchfields (A/asia),
Ltd.” “The normal duration of a certi-
ficate is 10 years,” after which the in-
vestments may be realised “and distri-
buted pro rata among certificate-holders,
In this event, the certificate-holders cash
their certificates at par plus their pro-
portion of the accrued value of the un-
derlying securities.” But their proportion
is not mentioned.
The investments specified in the book-
let, together with “approximate percent-
ages,” are as follows:
Adelaide Electric (12 p.c.); United Pro-
visions (14.5 p.c.); Tooths (6.8 p.c.); S.A.
p^ l ; uS*H«2S
(64 pc) . Automatic Totes, Adelaide
steam, Nestles 8 p.c. pref., and Berlei
(30.3 p.c.) ; Amalg. Pictures 10 p.c. pref.
( 6 - 2 P- c -); Associated Newspapers (2.7 p.c.).
As to whether those percentages repre-
sent par value, or market value when
bought, or perhaps something else, the
booklet refrains from explaining. And
whether Litchfields (A/asia), Ltd., has
gone into the scheme out of pure love for
the Australian small investor, whether
it charges a commission on income or
capital, or whether it has proprietary’
interests is another one of the booklet’s
reticences.
But there is some remarkable infor-
mation in other matter relevant to the
“certificates” issued by Litchfields. The
co. says it holds ord. shares in Auto-
matic Totalisators, “a French concern. ’
The parent co. is, of course, Australian
(George Julius invented the contrap-
tion), and the ord. shares in its French
subsidiary are not on the market. It is
also stated that Melbourne Steamship
Co. “has net tangible value of £4B ss.
backing every one pound of its capital.”
Melbourne Steam’s directors will be in-
terested to learn of it, especially as
It is not generally known that the versa-
tile managing director of Litchfields
(A/asia), Ltd. (Mr. C. O. Barker), has
claims to royal blood. On the Jameson
side of his family tree the ancestry goes
back to Bruce the King of Scotland....
Mr. Barker personally compiles and de-
livers his broadcast talk —Advice to In-
vestors —every Sunday morning at 11.5 over
station 6AM.
Westralians might find that the time of
the broadcast clashes with church ser-
vice ; easterners can take it with their
Sabbath dinner.
A leading London firm of stockbrokers
in a recent monthly circular states that
1936 was a year so unreservedly excellent
for investors and speculators alike that it
will be a miracle if 1937 is as good. There
is every reason to look for a. continuance
of industrial recovery and. stock-market
activity, but it does not, of course, foltow
—and indeed it is unlikely—that the rise
in Stock Exchange prices will go on at the
speed of last year.
This opinion is very close to that fre-
quently expressed here earlier ; since pub-
lication of the generally-excellent June,
1936, balance sheets caution in anticipa-
tions has been the watchword. The
London writer—and in Britain cbsts and
prices have outstripped our upward
movement —also refers to the
growing fear of the market that the rise
in basic commodity prices and in produc-
tion costs is, or shortly will be, eating
into profit-margins.
Investors in Australia have been re-
peatedly warned on this page that danger
lurks in an upward surge in price and
cost figures, just as they had been told
previously that a great factor in our re-
covery had been the comparative stability
of costs and prices.
'|s '!>
At present there are signs of labor un-
rest in a few industries, and each case has
its own peculiar merits or lack of them.
At Mt. Lyell, the Tasmanian West Coast
copper show, an amicable agreement was
reached with the restoration of the 10
p.c. emergency cut; this was one instance
where an industry wqs definitely excluded
from the general restoration by the Fed-
eral Court in April, 1934. Copper-mining
was then in a parlous condition. It is
generally true, now, that basic-wage
rates will buy as much as ever they
would ; pay has been stepped up with the
increasing cost of living. There does
appear to be one ground for com-
plaint ; that is on, the question of
margins'for skill. Generally these com-
prise the addition of a fixed sum,' irre-
spective of the cost of living, to the fluc-
tuating basic wage. It doesn’t seem com-
monsense. A percentage addition to the
basic wage would be the equitable
method. And, in any case, margins for
skill are too low in many instances.
* * * *
Carbo-ice, a freezing agent made from
coal, is to be manufactured on the Welsh
coalfields by an offshoot of International
Carbo-Ice, Canada. The parent sells
nearly 1,000,000 tons of the product in
Canada alone, and annual world con-
sumption is estimated at 25,000,000 tons,
mostly in America. A ton of coal is
necessary to make a ton of carbo-ice;
the product has a wide use in the trawl-
ing industry and on freight trains carry-
ing perishable goods. If the Welsh ven-
ture is successful there may be exten-
sions to Australia, where the assistance
to our coal industry would be much
appreciated.
* * * *
Possibilities of developing the Newnes
oil-shale deposits are again being dis-
cussed, particularly the offer of G. F.
Davis, of the gelatine co. and Cockatoo
Dock, to put up £166,000 if further ade-
quate support—on the financial and poli-
tical sides —is forthcoming. Production
of oil from shales or anything else in
Australia must in the first instance be
regarded as a defence measure, and not
as an economic proposition, though
profits would be possible if adequate pro-
tection were granted. Once established,
prospects of such an industry might grow
sounder with experience.
* * * *
Curses expressed with, feeling could be
heard around the. Sydney Exchange vesti-
bule last Thursday following the reclassi-
fication of the share-list. Pastorals and
trustees have been separated from finan-
cials, and miscellaneous -stpcks have been
split up into six new categories. After
the holidays interest in the market’s
opening was keen, but prices were at
first difficult to follow-under the new
grouping, which certainly does not facili-
tate easy reference. Its chief advantage
is that it brings into one company many
stocks that should be similarly affected
by any general financial or business
development having an influence on any
one stock in the group. “Cement and
building” now makes one class, for in-
stance ; all the cos. under the heading
would very likely be influenced by an in-
crease or decrease in public-works pro-
grammes or a sharp lift in the cost of
mortgage money.
# # # ♦
A record year as far as the use of
rubber was concerned goes to the credit
of 1936. It means something ; just what,
it would be worth a good bit to know.
As in the instances of heavy buying of
most commodities lately there is some
doubt as to whether consumption is as
heavy as it appears to be, or whether a
substantial proportion is going into emer-
gency stocks in European countries. It
is probable that rubber is more subject
to what is at present called “consumer
demand” than most commodities, and
that the stiffening in the price is not
merely speculative. Of course, rubber
production, subject to restriction, can be
stepped up greatly on a few years’ notice,
and it is difficult to take a long view of
the market.
The chairman of an overseas rubber
co. recently made some interesting re-
marks:—
The trend of rubber consumption in the
motor industry is steadily upward, and the
improvement in the statistical position has
been substantial, although for a time it was
obscured by the price-level of the com-
modity. In October and November there
was exceptionally heavy absorption by
American manufacturers, which was fol-
lowed by aggressive buying by outsiders.
This pushed the price up sharply, and the
availability of stocks was contracted by
the amount so bought. It must be borne
in mind, however, that such purchases must
sooner or later come back to the market,
and past experience has shown that they are
apt to be returned at a time when they
are not particularly wanted.
The closing remarks apply with almost
equal force to speculative purchases of all
commodities, including base metals.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The opinion has been more than once ex-
pressed here that G. I. Coles shares should
be valued at about £5 until facts take the
place of fancy as regards anticipated benefits.
Actually, much will depend on how large
directors’ and staff bonuses are to be in the
future. The market is beginning to take a
more sober view, and on Thursday there were
sales at £5 4s.
Holeproof ords. lifted to 30s. 6d. The
shares were pointed out here a fortnight ago
at 295. The yield at last week’s price (6.5 p.c.)
is still a good one.
Yarua Falls, cum rights to the new issue,
rose to 445. on the opening day of ’Change.
Howards, Ltd.
Some little time ago there were
sellers of this Brisbane stock at
335. Buyers offer 31s. At the
selling quote immediate return is
4.8 p.c. on the present (8 p.c.) div.
basis; last year’s earnings were
17.5 p.c. on capital, as against
13.2 p.c. for the preceding 12
months. The business includes the
Morris car agency and distribu-
tion of “Electrice” refrigerators.
Net assets, equal to 495. Bd. per
share (104,320 of £1 each), include
a holding of Stock Exchange in-
vestments —it was once intended
to go into the investment trust
business extensively—bought when
values were low. Howards is- a
particularly solid concern, and the
scrip is well worth 355. It is not
an active stock, but may possibly
be got at a lower figure. The div.
due in August may be better; a
higher rate could easily be
afforded in view of earnings and
the financial position.


REDUCTION
<->
c=>
Blades
> i
FOR FIVE
New and scientific manufacturing processes
have enabled us to improve the quality and re-
duce the price of Blue Gillette Blades by 25%.
The Blades are even better —the finest quality
of steel and harder, super-keen edges go to make
up the best razor blade ever marketed. The
price comes down because Gillette have de-
cided to pass on to the public all the benefit of
reduced production costs. This means that the
highest possible standard of shaving luxury is
now available to every man whatever his income.
Always ask for Blue Gillette Blades, 5 for 1/6.
QUALITY IMPROVED
k
Hodsons Investments, Ltd.
The jury failed to agree in the Hod-
sons Investments conspiracy case, and
was discharged. The trial was at Sydney
Quarter Sessions; Guy Paul McDonald
and John Henry Davidson were charged
with having conspired with each other
and with John Thornton, John R. Perri-
man, George Thompson, Kenneth Wi'l-
liams, Robert Lehman and other persons
unknown to obtain money, .shares and
other securities by false pretences, with
intent to defraud. The Crown Prosecu-
tor (T. S. Crawford, K.C.) alleged
that between £35,000 and £40,000 was
involved over a period of less than three
months.
It was also submitted that McDonald
was a figure in the alleged conspiracy
from the beginning, that Davidson came
in later and that McDonald interviewed
the Sydney manager of Pacific Forests,
Ltd., and arranged an option over
150,000 shares in that co. at par. These
shares, it was further submitted, were
to be sold to the public at 50s. and
bought back on behalf of an English
syndicate within 90 days at £4 a share.
Hodsons Investments was to sell the
shares to the public. None was bought
b ac k-
It was also stated that on 1000 Pacific
shares £1 a share was paid by Hodsons,
and on 23,000 shares 2s. a share ; that
was all the money received by Pacific
Forests.
Harold J. Price, a solicitor, in evidence
said that on April 6, 1936, Thompson
introduced Williams to him; Williams
“was representing an English syndicate
which proposed to invest £500,000 in
forestry shares in Australia.” A power
of attorney enabling Thompson to act
for Williams was drawn up.
Walter Cain, of Port Augusta, stated
that he had been induced by Hodsons
and Davidson to part with brewery and
other shares as collateral for the pur-
chase of scrip in Broken Hill Proprietary
He received no scrip in 8.H.P., nor had
his collateral been returned to him.
McDonald, on oath, said he had
known Perriman for 12 years. Perriman
asked him to sign the memorandum of
Hodsons when that co. was registered,
and he was given a job as salesman on
10 p.c. commission. He had no suspicion
in his mind as to the good faith of Per-
riman or the other men.
Davidson said he had known Mc-
Donald for 14 years; McDonald intro-
duced him to Perriman. Perriman said
he was a director of Hodsons, and told
Davidson that the other members of the
board were Lehman, “a wealthy investor
from the United States,” and Thornton.
Hodsons were brokers for a syndicate
with a capital of half a million pounds
that was- seeking good investments in
Australia, including forestry. Lehman
subsequently explained the proposition
(as it was presented to the public) to a
meeting of salesmen.
Mr. Rooney, for McDonald, said the
police should be called upon to explain
why the “prime -movers in the gigantic
swindle should have been allowed to
escape from Australia with their booty
aggregating between £30,000 and
£40,000.” He added that the two accused
were only figureheads in Hodsons. They
were innocent victims of the few men
who had engineered the fraud and
cleared out with the proceeds.
Thomson, J., in discharging the jury,
said it was regrettable that no verdict
had been reached, in view of the length
of the hearing—l 3 days.
Shares in Castlemaine Perkins, Bris-
bane’s largest brewery, receded to 255.
last week. When these shares can
be got at that quotation or lower they
are always worth attention, as the imme-
diate yield (4 p.c.) is good, and disclosed
profits appear to be only part of the
story. It is a very energetic concern
with a large hotel trade tied to it.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance shares
are back to 335. 6d. on Sydney ’Change,
after lifting to 38s. The scrip is paid to
10s., and the div. rate since 1926 (fifth
year of establishment) has been an un-
interrupted 7 p.c. p.a. Over the past
four years, however, earning-power has
averaged 16.3 p.c. on capital; in 1935-36
the rate was 20 p.c. Net tangible back-
ing at last balance day was 235. sd. a
share. On the basis of disclosed earning
power and asset backing, the market
buys Bankers and Traders’ at 335. 6d. on
a better footing than Queensland (with
which it has affiliations) at 61s. And
something better than 7 p.c. on B. and
T. scrip shortly should make the imme-
diate return better than 2.2 p.c.
* : I : *
The latest return of the Imperial Eco-
nomic Committee shows that Australia
in 1935 stood sixth in the list of motor-
vehicle-owning countries of the world.
Only U.S.A., France, G. 8., Canada and
Germany have more. But on a popu-
lation basis the Commonwealth was fifth.
U. has 206 m.vs. per 1000 of popula-
tion, Maoriland 122, S’Africa 120,
Canada 107 and Australia 96. Germany
has only 16 and Italy nine per 1000, and
Russia got along with one per 1000.
Australia was the biggest buyer of United
Kingdom motor-cars in 1935, taking
13.2 p.c. of total exports.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Those who expected the All-Aged
Plate to provide the most interesting race
held during the four days at Randwick
were not wrong. It was contested by
half a dozen of the best milers assembled
-in one field for years, and the spectators
pronounced it thrilling, though the
favorite, Pamelus (6 to 4), went under.
McCarten, on Gold Rod (7 to 4), tried
to break up the field. The three-year-
old was five lengths ahead at the half-
mile and three lengths into the straight,
Pamelus methodically cutting down the
margin. A furlong from home Pamelus
had got to the front. He was imme-
diately challenged by King’s Head and
Regular Bachelor, who, last into the
straight, had flashed up on the rails,
getting a run such as had enabled Sar-
cherie to snatch victory from Silver Rose
in the Doncaster. In an astonishing
finish Regular Bachelor came right away
from King’s Head and Pamelus, beating
the former by a length and a half and
Pamelus by another half-neck. The time
was lmin. 36sec. —12sec. to the furlong.
The price was 20 to 1.
Thus Queensland’s faith in Pamelus,
whom it had always proclaimed a better
horse than Regular Bachelor, was shaken.
Consolation came with the reflection that
Regular Bachelor is a real Queensland
horse (Pamelus was bred in N.S.W.), is
owned and trained by a Queenslander
(Trihey), and was ridden by another
(Shean). I
Shean’s horsemanship was a feature of
the day. On old Lough Neagh (7 to
2) in the Cumberland Plate he quite out-
rode the other jockeys, going to the front
and setting just the pace he required for
a horse getting up in years who is per-
haps not a true stayer. He had things
all his own way in the straight. Allunga
and Sarcherie followed Lough Neagh to
the judge’s box at intervals of two lengths
and three lengths; Oro and Prince Quex
were the others.
Sarcherie was favorite, and all five were
backed. Sarcherie’s performance was
very so-so. It is now clear that she was
very lucky to beat Silver Rose in the
Doncaster; had the jockey on Silver
Rose merely contrived to keep her on
the rails it would have been sufficient.
Lough Neagh’s Cumberland Stakes win
was his thirtieth, and if he had been
Phar Lap he couldn’t have got a heartier
reception.
With Lynch Law out of action, the
Victorian superiority in two-year-olds
was pronounced. In the Champagne
Stakes it was Ajax first, Hua second and
Night Guard third; the rest (half a
dozen) also ran. Ajax and Hua carried
101 b. penalties, but it made no difference;
with McCarten easing up, his mount
being a couple of lengths ahead of Hua,
Ajax ran the six in lmin. He
and Hua are sons of Heroic, and Ajax
is the fastest two-year-old seen for
several seasons. Whether he will stay
remains, of course, to be proved; but
on breeding, conformation and style of
galloping there is no reason why he
shouldn’t.
Wednesday was an eventful day for
J. T. Jamieson and followers of his stable.
Jamieson started Country Party (7 to
2) in the Coogee Handicap, nine fur-
longs ; he ran pretty well but was de-
cisively beaten by Autoland (5 to 1) and
Cid. With an interval of only two races
Country Party was brought out for the
Bronte Handicap and made favorite at
4 to 1. It was poor policy, for he is
merely a one-pace horse, and the &ait at
which he can travel was not nearly fast
enough with the grey Arabia “going for
the doctor.” Seventh was the best
Country Party could do. At the furlong
post Red Thespian, who had won a
division of the Vaucluse Handicap on
the first day, headed Arabia, and thence-
forward he galloped to such purpose that
his closing advantage was four lengths.
With Bst. 81b. up, Red Thespian did
his mile in lmin. 36Jsec., and that sug-
gests Epsom possibilities.
A big chestnut, Red Thespian was bred
in Maoriland, being by Thespian-
Kenaluna. He is trained by R. L. Cash-
man at Newcastle for H. R. Munro.
Cashman also trains Mestoravon for Dr.
Vivers and H. Matthews, and the two
horses he produced in such excellent con-
dition earned for their owners £5660 in
stakes.
Mestoravon carne out again for the
City Handicap. The jockey drew the rails
position, and it didn’t suit the horse, who
had to be checked several times. Pulled
to the outside in the straight, he came
home well, but had to be checked to
avoid a collision with Fireman, who was
fighting it out with the ultimate winner,
Latharna (4 to 1), one of Jamieson’s.
Dr. Vivers, one of the owners, was not
satisfied with the running of Mestor-
avon, and he asked for “an official in-
vestigation.”
Mestqravon retires to the paddock
with a record of three firsts and a third
in four important races. If he winters
well and the V.R.C. handicapper treats
him reasonably there will be a ton of
N.S.W. money for him in the Melbourne
Cup.
Pamelus (5 to 4) was the best of good
things beaten in the C. W. Cropper Plate.
His only opponents were King’s Head
and Cereza, and McCarten, who rode
the mare, stole the race. At least six
lengths behind her commencing the last
furlong, Pamelus made up so much
ground that he failed by a mere half-
neck. He should have won by a couple
of lengths. King’s Head was a length
away —he never looked dangerous.
Cereza, who won the Cropper Plate two
years ago, started at 5 to 2.
Elliot came in for severe criticism
from the crowd. The stewards held an
inquiry and found him guilty of an error
of judgment. Pamelus is too much of a
handful for the Melbourne youth. With
Pike up, he would have won two w.f.a.
races at Randwick.
A young horse, Allunga, beat two tired
old nags, Lough Neagh and Oro, in the
A.J.C. Plate. Backers would not have
Allunga because of his failure in the
Sydney Cup, and 9 to 2 could be got.
There were melancholy exhibitions of
horsemanship during the round, but
Darby Munro rode Allunga well.
Victorians profited when Gay Chou
(5 to 1) made hacks of his field in the
Rous Handicap. He. chased Heritor into
the straight and, taking charge at the
Leger, won in a walk from Ramdin and
Glenwitch, who should have been put
aside for something easier. Fernacre was
always favorite; he had the run of the
race, but' merely plodded along in the
straight, though he finished fourth.
Allowing for the track being fast, it was
a sterling piece of galloping on the part
of Gay Chou to run “seven” in lmin.
23|sec.
Little El Senorita (6 to 1) added to her
worthy record by winning the Dangar.
She led throughout and romped home
from Fireman and Soft Step in time
equalling the course record for a mile
and a half, 2min. 29isec. Gay Blonde,
the favorite, could not gallop at that
rate; in any case, 12 furlongs is not her
pet distance. Mananui was again
backed, but the sour brute would not
put his heart into the job.
«••• ‘ * *
William Kelso saddled up Bristol and
Silenus in the Fernhill Handicap. The
former was favorite; Silenus, who car-
ries the colors of Dr. Harold Ritchie,
went out at 20 to 1. This handsome son
of Tippler-No Belle recorded a sterling
performance. Young Weiss lost an iron
early, but got his foot back after going
some distance, and Silenus finished in
whirlwind fashion to down Oration and
Roi Sion. Bristol lost his chance at the
start; he finished seventh. Silenus is a
brother to Falstaff, Dermid and Hava-
spot. Bristol is a son of Kelso’s former
favorite Bairn.
W. A. Ross has not had much luck
since Gwillian G. won the Sydney Cup,
but he has a useful galloper in Royal
Step, a son of Heroic-Roseflight. Though
flat out to beat Turbine and Gothlin in the
Woollahra Handicap (5 to 1), Royal Step
is capable of improvement. Cloudy and
Yerrapie were heavily supported. Both
failed badly. Apparently Cloudy won’t
do his best unless he gets away well.
Bobby showed a return to form by
running on in fourth place.
Prittle Prattle (7 to 1) gave Darby
Munro his second winning ride when the
Heroic horse took the Final Handicap
from Panrose and Brazeno. Young Idea
was a street-corner tip, but after running
second into the straight behind Panrose
he had had enough at the Leger. Prittle
Prattle’s showing was a great improve-
ment on his performance in the Coogee
Handicap ; on the other hand, Autoland
deteriorated rapidly.
sjc sjs si«
Ascot, formerly a “pony” course, but
now wholly devoted to all-heights rac-
ing, distributed £2OOO in stakes on Satur-
day. Ascot, Melbourne, of course; not
Ascot, Sydney. Two races —the Eclipse
Handicap, six furlongs, and the Bel-
haven Handicap, \\ mile and 40 yards—
were each worth £5OO. Minimum allot-
ment was £250. Is it strange that Vic-
torian sportsmen can bid so boldly and
successfully for yearlings in Sydney?
« » • • * i'
Secretary Dyett embarked for England
and the Coronation in an official capacity.
A. J. Gray is acting as secretary, and
the duties of starter at Ascot are being
temporarily filled by Rupert Greene, who
pulls the levers of Flemington and Caul-
field starting gates.
The Bulletin selection for the well-
endowed Eclipse Handicap was Marion
Melton, who went out at 7 to 1 in a field
of seven and scored brilliantly by half a
head from Spearflash (9 to 2). With
Turoa Webster up, Master Motley was a
hot favorite, but missed a place. He lost
ground through a slight squeeze at the
start.
Webster afterwards stated that he
might have fluked a win if he had got
through on the rails at the home turn.
Marion Melton’s rider commenced to
move out, but changed his mind.
Webster drew the whip, but Master
Motley just wasn’t smart enough to seize
a short-lived opportunity.
Marion Melton, a five-year-old mare
by Thrice (son of The Welkin), has won
twice in as many starts since she entered
the Flemington stable of Vin Ryan. On
several occasions lately Ryan has come
to the rescue of bookmakers. At the
V.R.C. autumn meeting he landed the
Northcote Handicap with Pennock, a
33-to-l chance. Only one runner —
Craigavad, who finished third at 25’s—
was at longer odds than Marion Melton.
Bought for 1100 guineas as a yearling
by Harry Boan, and sold by him later
at an old-song price, Spearflash has
struck good form at five years. He is by
Spearhead from Valotte, a sister to Man-
fred. Boan, who owns a department store
in Perth, now resides in Melbourne. He
was at Ascot on Saturday, and must have
viewed the excellent display of Spear-
flash with mixed feelings.
«. ■ * • • • f
Dick Devon, winner of the Farewell
Handicap on Australian Cup day,
appeared to outclass Belhaven Handicap
rivals, but he ended up in only a frac-
tion better demand than Prince Sion.
Latter hit the front a furlong from home,
But he could not withstand a challenge
from the lightly-weighted Black Mac
(Beau Fils-Falugo), who romped home
by three lengths. Fine Son, another of
the Beau Fils progeny,, was third, a mere
head in advance of Pep. Both Fine Son
and Pep may be worth following.
Shadow Moon, a recruit from the
Riverina “picnic” ranks, needs experience
as a jumper. He headed the Trial
Hurdle quotes at 5 to 4, but blundered
at several obstacles and finished third
only. Perquator, a handsome stallion by
imported Equator, reached the judge a
neck in advance of Lord Willonyx, whose
jockey, Cutler, was suspended for a
month on the ground of having crossed
too sharply to the rails half a mile from
home.
Divisions of the Encourage Handicap
went to Finch (2 to 1) and Whirry (6 to
1) respectively. Finch defeated the
Adelaide gelding Gold Nugget by a head,
with the consistent Miss Burn half a head
farther off. Whirry registered the easiest
victory of the afternoon, having eight
lengths to spare from R. Bradfield’s Gay-
brooke, with Rosaire a good third.
Neville Percival, newly returned from
a profitable visit to Eastern lands, dashed
Sly Wink out as soon as the tapes lifted
in the Kilmorey Handicap. It was a
one-horse race after turning for home.
Gold Token, owned by Mrs. E. E. D.
Clarke, whose husband was represented
at the Sydney Cup meeting by Hua,
caused surprise by beating the favorite,
Empiric, for second money. Sly Wink
belongs to Stan Reid, who won the
G. N. Steeplechase twice on Mountain
God.
* * * *
At the Easter sales in Sydney 474 year-
lings were sold for .an aggregate of
100, guineas, averaging 21 IT guineas.
Aggregate and average improved on last
year’s (74,415 guineas, averaging 153),
but the increase would have been more
substantial if N.S.W. racing, which is
cursed by overtaxation and s.p. wager-
ing, were in a better way. Offspring of
Heroic, Iliad and three untried impor-
tations, Melford, Christopher Robin and
Fox Earth, were most in demand. There
was a curious and utterly illogical slump
in Pantheons, notwithstanding Peter Pan.
The highest individual price realised was
1800 guineas, given by John Spencer
Brunton for a brother to the ill-fated
Homer, by Iliad-Quadrilateral. Homer
raced in the Brunton colors.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: After Sarcherie had
won the Doncaster a Sydney sporting
scribe solemnly assured his faithful
readers that books would lose heavily
unless a roughie came home in the Cup.
I have before me the doubles chart issued
by a leading bookmaker a week before
Doncaster Day. It starts off with the
staggering doubles odds of 16 to 1
Pamelus and either Allunga or Mestor-
avon. Then, getting reckless, it offers
20 to 1 Pamelus and either Mananui or
Silver Standard. Then it opens out to
33 to 1 Pamelus and either Spear Prince
or Wotan; 40 to 1 Pamelus and El
Senorita, Lough Neagh or Sarcherie; 50
to 1 Pamelus and Fireman, Peerage or
Sir Ross. In the second line Grand Mogul
and King’s Head were on offer with the
foregoing lot of neddies at, respectively,
33, 40, 66, 80 and 100 to 1. Next line
kicks off with Mitsui, Silver Rose, Sar-
cherie or Prittle Prattle with Allunga or
Mestoravon at 66 to 1, and for a choice
of the same pair 80 to 1 is offered about
Beechwood, Gay Blonde, Young Idea,
Evening Mist or Regular Bachelor. At
Woop Woop Picnic Races such doubles
odds would be called blue murder, but
apparently somebody takes them, causing
the unfortunate books to “lose heavily.”
$ * * *
“Sturt”: History was made for S.A.
by the ss. doubles tote at Onkaparinga’s
annual. The winners were Fleveron
(Cup) and Lady Madge (Steeple),
each 25 to 1 with the books, £64 Bs. and
£25 12s. for £1 on the straightout tote.
In a heavy betting race, Fleveron had
only 56 double tickets on him, and of
these only one was exchanged for a Lady
Madge ticket. When she won a work-
ing gardener collected £1699 ss. 6d., and
there was also £B4 19s. 3d. each for the
five backers of Wakerife, the runner-up
to Lady Madge.
* * * *
Thought to be a moral for the King's
Cup race at Perth, Balkan Prince
(evens) was beaten by Tetbury (10 to 1) ;
by High Art-Kafton. Tetbury ran the
12 furlongs in 2min. 3 Nsec., a West-
ralian record.
Balmain, a better-balanced side than
any of the others, has won the Sydney
grade cricket premiership for the first
time since 1916 ; West was second, with
Mosman and Northern Districts together
third. There were no outstanding bats-
men in Balmain’s team —Cheetham
(32.25), who topped the averages for the
club, was only fifteenth on the list for all
clubs —but the bowlers were a nicely
varied combination. Buis took 46 wickets
at 11.8 and Hunt 45 at 13.02.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Farm Novice: Bertha B. : next,
Dusky Beau.
Denham Court Handicap: Bonnie
Legion; next, Mohican or Heritor.
April Handicap: Kinsfolk; next,
Country Party.
Edensor Park Handicap: Mohi-
can or Arabia; next, Monash
River.
FOR ASCOT (MELBOURNE).
Wokingham Handicap: Master
Motley; next, Marion Melton.
Aylesford Handicap: Lilirene ;
next, Prince Sion.
Plymouth Welter: Spearflash;
next, Dark Prince.


:
-
i'::
H3H
I
PACIFIC
CANADA
ATLANTIC
bu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
"NIAGARAM AO RANG I "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
WOOL YARNS No. 4
THE SHUTTLE MERRILY GOES’
FLASHING THROUGH THE LOOM
IN the earliest vertical looms, the weft (crossing)
threads had to be laboriously woven by hand through
the warp threads, which were hung vertically from a
beam. It was a slow and tedious process. To-day in
Yarra Falls the great horizontal weaving looms clatter
and thunder day in and day out as the warp threads rise
and fall, and between them the flying shuttle bearing
the weft spindle “merrily goes flashing through the
loom.” Here in Australia, Yarra Falls and Globe
mills bring the wool direct from the sheep, 20,000 bales
annually, to you in the shape of yarn 4,000,000
pounds yearly—and woven fabrics, 3,000,000 yards
yearly. The wool is scoured, carded, combed,
spun, woven and dyed at the mills with a floor
space of 12 acres, with plant and buildings represent-
ing a capital investment of over £1,250,000, with 2250
skilled operatives. Yarra Falls, since its inception 18
years ago, has built up a great Australian Secondary
Industry. Yarra Falls is keeping pace with the
demands made for Australian Yarns and Worsteds.
Day in and day out the spinning machines in the
spinning mill whirr, and the magic of wool being
scoured, carded, combed and spun into fine silky thread
is to be seen. Day in and day out the looms in the
weaving mill steadily deliver the products of the
designers’ and weavers’ art. Twills and Fancy
I
m
»£: -
m
Fly Shuttle in Loom.
Weaving in Ancient Egypt.
Worsteds —Venetians —Baratheas—Covert Coat-
ings—Wool Crepes—Wool Georgettes and other
dress materials. And colours? Yarra Falls offers
you 1250 solid shades and over 5000 tonings in
yarns and 500 shades in piece-dyed fabrics, dyed
in fast colours with British dyes.
SPECIFY YARRA FALLS MATERIALS.
Never forget—SPECIFY YARRA FALLS
when ordering your next suiting or dress material.
Take value, Yarra Falls has the pick of Australia’s
finest merino wool. Remember it is processed, here
in Australia, by Australians under expert guidance
on machines chosen by one of Yorkshire’s leading
spinners. You can be sure that every piece of
material is pre-shrunk—fast-dyed and perfectly
finished; therefore support an Australian Industry
and specify YARRA FALLS.
YARRA FALLS Ltd.
WORSTED SPINNING & WEAVING
MILLS, ABBOTSFORD N 9. VICTORIA.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Carroll, Leto, Etc.
Encircled in the open under a drift of
fag-smoke, like an encampment in Boer
War battle pictures, the sundry thousands
at last week’s Sydney Sports Ground
scrapping happened surprisingly close to
seeing Jack Carroll, the best boxer in
Australia, bite the dust. He did take a
mouthful of it, but only while the ref.
counted one. Then he was up again, a
discomfited and bedraggled-looking Jack,
but spared from doing the full sentence
of dust-chewing by Jimmy Leto’s con-
siderately picking that moment to have
a conversation with the ref. about kid-
neys.
The 15 rounds were pleasant enter-
tainment rather than fight. Carroll, as
ever, gleaming white of body, looked
every minute of his 30 summers, but
started off weaving and sliding around the
ring, lunging out like a young colt. Usu-
ally he adopts the straight upright stance,
but on this occasion he crouched more,
perhaps because Leto affects the upright
also, and, save for dipping to avoid and
come in under Carroll’s lunging left,
refused to unbend.
At the start Carroll gave the impres-
sion that he thought he was there for a
little loosening-up. Leto never once got
a glove on him in that first round. It
was like a pretty exhibition in a gym-
nasium with ladies present, Leto in
the role of the chap who consents to
put on gloves with the champ., just to
oblige. Carroll’s lunging left played
lightly on the smaller, stocky brown
chap’s rugged and very likeable dial.
Jack hit the whole pattern of the Stars
and Stripes all over him, from any range.
“It’s no good lookin’ at him!” loudly
complained a Leto bottle-holder. “Aw,
well, Harry,” comforted an occupant of
a front pew, “he’s lookin’ at a damn’
good fighter.” The betting was 5 to 1
on Carroll.
In the next round Leto indicated that
he had not been lookin’ for nothing. It
was soon plain that he was every bit as
quick as Carroll himself, and that is
about as fast as an average length of
lightning. He not only made Carroll
miss by almost imperceptible head-
shifting, but he hit Carroll, and it was
a clinker—a dandy left hook to the jaw.
Whatever ideas he may have had up till
then, Carroll gave signs that he now knew
he was up against a tradesman. He
stopped the rather affected display, and
from then on he boxed. He won that
round, too, but it gave him plenty to
think about'.
Carroll won the next half-dozen
rounds with decreasing margins. They
were pretty to look at, but much alike,
with a general likeness to exhibition
boxing. In the third Carroll did some
nice air-sawing with the left and some
sound blocking with shoulder and
elbows, but Leto’s rips left blotches on
the white tummy. In the fourth Leto
took the fighting in closer not the
soundest practice with Jack, who’s an
adept at that stuff. Leto also complained
unavailingly of a low hit, after Carroll’s
left glove had appeared to brush his
trunks. Ref. Harald Baker turned a
glassy eye on the Leto’s contorted phiz,
and the Leto fought on as though not
altogether fatally injured.
In the fifth Leto was warned for
kidney punching, and that warning pos-
sibly lost him the fight. Carroll has a
curious approach. He slides forward
sideways, with the left well out, sawing
the air and darting at the enemy's top-
piece. The lower left side is thus sliding
edge-on straight towards the enemy and
is fairly exposed. No other part of
Carroll is then hittable, but a quite fair
punch to that bit of side looks mighty
like a kidney hit. Leto was doubtless
right in protesting that in U.S.A. his
blow wouldn’t have been questioned.
Thereafter he boxed as if he feared
Baker would upend and spank him if he
was a naughty boy any more. In the
sixth round he again got a blow on
Carroll a left hook to the middle —and
he turned to the ref. expecting another
reprimand. With ninety-nine in a hun-
dred it would have looked like —and
been dumb insolence; not with Leto.
Apart from being a clinking tradesman,
he strikes the onlooker as simply a
gentlemanly little cove, fastidiously
anxious not to give offence.
So far, a pretty, interesting but un-
eventful display of classy boxing, the
betting still heavily odds-on Carroll.
Invited to have a bet, a Leto barracker
declined. He’d had one bet on a fight,
he said. “Yes,” he recalled it, “I put
seventy-two quid on a cove named Kay.
fightin’ him. They gave me the
decision. I haven’t had a bet on a fight
since.
The scrap going on in the ring had
now settled down into a steady display
of craftsmanship, Carroll taking the
stocky cove less and less lightly, tapping
’hi lll fairly consistently with his long left
but making no apparent impression on
the rugged dtal, while; his own had sprung
a claret leak.ont the right cheekbone, with
another leak showing up over the rtgh
<he e'ghth This was Leto s best
™ und “ da,e - bu < he s . ow f. d do "" ‘
th< i next three C 5 W P ,, ' n * U P
P ol . nts w ' thout 100k "’S llkel >' to d ° ?">'
“ rlous damage There were bulge
bow,n S °" the Leto dial, but he hadn t
be s| g" ot a cu ‘> and be » asas f f esh a *
the green grass underfoot. He livened
? bd ™. ora m the twelfth and more still
!" the thirteenth. Then ,n the fourteenth,
in the midst of a bit of simple skirmish-
ing, he dropped a hook over Carroll’s
shoulder Carroll doubled and pitched
almost on to his head He was up again
a | mos j instantly, groggy and very open,
bu( Leto preferred hi f yap with , he ref .
He had the idea that ht ,, d F hil Cari . o „ jn
tbe kj dne y S When it dawned on him
that opp o rtunity was at hand he wen ,
slormil j and Carro|l , ook more
punishment j n 30 seconds than he has
, akcn in lhe past flve years Majn , y by
g ood j uck be wea thered it ; and he
weathered the fifteenth as well.
Q n po i n f s j le won a u right, but nobody
wiu , ay sto , on him if this pair me/,
a g a j n Still, it would be risky to regard
<y alTo || as a back-number on this one
performance . Until | ast week he hadn’t
h ad a fight for over a year. The scrap
should have sharpened J him up . if he -' s
ca|ied ; , the ri F a in SOO F eno h
(Continued on next page.)


ii^oaa
V3AHSff
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTQS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
Is Driving a Car a Pleasure?
IT certainly is not unless you have unlimited confidence in your
brakes and the feeling that your clutch is right.
There are many different *'RAYBESTOS products for different
types of brakes and clutches, each constructed to add to your
pleasure and comfort whilst motoring.
See that your car is fitted with the right type of material, and insist
on “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS AND CLUTCH FACINGS.
Raybestos-Be/aco Ltd., London, England.
Factory Rep s Oohn Arnold, G*PBox 71, Melbourne, Vic «
%
mm •st'"-;
w
iS
A
i mJL
£
\duce ENGINE TROUBLES /
install neu) Champions
It is false economy to keep sparking plugs
in your engine too long. They become fouled
their sparks are weak and result in
carbon formation and your engine be-
comes sluggish and expensive to operate.
Practise REAL economy. Install new
Champions once every year.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
ķ
ĸ
he’s very likely to prove a totally dif-
ferent box of tricks. Carroll tipped the
beam at lOst. 611 b.; Leto at lOst. 31b.
Two 10-rounders filled out the bill, one
before and one after the big scrap. The
first was a bit of sloggery between Herb
Bishop (lOst. 411 b.) and Jimmy Leonard
(lOst. 21b. and a bit). Bishop, who
appears to fight his best only when he
has been consistently hit hard for a
while, had only reached that satisfactory
condition at the last round, in which he
did pretty well. But the merely-so-so
performance was Leonard’s on points.
The final scrap, on the other hand, was
a snifter. It left even the Carroll-Leto
encounter standing for liveliness and
general fistic interest. In it Terry Reilly
(9st. lOflb.) had the misfortune to meet
Hockey Bennell (9st. 71b.), a youngster
with a phiz so unlike that of any pug
that ever breathed that a Phil May would
shoot himself if he had to draw Hockey
in Hockey’s chosen role. If you met
Hockey dressed you’d instinctively ask
him the way to the drapery. But Hockey
is undoubtedly a boxer, and the makings
of a good ’un. Terry, in scraps with
Bishop in this same open-air ring, had
proved himself a good rugged fighter.
The last 15-round go he had with the
Bish. was a rough-hewn classic of out-
right stoush. Even so, it was a fighting
as much as a boxing lesson that Terry
took from Bennell. This youngster uses
both hands, dances perhaps a trifle too
much, but boxes neatly and eagerly, and,
put to it, fights like a bearcat. He took
the fight to Reilly throughout, and at the
finish had that unhappy chap utterly
dumbfounded. He won by the length of
the Flemington straight.
As garnish to all these pleasant pro-
ceedings, jockey J. Duncan was invited
up into the ring, where he looked like
a possible contender for the meat-ant
belt, and was there presented with a
gold-mounted riding-whip for plagiarising
The Bulletin’s Sydney Cup tip. Jack
Carroll was also brought back to receive
a trophy—a whopping figure of a boxer
in green marble, which Jack, staggering
under it, declared “would be all right for
decoratin’ the place.”
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: V.F.L. clubs don’t seem
so interested in country recruits this
year, but their emissaries have been
hanging round Association training-
grounds. Country players cost a lot to
bring to Melbourne and maintain until
jobs can be found for them. Associa-
tion players live on the spot and are
mostly working. The scheme looked
good, but the Association has notified
that a transfer fee, solid in the case of
good players, must be paid before trans-
fer to the League is permitted.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland R.U. side
to play in Sydney on May 12 and 15
will leave Brisbane by boat on May 7.
In the long ago this was the. usual
method for travelling teams, and when
N.S.W. callants first took to the train
on trips north this was regarded as a
sybaritish display of the wealth in which
the Sydney “gates” permitted the
Union to wallow. Provided the weather
was not too rough, the sea trip was pre-
ferred by most. In those days the winter
journey round by Wallangarra, with little
chance of exercise, was no joke.
* * * *
“Bundamba”: McLean, the Rugby
Union Australian winger, who has stirred
up Queensland football circles by going
over to the League, protests that he will
play as an amateur. It is difficult for
the average person to understand what
these determined amateurs hope to gain
by joining a professional body if they
are to get no money out of it. Surely
the social amenities of the League,
whether in Australia or the North of
England, are not so immeasurably
superior to those of the Union. It may
be that McLean, considered by the ex-
perts a certainty to go to England with
professionals this season, desires to bene-
fit by the cultural influences of such
League centres of light and refinement
as Wigan, but he has not said so. And,
again, supposing he goes to England with
this team, members of which receive
about £4 a week while on tour and a
bonus on their return, what is he going
to do about the cash in this instance?
It may be that he will be able to ride
through the North of England with the
brass rebounding from his armor of
amateurism, as the hail rebounded from
Sir Galahad’s mail in Tennyson’s poem,
without arousing the criticism of his
mates and the North of England public,
but I doubt it.
Nineteenth Hole
“Cotter”: The Canberra champion-
ships drew a goodly entry. On the first
day the foursomes title went to J. A. Bull
(Royal Can.) and P. Clapham (N. Brigh-
ton) ; the mixed foursomes saw A.
Hobbs and Miss Campbell tie with J.
Barkell and Mrs. Senior, each scoring 79.
J. C. Barkell took the amateur title
from A. Hattersley, finishing one ahead
of the Sydney lad with 148. Von Nida
played great golf to win the open.
Usually he doesn’t like wind, but he
“Well, folks, it's been a grand fight. Everyone has enjoyed it immensely! "
made no mistake this time,-and finished
in a gale with 143, which included a 69,
from Kelly and Richardson, who tied
with 144.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Hagen and Kirk-
wood opened their Victorian tour with
a match at the Commonwealth links
in Melbourne against Ryan and Edgar
Though Hagen had patchy moments and
Kirkwood was definitely off his game, the
professionals won 4 up and 3: Hagen 72,
Kirkwood 79 : Ryan 80, Edgar 78.
* * * *
“Throw In”: When the Queensland
golf sachems decided to strike a levy of
6d. a member, the idea was generally
approved. Now it is meeting with op-
position from country districts. Darling
Downs G.A. is jibbing because nothing
has been said as to how the funds raised
are to be applied, though gallons of ink
have been spilt to the effect that the
money will be used to finance amateur
teams undertaking the costly trips to
championships in Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide. Curious how sporting
bodies, however well-to-do, jib at paying
an insignificant sum like 6d. a yeai, no
matter now good the objective. None
knows this better than the Olympic com-
mittee. * * *
“The Swamp”: Easter is the time for
all manner of sporting fixtures on the
Darling Downs. At Warwick the Downs
and S.W. Queensland championships were
heid. The singles title went to. J. C
Mclntosh, of Lismore (N.S.W.),
many important victories to his name
He had to go to the 38th greeno
the local champion, Fell. Mrs. Y>
Warwick, kept the home flag y in B Y
wresting the women s title from Miss
Pratt, of Stanthorpe.
“Muizenberg”: Something new in
crow-golf ball problems has cropped up
in South Africa. A player at Calitzdorp,
Cape Colony, drove off, and immediately
a flock of crows settled on the ground
round the ball. The second player also
drove off, but no notice was taken of
his pill. As the players walked up to
where the first ball was lying they could
hear the crows in fierce argument. Sud-
denly one picked up the ball and flew
some hundred yards before again de-
positing it, when the congregation again
gathered round and resumed the debate,
This time the caddies took a hand and
the crows departed, leaving the ball,
There is no local rule covering the hap-
pening, and the owner of the ball would
like to know where he stands.
_,« p i
KdCCJUeT dlia DdW!
“Centre Court”: The full programme
of the Davis c tourne y 5 now to hand,
in the second
* h ° ws L th weakest teams in the second
half, though Yugoslavia, which last yea
came from nowhere to fight the Euro-
pean final with Germany, is included, as
are M.L. and South Africa. In Europe
first round must end by May 4, the
second by May 16 and the third by June
$ The semi-final must finish by June
U and the final by July 12.
..••••
Then comes the inter-zone final at
Wimbledon on July 17, 19, 20, and the
challenge round on July 24, 26 and 27.
Australia opens its account against
Mexico at Mexico City on April 30.
“Cash Amateur”: Perry met Tilden
in N’Yark for the first time since th e
Englishman turned professional, and
g ave tbe once-undefeatable Yank an un-
holy hiding by 3 set§ tQ { xhere were
15j0()0 spect ators, who paid 30,000 dol-
lars t 0 watch the killing.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The war between
N.S.W. and Vic. tennis heads increases
j n fury. N.S.W. hardcourts people took
a turn at the CO m m mation .service
recently, asserting that the game, in Aus-
tra]ja is obYious i y under t he dictatorship
0 £ Borman Brookes. What ought to be
done is to move the control of the pastime
j. Q g Aus. or some other State. Westralia
WQuld b£ ideal _ it is s 0 far away .
* * * *
“Red Mud”: The Darling Downs
tennis championships, which outvie in
importance the State championships in
Queensland, showed clearly that Moon
is setting. He was badly beaten in the
State hardcourt singles by Grinsteu.
However, he helped Mrs. Westacott to
win the mixed doubles, and Mrs. W.
triumphed in the women’s singles.
... _ __ llC
Miscellaneous
“Lancaster Park”: England had ai™az-
ing bad luck in failing to win the Test
match with Maoriland. Just on time M.L.
needed two runs to save an innings de-
feat. Cowie smote a four and was out
next ball, leaving England two runs to
win. Stumps were drawn a minute after
the dismissal of Cowie. In their only
knock the tourists made 427, Wyatt
again showing his appreciation of the
slower M.L. wickets with 144. Ames
(97) and Allen (88) were other batsmen
to do Allen in addition taking 3 foi
§4 Maorilan(fs first hit> yielding 265,
yi v i an (88), Page (50) and Maloney (42
nQ ) made runS} but in the second, which
totalled on jy 16 3 ; Hadlee’s 82 led all the
rest .
....
L. cricket team for England
j e £(. am j d scenes of great enthusi-
asm w hich was hardly justified bv
M.L.’s showing against the Britons in
the two matches played prior to de-
parture. The tour will be a full-fledged
one on the lines of the Australian and
South African visits, and one can only
wish them luck.


Applause! Success!
FOR THE GENUINELY NEW 1937
CHEVROLET
•'HI
Its BEAUTY,
SAFETY, PERFORMANCE,
and astonishingly low
price could be offered
only by the world’s
sales leader
d sifl
ffim
/>* f 11,,, V||
'iWM'M-
w
m
Unisteel “TURRET” TOP BODY by Holden e Perfected
Hydraulic Brakes e Synchro Mesh Gears e More Economical
and Powerful Engine e More Room and More Comfort...
It was love at first sight. The critical
motoring public greeted the appearance of
the new 1937 Chevrolet with tremendous
applause. Its good looks won their praise
immediately but beauty in cars, as in
other things, may be only skin deep. So
they sat in it and found restfulness and
comfort. They drove it and found speed
and safety. They tested it in every way they
knew and found that it is economical yet
powerful, silent yet strong.
And, being wise buyers, they bought it, in
their hundreds and at the fastest rate Chev-
rolets have ever been bought before. These
are the fine car features which convinced
them that Chevrolet for 1937 is the car of
the year at the price which most can afford.
Look at them and then look at the price!
The 1937 Chevrolet Master de Luxe is a
COMPLETE car Unisteel “ Turret” Top
Body by Holden Permanently silent and
safe: 25% stronger . . . Lower overall height
more headroom, legroom and elbow
room . . . Synchro-mesh gears . . . Multi-
adjustment front seat . . . Independent Front
Wheel springing and Super-safe shockless
steering . . . Exclusive Holden, figure-con-
forming “Relax-o-form” upholstery . . .
Perfected, double articulated Hydraulic
Brakes . . . Faster acceleration . . . Giant
Luggage Trunk “that takes the lot” . . . Easy
Jacking System . . . New Hypoid rear axle
giving lower floor without high tunnel
. . . Same previous overhead valve six
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
cylinder principle but more power (85
h.p.) combined with new fuel thrift . . .
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LTD.
£290
For Commercial
Roadster
CHEVROLET
Standard Prices:
Commercial
Roadster. . £290
Sports
Roadster. . £305
Tourer .... £315
Business
Coupe ... £325
Sports Coupe, £335
Sedan £345
All prices include Safety
Glass Windscreen. All
Prices Plus Sales Tax.
Every model available under the easy and
confidential G.M.A.C. terms plan.
Your Money Goes Farther in a General Motors’ Car.'
THE 1937 "AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO
The 1937 “Air Chief” Car Radio, specially designed
for Chevrolet, has controls to match the instrument
panel. Two models are available. The Two-Unit Set,
with separate receiver unit and 8-inch dynamic speaker,
and the Single Unit Set, which compactly houses both
receiver and speaker. The “Air Chief,” with six valves,
gives performance equal to the best home radio. A
demonstration will be gladly given.
C 481-48
by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
“Hotham”: Some time ago The Bul-
letin wrote of an old print depicting
the abo. cricketers who went to England
in 1868. The agreement between the.
darkies and the promoters, Gurnett and
Hayman, of Melbourne, has just been
rooted out of the darkness in Melbourne
public library. The promoters under-
took to pay all travelling expenses and
supply the cricketers with food, lodging
and clothing “suitable to their condition
in life,” as well as 7s. 6d. a week for
pocket money. Gurnett was to get £lOOO
from the profits and Hayman 5 per cent,
of them. At the end of the tour the
players got' £5O each as bonus. Before
matches and in the intervals of cricket
the abos. gave exhibitions of spear- and
boomerang-throwing, etc., and in the
words of a contemporary newspaper on
their return proved “a considerable suc-
cess in England.”
* * * *
“Lavender Bay”: The Australians who
joined Sir Julien Cahn’s team made a
good start against Malaya at Singapore.
Walsh, the young Glebe bowler, took 5
for 42, and Mudge made 31, top score
for his side. Malaya batted first for 161,
and when rain stopped play the Cahns
had lost 9 for 184.
* * *
“Aigburth”: A. E. Relf, for years one
of England’s best all-round cricket pro-
fessionals, was found dead in the pavilion
of Wellington College, where he has been
coach for a generation. He was in Aus-
tralia with Warner in 1903-04, but failed
to show his best form with bat or ball.
In England, however, he scored his 1000
runs and took his 100 wickets for Sussex
with unfailing regularity for years. Relf
figured in only one Test in England—at
Lord’s in 1902. A batsman with a style
of his own, he had many strokes, while
at times he got a tremendous swerve on
his medium-pace bowling. For the three
Tests in which he played he averaged
over 21 with the bat, while he took seven
wickets.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Diamond Jubilee
Stawell Gift, last of the great Australian
Sheffield Handicaps, was won by A. F.
Bradley (N.S.W.) off 10 yards in 12sec.
dead. Bradley, Rogers Patten
(9yds.) and Charles (9|yds.), who finished
in that order, are all N.S.W. peds.
Charles, an abo. from Cunnera Mission
Station, was favorite after a sensational
defeat of the much-fancied Dooley in
a heat. Bradley is an old St. Joseph Col-
lege boy, and was a contemporary at
school of Jim Carlton and Stan McCabe.
He is a farmer.
* * * *
“He-Man”: There is a strong feeling
in Olympic circles that women should
be barred from the Olympic Games, and
it is pretty certain that the International
Olympic Committee, which meets in
Warsaw in June, will ban them. Ob-
jectors to the female element argue that
their separate accommodation and man-
agement are an infernal nuisance, while
the Games are far too unwieldy as it is.
Women were not allowed to compete in
the Greek games.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: So Oxford, after .14
years of hard trying, has at last led Cam-
bridge home in the historic boatrace.
Much of the credit for the win is given
by the British press to the untiring work
ot the old Kings School boy Lewes in
building up the Dark Blue eight, and
his action, as president of he Oxford
boat club in removing himself from the
crew at the last minute because he had
gone stale is praised as the highwater-
mark of sportsmanship. The race the
eighty-ninth of the senes was rowed on
a flooded river. Oxford s success leaves
Cambridge still with a lead of eight the
Cantabs, having won 48 and Oxford 40 ;
there was a dead-heat in 1877.
* ■ * * *
“Toowong”: G.P.S. won the Queens-
land champion eights, and will repre-
sent Bananaland at Murray Bridge (S.A.)
in the race for the King’s Cup. Wide
Bay was second and Grammar School
Old Boys third ; Bundaberg and Rock-
hampton followed. This is the first time
for a long period that a Brisbane crew
has won the championship, the men from
the country usually proving too good,
Wide Bay, for example, ruled the roost
for some years. Slaughter retained his
sculling championship and will go to
S. Aus. This is the man who was chal-
lenged by a shark in an exciting race
for the riverbank a couple of years ago,
{ he shark failing to make his finishing
run m time.
* * * *
.. Blue chalk”: The spar between the
British Cound , of Billia^ds Conlrol and
Wa „ er Lindmm seems lo have bl:en re .
vived since he won , h Biniards Cu
which carries , he woll<ra championsh ;£
Walter has been sitti on (h £ f„
Australia and declinin | p i ay f or it
anywhere else xhe co b uncil f, a / written
Wa|ter invitin him t 0 bri the
, 0 Britain and there , fo J it again £
the local champion ,£ including little
cousin Horace xhe champion |, as not
ye j replied, and there is an impression
that Walter will demand that those de-
siring to lift the trophy must come to
Australia to do so. If that be so, the
B.C.C. says it will ignore him and run
a new championship.


WIRTHS’ CIRCUS
Greatest Show on Earth!
Cnr. Riley anti Goulburn Streets.
8 p.m. Matinees., Wed. and Sat. at 2.30 p.m.
Mammoth programme includes several star
acts from overseas.
2/-, 3/-, 4/-j 5/-j 6/-. Res. Chairs.
Children half price.
Plan Nicholson’s.
EVERYTHING HERE: WE NEVER DIVIDE!
Vacancy Station Manager.
Wanted, experienced Working Manager, sheep
station, Southern Q’land, 12-15,000 sheep.
Protestant, good horseman, married; state a=e>
both, and children, if any; f ive , ex f^ r r '“"':
when, where; enclose copies only of
Position available July or August. Appl> K
34774, A.M.L.F. Co., Brisbane.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Rose Marie.”
ROSE MARIE .. Jeanette MacDonald
MOUNTIE SERGEANT, Nelson Eddy
The stage production of “Rose Marie”
had to depend on songs, choruses
and dances for effect, the plot being
a tenuous affair of secondary im-
portance. In the screen version songs
and dances serve to decorate the plot,
and the grafting on of excerpts from
Gounod’s “Romeo and Juliet” and “La
Nelson Eddy in “Rose Marie,” at
Sydney St. James.
Tosca” further helps the plot consider-
ably. Another advantage of the screen
version, helping to make it incomparably
better than the stage show, is the mag-
nificent Canadian backwoods setting.
Singing is of as good a quality as has
been heard from the screen.
Miss MacDonald excels herself in both
singing and acting, her acting showing
a remarkable improvement, particularly
in comedy scenes. Nelson Eddy is the
pattern of an ideal “Mountie,” with a
rich, resonant baritone for the “Indian
Love Call” and “Rose Marie” songs.
A totem-pole dance by Indians on an
island set in a moonlit lake is a striking
item in the spectacular beauty of the
piece.
Reginald Owen is the overawed busi-
ness manager of the temperamental Rose
Marie. James Stewart as the shiftless
brother does his little piece efficiently.
Alan Mowbray is polished as a con-
gratulatory Premier, and Allan Jones lifts
up his light tenor in brief appearances
as Romeo and Cavaradossi. At Sydney
St. James.
M.-G.-M. Shorts.
Supporting attraction at Sydney St.
James is a quartet of engaging brevities.
Horseshoe-throwing blindfolded, toma-
hawk-tossing and some balancing dogs
give Pete Smith scope for his drollery in
descriptions of vaudeville stunts.
A Fitzpatrick Traveltalk in technicolor
gives glimpses of the luxurious turnouts
Indian potentates get about in, and the
Taj Mahal is shown from many angles.
Spanky MacFarland and his freckled
pal get some hilarity out of crackers in
“Two Too Young,” an “Our Gang”
comedy.
“The Little Cheeser,” a Harmon-Ising
color cartoon, deals humorously with the
effects of a conscience on a disobedient
mouse.
“Once a Doctor.”
HONEST YOUNG DOC.,
Donald Woods
REAL BAD EGG .... Gordon Oliver
PULSE QUICKENER Jean Muir
The elements of this opus are juicily
melodramatic, the plot a slight variation
of a stock model which used to produce
damp handkerchiefs when the century
was young. Under modern treatment the
lachrymose ducts are not so heavily
worked, the result being moderately
attractive entertainment.
There is our old friend the stern
father; his best-beloved but worthless
son ; his foster son, who for the sake
of his benefactor nobly takes the blame
for the worthless one’s misdeeds. All
three are doctors, and both young men
love the daughter of yet another doc. ;
but that’s only a few of the medical cast
—there’s a whole raft of ’em in the back-
ground. Of course, it means a dungeon
for the noble fellow, but after his early
release Doc. No. 4, a true pal, wangles
him a job in Cuba, and the ex-con. goes
straight from clink to clinic. Then foster
parent, who was instrumental in consign-
ing him to the cold cell, is pushed over
on deck of yacht by drunken son while
storm rages, getting a bent skull which
only the outcast, travelling on a steamer
a few miles off, can fix. There’s a peril-
ous crossing of angry waters in a
breeches-buoy, then the successful op.,
reconciliation, etc.
Donald Woods has clear-cut good looks
and sufficient acting ability to hold down
the hero’s job, and Gordon Oliver is
well cast as the weak brother. Jean
Muir does the soft, appealing stuff easily.
There are some good character sketches
by Joseph King, Henry Kolker and
Gordon Hart. At Sydney Capitol.
“Criminal Lawyer.”
VOLUBLE ATTORNEY .. Lee Tracy
HIS SECRETARY .. Margot Grahame
IRISH VILLAIN .. Eduardo Ciannelli
This film is a classic of miscasting.
For the role of the snappy attorney
who has to negotiate one dramatic climax
after another the choice is an actor whose
hard, mobile, humorous face belongs
only to a comedian. Mr. Tracy tries to
give rein to his natural urge, but the
scenarists have given him little scope for
comedy. His secretary, whom he
rescues, presumably innocent, from a
charge in a Night Court (that quaint
American institution) might reasonably
be expected to be of the trustful, refined
type —so the character is portrayed by
as hard-boiled-looking a blonde as the
screen possesses. The night-club-
James Guilfoyle in “Winterset,” at
Sydney Mayfair.
running gangster chief, by name Larkin,
is interpreted by a swarthy, grim-lipped
Latin gent, who strives vainly to bridge
the gap between Naples and Kilkenny.
Nor is the story particularly inspiring.
It concerns a criminal lawyer who turns
in jury-rigging when elevated to a
district-attorneyship and, after a lot of
theatrical heroics, sacrifices his career to
bring a quondam associate to justice.
While doing this he allows himself, when
half-drunk, to be cajoled into marrying
a spoiled socialite who bores him, an
act totally incompatible with the almost
miraculous shrewdness he. displays in his
official capacity. At Sydney Capitol.
“Mad Holiday.”
FILM STAR Edmund Lowe
WRITER OF THRILLERS, Elissa Landi
ENGLISH VALET .. Edmund Gwenn
BIBULOUS MATRON .. Zasu Pitts
The film star, after a long series of
successes as a sleuth in a series of
thrillers, gets sick of it and goes on a
sea voyage. The beautiful young writer
of the thrillers, with some sort of
muddled idea about getting him back to
work, stages a mock murder on the
liner. Of course a series of real assassi-
nations immediately ensues, and the char-
acters are tripping over corpses, some of
which mysteriously disappear, through-
out a long voyage which ends at ’Frisco.
This is rather surprising, since the ship
seems to have sailed from Los Angeles,
but is necessary in order to work out
the final sequences in the eerie cellars
of a Chinese theatre. Finally Mr. Lowe
discovers who stole the White Dragon
diamond and unmasks the perpetrator of
the murders, but the whole business is
so fantastic and dreamlike that the
Jeanette MacDonald in “Rose Marie.”
climax doesn’t seem to be of the least'
importance. Lowe, tersely wisecrack-
ing, gives the affair some sort of con-
tinuity. But for him it would look like
a Grand Guignol evening. At Sydney
Civic.
“Women Are Trouble.”
CRIME REPORTER .. Stewart Erwin
GIRL WHO GETS SCOOPS,
Florence Rice
NEWS EDITOR Paul Kelly
This is the old one about the, beauteous
goil reporter who wins the heart and
hand of a male ditto by beating him
hands down at his own game. This
goil gets all the breaks. When she snap-
shots a cat rummaging a garbage-tin a
murderer runs right in front, and she
gets a beautifully defined front-face pic-
ture of him.
Gangsters impound her camera, but
she, has removed the film-roll. Of course,
she’s threatened with instant death, but
her captors keep on putting off the execu-
tion until Mr. Erwin, backed by a small
army of cops, breaks in. This habit of
procrastination has been responsible for
the arrest and conviction of no fewer
than 1183 screen criminals in the last
14 months.
Notwithstanding the mildewed whiskers
of the yarn, the film has its points.
Erwin, as in “Exclusive. Story,” is a
feasible-enough reporter, not a carica-
ture of one. Now that Will Rogers has
gone he is Hollywood’s leading exponent
of the laconic, solemn, Mark Twain brand
of humor. Miss Rice exhibits a lively
Irish temper, and the rest of the cast-
ing is good. At Sydney Civic.
“General Spanky.”
CUTE KID Spanky MacFarland
ROMANTIC CONFEDERATE
OFFICER Phillips Holmes
FEDERAL GENERAL, Ralph Morgan
DASTARDLY FEDERAL
CAPTAIN .......... Irving Pichel
General impressions of the American
Civil War to be gathered from this opus
are that it was a Pickwickian sort of
affair in which benevolent old Federal
generals devoted most of their time to
seeing that romantic young Confederate
officers came to no harm. At one stage
in the proceedings a company of Federal
troops spends an afternoon and about
5000 rounds of ammunition attacking a
fort rigged up by small boys. Young
Spanky leads this infant army. At the
opening of the film he is an orphan,
shoeblack on a river boat, but is adopted
by the kindly Mr. Holmes. A wicked
gambler on the boat turns up later as
a captain in the Northern Army, deter-
mined to persecute Holmes’s gal and get
that young gentleman shot by a court-
martial. But at a word from the influen-
tial Spanky the Northern general appears
in a barouche with all his staff, consigns
the wicked captain to a prison cell and
pushes the young officer into the arms
of his sweetheart. The Yankee general
who said that war is hell would have
found still stronger words for it had he
witnessed this fantasia.
“Woman-wise. ’ ’
PHILANTHROPIC SPORTING
WRITER Michael Whalen
CROOKED DITTO .. Douglas Fawley
GOIL REPORTER .. Rochelle Hudson
BAD FIGHT PROMOTER,
Alan Dinehart
NEWSPAPER OWNER, George Hassell
A great-hearted sporting writer levies
blackmail on fight promoters to found a
home for retired pugs., and to save the
reputation of his boss’s son (entangled in
gambling at night club by the nefarious
Dinehart) allows his proceedings to be
viewed in the worst possible light. Of
course the discerning Miss Hudson
doesn’t believe in his guilt; the old pugs,
rally to their benefactor’s rescue, and
the rest is prelude to orange-blossoms.
Trite stuff, but excellent acting and
clever trimmings turn it into good enter-
tainment. Whalen has never been better
cast, Miss Hudson for once has a part
that isn’t saccharine and insipid, Dine-
hart and Fawley temper their villainy
with some regard to consequences, and
Hassell’s picture of a dry, sarcastic old
editor with a keen regard for his journal’s
reputation is new and refreshing. Pre-
viewed at Fox Theatrette, Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
Gilsullivanism in Melbourne.
“Pirates of Penzance,” preceded by
“Trial by Jury,” had a brief but popular
run at His Majesty’s, Melbourne. In the
musical courtroom Clifford Cowley as
the Judge acted gleefully, and in his
patter songs every word was audible.
Eileen Kelly was the bride, and Vincent
McMurray and Gregory Stroud defen-
dant and counsel respectively. Tommy
Jay deserves a word for his spidery-
limbed usher. No part has suited him
so well since he played an irresponsible
medical student in “The Wind and the
Rain.”
In “The Pirates” Bernard Manning’s
voice was in good order as he went a-
plundering with a bark worse than a
bite. Leo Darnton made a tuneful Fred-
erick, and Strella Wilson was the best-
voiced Mabel heard for many a season,
her “Poor Wandering One” being par-
Burgess Meredith in “Winterset.”
ticularly popular. As the Major-General
Ivan Menzies pattered faster and faster,
never seeming to draw breath. Richard
Watson was a burly figure of a sergeant
of police in “With Catlike Tread,’ - and
contralto Evelyn Hall sang and acted
with her usual spirit as the piratical
maid-of-all-work.
“The Mikado” was the greatest suc-
cess of the season up to date. Richard
Watson’s six-official s-in-one called Pooh;
Bah was a perfect piece of comedy, and
it would be difficult to better Bernard
Manning’s Mikado, every detail of which
interpretation was a finished bit oi
miming. As Ko-Ko Ivan Menzies wa>
more amusing and probably more effec-
tive than he would have been as a con-
ventional and less colorfully imaginatb;
Lord High Executioner. Gregory Strove
made another comically-grovelling mis
creant Pish-tush, Leo Darnton became
the light-hearted Nanki-Poo and Evely
Hall an effectively unloved Katisha.
Helen Langton and Eileen Kelly h


DARWIN and
CENTRAL AUSTRALIA
FOR UNUSUAL HOLIDAYS!
• Strange new sights wandering
native tribes, giant anthills, exotic
lily lagoons, mangrove swamps. New
adventures —visiting scattered white
settlements. New thrills —hunting wild
buffalo and crocodile.
Explore this intensely interesting
country in the luxurious comfort of
modern saloon cars. Tours leave
monthly from May to September, and
every arrangement is made for the
comfort and entertainment of travellers.
28 Days for £59/10/-
Other tours from 45 to 105 days incl.
land and sea cruises. Full itiner-
aries and illustrated booklets free.
Get yours to-day!
p
0
N
E
I
R
Tfiotn
Towvt
■unde
.SYDNEY • - 38 Martin Place. Tel. B 7648
MELBOURNE 241 Collinj Street. Tel. Cent. 5775
BRISBANE - 206 Adelaide Street. Tel. B 6715
Mmmm
mmm
m
88 '
identical with the cigarettes
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
m.
ft*
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE
Sg£
ft:-:
.
. ■
MBMI
'mmmmMi
\\V&
$
/<?
//»
CUT THE FINEST
fslpll
9 for M,
Cork Tfppedf
MONEY CAN BUY
parts that suited them as Yum-Yum and
Pitti-Sing. Singing, good throughout,
was extra-good in both men’s and
women’s choruses.
»!* * *
The Girls Drink to Life.
Therese Desmond cleverly cast and
directed the 20 women in her produc-
tion of “Let’s Drink to Life,” at Sydney
St. James’s Hall; her attention to detail
was admirable. The play parades the
feminist view that women are equipped
as well as or better than men to control
world affairs, and it covers a thousand
years of the future. Three schoolgirls,
one seeking peace, one love, one power,
grow up to realise that these three attri-
butes must be combined in leaders.
Edna Creegan, Enid Norton and Enid
Jones played this trio with charming
naturalness, and Inky Carpenter was a
good foil as a thoughtless hedonist.
Fashion note: Not so good. These girls
think dresses will grow longer and longer
with the years.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
The Rugged! Art of Arnold Shore.
As a portraitist Arnold Shore has
achieved some remarkable successes,
bringing out not only likeness but char-
acter, but it would seem that he finds
the discipline involved in such exercises
an irksome restraint on his natural im-
pulses. Anyway, there are only two
portraits among the 30 canvases he shows
at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. The
rest are mostly big, flamboyant flower-
pieces, so broadly impressionistic that the
paint appears to have been laid on with
the back of a spoon.
Decoratively some of these efforts are
splendidly effective. “Gold and Brown”
hits the eye like a steam-hammer, and
there are other flower and fruit com-
positions in which the color is note-
worthy. The freakish forms of the
banksia afford material for some whim-
sical effects, such as “Banksia Blues.”
But with all due respect to Mr. Shore’s
artistic conscience it may be doubted
whether the means he employs can ever
be reconciled with the nature of his sub-
jects. To depict a rose or a lily with
the utmost scorn for its delicacy may be
an interesting essay in impressionism, but
it neither improves on the originals
aesthetically nor educes anything new
concerning them.
■i* 4* 4* 4*
Masters and Fashions.
A show of 70 pictures sent by the
Empire Art Loan Collection Society, of
London, which opened at Melbourne
National Gallery last week, is drawn
principally from the National and Tate
Galleries. The exhibits broadly illus-
trate the development of British art, and
eighteenth-century painters are particu-
larly well represented.
An excellent Raeburn portrait, “Mrs.
Campbell of Balliemore”; two slight
Turners, “Yacht Racing on the Solent”
and “Study of Sea and Sky” ; Reynolds’s
self-portrait, and Constable’s “Glebe
Farm” are among the gems of the exhi-
bition. There are other examples of the
art of Turner and Reynolds, as well as
a couple of Gainsboroughs. Raeburn,
Reynolds, Augustus John and Kelly por-
traits provide interesting comparisons.
The characteristic browns in Old
Crome’s “Heath Scene” and the lighter
tones in Orpen’s “Angler” portrait repre-
sent a slow development. It was some time
before Australian painters could forget
the Old World tradition of landscape
browns, as exemplified in this- Crome,
and do real Australian landscapes.
The exhibition exemplifies various
fashions in English art (represented also
in the Melbourne National Gallery’s
own collection). Apart from the
acknowledged masters, whose work
has outlived, and will outlive, any
momentary craze, certain of the other
paintings are a good argument against
the establishment of an Australian
Art Academy. They follow the stereo-
typed formula of the period in which
they were painted, and give a definite
impression of artificiality and insincerity.
THE YOUTH COMPETITIONS.
Of the two Youth Competitions con-
ducted by The Bulletin, the winners
of which were announced last week, the
first was the more interesting to judge.
Indeed, this contest —the prize was £5O
—provided an interesting summary of
the hopes and dreams of the ambitious
youths of Australia.
The greater number of entries came
from country districts, the proportions
being 45 p.c. city, 55 p.c. country.
Maybe the country boy has fewer dis-
tractions, more single-mindedness, a
clearer conception of what he wants to
do. Exactly 30 p.c. of country lads
wanted to go on the land, the remaining
70 p.c. aiming at the same callings as
city boys. None of them wanted to
become a tram-driver or a policeman—-
the only boy who wanted to be a police-
man was the son of a suburban sergeant.
But that £5O must have been magnified
many times over in the minds of the
would-be farmers or graziers. They had
their eyes fixed on the wealth they would
acquire by the natural increase of their
flocks and herds. For them it was a
simple sum in multiplication.
The most interesting of this group was
a young man who signed himself plain
“Bill.” At 21 he had been already out
beyond the Paroo to Camooweal and
Tennant Creek. With a half-caste for
126 days he had penetrated into the
lonely country west of Lake Murray
to the Rawlinson Ranges, the Petermann
and Mann. His ambition was to use
the £5O to sink a well in west-of-Central-
Australian pastoral country, gather up
a reward of £2OO offered by the S.A.
Government for the discovery of such
water, and stock up with sheep. Bill
made a great effort.
Sixteen p.c. of the entrants wanted to
be writers. One can only say that some
of them are paying good fees to over-
seas schools of journalism without show-
ing much for their money.
There was a small group of altruists
—lads who wanted to spend the £5O on
others. One that appealed wanted to
buy a washing-machine for his mother;
one wanted to take his father to the Test
matches; four wanted to start organisa-
tions to improve Australian youth physi-
cally and mentally; one wanted to give
it to “bagmen.”
The outstanding lesson learned from
these entries as a whole was the vital
necessity of incorporating some form of
vocational guidance into the educational
systems of the States. A large percent-
age of these lads has been wasting time
in occupations irksome to them. Their
letters indicate not only their ambi-
tion but their ability to undertake call-
ings in which they would become
successful citizens and secure content-
ment in the process.
In the final analysis, The Bulletin
had to choose between entrants who, on
the evidence available, would benefit
not only themselves but the community
as a result of their work. The prize was
given to a young man who, in spite of
the handicap of losing his father when
he was six months old, and a stepfather
at six years, used his brains and his
courage to excellent purpose. He was
dux of his school at the Intermediate
with 10 As and two Bs ; he took a job and
went to the Tech, at the same time, and
with scholarships and self-denial he
achieved distinction in architecture and
commercial art. Looking after his body
as well as his mind, he was led from
gymnastics to the study of physiology,
and he now aims at biological research.
His application to and success in every-
thing he has undertaken so far give rise
to the belief that he will be equally suc-
cessful at the University. He has the
promise of a brilliant career.
Competition No. 2, for those who
wish to become writers, with the prize
a job on The Bulletin, was more
limited in its scope, and probably more
exacting. Yet the standard generally
was satisfactory, and it suggested that
the High School courses in the vari-
ous States (most of the entrants were
High School boys) are providing a
fairly comprehensive course in English
along sound lines.
If anything, however, there was evi-
dence of too much direction in some of
the States, many of the boys too obvi-
ously rehashing the phrases of their lec-
turers. And there are clearly too many
textbooks.
The Westralian entries were outstand-
ing. Evidently teachers in the Western
State encourage their students to indi-
vidual thought. Queensland entrants fre-
quently looked for the man behind the
book.
A surprising percentage of essays
came from the Taranaki province in
Maoriland, where the influence of the
children’s page of the Taranaki “Times”
was well in evidence.
The winner, who is employed on a
Westralian mine, possesses writing ability,
a selective mind and courage. He will
have the chance to prove himself in these
capacities as a member of The Bulletin
staff.


m
iiw
liw
iilij'sf
m*
When you visit Sydney—stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
Wire or write for reservations.
Room and Breakfast ...... 12/6
Inclusive 18/-
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.’PHONE BW 1361
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J, S. LEVY, Manager.
STAY AT
SYDNEY'S
Finest HOTEL
Bartz — Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Etd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6661.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KE T A CAV I A
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St., Sj-
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry tie"
although “worry” is hardly the word,
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, Du
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable
feet feel aLer A’CORN SILK has remove-
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet v
do this for you without pain or inconvenient
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter .
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN.SILL -
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Gnm* 3w *
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A AWOMAN'S
LETTER
It probably wasn’t in honor of Lord
Gowrie (after all, he isn’t a regular
bachelor ; only a sort of grass one) that
the Scottish influence was so frequent in
Randwick millinery. The quill-stabbed
tarns, the touch of plaid in the skirt, are
fashion’s compliment to the Queen from
over the Border. Undiluted sunshine
during the A.J.C. meeting poured
down alike, on the last robe of summer
and on the brand-new tweeds and furs
of autumn. Distinctive hats were noticed
on Mrs. Ellis Feilding Jones and Joyce
Beazley. On one day Joyce wore a cor-
nelian velvet hat, its high crown festooned
with a drooping cornelian feather. Deep
jade and rose feather fronds curled over
the brim of a small black velvet head-
piece worn by the fair Mrs. Feilding
Jones. Robin Hood greens were worn
by Rosalind Macarthur Onslow. Young
Robin Eakin also wore green. Her frock
was mignonette in tone.
These shorter skirts are going to make
the woman who carries any weight
blocky-looking. The embroidered motifs
on the dresses were a nice touch of the
feminine. The McKelvey lady had a
yoke in rose-red and chalk-white on a
black frock cut with as delicate a pre-
cision as her surgeon husband could
trim an appendix. Pat O’Shea, chair-
man of the Queensland Turf Club, was
at all the meetings with sister Ella. Miss
O’Shea wore a furlong of so of silver
fox with her smart tailorings. Lady
Edmondstone, a visitor from England,
wore a black hat with her soft
grey satin frock. Mrs. Bertie Kelly wore
flowered chiffons and a shady hat, while
on the same day, not far off, Mrs. Rex
Money went furred to the ears, her suit
one of light oatmeal woollen. Mrs. A.
C. Davidson matched exactly in the tur-
quoise-blue of her necklace, earrings and
long suede gloves.
Saturday was nippy with autumn, and
Randwick became an animated parade
of cold-weather fashions. Furs were
positively lush, and the hip-length cape
was seen in squirrel, kolinsky and dyed
ermine. Embroideries and inlets of color
brighten many frocks this year, and when
suits are worn blouses of lame are often
glimpsed. With her black suit Mary
Hordern showed a blouse that had a
silver glitter. A little panel of red and
gold was let into the tunic of Mrs. Walter
Burfitt’s palm-greens. Rumanian em-
broideries in rose and dull-gold showed
on the sleeves of the McKelvey lady’s
black crepe, frock. Deep and pale cycla-
men were mingled in Mrs. Lennox Bode’s
attire. Mrs. Tom Rutledge and Philippa
Stephen were with knight Colin Stephen.
The collar and cuffs of Mrs. Malcolm
Mackellar’s deep-blue, suit were of grey
fur.
Five hostesses and a moon combined
to make last week’s dance at Rose Bay
Golf Club memorable. The moon
attended to the prinking of the links
and the harbor, while flowers added
their charms to lounge and ballroom.
Particularly effective were the great tubs
of Easter daisies and the high jars blaz-
ing with zinnias. Programmes were used
at this dance, and the dressing was the
sort that gives that gilt-edged security
feeling to the wearer. The hostesses
were, the Gordon Brady, the Victor
White, Peter Tait, John Osborne and
Jack Sinclair matrons, and their frocks,
as they received their guests, were a
color symphony that ranged from deep-
cyclamen to palest-pink satin, with a
dash of Coronation-blue cloque for
bouquet. One thing that was not
planned was the absence of Felicia Gar-
van, a daughter of Mrs. Brady, and
Suzanne White. The former had said
good-bye that very day to her appendix
in St. Vincent’s. Suzanne was suffering
from tonsilitis.
Peggy Buchanan, from Pokataroo,
made her debut wearing white velvet,
the skirt ground-length and flared to full-
ness. Floating white marquisette and
white orchids in her hair suited Katherine
Garvan. The Fraser lady, from Mel-
bourne, brought daughter Peggy. Moon-
light was suggested by the deep-blue and
silver worn by June Osborne; sister
Pamela’s laces were lilac-toned. White
flowers starred Mrs. Rex Money’s
spreading black tulle. Fairfaxes and
Horderns were there, and Anne Gordon.
Jennifer Maughan was pictorial in
spreading white tulle. Betty Robinson
was brave in Coronation-red velvet.
Bouffant styles were worn by most of
the very young. The slightly older and
the matrons wore richer materials that
lent themselves to draped effects and
trains.
This is Beatrice, a daughter of the
Greg. McGirrs, of North Sydney, who
is helping at the University Settlement
Fete on Saturday next. Beatrice is in
her third year Arts and first year Law.
Her sister Gwen is doing first year
Medicine, and a brother is also studying
to be a physician at the same address.
Mrs. McGirr is a graduate, of Sydney
University. Photograph from Dayne.
Probably the last function the Lieu-
tenant-Governor Streets will give with
the vice-regal home as a setting before
the arrival of the new Governor was
the dance for granddaughter Belinda.
For younger Sydney this was the gid-
diest rocket of Easter, and the occasion
for producing the most exciting frock.
Belinda is a graceful girl, and her frock
has probably introduced a spangle vogue
in Sydney. Of turquoise net, it scintillated
with bright points. It was softly sway-
ing, and had shoulder drapes of the net
which fell to the hem of the dress. A
dash of stephanotis was an added charm
to the fair head.
The grounds of the turreted old house
provided ideal between-dances strolling
space. Here are tall trees, grassy lawn,
flower-bordered paths, a fountain whose
spray is iridiscent under floodlights.
These were turned on at full voltage.
Nature provided a moon and stars.
Philip Street’s lady did the honors in
soft green satin. The train of the frock
was long, the flowers at its waistline
petunia in toning. Mrs. Kenneth Street,
the young guest’s mother, flashed chif-
fons of deep blue and delicate yellow.
There were 300 guests, five or six of
them debs.
Shirley Poynter was graceful in Chan-
tilly lace, her flowers lily-of-the-valley.
Joan Flower, of Dubbo, girdled flowered
silks with hyacinth-blue. Rosemary
Budge, who is a familiar at Government
House, where her father was so long
official secretary, was a bright-faced
fledgling in daffodil taffeta. Susan Scott-
Skirving, Elizabeth Sharp, Audrey Wil-
kinson and Margaret Yuille, from Eng-
land, were among the decorative young.
There was a touch of magnificence in
Mrs. James Dickson’s dull-gold lame
patterned in green and red. Katherine
Garvan twirled moth-grey tulle. Lorna
Stevens, the Premier’s youngest, wore
chiffons of water-green. Peggy Fraser
and Mary Baillieu, from Melbourne, were
among the dancers.
Jean Mackay came out at her own
party at Cranbrook, where her father,
Brigadier-General Mackay, is head-
master. Cranbrook has a ballroom that
is just’ the right surrounding for a dance
of the very young. Jean’s frock of
white embossed taffeta was cut with the
full skirt of the moment, and she. wore
lily-of-the-valley in her hair and fastened
to her long white gloves. Mrs. Mackay’s
gold lame was in handsome contrast to
the crop of youthful taffeta and net
frocks. Pat Curtis, another deb. of the
week, was in deep daffodil taffeta, and
Rosemary Budge chose the same material
in primrose shade. There were about a
hundred at the dance, several of them,
like the young hostess, just beginning at
the University.
Four sisters who have been making a
gay city even gayer are Doris, Eileen,
Madeline and Gladys Wirth. Their
address is Wirth’s Circus, just off Oxford-
street, and they add grace, courage and
gay coloring to the ring. Doris Wirth,
besides knowing all about elephants,
tigers, trapezes and lions, can balance a
ledger with the best. She attends to the
pay-sheets, and manages the box office.
One of the terms of founder John Wirth s
will is that a party with hot cross buns
and fizzy drinks and a circus enter-
tainment must be served to hard-up
youngsters every Good Friday morning.
This year the party was held in Sydney,
with Danny the clown as chief M.C.
That energetic band of business girls
the Theresians, who work in their spare
hours among the poor of Darlinghurst
and Woolloomooloo, have started to
secure their own Mission House. Out
of entertainments largely patronised by
themselves they have paid a deposit on
some land in Burton-street. To further
swell the funds a drama called “The
Little Flower” will be produced at the
Savoy for a season commencing on
April 12. This will be among the little
theatre’s swan songs. It, too, goes the
way of the majority, and will become a
home for the talkies.
This is a last-minute photograph of
Anne Gordon, who is playing the name-
part in “Mary Rose” at the matinee
series which commenced yesterday at
the Theatre Royal. The play is a Planet
production in conjunction with J. C.
Williamson.
Flowers as bright as the starry evening
decorated St. Martin’s Church and the
Killara Golf Club when dainty Joan
Robinson wedded tall and dashing
Jacques (“Jack”) Fuller last Wednesday
night. Lacy gowns blended with witty
toasts (bridegroom’s brother-in-law Stan
Toose was there), and Rev. Leo Charlton
was in as sporty a mood as anyone. The
’groom’s last flourish as a bachelor was
his tying with two others for Roseville
Golf Club’s Autumn Cup on Easter
Monday.
The engagement of Mildred Marriott
to Don Read, metallurgist, of Mt. Isa
(Q.), is announced. She is a grand-
daughter of Richard Rouse Terry, of
Ryde (N.S.W.). Her mother’s late home
is now the Ryde District Hospital.
Mildred’s early married life will be spent
in W.A., where she was brought up and
where her future husband has a job on
the Big Bell at Cue. Mildred has friends
in N.S.W., Queensland and W.A. She is
an ex-pupil of Claremont, Miss Parnell’s
well-known W.A. school.
In September, 1935, Howard Hinton
gave a stained-glass window to the
Teachers’ College at Armidale, the sub-
ject being “Wisdom and Understanding.
Last week a second stained-glass window,
representing “The Glory of Athletics,
based on the athletic training of the
ancient Greeks for their Olympic Games,
was given by Mr. Hinton to the college.
Both windows are Bft. high and sft. 3in.
wide, and were designed by Norman
Carter.
At the Women Pioneers’ party to secre-
tary Carlotta Doyle there was a flower
arrangement worth recording. On an
old-fashioned round table of polished
mahogany stood dark-red dahlias in
crystal bowls, placed so that the light
from parchment-shaded electrics beat
directly on them. Nina Flood was re-
sponsible for this effect, as well as for the
other decorations. This was an after-the-
races celebration, and 80 women rallied
round, in spite of the fact that most of
their husbands and other male belongings
were absorbing their drinks at the Men
Pioneers’ five-to-seven binge.
Carlotta looked a graceful excuse for
a party. Her black lace frock and wide
black velvet hat suited her fairness.
Baskets, sheaves and sprays of flowers
that ran in size from gladioli to lily-of-
the-valley awaited the guest. The real
presentation of the afternoon was an ex-
quisite box of Australian woods, with a
cheque tucked within. President Mrs.
Lingham wore a knot of blue and yellow
flowers at the throat of her trailing black
frock.
Mrs. E. A. Johnston’s black-and-white
ensemble was smart. Mrs. H. C. Mc-
Intyre’s tawny color scheme breathed
autumn. Her frock was a warm brown,
her small orange hat had a softly-curled
tangerine plume close to its crown. Her
loose sleeves had inlet panels of red and
gold. Miss Waugh, in beige and red
chiffons, brought mother, who was. as
she has been since the beginning, a dele-
gate to the U.A.P. Conference.
The Sam Hordern ball, served with
the richest trimmings at Rose Bay Golf
Club, was a gliftersome event of the
week. The club’s own ball on Saturday
night, dinners and dances at Romano's
and at the Australia, and innumerable
coming-out parties made Easter week one
of the greatest money-spenders since the
before-depression days. The C. A.
Andersons, of Gunnedah, were respon-
sible for a very handsome introduction to
the grown-up world for daughter Betty
and friend Patricia Curtis. Elizabeth Bay
House was the setting for this dance,
one of the. many which made this a
really young Easter.
The Tony Horderns’ dance lured
nearly 400 to the ballroom of Retford
Hall. This is probably Sydney's only
garden ballroom. The marquee adjoin-
ing had its poles gilded with lacquered
flax leaves. Standard rose-trees bloomed
on the supper tables. Every other flower
in season was banked, clustered and gar-
landed about the place. Mrs. Tony
scintillated in a sheath of opalescent
sequins.
Knight Hugh Poynter gave a breezy
sketch of the fascinating Macdonald
sisters before the women’s section of the
Sane Democracy League in Easter week.
Witty, wise and charming in appearance,
the Macdonalds made the centre of a re-
markable circle in London years ago.
Agnes married Edward Poynter, after-
wards president of the Royal Academy
and Hugh is their son. Mrs. Kipling
mother of Rudyard, was another sister.
A third married “Ned Jones,” painter,
later to stir the art world as Sir Edward
Burne-Jones. Prime Minister Baldwin’s
mother was one of the famous sisters.
Fair-haired Aylwin Marsh had -
dinner-dance given in her honor by the
Dr. Nigel Smith couple. Aylwin is -
daughter of the medical Seaware
Marshes, of Double Bay, and a niece or
the hostess. Her frock was of the p- •
pink satin. It was high in the front, anc
had its basque embroidered in coral-?::
beads. There were about 70 guests -
the buffet-dinner and the dance whie:
followed.


50,000
4-0.000
30.000
20,000
to ,000
\
, X
t 00,000
forty
the fifjht
is hardest
90,000
-J
wm
So.ooo
ip average Life
ends at
fifty-five
70,000
U*
The fight
for Child life
U partly won
VO
Go,ooo
r~r.
w/
g«f /;
IMMUOTP
1
a*
/T’V.
BSS
&
Steeper
and steeper
1
e'imite the TJne
W!
W 5?/
>
9P* i u.
OVfiMS J i 0 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 66 05 70 75 SO 3j 90 05 /0O 105
Why Age 40
/j* turning point in health
. . . guard Yourself against these insidious “After-40
Ailments that attack about 65 in every 100 men and women
J 9
mam
LIFE
AND HEALTH CHARTS
In average life, health is best
between 20 and 40. The
“turning point’’ or noticeable
downward slope begins, as a
rule, at the age of 40. With
care (especially of the kidneys
and bladder) this health line
can be extended, so that its
steepness does not become pro-
nounced until 50 or even later.
The life-line, too, may now be
extended; 5, 10 — or more—
years of healthy, active life
being gained by timely atten-
tion to the symptoms of disorder.
According to averages, you and I will
die at fifty-five— or very near to that
L age. Had we been born in 1850, we
would have died at about thirty-five—again,
according to the Law of Averages. So, you
see, Life is being lengthened. In a hundred
years’ time the average age at death will prob-
ably be seventy—maybe older. Look at the
charts above. Notice the Life-and-Health-
lines. You will see that the turning point
comes at about 40 years of age—that is the
age when the strain of life generally begins to
tell. At about 40, the seldom-mentioned
disorder—prostate trouble—begins to cheat
men of virility; while kidney and bladder
break-down afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 1 00— though some may never know it!
Medical science now declares that 75% of
poisonous wastes and uric acid deposits from
the system is excreted by the kidneys—in much
too-concentrated a form. The delicate over-
burdened kidney cells
are unequal to the
excessive strain. Con-
gestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the
system the poisons
which should be ex-
pelled. Here begins
a succession of ills;
SJSSE&esSQc; j
0
HARRISON'S
K!-..cV 4 BLADDER
PI LLS u*-fts
HAWTSON’S
KISNIY AMD BUu/DbK
PI LLS
here is where health starts to decline threaten-
ingly. Crippling backache begins; pains down
the groins; swollen joints, limbs and feet;
dizziness; possibly severe inflammation of the
bladder and urinary tract; rheumatism, which,
in turn, may seriously affect the heart.
How to Prevent and Banish These
Menacing “After-40” Disorders.
First strengthen your kidneys and enable them
to cope with their work. For this purpose
there is no proprietary remedy to equal the
preparation offered under authority of Dr.
William Harrison, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the
Royal College of Physicians; distinguished in
London medical practice. This remedy,
widely known as Harrison s Pills, is com-
pounded to what is probably the most perfect
prescription for overcoming the cause of the
majority of old-age symptoms ever discovered.
Make Your Life and Health Lines
Curve More Gradually.
Though the average person dies at about 55,
there is no good reason why you should— if
you take special precautions.
Keep your kidneys in perfect health and
eliminate the harmful poisonous wastes as they
are formed—by taking Harrisons Pills. If
you decide to take this remedy, prepare to
see some surprising changes in your health.
Notice the departure of constipation (in itself
a dread disorder) ; notice an improvement in
the clearness of your eyes and skin, and in
the lines around your eyes. Feel yourself
become a good ten years younger as
Harrison s Pills drive out the symptoms of
increasing age; bid farewell to your growing
sense of weariness and to your constantly re-
curring aches and pains. See your step take
on new elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the improvement in your general spirits and
bearing. Continue with this remedy, taking a
couple of the pills whenever there are indica-
tions of strain upon the kidneys, or signs of
bladder, uric acid or urinary trouble. Then
you may feel safe in the assumption that you
are taking effective steps to straighten out that
declining “life-line,” prolonging useful vigorous
activity, five, ten—even twenty years, and in
these added years of life, who knows what
marvels of rejuvenation science may devise?
Harrison’s Pills are obtainable from all high*
class prescription chemists in bottles of 18
pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. If
remote from a chemist, post your order to
Amalgamated Laboratories, Australia House,
Sydney. Satisfaction or refund of purchase
price is guaranteed with the very first bottle.
HARRISON'S PILLS
Remove the CAUSE of Ageing Aches &, Pains &,
Make You QUICKLY Young * Well Again !


IfoMMERciAL Art
Learn this fascinating well-paid profes-
sion at home from noted Artists.
For finely illustrated literature
FREE write -
' —— PKPT. D ■■
IT Training institute
tSwanston St. Melbourne
Public Notice.
BANISH Loneliness by joining Betta Bright’s
Social Correspondence Bureau. Individual
attention —select clientele. Write or call. —
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Goldsmith v. Goldsmith 1937 No. 13.
TO GLADYS GOLDSMITH, formerly of
Plough Inn Hotel Footscray.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
REGINALD WILLIAM GOLDSMITH has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of desertion for three years and
upwards Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary's Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne within fourteen days after the
latest publication of this notice the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs. ...10. ,
T. CAPLES, LL.B., 157 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEfc
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 177 of 1937.
BETWEEN ANNIE MARGERY HIGHFIELD
(formerly Annie Margery Goodall) Pen-
And er KEITH SAMUEL HIGHFIELD
Respondent.
TO KEITH SAMUEL HIGHFIELD late ot
Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE MAR-
GERY HIGHFIELD (formerly Annie Margeo
Goodall) has commenced a suit against
in this Court and is applying for a dissolut:'
of marriage on the grounds of desertion to-
three years and upwards without just c- -
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are requiree n
enter an appearance to the said suit at r-
proper office of this Court on or before -
Twenty-fourth day of June One thousand -
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event w
your not doing so within the time limited o
obtaining further time the Petitioner will F r f:
ceed and the suit will be heard and deterniirw
your absence notwithstanding. A copy or
petition filed herein may be had on apF -
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of Mar—
-1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce
VILLENEUVE-SMITH & DAWES, Sol --
tors for the Petitioner, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney
Melbourne
Chatter
The loan collection of pictures by Brit-
ish masters was opened at the National
Gallery with the minimum of publicity
and advertising. No invitations weie
sent out, and those who arrived early for
an unimpeded view found the dooi
barred and bolted until some minutes
after three o’clock. All seats near the
door were quickly occupied, and a
couple of tired women were even game
enough to sit on an ancient chest in the
Stawell Gallery.
Alfred Bright’s opening speech, a gem
of brevity, lasted just 20 seconds. Among
early spectators were the Norton Grim-
wade couple, Mrs. Grimwade in pearls
and silver foxes with her black-and-white
figured gown. Doris Beeby, back from
the U.S.A. where she spent several
months in New York, wore a short-
sleeved frock of black velvet and a hat
of the same material. Neville Collins,
who accompanied her father, J. T. Col-
lins, was in a beautifully tailored black
dress with a splash of Coronation-red
scarf. Mrs. H. F. Maudsley wore furs
and a tailored suit. Edith Moore exam-
ined the sculpture with particular in-
terest, and Elizabeth Patterson was
tioticeable for her long blue cape and
her sleek dark hair uncovered by a hat.
Men predominated on the first after-
noon, among them George King, Carew
Smythe, Government Librarian E. R.
Pitt, J. A. Levey, Frank Clarke, Harley
Griffiths (whose tie was the same shade
as his dark-green pork-pie hat) and Will
Rowell, whose interest was divided be-
tween the Raeburn and the Richard Wil-
son pictures.
Ivan Menzies, who is to return to Eng-
land in a few days, is saying farewell in
his inimitable role of Ko-Ko. As Lord
High Executioner, he has a new victim
in the song about “If you put them on
the list they never will be missed.” After
a contortion of muscles to express Mr.
Lang’s facial contours, a swooping ges-
ture for Dr. Page’s hair and some mim-
ing of steps and stairs for the Lyons
children comes a scroll of parchment de-
corated with alleged Nipponese charac-
ters headed by “Japanese Dictation
Test.” Such is notoriety that even the
school-children in the audience greet the
Paterson aspersion with glee.
The capers of small, compact Ivan are
as agile as ever. Many people are
severely critical of the liberties he takes
with the part of Ko-Ko. Others have no
fault to find with his entertaining ex-
ploitation, but believe the legs of Gilbert
and Sullivan players would benefit by a
reform. Even the most perfect feminine
ankles look their worst in dead-white
cotton stockings, and no feet are trim
in old-fashioned “nurses’ ” shoes.
Heroics are incompatible with masculine
' calves as displayed by the Pirates in
beetle-striped hose that finish awkwardly
and unexpectedly with bulges just above
the knees. In “The Mikado” Leo Darn-
ton has to go through the first act in
long tights of pale baby-pink. Any
shade of sunburn would be less start-
ling and more realistic. “Pinafore” is
not billed for this season, but if it berths
in Melbourne on some future date no-
body would be sorry if the sailor girls’
costumes—long white legs and shapeless
sugarbag frocks —were lost overboard.
At His Majesty’s, enjoying the fun of
“The Mikado,” were the Kingsley Hen-
dersons, who never miss a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera, and Major and Mrs.
Harold Wilkinson, with daughter Vaire,
who wore a feather stole with her taffeta
frock. Beryl Moore was wrapped in a
brown coat and had her small hat
trimmed with a bunch of stiffened veil.
Gertrude Johnson wore a black gown,
furs and pink roses. Dr. and Mrs. John
Turner enjoyed the Gilsullivan entertain-
ment from the front row of the circle,
and not far behind were the Minister
for Customs and Mrs. Tom White and
their two daughters.
Seen in the vicinity of the “Pirates’ ”
haunts were Thomas Brentnall, carrying
his ninety years extraordinarily well, Mrs.
George Chirnside, the Graeme Austins
and Margaret Ryan, who had a tuft of
mesh veil sprouting from the peak of her
tiny black hat.
News comes from America of the
continued success of young Australian
actor Jack Barry Thomson, who, after
a long New York season in “Idiots’
Delight,” is now on a six months’ coast-
to-coast tour with the same play, led by
Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne. Jack
plays juvenile lead, and is also under-
study to Lunt. Jack’s pretty young
American wife, whose screen name is
Marian Shockley, mentions in a letter to
Jack’s parents in Melbourne that the
Lunts, being particular about their
digestions, have taken a cook with them
on tour. She adds that Muriel Starr
and Australia’s clever little ginger-top
Agnes Doyle have rooms at the Algon-
quin Hotel, near where she is staying in
New York, and that they all had tea
together with Johnnie and Betty Hole, of
“Three Men on a Horse,” seen in Mel-
bourne a year ago. Miss Starr looks
remarkably young. She became a
platinum blonde some years ago, and is
very well and happy.
Rachael Farrer is a busy young medical
student whose address is Janet Clarke
Hall. She is vice-president of the S.R.C.,
president of the C.M.U.W., and is on the
committee of the Commencement Ball.
And she has time for sport, plays tennis
and is a hockey blue. Dickinson-
Monteath photograph.
Maps are on the crest of fashion for
the decoration of children’s rooms. Lorna
Reyburn, who comes from Auckland and
is of the same family as the famous artist
Sir Henry Raeburn, is doing a mural
of the world round the walls of the
children’s day nursery in the Douglas
Carnegies’ new home in Toorak. She
means to work “straight on to the wall,”
and for the. sake of the children’s geo-
graphy Miss Reyburn is drawing con-
tinents and oceans accurately to scale,
but the map will be no dull statistical
lesson. The lucky young Carnegies will
learn the history and locality of sea
routes by finding Columbus’s Santa
Maria, Cook’s Endeavour and Nelson’s
Victory, the Queen Mary on the North
Atlantic and the Graf Zeppelin over the
South Atlantic. They will gather some-
thing about climates by discovering a
seal scratching his whiskers in Hudson
Bay, and get a glimmering of anthro-
pology by seeing a piccaninny rob an
alligator’s nest on Cape York Peninsula.
Probably there will be spouting whales,
and decorative things like dolphins and
seahorses. Miss Reyburn has studied
art in Auckland, in London, at the Slade,
and is now in her second year at Mel-
bourne Technical College.
Those who took part in the social acti-
vities of the Melbourne centenary will
remember Field-Marshal Lord Milne,
his charming wife, one of whose hobbies
was collecting stamps, and their daugh-
ter Joan, tall, handsome and serene,
though seldom smiling, whose favorite
pastimes were tennis and riding. Miss
Milne was married last month in Lon-
don to James Rutland in the Tower of
London’s ancient Church of St. Peter
and Vincula, with the famous Yeomen
forming a guard of honor. After the
ceremony the wedding party walked a
few yards to the reception in the home
of the bride’s parents, King’s House,
which was built in the reign of Henry
VIII. for the Lieutenant of the Tower.
Lord Milne is Governor and Constable
of the Tower.
Mile. Matis and a party of (so far)
15 people will sail for the Paris Exposi-
tion in the Orford on April 27. Made-
moiselle, representative for the Exposition
in Australia, will be in her native coun-
try for three months and will conduct
tours of Brittany and Normandy. Over-
seas tourists visiting the Exposition get
cuts on steamer fares, pay only half-fares
on French trains, get 30 p.c. off hotel
bills and reductions in some shops. They
benefit by rail reductions in Italy and in
Germany also, but for groups only, not
individuals. The only condition for con-
cessions is that overseas travellers must
visit Paris for five days as soon as pos-
sible after landing at any French port
and before disembarking in any other
European country.
For the Exposition, which is to open
on May 1, a new city has grown up.
Most of the Trocadero, which was built
for the 1877 Exhibition, has come down
to make way for a larger new building.
There will be a great number of indus-
trial pavilions and craft centres, a
modern art museum and a Palace of
Discovery to display the progress of
physics, chemistry, astronomy, etc. Com-
plete villages representing French pro-
vinces have sprung up along the banks
of the Seine, and the long narrow Isle of
Swans, where in the days of chivalry
duelling took place, is the location of
the French Colonial exhibits.
An interesting place to see will be the
Ice Palace situated between the Pont
Alexandre. 111. and the Pont de l’Alma.
It is a two-storeyed structure covered
with layers of ice and snow, with a tower
50ft. high. Inside, spectators may walk
from room to room examining perish-
able goods preserved by all methods of
refrigeration developed since 1876.
Dr. Garnet Leary, a jovial son of
Northern Ireland, has all the blarney of
Southern Erin when dealing with children
afflicted with stammering. As a boy he
himself stammered, and what he suffered
has inspired his interest in and sym-
pathy with those who suffer from this
disability. As soon as he meets them he
manages to win the confidence of young
stammerers, and with a few nursery
rhymes and rhythmic exercises puts them
at ease. Last week Dr. Leary gave a
demonstration of his methods to 500
teachers. The subjects, whom he had
never previously seen, were 14 habitual
stammerers chosen from metropolitan
schools. He was most successful with
them.
In the Broothorn portrait is Dr. and
Mrs. H. C. Colville’s eldest daughter
Peg, who is taking some time off from
her pursuit of science to work on the
committee for the Alfred Hospital Golf
Gymkhana to be held at the Metropoli-
tan links on April 14. Peg plays tennis,
but she has not yet discovered the
fascinations of golf. Her work on the
day of the gymkhana will be round the
clubhouse stalls rather than on the links.
The president of the committee is Mrs.
G. J. Coles, who is having a large bridge
party at her home on April 7 in aid of
the produce stall.
Congratulations go out from two
generations of theatre-goers to Cecil
Kellaway for what looks like a quick-
money career at Hollywood. Inciden-
tally, his film “It Isn’t Done” is so far
safe from the censors whose disapproval
its 1936 contemporaries incurred —“Un-
civilised,” for Margot Rhys’s swim in a
shell-pink bathing suit; “Rangle River,”
for the stockwhip scrap ; “Orphan of the
Wilderness,” for alleged cruelty to
animals. In that last case cast and
kangaroo- and horse-owner all deny the
cruelty.
Mrs. H. McL. Duigan sends a favor-
able report of travelling by the Dutch
ship Sibayak from Java to England,
where she arrived a few days ago. Mrs.
Ben Lewis, who accompanied Mrs.
Duigan as far as Colombo, has returned
home after staying four days in Kandy.
Among first-class passengers on the
Sibayak there were 100 children, all ot
whom were “controlled” —kept apart
from adults and given kindergarten and
primary-school lessons every morning by
a woman teacher.
At Ballawan, on the coast of Sumatra.
Mrs. Duigan and Mrs. Lewis dodged
masses of passengers packed into over
crowded cars and boarded a funny little
train for Medan, a town 16 miles away,
which charmed them so much that they
forgot there was such a thing as time,
missed the return train and put in a
long wait pleasantly enough listening to
the band in a hotel lounge. Another
place which appealed to them particu-
larly was a charming island known as
P.W.E., or Pearl of the East. Its port is
Sabang, which is situated north ot
Sumatra.
Lord Gowrie, who is Grand Master ot
the Grand Lodge of N.S.W., opened Vic-
toria’s first Freemasons’ Hospital, the
foundation-stone of which was laid last
June by Lord Huntingfield. The Gover-
nor-General, who was presented with a
gold key by the architects, congratulated
brother-Masons on their achievement
and reminded them of the Masonic Hos-
pital in London, which contains 180 beds
and was opened by King George in 1933.
The Freemasons’ Hospital in Clarendon-
street, East Melbourne, is a fine modern
building overlooking Fitzroy Gardens.
It is three-storeyed, gets a maximum
amount of air and sunlight from its
many windows, and has two operating
theatres, comfortable staff accommoda-
tion, and beds for 60 private and inter-
mediate patients. With furnishings, the
cost will be neatly £lOO,OOO.
Director oL Postal Services H. P.
Dunstan left for England before he had
time to gather up the full measure of
complaints against the long Easter holi-
day instituted last year for the P.M.G.'s
dept, in Victoria. From the last mail
on Thursday till the first on Tuesday
there was only one delivery, on Satur-
day morning. Boxes were no advantage,
for there, was no delivery to them on
Monday. The only people who received
extra communications during the holi-
days were the owners of locked bags,
who were attended to from 9 to 10 on
Monday morning.
Prohibition of the sale of petrol on
Good Friday was an Easter disability.
Motorists who had neglected to fill tanks
borrowed with syphons or, failing that,
stayed at home on the finest and warmest
day of the holidays. Inter-State visitors
who had no warning of the ban were
the most seriously inconvenienced.
For the sake of Val and Yvonne, who
complained that fellow-guests in most
London hotels were seldom under ninety,
the Frankel Cohen family gave up hotel
life and have had a happy time house-
keeping. They loved their real old Eng-
lish cottage in Surrey, complete with its
friendly ghost, and for the last few
months have occupied a beautiful old
home, Stoatley, not far from Guildford,
also in Surrey. But the lease is up, the
owners are anxious to settle down once
more, and the Cohens propose to live
in a hotel within motoring distance ot
London until the Coronation festivities
are over. Early in the year they got m
touch with the shipping office in refer-
ence to their passages back to
in September, but the rush home is to
be even more of a scramble than the rush
away, and there were no berths avail-
able.


PENS
_- guaranteed —
° not experiment with imitations.
c. BEAHDADEH * CO. Ltd, bikmingha.ii, eng
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
{lncorporated in Victoria.)
2 O'CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
„„ Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE
„ „ D . N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Graham
(WRITE OR CALL FOR \
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Patents.
PROCESS AND APPARATUS FOR
SEPARATING INTERMIXED DIVIDED
MATERIALS OF DIFFERENT SPECIFIC
N GRAVITIES.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patents
Nos. 13478/23, 13479/23, 13480/23 and
13481/23 are prepared to negotiate for the sale
of their rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license or licenses to make, use and vend
the inventions within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars of the inventions obtain-
able from Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“J. Want”: Queensland has lost its
oldest native-born surveyor in George
Monk, who first saw the light at Dalby
in 1853, only 13 years after the settle-
ment of the Darling Downs. A pioneer
planner of railway routes, he helped lay
out the Central Queensland line and
picked out the difficult route by which
the railway from Cairns reaches the
Barron Falls and Herberton. When
there were no more frails to conquer in
Queensland, he betook himself to New
Guinea and laid out several roads there.
His name is on the map—Monk’s Gap
is on the railway between Townsville and
Cairns.
* * * *
“M. Furlutu”: Police Magistrate
Leahy, opening the coronial inquest at
Beaudesert (Q.) on the five victims of the
Stinson ’plane which crashed on the
Lamington Plateau, voiced Australian
opinion when he referred to the mischief
done by “those fanciful people who saw
and heard things
that did not exist”
and thereby misled
the search opera-
tions. From the
evidence of expert
bushmen living in
the neighborhood,
it is unfortunately
clear that, if it had
not been for the
“64 false reports,”
the ’plane and its
survivors would
have been found,
at latest, on the
day after it crashed.
But for such im-
aginative, ignorant
chatter, the life of
poor W e s t r a y
might easily have
been preserved,
and eight days of
appalling suffering
spared Proud and
Binstead.
* *
“Larrakia”: For
the smallest subject
most legislated about, I nominate the
municipal government of Darwin. Since
the first Darwin Town Council Ordinance
was approved in 1915, 21 ordinances
dealing with the D.T.C. have been
passed. The record year was 1921, when
four new laws were born. Now Canberra
has passed the daddy of them all. It
wipes the council out altogether.
* * * *
Tamornie”: Not all those cyclones
(B. 17/3/’37) proved disastrous —at
least, not to individuals. Twenty
years ago several minor “twisters”
swept across the area just south of
Darwin. One, following an erratic
course, suddenly decided to go straight,
and charged along the boundary of
a block occupied by a settler so stone-
broke that he couldn’t even raise
the funds to leave the place. He saw
in the havoc a shining path back to
civilisation. He and his son toiled man-
fully till they had cut up and stacked the
trees torn from the ground in the
cyclone’s passage. Then the Administra-
tion was asked for an advance against
improvements. An official called, com-
plimented the settler on his industry and
arranged for an advance of £6O. When
the money came to hand, the settler and
his son packed what remained of their
horses and set out for fresh fields.
* * * *
Lost Bill”: Here in the back of
beyond, with Sturt’s Stony Desert on the
h°ri z on, the waterhole dried up, the
camel lame and the local goat gone bush,
we held a thanksgiving service when we
read the joyous tidings in the “Govern-
ment Gazette.” It appears that whereas
there is a Bank Holiday Ordinance in
force in the N.T., now therefore the
Acting Administrator has declared March
30 to be a b.h. and gives it to us freely
under his hand and seal. Turning up the
last census returns (which we have pasted
across the hut cracks) we find that the
total number of bankers and bank em-
ployees, other financiers and financiers’
employees, along with those whose job
is “managing property,” is a whole
13. It is up to somebody to give
these poor blokes a bank holiday— out
here in the spinifex we have a holiday
from contact with banks for 365 days
in the year.
=i= H: *
“East Point”: Freight between Sydney
and Darwin was last month reduced all
round. For general cargo, it is now
50s. a ton, and for fruit and vege-
tables £5 a ton. Freight for general
cargo from London to Sydney is 635. a
ton!
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Thirty farmers round
Laidley (S.Q.) have given a practical
demonstration of how to get over the
drought difficulty. One illustrative
example has, within the last droughty
"It's a treat t' git on to a bit o' good road agin , Ma."
years, paid off a £2OOO mortgage, built
a fine house and bought a lot of up-to-
date machinery and a car. Also, he has
paid for what made it possible to keep
his land green and flourishing with the
country all around practically destitute
of vegetation. The secret was irrigation.
They began with water from Laidley
Creek, but when the Government applied
restrictions they put down their own
bores. Pumps are operated from the
Ipswich Electric Supply Co.’s reticulation,
and yield up to 9000 gallons per bore,
for 15 hours daily, without any sign of
diminution of flow. Lucerne chaff, cut
once a month throughout the year from
some of the land, has brought up to
£25 per ton.
* * * *
“Zedo”: When soldiers wore red coats
and white helmets with brass spikes and
generals still turned out in cocked hats
and emu feathers and subalterns still
got tangled in large swords on social
occasions, Lyttbn Fort, on the Brisbane
River, was the hub of Queensland's
military universe. It was built in the
’eighties following a report by General
Jervois, who fought in the first S. African
Wars of the ’forties, laid out the first
Imperial Defence scheme and fathered
the idea of an Australian Navy. Every
war scare from the time of the Russian
panic has seen Lytton manned and
defended, and every Easter used to find
the local forces in camp there resplen-
dent and clanking with metal. After
the troops went into khaki the camp lost
some of its attractions as a social centre,
and its atmosphere was never quite the
same after Kitchener visited it. Now
Lytton is no more as a fort. Its guns
last'week fired its death salvo, and Bris-
bane’s main defences are to be removed
to Cowan Cowan on Moreton Island,
near the entrance to the Bay.
* * * *
“Ornithos”: At Lockhart Mission
(N.Q.) there are about 400 natives practi-
cally living their natural lives hunting
and fishing. They use no nets or lines,
all fishing being done under water with
the spear, from outrigger canoes. The
men are wonderful divers and sailors,
and from here are recruited for all over
the South Seas. At the mission no
rations are issued, except to the old and
infirm. The community has about 15
acres of bananas and about the same
area of potatoes, yams and so forth,
The villages are scrupulously clean,
They have roads and hedges. Their own
councillors do their own repairs and
maintenance. They sit in court on their
own local cases and have a fine sense
of justice. Most have handed in their
fighting spears, and Cook, the superin-
tendent, has issued gloves.
t4TV * , *„ . _ * * , ,
Pi 1 , , ato , ne : Many a Q ueen sland
backblocker lost a good friend, and
countless bush kids their idol, when
cheery Sid Cook passed out at Brisbane,
For a generation and more he was known
as a picture showman, first with reli-
gious films on behalf of the Salvation
Army, later as a maker of miracles by
taking movies of Mulgaville’s one street
in the morning, and actually showing
them, complete with Stringy Bill’s bul-
lock team outside Waddy’s store, the
very same evening. On the screen, mind
you! Just as if they were alive! Of late
years he ran his own talkie theatres in
the Valley and at Clay field.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Over Easter there were numerous
parties on launches and yachts. The F.
Z. Eagers took down to Moreton Bay
with them for an Easter cruise the A. C.
Wigans, who motored up from Adel-
aide just in time to hurry aboard the
Tangalooma. The J. Henry Hancocks
had another party on their boat, and
Ivan Bond had a group of men on the
Teal.
Clarence Kevin McDougall, of Yandina,
and May Jocumsen plighted their vows
at St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane. Mollie
Pratten, all in white and with a big white
hat trimmed with lilies-of-the-valley, was
married at St. Matthew’s, Sherwood, to
Lionel Carmody. Kath Moore, daugh-
ter of the E. Moores, of Teneriffe, with
two ’maids and two flower-girls to at-
tend her, kept an altar date with Cecil
Byrne at the Methodist Church Lut-
wyche.
An unusual wedding was that cele-
brated at the Salvation Army Hall,
Albion, when G. R. D. Andrew and
Jbvelyn Ingold were married, and the
bride’s sister, a Salvation Army major,
came all the way from N. S. Wales to
tie the knot.
A.B.C. had an afternoon party for
Essie Ackland at the Gresham. Huck
Finlay was host, assisted by the Adrian
Joses and Madeleine Clark. Reg Mor-
phew, Essie’s husband, quickly found a
lot of friends. Essie looked smart in
her tunic frock, which featured the new
swallow-tail effect. A large basket of
bright pink gerberas from the A.B.C.
and less pretentious floral offerings from
various Brisbane musicians cheered her.
Raymond Lambert and his wife Jill
were not at the party, as they were
booked to stay with Minister for Trans-
port Dash and his family, and so went
straight to the house, which is a good
way out of town.
The J. P. Blaikie Websters must be used
to living in suitcases. Their lives are
spent between Brisbane, New Guinea
and England. Just back after a month
at Wau, they intend leaving for England
a couple of weeks hence by the Strath-
aird.
Lenore Fihelly, a few days back from
Asia, had a marvellous holiday. She
stayed with her aunt, Mrs. Staley, who was
Eileen Murphy, one of the quartet of
pretty daughters of the late Peter Murphy.
Three green - clad
attendant s —Mrs.
Norman Martin (mat-
ron of honor), Flora
Cr a n and Jean
Nicholson followed
Alison Nelson to
the altar in St.
John’s when she be-
came Mrs. Cameron
Cran. The white-clad
bride was given away
by brother Hugh, and
Dean Barrett tied the
knot. After the wed-
ding there was a cock-
tail party at the home
of the bride’s mother,
Mrs. W. M. Nelson.
The bride is a grand-
daughter of the late
Hugh Nelson, and the
’groom the elder son
of the R. W. Crans.
On March 30 in
Toowoomba Mar-
jorie, youngest daugh-
ter of the E. E.
Farmers, Redlands,
was married to John
Perry-Keene, son of the W. H. Perry-
Keenes, Coolum Beach. Mrs. W. White-
head was matron of honor and Colin
Mcßea (Tenterfield) best man. The re-
ception was at the Town and Country
Club.
Brisbane said good-bye to the H. G.
Wileys and their son and daughter with
genuine regret. They have been so much
a part of this town’s social life and have
entertained so consistently that most are
wondering what they will do without
them. Parties for them must have be-
come rather a drag before they finally
waved their farewells. They are going
to live in Maoriland.
Carmen Cleveland and Muriel Peck
have just landed in Brisbane from Mel-
bourne after a cheerful trip in their
Austin. The girls, who slept “out” all
the way home, vow that it cost them less
than a fiver to make the journey, and
that the greater part of this went in
garage fees and for petrol.


HER KNEES SWELLED
UP LIKE PUDDINGS
To Go Upstairs Was Agony.
There is nothing in which rheumatism is a
greater handicap than in doing ordinary house-
hold duties —kneeling, stooping, running up
and down stairs. How to overcome that
handicap, and banish rheumatic aches and pains
for good, is the subject of the following
letter:
“I have been taking Kruschen Salts for
three months, and am still taking the daily
dose. When I started, I had rheumatism in
both knees. They were very swollen —just like
puddings. I could not rise from a chair with-
out assistance. I could not kneel, and to go
upstairs was agony. Now I can run upstairs
and kneel as much as I like. My age is 37,
I am sft. lOin. in height, and weigh 13 stone,
so you might guess my legs have a weight to
carry. I have just bought another bottle of
Kruschen. Since I have taken it, I can work
like a horse.” —(Mrs.) H. S.
Two of the ingredients of Kruschen Salts
are the most effectual solvents ot uric aciu
known to medical science. Other ingredients
of these Salts have a stimulating effect upon the
kidneys, and assist them to expel the dissolved
uratic needles through the natural channel.
Personal and Missing Friends.
SYDNEY WILLIAM CAHIIL, son of late
John Thomas Cahill, Bundabcrg (Q.) and
Northern Rivers (N.S.W.), or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate MRS.
CAHILL, Club Hotel, Bundaberg (Q.).
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 513 of 1937.
BETWEEN OLIVE CLARIZA DARN LEY
STUART Petitioner
And DUNCAN DARNLEY STUART
Respondent.
TO DUNCAN DARNLEY STUART of
Jnverell.
TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE CLARIZA
DARNLEY STUART has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to this suit
in the proper office of this Court on or before
the First day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 31st day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for Peti-
tioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 512 of 1937.
BETWEEN HAROLD JOHN DOUGLAS
TURNBULL Petitioner
And CATHERINE MAY TURNBULL
Respondent.
TO CATHERINE MAY TURNBULL of 65
Wigram Street Harris Park.
TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD JOHN
DOUGLAS TURNBULL has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to this
suit in the proper office of this Court on or
before the First day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
Or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 31st day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 747 of 1936.
BETWEEN ANNIE INSKIP Petitioner
And KENNITH CLAUDE INSKIP Re-
spondent.
TO KENNITH CLAUDE INSKIP late of
Dorrigo New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
INSKIP has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of your marriage on the grounds
that you have deserted her without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Sixteenth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time, the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-second day of March,
1937.
For the Registrar.
(L.s.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
MeINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EM IA
debility
WEAKNESS
NERVES
Of all the ailments which affect
women and children, the worst so tar
as sowing the seeds of weakness an
illhealth in later life is concerned, is
Anaemia.
Anaemia is an insidious disease in which the
blood becomes impoverished and deficie
red corpuscles. It is associated with distressing
symptoms of weakness, depression, poor aPP*™*
and nervous debility. In such .condition.
Roboleine is the ideal preparation as in addition
to wonderful body and nerve building constitu-
ents. it contains Red and White bone marrow,
the richest blood making elements known to
Medical Science. After a few doses the red
corpuscles increase at an astonishing rate, tne
appetite improves and soon all nervous fears
and depression vanish, indicating a speedy return
to normal health, and tho capacity to enjoy life
to the full.
RDBDLEINE
The best blood-making and
health restoring food
The Governor of the largest English hospital
said "The effect of Roboleine on anaemic
children has been magical” .
Muir S Neil Ltd., 479 Kent Street,
Sydney. I enclose 3d. in stamps for sample
of Roboleine.
5.8.1. |
Name
Address.
“This new
Swiss treatment
banished my
CATARRH
mine was a stubborn
Amazing* results
are reported by
catarrh, sufferers
who have ■bene-
fited from the re-
cent discoveries
of a brilliant
Swiss research
scientist. Mucous
discharges, stuffi-
ness, phlegm and
bad breath van-
ish when patients
adopt his treat-
ment ... head-
aches, head noises, deafness, loss of
vitality and the numerous symptoms
attendant on this disease are ended
with magical swiftness. Over 200,000
persons in England and America
gained relief with this simple home
treatment; and it is now available to
sufferers in Australia.
LONG-STANDING CASES YIELD
Even the most stubborn cases of
catarrh, quickly give way. This is
only natural. M. Duboise, who per-
fected this method, has proved that
catarrh IS DUE TO AN ABNORMAL
CONDITION PRESENT IN THE
BODY OP THE SUFFERER, and is
NOT due to climatic conditions. His
treatment goes direct to the CAUSE,
and, by purifying the blood stream
of catarrhal and other poisons, brings
effective and lasting relief.
NO DRUGS, SPRAYS OR DOUCHES
The treatment is free from any harm-
ful, habit-forming drugs. Nor does it
consist of dangerous sprays, messy
douches and atomizers. It does not
attempt to drug the system with
makeshifts. It sets to work A.T ONCE
to root out the cause. It does this
in a healthy, natural way. Even child-
ren and elderly people in a weakened
condition respond immediately to the
soothing and healing qualities of this
wonderful treatment. You are not
offered free samples because this is
a scientifically-planned treatment.
SCIENTIST’S BOOK
FREE!
This book tells of the researches made
by M. Duboise, and of the amazingly
simple and effective treatment which
is now available in Australia. No
catarrh sufferer can fail to benefit by
reading this interesting, intimate
book. It discloses the cause of
catarrh, and its natural common-sense
treatment. Knowledge like this can be
yours for the cost of a postage stamp:
Cut out and fill in the coupon and mail
it off, NOW!
............ CLIP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept.. B/4.
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FEEE, M. Duboise s
valuable, illustrated book on Catarrl ■
and tell me how I can clear away my
catarrhal trouble. I enclose 2d. for
; postage .
NAME
ADDRESS.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Purrs of feminine satisfaction greeted
the nip in the air at the races, for new
autumn outfits could justifiably be worn.
Black and navy had their customary
strong followings, but a liberal sprink-
ling of russets, greens and brightish blues
cheered the landscape. Mary Durack
mingled two shades of blue in her trim
bolero suit, Mrs. A. Mason topped Vati-
can-red embossed cloque with beribboned
brown hat and Mavis Holmes splashed
coin spots on ’twixt-royal-and-navy
corded silk. Mrs. T. W. Langley’s cinna-
mon crepe tunic was braided with shiny
silk which matched the spots on her
brown eyeveil. Mrs. J. C. Murray’s
reseda-green wool de Chine was cut with
a pencil skirt and swing coat, and Mary
Forrest finished a honey-brown belted
suit with a jaunty astrakhan cap.
Half Geraldton seemed to be in Perth
for Geoffrey Davies’s marriage to Gwen
Dale. The bride swept down the aisle
of St. George’s under a cloud of three-
tiered misty tulle which was tethered to
her brunette curls with a coronet of
orange-blossom. The shimmering satin
gown, cut on princess lines, was shirred
at the square neck, girdled with pearls
(the same which gleamed on her
mother’s wedding dress), and trailed
off into a long train whereon rested
a satin and silver water-lily. In
her wake came Mrs. Herbert Davies and
Gloria Grant with wide-draped sleeves
wafting from their delphinium-blue chif-
fons ; silver sequins glittered in their
haloes and deep red-rose bouquets lent
a warm note of color. John Davies and
Alex. Forrest supported the ’groom.
Star attractions in the tennis cham-
pionship tourney were visiting players
Thelma Coyne and Nancy Wynne. The
ideal weather encouraged most competi-
tors, both men and women, to leap
around in shorts, but a few couldn’t be
budged from long ’uns or skirts. Mar-
jorie Beresford appeared in a series of
trim white linen frocks, Joyce Burridge
adopted backless and sleeveless sun suits,
and a few turned up in tight-fitting ab-
breviated trunks. The finalists were all
in pleated just-above-the-knee shorts.
Shades of brown (a match for their sun-
tan) were popular with onlookers. Mrs.
J. Stubbe mixed beige and brown, Mil-
dred McDougall picked a rich cinnamon
shade and Mrs. W. Crommellin popped
a white Peter Pan collar on her neat
brown linen.
Filmy overskirts for bride and ’maids
were features of the frocking at the
Frost-Richards wedding. Edna’s deep
cream satins were surcharged with
spotted silk tulle puffed into long sleeves,
closely gathered at the waist and cascad-
ing off into a many-yards-long train.
Her attendants, Marjorie Richards.
Phyllis Frost and Dorothy Perry, slipped
silk fish-net skirts over their pink taffetas
which buttoned down the front and were
tied with huge-bowed sashes.
The Swan River Rowing Club’s
“Patron’s Foufs” regatta attracted a
crowd of onlookers and afternoon-tea-
drinkers who either stayed on at the
clubhouse or came back in the evening
for the club dance. Mrs. A. L. Walker,
set about with black georgette touched
with kingfisher-blue, did the honors, and
supported vice-president R. Gard in
speeding the inter-State eight on their
way to row for the King’s Cup.
The birds going north again after
summering away from their station
homes include the T. F. De Pledges and
daughters Diddy and Pat, Mrs. Mervyn
and daughter Lisbie, of Minderoo, the
S. Meares, from Mt. Sherlock, and Mrs.
R. Monger.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The first of this season’s deb. dances
was at Buckland Park, a 22-mile drive
from the city, when Mrs. E. A. Brooks
entertained about 100 guests at a coming-
out-dance for her goddaughter Sheila,
third daughter of the Frank Youngs.
Mrs. Brooks was gowned in Coronation
gold satin, fitting to the figure, merging
into a train. Sheila’s white tulle veiled
white satin, and flat flowers of the same
were appliqued on the tulle and arranged
round the square-cut bodice. Rosemary
Brooks, one of last year’s buds, wore
green georgette with a silver girdle. Mrs.
Frank Young chose black chiffon velvet.
Several coming debs, were present, nearly
all of them wearing sophisticated black.
The wedding of Aileen, younger
daughter of the John Ryans, of Plymp-
ton, to Edgar, younger son of the late
A. E. Barker and of Mrs. Barker, of
Prospect, took place at St. Peter’s College
chapel, the bride in white georgette em-
broidered in gold, her cream bridal veil
of tulle held in place by a headdress of
gold leaves. Her sister Naomi and
Audrey Pearce were bridesmaids in deep-
cream tulle appliqued in gold flowers and
hats of cream tulle trimmed with gold
tissue. The bride’s small nieces were
flower-girls in cream tulle Empire frocks
and tulle hats. There were 170 guests
at the reception, held at the home of the
bride’s parents.
Dr. Violet Plummer, who since she
retired from practice has spent her time
in travel, is off again, accompanied by
her sister Eleanor, this time on a trip
to China and Japan.
Two more South Australians who are
keen on travel are the Reginald Walkers,
of Kensington Gardens. Last year they
visited South Africa, and they have just
returned from a voyage to South America
and the West Indies.
Mrs. Baldock, of Portsea, who returned
from Bombay with Mrs. Sidney Ayers,
was the guest of the Kidman lady at
Millswood for several weeks. She left
in the Strathaird.
Mollie, elder daughter of Henry New-
land and his lady, was married to
the Rev. Andrew Gosse Hay at St.
Peter’s College chapel, which was
crowded to overflowing, late arrivals
being unable to get a seat in spite of the
efforts of the three gardenia-decorated
ushers. The fair bride chose white satin,
fitting to the figure and merging into a
train. A white-satin belt thickly em-
broidered with small pearls matched the
halo which held in place a short tulle
veil. A long veil, forming a train, hung
from a thick ruche across the back of the
head. The bridesmaids, sister Helena,
Barbara Tweedie and Inez Hynes, were
frocked in white stiffened lace made as
redingotes over white satin slips, the
bodice cut square, with small puffed
sleeves. They wore small Dutch caps
and long white kid gloves. A reception
was held later at Lee Lodge.
There has been some trouble over the
rubbish receptacles at the corners of some
of our streets. There is a slit for
rubbish, and the city council, wishing
to be refined, labelled the tins “Litter
Boxes.” People with defective eyesight
have so frequently posted letters in the
tins that the council has had to rename
them “Rubbish Bins.”
TASMANIA.
King’s Meadows Golf Club held its
opening day under summery conditions
which made the affair a delightful outing.
President Dr. Ramsay and Mrs. Ramsay
received guests at the clubhouse en-
trance, Mrs. Ramsay in a green turnout.
Daughter Margaret helped entertain,
wearing a tailored suit in pink with a
white felt hat.
Charles Benson’s recitals at the Town
Hall were crowded on both occasions.
The Governor and his lady were at the
first one. The singer got a tremendous
repeption. Scott-Power, at the piano,
was hailed with acclamation too on his
first public appearance since his return
from Europe.
Rupert Lyons gave his mother and
sister a great send-off with cocktails a
few days before they sailed in the Orama
for England. Hadley’s was crowded.
Hostesses who farewelled Sybil Lyons
during her last week before leaving, at
bridge, tea or tennis, were Mrs. H. C.
Nickolls, R. H. Robinson, Keith Nairn,
Dora Grant and Sheila Parsons.
Midland spinsters, following the lead
of the Midland bachelors, made their
party at Powell’s Hall, Campbell Town,
one of the brightest and best for a long
time. Guests flocked from all parts of
the island. Mollie Mackinnon was sec.
to a big committee. Frocking was very
smart, and decorations of brilliant
autumn flowers most effective. Pre-
dance cocktail parties were given by Mrs.
Kingsley Clarke (Quorn) and Mrs. Geo.
Keach (Ross).
News has reached the Speck of pretty
Ruth Penny’s marriage to John Day at
the Consulate, Alexandria. The paternal
Penny went from Bushy Park, New Nor-
folk, to give his daughter away. The
bridegroom is an Englishman who has
a job in Egypt.
The W. J. T. Stops couple gave a sherry
party at their home in honor of Mrs.
Hugh Murdoch and daughter Jean, who
have been spending most of the summer
in the Speck. The hostess wore deep
plum-colored georgette, Mrs. Murdoch
was in black-and-white, and Jean's navy
crepe had white dots and went with a
white belt.
Melba McDermott is the first candidate
in Tassie to win her diploma in the art
of speech in the recent University exams.
Hundreds of students are attacking the
subject very seriously.


“THE AGE'
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price ljd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/ per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Unclaimed Funds.
JAMES and WILSON.
WANTED, relatives of DOUGLAS HOSKEN
HARPER JAMES, deceased, and WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON.
Any descendants of FREDERICK JAMES,
CHARLES ANDREW JAMES and EDWARD
JAMES may be entitled to a share of property
in England. All three were sons of Lieutenant
James, R.N., of Cornwall, who died in 1857,
I. FREDERICK JAMES died at Port Augusta
in 1879, married in South Australia Mary Ann
Pennison, of Hobart Town, in 1861, and left
four children: Elizabeth Ann, who married in
1887 Frank Booth, of Farina Town, South Aus-
tralia ; Emma Jane, who married James O’Don-
nell ; Harriet Frances Palmer, who married
O’Hearn; and William Henry (youngest), born
at Blenman, South Australia, in 1868 or 1869.
The mother afterwards married James Wil-
liam Duck, of Leigh Creek. Addresses in 1892,
Hergott Springs, Leigh Creek and Beltana,
South Australia.
11. CHARLES ANDREW JAMES, supposed
unmarried, born 1840, formerly of Naracoorte,
South Australia, not heard of after 1894.
111. EDWARD JAMES, born 1842, died
about 1866 in Australia, having married and
left one child, Thomas Henry Andrew Hosken
James, last mentioned in 1886.
IV. Rewards will be paid for proof of the
death of any of these persons or the present
whereabouts of them, if living, or of any de-
scendants.
V. Information also required of WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON, a seaman, son of Cap-
tain Charles Pooley Wilson, a first cousin of
Douglas James, not heard of since 1908, when
he was in Melbourne.
A reward will be paid for proof of his present
address or date of death or whereabouts of
widow or children, if any.
All applications can be sent to BUDD & CO.,
33 Bedford Row, London, or MOULE,
HAMILTON & DERHAM, of 394 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
k
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7$ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHIEP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN ART
EXHIBITION
The Macleod Gallery,
Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street
(.Near Bridge Street).
Latest Pictures by leading Australian
Artists. Gallery now reopened after
renovations and rearrangement.
ADMISSION FREE.
Tel., 87971.
WHAT TO HEAD*)
Co/ZSI/lT THE L/TEHAA/ ft£H/EWS /H /
THE AUSTRALASIAN"
Os/fAi£~JluSr/ir£s~Pa/c£ o?
The Long White Cloud
Price-fixing Snares
Dairying was the first Maoriland
primary industry to get Labor’s guaran-
teed prices, and dairy-farmers have been
the first to learn that price-fixing in any
guise carries risks.
Over the first six months of the dairy
season just ending, the average internal
payment for Maoriland butterfat was
12.413 d. a pound. Dairymen compared
this with the 11.71 d. a pound they aver-
aged for the first six months of the previ-
ous year and grunted in satisfied fashion.
But that was last August, and now
they are squealing. Taxation has crept
up to about £l9 a head ; wages costs
have soared ; working hours have been
reduced. Estimated public-works expen-
diture is more than eight million pounds,
and of this a considerable slice must be
tabbed for wages on 40-hour-week jobs
—which makes it hard for farmers to
get labor and harder for them to keep it.
Cost of living has naturally risen. To
meet increasing costs, manufacturers
have bumped up their prices, and re-
tailers, faced with similar demands, have
added their bit.
Dairy factories, nearly always co-
operatively owned by farmers in sur-
rounding districts, find manufacturing
costs are increasing. Labor Ministers
predict there will be little increase next
season; but farmers are demanding
retrospective payments to cover increased
production costs since last August. They
want a price that will “close the gap
between the level at which they sell their
produce and the costs they have to meet,
enable them to pay attractive rates of
wages and allow them reasonable in-
terest on capital invested in their farms
and stock.”
Labor gained power by winning rural
seats; it has to hold those seats,to hold
the Treasury benches. There is certain
to be some improvement in the dairy-
produce prices guaranteed next season ;
whether it will be sufficient to allow
“reasonable interest” on farms and stock
is another matter.
“Korero”: When he isn’t listening,
Captain Musick is “Pop” to the crew of
the Pan-American Airways clipper he
flew the 7000 miles from California down
to Auckland (M.L.). He has been in
aviation since 1913, is senior pilot in his
co., and has spent five years of his life
in the air, most of them over the sea.
U.S.A. aviators reckon him the world
authority on ocean flying, and they are
backed by his record. In 1921 —ages ago
in aviation —he was flying a Bimini-
Nassau-Havana service; in 1925 Juan
Trippe grabbed him for the first Pan-
American Airways venture between
Havana and Key West. Musick’s repu-
tation grew with the company, and
Trippe must regard him as the best sort
of good-luck mascot —but this doesn’t
stop him from being sent to pioneer
new routes. He flew the first Pan-
American machines to Honolulu, Manila,
China and, latterly, down to Auckland.
With 12,000 air hours and most of the
Pacific in his log-book, he has never had
a serious accident or lost a passenger.
“Xo”: When the Americans begin
their Auckland-San Francisco air service,
it will be possible to beat your wife
in Maoriland on, say, Sunday night,
catch the clipper next morning, and then
prove by the calendar that, on the date
the assault was committed, you were
1850 miles away in Pago Pago. The inter-
national date line is approximately on the
180th meridian, and places east of that
are a calendar day behind Maoriland
local time. Time is calculated from the
same meridian, running from east of
Maoriland, back through Australia, on
to Greenwich, and back by way of
America and the Pacific. From Auck-
land, west of the date-line, the clipper
can cover the 1850 miles to Pago Pago,
east of the date line, in about 12 hours
—which means that, if it' leaves Auckland
on Monday morning, it reaches Pago
Pago on the previous Sunday afternoon!
“ T'at te last time I get T’AT tooth pulled out!"
Although the same clipper can still do
the 1850 miles from Pago Pago to Auck-
land in J 2 hours, it can’t possibly reach
Maoriland until the afternoon of the
day after it takes off —by the calendar.
* * * *
“Motu”: Ratana, last of the Maori
prophets (B. 24/3/’37), has a grievance
against Wanganui, the city near which he
established Ratana Pah, largest of modern
Maori villages. He intends to transfer
his interests and influence to Matamata,
miles north in central Waikato. He
says he has been “persecuted” by Wan-
ganui and is following the Biblical in-
junction, “But when they persecute you
in this city, flee ye into another.” Ratana
Pah comprises 200 buildings: it has a
temple and church, of which Ratana is
the head; social and dining halls, stores,
a billiard saloon, an engineering shop, a
garage, a powerhouse, museum, a print-
ing office and a post office. Pakehas
teach the village children and guard the
health of the pah, which is the centre of
a large communal farm where Maoris
working tractors and other modern farm
machinery can be seen from the main
road leading south to Wellington. Part
of the “persecution” undoubtedly dates
back to when the “mouthpiece of
Jehovah” was haled before the local
Court on a charge of having committed
the pakeha offence of driving a car while
drunk; but Ratana is getting on in years
and Matamata’s hot mineral-water baths
might be another reason for his transfer.
* * * *
“D.N.”: While Maoriland Labor Min-
isters are telling striking waterside
workers to “play the game,” Melbourne
(Vic.) learns that the Savage Govern-
ment has presented it with about £7OOO
a year. Matson liners intend to stay
two extra days at Melbourne to avoid
Saturdays at Auckland (M.L.) and escape
increased working costs born of Labor’s
40-hour week; extra Melbourne port
dues will amount to £2OO a trip and other
business to between £3OO and £4OO, while
the liners make 13 trips between them
every year. Which shows that internal
industrial legislation does have some
effect beyond the borders of the country
concerned. Perhaps Auckland will make
up some of its Matson losses on Pan-
American Airways business.
if * *
“Tumutumu”: Public Works Minister
Semple, with his frequent references to
such things as running-shoes for boards,
dungarees for bankers and retribution
for “loungers, scroungers and spittoon
philosophers,” is helping Maorilanders
to take politics seriously and redis-
cover a sense of humor lost during the
depression. When “Tiny” MacMillan
was added to the late Coalition Ministry
in 1932 everybody looked to this
newcomer to pronounce some magic
politico-economic formula. His first ap-
pearance as Minister was at an agricul-
tural show. There he solemnly announced
that he could tell the sex of an egg by
holding it to his ear. Everybody just
groaned and relapsed into utter misery
again. To-day Bob Semple, who can’t
do any tricks like that, is getting all the
laughs.
“M”: Landlords have to mind their
steps in Maoriland. Labor promised its
industrial supporters that evictions would
cease if it carried the day. An early
Labor measure was one under which a
landlord is not permitted to throw out
a tenant just because latter can’t pay
rent —not even if there is another tenant
ready and waiting to pay for occupancy
of the same dwelling. The bill boasts
the usual number of protective clauses,
but it still removes certain privileges
from one section of the community and
bestows them on another. A Welling-
ton owner discovered this recently ; he
regained possession of a house by saying
he wanted to live in it himself, and then,
within less than six months, he relet it
without asking permission of a magis-
trate. This was contrary to the Act, and
cost him a tenner. The measure is called
the Fair Rents Act, 1936.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Australian Rugby Union
football crowds know the. thrill of a well-
executed Maori haka, and Australians
who have crossed the Tasman have been
frequently entertained at native centres
with poi and other dances. The peculiar
rhythm and movement of the Maoris
have always interested visiting dancers,
and Leon Woizikowsky says he intends to
use Maori dances he saw in Rotorua as
a basis for a ballet. Actually, there is
less movement in Maori dances than in
any of those that seem to appeal to
European audiences; the Maoris have
the swaying movement peculiar to South
Seas natives but there is very little foot
action. Overseas films, especially those
featuring the ladies of Honolulu, have
had some influence on Maori dancing but
not enough to rob it of the individuality
that pleases people like Woizikowsky.
* * * *
“Palliser”: The islands of the M.L.
group have some mysterious names on
old maps and charts. How did the South
Island get the moniker of Victoria, and
when? The map that bears the name
gives the North Island as Eainomaw.
Port Nicholson, Wellington’s beautiful
harbor, is marked Useless Bay on the
same map.
X * * *
“Kohi”: Vigorous debate, blunt words
and a hefty pair of lungs are features of
a successful Labor politician’s make-up
in most world countries, and they are
standing Maoriland’s Labor Minister
Armstrong in good stead. Two meet-
ings of Auckland dairy-farmers, whose
produce earns the “guaranteed” Labor
prices, have gone for him hot and
strong ; they claimed that the prices were
insufficient for them to meet increasing
costs of production. And they weren’t
at all complimentary about Armstrong’s
unorthodox settlement of the freezing
workers’ stay-in strike. The Minister
shouted them down ; but not before one
cow-farmer asked if he were going to
(ell Geneva that one-third of Maoriland
worked 60 hours a week to keep an-
other third on 40 hours and the remain-
der on sustenance. However, Labor
politics also breed resilience, and the
Maoriland Government maintains it still
has the backing of the farming com-
munity.


Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/—, A.W.A. 6/—, others from 3/-
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6 •
42, 6/-; 6A7. 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grin
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 ROYAXi ARCADE, SYDNEY.
RAD/OKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Writt to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, jor free illustrated
literature NOW.
IN SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
May 3 to May 8, Inclusive.
These are the dates when the largest
amateuf and short-wave Radio Exhibition
yet" staged in Australia will be open.
This exhibition has no connection with
any other. It is sponsored by the Wire-
less Institute of Australia (N.S.W.
Division), the only organisation recognised
officially by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment as representative of the Australian
radio amateur.
The hall will be packed with displays of
radio apparatus not normally seen at the
usual kind of exhibition. Not a mere
cabinet show, but a comprehensive line-up
of experimental transmitters for short- and
ultra-short waves, receivers of all varieties,
including the new communications series,
and a thousand and one accessories dear
to the heart of the transmitter and receiver
constructor. Appropriate trade technical
components will be exhibited by leading
manufacturers and traders.
Some of the highlights planned are
working exhibits. Amateur stations will
be in action on the DX bands and also
ultra-shorts.
The Exhibition will be opened by short-
wave radio telephone from U.S.A.
Competition exhibits are open to the
short-wave listener-constructor as well as
the licensed transmitter.
It is planned to have a short-wave
broadcasting station in action from the
hall. The finals for the Crawford Trophy
for the best amateur telegraphist in Aus-
tralia will be decided.
MAKE A NOTE OF THE DATES
AND BE IN SYDNEY AT THE TIME.
You will not want to miss a Show like
this one.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Switching a T.R.F. All-waver.
On this page (B. 23/12/’36) reference
was made to a modern form of tuned
R.F. all-wave receiver manufactured in
the U.S.A., the Sargent Model 10. It
was stated that, if such a receiver were
desired by anyone in this country, it
would be necessary for him either to
construct it himself or get a competent
engineer to do so. In B. 10/3/’37 a
smaller T.R.F. receiver was described
in detail, incorporating the Sargent
mechanical bandspread idea, which is
unique in its action, but using plug-in
coils. While not a job for the casual
constructor, anyone with a well-equipped
workshop can construct the special
cradle arrangement for the variable, con-
denser gang. The details here, with the
circuit diagram, are those of the Sargent
Model 10, which has this bandspreading
arrangement and, instead of plug-in coils,
uses switching. Unfortunately, the
switching is not of the usual kind, and
Circuit diagram of the new Sargent
Model 10 Receiver.
would call for advanced mechanical
ability and resources in making up, the
gang switch being of the “dead-end”
type. For the benefit of those able to
tackle such jobs the important points
are dealt with.
It will be seen that the circuit is that
of a tuned R.F. receiver using an R.F.
pentode detector, triode driver and pen-
tode audio output. The 6.3-volt valves
are recommended, these being respec-
tively 6D6, 6C6, 76 and 42. If anybody
so desires, there is no reason why the
2.5-volt equivalents, or four-volt types
in the Philips range, should not be used.
A receiver of this kind is highly efficient.
It will lack something in selectivity, but
it will give gain and superior tonal
quality. Selectivity can be dealt with
on the broadcast side by using iron-
cored coils (Sirufer) and screening them
appropriately British engineers get
10kc. selectivity out of T.R.F. receivers
wi(h jron a „ d , here j$ no reason
why the same cannot be done here.
Q n s h or t' waves the T.R.F. receiver
h as no p eer f or general coverage of the
international bands, but it has disadvan-
tages on the crowded amateur ’phone
C.W. bands. The writer predicts
,h ? t som ' £or f m o£ m ? de f.” m
ceiver will yet come to light with all
the advantages of T.R.F., plus the selec-
tivity of the superhet.
The receiver as diagrammed has a
switch of special construction ; examina-
tion of the circuit will show that each
switch rotor has an extra section to short-
circuit all coils to the low-frequency
side of the frequency on which the set
is being operated. “Dead-end” loss can
be caused only by coils to the low-fre-
quency side, and this method of short-
circuiting completely eliminates such
loss. It is a rejuvenation of an old idea,
for even in the days of loose couplers
“dead-end” switching found favor. The
only and logical successor is the barrel
type coil-changer, which changes the
coils themselves. Such a job has a
mechanical appeal, and would not be
hard to make up. Coils are separated
from each other by more than one
diameter spacing, and the R.F. stage
coils are in a compartment separate
from the detector coils. This is the same
as screening off respective plug-in coils.
There are no dead spots over the en-
tire tuning range of the Sargent Model
10, which covers from 15 to 1500 metres.
The bandspreading arrangement is simi-
lar to the one described previously. The
main tuning condenser is mounted on a
swivel, instead of being bolted down as
in most receivers. A coupling arm, fas-
tened to the rear of the tuning con-
denser, rests on a cam which is turned
by the bandspread dial. When the band-
spread dial is turned the cam lifts the
coupling arm up or lets it down, thereby
moving the stator of the tuning con-
denser over a small angle. There is no
parallel bandspread condenser ; hence
tuning capacities and coils can be con-
centrated in one place, an important
consideration on short waves.
The bandspread system is entirely free
from play or backlash, as a spring takes
up any motion that might be lost. The
circuit itself is quite straightforward, and
with the exception of the driver audio
stage is similar to the receiver described
B. 10/3/’37. The coil data can be taken
from the chart in B. 30/9/’36.
D. B. K.
Television Progress.
According to a description put forth by
H.M.V. (England), E.M.I. (Electrical and
Musical Industries —a co. with connec-
tions in the Marconi, H.M.V., R.C.A.
and other firms) has produced a promis-
ing television system.
The Emitron camera is reported to be
more sensitive than a movie camera. It
can operate in light which is hopeless
for anything but still photography and
can be used up to 1000 ft. from the
transmitter, special cable conveying,
without loss, the minute high-frequency
impulses.
Flicker is less of a problem with tele-
vision than with moving pictures, since
50 complete pictures or frames are trans-
mitted per second instead of the 24 per
second in moving pictures, and definition
is sharp.
The first television receivers offered to
the British public are elaborate affairs.
E.M.I. has two models, the first a
combined all-wave sound and vision re-
ceiver, and the other a model working
on 6.67 metres (vision) and 7.23 metres
(sound) only. The first sells at 120
guineas and has 23 valves! Its wave
ranges are 750-2000 m., 190-56Qm.,
47-140 m., 16.5-50 m. and 7-16 m. This,
all on a six-valve super. (R.F. on all
bands), in addition to the vision receiver,
which is fixed-tuned to Alexandra
Palace. The vision channel makes use
of seven valves, six of them R.F. ampli-
fiers and the last a diode detector. E.M.I.
engineers state that the T.R.F. idea was
adopted for “reliability, simplicity and
absence of noise.”
Both models use the same type of
vision receiver and employ indirect view-
ing— i.e., the cathode-ray tube which re-
produces the image is so placed that it
points skyward in the cabinet and is
seen by the audience reflected in a mirror
attached to the lid of the instrument. A
circuit arrangement reverses the picture
on the screen of the c.r. tube, so that
when viewed in the mirror the picture
comes right again. It is claimed that this
method does away with all traces of
“grain.”
These first British sets have ten con-
trols —five vision and five sound. Such
gadgets as “frame hold control” —similar
in action to the device on talkie pro-
jectors to centre up the picture—“line
hold,” “contrast control,” “focus,”
“width adjustment,” “sensitivity control”
and others open up visions of an orgy of
twiddling to receive television pro-
grammes. Actually, the engineers do
most of the adjusting when installing the
machine.
To guard against inferior results no
sale or installation will be made outside
the service area of Alexandra Palace
station —at present set down at 30 miles
radius. Also, all sets must be installed
by the co.’s engineers, and must use
special aerials.
Television reception can be had in an
ordinary living-room without having to
darken the room completely. The light
from a 40-watt lamp is said to be in-
sufficient to interfere with visibility of the
pictures.
R. H. A.
Coronation Broadcasts.
Plans have been completed by the
8.8. C. for broadcasting during Corona-
tion week. Improvements at the Em-
pire broadcasting station at Daventry and
the installation of new high-powered
transmitters are expected to ensure the
broadcasts being heard clearly through-
out the world.
On Sunday, May 9, the religious aspect
of the Coronation will be dealt with by
Lawrence Tanner, and in the evening a
special service in the hall of Broadcasting
House will be conducted by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury. Prayers will be
said by the Moderator of the Church
of Scotland and lessons read by the
Moderator of the Federal Council of
Evangelical Free Churches. Sir Walford
Davies has written a special anthem for
this occasion. Dramatic performances
will include “The King’s Anointing,”
based on the historical significance of
the Coronation; “The King’s Music,”
consisting of verse, music and prose
written by the Kings and Queens of Eng-
land ; a play by Barrie, who has author-
ised a broadcast performance for the
first time, and “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream,” with an all-star cast.
On May 12 there will be a broadcast
of the Coronation service in Westminster
Abbey and a description by observers
of the processions to and from Bucking-
ham Palace. In the evening a pro-
gramme, “The Empire's Homage,” will
be broadcast throughout the Empire.
The King will conclude the proceedings
with a message.
All Round the Dial.
“M.F.”: The manager of 4BU Bunda-
berg recently received a report on the
station’s transmission from a listener in
Seattle (U.S.A.), who said this was the
first time he had been able to pick up an
Australian 100-watt station. The an-
nouncements were clearly heard on the
listener’s eight-valve superhet.
* * * *
“Insulator”: With a view to gathering
technical data on world wireless condi-
tions A.W.A. has inaugurated a third
short-wave experimental broadcaster of
world range. This station, located at
Perth (W.A.), is known as VK6ME. It
came on the air on Monday, March 22,
and is a companion broadcaster to
VK2ME Sydney and VK3ME Mel-
bourne, which have been on the air in
regular programmes since 1927. VK6ME
will assist in making Australia better
known overseas.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: Many of the 1937 series of
commercial receivers are taking in the
13-metre channel instead of finishing at
18 metres. The reason is that such
stations as PHI, Daventry, Berlin and
others are using these higher frequencies,
and at times they are strongly audible in
Australia. Some of these designs get
down to around 12 metres by merely
switching in a separate oscillator; it
would not be much more of a technical
problem to take in the amateur 10-metre
band. In U.S.A. many 1937 receivers
are even taking in five metres, but, of
course, there are thousands of five-metre
amateurs in American cities.
* * * *
The suggestion is made in “Elec-
tronics” (U.S.A.) that electric power
lines stretching over the countryside
could carry R.F. to radiate over a mile
or so. Thus they could be used by
aviators to determine location when off
beacon courses. The radiation could
carry distinctive modulation according
to the territory, and could be turned on
by remote control during bad weather.
There seems to be something in the idea.
#
“Enno”: The amateur constructor to-
day is primarily an assembly man ; he
has parts galore to choose from, and the
prices are by no means exorbitant. He
is in a very different position to that
of a lad mentioned by C. B. De Soto,
of A.R.R.L., in “Two Hundred Metres
and Down.” At the Midwest Conven-
tion (1920), De Soto says, there was
brought to light what is probably the
most remarkable recorded instance of
amateur perseverance and ingenuity. A
young lad of 17, who had made himself
known as the possessor of an especially
efficient spark, C.W. and radio-telephone
station, was discovered to be the son of
a poor laborer. The boy had attended


DO YOU KNOW ?
That the tone and range of all radio sets depend
largely upon the valves used?
Radiotron valves ensure good tonal quality and
extreme range.
Install Radiotrons and observe the difference.
RaIIIITRUNS
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney
Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
V 25.6
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
grammar school until he was able to
work, and then assisted to support his
family. They were very poor indeed.
Yet the young chap had made for him-
self that marvellously complete and
effective station. It was installed in a
miserably small closet in his mother’s
kitchen, and he had constructed every
detail himself. Headphones were evolved
from bits of wood and wire. Material
for vacuum tubes was found on a pile
where a wholesale drug company
dumped broken test-tubes and where the
electric light co. dumped burned-out
bulbs. To exhaust the tubes the inde-
fatigable youngster built his own mer-
cury vacuum pump from scrap glass.
His greatest difficulty was in securing
mercury for this pump. He finally
begged enough of this from another
amateur. The tubes were good ones —
better than many commercially manu-
factured. The greatest money outlay
that this laid had made in building his
station was 25 cents for a pair of com-
bination cutting pliers.
Youngest Radio Club
Celebrates.
At the 1936 Amateur Radio Exhibition
in Sydney a stand conspicuous for its
ultra-short-wave exhibits was that of the
North Suburban Radio Club. This club
had been in existence only a few weeks
before the exhibition, the desire of
licensed amateurs on Sydney’s North
Shore for a weekly meeting-place having
led to its formation. The club held its
first annual reunion recently, and though
wind and rain raged over Sydney that
night there was a big roll-up. Guest of
honor was that friend of the amateur
W. T. S. Crawford, senior radio inspector
for N.S.W., and club president K. Bur-
nett gave a welcoming address. The
W.I.A. was represented by W. M. Moore
(Federal president), and representatives
of all Sydney radio clubs attended. The
toast of the R.l.’s Department was pro-
posed by VK2NN, and Mr. Crawford
responded aptly, later presenting an ultra-
short-wave trophy to club member H.
Lapthorne, VK2HL. D. B. Knock
(VK2NO) spoke for the press and
visitors.
Out-of-date Equipment.
For the past two years emphasis has
been given here to the great importance
of using advanced equipment for serious
ultra-short-wave investigation among
amateurs. Most experimenters are get-
ting into line and using beam arrays,
superhets and stabilised transmitters, but
others are still swishing about the five-
metre band with antiquated gear. The
following letter from one of England’s
oldest amateur transmitters appears in
the current issue of “Television and
Short-wave World,” and sums up the
position aptly:
I have noticed that amateur stations are again
active on five metres, but it seems that little
new is being discovered. The net result of
most of the experiments seems to be interfer-
ence with local broadcast listeners.
This is quite understandable in view of the
obsolete methods employed in transmitting, such
as shock-excited circuits and hit-and-miss aerial
arrangements. In many cases, principles
adopted 12 years ago have been revived, so I
fail to see how any useful progress can be ex-
pected.
Transmissions from such apparatus are
quickly lost, and in any case can be picked up
only with super-regenerative receivers, which are
in themselves extremely noisy and are, there-
fore, quite useless for the reception of weak
signals.
It is possible to construct a superhet re-
ceiver to cover the five-metre band, so it
seems a waste of time still to use prehistoric
shock-excited transmitters. Why does not the
Post Office insist on some orthodox frequency
control such as crystal, electron coupling or
master oscillator, which would give stability,
greater range of reception and, at the same
time, eliminate any chances of interference with
broadcast listeners?
How can anything but local reception be
expected by simply coupling the transmitter to
any old aerial and hoping for the best, which
usually results in a maximum range of 2-3
miles!
In my opinion the only satisfactory aerial
system for the ultra-high frequencies is one
carefully thought out and mathematically cor-
rect. I suggest an aerial with four 4-waves
in phase with reflectors. The whole system
should be supported as high as possible above
ground level on a wooden frame, With means
to alter its directional properties. This aerial
must be fed by properly-designed matched im-
dance feeders.
If the serious experimenter would work on
these lines I feel sure that there would be con-
siderable progress in five-metre long-distance
reception.
J. E. Nickless. A.M.1.E.E., G2KT.
That applies every bit as much to Aus-
tralia as to England.
D. B. K.
Trade Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
First items to attract the writer in the
Stromberg Carlson model battery re-
ceiver 777 for 1937 were the splendidly
finished console cabinet and the appear-
ance of the tuning dial, an edgelit
“straight-line” type with wide range of
vision and smoothness of action. The
indicator is a white crossbar moving
vertically. There are two tuning speeds
and the motion is extremely smooth.
Power supply for this receiver is taken
from a two-volt accumulator and 135
volts of B battery. Vesta and Impex
batteries respectively were used in the
test.
As the writer is primarily interested
in short-wave reception the receiver was
first put through its paces on these bands.
Even with a very small indoor aerial,
the Empire and German stations were
at good volume, with the characteristic
quietness of the higher frequencies. The
wave range on short waves is between
15 and 50 metres. On the broadcast
side a, local distance switch takes care
of overloading from powerful locals, and
as the test location is in the 2BL shock
area the value of this was well in evi-
dence. Sensitivity is high and quality
excellent. The new Maorilander 2YA
romped through on the indoor aerial
with all the kick of Australia’s nationals.
Examination of the chassis showed
some interesting engineering features,
one outstanding point being that tubular
condensers are not just “pigtailed” in to
circuit but are each mounted vertically
in small cylindrical metal containers.
This method serves a double purpose.
The condensers are well screened, and
they are protected against breakage in
transportation. The R.F. amplifier and
converter portions are on a separate
chassis completely isolated from the main
chassis, and each individual tuning cir-
cuit is screened off. The valves are R.F.
amplifier, IC4; octode frequency
changer, KK2; I.F. amplifiers (two),
lC4’s; JK6 second detector, A.V.C. and
first audio ; and KDDI twin-valve class-
ic audio output.
On test the drain from batteries was
shown to be from 20 to 15 milliamperes,
according to operation on short waves
and broadcast under strong signal condi-
tions, and the standing current drain was
around lOma. (no signal). The sensi-
tivity was uniform over all bands and
the audio quality faultless.
The speaker is an Amplion 01 per-
mag. This dual-wave battery superhet
is a front-ranker.
Practical Hints.
Lamination rattles can cause long
hunts for their source. If the “swinging”
choke in choke-input filter circuits is not
solidly and rigidly clamped together it
may make a noise for which it is easy
to blame the power transformer. This
happened recently, and when the trouble
was tracked down to its source it was
noted that the offending choke per-
formed quietly when in a condenser-
input circuit. Choke-input circuits apply
a good deal of rough d.c. to the first
choke, which should be a solid job if
rattles are to be avoided.
When winding plug-in coils on valve
bases it is sometimes necessary to take
two ends to the one pin. This can be
managed neatly if the wire for No. 1
coil is roughly measured off and cut
from the reel and its end cleaned and
twisted with the end for No. 2 coil (off
the reel). The two wires are fed down
through the hollow valve-pin and
soldered at the tip. No. 2 coil is wound
on and completed, after which No. 1 is
wound from the measured piece.
A clean soldering-iron is essential for
good work. The iron should be rubbed
briskly with an old cloth before it is put
away and while it is still hot.
VK6WZ.
Audioscopic Reproduction.
Foremost among the new 1937 Radio-
players made by Philips (A’sia), Ltd., is
Model 6702, a seven-valve A.C.-operated
world - wide receiver, incorporating
“audioscopic” reproduction as the pre-
eminent feature. This latter, a develop-
ment of the Philips radio laboratories,
is one of the most perfect systems of
sound amplification yet evolved. Tech-
nically, it can be described as a com-
bination of “audio frequency inverse
feedback” and “tone compensation,”
and for the owner of a Radioplayer it
means remarkable tonal realism. From
the thinnest squeak of the trumpet to
the deepest rumbling note of the grand
organ it is all there in “third-dimen-
sional” sound. In addition to the new
audio channel, Radioplayer 6702 has the
Philips Electron Star tuning indicator,
giving accurate and positive tuning free
from distortion. This indicator shows,
in its green clover-leaf design at the
widest position, when the receiver is
exactly tuned to a station. The edgelit
wide-vision Twilight dial makes tuning
easy; on the broadcast side station
names glow in green ; on short waves
orange is the color. There are seven
Philips metal-clad “P” base side contact
valves, and in the vital high-frequency*
portion of the chassis these are cushioned
on rubber. Through this “floating-
power” principle the delicate mechanism
is protected from undesirable micro-
phonic effects. Other features of Radio-
player 6702 are iron-cored coils, full-
delayed A.V.C., continually variable tone
control and a specially matched 12in.
Auditorium speaker.
Military wireless telegraphy and tele-
phony set of Cavalry Divisional Signals,
Sydney, in action. A Marconi-type aerial-
and-counterpoise system is used, and
power is derived entirely from batteries.
Curing "Dead Spots."
“Dead spots”—points in the frequency
spectrum at which “detector and audio”
type sets refuse to oscillate —are well
known. They are caused, of course, by
the natural resonance of the aerial co-
inciding with the frequency to which the
set is tuned. When this condition is
reached the tendency is for the detector
to feed a great deal of energy into the
aerial if oscillation can be obtained.
Usually, however, it cannot', since re-
action beyond the. scope of the controls
would be called for. Even if the set
could be made to oscillate at the dead
spot it would cause considerable inter-
ference on that frequency; it would be
virtually a low-powered transmitter feed-
ing a resonant antenna.
The resonance of the aerial can be
“killed” by the insertion of series con-
densers or combinations of inductance
and capacity calculated to deliberately
upset the natural period of the sky-wire.
Where a set is to be used on amateur
bands, however, this killing of resonance
is prodigal, since, very likely, the antenna
in use will be tuned roughly to the
ham bands to give increased signal lift.
There is only one practical way of
curing dead spots; that is, by the incor-
poration of a tuned or untuned R.F. stage
ahead of the detector. A resonant
antenna in front of a s.g. valve will
boost up the signal applied to the grid,
yet, because of the buffer action of
the tube, it cannot force the detector
out of oscillation.
R. H. A.


WIS
LYS
*
PROOF
100% Aastralian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
;
.
- ff‘
tdi**.
m-~*±
r.
j&TSi
<a
-$►
»li:&
: M ~
N«| 8 (
k,
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
WIRE netting, etc.
SPEC
FY "LYSAGHT'S"
WIRE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Beef Cattle at the Show.
‘ “Bulago”: There was'no outstanding
advancement in the five breeds'of beef
cattle at Sydney Show; but improvements
in type already achieved ; have been
consolidated. Total entries were slightly
lower than last year,.but Devon and Red
Poll entries increased.
A feature ihaf promises well'for the 7
future was,"the’excellent* standard of the.
younger stock. Heifer and. bull-calf
classes were strong in number and of ex-
ceptionally good, even qualify. This >was
particularly so among the Shorthorns;
the leggy, was.ty beast has ; been-' almost
eliminated. "
• But a “tail” is still in evidence, and if
a committee were formed to inspect
all entries on arrival and reject all
below show standard it would obviate
the expense of providing more cattle
accommodation at the Showground.
Several new Shorthorn exhibitors made
successful debuts. Awards were widely
distributed, but the bulk of the ribbons
went to Anthony Hordern’s Milton Park
Stud, with Coonong—the McCaughey
Estate, which imported wisely a few
years ago—a close second. I. J. Sloan’s
Coonong Defender, which took the
championship last year and the reserve in
1935, won again. He is a magnificent
roan of splendid, conformation, very deep
in front, with a fine breeding head and
sound early-maturing qualities. E. L.
Killen’s Bapton . Broadsword 1 (imp.), a
beautiful handling bull, was reserve.
Milton. Park took both female cham-
pionships; with Wild Rose 2nd -arid Gay
/Girl 2nd, the latter the serene white cow
that was reserve last year also.
Herefords were as fine a lot as in any
previous year. The class for bull calves
was exceptionally-good_and consistent in
quality. The champion bull, H. A.
Bassingthwaite’s Glengarry Gold Miner,
is a model of the modern Hereford type,
close to'the ground, splendid color, top
and underline, with great depth of flesh.
Mrs.' J. Biddlecombe, of Victoria,
crowned, a, long list of. sucpesses .through
her entries winning the reserve bull
championship and, r reversing last year’s
decision on P. Reynolds’s imported
Shraden / Rarity- 10th, taking the female
. championship . also, , The Biddlecombe
stud iis largely built on the Percy
Reynolds blood. ; ; - , - /y. \ ;
The breeders of Devons who chal-
lenged. Hunter .White are to be congratu-
lated, for the Havilah cattle have been
the breed’s sole representatives for years.
They, should not be discouraged by the
fact that most of the ribbons and all the
championships went to Havilah, as
Devons are worthy of much wider recog-
nition than they have received. They
are one of the oldest and hardiest.breeds
in Australia —the lllawarra milkers owe
them a debt of. gratitude.
Aberdeen Angus entries ranged from
excellent downwards. Many classes
“tailed” badly. . Nevertheless, there are
some splendid youngsters, coming on,
and the influence of importations—from
Canada in particular—is . evident. The
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture team
which won the Sires’ Progeny Cup! would
gladden the heart of even . a confirmed
vegetarian, and their champion, bull ,is;,a
model for all breeders of chillers.
Although N.L,.ForsteFs, Abington Stud
look only one reserve, championship, he
was easily the most successful breeder,
and deservedly so, since his entries kept
the A.A. show alive for years.
Red Polls were as mixed as; could be
expected of any - dual-purpose breed.
R.Ps. should equally - combine beef and
rfiilk, but. under, Australian conditions it
is not easy to keep the balance. The
judging this year • was apparently on the
standard of 65 p.c. beef to 35 p.c.'milki
It would be better for the future of the
breed,;and for breeders also, if a show
standard were made and . rigidly adhered
tO. - . ■ ■ •
- Polled Shorthorns and Herefords were
present in increased numbers, and locally-
bred stock were in the. majority.
Although these polls have everything in
“What's goin' on 'ere? "
“I be going io stone the crows like you said yesterday, Sir."
their favor, since they must come on a
large scale with the development of a
high-class export trade, they have a long
way to go here before they can compete
with the' horned- stock; of the same breeds.
Fat Condition.. .
“Silky-bag”: Although a fat animal
usually .has a sheeny; coat and looks well,
body fat (by. itself is- not one of Nature’s
biggest gifts, lnpnpst farm, stock it can
be a curse.- The coat bloom does not
result from the-fatness ; it is merely the
; result of; good 'gland .function, denoting
satisfactory diet and blood condition.
Body fat is the storage for most of the
unused carbohydrates and fats, taken in
by the animal with its diet; it is stored
as an infiltration into under-skin cells..
When it goes beyond the limit the internal
balance of the cells is disturbed.- This
interferes with/the: cells’ work ; it is even
possible for the fat to kill the cell nucleus'
outright by pressure arid set up rot.
Often the outcome is fatty degenera-
tion. ’ The fat cells : lose' most of' their
resistance .to germs and are easily broken
up. ' Droplets become scattered through-]
out the-tissue; including die liver, heart,
udder, ovaries and muscles, - with the
result' that 1 these organs do not do their
work properly. . , . •
This .is the reason for such common
phenomeria as failure of fat cows, to
breed and failure of cows with’ fatty
udders to milk well. It explains why a
fat horse may not be worked hard until
the fat itself, is. partly wiped out, and
why fat ewes heavy, in lamb suffer from
pregnancy, toxaemia. „ - . ■
i • ’ . 1 ■ • .. ........ '
Longtails versus Fly. .
. “Warramulla”: - With -excellent grass-
making rains in .. Western Queensland
everybody is trying to-get one jump ahead
of the blowfly, and spraying and crutch-
ing are in full swing. A Government
regulation greatly, reduces the arriount of
arsenic that may be'used in jetting mix-
tures. - This weakens-the growers’ pro-
Section against the. pest, and more people
are depending on crutching than; hitherto.
I There is one phase in this fly problem
.that should be worth exploring. It is
; noticeable among a mob of ewes that the
.odd lqngtail is rarely (if ever) blown
about- the hindquarters. Therefore it
i should be worth while experimenting
• with - a longer dock than is usual.
A longer tail has been tried by owners
at various times as a precaution against
the * carelessly-handled shearing machine
• cutting the ewe in a vital spot, but has
jit ever been adopted with the idea of dis-
couraging the fly?, If it should prove a
.deterrent it would more than compen-
sate for the extra amount the shearer
would want for shearing the longer-tailed
sheep. Anyway, with the’ fly as vicious
as it was'last season; any method, no
matter how fantastic, is' worth a trial.
Superfine and Carpet Wool.
“C.V.S.”: From opinions expressed on
the M.O.L. page, it appears that, though
speciality superfine wool is probably
the most profitable on country’ particu-
larly suited to its production, medium
and strong merino is far more profitable
on average sheep country. Now comes
carpet wool with a claim for greatest re-
turn per head.
. At a recent Geelong sale, Lincoln wool
branded R/J/N realised 20id. per
pound. Some of the skirted fleeces of
this clip were reported to weigh 241 b. At
20d. per pound a 241 b. fleece would
realise £2. To equal this a 64-quality
fleece worth 30d. per pound would need
to weigh 161 b. skirted. Superfine and
Lincoln wool, represent the extremes in
spinning quality, and both types appear
to be very profitable on exceptionally
suitable country, though such isolated
instances do not provide a general guide.
*■ ~
Working the Cut-out.
“C.V.S.”: ‘Though bar-bales are some-
times unavoidable, co-operation between
the grower and the classer often enables
shearing to be carried out without the
pressing of a single mixed bale or light-
weight, even in a crossbred clip.
One good method in a moderate-sized
shed is to work by the clock, noting the
length of time each bin takes to fill.
When a shearing, team has settled down,
it should work at an even pace, so that,
given the number of sheep remaining,
the cut-out. of a mob may be calculated
to within a few minutes, and the amount
of wool to come for each line reck-
oned accordingly. The classer may then
instruct the presser to make light or
heavy bales, leaving a weight bale, but
no more than. a. bale, of each line at the
cut-out. This is more accurate than run-
ning the eye over the pens to calculate
the number of sheep remaining.
It is a mistake when handling a flock
of several different mobs to force a line
to make up a bale approaching a cut-
out. This results in uneven lines, and
it is preferable to match up surplus wool
with that of the mob following. When
convenient, mobs should be shorn in
ordSr of merit according to wool quality.
Odd fleeces left over may be worked
into the succeeding lot.
Shearing Technique and Records.
“Em”: Dangar Gedye and Malloch
(Sydney) have issued a topnotch pam-
phlet of instruction for shearers. Its
main feature is a complete and clear
series of pictures showing 19 right posi-
tions of shearer and handpiece, together
with photographs of wrong positions and
technique. Even old hands can learn
something from these illustrations.
The booklet includes an interesting list
.of record Australian and M.L. tallies.
Jack Howe’s performance at Alice
Downs (C.Q.) on Oct. 10, 1892, stands
supreme for blades—32l sheep in 7hr.
40min., and 1437 head during the previ-
ous week. With the machine Jimmy
Power did 315 in 7hr. 20min. at Barenya
(Q.) in 1893, and then ran out of sheep;
and in 1909 Dan Cooper barbered 316
on Bundooran in an eight-hour day.
Team shearing has some doughty per-
formances in its annals. The “Mad
Eight”—A. Williams, R. Sawallish, V.
Day, F. Leaman, L. Saltmarsh, George
Bence, C. Fleming and H. Munro —in
1923 at Williambury (W.A.) cleaned up
17,937 head, averaging 111 b. wool, in a
fortnight. Sawallish in 1928 shore 304
head in a day at Three Rivers (W.A.).
M.L.’s team record also belongs to
1923. The heroes were nine Maoris, and
their tally for 84 hours at Mangoahani
was 21,000, an average of 283 per man,
the ringer doing 326. Maoriland also


P& fc* M-' g
II
Wfi
s' ' , * <
I*
SfcS
S&Si
> .4;
, 4 a?* • #«**
■ ,
•■> : ¥' vi® M, ■
W*>X«WVVSfVW.' . ‘ *• . . . .v
si
r m "
vL
M
"" - a -F, " > ' ' 4-i SiMM.
rM/ / / ", jiß
&
« ■ WK „- ■
m
M R ;:•,
'? - > - aka
/ ]
*
*1
mgas
gg
*1
Ml
» v . ’ m <-» ;
1 • x-.v. ■ .jf^rs
-
, ' ' ,
>
■mz
yY*
m
iM
m
m
& jrl
:«iSB£
‘V&<
Wmm
mm
/
WSi
International 20-cwt. Mode!
C-15. This capacious van
is one of the wide variety of
body styles available.
sum
International 2-ton Model C-35. A popular
truck for many kinds of work.
mm
International 3-ton Model C-40, to cope with
solid haulage jobs anywhere.
838 a mu
mm
SSSg&SiK
■SS : :
International Utility, the sturdy, handy run-
about of the International line.
C 236
International 35-civt. Model ■
C- 30 with all-purpose tipping-
hody and hydraulic hoist.
A
FOR TRUCK WORK
THERE’S real truck quality in every part of every
International —engine, transmission, frame, springs,
axles, brakes —every shaft, bearing, pinion, down to the
minutest detail, is tempered and tested up to the highest
attainable standard —and that’s the meaning of International
all-truck quality. '
Look at the lines of International Model C-30 with tipping
body and hydraulic hoist —a strictly practical job for
rough, tough deadweight haulage—and yet a beauty to
look at—why ? Because the integral quality of the truck
reveals itself in the purposeful, finished design. . ,
It’s the same wi th all
Internationals—utilities, de-
livery vans, medium to
heavy haulage units —they
stand for durability, speed,
strength and power.
Let us know your haulage
needs ; we’ll show you the
International to fill them
completely.
The comprehensive International range in-
cludes the following ' models:
- Utilities-and J-tnn-vans (113 and 125-in.
wheelbases). *■
20-cwt., 138-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2- 160-in. wheelbase.
3- 155 and 185-in. wheelbases.
'4-ton, 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases..
5-ton, 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capaci-
ties in various wheelbases.
Chassis Prices from £ 277
(plus tax)
international harvester company
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
k
k
holds the world’s all-styles record: 378
sheep shorn by J. Hape in Bhr. 54min.
Fine Wool and Pasture.
.-T-, , « , ,
The O.D. . Though it is aigued by
some that grazing on improved pastures
will deteriorate fine-wool merinos, ex-
periments by the C.S. and I.R.at.Merry-
ville, Yass (N.S.W.), home ot fine an
superfine wools, have demonstrated that
a fine wool does not go back when grazed
on improved pastures, and that the
greater wool return per sheep more than
pays the cost of improvement.
Two lots of 55 head each, as nearly,
similar as possible,'weie used as tuals.
One lot was placed on improved pas-
tures consisting of 61 p.c. of sub. clover,
36 p.c. natural grasses and 3 p.c. miscel-
laneous herbage. The others went on
io natural grazing (99 2 p.c. grass, 2 p.c.
clovers, etc.).
At the previous shearing the sheep
averaged 61b. 6oz. of greasy a head. Dur-
ing the trial no appreciable difference in
weight was noticed for some months,
but by the following shearing sheep on
improved pasture weighed 100.51 b. live-
weight as against 79.261 b. ot those on
natural grazing. Sheep from the un-
ed ddock ave raged 11.11 b. per
£ ead Q f greasy w j t h an estimated
scoured yield of ’ 62 .75 p.c. The others
cut an average G f 8.921 b. greasy, esti-
mated SCO ur yield being 61.4 p.c.
There was a scarcely . noticeable
strengthening of the wool from the im-
ved past ure. What is important is
lhat they cut 33.31 b. of wool per acre
as inst B>92]b< per . acre, because of
be g_to-l increase in carrying capacity.
-
Rugging Sheep.
« Rom Ney ». For t he benefit of West-
ralian Farme rs, Ltd. (B. 24/3/’37), here
j s a report on rugging sheep from Glen-
don station, Manilla (N.S.W.):
We rugge d 200 four-tooth ewes and
wethers from shearing in October. The
wool is in a very bright condition, and much
longer and denser than that of the sheep
not rugged. Rugged sheep are fat, those not
rugged are only in store condition. Both
lots are in the same paddock.
Rugged lambing ewes are in prime fat
condition, wool bright, long and denser,
lambs at foot larger and more robust than
lambs of unrugged mothers.
We are so satisfied with results of rug-
ging that we intend to rug half our lambs
at weaning time. At shearing we will com-
pare them with those not rugged.
Fly . strike among rugged sheep was very
, much less than among unrugged, though
both flocks were running in the same pad-
I dock.
The report has nothing to say about
rams disliking rugged ewes.
Pigs at Sydney Show.
“Silky Bag”: Although the num-
ber of pig entries was lower by 55 (total
only 436), there were more good pigs
this, year than ever before. Also, there
was no falling-off in the progress of a
mild revolution towards the true utility
animal, which commenced about seven
years ago.
The days of fat, rounded Dennis are
done. His place has been taken by a
pig with a flat, deep, rectangular body,
all meat, streaked with thin layers of
fat. This is the right export type.
Berkshires used to be the big offenders
in the thick-fat line. This year that sort
was rare, and the champion boar had
the long, deep, flat body combined with
the neat, short head and neck of the
old Berk, and his stumpy legs.
Tamworths have always been a true
bacon type. In this year’s models there
was a refinement of the old rangy type,
making it more compact, shorter in legs
and flatter on the sides.
Competition in the Large Whites was
poor ; a pity, because without the Large
White Australia will never fully succeed
in the European trade. . The animals
{Continued on page 44.)


ĸ
BE COMFORTABLE
I
in the saddle
♦ ♦ ♦
A strong Abbey Model, with welted sole
and tough calf upper.
Made in Black and Brown Calf, and
stocked in full and half sizes.
Price: Black Calf ------- 27/6
Brown Calf 27/6
Write for a catalogue.
Comfort is of major
importance to the
man in the saddle.
Riding for long hours,
the feet become numb
and stiff if not encased
in proper fitting boots.
Wear a pair of these
strong, supple Abbey
Riding Boots and be
comfortable no
matter how long or
how hard the day’s
work has been.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
THEY ALL WANT IT.
BECAUSE THEY NEED IT.
'We a&axMS m.tz£e
'TOOTH jjo?' (/ /
m
s 2
a«T
r
N
77cunpjs
(IFCalltuns
JL Ulhisfy is-
Distributors for the House of McCallum
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son
Fremantlt
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.
- Hobart
k
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; wiQi guard, 16/
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PX.UM RAZOR GUARD, for fin., Jin, and fin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in twc
widths, fin. and Jin
All are set ready foi
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
ffuT&'alleizmL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
on the average were inferior to last
year’s, though the champion sow, Histon
East Lass 59th (imp.), should be a model
for aspiring breeders.
Middle Whites were of lower standard
even than the Large Whites, but again
the champion sow showed how utility
can be combined with old-time finish.
The striking feature was that pro-
ducers of all four breeds appear to be
working with one ideal of conformation
in mind—to cut out obvious shoulders
and rumps and breed pigs with the long-
est, flattest and deepest sides possible.
Making Pigs Pay.
“Yeoman”: An outbreak of disease
or swine fever, due to filth, may mean
the destruction of a whole herd of swine
and bankruptcy for the owner. Concrete
housing and flooring are cheap insurance.
Success with the grunters depends on
feeding. The ration must be balanced
and based on knowledge of the feed-
stuffs. The ratio of albuminoids (pro-
tein) to carbohydrates and fats in a
balanced ration for pigs should be 1 to 4.
If the ratio is narrow —say, 1 to 3 —by
the time the pig consumes enough feed
to obtain its quota of carbohydrates there
will be an excess of one-third of the pro-
tein intake. If, however, the ratio is too
wide—say, 1 to B—the8 —the pig will not obtain
enough protein.
The following is an analysis of lead-
ing feedstuffs:
Carbo-
Protein, hydrates, Fat,
Per 1001 b. p.c. p.c. p.c. Ratio.
Wheat 10.7 64.3 1.2 1 : 61-
Peas 20.2 50.4 1.7 1 : 2\
Oats 9.0 48.4 3.4 1:6
Maize 7.5 67.3 3.2 1 : 10
Linseed cake .. 28.0 40.1 2.8 1 : 14
Bran 11.7 39.2 2.7 1:4
Pollard 11.1 48.7 3.0 1:5
Lucerne (green) 3.4 12.2 0.5 1:4
Lucerne (hay) .. 11.36 39.0 1.2 1: 3|
Clovers (green).. 2.9 10.4 0.6 1:4
Skim milk 4.15 4.5 0.05 1: 1
On the basis that each unit of pro-
tein is worth 2d., carbohydrates 2-3 d.
and fat 2d., the actual feeding value
of the feedstuffs would be roughly as
follows:
Per Bushel.
Wheat 3/4
Peas 2/10i
Oats 1/10|
Maize 3/9|
Per Ton.
Linseed cake £9/5/6
Bran £4/10/10
Pollard £5/0/10
Lucerne (green) £l/9/8
Lucerne (hay) £4/15/4
Clovers (green) . £l/6/5
Per Gallon.
Skim milk Id.
At present wheat is worth more than
3s. 4d. per bushel on the farm. Other
substitutes must therefore be found of
the same relative value as wheat at 3s. 4d.
It takes 41b. of wheat to make lib.
increase in weight. Thus, on the above
basis, each lib. increase would cost
2 2-3 d. If wheat were 55., or other feed-
stuffs were on that relative basis, the in-
crease would cost 4d. per pound—leav-
ing, no margin for profit.
To assure profits, pig-raising should
be run in conjunction with dairying, be-
cause of the definite value of the skim
milk. Home-grown green feeds—lucerne
or clovers for preference—are essential.
Skim milk has a very narrow ratio, and
as green feeds are also on the narrow
side the cereals fed should be wide so
as to balance the ration.
The following would be a suitable
balanced daily ration for a dozen pigs
making a total live-weight of 10001 b.:
Skim milk, 10 gallons 10d.
Wheat, 51b 3.3 d.
Maize, 151 b 11.5 d.
Green lucerne, 301 b. 5.2 d.
30d.
The daily gain in weight should be 111 b.
overall.
If wheat were ss. and other feedstuffs
relative, the daily cost of the above
ration would be 3s. 9d. So the profit
would come through skim milk (other-
wise a waste product) and from home-
grown green feed. Where neither is
available, the selection of feedstuffs must
be undertaken with care, both as regards
cost and nutritive ratio, keeping in mind,
too, that for every 1001 b. live-weight
pigs require about 31b. dry-weight of
feedstuffs (water-free) daily.
Every pig-raiser should work to a
standard table of feedstuffs.
Tell It to Ripley.
“Pappamosca”: The N. S. Wales
Statistician has issued figures which show
that for the year ended March 31, 1936,
there were 5/735,681 acres under crop
in this State. Of this total, 4,076,005 acres
were under wheat, 713,401 acres under
lucerne and green fodders, 279,000 acres
under oats. The remaining 657,653 acres
cover the whole of the potato, maize,
barley, tobacco, sugar, minor grain, wine,
fruit and market-garden industries—this
in a State where there is a mild winter
and good coastal rainfall, export organ-
isation and millions of head of stock.
Even Mr. Aberhart’s province of
Alberta (Canada), where the long winters
know temperatures 50deg. below zero
and out of which produce has to be car-
ried hundreds of miles to the seaboard
for export, has 15,000,000 acres under
cultivation, though it is 55,000 sq. miles
less in area than N. S. Wales. And the
Argentine, one-third the size of Aus-
tralia, has 60,000,000 acres under culti-
vation, or three times as much as the
Commonwealth.
Citrus Planting.
“Cockyson”: March and April are
good months in which to transplant
citrus-fruit trees. A showery day after
the ground has had a good soaking is
the best planting time. Care should be
taken to plant firmly, stamping down the
soil about the. roots.
Cut away twisted and close-growing
roots with sharp secateurs. The crown
of the tree should also receive attention ;
cut back down-hanging and overbalanc-
ing limbs.
“Dormant” trees showing no indica-
tion of new leaf-growth should be used.
Transplanting when young leaf growth
in under way often means the death of
the tree.
Hints for the Farm.
“Questo”: When planting citrus trees
on land where there is a clay sub-soil,
place a sheet of old iron or a large stone
directly beneath the taproot. This
turns the root and prevents it from
reaching the clay. In Europe the. prac-
tice is centuries old.
“Stump Jump”: To ball a horse with-
out a gag, have the animal held by an
attendant with a headstall and light rope,
grasp the middle of the tongue with one
hand and pull it gently to one side,
against the teeth, then slip the other
hand, with the ball “palmed,” along the
tongue’s upper surface, and place the
ball well in the hollow at the back of
the tongue. Keep the hand central
throughout, to avoid the teeth.
“Salmon Gums”: To throw a light
down a dark well in the daytime, use
two mirrors, one about 9in. square, the
other slightly larger. Focus the sun’s
reflections from the larger mirror on to
the smaller one, and direct its reflection
down the well. The same method may
be used to look through a section of an
underground drain.
“Saddle-flap”: Tell “Saddle Massager”
(B. 17/3/’37) that castor oil is 100 per
cent, for saddles if it is rubbed over
afterwards with the white of an egg.
This results in a lasting and high-shining
polish, harmless to trousers. Neatsfoot
oil on girths, though.
“Salmon Gums”: To form a firebreak
around a sheep paddock, sow an extra-
heavy dressing of super, for about six
yards inside the fence. That strip comes
away quickest and the sheep concentrate
on it, keeping the grass down, until it be-
comes a beaten paid.
“Bull-ant Bill”: Time the Vic. embargo
on healthy Queensland cattle was
removed. An efficient Queensland Stock
Dept, takes special care to prevent any
diseased stock from reaching the N.S.W.
border, and N.S.W. takes drastic pre-
cautions to prevent diseased stock from
entering, subjecting all entrants to
dipping and examination. Yet Victoria
refuses to allow Queensland cattle to
cross its borders unless they have been
detained for three months in N.S.W. It
is an obvious contravention of the letter
and spirit of Section 92, and cannot be
explained away by any excuse of protect-
ing the health of local stock.


:•>
% . 4.
=V X '
**V &
HI
MONEY
DISCOVERER OF
These are the
Benefits BIDOM AK
Brings to YOU.
1. —Ends Mineral Starvation by
providing ferrum, calcium,
potassium, sodium, phos-
phates, glycerophosphates
and sucrose.
2. —Gives you a good appetite.
3. —Brings sweet sleep.
4. —Strengthens nerves.
5. —Relieves stomach upsets.
6. — Builds energy, “pep” and
endurance.
7. —Clears out body wastes from
every cell of the body by
increasing the amount of
oxygen in the blood stream.
8. —Creates rich, red blood, new
healthy nerve cells, and
nerve fluid.
9. —Makes you feel well all over.
10. —Safe to take and nice, too.
Read these Letters
for Real Conviction.
Child's Nerves in Shocking
State
Balladoran, N.S.W.,
sth October, 1936.
Douglas Drug Co.
My little boy had gastric ’flu at the age
of 2 years, and it left his nerves in a shock- j
ing state. He was irritable, cranky and had
sleepless nights, also no appetite. I was
almost worried out of my mind, as 1 had tried
several tonics and prescriptions recommen-
ded by different advisers which were of no
avail. This last winter he developed ’flu
again and for 3 weeks he was just unbear-
able. 1 happened to glance at your adver-
tisement in the “Sydney Morning Herald ”
which had a wonderful testimonial. 1 de-
cided at once to give “Bidomak” a trial, and
was delighted with the sudden change with
just a few doses. My little boy has had
one bottle and a half of “Bidomak,” and he
looks the picture of health and he is enjoy-
ing life. You can use this letter in any way
you wish, and I’m sure anyone seeking the
help cannot go wrong with “Bidomak.”
( Signed) Mrs. G. F. McGarity.
Amazing Recovery from
Nervous Breakdown
Preston, Victoria,
26th May, 1936.
The Douglas Drug Company.
Dear Sirs, —l wish to tell you that three
years ago I received a serious accident which
upset my nerves to a very bad state.
Then again two years later I was slightly
hurt, but this last accident brought on a bad
nervous breakdown.
One day a friend told me of “Bidomak”
—“lt may do you good, as l see by the
testimonials it’s done hundreds of cases some
good.”
I bought three bottles and have had the
most wonderful of all tonics.
Since taking this tonic I have never missed
a day from business, whereas I was away
for months on end. Also seeking health in
different holiday resorts, spending extra
money when a few shillings would have
done.
( Signed) T. A. L.
Benefits Guaranteed
OR YOU PAY NOTHING
So many nerve sufferers have obtained immediate
relief from BIDOMAK that if you do not benefit
from the first bottle we will refund your money
within 14 days of purchase on its return, nearly
empty, to the Douglas Drug Co. Thus we
guarantee you positive relief or you pay nothing.
BIDOMAK
iohe Tonic of the Century
Makes Amazing Guarantee of
Benefit to Nervy, Run-down People
Do you feel run down, “nervy,” depressed?
Is work an effort and play a bore?
Do you snap at trifles, and become irritated at the slightest provocation?
Are you subject to headaches or digestive upsets?
Answer “yes” to even one of these questions and nine times out of ten you will
be suffering from “Mineral Starvation”—the basic cause to-day of nervous and
constitutional disorders.
But don’t think you need stay that way.' Instead of snapping people’s heads off,
you can face life with vigor and good fellowship, win new popularity, make
friends, hold them and not only feel better, but look better, too.
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
So say thousands who have taken “BIDOMAK,”
the Tonic of the Century. “BIDOMAK” is guaran-
teed to improve your health, or you may have your
money back.
Why Bidomak Does Good so Quickly
The strain and bustle of modern life, worry, responsibility,
too-hard work, study, or over active emotions drain from
the system vital mineral salts, ferrum, calcium, sodium,
potassium, phosphates, glycerophosphates and sucrose. These
are not restored quickly enough by the ordinary food supply.
Their loss causes us to sicken and suffer, and a leading
physician says that a complete absence of mineral salts would
cause death within one month.
Another research worker points out that a lack of minerals
also means lack of vitamins. He says “Lacking vitamins,
the system can make some use of minerals, but lacking
minerals vitamins are useless.”
Thus the necessity for taking BIDOMAK, which is a mineral
food supplement, becomes apparent, for BIDOMAK provides
the natural food minerals in a pre-dissolved liquid form, so
that they may be easily assimilated by a run-down system.
Bidomak Benefits Every Cell in Your Body
First it clears out body wastes from every cell of the body so that its
valuable mineral foods may be assimilated....
Creates rich, red blood, new, healthy nerve cells, and nerve fluid. . . .
Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum, calcium, potassium,
sodium, phosphates, glycerophosphates, and sucrose. . . .
311108 V 13 9


Short Story
Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
\ Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
DiRECTORS-James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; VVm. A. Jolly, Esq. C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S Wales,
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banging business^
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulleth'i
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in fifing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, journalistic and office
experience, wants part-time work with small
monthly or weekly magazine.—5199.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
wants typing w0rk.—5196.
Words of “The Wild Colonial 80y.”—5187.
To buy copy of Artemus Ward —His Book.
—5182.
Information Sought.
(1) Detailed scores of the innings of 600
runs made by the Australians in a Test match
during the M.C.C. 1924-25 tour ? (2) Details
of the English bowling averages for that
innings ? —5151.
(1) The match was played at Melbourne Jan.
I, 2,3, 5,6, 7, 8.
Australia —First Innings.
H. L. Collins, c. Strudwick, b. Tate .. 9
W. Bardsley, c. Strudwick, b. Gilligan .. 19
A. J. Richardson, run out 14
W. H. Ponsford, b. Tate 128
J. M. Taylor, run out 72
V. Y. Richardson, run out 138
C. Kelleway, c. Strudwick, b. Gilligan 32
A. E. Hartkopf, c. Chapman, b. Gilligan .. 80
J. M. Gregory, c. Gilligan, b. Tate .... 44
W. Oldfield, not out 34
A. Mailey, 1.b.w., b. Douglas 1
Sundries 29
Total 600
(2) English bowling:
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
M. Tate .... 45 10 142 3
J. Douglas ..19.5 0 95 1
R. Tyldesley.. 35. 3 130 0
A. Gilligan .. 26 1 114 3
J. W. Hearne 13 1 69 0
F. Woolley ..11 3 26 0
* * * *
What is meant by a “Torrens title”? —5074.
A simple form of land transference. Under
“old system title,” before an owner of land
could dispose of it he had to produce a mass
of documents dating back to the original grant.
Under “Torrens” title, which is now in force
in all the Australian States, this mass of evi-
dence is consolidated in one document, the
“certificate of title.” “Old system” titles,
of which a considerable number still exist, may
be converted into “Torrens.” A title under
this Act is practically indefeasible and an assur-
ance fund protects titleholders from the risk
of errors.
* * * *
Particulars regarding novelists Mary Mit-
chell and Kate O’Brien ? —4979.
Mary Mitchell was born at Melbourne,
daughter of Edward Mitchell, K.C., and was
educated in Australia and in Europe. In 1921
she trained as a secretary at the Women’s
Institute, London, and, returning to Australia
in 1923, was for some years assistant sec. to
the Red Cross. Her first book, A Warning to
Wantons, was published in 1934; Pendulum
Swing, appeared a little later, and Maidens,
Beware! in 1936. Her address is Punt-road,
South Yarra, Melbourne. (2) Kate O’Brien
was born at Waterford, Ireland, and is now
a school-teacher in England. She wrote With-
out My Cloak and Mary Lavelle. Her pub-
lisher is William Heinemann, 99 Great Russell-
street, London, W.C.I.
*' * * *
What method is employed to take a plaster
cast of a face? —4683.
The face is first treated with olive or other
non-irritating oil, then covered with successive
coatings of warmed wax, paraffin being one of
the best. The first coating must be placed on
very carefully to avoid depressing or altering
the form of the features. A broad soft brush
serves for laying on the wax, coat after coat
being added until the whole is thick enough to
handle when dry; paraffin dries quickly and is
very hard. When quite dry, the mask is re-
moved carefully and set in a box of sand so
that there is no strain on it while acting as a
mould. Freshly-mixed plaster of Paris is then
poured in and left to dry. The mould usually
separates from the plaster easily, and can be
used again or may be broken or melted off.
A living model should not have the nostrils
covered during waxing.
* * * *
In one drawer only of my desk, which is
made of oak, papers turn pink. Cause and
cure ? —5152.
Difficult to suggest a cause without an exami-
nation ; the wood may be of a different variety
from the rest of the desk, or there may be
a piece of paper giving off a slightly litmus
action under the influence of seaside damp, or
chemicals may have been stored in the drawer
at some time. Remove colored papers, wash
out the drawer with hot water, and air until
dry in a breezy spot, but not in direct sunshine.
If this does not remedy, paint inside of drawer
with cleffi- brushing lacquer or turpentine.
* * * *
What are acknowledged to be the six best
books written? —slB3.
Most Englishmen would give the Bible and
the collection of Shakspeare’s plays and poems
pride of place, but after that there would be no
chance of unanimity. No world plebiscite has
been or can be undertaken. Each nationality
has its great classics, religious and otherwise,
and on a world vote the Koran might have the
largest number of supporters. A German would
want to include Goethe, a Frenchman Voltaire,
an Italian Dante among the authors represented.
There are no “acknowledged six best books.”
* * * *
(1) Can a private individual import gramo-
phone records from other countries than Great
Britain into Australia ? I have a liking for organ
music, and the number of records by H.M.V.,
Columbia, etc., is limited. For example, none
of Mendelssohn’s organ sonatas is listed. Per-
haps Germany or some of the other European
countries have made recordings. Are there any
catalogues available in Australia ? (2) Are all
the better-class recordings sold through Eng-
lish cos. ? (3) Are there any American cata-
logues of classical or light classical music ?
5135.
(1) Yes; any make except the Victor. Cata-
logues of English, French and German records
may be obtained from J. Stanley Johnston,
Ltd., Q.V. Buildings, George-street, Sydney,
who can also procure any titles required. (2)
H.M.V., Columbia, Parlophone, Regal and
Decca, all of which press records locally, do
not permit importation of the same English discs
except through an accredited dealer. (3) Conti-
nental recordings (Polydor, Telefunken, Odeon)
may be imported privately or through a dealer.
(3) Only American catalogue available is that of
the Victor Co., but the records, as stated, can-
not be imported. Advise you to get Encyclo-
pcedia of Recorded Music, published by the
“Gramophone” magazine, 10a Soho-square,
London, W.l. English price, 145., post free.
* * * *
(1) Can you give any information or recom-
mend any books on dual personality ? (2)
Would loss of memory, injury to brain or
nerves (not amounting to insanity ) influence
of drug or anaesthetic, or hypnotism be any
defence in a criminal action ? (3) Beyond the
present scope of psycho-analysis, is there at
present any method of modifying personality
and memory? (4) Is any work being done that
can give any hope along this line in the future ?
—5094.
(1) It is certain that concurrent activity of
entirely separate mental processes may occur
in the one individual. Observed phenomena
show the existence side by side, in one brain,
of two or more mental systems so disconnec-
ted and so highly developed as to be, in effect,
separate persons. A classical example of
multiple personality is described in Morton
Prince’s book, The Dissociation of a Person-
ality. (2) Such influences have frequently been
cited as underlying causes of criminal con-
duct, but every case must be decided on the
facts. (3) and (4) Not certain what you mean
by “methods of modifying personality”;
modern treatment would appear to aim at the
integration of personality rather than at dis-
sociation.
* * * *
(1) Difference between alternating and direct
current? (2) What is meant by the frequency
of an alternating current? (3) How can an
alternating-current generator be distinguished
from a direct-current generator? —s2oo.
(1) Direct current travels continuously in
the one direction, from positive to negative,
whereas alternating current is continually chang-
ing its direction. (2) The number of complete
cycles that occur in one second. A cycle in-
cludes the time between the start of the rise of
current in one direction and the end of the fall
in the other direction. (3) An A.C. generator
has two brass slip-rings mounted at one end of
the shaft, and the brushes are placed one be-
side the other. A D.C. generator has a com-
mutator consisting of a large number of in-
sulated copper segments mounted on one end
of the shaft and the brushes are spaced at an
angle, usually of 90deg. or 180 deg. from one
another.
* * * *
(1) Is it possible to transmit Morse code and
telephony signals simultaneously over a metallic
telephone circuit? (2) If so, how is it done?
(3) Can a single line earth return circuit be used
to send and receive Morse signals simultane-
ously?—slB6. *
(1) Yes; if a sounder is used for Morse re-
ception and if both wires are correctly bal-
anced. (2) By balancing the sounder current in
both wires so that the telephone current re-
mains unaffected. This can be done by utilising
both wires to convey the sounder current to
the receiving end and an earth return to return
the current to the sending end, whereas one wire
conveys the telephone current to the receiving
end and the other wire returns it to the send-
ing end. (2) Yes, by a system called “Duplex”
telegraphy.
* * * *
(1) What are the uses of carbonate of potas-
sium ? (2) Does it contain acid ? (3) Would
it be harmful mixed with whiting and soap in
cleaning silver? (4) Are salt and carbonate of
soda added to a cleaning mixture harmful? (5)
Which of the following, when dissolved in
water, has the best drying qualities: Epsom
salts, alum, washing soda, tannin? —sl4s.
(1) When purified this is the “pearl ash” of
commerce, used for making soft soaps, flint
glass and caustic potash; also in drugs and
chemicals and in laboratories for the distin-
tegration of silicates. (2) No. (3) No, but is
unnecessary with soap and of no particular
value for the purpose. (4) Not harmful, but
rather an odd mixture of no special use. (5)
You do not state the purpose or method of
use. In a weak solution the water would
predominate and all would be alike for practi-
cal purposes; in a heavy solution crystallisation
would take place in the first three, but the
tannin belongs to another group and would
not show up. Speaking generally, alum may
be called the “dryest.”
* * *
I propose installing 10 32-volt lamps in a
homestead. (1) Number of accumulator cells
required ? (2) Current taken ? (3) How to de-
termine the current taken by each and all 10
lamps? (4) Dynamo voltage? (5) Relation-
ship between voltage and candle-power of a
lamp ? —5193.
(1) Sixteen two-volt cells. (2) Depends upon
the power taken by each lamp. A 25-watt lamp
will take 0.78 amps., total current taken being
7.8 amps. (3) Multiply the voltage (32) by the
current taken by each lamp (0.78). To deter-
mine the total power, multiply the power taken
by each lamp by the number of lamps in actual
use. (4) 38-42 volts. (5) There is no relation.
The candle-power depends upon the type of
lamp and its power. For gas-filled lamps,
allow about 1 c.p. per watt.
* * * *
How to preserve or pickle olives? —5161.
The fruit should be almost fully grown, but
not allowed to ripen or harden, and should be
picked while still green in color. Wipe well,
drop into water containing one level dessert-
spoon of salt to every quart and stahd for 24
hours in a cool place. Make a pickling mix-
ture of fine white or brown vinegar containing
to every quart one teaspoon salt, half-teaspoon
pepper, two teaspoons sugar, a pinch of all-
spice and six cloves, and heat sufficiently to dis-
solve all the ingredients or bring out their
flavors. There are now two methods which
may be chosen to taste: (1) Let the pickle
stand to become cool, pack the olives out of
the salt water into jars, and pour the strained
mixture over them to cover; seal when cold.
(2) Drain the olives out of the salted water,
drop them into the pickle liquid, and simmer
gently until the fruit can be pierced by a
knitting needle. Gather the olives in a strainer
from the pan in which they have been cooking,
remove all broken or damaged ones for im-
mediate eating, pack the whole fruit into jars
and pour over them the strained liquor in which
they were cooked. Let cool and then seal.
Store in a cool, dry place. There are other
methods and quantities. A common Euro-
pean method is to soak the fruit for a few
hours in water slightly flavored with baking
soda, drain, pack in jars and cover with brine;
cover and store in a cool place.
How should sheepskins be washed and
dressed for making pliable rugs? —sl44.
Skins should be fresh; the wool is liable to
slip from old skins. Soak in water contain-
ing a little disinfectant, such as carbolic or
lysol, and leave for 24 hours. Drain; lay out
on a table and with a blunt knife scrape free
of flesh, fat and impurities. Clean the wool
before tanning. Dissolve 4oz. shredded soap
and 4oz. washing soda to every gallon of water
and make it hot. Lay the skins out on a
sloping table and work the soapy water well
into the wool with a cloth; pour some over the
wool, and work with brush and cloth until the
dirt is loosened. Rinse with warm water con-
taining a little ammonia, and scour again and
again until clean, using plenty of warm rinsing
water; drain and tan as quickly as possible,
as wet skins deteriorate if left. To tan, mix
thoroughly lib. powdered alum and lib. fine
salt, rub into the flesh side of the skin, fold
down the middle, and leave until next day.
Repeat on the following two days; on the third
day hang up to dry. If very stiff when dry,
rub neatsfoot oil in with a blunt stick, but
not enough to make sticky. Trim round the
edges and brush out the wool. The mats last
longer and are softer if lined at the back with
sacking or floor felt.
* * * *
Recipe for waterproofing heavy calico to be
used as a car cover, one containing paraffin
wax preferred? —4761.
Assemble 30 parts Japanese wax, 22\ parts
paraffin, 15 parts resin soap, 35 parts starch
and 5 parts of a five-per-cent alum solution—
all by weight. Melt the first three ingredients
in a boiler, then add the,starch, then the alum;
stir vigorously. While still hot and fluid, im-
merse the calico and hang up by corners to
drain and dry. If too large for immersion, lay
the sheet out flat and paint on the solution
as hot as possible, rubbing in well.
* * * *
What is the distinguishing feature of the
Double Geneva stamp, what is its appearance
and what is it worth? —5189.
A cantonal stamp issued in 1843, it was sold
in pairs and the face value of each stamp was
five centimes (id.). The design, which is in
green, represents the arms of Geneva. The
value of a pair of these stamps is about £l5O,
and a single copy runs into about £3O. There
are forgeries on the market.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrase:
“Justum est bellum, quibus necessarium; et pia
arma, quibus nulla nisi in armis relinquitur
opes” ? —5lBl.
“To those to whom war is necessary it is
just; and a resort to arms is righteous in those
to whom no means of assistance remain except
by arms.”
Does Anybody Know?
Design and sizes for a trap to catch sparrows
in a garden, and method of baiting and set-
ting same? —5062.
Information Supplied.
4928—1 n answer to a query as to the words
of Bach’s chorale “Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desir-
ing ” it was stated that these probably had not
been translated. Allan and Co., music pub-
lishers Melbourne, forward a copy ot the
chorale, arranged as anthem (4d.), in which
English words, by Martin Jahn are given
Whether these are a translation of the original
German words to which Bach wrote the music
is, however, doubtful.
Brief Answers.
J. 1.: All large Sydney department stores
have good departments dealing with that. De-
scribe your requirements... .A.W.: England,
January 1; Australia, August 1....R.L.: The
genus Bougainvillcea was described in 1789 and
named in honor of De Bougainville, a French
navigator (1729-1811). The common species
Bougainvillcea spectabilis is a native of Brazil,
but is now cultivated in most tropical and semi-
tropical areas. In colder parts, such as Europe
and parts of North America, it is grown under
glass... .M.L.: The life of almond-trees de-
pends very much on the conditions they are
grown under and whether attacked by white-
ants, etc. Under favorable conditions, say
30 to 40 years in N. S. Wales. The average
yield in N.S.W. is about 151 b. per tree. Effec-
tive bearing should be reached in six to seven
years and full bearing in nine to ten years
E.W.: “British Australian and New Zealander,”
414 Australia House, Strand, London, W.C.2
(weekly, 6d.)... .T.D.: Write Australian Feather
Mills, 40a Glebe-street, Glebe, or Hygienic
Feather Mills, Ltd., 22 Chelmsford-avenue,
Botany... .D.Y.: The remark of the Governor
of North Carolina to the Governor of South
Carolina is said to have been made during a
discussion on State boundaries —a dry sub-
ject... .G.H.M.: Most large pastoral com-
panies prefer to train their own staff, but
vacancies sometimes occur for trained men.
Try Australian Estates Co., 56 Young-street;
Scottish Australian Co., 72 Phillip-street; N.Z.
and Australian Land Co., 4 O’Connell-street;
and Aust. Mercantile Land and Finance Co.,
4 Bligh-street—all Sydney; Australian Agricul-
tural Co., Newcastle W.N.: The late John
Bede Dailey had three novels published, Only
the Morning, No Armour and Max Flambard.
... .J. 8.: The change should be made by deed
poll, which any solicitor would draft for a
small fee. It would be necessary to advertise
the change and have the deed registered by the
Registrar of Births. In the case of a person
who is of age (over 21) no consent of parents
is required and the deed would take effect from
the date of registration R.M.W.: Write
Commonwealth Statistician, Federal Bureau of
Census and Statistics, Canberra, F.C.T
R. 8.8.: A letter care of Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, will find him....E.T.: Full particu-
lars are available from the Technological
Museum, Harris-street, Sydney... .A.F.: The
two nuggets mentioned were found in August,
1872, at Broomfield Gully, near Creswick
(Vic.), at a depth of 100 ft. by L. H. Carter
and party... .W. 8.5.: The Australian Cup was
first run on a Saturday at the autumn meet-
ing of 1931, when the meeting was reduced
from four to three days. It continued a three-
day meeting until this year, when the commit-
tee reverted to four days, but decided to con-
tinue running the Australian Cup on the last
Saturday of the meeting... .G.W.: The great-
est recorded distance a parachutist has fallen
from an aircraft before his parachute opened
is 17,500 ft., which occupied lmin. 27sec. This
drop was performed by John Tranum in
Europe in 1933, with an Irvin parachute
G. : Thoroughly saturating the posts and
woodwork of the fowlhouse with creosote will
assist in keeping ticks and lice away for a
time. The only effective way is to spray the
house with kerosene emulsion when the pests
are noticed... .E.H.: Communicate with the
Commonwealth Mint, Melbourne; also Francis
H. Snow, Ltd., Adelaide. Either will probably
quote you a price based on the London market
for refined silver about the date of delivery,
less cost of realisation... .H.S.: Malachite,
a green basic carbonate of copper, is of fairly
widespread occurrence, but most of the hard
variety suitable for cutting for gem purposes
was obtained from Burra, S.A. The Burra
mines have been closed for many years now,
and it is doubtful if any of the material is
available for export H.V.: Awaba, among
the Heidelberg (Vic.) tribe, means “a plain
surface”... .L.M.C.: Wallaroi (sometimes spelt
Wallaroy) means “a mountain.” Cannot trace
Corangoree; nearest would appear to be Coo-
ranga—“come on”—although the name may
possibly derive from Korangi, “kangaroo”;
Karangi, “duck” (also given as the negative); or
Coorang, “snake” X.Z.Y.: Lowan, in Vic.
abo. dialect, means “mallee hen” E.S.:
Makepilly does not appear on any list, but is
probably aboriginal, and may be derived from
Makoro, “fish” E.H.A.: Cannot trace
Cujong; aboriginal words similar in sound are
Kooyong, “native camp,” and Currong, “silver
wattle” L.J.T.: In 1930, at the Melbourne
Motordrome, Hubert Opperman did 100 miles
in lhr. 39min. 38sec., motor-paced, a shade
over a mile a minute W.J.M.C.: Taree
(Manning River, N.S.W.) is 248 miles from
Sydney; population about 5500. Kempsey
(population a little over 5100) is the chief town
on the Macleay River (N.S.W.), 314 miles from
Sydney... .W.C.8.: Write Commonwealth
Statistician, Federal Bureau of Census and
Statistics, Canberra, F.C.T H. 8.: Austra-
lian Aboriginal Place Names, compiled by
James Tyrrell (2s. 6d.)... .M. 8.: J. L. Cuth-
bertson, born Scotland, 1851; came to Aus-
tralia, 1874; was senior classical master at
Geelong Grammar School from 1875 to 1896;
died in 1910. His Barwon Ballads was pub-
lished in Melbourne in 1893... .W.W.T.: The
published price of Hardy Wilson’s Old Colonial
Architecture in N.S.W. and Tasmania was
£lO 10s W.H.8.: List of books on book-
binding has been posted G. 8.: Winner of
the King’s Prize at Bisley for 1936 was Sergeant
L. D. Busschau, South Africa, with 272.
Runners-up were Sergeant J. E. Johnson, South
Africa (271); Lieut.-Col. R. Bodley, South
Africa (270); Bronze Medal, Guardsman D. S.
Frazer, Canada (103). Address of Busschau
not known; try care of Department of De-
fence, Pretoria, Transvaal, South Africa...-
P.L.A.: Eight One-act Plays, published by
Harrap, and obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney; 7s. 6d R.H.T.: See
the Australian Authors and Artists’ Handbook
(35.) P.A.V.: Communicate with the yacht's
owner, care of N.S.W. Royal Motor Yacht
Club, 21 Wunulla-road, Rose Bay, Sydney—
(Many others mailed.)


FRt Data
in Interesting Courses.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
’ llley st - ■ s > -,ITh .T- OF JOURNALISM
Fiy sb errs.
WHITE,
16/6
Post, 2/- N.S.W.; 3/6 Q’land ancl Vic.
Made in Light, Cool, yet Strong Netting
with Substantial Fringe.
BLiUEj
18/9
KINGFISHCR
STATION
STOCK WHIPS
' KANGAROO RIGHT■ THROO
AND
\STEEL LINED HANDLES.
No. B—lo-plait8—10-plait Handle, 7ft. x 10-plait
Thong 19/6
No. 8A —10-plait Handle, Bft. x 10-plait
Thong 31/-
Etc.
Tost, 1/3 N.S.W.; 2/- Q’land and Vic.
WHITE FOR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER t STEVENSON ltd
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
m
m
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney l .
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
£Z-
r.f
*«P(
r~
X
x
X
X
s
&
9
Hank of New South Wales Travellers Cheques
provide a safe and convenient method of meeting
travel expenses.
These cheques are issued in amounts of £2, £5
and £lO and bear a specimen of the traveller’s
signature for identification purposes.
They can be cashed at any of the Bank’s 788
branches in Australia, New Zealand, the Pacific
Islands and London and its 7,500 agents and
correspondents throughout the world.
The Bank’s Travellers Cheques are also accepted
by the principal shipping and railway companies,
hotels, stores, tourist offices, etc., throughout the
world.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGH
ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK
, \
m
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
P C.: Unmetrical and ill-rhymed effusions,
both of them... .J.L.H.: For bathos “Paths
Around Town” would take a lot of beating
R.G.R.: Obvious S.H.C.: Couldn’t
swallow that “ionised meat”... .J.M.R.: A
bit anasmic H.R.: Nothing new in it....
S.R.H.: Not for us; but you should be able to
place them G.A.McD.: Can’t make head or
tail of it S.C.: Have met the type before.
—Acco: Your direst forebodings about the
w.p.b. confirmed M.McD.: Off our beat,
—E.J.C.: A little tired of hate as a story
motif C.H.F.: Lacks polish; anyhow, ghost
yarns are two a penny... .M.R.: “The Lesson
of Love” interesting for its psychology; for
instance, “There are girls—and girls”....
,x• tv B ... B ,
L.i.: liy writing about something you know;
'no favor here for machine-made p10t5...:
K.W.-C.: Wouldn't fit here... .H.8.L.: No
r u-ru r r. me •.
corner here tor “The Will” J.R.: Stnk-
■ . . „ , , . . T T;., -
mgly decorated manuscript, “Why I Didn’t
„.,, J ■ ,
Mairy the Widow, received, and reason noted
■ „„„ , . . .. ’ . , rir
m case were ever in the same boat V.H.:
, e « . , r .1 c 1.
No place for stirring tale of that marvellous
, ~ _ _
body—the Australian surfmen F. 0.5.:
T 1,,„ p t . • - , , .
Ihin R.T.: Not interested in the romance
o „„ „ . . . .
ot an old roue and the fair missionary....
yep . -kt • ... . ,*
K.F.C.: Nor in your young man high in the
World of Literature, but low in the esteem of
ttv . . . . , *,,
many Well enough done, but its
r „ o r, ... ?u-
not tor us E.W.: Both thin; they might
C 1 •, „ tv xt t xt e
suit a flapper paper D.N.L.: No use for
„ ~,,
a dissertation on the common cold
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
C.J.R.: It just dawdles along 1.D.: Don’t
doubt its originality. A quatrain like this —
Let our golden sun shine always
On mountain ridge with shining sheen,
And rivers, like a shining ribbon,
Roll o’er flats of verdant green—
couldn't be cribbed from anywhere... .8.5.:
Thanks for the compliments, but the Red Page
would take on a deeper tinge if we printed
them... .E.C.H.: You haven’t wasted our time;
we liked it well enough, but not quite enough.
. ...W.McA.: One more for the pile....
E.McE.: Couldn’t make much of it....
P.T.McD.: Poetical, but the metaphor is
strained to breaking-point A.G.: “Me
stomick turns er somerset.” Ours was simi-
larly affected before we had struggled through.
... .E.L.: We gather that you dislike croon-
ing. But all those musical terms don’t make
readable verse of your indictment.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.P.: Open-air meeting or a tombstone-maker’s
yard?.... W.L.: Has that jest only just reached
your part of the world? N.S.: You have an
eye for composition, but your lines are heavy and
jagged F.8.C.: A scratchy effort and a
worn-out gag P. 8.: A full page? Not a
square inch E.W.M.: “Comic Cuts” style
and a childish joke... .M.F.: Two badly-drawn
heads and an insipid jest... .W.R.8.: The
shopwalker badly needs repairing, and his re-
tort is not a scrap amusing... .P. 8.: It must
be years since you had a good look at a horse.
A.W.G.: Try that attack on the Cold Tea
party on your pet barmaid H.C.: Wooden
enough to have strayed from a forestry exhi-
bition S.M.: Work too immature for pub-
lication T.A.: Nine-feet-high spinster and
ogre in background were refused admission....
W.W.: No use sending in a Show drawing
after Easter has gone... .R.DJ.: Depressing
piece of work A.N.S.: Found a place wait-
ing for it in the office morgue F.W.: An out-
size artistic atrocity... .B.B.: Faint signs of
promise. You should attend a life class E.T.:
Jester on the scaffold too gruesome... .M.J.K.:
Neatly done, but rather tame G.S.: We
have a machine-gun for persons who lift their
gags from The Bulletin N.C.: You outdo
Phil May in all that you leave out... .W.N.A.:
Nicely-drawn window; can’t say as much for
the Peeping Tom outside or the scarecrows
within J.H.: Thinking u.p a suitable punish-
ment for the next who turns in the hackneyed
“wfhter-draws-on” gag A.F.: Slight signs of
merit; work hard and try again D.R.:
You missed the target with the whole six
shots.
A MIXED GRILL.
“I am leaving my Government with-
out the slightest apprehension,” said
Lyons before setting out with his three
secretaries and his typist. “Apprehen-
sion” means—well, it has more than one,
meaning, and Joseph’s enemies will agree
with his friends that it is perfectly apt.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Although I had told
my mate about two bearded women on
a Bass Strait island he never quite be-
lieved me until one day, when walking
together there, we came on an elderly
dame who ran like a hare into a hut.
She had a full beard and sideboards as
strong as those of any old-time bullocky.
She and the other woman were sisters,
descendants of early sealers. In by-
gone years they had repeatedly turned
down remunerative offers from circus
proprietors, preferring an isolated exist-
ence on their windswept native island.
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: Very few of the grants
of land made to military officers
for services to the infant Australia
remain in possession of direct de-
scendants ; but there is at least one
instance—Jarvisfield, near Picton. As
recently mentioned in The Bulletin, it
was bestowed by Macquarie upon Major
Henry Colden Antill, grandfather of
Major-General John Macquarie. Antill,
lately dead. Its present “squire” is
Bull” Antill’s elder brother Harry, who
succeeded his father in possession of the
beautiful old place under the. shadow of
the Razorback. For fifty miles or so
on every side of Jarvisfield lie old grants
conferred upon distinguished colonists of
the period well over a century ago, but
I can’t recall another besides the Antill
holding that has been kept in the family.
* * * *
“Mitre Rock”: The Papuan who kept
a record of his wife’s infidelities with
knots on a string (B. 7/3/’37) was fol-
lowing a method of registration common
to his kind. Long ago a village constable
on the Opi River drowned an eminent
sorcerer. He explained to the R.M. that
he had done this because the deceased
had magicked to death various relatives
and friends of his, and he ticked off the
list by name, using a circle, of cord with
small bits of wood tied in at regular
intervals to represent the sorcerer’s vic-
tims. The R.M. embodied in his evidence
of the case the, story as told to him. In
due course the Supreme Court Judge, a
new man to the country, made much
of it in his report. The Administrator,
also a newchum, made, front-page stuff
of it in his annual report, and by this
time the story was getting far away from
the original. Then someone wrote it up
for a magazine with more frills. I last saw
it in a book of Papuan reminiscences by
a man who at that' time had never seen
the criminal or his district.
* * * *
“Verey Light”: In Colonel Montague
Cooke’s Clouds That Flee I came across
an item which goes to support “Light
Horse’s” statement (B. 10/3/’37) that
Allenby was anything but a “quiet, re-
served type.” The General had issued
an order prohibiting the wearing of
shorts by either officers or men when
mounted. Cooke had gone to a new
command which the, order had not yet
reached, and, wearing shorts, was riding
at the head of his officers on a recon-
naissance when Allenby spotted him.
He says he heard a roar from a car and
realised that it was meant for him, and
“in a trance I listened for five minutes
to General Allenby, whose language re-
minded me of our old friend Sir Charles
Tucker”—“Bloody” Tucker.
* * * *
“Billy Billy” remembers David Lind-
say:—
Somebody able to assemble all the facts
should write the life of Dave Lindsay. I saw
him once —just after Kurnalpi put itself on
the map in ’94. Massive, black-bearded, he
looked and was everything an Australian
should be. Learning of a food shortage at the
new rush Lindsay loaded his camel train with
everything Coolgardie could spare. Tobacco
had been non-existent for a week, with smokers
gouging out old pockets, drying tea leaves —
anything for a smoke. When Lindsay arrived
storekeepers offered practically any price for the
whole supply of weed —they could have sold
it again for almost its weight in gold. Lind-
say waved them aside, sounded a “roll up,”
ordered a queue to form, and, as the diggers
filed past, sold each man a plug at a price that
gave him the barest profit. On his return to
the Big Camp he carried three nuggets of
600 z., 50oz. and 300 z., handed to him as a
matter of course by diggers to leave at the
bank for them.


m
, / "'l
/• •
:
v am
m
„VS
A.
f ‘
Mmmm
Y f
The amazing public demand and acclaim for the
1937 Sterling AIR CELL Radio prove that these
remarkable receivers are the finest yet introduced
for the benefit and greater enjoyment of the Country
Listener. If you do not already know what Sterling
Air Cell Radio means to you, ask your local dealer
for a demonstration and full details of its advan-
tages.
THE RADIO Country Listeners Have Been Waking For
MODEL A4l3 —4-valve Broadcast Receiver,
£26/10/-.
MODEL A5l3 —5-valve Broadcast Receiver,
29 Guineas.
MODEL A 523 —5-valve Dual-wave Receiver,
£33/15/-.
MODEL A 723 —7-valve Dual-wave Receiver,
£39/15/-.
£7 additional in States other than N.S.W.
STERLING RADIO. LIMITED,
27-39 Abercrombie Street, Sydney.
Queensland Distributors:
TRACKSON BROS. PTY., LTD.,
1.57-159 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
STERLING AIR CELL RADIO is radio entertainment at
its best . . . battery-operated radio without the trouble
and expense of accumulator recharging. Just imagine,
1 2 months, and more, of perfect reception without haying
to disconnect an accumulator periodically. Yet this is
what a Sterling receiver offers you, and during that time
it requires no more attention than the
of ordinary drinking water to the EVEREADY AIR CEL .
You can use your Sterling Receiver continuously or only
occasionally, it makes no difference . . . you still have
1400 hours of actual use!
STERLING
Siruferized
AIR CELL
RADIO
GIVES YOU 140 0 HOURS of
Trouble' Free RECEPTION
WITHOUT ACCUMULATOR
RECHARGING.
THE “CLYDE” LOW-BOY CONSOLE,
Model A 523.
No. 12 of a series of articles on the old Australian boxers.
On January 23, 1888, Larry Foley came
out of his retirement to.box eight rounds
with Jack Burke, “the Irish Lad.”
The Bulletin didn’t like Burke, and
said so: “From the long-tailed banger
and tall glossy hat in which he jumped
ashore to the .desperate shark adventure
he met with, all was ‘ad.’ He turned dog
on his forefathers and declared himself
an American. When Peter Jackson was
trotted out to him he did not like the
look of the sable giant and declared that
it was infra dig for an American boxer
to meet a colored man —a piece of
bunkum in the face of the fact that Kil-
rain fought a desperate battle with God-
frey, an American black.
“It was then that Larry Foley, who
years ago had retired from active service
in the ring, stepped into the breach and
consented to meet the Englishman rather
than give him the further ‘ad.’ of saying
that a white man could not be found to
cope with him in N.S.W. Larry wrestled
manfully with the adipose tissue which
encumbered him, and at the Carington
Grounds he faced Burke with a broad
grin and a much-narrowed bingey.”
But “the fight was not worth descrip-
tion. Foley, if anything, had the best of
the first two rounds, but in the third
Burke took the lead, and at the termi-
nation Foley was a bit weak. He was
all right when the fourth was entered
upon, and from that out not a blow
worthy of the name was struck till time
was played out and the men shook hands.
“Burke’s showing with an old man was
of the poorest kind. If the performance
can be taken as any criterion of Yankee
and British form Peter Jackson could
sweep the world. Ten years ago Foley
would have knocked Burke out in a
couple of rounds.”
One of the onlookers was Phil May,
always an admirer of Foley, who made
the sketches here reproduced.
After the show with Burke, Foley re-
turned to his hotel and his hall and his
monopoly as matchmaker and promoter.
Some queer characters used to fre-
quent that old hall of Foley’s. As often
as not one oddity would entertain the
crowd more than the boxers did. Fie
would begin in a back seat, as cool as a
cucumber ; but as the fight progressed
his features would work as if he were in
convulsions, and he would gradually
make his way towards the combatants
until he was nearly at the ringside, with
his head poked through the ropes.
During a slack time in the boxing
world Foley had a brief career as actor.
He appeared as Charles the Wrestler in
a Dampier production of “As You Like
It.” When Orlando Dampier threw
Charles the gallery yelled “Schlenter,”
and demanded its money back. One
night, bowing to popular clamor, Charles
flattened Orlando out.
A Mace-Foley story that used to
be related appreciatively at Sydney
cabmen’s ranks. One night a cabby
who had picked up three fares had
words with them. Pulling up his
neddy he invited his passengers to
step down to the road and he’d
“put a head on” all three, one up and
one down. Two grinning worthies had
descended before Cabby had thought
better of it and said that he had been
misreported or something. The two were
Larry Foley and Jem Mace.
Sandy Ross figures often in the story
of Foley, who beat him twice. Much
the older man, he kept on fighting long
after Larry had hung up his gloves.
Ross was a party to an extraordinary
occurrence at the Sydney Olympic Club
in January, 1892. He had arranged to
fight a fellow named Richardson, and
was getting the father of a hiding when
his son Dick (“Young Sandy”) shouted
from the ringside: “Here, I’ll take the.
old man’s place” —and he did. After a
desperate encounter Richardson won on
a foul. Very few pugs have ever been
able to boast that they licked father
and son in the same ring.
Another old-timer for whom Foley had
a soft spot in his heart was Bill Sparkes,
whose fight with Nat Langham in 1847
is one of the classics of the English P.R.
Sparkes was a regular visitor to Foley’s
hall, and now and then he figured in a
sparring turn.
Opposition.
Foley’s hall (or “gym.,” as it was called)
occupied too valuable a site to become a
fixture in an expanding Sydney, and,
although Larry retained his supremacy as
instructor, others, envious of the money
he was making, came into the game on
the showman’s side.
By 1890 one Sam Matthews was run-
ning fights in opposition to Foley. Then a
certain Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club
came into the picture, and the Australian
Athletic Club converted the old Darling-
hurst skating-rink into a boxing hall,
putting on the Choynski-Fogarty fizzl ®
(“Reserved chairs, 205.; body of hall an
grandstand 10s.). dub lost heavly
on th.s enterpr.se and other.., andLar y
shook hands w,th htmselL He took a
lease of the old Ga., =ty Theatre,
was in later years to become the scene
of weekly fights but Foley Hagrrforo
short bouts and sparrl g
there for maritime stnke-rel. -f tunas,
Always a plucky, though not always a
successful speculator he now had many
lrons ' n ~ het . f ire ’ andbe “T. boxing
see what others could make or ooxmg
a t and a business. It didn t
amount tQ much with h is firm control
removed> the Game suffered in quality
and reputat i on . Nearly all the good men
had gone or were going to America, and
t h e others coming forward were far
below their standard. The larrikin was
becoming a pest. Half-trained men were
thrown into the ring to pound one an-
other unmercifully.
Without the
ropes . In swift sucession two boxers
were killed. Then came the scandal. of
the Griffo-Marshall brawl, at which
peaceful paying patrons were treated
muc h after the fashion of the holdup
merchants who operated in the U.S.A. at
a later period, and the black was obvi-
ously more terrified of the pushes tha
ot It wa “
before two bruisers could make a
match in Sydney without fear of being
™lsecuted-
-
- . . Retirement,
Fo y
This was no good to Foley, always
law-abiding character; and he took


Established
1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman) ; EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. YICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
_ London Office: 18 Birch in Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited; Barclay’s Bank Ltd •
National Provincial Bank, Ltd. ’ ' ’
Branches and Receiving Offices in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia
and at Canberra, Federal Capital Territory. Agents throughout the world. ’
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
WJJB!
t*
urr%r*
§wrAhfL *
w
H
%
b/r
r
in'
n
lasting farewell of the ring. For years
he had been a favorite with politicians,
and one, E. W. O’Sullivan —Owe’Sullivan
to The Bulletin —became his patron.
The big-hearted O’Sullivan had three pas-
sions—borrowing in London, scattering
public works about the landscape and
helping his friends
—a nd, becoming
Minister of Works,
he was able to
gratify all three.
When he went tra-
velling he often con-
trived to take Foley
with him, and he
gave Larry more
substantial evidence
of his friendship, as
witness the follow-
ing paragraph:
“Larry Foley,
having retired from
one branch of the
knocking-down pro-
fession, is now re-
garded as at the
head of another. He
is in charge of the
day-labor destruc-
tion of the buildings
on the block re-
sumed for the new
Sydney railway
station at Belmore
Park. These in-
clude the old Ben-
evolent Asylum, the
Convent of the
Good Samaritan,
the Female Refuge,
the Police Barracks,
the tramway sheds
and the old resi-
dence of the late
Inspector - General
McLerie. This is
Larry’s biggest un-
dertaking so far, and
he points with pride
to the stack of First
Fleet bricks, without
a ‘frog’ in one of
them.”
A Great
Teacher.
But the effect of
this complete with-
drawal was disas-
trous to Australian
boxing. Taught by
Jem Mace, the
greatest English
glove scientist of
the nineteenth cen-
tury, Foley passed
on his knowledge,
with such improve-
ments as sug-
gested themselves to him as a natural
fighter with a shrewd head and a firm
faith in speed, to Jackson, Hall, “Griffo”
and a multitude of others of less note.
And Jackson taught Fitzsimmons,
O’Donnell and Billy Smith, who were to
introduce and establish the Mace style
in the U.S.A. and, in effect, to teach
Americans how to beat Australians who
had never known Foley or Jackson.
Dooley was one of Foley’s first pupils.
Foley taught Jackson and Slavin how
to beat Dooley; then he showed rough
Joe Goddard —though Goddard was past
being made a scientific boxer—how to do
FOLEY v. BURKE, pictured by Phil May.
it. Then when Harry Laing, the Maori,
came to Sydney to be finished in Foley’s
school, Larry showed him how to whip
Goddard. In short, Foley had a genius
for teaching and for sizing up the weak-
nesses of the other fellow ; and in these
respects Australia has never had a man
like him.
Even when old and fat, Foley never
entirely lost his uncanny skill or his
ability to chasten aspiring novices. About
1902 a 14-stone axeman, who had won
a few fights and was, it was said, des-
tined to regain the championship of the
world for an Australian-taught boxer—
from Jeffries—was taken to a Sydney
gymnasium to put the gloves on with
Foley. The ancient knocked him kick-
ing in the second round.
Foley died in Sydney on July 12, 1917.
Les Darcy, the last great Australian
boxer, had died in Memphis, Tennessee,
on May 24, and his body was actually
being borne across the Pacific when the
big heart of the first great Australian
boxer failed him for the only time.
Sayings of
Foley.
Although he had
little schooling,
Foley’s mind was of
no mean order, and
many quaint sayings
were attributed to
him. These have
been remembered:
(When seconding
a pupil): “Under-
stand me now: let
the beggar beat him-
self.”
A strong man,
who called himself
Sampson, was show-
ing in Sydney and
cha 11 e n ging all-
comers. “Is he
strong ?” ejaculated
Foley, when asked
his opinion of the
stranger. “Give him
three penn’orth of
snuff and he’ll shift
them all with a
fairly healthy
sneeze.”
“Punching the ball
may make a man
quick with his head,
but God gave him
his right arm to stop
with.”
“J o e Goddard?
Yes, a bulldog; but
you can beat a bull-
dog if you tickle his
nose with a straw
when you’re on a
fence. Bully can’t
think of two things
at once. Neither
could Joe.”
“A black boxer
out of condition is
easy meat. When
Jackson started
working for me in
the quarry, he nearly
died from backache.
Had he been fit
when he met Cor-
bett, how queer his
lightning lead would
have made that
white man feel!”
“It was a bad
thing for white folks
when I brought Jackson out. Now all
the aromatic coons in the country are
popping about and sweating and making
you dainty fellows in the front seats
squeamish.”
“Often when you see the played-out
pug toe the line it’s a case of ‘My
poverty but not my will consents.’ ”


SHARE IN
WESTERN AUSTRALIA’S
PROSPERITY BY
ADVERTISING IN THE
PERTH'S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE PAPER
WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN.
368 Collins Street.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post” brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Cbc mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St,
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET. Representative.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
“The Mail”
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings. Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaper House,
Collins street, Melbourne.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
LET. ..
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
A. G. PIKE,
Newspaper House,
Melbourne.
P. A. MESSENGER,
Warwick Bldg.,
Sydney.
NEAVS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
>4
PM
twiner
“The Examiner” publishes every Wednesday a Supplement
for Women containing all the social news and spec alised
features concerning the woman and the home. It is tne
woman’s own newspaper, and rivals Australia s best. It not
only reaches the home, but stays there. You can reach
the women of Northern Tasmania only by advertising
in “The Examiner’s” Women’s Supplement.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
Women’s
Supplement
A
cjtmlm*
■AUDIT
■BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS.
Serving ALL of
WESTRALIA’S
RADIO HOMES
6AM is the ONLY station
that can give you com-
plete coverage. To in-
crease your profits use
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
thought of the approaching storm. He found it hard
to close his eyes to sleep.
But when he awoke just before dawn the pitching
of the boat convinced him they were in for no
ordinary blow. Crockery was rattling about in the
little galley, there was a smell of bilge-water: he
crawled on deck to meet a wind that took him by the
throat, blinded him with flung spume. Through the
mist he could see only faintly the towering peak of
Broke Island, but that was enough to reveal what had
happened. The anchor hadn’t held: they were drift-
ing round to the weather side.
Pounding of the surf two hundred yards away
brought images of disaster.
“The reef! We’re nearly on it. She’ll be torn
to pieces on the coral! ” Shouting down the cockpit
to Besanck, he raced aft to get the engine started. A
glance at the remaining oil showed him that they
hadn’t enough to make the forty miles to port. In
trolling from one fishing-ground to another they had
used up more than he expected, and with the wind
already blowing with hurricane force they couldn’t
trust to the sails. Nothing for it but to try to find
a secure anchorage while the gale lasted.
Besanck, blundering up from the cockpit, came
upon him struggling with the engine. He snarled over
his shoulder “Here, get this going while I heave up
the hook.”
Relief showed in Besanck’s eyes. “You’re making
back to port, then?”
“No. Damn it all, how can we when you’ve used
up all the juice!”
“Eh?”
“Don’t stop to jaw now. Get this engine going,
for God’s sake.”
There came a faint grinding like the feel of
cinders beneath the heel. He sprang on deck to take
charge of the tiller.
“She’s finished,” he was thinking. “It’s all over
now.” ; , .
With a splutter the engine started. ' They swung
around, grazed the inner edge of the reef again, leapt
away from it. Trembling at the closeness of the
escape, Neil stood dumb at the tiller, watching ahead
for smooth waters. His life was in the boat, in that
frail shell of wood and metal he had come to regard
as part of himself. When they reached their old
shelter in the lee of the island he hesitated awhile
and then stripped to the skin. With blank, uncompre-
hending eyes Besanck watched him toss his clothes
in a heap, swing down into the cockpit and come
back adjusting his water-glasses.
“Well, you have some idea?”
“I’m going to make dead sure she doesn’t drag
this time.” • , \
“But how?” ' \
“Get the chain around something that 11 hold
no matter what comes.”
He climbed over the rail and dived into the water
with hardly a splash.
Three times he came up breathless after an un-
fruitful exploration among the coral. The fourth time
he managed to secure the anchor-chain and twist it
around a rooted boulder. When he came finally to
the surface he was bleeding from waist to shoulder,
blinded, only half-conscious: he lay panting on the
wet deck till Besanck wrapped him in a rug and helped
him below.
"THEY had need of all the security they couM
1 acquire. Shrieking the gale broke over them,*
tearing down great trees ashore, making the surf
thunder on the reef. Even in the shelter of the island
there was little relief from the mountainous seas that
stood the boat up on end or threw their thudding
weight on the decks. A sour froth scudded over the
face of the water, which was churned to grey slime,
streaked dirtily with weed and floating pumice. Over-
head the sky was a wrack of slaty cloud, and from
time to time low-flying wreaths of vapor brought a
blinding rain.
Day after day it was the same. Nothing to do
but lie below and wait till the tumult passed ; nothing
to watch but the recurrent splash against the glass
ports. The little cockpit stank horribly of tobacco,
brine, spilt oil; and the crazy rocking dazed the eyes,
making it difficult to read. What was worse, they
were short of food. Water had damaged their small
stock of flour and sugar, and the last of their macaroni
was floating around in the bilge. Anyhow, Neil
reflected, it would have been impossible to cook a
meal in the tormented galley. From time to time
Besanck roused himself to prepare tea on the primus,
but his movements were lethargic, his eyes covered
with a film.
He maintained a pretence of cheerful stoicism till
he found the last of his cigarettes gone: then a wave
of exasperation broke over him. “Devil take it, what
have we come to? Trapped in a cage like sick
monkeys. No food or.-drink. Nothing to do but
explore the skin of our minds for fleas. I don’t mind
to be hungry, but I must at least have a smoke...
You have none left either, Neil?”
Neil’s head was turned to the wall. “One or
two.”
“Yet you do not smoke.”
“I’ve cut out smoking as long as we’re penned up
in this hole. Air’s foul enough as it is.”
What devil of resentment wqs still riding him!
That' impulse to hang on to anything that buttressed
his authority, anything that flourished his sense of
power.
From bouts of grey sleep he awoke always to the
same thing—dim light, thud of water against the frail
shell, clatter of tins and boxes that could never be
made fast. Now and then he looked over to where
Besanck was lying on his tumbled bunk, his eyes fixed
on the low planking above his head, his nostrils
wrinkled fastidiously. What was he thinking about?
That meanness over the remaining cigarettes? “He’ll
never forget that. He’ll say nothing, just wait his
chance to. get even. I would in his' place. There are
some things you can’t pass 1 over: they’re not the big
things. Barbs broken off, festerihg,’spreading poison.
Biit if I'were to weaken now” N v \
The sight of his own feet sticking out * at the
bottom of the bunk suddenly made him uneasy: he
expected Leo to jump up at any moment and say
passionately:
“Hell! Those feet! I have been watching them
for hours. Why is it you don’t cover them with a
blanket?”
Sullen hatred was in the air of the dim cockpit,
smouldering like a fire beneath bales of damp wool,
increasing its hold as the hours went by, making
ready to flare up at a breath of wind.
It had come now! They were grappling
between the narrow bunks, swaying in wordless
death-struggle, the rocking boat throwing them this
way and that as they tried to fasten fingers round
each other’s throats ; creatures lost to everything but
the pent-up passion released in them as they heaved
and panted. Besanck’s breath a fire-blast in his face.
This is our final trial of strength, then; the end
of our union, our long conflict. My father! The
two of you in one. You’re mad, Leo. There’s
murder in your eyes, your idiot grin. Crash! It was
your head hit the floor, mine that felt the pain. Your
ribs are brittle as dry twigs: they crackle beneath my
knee. Perhaps you’ll admit now
“Hey! It is all right: I am saved!”
“Wfiat?”
“I have some pipe-tobacco put away here from
months ago.”'
Relieved, he opened his eyes to see Leo kneeling
on his bunk, ferreting in a dusty crack between the
planks, his hunched body a comic replica of that of
a terrier nosing out a planted bone.
AT the end of six days the sea had gone down and
the wind dropped sufficiently to allow them the
use of their sails. Unshaven, bleary-eyed, keeping
away from each other as much as possible, they beat
out through the channel and made toward the coast,
starting the engine as soon as they picked up the
headlands of the port. Color was coming back to
the sea: the breasts of the flying gulls seemed carved
from snow: the mountains of the mainland stood out
in bold relief, as if washed to the bone.
Just inside the beacons they met a police-launch
chugging out from port: it signalled them to stop.
“Damn it all, you pair of humbugs, why couldn’t you
have stayed out a bit longer?” the fat sergeant growled
as he climbed aboard. “There was a rumor you’d
* foundered, and I was sent out to comb the reefs for
your wreckage. My first chance of a decent holiday
for months.”
“Eh?”
“I’m telling you you’ve spoilt the whole show.
Here am I fitted out with enough stores and fishing-
tackle to last a fortnight, and they’re all well
wasted. I was looking forward to a great time among
those cays and little islands. But you fishermen—
narks, the lot of you. Always turn up when you’re
not wanted.” :
He produced a bottle of whisky, poured out a
stiff nip for himself, handed it over. There was a
dramatic gloom about him that did not lighten till
Besanck, warmed by the drink, began to play the
clown, giving a grotesque account of their discom-
forts, exaggerating his own fears, turning it all into
comedy. But though he joined in the jokes and the
barrack Neil nursed the one thought. “This is the
end. No burking the issue. He’s given you your
chance and you’ve got to seize it with both hands.”
In the wake of the police launch the Kestrel
chugged slowly back to port.
{To be continued next week.)


Treat CAUSE
not //i Sumblom
The theory of treating symptoms rather than the cause
is still not generally understood. There are those who, if
they have a pain in the kidneys, rub in oils or emulsion.
Liverish people take a headache cure, and nervous folks still
take stimulants, or even drugs, to
44 steady their nerves,” and so on.
They fail to see that they merely
ease the trouble, only for it to
return in a more severe form. In
other words, they have not extin-
guished the fire, but simply turned
off the fire alarm. Treating the
cause may take a little longer and
call for more patience, but it has
the advantage of being much more
beneficial.
In Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found the
remedy that gets at the cause. They give you clean Bowels,
a healthy Stomach, and stimulate the Liver and Kidneys. For
Biliousness, Dizziness, Constipation, Sick Headaches, and such
complaints, arising from Imperfect Digestion, Sluggish Liver,
and Inactive Kidneys, they are unexcelled.
Dr Morse!!
w tie Liver
The Standard Family Remedy
PRICE
13
PER BOTTLE
WORMS
THEIR SYMPTOMS
AND TREATMENT.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the Bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the Abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing and
biting, and not infrequently of a vague,
indescribable character, and yet very dis-
tressing. Sympathetic with this is a sen-
sation of itching at the nostrils, producing
a disposition to pick the Nose, which is
characteristic of the affection. The
Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite
is exceedingly variable; in some cases
natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The Abdomen
is often hard, swollen and tympanetic,
the breath heavy and foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste, and a
copious flow of saliva ; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms.
The effects, however, often extend be-
yond the Alimentary Canal, and various
derangements of health are experienced
in consequence, either of the direct irri-
tation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Amongst
the most common of these are nervous
affections, such as fretfulness, irritation
of temper, wakefulness or disposition to
excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden
starting out of sleep as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements or the
eyelids.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to give the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will afford ample proof.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal pre-
paration, compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the Intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the
worms but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have
no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on the
contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill,
Sydney, and 6 Farish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price 2/- per packet (6 packets
11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SUP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
qO\^
1(V Ov® C^V
& **s
’ .o' v *l«
A' e
n' .. - •
„\oV*
dp* „ O'S '**!%■&!*'


LYSAGHTS NEWCASTLE
AND
PORT KEMBLA WORKS
PRODUCED DURING 1936
3,000,000 SHEETS OF
“RED ORB”
Every Sheet Guaranteed Perfect
This guarantee applies to every one of the ten million corrugated
and plain sheets produced annually at Lysaght’s Newcastle and
Port Kembla Works. All sheets carrying Lysaght’s well-known
brands will be replaced if found to have any manufacturing defects.
This guarantee is made possible by the confidence that Lysaghts
have in their raw materials and the skill of their workmen the
finest Australia can produce. The finished products are equal
to the world’s best.
For your next roofing or walling job, specify
“RED ORB”
Lysaght’s RIGID Roofing Sheets
LYSAGHT
QRJ3
AUSTRALIA
roj
£urv\' i &
“Red Orb” Sheets
are branded with this
device in red*
Galvanised Iron is the cheapest and most efficient
form of roofing in the world.
It is easy to erect.
Transport costs are low.
It gives long life, and perfect drinking water can be
obtained from it.
“RED ORB” adds to these virtues extreme rigidity,
which enables the sheets to withstand rough usage
in handling and erection, and it costs no more.
EDGE ROLL, which is distributed through the various city merchants,
will give you a perfect rolled edge for “RED ORB” cheaply and at less
trouble than any other method.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUS.) PTY., LTD., SYDNEY, BRISBANE. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE.
Send for a copy of Lysaght* s “Referee,” This 128-page handbook
of useful information for Ironworkers, Storekeepers, Pastoralists
and Country Residents is free and post free.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty., Ltd,,
Box 196 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Will you please send me, free and post free, a copy of Lysaght’s “Referee”?
Name
Address
