

TheWILFLEY CENTRIFUGAL SAND PUMP
{PATENTED)
AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER MINE PUMP
Cootf&jwn
Ay
WIN
a
c?
m
■
111®
oirns
I
Mt fid
*
if
mmii
Marble Bo
II
it - : Hi
.........
:: :
Ml. Cool
on
i
imm
mmm
<? Horseshoe
Hill
Mt-Morgan a
Golden TKaleou*
•Wifuna
Diq Bell e
m
Magnet -
■
Ok
Brisbane
r
“I'M* jttooi:*
Coolg<*d ,e4 » "Boulder
* Southern Cross
Norseman
PERT
»Cob(!tf*
•Welfinofe
Bro Ken Hi If
on
"Manduram
Adel a
TOEY
cCbS
nuthergfen
•Bendiqo
Gee'©
The Standard Unit for Handling Pulps
Containing Sand and Slime
These Pumps Can Now Be Supplied with
MOULDED RUBBER WEARING PARTS 0
Which Can Be Fitted to Any Standard MtL *•
Wilfley Pump
Rosebe
BART
Sole Manufacturers in Australia Under License
CHARLES RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Largest Contractors to the Mining Industry in Australia
VICTORIA STREET, RICHMOND, VICTORIA
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.
CODES BENTLEYS AND BROOMHALLS
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3002.
Wednesday, August 25, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Wrmng
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Up Name
My Address
S.B. 137
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
MAD GORDON.
The thirteenth-century Berwickshire family of
Gordons have produced more than their share of
men with a strange blend of genius, idealism, courage
and recklessness. Lord Byron, Adam Lindsay Gordon
and Lord George Gordon were all of that strain.
The last two were the products of cousin
marriages. Both were eccentric, but on that count
Lord George won hands down. His immortality has
been made secure by the quaint Watson “Life,” pub-
lished in 1795, and by Dickens’s Barnaby Rudge. Now
Percy Colson has painted him with modern pigments
“in The Strange History of Lord George Gordon
(Robert Hale; 12s. 6d.).
Gordon went to sea as a midshipman and became
a lieutenant, but fell foul of Lord Sandwich and threw
up his commission.
To keep him out of mischief, the family bought
him a seat in Parliament in 1774. That was a year
when a soldier was shot for begging without the
permission of his commanding officer. It was the age
of a group of peers whom Creevey afterwards
described as “shattered debauchees,” festering in a
London one borough of which, Holborn, boasted 1350
gin-shops.
The new M.P. found it an evil age, despite the
fact that dukes and Dr. Johnson got along very well
in it. He shocked his own class by taking up an
attitude which led people to say
There are three parties in this country—the Ministry,
the Opposition and Lord George Gordon.
He disagreed with everybody from Lord North
to Fox. He even distrusted his friend Burke’s “windy
harangues.” In fact, he behaved very much like a
Glasgow Labor member in a modern House of Com-
mons, but with far more effect, since the Commons
had never seen or heard anything like him before.
He attacked the American war, which, he said,
sullied the character of Britons. He compared the
Privy Council to “plague, pestilence and starvation.”
He wanted to know whether they should not felicitate
George 111. on giving Lord North, “the ostensible
Minister of the Dismemberment of the Empire,” the
Order of the Garter. And when he had a little time
on his hands he devoted it to what one admirer
describes as “coarse, violent and eminently absurd
speeches on the enormity of Popery.”
In 1778 the Government, which desperately needed
supporters, decided to make friends with the Roman
Catholics, who were to be relieved of some disabilities
imposed on them by statute.
Gordon, newly elected president of the Protestant
Association, proved himself a good Calvinist by con-
tinuously interrupting Savile’s presentation of the bill.
He forced the exemption of Scotland where the
Catholics were lukewarm on the question and
promised the Speaker that he would present a petition
against the measure' which would reach from the
House to the window in Whitehall out of which
Charles I. stepped to be executed.
On June 2, 1780, his followers met (on a South-
wark site on which St. George’s Cathedral now stands)
and arranged to beard the Government. Peers—“their
wigs torn off, their hair dishevelled, their clothes torn
and bespattered with mud”—listened with frightened
amazement to the frantic yells of a multitude of
petitioners who thronged the lobbies.
For a fortnight the mob held possession of London
and chaos reigned. Prisons were burned. Lord
North’s guests took their pistols with them to dinner
at No. 10 Downing-street. The houses of the Lord
C hicf Justice, Lord Mansfield, and of Ministers were
raided. In vain did Lord George call on his followers
to “act constitutionally.” Every villain in London
seized the chance to loot and burn. The Lord Mayor
refused to intervene. The Guards were called out.
Gordon was arrested, but was found not guilty
of treason, the Court holding him insane. There is
some ground in his subsequent behavior for the belief
that he was already mad at the time of the riots
which bear his name. Certainly he appears to have
been at a later stage, after he had become mixed up
with Cagliostro, who earned his notoriety in the affair
of Queen Marie Antoinette’s necklace. He professed
to have become a Jew and, to the delight of his
enemies and the contemporary cartoonists, grew a
beard. He was eventually sent to Newgate for issuing
“scandalous and seditious libels” in rambling and
incoherent epistles on which no modern Court would
waste its time.
He was, besides a three-year sentence, fined £5OO
and ordered to give personal security of £lO,OOO and
two bonds of £2500 for good behavior on his release.
He was unable to bring satisfactory securities when
the time came, so in Newgate, which his followers
had stormed and fired thirteen years before, he died
at forty-two.
The more venerable d>f his contemporaries
remembered him for a long time. He had given
the British Government its greatest fright since the
days of Cromwell. Colson makes the most of his
hero, but is hampered by the latter’s lack of back-
ground. Gordon had none of the characteristics of
which either great leaders or great martyrs are made.
He seems to have been a man of humane instincts,
full of pity for the suffering, righteously indignant
about the abuses of his time. But he lacked stability
of purpose and constructiveness of mind. Had he
been a politician of another calibre the results of the
Gordon riots might have changed the whole course
of English history.
EL V.
Maybe and Is.
When Pulcinello, the illustrious immortal ghost
from the Roman festivals, sets up his booth the
children make their story of the play. They see
Punch giving orders to Toby, see him whacking Judy
over the head, hear his song of triumph; their
imaginations create the play from all that. Therein,
as I see it, is Punch’s immortality justified.
Through the debilitating years of the Commedia
dell’ Arte Punch became almost as bad as the moving-
pictures. But not quite; even at his worst and most
arabesque in obstructive detail before he emerged
naked and vivid for us and the kids —he still left a
little to the imagination of his audience. The talkies
leave nothing ; and therein, as I see it, is the cause
of their failure.
To go to the play used to be distinctly something.
The mind and the senses were alert, keen, receptive ;
the rising of the curtain was a thrilled opening of the
iron door between Is and Maybe; the voices, the
handsome dramatic players, the setting and dressing,
the cunning lighting, the play’s argument, the quick,
pungent lines —all this filled the spirit for the three
hours. The place of the play was naturally limited
to two or three sets, or even one ; naturally also a good
deal of the action took place off-stage ; if the heroine’s
childhood or her hectic past, or the hero’s youthful
stretch in gaol, came into it, naturally that, too, was
left to the audience’s imagination.
This had the artistically just effect of making the
audience a natural part of the play. We made our
own picture. So we were creating, in our degree,
with the author and the players, whose job it was to
make us do so in order that we should enjoy the play
in its entirety.
It is an axiom that what you leave out is at least
as important as what you put in; e.g., Phil May’s six
lines to a drawing; Michelangelo’s five planes and
two masses for all his work ; Rodin’s heroic naked
line and modelling; the sparse vigor of Bach and
Beethoven ; the Elizabethan Globe Theatre where the
drama reached its glorious peak and where the lighting
was candles, the dressing and scenery virtually nil,
and even the actresses boys. Hence the glory ; every
imagination in the theatre was working all out for the
play and all future plays.
In the pictures nothing is left out; the spirit, the
mind have nothing to do. The setting switches from
Honolulu to Brooklyn, taking in Java and a London
slum on the way. Synthetic heroes and heroines dis-
play their effulgent camera-personalities, their voices
being magnified or diminished as needed. We flick
from their remote pasts to the present, into the future.
We flash from room to room, from year to year, from
face to big-boned face, until there is not one detail
that we do not see and know of these shadows and
their destinies in this play.
And it is nothing. If we see a dozen a week,
in another week we have forgotten them all. We had
no part in them—how can we remember or learn or
glow at the opening of Maybe’s iron door? These
were no Maybe; they were a cunning pattern of
certainties —we saw them all. Why should the spirit
work at its dream when all the work is done for it
by the mechanism? Hence, logically, we go rapidly
to the absolute in mechanism, with robots for actors
and actresses.
That would give the business a true place in the
cosmos, as the marionettes of old had their place.
One sees a number of films (the business being the
fourth largest in the world, it is difficult to dodge
them), and Mickey Mouse and Popeye come nearest
to the heart’s Mickey’s silence and Popeye’s
iron megalomania as his sole dramatic expression
make at least an illusion of sharing some part of their
wild imaginings with the audience. They are both
definitely Maybe.
HILARY LOFTING.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize, 1937.
The judges having reported that none of the
entries submitted for the S. H. Prior Memorial
Prize, 1937, reaches a standard sufficiently high
to warrant an award, the trustees have decided
to transfer the amount, £lOO, to next year’s
competition, the prize for which will thus
become £2OO.
The Publishing of Mackenzie's Poem.
1 should like to retort on a presumption pub-
lished in the “S. M. Herald” that Ken Mackenzie’s
Our Earth would not have been published unless I
had illustrated it.
Of course the poem is so good that someone had
to attack it. If the attack had taken the form of
criticism it would have been Ken’s affair, not mine.
But since it refers to a simple matter of affairs it is
my duty to put it right.
The facts about the publication are these. In
the first place, I did not intend to illustrate the poem
(and told Ken so), not because I did not think very
highly of it, but because I’ve more or less given up
book-illustration these days. I took the poem to Mr.
Cousins, of Angus and Robertson, and said to him:
“Here is a long blank-verse poem of very high quality.
1 don’t suggest your publishing it, but I think you
ought to read it. It’s so good that it’s on my con-
science to do something about it, so I’ve taken the
opportunity of fobbing the difficulty off on you.” He
said “All right, leave it here and I’ll get our reader’s
opinion on it.”
When I called later he said “Our reader reports
very highly on the poem and thinks it ought to be
published.” This was an agreeable shock ; I don’t
know who the reader was, but I’d like to pay him a
respectful tribute for that decision. Mr. Cousins then
went on to say that the only difficulty was the format
of the book. It would hardly pay in a popular edition,
since poetry is so hard to sell these days, so it would
have to be produced as an illustrated edition de luxe
at a price that would pay the expense of publication.
As Mr. Cousins had shown such an excellent spirit
over the whole affair I could hardly do less than offer
to illustrate the book.
It was a business transaction as much to my profit
as Ken’s. Moreover, it was the quality of the poem
that forced me to illustrate it, since I would have
had nothing to do with it if it had been a bad poem.
I illustrated it against my express determination not to
do so. Nothing could be more fatuous than to sup-
pose that a few pen drawings could confer distinction
on such a potent and sustained poem as “Our Earth.”
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Neat Plotless Stories.
A new American writer whose first book seems
to indicate that its author has the skill to cut a niche
for himself is Benedict Thielen, author of Dinosaur
Tracks (Martin Seeker and Warburg; Moore’s Book-
shop ; 7s. 6d.). He is an exponent of the art that
Katherine Mansfield brought, to perfection the
plotless short story. It is the acme of naturalism.
There is some action which depends entirely on the
intrinsic interest of life intelligently observed, and
at the end a situation stands revealed. That last-
minute revelation is the denouement.
Typical of Thielen’s work is a story set in a
combined tourist refreshment house and Navajo
trading-post. Present, the storekeeper and a honey-
moon couple. The girl is choosing a bracelet from
among a display of native craftwork. An Indian
enters with a goatskin under his arm to trade for
cloth. The young man is immediately inspired to
buffoonery. He extends jocular patronage to the
Indian and attempts to converse: with him in pidgin
English. It is all harmless enough, but vulgar. The
Indian preserves a dignity which the young man
mistakes for an amusing stupidity, and at length leaves
the store without having acknowledged him by more
than a quiet glance. The girl decides not to buy the
souvenir bracelet on the ground that it wouldn’t suit
her style. After they are again on their way the
young man, still in high spirits, says “But still it’s too
bad you didn’t let me get you some little trinket, just
to sort of remember seeing a real Indian trading-post.”
She answers “Oh, I’ll remember it, Harry.”
Another quietly effective tale, A Good Long Rest,
tells of an elderly couple holidaying in the sunshine
of California. Their pleasure is disturbed by letters
from the winter-bound east that are too cheerful.
The store, under the management of son Fred, is
getting along fine, even showing increased profits, and
daughter Mabel managed to have her baby all right
without Mother’s help. The story ends with Mother
writing one of her usual long letters home, but she
has to draw the blind against the Californian sun
before she is really able to get on with it.
Thielen has a wide range of scene and character.
Venice, the East Side of New York, a European art
gallery, a boxing stadium and the office of a business
house are among the settings used. Two of the
{Continued on page 8.)


Truth in Advertising”—Business Integrity.
.#
f
1 -1
te-
rn
&
m
4
M
THE SENIOR STORE.
sK >
iiif
teSS
‘mm
.
ip -\*j
*
1
D
"
z
*Sx*Wr<
In spite of the sharp advance in the
prices of Kapok and ticking and the in-
creased cost of production, our price list
for Better Bedding remains unchanged.
This should be an incentive for thrifty per-
sons to buy Better Bedding without delay.
Just think! You spend more time in sleep
than in any other one thing you do. Isn't
it good judgment to- spend as much money
as you can afford to get the best ;mattress? '
All our Bedding is HANDMADE in our
own factory. Only one Kapok is used; and
that is the BEST JAPARA. The tickings
used are of the finest qualities and each
grade represents the utmost value. * " .
You are urged to take advantage of our
BETTER BEDDING CAMPAIGN to; re-,
place old and uncomfortable mattresses
while prices are at their lowest.
1- —YOU select your tresh bedding from our unrivalled assortment,
the prices being, as always at Anthony Horderns’, the lowest possible,
quality considered. BUT—note this! Off our “Famous Low Prices”
you receive a generous rebate on your old bedding. WE WILL
ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF YOU
PURCHASE A NEW FULL-SIZE ONE. If you decide on a
Mattress smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide WE WILL ALLOW YOU 10/-
off the price of the new one. THIS, OF COURSE. IS OFF OUR
STANDARD PRICES AS QUOTED IN OUR REGULAR PRICE
LIST: We do not include flock or fibre bedding in this offer, as we
do not recommend them as “Better Bedding.”
2. WE WILL deliver your new bedding without charge (if you live
in the Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up your
old Mattresses and remove them.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR OUR COUNTRY
PATRONS.
3. —lt- will NOT be necessary for our country patrons to return their
old Mattresses, but, in pursuance of our policy that they be definitely
destroyed, country clients must give their assurance in writing that
.the old bedding will be destroyed within seven days from receipt
of new goods.
® Bedding—Third Floor. Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
BEDDING
: 'VI3
TICKING «■ ;
IMPURE FELTED IKila^
/ cotton saMI
f CURLED HAIR
STOUT CANVAS
SPIRAL SPRI ~~—
SPR I NGS
SE PARATELY <£^CC^
cased FpST
4
81
m
m
ip
s .i
u p viC 1; ‘w a 1 oH\ \i hu?T i. u Si* £)l' m. *’ |
m—Jte' *“:
Mattresses: 2ft. 6in. t £5/17/6; 3ft., £6/15/-; 3ft. 6in., £7/12/6; 4ft., £B/10/-;
4ft. 6in., £B/19/6. In Linen Floral Ticking, 6/- each extra. ,
I—Quality D. Cot. Tick Blue & White
Plain Blue and White Striped Ticking, having 3in. borders
taped. Comfortably filled, handmade throughout and tufted.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses .. £l/7/- £l/12/6 £l/18/- £2/4/6 £2/8/6
Pillows, 4/- each.
2—. Quality DD. Blue and White
A good medium quality mattress, with 3|in. borders, in
strong black-and-white tickings. Handmade throughout.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses .. £l/14/6 £2/0/6 £2/7/6 £2/15/- £2/19/6
Pillows, 4/- each.
3—Quality G.
Our Standard Quality, having Belgian Striped Linen or Union
Ticking. Various colours. sin. piped borders, double
stitched, handmade.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses .. £2/5/6 £2/16/6 £3/6/6 £4/4/- £4/13/6
Pillows, 6/ - each.
4__Quality GG. Belgian or Union Tick
Has similar coverings to G Quality, but is more heavily
filled. sin. borders, piped and double-stitched. Undoubtedly
very good value.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. I 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses .. £2/19/6 £3/6/6 £3/16/6 £4/5/6 £4/17/6
Pillows, 6/- each.
s—Quality H. Best Belgian Linen
A Super Mattress with 6in. piped borders. Covered in best
Belgian Striped Linen, various colours, or Linen Blue and
White Ticking.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses .. £3/12/6 £4/4/6 £4/16/6 £5/10/6 £5/17/6
Pillows, 8,1- each.
6—Quality H. Floral Best Special
Similar in weight and quality to H Quality, but covered in
finest floral Damask Ticking, and in a variety of colourings.
Sizes 2ft. 6in. 3ft. 3ft. 6in. 4ft. 4ft. 6in.
Mattresses.. £3/18/6 £4/10/6 £5/2/6 £5/16/6 £6/3/6
Pillows, 8/6 each.
"Horderman' 1
Spring-Filled
MATTRESS
Full-size mattress con
taining 408 spiral springs
encased in separate
pockets. Layers of
fleecy-felted cotton and
hair glaced on each
side of the springs en-
sure perfect comfort.
Best quality Blue and
White Belgian Ticking
Coverings.


"There Are Two Kinds of Mugs on a Racecourse”
DYNAMITE IS DANGEROUS
By C.W. JUDD.
ILLUSTRATED
BY SHELLEY
IT was the Wednesday before the
Newmarket, and the only mount I
had was Fantasy in the big race
of the day, over eight furlongs.
I was riding for Mulligan at the time ;
he didn’t bother much about the suburban courses,
and that was why I was able to take the ride.
I had ridden Fantasy quite a bit in my time, track
work and racing, and no gamer horse ever looked
through a bridle That was before Mulligan sold
him to Steve O’Hara, since when he hadn’t won a
race. That’s the way the racing game goes, because
Mulligan was top of the class among trainers, and
poor old Steve always had been a battler. Plenty
of times he had Fantasy all set to win ; everything
jake, and only a matter of put and take. Steve
had done plenty of the putting, but the taking side
of the proposition never came off. One way and
another, he lost more over Fantasy than the horse
cost him.
It wasn’t all bad luck, and I told Steve that a
hundred times. Fantasy was a good horse, fast, and
as game as they come. There was just one thing
about him: he had to run his own race or he wouldn’t
run at all. Let him bowl along easily, taking his time,
and he’d keep himself out of trouble better than any
jockey could, and give everything he had at the right
end. Start checking him or forcing him along and
he’d turn as sour as any two other horses could pos-
sibly be. The way I figured it out was he had more
brains than any hoop, and he knew it.
I suppose that Steve had told all this to the boys
that had ridden him, but there wasn’t one of them
who didn’t know more about running a race than any
horse. For a few furlongs maybe everything would
be lovely, then they would start showing Fantasy the
way home. The old devil would swish his tail a
couple of times, and then give his imitation of a
rocking-horse. The punters got tired of him, and
the books were thinking of subsidising him before
he broke Steve’s heart.
So when Steve came to me and said that he
had Fantasy going for this race, I asked: “Who’s
riding him?”
“You are,” said Steve.
That sort of brought me up with a jerk, because
I was riding around nine stone nice and comfortable.
I was getting a bit old for wasting, and it was a
couple of years since I’d taken on anything but top
weights for Mulligan.
“I can’t make the weight,” I said.
I noticed he looked a bit white round the gills,
and he said:. “You can’t let me down this time, Nip.
Everything I’ve got is running on Fantasy; I’ve sunk
my ship on him. He’s horse enough to win, but
you’re the only one that can bring him home.”
“Things as bad as that, Steve?” I asked him.
“Bad as they could be, Nip.”
That kind of put it up to me. When Steve O’Hara
gets to admitting things are tough, he’s up against
it all right. And I knew it wasn’t all bull when he
said he needed me to bring Fantasy home and dry ;
the horse’s record since Mulligan let him go proved
that.
Now if Steve O’Hara had just been a friend of
mine and no more, there would have been nothing
doing. For one thing, I was riding Stockade in the
Newmarket a couple of days later at nine stone two,
and I knew what wasting to eight and a half stone
would do to me, and, what’s more, so did Mulligan.
What made it worse was that I never had pulled off
a Newmarket, even though I’d had a lucky run with
most of the other big races. You know how it is
with a jockey and a big race that he’s never man-
aged to win, and this looked like being the last chance,
and the best chance I’d ever had.
But it was Steve who had picked me up when
I was a raw kid hanging around his stables. Most
of what I knew about the game Steve had taught
me. I rode my first race for him, and won it, because
he had the guts to give an untried apprentice a good
mount. And when you’re working for the right man
who doesn’t give you a chance to get big in the head
winning a race your first time up makes a hell of a
difference. It gives you a confidence that you never
lose afterwards.
I left Steve to ride for Mulligan because I had
grown out of Steve’s stable, and while I was sitting
on top of the world with Mulligan he was slipping
back. I passed him the word when Mulligan was
getting rid of Fantasy,, putting him on to a good
thing that had backfired and damn’ near ruined him.
Thinking it over, this was the first favor Steve had
ever asked me.
OO I got busy and sweated away my seven pounds
of flesh. Honest, I was scared when I looked at
myself afterwards. Anyway, Fantasy knew me when
I went round to his box, because he nickered and
pawed the ground, and I’ll swear he grinned from
ear to ear. I’d never seen the old fellow looking fitter,
and if appearance went for anything he could have
won the Melbourne Cup.
“Dick, you old devil,” I said softly, “it’s just a
shame what we’ll do to that field to-day.”
He whinnied again and plopped his ears back —
I reckon it was a long time since he’d heard his old
stable-name. Somehow it felt just like old times again.
Wasting to make the weight, a good horse to ride
and big money hanging to the result. Not just bring-
ing off a plunge for a man who didn’t need it much,
but riding for a man who backed his judgment with
all he had. It sort of brought back the weeks of
planning and waiting and Steve’s careful poker face
when the good thing came off; his lopsided grin if
it got pipped.
Someone at my shoulder spoke, and I damn’
near jumped out of my skin. When I turned round
there were two of them, and I knew them well enough.
Stand-over men, Fitzroy bashers, and it wasn’t good
for a jockey to be seen talking with them.
“Nice day, Nip,” they said.
“Wasn’t it?” I asked them.
The big fellow went on as if I hadn’t spoke.
“And a nice horse. They tell me you’re riding him
again.”
I leant back against the door of the box, giving
signs of extreme disinterest in the conversation. They
glanced at each other and stepped closer. The big
bruiser spoke very softly. “This race is in the bag
for Dynamite. Take that any way you want; but
if you’ve got sense you’ll string along with us. We
ain’t scared of this dog, but we don’t want you run-
ning no miracles on us. Say the right word and
you’re on the odds to twenty.”
“How the hell you two get past the gate has
got me beat,” I said in a tired sort of voice.
“All right,” the big bloke said; “if you want it
that way take it. There’s just this, if you want to
stay healthy and ride in the Newmarket lay off this
race. So here’s your riding instructions —don’t knock
him about. If you don’t follow ’em you won’t be
riding again, Nip, not for a long, long time.”
K IOW there are two
l kinds of mugs on a
racecourse. The first kind
can pick dead ’uns in every
race that’s run ; the others
think that there aren’t any.
I can tell you that maybe
one race in a hundred isn’t
on the level, and if you follow
racing you can forget about that
race, because you’ll never pick it.
All in all, a man can know nothing
and get a better run for his money
in horseracing than in most forms
of gambling. But wherever there’s
big money you find a few crooks,
and they’re bound to get away
with something now and again.
I knew this Dynamite, I knew
the crowd that ran him and the
boy that rode him. I wouldn’t trust them if I knew
they were dead. On form Dynamite couldn’t live
with this field for a furlong. And when I say I was
damn’ well scared stiff I mean it. If we tossed
Dynamite I’d be spending a nice holiday in hospital
—if I was lucky, because that gang always come good
with the promises they make.
I was wishing I’d never let myself in for the
ride when Steve O’Hara comes up, and he’s looking
a mass of nerves. I stopped feeling sorry for myself,
because it’s not often Steve’s that way, and I knew
that he must be in deep.
“The word’s going round that it’s Dynamite’s
race, Nip,” he told me. “Think I’d better save on
him?”
“Steve,” I said, “if you’ve got enough left to
save on Dynamite, put it on Fantasy. It’s his race.”
Steve smiled his cockeyed grin. “I hope you’re
right, Nip, because I’m sunk without a trace if it
isn’t.”
“I’m right,” I said. “But I’m going to stick a
brandy under the belt.”
I might have got a kick out of slipping the old
colors on again if I hadn’t been so damn’ worried.
I wasn’t worried about the race ; I knew I’d win that,
but I was thoughtful about what would come after-
wards. Out in the saddling paddock Steve hoisted
me up and gave me his old riding directions. “Don’t
fall off.” That was all.
“It's the only way we could lose, Steve,” I said.
We didn’t say any more ; Steve because he never
did say much, and me because I wasn’t feeling like
conversation anyhow. The horses swung on to the
track, and I let Fantasy stretch out in his preliminary.
I’d ridden a lot of horses since I was last astride
Fantasy, and I’d almost forgotten the easy, raking
stride of him. Past the barrier I pulled him up, and
I knew that if ever I had won a race I was going to
win one to-day.
'"p HE barrier went down, and the horses came up
1 into a rough line. Fantasy had drawn five in a
field of a dozen, and Dynamite was in on the rails.
While the field sidestepped and wheeled, Fantasy
stood quiet, and as they came up and faced the barrier
I felt his muscles tense beneath me. The barrier rose,
and Fantasy leapt out, caught his balance and swung
into his full stride. Towards the rails Folly Point
had beaten Dynamite to the jump, and when we had
gone half a furlong had got the inside running. Fan-
tasy flew clear of the bunched field and crossed to
the rails behind the leaders.
I had the run of the race, with only Dynamite
to watch ; Folly Point was a stopper, and we all
knew it. Just enough pressure on the reins to feel
them, I let Fantasy bowl along, and his long, swing-
ing stride held his position without an effort. I sud-
denly felt sorry for Steve O’Hara, with a horse like
this and not able to win a race. In front Dynamite
was fighting for his head.
We flashed past the six furlongs, and I could
feel something come up behind us. Already Folly
Point was striding short, and with a light touch I
swung Fantasy away from the rails and let Cyclops
up on the inside. Fantasy was a stone better than
this field, and 1 didn’t want him boxed in when Folly
Point was beaten off.
(i Continued on page 7.)


They Also Serve
THE
EAST
WIND
By WILL
LAWSON
7*l HOWLING westerly hit the
/ I Maria in the eye all the way
V. I from Bluff to Puysegur Point.
When she rounded she took it on
the beam and rolled like a battleship.
At last a terrific sea caught her, while
Nosey, her Old Man, shook the bridge-
rail and swore. Over she went, almost on her beam-
ends, and lay like a wounded cow.
“She’ll never get up again,” the mate said.
Nosey’s lips were moving. He was a serious-
minded man with a religious turn.
“That’s out of our hands,” he told the mate as
he tried to juggle the Maria’s helm with his own
hands. “And I’m not saying this boat ain’t a handful
either.”
The engines stopped, leaving the hulk wallowing
in the trough and all hands hanging on as best they
could. Lip from the engine-room came the chief
engineer, Frosty Nutt, shouting and gesticulating with
his free hand.
“She’s lost her vac’um,” he was shouting. “We’ll
have to stop.”
“Ain’t she that way now?” the mate asked.
Very slowly the Maria righted herself, her decks
shedding tons of brine. But her rolling still was wild.
“We’ll get into the Sound behind Resolution,”
Nosey said, waving a hand at a high-peaked island
that lay to the northward. “When you’re ready, Mr.
Nutt. Hard-a-port! ”
In a few minutes the engines began to turn again,
and the steamer crept along into the quiet waters of
the Sound. Soon she lay like a tiny thing, dwarfed
by the soaring peaks, crowned with snow, which
towered all round her.
All hands relaxed. Nosey remembered that it
was Sunday afternoon and believed that his prayer
made silently when the Maria lay on her beam-ends
had saved her. It was fitting that the ship’s com-
pany should give thanks to the Almighty for their
escape. He sent Holey Joe, the steward, to muster
all hands in the saloon.
“What’s got the Old Man?” the second mate said
when he got the message.
“Dunno,” the mate replied. “We’d better go,
though. Leave Lamps here to stand anchor watch.”
Lamps was a scoffer and a Philistine. He accepted
his watch with a grin and bit a lump of tobacco off
his quid. “Yes, sir, I ain’t a hypocrite, sir. I like
me religion in the open.”
A T one end of the saloon Holey Joe had fixed a
reading desk covered with a flag. Doors that were
always open were closed, and ports always shut were
opened. Frosty Nutt and his two engineers sat to-
gether, also Big Ben, Smackers, Knocky Jones and
Billy Hooey. The oiler Lasca and another foreigner
named Lorenzo clung together, too.
Holey Joe had found a hymn on a gramophone
record and suddenly started the machine. Some of
them tried to join in the singing. When the struggle
had ended with a wild scratching of the needle, Nosey
rose to pray. He had a Bible and a prayer-book by
him, but at first he prayed from his heart—just what-
ever came to his tongue. Then he opened the prayer-
book, saw a prayer and started on it. He had got
into the midst of the service for burial at sea, and
in his enthusiasm only stopped at the committal to the
deep. He slipped into the collect and some psalms
with the ease of a politician, while all stood with
bowed heads and thumbed buttons in their pockets,
half-expecting a collection.
When the captain stopped Holey Joe put another
hymn on the gramophone, and was starting it when
Nosey stopped him.
"Before you go,” he said, “I want to impress on
you the fact that prayer is a power in this world, scoff
as men may. But for my prayer this noon there’d
be none of us here now. It was nothing short of
miraculous how the old ship righted herself. Remem-
ber that and pray and give thanks.”
I—j OLEY Joe got the religious mania worst. AH
his early youth came out, clothing his ordinary
conversation. Lamps played him out, but Joe was
impervious to irony while the ship lay in the Sound.
But she could not stay there all her days, and presently
the Maria pushed her battered bows into the open
seas again and waddled northward, making for
Nelson, inside of Farewell Spit. She did her best to
leave the gale behind her, but it was a tenacious hand-
ful of wind, and chased her right up to Cape Foul-
wind, where it was lost in a medley of gales.
While it was with her the Maria waddled on
through a misty scud which hid all landmarks, but,
what with dead reckoning and Nosey’s and Joe’s
prayers, they got along all right for some time. Com-
ing at last to the place where Farewell Light holds
its lantern high, two miles inside the spit of sand that
lies well out into the straits, the scud hid the light.
Nosey went on by faith, without even, putting a leads-
man in the chains. He was convinced that a mysteri-
ous power was taking his ship along. Towards dawn
that morning the spirit moved him to turn eastward.
Ten minutes after he turned the Maria went ashore,
stopping suddenly with an odd suggestion of suffo-
cation.
Holey Joe, wakened by the stopping, ran along
the decks shouting “A miracle! A miracle! Now
we are safe in the haven.”
“Miracle be blowed!” Lamps shouted. “We’re
on the tail of Farewell Spit, and if this southerly
lasts we’ll be here for good. The sand’s coming in
like a river with the seas and making more spit.”
Nosey went on the bridge.
“Get out your anchors, mister,” he told the mate.
“We’ll kedge her off at high tide.” He turned to
Joe “Put on that hymn ‘Eternal Father, Strong to
Save.’ ”
Joe ran to do his bidding, and Lamps approached
Nosey, hat in hand.
“Beggin’ yer pardin, sir,” he began.
“Yes, my man, what is it?” Nosey remembered
Lamps as a scoffer.
“This here’s Farewell Spit, ain’t it, sir?”
“What if it is?” Nosey retorted.
“How far are we from the lighthouse, sir?”
“Two miles if this is Farewell. God moves in
a mysterious way.”
“I know, sir. Sir, I want you to let me go
ashore and tell the men at the lighthouse where we
are. It might save the Lord some trouble.”
“Impertinence! Get out!” Nosey swore. “You’d
have to run all the way or be drowned by the tide.”
“That’s what I want to do, sir ; run like hell right
away from this barmy ship.”
The mate grinned, but Nosey kept his temper.
“Much better to pray for an east wind,” he said.
“The east wind shifts the sand from the spit. Tell
all hands, mister, to pray for an east wind.”
Half an hour later he heard someone whistling.
“Who is that?” he asked, standing at his cabin door.
“That’s Lamps,” the mate told him. “He’s an
old windjammer man. That’s how they raised the
wind them days.”
“Tell him he can’t whistle here ; he must pray.”
“Yes, sir.”
At low tide Lamps got over the side
stealthily.
“I’m goin’ to the lighthouse,” he told
the second mate huskily.
“I’ve half a mind to come with you,”
the mate said. “Keep going and you’ll get
there.”
Lamps hurried away.
Nosey had another service that after-
noon, and ended with the order, “All hands
pray for an east wind.”
“A east wind!” Smacker snorted out on the deck.
“Whoever heard of a east wind here?”
“About twice a year they come,” the second mate
said. He had reported the disappearance of Lamps,
and all hands searched the long strip of sands with
their eyes to see a dot which would be the corpse
floating about.
“Poor Lamps!” Holey Joe said. “He’s gone. His
corp’ll float alongside of us to-night.”
'T' WO days later the wind had fallen to a calm.
1 Nosey became excited, and walked about mouth-
ing silent prayers for the east wind. Joe was excited,
too, and his eyes scanned the eastern horizon in the
direction where Wellington lay.
Suddenly Joe shouted, “Here she comes!”
"Where? Here what comes?” Nosey demanded,
holding up a linger to feel the wind. “The east wind?
I don’t feel it.’.’
“No, the tug,” Joe shouted.
“Tug?”
Nosey’s face was terrible to see. He called Joe
to come closer to him, and bent glaring eyes on the
cowering steward. “Did you pray for a tug?”
Joe stuttered and shook, but did not answer.
“Knowing the power of prayer as you do,” Nosey
insisted, “did you pray for a tug?”
“Ye-e-e-es,” Joe got out.
“Why?”
Before Joe could get more out the mate came
along.
“The man Lamps is back, sir,” he said. “Says
he got the keepers to ring for a tug.”
Nosey waved the mate aside, his eyes intent on
poor shivering Joe.
“You prayed for a tug. Why, when I ordered
you to pray for an east wind?”
“Because 1 thought it would be safer and surer,”
Joe stammered. “Them east winds is rare winds,
sir.”
Nosey shouted in his rage. “So a tug’s safer and
surer, is it? And did you ever think that it was
dearer? Here, listen to this.’” He shook his finger in
Joe’s face. “Don’t you know they’ll charge me £lOO
at least to tow me to Wellington or Nelson?”
“Yes, sir, I know it, sir. What of it, sir?”
“And the east winds shifts the sand fqr nothing.”
The mate interrupted them. “Here’s the east
wind, sir, blowing strong.”
Nosey’s face relaxed into a smile.
"Wait till I get that tug within hail,” he said.
In an hour she was near, swinging in confidently
to the job which seemed to lie to her towline. Nosey
hailed her master.
“I don’t want you,” he roared.
“Got word from the lighthouse,” the master said.
"The underwriters’ll insist on a tug, it seems to me.”
"What about this east wind? It’ll shift the sand.
In two days it’ll all be gone.”
“So’ll you if it comes on to blow.”
“Anyway, I don’t want you,” Nosey said, turning
away.
The tugmaster knew he was beaten. With her
own power the Maria would soon get clear.
“Give up your line,” he roared. “I’ll tow you
off for twenty quid.”
“Make it fifteen and you’ll get our line,” Nosey
beat him down.
“All right, and hurry. We’ll have to plug against
this east wind all the way home.”


The Way of a Woman
OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY
Mrs. MACQUARIE
d /*"\ H, but, ma’am,” said the pretty, rosy-
I J cheeked girl standing with tearful eyes
beside the dark-green banksia, “dear Mrs.
Macquarie, ma’am, I do feel it for certain
sure—if you was to know Dick Willhayes rnebbe
’twould seem th’ same to you. Too good a man for
to be a pris’ner, he is—too good and brave a man!
So I tell ’ee, ma’am, and so it is!”
Mrs. Macquarie looked away across the glitter-
ing blue harbor beyond the little wooded islet of
Mattewai, which the convicts had grimly named
Pinchgut. Gently and impulsively she took the girl’s
hand in her own as she turned towards her and spoke
in her pretty Scots fashion with the characteristic
kindliness that had made her beloved.
“Oh, my dear, my dear, you mustn’t doubt God’s
goodness!” she cried with a soft note of entreaty in
her voice. “Else what way will ye find aught of con-
solation? Tell me, Molly, tell me why your Dick was
sent hither. You have never told me, you know.”
The girl spoke passionately. “For nothing, for
nothing! ” she cried. “For just nothing at all, ma’am.
Poaching, they called it —an’ him but just a-takin’
a short way home across a park in th’ moonlight, like
no one’d think aught of doing in this country. Eng-
land!” she scoffed bitterly. “Th’ land o’ liberty! Eh,
ma’am, but I be main glad that I be Currency. Land
o’ freedom indeed! God save us! Yet a man like Dick
Willhayes can be made a slave for a-savin’ himself
a quarter-mile walk on a night ’tis as clear as daylight,
and no one but a born fool would go a-poachin’.
Goodness me, ’tis a crime to breathe the air of a
game presarve in England, so it seems! There’s many
gets sent here ain’t done no more than that.”
“Well, indeed, the game laws are severe at home,
that’s certain enough. For what term was your
Richard sentenced?”
“Seven year! And him doing naught but climb
a stile. For th’ dear Lord’s sake, I ask ye was that
fair? Heaven help poor folk who dare to take such
liberties!”
Mrs. Macquarie looked at the girl thoughtfully
for a little while before she spoke again, and stroked
her golden hair with a caressing hand.
“Molly,” she said gently then, “I am very fond
of you. What would you have me do?”
The girl hesitated for a while. When she spoke
it was with an air of shyness and reserve. “Ma’am,”
she said slowly, “you know we be free —not bond.
My feyther was a corporal in th’ Black Watch —
Gen’ral Macquarie’s old regiment—and he be a proud
man. He’m not one wi’ any love for pris’ners, feyther
bain’t. Idle, he calls ’em. Rogues an’ vagabuns, liars,
thieves! Scum o’ th’ gaols an’ hulks! ’Tis so he
looks upon ’em, an’ wi’ no asseptions. They’m all
tarred wi’ th’ same brush to feyther. Even my Dick—
he’m th’ like of all th’ rest. ‘He’m a laag,’ he says,
‘that’s enough.’ ”
“You’re Devonshire, aren’t you, Molly?” Mrs.
Macquarie had slipped her arm about the girl’s slim
waist, and the two women made a charming picture
in that lovely setting upon the extremity of Anson’s
Point as they stood, lightly clad in summer muslins,
against the dark background of scrub above the carved
rock whereon is still recorded the making of Mrs.
Macquarie’s-road.'
“No, ma’am” —the girl lifted her chin with a
trace of pride—“l be a proper Cornstalk from th’
Oxbro—a Currency Lass from Cattai Creek. But
feyther, he be out o’ Darymoor. An’ mother, she’m
Wiltshire from Devizes. Mebbe I talk their manner
o’ spaich a little ; do I, ma’am?”
“Charmingly, my child./ Delightfully. But what
is it you want me to do? I’ll do what I can.”
“Well, then, ma’am, if so be you was to ax th’
Governor for a pardon for my Dick.? He’m such a
one as Mr. Macquarie likes —strong an’ clever an’
honest, an’ all. Then feyther’d have no call for to
look down upon him. Oh, I beg”
“My dear Molly, you forget. Mr. Macquarie is
no more at the head of the Government in New South
Wales. He has no longer the power to grant pardons
any more than your father or Dick Willhayes or you
or I have. He has handed over his authority to the
new Governor. We are simply plain citizens now,
and very soon we shall have ceased to be citizens of
Sydney. To-morrow we go aboard the Surrey to sail
for England. He cannot, by any possible means,
grant a pardon to your sweetheart, my poor child.”
The girl’s face fell.
From her earliest child-
hood she had known of
only one power, under
God’s, that ruled her little
world in all its greater mat-
ters. It was almost as if
she had been told that the
Almighty had resigned His
charge, and that the uni-
verse was given over to
hopeless anarchy. Mac-
“Eh, Mistress Macquarie,” said the
Governor. “Ye’re a bonnie lassie —a guid
lassie!”
quarie had been all-powerufl and terrible, but some-
times merciful. Sorrowfully, she turned to go, with
drooping head and tear-filled eyes.
Mrs. Macquarie stayed her with a gentle touch.
“Listen, Molly, my dear. I will myself speak
with Sir Thomas Brisbane. The new Governor is
a humane man, and he may well incline to begin his
government with an act of clemency. Leave it to me
and I will approach him this evening. I don’t think
he will like to refuse me a last request. So dry those
pretty blue eyes and we shall see what we can do.
Come. ’Tis time we walked back.”
Silently they turned away and walked back along
the hillcrest, descending presently into the valley
behind Farm Cove, going obliquely down the slope.
As they reached the level ground in the hollow
they became aware of angry voices, the panting grunt-
ings of strong men in fierce combat, and when they
stepped into a little clearing near the fence of the
new Botanic Gardens they halted in terrified amaze-
ment.
A tall, flaxen-haired man was fighting with a
soldier of the 48th Regiment, whose tunic lay on the
grass behind him. Both were stripped to the waist,
and smears of blood and sweat trickled down over
their heaving chests from bruised and battered
features. As the two women stood rooted to the
spot in sickening fear, they saw the fair man smite
the soldier heavily on the point of the jaw so that
he crumpled up, fell to his knees and then sprawled
out unconscious upon the grassy turf.
A moment or two the victor stood, scowling
down on his defeated adversary. Then he picked up
his jacket, flung it over his broad shoulders and
walked away, seemingly unaware of the presence of
Mrs. Macquarie and the girl. As he moved off, he
called over his shoulder, addressing the senseless,
recumbent figure of the man behind him: “That for
you, Sergeant Overton. And, by God, for anyone
takes my Molly lightly! Lie there, ye black
carr’on—an’ I don’ care if ye be alive or daid, damn
ye! ”
Fearfully, the girl turned to Mrs. Macquarie, who
stood gazing down at the unconscious man, half-stupe-
fied. She clutched the older woman by the elbow
in an agony of fierce grief.
“Oh, ma’am,” she wailed. “Oh, Mistress Mac-
quarie! Oh, mercy upon us —an’ ’twas for me he
done it! God ha’ mercy! ’Twas my man, Dick Will-
hayes. Oh, ma’am! ”
MACQUARIE’S heavy eyebrows contracted a little
as he regarded his pleading wife, and he shook
his head. “But, my dear, ’tis a plain and obvious
case of murder.”
Mrs. Macquarie shuddered. “Oh, Lachlan, not
murder? Surely not murder ? Accident, misfortune.”
“Nothing can disguise it. As the outcome of a
dispute over this girl—this young protege of yours—
these two men, Richard Willhayes and Sergeant Over-
ton, repair to a quiet place near Farm Cove for the
purpose of settling their difference by a bout of fisti-
cuffs. Most improper, of course, for an n.c.o. of the
garrison to go a-fighting with a convict, but the fact
remains. Unfortunately—l grant you that —the ser-
geant sustains a broken neck, caused, says Dr. Red-
fern, by an extraordinarily severe jolt to the spinal
vertebrae, resulting from a most tremendous blow to
the point of the chin, received by the unfortunate
fellow during the course of the combat. Undoubt-
edly, the sergeant’s death lies at the door of this man
Willhayes.
“There is no other possible point of view.
And, by sheer bad luck, you and this unhappy girl
chance to be witnesses of the unhappy affair. Unfor-
tunate —very! But my duty is plain. I must inform
Mr. D’Arcy Wentworth, the Superintendent of Police,
of what you have told me. It is extremely incon-
venient, since we are due to go aboard the Surrey in
the morning ; but there is no help for it. No doubi
you will be able to make your deposition before the
court proceedings eventuate —and I fear you will have
to do it, my dear wife. I cannot bring myself to
countenance —and cannot allow you, dearest Eliza-
beth —the compounding of a felony. Out of the ques-
tion —entirely out of the question. Duty, my love-
duty before everything.”


As sudden as usual, Folly Point did toss it in,
and Dynamite was left in front. He was still pulling
the jockey out of the saddle, and Curtis gave up try-
ing to slow the field down. As soon as he got his
head Dynamite settled into his stride, going
as kindly as anyone could wish for. Folly Point
dropped back, swung out and disappeared. With
the home turn coming up, Cyclops was half a length
behind, and his jockey was at him with the whip. I
knew it was all over bar the shouting, and for the
first time since the race started I wondered what
would happen after Fantasy won.
I was bucking a. bad crowd, and they meant what
they said. It’s easy to get at a jockey; I still ride
work, though I could skip that for a couple of days
and keep out of the way. At that, they’d be bound
to catch up sooner or later. Then I thought of Steve
O’Hara, glasses glued on the field, watching every
move. He could see now that Fantasy would win. To
hell with them, I thought.
As we rounded the home turn, Cyclops dropped
away, and Dynamite’s rider cut the big horse once
with the whip. He bounded forward, but I urged
Fantasy forward with my heels, and he closed up the
gap. Slowly he moved up until he was almost on
terms.
Curtis on dynamite turned sideways and snarled.
“Get t’ hell out of this, you mug!”
I started to laugh, and stopped suddenly.
A good jockey has to make a lot of quick deci-
sions, and I never made a quicker one than 1 did then.
I suppose I wanted to win that race more than the
Newmarket. I also wanted to stay in one piece if I
could. I made up my mind, and gently reined Fan-
tasy in. For a few strides he stayed with Dynamite,
then faltered as I checked him, and propped a little.
His stride shortened, and Dynamite drew away.
Before I could pull him together again Cyclops had
come at us, and Dynamite was three lengths clear.
I nursed Fantasy into his stride again, and beat
Cyclops off easily, but Dynamite flashed past the post
still three lengths to the good.
A S we rode back to the enclosure I thought only
** Steve would know. As I slipped off to weigh-in he
started to walk Fantasy without saying a word. He
didn’t need to speak.
They waited a long time for the correct-weight
flag after the race. Curtis weighed in seven pounds
light. I could have told them just where to find that
lead, because I saw it fall just after the home turn
while Curtis was telling me where I could go. I
didn’t tell them —just let them find it, and tried to
say bad luck to Curtis as if I meant it. What he
didn’t know and the gang didn’t know was that if
I hadn’t seen it go Fantasy would have walked in.
The standover experts grinned at me as I rode in ;
I was sorry I wasn’t there when they took the news.
I told Steve afterwards that I’d been riding races
for 14 years, and Fantasy was the first horse I ever
pulled. He wanted to cut me in on his winnings, but
I figured that he needed it worse than I did, and,
anyway, the laugh I got out of it was enough. But
the way we laughed then was nothing to the way
we laughed the next day.
You see, there was an inquiry by the stewards,
and they decided that even losing seven pounds at
the straight entrance didn’t account for about a two-
stone improvement over recent performances. The
racing game would be cleaner, they thought, if the
horse, jockey, owner and trainer took a rest for
twelve months. I’m still laughing, because they were
running the only horse I was afraid of in the New-
market.
“But she is such a
dear girl—such a fine
type of the Currency
Lasses whom you so
much admire.”
“Beside the ques-
tion, Elizabeth. Alto-
gether beside it. There
is nothing to be done,
save to allow the law
to take it's course. This
man Willhayes must
stand his trial for the
murder of a fellow-
creature. There is no
avoiding it.”
“But Sir Thomas
Brisbane? Must the
Governor take this
view?”
“My dear, he has
no choice. His duty is
to see to the impartial
administration of the
laws. He cannot but
hold the view which
influences me even
against my inclination,
for I know this Richard
Willhayes. A good fellow. Industrious, sober, well
behaved, and a splendid creature physically. Too
good a man for the gallows. Well —but it is very sad.’
“Oh, Macquarie, Macquarie! And we are going
home!”
The ex-Governor shrugged his broad shoulders
and frowned a little. But his eyes softened. “My
love, you must not worry over it. It cannot be helped.
Come now. There are a thousand things to do and
not a thousand minutes to do them in. We must go
and take our farewell of the Reverend William
Cowper, who is confined to his bed. His Excellency’s
carriage awaits us. Come, then.”
I ATER in the evening, Mrs. Macquarie carried her
*—’ case to the highest court of appeal available to
her.
“But, my dear Sir Thomas,” she pleaded with
the Governor, “these are the facts of the matter. The
poor girl has told me all about them. The sergeant
insulted her, and she informed her lover. What else
could the man do but administer chastisement to so
gross an offender? He would have been no true
man had he not done his part in the protection of
his affianced wife from such debasing overtures. He
did not mean to kill the other, merely to thrash him
soundly, and he was not himself aware that the man
was dead when he left him lying there. Oh, I beg
your Excellency to exercise a wise discretion and
refrain from proceeding against this unfortunate
young fellow. I beg it of you, Sir Thomas.”
Lieutenant-General Sir Thomas Makdougall Bris-
bane contemplated the pretty woman seated opposite
him in the big drawing-room at Government House
with a sure sense that it would by no means be diffi-
cult or distasteful to comply with most of the requests
that she might make of him ; but, in this case, a long
discussion of it with his predecessor left him with a
regretful feeling that he must do the very contrary
to what this charitable and charming lady desired.
He shook his head sadly as he replied to Mrs.
Macquarie’s appeal. “Well, but, my dear lady, I fear
that I am powerless to intervene. You see, the matter
is outside my jurisdiction until, of course, it comes to
the confirming of the sentence of the Criminal Court.
And even then I must be guided by precedent, in
spite of the fact that I might wish to exercise a merci-
ful discretion. I fear that I really can do nothing.
Indeed, I have consulted with your husband, and he
advises me that the only course is to allow matters
to proceed in the ordinary way.”
With downcast eyes, Mrs. Macquarie contem-
plated the pattern of the carpet. For a little time she
said nothing, whilst the Governor regarded her with
pitying solicitude.
Suddenly she looked up, smiling at him hopefully.
“I have it, Sir Thomas, I have it!”
The Governor bowed smilingly. “A woman’s
wit, dear Mrs. Macquarie ; it often sees through fogs
and mists impenetrable to that dull creature man.
Pray, what is your solution of the difficulty? I am
as anxious for this pair of lovers as you are.”
“Well, you see,” she said hesitantly, “I fear,
Sir Thomas, that you may not wholly approve the
idea that has come to me. My maid, Sarah White,
has discovered at the last moment that she does not
want to leave Sydney. Another affair of the heart,
I understand. So I am going to take with me Molly
Brixham. Now since we cannot save this poor fellow,
Dick Willhayes, from Mr. Wentworth’s constables—
though they have not taken him yet—l would esteem
it a great favor if you would give him some sort of
safe conduct to come and see poor Molly for the
last time to-night. I am certain that she will know
how to get it to him, and that he will come to her.
After that, I suppose the constables must do their
A moment or two the victor stood, scowling
down on his defeated adversary. Then he picked up
his jacket, flung it over his broad shoulders and
walked away.
duty. However, Willhayes should be available to
them after this last interview.”
His Excellency nodded his head gravely, and she
went on. “And one other thing, dear Sir Thomas,
I would beg as a special favor. It is that the ship
Surrey be not searched in the usual way to-morrow
before she sails. It would be most unpleasant for
Mr. Macquarie and myself, you know —with all our
personal friends aboard—to see a sergeant’s guard
hunting high and low throughout the vessel for run-
away convicts. Most unpleasant and distressing. We
expect to go through a sad hour or two as it is. May
we not be spared this unpleasantness?”
The Governor rose to his feet, and stood looking
down into the wistful, pleading eyes anxiously up-
turned to his. He smiled a little. “Well, well, my
dear Mrs. Macquarie! I have but just referred to
my own sex as ‘dull creatures,’ and it appears to me
that you are in agreement with me, eh? Am 1
expected to look for a meaning in your request?”
“Oh, no, your Excellency! ’Tis but a woman’s
foolish whim —the last part of it, I mean.”
The gallant old soldier bowed ceremoniously with
twinkling eyes. “Then it gives me great pleasure,
madam, to accede to both requests. If you will be
so good as to accompany me to my office I will
instruct the secretary to make out a pass that will
allow this man Willhayes to visit the young woman,
but which will afford him no protection should the
police apprehend him subsequently. I have little
doubt,” he observed drily, “that they will be waiting
on the doorstep for the conclusion of his leave-
taking.”
Mrs. Macquarie sprang lightly to her feet, her
face radiant with happiness, and, stepping up to him,
caught hold of the gold aiguillettes festooning his broad
chest with both her little hands, and stood with smil-
ing face upturned to his. “May God bless your term
of office, you dear man! Kiss me, Sir Thomas! ”
“Eh, Mistress Macquarie,” said the Governor as
he stooped to comply with her command. “Ye’re a
bonnie lassie —a guid lassie!”


£55 for Short Stories
For the best short stories submitted before January 31,
1938, The Bulletin offers the following prize-
money :
£3O
£l5
£5
First . . .
Second .
Third . .
Special Prize Best Brief Story. . £5
In addition to the prizes, all entries published will be
paid for at Bulletin rates.
Closing date for the competition is January 31, 1938.
But it is not intended to wait till then before publishing
entries; any considered to have a chance will be paid
for and published week by week as they come to hand.
At the close of the competition ALL the entries will
be considered by the judges.
Each entry must be the competitor’s hitherto unpub-
lished original work, and must be accompanied by a
declaration to that effect.
Entries must not exceed 6500 words. The special
prize of £5 for the best brief story will go to the
best story of 1500 words or less. It will have an
equal chance of taking any of the other prizes.
Pen-names may be used, but the full names and
addresses of the winners will be published when the
results are announced.
Each competitor may submit as many entries as he
or she desires, and there is no entry fee.
No member of The Bulletin staff may compete.
Entries to be addressed:
“Short Story Competition,”
C/o “THE BULLETIN,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
stories seem a little long for what is in them, one
lapses into sentimentality, and the title piece is not
in the author’s best vein, but the rest have the quality
that stands up to re-reading.
The book has the additional interest of some
passages of experimental prose in which repetition
and rhythm are brought to the aid of statement in
conveying the feelings of characters. In the following
a young couple are in the office of a large municipal
marriage-license bureau:
She felt embarrassed standing there with the people
going in and out, standing there without doing anything,
but a wedding in a church with the organ playing and
a white satin gown would be so much more beautiful,
and more sacred, somehow. But it was silly, standing
there with all the people looking at them and hurrying
back and forth, doing something, while they just stood
there and stared, like a couple of hicks, standing there
hesitating.
In this the young couple are seated with other
couples in the ante-room of the one-a-minute chapel
attached to the bureau, waiting their turn to be called
before the marriage registrar:
The typewriter clacked and the clock ticked and the
pendulum swung with long slow strokes and the fan
whirred and people came in and went out at regular
intervals from the door across the room.
Thielen uses his knack for this sort of thing
sparingly.
Unrest in Mexico.
The Stones Awake, by Carleton Beals (J. B. Lip-
pincott; Moore’s Bookshop ; Bs. 6d.), deals with the
revolutionary period in Mexico following the end of
the Diaz regime in 1910. It moves between the village
of Milpa Verde and Mexico City ; in one place show-
ing the struggle between the peons and the tyranny
of the hacienda, in the other the conflict of rival
revolutionary leaders and the gradual disillusionment
of the led. It ends on a hopeful but necessarily incon-
clusive note.
Don Joaquin, master of the hacienda and usurper
of the communal village lands, horsewhips Jose,
Esperanza’s brother, for a petty neglect of duty. The
boy runs away to join some bandit-revolutionaries.
He is brought back and publicly flogged. Luis,
Esperanza’s lover, interferes, and he and Jose are
marched off to compulsory service with Government
troops. Esperanza is taken to the hacienda and made
to spend the night with Don Joaquin. Luis and Jose
become subordinate revolutionary leaders, and the
former, after Esperanza has joined him in Mexico
City, loses his life while watching some casual street-
fighting.
Esperanza becomes the mistress of David, a
Mexican painter and publicist (we hear a great deal
at this point about the relationship of art to the social
order), and after he deserts her she returns to Milpa
Verde to find her personal salvation and happiness in
schoolteaching, so that the peons’ children may grow
up better fitted for the social struggle than were their
unschooled parents.
We are given to understand that what happened
in Milpa Verde happened in a thousand similar
villages, each, in that illiterate land, unknown to the
other. Spiritual and temporal powers were allied in
resisting the claims of the lower orders. The cure
worked on the feelings of his peon flock to weaken
the demand for the return of the communal lands. He
opposed the beginnings of secular education. When
the villagers, by scrimping, had saved enough to build
a school he stole the materials to build a new curatage.
When the people, still determined, built a school from
materials they cut and dug in the neighborhood he
led a party of the devout to wreck the fence, trample
the garden and destroy the blackboard and slates.
The effect was to consolidate anti-clericalism.
It is a large, slow-moving, painstaking work by
a writer who has the vision to see a social movement
as a whole, the art to seize upon its significant aspects
for narrative purposes, and to relate his characters to
his theme. If the book has a fault it is in a lack of
dramatic intensity.
Viennese Fairy Tale.
Sunset at Noon, by Ruth Feiner (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.),
translated from the German by Norman Alexander,
is this author’s third novel. Its two predecessors, Cat
Across the Path and Fires 'in May, were, judging by
the notices on the jacket of this one, very well
received. It is easy enough to see why Miss Feiner’s
work should please many, especially feminine readers,
for it is an almost perfect example of the wish-fulfil-
ment novel.
Sunset at Noon (the catchy title is backed up by
meteorological chapter-headings such as Mainly Dull,
Bright Intervals and Local Showers) has for its kernel
the good old chestnut “Love or a Career.” The
heroine, Constantine Flemming (called Stanzi), of
course has both. We meet her first as a self-possessed
little girl of six. Her father had just committed
suicide.
He left behind him his daughter, his overdraft, his
violin, and a note which read: “Should anyone ask
why I died you may say I was nothing in particular
and that I was bored. —Your Father.”
This was a lesson to Stanzi, and she determined
to be Something. So at eighteen she ran away from
the millionaire uncle who had adopted her and started
a career.
Stanzi’s ideas were vague. She had some hazy day-
dream of a rapid climb to fame, publicity, a great
career.
She experienced life, behaved quixotically and
starved picturesquely in a garret. She wrote a novel
called The Ambassadress, vindicating the right of
women to independence and their superiority to men.
On publication it carried her immediately to fame.
Unfortunately, a lot of people took it for a satire.
Stanzi at twenty-one made a fortune, went into
film direction, edited a super magazine, rescued her
uncle’s business from failure, and had the satisfaction
of spurning a number of young men all extraordinarily
handsome. “Extremely tall, terribly good-looking and
amazingly blond” is but a feeble flight. The author
is not very kind to these young men, who all showed
up rather badly and turned out to be just “mistakes
on two legs.”
There was, however, a hero, a professor of thirty-
seven, but he was an anti-feminist, having been
severely bitten by a new woman. (His first wife went
on a lecturing tour when the baby was dying of
pneumonia.) He fell in love with Stanzi at first sight*
but because he would not subscribe to her feminist
religion she would have none of him. Not, she
declared, till every bone in her body was broken would
she marry him. The professor, with infinite gentle-
ness, settles down to play a waiting game, and
gradually the woman in her triumphs—success without
love is savorless. The false report that the professor
has married a beautiful blonde (Stanzi herself is small,
dark and plain, with the usual beautiful eyes, hair and
teeth) completes her overthrow. Weary of life with-
out love, she unsuccessfully attempts suicide. The
faithful professor rushes to her bedside.
Despite her pains Stanzi’s face twisted into a grin.
“I keep my word also. I’m a most reliable person.”
“Really?”
“Yes. Don’t you remember I once said I’d break
every bone in my body before I married you? Well,
I’ve done my part.”
He bent down to kiss that portion of her face not
quite covered in bandages—her mouth. At this moment
a doctor approached the bed, turned abruptly and
walked to the door where a nurse stood waiting.
“Oh, nurse, you can tell the reporters Constantine
will live.”
So ends the tale. Ambition is the sun that sets
at noon, and love automatically takes its place. It
only remains to warn or to reassure prospective readers
that this book contains no political comment and has
no serious social outlook. The setting is the Vienna
of the films. Its morals and psychology are also of
the films.
Creatures Untamed.
The Hill Fox, by Ernest Lewis (Constable ; Angus
and Robertson; Bs. 6d.), freely and attractively deco-
rated by Clifford Webb, is redolent of Britain’s farm-
lands and Wildernesses. It tells the life story of Mist,
a fox littered on the north-west coast of Scotland,
captured when mature, and sent south to introduce
fresh blood into the strain of Dorset foxes. The
writer’s descriptions of settings and incidents are well-
informed and clearly presented. This note on
crofters’ cottages among Mist’s native hills leaves the
reader with a sharply-defined image:
The vixen [Mist’s mother] went down into Glen
Fhada, and towards morning hunted about the few
small crofts huddled together below the Corrie of the
Rainbow. The crofts were very poor. The tiny
whitewashed houses had round, thatched roofs with
no ridge, the rush thatch being covered with a network
of ropes, weighted at the eaves with big stones to keep
the roofs from being blown quite away when the winter
gales whistled down the glen. One or two of the richer
crofters boasted a single cow which might be seen
tethered out in the summer and which in winter
was fed from her owner’s tiny haystack. Even the few
sheep belonging to the crofts were mostly tethered on
strings.
Here is a glimpse of bird-life in Dorset:
In Lix Hill spinney were other small birds with large
voices, though of very different tone to the corn-
crakes’. There were two or three pairs of nightingales,
who might be heard of an afternoon or evening. It was
only well after dark that they had the spinney to them-
selves, for at other times the less romantic but almost
equally sweet-voiced blackbirds and thrushes kept them
company, but even when these others were hard at
it, and perhaps a warbler or two as well, out of the
riot of song would rise clear and unmistakable the
nightingales’ one special note, so long and loud that
you almost feared it must burst the singer’s golden
throat.
With intimate knowledge of the ways of foxes
the writer describes Mist’s early education by his
mother in the tactics of game-stalking and pursuit
from danger, his love romances, his adventures in the
Dorset hunting field and his final escape to a life
of enduring peace among the sea cliffs, where he found
hiding-places similar to those of his Highland home.
Lewis does this extraordinarily well, though he
is far from being an immaculate artist. He occa-
sionally confuses his own viewpoint with that of the
creature whose habits he explains, and he mislays the
story of Mist for pages at a time while he tells of the
lives of birds and small field animals in the vicinity,
giving the digression some relationship to the narra-
tive if he can, but pursuing it for its own sake if he
cannot. This takes the feather edge off interest in the
book’s dramatic content, but it is compensated for in
the writer’s undoubted authority, the delightful sense
of friendliness toward wild life that imbues his pages
and the clarity of statement that makes the reader see
with his observing eye.
Glancing back, it seems as if there can be hardly
a bird or beast of Britain that does not flit somewhere
across the scene, and never in its mere catalogic identity
—always in the act of living. His hunting scenes,
limned from the fox’s angle, are as unequivocal as
sporting prints.
Reviewed Briefly.
Winter Cherries: Derek Temple (Andrew Mel-
rose ; ,7s. 6d.). A light romance, with touches of
humor, moving between Kenya and Sussex. The
author evidently knows both places, and writes of
them well.
Death on the Board: John Rhode (The Crime
Club ; 7s. 6d.). Five members of a board of directors
die one after another in circumstances that seem to
point to suicide and accident but which might alter-
natively indicate carefully-planned murder. The
solution is rational. A first-rate crime problem.
Anna Becker: Max White (Seeker and Warburg ;
7s. 6d.). American college-town setting. The inside
story of a woman who is jolted out of a tranquil
attitude toward life by physical assault. She ends by
being regarded as a woman of loose morals, but the
reader can see that she is obedient to a code of her
own. A promising first novel, though the style
suggests that the author has been reading Russian
writers too much—or too recently.
Ten Poplars: Helene Magriska (Constable; 7s.
6d.). Our old friend the problem novel. What does
a woman do who finds that she and her daughter have
both fallen in love with the same man? The charac-
ters are a middle-aged Hollywood film idol, a woman
doctor who has discovered a means of restoring lost
youth, and her daughter. Flimsy in conception, but
good in detail. The writer has talents worthy of a
better cause.
Carnival at Blackport: J. L. Hodson (Gollancz ;
Moore’s Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.). Set in a north-of-England
seaside resort which looks like Blackpool thinly dis-
guised. Love, hope, comedy, heartbreak and a little
social criticism against a carnival background. There
is a strong plot interest and plenty of characterisation
of the bold and obvious kind. Admirers of J. B.
Priestley should like this one.
Mr. Pinch: Pearson Choate (Williams and Nor-
gate; 7s. 6d.). A light, amusing story of what
happened when, through the unexpected death of his
vicar, the Reverend Edward Pinch, a small, insignifi-
cant but aspiring and at times inspired curate-in-
charge, suddenly finds his field of action widen. The
author, a parson’s son, makes neat use of his inside
knowledge of ecclesiastical circles.
The Red Spinner: Edmund Snell (Robert Hale ;
7s. 6d.). Gathering war clouds, the stolen secret of a
lethal gas, two murders, kidnapping, a mysterious
disappearance and a sinister personality whose sign
manual, is a red trout-fly are the ingredients of this
thriller, which begins in Africa and ends in mid-
Atlantic. Reggie, Ann, Alan and Dierdre provide a
double-barrelled love interest.
Three Died Beside the Marble Pool: Carl M.
Chapin (Master Thriller Library; 7s. 6d.). The nude
body of. Doris Brown is found beside a swimming-
pool in an abandoned marble quarry in Vermont.
Three other persons, of the village and the near-by
artists’ colony, lose their lives in the water’s sinister
depths before the mystery is cleared up by Federal
investigator Pike Anderson. As blood-freezing as the
pool itself.
A Modern Tom Brown’s School Days: Michael
Scott (Harrap ; 7s. 6d.). The great-grandsons of Tom
Brown, Tadpole and other characters from Thomas
Hughes’s classic foregather at modern Rugby. Like
his ancestor, Tom appears first as a timid new boy
and departs as a tried and trusted senior after a night
of beer and sentimental reflections. Full of esprit de
school from the colors on the dust-jacket to the last
chapter, “Floreat Rugbeia!” The Bishop of Liver-
pool, Dr. A. A. David, formerly headmaster of Rugby,
testifies to the faithfulness of the story.


M
■ % m
“I can tell
White
Horse
0
1”
#
Y
Judge by the aroma: White Horse has its own.
Judge by the softness: White Horse has grown old and gentle. Once
you have known this whisky you can say with assurance, 44 White
Horse, of course!”
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices .
WH 11
“Equal to a fine liqueur


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
- '!:■
>rm : . m
/XX ! X'.X X
m
b
. (■
.
'"m "i
K
Hm|
•P
MM
WBm
f I h|
m
’ i- ‘ - J
Igii
■
*
%1
H
:• •••:•
M
H
■
.:* ' ■
■
■
■
■
Ml
m
m
m
1
;.j
v ;«#!«
.v/, : Y
ill
P
ill
in
n
mm
■
m
i : i
m, % iim \ n
% \%\ * t
: '
HI
X
.5| i -
Another Interior View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.


IT’S HELL TO BE A FRANKENSTEIN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
VICTORIA : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
: months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.: 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
tmpne, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
oi America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ALIENS COME: BRITONS GO.
There has been another outbreak of protests against
the alaiming influx of Southern Europeans,”
Southern Europeans” being a euphemism for Italians.
The R.M.S. Otranto brought 196, of whom 66 were
Italians, and Alderman Harrup, of Rockhampton,
who was a fellow-passenger, was so indignant about
it that he drew up a memorial—loB other passengers
signed it —in which he informed the Government that
the introduction of these people is not in the best
interests of the national life of the Commonwealth,”
and invited it to be up and doing.
The Government pleaded that it was already
upping and doing. Aliens, it said, are admitted only
under permit which requires them to produce evidence
of good health and morals. Most of them are
nominated by relatives or friends in Australia, who
have to guarantee to maintain dependants and to find
for adult males jobs that will not affect the employ-
ment of Australians. The men thus guaranteed must
land with £5O; men not guaranteed must have £2OO.
There is nothing very wrong with these regulations
it the administration is all right.
Alien-immigration figures for the year to June
30 show a total of 3582. There were nearly as many
Greeks (902) as Italians (949), and there were 411
y ugoslavs, 289 Poles, 124 Albanians and 120 Maltese.
Greeks, as we know them, are city- and town-dwellers,
and if they ran true to Hellenic form the 1936-1937
arrivals are now selling steak-and-da-oyst, schnahp,
prawns and ahpricot an’ coostard they have a
virtual monopoly of this vending in many country
towns. It is improbable that many of the Italians
stayed in our huge wens ; Italians mostly become
miners, axemen, bush clearers, farm laborers and
farmers. So, leaving comparative racial quality out
of the argument, they are far more useful settlers than
Greeks, just as they were steady and valuable allies
during the war, in which the subjects of King ’Tino
had to be well watched.
Since the U.S.A. applied its quota system, Aus-
tralia has had more Italian immigrants than it
received when American doors were wide open. Even
so, and in spite of the periodical fuss, the census-
takers could find only 17,658 Italian-born residents of
both sexes and all ages among the 6,629,839 they
counted on June 30, 1933, and there are probably not
more than 20,000 now.
As a matter of fact “the influx of southern Euro-
peans is smaller than it was before the depression,
when 7000 Italians, 1350 Greeks and 1140 Yugoslavs
arrived in one year (1927). It looks larger only because
British immigration has ceased, and because most of
the aliens travel in two or three foreign ships. Not
only has British immigration ceased, but there is a
persistent, though small, exodus of people of British
stock ; excess of permanent departures over permanent
arrivals was 1248 in the year which saw 2262 Italians,
Greeks and Yugoslavs come in.
Why is this loss of British population going on
when Australia has become so fair a field for the
employment of skilled workers, of whom Britain has
a superabundance? Why has the flow of British capital
to Australia shrunk to a trickle? It is surely not
that Britons with capital to invest and labor to employ
are ignorant of what Australia has to offer. There is
a volume of evidence, especially since 1931, that they
watch Australian developments and events very closely.
The main fault lies with our politicians. They
and their crazy taxation are keeping alive the distrust
which Mr. Lang implanted in the British mind when
he went off his political head. It is felt in Britain
that there is no invitation to newcomers in the multi-
tude of taxes invented by the multitude of authorities
nor any guarantee that they will get a fair share of
the profits of enterprise, and that Government’s
share will be fair and fixed. They object particularly
to the dozen income taxes, some of which, as in N.
S. Wales and Victoria, are clapped on already-taxed
income from other States and (in spite of the satisfac-
tory British and Commonwealth Government arrange-
ment) from Britain itself; and others, as in Queens-
land, are imposed arbitrarily on profits alleged to be
made in that State with a punitive touch in the case of
businesses the ruling party doesn’t like. Lighten the
burden of taxation and remove the uncertainty ; in
other words, substitute one definite and intelligible
Commonwealth tax for the dozen disorderly, uncer-
tain and, in the mass, rapacious taxes with which
industry is now smitten by seven Parliaments and
seven departments; and British enterprise would
swiftly respond. There would then be no need to
bewail the drift away from Australia of people of
British stock or rail at the advent of 300 or 400 aliens
a month. The 300 or 400 aliens would be lost among
the thousands of arriving Britons, as they were before.
Meanwhile, encouragement might be given to the
revival of child immigration on the Kingsley Fair-
bridge plan. And since Britain has 1,900,000 more
women than men and Australian city girls won’t take
country work this was the subject of a rueful debate
at the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ conference—the
introduction of domestics under contract should be
resumed. And, seeing that the satisfied tourist with
no ties elsewhere is apt to become a permanent resi-
dent, while the dissatisfied tourist is apt to keep other
tourists away, the silly laws which forbid people to
take the good wines of the country at mealtime and
interdict the sale of liquor after 6 p.m. should be
altered in accordance with modern ideas.
The Land Where the Loser Wins.
If the Japanese are determined on a “major war” in
China, they are almost certain of the usual sweeping
victory with the usual results. According to European
ideas, everything in China goes by inversion. It is
a country whiqh, consistent as in everything, has never
won a war by its own effort, and has never failed to
make the victor sorry.
Kublai Khan was the first man in the Christian
era to conquer China. His dynasty lasted 88 years.
It was drowned by sheer weight of Chinaman. The
Manchus were longer in nominal control, but in
their last years they were the slaves rather than the
rulers of their people.
The Chinese has no patriotism in the ordinary
sense of the word. He regards land as a utility, and
his whole allegiance is to his family and his ancestors.
When it comes to a clash between family and country
country goes to the wall.
China, including Tibet, is half as big again as
Australia or as Europe. It has 438,000,000 people—
nearly a fourth of the world’s population. Six per
cent, dwell in towns with populations of 50,000 or
over; 12 p.c. in settlements of over 10,000 ; the rest
are divided among a couple of million village com-
munities, where they live six to the family on farms
which may run to acres. Though there are fewer
domestic animals and fowls than persons, their farms
support them till famine comes. Then, having neither
“sustenance” nor “stay orders,” they just die. Not
enough of them expire, however, to affect the birth
every year of about twice as many babies as the total
population of Australia.
In spite of earlier conquests, China did not go
into the business of being beaten thoroughly until the
nineteenth century. It is 100 years since the British
became tired of being treated as barbarians, and
walked into the Chinese with vigor. The Chinese, with
true Oriental politeness, made scarcely any resistance.
When the shindy was over they gave up the rocky
and almost uninhabited island of Hong Kong, and
opened to foreigners a few treaty ports and a mud-
bank on the Whangpoo.
The British built a splendid city on Hong Kong,
where some Chinese make huge fortunes and 900,000
more are looked after by police, doctors and dominies.
So that Britain may not be deprived of the privilege of
looking after them, £7,000,000 is to be spent on forti-
fying Hong Kong, and millions more have been ex-
pended on a naval and air base at Singapore, which—
again also built on a few swampy islands —has be-
come more than half Chinese.
As for the Whangpoo mudbank and marsh, that
is where Shanghai stands to-day. Foreigners de-
veloped it. Nearly all its 3,000,000-odd people are
Chinese. Other snippets of China have been in British
hands under lease—Weihaiwei, for instance—but
these have been handed back improved.
Since the British war of the eighteen-thirties, China
has been considerably ravaged. The T‘ai P‘ing rebel-
lion, started by a fanatic who saw visions, cost it
more lives than were lost by any nation in the Great
War. China left the degrading work of putting down
the outbreak to a barbarian, known for ever after-
wards as Chinese Gordon.
Britain and France found it necessary to conquer
China again. They marched victorious almost to the
gates of Peking, took Tientsin, razed a few forts and
made a peace. But the Chinese forgot all about the
peace, and the war had to be fought all over again.
It was done so thoroughly that any other nation would
have spent a generation planning for revenge. China
just went on planting beans.
In 1894 Japan tackled China. While thoroughly
despising the new invaders, the Chinese ran even
faster than they had run from the British. Presently
they ceded Formosa and a bit of the Liaotung penin-
sula and allowed Korea to become free—which, to all
intents and purposes, it was anyway. Japan still has
Formosa and Dairen, and it annexed Korea in 1910;
but its victory over China cost it a war with Russia and
the birth of an implacable enmity.
Like other nations which have put their fingers
into the Chinese stew, Japan has provided hundreds
of millions of pounds to build up Chinese industry
and make work and money for good Chinamen. The
Japanese make a profit, too, but they maintain their
foothold only by occasional military operations.
It is 37 years since China was last “conquered.”
Then a mixed international force wrested Peking from
the Boxers—who styled themselves / Ho Ch’uan
(Venerated Harmony Fists) and were for expelling all
Europeans—and looted Peking. The Chinese Imperial
Government was then at the complete mercy of the
toieign devils. But to the bulk of the people it made
little or no difference. Neither did the 1910-12 revolu-
tion. As a result of that event democrats chatter
in the cities and war-lords wander round the country-
side, and ling chi, death from a thousand cuts, has
given place to more modern tortures; but the
immemorial pursuits and customs of the people have
not changed.
There was one war which China did not lose —
its war with Germany. President Wilson persuaded
the Chinese that they owed it as a duty to the world
to fight for democracy, and China declared war. Then
it took the dignified stand that if the Germans wanted
to fight China they were welcome to call.
China won that war without firing a shot. But,
paradoxically, it was the only conflict which seriously
affected its integrity. For it was during the carnage
in Europe that Japan was able to establish a policy
of modified “guardianship,” the policy of the 21 points,
graciously abandoned in deference to President Wilson,
but still liable to resuscitation.
If Japan can find enough armed Chinese in one
place and of one mind to carry on a campaign against
them it will inevitably pay for beating them. The
Chinese seem to be worse shots with modern weapons
than they were with ancient ones. And when they
are tired of fighting modern transport will enable them
to run farther and faster, to the confusion of a
weary enemy. But after it is all over tens of millions
of Chinese will only know through hearsay that there
has been a war at all.
The Paralysis Scare.
Public reactions to the Melbourne infantile-paralysis
scare afford yet another proof of the superstitious
ignorance which dominates human mentality when
faced with a strange disease. In country districts
public meetings are held to protest against visits
from the “infected” city. Frontier guards hold up
cars containing children and send them back if they
cannot produce certificates. Dozens of other silly
things are being done under scare-complex influence.
. The popular view of “infantile” paralysis is that
it is highly infectious and contagious, usually fatal,
and of quite recent development, possibly on account
of wireless. It is supposed to strike down children
into raving madness, and to leave the few survivors
as lifelong cripples.
Actually the infection is always with us. It prob-
ably has been with us since the earliest days of Aus-
tralian settlement. Its results have been described by
Australia’s Elliot Smith, among others, as occurring in
bones of prehistoric mankind found in several parts of
Europe and in Egypt. Thousands of Australians, young
and adult, have suffered from it without ever knowing
that they have had it. These extremely mild attacks,
less troublesome than an average feverish cold, are,
in fact, the usual form of the complaint. Only in a
very small proportion of cases do the paralysis com-
plications occur.
The mildness of its usual form produces two
results which lead to such scares as the present. One
is a complete immunity against another attack. The
other is a continual series of unrecognised infections
of the non-immune which keeps the condition con-
tinually going in any given community, and which
also accounts for the mysterious fashion in which
cases with paralysis complications occur in a single
member of a family or community. It is only when
a large non-immune population develops, by reason
of a lowered rate of unrecognised infection over some
years, that the really very rare paralytic complications
are seen.
In addition to the few-score reported cases in the
Melbourne outbreak, it is safe to assume that there
have been thousands of unrecognised ones. The
special incidence on children arises from the fact that
adults have nearly all had the thing, and have acquired
immunity from further infection.
Leading scientific opinion considers that the risk
of any recognisable infection-result from contact with
a case is 100 times less than with measles, and 10
times less than with diphtheria. There is reason to
suspect that water and milk play a part in its spread,
as well as direct infection from sufferers. In the
present state of knowledge and of practical health
administration there is no possible way by which the
mild cases which keep the condition always going can
be detected. There is no known way of preventing
infection or of preventing the paralytic complications
which occur in a tiny proportion of a large annual
number of unrecognised cases.
There is no need for all this fuss and flurry of
frontier guards, and certificated children, and cancel-
lations of sporting fixtures, and sob-laden articles in
the flapper press. Even in the extremely remote
event of any given child or adult developing the
rare paralytic form, the odds are much in favor of
survival, and 60 p.c. of the paralysed recover entirely,
without any special form of treatment. Even in long-
standing cases of extensive paralysis, skilled treatment
has produced extraordinary cures.
We, alleged heirs to all the wisdom of the ages,
are an unreasonable and unthinking folk. A crippled
child is a life-tragedy, but there are far more crippled
children in Australia to-day as the direct result of
careless or drunken motor-driving than as the out-
come of infantile paralysis. More children die yearly
under the wheels of cars speeding uselessly from one
place to another than die in a generation from the
wholly uncontrollable disease about which we
work ourselves up into hysterics—we and our
newspapers. And this hysterical nonsense gets
wired abroad, and, with various anniversary cele-
brations ahead, it is likely to frighten away nervous
visitors. Australia is the healthiest country in the
world, but when British and American sensation-
writers have done their utmost on the present scare
it certainly will not appear so from outside.
UNCLE M.D.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A.B.C. Ban on Politicians.
Evidently nothing is easier than baiting the AB.C.
people into wordy scrapping. One or other of them
seems to be always replying, explaining or defending.
They have yet to learn the value of an occasional
silence, especially when they have —as they most often
do have —a watertight case.
Their ban on politicians till after the elections is
one, but it is not strengthened by Mr. Cleary’s refer-
ence to the Prime Minister being “entitled to his
opinion.” „ , , ..
For his part, Mr. Lyons, like all the other poli-
ticians who have complained of the ban, singled out
banned speeches that were not of “a party character.
The Commission had been quite clear on this aspect.
Except for a few long-standing arrangements, all
politicians were to be banned till after the elections,
the Commission rightly holding that, whether speeches
were of a “party nature” or not, those making them
would be getting publicity of political value. That is
sound sense, and the Commission should stick to it.
Mr. Lyons’s suggestion that the Commission s
“policy might tend to drive people over to B-class
stations” is nonsense. There would be no surer way
of achieving that than by giving politicians the open
go they would like to have. The Commission is m
the position of a showman providing entertainment
for millions. There are other aspects to its job, but
it is as an entertainer that it has to oppose a strong
opposition, and it is as such that it is judged. It
could not do worse than give politicians an open go,
or even encourage them. Of all offerings on the an
talks are the least entertaining and the least popular.
Of all talkers over the air there are none worse than
politicians. Platform and air talking demand entirely
different techniques, and few politicians are proficient
in both. , ,
Mr. Lyons may be right in asserting that the
nation is “entitled to hear, through the national sta-
tions, from time to time, the representatives it elects.
The answer to that is that the nation does hear them
from time to time, and quite often enough. On the
other hand, it does not hear them when it is most
entitled to hear them, and hear them cleaily.
The late,Abyssinian affair was one case in point.
The politicians who could have talked —Mr. Lyons
among them —showed no eagerness to get at the
microphone then. Information that the nation had
every right to share was effectually blanketed, not
only over the air, but in the House as well. The Gov-
ernment on that occasion resolved itself into a funny
little clique, fobbing off even the close-pressed ques-
tions of the Opposition—touching on our warships in
the Mediterranean and the like —with evasions and
worse.
Another case on which some plain talking would
have been appreciated was that of Mrs. Freer. Theie
was the same blanketing of information, which was
left to newspapers to ferret out. . .
But political matters with such lively entertaining
value are rare, and, apart from them, nothing of not~
happens in Parliament that is not broadcast. The
utterances of politicians are constantly on the air, and
much better done than they would be by their origi-
nators. It is enough.
The Passionate Friends.
Australian Governments (there are seven) have any
amount of money, chiefly borrowed, for publicity, and
the country has more roving politicians, travel associa-
tion spruikers and tourist bureaux than any other
country in the world with the same population.
It is, therefore, becoming so well known that
papers with an international reputation sometimes
devote a column or so to its affairs. Uncle Sam s
“Literary Digest,” which conducted a Presidential
“straw ballot” and awarded the victory to Landon,
has recently told its U.S.A. readers the truth about
Tasmanian politics.
Tasmania, it seems, was once known as one of
the “most forsaken lands on earth,” but it has become
one of the “most progressive and law-abiding of
States,” boasting only one prison and a tiny force
of 238 police.
Of its 31,209 law-abiding citizens only 104 recalci-
trants were sent to prison in 1936.
In politics it has become a national force. Since
Joseph A. (“Honest Joe”) Lyons skyrocketed into
prominence, “the affairs of the Speck have crackled
more furiously and have reverberated with more con-
sistent regularity on the mainland.”
Why? Because Mr. Lyons “never fails to give
his home bailiwick a boost and always assists in
every way he can the workings of the Government.”
For it is a Labor Government, headed by colorful,
country-squire-like Albert G. Ogilvie, friend and com-
panion of political wars in which Tasmania’s late leader
secured and held the Speck’s legislative and executive
machinery from 1923 to 1928, five years during which
Lyons was the State Premier.
Mr. Ogilvie himself reached office in 1934 by appeal-
ing to “the imagination of the personality-loving Tas-
manians.” But did he stand alone? He did not.
Mr. Lyons made a hasty trip back to his island
home, leaving Federal duties dangling, to help his former
confederate and the local party.
Presumably the next “Literary Digest” article
about Australia will be devoted to the David-and-
Jonathan friendship of Mr. Stevens and Mr. Lang.
The V.R.C. Gains; the A.J.C. Loses.
Australia’s two leading racing clubs held their
annual meetings last week. The V.R.C. chairman
announced a profit of £10,421, “despite increases of
over £10,000 in prize-money, of about £5000 in race-
course-maintenance expenditure and of rates and taxes
charged on improvements effected in recent years”—
£39,000 during the year under review. Attendances
at Remington were “very satisfactory,” the totalisator
“had grown in popularity,” and “in general throughout
Victoria racing has continued to prosper.”
The A.J.C. chairman reported a loss of £9,634.
His club, which races at Randwick and Warwick
Farm, had also increased prize-money “by £10,000,”
but the average attendance at Randwick had dropped
to 29,742, “the lowest for four years.” The A.J.C.
chairman blamed starting-price betting, but the V.R.C.
has likewise to contend with s.p. betting. He was on
firmer ground in objecting to the advertising of tips
over the air, which is lawless as well as hideous ; but
Governments, while prohibiting newspaper advertising
by tipsters and also continuing their silly prohibition
on newspaper publication of ante-post odds, allowed
in England and everywhere else, permit tipsters and
radio stations that take their advertisements to go
their hardest.
The A.J.C. chairman also praised the Queensland
measures against s.p. betting and uiged the N.S.W.
Government to copy them, incidentally chiding The
Bulletin for saying that the Stevens Government has
no mandate for such legislation. The Bulletin has
made its position clear. It has no use for either s.p.
betting or for the lotteries run by the Governments
which would extinguish it by further assaults on per-
sonal liberty. S.p. betting is a folly, but at least it is
free from sickening humbug. It does harm, but greater
harm may be done in the process of suppressing it by
the means adopted in Queensland and proposed in
N. S. Wales. Relatively mild measures attempted in
N. S. Wales have led to the police force falling into
public disfavor and being raked fore and aft at two very
costly public inquiries, one of which is still in progress.
And if the campaign is intensified, as is suggested,
the force will end by being hated.
In The Bulletin’s opinion overtaxation has had
more to do with the decline of racing in N. S. Wales
than anything else —that and the continued existence
of proprietary “clubs” whose prizes are not worth
winning (Victoria has freed itself from these anachron-
isms) and the lotteries and the dogs. That overtaxa-
tion is a crushing burden the A.J.C. chairman has
himself demonstrated.
In Victoria, where the Government takes 5 p.c., tote
receipts in Melbourne last season were £2,366,000; in
Sydney, where 9 p.c. is taken, they were only £1,053,000.
Taxation on charges at the outer gate is 8.33 p.c. at
Flemington, 16.66 p.c. at Randwick; on admission to
the saddling paddock, 11.63 p.c. at Flemington, 31.66
p.c. at Randwick; to the Hill at Flemington 11.63 p.c.,
to the Leger at Randwick 41.66 p.c.
If the A.J.C. could get taxation down to the Victorian
level and rid the sport of the proprietary incubus on
the Victorian plan, which was consummated without
robbing shareholders, it would have no cause for
worry and lamentation.
Happy Days Are Here Again.
It was mentioned in B. 11/8/’37 that Queensland’s
State Advances Corporation and its clients “have
steered clear of troubles which Government housing
ventures in other parts have struck in large quanti-
ties.” This was added:
A gentleman has been telling Queenslanders, that their
S.A.C. has been outmoded or something, and that they
ought to go in for co-operative building societies on
the Stevens plan, by virtue of which a society lends, say,
£715 on a security valued by somebody or other at
751; the Government indemnifies the society to the
extent of £75 and guarantees its overdraft. The gentle-
man is “Mr. Marcus Burke, of T. M. Burke Pty., Ltd.,
land salesmen,” and his enthusiasm is boundless.
Mr. Marcus Burke replies, in the Marcus Superbus
style, from 360 Collins-street, Melbourne:
That you have wronged me doth appear in this:
You have condemned and noted me for that 1
did as an estate agent recommend unto the citizens of
Bananaland the co-operative building scheme of the
tribune Stevensus of Harboropolis, which he in turn
had learnt from the wise and practical-minded teacher
Johannes Bullorem of Anglia. True it is that for 20
years and more I have wrung the drachmas from the
palms of peasants —and others—but in exchange I have
given unto each a plot of ground—a small thing, but his
own. And now, forsooth, because I do desire that each
thereon shall have his dwelling I am accused of selfish-
ness. The charge is false. For how shall it profit me?
Being neither builder, contractor, architect nor road-
maker I am in regard to these proposed proceedings
verily and in truth Marcus Superfluous. I wish no harm
to my clients. I’d- rather be a dog and bay the moon
than such a Roman.
The Bulletin “wronged” nobody. Is it to under-
stand that Mr. Burke doesn’t sell land to landless
persons joining the co-operative building societies
whose overdrafts are guaranteed and which are
indemnified against loss? If so. he is certainly the
noblest Roman of them all. .Judging by “S. M.
Herald’s” Real Estate column (17/ 8 / ’37) no such
self-denying ordinance restrains other land agents.
Seventy-five co-operative building societies have beert
registered in the past six months, and already enough
finance is available for them to provide 3000 homes.
Private enterprise already is building between 5000
and 6000 homes a year.
Meanwhile, sales of home sites are being made in
greater volume to-day than at any time since the
depression began.
Subdivisions, which were out of the question five
years ago, are now meeting with almost spectacular
success. On one estate at Fivedock £15,000 worth of
land has been sold in three months, and in that period
buyers have competed so keenly that the price per foot
has risen by about 10 shillings. Most of the land has
been sold to people who are depending on co-operative
building societies to finance their homes.
According to Mr. Stevens, “bank advances of
approximately £2,500,000 have been approved for
co-operative building societies accepted by the Regis-
trar” —34 so far —“and 15 societies are now building.”
The State Rural Bank is also in the housing
business, and the unemployed have been blessed with
a Homes Trust. It is all reminiscent of the hectic years
when the first War Service Homes Department (the
one that dropped £2,000,000), the Commonwealth
Bank and the State Savings Bank (dec.) were com-
peting briskly in the building of homes on dear
Sydney land. The Bulletin trusts that a good time
will be had by all.
No Deokins Need Apply.
The passing of Bruce Smith reduces the little band ol
living veterans of public affairs whose names wei e
known to every Australian 30 years ago to Hughes,
J. C. Watson and Isaac Isaacs.
Within the memory of the middle-aged there
were in politics in Australia Deakin, Barton, Reid,
Forrest, Kingston, Turner, Lyne, Braddon, Fysh,
Higgins, MacMillan, O’Connor, Watt and some more
who, though only rank and file in such company,
would be generals in existing Parliaments.
They are nearly all dead, and a new race of
politicians is allowing their ideals to die too. If the
dead could come back, what would they think of the
sordid competition in State Government lotteries—
each “foreign” to the other Governments, their com-
petitors—of the State robbery taxes on income from
other States ; of the State Transport Acts and regula-
tions, differential railway rates and customs duties dis-
guised as port dues, all designed to prevent the freedom
of trade, commerce and intercourse for which these
men strove?
It is not to be believed that the Commonwealth
has run out of political material to the extent that
the present dearth of Parliamentary ability would
suggest. There must still be an abundance of legisla-
tive talent, but party machines don’t want it and won’t
have it.
When Deakin entered politics at 22, the Liberal
Association offered him £5O to help his campaign and
David Syme another £5O. He refused both gifts
because he wished to keep his independence.
Reid in his first year in Parliament forced the
resignation of the Parkes-Robertson Government,
which would not agree to his demand for an inquiry
into the land laws. He was nothing if not independent.
Lesser men sometimes ran counter to the opinion
of their own followers. Like Bruce Smith they
would have gone out of politics rather than give way.
There is plenty of room in politics for men of the
old type. They are not likely to be found in either
of the parties which claim to be representative while
it is necessary for them to beg or logroll for nomi-
nations or stand and be branded as “scabs.”
"An Attractive Map."
The Civil Aviation Department has supplemented its
multifarious instructions to airmen with an “attractive
map.” The map is on a large scale—two inches to the
mile —and it can be inspected by those who do not
receive it direct at all aerodromes. It obligingly marks
the location of magazines and munition factories.
These steps have been taken, it appears, so that
low-flving aeroplanes may not frighten employees or
drop "spanners on the works, thus causing explosions
or broken heads.
Only a few months ago, enterprising Australian
newspapers provided splendid aerial photographs o£
all the capital cities in which defence works, power-
houses, wharves, transport centres were all clearly-
defined. _
Any foreign enemy on a bombing raid will have
gaps in his knowledge filled in by Aviation Depart-
ment maps.
The British Government has, since the war, main-
tained a series of 10-mile prohibited areas round
defensive factories and positions, and it has recently
issued a stern warning about aerial photography.
In Germany, France and Italy whole districts are
excluded from flying areas. And the foreign passen-
ger in Japan is restricted to carefully-defined routes,
and his Japanese pilot is a reserve officer.
The Civil Aviation Department has lost its case
against Goya Henry, whom it deprived of his air-
pilot’s license —at all events, the case has been settled
on terms victorious to Henry, who receives £5OO
damages and costs. The department should now be
instructed to lose its “attractive map.”
At the Manufacturers' Dinner.
Both Mr. Lyons and Mr. Stevens were eloquent about
the results of Australian factory activity at the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufactures dinner at the Australia.
It’s always a good dinner, and on this occasion the
eloquence was in some respects startling: Mr. Stevens
singing a pasan about the fact that our factories have
dispensed with the necessity for overseas borrowing
and have given our own people extra work ; Mr. Lyons
chirping about the increase in factory output and the
record number of employees. Nobody was impolite
enough to mention “Water Board borrowing” in the
one case or “cement” in the other.
The facts and figures quoted by both gentlemen
in most cases told a fine story—the story of enterprise
that has been spoken for by The Bulletin over a
period that goes back to the days when Mr. Lyons
and Mr. Stevens were in short pants. It has always
been a battle for manufacturers and their supporters,
often a difficult one, partly because the size of our
interest bill on overseas borrowings is conveniently
ignored by importing interests which clamor to buy
more from Britain, more from the U.S.A., more from
somewhere else.
Some of The Bulletin’s frequent contentions
were smoothly acknowledged by the political orators
last week. The essential nature of factories for
defence : the necessity, in the absence of overseas bor-
rowing, for making our own goods in order to supply
the full requirements of the people; the growing
dependence of land men on industrial workers for the
absorption of the larger (and more profitable) part
of the produce. The right thing was said in nearly
every case. The sayings will be recorded as evidence
for the next occasion when imagined overseas obliga-
tions call for sacrifices on the part of some Australian
industry. There have been times in the last couple
of years when such assumptions have imperilled our
national finance.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: Doctors and dentists, though
forbidden to advertise, are no mean ex-
ponents of the art of getting publicity.
The toothsmiths had a conference in
Sydney last week, and there was a great
roll-up of their womenfolk, and, by a
wonderful coincidence, the ladies with
the nicest teeth got their pictures in the
papers. And the president began by say-
ing that “dental disease is a greater
scourge than cancer or consumption,” and
everybody felt happy. But members of
the senior profession had been dourly
observing the proceedings and taking in
the* remark about the superior ravages
of rotting grinders. And before the end
of the week, while the dentists were dis-
coursing comfortably on the incidence of
pyorrhea and the marvels of surgery per-
formed on Hollywood actors with fish-
like kissers, the “Medical Journal” came
out with a frightful article on dentists’
bills, closing with the statement that
inland Australia “is breeding a race of
toothless adults” because tooth-tuggers
charge so much for plates. You can’t
slight consumption or cancer with im-
punity.
Jjt V 'S' $
“Keg”: Who says we’re not adapt-
able? In most Sydney tramcars it is
almost impossible to make the conductor
hear what a passenger is asking for. Now
it is rare for a conductor or passenger
to speak at all. The traveller passes over
his money, and shows the number of sec-
tions he desires to travel by holding up
one or more fingers. Wordlessly the con-
ductor passes back the ticket and change.
•!* t -I* $
“El V.”: A curious hole in the motor-
ing laws came to light the other day
when a Melbourne man was charged with
being drunk while driving a motor-car.
The car was in motion when the police
arrived, but the engine was not running.
For the defence it was ingeniously
claimed that, to drive a car, the engine
needed to be running; otherwise the
driver was not controlling the engine and
therefore could not be said to be driv-
ing. The magistrate upheld the view-
point and dismissed the case. If that
decision is right, it seems that any owner
who has had a few may release his
brakes at the top of the Blue Mountains
and crash to the bottom on momentum
without incurring any legal penalty for
the adventure.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Recent scientific inves-
tigation into sleeping habits has revealed
that an average healthy man alters his
position some 35 times during an eight-
hour sleep in unconscious changes of
posture against muscle-cramp and circu-
lation interference. Only very rarely is
any one position maintained for more
than an hour. Restless sleepers move
twice or thrice as often. The old popular
idea about vitality being lowest between
2 a.m. and 4 a.m. was found to be cor-
rect in respect of all observable body re-
actions. Normal adults of both sexes
were kept without sleep for 90 consecu-
tive hours, and all increased substantially
in weight. When allowed to sleep again,
the increase disappeared rapidly. Yet
the same people needed a fortnight in
which to get rid of all fatigue traces pro-
duced by one night of deliberately dis-
turbed and curtailed slumber.
sic sH * *•
“Sakit Prut”: Fifty-four years ago,
H. C. Reynolds, one of the builders of
the Grafton (N.S.W.) Cathedral, em-
bedded in a temporary wall a mustard-
tin containing a letter, part of which ran:
Perhaps when this temporary end is
pulled down to make room for the exten-
sion of the church, Grafton will be a very
different place from what it is to-day. In-
stead of a few thousand scattered here and
there, there will be a vast multitude of
people. The iron horse will be snorting
through the town, the streets lit by night,
and various other improvements necessary
to make a city.
Tin and letter were found during recent
alterations to the west end of the build-
ing. Barring the vast multitudes, it was
quite a good spot of prophecy for 1883,
and Grafton’s present 7000-odd would
have looked quite like a multitude then.
* * * *
“Taro”: The boss himself undertook
to interview the aspirants for the posi-
tion of office-boy, the last of whom was
“Have you made a report of this accident?"
a diminutive youth with red hair and a
slight impediment in his speech. The
boss explained at length that what the
firm wanted was a lad with initiative, one
who would notice without being told
small things that required righting and
mention them to his superiors. William
could scarcely contain himself to the end
of the discourse. “Yes, s-sir,” he stut-
tered. “P-please, sir, there’s some egg
on your weskit.” And William, to the
intense surprise of the listening staff, got
the job.
4: * if *
“Scotia”: Census of employees at a
bush sawmill near the Dandenongs
(Vic.): One ex-seaman, one ex-miner,
one ex-pugilist, one ex-journalist, one ex-
public accountant, one ex-pedagogue,
one ex-vaudevillean and one ex-engineer.
Only the remaining two were brought up
to the timber game (one was born at a
mill); and both are still in their twenties.
I had almost forgotten the dog, which
perhaps may be correctly described as
an ex-Alsatian.
❖ ❖ >!' He
“Selma”: The only ideal school
windows I’ve ever struck (B. 18 /8 / ’37)
were in a Maoriland Sunday-school I
attended in my early youth. They were
of the fixed variety. Longer than the aper-
tures, each window sloped inwards at an
angle of 45 degrees, the open tops were
screened with wire gauze, and the glass
used was opaque and pale green. Result,
no rain could get in, nor could any flies;
dust was reduced to a minimum, all
draughts were drawn upwards and well
above the heads of the inmates, no
blinds were needed, and the faint green
light was restful to the eyes. I often
wondered why such windows were not
more widely used, until I met the archi-
tect. He told me he had been so acidly
criticised for his departure from con-
vention that he had never dared to repeat
the experiment.
“Kerriki”: The late King’s abdication
had some curious effects in the books of
reference that deal with royalties and
lesser celebrities. As Edward VIII., the
Almanack de Gotha spread itself round
him to the tune of a page. The latest
edition cuts him down to a bare two
lines. And the Social Register of New
York passes over the lady who was once
Wallis Warfield in silence this year,
although she has figured in it for season
after season. Considering the known
Yankee fondness for weird and even
doubtful titles, the omission seems
strange.
* * * *
“Coif”: The lady witness (B. 18/8/’37)
who declined to tell the Court what was
in a confidential letter issued from her
correspondence bureau, maintaining that
she enjoyed the “privilege” of doctors,
clergymen and others, was speaking out
of her turn. The Common Law lays
down that the only witness who can suc-
cessfully plead this privilege is a member
of the legal profession, and then only
when he is required to tell something
that might injure his client. Modern
practice has waived the law in regard to
priests under seal of confession, and in
a lesser degree in regard to medicoes, but
it is understood that this is entirely a
matter of grace and not the law.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: About the easiest snap
I have seen offering comes from an agent
"for 500 publications throughout the
world” who advertises in country papers
that he “wishes to obtain the services of
one or two literary-minded persons
from your district to act as associate
writers and to write for us manuscripts
covering all subjects of interest and all
u f .. „i-_ „ tt „„„
phases of journalism. He appeals par-
ticiuariy to
ambitious people who feel they would
like to make an income from writing
articles, short stories, essays, district news,
paragraphs, radio items, juvenile items,
humorous matter, sketches, novels,
scenarios etc.
Of course, the geniuses appointed will
“be required to cover a postal course
of training for which a small charge will
be made to cover the cost of materials,”
but in exchange the agent contracts to
sell manuscripts supplied at ruling rates,
There is no offer of a tenner advance
against the ruling rates.
* =!-• * *
“Alpha”: “6236’5” memory must
be failing a shade when he describes
Highland units as wearing “brass” rims
on their, sporrans (B. 18/8/’37). All
Highland regiments originally consisted
of men of substance, most of the privates
bringing their own servants and gillies
with them. Their buttons and orna-
ments were naturally of silver, a tradi-
tion commemorated to the present day
by the universal use of white metal
north of the Tweed. In any case, rims
are only worn on the sporran by com-
missioned officers, W.Os. and sergeants.
Now that three or four of Australia’s
capital cities boast fully-equipped Scots
units easily enough inspected, it seems
strange that there is still so much con-
troversy on correct military dress.
$ * $
“S.T.S.”: An infant—both legal and
actual, not even yet a pedestrian—has
made history in the S.A. courts by ob-
taining damages against two motorists
at once. One of them was turning into
a garage in a narrow street at Victor
Harbor when the other’s car, overtaking
him, cannoned off on to the footpath,
knocking the plaintiff out of his pram
and leaving him on his face on the tar
pavement. Damages claimed, £750,
offered, and jointly paid into court,
£lOO ; awarded, £250.
;jc ijc %
“Jungor”: The word “cobber” (B.
18/8/’37) is generally assumed to be of
Yiddish origin, but it had a very eariy
vogue on the Westralian goldfields. The
first time I heard it was outside a Mulga-
land pub, where knots of miners were
discussing new rushes and other matters
of local interest in the intervals of re-
freshing themselves, the day being Sun-
day. Suddenly there arrived a well-
known digger who was credited with hav-
ing struck a “mullocky leader” or some-
thing of the sort in his claim a few days
previously. He was heading for the
bar, obviously full of hospitable im-
pulses, and had already collected a dozen
thirsty souls in his train when, turning
round, he espied an old mate, engaged in
earnest conversation with a stranger on
*.?, ?, u ! ski f ts .. of th f. .crowd;o t wd ; “Come along
Bl ! ’ , iC bellowed in foghorn tones. Bi
raised a hand a trifle protestmgly, as if
*° ! ndlcate he . had more pressing
business on hand ] ast * en ' Bat ! h f
hdanous one would take no denial,
Come along, Bill, he persisted clamor-
ous £ br -“P e „ r f b f an^L C °,Sf r mIS
jh e joke of t was that Bills
cobber at the moment happened to be
the new Wardenj who was ma kj ng his
first visit to the district from his head-
mi _ rtpr „ ion miles awav
quarters, IUU miles away.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Many boarding-
,,-, , r ,
house ads. include unattached female
relatives among their legitimate attrac-
tions (B. 18/8 / ’37). One mentioned that
“in the house next door there are four
daughters, all remarkably pretty girls,
who sometimes come in for evenings”;
another epistle spoke of a “widowed
stepmother-in-law, who is only 35, and
a very bright woman”—this went to a
man who advertised as “a middle-aged
bachelor.” I know one boardinghouse-
keeper, however, who, when she answers
an ad., never fails to add the subtle m-
formation: “The only women m my
establishment are married. She never
has a vacancy for more than a few days.
SPRING SONG.
If lambs we meet at table
Were always really “Spring,”
And were the butcher’s label
Less frequently a fable
I think I would be able
A cheerier song to sing.
If lambs we meet at table
Were positively “Spring.”
If peas were “Spring” ones ever
And spuds as surely “new”
As greengrocers assever-
Ate on their oath whenever
They’re asked, I might endeavor
To give the season its due.
If peas were “Spring” ones ever
And new potatoes “new.”
If only were “Spring” chicken
What it purports to be,
When meats the blood that thicken
From bills o’ fare are stricken,
My spirit, too, might quicken
To vernal minstrelsy
If only were “Spring” chicken
What it pretends to be.
If one could switch from brandy
Without a pause to beer,
And find it just as dandy,
I wouldn’t —strike me bandy!
Care though the spring were handy
Or even were it here.
If one could switch from brandy
Without a break to beer.
Worse luck, I’m past all fancies
Of that poetic spring
When ev’ry day enhances
Some youthful gallant’s chances
Of nabbing such fiancees
As hlorahs, Nells and Nancies
For double-housekeeping.
Worse luck! I’m past all fancies
Of that Pierian spring.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Solidarity”: Some Yankee employers
are adopting a new technique for strike-
breaking. Employees of a small-town
factory in Indiana, numbering about 30,
staged a stay-in strike. When they were
settled down the boss sent along a keg of
beer and a couple of cases of whisky, say-
ing they might as well be comfortable.
After this had soaked in he arrived with
a motor-bus full of the chorus ladies
from a revue company in town. All had
got well under way with a pleasant after-
noon when the bus returned, but this
time it carried the strikers’ wives and
other female relations. The strike and
the festivities ended, as they say in
Gahd’s country, “right there.”
* * * *
“Hayband”: The recent feat of a
Launceston man, who for a wager de-
voured 44 bananas in 30min., reminds
me of a similar piece of foolishness in
Berrigan (N.S.W.). A harvest-hand
wagered that he could put away four
dozen, the load to be out of sight in 20
minutes. The bet was made outside a
shop in the window of which was an
assortment of small and weazened
bananas. The wagerer did not know
“Damme, I thought I'd never get here!”
that at another shop a delivery of lus-
cious giants was on view ; but his oppo-
nent did, and faced him with a picked
selection. The banana-eater gave in
half-way through the third dozen.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: My pick for an
attractive pub name is “The Little House
Under the Hill,” a feature of other days
in Sydney’s ’Loo. The Commotion Hotel
in Fitzroy (Melbourne) must have struck
many people as ominous, but the place
was actually named after a racehorse.
When I was in Maoriland years ago the
Q. (short for Quiet, Comfort and
Ease) was to be found in several towns.
I only stayed in one —and changed my
quarters at 1.30 a.m. to get away from a
riot.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: This haphazard
bombing from the air in Shanghai re-
minds me of the way the Germans
bombed the hospitals
at Etaples in TB.
There was a fearful
outcry in England
over the so-called
“frightfulness,” and
it was some time be-
fore it leaked out
that directly oppo-
site the hospital sites
was the biggest in-
fantry base depot in
France, always
crowded with rein-
forcements. The
authorities respon-
sible for hospitals
and reinforcement
camps being placed
qheek by jowl should
have been brought
to account for a
blunder which forced
scores (myself
among them) to lie
helpless while
bombs fairly rained
on the hutments,
killing alike
wounded patients,
nurses, V.A.Ds. and
R. men. At
10,000 or 12,000 feet, on a moonless
night, the airmen could hardly be ex-
pected to plonk all their “eggs” into the
1.8. D., especially as there were no flood-
lit Red Crosses to distinguish the hos-
pitals.
SS =l= :j: *
“Orwell”: When a package addressed
to our typist arrived in the mail the other
day the postmark suggested a present,
but when she eagerly opened it her
screams quickly drew the office staff
around. In the bottom of the cardboard
box reposed what appeared to be a
four-foot snake coiled up in its winter
sleep. When her alarm had subsided
she remembered that during a vacation
up-country a year ago she had casually
mentioned that she would like a pair of
real snakeskin shoes. How her country
admirer had flayed the reptile was not
apparent. The head was missing, but
otherwise there was not a blemish on the
gleaming sheath.
* * * *
“Fau-Po”: The Australian Standards
Association has issued a wide compen-
dium of rules which it thinks necessary
for workers who labor in compressed-
air cylinders. If they delve under pres-
sures over 451 b. the toilers have to be
medically examined every fortnight. They
must not catch colds, indulge in intoxicat-
ing liquor or endure even mild cramp
without rushing to a doctor, and they
have to go round labelled like lost dogs
in case they fall down unconscious in the
street. There are compensations—
“ Don't be scared — I'm just taking a fatherly interest in you."
laborers under pressures of over 551 b. do
only lj hours’ work per day, plus an
hour involved in being “decompressed.”
Still, there is a good deal to be said for
the lives lived by our ancestors who
dwelt in trees.
* $ * *
“Sixenate”: “The testator died on
July 5, 1936, as the result of burns re-
ceived when he took a petrol bath in
front of an open fire.” That passage
comes from the law report of an Equity
case in the “S. M. Herald” ; but it might
have been the substance for an extra
verse in such old-time ditties as “More
Work for the Undertaker” or “His
Funeral's To-morrow.” I know that
people wash their hands and sometimes
their faces with petrol to remove per-
sistent dirt stains, and I suppose there
are a few who find a complete petrol
bath necessary; but taking one before
an open fire seems to be in a class by
itself
t
“Perry”: The art of conducting a
conversation while ostensibly engaged in
psalm- or hymn-singing is not confined
to prisoners (B. 18/8/ ’37). In the vil-
lage choir I graced in my youthful days
the parson’s daughter and the girl beside
her were adepts at it. They chanted
blithely the gossip of the week, made
appointments, passed caustic comment
on the congregation and generally en-
joyed a chatty interlude. The only time
I saw them rattled was when the new
tenor suddenly sang at them : “Now, you
two young scandalmongers, you leave
my wife alone.”
* * =i= *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “There ain’t no real
doin’s in Brisbane these days,” com-
plained Old Joe when he got back from
the Show. “Lotta stoopid goannas, that’s
all they are now. Y’oughter’ve took a
screw at the Dook of Pimlico w’en I was
a young feller, drivin’ down Queen-street
in a yeller spring cart with ‘Lewis the
Good’ an’ ‘Clear Brains’ painted on it,
an’ singin’ ’ymns at the top of ’is voice.
Useter ’oist a gin bottle on a flagstaff at
’is shop w’en ’e was goin’ on a spree,
and a teapot w’en ’e’d come oft it again.
One time, after Morwitch the sheeny
bloke bought the Guvner’s carriage an’
pair, the Dook give ’im a race the length
of Queen-street. None uv them silly
red an’ yeller lights then nor no traffic
Johns neither. My oath, wouldn’t Lady
Barrett have give ’em a go in ’er old
dogcart? No, it’s me last Show. Stoopid
dressed-up lot, ’bout as lively as a
flamin’ Sunday school.”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Easily the most-overworked
term in modern journalese is “carried
out.” We read every day of experiments,
trials and schemes that somebody will
“carry out,” or that, when “carried
out” will provide a certain result. What
is meant, of course, is “conduct,” though
only editors know why it isn’t used.
“Carried out” is also used in place of
the correct “execute” in referring to de-
cisions of law courts and similar bodies.
* * * *
“Gordon”: Having lived on horse and
nothing else in the flesh line for the last
40 days of the siege of Ladysmith, 1 can
endorse the opinion (B. 11/8/’37) as to
an unpleasant sweetness in the meat.
However, the animals selected for the
butcher’s block were all C-class, so the
flesh was correspondingly poor. In
charge of the operations was an A.S.C.
officer who earned the gratitude of the
garrison by evolving a palatable beef-
tea, officially known as chevril, doubt-
less on the analogy of Bovril. The issue,
about a pint a head, was compounded
at night and was eagerly mopped up.
The British prejudice against horseflesh is
not so strong in Glasgow as elsewhere.
That city sports quite a number of meat-
shops where horseflesh only is sold,
though the big foreign population
(largely Polish) may be accountable.
“Den”: Of animals rarely eaten nowa-
days that the besieged Parisians were
forced to consume in 1870 mice seem to
have been the most popular. According
to the author of A n Englishman in Paris,
who went through the siege, they tasted
like larks. Rats and cats, though coarser,
proved quite edible, but only the
desperately hungry could stomach dog,
Fido’s flesh having a horrible rancid
flavor, proof against the wiles of even
French cooks.
(Continued on page 50.)
A VIGNETTE FROM THE PAST.
“Thirty skeletons of ancient Britons, believed to
] m ve been surprised and slain by Roman invaders
have been unearthed at Dorchester (Eng.). One
had been buried clutching a joint of mutton, another
with a beer mug in his hand.” — Cable. '
From the dim past, portrayed in bone, it rises,
This picture of the time when Romans strode
About the land and compassed the demises
Of all who sought to stay or block their road.
Another curious sidelight, too, it showed
On days Druidical, making it clear
Mutton at meals was even then the mode,
And Britons washed it down with mugs, of beer.
The legionaries caught them, one surmises,
At dinner in some primitive abode,
With no precautions taken ’gainst surprises
While meat and drink into their frames they
stowed.
'Twas not, it seems, outside the Roman code
To fall upon the foe with sword and spear
While one into a leg of mutton hoed
And one was in the act of drinking beer.
Our Celtic forebears, history apprises,
Little to art and less to science owed;
They ranged their woods of oak with no dis-
guises
To screen their nakedness excepting woad.
Twas mighty seldom that they tilled or
sowed,
Still, they weren’t rude barbarians —no fear!
With mutton chops their tucker-boards they’d
load
And massive mugs of prehistoric beer.
It comes an outworn fiction to explode,
This picture. Possibly the very year
When Caesar’s galleys o’er the Straits were
rowed,
Our race was washing mutton down with beer.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


d
20/0/16
10 for 9y
WIBB4
u n
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality .
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
■:
vm
this generat
DEO
THE
POLITICAL POINTS
The Sydney Government has had the
gall to ask Canberra to place Victoria
in quarantine because a few-score cases
of infantile paralysis have been reported
there. This when Fitzsimons, the N. S.
Wales Health Minister, had publicly ad-
mitted a few days before that his State
had 463 cases, with 63 deaths, in
1931-32 and 247 (12 deaths) in 1934-35
without in either case broadcasting the
information or being declared an infected
area. For once the Lyons Government
acted promptly and decisively. The im-
pudent request was turned down flat.
Melbourne Trades Hall’s disputes com-
mittee brightened the gloom of the stay-
in strike in the gasworks by proposing
that the Government should “take over
the gas company”:
Under State management, it was con-
tended, there would be no recurrence of
strikes.
By a luckless coincidence, public atten-
tion had been diverted for the moment
to the facts about the Wonthaggi coal-
mine, which is a Government concern.
On a capital of £30,000 Wonthaggi ab-
sorbed £135,800 in tax-money last year,
and has sucked in £435,800 altogether.
And at Wonthaggi in some years there
is nearly as much strike as work.
All the N.S.W. coalmining districts
have ratified the wages agreement, at
least one by unanimous vote. In a
moment of elation, Nelson, the Miners’
Fed. president, declared that the union
had got increases worth £250,000 to
£300,000 p.a. for an outlay of £250. Why
doesn’t it devote, say, half the first year’s
gain to purchase of a controlling interest
in one of the capitalistic concerns —coal
company scrip can still be bought for
less than half its par value —and show
the capitalists how to do it?
Because the recently-declared Com-
monwealth basic wage is 6s. a week more
than the N.S.W. basic wage, Stevens is
introducing a bill to alter the latter. It
will be the second time in a year or two
that “determinations” of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commission have been
“amended” by legislation. What ought
to be amended out of existence is the
absurdity of having the basic-wage busi-
ness done in two shops.
Czechoslovakia and Portugal, both
proteges of Britain, have quarrelled, and
the Portuguese have withdrawn their
Minister from Prague. They gave the
Czechs an order for armaments and, after
accepting it, the Czechs refused to de-
liver the goods, giving explanations
which differed. According to Portugal,
the refusal was dictated by Russia be-
cause Portugal is against the Spanish
'“Government” and refuses to be Com-
munised on its own account; and as the
Czechs are northern Slavs, in constant
communication with Moscow, it is prob-
ably true.
From the other side of the Tasman it
is reported that “the founder of the
Douglas-credit system” will presently
visit Mr. Savage’s country. “The reasons
for the proposed visit have not been ex-
plained” ; but they seem obvious: (1)
The money is good ; (2) Maoriland is as
far away from Alberta as the Major can
get without depriving himself of the
comforts to which he is accustomed.
Canada’s national authority has greater
powers than ours, so when Mr. Have-a-
heart of Alberta passed an Act virtually
taking control of Alberta branches of the
Canadian chartered banks as a prelimi-
nary to “monetising credit,” there was
no tedious and uncertain law case or any-
thing like that. The Ottawa Government
just disallowed it. The report says that
Mr. Have-a-heart “received three cables
from Australia advising him to secede.”
The identity of these Australian gentle-
men who consider the part so much
greater than the whole that the whole
may be ruled out when it stands in the
way of giving people something for
nothing has not been disclosed.
Since Victoria entered into a so-called
reciprocal arrangement with N. S. Wales
authorising each State to tax income
derived from the other —income already
subject to one Commonwealth and one
State tax —it has become just as reckless
and greedy. It has now called upon
Imperial pensioners resident in Victoria
to pay two years’ State tax on pensions
taxed by Britain or the Commonwealth
by virtue of a reciprocal arrangement
which is honest. It is a short way of
losing more British population; and
Australia lost 600 of such population in
1935 and 1200 in 1936.
The Adelaide Government prides itself
on having licensed shop and course book-
makers, and ill-informed press supporters
periodically assert that the proceeds have
produced the two annual surpluses,
“The Commission does not regard speeches by politicians as either educational or enter-
taining.”—C.J. Moses, general manager of the A.B.C.
“Go ’way, bruddahs —youse ain’t entertainahs.”
though they are a mere trifle compared
with the millions showered on the Ade-
laide Government by Canberra. The
S.A.J.C. chairman dryly comments that,
while “the betting shops are crowded,”
racecourse attendances have suffered and
his club lost £846 last year, though it
received a grant of £3OOO out of what
the Government got from the book-
makers. In effect, he added bitterly,
racing clubs are providing the crowds in
the betting shops with “free entertain-
ment.”
Westralian Labor is running J. M.
Steele, a Wheatgrowers’ Union man,
against Gregory in Swan. The Wheat-
growers’ Union has for years had a
cordial understanding with the “progres-
sive” group of the Victorian Cocky party,
and the selection of Steele has a bearing
on the Dunstan-Labor alliance.
The N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers’ con-
ference, while not objecting to the
U.A.P. alliances, passed a resolution re-
fusing to confine the Country party to
electorates now held by it; and the
Farmers and Settlers are right.
The most sordid feature of State
politics is the lottery business, in which,
in one way and another, four States com-
pete. The Commonwealth has taken no
part in this unsavory traffic, and it should
exert itself to prevent India being flooded
with State Government lottery circulars,
as is being done. They begin with
the words “Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia,” and are adorned with a map of
the continent across which is printed “The
Commonwealth of Australia wishes to
establish friendly exchange with India,”
the implication presumably being that
Indian purchase of lottery tickets would
correct the balance of trade. This really
ought to be a gaoling matter.
In sincere flattery of the Government
at Perth, the Government at Hobart is
retiring its Director of Agriculture, F. E.
Ward, and putting a secretary at the. head
of the department. As in the Perth case,
the new man has had a thorough train-
ing as a clerk.
Queensland’s Senator MacDonald has
died two or three months before the elec-
tion for which he was preparing. The
only other McDonald it has had in the
Commonwealth Parliament (the not-
long-dead Lewis McDonald failed
in 1934) died between nomination-
and election-day in November, 1925,
and his seat, Kennedy, went to
his Nat. opponent. That election saw the
defeat of the third McDonald that
Federal politics have known —he was
member for Barton (N.S.W.), and after
his defeat he disappeared and has never
since been seen in his old haunts. All
three were Laborites. McDonald has
certainly been an unlucky name in the
Commonwealth Parliament.
Vincent, the N.S.W. Minister of
Forests, has blithely intimated that the
money spent on “a coniferous plantation”
in the Tuncurry Prison area may be
written off as a dead loss. Planting began
in 1912, and what was humorously called
“total area of effective planting”
measured 2110 acres when Vincent’s de-
partment decided that the conifers would
never con. The reason is not given nor
has total cost been calculated ; but the
money was borrowed and posterity will
be expected to pay.
G. A. L. Wilson, the M.L.A. for
Dubbo, embarrassed Justice Minister
Martin by inviting that worthy to
give N.S.W. people some protection
against “the issue of blackmailing
writs by unscrupulous solicitors on be-
half of worthless clients.” He suggested
as a measure of protection payment of “a
suitable amount in court to cover de-
fendant’s expenses.” Martin weakly
replied that he “did not think it would
be possible.” Westralia has had security
for costs in newspaper libel cases since
John Forrest’s time, and it has proved a
most effective check on “the issue of
blackmailing writs by unscrupulous soli-
citors on behalf of worthless persons.”
Judging what A. E. Monk, the
A.C.T.U. president, said in Melbourne
recently, the three Labor Ministries have
been or are to be told to bring in 40-
hour week measures and look sharp
about them. To do so would cost them
the land man’s vote, in addition to em-
barrassing them financially; so they are
confidently expected to reply that it is a
matter for the capitalistic Commonwealth
Government, and that they will exert
themselves heroically to substitute a
Commonwealth Government nearer to
Mr. Monk’s heart’s desire.
In Sydney the other day, Clapp, of the
Victorian railways, almost dropped into
poetry in praise of the new caravans
which are, he says, “to neutralise com-
petition” (but hasn’t the Transport
Strangulation Board done that already?)
For Albury to Melbourne there has
been produced an all-steel, streamlined,
air-conditioned train insulated against heat,
dust; coal and noise. Floors are insulated
by cork... .Passengers will be protected
from the racket and roar by the complete
insulation of walls and roofs.
In short, the public will be “insulated”
against everything except the deficit.
Curtin has already been forced to ex-
plain away an unhappy sentence in an
election booklet he has written or ratified:
“Broadcasting must be essentially and
exclusively a publicly-controlled utility.”
He says he didn’t mean it to apply to
the commercial stations, but they thought
it did; and, though he will probably go
on explaining, the canker of suspicion
will remain. And Federal Labor hasn’t
so many friends that it can afford to
alienate the B-station interest, even if
announcers are not quite the transcen-
dently important figures some of them
seem to think they are, especially the
gentleman who periodically tells foreign
rulers how to run their countries.
Newspaper friends of the Spanish
“Government” have dropped hints that
it is running short of petrol. Tramps
carrying supplies from South Russia have
been torpedoed in the eastern Mediter-
ranean, and the newspaper gents are
furious about it and certain the tor-
pedoing has been done by “the Italians.”
They all but suggest that the British
Navy should convoy the oil ships and
settle the hash of “the Italians” ; but why
don’t their wonderful Red Russians do
their own job?
Taken to task for giving a Meat Board
job to Fisken, the member for Ballarat,
Lyons protested that he was so im-
partial in these matters that he had
found a Commonwealth post for a
defeated Labor member. He meant
Blakeley, his old associate, who, when he
lost his Darling seat three years ago to
young Clark, of the other Labor faction,
was named “inspector of arbitration
awards” at £9 a week. Clark is out of
favor with the Broken Hill Labor bosses,
and perhaps it could be arranged for
Blakeley to give up inspecting awards
and have another go in Darling. If the
Barrier were behind him, he could beat
Clark.


THE NEWS HOUND.
“‘If a man bites a dog, that’s news, said Lord Northcliffe. Two such cases have been reported recently.”


GoLF on top of the world
at Banff, in Canada’s Rockies,
on your way to Europe. New
experiences plus Canadian
Pacific Service all the way.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street. Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rfy. Co., Inc. in Canada
ACCELERATION DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS^
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
ACCELERATION can only be
satisfactory in an engine with per-
fect ignition. To get the kind of
“pick-up” that makes driving a
real pleasure, install a set of new
Champions every year.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
Hte*
2?
»»*
mju
Wjr.
JFJJJJJJ,
'JJJJJJSJ.
' I JJJJjrr.
uJJjrjVßk
r/r/<
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
During the fourteenth Commonwealth
Parliament the sitting veterans who were
in the first Houses in 1901 have been
reduced by half. With the deaths of
Littleton Groom and David Watkins only
two remain—W. M. Hughes and George
Pearce.
Chief Judge D. S. Wanliss, who retires
from the Mandated New Guinea Bench,
is an English barrister with an Australian
war record. He earned a C.M.G. in
France with the sth Battalion, A.1.F.,
and for a time was Tasmanian State
Commandant before he went to Rabaul
as a Judge.
W. T. Conder adds another experience
to his versatile career. He commanded
Langwarrin Camp after his return from
Gallipoli. He was governor of Pen-
tridge and Victorian Inspector-General
of Prisons, a director of J.C.W.’s,
managing-director of a broadcasting
company, organiser to the Victorian cen-
tenary celebrations and g.m. of the
A.B.C. Now he becomes organiser of
Tasmania’s tourist traffic with the other
Australian States.
New French Consul Jean Tremoulet
was trained for the diplomatic service at
the School of Political Science, Paris, but
war intervened, and he fought with the
infantry until invalided in 1916. His
decorations include the Legion d’Hon-
neur, Croix de Guerre and Medaille
Militaire. After the war he served in
various consulates as far apart as Buenos
French Consul.
Ayres, Brussels, Durban and Cardiff.
After a spell at the French Foreign
Office, he put in three years at Bar-
celona, leaving in the midst of the Span-
ish excitement to take up his Australian
appointment. He has a keenness for
geographical studies, and is an authority
on Provencal dialects. Native town,
Toulouse, 45 years ago.
Richard Terry, in Australia ,as
examiner for Trinity College of Music,
has written a shelfful of books on
music, ranging from Masses to sea
chanteys, and was for 23 years director of
music at London’s R.C. Cathedral of
Westminster. He put in years of re-
search in reviving much hitherto unpub-
lished work of English composers of the
sixteenth century. His services to British
music brought him a knighthood in ’22.
Next Sunday he will conduct the
A.B.C. wireless chorus from 3LO.
Colonel G. K. Kirkland, who knocked
the dust off recruits at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
camp in 1915 and subsequently went
aboard as O.C. troopships Ajana and
Runic, died at Millaa Millaa (Q.) last
week at 78. Kirkland came from Derby,
and was electrical superintendent in the
N.S.W. Public Works Department when
he retired nine years ago. He put in his
spare time at soldiering, and at one time
commanded the St. George’s Rifles.
Albert William Goodman, an Australian-
born member of the House of Commons
for North Islington, died in England last
week at 57. Goodman, who was a news-
boy in Melbourne, tried unsuccessfully to
make a fortune on the Westralian dig-
gings, but found one in India, moved to
England in 1926 and went in for real
estate. He had the temerity to oppose
Laborite Lansbury in his stronghold of
Bow in ’29, but won the North
Islington seat as a Conservative
two years later. He was an hon.
colonel of a London anti-aircraft
battalion.
Making his fourth round-world
trip for the Red Cross Society,
L. E. Gielgud will be given civic
honors at Brisbane on Aug. 30.
He has been attached to the Inter-
national League since its estab-
lishment in 1919, and has been
under-secretary for the last 10
years, with headquarters in Paris,
Gielgud is British-born of Polish an-
cestry, and the theatre runs in the
blood of the family. One brother,
Arthur, is on the English stage, and the
other, Val, with several broadcasting
plays to his credit, directs the drama for
the 8.8. C. L.E. has written plays, novels
and a travel book.
Next Federal elections will see a
curious change-over in S.A. Senator
A. O. Badman has not been selected
again by his party as one of the Senate
team, but instead will contest the Grey
seat in the Reps. P. A. M. Mcßride,
now M.H.R. for Grey, will take
Badman’s place as a Senate candidate.
But Badman’s term as a Senator does not
run out till next June, and to be a can-
didate for Grey he must resign before
October. The gap of eight months may
be filled by the State Parliamentary elec-
tion of Mcßride.
Queensland Senator John Valentine
MacDonald had an unusual in-and-out
career as a Senator. He went in first by
Parliamentary election to fill the place
of Senator Adamson in July, 1922, but
was defeated at the general elections in
December ; he was similarly elected in
August, 1928, to replace Senator Givens,
but was again defeated in November ; at
his third attempt in 1931 he was elected
for the third vacancy, and had nearly
completed his six-year term when he
passed out last week at 57. Born in
Maoriland, the grandson of a Victorian
pastoral pioner, he was a journalist on
the Gisborne (M.L.) “Herald” before
crossing the Tasman to work on the
“Argus” and “Age.” In 1912 he went
to Queensland to become the first editor
of the now-defunct “Daily Standard,” on
which he put in 10 strenuous years. His
best work for the Labor party was done
as a political journalist; he was more at
home at the desk than on the public
platform.
George Henry Wise, who in the con-
tentious ’eighties was a director of the
A.N.A. when it was a power in Victoria
and who afterwards sat for Gippsland in
the House of Representatives, celebrated
his diamond jubilee as a solicitor the
other day. At 84 he is still practising at
Sale, a town of which he was six times
Mayor. The old man remarked in court
sadly that the worst feature of growing
old was that one outlived his contem-
poraries.
Professor Morris Miller—likeness here
by Dubois —is Vice-Chancellor of the
University of Tasmania, at which address
he began as a lecturer in philosophy in
1913. He is now Professor of Psychology
and Philosophy and director of the Tas-
mania Psychological Clinic. Born at
Versatile Professor.
Pietermaritzburg, Natal, 56 years ago, he
was educated at Wesley College, Mel-
bourne, and at Melbourne and Edin-
burgh Universities. He was sometime
an assistant in the Vic. Public Library,
holds a long list of official positions in
Speck scientific and learned bodies and
has half a dozen published works on
philosophy, psychology and education to
his credit. He has just completed a
voluminous bibliography of Australian
creative literature with extensive annota-
tions and historical and critical surveys.
Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy medal went to a good man
when it was received by William Edward
Wainwright at Port Pirie (S. Aus.) last
week. Now a Melbourne resident, he
was g.m. of the Broken Hill South mine
from 1918 to 1937, but his belief in ex-
perimental and educational work has
been an inspiration to younger mining
men ever since 1895, when, fresh from
the S. Australian School of Mines, he
went to the Ivanhoe at Kalgoorlie as
battery manager. Prominent executive
member of nearly every Australian
organisation touching on mining and
metallurgical research, he is now con-
sulting engineer to the B.H.P.
Edmund Harold Swift, special adminis-
trative officer of the N.S.W. Health
Department, is a Balmain native who
did the shining-morning-face part of his
schooling at Drummoyne, brushed up at
Sydney High, entered the Public Works
office at 17, and collected a B.A. in 1914
and M.A. two years later. Then he had
a go at figures and balance-sheets, and
did an accountancy course in record time.
He was Ministers’ sec. to Ball and Jack
Estell, and reached the Under-Secretary’s
chair in 1934. His most recent' big job
was as Milk Commissioner.
S.A. has lost one of its best-known
old-time sportsmen in “Can'dy” Harslett,
named after the ship Candahar in which
he arrived in 1850. He won the first
Oakbank Steeple in 1875, and was for
years the State’s best crosscountry rider.
He was always in S.A., except for an
interlude station-managing near Derby
(W.A.).
A man reputed to have owned more
dairy cows than anyone else in the world
has passed on at 78 ; and most of those
years were vigorous ones for Taranaki’s
J J. Patterson. At his death he still
owned more than 3000 dairy cattle and
employed 30-odd share-milking families
in Taranaki and Waikato. “J.J.” was
born at New Plymouth ; when he was
still an infant his father was killed by a
Maori war-party, and the child was
adopted by a friendly couple. At 10
he was boy on a coastal tub ; after two
years of that he went cattle-droving and
then into a smithy. Now a veteran in
experience he launched out as a con-
tractor, driving bullock and horse teams
from Waitara to the New Plymouth,
breakwater. He had a little money saved
when the possibilities of dairying became
apparent, and he staked it all on land and
cows, to become almost a legendary
figure in Maoriland farming circles.
George Lowe Sutton, Westralia’s
Director of Agriculture, is a living argu-
ment against the absurdity of retiring
able public servants because they have
reached an age limit which politicians
are careful not to impose on them-
selves. Sutton has the mental and physi-
cal vigor of a man of 40, but, being
close on 65, he will have to give up his
job in a few weeks. And he has made
it a most important and fruitful job.
One of Farrer’s young men, he influ-
enced and helped his own young men
in wheatbreeding experiments in the
West; among the fruits are such varieties
as Nabawa, Bencubbin, Noongaar and
Carrabin, now known wherever wheat is
grown in Australia. Sutton, although a
native of the English Liverpool, was edu-
cated at Sydney High School. A sturdily-
Farrer’s Pupil.
built, pleasant-spoken man, still rosy-
cheeked, he will probably hurl himself
on a farm and write agricultural articles
after the day’s work when he hands over
the keys to his successor, being much
too active to vegetate in a suburban
dwelling.


fa
«H
fa
fa
fa
fa
4
e
SB
a
fa
S 8
s
In England the name of Ardath has long stood for
quality. Now, Ardath offers for your keener enjoy-
«*
ment a very special Virginia cigarette —“ARDATH
SPECIALS.” You will be prouder to offer these special
cigarettes the most delightful that have ever been
associated with the famous house of “ARDATH.” Ask
for “ARDATH SPECIALS” —in the modern Laube boxes.
A
e i€lr.
*T 0
2 0 FDR DUE AND 51X...1D FDR
Also Flat and Round 50’s and 100’s Boxes
NINEPENEE


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Old-timer”: It was a xoadside pub
west of Condobolin (N.S.W.) and Jones,
a tea man, weary of driving, pulled his
car up, sunk a beer or two, and asked
for lunch. “Dad,” cried the lanky girl
in the bar, “here’s a gennelman f’r
dinner.” “Give, him some of that
salmon,” came a voice from the rear.
“Can't, the goat ett it,” she yelled. “Well,
some o’ that corned mutton.” “The goat
got that, too!” Silence from the rear,
then: “Well, he’ll have t’ have bread an’
cheese.” “Can’t,” she began, “the goat
got” “Aw, give ’im the blasted goat
an’ let ’im take his pick,” burst from the
back room. Jones lunched 40 miles
further east.
❖ ❖ # ijc
“Jabu”: Aboliars who insist that hens
are stupid should hear about Betsy oJ
Oberon (N.S.W.). Betsy laid her egg
under an incinerator, and whenever then
was sufficient artificial heat she wouk
take a holiday from the hatching job.
* * * *
“Spare Walton”: Reference to the
modern demand for horsehair (B.
11/8/’37) reminds me that the white
variety was highly prized by dry-fly
fishers in the days before silkworm gut
capable of being drawn out to the finesi
of filaments came along. The hair was
used for leaders, and seems to have
answered perfectly, but it was costly and
hard to get. This was because it had to
come from the tail, length being an im-
portant desideratum. The tail had to be
a horse’s ; hair from a mare’s tail was
worthless.
* * if
“Anthropo”: Two words that always
get my goat are “lubra” and “picca-
ninny.” Time and again I find these
used as though they were true aboriginal
words. And especially is this so in the
N.T., where, above all places, they should
know better. Both are purely Afro-
American terms, and came into promi-
nence in the old slave-trade days before
Australia was even colonised. The abo.
names for woman and child differ with
almost every dialect. Boomerang is an-
other idiotic word. Always polite and
adaptable, the W.A. black lets the white
man call his weapon that, but to him it
is his kylie.
* * *
“Albarmount”: Sheer good judgment
on the part of the beasts, and not mag-
netism of the hand or telepathy (B.
11/8/’37), accounts for the ability of
animals to gauge mastership. Watch a
stranger enter a yard of. cattle and note
the eyes of every beast assessing him ;
if he shows signs of fear he will prob-
ably be put over the fence, whereas a
cool, nonchalant bushie will be backed
away from. Horses and dogs also use
the faculty of smell. Dogs do not object
to my particular odor, nor do horses
that 1 work, but strange neddies tremble
if I go near them unseen. By some un-
canny means animals can detect even the
squeaky voice which must be obeyed and
the deep bass that can be ignored. And
horses always know by the grip when a
master holds the reins. Beasts of burden
are probably better judges of us than we
are of them.
* * * *
“Willeroo”: The varying width of the
strand of a hand-made kangaroo-hide
stockwhip requires skilful cutting. These
whips, 7ft. to 14ft. long, are made mostly
by a Sydney man and go to W.Q., the
northern parts of S.A. and across the
Territory by camel team to Wyndham.
Length counts a lot with users. On
Innamincka and thereabouts 10ft. whips
are used ; in s.-w. Q. a lighter whip, 7ft.
bin. long, is preferred. The 14ft. whips
are more for show purposes, wielded by
champion crackers, some of whom swing
whips up to 20ft. long. The man work-
ing cattle requires a handy length that
will swing into action in a second.
* *■ # *
“Cockyson”: “Gumblegubbin” errs
when he says (B. 11/8/’37) that the
flying-fox does no harm on Queensland’s
banana plantations. Periodically the
nocturnal raiders attack the still quite
That's the annoying thing about. Clarence—he has such a Way with animals .”
green bunches. The grey-headed species
(Pteropus poliocephcilous) appears to be
the most troublesome. This wide-ranging
marauder also attacks other cultivated
fruits, including guavas and custard-
apples. Last winter the black fox ( P .
gouldii ), slightly larger than the more-
numerous “grey-head,” attacked citrus
orchards throughout the C.Q. coastal
belt, doing unprecedented damage. In
many places the mandarin crop had to
be harvested before it was fully matured
in order to save a portion of it. At
present writer’s home, hundreds of the
winged thieves were poisoned with
strychnine baits. A neighbor secured 54
in a night.
❖ * # *
“Xtie”: Lying awake while camped
near a party of wandering blacks in
C.Q. I heard a sound like rain beating
on the soil, and as it was a clear night 1
investigated. The noise was made by
the abos. beating the ground with their
hands, which caused the ants to come to
the surface out of their holes and nests
—big fat fellows with wings. The abos.
then blocked up the holes, and the ants,
cut off from retreat, were caught and
eaten with great gusto.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Not all swagmen fight
shy of fettling gangs (B. 4/8/’37). The
fraternity who walk the sleepers between
train-jumps in western Queensland sel-
dom miss giving our camps a call. One
old regular who does the railway line
between Blackall and Emerald twice a
year was asked why he didn’t go by the
road and give the stations a turn. “I
did once,” he said, “but that was enough,
At the stations they dole the flour and
sugar out in spoonfuls ; the navvies’
wives deal it out in shovelfuls and go
crook if yer ration bags ain’t big
enough.” The wonder is how we fett-
lers have been able to stand the strain
of so many bagmen seeking a handout,
'i l
“Porosus”: In other countries besides
Australia overlanding crocodiles (B.
11/8/’37) are a commonplace in dry
seasons when lagoons are drying. In
a Mayne Reid story of the Mexican
border the villain, rejected by the hero-
ine, lures a “cayman” to the young lady’s
private bathing pool by holding a dog
under his arm and twisting its tail, with
bagpipe results. The cayman follows
the hound’s squeaking and plunges into
the pool after the unfortunate tyke when
that is thrown in by the villain. For-
tunately the hero is a witness of the
foul plot, and all except the villain and
the cayman live happily ever after.
liu , * * , . * *
-Y ec t lon to sparrows
(“• 4/8/ 37). They are the worst
feathered fruit pests l know. Besides
what they eat, they destroy enormous
quantities by pecking. They swarm into
trees in town and country, beginning
their raids at daylight in the morning,
When driven off, they alight a short
distance away and in a little while are
back. They are the cheekiest of all
thieves, and in thick-foliaged trees they
can do a lot of damage without their
presence being suspected. They are also
gi ain-eaters. I have seen them gobbling
up big grains of maize that one would
think impossible for such small birds to
swallow. They certainly eat insects as
well, but the best for that purpose, when
given a fair deal, are the native birds.
* * * *
“Ulillangi”: Saw the cuckoo up to his
old tricks the other day, with crows the
victims. ■ Owing to the dry season in our
Vic. district, with an early spring in
consequence, the birds are already fac-
ing the responsibility of bringing up the
family. The crows’ nest, just completed,
was on top of the highest white gum in
the paddock, and Kelly and his missus
were having a well-earned rest near by
when the cuckoo couple arrived. Father
without warning hopped straight into the
Kellys, kicking up a deuce of a din and
keeping them busy while ma did the
family job in the nest above. The busi-
ness over, Cuckoo and his wife dis-
appeared as suddenly as they had arrived.
**i * *
“Colonel JBungstarter’’: My last ex-
pedition among the megalithic monu-
mental relics of the Pacific confirms
“Varanus” (B. 4/8/’37) regarding the.
stone-shifting powers of the purinthy.
Landing at Damor Phullia, a previously
undiscovered island, inhabited by a race
of large red-haired women who kept the
few dejected men shut up in cages, I found
them building replicas of Stonehenge all
over the place with the aid of trained
purinthies, and then knocking them down
again. It was apparently a substitute for
bridge. Local legend had it that the lost
continent of Lemuria had originally ex-
tended from Easter Island to Ponape, the
limits of present-day megalithic remains,
but that the purinthies had chucked it all
into the sea until the women got the
creatures under control. My investiga-
tion was brought to a sudden end by the
loss of my mantilla, which, with
bloomers, I had adopted as a female dis-
guise, and I barely escaped to the ship,
pursued by several hundred red-haired
ladies.
:}: sj:
“Venner”: Listen to this, you crow
slanderers! In our lambing paddock a
large flock of crows have been very busy
recently eating caterpillars, completely
ignoring the young and newly-dropped
lambs among which they flew and
strutted in pursuit of the hairy grub,
Also, when I was l£st in the Perth
Museum there stood a showcase con-
taining most of the common birds and
bearing the label “The Farmers’ Friend.”
Of that collection, Kelly led all the rest,
* * * *
“Bovis”: It’s a mug stockman who
contends the right of way with a bull,
If Barney shows fight what’s needed is a
P a ir of good cattle-dogs. After a bout
with them he will knuckle over at the
hind fetlocks, drag his legs, go across
the loins and then soon turn it in. Half
a n hour later he’ll be as right as a bank
again, but while the dogs are on the job
the worst bull is as helpless as a snake
with a broken back.
* * $ *
“Tamornie”: In doubting a recent
Aboliar’s yarn about an aged abo. “feel-
ing” a live snake to see if it was killable,
“Canopus” has not profited by an alleged
40 years’ experience (B. 11/8/’37). Many
other northern wanderers besides myself
have seen a blackfellow find a carpet
snake in a hollow tree and, after thumb-
ing it, remark “Him bone-beggar this
pfeller, no good belonga tuck-out.” I have
shot kites and flying-foxes for my
“boys,” only to see them discarded for
the same reason, though tucker was
scarC e 5 an d on the Barkly Tableland
(Q .) m y tracker has often tugged a go.
f rom its burrow and then released it to
search for one more corpulent,
* * * *
“Stralia”: Trapping in heavy rabbit
country my round w'as soon learned by
the local domestic cats gone wild, and
they played havoc with the bunnies. I
solved the problem by leaving an odd
carcass or two around—l was only trap-
ping for the skins. From then on I
wasn’t troubled ; no matter where the
carcasses were left, the result was always
a neatly picked skeleton and a satisfied
Thomas.
* * * *
“McAroni”: The quickest things I
know to take a hint are young wild
ducks. I watched a brown hawk diving
repeatedly at a day-old clutch, and,
although cover was handy in the dense
sword-grass, they did not need to take
advantage of it. Mother duck kept her
eyes on the hawk, and every time he
swooped she would wait until he was
within about 20 feet, then give a loud
quack, All that the hawk’s talons could
embrace were a number of little splashes
thrown up by the ducklings’ tails as they
dived. The performance was kept up
until the hawk tired of it, and went home
hungry.
UNCLE JIM.
“Our Uncle Jim has come,’’ she wrote, “to
stay with us awhile.”
Lifting the swag of memory, I follow mile by
mile
Ihe tracks that lead by creek and plain into
the distance dim
Where quiet is, and mateship is—and men like
Uncle Jim.
Although our ways lie far part, divided by a sea,
The queer old things the bush can tell are
known to him and me,
The message of the “mulga wire,” the nomad’s
strange romance,
The tales of track and shed and hut, of luck
and sad mischance . . .
So here I pitch a fancied camp (an exiled
dreamer’s whim)
Where I can smoke besi'de the fire and yarn
with Uncle Jim.
And resting by a cheery blaze, our billies close
at hand,
We tell again the old bush yarns that bushmen
understand.
We name the towns of farther-out, made
famous long ago,
The fields where opal-gougers delve, the routes
the drovers know.
And if I chance to call to mind a tale of hard-
ship grim,
There’s understanding in the eyes of my mate
Uncle Jim.
We watch swift-footed night steal in about the
campfire’s glow,
Before the velvet dark comes near; and then,
through trees that show
In ghostly silhouette near by, we see the great
moon rise
While ’neath its coverlet of stars the sleepy
river lies.
And never garish city lights can mean as much
to him
And me as those above the tracks long known
to Uncle Jim.
So from the well-remembered past I gain a
glimpse again
Of other days on old bush ways with drifting,
friendly men.
And at my campfire-of-a-dream there comes
a wish for him:
May God make fair the path of life for my
mate Uncle Jim.
MAORILAND.
C.H. WINTER.


“Hanko”: A botanist might have a
pleasurable time along almost any
Vic. country railway track, for within the
sanctuary of the fences grow native
plants and strange flora of wide variety
and garden escapees, rare and otherwise.
Of the latter, marigolds and scabious are
the commonest sorts. Once I found a
daphne, small but flourishing, evidently
a spray discarded by a rail traveller.
Stranger still, I’ve made one of a party
of navvies working ankle-deep in
orchids! Resleepering near Yerong
Creek (N.S.W.) we trampled among
platoons of the shivering spider variety’s
dainty blooms.
❖ * *
“Harry N.”: At the kiln-drying plant
where I earn a crust there is a steadily
increasing demand for ski-making
timbers, air-dried blue-gum being a clear-
cut favorite. A well-known Norwegian
ski-er told me that skis made from this
wood cartnot be surpassed. He pre-
dicted an export trade for them when
they became known overseas.
* * :\i %
“Gryllus”: Now that prices for prime
water-rat pelts have reached 4s. 6d.
apiece, that elusive but audacious pirate
of the inland waterways will need all
his remarkable cunning to escape the
trapper. The short, silky fur, which
makes up better than musquash, is in
best condition in winter, particularly
July and August. Hydromys leucogaster
occurs all over Australia and Tasmania.
Cannibal, chicken-stealer, egg-devourer,
fish-trap robber, it is also a fierce and
gallant fighter which no cat will tackle,
and very few dogs for a second time after
experience of its lightning speed and
slashing teeth. Still, however hot the
chase may become, it is unlikely that it
will ever be exterminated, for its cunning
is far beyond that of the dingo.
* '!" * *
“Heresone”: I have eaten fresh-water
jew and eel, and intend to do so again
whenever opportunity offers, though
many people would as soon eat crow.
Fairly truthful friends have assured me
“ But, sir, the collection has been falling off lately .”
that swan, carpet snake, wallaby, galah,
brolga and various other unfashionable
meats are also worth trying, so I am in-
dined to treat with suspicion the popular
views on catfish and goanna. Even
“Skull Creek’s” tomcat (B. 21/7/’37) may
have passed muster if it had been washed
in vinegar, steamed and then roasted or
fried. Probably bad cooking is respon-
sible for a lot of undeserved reputations
in the culinary line.
“Hanko”: Despite southern Victoria’s
record of bleak fogs, frosts and intensive
cold this winter, some ultra-tough flies
have withstood the freeze, and indoors
in Melbourne, at least, they are to be
found zooming blithely. The fly is
different from the usual run of the pest;
darker and more streamlined, but none
the less a true house fly, ever ready to
bog to the hips in the marmalade.
* -T * *
“Dungeness”: Yes, Binghi has his
Cowes yachting meets (B. 4/8/’37), but
his racing rules would make Van-
derbilt or Sopwith drop dead at
the wheel. The leading affairs of
the season used to be held at
Murray Island, in Thursday
Island-built dinghies, owners in
command. A turning mark hav-
ing been selected —maybe a float-
ing coconut or a jumping fish—a
gun was fired and the competi-
tors went their hardest, while
their friends and backers raced
along the beach howling encour-
agement. First round the mark
turned, but so did all the rest,
continuing on the return course
until some sportsman went about
in the lead. Finally, a milling
mass of boats collected off the
starting point and another gun
was fired. Competitors got ashore
and, joined by their supporters,
made for the judge.
He awarded the
prize to the one who
could yell loudest
and jump highest
when advancing his
claims. Decisions
were never ques-
tioned everyone
was getting ready
for the next event.
“Stralia”: Touching on eels, the
simplest way to catch them is to lash a
fair-sized fish hook to a short pole —
about the size of a broomstick —and jag
them. The assault is carried out at
night, when the eels leave the deeper
water and come close in to feed. Wade
around in the shallows with a lamp, and
when an eel is sighted push the busi-
ness end of the stick a few inches over
it and jerk back. Mostly the wrigglers lie
still on the bottom, but after a little
practice the ones on the, move, will be
just as easily caught. In places where
otherwise no traces of eels are to be
found, this method will often account
for dozens in as many minutes.
* ;|c t.i %
“Stralia”: Next to the eagle, the worst
natural enemies of the dingo are the
larger pythons. The eagle has to wait
for the pups to come out ; the wriggler
slithers in and devours the litter at his
leisure. I’ve known a 12-footer put away
six pups. Caught in the act they’d prob-
ably be easy meat for an enraged parent,
but generally they seem to get away
with it.
* * * *
“Hay”: Not only does vegetation grow
hurriedly in the tropics—the very ground
often grows as quickly. The long aban-
doned Palmer (Q.) goldfield supplied a
remarkable instance. During the war the
Queensland Government tinkered with
the notion of reopening the Palmer —a
matter of pumping out the floods of
water. It was shown that at one point
62ft. of soil had been deposited since the
miner and his dog gave the field best in
the late ’eighties.
$ * * *
“Cluny”: The pair of kingfishers had
burrowed into the bank of our creek, but
in the heavy rains their nest was flooded,
“Now, gentlemen, We have five thousand of these feeding-bottles in
stock, and the company expects you travellers to CREATE the
demand."
and father kingfisher for many days after
shrieked his lament from a tree near by.
Then one morning I heard a new note in
his trilling, and saw he’d found a mate.
He made the new burrow above the
last high flood mark, and many a time
I watched him light in the wattle close
by, then dart to the burrow with a
yabbie or some other niorsel for the
sitting bird. Though I’ve seen and heard
the young birds in the burrow I never
could get a glimpse of them after dark.
Possibly the parents remove them at
night.
* ❖ * *
“Scotia”: Witnessed a battle royal
between two kookaburras at a Montrose
(Vic.) sawmill. Jacks take a close in-
terest in every log
that is being
broken down into
flitches, always on
the lookout for
the large, succu-
lent grubs beloved
of the abos. The
grub stakes were
slow on this occa-
sion, but when the
first appeared and
was seized avidly
it had not dis-
appeared before its
captor was seized
by the throat in a
cruel hold by the
other Jack. The
bird attacked
dropped portion of
its meal, worked
its beak over its
opponent’s head
and started to peck
viciously at its
back. Feathers
flew, but the throat
hold was not re-
laxed. They went
at it hammer and
tongs till a piece
of fat thrown by
a sawyer caught
the eye of the
bird with the
throat hold. The aggressor got the
fat; his mate finished the grub, but both
had lost blood in the argument. They
did not laugh over that fight.
$ * * *
“Naturalist”: If the presence of black
cockatoos meant rain it would nearly
always be raining on Queensland’s north
coast. In the writer’s locality the hand-
some black screechers may be seen almost
any day when the casuarinas are in fruit.
However, all species of the black
cockatoo family become very active
when rain is hanging about, and at such
times the dusky screechers indulge in
long flights, visiting localities they do
not ordinarily frequent. The “funeral
black” —a southern bird and the largest
member of the black cockatoo family-
may occasionally be seen as far north as
Gladstone (Q.).
* * =i: *
“Nordbo”: I’m supporting “Grumpy”
in his remarks (B. 21/7/’37) on the tough-
ness of dugong hide. I have a piece an
inch and a half thick, and no axe, knife
or saw of mine can make an impression
on it. Yet I’ve seen abos. of the Yarra-
bah Mission Station (Cairns, N.Q.) har-
poon dugongs with flimsy spears the
four prongs of which are made from
ordinary fencing wire, the haft of cork-
wood or other light material. “Dis
pfeller spear more better,” an old cam-
paigner told me. “Four pfeller wire go
down holes [pores] easy. Him frighten
an’ close up holes tight. Spear no come
out, an’ we haul up ’longside an’ knock
’em on head.”
* * * *
“Tidapa”: In the last 12 months the
consumption of gummy shark has in-
creased in Melbourne by over 200 p.c.,
and the demand is exceeding the supply.
Of course, you don’t ask for gummy
fillets. “Sweet William” is the moniker.
* * *
“Cudgerie”: While horses and cattle
appreciate smoke for keeping away sand-
flies and mosquitoes (B. 21/7/’3l), they
like dust as well, if not better. In
many parts of W.Q. I have seen
horses —half a dozen or more of them—
form a circle with rumps to the centre
and heads out, pawing the ground until
dense clouds of dust arose. The prads
will stick to the same spot for months,
and the earth there will become as fine
as powder. Camp on the wrong side of
one of these dust rings when a slight
wind is blowing and you’ll suffocate be :
fore morning.
* * sH *
“Johnno”: In our Queensland orchard
is a 25ft. tall seedling orange which did
not produce till 16 years old. Since then
it has cropped regularly, and its present
carrying capacity is not less than 40
bushels (one ton). Why this particular
tree, which enjoys an end-row position
and received the same attention as the
other trees, should have been so back-
ward in coming into bearing is a mystery
no fruitgrower has been able to explain
away convincingly. A large bloodwood
stump closely adjacent, burnt down to
below the level of the ground, may have
something to do with it.
* * ❖ *
“Hairy Nose”: Just when everyone
was saying how rare the wombat was in
Queensland, another has turned up in
the Stanthorpe country near the N.S.W.
border, where the local nobility and
gentry assert they are not uncommon.
Instead of being slaughtered, this one
has been presented to Brisbane Botanical
Gardens, where there is a small collec-
tion of animals. There is no accommo-
dation there for such a mighty digger,
and the Gardens people are looking
round for someone to take the gift off
their hands. At time of writing, Tar-
onga, which needs a wombat, seems
likely to hop in.
A BUSH TRAGEDY.
I walked as far as the sliprails,
Where the shadows are deep and cool;
The stranger was tall and handsome,
And 1 was a trusting fool.
We said good-bye at the sliprails,
And he said, “I shall see you soon!”
Now I wait alone by the sliprails,
By the light of the rising moon.
I wait alone by the sliprails,
Where the shadows are long and deep;
I think of him at the dawning;
1 dream of him in my sleep.
And I wonder, here by the sliprails,
If ever I’ll meet again
With that radio salesman who got away
With my cash deposit that summer day—•
My hard-earned two-pound-ten!
QUEENSLAND.
L.M.D. O’NEIL.


ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families,
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday 545 „ m 1
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601. ’ '
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1030-SJ
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates. Silver, Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion. Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates
»«n C i»Pr,^ pe^ Cyanide Slags ’ and of a!1 “aerials containing Gold, Silver or Copper
r KUiF L vJulvb Ul'
defined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestonel
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.-Grapliine, Plastic. Babbit and other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula; or Buyers’ own specifications
PRINTERS’ METALS.—Linotype, Stereotype, Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery, Port Keinhln.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered by an Institution may be judged very simply by
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
grown consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of Trust and Agency
Funds now under its control is over £50.000.000. Arrangements exist for the
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abroad.
T. IT.
Directors:
Kelly (Chairman). Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair. M.L.C., E. It. Knox.
K. de L Cudmore, H. V. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
Call or write for explanatory booklet. . P- Cureton, Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary
Net To .
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 291,577 10 p.c. = 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~ 268,771 3,481,877
1929.. 332,671 10 „ „ 268,771 63,900 3,545,777
Written oil old plant, £200,000 .. 3,345 777
Share premiums, £120,000 .. .. 3,465,777
1930.. 161,890 Nil 161,890 3,621.667
1931.. 83,257 Nil 83,257 3,710,924
1932.. 103,720 Nil 103,720 3,814,644
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,614,644
1933. . 313,617 10 p.c. = 298,771 14,846 3,629,490
Written off old plant, £200,000 .. 3,429,490
1934.. 427,588 10 p.c. = 298,771 128,817 3,558,307
1935.. 670,442 10 „ „ 298,771 371,671 3,929,978
Share premiums, £1,597,110.. .. 5,527,088
1936.. 850,361 12j p.c.= 435,778 414,583 5,941,671
Share premiums. £374,965 . . . . 6,316,336
1937. 1,183,171 124 p.e.= 559,880 623,291 6,939,927
The outstanding feature of this great
Australian iron-and-steel enterprise has
been the remarkable expansion of the
business over the last few years ; and
the results are a fine testimony to the
efficiency of the management and the
plant. In October, 1935, the co. ex-
changed 750,000 of its own £1 shares
for all the 2,700,000 issued £1 shares
in Australian Iron and Steel, whose big
new works at Port Kembla are being
substantially enlarged. Besides giving
B.H.P. control, the deal prevented a lot
of duplication of plant, and thus helped
to keep capital outlay and costs in the
industry down. A. I. and S. has not yet
paid an ord. div., but it is ultimately
expected to be a substantial contributor
to the pool.
During the last term, demand for the
co.’s products continued to increase, and
the various producing plants operated at
high pressure. The three blast furnaces
turned out an extra 62,083 tons of pig-
iron. Two new open-hearth furnaces
were placed in commission, making 12
in all, and the output of steel ingots
moved up 119,856 tons:
1927. 19'32. 1936/ 1937.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Pig-iron . . 343,801 153,563 607,449 669,532
Steel ingcts* 353,682 195,183 663,282 783.138
Coke. . . . 356,865 167,160 585,389 600,111
* Includes foundry open-hearth furnace.
The two batteries of Wilputte ovens
produced an additional 14,722 tons of
coke, with proportionate increases in by-
products—tar, ammonium sulphate,
naphthalene, toluol and xylol. Last
year’s output was over four times greater
than the 1932 figures for pig-iron and
steel ingots, and nearly four times greater
for coke.
Figures for the subsidiary undertakings
—Rylands Bros., Stewarts and Lloyds,
B.H.P. Collieries, B.H.P. By-products,
Australian Wire Rope Works, Bullivant’s
(selling agents for the rope co.), Com-
monwealth Steel, Lysaght Bros., Struc-
tural Steel Co. (W.A.), Titan Wire and
Nail Pty, Millfield Greta Collieries, Zinc
Producers’ Association and the Austra-
lian Ore and Metal Co. —are not broad-
cast, but continued expansion of their
businesses contributed to the demand for
the parent’s products, and helped to
swell returns from its shareholdings.
The old mine at the Barrier, reopened
in March, 1936 (it provided the money
with which the steelworks were first
started in 1913), contributed, too. Here
98,876 tons of ore was extracted, includ-
ing 15,285 tons of siliceous stuff for
direct smelting. The sulphides yielded
11,131 tons of lead concentrates (72.03
p.c. lead, 52.420 z. silver) and 12,644 tons
of zinc concentrates (52.95 p.c. zinc,
4.880 z. silver).
The spring in the year’s sales of iron,
steel and other products, plus stock on
hand (total £7,900,417), was £1,421,112.
Working profit benefited by £325,264 of
the increase, and the return from invest-
ments was up £142,249, making gross
piofit from all sources £467,513 better
at £2,364,508:
Gross earnings:— 1929. 1936. 1937.
Working profit .. £795,953 £1,824,253 £2,149,517
Interest, divs., etc. 142,968 72,742 214,991
Total .. .. £938,921 £1,896,995 £2,364,508
Exes.:—
Depreciation ..£417,592 £615,052 £670,801
Office and other exes. 61,854 158,277 142,130
Debenture interest 81,094 23,305 18,406
Income tax . . 45,710 250,000 350,000
Total exes. . . £606,250 £1,046,634 £1,181,337
The net growth of £134,703 in exes, was
on account of extra provision for taxa-
tion (up £100,000) and depreciation (up
£55,749). The allowance for depreciation
was 12.3 p.c. of the book value of works,
plant, etc., at the end of May as against
5.3 p.c. in 1933. The net result
(£1,183,171, up £332,810) was a record,
being 26.4 p.c. on average capital, com-
pared with 24.4, 22.4, 14.3, 10.5, 3.4,
2.7, 5.4 and 12.3 p.c. back to 1929. The
cautious board kept the div. at 124 p.c.
Now consider these figures:
Li.um.mns.
Sundry
Paid Creditors,'
May, , Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Etc.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 2,687,708 3,345,777 1,125,100 1,005.336
1931.. 2,987,708 3,710,924 c. 02,900 729,353
1932.. 2,987,708 3,814,644 739,700 889,788
1933.. 2,987,708 3,629,490 624,200 1,022,179
1934.. 2,987,708 3,558,307 480,000 1,190,337
1935.. 2,987.708 3,929,978 365,400 1,206,968
1936.. 4.249,851 5,941,671 286,600 1,160,640
1937.. 4,982,014 6,939,927 211,100 1,340,146
Assets.
Steelworks,
and Other Stocks, Book Investments,
Plant, Etc. Stores, Etc. Debts. Cash, Etc.
1929.. £5,711,522 £512,871 £848,637 £1,054,486
1931 . . 5,954,085 514,063 442,492 1,244,840
1932 .. 5,777,653 513,669 648,570 1,459,217
1933 . . 5,648,401 488,965 707,466 1,386,014
1934 . . 5,689,731 572,500 709,405 1,224,718
1935 . . 5,411,367 827,569 602,171 1,628,948
1936 . . 5,600,041 856,674 1,247,431 3,914,624
1937 . . 5,435,760 957,883 2,354,943 4,999,987
In addition, the mine now figures at £20,000.
The year’s larger trading (reflected in a
growth of £1,107,512 in debtors’ bal-
ances and £101,209 in stocks, etc.) was
financed mainly out of surplus earnings,
including the allowance for depreciation.
When the books closed, the cash holding
(£1,225,430) was £848,308 stronger than
at the previous balance ; shares in other
cos. (£3,774,557) were up £237,055. So
earnings didn’t derive much benefit from
the £732,163 of fresh capital and £374,965
of share premiums gathered during the
term.
On the goldmining side, shareholders
were offered 1,792,615 2s. shares (at par)
of the co.’s holding in Wellington Allu-
vials, formed to work ground on me
Macquarie River (N.S.W.). The interest
in Kalgoorlie Enterprise (W.A.) was sold
to Boulder Perseverance ; production at
Hannan’s North (W.A.) continues, and
prospecting work is still in progress at
Cowra Creek (N.S.W.).
The cash holding, together with
£238,357 of capital and some share-pre-
mium money still to come at the close
of accounts, and more besides, will
probably be wanted to finance exten-
sions to the Newcastle and Port Kem-
bla plants. The proposal to manufac-
ture tin-plate has been shelved until re-
sults of new technical developments
overseas are observed.
The co. is the largest shareholder in
Commonwealth Aircraft, Ltd. (capital
£600,000), formed by a number of large
industrial cos. at the invitation of the
Federal Government to manufacture air-
craft and aeroplane engines here.
At 84s. 6d. (they touched 91s. 6d.
early this year) the fully-paid pound
shares return 2.9 p.c. on a \2\ p.c. div.
basis. A one-for-five new share issue at
a premium of 50 p.c., together with a
lift in the div. to 15 p.c., would increase
the yield to 4 p.c. A one-for-five issue
would lift paid capital to £6,264,445, on
which 15 p.c. would call for £939,667, or
£243,504 less than was netted last year.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929.. 25,175 14 p.c. = 19,600 5575 112,759
1930.. 22,447 14 „ „ 19,600 2547 115,606
Profit sale freehold, £13,440 .. 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 „ „ 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ 5.400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 „ „ 8,400 2942 137,121
1905. . 12,510 6,, ~ 8,400 ( 9iio 139 931
To provident fund, £2OOO j - jilu
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c. = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ „ 11,200 3931 147,206
Formed by William Templeton in Mel-
bourne in 1878, the- T., E. and A.
is Australia’s oldest and second-largest
trustee co. For the 14 years to the close
of accounts in 1930, divs. averaged 12.6
p.c. Then, just as the stage was set for
better earnings, the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment having given the co. full trustee
powers in that State, slump arrived, and
the div. dropped to 6 p.c. for the four
years to the end of June, 1935, followed
by 7 p.c. and 8 p.c. for the last term.
The board has never handed out
bonus scrip, the policy being to make
new issues at par as the business ex-
pands. The last issue was in August,
1924, one for three. That made paid
capital £140,000 in 160,000 shares of
50s. each, of which 60,000 are paid to 30s.
and the other 100,000 to 10s. each.
There is a reserve liability of a further
50s. per share, callable only in the event
of liquidation. The market prices the
shares paid to 30s. at 535. 6d. as against
50s. a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the 10s,-paids at 20s.
give an immediate yield of 4 p.c., or 4.8
p.c. should another ss. be called thereon.
The net tangible cover is 41s. per pound
of paid capital.
During the last term, the net growth
in the volume of trusts on hand was
£519,798:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1910.. £9,013,807 £11,814 £6,820 57.7 p.c.
1920.. 13,533,081 41,924 25,538 60.9 „
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1934. . 27,842,502 72,040 60,698 84.2 „
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 „
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 „
1937.. 29,399,725 86,672 71,541 82.5 „
The spring in gross earnings from all
sources was £10,132. Exes, took £8845
of the increase, leaving the net result
at 10.8 p.c. on capital as against 9.9,
8.9, 8.1, 6.1, 11.4, 16, 17.9 and 19 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was lifted a
point, making it 8 p.c.
Early in the last term the co.’s fine
new building in Bligh-street, Sydney,
was completed, and the available space
let. It has now been decided to go
ahead with erection of a new 11-storeyed
building on the site of the old London
Bank Chambers, Coll ins-street, Mel-
bourne, bought in 1930. A contract has
been let at an unstated price, and the
work is expected to be completed within
about 12 months. No hint is given as to
the extent, if any, to which shareholders
are likely to be called upon to contribute.
When the books last closed, assets
consisted of reserve fund investments
(Government and other public securities
and stock and real property), £95,000 ;
Government securities, etc., £13,770;
deposit with State Treasuries, £30,000 ;
mortgages, £21,717 ; book debts, £3320 ;
cash, £8934; freeholds, etc., £123,687.
There was only £623 coming to out-
siders.
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
r Dividends Towards
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £33,794 .. .. 32,467
1931.. 6,083 4800 Nil 1,283 33,750
1932.. 8,292 4800 Nil 3,492 37,242
1933.-11,273 5800 25 p.c. = 2,500 2,973 40,215
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7* „ 4,379' 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,594
1935.. 21,720 6800 124 p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20 ~ „ 10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 334 „ „ 16,666 21,664 52,951
* 10 p.c. on ord. capital and share premiums
combined.
The old co. —first it was Sniders and
Abrahams and then G. G. Goode —had
got into a backwash, and the ords. had
lost 9s. of each 10s. share. The turning-
point came in 1930, when slump pro-
vided an opportunity to link up with
Carreras, Ltd., the prosperous English
concern which manufactures Craven A
and other lines of tobacco. Carreras
bought 75,098 unissued Is. ords., and
with them control, and the business has
made extraordinary progress since.
In 1931 a factory was put up at Prah-
ran (Vic.); the English co. found, the
money, much of which has been repaid
out of earnings since. Two years later
the business of Morris and Johnson (they
used to distribute the co.’s products in
N. S. Wales) was welded into the organi-
sation, at a cost of £20,000 in f.-p. prefs.
Then in 1934 £40,000 of bonus scrip was
handed to the ords. —£33,749 of it came
from share premiums, and the balance
from undistributed profits—raising paid
capital to its present figure (£118,000) in
68,000 £1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 200,000
ords. of ss. each —the old ords. were
consolidated into ss. shares.
With the improvement in economic
conditions, the aid of an extensive
advertising campaign, and the assistance
of the parent organisation, which has
meant much so far as finance and buying
are concerned, the co.’s sales have
bounded along. Gross earnings, which
were £43,929 in 1930, reached £190,166
for the last term, when the improvement
was £12,615. Exes. (£145,036, including
provision for taxation, bad debts, etc.)
were £692 lighter. The net result (up
£13,307) was sufficient to pay the pref.
div. and show 76.6 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 50 p.c. for the previous term.
That leaves out of the reckoning £8728
dropped from somewhere into reserves
for taxation, exchange, obsolescence, etc.
(£65,372), not included with the lay-by in
the table. The div. was lifted from 20
p.c. to 33.3 p.c., making the average over
the last five years 26.9 p.c.
Here is a view of the business from an-
other angle:
1924. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £71,226 £78,000 £llB,OOO £llB,OOO
Overdraft .. 33,794 13,083 6,904 3.716
Creditors . . 12,882 134,773 88,144 75,847
Freeholds .. 64,093 59,970 58,470
Plant, etc. . . 11,757 30,427 32,858 31,817
Stocks . . 50,070 137,242 147,316 164,054
Book debts . . 20,273 43,019' 48,271 52,211
Cash. etc. . . 1,377 894 96.4 1,067
Subsidiary co. 20.000 20,000 20,000
During the year £12,297 was snipped off
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
and £16,738 was added to stocks. In-
cluding stocks but not shares in the sub-
sidiary, the improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£137,769) was £36,266.
At 395. (365. a year ago) the prefs.
return 5.1 p.c. Their annual requirements
were more than six times covered by last
year’s net earnings, and the net tangible
backing is 50s. 3d., excluding specific re-
serves. The ords. are not listed.
F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends'
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
• June, I rotfit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 15,170 4000 8 p.c. 7,376 3794 48,708
1928.. 14,415 4000 8 „ „ 7,423 2992 51,700
1929.. 14,590 4000 8 „ „ 7,467 3123 54,823
1930.. 14,409 4000 8 „ ~ 7,526 2883 57,706
1931.. 4,473 4000 Nil 473 58,179
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 9,602 3325 6.2 p.c. =5,878 399 58,578
6.2 p.c.
1933.. 10,800 3100 0.2,, „ 5,878 1822 60,400
1934.. 11,920 3100 0.2„ „ 5,878 2942 63,342
8 p.c.
1935.. 17,342 4000 8 „ „ 7,584 ) 2758 66,100
Employees’ bonus res., £3OOO (
1936.. 21,617 4000 10 p.c. = 9,775 ( 4842 70 943
Employees’ bonus res., £3OOO j
Unexplained additions, £9497 .. 80 440
1937.. 28,246 4000 15 p.c. =15.070 )
Employees’ bonus res., £3OOO ( b 176 86 ’ 616
This solidly-established and snugly-
financed supplier of printers’ requisites,
including the Australian-made ink with
which The Bulletin has been printed
for over half a century, has celebrated
its seventieth year by earning a record
and juicy profit, and a 5 p.c. bonus was
sent out with the 10 p.c. div., making 15
p.c. in all, which was paid with comfort.
After making “ample provision for taxa-
tion” and striking off £3102 for depre-
ciation, the profit claimed was £6629


IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION SALE
Portion of QUAMBONE Station
In the Favourably Known Coonamble District.
QUAMBONE
For Sale by Public Auction
At the Manchester Unity Hall, Coonamble,
On Wednesday, 15th September, 1937,
At 3 p.m.
29,057 ACRES 29,057 ACRES
Subdivided into 9 grazing areas, comprising 3050 acres
F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3050 acres F.H.; 3676 acres F.H.;
3068 acres F.H.; 2580 acres F.H.; 2351 acres F.H.; 3492
acres F.H.; and 4740 acres,
(All areas are approximate .)
Situated from 25 to 28 miles from Coonamble; all good wool-
growing, fattening and breeding country. Admirably adapted
for fat-lamb raising, and in one of the soundest districts of New
South Wales. Rainfall, 1 7 inches.
Open red and chocolate soil plains, with strips of good, quick-
coming sandy loam. Timber: Myall, Box, Buddah, Wilga, White-
wood and valuable Pine. Grasses: Mitchell, Blue, Umbrella, also
numerous herbages, for which the District is noted.
The land comprises all the well-known Nedgera Creek portion
of Quambone Station.
The above Estate is being subdivided on behalf of the Quambone
Pastoral Co., Ltd., into areas to suit all buyers, and this is an
opportunity of securing a good property in a safe District.
TERMS - - - CASH
Lithographs available on application, and intending purchasers will be
shown over the property on making arrangements with the Auctioneers:
PITT, SON & BADGERY, LTD., SYDNEY,
RUTLEDGE & STOKES, COONAMBLE.
(Auctioneers in conjunction.)
m
%
is
m
m
-%^ y %
msr
CERTIFICATES
of Good Character
SOMETIMES a plain, family man will coin a phrase
so full of meaning that it deserves headlines in the
newspapers: a phrase worthy to serve as a beacon
light to others.
This is just what James Ayer Bradley did one
morning as he opened his mail at breakfast. A daughter
asked him why he sat smiling at some documents he had
taken from an envelope.
These are my certificates of good character,” he
said.
Excellent. They were four A.M.P. policies in his
name. Certificates of good character; evidence that he
had made provision for the future; proof that he had
been wise and provident; signs that he had faced up
to his duty to his wife and family.
Mr. Bradley became a member of the Society when
he was 19, when he took out his first policy for £2OO.
If he were to die to-morrow his family would receive £5 1 6
from that policy alone. Mr. Bradley took out a policy
for £6OO at 29 (it has now grown to £1,315); another
for £5OO at 40 (it has now grown to £849) ; and a
fourth for £l,OOO at 42 (now grown to £1,679). A
total of £2,300 has grown to £4,359. Certificates of his
good character, as he says; and certificates of the great
usefulness of his A.M.P. membership.
The Society will be glad to send an experienced
adviser to talk this matter over with you if you say the
word. It is for you to become as happy about your
A.M.P. policies as is Mr. Bradley.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
better than the previous year’s at £28,246,
or nearly double the average rate of net
earnings for the five pre-slump years to
the close of accounts in 1930. It was
enough to pay the pref. div. (£4000) and
show 24.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against
18.5 p.c. and 14 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms.
That leaves out of the- reckoning
an unexplained addition of £9497 to
the contingency reserve (£22,497).
Whether this addition was a book
entry or came from surplus earnings
is not plain from the published figures.
The report makes no mention of any
addition to freeholds, the book value of
which increased by £25,350, after dis-
closing the mortgage, now £16,000. What
is plain is the comfortable margin be-
tween earnings and distributions. At
the moment there is nothing in sight to
suggest a sharp recession in earnings,
though something approaching boom
conditions prevails in the printing trade.
The Maoriland subsidiary, which was
set up in 1928, has not yet contributed
to the pool, though it is now claimed to
be earning satisfactory profits.
The ords. (there are 100,465 of them
in a paid capital of £150,465) were listed
for the first time during the last term,
following the death of F. T. Wimble,
the founder of the business, in his eighty-
ninth year. After sales at 475. 6d., sellers
asked 525. last week-end. The return
at 525. is 3.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis,
or 4.8 p.c. on a p.c. distribution,
which would call for little more than
half the amount available last year. The
prefs. at 28s. 6d. yield 5.6 p.c. The net
tangible cover is £4 14s. lOd. prefs. and
375. 3d. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Capital . . £143,840 £144,800 £147,775 £150,465
Mortgage . . 16,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . 55,548 26,627* 29,390* 21,128
Freeholds, etc. 74,459 66,170* 72,014* 97,364
Plant, etc. . . 24,964 21,788 16,880 15,305
Shares in other
cos. .. 25,093 25,090 25,109 24,999
Stock . . 80,600 67,083 61,723 56,103
Debtors . . 62,562 46,926 58,242 49,262
Cash . . 14,374 34,896 51,247
* Alter deducting mortgages.
It is plain from the fine wad of cash (up
£16,351 last year) that the co. is well
equipped to take advantage of any oppor-
tunity that may offer. Including stocks,
but not shares in the M.L. subsidiary,
and assuming that the mortgage remained
unchanged, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£119,484)
was £10,013.
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd.
Though the board may first prefer to
build up a cash reserve and/or duplicate
existing plant out of earnings, Malim
Nawar looks to be within coo-ee
of an initial div. Early disappoint-
ments were crowned by the capsiz-
ing of the dredge in 1928, involv-
ing a capital loss of £17,000. Earn-
ings since have been utilised to liquidate
the £25,000 debt incurred to convert the
raised dredge into a Min. electrical gravel
pump, monthly capacity 100,000 c.y. At
March 31 £BOOO was outstanding on the
loan ; cash in hand then amounted to
£4206, which has been increased by
approx. £2OOO from recovery of 66j tons
t.o. up till the end of July.
Financial results for the last three years
follow:
W ritten
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Profit. Divs. Off.
1935.. £33.908 £24,858 £9070 Nil £9070
1936.. 28,605 24,867 3738 Nil 3738
1937.. 32,732 26,571 6161 Nil 6161
* After charging depreciation.
Some 27,500,000 c.y. of 0.451 b. wash
remains to be sluiced, giving the property
a life of 23 years, working to capacity.
On maximum turnover and on the basis
of bored values, the co. is capable of
clearing £10,300 (over 10 p.c. on capital,
subject to depreciation) with tin at £230
London, costs at sd. a yard and allowing
£25 a ton for royalty and smelting
charges; each movement of Id. per yard
in costs and £lO per ton in the London
price of the metal will affect the result by
£5OOO and £lBOO respectively. A 1\ p.c.
div. (£7500) is thus within reach, granted
favorable conditions ; much will depend
on the question of costs.
Some of the ore reserves lie in fairly
deep ground, containing patches of
cemented peat and clay and buried
timber, which was responsible for the
sharp lift in exes, in 1935:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yds. dug .. 1,063,000 899,000 1,039,000
Recovery t. 0., tons 281.4 205.89 233.93
Yield per c.y., lb. 0.59 0.51 0.50
Assay, p.c. . . 74.0 74.6 74.6
Treatment costs, c.y. 3.87 d. 5.68 d. 5.4 d.
Ore realisation, ton £136/12/6 £l3l/19/1 £133/4/4
Modification of the plant, as a result of
which sluicing depth, previously 45ft., is
now governed only by the nature of the
dirt encountered, and slightly easier
ground are responsible for the lift of
£2423 in last term’s profit, struck after
charging £949 for depreciation. The
£6161 has been used to rub balance
(£2791) of loss on dredge, etc., out of the
books and to reduce development ac-
count, etc., to £8597.
Capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, which
have a speculative interest at 11s.
Including the loan, total outside debt was
£10,723 at balance day. Property figured
for £37,336, plant £51,991, cash, debtors,
etc., £4654, other assets £8144.
Despite extraction of 363,873 tons,
Zinc Corp.’s ore reserves in its big mine
at the Barrier (N.S.W.) increased by
100,000 tons during 1936, thanks to de-
velopments between the 1702 ft. and
1832 ft. levels. At the end of December
last blocked ore was figured at 3,100,000
tons in the main lode, and 249,000 tons
in the zinc lode. But exploratory drill
holes sunk in 1935 indicate the proba-
bility of another 600 ft. of similar lode
material down to a vertical depth of
2500 ft. Each 100 ft. of lift is expected
to give 900,000 tons of ore. Production,
which has been stepped up from approxi-
mately 260,000 tons in 1927 to 374,500
tons in 1935, is expected to be in the
neighborhood of 440,000 tons for 1937,
advancing to 680,000 tons in 1940 and
730,000 tons thereafter. The new Free-
man shaft (27|ft. by 13ft.), 500 ft. east of
Block 5 shaft, is expected to be com-
pleted to the 1573 ft. level by the end of
January next, and to reach 2200 ft. four
months after tha,t. Another essential for
the economic working of a large ore-
body is an ample and cheaply-handled
supply of stope filling. To meet these re-
quirements, the co. is constructing a new
sand-pass direct to No. 8 (1181 ft.) level,
whence filling will be distributed by con-
veyor belts to the various operating
points in the workings below this level.
The design for the new mill is almost
complete, and contracts have been let
for the bin floor and for the steel and
iron building. Last year £55,319 was
spent on plant and charged to capital.
The whole of the lead concentrates were
produced by the all-flotation process,
with improved grades and recoveries of
lead and silver. The outlay on shaft-
sinking was £51,280, paid out of a reserve
created for the purpose, and another
£50,000 has been set aside to meet the
current year’s expenditure. It all points
to what promises to be a satisfactory re-
duction in costs. Metal prices are the-
doubtful factor in the outlook, and they
appear to be less uncertain than they
were. The chairman (Viscount Horne)
says “subject to international and finan-
cial developments, we can reasonably
expect a continuance of profitable
prices.”
* * * *
“Driller Bill”: Nearly seven years
ago, Roma Blocks, Roma (Q.), penetrated
an oil sand at 3445-3447 ft., and subse-
quently drilled through two more sands
between 3500 ft. and 3510 ft. In the
course of a few months, nearly 1000
gallons of light crude oil, similar to
the light Pennsylvanian and Sumatra
crudes, was recovered, production being
up to 30 gallons per day at times. Slump
put an end to further operations, and
the well stood full of water until a few
weeks ago, when it was bailed in the
(Continued on next page.)


NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smitli & Company. Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smilli & Company. Limited.
MELBOURNE. VIC.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk At Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smitli & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEIIAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
MINERAL DEVELOPMENTS
(FIJI), LTD.
Assayers, Mine Managers and Geologists:
Mining properties reported upon.
Diamond Drilling Contracts Undertaken.
’Phones: 8W5260. 19 O’Connell Street,
84439. SYDNEY.
“PUMPMOBIL
(POKTABJLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION in PRICES!
4 ! i3i
i'x'i
4 :;S
.-£&k «
a
? s<'Wi' : :fSi' vSs
Extensively used by Prospect ors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands:
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. • • 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. J-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS—I pay up to £5 more
i per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ill#***?
IIMEJ
ay OTHER
presence of Commonwealth and State
geologists, and again produced small
quantities of crude oil similar to that
originally obtained. Then came the
announcement of Dr. Wade (B. 18/8/’37)
about the possibility of a major oilfield
being located. According to Priminister
Lyons, £30,000 of the £250,000 appro-
priated by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for encouraging and assisting the
search for oil has been allotted to Oil
Search, Ltd. —none of it for prospecting
on the Roma field. The Roma Blocks
Co. has on its lease an almost new
Emsco rotary plant, capable of drilling
to 10,000 ft. Roma Oil Corp. has a
National rotary plant, with a similar
range, which has drilled only three holes
since it was imported from California
in 1928, and there are other older rotary
plants in the neighborhood. Australian
drillers and drilling crews, trained by the
Californians Evans Bros, and Machado
during the 1927-1931 operations, are
available and capable, under expert
direction, of doing the drilling and other
necessary work. Each of the plants
mentioned could run down three bores
to the 3400-3500 ft. oil horizon in 12 to
15 months. A little organisation and Gov-
ernment co-operation with the existing
cos. is all that is required to give the
area the test that Dr. Wade says it
deserves. What do the Commonwealth
Government and the Commonwealth Oil
Advisory Board intend to do about it?
* * * ••!=
Seventh new Broken Hill co. to be
floated within five months, Silver Peak
(Broken Hill), Ltd., has been formed in
Adelaide with a nominal capital of
£50,000 in £5 shares, of which 2500 were
offered and quickly taken. Previously
worked by small parties, the property
comprises 40 acres on the Potosi-Piesse’s
Ridge line of lode, and adjoins the Silver
Hill and Potosi blocks. Surface work-
ings have proved the lode, which is hoped
to be a displaced extension of the Broken
Hill line of reef, for some miles. Mining
engineer James Hebbard, who has in-
spected the area, recommends that
diamond-drilling be undertaken in an at-
tempt to strike the lode between 200 ft.
and 500 ft. The initial issue is expected
to provide sufficient funds for the work.
Another recent float, Barrier Main Lode,
has encountered a sulphide lode at 144 ft.;
its drill was still in ore at 203 ft. last week,
but no assays are yet to hand.
* * * *
Commenting on mica mining in West-
ralia, J. S. Foxall, assistant State mining
engineer, says a large amount of pre-
liminary exploratory and development
work is necessary at considerable cost
before any consistent output can be ob-
tained. Of the total quantity of mica
mined only about 10 p.c. is marketable,
and it requires expert miners, cutters and
graders to make the smaller sizes, which
usually constitute the bulk of the output,
pay. Only a small percentage of the
mica marketed fetches £lOOO a ton and
upwards. Compared with metalliferous
mining, costs are very high, owing to the.
care necessary to avoid damaging the
fragile product.
sfc :Jc % $
The Kalgoorlie Ore Treatment Co.,
which handles the combined output of
ore from North Kalgoorlie and Boulder
Perseverance (W.A.), is successfully
assaulting its extraction problems, to the
benefit of earnings and costs. During
1936 actual recoveries averaged 87.34 p.c.
Loss in the tailings, was 10.55 p.c.; the
remainder of the loss arose from dusting
during roasting of the fine flotation con-
centrates. During the first three months
of 1937, loss in the tailings was reduced
to 6.8 p.c. Following modifications to
the Edwards roasters, actual recoveries
for March and April averaged 91.5 p.c.
Installation of a dust collector, to treat
furnace gases, is expected to reduce dust
losses to less than one half of one per
cent, of gold sent to the mill. The plant
is handling 21,000 tons of ore monthly,
or 1000 tons more than it was designed
to deal with.
* * * *
Swan Bitter has lifted milling capacity
to 1400 tons monthly, besides which it is
cyaniding 1350 tons of sands, of which
6000 tons averaging 3dwt. are said to be
available, and which are accumulating
at the rate of 1000 tons monthly. For
the year to April 30 mainly stone
was put through the mill; gold worth
£15,026 was won, and a net profit of
£355 cleared. For the three months
since the co. has been crushing 6fdwt.
ore for a return of £6507 ; all-in exes,
took £3210, leaving £3296 net. The im-
proved grade reflects discovery of the
main or primary lode. At 65ft., where
Bdwt. values have been met over 14ft.,
the lode has been stoped for 70ft., values
continuing at both ends. Down to 100 ft.,
where a similar grade and width have
been encountered, 10,000 tons of ore is
estimated to be available. The shoot is
“continuing strongly” in a southerly
direction, but whether values live at
depth has yet to be proved. On Sept. 23
the co. will make an initial distribution
of 3d. per share, requiring £1760. The
return from the sand dump alone should
cover future monthly mine costs, which
aren’t expected to exceed £l2OO.
* * # *
Shareholders being loath to dip deeper
into their - pockets, Yellowdine Options
has ceased operations, having exhausted
its own funds and a £3OOO Government
loan raised early this year. The co. took
over the Three Boys, where sulphides
come in at 120 ft., and the Leinster mine
at Southern Cross (W.A.) in 1935. Mill-
ing commenced in Aug., 1936. Ac-
counts for the year to Jan. last show gold
returns worth £7329, or £6960 short of
expenditure (including £975 written off
preliminary exes.), raising the p. and 1.
debit to £20,024. Plant includes a
cyanide unit.
❖ ❖ * *
Norseman Gold Mines, one of the
few Adelaide concerns which have done
well in Westralia, has bought the Red,
White and Blue lease from A. J. Hill for
£lOOO, partly on the strength of encour-
aging prospects on the adjoining Iron
King area. Crushings from the new area
have returned higher values than those
from the Iron King. Norseman is pay-
ing 9d. a share (£15,000) on Sept. 25,
raising total distributions to £166,175.
# * * *
In 1920 the late A. Montgomery, then
State mining engineer in Westralia, made
a rough survey of the big above-water
iron-ore deposits at Yampi Sound. These
he figured as follows:
Tons.
Ivoolan Island, south ore-body .... 08,850,000
Koolan Island, north ore-body .... 7,770,000
Cockatoo Island, south ore-body .. 13,850,000
Cockatoo Island, north ore-body . . 6,900,000
Total 97,370,000
The report makes it clear that the esti-
mate, considered to be a conservative
one, applies only to ore above high-water
mark. Both ends of the ore-body at
Koolan and Cockatoo islands run into
the sea. One big advantage of this de-
posit is the cheapness with which it can
be handled ; part of it consists of cliffs,
rising straight out of the sea for 600 ft.
According to Dr. E. S. Simpson, Govern-
ment Analyst and Mineralogist in.West-
ralia, deposits of iron ore are very plenti-
ful in the Slate, especially in the north and
north-west, and many of them obviously
contain millions of tons of high-grade
ore, readily obtainable by opencut
mining and within easy reach of trans-
port.
❖
Triton Gold Mines, N.L., has com-
menced the foundations for an extra
unit, which will ensure the treatment of
9000 tons a month by November.
# si: # *
Since taking over in 1906, Blackwater
Mines has won approx. 500,0000 z. gold
from a million tons ore from its Reefton
(M.L.) property down to 2000 ft., and
the mine shows promise in the lower
workings. Higher than average values
(14.65dwt. over a width of 26in.) have
been driven on for 1357 ft. on No. 13
level. Geological opinion is that the
lode will maintain payable values and
dimensions at much greater depth. On
the North Blackwater area of 680 acres,
where little prospecting has yet been
done, lateral development is to be under-
taken when opportunity offers. The tax
slug—including gold bounty, £24,974, or
12s. 4d. per ton of ore milled in
1936 —mounting costs, following recent
legislation, and an acute shortage
of skilled labor, which last term kept
throughput some 10,000 tons below plant
capacity, are disturbing factors. During
the 12 months of 1936 the co. crushed
41,990 (down 3700) tons ore for 17,7020 z.
fine gold, valued at £124,108. Head
value was 9.ldwt., and recovery 8.44dwt.,
or 595. Id. per ton. Including develop-
ment, costs (£66,756) were 31s. 9d. per
ton, leaving a surplus on working
account of £57,352. After charging
depreciation (£2939), head-office exes.,
and taxes, etc., the net result slipped
£14,000-odd to £27,288 ; 2s. per share
(£25,000) was distributed as against 3s.
in the previous term. For the first
six months of the current term, monthly
returns show that 19,500 tons has been
crushed for a return (£55,768) averaging
575. 3d. per ton ; exes., including develop-
ment, have shot up to around 365. 6d.
All figures are in sterling. Results should
look up when the richer stone in sight
starts to go through the mill, but much
depends on the labor problem and the
results that attend proposed further
mechanisation of the mine. The fully-
paid' £1 shares, of which 250,000 are
issued, have fallen from 345. to 21s. 6d.
on Dominion ’Changes over the last 12
months.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of E. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTIt A LASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
'** * *
A wide range of Power Transmission Equipment,
including- ball and roller bearings, couplings, collars,
wood and steel split pulleys, beltings, etc., is
illustrated and priced in our 1935 Catalogue. Write
to William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, for a copy.— Advt.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young; Streets, Sydney
I
W' %y &
Z ::; >- ■
fc;.|i: , »pil 'ffflrj
:; i!'«|!Il jgf!!!!i||
-Hliil**'§j| |^S|j|(|
ii.'if'W I.RI ®i
"***^*2B
_ iKSfr*
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lm e.s )
SMOKE-OH!
“A thousand waiters paraded in Paris de-
manding abolition of tips.”
Here, it would be a parade of punters.
►l* -I*
“A man must push his goods if he wants
large sales,” says an advertising article.
What about a motor-car salesman?
•J* ❖ *i* *i*
“Man, garden, house work, ss. week and
keep.”
Sounds like an ad. for a husband.
Americans may speak through the
nose, but Australians pay through it.
“ Beltin' my cows with a shovel! You use a lump o’ Wood , same as anybody else!"
“Second-hand curs for sale. All types. Cheap.”
—“Age.”
Should suit men who are being
hounded by their wives to buy one.
* * * *
Welly, Welly Woeful.
An hour after the smoke and dust of
the first barrage by the Japanese artillery
had cleared, Chow Chin Chu waddled
into the office and demanded of his
trembling equerry:
“Well, you snivelling son of a scurvy
sire, what are the casualties?”
“Ah, most illustrious mandarin in the
Orient’s orchard of ostentatious oranges,”
wailed the sniveller as he handed his
master a parchment resembling an out-
size pakapu ticket, “the casualties are un-
speakably heavy. I have prepared this
list for your excellent eyes to examine,
and grovel in the suds at your feet that
you may kick me to death if the carnage
is one wit exaggerated.”
Chow Chin Chu snatched the list. He
read:
1603 collars, 701 shirts (soft), 399 shirts
(starched), 505 singlets, 411 underpants,
114 pyjamas, 14 tubs (holed below the
Plimsoll), 2 mangles (mangled) and 11 irons
(missing).
“By Cli!” Chow Chin Chu hissed as
he spat in the buckled blue-bucket, “we’re
washed up!”
Percival.
•J* *l* -1-
“In Manhattan, 'Charles Nyznyk sat down to
relax after he had rubbed his stiff neck with
alcohol. When he lighted a cigarette his neck
burst into flame.”
Reminds us of a few others we know
who also have a flaming neck.
•J* *l* *»* *2*
“There are cases in which a wife might
obey her husband’s expressed wishes implicitly,”
says a Sydney divorce Judge.
Another case in which “might” is right.
*2* *2* *2*
“According to a Sydney sculptor Mr. Lyons
is a ‘perfect sitter.’ ”
Most successful politicians have proved
themselves good at sitting on the fence.
It is often the only way they can keep
their seats. And the only time we hear
about them standing is when they’re
after a seat —preferably a safe one.
“As long as he kept to gingerbeer he was
amiable and agreeable. When he drank any-
thing stronger he easily lost his temper.”
„„ , _ . ~~ 'ff
When he went off pop he went off pop.
* * * *
“Defendant was fined £1 for travelling on an
expired ticker,”
With time to pay?
v * * *
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
„ , ,
So large is the Australian cattle-dog
that it has to'have shoes specially made
for it. Next to cattle-raising, the shoe-
ing of dogs is one of the most important
industries in the prairie country, keeping
hundreds of blacksmiths constantly em-
P ] °y ed -
This shoeing serves a dual purpose.
Firstly, the sound of the galloping feet
of these tireless hounds becomes so
rhythmical to the cattle that it has a
markedly soothing effect on them, render-
ing them tractable ; secondly, it affords
protection to the dogs’ feet against the
poisonous spikes of Mitchell grass, trefoil
and Sturt’s desert pea, three noxious
weeds that threaten to overrun the rich
pastoral lands of Central Australia.
One of the most daredevil occupations
in outback Australia is that of the
Murray whaler.
After their long winter hibernation in
the Antarctic pack-ice the whales com-
mence their long voyage north to tern-
perate seas so as to thaw out. As they
pass up the eastern coast of the con-
tinent, the powerful perfume from the
ironbark vines is caught by the whales
as they come to the surface to “blow.”
Urged by an irresistible instinct to re-
plenish the supply of iron in their blood,
which becomes impoverished during their
long sleep, the huge mammals nose their
way in through the mouth of the great
Murray River, continuing on to its upper
reaches, the banks of which are a tangled
mass of the vines.
On the lookout man’s signal that the
shoal is approaching, the Murray whalers
set out from the shore in their frail crafts,
which haye been previously laden to the
gunwales with the fragrant blossoms
from this valuable plant. Luring the
whales into a suitable position opposite
a long, shallow mudbank, the whaler’s
mates on the opposite bank throw sticks
of gelignite at the whale’s tail. Perfect
synchronisation is necessary.
As the “jelly” is falling the whalers
make a swift flanking movement with
their dinghies (they have in the mean-
time been diverting the whale’s attention
by furiously shovelling the blossoms over-
board). Then, with the roar of the
detonation behind it, the whale, becom-
ing panic-stricken, surges forward, to
be helplessly stranded on the bank. The
high incidence of hara-kiri among Japan-
ese whaling captains is attributed to then-
despair of ever obtaining whales as
cheaply as by this method.
In the dense jungle country of the Far
West settlers carving out a selection for
themselves have to contend, among other
difficulties, with the depredations of
“scrub-fellers,” or, more correctly, “scrub
pfellers,” to use the aboriginal dialect.
These are nomadic tribesmen, fierce and
intractable, who make lightning raids on
property, chopping down all the best of
the scrub timbers (stringybark, yellow
box, etc.) and
carrying off this
valuable firewood.
In the less civilised
regions of what is
called the “Never-
Never”. there is
often open warfare
between the settlers
and “scrub pfellers”
(also called Binghis,
because of their
corpulence), with
sometimes heavy
casualties.
Before they put
their land under
cultivation in coun-
try which has been
densely timbered
the superstitious
settlers invariably
perform an old
custom known as
“hand - grubbing.”
All the fat white
grubs that can be
seen on the selec-
tion are gathered
by hand and given
as an offering to
the crows and
wedge-tailed eagles
in order to propi-
tiate these birds,
called the
.“farmer’s friends.”
'lt is believed that
if a settler fails to do this homage to his
feathered friends the birds will stay
away, resulting in a plague of insects
destroying his crops, while his lambs,
lacking their protection, will fall a prey
to the predatory flying-foxes, black
cockatoos and bellbirds.
Such is the popularity of tea-drinking
on outback farms that many settlers, in
order to ensure plenty of flat “tables”
on which they can put the quart pot at
many points on their selection, not only
refuse to uproot stumps of trees, but
use only saws to fell trees, so that the
stumps will be perfectly lqvel, which
could not be achieved so easily with
axes.
Where, however, it is desired to “lift”
the stumps the settler has an invaluable
ally in the queer creature called the
“forest devil.” Of the same family as
the Tasmanian devil, it is a cross between
the purinthy and the pallid cuckoo, com-
bining the tremendous weight-shifting
and burrowing propensities of the former
with the strong-winged capacity of the
latter.
A covey of properly-trained “forest
devils” is a joy to watch in action. All
the farmer need do is get down on his
knees and pretend to burrow with his
hands. Then, just as a dog will do on a
beach, they will straightway follow suit,
and in an incredibly short time there
will be a huge excavation under the
stump. After that they don’t need to be
told what to do. The whole covey im-
mediately get on top of the stump, dig
their hooklike talons in, and, with a con-
certed flapping of their powerful wings,
they lift the stump out as clean as a
whistle.
S. W. K.
A New Technique.
“Contending that wrestling was no rougher
than many boxing bouts, a Melbourne grappler
quoted the case of a Fitzroy boxer who, even
though he had a big lead on points, bit his
opponent on the chest during a clinch and was
disqualified.”
It scarcely can be termed characteristic
Of those who sport the cauliflower lugs
To sink their molars, while engaged in
fistic
Encounter, into chests of other pugs.
And, seemingly, there’s nothing more
conducive
The ire of solid Fitzroy fans to raise
Than watching—and that’s, after all, con-
clusive —
A slugger who, a trifle too effusive,
Goes in a while to graze.
It wasn’t that, punch-drunk and pretty
> foggy,
He’d not the slightest notion what he
did ;
In point of fact, the other chap was
groggy
As, jaws apart, into his chest he slid.
Maybe he thought that he’d confer a
favor
By gnawing the opponent he had
laced;
He might have been swept by a hunger-
wave ; or
Maybe he simply thought that brisket’s
flavor
Would just be to his taste ?
NIPPER.
Trials of Veracity.
“Absolute frankness in advertising is the new
vogue, and it is bringing its rewards.”
—Lecturer on publicity.
It is. I know.
Something had gone wrong with all
my fowls. Three-day sickness or the
bots, or something. I’d have suspected
the sodden fruit cake my wife had burned
so badly (it lasted the fowls, without
anything else, for a week) only I knew
that all the ingredients were pure. How-
ever, as the birds were acting queerly,
I decided to get rid of them. I’d have
been willing to risk eating them, but
my wife flatly refused. Said they might
have some awful disease. Very fussy,
women.
Anyway, I advertised them for sale.
I was perfectly frank about it. I just
put: “Fowls for sale —owner compelled
through illness to dispose of them.”
Could anything have been more down-
right honest and aboveboard?
Several prospective buyers came, but,
evidently experts, they just glared at the
fowls and walked off. I was even
beginning to regret my probity and high-
minded candor when a large fellow with
a voice like Popeye happened along. I
could see he was a mug as far as judging
fowls was concerned, and after a few
minutes’ magging (all mine) he was a
soda. He took the lot, at my price.
Two days later he came back, purple
about the gills and with a distinct froth
in his voice. The first thing his eye fell
on was the yardful of pullets I had just
bought. i
“So y’ sold ’em because you were sick,
eh, y’ scangy little swine?” he roared
as he gathered both lapels of my coat
in one enormous fist. “Every one o’
them blasted fowls wriggled out the next
day. Try an’ put a roughie over me,
wouldya?” Well
“Pardon me,” I interrupted with dig-
nity, “I mentioned nothing about my
being ill. It was the fowls’ indisposition
to which the ad. referred. Remember,
caveat emptor. If you were boneheaded
enough to buy them despite my warning
I fail to see”
“You will!” he bellowed, “an’ sniff
this!”
When, later, my wife brought me to I
realised his prognostication was correct.
I failed to see.
BO.


SECURITY to a thoughtful person means a permanent
income sufficient for present and future needs.
SECURITY to a prudent Company means the steady
expansion of its business by which large
reserves of capital may be built up without
sacrifice of regular and adequate dividends to
shareholders.
SECURITY in an investment means safety of an investor’s
capital, plus a satisfactorily high income.
Such an investment is
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
since the purchaser’s risk is spread over no less than 20 of
Australia’s foremost industrial and commercial undertakings.
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF
CANTON, LTD. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney).
Write for descriptive booklet No. 1 to the Managers
of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
(pre-war strength)
THE PERFECT
WHISKY
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
>
'so
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd.. 388 Sussex St.. Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walter & Sons Ltd., Walkerviile. Ontario,
Canada. Since 8 858. -
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Inclination and Reason
Viscount Horne, chairman of the
Zinc Corporation (Broken Hill), in Lon-
don on July 21 was outspoken on a big
subject:
Notwithstanding a continuance of scares and
alarms, the world as a whole, and certainly
our part of it, is much better off to-day than
it was a year ago. I can see no reason why
it should not be much better off a year hence,
provided that we can, on the one hand, escape
the calamity of international quarrels, and, on
the other hand, avert the folly of artificial
attempts to keep down the price level. There
are, it is admitted, many possibilities of trouble,
but to-day they don’t look quite so alarming or
to numerous as those of a year ago. In the
interim, as it is well to remember, the world
has been making progress—in some cases great
progress. Both inclination and reason place me
among the optimists. I believe the future will
be better than the past. In November, 1935,
I had the temerity to predict that the real
problem of the world would very soon be one
of scarcity rather than oversupply.
1 claim that evidence is accumulating in sup-
port of this view. Iron, steel, coal, coke, certain
non-ferrous metals, shipping tonnage, are some
of the things which to-day are really scarce
in many, if not all, parts of the world; and
the list is being added to steadily. If Gov-
ernments really fulfil their promises of a higher
standard of living, there will be little chance of
a surplus in essential commodities, and no
likelihood of a price level which leaves the pro-
ducer or worker in the industry without his
reward. A higher standard of living and a low
commodity price level are not companionable.
Those who fight for a low commodity price
level are in reality fighting for a lower standard
of living.
The consumption of Zinc Corp.’s chief pro-
ducts is still increasing, and the statistical posi-
tions in most cases are sound. Subject to
any adverse international and financial develop-
ment, I think we can reasonably expect a con-
tinuance of profitable prices. No reasonable
man wants boom prices—we only desire such
values as fairly reflect the relation between
supply and demand. These should, according
to my forecasts of the future, be profitable to
producers.
“Both inclination and reason place me
among the optimists” ; in these terms he
said his piece, and said it vigorously.
Each full of import, no one paragraph
can be read truly without reference to the
others. Thus, “Those who fight for a
low commodity price level are fighting
for a lower standard of living” is quali-
fied by “No reasonable man wants boom
prices—we only desire such values as
fairly reflect the relation between supply
and demand.”
The man who used to be plain Robert
Horne is, of course, in this case speaking
particularly from a primary producer’s
standpoint, and especially refers to
metals. His remarks would be almost
equally applicable to wool and some
other raw materials that aren’t over-
produced. Products won from the soil,
together with minerals, sell in most coun-
tries at world’s parity. It is not so much
cost that governs their price as supply
and demand. Good prices offered are
usually a sign of improving trade.
But some of the remarks of Viscount
Horne might be given too wide an appli-
cation. “A higher standard of living and
a low price level are not companion-
able” ; in Australia real wages were
highest in the first half of 1933, when
money wages and prices were at their
lowest. That cannot be taken as a
normal indicator, however, as at that
time there was about 25 p.c. unemploy-
ment among trade-unionists. Neverthe-
less, there is definitely a limit to the
extent which rising prices can benefit
industry and its workers. The benefit
ceases when costs start to take full toll
of better prices. Increased prices forced
up by higher costs are of no benefit to
employer or employee. They only
water down the value of money for the
time being, and inflate capital values.
That is always a fruitful source of
slumps.
Prices of highly-manufactured goods
are largely made up of labor costs. It
is not going to benefit the worker if his
wages are raised and he has to pay out
an equal or greater amount each week
in order to provide the necessities of life.
The thing most conducive to industrial
prosperity is stability. Under stable con-
ditions the benefits of manufacturing and
distribution improvemepts and labor-
saving inventions are more likely to be
spread equitably among all sections of
the people.
Wages are worth only what they will
buy ; and if figures dependent on wages
are kept from soaring at the present
time the countries concerned will be the
better for it. If there is a good margin
of profit, for example, between the ex-
port prices of our wool, wheat, metals,
etc., over and above costs, there will be
all the more finance available for new
industries and employment. Australia,
too, will in the future have to rely more
on its own financial resources.
“We know that the ore-body maintains
satisfactory values and dimensions far
below our present deepest workings,”
said the chairman of Zinc Corp. in Lon-
don last month. The new shaft is ex-
pected to be down to 1573 ft. by January,
and to 2200 ft. by May, 1938. In 1927 the
Corp. put through about 260,000 tons of
ore; in 1930, 335,000 tons; in 1935,
375,000 tons of improved grade. In 1938
®
1940, 680,000 tons; thereafter, 730,000
tons. Full-capacity working at any of
these dates, of course, will depend on
conditions. Throughput of the North
and South cos. is at present slightly above
400,000 tons p.a. in the one case, and
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of ingot
, f ° r fi tb ° . fl F s ‘ * wo . l " o ”' hs ° £ , *=
1937-38 financial year has been 123,588
tons, up 18,608 tons (17.6 p.c.) on the
|93M7 t of which term
£1,183,170 profit has just been disclosed,
**. * *
stage-cura-talkie venture, with
David N. Martin, of the Liberty, Norman
Cowper, J. A. Carpenter and other Syd-
nev nn mhilitiVc ™ the hoard i* likelv to
y notabilities on theboard, is likely to
come on t be market at any day now with
most of its capital already subscribed or
carniarked (it has been underwritten by
„ o tnck Fxohanpp firm! Present nlans
CK f' xc i lan § e n ™ 7 rreseru P ians
seem to be for two theatres, one large,
one sma n erj to be put up at King’s Cross
near to each other, and Bruce Dellit,
orman Lindsa y arK < Rayner Hoff have
s*®“ < ? Ued to .. adv ! se , °“ d “'*“ and
decoration. The idea is to supply some-
thine ohvionslv lacking in Svdnev • a
s how-place of individuality with the ves-
tibule space and artistic arrangement to
per mit social Sydney to show off its
fathers nn first niehts and similar nroa
on first-nights and similar occa-
slonS . It is to be hoped that stage facili-
fi es G f the co.’s larger theatre will attract
better-class legitimate shows to Australia
iS uadoubted !y a growing want of
this class of entertainment in the Com-
monwealth’s largest city. Around the
sharemarket Minerva Centre is mentioned
as the new co.’s name.
* * * * .
Tableland Tin, Mt. Garnet (Q.), is
to do up the old Return Creek Co.’s
dredge, and it is expected to start dig-
ging inside six months and to net about
£25,000 p.a. with tin at its present price.
The big new dredge is scheduled to start
earlv 193 o p° rcv p en man engineer
f^. 11 engineei
to Alluvial Gold (the Pratten co.), re-
ports that the deposit can be easily dug
and efficiently treated by a bucket
dredge. “There are no material difficul-
ties which cannot be readily overcome
by capable management.” Robert
Sturkey, of Alluvial Tin, partially check-
bored the property, and, so far as the
boring went, prospectus values were con-
firmed. No buried timber or large
boulders were met with. He says the
property should be successfully worked
if properly equipped. If things pan out
as these experts expect, and tin keeps
above £2OO London (last week it was
over £260), the show should prove a
successful venture. With tin at £2OO the
prospectus spoke of divs. of 6s. a year;
tj n £250. 9s. a year. Malcolm Newman
is in charge of operations.
* . ,* * ~ *
As indicated here a fortnight ago,
Adelaide Steam has declared a final div.
of 4 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year.
Last year’s rate was 6 p.c. The scrip
has risen a shilling or so since men-
tioned ; allowing for the div. accrued,
yield at 325. 6d. is £4 Bs. 7d. per cent,
on a 7 p.c. basis.
# * * *
Holeproof (Melb.) has kept its in-
terim ord. div. at the rate of 10 p.c. in
spite of talk about overproduction in the
industry. The co.’s directors report sat-
isfactory results for the half-year. The
market for the scrip has steadied around
30s.
* * * *
A one-for-one bonus issue by the prin-
cipal Peters ice-cream co. has been so
long in coming but so long predicted
that the actual announcement had little
further effect on the listed shares, the
fully-paids of which had lifted this year
from 465. to a shade over 58s. before the
announcement. A bit below that figure
they stabilised last week. Ordinary div.
and bonus for the year aggregated 16 p.c.
If 8 p.c. p.a. is paid on all scrip after the
free distribution, return at 575., cum
rights and div., would be 4 p.c.; if 10
p.c. goes out each year, yield would be
4.8 p.c.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week;
Associated Pulp ords., now paid to 17s. 6d.,
changed hands at 21s. lOd. The £1 deferreds
fetched 225. 3d., and were the better buying.
Deferreds become ords. when a total of Is.
2.4 d. a share has been paid to the ords. in divi-
dend.
Davies, Coop ords. changed hands at 225.
9d. Yarra Falls scrip firmed to 40s. Gordon
and Gotch ords. were sought after at 535. 6d.,
a lift of 2s. over the week.
Australian Glass ords. were particularly
' strong, rising to 975. 3d. British Tobacco
ords.. were also in demand. B.H.Ps. were a
shade weaker.
United Provisions ords., among the cheaper
stocks, dropped below 10s. Mutual Store
ords, lifted to 11s. 9d., the highest pnce in
years.
Sales of Emperor on one day (Monday), 175.,
16s. Id., 16s. 2d.; Loloma, 275., 255. 9d., 265.
sd. Erratic quotes for such a short period.
H.B. Dickie.
The ord. shares in H. B. Dickie,
Ltd., Melbourne, spinners of cotton
yarns and makers of towels and
terry-cloth, show promise of future
benefits at last week’s price of
255. 6d. Profits for 1936-37 were
9.7 p.c. on ord. capital (£100,000)
after allowing for pref. require-
ments p.c. on £15,000), as
against 7.6 p.c. in the previous year.
Goodwill is in the accounts at
£27,000, and reserves amount to
only a few thousands; but the co.
turns out good-quality towels, and
there should be an expanding
market for such products. Finances
can do with some consolidation,
but possibilities are there. Return
at 255. 6d., cum div., is 6 p.c. on
a 7j p.c. div. basis.


Prevent the
infection caused
by Dust-storms
4
X
INHALANT
Sore throat and catarrh,
due to the irritating effect
of dust, are effectively
countered by Vapex.
Simply put a drop of Vapex
on your handkerchief and
breathe the pleasant germi-
cidal vapour. It gives in-
stant relief and protection.
And use Vapex whenever
you have a cold. It clears
the head, relieves stuffiness,
destroys the germs and
soon your cold is gone.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
POTOR
e J
And
Sc
M
STILL
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTURN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 86 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:, Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H, C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
cJU
ewris
rnmmm
KBS
7\
TO the man who wants a car with up-to-date appearance without that flashiness that so many new
cars exhibit —to the man who w’ants a full m easure of dignity in the car he drives, Buick is the
answer. For, in addition to its outward charm, it embodies the tradition of 35 years of quality
car production. Those years have taught the manufacturers of Buick the essentials needed to produce
a car which will carry its dignity and worthiness for year after year. Yet Buick costs only a little more
than ordinary cars—and costs very little to run also. Here are just a few of the many Buick perfections.
Independent Front Wheel* Springing, Straight-eight valve-in-head engine, “Aerobat” Carburettor,
"Unisteel Turretop” body by Holden, “Armourplate” Safety Glass, Tip-toe Hydraulic Brakes, Sealed
Chassis, Giant Luggage Trunk and many other exclusive features. The local Buick dealer is ready to
demonstrate Buick's quality at any time convenient to you.
THE 193 7 "AIR CHIEF" TWO-
UNIT CAR RADIO, with its faithful
reproduction and rich tones will bring
you and your friends many pleasant
hours. Especially designed for Buick,
the 193 7 “Air Chief” has controls
which match the other instruments,
and a separate speaker to fit im-
mediately behind the Instrument Panel
Grille. “Air Chief” performance is
equal to the best home model sets. A
demonstration will be gladly given.
f
Every model obtainable by
means of the confidential
G.M.A.C. convenient pay-
ment plan.
Your Money Goes Farther
in a General Motors’ Car.
General Motors-Holden's Ltd.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED BUICK DEALER.
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia
8550-24
In B. 23/6/’37 it was suggested that
North Kalgurli in respect of 1936 could
show about £125,000 Australian available
for dividends and development. Accounts
are just to hand from London. Revenue,
less mining, milling and office exes.,
amounted to £118,975 sterlihg ; taxation
provision, however, leapt to £27,226 stg.,
and the sum available for dividends and
development, etc., was £91,749 stg., which
works out at £114,686 Aust. Develop-
ment (£17,157 stg.) and depreciation
(£2828 stg.) together represented £24,981
Aust. The difference of about £lO,OOO
Aust. between The Bulletin’s estimate
and the accounts figures is entirely due
to liberal provision for taxation. The
amount in reserve for this charge at
Dec. 31, 1936, was £34,403 stg.
North Kal.’s ore reserves during 1936
lifted by 151,560 tons to 632,360 tons.
Present grade of 7.6dwt. compares with
7.7dwt. a year ago. Extraction, a proved
success, is now over 90 p.c. In 1936 the
co. treated 112,339 tons for an average
recovery of 58s. Aust. a ton ; working
costs, 28s. lOd. In the first half of 1937
66,688 tons has gone through for an
average of 675. ; costs, 28s. 2d. De-
velopment expenditure, etc., during the
six months was around £20,000 Aust.
Allowing for development, overhead
and taxation at last year’s rate per ton,
net profit available for dividends for
the half-year would be about £85,000
Aust. Striking off an extra £lO,OOO for
possible increased taxation, the figure
comes down to £75,000, or a rate of
£150,000 a year, equal to 109 p.c. on the
capital expressed in Australian money.
That figure is conservative, and it will
not be surprising if distributions soon
lift to 2s. sterling per share per year.
Net profit of Producers’ and General
Finance Co., Sydney, for the 201 months
to June 30 last was £63,446 according
to the accounts just published. The 7
p.c. pref. div. and 14 p.c. to the ords.
took all but £8460 of the total. The co.
was using £98,698 of outside money
at balance day, and £562,434 of capital.
There was £106,431 of goodwill, estab-
lishment exes., etc., which is something
the co. can’t lend at cash-order rates of
interest; earnings this year were helped
to an unspecified extent by profits on
realisation of the P.P. Bank assets.
Advances appear at £376,555 ; under the
heading of “subsidiaries,” shares, con-
tracts and debtors figure at £189,381. In
view of the fact that there are residuary
assets of the late P.P. Bank mixed up
with the items somewhere, the precise
extent of the co.’s motor-finance and
cash-order connection isn’t clear. Shares
include the co.’s interest in Bear’s
furniture business and another finance
concern. The market isn’t attracted by
high returns offering from shares in the
newer cash-order and finance cos. ; P.
and G. £1 ords. sold at 16s. 9d. follow-
ing publication of the accounts, and the
Amalgamated Co.’s 12s. scrip is weak
at around 19s. 3d.
❖. t- * ❖ j
Illawarra Fireclay and Brick (N.S.W.),
a stock of rather frequent mention here,,
earned 12.4 p.c. on capital for the year
to June 30 last, compared with 6.6 p.c.
in 1935-36. Div. is lifted to 1\ p.c.,
as against 5 p.c. Profit was arrived
at after setting aside £5OOO for
contingencies. There are only 65,000
£1 shares ; capital, £14,823 in general and
contingencies reserves, and £17,565 of
liabilities are represented by £74,123 in
property and plant, £6562 debtors, £3914
stocks, £10,016 investments, and £7648
cash. The shares, slightly above par
when first mentioned here, were over 265.
last week. The great building and con-
structional activity at Port Kembla has
pushed the co.’s trade along, and new
plant capable of turning out 5,000,000
house-bricks a year will be working in
about six months. A one-for-five par
issue is being offered to shareholders.
* * * *
The sudden revival in the market for
Natural Gas and Oil shares, the co.
boring from the bottom of the shaft of
the Balmain (Sydney) colliery, is partly
due to reports that the co. already has
a commercial gas-well. Previously the
boring party looked to natural pressure
to supply the force of gas; now the story
is that in the U.S.A. Nature is assisted by
a pump in boosting up the pressure re-
quired in gas-mains. On Aug. 14 Is. 3d.
was paid for the 2s. ords. ; previous high-
est price in 1937 had been 11-jd., lowest
3d. Last week there were substantial
dealings around Is. If pumping will
make a success of the co.’s well, the direc-
tors have been a long while waking up
to it. A strong pressure of gas, at that
time thought to be inadequate, was
brought in over two years ago.
* * * *
The increased price of newsprint has
depressed newspaper scrip in London.
In the Commonwealth some publishers
have tried to meet the higher cost by re-
ducing the discount allowed to news-
agents. After having been down to
225. sd. a few months back, ordinary
shares in Associated Newspapers, the
backbone of which is Sydney “Sun,”
lifted to 245. 3d. last week. The daily
“Sun” has lately begun to look like a
Sydney edition of the Melbourne
“Herald” ; the sharemarket approves of
the change, it would seem. The “Sunday
Sun,” however, is the chief money-maker,
though the Thursday edition is a welter
of advertisements also.
Melbourne “Herald” shares didn ? t hold
the higher price for long. There were
sales at 695. 6d. last week. Smith’s
Newspapers prefs. are around 11s. 6d.,
and Consolidated 6\ p.cs. near 18s.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of Zinc Cor-
poration, held last month in London,
Viscount Horne said that 90 p.c. of the
capital of the Commonwealth Aircraft
Corp. was held by the Broken Hill cos.,
Orient Steam and Imperial Chemicals,
Zinc Corp. had 50,000 shares paid to
6s. 3d. The Aircraft Corp.’s factory is
now going up in Melbourne, and plans
are being prepared for turning out
’planes to the Federal Government speci-
fications.
Zinc Corp.’s holding in New Broken
Hill Consolidated (which last year took
over the Corp.’s southern leases and its
shares in Barrier South) amounts to over
600,000 ss. shares—about 30 p.c. of the
issued capital. The market for Consoli-
dated scrip is now around 21 si in Aus-
tralia. Zinc Corp. is pleased with the
outlook.


INVINCIBLE 1
i
1006
YEARS
GUARANTEE
NV 'NCISLe
INVINCIBLE ENGINES.
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
r>3 North George Street, Sydney, JV.S.W.
d
Racing
Hunting
Shooting
Sight-seeing
BINOCULARS
At a lower price the new Spindler and
Hoyer Binoculars are sturdy and excep-
tionally light—have independent eye-
piece adjustment as well as centre
focus. Complete with leather case and
strap. Large, 8 x 40, 190 z., £l6.
Average size, 8 x 30, 160 z., £l5.
Write for particulars.
E. ESDAILE & SONS,
43 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone, 8W3131 (3 lines).
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Good offers were made for Buzalong
after he ran second to Mala at Victoria
Park. He is owned and trained by the
Queenslander Leftwitch, and Leftwitch
replied that his gelding was not for sale.
At Ascot on Saturday Buzalong (6 to 1)
gave a capital exhibition of galloping in
the Flying Handicap, cutting down the
leader, Brazandt, as soon as Shean moved
on him. He will run in minor races at
Randwick—by an oversight he was not
nominated for the Epsom, which is rather
a pity.
Gay Chou, who won the Doomben
Newmarket on a soft track, was favorite
for the Ascot sprint. The conditions
should have suited him, but he never
looked likely, and finished sixth. The run
will improve him, but people who rushed
in and backed him for the Epsom now
regret it.
Old Dermid made hacks of his oppo-
nents in the Ascot Handicap. Ridden ex-
cellently by the Orange jockey McPher-
son, who scored on him in Melbourne,
the old Tippler gelding had the race won
a long way from home. Televise and
Jubilee Son filled the places. Friar’s
Switch, a false favorite, was last for a
long way, and beat one home. Dermid
is in the Epsom with 7st. 101 b.
Perimond, a sturdily built son of Veil-
mond-Pericoe, duly arrived in the Three-
and Four-year-old, but it was all he could
do to beat Tony. He started at evens.
Perimond is a Derby candidate. He
showed gameness, as Hermoine made
him carry his weight (Bst. 71b.), and he
had to beat off Tony in the last furlong.
Aladdin, who cost Trautwein 600 guineas
and is now raced on lease by Max Laid-
law, galloped well for six furlongs.
H. Ryan and the younger Lamond race
Herarde, a son of Heroic—Bavarde, and
had the satisfaction of seeing him lead
throughout in the first division of the
Welter ; he beat Wise Boy comfortably,
with Deputy Ruler a fair third. Herarde
started at eights. He has 7st. in the
Epsom. The second division went to
Kurrawid (5 to 1), who had disappointed
in races, though an excellent track
worker at Warwick Farm. Kurrawid
was forced to cover a lot of extra ground
in the first half-mile, but he was too
solid at the finish for the favorite,
Grosvenor Square, and Dark Son.
A plunge on the pony Soot (3 to 1)
was landed in the Progressive Handicap.
Soot was last half a mile from home, but
gathered up her opponents in a few
strides at the top of the straight, and
went on to record the easiest win of the
day; Forestage and Maestro filled the
places. Kernbla, from the bush, showed
pace.
Manolive, winner of the last Perth
Cup, directed attention to his spring
prospects in Melbourne by capturing the
Glenara Handicap at Moonee Valley on
Saturday. This race was worth £5OO
(first prize, £350), yet it produced a field
of only five. Victorian horseowners do
not appear to be in need of money.
Favorite at 7 to 4, Red Ray was un-
suited by the slow pace, and, like the
heavily-backed Turf Boy, who also likes
it strong, he missed a place. It took
2min. 42sec. to cover 11£ furlongs;
course record is 2min. 324-sec. Inter-
national led past the stand at a canter.
He was unchallenged until Manolive
stretched out two furlongs from home
and went on to score by 1 \ lengths, with
Steel Spear a moderate third.
By Manfred from Sister Olive, winner
of the 1921 Melbourne Cup, Manolive
favors his sire in color and build. Though
far from massive he is bulkier than The
Trump, another son of Manfred who
has distinguished himself in Melbourne
lately. International, runner-up to Man-
olive, came across from M.L. with
Wotan, and is a two-Cups aspirant. He
was not well handled by the feather-
weight apprentice.
Wotan reappeared in the Kiata Han-
dicap, of six furlongs, a distance entirely
too short for this stayer. He figured at
100 to 1, odds that were on offer when
he won the Melbourne Cup. Wotan must
have been half a furlong behind the field
at the half-way stage, yet he came home
really well and beat one rival—lva.
Despite his poor autumn form in Mel-
bourne and Sydney it would be hazard-
ous to class Wotan as a back number.
The style in which Regular Bachelor
(3 to 1) appropriated the Kiata Handicap
delighted his supporters and revealed
that the Queensland stallion is back to
best galloping trim. He had victory
assured at the home bend and could
have won by more than the official
lengths. Finishing splendidly, Young
Idea defeated Maliino by half a head
for second. He had received a check.
Sweet Memories was withdrawn be-
cause her owner-trainer, H. Freedman,
reckoned that the track was too wet and
heavy. Jack Holt took Avenger out of
the three-year-old event for a similar
reason, and he considered the going
would not suit Young Idea. After being
far back Young Idea entered so promi-
nently into the picture that he cannot
be far from cherry-ripe. Both Young
Idea and Avenger belong to Percy Miller.
Parodier, who has 7st. 21b. in the Mel-
bourne Cup and 21b. less in the Caulfield
Cup, gave his Argyle Welter rivals no
chance after supplanting Jacasse at the
straight entrance. He won, running away,
by four lengths from Orford, who fin-
ished fast to deprive Jacasse of second
honors. Now four years old, Parodier
was knocked down as a yearling for
600gns. to Gerald Coffey, who did so
well with the lease of Burlesque. The
gelding is raced by Coffey in conjunc-
tion with Jim Hackett. He is by Heroic-
Digalla, and has matured into a nice
horse.
Riddle, favorite for the race which
fell to Parodier, shaped shockingly, being
always near the rear. Either the gallop-
ing conditions did not suit Riddle or he
is a gay deceiver. The best achievement
of this gelding was his second to Shake-
speare in the Batman Stakes at the
V.R.C. spring meeting of 1936. Named
after Peter Riddle, the Sydney trainer,
he was passed on by G. J. Barton to a
patron of K. D. Godby’s Caulfield
stable.
Campaspe (7 to 4) proved a false
favorite for the three-year-old race,
which went to a 14-to-l chance, Good
Fun, trained by T. R. Bradfield, who has
done so well with young horses in the
last few seasons. Minor places were
filled by Pibroch and Silver Bond. More
will be heard of Pibroch. He belongs to
R. Turnbull, who won the V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes of 1930 with Thurlstone.
Revelling in the soft going, Davanthus
(4 to 1) inflicted a 12 lengths’ defeat on
David Quex in the Plenty Hurdle. His
victory wasn’t nearly so easy as that of
Black Hook in the Melrose Steeple. A
recruit from the hunting ranks, Black
Hook cleared away and, fencing
superbly, was 25 lengths in advance of
Sir Lectern when he reached the judge.
Fred Hoysted seldom is without a
jumper. He trains Black Hook for
“Mortimer Alson,” who ran third in the
Grand National Steeple of 1934 with
Copperfield.
* * • * 4c
Moonee Valley put up £2500 for a six-
event programme on Saturday; Ascot
(Sydney) £lO5O for seven races. Ascot
is a proprietary course ; Moonee Valley,
non-proprietary.
* * * *
Ajax and The Chanter have arrived in
Sydney under the care of Frank Mus-
grave, and both look uncommonly well.
The Chanter has been backed for the
Epsom, in which he has Bst. 91b. In ap-
pearance he recalls his near-relative Chat-
ham, who won the Epsom twice: Chat-
ham was by Windbag-Myosotis, The
Chanter is by Windbag-Even Song. After
Chatham’s first and only race as a two-
year-old, this Page vowed to tote him
every time he started, and it vowed to
do the same with The Chanter after see-
ing him for the first time. It abandoned
both resolutions because both horses
went off as three-year-olds, and in Chat-
ham’s case it had cause to kick itself.
This season The Chanter has been
brought over in plenty of time to get
accustomed to “going round the wrong
way,” as Victorians call it. The Sydney
style of running plainly bothered him on
his previous visit two seasons ago.
* * * 4=
Silver Standard has run another good
race—in a division of the Flying Handi-
cap at Rosebery, Sydney; but he was
unsuccessful again, though he tried hard
to catch Bulldozer, who is slicker at the
distance, six furlongs. The handsome
Heroic chestnut has added a third as well
as a second to his record this season. As
a two-year-old, he was second twice and
third once. As a three-year-old, he won
three times and was second four times.
Last season he was second in the Zetland
Stakes at Victoria Park, Sydney, and
second in the Metrop., the Caulfield Cup
and the Melbourne Cup. It is dreadful
for the owner when a horse, however
good, gets into the habit of running
second. Silver Standard has two owners,
Freeman and Stanley, so they can share
the dreadfulness, though one perhaps
fortifies the other with philosophy.
* 4: 4t 4:
Young Crusader has had mixed experi-
ences in Brisbane. The chestnut appeared
in the Q.T.C. Metropolitan Handicap and
was a hot favorite. For a mile or so he
ran a capital race ; in fact, he came into
the straight with a good lead. But he was
beaten in a few strides and had receded
to sixth place when the winner, Brown-
felt, completed his job ; Brownfelt (7 to
1) and Brown Force (second) had been
well back most of the way. Brownfelt is,
of course, a Spearfelt; and so is Spear-
bleu (third, at 50 to 1).
With Brownfelt and Brown Force out
of the field and two furlongs less to
travel, Young Crusader was again favor-
ite (at 7 to 4) for the Exhibition Handi-
cap on Saturday. This time Duncan
adopted patient tactics with him, and
they succeeded; Young Crusader got
home by a length and a half from Myall
Prince, who just beat Win Lady for
second place. Young Crusader is now
well up in Metropolitan betting.
* * * *
Hua is to run in the A.J.C. Derby with-
out a previous race as a three-year-old.
It is an old custom of Scobie’s, and it
came off with Trivalve 10 years ago ;
and Trivalve went on to win the Mel-
bourne Cup, for which race Hua is now
one of the favorites. All the same Tri-
valve might have been second, instead of
first, in the Derby, if the rider of Winalot
had not made so much use of that colt.
The effort took so much out of Winalot
that he was of no further use that spring ;
but he came good again in the autumn,
winning the Warwick Farm Cup, the
A.J.C. St. Leger and the Sydney Cup
with ease.
Footbrawl
Although Carlton beat Collingwood
(third on the list), 11-16 to 9-17, and Gee-
long beat Richmond (fourth), 14-6 to
8-11, the leading four in the V.F.L. com-
petition are unchanged in premiership
points after Saturday’s series. Mel-
bourne (second) defeated Footscray,
15-15 to 10-14. Actually it is level with
Geelong in points, but behind in per-
centages.
In the other three games, Essendon
downed Fitzroy, 17-17 to 10-10 ; Haw-
thorn surprised South Melbourne, 15-12
to 10-15 ; and St. Kilda ran away from
North Melbourne, 22-19 to 11-5.
* * * *
The Springboks followed up their
defeat of Marlborough and Nelson by
downing Canterbury 23-8. The 1921
’Boks were beaten 6-4 by the University
city. The province also defeated the
1904, 1908 and 1930 British teams and
the Australian sides of 1913, 1931 and
1936.
* * * *
“Plato Mulligan”: The grimmest
match I have ever seen was the meeting
of M.L. and the Springboks in the first
Test at Athletic Park, Wellington. Also,
up to the moment when M.L. scored its
first penalty goal, I have never seen a
more sombre crowd. On all sides vic-
tory for the ’Boks was predicted ; that
was why the crowd was so serious, why
both sides took the field as nervous as
basketball players at a school final and
why, when the first score came, the yells
could be heard miles away from the field
of play. I attribute M.L.’s win to sheer
grit. Each M.L. player had a tanklike
determination, and it became super tank-
like when, for 45 minutes of the game,
M.L. played 14 men. Secondly there was
the psychological pull that Maoriland
has never yet been beaten by an inter-
national team on Wellington’s Athletic
Park. Fine football, and the better side
won. We have yet to see, however, how
the ’Boks will show up on a dry ground
and a ground that is not Athletic Park.
* * * *
With only another round to be played,
Western Suburbs, ’Varsity and Drum-
moyne can’t be ousted from the Sydney
Rugby Union semi-finals. All had suc-
cesses on Saturday: West, 18-9, against
St. George; Uni., 20-11, against Parra-
matta; and Drummoyne, 21-15, against
North. At the moment East makes up
“the four,” but Manly is only a point
lower, and next Saturday’s matches will
decide which of them goes in.
Manly won on Saturday, 19-8, over
Gordon, but East could only manage a
3-all draw with Randwick.
All grounds were sloppy; that on
which Combined G.P.S. played Military
College was the sloppiest. The Military
forwards splashed through fiercely, and
the college side put on three tries to one
—l4-6.
* * t- *
“Fitzcray”: The slump in Melbourne
Association football —Rules variety—is
so bad that the Councils of four suburbs
which lease their grounds to Association
clubs have asked for a conference with
the V.F.A. Unless they can fix up some
plan to mend matters the grounds may
be refused to Association clubs and let
to other bodies. The councils are bound
to find paying tenants for their grounds,
and unhappily the V.F.A. clubs cannot
claim to be in that category.
* * * *
“T.”: Even the football world moves.
The honorary commissioners of the
V.F.A. have recommended to the board
of control that a rule giving the umpire
power to order a plug-ugly off the field
be introduced next year. Adoption of
such a rule has been urged on Australian-
football associations by Bulletin para-
graphists dozens of times.
o Continued on page 30.)
Jimmy Purcell, who couldn’t get a
match in Sydney, where “coons pre-
ferred” is the policy, has outpointed Jake
Kilrain, the British welterweight cham-
pion, at Glasgow. Report says he “boxed
brilliantly.” In the same ring on the
same night, Roy Underwood, a Sydney
flyweight, was stopped in six rounds by
Benny Lynch, the recognised world
champion at the weight.
* * * *
Miss May Hardcastle has delighted
Queenslanders by winning their State
lawn-tennis championship. In her pro-
gress to the title the Queensland girl had
to meet Miss Coyne (N.S.W.), Mrs.
Westacott (Q.) and Miss Wynne (Vic.);
the last-named, who is Australian cham-
pion, she defeated 6-3, 6-4.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Hobartville Stakes: Silenus ; next,
Caesar.
Campbelltown Handicap: Sal
Volatile; next, Tuckiar.
Novice Handicap: Gilltown;
next, Bristol.
Warwick Stakes: Mala; next,
Allunga.
Spring Handicap: Fireman ; next,
Silver Standard or Osculum.
Glenlee Handicap: Speardale;
next, Osculum or Tuckerbox.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Three-year-old Handicap: Sun
BeaLi * next, .Avenger*
Underwood Stakes: Valiant
Chief ; next, Young Idea.
August Handicap: Turf Boy;
next, Golden Promise ’
Truganina Handicap: Sweet
Memories; next, Aurie’s Star.
Manor Welter: Balkan Prince ;
next, Erua.


MANNIE
MCCARTHY
CHAMPION AXEMAN
m
sg
KiJi&S?'
X lIP
x :.. :
mm
tt&ijeStf:
iwB§sss
8%
W>M
World's 18 inch
underhand chop
record . . .
Commonwealth
standing block
champion . . .
N.S.W. underhand
champion . . .
'(■ Y
r-j
d
m
im
s
9 Tfiain on
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL STOUT
the Champion/
HERE 'S
O' EE-"
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


os
The first Quadruple-acting Tyre Pump to be made—the Renrut
“Quad” —surpasses all attempts at imitation. Its robust design,
the meticulous accuracy in manufacture, the fine quality of
materials used —these mean years more of reliable and satisfac-
tory service. The “supercharger” action pumps more air into
the tyre at each stroke —halves inflation time and makes the
job far easier.
Fitted with accurate Pressure gauge. Price ... i... . 65/-
Less Gauge. Price 60/-
RENRUT
QUAD
9t
HAND PUMP
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WTLLIAM TURNER & BRO„ LTD.. Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
SILVER
EDGE*
TRADE (/MARK REGISTERED
THE RAY BE ST OS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
u
MOTORISTS
STOP?
CAN
YOU
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Fred Henneberry has not regained the
form that made him middleweight cham-
pion of Australia ; but, having a
advantage in weight, he won another con-
test at Newtown, when his right to the
chin knocked Keith Lawson out in the
eleventh round. Lawson, who is from
the Riverina, gave Henneberry plenty
of trouble until his right eyebrow was
opened in the fifth round. After that
he was buffeted from pillar to post. He
pluckily kept going till Henneberry's
right dropped him. Joe Wallis did not
trouble to count.
* * *
“T.”: Schmeling, who stopped Louis
and saw Farr stop “the second-best Ger-
man,” Neusel, tips the negro to beat
Farr. “What’s Farr got?” he is reported
to have said to an inquiring Yankee
pressman—“yoost two hooridred and
eight poonds! ” Still, that’s something ;
Fitzsimmons and Mitchell, the last great
British-born heavyweights, were hundred-
and-sixty-pounders. American observers
credit the Welshman with an accurate
left and “tigerish ferocity” when stung.
Still, he will be handicapped by the
climate and by lack of the comforting
presence of singing compatriots—Welsh
pugs, like Welsh footballers, fight best
to the strains of the songs of their
country.
Footbrawß
“Hotham”: Melbourne football scribes
are affecting the scornful laugh and the
ribald comment over the epoch-making
news that the Westralians have made un-
heard of offers to Bunton and Shea to
remain in Perth. The Chino-Jap fuss
has been replaced on the news pages by
particulars of the Westralian raid, and a
feeling of terrified apprehension is
noticeable under a flood of confident
assurance that the two heroes will never
desert their native land. The “sheer dar-
ing” of the Westralian attack is regarded
as a stab in the back of a guest from its
host, though no comment is made on the
Westralian allegation that, during their
stay in Perth, Victorians, following
their usual practice on these visits,
approached” a pair of Westralia’s best.
* * * #
“Glenelg”: As usual, the touring Vic-
torian football teams were accompanied
by scouts looking for players for Mel-
bourne clubs. Even the comparatively
unimportant visit of the Melbourne club
to Sydney resulted in the enticement of
a Sydney player to the Capuan delights
of Victorian League football, and by all
accounts the Adelaide visit was a bit of
a welter in this respect. So far there is
no rule save domestic ones guarding
against the practice of poaching. South
Australia talks of getting the Australian
Council to pass a law making 12 months’
residence in a State compulsory before
any player can show there. Such a rule,
if passed, would apply to the code
throughout Australia, and Victorian
pirates would have to think up new ways
of dodging it.
sjc
“Cottesloe”: If Victoria did manage
to outdo Westralia in the deciding match
at the All-Australia football tourney in
Perth, the locals fairly wiped the eye of
the visitors when it came to proving the
popularity of the game in Groperland.
So great was the occasion deemed that
a racing club postponed its meeting.
Even followers of ’Wood or the Redlegs
would boggle at asking Williamstown to
put off its Saturday races to give the foot-
ballers a chance, while N.S.W. Rugby
League would falter at the notion of
approaching even Menangle or Gosford
with a request for a postponement when
a North of England team was showing
at the Cricket Ground.
“Fitzcray”: The proposal of the V.F.L.
to raise the admission prices to the foot-
ball finals 100 per cent. —Is. to 2s. in the
“outer” —has roused Victorian football
chasers, to what Kipling called “a cold
Mahratta fury.” One disgruntled person
has expressed the opinion that if the
League wants to make money it should
cease “wasting it” on subsidising Aus-
tralian football in other States, “for
which the Victorian public cares nothing.”
A fine provincial sentiment, yet Vic-
torians wonder why the Australian game
cannot maintain more than a. foothold in
N. S. Wales and Queensland.
•i' •!> •}>
“Old Blues”: Next month the Carlton
(Vic.) club and Stanford Uni., California,
will engage in a football-kicking com-
petition. Three Carltonites will engage
three Stanford stalwarts, each side tak-
ing punt, drop and place kicks with a
home-manufactured ball in its own coun-
try. Results will be exchanged by cable,
the winners taking a special prize offered
by Stanford. Provided wind and weather
conditions are similar, the contest should
be an interesting one. Kicking competi-
tions, once fashionable in Australian and
Rugby codes, seem to have dropped out.
A pity, for they encouraged players to
learn to kick, and one did not then see
the spectacle, now too common, of a
first-class player, usually a Rugby for-
ward, without the remotest notion of how
to put his boot to the ball.
"We better go up now , Joe —must be about lunchtime .”
The Springboks had a fairly easy
gallop to down a Marlborough team at
Blenheim by 22 to nil, after leading 8-0
at half time. Play was not impressive
and the visitors were not inclined to
take risks on the hard and dusty ground
The ’Bok team included Lawton, who
was hurt at Orange (N.S.W.), and Du
Toit, who was injured in Sydney; but
Du Toit is not to play again on the tour
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: The victory of the
All-Blacks over the Springboks at Well-
ington puts the Maorilanders a match
ahead in the list of Test conflicts, M.L.
having won four to the ’Boks’ three. The
next clash is down for Christchurch on
September 4, and a clash it will certainly
be : A win for the tourists will make the
third game at Auckland the decider in
which case the Tarawera eruption prom-
ises to be a mere penny squib by com-
parison.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Likely that the Austra-
lian R.U. side which, it is hoped, will
tour Britain in 1939-40 will return by
Canada and the U.S.A. That being so,
matches will be played in both countries,
as was the case with the original Walla-
bies and the Waratahs. It is also pro-
posed by some optimists to send a team
to the Japanese Olympiad in 1940.
* * * *
“J. Lamentation”: The death-knell of
Sydney Uni. League football was sounded
at a recent meeting of the N.S.W. League
when a delegate asked permission to
stage a University-Veterans match to
celebrate the funeral orgies, as Mark
Twain’s king put it. The University
club has been a nightmare to the League
for years. It took none of the money it
earned (very little these last two years),
but handed it on to charity.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Soccer is slipping in
Maoriland, as the showing of M.L. sides
against English and Australian teams of
late years has indicated. Big games drew
good money a few years ago, in spite of
Union worship, but the M.L. association
reports a loss of £BOO on the recent tour
f ufu^A 81Sh - amat< r urs - The British
WOO of thl'acffial ffiss' 5 Carrymg another
U 01 me actual loss -
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Little interest was
taken in the mixed foursomes which
opened the Australian women’s golf
championships in Melbourne. Poor golf
saw a tie between Ryan and Miss Tol-
hurst and Payne and Miss Gardiner, the
°nL Q ueen^ ai l der ]n | be
36 holes hP 1 SCOred 164 for the
The title events were preceded by a
triangular inter-State match between
Victoria, South Australia and NSW
Victoria won both its matches beatine
N.S.W. 4 to 1 and South Australia 5-0.
In the first-named, Miss Ebert acquired
merit by beating Miss Tolhurst 1 up.
. * " _ * * *
“Divot Digger”: The big entry for the
Australian golf championships in Sydney
next month has necessitated a readjust-
ment of the programme. The foursomes
ar td professional championships have to
be played on the same day—September
6—and to enable this to be done the pro-
fessional event has been cut from 36 to
18 holes—a ridiculous number for a
championship event. There are 86 pairs
in the open championship ; under present
arrangements the first pair will have to
start at 8.30 a.m., and it is likely that
the last will have to finish in the dark.
AH this could have been avoided if the
British practice of playing preliminary
divisions of the championship on dif-
ferent courses had been followed,
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: The Queensland
women’s country golf championship was
won by a Charleville lass with the appeal-
ing label of Woodbine. She is largely
self-taught, and nearly all her golf has
been played on iron-hard western courses
and sand greens. Anyone who has played
on earth greens, especially if sheep have
been frequenting them, as they seem
aggravatingly disposed to do if they get
a chance, will appreciate the difficulties
the new champion has had to overcome,
* * *
“Hoylake” • Americans are not catic
fied that the staggering defeat of Dens-
more Shute by Cotton for the “world’s
championship” was true form. A return
match, this time on an American course
is talked about. Cotton is willing, but
says . that if he S oes over the club P ro '
motin § the match must put up real
money '> and with Cotton, who is said
to . earn about £2OOO a year even in
Bntain > rea l money means something
out °. f the ba 8-
Cotton, continues in great form ; he
galoped off with the German champion-
ship with an aggregate of 274, 17 strokes
better than the runner-up, Boyer. In
heavy ram > Cotton broke the Berlin
course record by three strokes in the
first round, his figures for the four
rounds bein § 63 > 70 > 69 ’ 72 -
■■
Miscellaneous
“Amateur Pro.”: It is announced that
any amateur who at any time has been
classed as a professional in any sport


INSTANT IGNITION
\*
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3/37
V-g Economy is complete economy
The recent nation-wide economy of
privately-owned V-B’s confirmed what thou-
sands of owners have already proved in millions
of miles of running—that V-8 performance
costs less than ever before. With its new
economy carburettor and 3.78 to 1 ratio rear
axle, the 1937 Ford V-8 sets a completely new
standard in economical operation of the ad-
vanced V-type engine. But owners know too,
that V-8 economy extends to every feature of
this magnificent car. The use of only highest
quality materials plus Ford precision workman-
ship and modern engineering design give Ford
V-8 longer life and highest operating efficiency.
V-8 economy is complete economy! And to
economy Ford adds the Safety of all steel-bodies,
safety glass all round, easy-action mechanical
brakes . . . the comfort of Centre-Poise riding
with new-design springs, 4 adjustable double-
acting shock absorbers and wide, deep cushioned
seats . . . Ford gives you every fine-car feature
with complete economy! Your local Ford
Dealer will gladly arrange for you to drive this
great new V-8. Easy purchase terms arranged.
23.02 MILES PER GALLON was averaged
by 114 V-B’s in the recent economy test held
simultaneously in all parts of Australia. These
privately owned cars travelled a total of 12,583
miles at an average speed of 39.18 m.p.h. (despite
very adverse weather conditions). All the runs were
checked by independent observers. Write or ask
your local Ford Dealer for the leaflet giving full
details of every car’s performance in this unique test.
FORD V
T he Vroved Economy Car
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMTAXY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F191.27V
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in S'outh Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E. 0.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
u w
Shooters!
Your last opportunity to obtain
widely-famed hard-hitting
ouble Barrel Shot Gun at the
low price of
£6/10/-
('Carriage Paid)
Owing to the Federal
Government having
banned the importa-
tion of all American-
made Shot Guns now
is your final oppor-
tunity to secure the
famous and justly
popular
STEVENS’ MODEL
311 12-GAUGE
D.B. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN.
The shooting quali-
ties of this gun are
remarkable consider-
ing its price. It is
chambered with 2|in.
cases, and its barrels
are full choke and
modified.
Write for Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.
Headquarters: Haymarket, Sydney.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
will be debarred from competing in the
Empire Games at Sydney. If the rule is
enforced this means that anyone who
has at any time played Rugby League
football, for instance, will be out of the
hunt, even if he has been reinstated as
an amateur.
* * * *
‘The Gaffer”: The Australian 10,000-
metre championship, run in South Aus-
tralia, was a true crosscountry event and
not a gallop round a racecourse. It was
won by Weightman, of Victoria, in the
good time of 35min. 25sec. The Vic-
torians also won the team race with a
loss of only two points. Then came
N.S.W., S.A. and Queensland.
* * * *
“Spike”: Little British Guiana is send-
ing two notable athletes to the Empire
Games in Sydney. One is Dr. Edwards,
winner of the half-mile at the London
Games in 1934 and placed man in the
similar event at Los Angeles and Berlin.
The other is Walter Spence, a noted all-
round swimmer who has won the Yankee
free-style, breaststroke and backstroke
titles, and has held world’s records for
the 100 and 200 metres breaststroke.
Close on 40, Spence is said to be still in
the first flight of swimmers.
“-m. *' tt * t,, , * , . * .
P affer ' T t e 11 Sh-jy( m P record
ges higher every big meeting in tne
w + Earl T tut 1 T! OI j tE eiv>n
art^. s standing figures
of 6ft. 9£in. by a fraction. A week later
he cleared the bar at 6ft. lOin. It is a
fair bet that before another year is out
the 7ft. mark will have been reached
and, perhaps, passed. About the onW
athletic record that stands the test of
years is that for the 100 yards. In spite
of constant endeavors to beat it the
record stands at 9fsec., time made by
Australian Jack Donaldson in 1910,
though every sprinter in the world has
been attacking it since then.
* * * *
“Humbug Reach”: The 1939 eight-oar
race for the King’s Cup will be held in
Queensland. Bananaland rowing has
been under a cloud, and a two-year plan
is to be tried for building up an extra-
special crew. Each district is to appoint
a coach and sole selector to pick and
coach a crew throughout 1937-38. These
crews will race for the State champion-
ship in 1938-39, and the crew winning the
title in 1939 will be selected as State
representative for the King’s Cup.
* * * *
“Blade Sight”: The Australian rifle
team on its way home from Britain made
a good showing in the Canadian
Governor-General’s Cup, the Canuck
equivalent of a King’s Prize. The
winner, McLeod, is a Canadian, but
Motton (Queensland) and Pavey (Vic-
toria) tied for second place with 167, a
point worse. And the team carried off
the Empire prize by 14 points from
Canada.
*j- t- ♦
Rain helped Maoriland to make a
draw of the third and last Test with
England at the Oval. M.L. batted, first
for 249, Donnelly (58), Page (53) and
Roberts (50) saving a flop. Robins, with
4-40, troubled the tourists. England
closed with 7 for 254, Hardstaff running
up 103, and M.L. got 187 in its second
try, Vivian topping with 57. With 152 to
win England lost Barnett for 31 by
stumps. With a loss and two draws in
the Tests the visitors have not done badly.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: J. C. White, the stocky
farmer from Somerset whose slow left-
hand bowling with Chapman’s 1928-29
team was so successful, is retiring from
big cricket. At 46 he is finding the
weight of the years a handicap. White
had a tantalising flight and an accurate
length, and many who set out confidently
to knock him off the map were soon
wondering in the pavilion just exactly
what happened. Starting with Somerset
in 1913 he headed the county averages
for several years. In Australia he topped
his side’s bowling with 65 wickets at 22.23.
In Tests his score was 31 wickets at 33.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The annual report of the
Melbourne C.C. tells among other things
that there are 4800 applicants for mem-
bership on the waiting list. Last year
many new members were admitted, but
this only served to swell the rush. The
progressive policy of the M.C.G. trustees
is largely responsible. They have made
the ground the best in the world, as far
as catering for members and public is
concerned, and the funds to do this have
been found by the trustees themselves
without going cap in hand to the Gov-
ernment. One new stand alone, holding
66,000 people, cost a cool £96,000, and
the public showed its appreciation by
filling it to capacity at the two Mel-
bourne Tests last season.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Bulletin sug-
gested that any scheme for pensioning
retired representative cricketers should
take the form of insurance in some
approved company, premiums to be paid
by the Board of Control from funds gained
from special matches and by earmarking
a percentage of the profits on inter-State
and international games. Sydney Smith,
of the N.S.W. Cricket Association, has
presented a plan the essentials of which
are those outlined in The Bulletin para-
graph, which pointed out, as an example,
that the pensions of Papuan civil ser-
vants are provided by the A.M.P., pre-
miums coming from salary contributions
and a Government subsidy.
“Cash Amateur”: Asked to comment
on the proposed N.S.W. scheme for pen-
sioning old cricketers, Dr. Morton, of
Melbourne, said he disapproved because
“it means making professional cricketers
of them, and we do not want that in
Australia.” The doctor must be about
the only man in Australia who doesn’t
know that our international and inter-
state cricketers are professionals. None
of them would be accepted as an entrant
for the Olympic Games or as a com-
petitor in the Sydney Empire gathering
next year.
* * * *
“Lauf”: The American ski team
gained a decisive win over Victoria at
Mt. Buller, scoring 200 points to 172.32
in the combined tally. Considering that
the Americans include one Olympic ski
expert and another who is in the first
flight of the sport in America the Vic-
torians did well. In the slalom the
winners scored 100 per cent, to 86.34 per
cent., and in the downhill 100 per cent,
to 85.98 per cent. After their fixture
with combined Sydney and Melbourne
Universities the Americans will meet
Australia at Charlotte Pass.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Captains Courageous.”
CAPTAIN DISKO .. Lionel Barrymore
MANUEL Spencer Tracy
CHEYNE, SENR Melvyn Douglas
CHEYNE, JNR., Freddie Bartholomew
LONG JACK John Carradine
In this fine translation of the Kipling
story M.-G.-M. have done for the sea
what in “The Good Earth” they did for
the soil, and director, photographers and
actors can claim equal credit. It is a
meaty slice of life, without a woman in
it—a fact that is scarcely noticed, so grip-
ping is the drama.
Technically, the film falls little short
of perfection. Its marine photographic
effects have rarely been approached on
the screen. It leaves no twelve-inch-
model-in-a-tank impression. Mostly the
action takes place in fogs or on a sea
that is just an oily swell; there are no
synthetic wind shriekings and mountain-
ous seas. Even when the laden fishing
schooner, racing its rival to the home
port, breaks a mast, causing the death of
the heroic Manuel, the fault lies not so
much with the elements as with the
skipper in taking a risk with overcrowded
sail.
The cast is particularly strong. Spencer
Tracy does a superb piece of work as
the great-hearted Portuguese fisherman
who, hoisting the boy out of the water
after the latter had fallen from the liner
off the Grand Banks, takes at first a
humorously contemptuous and later a
keenly-affectionate interest in his “leedle
feesh.” By turns whimsical, poignant,
carefree, sad, he plays every note with
a master touch. No less a fine portrayal
is Lionel Barrymore’s as the slow-spoken,
kindly but tough old captain of the
schooner. Freddie Bartholomew has a
role that was made for him. As the
spoilt, detestable, sneaking son of a
wealthy father, he’ll make any audience’s
toes itch to boot him ; and when, still
arrogant after having been rescued, he is
felled by the long-suffering skipper with
a beautiful backhander, it will occasion
nothing but a deep sigh of satisfaction —
all of which is a tribute to Master Bar-
tholomew’s undoubted talent. The
change in his character as he reacts to
the manliness of the fishermen is subtly
conveyed. Melvyn Douglas and John
Carradine etch in some neat lines in
smaller roles. At Sydney St. James.
“Sing and Be Happy.”
MALE CROONER .. Anthony Martin
FEMALE DITTO Leah Ray
HEAVY FATHERS, Berton Churchill
and Andrew Tombes
VILLAIN Allan Lane
HOSIERY MANUFACTURER,
Luis Alberni
PICKLE MANUFACTURER,
Helen West ley
A good cast (it includes, in addition
to those mentioned above, Dixie Dunbar)
has been used in this opus to bolster up
the crooners, but the effort is in vain.
The fantasia is a series of goofy yawps
by Martin and Ray interspersed with
slapstick interludes by Joan Davis (in-
■ capable of walking two steps without
falling over her own feet) and stepdancer
Dick Chandler. They are a pair of im-
becile window-washers.
The opening gives promise of finer
things. The male crooner and his swing
band, making awful noises in an aero-
plane over a country town, descend to
find themselves arrested by the sheriff,
who holds them responsible for half a
dozen automobile accidents caused by
drivers gawping at the yawping overhead.
Hopes that the next sequence will show
the villagers organising a lynching bee,
a la “Fury,” are dashed. The scene shifts
back to the great city, where, apparently,
the inhabitants live only to listen to
crooners and dance bands. Soon Mr.
Martin, smirking fatuously, is moaning
into a mike: “Whatta bee-yootiful be-
ginning. Of a loverlee romantz. Whatta
bee-yootiful beginning”....
This production, for some unascer-
tained reason described as “musical,”
is at Sydney Capitol.
“White Bondage.”
COTTON SHARE-CROPPER,
Harry Davenport
HIS GRANDDAUGHTER, Jean Muir
FEDERAL INVESTIGATOR,
Gordon Oliver
Though frankly melodramatic, this is
an entertaining film. Except for the
finale, in which the hero is saved by
the heroine from a mob’s fury in the
last fraction of a split second, it sticks
fairly closely to logic and life, and it
moves briskly.
The story deals with the plight of
semi-ignorant cottongrowers who lease
land from a wealthy storekeeper. This
philanthropist takes half their crops as
payment and, to save them getting into
mischief with too much pelf, proceeds
to mulct them of the other 50 p.c. by
divers tricks. They are on the point of
revolt when a young stranger happens
along. Becoming friendly with the
growers he sizes things up and sets out
to trap the big fellow. But, seeing that
the snooper is becoming dangerous, the
oof collector neatly manoeuvres him into
a position where the young man’s
friends, thinking him a double-crosser,
seek to string him up. A highly-colored
denouement leaves everyone happy
except the wicked storekeeper.
Best character-acting is done by
Harry Davenport and Howard Phillips
as two patient but sorely-tried cotton
cockies. At Sydney Capitol.
“Trouble in Morocco.”
RIVAL REPORTERS,
Jack Holt, Mae Clarke
FOREIGN LEGION CAPTAIN,
C. Henry Gordon
With the ageing but still vigorous
Jack Holt in the lead, the director has
wisely cut romance and concentrated on
action. From the first minute, when Mr.
Holt’s jaw clamps in a grim line, the
tempo becomes faster and more furious.
Bowing to the prevailing fashion in
screen plots, the producer has trotted out
the inevitable man and girl reporters, on
rival papers, each ready to ditch the
other to get to the scoop. This time the
setting is French Morocco, with a gun-
running plot to track to its source, two
Yankee dailies undertaking the job. The
fun starts when Mr. Holt, after getting
sozzled with an a.w.l. legionnaire, wakes
up to find himself in his temporary
booze-pal’s uniform, and with his rival
snooper flatly refusing to identify him
and get him out of the Legion, which
claims him. But this same circumstance
gives him his clue to the plot, in which
he is soon up to the neck. The doings
end with a well-staged desert battle be-
tween legionnaires and Arabs, and the
arrival of armored cars, the chattering
machine-guns from which supply a lively
obbligato.
Mae Clarke is pert and capable, and
the rest fill in easily enough, but the
aggressive Mr. Holt takes 95 p.c. of the
film. At Sydney Lyric.
“Murder Goes to College.”
UNPRINCIPLED PRIVATE
DETECTIVE Lynne Overman
HIS ALCOHOLIC PAL .. Roscoe Karns
RACKETEER Larry Crabbe
WOMEN IN THE CASE, Astrid Allwyn
and Marsha Hunt
Introduces to the screen a new sort
of sleuth, much more credible than the
"CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS.”
North Spencer Tracy
South Freddie Bartholomew
West John Carradine
East Lionel Barrymore
At Sydney St. James.
omniscient panjandrums who stalk
through most thrillers. Overman equips
the tracker-down of evildoers with a
philosophic mind, a strong sense of
humor and a keen eye for the main
chance, but lets him have no inhibitions
against blackmail or backsheesh. Not
a hero, by any means, but quick-witted
and adroit. A college professor who has
been dabbling in illicit rackets is mur-
dered, and as most of his colleagues owed
him money there is no dearth of suspects.
Detective gets himself employed by most
of the suspects, beats the police to clues,
pins the crime on the perpetrator, and
then finds himself robbed of all rewards.
But no matter, he has discovered that the
chief of police lives at the rate of $50,000
a year on $2OO a month, and promises
himself to do some very much-more-
lucrative investigating on that case. All
the other characters are nonentities.
Crabbe in his first bad-man role is a bit
wooden. Coming to Sydney Civic.
“Hills of Old Wyoming.”
HOPALONG CASSIDY, William Boyd
WINDY George Hayes
BAD MAN Stephen Morris
GIRL Gail Sheridan
Young Mr. Nelson is left out of this
Cassidy opus, but otherwise the gang’s
all there. This time the cattle-rustlers are
deputies of the Indian Reservation
Agency, who do their best to embroil
the honest ranchers with the Injuns, aided
by an incredibly stupid Chief Agent.
Finally the Injuns, after a lot of palaver
and war-dancing, get on the warpath and
capture Cassidy, Windy and Mr. Nelson’s
locum tenens (Russell Hayden). They
believe the Cassidy mob murdered one
of their number, but Hopalong induces
the chief to release him so that he may
obtain evidence that a Reservation deputy
did the fell deed. This he successfully
accomplishes, and the final sequences
show Hopalong relentlessly stalking the
doomed villain through arroyos, mesas,
canyons and gulches.
Boyd, in his handsome regalia,
mounted on his milk-white steed, does
this sort of thing wonderfully well. His
voice is good, his horsemanship superb
(no stooges for him) and his manners as
courtly as a Spanish hidalgo’s. Eighteen
of these Hopalong horse-operas have
been made to date, and the other 17 are
still going strong in various parts of Aus-
tralia. No. 18 is coming to Sydney Civic.
STAGE SHOWS.
Isidor Goodman Earns an Ovation.
Sandwiched into Sydney Con. Orches-
tra’s programme of French music, very
capably conducted by Dr. Bainton at the
Con. Hall on Wednesday night, was
Tschaikowsky’s First Pianoforte Con-
certo, soloist Isidor Goodman. This is
the standard test of the temperamental
pianist', calling for faultlessly brilliant
technique in the earlier passages, the
essence of grace in the scherzo, poetic
feeling in the andante and sufficient
power to make the massive finale a dy-
namic tour de force. Mr. Goodman’s
delicate playing of Chopin and Mozart
had not prepared his audience for such
passionate, powerful playing as he put
into the Tschaikowsky. It was a vital,
enthusiastic performance, pianistically
and orchestrally, and the Con. audi-
ence, which probably packs more musi-
cal experience and capacity for intelli-
gent appreciation into the square yard
than the Town Hall does into a square
rod, gave it an ovation which left no
doubt about the listeners’ sincerity.
The orchestral fare included some
ballet music by Rameau, three operatic
Berlioz excerpts (played in a very sub-
dued, tenuous manner), three Debussy
nocturnes (including “Sirenes,” with choir
of women’s voices), and the “Sorcerer’s
Apprentice” of Dukas, a humorous trifle
which pleased everybody.
-I- 'l* 'l* 'l*
Comedy Harmonists.
This little group of singers from
Vienna, brought to Australia by the


HOW TO WIN FRIENDS AND
INFLUENCE PEOPLE —by Dale Carnegie
A world’s best seller for 1937 —leading all titles.
The late John D. Rockefeller once said:
The ability to deal with people is as
purchasable a commodity as sugar or coffee.
And I will pay more for that ability than
any other under the sun."
When you consider that every waking
minute of your life succeeds or fails in
direct proportion to your ability to handle
people, sway them, win them to you, change
their ideas and gain their friendships and
co-operation—wouldn’t you think that it
would be the aim of all to develop this
“highest priced ability under the sun?”
To many it is, but there has not been one
practical textbook on the subject. Now
this gap is filled, for here is a book that
offers a genuinely practical, everyday,
usable technique for getting along with
people and making them like you.
The importance of this book can be
judged when a journal such as “The
Readers’ Digest” devoted 10 pages to
this volume—because, in their own
words: “From Mr. Carnegie’s exten-
sive reservoir of experience has come
the wealth of anecdotes and common-
sense lessons in human relations in
which ‘How to Win Friends and
Influence People’ abounds.”
Dale Carnegie is the one man who is
perhaps better qualified to write it than
anyone else. During the last twenty-four
years he has trained more than 15,000
business men and women—among them
are some of the most famous in the world
to-day.
Besides this, some of the largest and most
progressive firms in America, such as the
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing
Co. and the Bell Telephone Co., have
realized the importance of Carnegie’s work
and have had him training their members
and executives in their own offices—train-
ing them in that simple but priceless ability,
“the art of handling people.”
AN EXPERT'S LIFETIME OF STUDY
AND EXPERIENCE CAN BE YOURS
This book has been written for every man
and woman who cannot afford to spend a
lifetime, as Dale Carnegie has done, in
learning through trial-and-error what makes
people say “Yes.” What irritates them.
What loses instead of wins their friendship
and loyalty. What makes new acquaint-
ances seek instead of shun your company.
And what turns an uncertainty—even fear
—of human . contacts into an assured
successful manner of getting along with
people.
The art of handling people is definitely an
art that can be cultivated and applied with
equal success to your own conditions, and
there is no possible reason why you should
not take advantage of this man’s lifelong
study—apply his training to your own
business and see for yourself how much
easier whatever you do, say or write can
win friendship and hearty co-operation of
others—instead of arousing resentment,
friction, and either a negative response or
no action at all.
Obtainable from all booksellers or from
the publishers.
Over half a million copies sold.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Please send me a copy of HOW TO WIN
FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE, by
Dale Carnegie, price 7/6 (post 5d.).
NAME . .
ADDRESS
B. 25/8/’37.
A.8.C., entertained Brisbane at the City
Hall last week. Their specialty is the
imitation of orchestral effects, and they
are equipped to tackle anything from a
Rossini overture to the latest hotcha
band music of Irving Berlin. At their
first Brisbane performance they gave
Ketelbey’s “In a Persian Market,” the
overture to “The Barber of Seville,”
Dvorak’s “Humoreske,” a Schubert
“Moment Musical,” Kreisler’s “Liebes-
lied” and Brahms’s “Little Sandman” in
addition to a wide variety of lighter and
more modern music. Their instrumental
imitations are clever, their command of
rhythm is superb, and there is a good
deal of humor in their interpretations.
But vocal orchestral imitations are not
new and not very exciting, a marked
Austrian accent obscures the words of
the ditties the singers present, and their
entertainment suffers from sameness.
They could fill ten minutes in a vaude-
ville medley very nicely.
•h *f* -b
Schneevoigt in Melbourne.
Celebrity artist on Saturday night at
Melbourne Town Hall was Tossy Spiva-
kovsky. Conductor was Georg Schnee-
voigt and programme was all Sibelius,
which made the occasion both Finnish
and international. Tossy’s handling of
his fiddle was as beautiful as ever in the
violin concerto, and the Symphony
Orchestra did justice to the Fifth and
Seventh symphonies of the northern com-
poser. A criticism heard was that Sibe-
lius’s music is extraordinarily like Sibe-
lius’s music, and that an evening exclu-
sively devoted to him developed a mono-
tony. But the same thing could be said
of all the great composers, and the
monotony might have been less real than
apparent.
+ 4*
Combined Choirs in Melbourne.
The Malvern Choral Society, the Mit-
cham Musical Society and the Zelman
Memorial Symphony Orchestra assem-
bled on the Melbourne Town Hall plat-
form in a notable combined entertain-
ment. The singing of the choirs was as
good as the old songs of Byrd and Dow-
land were enchanting ; “Sleep, Wayward
Thoughts,” of Dowland was an excep-
tionally lovely number. A suite in D
minor by Robin Milford was sprung on
the audience for the first time in Mel-
bourne. It sounded orthodox and well-
tailored. The rest of the programme was
majestic Handel, ,and included the Con-
certo Grosso, No. 15, and the Organ
Concerto, No. 13, in which William Mc-
Kie was soloist. The City Organist re-
ceived a prolonged ovation, largely a
mark of the public regret for his retire-
ment through ill-health just when his
lunch-hour concerts had started some-
thing of a new era in municipal music.
•J#
“Fallen Angels.”
Noel Coward’s “Fallen Angels” opened
at Melbourne Apollo on Saturday night
under the direction of Frederick Hughes,
who confided to first-nighters that he
hoped it would be only the first of a
series of Melbourne “smart” after-dinner
comedies. But the acting standard of
the male principals will have to be raised
if the series is to last very long. Cow-
ard’s sophisticated dialogue calls for
crispness, and his situations for a gaiety
that were lacking when Neville Somer-
ville and John Trahar were on the stage.
They played the parts of the very Eng-
lish husbands of Julia Sterrol (Loveday
Hills) and Jane Banbury (Lorna Dyring).
Erich Reiman, as the Frenchman whom
the two wives knew so intimately prior
to their marriages, did much better in
his brief last-act appearance.
Loveday Hills and Lorna Dyring both
did well, and, in character, were good
foils to each other. Neither made a very
convincing feminine drunk, and this par-
ticular Coward scene was not the hit it
should be. But in letting the audience
know the near-details of their respective
flings with the Frenchman they were
delightfully Coward-ish. The too-heavy
husbands rather spoilt the effect of the
climax scene, and when the silently effi-
cient Ella Wilson, as maid Saunders,
joined the other five on the stage they
could hardly move for overmuch furni-
ture.
♦ t + +
“Viktoria and Her Hussar” at Adelaide.
A 12 nights’ season of “Viktoria and
Her Hussar” at Adelaide Theatre Royal,
for charities, opened very successfully.
The piece is produced by Alan Chapman
under the auspices of the Firm. Mar-
garet Pirie’s good stage presence and
fine voice grace the role of Viktoria,
Felicia Francis is the petite Japanese, O
Lia San, and Yvonne Richardson makes
a hit in the soubrette part of Riquette in
comedy numbers with John Duncan and
Rex Dawe, the funmakers of the show.
The fine tenor of Howard Pfitzner, who
plays the lover Stefan Keltay, and the
pleasing baritone of Max Caddy, as the
husband, John Carling, produced de-
mands for encores on the opening pight.
Dorothy Slane supervises the ballets and
contributes a graceful solo dance.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
The Art of Roland Wakelin.
„ . . . . .. .
Probably no Australasian painter of note
has lavished more paint on subjects that
to most people don’t seem worth paint-
ing than has Roland Wakelin, but, on the
other hand, no painter has been more con-
sistently successful in expressing his in-
tention. A Wakelin picture seldom sets
out to make more than one point, and
this singleness of purpose is its strength.
In an exluh'tion of th's painters work,
C-rl Id’nev ia Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney—34 recent paintings are
supplemented by a score that bear dates
between 1916 and 1930—the Wakelin
maxim of “one thing at a time” is
predominant. If he paints canna lilies
the warm glow of the blooms is built
up and emphasised in every brush stroke
of background and accessories. A rail-
way overhead bridge, a gaunt box-girder
affair, is painted to emphasise, by con-
trast, the swirling flourish of the curving
road it spans. In “The Fireplace” cosi-
ness is the watchword. In a backyard
scene (Wakelin loves backyards), “West-
erly Wind,” it is the wind that counts —
the scudding clouds, the clothes fluttering
from the line and straining against the
prop. “Toby Asleep,” a study of a dog,
looks curiously cubical, but there’s no
doubt the dog is having a really comfort-
able snooze. All Wakelin sees of
Sydney’s Berry’s Bay is what you or I see
in a glimpse from the North Shore train
—a red chimney and a mass of dark
foliage.
There was a period when Wakelin some-
times let his imagination off the curb and
produced magical trifles. “Tuggerah Land-
scape” is one of these, and “Lincoln’s
Inn,” a souvenir of a sojourn in London,
is another. There is a recrudescence of
the mood in “Moonlight” and “Noc-
turne” in the latest collection. The moon
shines behind the base of a broadcasting
station’s giant aerial mast, but it is in-
dubitably the moon. “Nocturne” is an
ambitious attempt to put on canvas the
night aspect of Sydney Harbor, jewelled
by a hundred bright-hued neon signs.
In figure studies and in portraits Wake-
lin discloses what he otherwise keeps hid
as a most disgraceful secret—the fact
that he can draw. “Ludo,” two small
girls sprawled on the floor, intent on the
game, is an excellently-drafted composi-
tion, and the portraits, one of the painter
himself, the other Clarice, are masterly
in their straightforward directness. And
amid all these delectable things hang
s D ucl } drea !T objects as “Richmond
Bridge, Houses at Richmond” and
“The Family”! No wonder Mr Wake-
nn ’ s admirers find it necessary to defend
him ferociously,
* * * *
Adelaide Gallery’s New Wing,
The opening of the new wing of Adel-
aide Art Gallery—now calling itself
National Gallery—starred one of The
Bulletin’s oldest contributors, literary
, A|ex Mel who had . :. betwee , y ,
™ nt,n S a " ,° de and an °P lmon ’ as P resi '
deat Langham said, put down £lO,OOO,
and ’ erasing the characteristics of
his race >" induced th<y Government to
P* nd £16,000 more. Ihe Gallery now
has a stately and pillared double front-
age. The new half of it goes both up-
stairs and down from the entrance, and
thus nearly trebles the old space. Louis
McCubbin has had the pleasant task of
rearranging the whole collection, with
pictures now all on the eyeline. Basil
Burdett, visiting critic, compares it all
pleasantly with “the gloom of Mel-
bourne’s mausoleum, the vacant inele-
gance of Sydney’s barn.” But, hitting
all round, he dismisses some of Adel-
aide’s most prized subject-pictures, such
as a Waterhouse, a Schmalz and a John
Collier, as “Victorian horrors.”
The Lodestar Gallery,
This Sydney gallery, which has changed
owners and address, is now an appanage
of Macquarie Galleries, and hangs out
its shingle in Rowe-street. Current show
includes an excellent Longstaff portrait,
a characteristic Tom Roberts landscape,
an early Gruner (a Maoriland landscape,
very suave and quiet) and landscapes by
Lambert, Tristram, Streeton and Hayley
Lever. A Streeton full-length portrait
of a lady (period the ’nineties) is well
posed. Most interesting is a quartet of
Hilder water-colors, all gems—“ The Clay
Pit,” “Hillside Cottage,” “The Little
Lagoon” and “Stoakes Bridge.” A Lam-
bert portrait, dated 1890, rounds off an
interesting collection.


Y)oes your smile
radiate charm?
~~ A
fillli
Life can be all
smiles to the
woman with perfect teeth if she cleans
them with Powder.
Why powder? Because all dentifrices
contain some powder, that’s what does the
cleaning. But Calvert’s is ALL POWDER,
that’s why it cleans teeth better and more
quickly.
CALVERT’S
carDOlic TOOTH POWDER
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., fenffland.
r<
WAKE UP ! !
r B ARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints etc. Obta.ina.ble all Chemists and Stores,
CHEAPER and BiTIER 1/- & 21- JAaS
f^|MANI4
B FOR AJW fnr.
llllilllli
m
Consider the charm of Tasmania the "air-
conditioned" State. There you will find relaxa-
tion and interest in new scenery mountain,
lake and valley. Historic buildings, too in
fact, an attraction for every holiday adventure.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE - - - The Block, Collins Street
SYDNEY - - - - 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
NEWCASTLE 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE ------ 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART - - - Macquarie end Murray Streets
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Looks as though Sydney will one of
these days produce a world’s champion
ice-skater. This city saw its first ballet
on the ice last week, and the pirouettings,
the verve and dash of the local girls and
boys (not to speak of the children) were
an eye-opener. “La Boutique Fan-
tasque” was the ballet, and not only
Glaciarium regulars but many of the
De Basil company fans dashed to the
Glassy to watch the pretty absurdity
over again. By eight o’clock there wasn’t
an empty seat, and soon some tall
ladders around the walls were tiered with
humans, most of these in fancy costume.
A proscenium had been built at one
end of the rink, its shimmering peacock-
blue. curtain the resting place for an
enormous begemmed butterfly. When
the curtain was drawn aside revealing
the fantastic interior of the toyshop
there was a murmur of approval that
echoed like a hiss through the icy air.
Into this from the windowed front and
from the sides came the customers in
their old-fashioned spreading frocks,
their long tight trousers, their tall hats ;
the shopkeeper and his assistant. Then
the whole rink became the stage, and
dolls and golliwogs came to life, and
danced vigorously and intricately as Cos-
sacks (these were champions Rosemarie
Stewart and Robert Dench, who pro-
duced the ballet); charmingly, as in the
Kings and Queens minuet; amusingly, as
in the case of the Harlequins. There
was a fairy ballet, too, in which small
girls skimmed about with entrancing ease.
One tiny intrepid lost her star, but
snatched it up again, and, still going
through her evolutions, kept trying to
put it back in its place. Finally she suc-
ceeded, and went off, her star above her
brow.
World’s amateur champion Felix
Kaspar, in the black velvet suit of a
Spanish dancer, was one of the night’s
attractions. After the ballet the glitter-
ing mirror of the rink was perpetual
motion in fancy costume. There was a
girl dressed in sacking, but it wasn’t a
case of sackcloth and ashes with her.
She had sewn the garment all over with
green peas and called the whole “Duck
and green peas.” Mrs. Herbert Douglass,
in her blue and gold panniered frock,
and Mrs. H. Bindoff as the “Gay ’Nine-
ties,” her spreading white-and-black
laces covered by a camellia-pink curling
feather cape, a gift from Lee White of
loved memory, were among the noted.
The week before last the brains had it
all their own way. Last week was a
jocund revelling among the hats that
top the brains. The Letter tried men-
tally fitting them on the brows of some
of the N.E.F. delegates. There was one
large-brimmed, shallow-crowned' affair
that had a yellow-and-black dragonfly
poised on the brim. Against its crown
nestled an orchid-like bloom, coyly
drooping its head before its caller’s ad-
vances. Couldn’t decide whether Dr.
Paul Dengler or Dr. Bovet should have
that. The saucy white sailor banded in
yellow,, a whole dove served on its
crown, should certainly go to Dr. Nor-
wood.
Anthony Horderns’ sailed right into the
heart of spring with a cargo of exotic
white straws. These are lovely magazine-
cover-girl hats, grace of line their strong
appeal. Wings and quills, as is the way
of the moment, adorn many, but there
is strict economy in the use of the bird
of the air or the barnyard. For instance,
one hat in a pale-gold rustic straw had
for trimming a pair of wings. These
were brown. One lay flat across the
crown in front, the other, pushed through
the brim, followed the sweep of the hair
on the right side. Then there was the
hat the white crown of which drooped
into a wide black brim. This was
crossed in front by two black quills.
Katharine Sheridan is showing some
fresh water-colors at the Wynyard
Library. The exhibition is a joint one.
Ethleen Palmer, rnoted for her clever lino,
cuts, is the other partner in the deal,
Katharine shows many land- and sea-
scapes and, among others, one very at-
tractive portrait of a small boy. He is
one of the pupils at Quest Haven, the
school Katharine’s mother helped to
found. This is a very up-to-the-minute
school for small children where they are
given plenty of color and paper and clay
to paint or model, as the will takes them.
The school is at Mona Vale, and is run
on the lines advocated by members of
the N.E.F.
The yearly meeting of the Rachel
Forster Hospital brought 300 friends to
the Women’s College. It was a happy
affair, for things are looking up even
more than usual with this gallant little
hospital for women and children. The
president, Mrs. W. H. Read, told in a
pleased voice of the institution’s new
block of land, where there would be a
new building which would hold 100 beds
instead of the 20 which is now the
capacity. Minister for Health Fitzsimons
brought forth the dimple of delight
when he said he proposed to ask the
Government to do something in the
nature of a special grant for the hos-
pital. The David lady was a speaker,
and Dr. Tasman Lovell had a word of
praise for the child-guidance clinic. Red-
fern’s Mayoress, Mrs. Howarth, was an
official guest. When the speeches were
over, Camilla Wedgwood, principal of
the Women’s College, served tea to all.
Helen Simpson was the afternoon’s guest
of honor.
Here is a note from Belgium’s Consul-
General Segaert, who has had longer
residence in Sydney than any other
member of the Consular corps, of which
he has been dean for the past three or
four years: “Will you be surprised to
hear of my promotion to the rank of
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary to the Court of Siam? My
wife and myself will embark on Sep-
tember 22 on the Nieuw Zeeland for
Singapore and Bangkok, where we shall
have our residence among the golden
temples and jade Buddhas. I am natur-
ally very proud, but we have rather mixed
feelings about leaving here our family
and so numerous friends. The bright
side of the deal is my arrangement with
the Belgian Foreign Office that I will be
entitled to spend part of my holidays in
Sydney every second year.” The Segaerts,
so bright and urbane, are going to be
missed in the social life of this city.
What are we going to do now for the
bright and witty French plays which the
C.-G. so cleverly produced. Committees
wanting ideas for pageants will no longer
be able to call on his knowledge and ex-
perience. Their friends congratulate
them on the new honor, and in the same
breath ask them when they will be due
again in Sydney.
A wireless microphone beside the altar
in St. Mary’s when the Requiem Mass
in memory of Marchese Marconi was
being celebrated was a poignant reminder
of the man and his greatness. St. Mary’s
was crowded with admirers who had
come to pay their last respects or to say
a prayer for the soul of the great
scientist. The Apostolic Delegate, Dr.
Panico, celebrated the Mass, and Father
Eris O’Brien delivered the panegyric.
Italy’s Acting-Consul Marocco and his
wife, knight Mungo MacCallum, Dr.
F. A. Maguire, Captain G. A. Scott,
Colonel Lorenzo and Group-Captain C.
Cole were some of the representative
citizens present.
This is Mrs. Geoffrey Forrest Hughes,
who was one of the vice-presidents for
Riverview Old Boys’ dance. This was
held in the Paddington Town Hall,
which had been made gay with white and
blue streamers and the school flag. Mrs.
Hughes’s frock was of white satin, with
blue lilies to make the color combina-
tion. Dr. Donovan Foy, president of
the Old Ignatians’ Union, and Mrs. Foy
received the official guests. This dance
marked the silver jubilee of the union’s
gatherings, and there were nearly 400
dancers. Dayne photograph.
The dental conference is over, and
that’s a relief to the citizens whose teeth
or dentures are a trifle below the 100 p.c.
With the city full of gum-diggers, masters
of their craft, smiling on tram or ferry
became a self-conscious business. The
unknown opposite might easily be saying
to himself: “My word, there’s a spot of
infection below that eye tooth. Or
again: “Tut, tut, her hat’s expensive, but
her set of grinders didn’t cost very much.”
Needless to say, the teeth of the visitors
and their wives looked fine, and it really
was a joy when the lips of the assembly
parted in mirth or good-fellowship.
The social side of the congress was
varied. After the opening at the Uni-
versity, which was one of Lord Wake-
hurst’s jobs of the week, there was a
round pf receptions and dinners and, of
course, harbor trips for inter-State
visitors. The women’s social commit-
tee (president, Annie Praed) can take
credit for the smooth running. Miss
Praed, Mrs. A. J. Arnott and Mrs. Hall
Best were a trio of smartly-frocked at all
occasions. The official dinner at the
Carlton was eaten by representatives
from every State in Australia, from Java,
Maoriland, Hong Kong. Mrs. H. B.
Summers, from W.A., was notable ; so
were Mrs. Arthur Amies, of Victoria, and
Mrs. Boyd Irwin, of Queensland. The
president’s reception brought nearly 900
to the Royal Sydney Golf Club. This
was a Moxham night out. The president,
knight Harry Moxham, was a genial
host, and assistant joy-spreaders were Pro-
fessor and Mrs. A. J. Arnott and Dr.
and Mrs. Hall Best. Ermine caped Eva
Moxham’s mist-blue chiffons. Mrs.
P. R. Begg, from S.A., mingled Parma
violet and gold.
Sydney still remembers the Don Cos-
sacks, who were here some years ago.
Now Claude Kingston writes telling of
the 1 new Don Cossack choir he is bring-
ing to Australia under the Tait banner.
Unk White, who travelled in the same
boat with the choir, reports that the best
part of the day was the practice hour.
The first part of their programmes is
church music, which is largely based on
the old Gregorian chants kept alive
through the ages by.the Greek Church
in Russia. Folk songs of many moods
take up the second part. Bright songs,
merry choruses and dances end each re-
cital. There are five dancers with the
company.
Montgomery Stewart was the big hit
of the music afternoon arranged by Mrs.
Norman Macleod for Kindergarten
Week. Miss Nancy Jobson had lent
Hopewood House, and the graceful
rooms and gardens heady with spring
blossom —flowering peach and plum and
sweet spikes of almond —were the proper
setting for the programme. Mrs. Mac-
leod sang “The Fairy Tree” and “Will
o’ the Wisp,” the modern trigness of her
redingote ensemble and tricorne hat a
complete contrast to their romanticism.
Charles Nicis lent his tenor, Norma Cox
played the violin in virtuoso style, and
Maoriland pianist Ernest Empson
threw in Beethoven for full measure.
After music there was tea. This was a
special offering—cakes baked by Mrs.
Kveton, Mrs. Meyer and other wives of
the Consular corps. Miss Jobson was
guest of honor, her bouquet of daffodils
and nasturtiums heightening the tones of
her brown sheer ensemble.
The Forum Club must have been a
little surprised to find its rather conser-
vative drawing-room turned into a back-
ground for spring frocks and the latest
evening wear from Paris. There was
about this mannequin parade something
of an overseas touch, and Mrs. Pellier
herself passed around cigarettes, and
later entertained her guests at tea. These
styles are marked with a simplicity that
masks a cunning cut. Each silk day
dress has its little coat, and many of the
day dresses have three-quarter sleeves.
Collars seem to be quite out and round
necklines in again from nine to six.
The Mark Sheldon lady, Mrs. Leon
Lyons, France’s Vice-Consular Meyers,
Mrs. Pao (the wife of China’s Consul-
General) and Belgium’s Consular
Segaerts were among the keen com-
menters as tall and slim girls passed
wearing trim little suit or trailing clouds
of chiffon. A real joy-bringer was a
Paquin model in royal-blue chiffon inlet
with panels of fuchsia. An evening
frock of saffron lace had a pattern which
seemed to be appliqued, it stood out so
distinctly. This was fitting through the
waist, gathering fullness below the hips,
and spreading into a short train. An
evening frock in heavy black marocain
had waist and decolletage cleverly out-
lined in gold. A smart audience in-
cluded Mrs. Harry Meeks, Mrs. Howard
Bullock and Mrs. Schuurman.
And the best speech made by a woman
last week was that delivered by Mrs.
Pankhurst Walsh at the Guild of Empire
lunch last Friday.


#
%
/
\
s
$
\
//
1
.
ill
ft
■
1
ii
Hi
if
1
£
m
msm
■:
I
H
Model 6505
-16 GUINEAS
l
ss:
I
am
m
LARGE
LEGIBLE
TWILIGHT
DIAL
ASK your local Philips Radio-
M player Retailer to introduce to
you this remarkable new Radio-
player—you’li be sure to make it
your friend and philosopher.
It’s your “personal” radio ... with
it you can enjoy whatever pro-
grammes you wish . . . whenever
1
k
PHILIPS .
OIZD
FULL SIZED
8lNCH
.SPEAKERy
you wish ... and wherever you
may be.
No other small set offers you
all of these console features:
large, legible “1 wilight dial, 8"
console type loudspeaker, full
delayed Automatic Volume Control
and Philips famous Metal Clad
Valves.
Ask to hear the new Philips 6505 —
your PERSONAL radio.
Console Models from 19 Gns.
TERMS AVAILABLE.
PHILIPS
iradifpkiyM^k


or
«B»S“
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
■PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. LEVY, Manager.
BRANDAIER5
m
0*
a
w.v
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed —
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER * C0_ Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO. A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now.
Melbourne
Chatter
Sports coats of English cut and style
were the smartest things about the place
at Moonee Valley on Saturday. All the
best-dressed women, coated thus and
hatted in tailored felts, had the air of
having come on to the races from coun-
try clubs. Several of the visiting women
golfers had taken the afternoon off from
the links. They were easily identified in
their tweeds and sports hats. Una Clift,
the N. S. Wales player, who is also an
official figure in the golfing world,
donned a raincoat and a weatherproof
felt. Mrs. J. B. Bellair, wearing a raglan
sports coat of brown Kynoch tweed, took
some of these inter-State sportswomen
under her wing. An occasional shower
brought out splashes of brightness. Then
the latest in rainy-day umbrellas,
fashioned of oil silk and in the brightest
of colors, got a chance to show them-
selves off. Mrs. A. G. Hunter hoisted
one the color of the sunkissed orange. A
trim suit of Norfolk cut in greenish
coloring was sported by Jean Reid. Pen-
striped tailorings, which have been much
in vogue on the other side, have reached
here. June Winter Irving sponsored this
style. Never was an official luncheon
more appreciated. It was not the kind of
day when one could look her best if she
had only nibbled a sandwich on the
wing. Bulla, the Alister Clarke home,
where flowers grow in vast profusion,
supplied gorgeous decoration for the lun-
cheon tables.
Memories of military service in India,
Burma and Persia were revived at a tea
and chatter party at the headquarters of
the Army Nurses’ Club on Saturday.
Forty sisters who did their bit in the
Great War came along to shake the hand
of Ann Dowsley, just back from over-
seas. She represented the Florence
Nightingales of this State in the Corona-
tion pageantry. On official occasions
Ann has the honor of adding a bit of
trimming to her corsage, with the red
enamel cross bearing the words “Faith,
Hope and Charity.” The decoration came
her way for service at Deolali, India. Ann
was bewildered by all she saw in London,
but will never forget the day she marched
in the Coronation procession behind the
Australian contingent, with the bands
playing, the flags flying and the people
cheering. No reunion of Army Sisters
who served in India would be complete
without Matron Gertrude Davis, who
had the care of all Australian nurses
who served there. On Saturday she was
able to get into touch again with many
of her old girls.
For its evening at-home at No. 9 on
Friday night the Yorick Club burst into
floral splendor. Flowers overflowed from
the decorations on to the women’s
shoulders. One of the little gallantries in
favor when the world was younger was
revived by the president, Col. Donald
Smith, who provided corsage sprays for
the ladies. These posies were so
elaborate that they imparted a gala note
to the dressing. The petite grey-haired
wife of the president had a couple of
orchids to decorate her black lace frock,
but her daughter Mrs. Harold Gardener’s
corsage was massed with orchids, and
she still had enough over for a bracelet.
Pretty Mrs. Eric Gutteridge was like a
brilliant butterfly in a floral frock of
vivid color blends and a burgundy net
coat with winged sleeves. Many of the
white-satin-clad looked as if they had
converted their wedding robes into dance
frocks. The new notion of taking a bit
of material from a frock length to make
a plaited belt and shoulder straps had
proved worth while in the white-and-
silver cloque frock worn by Mrs. Bryan
Gowan, jnr.
Sir Richard Terry, a British musician
and composer who passed through here
on his way from London last week, was
much feted during his brief stay. At
Menzies Hotel he was entertained at a
reception arranged by the Central
Catholic Library and the Century Club.
Private gardens were raided for peach-
blossom to make the welcome springlike.
At supper he talked Tudor music with
three bishops. Mrs. J. C. Westhoven, wife
of the president of the Library, was well
to the fore as the head of the hostesses,
and Father Hackett and presidents
Hasset and Westhoven were spokesmen
for the hosts. At the Roman Catholic
Cathedral, Westminster, where Sir
Richard was formerly director, £2OOO a
year has to be found to maintain its choir
of boy voices.
Although the Naval and Military Club
has been in the hands of interior deco-
rators for weeks and weeks, it has not
gone modern, but has retained its mid-
Victorian austerity. Tradition dies hard.
The club’s great stairway sets one think-
ing of the grandeur of another age. Mem-
bers had the privilege of bringing their
wives along to the club on Saturday after-
noon to a housewarming party. Boughs
of blossom and the pink wildflower
from the Grampians studded the buffet
tables with floral towers. Mrs. Lavarack,
the president’s attractive wife, brightened
up a black suit with red fox furs and lots
of orchids. The W. H. Paynes’ chick
Brenda shouted spring with her chapeau
mounted with a gay garland of flowers in
a variety of colors. The guests wandered
all over the club, the domestic-minded
even getting as far as the kitchen, and
all enjoyed themselves so much that they
were in no hurry to depart.
Here is a picture of the youngest
helper at a charity dance to provide
extra comforts for the young patients
with crippled limbs being cared for by
the Children’s Hospital at Frankston.
Jean Mitchell, 17-year-old daughter of
the Wallace Mitchell pair, made her
debut as a social-service worker at the
Joy Bells Ball, an annual event launched
by her mother, which has raised many
hundreds of pounds for this open-air
hospital at the seaside. Jean sat for this
picture by Dickinson Monteath wearing
her coming-out frock, one of those crea-
tions which look so simple and un-
sophisticated, but cost a lot. She divides
her leisure time between the golf course,
tennis court and a business school. At
the moment she is struggling to speed
up her shorthand, for Jean has her blue
eyes fixed on the Inky Way. She said
good-bye to schooldays at Merton Hail
at the close of 1936.
Sorting out the place cards for a diplo-
matic dinner party was child’s play com-
pared with the task of finding the right
home for the right person when picking
hostesses for the overseas delegates to the
New Education Fellowship Conference.
This was not a mere matter of feeding
and housing. Visitors and those putting
them up had to have something in com-
mon. However, by the time the dele-
gates arrived everything was smoothed
out nicely, and with a glad-handshake
each delegate was taken into the bosom
of the family. The Colin Fraser lady hur-
ried back from Sydney after seeing her
young daughters Peggy and Dorothy set
sail for America, and welcomed the tall
and dignified Dr. Cyril Norwood and his
wife to Whernside, Toorak. The Master
of Ormond bagged the picturesque per-
sonality Professor Bovet, whose six-inch
beard is a fine identification mark. An
Elizabethan house complete with powder
closet will provide temporary shelter for
Rektor Zilliacus. Mrs. Beatrice Ensor,
one of the Fellowship’s shining lights, has
found diggings at the Agar home in the
University grounds, the ideal environ-
ment, and Susan Isaacs will share a chop
with Christine Heinig at the Kindergarten
Training College. Yesterday the bearded
Bovet and wife lunched at the National
Gallery tearooms as the guests of the
League of Nations Union. After the
serving of black coffee the professor had
a few words to say on “Current Thought
in Geneva.” It was difficult to wangle
an extra invitation to the evening recep-
tion which the Government staged in
honor of the conference.
Before the year is out Melbourne may
be greeting Mrs. Edward Campbell,
looking at you here, as its new Lady
Mayoress, and if the honor comes her
way she has all the graces to uphold the
office with dignity. Very soon she will
be saying good-bye to her twin daughters.
Nancy is due to marry Bill Champion,
son of Mrs. W. R. Champion, Toorak,
in October, and Colin Lewis, Clerk of
Courts at Wonthaggi, has persuaded her
sister Bonnie to marry him next year.
Mum and dad will still have a couple
of sons to keep them company—David,
12, and Edward, 19, who has just come
through a grave illness. Mrs. Campbell
swings a golf stick on free mornings at
Kingston Heath, and her social service
-links her with the Prince Henry Hospi-
tal and the Mission for St. James and
St. John. She is very proud of herself
at the moment, for a few days ago she
secured a license to drive a car. This
photograph was taken at the studio of
Mendelssohn.
On Friday collectors rattled their tin
boxes on behalf of children’s charities.
Bleak weather and streets more or less
deserted because of the infantile par-
alysis scare had a disheartening effect,
but Marion Miller Knowles, the poetess,
was selling marmalade and wattle
sprigs in Bourke-street, where she has
occupied a possie on Wattle Day since
the movement was launched by Mrs.
Ross Watt and the late Mrs. Sam Staugh-
ton nearly 30 years ago. Originally
money was roped in on this charity day
with wattle as the only stock, but nowa-
days buyers have to be tempted with all
kinds of home produce. One veteran
still in the field is always able to hand
over £lOO, raised by the sale of lapel-
buttons, but this little lady does not
depend upon casual customers. Gener-
ally her money is in the box before the
campaign begins. She has several good
friends upon whom she can depend for
a ten-pound note.
Peter Ross, who has slipped an engage-
ment ring on the finger of Joan Kernot,
was reared on a station. His father,
the late Macdonald Ross, a Queensland
squatter, was a familiar figure at polo
tournaments. After a bad smash he gave
up the game, settled at Sandringham and
took to golf. Hugh Ross, the lad’s
grandfather, was an outstanding person-
ality on the Royal Melbourne links at
the age of 80, a remarkable old chap.
Peter carries both names, being Peter
Hugh Macdonald Ross. He is fol-
lowing in dad’s footsteps, being settled
on the land at Loughlands, Harrow.
His fiancee is the only daughter of the
C. H. Kernots, of Sidwell-avenue, East
St. Kilda.
No luxury hotel—and she has stayed at
most of the famous ones—can come up to
the magnificence of the Normandie, in
the opinion of Mrs. E. C. Tronson, just
back from a tour that took in visits to
New York, Ottawa, London and Paris.
When she crossed in the French liner
from America to England the Russian
Ballet was able to give a performance
of “The Blue Danube” on board in a
real theatre gorgeously decorated. As a
rule one cocktail bar is sufficient for a
liner, but on the Normandie they are all
over the place, the most popular being
near the bathing pool. The favorite ship-
board pastime on this floating palace is
to bathe in this jade-lit pool and relax in
the smartest of swimming suits. Lido
has nothing on this. The daily dip is
always followed by a spell in the
massage-room. Among a number of
spectacular theatrical presentations this
Australian gives the palm to one she saw
at the Bal Tabarin, where patrons are
thrilled nightly by a magnificent gilt and
glass coach, just like the one in which La
Pompadour used to drive, coming up
through the floor, with girls dressed in
brocade with powdered wigs dancing in-
side. Paris has gone crazy again over
Maurice Chevalier. He is the big star of
the season at the Casino. The night Mrs.
Tronson was in the audience Maurice
had to sing 15 songs before he was
allowed to leave the stage.
Marea Lucas, daughter of our Greek
Consul, just back from Suva, is raving
about the figures of the native women in
Fiji. She wonders how they got like
that. Of course she has heard about
native grace coming through balancing
burdens on the head while walking, but
the dusky maidens in the land of palm
and banana seem to have the secret of
getting grace without carrying loads. An-
other thing that has got her guessing is
how the Fijian football players save their
toes when kicking the ball 60 yards with
bare feet. The dairying industry in Suva
was an eye-opener. Before taking the
trip Merea thought there was a dearth of
cows in Fiji, but at Navua she drank
milk at a dairy farm where more than
800 cows are milked daily, and where
the owners live in a house on a cliff
resembling an old fortress. Through Vic-
torian eyes the country round about did
not look promising grazing ground, but
2000 cattle were drawing daily nourish-
ment from it. Marea’s father (who
amassed a fortune out of cafes), her
mother and her younger sister Billie are
sauntering homewards after seeing Lon-
don in Coronation dress. They are now
at Athens, but expect to be back in their
lovely old home at Frankston by October.
Class distinction has crept into the
new season’s clothes. There is a definite
cleavage of styles, judging by the fashion
shows. Apparently there is one fashion
rule for the women who fritter and an-
other for the women who work, but the
distinction is so subtle that one could
easily buy a fanciful frock under the im-
pression that it belonged to the utility
class, the frivolous note being introduced
with the finishing touches, mostly run-
ning to gathered or pleated front panels
starting at the neck and ending at the
hemline. Although fascinating, these
front trimmings are not for the woman
who travels by tram and carries home
her own parcels. These are definitely
“best frocks,” a term which has been out
of use since women have become practi-
cal-minded. Seemingly Molyneux is the
only one in the Paris bunch of fashion
designers who has realised this. He has
fought shy of this dolling-up business,
and has stuck to simplicity and the kind
of clothes that are easily kept in order.
When fashion designers differ who can
agree?


Incorporated in England
by Royal Charter
in 1835.
m
5^5
/ 835
The liability of
the members is
limited.
INVESTORS
An Interest Bearing Deposit with The Bank of
Australasia will not only safeguard your capital, but
will provide a regular and reliable income.
Interest will be paid half-yearly during the period for
which the money is lodged, at the rate ruling at the
time the deposit is made.
Deposits of any amount—however small—will be
accepted by any of the numerous Branches the
Bank throughout Australia at the following rates: —
3% PER
23 (71
4/O »
21 O)
2 .0 y>
20/
/0 „
ANNUM FOR 24 MONTHS
12
6
3
The Bank of
Australasia
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Gullyraker”: Up Wau (N.G.) way
some of us think the sterner measures
for dealing with native crime in New
Guinea advocated by “Gain” (B.
12/5/’37) are overdue. Three years ago
I recruited six boys in Rabaul for mining
work. They cost me £8 apiece to land
in Wau, and I append their honor roll:
“A” has been sentenced to three years
and a whipping for playing “peeping
Tom.” The law deported him to his
village, and he cannot again be inden-
tured. “B” has had a leg amputated as
the result of a disagreement with another
colored gent. Caught in a general store,
“C” was rusticated for two years. When
caught, he admitted having previously
been in a dwelling with intent to insult
a European female. His vacation for
that will be so long that I am not bother-
ing about his contract. “D’s” issue is
three convictions for becoming hilarious
on stolen whisky. “E” is enjoying a
nine months’ retreat on an “insult-to-
European-female” charge. The last of
the bunch is comparatively respectable—
he has merely jumped his contract. 1
may have been unlucky, but I have been
working natives for 15 years, and I
shou lr * He able to pick an average lot.
•fe * * v
“El V.”: A couple of casual pros-
pectors, Bob and John Williams, turned
up in civilisation the other day with a
kind of yarn which is becoming rarer.
Starting from a depot near Hall’s Creek
(W.A.) they established a prospecting
camp in the Musgrave Ranges. There
one of the brothers got fever, and a
boy who was saddling a camel to go for
help had his leg broken. The second
brother made the 120 miles to the main
depot partly by camel and partly on
foot, only to find the place deserted.
After a couple of days’ wait, somebody
turned up, and a hurried rescue of the
fever patient was organised. He had dis-
appeared, but tracking found him in the
hands of what the flapper press calls the
“savage” blacks. They were displaying
their savagery by nursing him back to
health with their own medicines.
* * * *
“J. Want”: It is no wonder that one
s.-w. Queensland town has raised a monu-
ment to the Cactoblastis. At the end of
the war, despite arsenic pentoxide,
mowers and other devices, prickly-pear
around Dulacca on the southern and
western line was so thick that dogs some-
times became trapped in it. Homesteads
were deserted, and land thrown com-
pletely out of production. In a few years
the pear has been almost wiped out. A
million acres, improved at a cost of up
to £1 per acre, in the brigalow and belar
country between Goondiwindi, near the
N.S.W. border, and the Dawson River
carry a sheep to the acre. Some land
over which a man previously could not
walk has been sold up to £3 per acre,
and even undeveloped and not completely
cleared land is bringing 15s. an acre.
* * *. *
“Zedo”: About the best essay yet
made in native self-government is in the
Torres Strait Islands controlled by the
Queensland Aboriginal Department.
Local councils elected by the inhabitants,
who number about 4000, make laws and
enforce them. Elections take place every
three years, with full-dress campaigns in
which dozens of candidates rant and
promise—there are no political organisa-
tions and no pre-selection. Native Courts
try minor offenders. White overseers
attend meetings and courts as advisers,
but take no active part in the proceed-
ings. The results have been sound to
date. There are no unemployment and
no serious disease in the Torres Islands.
And most of the inhabitants have bank
accounts.
* % * *
“Notaden”: Some remarkable country
is being opened up by the new Kirrama
road from Kennedy, seven miles north
of Cardwell (N.Q.), on the main north-
ern line. The objective is to connect
with the Tully Falls road, 20 miles
north, and link with Ravenshoe on the
Cairns inland rail system. At least
£500,000 worth of timbers will be tapped,
and splendid views of the Murray and
Kennedy valleys will make the road a
scenic attraction. Five miles have been
completed through mountainous country,
involving 11 concrete bridges, and the
complete job will call for nearly 500
bridges, culverts, inverts and drains.
Revenue from the timber is to be de-
voted to further forestry projects, includ-
ing extensive reafforestation.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: British papers have
been claiming priority for fulfilment of
Northcliffe’s definition of what consti-
tutes news for an infant who sank his
only two teeth into the ear of a bull-
terrier and grinned delightedly as the
bleeding victim fled, howling. A Mackay
(Q.) citizen antedated the infant by years.
As he was about to come to grips with
a handle of beer, an ill-mannered and
interfering tyke jumped up on the bar
counter and tried to dip his dishonest
nose into the beverage. The thirsty and
justly .irritated citizen promptly swung
the intruder off the counter by a tooth-
gripped ear, placed the soothing draught
where it would be safe from further
attack, and accelerated the enemy’s pro-
“Above all , attempt no heavy manual work before 6 a.m .”
gress with well-aimed rocks. Anything
which tries to get between a man and his
beer in Mackay’s climate must be pre-
pared to take the consequences.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: An extraordi-
nary job is the genuine human fighting
machine. At 61 Jerry Jerome, aboriginal
pug of nearly a generation back, put up
a better ring performance in Brisbane
recently than the great majority of pre-
liminary bouts by lads young enough to
be his grandsons. More than 25 years
ago Jerry, then near to the forties, and
with a bingey at that, cleaned up every
Australian boxer at his weight, and a
good few over it. Had he taken to the
game 15 years before that he would have
been a certain world middleweight champ,
and very possibly heavyweight. His
southpaw stance, gorilla reach, amazing
speed and mule-kick punch in either
hand provided all the requisite physical
requirements. And, unlike Eddie Gilbert,
Jerry had no crowd-fear or inferiority
complex. His team of abo. amateurs
from Baramba were a lot more afraid of
Jerry than of their opponents.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
For Brisbane’s biggest Show the
weather was inclined to be weepy, but
the crowds were thicker than for many
years. The R.N.A.S. did exhibitors proud
in new accommodation. The sugar hall,
almost as fine as the dairy hall, had on
show a few large toads, some as big as
dinner plates, inhabiting a pond in the
centre. This wasn’t by way of decor.
The toads thrive on the sugar beetle, and
have been imported from America to
keep down the pest.
The Governor-General and his lady,
the Lieut.-Governor and his lady, Arch-
bishop Duhig and a host of notables
were in the official alcove at the fifteenth
annual ball of the Nudgee College Old
Boys’ Association. Mrs. J. P. Gralton
handed bouquets to the Gowrie and
Blair ladies, and received one from Mrs.
J. J. Leahy. There were four debs.,
very charming in their white frocks.
There were dozens of private parties.
The W. B. McClellands and C. J.
Sneesbys arranged one, Moira Shannon
shepherded a party of this season’s debs.,
including her sister Nuala, Joan Uhlman,
Mary Long and Katherine and Mary
Cook. The J. P. Donoghues, Ray
O’Keefes, J. J. Delahuntys and T. S.
Cullinans did the honors in other alcoves.
Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Battaglia had their
Continental party before the rush of
Show Week. Bernice Montgomery at
the piano, huge bowls of pink and white
azaleas for color and a cheery atmo-
sphere made the party a success. Mrs.
Battaglia was in navy sheer, with an
orchid on the shoulder. Gina helped
her parents to entertain.
Judging by the lawns at Ascot, and
the frocks worn at the various doings
of the week, navy’s the only wear, with
beige running it a good second. Mrs.
Ray Galloway was in navy with a pin
spot of white when she helped her hus-
band, president of the Aero Club, to re-
ceive the guests at the presidential at-
home. The weather was springlike-
sunshine and showers.
Dr. Hugh Noel Murray Puckle and
his wife —she is the only daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. E. Hirschfeld —will call in
at Brisbane early next month, en route
to their Melbourne home. Since their
marriage last year, the Puckles have
toured the earth—Great Britain, Europe
and then back to London for the Corona-
tion.
Jean Menzies entertained at her home
at Bowen Hills before the United Ser-
vice Club Ball. Marie Gallagher was
hostess at a dinner party at the Belle
Vue prior to the Nudgee College Ball,
and Arley Tait poured cocktails for a
bunch of guests before the Girls’ Ball.
Fork dinners have been a nightly occur-
rence, Mrs. George Mocatta and the
E. M. Tooths being among the enter-
tainers. One of the biggest private par-
ties ,of Show Week was that given by
Alison Forth and Kath Conrad at the
Conrads’ home at Toowong. More than
100 guests were bidden to that.
The A. D. McGills had 120 guests at
their cocktail party after the first day of
the Exhibition meeting at Ascot, and
Doreen Hooper entertained 60 guests at
a buffet luncheon at her parents’ home
before the races. There were more
country visitors than Brisbane residents
on the lawns, and a fair sprinkling of
southerners, including Mrs. F. Thiel
(Melbourne), the R. A. Frys (Sydney),
who are staying with their daughter,
Mrs. Emil O’Sullivan, and Jean Harvey
(Melbourne).
Dr. R. P. Rheuben, president of the
R.A.C., unveiled the R.A.C. memorial
to Bert Hinkler on the Hummock Look-
out, Bundabetg. The memorial is 22ft.
high, and at the top is a miniature
bronze aeroplane—a replica of the one
in which Bert flew from London to Aus-
tralia in 1928. A number of Brisbane
folk motored to Bundaberg for the un-
veiling.
The Governor-General and his lady
didn’t have a minute to spare all the
week. The Victoria League spread
morning-tea at Rowe’s one morning,
when the Gowrie and Blair ladies were
the guests. The N.C.W. also gave them
morning-tea, and the
Brisbane Women’s
Club managed after-
noon-tea. Instead of
going to the races
on Wednesday, as
vice - royalty has
done from time im-
memorial, the Gow-
ries stayed on after
the official luncheon
at the Show
Grounds, and had
afternoon-tea with
the committee of the
R.N.A. Society.
Then they had a
dinner on board the
Australia with the
Lieut.-Governor and
his lady as chief
guests. After that
they went on to the
Girls’ Ball.
Lady Gowrie entertained at luncheon
and afternoon-tea in the vice-regal room
at Ascot on the last day of the Exhibi-
tion meeting, and his Ex. lunched with
chairman of the Q.T.C. Pat O’Shea and
members of the committee. In the
morning Lady Gowrie visited the Red
Cross rooms and took particular interest
in the work done by Diggers in the arts
and crafts workshop.


i
m
m
c
%
‘"Vat 69” has the merit of maturity. It has the
unvarying character of a true Scotch Whisky.
,For “Vat 69” is matured and blended by William
Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith, Scotland — famous
distillers since 1863.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles and
Flasks. vs s7
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ANDERSON.—If MRS. HELEN ANDER-
SON, formerly HELEN SANDERSON, of
Sheerness, England (or her daughter
DOROTHY ANDERSON), will communicate
with E. H. GLYNNE ROBERTS, 29-30 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I, Solicitor, she will
hear of something to . her advantage.
WILL KITTY MONAGHAN or KITTY VAN-
STEIN, sister of the late Leonard Vanstein,
who died on the 21st April, 1937, formerly of
Ormond, Gisborne, New Zealand, or anyone
knowing her whereabouts, communicate with
the DISTRICT MANAGER, Public Trust
Office, Rotorua.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
1937 No. 459.
TO CASS FREDERICK DENHAM formerly
of No. 65 Oakover Road Preston in the
State of Victoria Mechanic but now of
whereabouts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAY
JEANNETTE DENHAM has instituted proceed-
ings against you for a divorce on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne in the State of Victoria on or be-
fore the Twentieth day of September 1937 and
file an answer on or before the Thirtieth day
of September 1937 the case may proceed in
your absence.
MAURICE GOLDBERG, of No. 305 Bridge
Road, Richmond, in the State of Victoria,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Re ELLEN COPE, late of 134 Franchise
Street, Wednesbury, England (late wife of
Henry Cope), deceased.
WILL CLAUDE MILLINGTON (son of
Joseph Millington), born at Kings Hill, Wed-
nesbury, Staffs, England, and late of 167 Dudley
Port, Tipton, Staffs, and last known to have
left England for Perth, Australia, about 15 years
ago, and to have resided at Bluff Point, Gerald-
ton, 12 Snowdon Street, Geraldton, and at Perth
(about seven years ago), please communicate
with ARTHUR COTTERELL, 9 The Bridge,
Walsall, England, Solicitor for the executors of
the will of the abovenamed deceased, when he
will learn of something to his advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1203 of 1937.
BETWEEN PEARL BEATRICE MARY
HYDE Petitioner
And JOHN HYDE Respondent.
TO JOHN HYDE late of Leeton New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PEARL BEAT-
RICE MARY HYDE has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground "of desertion for three years without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Tenth day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eleventh day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
JAMES W. YOUNG, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1220 of 1937.
BETWEEN EMMA RYAN Petitioner
And RICHARD RYAN Respondent.
TO RICHARD RYAN late of King Street
Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMMA RYAN
has commenced a suit against you in this Court
and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the grounds of desertion AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the suit at the proper office of
this Court on or before the Fifth day of Novem-
ber 1937 AND in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the said
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of August, 1937.
For the Registrar in Divorce,
(.1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
WILLIAM ALSTON TEBBUTT, Solicitor
for Petitioner, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 787 of 1937.
BETWEEN CATHERINE NASH Petitioner
And JOHN NASH Respondent
TO JOHN NASH of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CATHERINE
NASH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully de-
serted the Petitioner and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted
during three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the
Eighteenth day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined ymir
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the petition
filed herein may be had on application to the
undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of August, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
J. BIRNIE JACKSON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESJRALIA.
The Repertory Club went old-world
for an afternoon arranged by Mrs. Cecil
Treadgold, encrinolined in cream lace and
satin. Genuine ancestral frocks clothed
some of the tea-dispensers. Antimacas-
sars, stuffed birds and plush upholstery
made a “gay-’nineties” background for
Mrs. Birtwhistle, who, in Victorian puff-
sleeved black taffetas and net, warbled
“Robin Adair” and “My Mother Bids
Me Bind My Hair.” Mae Downes, in
lavender and old lace, sighed for a past
romance in verse, and Helen George
paced the minuet in billowing muslins,
Eton-suited boy-soprano Gordon Bates
poured forth vocal sweetness, and, ’midst
flickering candlelight, a dramatic Vic-
torian scene enacted by June Huntleigh-
East, Mavis Dorney, Phil Tweedie, Pat
Caporn and Tom Tracy rang down the
curtain.
Mrs. Cardell-Oliver invited the v.-r.
lady to open the Women Painters’ and
Applied Arts Society’s Show at the News-
paper House Art Gallery. Crowds ad-
mired Margaret Saunders’s water-colors
and Muriel Low’s scenes of the sou’-west,
M. Richardson’s combined banksia-wood
and pewter panels, and Mrs. Pitt Mor-
rison’s wool rug woven from the fleece,
Musical Perth wended its way to His
Majesty’s for the Huberman concerts
and showed its appreciation fortissimo.
Conrad Charlton, of the A.B C., and Mrs.
C.C., whose spray ot yellow narcissi
strucK a cheerful note on her fur-trimmed
navy crepes dispensed cocktails at the
Adelphi in honor of the music-makers.
Mrs I. Herman embroidered her green
woollens with cream and scarlet motifs,
The Nathan lady was a symphony in
black, white and grey, and Mrs. J S
Battye s bnghtly-plumaged hat provided
a sparkling accompaniment to her sombre
wool georgettes.
The tinies have had the monopoly of
dressmakers’ fittings lately, with the
annual Kindergarten Union party at
Gov. House ballroom in view. Fairy-
tale and story folk came to life as minute
fairies frolicked with tiny elves, demure
80-peep with beribboned crook trod a
measure with “Bubbles,” and dashing
cowboys and Indian chiefs partnered
pantaletted damsels in swaying crinolines.
K.U. vice-presidents Mrs. A. E. Joyner,
Mrs. Rischbieth and Mrs. A. E. King re-
ceived the vice-regals, who popped in to
see the fun and escort a small grandson
round the sideshows. College students
mimed the adventures of “Little Black
Sambo and the Tigers,” watched by an
open-mouthed, saucer-eyed audience,
and after a party tea complete with
jellies and hundreds and thousands about
500 blissfully-tired small revellers were
coated and hatted for the road,
At the Oriana Ladies’ Choir’s recital at
the Assembly Hall president Elizabeth
Hamilton, in silver-lacquered green
taffeta trappings, and Mrs. Cecil Tread-
gold, girt with white and silver striped
cloque, extended greetings in the foyer to
numerous guests. A. J. Leckie conducted
the concerted numbers, and June Hunt-
leigh-East, Alan Gamble and Keith Wood
contributed to a vociferously-applauded
programme,
After three years’ sojourn abroad Mrs.
A. B. Webb returned in the Strathaird to
rejoin her artist husband in Perth. Her
three daughters are carving niches for
themselves in London. Dallas, just 21,
is offsider to zoologist C. S. Webb in his
excursions into the hinterlands of Africa
and India in search of live specimens for
the London Zoo. “Winkie” pursues her
adventures in Molyneux’s fashion-
designing studio, and Coralie, youngest
°* ih e hi°' is enjoying a breathing space
a fNr schooldays.
In the chilly m at St Mai y s
Canon Stillwell tied the matrimonial
knot for Pauline, youngest chick of the
w. R. Grooms, and Richard only heir
D f the F. Burts. ’Maided by willowy
Anne Burt in flowery crepe blossoming
’neath navy redingote, the bride mur-
mured “I will” in trimly-tailored navy
and white roubaix with matching halo
headgear. A chosen few drank a mag-
num at the Esplanade afterwards
t-, TT . , .
lße Universal Aunts are opening a
)l l leau ere - The local originators of the
cieme a,e rs - Victor Harwood, well-
n°wn organiser of charity appeals, and
yra ason ’ who. undertake to supply
an y nee .° Lorn helping harassed hostesses
° c arnin S bachelors socks.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
At the Legacy Club’s ball at the Palais
Royal the Governor and Lady Dugan
made their final appearance at a public
function before their departure for Eng-
land in the Ascanius. Upon a huge scroll
across the top of the official box was “Au
Revoir” in marigolds on a white back-
ground. Club president C. R. Sutton and
his wife received the vice-regal party,
which passed through a guard of honor
comprised of young men and girls whose
fathers lost their lives in the war ; these
young people have been the special care
of the club. Eight debs, were then
ushered forward by two small heralds
and presented to the Governor and Lady
Dugan by Mrs. Sutton. They curtsied to
his Ex., and after shaking hands with his
wife each girl laid her posy at Lady
Dugan’s feet. Lady Dugan wore a toil-
ette of bottle-green chiffon cut on prin-
cess lines, the V-neck outlined with silver.
The spray of pale-pink orchids and lilies-
of-the-valley she wore on her corsage
had been sent to her by the club. The
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress were
present.
Speaker Nicholls and his wife at Par-
liament House entertained members of
the Parliamentary group of the Liberal
Women’s Education Association and
representatives of debating and literary
circles, the guests being introduced by
the president of the L.W.E.A., Mrs. H.
Alderman. The party was taken over the
library (formerly the old House of
Assembly), where Librarian Quintan
showed two autographed volumes
donated by Queen Victoria. Afternoon
tea was served in the strangers’ dining-
room, flower-decked for the occasion.
The University Women’s Hockey
Club’s bridge and monopoly party drew
an attendance of about 400. Mrs. Stan-
ley Verco gave the prize for the competi-
tion, a theatre-bag she had worked her-
self, which was won by Eileen Ryan.
The engagement is announced of Mary
Josephine, elder daughter of the Walter
Bagots, N. Adelaide, to Kenneth Chat-
terton, of Calcutta, younger son of Sir
Alfred and Lady Chatterton, of Becken-
ham, Kent. Miss Bagot recently re-
turned from England.
The Musical Association tendered a
reception to Sir Richard Terry, examiner
for Trinity College of Music, London,
It was an informal gathering, with a little
music, contributed by Dorothy Knap-
man, Philip Wood and Linda Wald, and
an address by Sir Richard.
The Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club
held a gift tea and bazaar at the South
Australian. The bishop’s wife, Mrs.
Nutter Thomas, and Mrs. Stanley Skipper
received the guests. Violet Ralph at the
conclusion of afternoon-tea described the
work done by the club. She has been
associated with it from its inception 37
years ago.
The Radio Ball drew over 1000 people
to the Palais Royal, and a competition
for best decorated boxes helped to make
the charity affair a brilliant spectacle.
At 8.30 a Scottish pipe band paraded
twice round the ballroom playing what
Scots declared to be an inspiring march.
Sales of masks helped to garner shekels,
and a mask dance was a feature of the
evening.
TASMANIA.
The Prime Minister and his wife were
given a civic reception at Launceston.
In Hobart their first welcome was staged
in the A.W.N.L.’s rooms, where the
Dame’s speech was excellent and much
to the point. From this they went on
to a big at-home at the Town Hall, run
by the Deputy Lord Mayor and Mrs.
Saunders. After this there was the
Chamber of Commerce luncheon for !
the P.M.
The Governor and Lady Clark were
at the Masonic Ball at Hobart City Hall
and were curtsied to by 16 debs, in
pretty white frocks. Pink shaded lights,
fern fronds and wistaria were the main
features of the decorations. Lady Clark
was in all black. Mrs. Stanley Dryden, j
wife of the Grand Master, was in black, |
under a wine-colored velvet coat.
About 140 members of the Tasmanian i
Society, with his Ex. and Lady Clark, !
rolled up at the Town Hall to hear lec-
tures by Dr. G. H. Hogg (Launceston)
and W. E. Maclean (of the Hydro-elec-
tric Department). Lady C., the Deputy
Lady Mayoress and Mrs. Snowdon Hay
were presented with bouquets on their
entrance.
Various tea, bridge and cocktail par-
ties sped Mrs. Wall and Margaret Ram-
say (Launceston) on their Eastern jaunt.
Mrs. G. H. Hogg’s bridge party at
Annsbrae was one of the most recent.
Edith Bisdee was farewelled by friends
before leaving for Ceylon. Molly
Magrath, Joan Scott-Power, Mabel
Robertson and Margaret Courthope were
young hostesses who sped her on her
way.
News comes from Melbourne ol the
engagement of Tom Onslow, son of the
H. P. Onslows, Turriff Lodge, New Nor-
folk. to Mary Mackenzie, of Avenel,
Victoria.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd*
( Incorporated, in Victoria.')
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY 800 RLE 1 )
Australia's Leading Financial Journal .
AUGUST ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
THE BANKING COMMISSION:
ARE ITS RECOMMENDATIONS SOUND?
NEW ECONOMICS
OUTLOOK FOR INVESTORS
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
'Av [MI ?
Ml
mMmm
m.
mo
r " IMW
mtkmm
“Let Atlas carry the burden.
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
V £18,000,000.
F ire—Accident —Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies •
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TREND RY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
The Long White Cloud
Air Inquiry Secrecy
As in Australia, inquiry into Maori-
land air accidents is conducted by a
specially-appointed board which hears
the evidence behind doors closed to the
public and press. There is one major
difference in the current practices of the
two countries ; where Australia receives
only brief accounts of the findings,
Maorilanders, judging by the recently-
published report on the inquiry into the
Big Bay crash of December, 1936, get
reports which go into some detail.
But M.L. airmen protest that reports
prepared and issued by the authority
before which they appear, and which
actually imposes “sentence” on them,
are apt to overemphasise some facts and
ignore others which may be equally per-
tinent.
The Big Bay tribunal decided that the
crash, which killed one passenger and
injured others, was due to the “negligence
of the pilot.” The pilot declares that the
full evidence has not been made public
—only that part of it which substantiates
the decision.
Until Maoriland holds open inquiries
into air accidents, people will continue
to hear such complaints. The present
half-baked arrangement isn’t fair to air-
men, to members of the board or to a
public buying more airline passenger-
tickets every month. And that goes for
Australia, too.
“Fergus”: How’s this for a family
record? R. L. Wigley, known to touring
Australians who have visited Mt. Cook,
has just won his A-class pilot’s license,
and his two sons, H. and A. Wigley, are
both qualified fliers. Wigley, senior, was
over 50 when his two sons went out to
Wigram ’drome to barrack for him dur-
ing the Canterbury Aero Club tests;
business prevented him from learning to
fly until this year, but he has been inter-
ested in aviation ever since a New
Zealand Air Transport ’plane took him
up in 1921. Now he is planning a
Christchurch-Mt. Cook-Queenstown air-
line service, to begin operations in
November. This will save Hermitage
visitors the road or rail trip from Christ-
church to Timaru and on to Cook, and
with pilots’ certificates in their pockets
the Wigleys should know enough about
every angle of the business to make it
go from the start. The two boys, inci-
dentally, are the skiers of that name who
are included in the Maoriland team to
run against the Australians on Kosciusko.
“Kiwit”: Australian interests deprived
of Maoriland white pine by the Savage
Government export restriction couldn’t
be half as annoyed as the Maoriland
dairy company heads whose words forced
the Government into taking the step.
Government control of the butter-box
industry raised the home price of white
pine, and this cost-increase coincided
with a supply shortage. But the dairy-
men began to complain more loudly when
they learned that, in spite of trans-
Tasman freight charges, white pine
butter-boxes were selling in Melbourne
at lower prices than on the Maoriland
market. Actually, the whole position
should straighten itself out as soon as
“What you kick that man so hard for?”
“His wahine turn me down last night.”
additional mills are opened in the
recently-surveyed South Westland timber
areas.
* % % *
“Waitot”: Maoriland is more tele-
phone-minded than Australia. As in
most countries, the number of subscribers
fluctuates with business conditions, but
to-day there are 7500 more than at any
previous peak period. The initial cost of
an Australian telephone installation is
less than Maoriland’s flat-rate, but the
latter lets Maorilanders know from the
first just how much the service is going
to cost them. They can have as many
local calls as they like and the rental
doesn’t rise at l|d. a time ; it doesn’t
cost 2d. to ’phone from the pub that
you are stuck at an office conference and
won’t be home, nor do the authorities
have to tell of “infallible checking sys-
tems” to persuade suspicious subscribers
that they aren’t being charged for some
other fellow’s calls. Melbourne P. and
T. heads have to do this nearly every
time the bills go out.
* # * *
“Kaha”: Those who expected the
Savage Government to allow the Leg.
Council to die a natural death were sur-
prised at the announcement of forth-
coming appointments to replace recent
retirements. Said Mr. Savage, “The
normal strength of the Council will be
maintained.” Influential Government
members believe that the Second Chamber
is no longer necessary; some even call
it a waste of money, and point out that,
with a Government majority assured, it
would be safe to let the Council die out
in the seven-year term of the most
recently appointed members. But that
idea, though in harmony with Labor’s
platform, is apparently another that it
is expedient to forget.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Many kea articles have been
written since the mountain parrot was
declared a sheep-killer more than 70
years ago ; but one of the best I’ve read
appeared recently in the “N.Z. Herald”
supplement. It tells everything about
the bird except the musterers’ method of
killing him, and it details the character-
istic that makes this killing so simple:
In common with all quick-witted folk,
the kea has a thirst for knowledge and
would support Bacon in saying that read-
ing maketh a full kea; he tries to read
you and all that is yours.
So the experienced musterer doesn’t
bother about a gun; he attracts the bird
by whistling, waves a red rag or rattles
a tin to hold the kea’s puzzled attention,
and then walks near enough to use a
piece of wood. But not all shepherds
will kill keas if the boss isn’t round; the
birds are amusing companions for men
stuck for months at lonely boundary
huts on mountain runs. Still, the bird’s
acquired taste for sheep kidneys, and
the powerful beak he uses to dig through
wool, hide and flesh, make him enemy
to most sheepmen.
* * * *
“M.”: Prime Minister Savage has told
Maoriland more about Imperial Confer-
ence discussions than Australia has yet
heard from Prime Minister Lyons (B.
18/8/’37), but he can be as evasive on
domestic policy points as Federal Minis-
ter Paterson was on the Freer affair.
When Labor men were campaigning so
effectively before the last general elec-
tion, one of their major indignation
howls concerned the arbitrary manner in
which the Forbes-Coates people ex-
tended the life of the Maoriland Parlia-
ment from three to four years. “Carry
this a few steps further,” they roared,
“and you’ll get a Parliament that will
vote itself in for life.” Maorilanders
generally agreed that they had had a
rough one put across them. But now Mr.
Savage, in a classically vague announce-
ment, says that Labor, while determined
to “redeem its promise,” won’t make
any change “without the consent of the
people.” On more devastating changes,
his Government has regarded its sweep-
ing election victory as sufficient “con-
sent.”
* >i: si= *
“Korero”: Hint of red-deer culling
being extended to include the organised
slaughter of wapiti and moose has an-
tagonised several Maoriland acclimatisa-
tion societies; their spokesmen say one
heavy bush tractor operating in a timber-
milling area does more damage to other
trees in one day than several hundred
wapiti in a year. If wapiti herds have
increased sufficiently to be counted as
a forest menace, the nine presented to
Maoriland in 1907 by United States
President Theodore Roosevelt have ex-
ceded breeding expectations. They were
released in George Sound, south of Mil-
ford, and are now located in the rough,
timbered country between Lakes Te Anau
and Wakatipu. It takes a good deer-
stalker to get within range of them and
a better one to glimpse a moose. Latter
were liberated in the same year, and only
two have ever been shot.
* * * *
“Kaha”: The New Education Fellow-
ship visitors found Maoriland primary
schools freed from the examination bogey
and awakening to the possibilities of
freedom. Of the routine subjects
only arithmetic is suffering; in some
cases its allowance has been cut by two-
fifths. Arts and crafts have brightened
the whole of school life. Hobby clubs
have grown up; music, singing, lan-
guages, drawing, mechanics and current
affairs are some of the schoolchild’s new
enthusiasms. Lack of space and short-
age of teachers are factors keeping in
check this swing towards experimental
methods.


THE NEW
aMPLIOh
“T” MODEL
AUDITORIUM TYPE
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
m
This new audi-
torium speaker
is Amplion’s
latest and finest
product, and is
a masterpiece of
Australian
design a n d
manufacture.
Fitted with Amplion’s latest multi-
impedance transformer (large TS type),
with optional impedances available from
2500 to 12,000 ohms, single or push-pull.
PRICE £7/10/-
SEND FOR PUBLICATION 55,
GIVING DETAILS OF THE
COMPLETE AMPLION RANGE.
AMPLION (A/SIA), PTY. LTD.,
66 Clarence Street, Sydney.
"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and* experimental radio.
Subscriptions are IS/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin"
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Automatic Regeneration
Control.
One of the chief drawbacks to the
straight regenerative receiver for short-
wave listening is the difficulty experi-
enced in keeping the receiver near to
oscillation point. The reaction control
has to be continually adjusted in sym-
pathy with wave-length covered.
An Austrian radio publication suggests
a new arrangement, suitable for all
“straight” receivers, for providing an
alternative path for the feed-back in ad-
dition to the usual circuit through the
reaction coil. As shown in the circuit,
the resistance R represents a constant im-
pedance shunting the reaction coil L 2.
As frequency is increased the reactance
of coil L 2 is increased, so that the feed-
back current tends to pass more through
R than L 2. This counteracts the ten-
dency of a reacting circuit to increase in
the feed-back current as the frequency is
increased. The value of R varies with
coils and valves. It would, of course, be
possible to make R variable or pre-set,
and at the same time to provide a vari-
able action control.
The effect of compensation can be
further increased by connecting a small
capacity of about .OOOlmfd. in series
with the resistance R. This allows con-
trol to be increased to such an extent
that the reaction actually falls off towards
the high-frequency end of the band, a
feature which has uses with screened
grid detectors.
In order to make the most of this
arrangement the aerial should not be
allowed to damp the circuit too heavily.
So a small capacity condenser should
always be connected in series with the
feeder.
C-Bias Supply.
A simple and economical C-bias unit
that will satisfy the grid requirements
of amplifiers, modulators and buffers, is
outlined in “Radio News” (U.S.A.).
The high-voltage, power-supply sec-
tion is conventional in all respects, T 1
having one filament winding to supply
the primary of T 2, which is a small fila-
ment transformer hooked up backwards,
so that the usual 240 volts primary be-
comes the secondary supply to the half-
wave rectifier.
This system provides an isolated and
steady source of bias voltage, unaffected
by any variation of plate current. A
further advantage is that the available
voltage to the rectifier is more nearly
the correct value for bias supply than
the usual half-wave system connected to
one side of the high-voltage power trans-
former, which may be anywhere from
300 volts up, and which requires higher
voltage filter condensers, after which one
has to throw away at least two-thirds of
the rectified D.G. voltage before getting
down to the usual value of bias poten-
tial.
The circuit as outlined will supply a
bias voltage variable up to about 90
volts or more at 30ma., and with few, if
any, of the disadvantages of the more
conventional systems.
The circuit utilises a 6.3-volt to 240-
volt transformer, in conjunction with a
6.3-volt rectifier, but, of course, the same
idea can be used with a 2.5-volt or 5-volt
transformer and an appropriate rectifier.
O.J.L.
Australia-to-England
Five-metre Reception.
What looks like the world’s record in
long-distance reception of experimental
five-metre transmission is reported in a
letter received from Cecil Mellanby,
radio engineer of Pwllheli, North Wales.
Mellanby is an ultra-short-wave listener
with a neat little bag of American sta-
tions to his credit on the five-metre
band; stations he has logged and had
verified are W2JCY, W2IIQ, WIPH and
WIEER. He says that on November 22 last,
at approximately 7.30 a.m. British summer
time, he heard a station on five-metre
telephony. The station call was read as
VK2N?, but the last letter of the call
could not be identified as the signal was
QSA2/3 R2/4 through an extremely high
noise level. The station was heard work-
Showing equipment using cathode-ray tube for velocity scanning of the talkie
film in Observatory Tower, Brisbane, where television research is being
conducted by Tom Elliott.
ing another VK. Mellanby says: “I
take this now to be your station, as I re-
cognise your voice from hearing you on
20-metre telephony.”
The station log reveals that on Nov.
22, 1936, VK2NO was in action on five-
metre telephony, in communication with
VK2HL Chatswood (N.S.W.) at 4.20 to
4.45 p.m. Sydney time. The transmitter
in use was the present three-stage
M.O.P.A. with two 35Ts in push-pull in
the' final, with 100 watts input. The
directive aerial system at the time was
the Reinartz rotary beam, and this was
directed towards Chatswood, due north-
west. This is the direction from which
European signals arrive in Australia on
the lower frequencies during the after-
noons in Sydney. To the writer’s know-
ledge there is no other VK2 station with
call commencing VK2N active on five
metres consistently with 100 watts and
beam arrays.
If VK2NO was the station heard, as
seems likely, then it is possible that un-
suspected DX qualities lie in the Reinartz
type aerial at five metres. On the other
hand, the seasonal conditions may bring
unexpected results of this kind with
almost any directive aerial system. The
writer has long held the opinion that the
months of October, November and De-
cember are likely periods for extreme
ultra-short-wave DX from Australian
locations.
The Reinartz beam should not be ig-
nored. Up in Longreach (Q.), VK4WH
has been using a Reinartz on 10 metres,
and with this, from a low-powered trans-
mitter, he has been able to maintain ex-
ceptionally good contact with European
stations for lengthy periods. If properly
constructed and efficiently fed this sys-
tem can put quite a lot of R.F. into the
sky at five metres.
The writer plans during the coming
summer to use a series of different aerial
arrays at various times, with the trans-
mitter running automatically for stretches.
One thing that immediately manifests
itself from this British report is the
value of keeping a fully-detailed log of
operation. In 1935, surprised VKs found
themselves working with Englishmen on
10. That such may happen on five
metres is not beyond the bounds of pos-
sibility.
D.B. KNOCK (VK2NO).
Battle for Frequencies.
An international conference is soon
to take up the question of radio frequen-
cies on a world-wide scale. The alloca-
tion of channels for international broad-
casting will be the most vital and contro-
versial problem. A preliminary con-
ference, known as the C.C.1.R., met
recently at Bucharest, in Rumania. This
was primarily a technical meeting of
experts, and their findings will be corre-
lated at the Third International Radio
Conference, to be held at Cairo, in Egypt,
in February, 1938.
The Cairo conference possesses treaty-
making powers in tabulating the rules
governing frequency allocations, the use
of radio generally, and the problems of
interference. During recent months ex-
perts in all countries have been busy
drafting proposals. They are to be for-
warded by November this year to the
other nations, and in turn the whole are
to be submitted to the U.S.A. so that
all may study in advance the plans to
come before the international con-
ference.
In 1927, when the nations first
assembled in Washington for a world
radio agreement, U.S.A. took the leading
role. Marine radio was at that time the
chief international problem, and broad-
casting was limited mainly to national
boundaries. In 1932 the position was
somewhat different. The conference was
held at Madrid, and broadcasting was a
critical problem, particularly among the
European nations.
At Cairo England, France, Germany,
Italy and Russia will be lined up against
the smaller countries, and the U.S.A. will
probably hold the balance of power.
Short waves for international broadcast-
ing will be the main issue at stake. Be-
cause of greater technical progress, the
larger nations have in the past grabbed
the better broadcasting allocations and
communications channels, but the smaller
nations are demanding their share.
In all this the lot of the amateur trans-
mitter is by no means a happy one, but
he hopes for consideration in recogni-
tion of services rendered in emergencies.
It is likely that Australia’s representative
at Cairo will be Jim Malone, Chief In-
spector of Commonwealth Wireless. No
better battler for Australia’s radio rights
could be found.
D.B.K.
Home-made Stand-off
Insulators.
Although ceramic type stand-off insu-
lators for various purposes are quite in-
expensive, the idea of using old glass
bottles of different shapes and sizes is
quite popular. The only real snag is
where it is necessary to drill through the
glass. “Practical Wireless” (England)
suggests using small ink bottles. No
drilling is necessary ; the bottle is merely
clamped securely between two wooden
blocks.
Radio Comment.
“Hamer” : Television has some horrors
for the future if there is anything in
the claim made by an English radio
engineer. His invention (admitted to be
not quite complete) is a master-sender
which will flash its message suddenly on
every receiving set, no matter to what
station it is dialled. The inventor’s idea
is that it will be of value in the event of
a sudden declaration of war. But it has
other disturbing possibilities to the
harassed “viewer”-in.
“Sach”: A Lismore (N.S.W.) aider-
man complained recently that “trains
made as much noise as possible in the
middle of the night; adding “a system
of telephony should be devised instead
of prolonged whistling.” With radio-
telephony generated from the rotating
axle used for lighting, communication
could be had with all stations on the
line and between driver and guard of
goods trains. The easy solution lies with
ultra-short waves.
* * *
“Querex”: Pity the poor serviceman!
English valve manufacturers have pro-
duced a line of “international” valves
in which the American octal socket is
introduced (B. 23/6/’37). But, with
characteristic stubbornness, they haven’t
adopted the American “R.M.A.” standard
of numbering. They still use the Eng-
lish system.
* * * *
Scophony is a form of television
having its basis in mechanical scanning
and projection radically different from
the cathode-ray method. Pictures are
normally sft. by 4ft. Movie interests
have expressed the opinion that a
slight improvement in definition and the
omission of flicker will enable Scophony
to produce a picture suitable for the aver-
age theatre.
v •¥
“A.N.0.”: VK2ME, the pioneer Aus-
tralian short-wave station, now has a
multi-lingual announcer. Philip Geeves
tells French, Dutch, German and Italian
listeners that Australia is calling. The


RADIOTRONS
are sold in sealed cartons for your protection. Each valve is
thoroughly tested before leaving the factory and comes to
you in perfect condition. Always insist on Radiotrons.
VIS-7
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (A/SIA)
LIMITED
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen St, Melbourne
National Electrical and
Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Wellington, N.Z.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRIC
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
Adelaide, Hobart
(Advertisements of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Limited.)
announcements, with talks on Australian
tourist and industrial attractions, bring
A.W.A. an average of 500 letters a month
from overseas listeners of various
nationalities.
Amateur Chatter.
A portable station is a necessary ad-
junct to the keen amateur’s holiday. It
is always interesting to compare results
on familiar bands in a quiet location,
and in most instances DX is more easily
worked. On 14/8/ ’37 a station was
heard signing VR4OC on 20-metre key.
Contact brought the information that
this was Owen Chapman (VK2OC) on
holiday at Tulagi, British Solomons.
Subsequently Americans by the dozen
and other distant stations were heard
calling him.
VKSNO, the portable of the Mackay
Expedition, recently located at Tanami,
N.T., signed off at the conclusion of the
survey. Ferguson reports that the trouble
with the ’plane transmitter proved to be
nothing more than penetration of dust to
the crystal holder. Five minutes’ atten-
tion and the station was on the air.
On 29/8/’37 another five-metre DX
schedule is to be run off by the W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Div.), U.H.F. section. The
stations operating from Sydney will be in
action for 10-minute periods.
First Second Third
Station. Period. Period. Period.
VK2LZ .... 11a.m. 2 p.m. 7 p.m.
VK2NO .... 11.10a.m. 2.10p.m. 7.10p.m.
VK2MQ .... 11.20a.m. 2.20p.m. 7.20p.m.
VK.2HZ .... 11.30a.m. 2.30p.m. 7.30p.m.
VK2JU .... 11.40 a.m. 2.40 p.m. 7.40 p.m.
VK2VN .... 11.50a.m. 2.50p.m. 7.50p.m.
VK2TI .... 12 noon 3 p.m. 8 p.m.
No limit is fixed for country stations
within the half-hour.
VK2GU will be operating intermit-
tently.
VK2DN from 12.10 p.m., from 3.10
p.m. and from 8.10 p.m.
VK2PN intermittently.
VK2AFB 12.40 p.m., 3.40 p.m. and
8.40 p.m.
VK2ZC intermittently.
At 4 p.m. country stations will report
results, if any, on 40 metres for the
benefit of Sydney and other country
stations. Other interested stations are
asked to participate between 12.30 and
2 p.m., 3.30 and 7 p.m., after 8.30 p.m.
and before the schedule commences.
N.S.W. Division of the W.I.A. is again
under a certificate of incorporation.
During recent weeks articles and memo-
randum of association were discussed by
council with the object of making altera-
tions to suit present-day needs.
Special five-metre tests are to be run
with M.L. during the week-end 25 and
26/9/’37, and full co-operation is
promised by N.Z.A.R.T.
VK2NO.
What's What in Radio.
The Armistice ceremony at the London
Cenotaph on November 11 is to be tele-
vised by the telephoto camera. The
8.8. C. thinks this type of broadcast will
do more to popularise the television
receiver than the transmission of musical
and variety shows.
$ * $ *
At the summer meeting of the Inter-
national Broadcasting Union, held at
Lausanne, Switzerland, it was decided to
invite Australia to arrange the fourth
inter-Continental concert, to be broad-
cast in the spring of 1938.
* * * *
R.C.A. engineers have produced a new
small water-cooled transmitting valve
known as the R.C.A. 888. It is rated at
1200 watts maximum, input for wave-
lengths down to li metres and opens up
new possibilities in the use of high power
at ultra-high frequencies.
* * X- *
A modern broadcasting station is to
be established at Kingaroy (Q.) for the
South Burnett Broadcasting Co. The
station will operate on a power of 2000
watts in the aerial, and will be one of the
most powerful commercial stations in the
Commonwealth. Series modulation will
be employed in the transmitter, and
copper oxide rectifiers will be used for
filament purposes throughout. The aerial
is of the A.W.A. folded-top type, and
will be supported on 220 ft. tubular steel
masts. The station is expected on the
air about the end of November.
* -* if *
Masonite, a material developed in
U.S.A. from pressed woods from timber
and sawmill wastes, has many uses in
radio constructional work and is used ex-
tensively in panels for transmitters and
in receiver cabinets. The Masonite Cor-
poration of Australia has recently been
formed, and before long its product
should be available on the. Australian
market.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Stromberg-Carlson Air-Cell Models.
Probably the most important radio de-
velopment so far as the Australian out-
back listener is concerned is the recent
advent of the Air-Cell. Once Air-Cells
became available, leading Australian
radio manufacturers were not slow to
turn out receivers designed to use them.
The Stromberg Co. has four such re-
ceivers. Two of these, the 607 A, as illus-
trated, and the 47A, were submitted for
trial, the Ever Ready Co. supplying an
Air-Cell for the purpose.
The 607 A is a six-valve console, and
the 47A a handy mantel model with
four valves. The console is a dual-
waver and the mantel job for broadcast
only. The valve line-up includes a IA4
as R.F. amplifier, KK2 frequency
changer, two lA4’s as I.F. amplifiers with
the I.F. channel at 392 kilocycles, 185
detector, A.V.C. and driver audio, and
ID4 output pentode. There are only
four controls. The first on the left
is a combined battery switch, dial lamp
and tone control (with five positions).
Next control is for volume, then comes
the dual-speed tuning knob, and finally
the wave-change switch. The dial is a
particularly attractive one, being edgelit
and vertical with straight-line tuning.
Broadcast and short-wave stations are
clearly indicated.
The receiver runs from the Air-Cell
for the valve filaments, and 135 volts of
superdyne B battery takes care of plate
voltage requirements. Biasing is auto-
matic, so that no C battery is needed.
Only four connections are necessary for
the A and B batteries, and these are
clearly tagged. A check showed the drain
on the Air-Cell to approximate .61 am-
pere, nicely within the continuous work-
ing limits of the cell. B-battery drain did
not exceed 17ma. These figures mean
long battery life, and there is only the
addition of water to worry about. Sen-
sitivity was high without undue back-
ground noise, and reproduction was ex-
cellent. Speaker is a lOin. type.
The moulded mantel model, 47A, also
has as valve arrangement a mixture of
European and American types. They are
KK2 frequency changer, KF4 as 465 kc.
I.F. amplifier, IK6 detector, A.V.C. and
audio driver, and ID4 pentode, operating
a sin. permag speaker. Four controls are
fitted —battery switch (with dial lamps
off at the third position), volume, tuning
and local-distance switching. Air-Celi
drain is .5 ampere, and B-battery drain
around 14ma. Audio quality from this
little set is remarkable, and altogether
both models are a very attractive propo-
sition for the man on the land. Both
sets were tested on a mediocre indoor
aerial, and there was no need to fish for
stations, so that the outback user with
a good external aerial can expect first-
class results. The 607 A sells at
guineas and the 47A at 20| guineas.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I have an old table model six-valve Astor
receiver using Osram four-volt valves. The
valves have been in use for five years, and I
am thinking of replacements. My idea is the
use of a genemotor so that A and B supply
can be taken from a six-volt accumulator. (1)
Which valves woul be better to use, new
four-volt or two-volt types? (2) Would re-
ception and performance generally be affected
by using two-volt valves? —581.
(1) If a genemotor is to be used, the logical
valves are the indirectly-heated six-volt types,
as now used in most A.C., vibrator or gene-
motor powered sets. (2) The two-volt valves
are just as efficient as the four-volt types, but
there would be little gained in using them in-
stead of the six-volt types if a six-volt accumu-
lator and genemotor are to be the power supply.
* X- ■* *
Where can I get a portable for use travelling
around shearing sheds? It must have an Air-
Cell— s Bo.
The Air-Cell is far too bulky to use with a
portable receiver, and in any case it is not
intended that these cells when once activated
should be moved about. The more practical
filament supply for a portable is a small two-
volt non-spillable accumulator. If you are
content with headphone reception, the Com-
panion Portable, as made up by Murdoch’s,
Ltd. (radio dept.). Park-street, Sydney, would
be the thing. This is a pocket two-valve re-
ceiver with midget valves. Otherwise, the
Little Twin, using a double valve, as made
by Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney,
would suit. Both are Bulletin receivers.
Where can I obtain an up-to-date list of
Australian broadcasting stations giving the re-
spective frequencies? —s7B.
Philips _ Radio, Clarence-street, Sydney,
recently issued a station chart, giving most
short-wave stations also. This can be obtained
free on application to the co. Try the Auck-
land branch.
H= . * .X- X
I have a six-valve Aeromer superhet that
works well. 1 want to know something of its
insides, and would like a textbook that goes
into the matter practically, without any compli-
cations. What do you suggest? —s79.
The Book of Practical Radio, by John Scott
Taggart, from Angus and. Robertson, Ltd.,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. This book follows
English practice mainly, but is clear on funda-
mentals.
Workshop Hints.
When using an electric soldering iron
of the “removable-bit” type in which
the copper head is inserted in a tube
within the element case, don’t overlook
the fact that air gets into the tube and,
in contact with the hot copper, produces
a scaly oxide crust which makes the
heating of the bit slower. Removing the
bit and scraping off the “soot” cures the
trouble.
❖ * * *
It is difficult to obtain really good
walnut bakelite these days, the tendency
being for it to chip and flake when
drilled. Use a smaller drill first, and
finish off the hole by drilling (from the
opposite side of the material) with the
correct size drill.
* * * *
If shellac “dope” is unsuitable and the
supply of celluloid-in-amyl-acetate has
run out, a makeshift can be made with
clear liquid nail-polish. This dries quickly
and has good insulation properties. My
chemist tells me he repaired a crack in
an ignition coil housing with it!
R.H.A.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
The speaker shown is Amplion’s new
type “S.A.” It employs the latest type
cone, and the transformer is designed ex-
pressly to cope with heavy loads im-
posed by such valves as 6L6’s. The trans-
former is almost twice the size of other
Amplion speaker transformers, and has
the windings carefully insulated. This
variable-ratio transformer is the first of
its kind manufactured in Australia. .
X- * :J:
Microphones available to-day for
public-address systems, experimenters
and broadcast stations range from
tranverse current carbon to crystal and
condenser types. The experimenter with
any thought for the quality of his trans-
missions will make up a simple Reisz
or velocity type, and forget the solid-
back mike of past days. At the same time
good-quality mikes giving faithful repro-
duction are not expensive. A very good
microphone is the Regal make illus-
trated, marketed in Sydney by John
Martin, Ltd., Clarence-street. It has
remarkable, output, is practically with-
out hiss and is sturdily built. It is avail-
able in single- and double-button types,
and there is a more elaborate model for
studio purposes with a press-button con-
trol for the operator.


LYSAGHITS
m
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
' j r
Wire Netting
Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
ft!
m
« ■ !
«> - -t |
;
|K <
• <3^
: ,4
V/.
?3* ..*■■•■
»
*» -"*•» f
ft
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
New Treatment for Rickets.
“Emoh”: Lack of copper is said by
Dr. H. W. Bennetts, a Perth Agricultural
Dept, expert, to be the cause of rickets
in sheep.
Examination of the livers of normal
and rickets-infected animals' showed the
deficiency, and it was found that pure
copper sulphate (bluestone) fed to lamb-
ing ewes produced healthy lambs, though
without the metal supplement the same
dams bred rickety progeny. Some of
the. ewes left untreated till late ,in their
carrying season developed strong signs
of. anaemia, but copper dosage soon cured
them. Lambs.* which ; were ' evidently
diseased at'birth also were cured with no
trouble.
Bluestone is widely used to deal with
the large f stomach worm, and it can be
safely given to lambs under four months
at the rate of Joz. of a mixture of lib.
bluestone to 2\ gallons water. It dis-
solves slowly in the lump, and it must
be mixed in copper, glass or earthenware
containers, as it has a tendency to eat
away iron and tin.
In W.Ai, bluestone has been admini-
stered to breeding ewes as half of 1 p.c.
of a total lick. ,
It would be interesting to know the
incidence of rickets in liver fluke districts
where bluestone is,used for snail eradi-
cation by spraying and treatment of
drinking water.
More Fat Lambs.
• “Ghanarii”: The results of the depres-
sion and of last year’s fat-lamb shipments
are gradually converting; all Murray
Valley farmers to the idea of combined
stock, and grain farming.
At a conference at Karoonda (S.A.),
E. L. Cowled, of Borrika, said it was
getting more and more difficult to grow
a good crop of wheat on the older lands,
because of overcropping and the loss of
soil through erosion. Farmers were facing
the problem by buying more. land, but
in his opinion anybody should be able to
make a comfortable living off 4200 acres.
His suggestion was to fallow 300 acres
the first year, sow. this reserve in the
second year, half to wheat, the balance
with 75 acres of oats, 50 acres of bafley
and 25 acres of rye. In the third year,
proportions would be the same, and he
suggests drilling in all wheat and oat
stubble with two-thirds rye and one-third
wheat, plus 601 b. super., to provide
winter feed.
With this method and one wheat crop
every four years, the S.A. Murray land
should, he thinks, be able to carry 14
sheep to the acre without loss of fertility.
The recipe, or a variation of it suitable
to locality, is good for a lot of districts
beside the Murray Valley. It calls for
more work and a greater outlay, but it
would take a lot of farms in fair rainfall
districts off . the breadline.
Stud Sheep Export.
“Bungaree” : “Ghanam’s” ; ; protest
against the export of stud sheep (B.
11/8 / ’37) is timely. Until the 1929
export embargo, S’Africa and were
importing about; 1500 of our best sheep
each y year ; and, although stud breeders
raised an outcry at the cutting-out of
these markets, the of graziers
realised the seriousness of The competi-
tion that was being built up.
No longer able to purchase merino
sheep here, Japanese buyers turned
their attention to the next best thing,
and last year purchased nearly 10,000
sheep, from Australia alone, the bulk of
them Corriedales. The importance' of
Corriedale. and crossbred wool generally
has never been more apparent than during
the past 12 months,; and has been re-
flected in the high prices paid per pound.
The merino no longer occupies the
unique sales position of a few years ago.
At last Sydney ram sales, one Corriedale
breeder’s sales average was higher than
all but a few of the topnotch ; merino
studs. At the recent Melbourne sales,
“Where I come from the trees are that big."
"In diameter or circumference?"
"Neither. In Gippsland."
where, admittedly, the big merino studs
are not so well represented, Corriedale
rams were sold for 305gns. and £345,
while thie top price for merino rams was
150gns.
Woolgrowers here and in M.L. must
balance the immediate, profits of a few
breeders against the future of the wool
industry.
Super, and Worms.
“Tryit”: Consistent top-dressing gives
more than increased feed. Even wormy
sheep, put on to top-dressed paddocks,
pick up quickly.
We drenched wormy weaners twice in
a two-month interval with - bluestone and
.mustard, usual strength, and still some
were wormy. Placed on supered coun-
try, those sheep -.have never looked
back. Mobs of lambing ewes have
done the same, which shows that
the supered country is causing the
‘change. Their progeny are showing
greater bloom and, in spite of present
dry conditions, are looking sappy already.
Many disappointments have been
caused by not using enough super., not
applying it regularly, or applying it at the
wrong time. Our results were obtained
on 24in. rainfall country getting 1121 b-
. super, p.a. each year in early
autumn. The greater returns more than
compensate for the labor.
We also attribute a gradual increase
in the lambing percentages to t.-d. coun-
try. In many cases, only the natural
pastures have been treated with excel-
lent results. ■
Zebu Cattle.
“Mookau”: Another Canberra official
has waxed enthusiastic about the pros-
pects of developing the beef industry of
the North with zebu crosses.
The British buyer has definite ideas as
to what he wants in beef. He needs
standard joints with standard fat and
standard texture. The butcher likes his
sides standardised. Vans for the beef-
carrying trade in England are built with
a standard carcass, in view..
Neither the .zebu nor. the zebu cross
with Shorthorn ? or. Hereford conforms
to any British .standard. Nor. will the
zebu; stand drought better or; fatten more
quickly or give, a'.bigger percentage . of
ma.ture calves or a greater output of'first-
class saleable. beef per acre than animals
;of ’ the j old-established . breeds.' - •
The ; Shorthorn, the Hereford and the
Angus have thrived in'all parts of Aus-
tralia. ; You will see as good cows-.arnong
the White-bred and Alexandria-herdson
the; Barkly Tableland; as you will any-
where. ; On The other, hand, in both the
N.T. and Cape York you will see scrub-
bers ;; whose •., great-granddams would
blush to know them—rspindly, outrun,
wild-eyed clothesracks. .
Their condition has nothing to do
.with the ..climate of the : North. Zebus
bred under the same conditions would
be worse. What is needed in the cattle
industry North of Twenty is not faddist
experiments with new breeds, but a
thorough shooting over of existing scrub
bulls, the regular introduction of well-
bred beef-making blood and less rough
mustering.
Red Polls.
“Hortus”: As dual-purpose cows, Red
Polls take some beating. The British
“Dairy Register” shows that 135 of the
breed gained certificates of merit for
consistent milk yield, with a calf each
year during the last three milk-recording
years.
Most British cows do not live long
enough to breed more than two calves.
Their maximum age is no more than 4j
years. But 56 of the 135 were of an
average age of years. Their average
milk yield was 11,9731 b. for the last
three, years. Taking . the whole 135
the average age was eight years, and
average milk yield 10,8101 b.
Several have produced fat-stock show
winners. The majority of the rest are
dams of bullocks, sold to make the best
market prices for fats. The 14-year-old
Daffodil, one of the King’s Sandring-
ham herd, has never missed breeding a
calf a year.
Fodder, Soil, Pastures.
“Rom'Ney": The conference called by
the Sydney R.A.S. to deal with fodder
and soil conservation • and pasture im-
provement spent too much time on
addresses and too little time in discus-
sion. - , , > ‘
■ A couple of pertinent questions asked
by delegates were: “What is a suitable
ration for a dry period?” and “Why
doesn’t the R.A.S. publish with the
points awarded in fodder competitions
the reason why each point was gained?”
I have seen a man with a haystack in
every paddock, pits in almost every
other one. I expected him to score
(Continued on page 44.)


ANNOUNCEMENT!
This remarkable Hair Treatment, that has remedied the many and varied hair maladies
of hundreds of men and women, is the result of a practising doctor’s intensive
research, and this offer, printed below, is made with every good faith to all readers of
“The Bulletin,” both men and women. Bead and act on the advice contained in it.
NEW DISCOVERY
HAlR-
famous course Houi Sent
on TRIAL-BASIS
for 40 DAYS/
EVERY READER SHOULD TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS
WONDERFUL OFFER —READ THIS POSITIVE PROOF
mm
m mm
“Hair Growing Like Wildfire”
“You asked me to report in one month on your treatment for the hair.
The month isn’t quite up yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait that long.
1 could have told you, after one application, that your treatment would
certainly grow hair. I have used a lot of different ‘restorers’ in my
time, but yours is the only one that I ever used that I have had any
faith in. You said it would cure dandruff in one week. Well, I can
beat that easily, as it cured my dandruff in one night. It has completely
changed the color of my hair. It has turned it from dry, dead, straw-
looking colour back to its original shade of brown, and now, after about
three weeks’ use, I have a lot of new hair growing all over my head.
It’s growing like wildfire. I might mention that I never gave your
treatment a very fair go, either.” E. J. REYNOLDS, M., N.S.W.
Test it yourself—NOW!
NOW, you can test it yourself—try this famous treatment in your own home-
under any condition you like, and if it doesn’t grow new hair, rid you of
dandruff or any other hair trouble you suffer from within 40 days, it COSTS
YOU NOTHING! —not a penny. But you must hurry; this offer may never be
/repeated; it places you under no obligation; all you have to do is to post that
4 coupon NOW for particulars!
OFFER to ALL READERS
* r . > ‘‘ fv, t ' " ••’ ' ’ '
Read This Convincing Proof
NEW DISCOVERY
ABOUT HAIR
| T does not matter if your hair
1 is falling out, if you are fast
going bald—or , what you have
tried. You have not used the
RIGHT method. Hundreds of
people who had tried all kinds of
“tonics” found their hair falling
out in handfuls and were fast
going bald. But now their hair is
thick and lustrous —thanks to the
important discovery that —
TONICS WILL NEVER
GROW HAIR
’ | 'HEY never have—because it* is
impossible while the scalp remains
in a choked condition. There is one
underlying principle that stimulates
New Hair Growth—that principle is
involved in the New Murchison Treat-
ment. It’s, a new .way—entirely dif-
ferent and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a
new angle. With it you can stop
your hair troubles overnight or it
won’t cost * you one penny!
m
mmzm
The ageing effect of baldness
upon one’s appearance could not
be more strikingly depicted than
in this picture.
THE FIRST SIGNS OF HAIR
DISORDERS
See if these Conditions apply
to YOU!
THE hair shows the first signs of disorders
in different ways.. It may even be -there
and not be apparent to the subject, though
usually the hair warns you -that all is not
well with it. The cause of all hair trouble
..is neglect, although other factors bring about
hair - troubles, such as- nervousness,- severe
fright, etc. -Nobody desires hair trouble, but
Nature is just ■ rather than merciful, and
whether it is through carelessness or ignor-
ance of the laws of Nature, if the hair does
not receive its proper attention, then- just as
night follows day, trouble with the hair will
follow and’ take its toll. < Does your hair fall
out considerably? .Do you, for instance, get
a lot of combings ? Is your hair split and
broken? Does it hurt to pull gently? Have
you much dandruff on your scalp? Is the
scalp itchy or painful ‘in patches?- Is ;your
hair very dry, or. too oily? Is your hair
changing color ? -Are-the roots falling when
you comb? What state is your hair at
the crown? The answers to these simple
questions will tell you if you have the first
signs of hair disorders; and, if so, take the
warning that is given you by. Nature.
START NOW!
T 1 HERE is no time like the present.
This is an essential truth dealing with
hair troubles. No matter if your trouble
is only slight, it will steadily grow worse.
Falilng hair will ultimately result in bald-
ness. Dandruff will cause falling hair,
and baldness will eventually ensue. Take
your trouble in time by adopting the
J. Kelso Murchison Treatment now. The
Murchison, method will definitely give
you a strong, handsome head of healthy
hair or it costs you not one penny.
Post the coupon this minute!
Mrs. Annita Burgess, Beaumaris,
Vic., says: “Course a Blessing!”
“I. am ‘ writing to thank yoh for the
wonderful results received from.your hair
•treatment.« I was in despair—my hair
v + & pi®
t ..;x ?
H
had been filling '
out and had got
very thin, and no
life in it at all,
and was full of.
iiandruff. I
decided to try
your course. Well,
| can really say
it has- been a
blessing to me, as
n\ y hair no w
looks really better
than I have ever
Mrs. Annita Burgess™
that the photograph speaks for itself.”
WAS PRACTICALLY BALI)—HEAP
NOW COMPLETELY COVERED
WITH YOUNG HAIR.
“I have been applying your hair culture
course for thirty' days \yith splendid re-
sults. I was absolutely laid on the crown
of the head, and no hair [on the temples:—
just a very thin-streak; across the head
between the temples and the crown. Since
I have been using y6ur cburse my head is
completely covered with* young hair. I
have tried every known method of hair
growing without the slightest result, until
I tried r yours. I can recommend your
course,to anyone, fpr my: hair was in a
very bad state.”—George Morrow, Q„ N.Z.
WELL SATISFIED!
“I am well satisfied with the course.
I can see new hair growing on the bald
patches.”—R. SPRY. Y., S.A.
fd
Miss 1.G., of
Q’land, says:
“My hair is
improving' won-
derfully under
your treatment,
there being a
thick growth of
new hair all over
my head, also
every bit of dan-
druff has dis-
appeared. You
have my permis-
sion to. use this
letter and snap.”
—Miss 1.G., B„
Queensland.
FRIENDS, REMARK TJPON
IMPROVEMENT J
“My hair has grown beyond all ex-
pectations, and I have practically a new
head of hair. When I used to brush my
hair before the treatment there was a
distinct bald patch on the crown of mv
head, but now it is thick and strong all
over, thanks to you. My mates have been
telling me what a great improvement it
has made.—R. SALISBURY, T., N.Z.
BALD PATCHES GROYVING HAIR.
“Before I started to use your hair treat-
ment my hair was falling out that much
d
that I thought
I would be
bald in a
short time.
Thanks t o
your wonder-
ful treatriient,
the bald
patches o n
my scalp are
growing hair
very rapidly,
arid I would
reco rnmend
your hair
treatment as
the best in
the world. It
has cured my dandruff, and my hair is
100 per cent, better,”
— W. A. PEARSON. P., N.S.W.
L. Phillips,
o f Dunoon,
says: “Hair
Has Grown
Twice as
Thick!”
“After the first night’s treatment the
dandruff began to disappear; at the end
Of three days was completely gone. New
hair was growing at the temples and
crown of the head at the end of 30 days,
and in a very short period all my hair
and scalp troubles were over for good.
My hair has also grown twice as thick.
Anybody suffering from any of the hair
disorders I have had and desiring to get
rid of them for all time, and obtain a
good head of hair, just write to J. Kelso
Murchison.” —«iL. Phillips, D., N.S.W.
Wonderful results:
I have been using your hair treatment
for one month, with wonderful results.
My hair is no longer thin and scraggy.
It has stopped falling out, and all the
dandruff has disappeared,. also the itchy
scalp. Where it used to be short and
thin it has grown much longer and
thicker. My hair seems as though it has
new life in it, thanks to you. I think
your course wonderful and-so easy to do.”
. —Miss M. DAUMANN, M., N.S.W.
£lOOO GUARANTEE.
We guarantee that all testimonials published in this announcement
are genuine letters or extracts from reports received by grateful
men and women who have used the Murchison Method success-
fully. These letters, together with hundreds more, are open for
inspection at our offices at any time.
HURRY
THIS
COUPON
INTO
THE
POST
TO-DAY!
J. KELSO MURCHISON,
Dept, 88, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Send for FREE Particulars of ; —
40 DAYS AMAZING TRIAL OFFER
SEND NO MONEY
BUT HURRY-THIS OFFER EXPIRES SHORTLY
J. KiOJU MUKtniSUW,
Dept. 88, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS .


f
1308.
HIS is the ideal thing for country
wear. A reinforced Elastic-sided
Riding Boot, made in a tough Black
or Brown Calf, and featuring a strong
welted sole.
Made in full and half sizes.
Prices: Black 27/6, Brown 27/6.
If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a Good Shoe
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Every Abbey Boot or Shoe,
no matter the price, is built to
stand the strain of long and hard
wear.
Uppers and soles are made from
selected leather, and are put to-
gether by the best of craftsmen.
CK->
When ordering Abbey Boots or Shoes,
don’t forget your Abbey Polish.
Made in Black, Tan, Dark Tan and
Nigger Brown. Price, 6d. per tin.
I XX;
= MF\
EVERY year at their Newcastle
and Port Kembla works Ly-
saght's use 130,000 tons of Austra-
lian steel and 20,000 tons of
Australian zinc for the production
of over 10,000,000 sheets of galvan-
ized iron. To all parts of Australia,
the railways and steamers bear
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, every
sheet carrying with it Lysaght's
guarantee and an assurance of
quality and service to every user.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the nian on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D.,
G.P.0.. Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
L6 '
The Despatch
Yards at
Lys aght's
Mills.
LYSAGHT
dsD
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
XMAS FIJI EXCURSION
One Week in Fiji.
R.M.S. "Niagara”
leaves Sydney 23rd Dec.,
arrives Suva 31 st Dec.
R.M.M.V. "Aorangi”
leaves Suva 7th Jan.,
arrives Sydney 15 th Jan.
First Class Return Excursion Fare £33 (from Sydney)
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU
a delightful weeks’ trip: 19 days in Hawaii, or longer
if desired, by “NIAGARA” and “AORANGI,”
sailing every four weeks from Sydney,
Return Fares:—
First Class £72, Cabin Class £52.
(From Sydney)
Apply:—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
(inc. in N.Z.)
247 George Street, or 59 William Street,
Sydney Melbourne
TTie'^xiHeiz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
heavily for location and economy be-
cause there was less carting, either to
stack or pit or from them to feed the
stock. But a competitor whose stacks
and pits were grouped all round the
homestead headed him for location and
economy when the awards were made.
Here are some sound points from the
conference:
H. F. White, Guyra: “There should
be a system whereby fodder can be
stored in glut periods and distributed in
lean. Many graziers would be willing to
buy fodder from such a store, and
many farmers would make a profit by
growing cjops for that purpose.
“Departmental trials should be started
to discover and make available know-
ledge of the proportion and value of
nutrients in various forms of silage.
Personally, I use corn in lean times ; a
bag per 1000 sheep a week, two feeds,
at a cost of Id. a sheep.”
C. E. Prell, Gundowringa, Goulburn:
“I have not opened a silage pit since
1930 because my pastures, when im-
proved, carried the stock through dry
seasons. It was not good country when
I took it up.”
Geo. Wilson, M.L.A., Lake Cowal:
“Pasture improvement is a blank out
west; fodder must be provided by crops.
We use 14 different kinds of sheep feed.
Sheep soon select the proper ration from
this, and an observant farmer can soon
discover what is preferable.
“On a property near Adaminaby we
reduced fluke and black disease to a
minimum by sowing 21b. of sub. clover
per acre, with 2cwt. of super, at first,
and lewt. every year afterwards. Of 300
poor lambs put there, 296 made 245. 4d.
to 255. 4d. five months later.”
R. Shepherd, Narromine: “Out there
we must get our fodder from crops.
Oaten grain is unbeatable. I find of
silage, 4oz. of grain and of lucerne
hay per head a good sheep ration.”
H. C. Carter,Liverpool Plains: “Rough-
age and lopped kurrajong are keeping my
cattle going. Cows are rearing calves on
12-year-old hay chaffed and fed with
linseed meal.”
G. Berry, Trundle: “Silage satisfies
sheep and is good for cattle. With oats
and baled lucerne it can’t be beaten.
Algerian and Belar oats are best out
there.”
K. Gault, Trundle: “Was caught
heavily stocked, devoid of natural pas-
ture. Used silage of black oats, but
sheep ate heads and left straw. Chaffed
it—difficult—so mixed sheaves of cereal
hay and blew chaff into a tank. Put
chaff out in troughs with |lb. per head
of oats; this kept their condition on.
Silage necessary in any fodder scheme,
particularly for lambing ewes.”
A. S. Brunskill, Wagga: “Lambing
ewes have no trouble on hay and silage.
Very dry time. Pasture improvement
too risky in our district. We feed every
autumn —silage and oats for lambing
ewes, lucerne hay and silage, for dry
sheep.”
More on Skeleton Weed.
“Valerin”: Anyone who believes dry
conditions adversely affect skeleton weed
should visit the N.S.W. south-west. On
clean fallow wheat is growing well ;
where the weed is in competition the
wheat is spindly and showing evi-
dence of lack of moisture and nourish-
ment. Even if effective rains fall from
now on crops on affected areas have only
a slim chance.
Publicity is being given to the chemi-
cal analysis of skeleton weed in com-
parison with lucerne. This shows that at
certain periods the nutritive value and
albuminoid ratio of the weed are superior
to lucerne. Perhaps, but it is misleading
and mischievous because it provides care-
less farmers with an excuse to let the
pest go and trust to Providence and the
Government to get them out of trouble.
There is no greater menace than s.w.
to the arable lands of the N.S.W. south-
west and central-west.
The Wheat Season.
“J.W.”: World wheat stocks are the
lowest for years. Against 31,000,000 tons
on August 1, 1934, they were 19,000,000
tons on the same date last year and
round about 14,000,000 tons this year.
Australia’s sowing for the 1936-37
season was 12,342,000 acres, under
400,000 acres more than last year, and
2,000,000 acres below the average of the
past decade. For the 1937-38 season, the
sowing increased to 13,508,000 acres.
The average yield for 1936-37 was 12.19
bushels, against 11.43 for the decade.
Shippers’ average monthly limit price
(bagged lots) was only once below ss. a
bushel in the first half of 1937 —fop was
ss. 4.39 d. average in April. The average
over seven months was ss. 2\d. limit —
double the average of 1934.
Canada’s anticipated production is
lower than in any year since 1919, and
49,000,000 less than last year ; but U.S.A.
expects to have 883,000,000 bushels
against 626,000,000 in 1936 —earlier re-
ports of drought and rust were exag-
gerated. In China, there will be a 25 p.c.
falling off. Prospects of high prices on
the whole are good.
Maize and Rotation.
“J.W.”: Does maize (B. 18/8/’37) do
better with rotational farming?
Over 10 years, field peas, put in before
late maize at Grafton (N.S.W.), increased
the yield by 3 bushels 541 b. per acre.
And all the maize competition results
point to the benefit of alternation with
lucerne, pastures and red clover.
On the New England, the best results
have been obtained with a four-course
rotation —early-sown oats, red clover,
maize and spring-sown oats showed an
average improvement over the conven-
tional spring-sown oats and two following
maize crops of 22 bushels 531 b.
Clover proved particularly valuable,
and its inclusion in the scheme directly
before the maize instead of oats made a
difference of some bushels. The clover
was not allowed to complete its full
normal life, but was given a 15 months’
run.
Lucerne.
“Doitnow”: Now is the time to culti-
vate lucerne. Use a proper renovator,
letting it in at least Bin. Go from north
to south, then from east to west, drag-
ging two harrows on a bar behind the
implement. They can easily be attached
by wire to the inside axle near the two
wheels. Cross cultivation is easier on the
horses.
Mowing a cultivated paddock of its
first cut is far better than eating it off.
It allows the ground to remain aerated
longer.
A good cultivation of any lucerne pad-
dock, bar grazing lucerne, is more useful
than top-dressing with super. If both
can be done, then payable returns are
obtained, as the cultivation lets the full
value of the super, into the surface roots,
the only ones in lucerne to benefit.
Sub. Clover and Pests.
“J.W.”: The lucerne flea, which
attacks sub. clover, has a hold in the
western district of Victoria and other
temperate parts of Australia. It is a
leaf-eater and can quickly go through a
paddock. The female lays her eggs on
the soil and covers them with a film
which effectively camouflages them. They
lie through summer and hatch in autumn,
looking much like other fleas, though
about |in. long. They ravage pastures
until spring.
Eggs are often carried with clover
seed, and a 100 p.c. safeguard is the
cheap vacuum fumigation process. The
Vic. Agricultural Department recom-
mends close autumn grazing followed by
spraying at the rate of 80gals. to the
acre (2001 b. pressure) with a l-in-60
sulphur solution.
W.A. and Vic., too, are experimenting
with a parasite—a Bdellid mite. So far,
results have been promising.
Potato Scab.
“Lam”: Dipping is the best treatment
for potato scab. Four ounces of cor-
rosive sublimate is dissolved in two pints
of commercial hydrochloric acid in a
glass container, and then diluted with
24f gallons of water in a wooden barrel.
This will treat a ton of seed. Dipping
time, 10 minutes.
Dipping is done some months before
planting. A crate or openwork box
worked on a pulley is a good idea, but
dipping should not be done in bags. As
soon as the tubers come out of the solu-
tion, they should be dried to avoid
damage to eyes.


ike
c.-“
-A -A-
la ff.fcV
gu
'1
7/te main block of the original
Sydney Hospital.
Governor Macquarie.
SYDNEY HOSPITAL
In 1816
o
The contract signed by Governor Macquarie for the erection of
Ihe original Sydney Hospital, known for some years as the Rum
Hospital, gave the builders the right to import 45,000 gallons of
rum and provided also that no further permits to import rum
should he issued for three years. This gave the contractors
practically a monopoly of the rum business.
(.urrency was scarce in those days and quite inadequate for the
trading needs of the community. Barter was largely resorted to.
Rum became one of the main means of payment for goods and
services.
The difficulties in carrying on trade led a group of colonists in
1816, the year the hospital was completed, to decide upon the
establishment of a public bank with a view to providing a
stabilised currency.
As a residt of that meeting the Bank of New South Wales
opened lor business in 1817. This Bank played a vital part in
the development of Australia’s currency from the uncertain
conditions of 1817 to the regulated currency of later days.
awA, ori/
Is ESTABLISH CD 1817
FIRST IN AUSTRALIA
270 F
See the NEW
GILLETTE RAZOR
A
REVOLUTION
IN SHAVING
SPEED AND
COMFORT
k
The GILLETTE
,' ' < l'''* ,'S- i ' °
one-fuece
aristocrat’
From the moment you enter the bathroom
to the moment you return the razor to its
handsome case, the Gillette "one-piece”
Aristocrat does not waste a second of your
time. Its ingenious construction, which
does away with the assembly of loose
pieces, ensures the cleanest, smoothest
shave in the least possible time. Just twist
the handle and the blade is at once ready
for cleaning or replacement. Just twist again and the razor awaits
your next call.
There’s no doubt that the Gillette "one-piece"
Aristocrat and a Blue Gillette blade are the
essentials to perfect shaving. Ask your dealer to
demonstrate the Gillette "one-
piece” razor to-day.
Perfectly balanced, heavily silver-plated,
equipped with a man-sized handle and
packed in a handsome nickel-plated
case together with ten Blue Gillette
Blades. Price .... 22/6
£3
;
The Promise of Asparagus.
“X.T.”: Asparagus is sadly neglected
in Australia.
A properly set-down asparagus bed will
yield for a dozen years. The land should
be long-fallowed. It should be on a
slight fall to help furrow irrigation. It
must be shallow-ploughed to get rid of
w'eedy grasses and later ploughed again,
Field peas or oats, put in in autumn and
ploughed under early in June, do good
work.
Californian large-scale growers work
with trenches 7ft. apart and seedlings
every 18 inches. This gives plenty of
hilling earth between the rows. The
spaces between individual plants are
usually filled by natural crown growth
within a year or two. By this system,
4180 plants are needed to lay down an
acre.
Trenches should be ma'de by plough-
ing foot-deep furrows and trimming them
with a spade. About lOcwt. of blood
and bone and three inches of farmyard
manure should be put in. Crowns are
ultimately covered with 9in. of soil.
It takes two years for asparagus to
mature, but cropping with vegetables
between the rows does little harm pro-
vided the main crop is well looked after,
Green tops, the first year, should be
allowed to yellow off before removal —
by hoeing ofl the stems just below the
“jggg begin appear in the second
spring after planting, but the first output
should no t he cut. Let the tops grow as
before. After they have been taken off
m autumn, give the land a good dressing
of fertiliser, without deep cultivation,
which would disturb the roots. Hills for
blanching should be about 3ft. 6in. high
at the apex. The spears should be cut as
soon as the tips peep out of the soil,
Even a day’s exposure will result in
purple Bps. . .
Green asparagus is ripe tor cutting
w hen three inches above the soil,
“Sandy”: If cows have to be driven
far to a dip, try spraying with an ordi-
nary banana spray pump. Two men,
one spraying and the other bailing up
and mixing the dip, will do 50 cows in l|
hours. It is definitely superior to washing
“Moe”: “C.V.S.” can further reduce
t he cost of his woolbins (B. 14/7/’37) by
cutting out the Oregon and using hard-
wood. Mountain or alpine ash, kiln-
dried and dressed, is readily obtainable
in the sizes required, and is stronger and
cheaper than Oregon. Weight is about
the same, but Oregon runs a poor second
for durability. A coat of raw linseed or
fuel oil will preserve dressed hardwood
if it is exposed to the weather.
A.J.K. (Siam): Touching on ants
cleaning up apiaries. After experiencing
great trouble with all sorts of ants here,
we have at last discovered that by
sprinkling a little. Paris green on their
path and round the legs of the bee
stands no ant will cross it. Moreover,
there is no danger to the bees.
“O. I. Saye”: A little-known industry
is the supplying of currant prunings to
vinegar factories. The ferment of vinegar
which has been held over winter has to
be restarted in spring, and for this prun-
ings of the Zante currant are one of the
best agents. At about £5 a ton some
dried-fruits growers think it worth while
to tie the prunings in bundles and cart
them to the railway, especially as the
work comes at a slack time of the year,
More often Dad allows the boys to do it
for pocket money.
“Paris II.”: Borax soil dressings have a
marked influence on apple-tree growth as
well as On the color of fruit. Recently
control trees on poor land were found in
NSW to oivp vNlnw Hrarinv Smithc
JN b.w. to give yellow Uranny Smiths,
while borax-treated trees gave normal,
bright green fruit. A good combination
is lib. borax with Tcwt. of sheep manure
nor trpp nut in in onrina
per tree, put in in spring.
“Zamia”: The N.S.W. Agricultural
Dept, calls attention to the fact that
f i..
loquat trees ate flowering early this yeai.
For every eight trees, owners must have
one flytrap baited with about three
breakfastcups of water, a tablespoonful
of vanilla and a teaspoonful of ammonia,
This must be done five weeks before
fruit ripens, and all infected fruit must
be removed from trees and all windfalls
collected within three days. All waste
fruit must be destroyed. Penalty for
ne S lect is up to £5O. A much cheaper
and safer P lan is to chop down all loquat
trees *
“Sheepo”: Tell “C.V.S.” (B. 4/8/ ’37)
that Polwarths were evolved in Victoria
before pasture improvement was indulged
in, and that they are capable of produc-
ing both quality wool and mutton. The
day is not far distant when dual-purpose
sheep—Polwarths and Corriedales—will
outnumber merinos in Victoria.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
( Transferred from Service Department.)
Method of scouring the year’s accumulation
of scourings and crutchings, and is it worth
while '■ —649o.
Not considered worth while, but here is the
method . Scour the wool in soft water heated
to a temperature of 120 deg. F., to which has
been added, after dissolving, fib. of good soft
scouring soap and 4oz. of sodium carbonate
to ever y 10 B al - water l,sed ln the was h» thus
making a 10 p.c. solution. The heat of the
water must be kept constant. If a second
washing is required, the strength of the scouring
liquid should be reduced 50 p.c. The wool
mus t then be rinsed in soft water heated to
Tlsdeg. F. and dried before packing.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Short St or y
Anting
tyree Lance
journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Tims ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
hew to w. ile and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
l ;0 Eliiaheth Street, Sydney
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
Our Service Dapartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be to one subject.
Tfie right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (16), Sydney, learning to type, some
office exp., high-school education, wants job
in city office.—6727.
Lady, Sydney, own machine, will type and
revise MSS., neat and accurate. —6725.
Words of recitation containing the line “Don’t
withhold your approbation till the parson makes
oration.” —6723.
To buy Rugby Football, by Gallagher and
Stead.—6739.
Information Sought.
World’s and British gliding records for (1)
duration, (2) distance and (3) altitude 3—6757.
(1) Lissitvine (Russia), 38hr. 40min., October
2, 1935; J. C. Neilan (Britain), 13hr. 7min.,
July 16, 1935. (2) Rudolf Oeltzchner flew 313
miles from the Wasserkuppe, Germany, to Brno,
Czechoslovakia, in July, 1935; P. A. Wills
(Britain), flew 105 miles from Dunstable Downs
to Pakefield, near Lowestoft, on July 5, 1936.
(3) Heinrich Dittmar (Germany), 14,190ft. over
Rio de Janeiro, February, 1934; G. M. Buxton
(Britain), 8323ft. over Sutton Bank, September
4, 1934.
v }J;
(1) How many rifle clubs are there in
N.S.W. ? (2) By whom are they controlled?
(3) How much free ammunition does the Gov-
ernment issue to each member of a rifle club?
(4) Do rifle clubs form a part of the defence
system ? —6780.
(1) On June 30, 1936, there were 286
administered by the District Base Commandant,
2nd Military District, with a total membership
of 13,775, 20 clubs administered by other
military districts and 14 miniature rifle clubs,
having a membership of 369. (2) The Military
Board. (3) 150 rounds of Mk. VII and 50
rounds of Mk. VI ammunition p.a. to each effi-
cient member, with seven rounds of Mk. VII
and 25 rounds of Mk. VI ammunition p.a. for
each new recruit. (4) Yes; they are linked up
with militia infantry battalions.
* v * *
(1) Some information concerning archery?
(2) Necessary body action ? (3) Where to obtain
equipment ? —6625.
(l) The target, about 4ft. in diameter, is
placed at distances varying from 50 to 100
yards. Hits score 9, 7, 5, 3 and 1. (2) All
body muscles are called into play. The legs
should be planted firmly for balance. The
string should be loosed smartly, without jerk
or jar, and the hand and elbow should be kept
level. (3) Directions and equipment are obtain-
able from Mick Shnmons, Haymarket, Sydney.
Significance of the Riot Act? —6799.
If in time of disturbance a magistrate, J.P.,
sheriff or mayor reads to a collected crowd of
12 or more persons a proclamation ordering
[.hose persons to disperse, anyone refusing is
liable to arrest and a long term of imprisonment
under this Act. It dates from George I
* * * *
,-ffistory of the "Star of Africa” diamond? —
6794.
Found in the Premier mine, near Pretoria,
Transvaal, 1905, it was first called the “Culli-
nan,’ after Sir T. _M. Cullinan, chairman of the
mine, but by desire of George V. it was re-
named ‘ Star of Africa.” The rough stone,
which weighed 3025| carats (about 1 l-31b.) was
bought by the Transvaal Government for (
£150,000 and presented to Edward VII. on his
birthday, 1907. The cutting was entrusted to :
Asscher, of Amsterdam, who cut it into two
ciii parts ’ one being a pendeloque weighing !
a .L , cara t s and the other a square brilliant 1
weighing 309 3-16 carats. The first is in the
sceptre and the second in the crown of the
/nf a ia ' Besides these there are a pendeloque
(92 carats), a square-shaped brilliant (62), a
heart-shaped stone (181), two marquises (8 9-16
a . nc J. IbrI’ an oblong stone (6f), a pendeloque 1
(4 9-32) and 96 small brilliants together weigh-
ing 7f carats. ,
* * ❖ *
(1) In what year were iron ships first intro - 1
I 2 ) Particulars of the first steamships ? i
(1) One of the earliest iron craft on record I
was a boat built in 1777 on the River Foss
Yorkshire. (2) About 1786 John Fitch produced
lus oar-dnven steamboat. In 1801-02 the-Char- /
lotte Dundas, a steam paddle-boat, was built bv
Symington m Scotland. She was employed in >
towing work on the Firth of Clyde Canal, c
hulton, having witnessed the success of this f
craft, built the Clermont in 1807 for the Hudson (
River, m America, the engines being made by ti
Boulton and Watt (England). The first steamer tl
icn n o a c. a regll,ar sea voyage was the Phoenix in q
1809 She steamed from Hoboken (New Jersey) “
to Philadelphia. r(
(1) Any night school in Sydney teaching radio
engineering? (2) Educational standard for ad-
misston. (3) Fees? (4) Duration of course?
risJ ° ther Particulars ?— 6652. th
(1) Sydney Technical College, Ultimo. (2) tr
Leaving Certificate in English, maths. I and II
and m chemistry, physics or mechanics at
Z h v lgher standard. (3) and (4) £4 for the
first year, £5 for the second and £6 for the
third, fourth and fifth years. (5) The Radio
Engineering Diploma Course is designed for and
limited to those employed in wireless telegraphy
and sound projection industries. Apply Lec-
turer-in-charge, Electrical Engineering Dept.,
Sydney Technical College.
* * * *
(1) In starting a poultry farm what capital
is required to show an income of £3OO-400 ?
(2) Can a beginner make a success without any
previous practical experience, gaining the neces-
sary knowledge from textbooks ? (3) Books
on the subject? (4) Best time to start? (5)
Source of information ? —6622.
(1) Too vague; a knowledge of circumstances
and conditions is required. (2) By starting in
a small way you could gain sufficient experience
in two or three years to enable you to make
a living, but don’t expect to do this from the
start. (3) Poultry Farming, issued by the Dept,
of Agriculture, Melbourne; price 2s. 9d., posted.
(4) and (5) See Poultry Expert, Dept, of Agri-
culture, Treasury Gardens, Melbourne.
* * * *
Particulars of the ship Endeavour? —6791.
Built at Whitby, 1764, she was a cat-built
barque named the Earl of Pembroke, and carried
coal for four years. Her price was £2BOO, and
an additional £2294 was spent in repairing,
sheathing and general fitting for the voyage.
Length 105 ft., breadth 29ft. and tonnage 366
(figures for a Manly ferry steamer: 210 ft., 32ft.
and 500 tons), depth amidships 20ft., draft at
the beginning of the voyage 13ft. Sin. She was
painted yellow on top, then a band of black
and greenish-brown at the bottom.
* * * *
When and what is Walpurgis Night ? —6793.
The night before May 1, when witches and
evil spirits are supposed to be at liberty to
roam. Named after St. Walpurgis, an English
nun who went on a mission to Germany in the
eighth century.
H 8 $ Jjc s{;
Explanation of the mining terms (1) pitcher,
(2) bogger, (3) flat sheet, (4) fracteur, (5)
caps, (6) popper, (7) stumpy, (8) spoiler, (9)
to bar down the back, (10) gandy dancer, (11)
legs, caps and sills? —6764.
(1) A short drill about 2ft. long. (2)
Shoveller. (3) A sheet of smooth steel at the
intersection of truck lines to facilitate the turn-
ing of trucks. (4) Gelignite. (5) Detonators.
(6) A small pneumatic drilling machine. (7)
The Saturday four-hour shift. (8) A heavy
hammer used chiefly for “spoiling” or cracking
stones. (9) After a firing there is generally a
considerable amount of loose ore left hanging
to the back or roof of the stope, and to ensure
safe working it must be removed with a long
steel bar. (10) A platelayer. (11) In timbering
a drive, three sets of timber are used. Buried
in the floor are the sills on which rest the legs
or uprights. The caps are placed horizontally
across the tops of the legs and form the main
support for the back.
* * *
How did the phrase “a good bedside manner”
originate ? —6777.
In Punch,” March 5, 1884, in the letterpress
acompanying a drawing by G. du Maurier:
“What sort of doctor is he?” “Well, I don’t
know much about his ability, but he’s got a
very good bedside manner.”
* ❖ ifc
(1) In what cave is the suspended table? (2)
What is it? (3) How was it formed? (4) Any
other particulars ? —6729.
. (1) In the Lake Cave of the Nindup group
m the Margaret River district of W.A. (2)
A thin sheet of calcareous material, 14ft. by 7ft.,
held to the roof of the cave by two main
columns. (3) The base of the two columns,
which were probably formed by the meeting of
stalactites and stalagmites, was apparently
washed away by the waters of the underground
river, leaving the “table” suspended from the
roof by the two columns. (4) It hangs over the
lake, is illuminated by electricity, and serves as
a platform on which visitors throw contribu-
tions to charity.
* * *
(1) What are the chief forest trees of M.L.?
(2) Of Tasmania? —6728.
(1) White pine, mountain cedar, kauri, black
pine, rniro, red pine, silver pine, yellow silver
pine, pink pine, tanekaha, totara, black beech,
hard beech, red beech, silver beech, black maire,
northern and southern rata and tawa. (2)
Eucalyptus, blackwood, myrtle, sassafras and
pines.
**. * *
Some of the most valuable paintings and the'
prices paid for them? —6722.
Titian’s “Cornaro” group, £122,000; the
Wilton Diptych, £90,000; Holbein’s “Duchess
of Milan,” £72,000; Raphael’s “Ansidei
Madonna,” £70,000; the Rokeby Velasquez
( Venus and Cupid”), £40,000; Titian’s por-
trait of Ariosto, £30,000; Van Dyck’s “Charles
the First,” Holbein’s “Ambassadors,” Velas-
quez’s “Admiral Pulido-Pareja” and Moroni’s
“Italian Nobleman” together, £55,000; Law-
rence’s “Pinkie,” £77,000; Romney’s portrait
of Lady de la Pole, £41,370.
* * * %
tt What English poet wrote the lines beginning
Let no man write my epitaph,” after reading
the speech of Robert Emmet at his trial for
treason? Can you quote the lines?— 673o.
The lines, written by Robert Southey, are:
Let no man write my epitaph; let my grave
Be uninscribed, and let my memory rest
Till other times are come, and other men,
Who then may do me justice.
V : t* ijc
(1) Particulars of leprosy and leper hospitals
in Australia? (2) Is the deathrate from cancer
increasing? (3) What is the most common type
of cancer ? (4) In what part of the body is
cancer most frequent? —676l.-
(1) Isolation hospitals for the treatment of
lepers have been established in N.S.W. (Little
Bay), Q’land (Peel Island, near Brisbane) and
in the N.T. (Channel Island, near Darwin).
Another hospital is to be established near Derby
(W.A.X At the end of 1935 there were 19
cases in Little Bay, 66 at Peel Island and 115 at
Channel Island. In 1935 17 cases of leprosy
were reported in Australia: two in N.S.W., six
in Q’land, eight in W.A. and one in the N.T.
There were 10 deaths from leprosy in 1934
and four in 1935. (2) Yes, Deaths numbered
6120 in 1930, 7310 in 1935. (3) Carcinoma
simplex was responsible for 5459 deaths in 1935.
(4) Cases of death from cancer in the digestive
tract, peritoneum, stomach and duodenum num-
bered 1656 in 1935.
v $
1 have a property in N.S.W. valued for taxa-
tion at £650, though market value is under
£4OO. I wish to make a deed of gift of the
property to my daughter. What will it cost me,
and what is the procedure ? —6691.
If the property is under the Real Property
Act you can obtain a form of transfer from the
Registrar-General. When this has been properly
filled in and executed it should be presented
to the Stamp Commissioner for stamping.
Having been stamped it must be presented to
the Registrar-General, together with the certifi-
cate of title, for registration. Should the
property be under the old system of title a con-
veyance would have to be made and executed
and the stamp formalities, as indicated, gone
through. Without further details no estimate of
costs could be given. Your wisest course would
be to put the matter in the hands of a solicitor.
* * * *
(1) How to distinguish the sex of kooka-
burras ? (2) When is their breeding season ?
(3) Will they breed in captivity? —66o9.
(1) The female bird generally has more
rufous on the head than the male, and the
brownish collar on the nape extends to the
sides of the head and joins the dark ear patch.
(2) Late in spring or early summer, when the
weather is warm and settled. November and
January are the usual months. (3) They have
been bred in captivity in zoos, but without a
permit from the Chief Secretary’s Dept, it is
illegal (under the Birds and Animals’ Protection
Act) for private persons to keep kookaburras
in captivity.
* * * *
(1) To whom did Estonia belong before it
became a republic, and when did it become a
republic? (2) Colors of its national flag? —
6778.
(1) In 1721 Estonia, which had belonged to
Sweden since early in the seventeenth century,
was handed over to Russia, and remained under
Russian rule until 1917, when independence
was regained. (2) Blue, black and white in
horizontal stripes.
* * * *
When and how to collect subterranean clover
seed ? —6715.
Not until a large proportion of the seed is
mature; the ripe seed is purplish-black and
has a hard seed coat. Some of the seed may
be buried fairly deeply, but sufficient will be
found at or above the surface to be collected
by hand rakes from a small area. The raked-up
material can be passed through a power thresher
or a chaffcutter and the burrs winnowed from
the stalks. To separate the seed from the burrs
a specially-designed hulling machine must be
used, but hulling is unnecessary if the seed is to
be used on the grower’s own property.
* * * *
What are the principal languages spoken in
Switzerland, and whereabouts in the country are
the different languages spoken? —67B3.
German is spoken by the majority in 19 of
the 25 cantons, French in five (Fribourg, Vaud,
Valais, NeuchfUel and Geneve), Italian in one
(Jicino). In 1930, 2,924,313 spoke German,
831,097 French, 242,034 Italian, 44,158
Romansch; 24,798 spoke other languages.
* * * *
(1) Brief account of Gerhard Douw and his
works? (2) Some of his best pictures? (3)
Are his paintings represented in the Sydney or
Melbourne Galleries ? —6796.
(1) Gerhard Douw (or Dow) was a Dutch
painter born at Leyden, 1613. He studied draw-
ing and design under Bartholomew Dolendo,
then learned glass-painting under Peter Kouw-
hoorn. At 15 he became a student for three
years under Rembrandt, from whom he
acquired his skill in coloring and chiaroscuro,
and whose style is reflected in several of his
earlier pictures, although later he formed a style
of his own which was somewhat antagonistic to
that of his master. He was noted for his elaborate
and minute style, scrupulous attention to detail
and the fidelity and skill with which he re-
produced subjects in lantern- or candlelight.
He died 1680. (2) “Woman Sick of the
Dropsy,” “The Evening School,” “Poulterer’s
Shop” and a portrait of himself. (3) No.
% JjC jp
Particulars of the frost-fish ? —6726.
A widely-distributed species occurring in
deep water in the Atlantic, Indian and South
Pacific oceans. It sometimes appears along
the coast of M.L. and is cast up on the
beaches during cold, frosty weather. Some
affirm that the fish approaches the shore for
the purpose of depositing its spawn in the
winter months, but it is more probable that,
forced from its deep natural environment by
abnormal conditions, it is rendered helpless by
the sudden lowering of outside pressure and
is caught by the waves and cast ashore. This
theory is substantiated by the fact that the
fish has often been seen wriggling helplessly
in the water before being stranded. The fish
is long (up to six feet) and is ribbon-shaped,
with a large mouth and strong teeth; the skin
is like burnished silver, and the flesh is excel-
lent eating. In English waters it is known
as the “scabbard-fish.’
* * *
(1) Js Montague Island owned or inhabited
by anyone ? (2) Distance from the mainland ?
(3) Area? (4) Possible to lease it? —6292.
(1) It was transferred from the State to the
Commonwealth , for lighthouse purposes. There
are three resident lighthouse-keepers. (2) Seven
and a half miles. (3) 320 acres. (4) No; it is
required exclusively for lighthouse purposes.
Brief Answers.
A.L.Y.: Cannot supply the information
unless you state the kind of wood
E.W.G.8.: There is no valid evidence that the
use of aluminium cooking vessels is detrimental
to health 0.L.5.: A nurse in the U.S.A.
army receives from £l4 to £26 per month
T.J.K.: (1) England has 1750 first-line aircraft,
America 2400. (2) Very little difference between
the speeds of modern bombers and scouts. (3)
Imperial Airways... .P.R.L.: On February 28,
1915, s.s. Thordis, sailing from Blyth to Ply-
mouth, encountered an enemy submarine off
Beachy Head. A torpedo missed the ship, and
the captain, J. W. Bell, sailed full steam at the
submarine, rammed and sank her... .S.H.K.:
Peiping is pronounced “bayping” E.R.:
Weber and Rice’s Health and Strength Col-
lege, 232 Elizabeth-street, and Beattie’s Physical
Culture School, 65 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Both have jiu-jitsu instruction classes... .L.J.H.:
Specimen is a brass game counter, imitation of
George 111. half-guinea of the spade type.
Manufactured in large quantities in Birming-
ham. No collector* value... .F.G.M.: (1) Mac-
quarie Island is not officially occupied, but may
be used by whalers or sealers. (2) Dec., 1911,
to Dec., 1915. (3) No, but the information was
a valuable contribution to world meteorology.
(4) Not under consideration A.W.H.: Hall
Bros., Willoughby-street, North Sydney, are the
agents for Cady marine engines... .C.H.:
Treatment varies according to type of poison;
suggest you send sample of shrub to Dept,
of Agriculture... .F.M.H.: Yes, varies from
2}d. to 3£d. per line; a claim is necessary
W.J.T.: (1) You do not state what metal.
Apparently an Irish sixpence of James 11. of
the gun-money series. Collector value, 2s. (2)
No copper pennies were issued in England be-
fore George 111. If coin is copper it is prob-
ably a halfpenny or farthing; collector value in
good condition, 2s. If it is a small silver piece
it is a Maundy issue; value, 2s G.H.W.:
Name is probably Kwire, abo. place-name for
“a crow.” (2) and (4) Not known. (3) Bayliss,
1839; Wilkinson, 1839; Macleod, 1844; Bairns-
dale, 1844; Orbost, 1845.... W.S.: It was
Thomas Carlyle who said “No speech ever
uttered or utterable is worth comparison with
silence” K. 8.: Correct wording is "Vera
dico, sed nequicquam, quoniam non vis cre-
dere.” It means in English “I speak the truth,
but in vain, since you do not wish to believe.”
. ...C.S.: Jungaburra is a Q’land abo. place-
name meaning “a spirit place”; Yweagie is a
W.A. abo. place-name meaning “a miserable
place”. ...E.M.L.: Goorianawa is a N.S.W.
abo. place-name meaning “natives murdered.”
. ...N.M.F.: The play “The Wind and the
Rain” was written by Merton Hodge L.T.:
Sonnie Hale’s address is The Old House, Hamp-
ton, Middlesex, England... .G.D.: Loss of
smell is commonly due to inflammatory con-
ditions in the nose or the associated air cavities.
Best plan is to undergo examination by a
specialist, especially as there is a discharge....
J.G.D.: Modern Home Physician, edited by £)r.
Victor Robinson (205.), obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney 8.C.: (1) Yes. (2)
Perfectly natural. (3) Yes, roughly it amounts
to that. (4) Yes. (5) Yes. (6) Cannot be
advertised in the lay press. (7) No E.N.E.:
Probably a form of acne, which is due to
a specific germ. It is generally curable in
time. Take plenty of open-air exercise. Avoid
greasy articles of diet. The spots may be
treated with fairly vigorous application of liquid
soap and the following lotion applied daily:
Precipitated sulphur calamine one
drachm, oxide of zinc one drachm, glycerine
one drachm: Shake and paint on with a brush.
P.T.G.: The 1928 referendum resulted in
2,237,391 votes cast in favor of the proposal
and 773,852 against,.. .S.D.: The Manua
Group comprises Tau, Olosega and Ofu and
are included in American Samoa J.K.: See
J. L. Forde’s The Story of the Australian
8ar.... H.A.: The phrase is from Terence,
and in English reads: “This is the duty of a
father, to accustom his son to act rightly rather
of his own accord than from unnatural fear.”
. ...E.8.A.: Cannot see anything to worry
about. You have no title to the land, but as it
has remained unclaimed for 20 years and been
fenced in without objection from any presump-
tive owner you have established a possessory
claim to it... .C.L.K.: David McLelland rep-
resented Drummoyne in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly from 1930 to 1932 V.J.G.: Melt
together five parts of beeswax and 20 parts of
ceresin. Allow the mixture to cool and stir
in slowly 85 parts of turps and 2.5 of pine oil.
. ...W.T.: (1) Necessary h.p. is 1-3, requiring
250 watts; approx, cost £6. (2) Complete unit
preferable to belt drive from engine. Cost
(Sydney prices), 20 c.f., £143; 30 c.f., £169.
....J.F.G.: Names of the children should
follow the order of their dates of birth
A.W.R.: N 0... .A.F.J.: The leading score
wins. As in snooker, when the black is the
only remaining ball a forfeit or a score ends
the game 0.F.: Bin. blanks of Hysil, £2 55.;
90deg. prisms, lin. 205., 1 7-16 in. 275. 6d., from
Esdaile, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney A.H.T.:
Single-reduction-geared turbines (steam). Prob-
ably where a small Diesel engine is used to
start the turbine... .L.D.: “San Fairey Ann”
is a soldiers’ corruption of the French ga ne
fait rien, meaning “that matters nothing”....
R.N.J.: (1) Blue Tie. (2) Blue Tie’s chivalry
towards the lady indicates traditional Southern
breeding F.L.: Too vague; about 9s. to
12s M.M.8.: You are both equally respon-
sible... .F.C.W.: (1) It should be stamped.
Apply Stamp Duties Office, 150 Phillip-street,
Sydney. (2) Yes, executor must recognise it
if in order and duly stamped. (3) You would
not be affected so long as the bank does not
exercise rights it may possess under the mort-
gage C.G.: (1) You refer to Fugitive
Offenders Act. Depends on the circumstances.
(2) Applies to felonies, serious misdemeanors
or crimes punishable by imprisonment with hard
labor for 12 months or more. (3) A magistrate
can make such an order only with regard to
some person within his jurisdiction G.S.:
Approximate heights of the W.A. mountains
mentioned are: Bluff Knoll 3640 ft., Ellen Peak
3420, Mondurup Peak 2831, Mt. Toolbrunup
3341, Warrungup 2768, Twin Peaks 2145
(Many others mailed.)


CHAINED TO BED BY
BACKACHE
Now—Thanks to Kruschen —
Not a Trace of Pain.
This woman’s life was made a misery by
the nagging pains of backache. Then her father,
who had proved the value of Kruschen him-
self, advised her to try it. She did, and here
is her grateful letter:
“For years I have been suffering with pains
in the back. At times I had to stay in bed for
days. I could not walk, or even stand. My
father was using Kruschen Salts for the same
thing. He, too, used to sutler badly, and
Kruschen saved him. He advised me to try it.
I did so, and did not get a pain for three years.
1 then neglected my daily dose for about six
months, and two months ago the pain returned.
I tried another remedy—it failed, so I again
started Kruschen. Now 1 have not a trace of
pain, thanks to Kruschen.” —(Mrs.) H.R.
Pains in the back are usually due to poisons
in the blood —waste products which tired kid-
neys are failing to filter from the system. The
six salts in Kruschen coax your kidneys back to
healthy, normal action, so that not a particle
of poisonous waste matter remains unexpelled.
THEY ARE WHIPS TO
BOAST ABOUT.
k
X.'fruwW'
T+H€ RTRftCT
STOCK W-HIP-
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
14 16-plait Handle, 6ft.
x 12-plait Thong .... 34/6
No. 15 16-plait Handle, 7ft.
x 12-plait Thong .... 36/9
No. 16 16-plait Handle, Bft.
x 12-plait Thong .... 39/-
KINGFISHER
STOCKWHIPS.
No. 8 10-plait Handle, 7ft.
x 10-plait Thong .... 19/6
No. 8a 10-plait Handle, Bft.
x 10-plait Thong .... 21/-
Etc.
Post, 1/3 each.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHERk STEVENSON ltd
595 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .'. . . . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
NO MORE TAXATION-RETURN
PROBLEMS
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
costs you £l,
but that includes the free preparation of your Income Tax
Return by
H. Rawson Stevenson,
a taxation expert, who by his thorough knowledge of
taxation methods will see that you claim the maximum
deductions, and thus save yourself many times over the
cost of the book, and endless worry.
Read what one purchaser says:
“I am enclosing my cheque for £ 3/0/6 to pay for three
copies of the Primary Producer’s Account Book. I showed
the book I had already bought from you to three of my
farmer sons, so they are now each wanting one, as it is
something we have been wanting a long time.”
—H.K.R. (Bogan Gate, N.S.W.)
Forward cheque for £l (plus exchange) to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and the Primary Producer’s Account Book will be sent you
post free.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J. 8.: What, young chap counts rose petals
to find if his girl loves him. Where did you
dig him up?....T.T.. Lonely gni whose long-
anticipated holiday is a flop until she meets the
nice squatter. N 0!... .Z.V.W.: Reduced by
half “Flossie” might find a niche L.T.:
Came close, but it’s too thin... .G.E.W.; Makes
heavy reading... .M.K.: Not for u5....M.T.:
No, you don’t get it over... .J.R.C.: No inter-
est in the meeting of your extremists J.M.C.:
Right off our beat P.L.-S.; Ex-detective’s
reminiscences are usually dull stuff D.M.R.:
Once more, back goes the nursemaid child-
murderer....E.S.: Never!... .M.W.; Can’t
accept your brief, though you should find some-
body who wi11... .P.F.: Not what we want,
but we’d like to see other efforts M.H.S.:
Stijl not i ntereste d in that sales contract....
E.W.: Waste of stamps sending us any
flapper’s diary T.H.Y.: Found nothing of
interest in the “Murder Motley”... .A.F.:
Nothing new there... .A.G.8.: Slight... .L.M.:
It doesn’t get started... .R.G.R.: Not a
chuckle....R.T.M.: Much too long for what
is in it... .E.D.M.: You’ve a lot to learn
about yarnspinning 0.M.K,: We’ve yet to
mppt fhr na vvv whn’d nf his tnnls “re
meet the navvy who d speak ot h s tools re
posin ere the same as when we left em ....
V. Long-winded R.P.J.. Ran that
rapier-flashin’, gun-totin hombre off the
premises J.M.E.: “Bitter Almond” not to
our taste 5.0.8.: Found “The Food Fad-
dist’s Fate” a stodgy dish... .R.D.P.: Not up.
E.R.: Can’t fit those soldiers in here
W. : That election is boycotted S.H.C.:
Below your usual... .P.McD.: Atmosphere’s all
right, but there’s no story N.A.D.; True
enough, brother bu, we can't help C.C.:
Indians m the Canadian North are rathei o.T
our tracks.... K.C.: Solo hunted back the
way he came... .P. 8.8.: The w.p.b. swallowed
the bunch 1.K.: It gulped over “The
Pharisee” E.R.W.: Not interested in Binghi’s
domestic problems J.E.H.: Out again
M.D.: Told more briefly it might scrape in.
. ...M.M.: You don’t break any new ground,
l. De G.: Good going—a murder, robbery
and return of the cash, all in 500 words
J.M.K.: Began well, but it fell away H.G.:
Ordinary 8.L.: “Fergus” still fading....
R;L.: No swagman of our acquaintance ever
soliloquised in that style... .W.R.: Doubtless
you have a legitimate grievance, but you don’t
make folerable iingle.crf ..... Atari
t^em H.S.: The axles of your poetical
W agon sadly need greasing H. 8.: It doesn’t
ring true... .P.N.; Feeble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
8.R.: Gag and drawing look like strays from
a children’s comic supplement H.P.: B. E.
Minns illustrated that wheeze about the dog
40 years ago ... .R.D.: Neat linework, but the
are sadly arranged... .C.J.: The muddi-
b ~ „ ...
” ess SU-l® hn» SUg T S ■ Drawing failed
expectktfons ‘raked by the cover-
i , etter Q L.: That jest was pensioned off
] ong ago J.R.: Figures look to be nailed to
the walls.. . .E.N.: You break too many rules.
. ...W.H.G.: Scrap that indelible pencil, and
don’t use colored paper.... P. 8.: Have seen the
subject scores of times, but couldn’t recognise
him in your caricature.. ..F.C. -.Trotsky v. Stalin
cartoon is a mixture of bad diawing and not
very clear ideas C. 8.: No welcome for large,
f d draw j ng Q f Hebraic-looking gent, labelled
, lJhis Y ear’S Cup winner.”. . .P.A.: One
S q U int at it through a reducing glass settled
i ts fate J.T.: Same old Domain-dosser, same
o ] d gag about soap and water W.N.K.:
if the goat had any self-respect it would
have eaten the sketch before it reached u 5....
L.P.: As the boy lives in Sydney he should
attend an art school. Textbooks won’t carry
hi m far....M.M.: Sketch is bold enough, but
the gag anaemic... .G.H.W.: You managed the
Pf"lcfS .MyfTUt J 2?
w j gs and we ne ver saw a court copper in a
Sam Browne belt.... V.M.; You should do
well w ; th more confidence... .W.C.8.; Modern
demand is for crisp gags; yours consist of ques-
tions and answers... .G.J.: Almost thou per-
suadest us—the wheeze is the stumbling-
block... .H.T.; More like an early lesson in
signwriting than a cartoon... .A.R.N.: Little
George’s bright reply should be kept for the
family circle... .C.H.8.: Eight-nine-ten-0ut....
L.S.C.: Couldn’t get the point of the push-
ball match with Hitler and Mussolini as players.
H.R.: Chess joke as old as the first chess
match.
WAR COMES TO SHANGHAI.
BY “FENG-SHUI.”
International Shanghai is so accus-
tomed to finding itself the centre of a
war which does not technically concern it
that it has evolved a set of rules and
regulations for the emergency when it
happens, much as a health department
might prepare for an epidemic. Volun-
teers are mobilised and man the invisible
boundaries between the various conces-
sions and the Chinese city and European
suburbs, which have insensibly extended
across the frontiers because rents and
taxes are lower in the Chinese territory.
Warships of a dozen nations assemble
off the Bund opposite the Chinese factory
area of Pootung, and what is left of the
Chinese navy and the naval might of
Nippon glower at each other from neigh-
boring reaches of the Whangpu.
The problem of the belligerents is to
do as much damage to one another as is
possible without bringing some other
nation into it. If a general in war-time
had the job of bombarding Bourke-street,
Melbourne, without incommoding busi-
ness in Collins-street, he would be in the
same predicament as a Chinese or
Japanese commander who finds himself
obliged to snatch a victory from the
cannon’s mouth round about Shanghai.
Naturally, under these conditions inter-
national complications are inevitable. In
the smoke of battle it is easy to mistake
a French Annamite mercenary for a
Japanese or a powder-begrimed White
Russian for a Mongol.
Nor are the belligerents overanxious
to avoid provoking these complications,
provided they can lay the blame on the
shoulders of the other fellow. If a
Chinese detachment can manage to
shelter behind a European factory the
Japanese commander has the option of
allowing his adversary a tactical advan-
tage or knocking the factory over. If he
knocks the factory over some British or
American insurance company may or
may not have to indemnify the sufferer,
and in any case a Japanese or Chinese
contractor will probably have the job of
rebuilding the establishment.
One of the first acts of the Japanese
in the present conflict was methodically
to pound to pieces a wharf which had
just been completed at the cost of a
million. No doubt some European firm
will have the job of rebuilding the wharf
when the fighting is over.
Long before hostilities commence the
refugees begin to flock in from the
Chinese city, until the pavements, the
steps of the business buildings and every
vacant allotment are packed with men,
women and children sitting apathetically
among their household gods waiting till
it is over, like Javanese villagers during
an eruption. When the argument be-
tween the great ones of the earth is
finished they go back again—if there is
anything to go back to. If not, they help
to swell the vast army of beggars camped
in hovels and heaps of refuse about the
periphery of the great Eurasian mart with
its 20-storey hotels, cinemas, depart-
mental stores and luxurious mansions.
Much has been written about what the
Chinese proletariat thinks. It doesn’t think
at all: it only reacts along the lines of
its tradition ; and that is equally true of
all the various contestants, military and
commercial. If, when Shanghai was first
built on a swamp as a depot for British
manufactured goods, somebody had
prophesied that Chinese and Japanese
would be manufacturing things for them-
selves for export to the countries of the
foreigners, he would have been regarded
as a madman.
The French, the British, the Chinese,
the Japanese and other nationalities have
erected monuments and memorials to
various heroes of their respective races,
and no doubt they all deserved it; but,
whatever Shanghai is, it is certainly not
the result of conscious planning. As a
sort of European pale, it hangs so pre-
cariously on the fringe of China proper
that when the Chinese representatives at
the International Truce Commission’s
conference said that they could not
guarantee the inviolability of the foreign
settlement the international represen-
tatives knew they were in the presence of
a crisis. It requires only one of the
belligerents to think or imagine that the
other is using the settlement for a base,
and a general melee would develop which
would need an archangel to disentangle
and whose repercussions would be in-
calculable.
Every separate community in Shang-
hai wants the foreign city to be preserved.
Each resents the presence of the others,
and the Chinese resent the presence of
all of them. The spirit of international-
ism is vested not in some all-powerful
body but in the municipal council. To
start a war in the vicinity of a place like
Shanghai is not a neighborly proceeding.


A welcome break /"
I ' I
.. r - J ,-.:-J::4^tHjir : s
34 CC/AisAyis- ffy
sjjj»|i|jn
ww"*/
Beig
’(oiiowKglrfr i
IfpPlplti
*/ W^r /# »j *■*»**
lltifcfe
/.fi
i
g*
'P
niiT]
fit
liiJ^
isr-
sp? :
S®£
TO
jjjftfjj
jjjrJ'Sjjh-
W*.
y
360
II
ra
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantk
- - - Hobart
When Stoddart's Team Won the Rubber.
No. 7 of a series of articles on Old Cricketers.
Next to 1882, 1894 is the most memor-
able year in the history of Australian
cricket. Never have more interesting in-
ternational matches been played in Aus-
tralia than the matches played that
season, which witnessed the introduction
of five Tests, and in no other year have
so many great Australian cricketers
come to light.
And yet the rubber was lost to an
English team (Stoddart’s) that had been
designated unrepresentative because
W. G. Grace, Shrewsbury and Jackson
were missing. Actually, MacLaren, J. T.
Brown and Ward proved satisfactory
substitutes, and among the bowlers were
Richardson and Lockwood, Peel and
Briggs, the two finest expresses and two
of the best slow left-handers that ever
sported English caps.
The tourists had begun their eleven-a-
side matches by losing to South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide —by six wickets. That
South Australian side was one of the
finest that ever represented any part of
Australia, including as it did George
Giffen, still the greatest of all-rounders;
Lyons, not yet excelled as a forcing bats-
man ; Ernie Jones, the fast bowler ; the
brothers Jarvis (Affie was presently to
succeed Blackham as the Australian
wicketkeeper); Jack Reedman, another
excellent all-rounder; Joe Darling and
Clem Hill.
Joe Darling was the seventh son of
John Darling, M.L.C., founder of the old
flourmilling firm. As a boy he went to
Prince Alfred College, and for Prince
Alfred v. St. Peters he made 252 —the
record score in these inter-collegiate
matches until it was excelled by Clem
Hill, also for Prince Alfred, with 360
not out. When he left school, Darling
went straight to a farm bought for him
by his proud parent; but, wanting to
play cricket, he returned to Adelaide and
opened a sports store in partnership with
a veteran cricketer named Waldron. He
was a left-hander, and a most attractive
batsman: not so sound perhaps as the
younger Hill, also a left-hander, nor so
stylish as Bruce ; but a more powerful
hitter than either. His contributions to
S.A.’s victory over the Englishmen were
a grand 117 and 38 not out; and every-
one agreed that Joe Darling had arrived.
Giffen played a still more notable part.
“The greatest cricketer the world has
ever seen,” said Johnnie Briggs in an un-
wonted burst of eulogy. Fantastic as it
may seem to players and followers of
the game whose memories don’t go back
very far, there are still many old-timers
who agree with the little Lancashireman.
S'oddart and hia ™ en f ou > a * s,s
of the M.C.C. and the Sydney C.G. trus-
ancj Melbourne sent its secretary,
Major Wardill, to Adelaide to greet them.
RELATIVE SIZES OF THINGS IN 1894-95.
The major, a jovial veteran, said at a wel-
coming swarry: “We asked Mr. Stoddart
to bring eight amateurs and five profes-
sionals, ana if he haa brought them we d
have done them, by gad. But he has
brought five amateurs and eight profes-
sionals ; and, by gad, they’ll do us.”
And they did. ,
MacLaren did not play in the Adelaide
match. He made his first Australian
appearance against Victoria at Mel-
bourne, and as a debut it rivalled that
of H. H. Massie in England in 1882. In
the Englishmen’s first innings, the young
man from Kent (he was only 22) made
a splendid 228, scoring all round the
wicket and hardly ever lifting a ball until
he was taken by Harry Trott at point. His
228 virtually won the match for his side.
Trott had become a name to conjure
with in Victorian cricket. Harry Trott’s
able batting and tricky slow leg-breaks
had gained him an established place in
the Australian eleven, and Albert Edward
Trott had joined his elder brother in the
Victorian team.
Harry and Albert Edward belonged
to South Melbourne, and, until Albert
Edward got a job as ground bowler at
East Melbourne, they played in the South
Melbourne team. Their father was the
South Melbourne scorer, and pa was ad-
dicted to following the operations of his
offspring with snatches of soliloquy
which people who gathered about found
as diverting as the cricket. The old
’un had evidently modelled his style on
that of Mr. Alfred Jingle. “Another
four to Harry,” he would say —“one
more to Harry—ah, an uppish stroke, I’ll
have to talk to Harry about that one
to-night—a single to Albert Edward —
another four to Harry —wonderful how
Harry keeps his form! —another single
to Albert Edward—three to Harry—two
to Albert Edward.” Here perhaps the
head of a small boy would be thrust
into the scoring box for information as
to “ ’Arry’s score.” “Ninety-eight, my
boy, ninety-eight,” Harry’s proud pro-
genitor would reply—“two to Albert
Edward —three to Harry—two hundred
up —made his hundred —splendid!”
Humphreys, the lob bowler, was one
of the winners in that Melbourne
match. The crowd found his methods
entertaining. In placing the field, he sent
five men to the boundary, where they
stood like sentries, having only one man
on the off and no one in the slips.
Humphreys was a stocky man in the
middle forties (incidentally nine members
of the team were six-footers), and he
took a short run and wheeled them well
up. His first delivery, to Graham, made
the spectators laugh, it looked so child-
like and bland; but it bewildered
Graham. So did the second ball. The
third Graham smote mightily into the
longfield for one. . In the end the fast-
footed Graham discovered how to play
him, but all that afternoon only one
four was hit off Humphreys, and Frank
Laver, in trying to give an encore, hit
the ball into the safe hands of a sentry.
In eleven-a-side matches the underarm
bowler did not exactly come off, but he
did great execution in matches against
country teams —Stoddart’s team visited
Gawler, Armidale, Toowoomba, Bal-
larat, Broken Hill, Dandenong, New-
castle, Launceston and Hobart. Since the
l.b.w. rules were altered, Englishmen who
can remember Humphreys and Alfred
Lyttleton have contended that lob bowl-
ing is due for a revival. It would cer-
tainly make the game a bit livelier.
Going to Sydney, the Englishmen beat
N. S. Wales by eight wickets. That was
the match in which Bill Howell, picked
as a batsman, distinguished himself as a
bowler, getting the English captain and
four others for 44 ; and Kelly, over from
Melbourne —where he had played for St.
Kilda —had become the N.S.W. Aunt
Sally.
Then came one of the most thrilling of
all Test matches. Australia won the
toss, and in a half-hour had lost Harry
Trott, Lyons and Darling, Richardson
clean-bowling all three for 21. Then
Giffen (161) and Iredale (81) put on 171
for the fourth wicket.
On the second day, Reedman, Charlie
McLeod and Turner were dismissed
cheaply; but Syd Gregory (201), playing
the game of his life, and Blackham (74)
put on 154 for the ninth wicket. All
out 586 ; Richardson, 5 for 181. The
Englishmen replied with 325, only
MacLaren, Peel and Richardson failing
to make double figures; Ward top-
scored with 75 and Briggs (57) was next
best. They followed on, and this time
only one man (Gay) failed to enter the
double-figure list; Ward again led with
117, Brown following with 53. Giffen
did the bulk of the bowling: 4 for 75
and 4 for 164. In each innings there
were 21 extras: Blackham, though sur-
passing himself with the bat, was not at
his best with the gloves.
There was no time limit, and at the
end of the fifth day the Australians had
got 113 of the 177 required with eight
wickets in hand. But during the night
it rained, and Giffen has recorded in his
one book that when he met Blackham in
the morning the captain’s face was “as
long' as a coffee pot.” South Australia
had five men in that eleven, and Lyons
(25), Giffen (41) and Darling (53) had
striven nobly for victory, but the others
could do little against the bowling of
Peel and Briggs, who found the sticky
pitch a slow-bowler’s dream. The last
wicket fell at 166: Peel, 6 for 67 ; Briggs,
3 for 25 ; England, by 10 runs.
There was a lot of betting on that
match. When things looked hopeless for
the Englishmen, MacLaren put £4 on
them at 50 to 1. But the Ring held a
great deal of Australian money—so much
that, • according to Tattersall’s Club
gossip, it handsomely supplemented the
gifts which Syd Gregory received for his
great innings—he got £3O from brewer
Toohey, while £lO6 10s. was subscribed
on the ground.
With only a night’s rest after their
Test-match exertions, the Englishmen
played 18 Sydney Juniors, who managed
to make a draw of it. Among them were
two of the hottest juniors of all time—
Trumper, who made 67, and Noble,
whose contribution was 152 not out.
Both were products of the Crown-street
public school; Trumper was captain and
Noble past-captain of the school team.
Then to Melbourne for the second
Test match with an altered Australian
eleven. Blackham had been hurt at
Sydney, and Jarvis took his place behind
the sticks, while Bruce, Hugh Trumble
and Coningham were substituted for
Reedman, Charlie McLeod and Jones.
The wicket was difficult, and Giffen, win-
ning the toss, put the Englishmen in.
Only Ward (30) could do anything with
the bowling of Turner (5 for 32), Trumble
(3 for 15) and Coningham (2 for 17), and
out they went for 75. On an improving
wicket, Richardson got five Australians
for 57, and on Saturday evening they
were all out for 123 (Giffen 32, Darling
32).
The solidity of the Englishmen s bat-
ting was shown in their second innings,
in which every man got into double
figures. Stoddart top-scored with 173.
made in five hours and a half. Giffen
took 6 for 155 and Turner 3 for
99, but the others were expensive, and
the board showed 475. Trott (95), Ire-
dale (68), Bruce (54) and Giffen (43) did
their best to get the 428 runs needed,
but Brockwell, by bagging three good
wickets for 33 when the regular bowlers
had been collared, put his side in a win-
ning position, and it won by 94 runs.
Still more changes were made at Adel-
aide: Lyons, Coningham, Trumble and


c^mbassu
FOOTWEAR
ior Gentlemen
L
FAULTLESS IN STYLE,
FLAWLESS IN CONSTRUCTION.
Smartly dressed men unfailingly choose Embassy
Footwear. Their sound judgment is an indica-
tion of the true worth of these fine shoes, which
add that essential touch of elegance and
individuality.
Wear the new Embassy—Medium-pointed Toe.
Prices from 23/6.
PIKE
BROTWSLRS • LIMITED
OF OULE.N ST. BRISBANE
THINGS
ABOUT THE 1937
HILLMAN
Minx
MAGNIFICENT
r-s-*.
m
m$
m*
m
£i
N.M.3
Uj CAR APPEARANCE
' SAFETY
PERFORMANCE
COMFORT
ROOMINESS
THE LIGHT CAR OF 1937!
A BIG car in every sense of the word. Utterly advanced,
yet completely proved. Light on your pocket, yet big in
everything that makes for motoring enjoyment.
Try for yourself the margin of headroom, legroom and
width which the Hillman MINX MAGNIFICENT provides
for both rear and front seat passengers.
Stylishly streamlined . . . with IMPORTED ALL-STEEL
BODY (fabricated in Australia) . . . SUNSHINE ROOF
on the Minx De Luxe . . . lavish appointments and equip-
ment ... 65 miles per hour . . . 30-35 miles per gallon!
TIIE WORLD’S FINEST LIGHT CAR
DISTRIBUTORS:
S. AUSTRALIA:
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA:
D. L. Hollis Motors
y ork Street, Launceston.
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath Ltd.
358 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane
N.S.W.:
John McGrath Ltd.
755 Elizabeth St., Sydney
VICTORIA:
Overseas Motors Pty. Ltd.
222 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l.
W. AUSTRALIA:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth.
World Exporters:
j!
HooteS”
Australian and N.Z. Representative:
C. E. BLAYNEY,
Kembla Buildings,
ishire House, Piccadilly, Londi
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Juvon
on.
Turner came out, and Harry, Worrall,
Albert Trott and Sid Callaway went in.
In the meantime, Giffen had collected
16 N.S.W. wickets for 186 on a perfect
oitch in the inter-provincial match, and
ne continued his fine form in the Test,
taking 5 for 76 in the Englishmen’s first
innings and scoring 58 and 24. But
Albert Trott and Callaway were the
heroes of that match. When nine were
out for 157 in the Australians’ first effort,
the pair made a plucky stand which car-
ried the score to 238: Callaway 41, Trott
38 not out. And Callaway (5 for 37)
helped to dismiss the Englishmen for 124.
The match was played in intense heat,
and the Englishmen complained that it
left them jaded ; anyway the Australians
in their second innings knocked the
bowling all over the place, making 411
(Iredale 140, Bruce 80 and Albert Trott
72 not out). Then Albert Trott (8 for
43) and Giffen (2 for 74) went right
through the English side: England, 143.
It was a dazzling performance for a
youngster of 21, as Trott was then, and
he continued the good work in the
fourth Test match at Sydney. In Aus-
tralia’s only innings he made 86 not out
—196 in two matches without losing his
wicket. The Australians had lost the
toss, and Stoddart sent them in to bat on
a wicket which Ned Gregory, the
groundsman, described as one of the
worst, he had ever seen. Moses and
Graham had been brought in to
strengthen the batting; but four were
out for 24 when Graham came in. Play-
ing one of the most dashing innings ever
seen on a wet wicket, the Victorian
knocked Richardson off, and went on to
make a splendid 105.
Recognising his value in Sydney, the
selectors had picked Turner again, and
“The Terror” (22) and Darling (31) gave
useful assistance. The Englishmen found
themselves with the job of beating 284,
and with a wet Sunday to think it over.
Albert Trott was not called upon to bowl.
His brother (3 for 21), Turner (3 for 18)
and Giffen (3 for 14) put the Englishmen
out for 65, and Turner (4 for 33) and
Giffen (5 for 26) disposed of them again
for 72. Lockwood could not bat—a
soda-water bottle had burst in his hand —
but he could have made little difference.
In spite of Turner’s wonderful work
he was left out of the team for the last
Test match in Melbourne —one of the
worst mistakes selectors have ever made.
McKibbin had darted into prominence by
taking 5 for 36 for N.S.W. against Vic-
toria and 14 for 190 v. South Australia ;
and it was decided that he was the man
to put the Englishmen through. Lyons
came in again in place of Moses. This
experiment was justified, for the hitter
made 55 ; in fact, four South Australians
contributed more than half of Australia’s
first-innings score of 414: Giffen’s share
was 57, Darling’s 74 and Jarvis’s 34 not
out; Gregory (70) and Harry Trott (42)
were the others who did well. The Eng-
lishmen replied with 385 (MacLaren 120,
Peel 73, Stoddart 68 ; Harry Trott, 4
for 71, Giffen 4 for 130).
Every Australian but Albert Trott, who
was bowled by Richardson before he had
scored, made double figures in the second
innings. The South Australians almost
equalled their first-innings performance
(Giffen 51, top-score ; Darling 50, Lyons
15 and Jarvis 14 not out), but of the
others only Harry Trott (42) and Gregory
(30) did much. They were all out for 267.
The Australians made a good start
towards victory when they got Stoddart
and Brockwell for 28, but Ward (93)
played the rock, while Brown (140) went
in for hitting. The pair mastered the
Australian attack, and when they had been
got rid of MacLaren and Peel methodi-
cally did the little that was left for them
to do. So England won by six wickets.
The ball was presented to Stoddart.
Holding it aloft, he said: “I’m glad
Turner hadn’t the handling of it.”
McKibbin’s figures for the match were
two wickets for 120, Albert Trott taking
one for 140.
No previous match had excited more
interest in Victoria. At a farewell enter-
tainment to the English team Judge
a’Beckett confessed that he and his
brother-Judges, while sitting in Court,
had received frequent bulletins from the
Melbourne Cricket Ground, handed to
their associates by counsel as “notes in
the case.”
Tommy Horan, who wrote as “Felix,”
was the Neville Cardus of the day. His
gossipy style was the delight of old
cricketers, but a fellow-scribe did not
like it, and while the Test match was in
progress the fellow-scribe guyed it
cruelly:
“Horse reporting is poetry compared
with cricket gossip when the old special
person is turned loose to do something
bright and chatty. He usually starts with
the bald announcement that ‘lt was hot,’
after which comes a list of venerable
persons who could, or thought they
could, remember warmer weather on pre-
vious historic occasions. After a bit, the
gossiper gets himself fairly wound up,
and the fountain of small talk plays
somewhat as follows: —
“ ‘I have seen worse strokes than that,’
said Dan Grummick, a famous wicket-
keeper in the Western District when the
century was younger. Dan was feasting
on the ripe innings of George Giffen,
and exchanging confidences with tough
John Jorrer, whom I remember as a re-
spectable cover point in the early days
at Castlemaine. Michael Hump (many’s
the time I’ve seen Michael wipe the per-
spiration from his kindly face after a
long day’s leather-hunting on a certain
little ground long since built over, alas!
at Ballarat) had taoped him on the
shoulder as he passed by only 10 minutes
before the words were spoken. ‘Yes,
I’ve seen worse strokes than that,’ re-
iterated Dan. Tom Soaker, who hadn’t
stirred on his perch since the resumption
of • play, looked around with his old-
fashioned Parramatta smile and cordially
endorsed the terse remark. Tom likewise
had seen worse strokes than that clean
daisy-clipping drive to the boundary near
to where Peter Maunder, of Adelaide
was leaning over the rails. ‘What say
you?’ he asked of ‘the captain.’ ‘The
captain’ scratched his head (it still bears
the bump he got from a long drive—one
of the best leg-drives he ever saw in his
life, the victim is fond of saying), and
slowly came to the conclusion that he
“didn’t know what to say.’ ”
Before they returned home, the Eng-
lishmen avenged the defeat that South
Australia had inflicted on them, a great
609 (Ward 219, Ford 106, Brown 101)
enabling them to beat the South Austra-
lians by 10 wickets. For South Aus-
tralia Clem Hill made 150 not out and
56. His father, one of the Railway Cam-
missioners, had promised him a pound
for every run he made over the century,
so the bright youth, then only 17, col-
lected £5O.
Encouraging batsmen with promises of
the root of all evil was a pleasant custom
of moneyed South Australians in those
days. E. T. Smith, the brewer, often laid
Jack Lyons £5O to nothing that he
wouldn’t make 50 ; and Jack blewed not
a few £5O cheques.


“M. Turlutu’ : Brisbane Show Week
provides a busy time for Queensland
police in looking after the exponents of
“red-hot” games. They are kept out of
the Show itself, but operators about the
city and suburbs are always on the look-
out for a clean-up of some country “in-
vestor.” A strong favorite is the stripe-
rolier, an octagonal piece of wood, six
inches long and three in diameter, painted
in strips of color. It is rolled along a
strip of oilcloth, similarly painted, and
the operator pays out on colors which
come up top. The outfit can be carried
in a pocket, and set up on any table or
counter. The catch is that by careful
shaping, the roller is completely con-
trollable when thrown in a certain way,
although the performance seems fair-
ness itself. An urger steers the backing
of a particular color until all is set for a
good killing.
“Bathwick”: The “Bath Chronicle”
(5/6 / ’37) prints columns of the cere-
monies and speeches that attended the
unveiling of a memorial tablet in Bath
Abbey to Admiral Phillip. Baron Wake-
field, an ex-Lord Mayor of London, did
the unveiling, one of the reasons for his
selection apparently being that he is an
alderman for the ward of Bread-street,
where Phillip was born and where a
memorial to the man who was described,
with pardonable inaccuracy, as “Founder
of the Commonwealth of Australia” was
erected years ago. From all the oratory,
however, little new is to be gathered
about Phillip, except that a lineal descen-
dant of the Admiral, the Rev. Arthur
Phillip Lancefield, was present at the
ceremony—it was recently queried in
these columns whether he left any lineal
descendants. Even the time that elapsed
between his burial-place at Bathampton
being forgotten by his contemporaries
and being rediscovered by a zealous
vicar wasn’t mentioned, though I suspect
it was over half a century. But one re-
freshing thing about the speeches was
that never a word wak said about the
ghoulish project of dragging the
Admiral’s bones from Bathampton to
Sydney. So I take it we have heard the
last of that.
’ v ’ % * * *
“El V.”: Those intent on ransacking
the grave of Spenser in search of an
original Shakspeare manuscript are prob-
ably depending on a passage in Camden’s
Annals in which he says that Spenser’s
funeral was “attended by poets, and
mourning elegies and the pens that wrote
them were thrown into the tomb.” As
the old gentleman was headmaster of
Westminster School, hard by, he was no
doubt a witness to the tributes. Shaks-
peare doesn’t sound to me like a gent,
who would rush to throw a potboiler
on anybody’s coffin, but I wish the
searchers luck and hope Spenser will have
a better opening ceremony than Jonson
did when they accidentally uncovered
him a few years ago. Ben was buried
standing up, and while they were delving
a resting place for a much less distin-
guished citizen the sand rolled away, and
with it the poet’s skeleton. There was
just enough of it left to establish the
fact that he had red hair.
“Murkah”: Broken Hill time has a
curious history. In the beginning all
Government departments kept N.S.W.
standard time. But local activities, in-
cluding trains and trams, ran to S.A.
timetables, wherefore tramway and P.O.
clocks, on opposite sides of the streets,
disagreed to the extent of an hour. Later,
S.A. commerce found it a disadvantage
to be a full hour astern of N.S.W., and
a Legal Time Act was passed by which
local clocks were shoved on a half-hour.
Banks and most private businesses trans-
ferred to the new time. Hotelkeepers
were mainly instrumental in getting
N.S.W. Parliament to decide on S.A.
standard time for their activities. As the
new legal time was different therefrom,
Broken Hill had choice of three times.
Now the whole town keeps S.A. time ;
but those departments which belong to
N.S.W. work to N.S.W. hours (i.e., their
staffs come on and cease duty a half-
hour ahead of the local clock).
* * * *
“Hook”: Sailors’ pet aversions in my
experience are the admiral’s annual in-
spections. I recall an occasion at Port-
land (Eng.) when, after weeks of fever-
ish spit-and-polish, the Great Man
arrived, with his brass-bound train, and
did the rounds of the ship. Such spot-
less wood and gleaming brass and steel
greeted him on every side that it seemed
as if the lightest fault would be hard to
find. At the last moment, however, his
eye fell, on a lonely cigarette bumper.
He never spoke. Just looked at it, and
then, gazing straight at our skipper,
passed on his way. I’m not going to
repeat what that skipper said to us, but
this is how he finished: “Understand.
I won’t have my ship looking like a pig-
sty.”
“Kimber Lee”: Life in the middle-
class suburb is a very drab affair to any-
one who has known the intimacy of the
"When y' come to the strait-jacket, lady, I'll give y' a' and."
country town. A few years there, and
one has a wide circle of acquaintances
with whom to exchange all the local small
talk. It’s all warm and vital; one is a
being, living and loving and laughing
with his (or her) fellows, weeping with
them at times ; errors are pardoned or
glossed over ; hatreds seldom last. In
the suburb one may live for years and
scarcely know his neighbor’s name ; cer-
tainly not his job or pastime ; whether
he’s genial or dour, open-handed or mean.
We fight each other ruthlessly for tram
or train seats morning and evening, but
rarely acknowledge each other’s exist-
ence. Suddenly one realises the awful
blankness of it, and a great nostalgia for
the bush follows. The Bobbra Wobbnt
deadbeat has more friends than many an
irreproachable suburbanite.
“Sally”: She is a dame of some social
tonnage, and was explaining to the new
maid the attention which the head of
the household required. “You will take
the master his morning tea and get his
breakfast,” said the lady impressively.
“Then you will polish his shoes, brush
his coat, dust his hat and hand him his
umbrella at the door.” There was more
in the same strain, until the prospective
Abigail began to show symptoms of
restiveness. “And what night do I take
the master to the pictures?” she struck
in. The interview terminated abruptly.
“0.W.W.”: I suppose it is because my
city visits are so rare that I notice, more
markedly every time I make my annual
jaunt to Wellington (M.L.), the increasing
unpleasantness of female facial make-up.
I don’t know what the so-called “beauty
aids” are, of course, but those dead-
white dials, daubed with some flaming
red muck, remind me of nothing so much
as the equipment of circus clowns. Of
all the scores of women I noticed in a
morning stroll along Manners-street, only
two looked really natural—a couple of
rosy-cheeked nuns.
*. * * *
“Kellick’: Ingenious schemes for out-
witting Customs officers? The hardest
thing a sailor can attempt to smuggle is
duty-free tobacco, known in the R.N. as
ticklers. Once, at Portsmouth, our
mess found its supper had mysteriously
vanished. As the menu said “herrings,”
blame naturally fell on the ship’s cat.
The mystery was solved next morning,
One of our number had gutted the fish,
stuffed them with “ticklers” and used
needle and thiead to complete the job.
Then he walked past the waiting officers
with our supper strung on a stick.
* * * *
O.R.’ : Dr. Cyril Norwood, head of
an Oxford college and before that a
headmaster of Harrow, addressing an
educational conference in Sydney, scouted
the notion that the Duke of Wellington
ever remarked that “Waterloo was won
on the playing fields of Eton (B.
18/8/’37). Doubtless the remark was
apocryphal, but when the doctor added
that there were no playing fields at Eton
in 1815—or no fields on which boys
played games—he showed scant acquaint-
ance with cricket history. The first match
between Eton and Harrow took place
in 1805, 10 years before Waterloo (Byron
took part in it), and it is long odds that
the boys had somewhere to practise on,
whether they called it a playing field or
not.
“Old-timer”: Motorists must have
changed if they'll now pick up a bag-
man with a mere limp (B. 11/8/’37).
After an accident on the track, I left a
N.S.W. coastal hospital with one arm in a
sling and tramped over the mountains and
out west, carrying the knitting arm in its
white sheet. Every motorist glanced at
it and then at me, but I was between
Narromine and Nyngan, nearly a fort-
night later, before a lift was offered.
Maybe they thought I was overdoing it.
“Captain Pintle”: Another curious
coincidence of the sea occurred recently
at Townsville (N.Q.). While taking in a
tramp steamer the harbor pilot men-
tioned to her master that he had, as a
cadet on a naval transport, given a hand
in the rescue of the survivors from a
ship of the same line, torpedoed by a
German submarine in 1917. He went
on to say how her master had been
taken away as a prisoner in the sub.
and that he had sometimes wondered
what became of him. An excited skipper
gripped him by the hand. “That was
me,” he said. “They kept me a prisoner
in Germany until the Armistice, and then
my old line took me on again.”
“D.E.”: If the cablemen have got him
right, General Crozier (B. 18/7/’37) not
only shot a bolting subaltern but had
machine-guns turned on Portuguese
making fast time towards the Channel
coast in the affair of April 9, 1918. I sym-
pathise with Mr. Crozier on that head ; the
spectacle of our gallant allies in full re-
treat before any of them had been hurt
must have been rather trying. According
to Bean’s account in the latest volume of
his Australia in the War, the “wild
panic” of the Pork-and-Beans “took
them clear not merely of the battlefield
but of the rear area.” That is to say.
those who had not decided that it was
better to go forward and—live.
one German unit history says that Portu-
guese prisoners began to flow in before the
German infantry attacked
The Ist King Edward’s Horse and a
cyclist battalion tried to bridge the gap.
A few Portuguese stayed with them for
a , time t bu } u a lar g e t r , n i>P lbe , r hel P ed them '
0 f accelerating their passage towards the
coast.
Under Wellington the Portuguese fought
stoutly in defence of their homes;
an explanation of their swift passage to
the rear in Flanders is that they never
wanted to be in the Great War. Anyway,
the episode did not prevent their Gov-
eminent from burying an Unknown
Soldier with great cereniony.
*" * *
“Mat’s Mate”: That chap who wired
“Quid. Stiff” and got it (B. 11/8/’37)
was luckier than big Mat, who, flat broke
in Adelaide, wired to Dad this heart-
breaking appeal: “Send fiver. Seat out
of pants and boots going.” From Mat’s
south-eastern home came the reply:
“Have wired 7s. 6d., get boots repaired
and come home.”
* $ * *
“Hanko”: Strange how the name Dave
has come to set the mind visualising a
sawny, slow-speeched countryman ; now-
adays it almost has the significance of
Jock as a prelude to a Scots anecdote.
Yet of the few of the extremely rare
“Dave” type I’ve met none has been a
David ; in fact, the dopiest and drawli-
est of them was a Horace. Nevertheless,
the Steele Rudd label seems likely to
stick. We may yet read yarns begin-
ning: “Once there was an Australian
named Dave.”
* * *
Reginald Lloyd writes:
“II Vecchio’s” regular Bulletin subscriber
who “has not missed an issue since 1895” is no
champion (B. 28/7/’37). Back in the very early
'eighties, then a child of tender years, living on a
station 400 miles from Sydney, I read my first
copy of the “Bully.” It had no red cover then,
and mother would have spanked me had she
caught me reading it. Since, I’ve travelled
many times round the world and lived on every
continent, including North and South America,
North, South and Central Africa, and many
parts of Asia and Europe, but I’ve never missed
reading my “Bully.” The point 1 want to
stress, however, is that I have never been a
subscriber to the paper. I’ve been able always
to get it, somehow, in the most remote places.
Crossing from Durban to Colombo, a 17 days'
non-stop trip, on a labor steamer in 1907,
starving for something to read, the Cingalese
cook trotted out a copy. I bought my firs’
shotgun and my first watch through ads. in n
I’m prepared to bet that there live in different
parts of the world many who have read every
issue of the “Bully” since it produced its first
copy.
IN MY NONAGE.
“The question of school examinations has been dis-
cussed in all its aspects by the New Education
Fellowship.”
I used to brag a lot in olden days
About the stiff exams, that l had sat in,
And how my weary brain was one green maze
Of third-declension knowledge and the ways
Of Latin.
I used to pose before a glass till late.
Pursing my lips to lisp in decent Frangais;
Storing up genders in my worried tele .
And accents to suit words like frere and bete,
And pensee.
And in the chem. lab. I was wont to dwell,
Getting my clothes into a frightful mess,
Playing with FeS and KCI,
And killing off my neighbors with the smell
Of H2S.
In maths. 1 loved to muck about with pi;
[ never baulked at overgrown quadratics;
I knew the square and cube of x + y,
And loved both trig, and Euc., and did not shy
At statics.
Both history and English liked me well;
Nervousness never got me down nor ailed
me;
At the exams. I scribbled till the bell
Bade us cease work. It tolled my blinking
knell —
, They failed me!
VICTORIA.
SCOTTA.


f4/h&fL
DILIOUS
Biliousness! Oh, what an awful feeling !
Troubled sleep, dizziness when arising from a sitting
or stooping position, bitter taste in mouth, and a
furred tongue. Bowels may be loose one day, but
constipated the next. This is brought about by the
natural sewers of the body becoming clogged-up, and
the bile, being denied its rightful channel, is turned
into the blood. All or any of these symptoms may
accompany the bilious condition, and while they exist
the patient’s life is scarcely worth living.
As a remedy for Biliousness, Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills enjoy a world-wide reputation. They open
the clogged-up System, stir the Liver, cleanse the
Stomach, and regulate the Bowels.
unnwunmwmiWHWHWj
tM
&
V ;
K
S
w
2jS
imwiwimw
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The ' abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NOW PACKED
IN TINS
4°c
CO
s *o
2 A
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of Stomach and
Thread worms which infest the intestines.
They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
pared in the form of a confection, or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
PyZ'&Z S*',
% *> <&s 0° -
C v*> >* . *
&*&**
- v^>'
• O^
ff>'
<£ C *+t>s
, <^>v
&)
,0#
&
/
>M
0*
\$
.•• v <vCV V 01
••■ <A< ?<i^
...•■ o^vO^S^> e -


‘These are good—
who put you on to them?”
“ Tbat*s three
balls I owe you.
Meanwhile—have
a du Maurier—
on account l**
: v.
M
wA
:
■•a'W.'HV'*
t ! • H
V‘ :
" du Maurier, eh ? Been
meaning to try them. Does this
filter tip really make any
difference ?”
d
"Ah! These are good
—who put you on to
them?”
" A friend hack in L ondon —
grand idea filtering the smoke
—makes good Virginia twice m
good.”
How good can good Virginia taste?
Only du Maurier smokers know! Only
du Maurier’s exclusive filter tip reveals the
inner fragrance hidden in choice Virginia.
Only filtered smoke can taste like this, can
come to you so cool and smooth, gaining
immeasurably in flavour, bringing a new
and deeper satisfaction.
mwmm.
mm
mi O -
1 J&zm.: *<S>
GiiWm
<?>
'•€
5 ,'• S/.
8V..1
><
% i
S'.'M
<-* i
w\v
IK*
du MAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
20 for I^6
Also obtainable: 10 for 9d, 50 for 3^9,100 for
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.l*
Agents lor New South Waif* and <*«fensl|pd; ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 186 CLARENCE S£, ST DM El a<c> x<
