

ķ
ĸ
k
PLATE LOCK
“TOUCH - TELL”
TERMINALS
and 'l-year's
UNCONDITIONAL
GUARA
VEST
MADE FOR ALL CARS, RADIOS, MOTOR CYCLES, HOME LIGHTING, ETC.
Obtainable from good garages everywhere, or from these Central Distributors
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt
Victoria Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland .... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia. Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania W. & G. -Genders Pty., Ltd., Launceston,
Hobart and Burnie.
West Australia.. Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Perth
Coventry Motor Replacements, Ltd., Perth
NEW ZEALAND:
Ltd.; and J. Brunton, Ltd.
New Plymouth Newton King, Ltd.
Wanganui . . . Colonial Battery Co.
Gisborne .... Butcher & Meyrick, Ltd.
Napier Bissell Electrical Co.
Hastings .... C. Torr, Ltd.
Manawatu . . . Dawick’s Electrical Service
Timaru Canterbury Farmers Co-op.
Whangarei . . Snow Bros.
Hamilton .. . Claude Ander.
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
>pine Islands Brinkmann &
Hong Kong Harry Wicking & Co., Hong Kong
Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Rabaul
Dutch East Indies (Java,
Fiji Islands ...........
New Caledonia. .......
umatra, Celebes Is.) Ruhaak & Coy., Sourabaya
Marlows, Ltd., Suva; Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva
rau
V 258 VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA BATTERY COMPANY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., Leichhardt, New South Wales, Australia.
The Bulletin
The Vance Palmer Serial
Vol. 58.—N0. 2977.
Wednesday, March 3, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Posl Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
ml!
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ _ _ CUT HERE AND MAIL.
Please send, without obligation, yoltr New Free
Wpp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney But.iiiniJi.
My Name • ■
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from dme to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 552 George-street, Sydney. ,
For this current competition only novels areeligible, .
Prize will be awarded to .hat which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian hterature.
The trustees will publish the successful work ■n book torm,
and in serial form am' th« may
prize-money!' 1 ” Any used °as a serfals will also be paid for a.
® |
ssxs ad® rartftt
whicffwllfSot S U ope a ned°3 n dre judges have made t|nr decs, on.
St
If this should occur in any year, the amount ot
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
WALTER BURLEY GRIFFIN.
From (he beginning Australia has attracted gifted
men and women who have discerned here the scope
for achievements in advance of those possible in older
countries. Of these none has had the higher progress
of Australia more selflessly at heart than Walter
Burley Griffin. His passing brings a sense of profound
loss to all those interested in the urban development
of the Commonwealth.
I first met him in his offices high above Lake
Michigan in Chicago, where he and his wife showed
Alice Henry and me the plans for the dream city
of Canberra. At that date the young architect’s thick
crest was of Saxon gold, to match in coloring his eyes
of flame blue. His design for the Federal Capital
had just won a world-wide competition. He was the
.partner of Frank Lloyd Wright, whose work was of
great significance and a subject of controversy in the
United States. Despite this spectacular associate,
Walter Burley Griffin was already established by the
wide range and independence of his own ideas. With
powerful initiative he was planning homes, factories
and towns, and was highly esteemed personally for
his adherence to the right and the beautiful, regard-
less of expediency or his own personal reward. He
and Mrs. Griffin were about to move their home and
make Australia the centre of their life’s endeavor
forthwith. Never, they felt, had there been a better
opportunity to create anew, free from the debris of
old mistakes and the shackles of dead tradition, than
in this wonder land with its forward-looking and
independently-minded democracy.
The difficulties in realising the architectural and
town-planning conceptions of a genius whose creations
were unorthodox were considerable. Some natural
alarm and a good deal of bureaucratic obstruction
resulted. In the inevitable clashes it is on record that
under all provocations and misunderstandings Griffin
was courteous and patient. This was in keeping with
the natural greatness of the man, and therefore, de-
spite all differences and difficulties, Canberra, to-day
so beautiful in its magnificent planning, remains an
expression of Griffin’s original ideas, and is his
Federal monument. Also outstanding among his Aus-
tralian work is Newman College of the Melbourne
University, a noble building, “not imitative but inno-
vating,” to quote Professor Ernest Scott.
Griffin’s idea was that our architecture should
be suited to conditions, and designed to preserve and
develop the peculiarly Australian beauty of landscape.
To this end he protected the native shrubberies of
Castlecrag at Middle Harbor, and otherwise saved
the estate from vandalism and commercial exploita-
tion. Here each cottage is unique, built to harmonise
with its surroundings in the completed scheme, and
always with practical understanding of the house-
wife’s needs and comfort. The open-air theatre on
the estate is a characteristic expression of the Griffin
service to the arts and to community life. At definite
seasons during the last two years Greek and morality
or folk dramas have been presented by Griffin and
Mrs. Griffin and their associates. This gully theatre
is phenomenally suited to its purpose, and much of
the labor was done by Griffin’s own hands. He
delighted in odd chores, and would say, “A certain
amount of scullion labor is good for one. ”
Though none worked harder, he always made
time to help others in their problems. He had a
merry sense of humor, even against himself, which
twinkled in his eyes and came to his tongue in wit
that was never biting. Once when an imperceptive
broadcasting official at first asked him to make a
discourse of half an hour, and then if he could cut
it to 20 or 15 minutes in favor of jazz, Griffin
chuckled, “Great men can tell all they know in 20
minutes. Ten minutes ought to be too long for me.”
Referring to the fact that Australian flora some-
times lacks charm to alien eyes, he said that the way
to approach it was with the mind emptied of all pre-
conceptions and comparisons, and then the fairy grace
and strangeness of Australian plants took possession
of the senses. He would never let the humblest of
Australian shrubs be destroyed unnecessarily. Among
his and Mrs. Griffin’s first studies on arrival was indi-
genous botany, and their academic knowledge was
ever at the disposal of Australians who knew their
plants only by the colloquial names. One of the last
lectures Griffin gave at Castlecrag was on land-
planning. Here, again in advance of accepted thought,
he emphasised the importance of the land itself as
a living continuous entity calling for preservation and
understanding, and made special reference to the soil
about him, which could so rapidly spill into the
harbor under wrong treatment.
At the time of his death he was in Lucknow,
where he had gone about 18 months ago to super-
intend the erection of the library, plans for which
had been obtained from his Sydney office, where his
partner was E. M. Nicholls. Once in India he became
involved in such extensive operations that Mrs.
Griffin joined him last year. They were of those
fortunate pairs whose personal and public interests
are one ; further, they were partners in their profes-
sion. Their like is rare.
Those qualified to do so will put on record the
professional achievements of Walter Burley Griffin.
Mine is the privilege to pay a small tribute to the
personality of this distinguished American, whose
quarter of a century of high endeavor here makes
him for ever a great Australian. He loved this coun-
try with artistic insight and independence, and for
it refused undertakings elsewhere that carried the
certainty of wealth and fame. Time will set his life
here in true perspective and crystallise the influence
of his spiritual and artistic integrity. A man in a
generation, Australia would be honored if his ashes
could rest at Canberra.
MILES FRANKLIN.
Forester's "The Happy Return."
In his last novel, The General, widely read over-
seas, C. S. Forester gave the intimate personal history
of a typical British army officer, a stickler for form,
with an ingrained suspicion of anyone with brains.
He followed him from a lieutenant in the Boer War
exploiting, strictly according to training and without
heroics, an advantage which the chances of battle had
put in his way, to the moment during the Great War
when he learned, as a corps commander, what it feels
like to see his army crumple. Forester effectively
showed both the qualities and limitations of the type.
His latest novel, The Happy Return, though by
no means a repetition, is inspired by the same thought.
The place of the story is the Pacific coast of Central
America and the period the time of the Napoleonic
Wars. Captain Hornblower, commanding, the frigate
Lydia, has been sent under sealed orders to assist a
Spanish colonial insurrection, success of which will
probably mean free British communication with the
Pacific across the Panamanian isthmus.
The tale begins when the vessel is a couple of
days from her destination. Hornblower is taking his
morning walk of one hour on the deck ; this he does
because he is indolent by nature. He permits himself
only the necessary minimum of social intercourse
with his officers because bitter experience has taught
him that he is much too talkative. From England
round Cape Horn without touching port, with rations
and water reduced and scurvy threatened, there is
mutiny in the air. He is sorry for his crew’s suffer-
ings—so he rules them with a rod of iron. Politically
he is what is later to be known as a Liberal. He disap-
proves of the press-gang, which supplied him with
tailors and printers whom he has turned into seamen
—so for misdemeanors he orders the floggings pre-
scribed and stands by to see them carried out, hoping
the assembled crew do not observe his face when it
blanches.
El Supremo, the insurgent commander, is a mega-
lomaniac, and subjects Hornblower to discourtesies
ill-befitting a naval commander. Hornblower submits
in the interests of his sovereign, so long as he is not
humiliated before the eyes of any of his men. He is
ordered to capture the Natividad, a fifty-gun ship-of-
the-line and the only Spanish vessel at the moment in
the Pacific. He does so by an admirable and very
exciting piece of strategy and hands her over to the
rebels. Returning to port, he learns that the French
have been defeated in Spain and a treaty entered
into between Spain and England. He must now fight
against the rebels; he must recapture the Natividad.
This he sets out to do, but before leaving port he is
petitioned for a passage on his boat by Lady Barbara
Wellesley—sister of Sir Arthur, later Duke of Welling-
ton —who would rather face the dangers of battle than
those of an outbreak of yellow fever ashore. A
woman on a warship is a hindrance and a threat to
discipline, as well as being to Hornblower, a shy man,
an embarrassment. But a frigate commander with no
fortune beyond his hope of promotion cannot afford
an affront to a member of such an influential family.
So again he conceals his feelings and submits to the
presence of the lady, who has haughtily come aboard
in anticipation of his permission.
The battle occurs, and Forester gives a brilliant
description of a naval engagement of that period. The
fight lasts two days, and the Lydia is a shot-riddled
and dismasted hull before the Natividad is beaten.
Crawling back to port, Hornblower is met by a small
coastguard boat. There has been a reversal of
Spanish foreign policy. He must make his way back
to England, and is forbidden to recondition his dis-
abled ship in any Spanish-American port. Uncom-
plainingly he accepts his fate, refits on ah island and
sets sail. Propinquity causes a love-affair between
him and Lady Barbara. He suddenly sees himself as
a naval commander indulging in a misdemeanor.
Much to her hurt, Lady Barbara’s thinly-veiled offer
is implicitly declined —nothwithstanding that she is a
Wellesley. The next day, at St. Helena, she goes
aboard another vessel. The Lydia, a trim ship despite
all she has been through in the service of the king,
proceeds up the Atlantic toward the happy return
predicted in the book’s title. Hornblower is thinking
of his Maria waiting for him in Portsmouth.
The Happy Return is a competent piece of literary
craftsmanship. There is quiet humor in the treatment
of Hornblower. In him Forester offers a convincing
portrait of a man achieving at least a working
semblance of his ideal by resolutely being everything
that by nature he was not. During the period of
stress and battle he assumes heroic proportions. The
affair with the lady reduces him again to the stature
of an ordinary man.
The Poet and the Aspidistra.
George Orwell’s Keep the Aspidistra Flying
(Gollancz ; 7s. 6d.) lies somewhere in the dark waste
between Knut Hamsun’s Hunger and those stories
of despair among the bourgeoisie that the American
Julian Green writes in French. It is an Anglo-Saxon
version of the same theme —man caught, betrayed
and destroyed by an endless succession of ignoble
trifles. Gordon. Comstock is “twenty-nine and rather
moth-eaten already.” He came of an unpromising
family.
As for Gordon's branch of the family, the combined
income of the five of them, allowing for the lump sum
that had been paid down when Aunt Charlotte entered
the mental home, might have been six hundred a year.
Their combined ages were two hundred and sixty-three
years. None of them had ever been out of England,
fought in war, been in prison, ridden a horse, travelled
in an aeroplane, got married or given birth to a child.
There seemed no reason why they should not continue
in the same style until they died. Year in, year out,
nothing ever happened in the Comstock family.
Even at school Gordon realised that without
money he could have nothing, least of all his self-
respect, so he declared war on money. He escaped
from the “good” jobs that had been found for him
in the office of a red-lead manufacturer and then
in an advertising firm, and sought freedom on £2 a
week as a bookseller’s assistant. He was free of
competition, ambition and all the miserable business
of “getting on.” He had declared war on life. He
was a poet, and he would write. But hemmed in by
the dingy misery of £2 a week he could not write.
He was still caught in a trap. Of the inside of that
trap we learn every detail. The inconveniences, the
privations, the humiliations, the thousand nagging
details, the loneliness, the boredom that in their mass
slowly drag down the poet so that he becomes more
twisted, difficult and perversely proud, casting off his
friends and flaunting his humiliations, are all
enumerated. We learn everything about him, and are
always as painfully conscious as he of the exact sum
in his pocket, varying normally from s£d. to 14s. 9d.,
but on one occasion, fatal to his balance, mounting
to £lO.
To Gordon the symbol of all dingy meanness
meekly borne is the aspidistra.
The aspidistra, flower of England. It ought to be on
our coat of arms instead of the lion and the unicorn.
There will be no revolution in England while there are
aspidistras in 'the windows.
The aspidistra, actual and symbolic, recurs and
recurs. There is one, like the landlady s spy sitting
in his room, that is the object of his particular resent-
ment.
It was a particularly mangy specimen. It had only
seven leaves and never seemed to put forth any new
ones. Gordon had a sort of secret feud with the
aspidistra. Many a time he had furtively attempted to
kill it —starving it of water, grinding his cigarette ends
against its stem, even mixing salt with its earth.
But the beastly things are practically immortal. In
almost any circumstances they can preserve a wilting,
diseased existence. Gordon stood up and deliberately
wiped his keroseny fingers on the aspidistra leaves.
Gordon, however, has a way of retreat open
behind him. He can return whenever he likes to
the advertising firm because he has a genius for writ-
inn slogans. He conceives such a return to the (com-
parative) fleshpots as the final defeat to which he
will never consent. But he does consent. He marries
because his girl is going to have a baby, and goes
back. It is the end of a small but deep rebellion.
He rises to fame on a perspiration advertisement, and
insists on buying an aspidistra to complete his down-
fall No one is more surprised than Gordon to hnd
that he is happy in a small but satisfying way.
Keep the Aspidistra Flying is not a cheerful
book but a certain aptness in description, a feeling
of reality and the sincerity and freedom of the treat-
ment go a long way toward compensating the reader
for that. Its completeness is impressive. The terrible
(i Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
LATEST STYLES in
THE NEW SEASON’S
ķ
•V"-^
n>
m
\sJ
m
m
m
Z
m
/
/.
I
L
S.
X'
r
r
X
X,
w
v > :
• ROLL-NECK
PULLOVER
B 31—Pure Wool, with ribbed cuffs
and welt. Smart jacquard ’-designs
of Black-White, Grey-Black and
Brown— Fawn. Sizes, 36in. to 40in.
chest. Price 15/-
Also in plain Navy, Brown, Marl
and Light or Dark' Grey.
Price .... 4.0/6
• POLO-NECK
B33—Polo Neck Cardigan of
medium-weight Wool in smart
drop-stitch knit. Also with
roll-back sports collar. Blue-
Grey, Blue-Marl, Heather or
Dark Grey.
Sizes, in., chest 36-40 42-44
Prices 17/6 18/6
• JERKIN STYLE
PULLOVER
B32—You must have one of these
comfortable Jerkins for sports
wear. In winter-weight Wool.
Neat turn-down Polo Collar and
lightning Zip fastener front.
Fancy Grey, Brown, White, Black
effects. Sizes 36 to 40 inch chest.
At Anthony Horderns’ 16/0
• SLEEVELESS
836—A1l pure Wool in plain
Cashmere knit. In Brown-
Marl, Slate-Grey, Flannel-
Grey, Grey - Marl, Nigger
Brown.
Sizes, in., chest 36-40 42-44
At Anthony
Horderns’ ... 13/6 14/6
• V-NECK CARD.
B 3 5 These new Cardigans are in
a pleasing variety of fancy
jacquard designs. Black-White,
Brown-Fawn, Grey-Black. Medium-
weight Wool. Sizes, 36in. to 40in.
chest.
Prices, 16/6, 19/6, 22/6, 27/6.
42in. to 44in. chest.
Prices, 1 7/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-.
* V-NECK STYLE
PULLOVER
B34—These are warm and
serviceable. In medium-weight
Pure Wool fancy jacquard
designs of Black-White, - Grey-
Black, Brown-Fawn. Sizes 36 to
40 inch chest. At Anthony
Horderns’ 'l6/b
Better qualities
19/6, 21/-, 22/6
a Men’s Mercery —Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
WHY NOT USE THE D.P.S.?
This highly convenient system of buying enables you to make purchases
for the future, as well as for the present. Select your requirements and
a deposit of one-fifth of the complete price will reserve them. The
balance can be paid off in easy weekly or monthly instalments.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.. SYDNEY.
YOU CAN RELY ON
“HORDURA”PRODUCTS!
10/6
WM
2/11
1
mm
-
« "HORDURA" < R <* d >
BROADCLOTH
SHIRTS
B 37 —Made in our own work-
rooms—and that’s a guarantee of
satisfaction in fit and wear. Each
shirt has two matching collars,
double cuffs and V-cased fronts.
Grey or Blue woven stripes. Sizes,
14in. to 19in. neck.
At Anthony Horderns’ 10/6
Three for 30/-.
# "HORDURA"
HALF HOSE
B 38 —They’re smart, comfortable
and full of durability—that’s why
men prefer “Hordura” Half Hose.
Made of all Wool except the orna-
ment. 40 different designs in
Grey, Blue, Brown or Navy tones.
Sizes, ins. .. to lli 12, 13
At Anthony
Horderns’ .. 2/11 3/6
B 39 —Men’s Knitted Half Hose in
durable winter-weight Wool.
Ribbed finish. Grey, Heather or
Black. Sizes, lOin. to 12in.
At Anthony Horderns’ 3/6
• "HORDURA"
FUR FELT HATS
8310 —A hat that will retain its
shape and smart appearance after
months of hard wear. Our own
make in pure Fur Felt. Medium
or narrow snap-brim styles, lined
with silk and greaseproof leathers.
Grey, Fawn, Brown.
At Anthony Horderns' 15/-


THE STORY SO FAR . . .
Neil Sanderson, working in a North
Queensland cane-cutters' camp, hears of
the death of his father, Chris Sander-
son, “ex - scrub - worker, -contractor,
-Cabinet Minister, undischarged bank-
rupt —a hell of a lot of other things as
well.” Since Neil was a youngster he
had seen his father only once.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley's, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times," and
Besanck, a member of the cane gang
with whom Neil wishes to form a friend-
ship.
When the cane is finished Neil and
Besanck set out to walk across the range
to Port Cowrie.
A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
By
VANCE PALMER
Chapter 111.
/.
E 8233 N the bar of the Crown and Anchor, not a
hundred yards from Cayley’s, Peter Jensen
8 | was celebrating a jubilee. It was a non-
| | descript crowd of fishermen, wharf-lumpers,
unemployed he had gathered around him:
only the flotsam of the waterfront patronised
the Crown and Anchor, which was a frowsy relic of
the past, with a leery look about its overhanging roof
and a reputation for brawls and violence. But to
Peter one place was the same as another and every
man a neighbor. As soon as his boat was moored
he had stumped off across the wharves, collecting all
who greeted him on the way, and now the beer was
flowing freely.
“Come in,” he said, wandering to the door with
a mug in his hand and bringing in a couple more
stragglers. “It’s yoost fifty year since I land here, and
I want to make celebration. All the drinks are on
me till closing-time, and I don’t care how many come.
The yoobilee of old Peter. I don’t make a fortune
like I thought I would those days, but I keep my
head up. Head and tail both. This morning I wake
up on the island and remember what day it is. ‘No
work to-day,’ I tell the other man. ‘Sling down your
tools and go fishing or else come with me and make
celebration. I’m going to take the boat over and
have a spree.’ Drink up, all you boys. The chance
won’t never come again. For one day I play the
damn’ fool.”
He hobbled about among them on his lame leg,
the ends of his grey moustache covered with froth,
his sea-blue eyes twinkling through their glasses.
Drink up! The jubilee of old Peter would never
come again. Most of the men knew him, if only by
sight, for he was a figure in the town. Short, squarely
built, active in spite of his lameness, he could build
anything from a dinghy to a concrete hotel, and at
seventy-two still worked with his men. There was
craft in his hands, shrewdness in his judgment, but
he had the weakness of his temperament and money
slipped through his fingers. The business of Peter
Jensen, though it often secured good contracts, was
usually in the neighborhood of rocks.
Garrulous with free drinks, the crowd gathered
around him, peppering him with sly jests, trying to
lure him into one of his long, rambling stories.
“Tell us about the time you were marooned in
the Clutha Bank in the cyclone, Peter.”
“No —tell us about the day you lobbed here.”
“A real sucker you were then, weren’t you,
Peter? Dead sure of being a millionaire in three
years, eh? Expecting to pick up gold bricks where
Hunter-street is now.”
He waved off their chaff good-humoredly. “I
might have picked up one or two if I’d had the time.
But only a man without a trade —like some of you
blighters—got time to go chasing round after gold.
The first day I land here I was mending a door for
the landlady at the pub. A young fellow staying
there watches me handle the hammer and saw. ‘Ah,’
he says, ‘you’re a tradesman —yoost the man I’m
looking for. Learnt how to handle tools in the 01’
Country, I bet!’ And off he whirls me in his buggy
to some sheds he’s building for a crowd of navvies.
That’s how I got my start. After that I never have to
look for work for close on seven years.”
He beamed around him complacently. For his
own eyes his story was an epic of successful struggle
and achievement. Young Peter, the peasant youth,
and his triumphs in a strange country.
One of the wharf-lumpers laughed sardonically.
“And that was fifty years ago, when they were carting
the gold off in trucks. When every boat that put into
the port went off loaded to the waterline with it and
there was a string of men and packhorses all along
the Jameson-road. Hell, you missed the bus, Peter.
Don’t seem to have got more out of it than the rest
of us poor ants.”
The old man’s eyes sharpened. “Not much
money, but enough enjoyment to make me keep going.
Oh, yes, I don’t grumble or grow sour when the
drink’s in me. Life —it don’t owe me nothing. This
country don’t owe me nothing either. Since I come
here I have built up a business, kept healthy, reared
a family: and at seventy-two I don’t need for to hold
my pipe with bought teeth. Sanderson, he used to
say ‘Stick to me, Peter, and I’ll make your fortune
for you.’ Over and over he say that. But I want
to stand on my feet those days and not feel in debt
to any man.”
“Sanderson? Was that the old shark grabbed
you when you first landed?”
“Shark? You call him a shark? My boy, you
only yoost come out of the egg. I tell you Sanderson
was a king of men those days and never let anyone
down who stick to him. Cayley, Duggan, Macready
—didn’t he see they all got their chance? If I’d taken
what he offered me—- —- But I was collar-proud as
soon as I got a bit of money together. A young
fellow likes to be his own boss, and quite right, too.”
Neil, standing against the wall at the back of the
crowd, had become suddenly awake, the blood prick-
ing his scalp, burning behind his eyes. With Besanck
he had come in, dusty from the road, and had been
swept into the crowd that was celebrating Peter’s
jubilee. But the noise and talk had washed like foam
over him: he didn’t know who the old man was, why
he was the centre of such an uproar. It didn’t seem
to matter: they were all just part of a crowd. Now
that the name of Sanderson had come up, though, his
loose and scattered thoughts drew in like flies around
a grain of sugar. My father —it’s my father they’re
talking about. They haven’t settled whether he was
a good fellow or a dirty scoundrel. Same old ring-o’-
roses! Will I never get away from it?
DETER JENSEN, muzzy with drink, was beating
* down the attacks on the man who had first
befriended him. Did they say Sanderson had fattened
on the labor of the workmen who had built his roads
and bridges? Well, that was the system they lived
under. And how much did he get out of it in the
end? No man on his payroll had ever worked harder
than he did himself in the days when he made most
of his money. A shark? No, he was a whale, and
the killers had got him at last, as they always did.
He grew angry and incoherent about some conspiracy
to make Sanderson bankrupt by undercutting him in
his contracts while he was away in Parliament. “And
when they get a man cornered they never let him go.
I know. How many times have I seen it! All the
small fish gathering round when they smell blood in
the water.”
“The blood of an old scavenging shark, Peter.”
“Eh? To hell with your damfool talk, the lot
of you! You young fellows—nothing but ideas about
communism in your heads these days. Think every
man who puts a bit of money together a
capitalist. Think no one can climb up in the world
but on your backs.”
The other men had drawn away laughing into
groups, and old Peter was left glaring through his
glasses at Neil, the only one paying any attention to
him.
“You think I made a pile out of the men working
for me?” he demanded. “You think 1 got a hell of
a big swag tucked away?”
From behind Besanck touched him lightly on the
shoulder, little sparks of malicious humor in his eyes.
“Excuse me. You have a great admiration for
Sanderson. Let me present you to his son.”
“Eh?” said the old man, stopping short.
An angry flush spread over Neil’s face. What
devil of freakishness had prompted Leo to break faith
and put him away? Old Jensen was staring at him
with fuddled intensity.
“His son? Is that meant for a yoke?”
Neil’s voice came out harsh and abrupt. “A bad
joke. I try to forget it was ever put over on me.”
But the old man was insensitive to his ill-humor.
Placing an unsteady hand on his shoulder he peered
into his face, then drew him to the bar and called for
more drinks. “Sanderson’s son! And you come here
yoost by chance. No, there must be something to
arrange it. You appear because it was my yoobilee.
Sanderson—he was the first man to welcome me when
I landed. A youngster not much older than I was,
but already his own boss. Fifty year ago. ‘You’re
no spoiler of good timber,’ he say to me;
‘you’re a tradesman.’ And before night we’re sitting
in his camp thirty mile away among the hills.”
He repeated the story over and over, adding a
little more detail each time. But it was always the
Sanderson of fifty years before that he spoke about.
Obviously that overwhelming young man of his
memory was more real to him than the shadowy
figure of later days—a figure with whom he had lost
contact. He was living in the past: he had begun
to grow sentimental over his reminiscences. Neil
found it hard to follow him, but was held by the
lively glitter of his eyes, the rhythm of his soft,
guttural voice, the goodwill that flowed out of him.
Besides, as drink followed drink a confused senti-
mentality was spreading through him too, making him
want to think well of all men, even his father. Leo
was no longer listening to them: he had faded away
into the blue mist of tobacco-smoke. That helped
to put him at his ease.
“...Yoost about his size. Same look in the
eyes, same width in the shoulders. I’m drunk or I
must have known you, young Chris —was Chris you
said, wasn’t it?”
“No, Neil.”
“That was the name of my young brother.
Eighteen, but yoost about your size. Same twinkle in
the eyes, same”
The place had become more noisy. At the other
end of the room a gramophone had been started and
clumsy feet were shuffling over the floor in a horn-
pipe. There was a crash of splintered glass, the sound
of a woman’s voice raised in anger. Some firemen
from a coastal steamer had wandered in and were
bent on having a rowdy time before they sailed at
midnight. The publican, a small dark man with
anxiously sharp eyes, moved around with a towel
over his arm, trying to restrain the boisterousness of
the crowd. He touched Neil on the shoulder as he
passed. “Better take old Peter home. He’s had his
birthday, and it’s time to put the pegs in all round.
Besides, his wife’ll want to see him before he goes
back to the island to-night. She knows his boat’s in;
been ringing up about him.”
Peter, who had been bending down to pick up
a broken pipe, caught the echo of his words. “Yes,
come home with me. Supper and long talk. The
day, it’s not done yet. Esplanade—second house from


the big weeping fig they bring their cameras to photo-
graph. My wife, she remember Chris Sanderson too.
Remember him since she was a girl. I tell you, yes,
she would let her tongue go proper if she knew I
met his son and left him behind me at the pub here.”
N| EIL found himself guiding the old man past the
1 bright lights of Cayley’s, round the post-office
corner, along the tree-bordered esplanade where the
tide swished against the wooden breakwater. A cool
wind was filtering in from the sea, gradually blowing
the smoke from his brain, bringing clarity to his
thoughts. But where was Leo? He had last seen
him talking to some foreigner near the door, smooth-
ing his hair in a distracted way as he tried to make
his voice heard above the din. Probably he had
slipped off in the end to' find some lodging for the
night. It didn’t matter. The town was not so big
that he would find it hard to pick him up again.
Lights shining out from behind ferns and
greenery, smell of watered shrubs, the sound of a
hose playing faintly near the asphalt path! Through
open windows Neil had a vision of a spread table
heaped with fruit and cold salads, light reflected from
polished glass and cutlery, a stained floor that looked
like a skating-rink except for its skin rugs. He felt
awkward and unclean, the dust of the road on him,
his clothes soiled and ragged: but the old man had
him by the arm.
“Come on in, my boy. There is always a meal
ready when I come home. It might be an hour
before sundown, it might be midnight, but still it is
ready... Anna! Where are you, Anna? 1 have
only time for a meal and then off again. You
remember Chris Sanderson. Well, this is his son.”
A calm, heavily built woman padded down the
inside stairs and welcomed Neil with hardly a word.
She looked younger than Peter, but had evidently
lived with him long enough to have grown used to
his ways and to take them for granted. Without
betraying any personal interest in Sanderson's son
she led Neil to the bathroom and found him towel
and soap. He had an impression she hadn’t heard
what Peter said about him or looked long enough at
his face to remember it.
As he soaped himself under the cold shower he
heard her voice from the other room running on
serenely in domestic inquiries and gossip. “When
are you likely to finish up at the island, Peter?
Macready’s been ringing up, wanting to know when
you can start on his garage... I told Mrs. Doyle
she might as well take him back: he’s no help to
me except now and then in the garden... Freda’s
down for the week-end: she’s upstairs dressing now.
It’s her last rehearsal to-night and she’s all worked
up because Corcoran’s gone off fishing. You’d think
it was the most important event ever happened in
the town.”
Ideas and images chased one another around in
Neil’s head like goldfish in a bowl. The rowdy
clamor of the bar was still in his ears: clink of
glasses, shuffle of feet, clatter of voices. Penetrating
this inner confusion came talk of the boat and
the island. What boat and what island? And
was Peter a carpenter or a sea-captain?
But when he was sitting down at the meal-
table the friendly warmth of the two old people
filled his mind and body with a glow, so that he
felt he had known them for years, had just come
home to them after a long separation. They
heaped food on his plate, plied him with questions.
Where had he been working? How long had
he been in the north? Did he intend to stay
in Port Cowrie or was he going south again?
Bright lights dazzled his eyes, the drink he had
taken loosened his tongue. He found himself
talking copiously of the cane-gang, of Conolly and
Besanck, of the tramp across the ranges: intimate
things about his father sprang unbidden to his lips.
And from the old man’s fragmentary talk he gathered
all he wanted to know. Peter was a builder, but he
had always owned a boat to carry material to jobs
along the coast, and just now he was engaged in pull-
ing down the sheds and workshops he had erected a
year before on Tern Island for a party of scientists.
“That island —I used to take your father there,”
he said with a chuckle. “Forty year since I first
knew it, and now it seem to belong to me. When I
go there I don’t want to finish and come away again.
Yoost loaf and lie about fishing. One week’s work
I make into three.”
“Yet you left it to come across to-day,” his wife
interpolated drily, “just for the sake of a few drinks
at Brady’s.”
“It’s my yoobilee, woman: twelfth October.
One day is not the same color as another. If I let
it go it never come again.”
THERE was a clatter as a girl danced down the
inner stairs and burst through the curtained door-
way, blue eyes bright with excitement, blood showing
through the gold of her skin. She was dressed in a
close-fitting bodice of black velvet, with a skirt of
colored stripes: her feet were shod in buckled shoes,
and a dark mantilla was draped over her head. With
one hand on her hip, the other curved above her, she
posed for a few moments like a statue, then twirled
over to the old man and faced him teasingly. “How
do I look, Dad? This is my costume for the third
act, when I have to dance the tarantella. I haven’t
a notion how to do it, but then no one else has. And
it doesn’t matter as long as I’m keyed up to concert
pitch and a bit hysteric. My last fling before I bang
the door behind me and go out into the world. But
how do 1 look?”
Peter leaned back in his chair and blinked at her
in fuddled admiration. “What do you want me to
S ay? You look like Freda.”
“But I’m not. I’m Nora. That or nothing.”
“Well, you look like Nora. More beautiful than
j see be f ore , But the play _ it . s not
. . „
’ . w . , h d reheal . sal
1NO ’ manK uoa » Inis 18 only me aress renearsai.
They re not nearly ready. Lose their lines and fluff ;
haven’t the faintest notion what it’s all about. If
they let it down this time I’m through with them. So
are Lucia and Katie. , They can play ‘Charley’s Aunt’
and ‘Polly Mary’ till the cows come home.”
Her eyes rested on Neil as if she had caught
sight of him for the first time. She laughed, leant
her hip against the table, put her hands to her hair,
suddenly made self-conscious by his staring admira-
J y maae , seir conscious ny ms sianng aamira
tlon ' Wa§ Slttmg ba ° k m h ' S hI L P§ a
slightly ’ h ' s finBers play,ng wl * a f° rk : No °? e had
‘bough! °£i ntroducln * then V he l J ldn 1 wan [ ' e f.
t 0 nobCe him ’ yet , wh^ n their § lances ™ et he
something pass over his heart as if a wing had blushed
head buzzed, a red mist swam before his eyes,
be was dazzling, she was adorable: oughtn t he to
say something to show he recognised it?... Gold
s * c ’ n ’ honey-colored hair, dew-soft eyes. Eyes like- a
gazelle. Gazelle, feeding on far mountains... He
became aware suddenly that he was coatless, unshaven,
a bttle drunk -
I here was a ring at the telephone, and the gill
danced ovei to the sofa, seizing a wrap.
“That’s Mrs. Clancy, for sure. Im late, and
she's in a panic. Don’t answer till I’m out of the
gale. I'll be down at the hall in half a minute.”
She spun out of the door as Mrs. Jensen went
i G the telephone outside. Neil could hear the gate
clang, the airy dance of feet along the pavement.
while his wife’s responses sounded in the hall Peter
hobbled to the sideboard and produced a bottle of
whisky. “Freda, she have enough life in her to keep
the whole town going. A surprise-packet, I tell you,
that girl—a man never know what she’ll turn to next,
Hockey, sailing, organising shows for the Labor Club,
Always going. It was nothing to her to come down
mde to ta^e P art a P* a y-
He had some accounts to go over. Neil helped
Mrs. Jensen carry out the dishes to the kitchen while
the old man opened letters and laboriously jotted
down notes with a stub of pencil. Occasionally his
voice carried out to the kitchen. Where were the last
invoices from the Northern Timber Mills? Had
Macready said anything about the contract for the
/ : °. „ TT , ,
“ unal building renovations? How was Freda get-
*>"B on with the Guthries? A jumble of names
™ cke ' ed th ™ ugh * head: he , had al ™ ost
len where he was and how long he had known these
P eo But persistently through his mind s confusion
danced th ' fi «ure of the girl, spangled brief-skirted,
h f c >' cs blue-dark and concentrated when they met
hls own -
“Freda? Oh, no, she’s not my daughter—she’s
Peter’s,” the woman told him. “Couldn’t you tell
that by the way she went on? Always up in the air
about something. Never right down on the earth
like the rest of us.”
Her voice was dry and detached, but without
malice. When she talked of Peter or Freda it was
as if they were people only accidentally associated
with her, responsible to themselves alone. Peter was
the best tradesman in town, but a fool at business:
people took him down and laughed at him behind his
back. Freda - well, you could see for yourself.
Always forgetting she’d grown up. Pretending life
was some sort of ring-game with herself in the middle.
She’d never get over the days when she ran wild
among the colored youngsters of Luggertown.
She was showing Neil her orchids and staghorns
in the fernery when a prolonged ringing took her
inside.
“It’s Doherty,” she called to Peter. “He says
there’s a bit of a gale springing up and you’d better
make haste if you want to get back to the island
to-night.”
“No hurry,” said Peter, scrabbling among his
papers with clumsy fingers. “Doherty, he take the
Comet through plenty bad winter gales before now.”
Neil offered to go with him down to the boat.
The old man had been drinking whisky all evening
and was unsteady on his pins, garrulous, inclined to
stop at every corner and tell how it looked fifty years
ago when he first landed. He suddenly remembered
Neil was Sanderson’s son, and pulled up under the
lights of Cayley's to say something about his mother.
A fine lady but fastidious. Nothing good enough for
her—people, hotels, climate, ways of living. But a
fine lady oh, yes. You had to pick your words
carefully when you talked to her.
They blundered at last on to a dark wharf clut-
tered with cargo, and Peter pointed to a small, un-
wieldy launch lying moored at the stern of a coastal
liner. “There she is. Ugliest boat on the coast, and
the toughest. Thirty year since I build her, and she’s
still running. Come down to the cabin and I show
you something. A photograph of your father stand-
ing on deck the first time we take her out fishing
along the Reef.”
A tall, drowsy man
lounging on the hatch
gave them perfunctory
greeting as they climbed
aboard ; then he began
to get the engine going.
Neil stumbled down
into the cabin after the
old man, hit his head
against the low door-
way, sank down heavily on a bunk.
w His brain began to hum. Whisky?
Was it more whisky the old chap was
after, fumbling there in the locker? He
r had lost his sense of time and place, was
only conscious of the smell of oil, bilge, bad air,
glint of light on the old man’s glasses, rumble of
voice going on and on. Before he knew it the
Comet was in the channel, making out to sea.
II.
WHEN he awoke he lay for a few minutes
staring at the planking above his head, trying
to remember where he was, what had hap-
pened to him. Around him was the complete
silence that comes after noise and buffeting: not a
bird-note broke it, nor the creaking of a board ; yet
somewhere inside him was the dim echo of voices
and of thumping waves. He turned slightly, to see
the old man sleeping quietly in the opposite bunk, his
leathern face wrinkled in the morning light that
seeped in from above, his grey moustache moving
faintly at every breath. Gradually the events of the
previous day came back to Neil and his mind fitted
them into a coherent pattern. Tramping over the last
dusty stage into the port, drinking in the bar, sitting
drowsily at the dinner-table while a girl danced down
the stairs. The last thing he recalled was Peter bend-
ing over a locker, steadying himself against the roll
of the boat while he tried to find either some photo-
graphs or another bottle of whisky. But where had
they arrived now?
Leo? He was standing with his swag up against
the door, talking to a little, tough sailor-fellow. How
long ago was that? ... Freda? Honey-colored hair,
eyes fluttering away... Sanderson’s son—the son of
Chris Sanderson... When I knew your father
He picked up his boots and stole quietly out to
the deck, taking care not to waken the old man.
Light breaking on his eyes made him stand breathless,
clutching at the rails. They were at anchor in a still
lagoon, and two hundred yards away a small green-
crested island lay as lightly on the silken water as
if it rested on air. Not a figure moved on the white
beach, not a sound broke the quiet. The green-treed
islet slept within its circle of reef, and in the high
void a few seabirds drifted like feathers, the under-
sides of their bodies catching the first light.
Neil stood immobile in the bows, blinking at the
rising sun, staring down into the transparent water.
Twenty feet below the anchor rested on its bed of
greenish sand and a frail thread of chain reached
upward: how was it the luminous squid did not snap
it as they floated past? The boat itself seemed a
balloon, adrift on air, tethered to that dark shape
below. But the clear space over which it poised


was a pool, hemmed by grape-colored banks of coral.
Banks that changed their hues to olive, purple, rose,
as your eyes grew accustomed to the light.
Fish of all colors were moving through the crystal
emptiness between him and the sea-floor, yet the
absence of sound made Neil feel as if he were in a
dream. He was haunted, too, by a feeling of having
been in the place before. Always he had carried
about in the shadowy depths of his mind the memory
of an island floating like a mass of green fern on the
still water. Water clearer than any he had seen after-
wards. He was standing by some rails, a small boy
in slippery boots, staring down at some fish that
looked like the painted figures in his toy-books. A
big man (was that his father?) had hold of his hand
and was trying to hurry him away, but he gripped the
rails hard, for he wanted to stand and stare for ever.
The memory often came back before his eyes closed
in sleep: it was his earliest memory of all, but it was
isolated, no links connecting it with the others.
“Well, you don’t let the sun find you in bed, eh?
Neither did I one time.” Old Peter had come wamb-
ling up from below, buckling his belt around his
middle. He looked frowsy, unwashed, his glasses
crooked, his grey hair fluffy about his skull. Some
of the vitality had gone from him. He stared muzzily
at the shore, as if not remembering very clearly where
he was: but slowly the stream of full consciousness
came back to him and he began searching among the
junk in the bows for a basin.
“Ah, well, we’ll have a wash and then go ashore
for some breakfast. Looks as if those men of mine,
they’re not out of their blankets yet. When the cat’s
away, eh? ‘You old boss-cocky, Peter,’ they say,
‘you keep a man always on the jump.’ But when
there’s work to be done in quick time I don’t need
to stand over them.”
'T'HEY tumbled into the dinghy moored to the back
1 of the boat, Doherty, who had been asleep on
the hatch, taking the oars. Sounds were beginning
to fracture the quiet of the morning. From the three
luggers anchored outside the reef came a faint yodel-
ling as the natives slipped into the boats for the day’s
work. Clop of an axe echoed out from the shore.
There was a rusty crying as the terns rose from the
beach and circled above the dinghy.
Near a tin shed among the undergrowth three or
four sun-blackened men in faded rags of bathing-
suits were towelling themselves or helping to prepare
breakfast. They welcomed Peter boisterously, quiz-
zing him about his jubilee and the narrow escape
from arrest he must have had over in the town.
“Back again, Peter! Why the hell didn’t you make
it a week instead of twenty-four hours?” . . . “By
cripes, you look as if you’ve been punishing it hard.”
. . . “Didn’t bring back a hair of the dog that bit you,
did you, Peter?”
No one took any notice of Neil. He found a
place for himself at the slab table and silently ate
the fish placed in front of him while the others kept
up a fire of incomprehensible jokes. Who were
Mother Brady, One Eye, the Squid? Apparently all
these men. had worked together for a long time, fol-
lowing Peter from one contract to another, yet they
looked less like regular workmen than a band of
toughs. Their half-naked bodies were peeling from
exposure: salty hair was matted over swarthy faces:
laughter came from their throats in a harsh rattle.
Neil felt an outsider, cut off from the freemasonry
of their common life. Their deliberate unconcern
with him seemed almost like contempt. Yet what
a happy-go-lucky crowd they were, enjoying them-
selves with gusto, treating their work as a spree.
There was no stress in this job of pulling down
abandoned sheds and stacking the timber for removal.
They had time to bathe, loaf in the sun, go out spear-
ing fish along the reef.
Before long Neil had conquered his first faint
antipathy to them, the residue of his class-feeling, and
become infected with their boisterous good-humor.
How utterly different the atmosphere of this camp
was from that of the cane-barracks! There was no
sweating grind of work here, with men blundering in
too tired to talk and going to sleep over their food.
Obviously Peter was an easy boss, one who lived on
an equal footing with his men and knew how to get
the most out of them.
They were talking about the luggers along the
reef, about their next job at Macready’s, about some
fisherman named McEvoy who had put in for bait
the day before and gone to sea again.
“Wants to sell that boat of his, Mac does,” said
a little fellow in a maroon jersey. “Talks of chucking
the sea and going on the land with his brother. Sick of
the smell of bilge and engine-oil, he says. Two hun-
dred notes could buy the Kestrel from him any time.”
An indignant grunt came from Peter’s throat.
“What! You tell me he want to sell the Kestrel for
two hundred notes! The work I put into that boat! By
hell, he don’t know what he got hold of. Good for
twenty year yet, the Kestrel is, so long as he don’t
run her on the coral.”
“Mac’s not a fisherman’s bootlace,” grinned one
of the other men. “Never could make ado of the
game, even when the going was good. Wait till
there’s not a wrinkle on the water, and run for shelter
if a cloud blows up, that’s Mac. No wonder he comes
back with more ice than fish. And he’s let the borer
get into that blasted boat. Never been stripped since
the day he got her, and only a pot of paint slung over
her now and then. A man would have to spend more
than a few quid putting new timber into her if he
took her over.”
But Peter had gone off into a rhapsody on the
Kestrel as she had been when she left the slips.
What pride and care had gone into the building of
her! He had taken the job on in a slack period
when he had plenty of time on his hands and didn’t
worry whether he lost money or not. Money was a
small thing to him those days. He had given long
thought to the design of boats, and wanted to prove
he could lay down a keel as well as any Japanese
at Thursday Island. But some of these landcrabs who
went to sea didn’t recognise a real craft when it fell
into their hands. “Let him come to me if he want to
sell that boat. Yes, let him yoost come to me. I bet
I find someone who’ll look after her. When I put a
bit of new timber in her shell she won’t be worse
than when she first leave the slips.”
L_l E was still brooding over the Kestrel when the
1 1 left the table and began making preparations
for the day’s work. Neil wandered off to explore
the island and the reef, excited by the hope, as he
stared up at the towering coral-trees or ploughed
through the brakes of native poinsettia, that some
strange scent or startling flower might touch a nerve
in him and bring back his childhood. It must
have been with his father that he had visited the spot
before. He knew he had lived in Port Cowrie till he
was four, yet those days were a complete blank in his
mind. There was merely this vague memory of hold-
ing a big man’s hand as he stared down at the colored
fish in the still water, and though he exerted his will
to extend it he could not by sheer will push deeper
into the past. It was only from outside that the
revelation might come: all his senses were quickened
and alert with expectancy.
Suck and gurgle of the outgoing tide as it
drained away from the coral floor of the lagoon,
pelting through the channel. He waded out to where
the huge boulders made a breakwater as regular as
something designed by an engineer: blue and deep
the sea stretched beyond them to the distant hills of
the mainland. Inside the reef it had shallowed till it
hardly covered the ankles. Fields of turtle-grass
thinning off into yellowish sand spangled by purple
starfish: clustering niggerheads of coral just awash:
fish making crinkles in the shallows as they darted
for their underground caverns. All the secrets of the
sea-floor were being exposed by the retreating tide.
Curiously-patterned crabs tucked in their claws and
snuggled down into the sand, golden eels slithered
off to their holes in the coral, a teeming life seemed
passionately intent on finding cover till the waves
poured over it in full wash again. Only in pools
where water remained cupped was there normal still-
ness, and there glossy slugs fed quietly among the
weed, anemones thrust out their colored tentacles,
tiny barred fish flitted from one branch of coral to
another like butterflies.
On the outer edge of the reef luggers were lying
at anchor and four boats moved backwards and for-
wards across the water, each with a couple of men at
the oars and one lying full-length in the stern, star-
ing at the sea-floor through a glass float. Round and
round the men rowed mechanically, the sun gleam-
ing on their black shoulders, their bare-cropped heads.
They were gathering beche-de-mer. From time to
time the watcher in the stern dropped his weighted
dart with precision and hauled a glistening slug up
from its feeding-grounds. Then he settled himself
again to stare downwards through his float.
Drowsy with the sun and the soft lap of water,
Neil sat with his back against a boulder on the dry
reef, gazing across the island that was now lifted
high above sea-level, an inverted saucer slimed with
green. Faint sounds of hammering came across the
wastes of breccia: antlike figures moved about the
beach carrying timber. In the throat of the channel
where the water lay gunmetal-dark the Comet rested
at anchor, and a fishing-smack with weather-blackened
sails was edging toward her from open sea. Neil
had a feeling of curiosity, strangeness, exhilaration.
A fresh world was spread before him, one he had
never imagined. Men going about their work with
the intentness of reef-crabs, preoccupied by interests
he couldn’t follow, moving to a rhythm unfamiliar to
him.
He was fascinated by this world into which he
had blundered by chance. “If a man could only
carve out a living here! Get a boat of his own, be
his own boss... Freedom! I’m not going back to
work in a gang.”
HE was filled with a sudden urge to force his way
out of the class into which he had fallen, make
an independent career for himself. A leader of the
workers? Perhaps, after all, that was only a fantasy,
born of the inner conflict with his father. You
couldn’t throw yourself wholeheartedly into that
battle unless you had faith in the new world to be
created. You couldn’t surrender yourself if some-
thing in your blood, your training, fought against it,
whispering that Leo was right, that a man’s pride
ought to be in his own individual being, the things
that separated him from the mass. Whispering that
you weren’t meant to spend your life with bent back
among the cane or upon the roads and that you would
be a fool if you didn’t seize the first chance of getting
free.
But on land, particularly of late, he had been
troubled by the thought that the winning of freedom
mightn’t be a matter of will, even of ability. You
couldn’t trust to your muscles, your energy, the health
in your body. The majority had to remain in the
ruck, hunting jobs, working for wages, pouring a little
of their strength back into the earth every year.
Did the sea offer an escape? He had always
thought about it romantically—'sailing-trips down the
Bay, strange vessels coming up the river never as
something that might hold a way of life. Now,
sitting with his back against the sun-warmed boulder,
it broke upon him from anew angle. There were
men wresting a living from waters as strange and
unfrequented as any he had dreamed about, fishing,
gathering shell from the sea-bed, carrying small car-
goes in sail-driven craft. The line of the Reef
stretched before his inner eye, a thousand miles of
coral wall, broken in places where the outer seas
ran deep through millrace passages, spreading over
low reefs that lifted their heads only at the ebb, wash-
ing the branches of green-tufted islands and glittering
cays. He was excited by images of those cays and
islands.
Like the refrain of a song old Peter’s rhapsody
was thrumming in the back of his mind. “The work
I put into that boat! By hell, he don’t know what he
got hold 0f... The loveliest thing I ever have under
my hand: I ought never to have let her go.”
And her owner was willing to sell her for two
hundred notes! Well, why shouldn’t he get hold of
her and try to pick up a living along the Reef? There
was money in his pocket; he didn’t want it to be
frittered away. Money soon went when you were
loafing or looking around for a job. Besides, there
was no future in working for other men.
He sat with his pipe between his teeth, staring
over at the island, trying to think the matter out.
This might be the turning-point of your life, Neil
Sanderson. You’ve never made a real decision be-
fore: you’ve taken what work offered, drifted from
one job to another. Here’s a chance to use your will,
give your life some shape and direction. You could
throw your whole energy into the work of running
a boat, even if you’re only carrying timber or catching
fish for the market.
But what would Leo think of the idea? He
hadn’t enough money to buy the boat himself and he
needed a mate to help him work it. Besides, he
couldn’t cut adrift from Leo now: he would feel
rootless, empty, lost. They had taken for granted,
on the walk to Port Cowrie, that they were going to
stick together indefinitely, but he was unsure of Leo
still. Wouldn’t he laugh at the notion of running a
boat, seize the chance of making a break?
He felt troubled as he stared out over the brec-
cia plain. “It ought to be right into his hands. He’s
got nothing to look forward to except another spell
of work. This would take him away from the mob,
give him the slabs of free time he’s always hankering
after.”
And in imagination he saw the Kestrel lying off
some sheltered cay, himself going round the deck
making sure everything was snug for the night, Leo
lying in his bunk with the light on his book. There
would be days of drifting through quiet water, trolling
for kingfish, brisk runs into port with the catch. At
times the work would be hard, the profits scanty, but
it was a man’s life and they would be their own
masters. He was thrilled with the prospect of
exploring unknown reefs, mixing with Thursday
Island lugger-boys, spending long hours in argument
with Leo as they sprawled on their own deck.
\I/HEN he waded back with the turn of the tide
“ * Peter was standing with his hands in his pockets
superintending the loading of a stack of iron and
timber into two dinghies. The old man looked
liverish: he was beginning to feel the effects of his
spree: but his eyes had a twinkle in them. “Well,
what do you think of our island? Not sorry I filled
you up with whisky and carried you off here, eh?
Forty year it is since I first come here, and the week-
end trippers—they haven’t spoilt her yet. Freda, she
often come here to camp with the other girls. Leave
their skirts behind, they do, and live like boys.”
Neil switched the talk round to the one thing
that was dominating his mind. At the mention of
the Kestrel the old man’s eyes became suddenly con-
centrated behind their glasses: he gave Neil a sharp
look, as if weighing his character and capacity for
the first time. “What? You think of buying her,
eh?”
His directness pulled Neil up, impelled him to
hedge. “I don’t know. Haven’t seen her yet. And
there’s a mate of mine—it would depend upon him.


“And what do you know about running a boat,
eh?”
“Not a hell of a lot. I can hang on to the end
of a sail. Sometimes I used to spend my week-ends
down the Bay. If anything would come easy to me,
though, the running of a boat would.”
Peter took his pipe out and sat down on the pile
of timber, a queer solemnity about him, as if he had
suddenly remembered his years. The Kestrel touched
a nerve of sentiment in his mind: so, strangely, did
the future of Sanderson’s son.
“You think to go fishing, eh? Well, it’s one way
of making a living, but you don’t bring up any pearls
from under water. Get any idea of that from your
head: it’s a poor man’s game, my boy. An empty
belly most days and a wet backside. And anyone
who goes to sea —the webs come between his toes so
he don’t walk easy on land any more. Yes, I have
seen it over and over... The old man —he didn’t
leave you money, eh?”
“Not a skerrick,” Neil told him. “I didn’t look
for it. Didn’t know he was dead till a month after
the funeral. I wasn’t anything to him, nor him to
me.”
“He don’t have much himself in the end,” said
Peter quickly; “the crows, they picked his bones
clean. But if you make up your mind to buy the
Kestrel yoost come to me. McEvoy, he’d sell her to
me for less than you get her. And when I hand her
over to you there won’t be any wormy timber left in
her hull. No, you can make your mind easy about
that. As sound, she’ll be, as the day she first leave
the slip.”
He took off his glasses and wiped them, a sudden
chuckle shaking his thick body. Obviously the
thought of having the Kestrel in his hands again, if
only for a few weeks, was as warming as wine.
Neil felt a love for the old boy swell his heart as,
tongue-bound, he stood beside him looking out
to sea. It was a more decent world than he had
been counting on if a man like Peter |
Her eyes rested on Neil as if she had caught sight
of him for the first time.
FOR over three weeks Besanck had been living
alone. On a patch of cleared land just outside
the town boundaries he had dug himself in with
the careless haste of a man contemptuous of
his surroundings, unwilling to take them seriously.
He had not even troubled to buy a tent. Some rags
of hessian were draped around a scaffolding of poles,
and the crazy structure was roofed with a few sheets
of galvanised iron he had dragged away from the
scene of a fire. It was just roomy enough to house
his bedding and spare clothes, give him some refuge
from the weather: he did his cooking at the open
fire outside and had a table made of kerosene-cases
under a dwarfed magnolia. At night he crawled into
his cover and, stretched on the ground, lay reading
in the whiteness of his carbide lamp.
Seen from the road the place was an offence
to the eye. But then so were the box-like cottages
of tin-and-weatherboard that lined the dusty roads
straggling out from the town, separated by broken
paling fences yet close enough for people to spy upon
each other’s intimacies through ever-open windows.
It was only a question of degree, Besanck told himself
with a shrug. Where life was ugly and lacking in
design it didn’t matter if one’s man’s shelter was more
ramshackle than his neighbor’s. Fastidious in some
things, he had come to be indifferent, as long as Tie
had leisure and freedom, to where he slept and took
his meals, and his only trouble was that he had to
live far enough away from the town’s centre to avoid
the building regulations. Two miles to walk, morning
an evening, over dusty, uninteresting roads that were
unprotected by shade-trees.
He had to do this to reach the School of Arts,
which was on the Esplanade, its wide, cool balconies
overlooking the estuary and the shipping. It was his
club, the centre of his life. For fifteen shillings he
had a six-months freedom of it, and, sprawling in a
canvas chair on the balcony, he could read, write,
look out to sea and imagine he was master of his
days. More than anything this cool brick building
with its atmosphere of dignified idleness- reconciled
him to Port Cowrie. How often, during the last three
years, when he had a little money, he had resolved to
take a passage by the first boat that caught his eye!
But, when it came to the point, where was he to go?
China? No hope of an untroubled life there!
Paris? It was full of exiles like himself, scratching
for a bare existence, telling one another romantic
lies about the past, making fantastic plans for a future
they didn’t believe in. America? His experience
hadn’t been pleasant: it was no place for the hobo,
the outsider, the man without money or the will to
submerge himself in the general scramble.
No, in spite of his fugitive hovel, he was better
where he was. The climate was easy: a man simply
forgot about it. At the worst it gave him an
excuse to be lazy, to go about coatless, un-
shaven, his bare feet thrust into old
sandals, his mind on holiday. And the
casualness of the people’s way
of living amused him, suited his own habit. Society
hadn’t yet formed a hard crust: its few standards were
AS f° ng Z T “
his pocket he was free of anything the town had to
offer. And where else were people so tolerant, so
satisfied to live and let live? They stared at him when
they saw him swinging in from the outskirts of the
town ? bareheaded, a couple of books under his arm,
but they didn’t trouble how he made his living or what
was in bis mind - He s P ent occasional hours swimming
at , lhc baths ; walch,n = the , fishing-boats come in,
c °/° re ? peopl " of Lugge t r .-
town. He sometimes gambled for small sums with
the Chinese in Charlotte-street. And there was a girl
who jested saudly with him in the catt b the * t
o ffi ce w hen she took his order for tea and scones
“Always a book with you! Don’t you ever get tired
G f reading?”
“One gets tired of everything, my dear. Even of
making love.”
“Oh, you’re that sort, are you? No one would
have guessed.”
She would respond in a flash, he knew, if he
asked her to come with him on one of the moonlight
(<Continued on page 50.)


power of mean and dingy things, the humbler insist-
ence of trivialities are raised to the pitch of dramatic
force. The characters are well drawn. Gordon, even
when he repels and exasperates, is very human. He
is drawn very fully; the others are more lightly
sketched: Rosemary, eager and afraid; Julia, the
sister, whose greatest interest in life is buying Christ-
mas presents; Ravelston, who is sensitively ashamed
before Gordon because he has £2OOO a year; and
Flaxman, who travels in Queen Sheba toilet articles.
Australian Writers: Murdoch.
Walter Murdoch, Professor of English at the Uni-
versity of West Australia and unequalled in Australia
as an essayist, was born in 1874 at Pitbanock, a
fishing village on that part of the coast of Scotland
that looks straight up to the North Pole. There he
spent his childhood: “Our chief recreation in winter
was watching shipwrecks”; but there were winters
away in a French town on the Bay of Biscay. When
he was about ten the family migrated to Australia in
search of health, but his father, a scholar of wide
interests, died within a month of their landing. As
a schoolboy Walter Murdoch was “entirely undistin-
guished,” except that at Scotch College, Melbourne,
in old Dr. Morrison’s day, he won a prize for an
essay on Australian Federation. (“I don’t know what
my arguments for Federation were, but they were
probably fallacious.”) In 1898, being then a school-
master, married, he wondered if any money was to
be made by writing, and sent to the “Argus” a long
article on Australian poets, which was published. For
a year or so after that his articles were perseveringly
returned, but his bombardment proved better than
the “Argus” defences, and in 1904 he was offered the
job of writing a regular column on books. Then a
lecturer at the University of Melbourne on a salary
of £l5O a year, he accepted that work as a welcome
sideline, and he has been contributing on and off to
the “Argus” ever since.
The drawing on this page by Dubois cannot be
vouched for, though it is a good version of the “pass-
port” photograph on which it was based. The
Bulletin’s Westralian “Little Sister” provides this
description: “Loose clothes, built to comfort, not
adorn, his lean sft. Bin. A twinkle in the blue eyes
belying the prim mouth under its grey Rudyard
Kipling moustache. An expressionless mien as he
inspires students with his lively, full-blooded lectures.
He is probably the most popular lecturer at the
University, for his lone touch of coldness lies in the
shoulder he turns towards humbug and the limelight.”
Though here he is to be briefly discussed as Walter
Murdoch, essayist, what Professor Murdoch has taken
seriously has always been his university teaching ; the
writing, after it ceased to be a bread-and-butter
necessity, has always been more or less a recreation.
Which is not to say that there is anything of the idle
amateur about his essays, except, perhaps, the very
earliest of them. Those in the five books published
by Angus and Robertson in the past ten years are,
for this form of literary expression, remarkably
substantial: as an essayist Walter Murdoch is probably
most notable for the fact that he is always saying
something—and that that is unusual anybody addicted
to reading in this literary form will heartily agree.
It is so much a virtue of this writer that it is no
surprise when many of his essays rebelliously decline
to be essays and turn into articles. (A fair rough
classification of essay and article is that an article is
direct attack, an essay indirect approach.) He declares
somewhere that he is not a crusader, but, like many
other statements about himself, that is not to be taken
too literally. There is any amount of good, honest
crusading in his work — against the smug respectability
of suburban-mindedness (very freely), and for a right
conception of education (with like gusto).
Apart from the already noted singularly substan-
tial nature of his essays, outstanding qualities may be
listed: His intellect —he is an independent and a clear
thinker, drawing a warm and human philosophy from
direct observation of life against a background of our
—or what should be our —common cultural heritage.
His variety—there are repetitions and certain incon-
sistencies, especially when he is on crusade, as in, for
instance, his determination not to recognise racial
differences among people in one essay, after having
accepted very conclusive differences in other essays ;
but his interests are remarkably varied, and so is his
treatment of them from one essay to another. His
interest in human nature and his love for the general
run of his fellow-men —he is, as might be expected
from the qualities already listed, an ardent Janeite ;
and, naturally, what he admires about Jane Austen
is that “she gives us a picture of human nature.” His
talent for bringing the reader to share in his enthu-
siasms—this, the one quality that counts for much in
literary comment, is present in all his essays on writers,
and here is a fair sample of it:
I wish some competent scholar would edit a volume
of “Crucial Letters” —I mean letters written at crucial
moments in the lives of the writers —letters, therefore,
which reveal the inmost core of the character. Such a
letter, for instance, as Lamb wrote to Coleridge, when
the double tragedy, of his sister’s madness and his
mother’s death, broke suddenly, out of a blue sky, into
his life. In that letter, when all his pleasant fopperies
and affectations were flung aside, the pure gold of his
nature shone forth, so that you cannot read it without
becoming a lover of Lamb for life. All that he after-
wards wrote, all the tragic and smiling wisdom of his
books, is illuminated by that brief letter, surely one of
the most moving ever penned.
One other quality—so prevalent that it could have
been, and by many would have been, placed first in
this rough listing—is his warm sense of humor, which
is largely a sense of fun. This might be called the
essence of his writing ; at any rate it is aflood through
his work. There are other complementary qualities
that go to make up what is, after all, his personality.
(“An essay is a bit of the essayist; if you dislike it,
you would dislike him if you met him.”) From these
essays you get the sense of one of broad sympathies,
with deep understanding, considerable knowledge and
no affectations not even literary affectations. His
writing is as straightforward, as sane, honest and full
of sincerity as the thinking that has gone into it. He
has probably an intellectual rather than an intuitive
and emotional feeling for poetry, and he is conserva-
tive about English literature the one thing he is
conservative about; but it is very doubtful if anyone
else in Australia has written so infectiously on the
broad stream of literature. There is no question what-
ever that no one here has written anything like such
enjoyable, wise, humorous, varied and generally excel-
lent essays as his are at their best.
Professor Murdoch has also written what he
describes as a “biographical sketch” of Deakin, though
many current “biographers” would have put it forth
as a substantial biography. It is substantial enough
to give a clear, full-length portrait of the statesman
and is very readable.
“BITS OF AN ESSAYIST.”
The intention here was to give one of Walter
Murdoch’s essays complete. One of the humorous
ones —“Tripe and Onions,” for instance; or “On
Professor WALTER MURDOCH.
Sitting About,” or any one of a dozen or so others.
Or one of the literary essays—“On Whiskers and
Eternity,” “More Light on Carlyle,” “The Essay” and
“Sesquipedalianism,” this last an exceptionally sane
bit of counselling. Or one of the travel essays, with
that on his visit back to his birthplace a gem of its
kind. Anybody who has read him will be able to
name a dozen others that should have been given
preference as an example. The choice eventually was
“On Being Natural,” since it contains something of
most of Walter Murdoch’s chief qualities; but after
setting up the following “bits” it was found that the
page wouldn’t hold any more. Perhaps these “bits”
will serve well enough to indicate something of essays
and essayist both.
No new and inspired religion has come to us from
the United States for over a fortnight.
Many dire evils spring from the failure to realise
the plain fact that every man, even the most august
and venerable, is a bit of a joke.
Be honest with yourself and realise that your mind is'
dressed from top to toe in reach-me-downs.
[Cobbed] went back to America, where he dug up the
bones of Thomas Paine, and carried them about with
him until he returned to England, where he contrived
to lose them.
I believe in articulate speech: that is the nearest
I can get to formulating a literary creed.
The first literary enterprise I can remember embark-
ing on was to make a list of the principal persons in
the Bible
Our own kookaburra, in emotional moments, makes
a noise which has an accidental resemblance to the
noises made by certain people—not, 1 trust, by you or
me —when they laugh; of course the kookaburra is not
really laughing, but singing; it thinks of itself as the
Australian nightingale—poor deluded bird —but not more
deluded than some human beings who make strange
noises and imagine themselves 1 to be gifte.d tenors.
I sometimes feel that our English literature is one
continuous protest against dulness. I am sure that all
the literature we care for most has an element of
pugnacity in it, and that what it was fighting was the
respectable, comfortable, complacent dulness of the
time.
Respectability has many virtues, but they are the
meaner virtues, the timid virtues, caution, prudence,
docility, tameness, discretion. All the brave adven-
turous virtues are regarded by this dingy goddess as
silly or dangerous, or both.
Education, which means (among other things) the
stimulation of the intelligence, has been neglected;
and we are paying the penalty. Henceforth, let us
not say that any country has a high standard of
living unless it is doing its very utmost to give its
people the very best education it knows how to find
for them.
[Of his native village]: What like maun it be
when the simmer’s gane? Losh, sirs, when the
cauldrife winter’s here, wi’ the nippin’ win’s, an’ the
rain an’ the hail and the snaw an’ the sleet, an’
a’ the road’s heavy wi’ glaur—man, it wad gar ye
gae clean dementit, an’ the muckle black deevil wad
whisper ill things in yer lug a’ the day, an’ a’ the
nicht there wad be naething to dae but sit by the
lire an’ tak a drappie, an’ syne to tak anither drappie,
an’ syne anither, till the stoup was teem; an’ then
whaur wad ye be? 1 trust I make myself clear.
I hope I shall not be accused of plutocratic boasting
if I say that, in the course of a long life, hundreds
of threepenny bits have passed through my hands....
It is, I repeat, one of the puzzles, one of the
tragedies of history, that the Church should have
taken sides with respectability.
Others aver that he was as sober as a judge.
The innocence of my life has hitherto preserved me
from any extensive contact with judges, but I suppose
this means that he was moderately sober.
I remember that De Quincey, a century ago, wrote
his articles for the “Edinburgh Review” by the light
of a candle, which sometimes set fire to his hair
as he bent over his manuscript; and to be able to
write English prose as good as De Quincey’s I would
cheerfully surrender my share in electric light, and would
throw in telephones, gramophones, pianolas, internal-
combustion engines, broadcasting and all the other
alleged joys of modern life. I really would, without
a qualm.
To laugh at humbug wherever it may raise its solemn
old head, to be ready to follow an argument whither-
soever it may lead, to face the facts of life without
fear and without disguise, to desire the truth no
matter how unpalatable it may be, to. be honest and
frank in speech and thought—these are among the
root-virtues, and the best of our young people seem
to me to possess them in a high degree.
[After having been accused of not being Australian
enough]: I am going to be so Australian that everyone
will suppose me to be a promising young aboriginal.
I want to say a word, a very meek and chastened
word, in defence of the much enduring class to which
1 have the misfortune to belong; the mild people,
the moderate people, the people whose color is about
half-way between the stainless white of the Tory and
the vivid and flaming red of the Revolutionary; the
pink people, in short.
My own hope is in education, in spite of many
disillusionments. My hope is that some day teachers
will impress upon their pupils the solemn duty of not
accepting ready-made the beliefs of others, of not
swallowing them unquestioningly as a child might
swallow a pill given it by its mother. One has to
put one's beliefs on a foundation of sincerity before
they are worthy to be called beliefs at all; and my
hope is that some day education will train children
for the real duty of life, which is to think for
oneself and to act for oneself, and not to be one of
the lifeless automata which make up the serried ranks
of respectability.
He was Australian in everything he said and did.
If there is an Australian type he is the type. Long,
lean, quiet, humorous, inarticulate, sagacious, easy-
going, loyal to his own ethical code, standing on his
own feet and facing the world with a good-humored
imperturbability careless about economics—he does not
grow rich. He can never afford a trip to England, and so
England never sees him, and judges Australia by another
type altogether—a “better-educated” type. 1 see that
Miss Rebecca West has a remark in her latest book
about “the Australian crawl” —an unpleasant phrase,
but there is no use in resenting it; it will be more
useful to inquire what she means, and whether the
tourists who represent us in England have contrived to
convey the impression that snobbishness is an Australian
trait. If so —and I believe from my own experience that
it is so —I wish Mr. Wells and Mr, Galsworthy and a
few other men of genius who have the ear of the
British public could be induced to visit Australia —
not our cities, which are mere plagiarisms from the old
world, but the real Australia, and meet the real Aus-
tralian. I should be happy to introduce Miss West to
my friend of the bushfire; she might not find him the
fine flower of civilisation; but “crawl” would be the
very last word she would think of applying to him. If 1
had been a duke or a king or an emperor he would have
spoken to me in exactly the same way, as one bloke to
another bloke; if I had been a multi-millionaire he
would have treated me just the same, with the same
helpfulness and the same kindly scorn for my incom-
petence. (He, and men of his type, were the salt of our
Expeditionary Force, and faced death with the same
kind of cool nonchalance.) Failing such an introduction,
let our novelists and poets carry his portrait to the other
side of the world, and shbw that Australia can produce
something better than snobs. Is he a disappearing
type? 1 hope not. I hope he has come to stay, and
that 10 centuries hence it will be seen that his ideal—
the ideal of mateship—has been Australia’s great contri-
bution to civilisation.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Walter Murdoch’s published works include in-
numerable school books (various publishers); Oxford
Book of Australian Verse, afterwards changed into
A Book of Australasian Verse (Oxford University
Press); Alfred Deakin: a Sketch (Constable, 1922);
Loose Leaves (G. Robertson, 1909); Speaking Person-
ally (1931), Saturday Mornings (1.932), Moreover (1933),
The Wild Planet (1935), Lucid fnletyals (1936) (Anguj
and Robertson, Sydney); The Two Laughters (Dent,
1934).


fam.
WM
mill
mm
li mmM
-:
THREE-THREES"
DRIVING AHEAD
S TATP EXPRtS*
_ '
.. t^‘3 55
"Three-Threes" Cigarettes, like a perfect drive,
give a thrill and satisfaction which place them
well ahead of all others. The reason for
"Three-Threes" success lies in fine Virginia
tobaccos, brilliantly blended to a formula that
will always be a closely guarded secret. Re-
member —"The Secret's in the ‘333Y Blend."
StbTE fXPRESS
33 3
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
5621-2-7
CORK TIPPED
OR PLAIN
ĸ
Abo Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and
Round Air-tight Fifties.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
r .
is I
Ik
- - **«<>
i
"• ■’• :
KWiViviiW
*** %
m
mwm
m
mm
< i
i • J
>
r
11.
i
An Idea of Portion of One of the Vast Storage Cellars,
ofwie meUoumeM mullfcuqmd


SOMETHING’S GONE WRONG.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Welliitgton.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route," 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AVIATION—YES; MARKETING—NO.
The people of Australia are being asked to add an
important sub-section (the fortieth) to the section
(51) in which the legislative powers of the national
Parliament are specified: in effect, to clothe it with
power “to make laws with respect to air navigation
and aircraft.” Because it is absurd and dangerous
that air navigation and aircraft should be under seven
collections of governing authorities, this power should
be granted. The proposed change is not Parkhill-proof,
but it threatens no worth-while interest, and the public
should gain from the simplifying and strengthening
of control.
If this were the only question that is to be put
to the vote on March 6, the electors’ task would be
easy and their duty clear. But they are also being
asked to devitalise a section (92) which dates from
the very inception of the Federal movement, and
which, while giving the less populous States a guar-
antee without which they might never have become
Federal partners, contains the only specific assurance
that this is a free Commonwealth. Introduced as a
resolution by Henry Parkes at the Sydney Convention
of 1891, and adopted without alteration, it read:
“That the trade and intercourse between the federated
colonies, whether by means of land carriage or ocean
navigation, shall be absolutely free.” As put into
the Constitution, which was accepted by 422,788 to
261,077, it read: “On the imposition of uniform
duties of customs, trade, commerce and intercourse
among the States, whether by means of internal
carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free” ;
and, though uniform duties have been imposed for
30 years, that is how it reads still.
In these days of dictatorships and government
by regulation, the people should surely cleave to such
freedom as they can retain ; but the successors of
Parkes and Deakin (now become to clever Mr.
Menzies “our grandfathers, who went too far”) coolly
invite them to sacrifice this freedom and be scourged.
The proposition is that Section 92 should be devital-
ised by an “amendment”:
92a. —The provisions of the last preceding section
shall not apply to laws with respect to marketing made
by, or under the authority of, the Parliament in the
exercise of any powers vested in the Parliament by this
Constitution.
What does the Lyons Government mean by
“marketing”? It refuses to say. All it will say is that
if the power it seeks is granted by the people and
any exercise of it is challenged the definition of
“marketing” will be left to the High Court. To the
High Court, which down to 1920 ruled that Section
92 bound the Commonwealth Parliament, and
overruled itself in McArthur’s case, to be overruled
in its turn by the Privy Council. Assuredly there is
no finality here. The only things of which the public
may be certain are that if Section 92a comes into
being inter-State freetrade will go, and that cartloads
of “laws with respect to marketing” will be “made
under the authority of the Parliament” —by boards.
There will be boards to right of us, boards to left
of us, boards all round us ; and they will all be armed
with power to issue regulations by the furlong and to
levy taxes. For, as the Country-party member for
Echuca put it, “Parliament is seeking to equip itself
with power to enable it to establish artificial price-
levels,” and State Governments which have gone in
for this kind of thing by virtue of unchallengeable
provincial powers have invariably achieved the “arti-
ficial price-levels”—in the Sydney milk trade, for
example—by means of boards.
Such boards, in effect, impose taxes on the con-
sumer and are in no way responsible to him. The
power delegated to them is such and the interests
that sustain them are so influential that they are virtu-
ally independent of Parliament. If Section 92 is
emasculated the position of inter-State boards will
be stronger still. For the legislation setting them up
will have to be initiated by State Parliaments and
ratified by the Commonwealth Parliament, and they
will be working on the “principle”—which will be
taken to have received popular sanction —that if farm
and orchard produce is sold overseas at what they
consider less than a fair price—and of that they are
to be the judges—the difference must be extracted
from the Australian consumer. They will be prac-
tically irremovable, and their taxing powers will be
limited only by what the Australian consumer will
stand.
It is unfortunately true that, before the depres-
sion, many good fellows were induced to go on the
land often unnecessarily dear land —by what
amounted to false pretences. The Bulletin tried to
arrest the mania for loan-settlement and to discourage
the belief (still held by fatheaded politicians) that
Britain offers an ever-expanding market for Aus-
tralian farm produce, and was called a calamity-
howler. Recognising that the victims had a claim on
the community over and above the full protection
in their home market which it helped to get for them,
it supported measures designed to relieve their situa-
tion, including bounties —and though nobody can be
enthusiastic about bounties they are free from the
radical objections to regulation and price-fixing by
boards, since they breed no strife between city and
country, and are granted only in proved emergencies
by men who can be called to account. But The
Bulletin will not support a clumsy expedient which
cannot permanently remove the grievances of the
land men concerned (their prime need is to sell a lot
more in Australia, if they have to take a bit less),
which can only add to the burdens of the nation that
in 1935-36 paid £104,500,000 in taxes out of produc-
tion valued at £380,500,000, and which will leave
Australia with a bad cross between a Federal and a
unitary system ever increasing in complexity and cost.
Politicians seeking more power under the Con-
stitution are required to show that more power is
necessary, and that a right use will be made of it.
In neither respect have the Ministerial parties been
convincing: all they have demonstrated is that a
politician-created difficulty exists, and that they are
looking for an easy way out —for a lazy alternative
and a shiftless transfer of responsibility. A poorer
case for a constitutional amendment has never been
put up. Mr. Bruce made an immeasurably better job
of the proposals he submitted to the people in 1926,
and they were defeated —“essential services” in his own
Victoria by 537,560 to 296,548, in South Australia
by 179,740 to 81,966 and in Westralia by 113,222 to
39,566.
The Tragedy of the Stinson.
For eight days the fate of the missing Stinson airliner
threatened to become an unsolved mystery, like that
of the Southern Cloud. In broad daylight, but in
rough weather, the machine was on its way from
Brisbane to Sydney, when it suddenly vanished off
the face of the earth. Seven person vanished with it.
On the ninth day two passengers were found alive.
Four other men lay dead in the wreck of the machine.
The fifth body was found a mile away; it was that
of a passenger who had survived the crash only to
fall over a cliff when in search of succor.
The incident proves how far Australia has to go
in the matter of organisation of aerial routes. The
Brisbane-Sydney route is naturally one of the safest
in the world. It lies along a series of beaches easily
picked out; there are plenty of river mouths with
distinguishing towns which make good landmarks;
in fine weather there is no need for a map. A pilot
cannot get off his track without knowing that he is
going out to sea on one side or crossing a clearly-
defined parallel mountain range on the other.
In this case, the pilots had the ill-luck to fall
in the wild mountains of the Queensland border only
60 or 70 miles by airline from their starting-point.
Although they would normally have passed over 400
miles of air route over close settlement and numerous
big towns, they were not missed till they were due
in Sydney.
The Stinson was everything that a passenger
’plane should be except for lack of wireless. It was a
staunch all-metal three-engined job, and the pilots were
thoroughly experienced. They were Rex Boyden,
whose years of flying began with the war, and Bever-
ley Shepherd, who had been pilot to the Mackay
Expedition to Central Australia.
Boyden and Shepherd knew the route intensively
from years of flying over it daily. Their ’plane was
not heavily loaded—three passengers under normal
capacity. Save that it lacked wireless, everything
about it was as safe as it could be made; but it had
no radio beam to fly on.
Outside Australia and Darkest Africa, such a
condition would be unthinkable. In U.S.A. every
mile of passenger flying is done along beams which
keep the machines absolutely on their courses as
safely as if they were following a main road, pro-
vided they were flying at a proper height. Short-
and ultra-short-wave radio telephones are an
additional safeguard. Moreover, all U.S.A. is
networked with alternative beam routes, and
the course of every travelling ’plane can be guided
away from bad-weather centres by the simple process
of the control officer at headquarters switching the
fliers by telephone to a new beam route.
The radio beam is a spectral aerial road. A
station which an aeroplane is approaching or leaving
sends out a continual signal. So long as the signal can
be heard in the ’plane the pilot knows that he is on
his right road, and can judge his exact locality both
by signal variation and map distances.
The Bulletin has been urging the need of radio
beams for years. Mr. Parkhill, whose department
rarely adopts innovations until they have become
obsolescent, has been driven to the conclusion that
six beacons must be put in at once. The only excuse
offered for the neglect to do this before is that the
Commonwealth authorities have been “experimenting”
with beacons —which are almost as far out of the
experimental stage elsewhere as ordinary radio sets.
Even amateurs are passing the experimental stage with
ultra-short beams.
The absence of wireless looks a bad feature of
the tragic affair, more especially as it has been officially
stated that a meteorological warning containing the
words “cyclone approximately east of Brisbane” was
issued about an hour before the Stinson left Brisbane.
Of course, wireless cannot render full service
without “a continuous supply” of weather-bureaux
“data” on which reasonably accurate forecasts may be
based ; and Australian weather bureaux have to get
along with a “paucity of reports” and “limited equip-
ment.” The quoted remarks have been made by N. S.
Wales Meteorologist Mares, a man of proved ability,
and, along with recent bad examples of Government
’planes without wireless, they explain, to some extent,
why pilots whose maximum run is three hours or so
have not bothered to carry sets. Mr. Mares added:
In between the regular reporting hours no data are
sent in by outside observation stations, which still
follow the custom of many years. Any local disturbance
which occurred between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. would not be
reported to the bureau until the later hour, or until
9 a.m. next day if the station reported only once a day.
Between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. two passenger aero-
planes have flown every day from Sydney to Brisbane
and back, or vice versa.
In addition to radio beacons there is obviously
needed a special department with reporting stations
all along flying routes which would notify pilots of
conditions the moment they develop and notify ground
stations of the positions of ’planes in the air. The
establishment of these would cost no more than
Ministers’ annual overseas junketing bill.
Cradle versus Comfort.
In 1935 Mr. Neville Chamberlain, in a Budget speech,
drew attention to the “progressive decrease in our popu-
lation,” and to the new and startling Empire problems
which it must create within a relatively few years.
We in Australia share those problems. All the white
races share them, with the possible exception of Soviet
Russia, and there it is only a question of increase in
living comfort before the cradles begin emptying.
Japan shares them. The dictators of Germany and
Italy have shouted commands that more babies shall
be born, but all that has happened is that an unusu-
ally large number of first births has been crowded
into a year without any abiding change in the fertility
rate.
For years past the statisticians have told us what
must come about. The average citizen is merely
bored by vital statistics, but these are not matters of
guesswork. In 1921 the British Registrar-General’s
staff calculated from the census figures of that year
the probable population in 1931. When the 1931
census was completed the error was found to be only
0.13 p.c. Now they point out that a definite drop
in the British population will begin in 1941.
If the rate of fertility continues to fall as in
recent years, the United Kingdom will in 1975 contain
less than half its present population—l9,ooo,ooo
instead of 45,000,000 —and will a century hence have
rather less than half the population of London or of
Australasia to-day. Australia, and the white race
generally, is in just the same position as Britain in the
matter. And there may be superadded vast and sudden
population-reducing happenings, war or disease, which
statistics do not take into account. It is not a hopeful
picture, but it is inescapably a true one.
The sole factor in the growth or otherwise of
any human population is the replacement in succes-
sive generations of the fertile females. Twenty years
ago each 1000 British wives between 15 and 45 bore
200 babies. To-day they bear only 110, and the rate
falls every year. Of the 54 or so girl babies, only
those who survive to fertile ages, and actually bear
surviving children, can replace the parents who pro-
duced them. Mere replacement is not enough. Wast-
age from death and disablement must be covered,
The three-child average is the lowest with which a
population can even hold its own.
Lowered mortality rates have no value against
a falling birthrate. They produce first a steady
increase in the proportion of elderly and old people
—non-fertile themselves, but still consumers —and
then a higher deathrate. Everyone must die some
time. Increased number in any one section of a
democratic community carries with it increased
power for that section in the control of the affairs
of that community. Australia’s immense and growing
expenditure on old-age pensions affords an instance
in point. Already no politician will dare to offend
the pensioner vote.
Yet, while it dwindles every year already, and
must, without some profound and universal change
of outlook and of social habits, be halved in its
numbers within half a century, the white race is
arming madly against itself. For comfort’s sake it
leaves its cradles empty; although war is the essence
of discomfort, a large part of it talks, thinks and
lives as if war were the one end and aim of civilise^
life. ,
Other great civilisations have crumbled anu
died. Their records tell a story which has ominous
resemblances to our own.
COLONEL BUNGSTARTER.


COMPETITIONS
For “The Bulletin’s” £55 Short Story
Competition the judges have made the
following awards:—
First Prize (£3O),
“A JOURNEY TO-MORROW,”
by Biddy Worger, Waiyevo,
Taveuni, Fiji.
Second Prize (£l5),
“He Walks Home With His Wife,”
by Don Edwards, Empire Circuit,
Forrest, Canberra.
Third Prize (£5),
“The Supreme Moment,”
by Mrs. H. Drake-Brockman, Keane
Street, Cottesloe, W.A.
The Special Prize of £5 for the best
brief short story goes to
‘ ‘Emu-Intit juma, ’ ’
by S. V. Porter, 1 1 0 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
“A Journey To-morrow” was published
23/12/’36, and “He Walks Home With
His Wife” 30/ 1 2/’36. “Emu-Intitjuma”
and “The Supreme Moment” are yet to
be published.
The YOUTH COMPETITIONS have
closed, and the results will be published
as soon as possible.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lyons Referendum "Facts."
“During the years that the dried-fruits scheme has
been in operation, the home price has not averaged
more than halfpenny a pound over the world price.”
Lyons said that in Sydney last month, and no U.A.P.
or C.P. editor or spouter has corrected him ; on the
contrary, many have repeated the assertion.
Yet page 742 of the latest Commonwealth Year-
Book shows that in 1932-33 sultanas were Bjd. per
pound wholesale in Australia and Australian in
Britain ; in ’33-34 (it carries the story no farther),
Bfd. in Australia and sd. Australian in Britain.
Currants in 1929-30 were l\d. a pound wholesale in
Australia and 3|d. Australian in Britain ; and in four
subsequent years the difference against the Australian
consumer was 2d. a pound in ’3O-31 and ’3l-32 (the
price was then 7d. in Australia and sd. Australian in
Britain), 2Jd. in ’32-33 and in ’33-34.
The Bulletin is far from declaring that the
Australian prices were excessive, but it hates to see
politicians so contemptuous of facts furnished by
their own publications, especially when they are
demanding momentous constitutional changes on the
strength of what they parade as facts.
"We Should Vote No."
U.A.P. newspapers were prepared to be dutifully
enthusiastic about the marketing referendum until
they discovered that the public was decidedly cold
and a large proportion of U.A.P. Assemolymen
(notably Mr. Vinton Smith in Melbourne and Mr.
Weaver in Sydney) actually hostile. Then they tried
to conceal the unpleasant subject in a forest of Test-
match stuff. But they can’t ignore it altogether, and
Melbourne “Argus” has had to find space for the
unpalatable observations of Edward Mitchell, Vic-
toria’s eminent constitutional lawyer:
Turning to matters relevant to the proposed market-
ing amendment, they irresistibly lead to the inference
that we should vote No.
For all practical purposes “marketing” and “trade
and commerce” mean the same, and such would be deter-
mined by both the High Court and the Judicial Com-
mittee if the meaning of Section 92 as modified by the
proposed Section 92a came before such Courts for inter-
pretation. In any such arguments any reference to
“orderly marketing” would be irrelevant.
The many references in the speeches of political
leaders to “orderly marketing,” upon which most of the
arguments in favor of voting Yes are based, merely
amount to political promises as to how the present
Ministry would use the much wider powers of legislation
which would be conferred upon the Federal Parliament
if the “marketing” amendment were agreed to. Such
political promises could not prevent a subsequent Parlia-
ment or Ministry from exercising the full powers con-
ferred.
Such amendment, if it became part of the Constitu-
tion, would enable the Commonwealth Parliament and the
Ministry not merely to impose such customs duties as
they thought fit upon all commodities and animals
entering any State from any other State, but to apply
even more drastic methods of interfering with freedom
at State boundaries, by restrictions or partial or com-
plete prohibition of passing into or out of the State.
Mr. Mitchell suggests “alternatives,” but Mr.
Lyons and his friends are in no mood to consider them.
One rebuff will be enough.
The Public Pays.
The president of the N. S. Wales Rural Bank, the
N. S. Wales Main Roads Commissioner and the Chief
Traffic Manager in the N. S. Wales Railway Depart-
ment are off to London to inquire about something
or other —perhaps to see whether the place is still
there. It is expected that N. S. Wales Premier Stevens
will be among them and all the rest of the trippers
when the Coronation takes place, for it seems that
the Coronation mightn’t be held if Premier Stevens
wasn’t present. Anyway, all the other Premiers are going,
“as guests of the Empire Parliamentary Association,”
to the support of which Australian taxpayers contri-
bute seven annual subscriptions.
Going also are Messrs. Lyons, Casey and Park-
hill, with the usual platoon of officials. And a press-
ing need has been discovered for the presence in
London of Mr. Fisken, M.P., Mr. Fisken, M.P.,
having become chairman of the Meat Board. Mr.
Lyons and lieutenants Menzies, Page and Thorby are
not long back from the Old World, and the same
applies to Premiers Stevens, Ogilvie and Forgan Smith
(that gentleman is to make another attempt to find
an international sugar conference which eluded him
last year); and N. S. Wales Ministers Dunningham,
Manning and Drummond were abroad about the same
time as Premier Stevens; and so were the N. S.
Wales Railway and Road Transport Commissioners
and another platoon of officials. Even typists are
taken nowadays, though Australia House is crowded
with typists.
One conviction must force itself on the minds
of the people who have to foot all these bills, and
from whom £104,500,000 was extracted in taxes last
year, though production was valued at a mere
£380,500,000. The conviction is that, since so many
public employees can be spared for such long periods,
the number of jobs charged up to the public purse
is excessive. *
Shooting First.
Learning to shoot is part of the Victorian constable’s
training. There are occasions when this knowledge
is needed for self-defence and the apprehension of
desperate armed criminals. Melbourne, while admit-
ting this, is becoming nervous of policemen who
shoot while chasing men, ostensibly unarmed, through
city streets.
An escaping prisoner ran into crowded Swanston-
street on January 13 and was stopped on a tram
after a constable had fired a shot. Chief Secretary
Bailey, after reading routine departmental reports,
said the constable had been “unwise to shoot in a
congested area.” On February 8 another constable
fired a shot when a prisoner escaped him in the city ;
the report was so close to a woman pedestrian that
she fainted from shock. In both instances, the fugi-
tives were caught, but not “without danger to the
public.”
Early on February 20 a police motor-cycle patrol
in the suburbs chased a car believed to contain thieves
and fired several shots. The suspects escaped. An
elderly resident who went to his first-floor bedroom
window to investigate the fuss was critically wounded,
by a bullet ricocheting from an adjoining wall. Pedes-
trians might have been wounded by similar ricochets
in the earlier city shootings.
Chief Police Commissioner Duncan says his men
have definite instructions on the use of firearms in
streets; if observed, these ensure the safety of the
public. Either the regulations are elastic enough to
demand immediate overhaul or they have been inter-
preted with a lack of responsibility; in either
case Melbourne is wondering whether it is better
to run an armed police force or to impose harsher
terms of imprisonment on criminals caught with fire-
arms.
London coppers rarely carry firearms, but they
have the respect of a more ruthless underworld than
there is in any Australian city.
Bruxner and Blue Ruin.
N. S. Wales Deputy-Premier Bruxner has had to
throw himself into the marketing referendum cam-
paign with furious energy because, apart from Premier
Stevens and a few cronies, U.A.P. Assemblymen
refuse to take any part in it. Hence, perhaps, this
hysterical statement of “the position”:
If a negative vote is carried and farmers, deprived
of their only protection, are forced off their holdings,
the loss of their spending power will affect those
employed in secondary industries and services. A “No”
vote will put up the cost of foodstuffs, because if pro-
ducers are compelled to sell at world parity many will
have to leave their farms.
Many Australian farmers only wish they could
get “world parity” for their exports. Choice Danish
butter, best Argentine beef and mutton and best Maori-
land lamb have regularly brought higher prices than
Australian in spite of all that the Pages and the
Bruxners have been able to do. Even so, a study
of the prices of Australian main exports last July,
when the “orderly marketing” laws were pronounced
invalid, and last week makes Mr. Bruxner look a rather
foolish as well as a very dismal Jeremiah. Wheat
is up Is. a bushel and flour £2 15s. a ton ; butter
remains at 142s. 6d. per hundredweight and export
mutton is slightly firmer. As for frozen beef, hinds
brought 4fd. per pound last week against 3Jd. in
July; chilled, 4£d. against 4|d., and first-quality
porkers (601b. to 801b.) 7d. per pound against the
July price of 5fd.
There is no sign of declining activity. The
second half of the year was the boom half in exports,
and for the whole of 1936 value of products sent abroad
was £113,600,000 sterling, against £101,000,000 in the
previous year. This despite the fact that sales to Japan
fell from £12,244,000 sterling to £8,094,000 sterling
because of the blundering of the Government which
is now anxious to save the country from “disaster”
by doing away with inter-State freetrade.
In Mr. Bruxner’s own State there is as yet no
sign that “decontrol” is encompassing the ruin of
the city worker. Each month since the James deci-
sion was given there has been a steady increase in
amount of wages paid in 42 N. S. Wales factories
and in number of employees in factories and shops.
Average wholesale prices of 100 commodities on
the local market showed an index figure of
166 in December against 165 in June. The Sydney
worker’s greatest grievance as regards the cost of
living is the price charged for milk —7d. and 8d. a
quart—under one of the “orderly-marketing schemes”
which the Bruxners would fasten on Australia.
More "Validating."
From “F.L.R.”: —
Under the N.S.W. Local Government (Amendment) Act,
1928, municipal councils were empowered to charge property
owners half the cost of 18in. of road adjacent to the kerb,
if “in concrete construction, with or without an asphaltic top.”
I discovered that such construction on a main road
through the municipality of Kuring-gai was rubble, and
opposed a claim by the municipality.
It was admitted, after many misleading statements, that
I was right. In the meantime thousands of pounds had been
illegally collected from property owners.
An amending section to the Local Government Act,
hidden in a bill amending the Main Roads Act, Section 21,
was on June 25, 1936, introduced into the State Parliament
and passed. “In concrete construction, with or without an
asphaltic top,” was altered to “in a permanent manner the
strip of such roadway,” and Section 21 was made retro-
spective to January 1, 1925, the date of the commencement
of the Main Roads Act—four years prior to the date of the
section of the Local Government Amendment Act, 1928, which
authorised such charge.
In his introductory speech the Minister informed members
that the amendment was required owing to a “little techni-
cality.” The Minister was Mr. M. F. Bruxner, now the most
active advocate for a Yes vote.
The Hawker Demon Smash.
Dear Bulletin,— Presumably “D.N.L.” (B. 17/2/’37)
is a member of the Smithton Aerodrome Committee.
No exception is taken to the Smithton people drawing
every attention to what they have to offer. Misstate-
ments about the aerodrome at another centre is quite
a different matter.
The two Hawker Demons were certainly making
from Melbourne to Wynyard. In flying over Bass
Strait, however, they drifted westward, so that the
Tasmanian coast was crossed a few miles west of
Smithton, which is itself about 40 miles west of
Wynyard. The airmen were unaware at the time
that they had left the Strait behind. Consequently
all “D.N.L.’s” comments upon the adverse flying
conditions existing that morning apply to those
prevailing in the Smithton, not the Wynyard, district.
Actually, the airliner Memma landed at Wynyard
twice during the same morning without difficulty.
Even the Rocky Cape ranges are alleged by
“D.N.L.” to be detrimental to the Wynyard aero-
drome. They lie about 17 miles west of Wynyard
and about 23 miles east of Smithton. Any flying
man could explain that this difference is negligible.
The Stanley Nut, a useful landmark for ’planes in
the Smithton area, is almost identical in size and
formation with Table Cape, which serves a similar
purpose at Wynyard. However, “D.N.L.” is so dread-
fully partisan that the Nut is put forward as of
considerable use, the Cape as an impediment.
Although it is now five years since flying opera-
tions commenced at Wynyard, nothing has ever
occurred to bring the Air Accidents Investigation
Committee to the town, and nobody has so much as
dislocated a little finger as a result of aerial activities.
Aerial traffic in this part of Tasmania has not
yet justified regular callings by airliners at more than
one centre. Consequently the obvious place has been
selected for this purpose; Wynyard lies in the middle
of the district to be served. Smithton people will
not alter this position by publishing absurd allega-
tions that the Wynyard aerodrome is unsuitable. It
is to be regretted that more use has not yet been
found for the Smithton aerodrome, which is just as
suitable as that at Wynyard from a purely aero-
nautical point of view. A move is at present afoot
to inaugurate an internal service around Tasmania
to connect with the inter-State service, and probably
a little more patience is all that Smithton requires.
Let me correct just two more of “D.N.L.’s” mis-
statements. Smithton aerodrome was not abandoned
for that at Wynyard. The latter town was definitely
the first to take steps towards providing facilities for
an aerial service. Furthermore, money has not been
spent at Wynyard by the Government “without stint.”
In all £1100 has been expended.—Yours etc., R.
Waterworth, president, North Western Aero Club
(Tas.).


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mrs. Gamp”: Mildura supplies what
must be the most amazing accouchement
on record. Somewhat belatedly, Dad har-
nessed up the jinker and the pair started
in haste for the hospital. On arrival
there the wife was helped into the ward,
and it was only then discovered that the
baby had been born. Search of the jinker
revealed nothing, and the frantic father
drove furiously back along the track
with the same lack of success. Black
magic was beginning to be suspected,
jvhen the police were informed by ’phone
that some people had picked up a naked
new-born babe on the dusty road oppo-
site their cottage and that foul play was
feared. The infant was unharmed save
for a touch of gravel rash, and was soon
safe with its mother. Apparently the
birth had taken place in a paroxysm of
pain, and was therefore unnoticed by
the mother, and the newcomer had
slipped out of the jinker unobserved by
the father, intent on urging his horse
to top speed.
“Megass”: Much of the success of
Italians in North Queensland is due not
only to industry but to mutual help.
Two actual happenings: An Italian who
had put all his money info paying a
deposit on a farm was faced with
doctors’ and specialists’ bills for over
£4OO for his wife and baby daughter.
Four fellow-countrymen each lent him
£lOO free of interest, the money being
repaid after 12 months by instalments
cut' of his cane payments from the mill.
In the sfime district an Australian farmer
also put every penny he had into a
deposit on a farm he contracted to buy
from another Australian. Family troubles
with heavy expenses resulted in the rich
vendor repossessing. Both cases passed
through my hands at the mill office. Tn
that district, at any rate, there was far
more comradeship among the Italians
than among the Australians.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Deepwater sailormen the
world over will heave a sigh on hearing
that Charlie Brown’s famous Railway
Tavern in Limehouse has heard its last
“Time, gentlemen!” and closed its doors
for ever. For 40 years and more sea-
men from every kind of ship and not-
abilities from every country of the world
visited Charlie Brown’s to see his extra-
ordinary collection of curiosities—the
seamen often to offer new specimens.
Charlie paid well, too. In my appren-
tice days 1 got a quid for a tattooed
Maori hand, when a quid meant a lot
of spending. The collection was valued
at £40,000, and was never insured ; old
Charlie used to say that there wasn’t a
crook in London who’d lay a finger on
it. It has been divided between his son
and daughter.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The easy ways of some
of Australia’s far-back gaols have been
beaten clean out of sight in the
charming island of Guernsey, where
“prisoners” in the local quod have been
spending their nights in dancing, visiting
their homes and friends and taking joy-
rides in stolen cars. An inmate serv-
ing a long term was given the gaol keys
to wash, took impressions of them, and
made duplicates in the prison workshops
for himself and a few friends. That was
two years ago, but it was only quite re-
cently that someone noticed him letting
himself in at 5 a.m. and made inquiries.
“ Wot's the ideer? Y'r ony s'posed to pull the cord in a namergency!"
“Well, ain't this one? We come without an openerl"
But for really quick work, a Hobart
prisoner still holds the record. Slipping
away from a working gang returning
from the Botanical Gardefts, he sprinted
to a leading hotel, stole an overcoat from
the cloakroom, forged a cheque from a
book in the pocket, cashed it, had
several drinks, and rejoined the gang at
the gaol gates,
the Clerks!
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: My old friend Cap-
tain Vangs bought his first motor-car a
while ago, and after a couple of driving
lessons proceeded to navigate it back 1o
the farm. Stalling on a hill, he essayed
to back down for a fresh start. Sound-
ing three short blasts on the horn, he
put the bus into reverse, when a violent
bump acquainted him with the presence
of an ascending car behind. “You lousy
landcrab!” he shouted. “Didn’t you
hear me signal engines full astern?” But
experience teaches. Having parked his
conveyance in a city street while be laid
a drought, he glimpsed a bobby hard by
with a notebook. With the prompt deci-
sion of a true seaman, he ignored both
car and cop, took a tram to a distant
suburb, and from there rang up the
police to report the theft of his vehicle,
Within half an hour that reliable and
energetic force had located it, safe and
sound—just where he had left it!
“Twenty-seven" : At one of our more
secluded beaches, two lasses went for
the before-breakfast dip. The sea was
. . , , y i, „„
a bit rough, and one gave a yell as ner
costume slid away in the undertow and
disappeared. Their shack was not far
from .he beach so the second girl
dashed home for the spare costume, ine
mermaid was draping herself in seaweed
when she saw four of the local life-
savers coming down the beach. She
turned and swam for the open, oblivious
of shark dangers and deaf to warning
yells. When her friend arrived with the
costume, the maiden in distress was
streaking seaward, with a lifesaver in
close pursuit. After a hysterical ex-
planation, a second hero set out, spurted
past the first and hurled the mermaid’s
costume at her; after a suitable in-
terval, the pair of them brought the
damsel ashore. The L.S.C. enrolled 17
new members the next week-end.
$ *. *
“Groper”: From an article in Sydney
“Sun,” reviewing the Commonwealth
Statistician’s figures on the cost of liv-
ing in various parts of this far-flung con-
tinent: —
Way up in the H.C.L. comes Sydney,
beating Bunbury and Geraldton, in the
Never-Never of Western Australia, by a
few points.
Bunbury is a seaport about 100 miles
south of Perth ; Geraldton is another less
than 300 miles north of it. In popula-
tion both of them exceed any township
outside the metropolitan area or the gold-
fields, with the possible exception of
Northam. And, after Perth, they are
two of the oldest municipalities in the
State, each having been proclaimed in
1871. The Never-Never!
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: It is a rule of the
Vic. Titles Office that all documents
must be typed in black. An inexperi-
enced typist substituted purple ink, and
the document was executed by both par-
ties and lodged for registration. The
Titles Office asked for a fresh mortgage
in the conventional black. The mort-
gagor’s reply to the demand is worth
quoting:
With reference to your note asking me to
sign another mortgage because the one I
signed was in purple ink, I beg to inform
you that I will not drive my half-starved
horses 40 miles for any such tomfoolery
(and there is no J.P. nearer who can witness
my signature). I signed it once and have
the money, and if I sign it again it may
be discovered that because I did not happen
to have a black necktie on it would have to
be done over again. It takes me all my
time to keep my stock alive. All the
country hereabouts is printed brown instead
of green, and I have to put up with that,
and you will have to put up with a purple
mortgage instead of a black one.
And that was that.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A young farm hand car-
ried with him the shortest and most un-
usual reference I have ever seen, and
he reckoned it ought to get him a job
anywhere. Apart from the signature
and address of the farmer who gave the
reference it contained only four words:
“A blanky good man.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Airy persiflage between
aerial enemies (B. 24/2/’37)? Our little
R.N.A.S. squadron at Stavros (Mace-
donian coast) in early 1918 seemed for
months at a stretch far removed from
any actual warfare. Then suddenly a
Fritz would appear in the blue, take a
few photographs of our ’drome or lay a
small egg, and scurry for home. In re-
taliation our DH9’s would make for
Drama and give the ground staff there
an uncomfortable 10 minutes. One Sun-
day afternoon we were basking in the
sun or bathing in the blue /Egean, when
a Fritz nosed down and dropped an in-
cendiary pill at the far end of the
’drome, where it flared harmlessly. Fol-
lowed a streamer with a weight, and the
message: “Dear Gentlemen, forgive me
for disturbing your siesta, but it is my
duty. —Lieut.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The sudden death of
Lady Lucy Houston has left many a
middle-aged and elderly London free-
lancer lamenting. She distrusted youth,
and with the “Saturday Review,” several
millions to play with, and a kind heart
“Lucy” was always good for a few quid
to any mature male
with a bright idea
for advertising her
and the smell of ink
in his whiskers. Her
pet aversion was
Anthony Eden; the
feathers first flew
when that immacu-
late person inquired
loftily during a Par-
liamentary discus-
sion over her offer
to finance a British
air force: “And
who is Lady Hous-
ton?” Any sus-
picion of “Lucy” or
her extraordinary
weekly was enough
to cause any Gov-
ernment department
to shut up like a
Barrier Reef giant
clam. Booksellers
and news - agents
barred the “S. Review,” but its owner
rejoiced in employing hundreds ot
ancient' down-and-outs to hawk it
round. She prided herself on the
orderly arrangement of her business
affairs —and now nobody can find her
will!
* * * *
“Morita”: Fritz used more than oui
souvenired shells (B. 24/2/’37). Around
Hazebrouck early in 1918 he was spot-
ting in ’planes showing the rings oi
machines of the Allies that had been
forced down behind his lines and recon-
ditioned. To counter this our ’planes
were fitted with a Klaxon arrangement
to signal each craft they passed, and
had to tear into any that did not simi-
larly answer. But the ruse soon endei
in tragedy. Over our billets one day we
were amazed, when two machines with
our markings came out of the clouds, to
see one commence firing point-blank at
the other. In a few seconds the victim
was diving to earth in flames. It turner
out that he was a noted French airman
flying from away down south where
they were ignorant of the signalling ar-
rangements of our sector. His funeraj
started off from our billet, with a big
escort of Diggers and Poilus and enough
brasshats of both armies to have organ-
ised Passchendaele all over again,
French officers openly wept at the was’e
of so valuable a life.
AT BANKSTOWN.
“The N.S.W. police have warned women gipsies
at Bankstown that they will be prosecuted if they
persist in getting their palms crossed with silver to
tell fortunes.’’
They change their skies, adaptable as rabbits,
The gipsy chals and chis of old renown,
But, it would seem, they never change their
habits
Or ways of taking trustful Gorgios down.
“Come, cross my palm with silver, pretty lady
(Or gent.)”—l’ve heard it oft in English
vales—
“l’ll read your future.” And they still will
read it
Apparently for any who may need it
At Bankstown, New South Wales.
I’ll say they always made the going willing
When silver dropped into those fists so
brown;
You got a wife like Venus for a shilling
And half-a-dozen kids for half-a-crown.
But that was in the good old days, not these
ones
When Marie Stopes’s view of things prevails.
I wonder what the gips. have giv’n their patrons,
Young bucks and flappers, dads and buxom
matrons,
In Bankstown, New South Wales?
Time was they travelled, braving stress an'
sorrow,
In dingy caravans, the Romanys.
(Consult for this George Eliot and Borrow,
Or any such authority you please.)
Now, though they whirl around the land in
motors
On roads where never turnpike toll assails,
They mustn’t lift the veil from secrets hidden
To you and me. It’s rigidly forbidden
At Bankstown, New South Wales.
You girls whose parts in operatic splendor
Will ever in our memories remain,
You modern versions of the Witch of Endor
From hungry Hungary and stricken Spain,
Pull up! Ring off! Forbear your prophesying,
Or you may find yourselves in Sydney gaols,
When with soft sex appeal and roguish laughter
You’ve aimed to wise the sturdy local grafter
Who has a wife in mind to what comes after
At Bankstown, New South Wales.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Morita”: Here’s where one band
instrument definitely ended its service
(B. 24/2/’37). Not being the P. 8.1. we
didn’t sport a band, a mouth-organ being
our sole musical stimulant, till in 1917
a batch of reinforcements marched up
to orderly-room led by a dour Scot with
bagpipes in full blast. For months after-
wards we marched to that exhilarating
instrument, ate to it, and finally slept
out—to get away from it. Even the
Belgiques reckoned it over the odds. In
desperation one of our cooks put it
bluntly to the owner of the pipes: “You
get rid of those blanky miseries inside
a week,” he roared, “else this goes right
through the blanky windbag,” and he
flourished a hefty meatchopper. The
pipes were consigned to Scotland,
banned for the duration of the war.
* * * *
“Amity”: If there has been a slump
in the price of cauls (B. 24/2/’37) it is
“ Mary, do be more careful.”
“All ri', Missus —me no cuttum foot on it.”
not on account of an oversupply. Infants
don’t seem to be born with them nowa-
days ; a maternity nurse with 30 years’
experience told me she had never seen
one. Relatives of mine had one in the
family for many years, but when the
eldest son of the owner was drowned they
burnt the caul, reckoning that its pro-
tective powers didn't extend to the
second generation.
“Sailor Once”: “W.P.T.” (B. 24/2/’37)
wants to know the origin of the sailor’s
superstition concerning the caul. It’s a
bit awkward to explain in print, but if
he cares to apply to me by letter I can
satisfy his curiosity. Failing that, he
might put the query to “Dorothy Dix,”
of Sydney “Sun.” After all, it’s more in
her line than mine.
if ❖ * t-
“Light Horse”: So “C.G.S.” (B.
24/2/’37) always imagined Allenby as
“a quiet reserved type.” If he had been
a member of the Anzac Mounted Divi-
sion when the Bull roared up that famous
force at Surafend concerning a little clash
with a thieving Bedouin village, a mem-
ber of which butchered a Maoriland ser-
geant in cold blood while robbing his
tent, he would have been disillusioned.
Allenby, whose temper was never mild,
completely lost control of himself and
said things which, he admitted after-
wards, he bitterly regretted. Regret or
not, the division, which had driven the
Turk out of Palestine practically single-
handed, and to which Murray had re-
ferred in his report to G.H.Q. in Eng-
land as “the keystone of the defence of
Egypt,” was almost entirely ignored
when the Armistice honors were awarded.
X * Jfc
“Aroha”: Hospital authorities in
Maoriland’s major towns have decided
that henceforth nurses must “Mister”
adult male patients. Thus ends a long
barney started by those who “regarded
it as shocking that a mere chit of a girl
should address, by his surname only, a
man old enough to be her grandfather.”
At one stage it was suggested that the
prefix should be used only when
“elderly” patients were addressed, but
it was pointed out that many a man
who looked a bit more than his years
might resent a title that classed him
with the definitely aged. Youngsters
under 21 will be called by their Chris-
tian names.
* * * *
“K. Lee”: Sydney has other mix-ups
worse than that at Rushcutter Bay (B.
24/2/’37). F’rinstance, where do I live?
The house agent told me it was Vau-
cluse, the bus terminus is in the street
and they call it Rose Bay North, the
P.M.G. insists on Watson’s Bay, the. little
post office 200 yards away is Diamond
Bay, and the other day I signed a peti-
tion to have us switched from Waverley
municipality into Vaucluse!
* * * *
“Selma”: The lady next to me at
Harold Park held an infant on one arm
and controlled a toddler with the other.
To the toddler’s inquiries about the
whereabouts of daddy she replied opti-
mistically that daddy was away getting a
lot of money for mummie. Her hopes
seemed realised when the absent one
“Wouldn't it be just too divine, Basil, to go for a row on the river?”
“ Darling, I didn't know you could handle a pair of oars!”
returned with a mate and seven pounds
in notes, which he proceeded to share
with his friend. They sat in the seat in
front of us, and dad was just about to
transfer his winnings to his pocket when
mum’s arm darted forward and her
hand deftly removed the cash. Then,
handing the ten-shilling note back to
him she remarked firmly: “This here
three pounds will just pay the grocer
and the instalment on the wireless. Go
along with the 10 shillings and try yer
luck again. The butcher’s gotter be paid
next week.”
* * * *
“James K.”: The cleanest k.o. I’ve seen
occurred in a not-so-select Collins-street
(Melb.) cafe. The victim, a six-footer
and 12-stoner, had been getting more
objectionable with every additional
drink; an outrageous remark to a
waitress took him beyond the limits of
toleration. Before anyone else, could
intervene, the manageress stepped briskly
out of the kitchen and advanced across
the room, an iron ladle, dripping soup,
in her hand. As the six-footer leaned
beerily towards her she brought the ladle
up in a sharp arc, landing him a wattle-
snoozer under the jaw. The cop I helped
carry him to the taxi told me later that
he was still out to it when they got to
Russell-street.
* * * *
“M. or N.”: The. name Karnofsky is
as common in Lithuania, a Sydney Judge
was told the other day, as Smith and
Brown and Jones in England. “Or Burke
in Ireland,” put in ’Sonah, his mind evi-
dently running on another case before
the Courts. I suspect that the Kellys
and the Sullivans and possibly a few
other clans lead the Burkes in Erin, but
the frequency of the last surname, especi-
ally in certain districts, sometimes be-
wilders a stranger. An English friend
of mine once told me that he attended a
dance at some place beginning with
Bally, and how the first dozen or so of
introductions left him hopelessly con-
fused for the rest of the evening. “Every
man seemed to be a Burke and every
woman to have been christened Kate,”
was the way he put it.
*•* v •!»
“C. Mac”: Having its public in all
parts of Australia, Tassie, Maoriland and
elsewhere, The Bulletin, I notice, adds
the State to the names of places other
than the capital cities to make locality
clear. It’s necessary, too ; it’s remark-
able how rocky people who’ve had a
good schooling in Australia are on Aus-
tralian place-names generally. Bar the
capitals, with which most seem to be
familiar —though not one in 10 could
name the Premier and Governor resid-
ing in each capital—there are extraordi-
narily few places known to the nation at
large, and there seems no particular
reason why some of these, and not others,
should be common property. There’s
reason, of course, for familiarity with
Ballarat and Bendigo, Coolgardie and
Kalgoorlie ; but how many outside its
State would place Cobar with certainty,
and why are Townsville and Cairns
widely known to belong to Queensland
when plenty of places of like size are
utterly unknown beyond their State
borders? Alas! who knows where
Grafton is?
* * *
“Ron J.”: Carbon monoxide may lurk
in less likely places than sedan cars (B.
10/2/’37). A bathroom can quickly be-
come a lethal chamber if the fumes
from the gas-heater take the wrong
turning. Recently in a N.S.W. town a
tragedy was averted only because a
woman, suspecting all was not well,
smashed down a door and rescued the
limp and blackening body of her hus-
band from an atmosphere of poison.
Two minutes longer, according to the
doctor, and it would have been a job
for the undertaker. A strong wind had
toppled the flue of the heater and bent
it flat on the roof; the fumes were thus
blocked back into the bathroom, where
both door and windows were closed.
* # * *
“Binduli”: “Smiler” Hales was re-
sponsible for the most-grandiosely-
named place on the map of Australia—
Boulder City. It was in ’9B or there-
abouts when the cluster of pubs and
stores handier to the Golden Mile than
Kalgoorlie had managed to get itself pro-
claimed a municipality. There was a
lot of discussion among those principally
interested about the name; the most
prominent mine in the neighborhood was
too good to let go. Bouldertown was
one suggestion, Boulderburg another,
Boulderville a third. But Hales, who
was aiming to start an evening paper
there—an ambition in which he was
forestalled —overruled all the other rude
forefathers of the hamlet with Boulder
City, and so the only place in Australia
with such an imposing affix came into
being. Except in Government publi-
cations, however, it was very soon short-
ened to Boulder. Yet the last time I
went through the railway station there
I noted that “Boulder City” still sur-
vived on a placard above the platform.
THE PIONEERS.
“Modern smokers cannot stand up to the ‘twist’
and other strong lines of the pioneering days.”
—-Evidence before a N.S.W. Parliamentary committee
inquiring into the tobacco industry.
Times change, and tastes inevitably mellow;
Black Shag and Cavendish have had their
day;
How rarely nowadays you see a fellow
Charging with Barrett’s twist a reeking clay!
Instead with dainty cigarettes we play,
Those quaint contraptions into which is poked
Innocuous Virginian, mild as hay—
We cannot smoke the stuff our grand-dads
smoked.
For mild cheroots they never cared a button;
They built a nation up, you can’t gainsay,
On slabs of stringy beef and salted mutton
And wares that no tobacconists purvey,
These times, from Sydneyside to W.A.
The blackest plug into their pipes was stuffed
With zest. A curious reflection, eh?
We cannot puff the weed our grand-dads puffed.
Robuster chaps than us, mayhap, and rougher,
Were those who came to conquer and to stay
In years agone. Their “turns” and nerves were
tougher
Than yours and mine, it’s patent anyway.
They deemed the deadliest-looking smoke
0.K.,
They grabbed at what we’d shy at, I and you;
Up to their standard how can we assay
Who cannot blow the clouds our grand-dads
blew?
They liked it hot and strong, nor barred a
trace
(Or more) of fiery rum in which ’twas soaked.
Are we, I wonder, a degenerate race
Who cannot smoke the stuff our grand-dads
smoked?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


" • Xvs
10/fcr 9 d
2<Wl'6
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CORK
CIGARETTE
GENE R A T I
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
As a Labor man in 1929 Lyons won
Wilmot by 10,697 to 9538 ; as U.A.P.
he scored 12.622 to 8362 in 1931 and
12,924 to 9539 in 1934. At the late
election in Wilmot his old love was
nearly 2500 ahead of the new. This
suggests that Joseph will hear London
calling in deafening accents when Bruce
goes into British politics ; but the emi-
nent statesman himself says that he will
never desert Wilmot.
In 1933 Westralia voted nearly 2 to 1
for secession. Pausing there on his way
to the Coronation, Casey said, “I imagine
this State will give a ‘Yes’ vote on the
marketing issue,” with its deadly threat
to inter-State freetrade. What a soaring
imagination Casey must have!
Being 78, W. H. Demaine, of
Maryborough (Q.), has become the local
member as a rising hope of Labor’s
Younger Set. Douglas Credit was
a bad second.
Though Britain may borrow
£1,500,000,000 for rearmament and Aus-
tralia will have to convert £23,000,000
on the British market in 1938, politicians
continue to threaten Australia with re-
sumption of London borrowing “for
development.” If they commit this
crime against the nation, they will deserve
to be impeached.
The first article in the Commonweatlh
Government’s last “Monthly Trade
Bulletin” is entitled “The Market for
Prunes in Japan.” Judging by the sour-
ness of the Japanese press about Mr.
Gullett, lemons should sell well over
there, too.
It is just on eight months since the
decision in the James case knocked the
“orderly-marketing” laws all of a heap.
As evidence that the cow-farmers are
Rooned Byron Bay (N.S.W.) reports
that for the half-year to December 31
Norco Co-op. cockies were getting
a butter bonus of l|d. per pound,
amounting to £103,070. The report con-
cludes: “The butter bonus is the highest
for 10 years.”
Canberra put Fisken, the member for
Ballarat, on its Meat Board as chairman.
The board met in Sydney the other day
and “decided that the chairman should
visit the U.K. immediately to observe
meat-market conditions and make in-
quiries.” He will be there in time for the
Coronation.
By a clumsy slip of the pen The Bul-
letin did Mr. Keith Murdoch, the news-
paper and radio magnate, an injustice.
A marketing-referendum par. described
him as a Yes-man in Adelaide and Perth
and a No-man in Melbourne and Bris-
bane. He, of course, is a Yes-man in
Melbourne and Brisbane and a No-man
in Perth and Adelaide; and in his
numerous broadcasting stations he is
superbly neutral.
The Red Army, whose record against
foreign foes has been one war —against
Poland —one licking, became 19 years
old the other day, and the event evoked
characteristic exhibitions of Red man-
ners. Said “Isvestia”: “We. are now
capable of smashing the snouts of any
swine who dare to poke them at us.”
The “brilliant” Radek was “Isvestia’s”
leader-writer, and the “brilliant” Buk-
harin its editor, till they were “liqui-
dated” or something. In the bright lexi-
con of modern journalism, any whipster
- who is Red or Pink is “brilliant.”
“Every day brings a Yes majority
nearer,” said Lyons in Adelaide on
Thursday. But at a Town Hall meeting
that night he was “subjected to con-
tinuous interruption,” though the “Age”
and “Argus” have it that he “eventually
obtained a moderately good hearing.” It
is denied that any of the continuous in-
terrupters who gave him a moderately
good hearing was slightly sober.
Sydney “Worker’s” Adelaide corre-
spondent mentions in a referendum par.
that “all the active members of the
branch to which I belong are opposed
to both questions.”
Unless something quite unexpected hap-
pens during the next few days, the majority
in favor of No will be overwhelming. In
the country, the vote may be close enough
but it will be against.
The correspondent was a Federal Labor
candidate last time.
With pride and joy the Ministerial press
has discovered that Robert Garran is
a Yes-man. Mr. Garran has obliged it
“Very Well, then don’t come to our Coronation. Anyway, We'll
have the Lion of Judah and the Jonah of Lyons”
with a reference to “the fathers of Fed-
eration,” whom Mr. Menzies calls “our
grandfathers”:
Were they alive to-day they would be the
first to ridicule the claim of sanctity and
immunity from amendment of any part of
the Constitution.
Precisely, but they would assuredly de-
mand that any amendment should in-
crease national powers. So they would
be found supporting Commonwealth
control of aviation but opposing the
marketing “amendment” if they agreed
with Pearce (he, of course, supports it)
that “the alteration will increase the
powers of the States.”
Robert Garran’s appearance as a Yes-
man shows the effect of half a lifetime
spent in a Government department.
When he was just a rising young lawyer
Garran wrote of Section 92 in almost
reverential terms. Now after “32 years in
the Law Department of the Common-
wealth,” he can’t understand why anyone
should cavil at the proposition that Sec-
tion 92 should not apply to marketing
laws or object to any extension of
bureaucratic control.
Dunlop, M.L.C., who is president of
the N.S.W. Primary Producers, has given
referendum electors a good laugh. Argu-
ing for the emasculation of the inter-
state freetrade clause to admit of butter
control, he said, “Since the Minister
for Agriculture must agree to the
quota no exploitation can take place.”
The Minister of Agriculture in N. S.
Wales is Main, and the Minister of
Lands is Buttonhole, and the correspond-
ing Ministers in other States are just
like Main and Buttonhole. Mains and
Buttonholes are almost afraid to breathe
without cockies’ permission.
Ancient mariner John Evans, a Nat.,
was Speaker for three years when Labor
Premier Ogilvie hadn’t a majority in the
Tas. Assembly. Retiring with the last
triennial Parliament, John must have
grinned amiably when he read that 30
Nat. candidates had decided that if the
election gave neither party a majority
none of them would accept the Speaker-
ship. His amusement could scarcely have
been diminished by the fact that just
before his party was routed the other
side appointed him Lieut.-Gov.
A New York Professor of Political
Economy has come to this country “to
study Australian, taxation methods,” and
a reporter blithely adds that “these
methods may be adopted in the U.S.A.
to solve problems there.” The professor
will find seven authorities imposing in-
come taxes —some two taxes and one,
Westralia, three. He will discover that
some States tax income from other
States already taxed by the Common-
wealth, and that N.S.W. deducts a tax
from the source of income and imposes
another on what it has thus exacted.
God help Uncle if he tries to solve prob-
lems that way!
More private bus services, some of
them pioneered by returned soldiers,
have been “taken over,” regardless of
the busmen’s feelings, by the N.S.W.
Road Transport Department. It is no
use appealing to the “anti-socialist”
Premier (Stevens) or the Minister
(Bruxner), for their invariable reply to
such appeals or protests is “It’s entirely
a matter for the Commissioner.” In
any case, Premier and Minister are con-
ducting a referendum campaign in sup-
port of their “anti-socialist policy,”
which is to strew Australia with boards
and commissions and let them do what
they dashed well please.
“From March 1 every child going to
school will receive every day half a pint
of milk in a sealed bottle free.” A truly
noble reform; but the report comes
from Christchurch, not Sydney. In
Sydney under an “orderly-marketing
scheme” which has been “implemented”
by politicians who are now crying out
for the mangling of the Commonwealth
Constitution so that “orderly-marketing
schemes” may be planted all over Aus-
tralia, children can’t get enough milk
because the price is 7d. and Bd. a quart.
Only pigs get free milk in the control
area, and, since the pig population is
small and the supply of milk enormous,
it is suspected that Mother Earth ab-
sorbs a lot of the skim.
N.S.W. Minister Spooner, who meddles
in local government, predicts that “Port
Kembla will become the third city in
the State.” By way of aiding this con-
summation, Spooner’s Government has
presented it' with a £20,000 swimming
pool. Port Kembla is washed by the
Pacific, and there are no swimmers in
the Olympic class nearer than Perth;
but it is the simple faith of Spooner’s
Government that no place can be really
prosperous without an Olympic swim-
ming pool.
Melbourne “Argus” can’t understand
the verdict of the Tasmanian electors,
since “more assistance, financially and
otherwise, has been extended to Tas-
mania during the term of the Lyons
Ministry than ever before.”
There has, in fact, been a generous recog-
nition on the part of members from other
States that Mr. Lyons was under obligation
to be an efficient and active local member.
He was so efficient and active that his
State got £600,000 from his Government
in one election-year grant, together with
lashings of interest, sinking-fund,
Federal-aid road and bounty money. The
State, took these proofs of efficiency and
activity with both paws—and rejected
the donor’s party.
“S. M. Herald” is sending two men
to London to look after its foreign news:
one was its news editor, the other the
editor of the Sydney afternoon paper.
“Granny” must be dissatisfied with the
foreign news it has been getting through
Associated Press, despite Mr. Keith
Murdoch’s assurance that it is “of un-
questioned veracity, completeness and
authority.” The stuff about Abyssinia
and Spain has been particularly out of
place in the “Herald,” whose reporting
of local topics is so eminently fair.
One St. Kilda councillor has charged
the Dunstan Government with “attacking
the slum problem in a half-hearted way.”
In truth, the Government is not getting
much help from municipalities if Port
Melbourne is a fair example. Of 22 Port
houses vacated by successful applicants
for new Fishermen’s Bend homes, 19 have
been relet, the council ordering the
demolition of only three.
From T. Murdoch, Market-place,
Hobart:
In no circumstances should private com-
panies be allowed, by a legal enactment, to
control dried fruits, butter or cheese. In Tas-
mania the regimentation of butter and cheese is
too recent in the memory of farmers to be for-
gotten. Batches of dairymen were brought into
the courts and condemned to pay heavy fines
and legal charges. Some were committed to
gaol. Stock was seized; export of butter or
cheese to the mainland by the regular steamers
was forbidden. Farmers sold their stock and
dairying was checked, and by many abandoned.
Electors should keep these facts before them
when they record their votes on March 6.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


But, twirtsems an unlucky
number; besides it'll cost
US ANOTHER THIRTY QUID,*
//
A MENACE
to E;N<S,LANO VX
"
Me played the say cavalier"
half-past -three the strucaqle. had Become
Literally savag,e in its intensity . vv
// » | vv
He s Out.
ft
HAMWIOMD FUCKED THE BAUU TO FIRST SUP V/ITH THB
delicate. insouciance of a, mot her.-quail. *
GOOD-BYE TO ALL THAT!


Wear the
convenient
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING BOOTS
(Reg. Design No. 9292.)
They are quicker and easier to put on and
take off. Ideal for riding or walking.
Zipp Fastener is obtainable at Front or
on Side elastic.
Price 33/9 per pair.
Order Your Size To-day.
Exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.
In Queen Street ----- Brisbane
B.V.D
UNDERWEAR
~H&xt iiy 7nyte&-
B.V.Df 22fc."
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.'s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
tut
fob
WlM*
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
mm *
Sheet
r . metal
I STAMPING
MACHINERY
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
• O. (e c
John Heine
SYDNEY £~?on Ltd • SYDNEY
MePHERSONS PTY. LTD.. Melbourne,, Adelaide.. PertW
E.S.C.A.. Brisbane.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieutenant Henry Ithel Morgan, re-
garded at Randwick Hospital (Sydney)
as the chief of its cheerful patients, has
died there from the spine wound that
put him out of action at Pozieres 21
years ago. Morgan, who gave up his
farm to enlist and was with the 24th
Battery, advanced through a maelstrom
of shell and rifle fire to the positions
taken by the 2nd Battalion, so that he
would be able to signal back the exact
bearings for the badly-needed artillery
support. A few range-testing shells had
shown that the job was well done, when
he fell a victim to a shrapnel burst. A
student, Morgan was never too ill to
act as adviser and consoler to his fellow-
Diggers.
When the picture of C. M. McDonald
on this page was first published in July,
1929, The Bulletin commented: —-
He is the most outstanding man at present
in the service of any organisation either
of employers or employees in Australia.
He was then in the height of his vigor,
and nobody could have visioned his
VALE C.M. McDONALD.
death at 57 last week. For many years
he had been chairman of the N. S. Wales
Northern Collieries Association; for-
merly he was president of the Employers’
Federation, and earlier —at 21 —was the
secretary of the Shipowners’ Association
and at 35 g.m. of the North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. One of the ablest negoti-
ators in Australia, in the prosperous days
of coal he was leader in half a dozen big
contests with unions and Governments,
but, though he was the hardest of
fighters, there was no bitterness in him,
and few men die with so few grudges
held against them. Not so long ago his
health broke down and he made a holi-
day trip to his native Glasgow, en route
representing Australia at Geneva and
afterwards writing a strikingly outspoken
report. Since his return, though often
ill, he had insisted on staying in harness.
Fordyce Wheeler, who passed out in
Sydney last week after several months
of intermittent illness, was advertising
manager of The Bulletin before the
war. When Hugh Denison bought the
old Sydney “Star” and made it the
mother of the “Sun” Wheeler became
as much part of the “Sun” as its name,
and in later years reputedly earned bigger
money than any other advertising man
in Australia. His mind threw up inces-
sant eruptions of ideas on every conceiv-
able subject affecting papers in the Asso-
ciated Newspapers group, and, to till up
the gaps in the 48 hours’ work which,
while he was well, he usually packed
into every 24, he also flung suggestions
at political committees, advertising
agencies and big business generally
wherever he felt they were needed. He
was a fine organiser, who seemed to
know everybody in the Commonwealth
personally and was popular with his
staff, which was always well salted with
young men.
Wheeler was born in Rangoon, and
as far back as 1908 a Bulletin staff
writer had humorously summed him up:
He combines the subtleness of the dove
with the gentleness of the serpent, the rush
of the locomotive with the delicacy of a
Sarasate, and his seductive smile overcomes
everything. When he isn’t busy amusing
himself making money, he is busy saving the
country.
A tragedy recalled:
Fordyce Wheeler was a factor in bringing
Butler, the brutal Glenbrook murderer, to his
end. When Wheeler’s friend, Lee Weller, who
had gone prospecting on the mountains with a
man who advertised for a partner with money,
failed to send a promised letter, Wheeler, who
had all along been suspicious, informed the
police. Subsequently the body of Weller
was found in the grave at Glenbrook which
Butler had induced him to dig under the idea
that he was digging for gold. Butler had
worked the grisly trick before, and might
have had many other victims but for the man
who was anxious about a letter that did not
arrive.
Under the will of Norman Dangar, of
Armidale (N.S.W.), who died from motor-
accident injuries, £285,000, less death
duties, goes to the family, with the ex-
ception of £10,500, divided among hos-
pitals, the Anglican Church and the
R.S.P.C.A.
As far as they know, the two profes-
sorial Priestleys who attended the recent
Universities’ Conference in Adelaide are
unrelated. Dr. R. E. Priestley is Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne Uni. In 1909
and again 18 months later he solved the
problem of a quiet' holiday resort —he
selected the Antarctic. The other Priest-
ley, a Yorkshireman, is Sydney’s Asso-
ciate-Prof. of Physiology and president
of the Aquarium Society of N.S.W. Until
two years ago, Queensland also had a
Priestley—Prof. H. G. —also unrelated to
the others.
The Carnegie Institute,
which has taken a hand in
looking after Jewish scien-
tists exiled from Germany,
is responsible for the arrival
in Melbourne of Dr. Fritz
Loewe, one of Germany’s
leading meteorologists, and
Dr. Fritz Duras, an expert
on physical education. Both
fought for Germany in the
war and won distinction.
Present arrangements are
that they will be Melbourne
Uni. lecturers for two years.
George Gillam Butler, passed on at
Balwyn (Vic.) recently at 87, was one
of Australia’s oldest practising solicitors.
Arriving in Victoria the year after gold
was discovered, he was sent to Scotch
College, and was dux there over 70 years
ago. He was a pioneer legal graduate of
the University, for which he was also a
noted rower. His practice began in the
early ’seventies, and a few years after-
wards he joined Frank Madden in a
partnership which lasted till Madden’s
death in 1921. The old gentleman was
in his office till a fortnight before he died.
Dead in Wellington (M.L.) at 90,
Robert Parker, C.M.G., doyen of
Maoriland musicians. Trained in Eng-
land as a pianist, violinist and organist,
he moved to M.L. 60 years ago —for his
health! —and became a conductor of
musical societies and organist in Angli-
can churches, as well as a leading music
teacher.
W. J. Byrne, new chairman of Com-
monwealth Oil Refineries, in which the
Commonwealth Government and Anglo-
Iranian combine interests, has been on
the board as the nominee of the A.L
co. since 1920. the foundation year. 'A
solicitor in a well-known Melbourne firm,
he has acted in the chair since the death
of Robert Gibson in 1934.
Back in Victoria on a visit, Lord
Somers was reminded the other day of
his Herefordshire castle by a Collins-
street solicitor, R. G. B. Skinner, whose
family, in 1575, sold it to ancestors of
Vic.’s former Governor. When Lord
Somers in 1926 went to Stonnington,
then Vic.’s Government House at Mal-
vern, one of his house again followed a
Skinner. Stonnington was part of the
property originally owned by the first
Skinner who came to Australia. Presi-
dent of the M.C.C., the ex-Governor has
been following the Test matches.
G. C. Henderson, professor emeritus
of history at Adelaide University, now
lives in his native N. S. Wales; he was
born at Hamilton, on the coalfields, 67
years ago. After taking a degree at
Sydney and winning the Brackenbury
scholarship at Balliol College, Oxford,
he was Sydney University acting-profes-
sor of history and philosophy at 29. He
held the Adelaide Chair of History for
22 years, retiring from active work at
the University in 1924. He has written
a number of books on Pacific Ocean
history.
R. A. Manzie, popular golfer and one-
time baseballer and cricketer, shows no
signs of wear from an exceptionally
hardworking life. Having just celebrated
his thirty-ninth year in the insurance
business and his twenty-fifth with Fed-
R.A. MANZIE Celebrates a Jubilee.
eral Mutual Fire, of which he has been
g.m. since 1928, he looks about as good
a life risk for his age as it would be
possible to find.
Sydney Cockerell, now on his way
back to England, looked something like
this after he had inspected Melbourne’s
National Gallery. Director of the Fitz-
william Museum, Cambridge, and Lon-
don adviser to the trustees of Mel-
bourne’s Felton Bequest, he has backed
up director J. S. MacDonald in a report
recommending structural alterations, and
the trustees have promised to attend to
the more urgent requirements. Cockerell
was impressed with much of the work
that he had seen by Australian artists —
“Old Buvelot led the. way, with Bunny,
Colquhoun, Fox, Herbert, Heysen, Lam-
SYDNEY COCKERELL.
bert, the Lindsays, Longstaff, Mclnnes,
Meldrum, Quinn, Ramsay, Rowel!,
Streeton, Waller, Wheeler and I know
not how many others in his train.” He
returns with first-hand knowledge of
Melbourne’s art treasures and a feeling
that, sooner or later, Melbourne will
demand a “new and splendid gallery”!
From an eyewitness:' —
Any pessimist who feels that Australian
youth is losing its coolness and hardihood
should have been on the spot when young Colin
Parkinson, a 20-year-old Sydney pilot, fell out
of the sky in Haberfield (Sydney) on Feb. 28.
1 was about 20 yards away when he came
down. Colin’s engine evidently had asthma,
but he circled and coolly tried to land at a
steep angle on a pocket-handkerchief paddock,
with a drillhall on one side, high paling fences
on the others and cottages with trees packed
between them all round. He nearly did it, too,
but, missing, overran the tops of some shrubs
and pushed himself into a space, only feet
across, between a cottage and a tree and an-
other cottage a wing-length away. Wreckage
was strewn round for yards. The ’plane looked
as if a brontosaurus had chewed it. But Colin
stepped grinning out of the mangled cockpit
and, muttering something about being all right,
strolled out into the street and hailed a motor-
cyclist, who took him and his few scratches
to hospital, leaving about 20 shaking on-
lookers behind and the neighborhood, a pande-
monium of shrieking police, fire brigade and
ambulance horns.
“Lowlands”: W. Siebenhaar, long of
W.A. (B. 24/2/’37), was not the author
of the novel Max Havelaar; he trans-
lated it from the original by Eduard
Douwes Dekker, an able Dutchman,
whose pen-name was “Multatuli.” Dekker
wrote the book after experience in the
Javanese civil service, and one. of his
objects was to show that reform was
needed in colonial administration. In
its remote day the novel was considered
startling, and was translated into most
of the languages of Europe; but when
Siebenhaar’s English translation appeared,
40 years or so after the death in 1887
of the author, the sensation was well
dead. So, no doubt, were the reasons
for it.


* Because he doesn't
need one-and all
the better for thafJ
ES
i
HIGH
anti-knock
RATIKIG
as
1
■- >
-V
m.
r
SrS
USUI
55^
rS^T-
llilillliii^&»gj
ss-
zZZs&Zsbs&B’
When a thing is complete by itself it does
not need artificial aid
The refined pure petrol in Super Shell does
not need any additions to fit it for
knockless performance - and it s “all the
better for that’
The rarest, most powerful crudes in the
world are available for Super Shell, and
by the use of the most advanced scientific
methods of refining, a spirit with the
best anti-knock performance on this
market is produced without the use of
any added ingredient
The only crystal-clear super petrol— the
most advanced anti-knock spirit in the
world - a jump ahead of all other super
petrols: those are the causes of Super
Shell s dominance.
Super Shell will give you knockless
performance, greatest mileage, maximum
power, least petrol cost per mile and
of course easiest starting and fastest
acceleration.
k
ķ
tsv°
5.104 H
\v ' ■ -v , - , ' , ; / ,
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN GREAT BRITAIN)


ABORIGINALITIES.
“James W.”: Recent suggestions that
sheepskin mattresses and clothing ad-
versely affect humans are supported by
the case of an old boy who has died in
Ukraine at the pathetically early age of
only 103. He had a bad start in life by
being born in a bed with sheepskin
coverings. For the next 103 years he
was clothed mainly in sheepskin, and
from 17 years of age this rendered his
health so poor that 360 days of riding
and fighting were all he could manage
each year. He was stunted —a mere
6ft. 2in. —and so debilitated that at his
best he was never more than 16 stone.
Despite all this his 15 sons obstinately
refuse to heed the warnings of our
erudite bush physicians, and are certain
to go down at last to that dreadful curse
raw wool!
$
“Garda”: An American newspaper
brings news of a new tree, allegedly
found at Mt. Buffalo (Vic.). This strange
plant, the “snow gum,” is recognised by
“its great smooth trunk and many-
colored bark. Pink bark turns scarlet
after rain, and these surprising trees
stand blood-red after a storm; others
are lilac and blue.” I cannot lay claim
to an exact knowledge of the Buffalo
district, but has any other sober Abinghi
come across this arboreal rainbow?
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: To the discussion on
the influence of diet on the palatability
of the flesh of game, etc., add the
authoritative pronouncement of N.Q.
a bos. of the Palmer diggings days. The
gentle Binghi, who had a playful
practice of catching stray Chinks and
putting them through the long oven,
always averred that he preferred the
yellow man to the white. “White pfeller
no good pfeller —too much bacca, too
much bullcow. Chinaman he eat rice,
eat pig—him taste all same pig.” And —
well, the Celestial was aware of this
preference.
Hi sji %
“The Hittite”: Tough Maoris? Tinak
was working alone in the bush and was
caught between two big kauri logs by
one leg, which was hopelessly crushed to
the knee. After waiting for hours for
the help which did not come the Maori
hacked his leg off at the knee, tied the
stump up with flax and crawled a couple
of miles to a neighbor’s whare. Now he
makes a living driving a team of bul-
locks, using neither crutch nor wooden
limb but getting along in hops. He is
a full-blooded Maori. The tribe to
which he belongs was never defeated
either by brown fighting men or pakeha
soldiers.
“Old-t.”: The spirit of the west is not
dead! A Nyngan (N.S.W.) storekeeper
heard a noise like a horse tramping in-
side his shop, and investigation proved
that his ear had not failed him. Astride
the horse, which stood at the counter,
was a bearded bloke who demanded a
pound of butter, received it, paid up,
pulled his moke round, and rode through
the door without batting an eye.
* * * *
“Eesee”: Half a dozen wanted to
share a lottery ticket with Garn Singh
when we. heard his yarn. The heavy
rain expected on his return trip failing
to turn up, he had made a beeline across
country with only one big waterhole
ahead. When the hole was reached the
beasts were so crazy through thirst that
Garn was knocked in in the mad rush
and knocked out into the bargain. When
an unconscious man goes head first into a
few feet of water, it should mean the
end of the act, but' so thirsty were the
oonts that they drained the water in
quick time, leaving a damp but other-
wise none the worse Garn to bless
Mahomet.
* * * *
“Celon”: Though abo. “message-
sticks” are well enough known, I’ve
never yet come across mention of an
abo. letter written on the ground. I
“Come on, Mother you're lettin Dobbin do ALL the Work."
saw one once, at Millaa Millaa (N.Q.).
Our abo. scrubfallers were on a walk-
about when a strange blackboy arrived.
He stayed only long enough to make a
“letter,” consisting of hundreds of twigs
up to 6in. in length, stuck into the ground
in a meandering line about a dozen yards
long. It started in front of one of the
mia-mias and wound round to the back,
finishing on the edge of the creek. When
the blacks returned home they informed
us a Ravenshoe “boy” had written the
letter, and that its purport was that his
pals were coming down for a big cor-
roboree in a fortnight,
* * * *
“Maski Mike”: Eighty natives were
working as a construction gang on the
new road from Wau to Bulolo and the
drillers among them were tamping
charges for the midday “shoot” when
the gang mascot —a young pig—strolled
along and pulled lightly at an untamped
charge. Out came the dynamite, plus
detonator, and the grunter commenced
to eat from the dead end. The “boys”
left the job in a hurry, followed by the
mascot; but after a short run he gave
up the chase, and lay down to finish his
meal, watched by the “boys” from a safe
distance. They were disappointed, for,
apparently not finding the detonator to
his liking, he spat it out and merely ate
the dynamite. But the detonator was
subsequently found to have been crushed
and crumpled by a thorough chewing,
How much pressure is necessary to fire
one ?
* * * *
“Western”: Adaptability and the
struggle for existence! The perch is a
thoroughly English fish, accustomed
through unknown aeons to flowing
streams and never-failing ponds. Intro-
duced into s.-w. Groperland it does well,
being much appreciated by the cocky
as a food fish and growing occasionally
to 31b. or 41b. Companion to the perch
in many places is the marron, a large
fresh-water crayfish. When a pool dries
up the marron, like all fresh-water crus-
°£“ h
deep and tor most or its depth com-
fortably full of water. Adapting itself
to circumstances the nerch Inflows suit
to circumstances me perch toliows sun,
Bn r) d fb Vn mt ° • tIC fj iarr °| is
burrow and thus surviving until wetter
times. Hungry for a change of diet
many a Groperland cocky now goes fish-
ing with a pick and shovel. Incidentally,
this adaptation accounts for the appear-
ance of grown fish after rain in appar-
ently “bone-dry” pools.
* * * *
“Leghorn”: Who mentioned stupidity
in fowls? The game hen with her brood
of 14 was strolling across the flat when
a sparrow hawk swooped and collected
a chick. Rushing the rest of the brood
back to shelter under a raised floor, the
hen started in pursuit. Five hundred
yards away the hawk landed to enjoy its
meal. Before the chick was seriously
damaged the hen had arrived. For
about five seconds there was a whirl-
wind of feathers, then the hawk rose
lamely, with the hen still reaching for a
last peck. Then, with the rescued chick
running safely in front, she started tri-
umphantly back. And not one of the
other chicks had stirred out.
“R.W.D.”: Hens that find good pick-
ing on a Lismore (N.S.W.) landing
ground are infallible indicators. When
they begin to glance around uneasily
and move towards cover, it’s a safe bet
that within a few minutes the buzz of
an approaching ’plane will be audible to
human ears.
* * * *
“Saga”: A high rating of the magpie’s
sagacity is justified. When I took one
of a pair of fledglings from the nest
mother Maggie trailed me home, and
next morning I found her feeding the kid-
napped one through the bars. There-
after, morning and night, she was on the
job, even coming into the kitchen to get
scraps. Eventually she brought along
the other young one, and later I was
initiated into her method of weaning the
youngsters: she dropped pebbles into
their mouths, instead of worms, and
they were soon off her hands.
* * * *
“Lachesis”: Hitherto snakebite anti-
dote discovery .had run only to kinds
that worked for special varieties of venom,
but were useless against other varieties.
Now the Commonwealth Serum Lab. has
prepared an anti-venene which counter-
acts the poison of all the varieties of
tiger-snake found in this country and of
the copperhead as well. This is the
nearest yet to the universal anti-venene
which for years has been the goal of
every herpetologist. When, as frequently
happens, the snake escapes unrecognised,
the Lab. recommends use of the new
preparation as likely to answer in most
cases. It is a feather in the cap of the
Australian institution that it has suc-
ceeded where intensive research in the
U.S.A., Brazil and India, spread over
many years, has had as yet no positive
result.
“Wah”: The* idea tha*t crows’eschew
~ , T
P ork “ as °” e *° wh,c J ll ‘‘
recentl y> when two P^ B that died Wlthm
a month of one another had their bones
picked bare by the black scavengers,
g these are £ only occasions I ever
heard tdl f Kell Waking the law
Q £ m OS£S
ruses. * * *
“R.K.”; My cattle-dogs chased a
goa nna to the nearest tree; a small
straight sapling and a big curved tree
grew off the same stump, and in his
hurry the go. ran up the sapling, just
out of reach of the dogs, who began
tearing at the bark trying to get him.
The go. made desperate efforts to swing
across to the tree, but the curve in it
put it just beyond his reach. Presently
a puff of wind made the. sapling lean a
little towards the big tree. Gripping
the sapling firmly with a hind and front
claw, the go. let the full weight of his
body sag into space. The wind increased,
the go.’s weight pulled the sapling over
a bit more., and at last he touched the
big tree, gripped it with the two spare
claws and was up to the top in a jiffy.
With an added respect for the saurian’s
brain power I left him to his freedom.
* * * *
“Hanko”: I’ll agree that young wood
ducks are smart on the toe (B. 17/2/’37),
and they are on the wing, too. We
captured a clutch in the downy stage
and parked them in the fowlyard, where
they settled down and foraged con-
tentedly with the chooks. With their
pin feathers they were the liveliest things
on our squattage, but when little more
than half-feathered they developed the
habit of standing on one leg and looking
dismal. Then, the day we decided to
take no risk in having them pine away
on us, they rose as one bird and were
shortly a spray of dots over the far
horizon.
* * *
“Turon River”: Marvellous how easily
a man can hurt himself! Dad was try-
ing to lasso the young heifer, to drag
her'into the bail. After the forty-ninth
failure, he set himself grimly, twirled the
clothes-line and let fly, and the loop fell
neatly over Peggy’s horns. When Dad
got over the shock, he whirled round to
me. “ ’Struth, boy,” he said, “that was
a grand bit o’ lassoin’! ” How did I get
hurt? Simply because there was no one
behind to catch me as I fell backwards.
CREAM-CARTING.
It’s on the stroke of half-past eight
As we swing through the factory gate
And turn along the road.
The empty cans slide up and down
As we roar clattering through the town,
Away to get our load.
Round about the hills and flats,
Carting in the cream,
Cream in every sort of can,
Battered, dinted, spick-and-span,
Veterans since the farms began,
Brave new cans a-gleam.
A mile or two along the road
Before we have to stop and load,
So let her have her head.
This job is mostly changing gear,
It’s stopping there, and starting here —
“Pull up. We’re at the shed!
Slide along the empty cans,
Heave the full ones in.
Pause to swap a brief good-day,
Grind of gears and then away,
No time to talk, no time to stay,
Once the farms begin.
We cart their bread, we cart their meat,
We bring their mail, and things to eat,
And bags of oats and bran.
There’s groceries from the local store,
And butchers’ bills, and things galore
Inside each empty can.
Out to every lonely farm
Where there’s cream to sell;
Come wet or fine, come rain or hail,
Three times a week, and never fail,
We’re butcher boy and royal mail,
And grocer man as well.
It’s somewhere getting on for one
Before the morning round is done,
And now it won’t take long
To back into the factory door
And out across the polished floor,
So slide the cans along.
Every day and every week
(Holidays a dream),
Cursed at if we’re running late,
Cursed at if we’re loath to wait,
Only one thing keeps us straight,
Paid —per can of cream.
VICTORIA.
A.G. BURNET.


“Nordbo”: A grey horse comes daily
to St. Monica’s School in Cairns (N.Q.),
lifts the latch, pushes the gate open,
stalks sedately to the water-tap and turns
the screw-valve with his teeth. Having
drunk his fill he departs, leaving the job
of turning the water off to the teaching
staff. Old Grey is a privileged character
in Cairns, roaming about at his pleasure.
Few gates can stop him. If he feels like
having a snack he enters a likely yard,
lifts the lid of the scrap-tin and takes
his choice. Should the lid be hard to
remove he rolls the container about until
the top comes loose. Enjoying a bit of
meat (in moderation), he begs for it at
kitchen doors ; and the tale goes that he
picks these with discrimination on
Fridays.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Binghi certainly has
strength in his does. On Torres Strait
shelling luggers he ascends the iron stays
monkey fashion, catching them between
great and second toe and walking up or
down on all fours. The sight is enough
to put any white’s nerves on edge.
* * * *
“Tikus”: Taronga Zoo authorities are
consideiing installing food-slot machines
alongside certain cages. I saw such a
device erected over the seals’ pool in
Dresden Zoo, and it was very popular.
When a coin was inserted a slide with
a fish on it came out, and the Samaritan
got full value for .... money, the machine
being contrived so that to get the fish
the seal had to jump about three feet
from, the water and pull a lever.
“Can ’ee give me ’nother mate, plaze, Cap’n? Ole Wilium find un
terrible ’ard t ’ keep ’is end up.”
“Plankton”: The muddy flavor in
fresh-water fish can be eliminated by a
much quicker and simpler process than
that credited by a recent Aboliar to old-
time monks. Soaking the cleaned fish m
a 50-50 solution of vinegar and water
for 10 minutes does the trick. A Scotch
cook gave me the tip, and I found if
acted with pike, perch and trout. As a
matter of fact, the unpleasant taint is
not due to a diet of “lily-roots and
grasses,” but to fresh-water algae, which
are more common in sluggish rivers and
lochs than in fast-flowing streams.
“Here are some nice, thick Woollen garments that belonged to my poor husband
“Did ’e take all ’is summer clobber with ’im, Missus?”
“R.K.”: In the Liverpool-Campbell-
town (N.S.W.) district the rabbits have
gone and the hares have come back—
for a curious reason. The country there,
having once been under the sea, still has
much salt left in the soil. A long run
of dry seasons, up till four years ago,
had drawn it to the surface, making the
soil and grass sour. The rabbit can
thrive on sour soil, the hare can’t. The
last few years have been exceptionally
moist, resulting in the salt getting washed
down again and the soil sweetened. This
hares know instinctively, and they come
in from other districts; and with their
coming Bunny leaves.
“Lucerne Flea”: Chasing hares with
a rifle is nothing to make a song about.
One Jesse Humphris, of Penwortham
(S.A.), used to hunt them by closing in on
the squatting hares in ever-narrowing
circles, finally bending down and pick-
ing up by the ears. He seemed able to
catch ’em that way at any hour or in
any season, but there are times when any
mug can do it. Choose a blazing hot
day without wind, wear rubber-soled
shoes and walk quietly along fences or
where stumps and logs are plentiful,
looking at the patches of shade. If hares
are about, you will see them in the shade,
flat out, with eyes wide open and ears
half-raised. Disregard the fact that they
seem to be looking straight at you—
hares sleep with eyes open—walk up on
tiptoe and grab at the ears. If you get
him, look out for teeth and claws—a
hare bites and scratches like a wild-cat.
sj: % $
“R.W.D.”: Though it’s commonly
known that the black snake goes well in
the water I shouldn’t have, thought he’d
shine there against an eel. Noticing a
wicked-looking crawler disporting him-
self in the dam, I prepared a reception
committee of one. for when he should
land. After several dives, he came up
and headed for the bank with a six-inch
eel in his mouth. He won the race for
a hollow tree root, but dropped the eel
in the sprint. It had two bluish punc-
tures in its side, and there wasn’t a
wriggle in it.
SgE $ * *
“C. 8.”: A gigantic Swede we had in
our scrub-clearing gang at Silkwood
(N.Q.) was of a different make from the
one who lately warred in these pages
with a spider. One day our chap treated
us to a wrestling exhibition with an
18ft. carpet-snake. Coolly dragging it
into an open space, he grabbed it behind
the head and the fight was on. It was
a weird display of brawn v. brawn,
the huge “carpet” slithering and wrig-
gling madly, the big Swede nimbly avoid-
ing the coils and pitching his opponent
about as if undoing the kinks in a rope.
The Swede won, but, though he declared
it “easy,” there wasn’t another man in
the camp who’d have had it on.
* * * *
“Creel”: The lantern-fish of the deep
waters off our eastern coast has rows of
luminous scales along both sides of the
body; these scale-lights are white and
can be switched on or off by the fish.
But Nature was in a more sportive mood
when she turned out the polyphos-fish,
which inhabits the deep waters off our
western coast. Polyphos also has rows
of luminous scales, but they emit red,
blue, violet and orange lights, and in
addition there are two red tail-lights,
one on each side, as well as a white
“headlight” between the eyes.
* * * *
“Nordbo”: In Cunnamulla (S.Q.) they
put their frying-pans on the pavement,
dump eggs into them and let the sun
supply the heat. It takes half an hour
to fry an egg hard. But Cairns (N.Q.)
goes one better. On the outskirts of the
city scrub is being cleared. The soil is
shell grit mixed with fine sand; and
about noon one day, during the last
heat-wave —well, the young 2ft. snake
disturbed by the clearing gang was
jungle-bred, and had no experience of
temperatures in open spaces. Half-way
across a clearing it bunched up sud-
denly, jerked about spasmodically for a
few seconds, then lay still. A pursuer
dropped his stick and watched open-
mouthed as the snake shrivelled up
slowly: the cooking was under way.
“Hey,” shouted Jacky from the shade
(he was hanging about waiting for fall-
ing trees to yield “sugar-bags”), “too
much cookum dat pfeller; bringum
here! ”
* * * *
“Are.”: Tell “Moe” (B. 13/l/’37), who
wonders why so much figured mountain
ash comes from bare, sandy slopes, that
soil in which timber is grown influences
its quality. If damp and marshy, the
fibre is of a light, spongy character, the
water excess preventing the sap from
forming firm and compact wood. Thus
hardwoods thrive best in dry, clayey
soils, while those of the pine group de-
velop best in sandy soils. The spring
and autumn wood in the annual ring is
so distinct in mountain ash because,
when the tree is vigorous, it produces
the largest rings or zones.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were working for
a cocky 20 miles from Underbool (Vic.),
stacking mallee roots. Back from a trip
to town, the cocky had pulled up, when
Mat observed a snake among the goods
in the back of the buggy, and with a
large root belted the reptile to Kingdom
Come. Instantly the cocky, a small
man, hopped down and tore into Mat,
who could have busted him with one
hand. But, after one glance, Mat merely
stood there, taking what he considered
a merited punishment for having smashed
the two bottles of beer that were under
the snake.
* * * *
“Granova”: Has any Aboliar noticed
the number of ways in which the emu
resembles the domesticated turkey?
Emu chicks and young turkeys have the
same markings, and when they grow up
they both spend much of their lives in
the same brainless manner, wandering
up and down fences trying to get through
when they could fly over without diffi-
culty. Both birds have the same slouch-
ing walk with the. head held low, and
the same manner of running with the
head erect and the gaze fixed about 100
yards ahead. It is impossible to turn
either once it has decided to run in a
certain direction, and both graze in
mobs.
THE MINING CAMPS OF LONG
AGO.
They came into the news once more,
Out of the long and empty years,
To carry as they did before
The burden of men’s hopes and fears.
Now once again their day is done —
Most did but serve a gambler's throw—
And from the news pass, one by one,
The mining camps of long ago.
But we who knew them at their birth,
In the brave days when we were young,
When over some far patch of earth
A golden promise ever hung,
Who stayed with them a while until
Far-off we saw a brighter glow,
Oft in our dreams revisit still
The mining camps of long ago.
We see them as we saw them then,
When hope and strength with us kept pace.
Before we grew to serious men
With bills to meet and doubts to face.
We live again the careless days
That only carefree youth can know;
We reach and leave by magic ways
The mining camps of long ago.
Out of the news we see them fade
Into the loneliness again,
We hear the curses on them laid
By foolish men who hoped in vain.
And though neglect again descends
On many a resurrected show,
We’ll always look on them as friends,
The mining camps of long ago.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
’ PRICE.
m
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE,
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
Sale Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Are you
Going abroad ?
Before going abroad it is well to consider the
advantages that accrue from the appointment
of The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited as your Attorney or Agent.
It supervises business affairs and interests,
remits income regularly, collects rents, divi-
dends and interest, prepares Land and
Income Tax Returns, attends to the invest-
ment of moneys, the payment of rates and
taxes, and performs all similar services.
Ample security is offered for the proper ful-
filment of all such obligations. An interview
can be arranged to suit your convenience.
§480
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £10,000 with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.j
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman), W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
▼
T4.16
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re— Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1925.., 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 144 38,521
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
Dec., 1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54,783
Dec., 1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
Dec., 1928.. 59,254 8 „ ~59,254 54,873
Dec., 1929.. 59,191 8 „ ~59,254 54,810
Dec., 1930.. 41,707 7 „ ~51,847 44,670
Dec., 1931,. 48,496 6i „ ~ 48,144 352 45,022
Dec., 1932.. 44,782 6 „ ~44,440 342 45,364
Dec., 1933.. 44,928 6 „ ~44,440 488 45,852
Dec., 1934.. 44,483 6 „ ~44,440 43 45,895
Dec., 1935.. 44,604 6 „ ~ 44,440 164 46,059
Dec., 1936.. 34,632 6 „ ~ 44,440 36,251
Under the N. S. Wales Gas and Elec-
tricity Act, which is administered by
a commission, the price of gas to the
consumer is fixed at a figure that will
allow the cos. to pay a 6 p.c. div., after
meeting exes., including interest on bor-
rowed funds, and setting aside not more
than 3 p.c. of the net book value of
buildings and plant for depreciation and
not more than one half of 1 p.c. of the
share and loan capital combined for
special purposes. During recent years of
cheap money, a more or less assured 6
p.c. has been a very attractive return.
Hence this co.’s pound shares shot up
from 18s. at the end of 1931, when the
dramatic Mr. Lang obscured the out-
look, to 275. 4d. two years later. There
has since been a hardening of interest
rates, and the price has eased to 255. 3d.,
at which figure the return is 4.7 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. Subject to political
interference, the future of the scrip in-
the market will be governed by the
trend of interest rates.
There was no change in the price
charged for gas by the co. last year, not-
withstanding two lifts (together Is. 6d.)
in the basic wage for the State. Gas
sales (896.5 million c.f.) increased by 3.1
p.c. as against 3.8 p.c. for the previous
term, and revenue therefrom was up
£7740. But the gain here was more than
offset by a contraction of £8798 in
returns from residuals, etc., leaving total
revenue. £lO5B lighter at £295,753:
Per 1000 Per 1000
Revenue:— 1935. c.f. 1936. c.f.
Gas sales .. £246,278 5/8 £254,018 5/8
Residuals, etc. 50,533 1/lf 41,735 -/10J-
Exes.:— '
Manufacture.. 125,095 2/10J 118,022 2/7J
Distribution. . 72,288 l/7f 66,111 l/5f
Depreciation,
etc. .. 13,100 -IU 28,100 -/7i
Other charges 41,724 ~/10l 48,889 ,1/1
The reduction of £7073 in manufactur-
ing and of £6177 in distributing costs
was due to a cut in the price of coal and
smaller outlay on repairs, maintenance
and renewals. The allowance for de-
preciation (up £15,000) was nearly £5OOO
short of the maximum allowed under the
Act; the growth in this item may have
some connection with the smaller out-
lay on maintenance, etc. The expansion
of £7165 in other charges was due
partly to growth of the debenture and
temporary loan capital and partly to mis-
cellaneous charges. Altogether the net
growth in outgoings was £8915. That
left net earnings at £34,632 (down £9972),
so reserves had to be tapped for £9BOB
to pay the 6 p.c. div.
Because of this and the lift in wages
already referred to, the price charged
for gas is to be increased by .018 d. per
unit (approximately 2.8 d. per 1000 c.f.)
from March 1. Since November, 1933,
when the N. S. Wales basic wage was
reduced by 2s. per week and the co.
lowered the price charged for gas to
ss. Bd. per 1000 c.f., wage increases have
aggregated 3s. 6d. per week, owing to the
rise in the cost of living.
The new retorts at Oyster Cove have
not yet been taken over from the con-
tractor. When they come into opera-
tion, the saving in costs is expected
to more than cover the charge on
the extra capital involved. Last year
£39,798 net was added to the book
value of plant (£1,217,093), £lOB9
to freehold (£114,236) and £8598 to
stocks (£33,760). Debtors’ balances
(£26,552) were down £4998 and cash
(£1032) was £472 lower. The amount
coming to sundry creditors (£42,988) was
£1722 lighter. An extra £50,000 of 4|
p.c. debenture capital (£390,000) was
gathered, and £7229 was added to tem-
porary loans (£150,962). Share capital
was unchanged at £740,675.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
To Re— Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 13,778 10 p.c. = 11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 ~ „ 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 ~ „ 13,626 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ „ 13,626 17 130,124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ „ 12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions to reserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ „ 13,626 896 160,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 384tp.c.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. 22,058 16 „ ~ 18.168 3,890 191,920
1935.. 18,117 16 „ „ 18,168 191,869
1936.. 13,386 16 „ „ 18,168 187,087
flncludes special cash bonus of 25 p.c.
No other Maoriland freezer has put up
more consistently attractive performances
than this one. Since 1908, only once
(in 1930, when the div. was lowered from
12 p.c. to 11 p.c.) has there been any
falter in the amount distributed to
shareholders as dividends. The surpris-
ing feature is that for the five generally
difficult years to the close of accounts
in 1935 net earnings averaged £24,029
as against £13,244 for the five preceding
ones. For the corresponding periods,
and including a special 25 p.c. cash
bonus sent out with the final div. in
1933, shareholders averaged 18.9 p.c. and
11.2 p.c. respectively. Also there was
a growth of £65,474 in net tangibles over
the decade. Whether the management
has been able to forecast erratic markets
with uncanny precision, or whether it
has been extraordinarily lucky, or
whether more, of the net earnings has
been lately put on the table is not vis-
ible from the published accounts. Dur-
ing the fat years extensive additions
were made to plant, paid for out of
earnings and then substantially written
down from the same source.
Last year the Dominion exported a
bit more lamb and a little less mutton.
Export prices for mutton were fairly
steady, but there was a drop of over 12
p.c. in the figure for lamb early in the
term, and it didn’t rise again till toward
the close of accounts. The effect of this
was partly offset by the strength of the
wool, tallow and pelt markets. After
providing for “repairs, renewals, taxa-
tion, depreciation and sundry contingen-
cies,” the contraction in Southland's
gross earnings (£27,757) was £4446. Exes.
(£14,371) were up £285, leaving the net
result £4731 lighter at 11.7 p.c. on capital
as against' 15.9, 19.5, 44.9, 12.7, 12.6,
10, 12.9 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1927.
The div. was kept at 16 p.c., and the
market doesn’t think that it is likely to
be interfered with. At 765. (78s. a year
ago) the fully-paid pound shares return
4.2 p.c. on a 16 p.c. div. basis.
So far as the season and prices are
concerned, the immediate outlook favors
a better showing at next balance. The.
Government has not yet brought lamb
and mutton within the operations of its
Primary Products Marketing Act, but
industrial legislation has bumped up
costs for the freezing cos. and others,
and demands of the taxgatherer have
grown louder and seem likely to grow
louder still. Much will depend upon
what happens in connection with prices
at Smithfield (Eng.); here Canterbury
prime lamb sold at 7|d. last week as
against approximately Bd. a year ago.
Here is the co.’s financial structure,
with comparisons:
1924. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital.. £113,539 £113,547 £113,547 £113,550
Liabilities* .. 40,587 222,418 210,430 200,368
Works.. .. 121,946 198,318 242,298 244,411
Stocks.. . .. 22,861 60,645 36,276 82,053
Book debts,
cash, invest-
ments, etc. 139,037 278,573 246,356 183,627
* Includes provision for contingencies.
Liabilities (down £10,062) include an
unspecified provision for contingencies.
To make this reduction, spend £2113
more than was written off on works and
carry an extra £45,777 of stocks, other
liquids were drawn upon for £52,729.
Including stocks, the year’s contraction
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£65,312) was £6890.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 24.254 8 p.c. = 22,567 1,687 66,320
1927.. 9,594 3 „ „ 8,463 1,131 67,451
1928.. 17,536 6 „ „ 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 54 „ „ 15,515 69,677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 21 „,, 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 24 „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15,662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67,404
1935.. 16,141 5 „ „ 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 ~ „ 14,195 2,205 71,615
This co. has been distributing milk in
Sydney and its suburbs for the last 61
years. It has rarely skimmed much
cream from the business, which now in-
cludes ice, butter, bread, fish, game and
poultry and ice-cream, as well as cold
storage. Early in this century £73,384
was struck off capital to cover drought
losses ; it was restored by the gifts of
1911 and 1913. The richest patch was
the decade to the close of accounts in
1920, when divs. averaged p.c. For
the 16 years since the co. has never failed
to pay a div., the highest being 8 p.c.
and the lowest 2\ p.c., and the average
5.3 p.c. The net growth in reserves since
1920 amounts to £9222. The business
kept on expanding, but some of the plant
was not as up to date as it might have
been, and competition and mounting
costs kept margins so narrow that the
co. got no benefit from its larger trading.
The Milk Act, under which supply and
distribution in the metropolitan area have
been “controlled” since early in ’32, now
looks more like a curse than a bless-
ing. Neither producers nor con-
sumers got the benefits they were, led
to expect, and distributors are disclos-
ing only moderate profits. What is cer-
tain is that the Act saddled the industry,
and therefore the public, with addi-
tional overhead. Already two royal com-
missions have inquired into its working,
and the second commission has reported
that “a full inquiry by the Milk Board is
long overdue.” For the six years to
the end of 1930 this co.’s profits
averaged £15,720 and divs. 5.4 p.c.
For the next three years, when turn-
over and prices fell faster than costs,
profits averaged £6326 and divs. 2.6 p.c.
During the three years since, turnover
has expanded, some of the old equip-
ment has been replaced with modern
plant, to the benefit of costs, and profits
have averaged £16,068 and divs. 5 p.c.
Last year earnings from all sections of
the business, except cold storage, im-
proved. After striking off £10,452 for
depreciation, the net result was £259
better at 5.7 p.c. on capital as against
5.6, 5.5, 2.4, 1.4, 2.8 and 5.4 p.c. back
to 1930.
The market, with one eye on the gener-
ally upward trend of costs, prices the
pound shares at 17s. 4d., at which figure
the return is 5.8 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 255. in net tangibles,
all fixed assets, worth what they can
earn.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1921. 1929. 1935. 193 G.
Paid capital. . £269,359 £282,091 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 76,334 65,186 46,392 42,970
Property 1 f 228,209 229,212 229,212
Plant 1 243,975 -| 121,743 151,900 161,554
Rolling' stock J [ 44,488 35,847 35,848
Stocks .. 27,664 43,743 24,654 25,044
Cash and
investments 34,129 16,362 10,957 2,011
Book debts .. 50,207 76,982 60,292 51,921
The net growth of £9654 in the plant
item reflects the installation of new
equipment for cold storage and for pas-
teurising and bottling milk. Of the
reduction of £8371 in debtors’ balances,
£6055 was in respect of previous pro-
vision for doubtful debts, etc. When the
books closed, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the floating debt by £36,006.


a. ifsaffo Juuwupuf coifa
YET GET EVERY FINE-CAR FEATURE YOU’VE WANTED . .
Wi
Wi
m
s?!swss«ssSS?s
mmm
m
I
*W:
•V- -
§B§
%Kv
i p
J 7
FOR
1937
COMPLETELY NEW
From showroom to showroom you can go, seeing cars that
sell for £5O to £lOO more than the completely new Chevrolet
—yet you’ll find no convincing reason to pay a pound more
than Chevrolet’s price. In addition—by buying Chevrolet,
what you’ll save in price alone will cover a large portion of a
year’s running costs.
There’s nothing to sacrifice—this amazing Chevrolet has every
fine-car feature you’ve wanted. That's not just an enthusiastic
claim—it’s a cold-blooded fact—after all, you can quickly
prove its truth by seeing Chevrolet, for you know what you
want! It’s a fact, too (you’ll see it for yourself), that the
fundamental craftsmanship in Chevrolet’s bodies, interiors and
engineering outclasses many far higher-priced cars.
There’s no mysiiery, nothing to wonder at, in this state of
affairs. The simple reason is that Chevrolet, world’s sales
leader, has the plant, the men and the capital needed to find
ways and means of producing such an outstandingly better and
complete car at such an extraordinarily low price. Now, we’ve
said all we want to say. We leave it up to you. See Chevrolet
—see the others. Any Chevrolet dealer invites you to spend
as much time as you like seeing and driving both Chevrolet
models—Standard and Master de Luxe.
Your Money Goes Farther in a General Motors Car.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S, LTD.
CONSULT
C 466-44
OUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia .
Look!
ISN'T THIS A“COMPLETE” CAR?
UNISTEEL “TURRET ” TOP BODY
BY HOLDEN SOUND-PROOFED
FOR THE LIFE OF THE CAR . . .
Proven engineering principles applied to
all-steel construction—creating safety and
permanent silence revolutionary in low-
price field. Not one bolt, screw, rivet or
nail used in whole construction—floor,
cowl panels and “Turret” Top one
integral structure—welded at all joints
reinforced and braced,
GLORIOUS INTERIOR CRAFTS-
MANSHIP REVOLUTIONARY
SILENCE Like going into a different
world—every outside noise fades away
its sound-proofed! Headroom, legroom
and elbowroom to spare— dimensions are
luxurious. Tailored “Relax-o-form”
upholstery (exclusive Holden feature)
pillows you like an air cushion. Complete
No Draught ventilation. Comfort features
everywhere—an atmosphere of beauty,
craftsmanship, good taste in every inch.
NEW ENGINE . . . POWER
MASTER . . . PETROL MISER I
Same famous overhead valve, six cylinder
principle but engineering’s latest develop-
ments have produced the new proved
and tested engine that outclasses 1936
standards of power and acceleration yet
has new money-saving thrift with fuel.
Ask especially about these engineering
developments they’re reasons why
it costs less to run a
Chevrolet.
GIANT LUGGAGE TRUNK— Takes
all the luggage of a full car-load. Top-
hinged, locking door. Separate space for
spare tyre and tools. It really “takes
the lot.”
SYNCHRO MESH GEARS.— Make
gear-management in traffic or hilly
country effortless and simple even for
a novice. Important contribution to
driving safety.
INDEPENDENT FRONT WHEEL
SPRINGING —Genuine Dubonnet Knee
Action proved and used the world over
for motordom’s smoothest, safest ride.
On all Master de Luxe Models.
AND ALL THESE OTHER FINE CAR
FEATURES.— Hypoid gears eliminating
high tunnels through the body—Perfected
Hydraulic Brakes—Super-safe Shockless
Steering (Master de Luxe) New Bridge-
span Box Girder Frame—Balanced Down-
Draught Carburettpr— Octane Selector-
Stabilised Front End Multi-adjustment
front seat—Easy Jacking System—and a host
of other refinements each making Chevrolet
easier to run and more thrilling to own.
THE 1937 “AIR CHIEF ” CAR RADIO . . .
“The 1937 ‘Air Chief’ Car Radio, specially designed
for Chevrolet, has controls to match the instrument
panel. Two models are available:—The Two-Unit Set,
with separate receiver unit and 8-inch dynamic speaker,
and the Single Unit Set, which compactly houses both
receiver and speaker. The ‘Air Chief,’ with six valves,
gives peformance equal to the best home radio. A
demonstration will be gladly given.”
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re— - Re—
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 10,711 7 p.c. = 15,750 ‘22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 „ „ 11,250 15.038
1929.. 3,082 2J„ „ 5,625 —12,49 G
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 ) „,n
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 j °°> BUi
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
1931.. 30,021* Nil 75,000
1932.. 16,474* Nil 75,000
1933.. 18,011* Nil 75,000
1934.. 37,662 Nil 112,662
1935.. 8,451 Nil 121,113
1936.. 4,556 Nil 125,669
’Debited to contingency reserve.
The problem for those in control is to
get the business on a profit-earning basis
again. Until that can be done there is
a danger that' the co. may gradually
restrict itself by consumption of its
working capital. For the 10 gener-
ally fat years to the end of 1929, the
small reserves were tapped for £21,324
to pay divs. averaging 6.5 p.c. Then
slump and the plight of wheat and other
farmers—the co. has wide connections
in the country —reduced turnover and
brought a crop of bad debts, while
growth of the cash-and-carry and chain
methods of retailing kept margins too
narrow to support the co.’s costs. Also,
the Kent- and Clarence-street property
has been a drag.
Trading has thus resulted in a loss for
each of the last seven years, the aggre-
gate being £123,374. The slip last year
was £4556, raising the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles in the books
to £125,669, or 11s. 2d. per fully-paid
pound share. 4 That leaves out of the
reckoning £2352 of exes., which have
been temporarily capitalised, in connec-
tion with the property already referred
to.
Since the close of accounts, this prop-
erty has been sold for £50,000. The co.’s
freeholds at Sydney and Newcastle to-
gether appear at cost, £46,650, plus the
£2352 of exes, capitalised ; so there is
obviously a profit on the deal. The sale
should enable the co. to substantially
reduce the heavy outside debt (most of
it is interest-bearing), and thus lighten
overhead. The position as balance-sheet
figures show it compares as follows:
1930. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc. 55,633 42,546 42,478 42,478
Overdraft .. 51,540 68,933 70,777 69,707
Sundry creditors 29,653 30,423 23,932 27,165
Freeholds . > 47,850 46,650 46,650 49,002
Plant . . 4,935 5,089 6,373 7,030
Stocks . . 78,175 59,060 49,276 45,013
Investments.. 22,398 28,491 29,788 30,143
Book debts.. 194,379 152,537* 108,772* 106,319*
Cash.. .. 8,159 75 213 1,174
* After deducting contingency reserve, etc.
Stocks were taken into the sheet at cost
or market price, whichever was the
lower, and the provision for doubtful
debts is considered to be adequate. The
year’s slip in the more or less liquid
surplus (£13,156) was £7918. That ex-
cludes investments, which consist of
shares in (£9167) and advances to
(£20,977) the subsidiary, Mitchell’s Fac-
tories, Ltd., over whose figures the cur-
tain is kept drawn.
The scrip, covered by net tangibles
with a book value of Bs. lOd. at the
end of ’36, has a speculative interest at
3s. 9d.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts Co.
To Re— Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 9,864 8 p.c. = 9600 264 52,938
1927.. 11,749 8 „ „ 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8 „ ~ 9600 765 55,852
1929.. 7,181 6 „ ~ 7200 55,833
1930.. 5,276 3 „ 3600 1676 57,509
1931.. 6,253 5J „ „ 660 t) 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 „ „ 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 „ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ ~ 8400 159 58,532
1935.. 7,920 64 „ „ 7800 120 58,652
1936.. 7,855 64 7800 55 58,707
There never has been any plums in
the way of bonus issues for shareholders.
Still, they have had a long unbroken run
of satisfactory divs. For the 20 years
to the close of accounts in 1929 the aver-
age was 7.3 p.c., the highest being 8 p.c.
and the lowest 6 p.c. Then supply and
installation of electric lifts were under-
taken, and the business looked like
settling down into a steady 8 p.c. pro-
position. But slump intervened, and the
rate dropped to 3 p.c. in 1930, followed
by 5| p.c. for the next term. The co.
has since bought the goodwill of the lift
business formerly carried on by Major,
Stevens and Coates, and acquired the
Commonwealth agency for the Express
Lift Co., London, thus placing itself in
a position to supply all the latest-types
of high-speed electric lifts and moving
stairways.
Because of this and the revival in
building, revenue stepped up from
£33,997 in 1931 to £88,054 in 1935.
But exes, kept pace, and little extra profit
has been derived from the larger trad-
ing :
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1920.. £36,441 £25,938 1932.. £39,025 £32,083
1924.. 41,158 31,666 1933.. 36,306 28,837
1926.. 47,279 37,415 1934.. 46,261 37,702
1928.. 61,995 51,629 1935.. 88,054 80,134
1930.. 47,875 42,598 1936.. 88,507 80,652
There was little change in last year’s
figures, the net result being 6.5 p.c. on
capital as against 6.6, 7.1, 6.2, 5.7, 5.2 and
4.3 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was kept
at 6| p.c.
Disappointed at the failure of net
earnings to respond to the co.’s larger
o Continued, on next page.)


m
IP
m
m.
a
i
wT?*^
SW&
rf
-Ml
sw*
n
--.
t^w;
TODAY’S BEST
ISSUE
100% CUMULATIVE
By the City Editor
TO the thirsty investor willing to part
with a few coppers I can recommend
no sounder proposition than Schweppes
Dry Ginger Ale.
I would warn holders of this drink,
however, against unscrupulous people who
are looking for Free Shares. Schweppes
Dry Ginger Ale produces a high rate of
interest after any temporary slump and
leads to a steady return of high spirits.
It will swiftly drown any “Bearish”
tendency on the part of the holder. For
Preference Share it with a slice of
lemon.
Schweppes
DRY GINGER ALE
Armament Expenditure.
How Will It Affect Commodity
and Share Prices?
See
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
( Australia’s leading financial journal)
for
March, 1937,
On Sale Next Saturday.
If you have ores for sale write
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold- ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Pateut Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patent?. Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLL1SON, Patent Attorneys 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B-Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consutt-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney. Abv .
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Soap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Meta ..
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try D- •
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY„ LTD., Sinus House,
Sydney.—Advt. * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and re P®?5”“®\
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Win
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams ana
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— advi.
* * * *
Buyer of TANTALITE and all classes ores, con-
centrates, metals, LOUIS BURIvARD, „
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, LurKafa •
trading, and doubtful whether the 64
p.c. will be maintained, the market prices
the fully-paid pound shares at 20s. 6d.
as against 265. 3d. two years ago. The
return at 20s. 6d. is 6.3 p.c. on a 64 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
295. 9d. per £1 of paid capital, mostly in
fixed assets, worth what they can earn.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1 QQ9 1 QQp; 1
Capital £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. .. 10,417 35,021 21,914
Mains and plant .. 135,703 136,556 136,237
Freeholds .. .. 35,197 35,231 35,231
Leaseholds .. • • 1,119 1,149 1,149
Stock 9,136 27,568 15,462
Debtors 8,678 14,779 15,251
Cash, investments, etc. 2,309 2,290 2,290
Last year stocks were reduced by £12,106
and £13,107 was clipped off the debt.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£11,089) was £1473. Re-
newals were charged against earnings,
and works, mains, buildings and plant
are reported in good order ; much de-
pends upon that.
Base Metals
During the slump production of base
metals outstripped consumption, and
stocks accumulated and weighed down
prices. However, early in 1935 con-
sumption of the principal metals caught
up with production, and demand has
since taken the lead, causing a steady
reduction of stocks and rise in prices.
According to the American Bureau of
Metal Statistics, estimated world pro-
duction and consumption of lead and
zinc have moved in this way:
t Lead y— —Zinc x
Produc- Consump- Produe- Consump-
tion, tion, tion, tion,
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1929 .. 1,725,000 1,661,000 1,450,000 1,441,000
1932 .. 1,160,000 1,059,000 777,000 803,000
1934 .. 1,330,000 1,323,000 1,165,000 1,140,000
1935 .. 1,398,000 1,404,000 1,328,000 1,330,000
1936 .. 1,460,000* t 1,430,000* f
* Estimated. t Not available.
Over the last few years world arma-
ment expenditures have risen from hun-
dreds of millions to thousands of million
pounds. Directly and indirectly this
has greatly stimulated activity in all
branches of trade and industry, includ-
irig the heavy industries, usually the
last out of the wood. Moreover, the
heavy industries are now enjoying a
banked-up demand for ordinary indus-
trial equipment. Among other things,
inventions and improvements, combined
with delayed expenditure during the de-
pression, have made much plant and
equipment obsolete. It is not surprising,
therefore, that metal prices put on a spurt,
following announcement of Britain’s re-
armament programme, involving an ex-
penditure of £400,000,000 or more over
the next five years, the money to be
found by loans and the use of Budget
surpluses.
This comparison of average London
spot prices for metals in sterling shows
how the market has responded to supply,
demand and other factors:
Electrolytic
Lead. Zinc. Copper.
5 Years. 1925-29. . £27 3 2 £29 10 1 £69 19 5
12 months, 1934.. 11 1 0 13 15 6 33 11 8
12 months, 1935.. 14 5 8 14 3 6 35 14 1
July, 1936 .. 15 18 1 13 14 1 41 8 9
Sept., 1936 .. 17 19 10 14 0 8 43 10 1
Dec., 1936 .. 25 10 8 18 1 0 50 13 9
Jan., 1937 .. 27 4 3 21 4 4 56 13 1
Feb. 15, 1937 .. 27 0 0 23 13 9 61 5 0
Feb. 26, 1937 . . 31 16 3 29 16 3 75 0 0
Taking exchange into consideration, the
metals at Feb. 26 were worth in Aus-
tralian currency: Lead, £39 15s. 3d.;
zinc, £37 ss. 3d.; electrolytic, £93
15s. They are the highest levels
reached since 1925, when lead touched
£53 7s. 6d. a ton; zinc, £4O 12s. 6d.;
electrolytic, £72 ss. The recent rise is due
mainly to speculative activity, which sug-
gests that there may be some reaction.
Still, whatever day-to-day variations may
occur in prices, the statistical position
of and the general outlook for metals
are “bull” factors, though some time
must elapse before the full effect of
Britain’s intended expenditure on de-
fence will make itself seriously felt in
consumption
The world’s most important producers
of lead-zinc ore are the U.S.A., Aus-
tralia, Mexico, Canada and Germany,
All known deposits in these countries
are now being worked extensively;
any further increase in Productive -capa-
city including the open:mg up of low
grade high-cost deposits,
to achieve. The U.S.A.
porter of lead, and the antopated growth
of demand in that coun ~y ? •
to more than take care Pr ,J? n o ra tivelv
domestic production. The comparatively
lower price of zinc is mainly due to the.
fact that current production of zinc con-
centrates is a bit ahead of immediate
smelter requirements, lead-zinc ores being
treated primarily for the production of
lead concentrates. Copper appears to be
in a more vulnerable position, owing to
the possibilities of a substantial increase
in output by low-cost producers in
Africa and Chile, though here again ex-
pansion of plant' capacity would take
time. Last year Roan Antelope, Rho-
desia, got costs down to £24 14s. per ton
of copper produced. Meanwhile, con-
sumption continues to run ahead of pro-
duction, and stocks were 320,000 tons, or
less than three months’ market require-
ments, at the end of Oct. last. The volun-
tary restriction plan under which copper
producers operated since the middle of
1935 was recently suspended.
The price of shares in Australian pro-
ducers has kept step with the metal
markets, as the following table shows:
r Middle Price \
Jan., Dec., Jan. 19, Feb. 26,
1936. 1936. 1937. 1937.
North B.H. .. 152/- 75/-* 79/-* 87/9*
B.H. South .. 109/- 42/-* 47/-* 65/9*
Zinc Corp. (ord.)t 71/- 139/- 150/- 167/-
Mt. Lyell .. 21/6 37/- 43/- 53/9
El. Zinc (ord.).. 36/ 50/ 56/- 64/-
* Face value, ss. t Face value, 10s. All other
quotes are for shares of 20s. face value.
The difference in the price of the three
Barrier cos.’ shares is due mainly to
differences in the assay value of the ore.
North B.H. has lifted its quarterly div.
from Is. to Is. 6d. per share, the higher
rate (120 p.c. p.a.) being payable on
March 24. On the same date, B.H.
South will send out Is. per share (80
р. p.a.). Zinc Corp.’s last distribution
was 2s. 6d. (stg.) per share on Jan. 1.
Electric Zinc, which paid 10 p.c. for its
last term, has declared an interim at the
rate of 12 p.c. p.a., payable March 18.
There is a provision in the agreement
between the Barrier cos. and the miners
that when the bonus and basic wage to-
gether reach £6 10s. per week, no addi-
tional bonus will be paid ; that is to say,
the maximum bonus is £2 per week,
which has been paid since the beginning
of this year.
Mt. Lyell, whose output of the red
metal is absorbed locally, is increasing
its capacity to produce cathode copper
from 13,000 tons to 14,000 tons per
annum. Last year’s net production cost
was £42 14s. per ton.
A new co., Queensland Ores Develop-
ment, Ltd., is producing 100 tons of
high-grade ore weekly from the old
manganese mines at Amamoor (Q.). The
stuff, which assays about 60 p.c., is some
of the best yet raised in Queensland.
Within a couple of months the co. ex-
pects to be producing at least 1000 tons
monthly. Since 1894 20,482 tons of
manganese, valued at £78,727, has been
raised in the northern State. Apart from
the present effort, there has been no
production worth mentioning over the
last 10 years.
* * * *
With gold at £8 10s. an ounce, Cullen-
goral Alluvial reckons its Gundagai
(N.S.W.) property is worth £650,000.
Boring has disclosed approx. _B| million
с. of 10|d. wash in the middle area,
and 5i million c.y., averaging Is., in the
upper area. With all-in costs at 3d.
per c.y., working profit is put at £475,000.
Dredging 65,000 c.y. a month, this would
yield a working surplus of £2150
monthly for over 18 years. And
then there is an adjoining 100 acres
of dirt yet to be tested. Owing to delay
in delivery of steel plates for the pon-
toon, it will be some time before the
dredge to treat the middle sector con-
tributes to the pool. A second machine
for the smaller area is under considera-
tion.
* * * *
Wiluna’s January gold output was
worth £A86,334. After chipping off 21s.
Id. per ton (it includes 3s. 9d. for de-
velopment) for costs, the working sur-
plus was £32,473. Capital expenditure
on construction and equipment mopped
up £14,272. Developments disclosed 26ft.
of 4.6dwt. ore in a crosscut at the 1600 ft.
level, and sections of 10ft. of s.9dwt.
and of stuff in a borehole
at the' same depth. A 2ft. ore-body,
assaying 6.6dwt., was also pierced by a
drill at a vertical depth of 400 ft., nearly
a mile south of the main shaft on a
temporary reservation. This is regarded
as “highly encouraging,” as it proves the
country there to be gold-bearing. To
date arsenic has been a valuable by-
product at Wiluna. The amount col-
lected in the plant operated by Victor
Leggo and Co. since 1931 is valued at
about £A250,000. Wiluna’s share of this
is not publicly known.
* * * *
Yellowdine, the Bradman of De Ber-
nales’s first Westralian eleven, continues
to please its admirers. January’s return
brought the yield for the nine months
the mill has been running to over
£140,000. Profit on working account
for that period is estimated at over
£lO,OOO. Mining at De Bernales’s other
star performer, the Comet, Marble Bar,
is now being carried on at the 30ft. and
60ft. levels in hard, high-grade sulphide-
quartz-carbonate rock, in which values
are in a fine state of distribution. A new
pilot treatment plant is now in opera-
tion.
# * * *
Spargo Reward Co. (W.A.) is not the
least downhearted about its future. The
option-holder (Gold Fields Australian
Development) having stepped out. it has
stepped in, and is considering early in-
stallation of a treatment plant. The co.
has a substantial cash balance, and the
Government water-pipe line passes its
door. Profits from the beginning of
treatment operations are talked of.
* * M: *
In December last the “Wild Cat”
pointed out that Western Queen (W.A.)
was putting its shoulder to a rather
rickety wheel. Now the manager says:
“I am doubtful, owing to collapse
of timbers on No. 2 level, whether the
mine can be made a payable proposition
without a great deal of capital being pro-
vided for a vigorous policy of develop-
ment.”
* * * *
On the strength of the gold returns
and anticipated permanency of Cox’s
Find (W.A.), Melbourne has been in-
duced to put up the greater part of
£20,000 to diamond-drill and sink on
some adjoining blocks owned by another
concern.
* * * *
“Fine Gold” sends some Westralian
odds and ends:
London will presently be invited to provide
capital for further development of the old
Fields Find group, on the Yalgoo field. The
workings have been unwatered down to
360 ft. In the Hannan’s North, at the ex-
treme north end of the Kalgoorlie field, B. H.
Prop, has a fairly good gold producer. The
output for 1936 was 8169 fine ounces, and
that for 1935 61930 z., or about £A120,000
worth of bullion in two years. Chapman s
Gold Mines, N.L., with £7OOO in hand,
has gone from west to east and acquired a
show at Chewton (Vic.). It originally came
from east to west to work the Gt.
Western, at Wilson’s Patch, near Leonora, but
gave up last year. Celebration’s treatment
plant, which has been soled and heeled, is ex-
pected to do better. A report by Dr. Moss on
the mine is to be embodied in the directors
annual report. Yilgarn Gold Mine proposes
to change its name to New Yilgarn. Share-
holders have the right to apply for one share
in the new for each share held in the old co. on
forking out 6d. a share. Proceeds will be used
to meet liabilities and current exes., and what
is left will, it is stated, enable the new co.
to continue crushing. The outlook is not allur-
ing.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD.
For the Quarter ended 31st December, 1936.
NOTE.—All figures are expressed in English sterling.
SMOKE-OH!
“Part of my house is affected by dry rot.
What is the best method of combating this?”
asks a correspondent.
Switch the wireless off.
'P -I- >i< *;•<
“Is there any difference between a wife de
facto and a wife de jure ?”
—“Sunday Sun” Information Bureau.
Difference ? There’s usually an un-
holy row!
All nations seem to be busy with
their re-alarmament programmes.
•f* *1•
“If a great war doesn’t interrupt his career,
Bradman will beat Hobbs’s figures.”
— “Telegraph.”
What further incentive can the League
of Nations need?
*!* *l* ►!- 4r
“Petitioner admitted having lost her temper
with her husband. Continually, he came home
to dinner at eight o’clock.”— Divorce item.
Wives’ tempers are inclined to fray
When well-done dinners have to wait:
Her hymn of hate, ’tis fair to say,
Was founded on her him of “eight.”
*l* -r -l-
-“ Mr. Young, of Young Plan fame, is re-
marrying at the age of 63. He was first mar-
ried in 1874.”— Sydney “Sun.”
With him, it was a case of straight
from the cradle to the groove.
•b *J*
“He has been 50 years a driver.”
— “Telegraph.”
A life of whoa!
*l* -l- -l-
-“ She was a mistress of black and white.”
—Art review.
Shocking!
* * -I*
“A witness declined to state whether he was
married or not. Asked regarding a claim of the
petitioner, which the respondent had denied,
he said that he believed the wife.”— “Age.”
Obviously not married.
“Screen Actress Sheds Real Tears.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
At some of the parts she has to act?
4* 4-
“Marriage Keeps People Sane.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
What people?
Racing by Radio.
“English mounted constabulary are being
equipped with small radio receiving sets weigh-
ing 61b.”
Scene, Flemingwick. The favorite has
been saddled. His trainer tests the wires
and connections, makes sure the aerial
from stirrup to stirrup is in good order,
hoists the boy into the saddle. Beneath
his skull cap the lad wears a pair of
earphones; before him on the saddle,
between his knees, is a switch.
“The code will be BX,” mutters the
trainer. The jockey nods.
All the way to the post the boy turns
over the meaning of the various signals
in his mind. The lips of the other lads
are all moving as they repeat their code
calls. It’s a hard life being a jockey now.
Taking his instructions from the
owner, the trainer rushes to his quarters
“That boy cost me a lot o' money. Sent im t Sydney to be ejucated ,
an ’e ony learnt all about booze and wimmen .”
“You MUST regret it.”
“Too right, I do. Oder gone meself.”
and calls up his rider. This is the
moment the punters have been waiting
for. In every home in Sydney with an
all-wave set, backers twirl their controls
and try to pick up the message. Some
get it', and rush to pencil and paper to
work out the code. As an indoor sport
it has scriptosums and other such futili-
ties well stoushed.
In code the trainer rattles off his in-
structions. Bookmakers’ runners listen-
in for the magic words. They, too, try
to break the. veil of mystery. Trying to
straighten up his fractious mount at the
barrier, the jock, feels that it’s all a
mystery to him, too. Anxiously he racks
his brain. He must' have the code
jumbled. It doesn’t make sense.
The boys bring their mounts in to
face the starter, whose lusty commands
momentarily draw their attention to the
business in hand.
The books are still calling odds. In
the hurly-burly of the race conflicting
messages buzz in the earphones. Sharply
some of the lads pull in to the rail, in
the hope of being pocketed, only to re-
call that the code has been changed
since last week.
Which messages are false? Which
true? Wonder if the stipe is on to the
wave-length we’re using to-day? The
race is over before the jocks, have sorted
their thoughts.
When the result is broadcast, in a
thousand home plaintive voices are
heard. “In another five minutes I’d have
worked that last message, out.”
It’ll be 10 times worse than bodyline.
N. Sign.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Barrister Makes 350-Guinea Speech.”
Evidently silence isn’t the only thing
that’s golden.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Opportunity may knock for every man,
but it’s a woman who gets a ring.
“He was terribly worried over his hobby.”
— Witness.
Fretwork?
4* •!«
“Police official says that many criminals when
arrested refuse to speak.”
Silence in the caught!
•b •b <b *J>
“Engineers Train with Lights.”—' '‘Sun.’’
So that we’ll be longer livers?
b *i*
“Loud Applause for India—Sold for 1250
Guineas. —“Courier Mail.”
Another blow for Gandhi!
A Matter of Dictation.
My wife is now my typist,
And will be evermore;
She says so with the ripest
Reproach for those before.
She hears the words I mutter,
But always she prefers
That I my thoughts shall utter
In sterner words of hers.
I dare not then refine them
(Self-murder it would be);
So meekly still I sign them —
As she dictates to me!
Y
To a Gold-digger.
Your smile of pleasure, darling, to
provoke,
I’d give you shoes and hats, hose,
gloves and frocks,
And jewelled clasps and perfume,
books and chocs.,
And suchlike things so loved by women-
folk.
I’d give you coats of mink and wraps of
fox,
And silk-tipped Turkish cigarettes to
smoke,
And orchids, dear, at fifteen bob a
box—
If I were credulous and wasn’t broke !
P.O.M.C.
Some Little-known Facts About
Egypt.
ll—lts History.
Egypt’s is the world’s oldest known
civilisation, having enjoyed several thou-
sand more years of wars, massacres,
slavery, revolts, tortures, suppressions
and mass murders than any other
country.
Egypt has been successively under
Semitic, Negroid, Assyrian, Persian,
Macedonian, Greek, Roman, Arabian,
Turkish, French, English and Australian
(or bung) rule. It was first conquered
in 1857 b.c. by the Shepherd Kings, and
finally in a.d. 1915 by the Swi-up Kings.
Thus for almost 4000 years the country
has been under foreign domination. The
historian Botne Bey considers that not
only was the people’s resistance to the
invaders apathetic but that they actu-
ally welcomed them as providing a rest
from pyramid-building.
Among the ancient Gyppos sacred
animals were worshipped in conjunction
with their gods. Thus the bull Apis
was always associated with Osiris, and
the goat with Ra. When Osiris lost
popularity through failing to stop a
grasshopper plague (there being no grass,
the enraged ’hoppers turned on the near-
est available substitute, reducing the
carefully-cultivated ziffs of the male
populace to the mangy-looking stubble
which has been the fashion ever since)
this branch of worship automatically
became all bull. The goat’s association
with Ra, however, was more solidly
founded. When, for instance, an ancient
Gyppo king fell down on his job the
goats would hysterically acclaim him
with “’Ra! ’Ra! ’Ra!” The tradition
was adopted by other countries, and
even survives to this day.
The earliest Gyppo kings were called
Pharaohs (the other “a” being silent as
in “Tch!”), though that wasn’t the only
thing they were called, especially by the
slaves who had to do the top-storey
work on the pyramids. Pyramid-build-
ing, the earliest sport known to man-
kind, was indicative of the thoughtful
nature of the Pharaohs. It was King
Khophitup who, realising that future
Egyptologists would have nothing to do
unless there was something in the coun-
try to Egyptologise about, and that it
would be just a waste of good, full-
blooded curses if there were, no tombs
to desecrate, started on the first pyramid.
When it was finished he was all of a
dither to see a royal tomb ensconced
in it', but was angered by the thought
that he wouldn’t be able to see the mag-
nificent spectacle of himself being
parked therein. Determined to use the
pyramid, he slipped some diamond dust
into the queen’s water skin. The Nile
was in flood at the time, and when the
water was poured out the Court cook
mistook it for soup, of which the king
was inordinately fond. Lord Lover-
duck, the famous authority on mum-
mies, attributes the sour look on Khoph-
itup to this incident.
It was King Ehaz Anekh who in
3737 b.c. saved Egypt' when a papyrus
famine threatened the Royal Panegyric
industry, the locusts having got into the
papyrus-trees. He had 200,000 of his
subjects marched barefooted from
Memphis to the Libyan desert in mid-
summer, and these were followed by a
further 200,000, who gathered the soles
which had curled up and dropped off
the feet of the first lot. By keeping up
relays he got' a year’s supply of papyrus
substitute which kept the staff of 4000
publicity hounds and “yes” men going
at top speed.
When in 1798 Napoleon invaded
Egypt' there were great preparations
made to resist, but the Gyppos’ chances
of winning against the Little Corporal
were whittled away through an unfor-
tunate misunderstanding. Hearing that
the French forces were relying almost
solely on grapeshot the defending army,
under General Aboo-Bey, with supreme
assurance armed themselves with dates,
fully confident that their ammunition
would carry more weight than the softer
and smaller fruit of the attackers.. Their
confidence was misplaced.
S.W.K.


Kandos 4s. 6d. Under Vic. Co.
Each £1 of capital in Kandos
Cement, by virtue of its propor-
tionately greater interest in Aust.
Portland Cement, is worth about
11£ p.c. more than each £1 of
capital in Australian Cement.
Shares of £lOO par value in Kandos
represent 148 shares in the operat-
ing co. ; £lOO par in Aust. Cement
represents 131. With the Victorian
holding co.’s £1 shares at 325. 3d.
last week, Kandos 16s. scrip
was worth 28s. 9d. On the market
245. 3d. was paid.
Kandos has a share-register of
£673,862 to pay divs. on, Aust.
Cement £760,433. Each co. has a
million shares in the operating con-
cern, valued by the market at
£ 1,134,339 in Aust. Cement’s case
(deducting the. holding co.’s cash
investments), as against £898,791
in the instance of Kandos. Present
yield on Kandos is 6.6 p.c.
ķ
Who pays
them
, after
you're
yone ?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . . whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE and
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. Y. PERKINS. General Manager.
THE ONLY ONE OF ITS
KIND IN AUSTRALIA Mm:,
. <fV.QRSECURITv
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
is NOT a TRUST COMPANY, but a Trust in
the strictest meaning of the word.
The public participate in the Trust by the purchase of
Sub-Unit Certificates which are issued by the Custodian
Trustees:
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
who hold all the securities underlying the Certificates,
collect all Income accruing thereon and distribute it to
Certificate holders twice yearly.
Further particulars and descriptive booklets obtainable
on request from the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
g-14 Bon(1 Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., 0.r.0.
Telephone: 85204.
7
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Wire-Seal Strapping— Flat Band Strapping
Corrugated Fasteners Fountain Stencil Brushes Fountpencil
Address Markers Automatic Label Tackers —-Tack Strip for Automatic
Label Tackers—Conveyors-—-Packing Equipment
GERRARD VIRE TYING MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
1
TieThil Binds.
Sydney. Brisbane. Townsville. Perth, Ade
S he’s a Si
success now .
X
At one time people thought her dull
because she seldom smiled, but she’s
not afraid to smile now since someone
told her that powder polished teeth
to perfection. All dentifrices contain
some powder that’s what does
the cleaning, but Calvert’s is ALL
POWDER that’s why it makes your
teeth gleam and sparkle ALWAYS.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
Business,Rollery,Etc.
More Boisterous Than Strong
The boisterous financial developments
of recent weeks have left people rather
bewildered. Metal prices have soared
in some cases to above pre-depression
figures—especially in Australia, where 25
p.c. goes on to London quotes —and have
then shown sign of reaction, with the
sharemarket not quite sure which foot
to stand on. Wheat, after a period of
relaxation, is up again to over ss. a
bushel; wool isn’t quite as high as it
was, but recent Sydney sales averaged
over 18d. There is a good commercial
demand for these land products.
London prices of metals are now.
highly remunerative to Australian pro-
ducers. Excepting copper, all are above
the rates ruling eight years ago:
Feb., Feb., Feb. 24,
1929. 1936. 1937.
Copper
(electro.) £B3/18/5 £39/14/- £72/-/-
Lead .... 23/3/-' 16/1/7 30/10/-
Spelter .. 26/6/- 15/5/2 29/13/9
Tin .... 223/4/8 207/5/2 241/-/-
Mt. Lyell’s copper production will be
worth over £1,000,000 (Aust.) this year
if present quotes hold. Broken Hill lead,
spelter and silver output should bring
£10,000,000 or more in similar circum-
stances. Speculators in base-metal
shares, of course, have been making
whoopee—and, so far, cleaning up.
Something more profound than sen-
sational may happen overseas if impend-
ing armament expenditure is allowed to
keep base-metal prices at a level out of
balance with other commodity levels.
The former are disproportionately high
already when compared with sugar,
wheat, wool and rubber, to name only
a few items. If a generally-higher level
of prices is forced on the principal over-
seas countries/it may prove disastrous.
Prices that are forced up, establishing
a new level of costs while up, may slump
with widespread consequences when the
forcing element wanes. The. soundest
stimulus to prices is an increase in the
people’s consumption and demand, not
in capital expenditure that speculates on
increased demand, or in outlay on arma-
ments.
It is a great pity that the speculative
rearmament element has entered into
raw-material price recovery, because six
months ago things were shaping very
nicely on trade developments alone.
Underneath the frothy crest of the
present buying wave there is a. solid
level of price recovery. The “rearma-
ment premium,” however, is a big one,
and in the long run it is likely to do
more harm than good to world trade.
Overspeculation begets slumps; and
how much speculation has entered into
the present metal boom is indicated by
the fact that not one penny of the pro-
posed British rearmament loan has yet
been raised, let alone spent.
Most world countries seem to have
made genuine industrial recovery of late,
more especially Britain, the U.S.A. and
South Africa. That is excluding Aus-
tralia, which, except for financial and
trade conditions directly under political
control, has witnessed a revival second
to none.
But rising prices, eagerly worked
for by President Roosevelt and others
during the darkest days of the slump,
are no longer so necessary as they
seemed to be. Prices of goods only really
matter in relation to their cost; and if
costs have been brought down to such
a level that goods can be sold profitably
at low figures, so much the better, be-
cause low prices give an impetus to the
export trades.
High prices for commodities tend to
establish high capital values ; and those
high values weigh heavily on trade and
employment if prices slump, as they
almost invariably do if other financial
factors are not in harmony.
Recent lifts in some world-commodity
prices are more boisterous than strong.
There are some who will go so far as
to say that the position is dangerous.
British recovery, so much a factor in
world prices, can easily be overstressed.
It is true that production and employ-
ment are above pre-depression levels in
the Old Country ; but that is in a
measure because of heavy internal con-
struction expenditure. Efforts to in-
crease appreciably the export trade have
had small success, and a rising internal
price level threatens to make this posi-
tion more difficult as time goes on.
Cheap money, one source of strength to
British industries, in itself is not enough.
It is possible, of course, that the factory
re-equipment at present so much in evi-
dence. may later help on the efficiency
side.
In Australia we should not allow un-
certain hopes of a trade boom to lure
us into increased prices and costs. Be-
cause the stability we have experienced
for some years now has enabled indus-
try to plan ahead with confidence ; and
confidence is a great thing.
Of all the Australian base-metal
stocks, Mt. Lyell, the Tas. West Coast
copper show, appears to be the cheapest
still at 545. Ore reserves show over 12
years’ life proved, and if present costs
are maintained and the electrolytic
metal kept at £7O sterling for that period,
there is £5 a share in sight, provided in-
vestments turn in no more than they X
did last year. Labor costs will prob- X
ably rise—already the engineers at 5
Queenstown are threatening to strike if X
portion of wage-cuts are not restored — X
and the present price, of copper, though ]
seemingly more secure than that for lead j
and spelter, has been subject to a stimu- *
lus that may not last. Nevertheless, tak- ;
ing a wide view, Lyell seems to be worth 1
its money more than Barrier stocks.
Mt. Lyell has produced 5089 tons of ;
cathode copper since Sept. 30, produc-
tion for the fortnight to Feb. 17 being
508 tons. Output is at approximately
the rate maintained in the 1935-36 term.
❖ * * *
The following table shows how the
various classes of shares in Australasian
Paper and Cumberland Paper participate
in the distributions of the working co.,
Australian Paper Manufacturers, on divi-
dends from that co. ranging from 5 p.c.
to 10 p.c., and at 15 p.c. The figures
take no account of office exes, of the
two holding cos., and are worked out
on a fully-paid issued capital basis:
Wkg. Co.'s A/sian Paper. Cumberland.
Div., Pref., Old., Prefs., Old.,
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
5 8 3.57 6.2 2.09
6 8 4.58 6.2 3.59
7 8 5.58 6.2 5.08
8 8 6.60 6.39
9 8 7.62 . 7.20
10 8.53 8.00
15 12.80 12.00
Market price.. 425. 38s. 345.-355. 335.
Present yield .. 3.8p.c. 4.2p.c. 4.7p.c. sp.c.
All classes of shares in both cos. parti-
cipate in new capital issues, and, except
for the advantages attached to the prefs.
in bad times, have practically equal
profit-participation rights. Cumberland
prefs. appear to be actually worth more
than A.P. ords., and at present prices
are distinctly attractive.
Both Cumberland Paper and Austra-
lasian Paper have declared an all-round
8 p.c. interim on their shares. Though
the new paper machine is in operation,
there is a large quantity of capital un-
productive in the board mill now under
construction, to be completed next year ;
an 8 p.c. distribution by the. holding cos.
in these circumstances promises well for
the future. The sharemarket is begin-
ning to appreciate the comparative
undervaluation of Cumberland scrip as
compared with Australasian Paper.
There was a rise of a couple of shillings
in all issues last week, which hasn’t
taken up the slack yet.
* * # x
At the end of December the average
sharemarket price of Australian pastoral
stocks was still about 10 p.c. below the
peak of 1929 ; since then there has been
a substantial appreciation. It should be
borne- in mind that, taking woolbroking
houses by and large, there has been only
a small increase in their scope of busi-
ness over the past 10 years. With a bit
of luck the wool cheque this year may
equal that for 1924-25. For two years
now most proprietary woolselling con-
cerns have rebated 20 p.c. of commis-
sions in order to compete with the co-
operative companies, and if this is to be
continued it will restrict hopes of pos-
sible profit-expansion. There are thus
good reasons for discounting at the
present time the prices paid in 1929 for
pastoral co. shares. Individual houses
may, of course, increase their business
at the expense of others ; but the general
field of activity hasn’t opened out as in
the case of, say, some manufacturing
industries.
* * * *
Whakatane Paper Mills (M.L.) has
commenced work on its mill buildings,
and the power plant (British) and pulp
mill and cardboard machine (both
Swedish) have, been ordered. Between
18,500 to 20,000 tons of cardboard can
be turned out a year by the unit. A
large expenditure will take place during
the next two financial years, and share-
holders and bondholders who have un-
paid balances may expect a reminder
from the co.
**- * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls shares lifted to 425. on keen
inquiry. G. J. Coles ords. rocketed to £5
14s. 6d., then faded somewhat. Australian
Cement lifted to above 325. and Australian
Knitting Mills (7s. 6d.) to 11s. The boom
in base-metal scrip didn’t greatly dim interest
in general investments.
Gordon and Gotch ords. weakened to 5 Is.
9d., returning 4.6 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
This opportunity probably won’t remain open
long.
Australian Knitting Mills declared an in-
terim ord. div. of 3d. (6.6 p.c. p.a.) on -its
7s. 6d.-paid shares. This was earned from manu-
facturing, no income being now derived from
Yarra Falls, the holding in which was dis-
tributed among A.K.M. shareholders last term.
Argus and Australasian, Ltd., decided to
pay no interim div. Development exes, pre-
sumably have been high in the co.’s first year,
and in view of the strong competition a policy
of conserving finances for the present is not
unwise.


NEW REJUVENATION.
RE-AX PHOSPHATED BRAIN, BODY AND
NERVE TONIC (CONCENTRATED). Re-
stores your lost vitality and energy, soothes
the nerves and gives new life, clears the skin
and fortifies the body and muscles. Will not
affect the heart. 7/6 per box, post free.
R. J. ROBERTS, Manufacturing Chemist,
Post Office Box 44, Newtown.
Personal and Missing Friends.
MACGREGOR—Heirs Wanted.
INFORMATION is desired by the subscribers
as to the heirs and next-of-kin of DR.
GEORGE McGREGOR (or MacGregor), son
of Duncan McGregor, Shoemaker, who re-
sided at Whitliburn, Largs, Scotland, and Agnes
Leishman or McGregor, his wife. Dr. George
McGregor resided at Stafford Place, New City
Road, Glasgow, Scotland, and died in 1871.
His widow and daughter latterly resided in
Largs, Ayrshire.
R. & J. M. HILL BROWN & CO.,
41 West George Street, Glasgow.
WILLIS, Robert Henry, last heard of at 15
Dover Street, Richmond, Melbourne. His
brother, William Arthur Willis, 40 Union Road,
Clapham, London, 5.W.4, would be pleased to
hear from him.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication, whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information,
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and, upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of ..individual and
personal appeal.
Price 13d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth. - f
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
TO
NEWS
wssL
READ
THE AUSTRALASIAN.
*
M
b
ft
a ©
:B*|P
a. if fees;
a I*l
m
-v • :m- **♦
■■-" fit ‘
, g
®
■s » s #
3' :
ggi
p
Ip;
5 IL
iiHii
FORD adopted the V-type engine because
it alone could give maximum smooth-
ness, acceleration and dependability with
economy. The exceptional quality of the
V-type engine is the reason why it is
being used to power an ever-increasing
number of the world’s fine cars —notably
Rolls Royce, Lincoln, Cadillac, La Salle,
Pierce Arrow, Lagonda, Riley, Autovia.
Henry Ford says : “The Ford V-8 is the
best car we have ever made. We say
that our V-8 engine is as economical to
operate as any lower number of cylinders.
We say that we have always been known as
the makers of good cars and that the many
good, well-balanced qualities of our present
car place it at the head of the line to
date.” To more than three million owners
throughout the world, Ford V-8 has brought
a new and higher standard of motoring at
an economical cost. Try the V-8 on the
road and prove these facts for yourself.
■ B
FORD MOT OR COMPANY OF, AUS T R ALIA PT Y. LTD. (IN CO RPORAT ED IN VICTORIA) T*138.27 V
If the rights to Yarra Falls’s new issue-
—loo,ooo £1 ords. at a 10s. premium—
mostly come on to the market it may
create a wider spread of interest in the
stock. There are 900,000 shares out, and
the new issue will bring paid capital up to
£1,000,000, but the scrip is rather closely
held. Interim div. remains at 10 p.c.
p.a. As has been said here very often,
it should be an excellent stock for
holding.
* * *
The Australian cement industry seems
more pleased with itself at present than
it did before the anti-dumping regula-
tions were brought in—after the British
preferential duties were taken off—and
there has been steady and apparently “in-
formed” buying of Australian Cement
shares in Melbourne. Whatever benefits
accrue to this co. through the manufac-
turing co., Aust. Portland Pty., also
accrue to the Kandos co. in N. S. Wales ;
shares in Kandos, as mentioned else-
where, last week were at a large and un-
warranted discount compared with Aus-
tralian Cement. There is likely to be a
firming in all cement issues shortly.
* * 4: sK
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), on the
hunt for more capital, has lately been a
market disappointment. Disclosed profits
and declared divs. have been attractive
to the eye, and for a while new share
issues were pleasurably accepted by old
holders. But to be approached six times
for extra capital since the beginning of
1934 suggests to some sceptics that the
cash-order business is being overdone.
Amalgamated’s share issues since 1934
have been as follows:
1933- 15,985 £1 71-10 p.c. prefs.
1934- 20,000 ditto
88,536 12s. ords.
1935- 143,716 ditto
1936- 208,987 ditto
Present offer is 100,000 71-10 p.c. prefs.
at par (the market is around 305.), one for
16, to ord. holders. When taken, sub-
scribed capital will be £526,176, against
£101,419 paid up at the 1933 balance.
Reserves are small. A weakening in the
ord. scrip to 225. 6d. followed the
announcement.
* . * * *
Wiluna’s January milling was an im-
provement ; 982 loz. was recovered, up
1108 oz. on December, the average being
3.84dwt., as against 3.74dwt. and 3.B2dwt.
in the two preceding months. Costs per
ton were cut back slightly, and the work-
ing surplus improved £5768 to £32,473
Australian. Sharemarket interest in the
stock has revived, and, as anticipated
here, the price is firming.
t. ' * * • *
Pitt, Son and Badgery’s next announce-
ment of any importance will be due
with the annual accounts, usually pub-
lished about August. But recently the
sharemarket took the scrip smartly up
to 48s. 3d., a rise of Is. 6d. in one day;
for a long time the price was around 40s.
During the slump years p.c. was
paid ; the final for 1935-36 was at the
rate of 121 p.c. p.a., the average distri-
bution for the term being 10 p.c., which
was the interim rate declared this year.
Visible net tangible cover is 28s. Bd. a
share, while assets are a particularly
handsome lot, with inner strength here
and there. At the present market a
return of 4.1 p.c. is obtained if 10 p.c.
be paid for 1936-37. There should be
no trouble in doing it.
'i* *l* $
Profits of Holeproof Hosiery, Ltd.
(formerly Staley and Staley), for the year
ended December 31 were £7428 better
at £22,626, and equal to 19 p.c. on ord.
capital, after allowing for pref. require-
ments, compared with 10.9 p;c. in the
preceding term. Part of the improve-
ment' in earnings is attributed by the
board to purchase of raw materials at
low prices; now that such costs have
increased, £5OOO of the profit is to be
set aside for price-equalisation purposes.
The ords..were paid 10 p.c., as against
8 p.c. Visible net tangible backing for
this scrip is now 235. lOd. per share.
In spite of additions to plant during the
term, depreciation allowance has more
than offset the cost. Debtors amount to
only £3499, suggesting that the co. uses
a distributing organisation or that its
terms are prompt cash. Stocks are up'
£19,558. Finances are comfortable, and
at 30s. for the ords. present yield is
7 p.c., allowing for the 2s. div. to be
paid on March 3. The co. has quickly
run to the fore among Australia’s largest
hosiery manufacturers.
* * *• *
Lancefield (Beria, W.A.) pays another
shilling div. on March 24, the third of
its kind, making £150,000 handed to
shareholders from operations of the
mine under the present co. With the
September, 1937, distribution (provided
the rate doesn’t change) original share-
holders will have had their capital back.
Lancefield was floated modestly, and
except for a few initial difficulties its
performance has been creditable. The
market pays 13s. 9d. for the 4s. shares.
* * * *
The claim made last week by A. G.
Staley, managing director of the Hole-
proof Co., that Australian men’s woollen
socks were the world’s best, is no idle
boast. For several years there have been
excellent branded lines retailed by various
manufacturers at 2s. lid. or thereabouts
a pair, and much more expensive im-
ported lines cannot beat them for wear.
Large supplies of merino wool right on
the doorstep, combined with up-to-date
plant, have done the trick. Mr. Staley
is in agreement with this page’s opinion
that the woollen textile business is de-
veloping into one of our most promising
manufacturing industries. Of the cost
of woollen textiles, 100 p.c. represents
expenditure in Australia. Silk and art.
silk products are about 75 p.c. Australian.
Lustre Hosiery ords. slumped to par
-at one stage last week, a drop of 3s. 6d.
on the lowest January sale. Accounts
are due this month, and in view of the
high cost of raw rayon resulting from
the embargo on Japanese goods 1 (it was
going to be so helpful to our textile, in-
terests, Mr. Gullett said!) investors have
experienced some trepidation about
results. But buying support quickly
sent the scrip back to over 21s. again,
the view being generally taken that now
that the Japanese dispute is over raw-
material costs will drop to their old level.
Meggitt ord. shares have slipped back
to 335. on ’Change, which is Is. lower
than their highest recent sale, after allow-
ing for the shilling div. paid in between.
Latest price was about 9s. higher
than a year ago. Present div. rate is
10 p.c. p.a.; visible net tangible backing
16s. Id. per £1 ord. share. Meggitts are
the biggest linseed people in the Com-
monwealth, but have competitors, one a
new one. The raw product is bought from
India and the Argentine, and for some
years has been comparatively stable in
price, present London quote being
around £l2 a ton. But in 1922 and
1926 Meggitts suffered severely from
falling prices. As quotes for seed are
at present so low there is no likelihood
of an early return of this danger. Seed-
cake, the co.’s biggest line, cannot be
made without turning out oil also ; there
used to be an unprofitable surplus, but
with the coming of the Michael Nairn
linoleum interests to Australia, with
whom Meggitts co-operated financially
and otherwise, a profitable outlet for
surplus oil has been established. Meg-
gitts’ business foundations are much
solider than they used to be. Still,
until the assets backing for the shares
improves, it might not be wise to add
much more to the goodwill already being
paid for by the sharemarket.


FOR FLEMINGTON.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: Pamelus;
next, Young Idea.
Leonard Stakes: Regular Bache-
lor ; next, Threelake.
Ascot Vale Stakes: Caesar ; next,
Sweet Memories.
Australian. Cup: Demotic, 1;
Pooley Bridge, 2 ; Golden Promise,
3.
Farewell Handicap: Country
Party ; next, Panax.
FOR ROSEHILL.
Westmead Handicap: Silver
Rose; next, Bonnie Legion.
Club Handicap: Kinsfolk; next,
Mananui.
Maiden Welter: King Pyrrhus.
Rydalmere Mile: Heroic Faith ;
next', Gothlin.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Aurie’s Star followed in the footsteps
of lownit (1914) and Foursome (1934) in
winning the Newmarket Handicap for a
South Australian owner. Both lownit
and Foursome were trained in Mel-
bourne, the former by C. (“Chook”)
Quinn and Foursome by Jack Sing.
Aurie’s Star had been looked after for
several weeks by R. Sinclair at Williams-
town, but was entered as trained by J. J.
Doyle, who came over from Adelaide to
superintend the winding-up process.
More than half a century ago—in
1883, to be exact —the Newmarket went
to a South Aus. sprinter in Tyropean.
Though the fastest filly of that period
Tyropean took lmin. 16fsec. to cover the
six furlongs. Aurie’s Star ran the dis-
tance in lmin. ll|sec. If a cross wind
hadn’t been blowing he probably would
have lowered St. Ardent’s race record
of lmin. lOfsec. Are the gallopers of
to-day so very much faster than those of
the early ’eighties, or do the existing
tracks conduce to higher speed?
The victory of Aurie’s Star was thor-
oughly deserved. There were normally
brilliant beginners such as Studio and
Beechwood in the field ; yet the Star-
drift gelding showed a clean pair of heels
to all rivals. At the fan crossing he must
have been four lengths in advance of
Pamelus, and still farther ahead of run-
ners on the outside of the course—the
“Malua track.”
For the last furlong the issue palpably
rested between Aurie’s Star and Pamelus.
Covering himself with credit' the Queens-
lander steadily bore down on Aurie’s
Star, and with only 50 yards to be nego-
tiated he appeared certain to do the
trick, as the leader was dying on his run.
However, Pamelus tired even more
noticeably and lost by half a neck.
The experience of H. Dukes with
Pamelus has been exasperating in the ex-
treme. At the spring meetings Pamelus
was touched off by Gay Lover in the
Cantala Stakes and by Alinura in the
V.A.T.C. Consolation Stakes. Deprived
of victory by Gold Rod in the Futurity
Stakes, he now has narrowly misfired in
the Newmarket with 9st. 71b. as against
the winner’s Bst. 51b.
The Ring wailed over the Newmarket
result. Aurie’s Star (2 to 1) and Pamelus
(3 to 1) were first and second favorites.
Regular Bachelor, third at 9 to 1, started
in only two points less demand than
Beechwood, the third favorite. Frank
Musgrave refused to accept the Oakleigh
Plate running as correct. “No horse
breathing,” he said on Saturday, “could
beat my fellow by five, lengths over five
furlongs. Beechwood is fitter now.”
Although prominent throughout, Beech-
wood never threatened danger in the
Newmarket.
Gold Rod (11 to 8) pulled his army of
admirers through in the Essendon Stakes,
but the winning margin was a mere head,
and Cuddle finished an amazing second.
On her Caulfield form no sane punter
could have supported Cuddle, who had
set up the habit of puncturing far from
home. Darby Munro possibly expected
the M.L. mare to do so on Saturday;
otherwise he would not have allowed
Young Idea to measure strides with
Cuddle, when the half-mile post was
reached.
Young Idea shaded Cuddle at the bend,
with Maurice McCarten “sitting pretty”
on Gold Rod in third position. Unable
to outspeed the mare Young Idea cried
enough at the two furlongs, where Gold
Rod went after Cuddle in grim earnest.
Miraculously restored to best galloping
trim, Cuddle fought on so well that Gold
Rod had to be flayed out with the whip
to beat her by a head.
The weight-for-age outlook is taking
on a more open appearance. Gold Rod
has a dangerous rival in Cuddle, and
Plymouth Sound’s fourth in the New-
market Handicap (with 9st.) suggests that
he may be the best of Jack Holt’s lot.
Still, it might not be wise to judge Young
Idea on the Essendon Stakes failure. On
She next occasion Percy Miller’s four-
year-old doubtless will be ridden a dif-
ferent race.
The ambition of W. R. Kemball to
win a classic contest was tantalisingly
foiled when Prince Quex (5 to 4 on) failed
by half a head to overhaul Peerage (2
to 1) in the St. Leger Stakes. O’Brien
was instructed to adopt waiting tactics
with the favorite. Accordingly he
allowed Peerage to cut down the pace-
maker, Boongarry. The challenge thrown
out by Prince Quex was a trifle belated,
but Peerage fought on so gamely that the
result might have been the same in any
case. Lou Robertson trains Peerage for
A. T. Creswick, his breeder. Peerage is
by Chivalrous, the sire of Garrio, who
competed in the Newmarket, but was at
forlorn odds, being big in condition. If
Garrio remains sound he will be. heard
of later on this autumn —probably in
Sydney.
• James Scobie came into the real lime-
light again as a trainer after a long in-
terval when he landed the Sires’ Produce
Stakes for E. E. D. Clarke with Hua.
This made Scobie’s seventh success in
the event, his previous winners being
United States (1901), Eleanor (1902),
Sweet Nell (1903), Mother Goose (1908),
Thrice (1917) and Isa (1921).
Hua is by Heroic from Gladioli, by
Ethopian from Earsome, by Positano
from Gladsome, who twice won the
Futurity Stakes for Sol Green. The
trainer was confident that Hua would
make a good showing, and advised his
friends to back the colt for a place.
After a thrilling tussle Dempsey, rid-
ing one of his most artistic finishes, got
Hua up in time to score by half a head
from Ccesar, with Nightguard a head
farther off. The favorite, Ajax, was a
head behind Sweet Memories at the
straight entrance, but ran out and fin-
ished under the judge’s box, beating only
three of his 10 rivals. Maurice McCai-
ten informed trainer Musgrave that Ajax
hung out all the way. The colt is ad-
dicted to jumping crossings on the Caul-
field track. Hq did so at the flat cross-
ing at Flemington. Lochlee could not
go the early pace. The Veilmond colt
made up ground in the straight, but on
the whole it was a disappointing display.
Upoki Ariki, supported down to 3 to
1, annexed the Brunswick Stakes for J.
T. Jamieson and thus compensated that
trainer for the failure of Country Party
in the Newmarket. Cutting out 1| miles
in the fast time of 2min. 3fsec., Upoko
Ariki vanquished Mutable by less than
a length. Royal Messenger, disadvan-
taged by having a novice apprentice in
the saddle, did well to run third, and
may have to be reckoned with in the
Australian Cup. He belongs to T.
Hogan, and is by Marconigram, the sire
of Marabou, in whom Hogan had a half-
interest when that horse carried off the
Melbourne Cup of 1935.
* * * *
It becomes more and more evident
that Talking was wonderfully well sold
by the Parramatta butcher who got
£19,000 for him after the A.J.C. Derby.
Possibly the Magpie colt has not re-
covered from his gruelling Melbourne
Cup race; at all events, he looked dear
at £9OOO after his inglorious display in
the Randwick Stakes at City Tatt.’s
meeting on Saturday. He was not quite
wound up, but the stable thought he
had done sufficient for the contract, and
backed him from fives to 7 to 2.
Talking made the pace with Sarcherie.
The mare cracked up in the. straight, and
Talking showed little fight when chal-
lenged. At the end things were easy for
King’s Head (5 to 2), honest old Lough
Neagh (3 to 1) running second, a length
and a half away. Turbine (20 to 1) sur-
prised by running third, ahead of
Tuckiar —who was backed and ran
pretty well —and Talking. Consistent
King’s Head ran a fast mile—lmin.
37^sec.
High Speech came from Queensland
with the reputation of being a very smart
sprinter. He proved that it was no
false alarm by the way he scored in the
Denman Stakes; Red Thespian and the
pacemaker, John o’ Groats, were unable
to trouble him in the run home. High
Speech was backed from tens to threes.
The opening favorite, Moaenza, dropped
out from the turn and finished last. She
did not relish the fast pace set by John
o’ Groats and High Speech; in any case,
she is no Randwick mare. Bonnie Legion
would have got a place had she not
dwelt at the barrier.
Andy Knox rode Sir Ross (6 to 1) ad-
mirably in the City Tatt.’s Cup race.
Jovial Son was made favorite. He seems
to have no heart ; anyway, he had had
enough at the top of the straight. Fire-
man was unlucky. He met with check
after check on the rails, and five fur-
longs from home was sent back to last.
Had he got a clear run in the straight
he would have extended Sir Ross; he
emerged from the ruck to fly into fourth
place when the race was over, with Pan-
rose and Sir Regent following Sir Ross.
Oro looked in need of a rest, and raced
that way.
High Speech was one of the good
things of the day; Ramdin (11 to 2)
was the other. Although weighted at
Bst. 121 b. this Rampion three-year-old
was vastly superior to the big field he
had to meet in the Novice Handicap.
The race was his a long way from home,
and he won at his leisure from Kurrawid
and Sir Mart. The favorite, Bradford,
lost his rider at the half-mile, but was
out' of it at the time.
The finish of the Youthful Stakes was
a compliment to the handicapper. Beau
Ercil (8 to 1) would have won outright
had he stayed on the rails, but his shift-
ing out allowed Maurice (12 to 1) to
come through and make a dead-heat of
it. Yashmak, a plain-looking daughter
of Veilmond-Bavermaine, can gallop,
and was a close third —the jockey
thought' she had won. She was checked
at the turn.
The Newcastle-owned and -trained
Speldon (12 to 1) made it a profitable
day for the Ring by getting up in the
last stride to beat Fernacre and Cloudy
in the Club Welter. It was a good effort,
as the old chestnut had to pass many
horses after a disappointment at the top
of the straight. Lolorua was hustled
along from barrier-rise. He weakened
a bit in the last' furlong, and would have
done better had his rider allowed Cloudy
to do the bullocking. He was not
knocked about to finish fourth.
The Bulletin’s tips, in order of run-
ning, were Ramdin, King’s Head and
High Speech (each a comfortable first),
Fireman and Lolorua (each a close
fourth). Eights could be got Ramdin
and tens High Speech, though the clos-
ing odds were, of course, shorter.
* * * #
“Falstaff will need to mend his manners
in Melbourne,” it was here said last
last week. A few hours after the issue
began to be sold on the Melbourne
streets, the chestnut mended his man-
ners. This must have been anticipated,
for he went out at 7 to 2 for the New-
market Trial Stakes at Mentone, only
Hostile and Press Gang (each 5 to 2)
being preferred to him. Inside a fur-
long he was out in front, and after that
nothing could get near him. Hostile
tried hard, but was beaten by between
two and three lengths, with the Maori-
land mare Namakia third, another two
lengths away. Though the time, lmin.
14|sec., was nothing to write home
about, it was a good performance ; how-
ever, the V.R.C. handicapper decided that
it did not warrant any addition to Fal-
staff’s original Newmarket weight, Bst. lib.
Pooley Bridge was another that re-
deemed his reputation at Mentone. He
was saddled up for the Berkshire Mile.
Never considered a miler, and having
failed badly at Moonee Valley, he was
allowed to go down at 20 to 1, Ronde-
letia being a 6-to-4 favorite. In the
front line most of the way, Pooley Bridge
cut down the old Queensland gelding
Polly Speck in the straight, and went
on to win by a length and a half in
lmin. 40sec. —better time than Fal staff’s
comparatively.
Pooley Bridge is now again a strong
Australian Cup fancy. His wonderful
record over the battens notwithstanding,
he is only a six-year-old. Realm was the
same age when he. won the Australian
Cup (1907). Marmont was “aged” in his
year (1904).
Limond Lad was one of the also-rans
in Pooley Bridge’s race. An Adelaide
man paid a big price for this brother to
Veilmond in Maoriland, and it now seems
improbable that he will ever get his
money back. Limond Lad was forth-
with scratched for the St. Leger.
H* sjc qi
A. Kuhn, the old-time Sydney jockey,
is training a useful horse in Rosmead, by
Rossendale-Lady Windeline. In a divi-
sion of the Flying Handicap at Kensing-
ton on Wednesday, Rosmead (5 to 4)
made a holy show of the Heroic -Winter
gelding Shackleton, beating him by about
five lengths. On his good second to
Lolorua at Warwick Farm Shackleton
was an even-money favorite, and if he
ran right up to Warwick Farm form
Rosmead’s performance was excellent.
The other division —each was run in
lmin. 7fsec., the distance being fur-
longs— went to Prince Pombal (5 to 1).
Prince Pombal is an aged half-brother to
Veilmond (by Pombal) and is much
more trustworthy than Limond Lad.
* * * *
Healthy competition exists between
Melbourne turf clubs in catering for visi-
tors. So far the V.R.C. has not followed
the example of Caulfield, Williamstown
and Moonee Valley in publishing—as a
central feature of the race books —photo-
graphs of the previous Saturday’s fin-
ishes. But the premier club showed
originality in having the names of New-
market Handicap candidates printed on
sashes, which were fastened round the
necks of the horses and made them
easily identifiable while being paraded.
* * * *
The Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council has ruled that' the.A.J.C. com-
mittee was justified in excluding Rule
Naylor from Rand wick racecourse —a
Supreme Court Justice had ruled that it
wasn’t, and his decision was upheld by
a Full Court majority. Said Lord Roche
in delivering judgment:
Disqualification is a necessary safeguard
to secure the absence from racecourses of
persons found guilty of conduct gravely
detrimental to the interests of racing. Re-
spondent was disqualified because he im-
peded by lying the course of a necessary
and proper inquiry, and he has to suffer not
because he consented to be bound by the
rules, but because he permitted himself so
to act as to bring his actions within their
purview.
Pending the hearing of the appeal,
Naylor has been admitted to Randwick
and Warwick Farm. He will now be
excluded, and will have to pay all the
costs.
Ins and Outs
Though Bradman (169) was soon out,
bowled Fames, on Saturday, the Austra-
lians were still there at stumps with the
score at 593 —seven short of their record
total in Australia —and one wicket to
fall.
Badcock (118) and Gregory (80) had
carried on the good work of their cap-
tain and McCabe. Badcock was care-
ful till he reached his 50 (in 140
minutes); then came a burst of run-get-
ting from drives and pulls off the fast
men, and he got his 100 in 192 minutes,
his 118 in 205 minutes, 60 by fours. He
gave no chances bar a couple of streaky
shots through a slip field reduced to one
man in order to stop those off-drives.
Gregory, too, batted coolly and soundly.
The Victorian was out a few minutes
after tea —six for 544. Then the taii-
enders carried on till Fl.-Smith, last
man in, whacked a six and a four off
bowlers tired and not anxious to finish
it then and let the openers face a fast
attack just before stumps. Fames, bowl-
ing better and with more fire than he has
before on the tour, was easily the best.
Fames bowled Fl.-Smith on Monday
to finish the innings at 604 and make his
figures 6 for 96. Barnett and Worthing-
ton set out to knock the runs off as
though it could be done before lunch;
the first two overs brought 25; but
Barnett (18) went to Nash at 33. Worth-
ington (44) was next —out when he trod
on his wicket completing a clinking drive
off Fl.-Smith. Hammond (14) fell td
O’Reilly off the last ball before tea-
three for 130.
{Continued on page 30.)


Completely New HUDSONS aad
TERR APL ANES - *-»
“1 see you chose the car that made all those endurance records
ss 8H mm
m
mm:
\\
i
X'WWWv
■
with HUDSON'S new
SELECTIVE AUTOMATIC
The 1937 Hudson Sedan
CHANGE
OPTIONAL \
EXTRA. )
a Flick of a Finger . . .
a
a Touch, of a Toe . .
TO CHANGE! TO STOP! TO GO!
The cars that are
3 BIG STEPS AHEAD
They’re here to-day! The completely new 1937 Hudsons and Terra-
planes ! Longer .. . lower .. . wider! A big step ahead in driving and
riding comfort . . . lower centre of gravity ensures maximum riding
comfort at any speed. A big step ahead in style and room, with interior
beauty and luxury that matches their exterior grace ... a front seat that
has 55 full inches of comfort for three . . . appointments that compare
favourably with those in many cars far more costly! A big step ahead in
performance and endurance .. . proved by terrific tests! Come in and
see these beautiful new cars . . . take one out and drive it . . . and you’ll
decide to step ahead in a 1937 Hudson or Terraplane!
Performance • Endurance • Economy
Proved before public announcement
New 1937 Hudsons and Terraplanes, picked at random right off the production
line before public announcement, went through the equivalent of years of punish-
ment in the most gruelling test ever given stock cars ... 40 official records broken
... on the famous Utah Salt Flats, where Sir Malcolm Campbell made motoring
history. Triumphant in these searching tests of performance and endurance, the
cars made equally impressive economy records. All tests were made under the
supervision of the American Automobile Association Contest Board. (Utah Salt
Flats, U.S.A., Oct., 1936.)
"Dhivc
CARS BUILT BY
HUDSON
117-inch to 122-inch wheelbases ... 96 to 122 developed horsepower
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England!
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Mclntosh motors pty. limited
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
(Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
authorised
DEALERS
A T
ALL
MAIN
COUNTRY
CEN T R


•'SILVER
EDGE”
TRADE O MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
1 does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS ”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.s JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
BtLVEGEKt Mil BtLVCGEKt !>!■
WSnfflmmwmmBWWmimM
• i i n.. 1.1 •
'"■■i "I'lU
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
H t
i i
i ! 11/ 1 I 17 I I
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
V' &H.VKHRI
etkviuiHiu
I«a •*' ettVl.ilMt ILV (011:1 fcitV/ILIIKC W'l GtiVtOMM l " T '
- ■ ■■ : . ... ■ ■■ ■ ■ '■ -
Ins and Outs
As far as selectors and skippers were
concerned, fifth Test-match preliminaries
were beautifully unanimous. Each lot
of selectors decided to beat the other
side with fast bowlers, Allen, Fames
and Voce becoming the English battery
and McCormick and Nash the Austra-
lian ; and over a friendly board laden
with the modern cricketers’ equivalents
of the ancients’ beef and beer, Allen and
Bradman assured one another that there
would not be the shadow of a suspicion
of bodyline. Then on a typical Mel-
bourne summer day, which the English-
men voted too perishing hot, Allen lost
the toss and the Australians went in on
a perfect wicket.
The crowd of 52,000 saw some of the
best Test-match batting in recorded his-
tory and a bit of the worst. The bit
of the worst was supplied by Fingleton,
who took an hour to make 6, and at
2 had been missed by Allen at short-leg
off Fames. He had another life before
being caught by Voce, off Fames, for
17, perpetrated in 87 minutes. Mean-
time Rigg (c. Ames, b. Fames) had con-
tributed a useful 28. McCabe, joining
Bradman, who was batting superbly,
should have been caught by Allen off
Fames when he had just entered double
figures. It was a dreadfully costly mis-
take, for from 2 for 54 the pair took
the score to 303, when McCabe was
snapped up by Fames off Verity. He
had given a couple of other chances, but
his batting had been superb, more en-
joyable in some respects than Brad-
man’s, though Bradman’s was great and
chanceless. Bradman got his hundred
in 125 minutes; McCabe his in 152
minutes.
With Badcock (12 n. 0.) to help over
the last bit, Bradman stayed in till
“stumps,” having made 165 out of 342
in 214 minutes. A happy day for him,
an unhappy one for Allen, the more so
as it had already been brought home to
the English captain that the omission of
a spin bowler was a blunder.
* * * *
“K.R.”: Is Laurie Nash the first man
to be selected for a Test, since the Shef-
field Shield competition was begun, with-
out playing in a Sheffield match? I can’t
recall a similar instance. Nash played
for Tasmania against the West Indies
and Victoria, and was chosen —from Tas-
mania—for the fifth Test against South
Africa ; he took four for 18 and one.
for four. In the following season at
Melbourne he took three for 57 for an
Australian XI against Jardine’s team.
His last appearance in first-class cricket
before the England-Victoria fixture was
in 1933 in the Collins-Kelle.way-Andrews
testimonial match in Sydney, when he
captured one for 105. The recent Vic-
toria-England match was his first appear-
ance for Victoria.
* # * *
S. Aus. had a sporting chance of beat-
ing N. S. Wales outright in Sydney, but
rain did not give it time. It had to get
289 to win, with all day to do the job.
Bradman and Badcock settled down to
belt the bowling when three had gone
for 84. Rain chased the players off the
ground when th*e score was three for
132 —Bradman 38 n. 0., Badcock 27 n.o.
N.S.W. won on the first innings by 85.
jjc *!* H* 'S*
In Melbourne the match between Eng-
land and Victoria ended in a draw, only
two and a half days’ play being possible.
The Victorians took their first innings
to 292, Gregory scoring 84 and Hassett
54; Copson, Voce and Sims took a
couple of wickets each. The visitors
warmed up in their second try, and
thanks to attractive batting by Hard-
staff (60 n. 0.) and Hammond (56) had
132 up (three were down) at stumps.
Nash was the most impressive bowler of
a not very convincing lot —he took 2 for
16.
“Lansdowne”: The no-balling of a
bowler whose action is suspect by the
square-leg umpire, as happened to Cotton
in the N.S.W.-S.A. match, is something
new to me. I don’t say that it has never
been done before, only that it has never
come within my experience. Isn’t it
a very pointed rebuke to the, umpire at
the bowler’s end, who is in a far better
position to judge of the doubtfulness of
a delivery than his colleague, and yet
who failed to see what the other fellow
insists that he saw? To put it another
way, isn’t No. 2 umpire, who is mainly
there to give decisions on run-outs and
stumpings, usurping No. 1’s prerogative
when he no-balls a bowler?
* * * *
“Bill” Carkeek, a ’keeper of other
days, was killed by a car in Melbourne
on his way to the England-Victoria
match at the M.C.G. Carkeek “kept”
in 36 matches for Victoria and averaged
over 14 with the bat. He went twice to
England: with the 1909 team, when he
was understudy to Carter, and in the
1912 side, which took part in the tri-
angular tests with England and South
Africa. He was to have gone to South
Africa in the 1914 team, which was
“Now will y' give ’im out?"
forced by circumstances to abandon the
tour. In younger days Carkeek was a
notable footballer with Richmond, and
of late umpiring and coaching for
juniors has taken most of his spare time.
He was 56.
$ . $ $ $
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian Board
of Control’s request to the Marylebone
C.C. that it instruct its teams to take
their minor engagements more seriously
was overdue. For years past the prac-
tice has been for the tourists to take
matches against country teams as some-
thing of a joke. This time there are
signs that the don’t-care attitude has
been extended to really big matches like
those against the States, the evident idea
being to concentrate everything on the
Tests. It must be said Australia is as
bad as England in this respect. The
most ridiculous excuses are given by
State teams for not playing Test bowlers
and batsmen against the visitors, and
the latter have reciprocated by filling
their teams for these games with failures.
A long trip of the kind is a weariness
to body and spirit, no doubt, but those
undertaking it with their eyes open
should carry out their contract, actual or
implied.
“Gabba”: The latest song-and-dance
of the Q.C.A. is a broad hint
that Queensland players in the match
at Brisbane against S.A. will not
be paid for the 1 regulation four
days, but only for the three days the
match occupied. The players say that
the time spent on the match does not
count. They have to get four days’ leave
from work, and in some cases lose the
time they are away. Public and players
are getting very fed up with the execu-
tive’s antics, and a sort of palace revolu-
tion may be the end of it.
❖ ❖ #
“Aigburth”: How fleeting is fame is
evidenced by a modest advertisement in
an English paper saying that Sid Barnes
wants an engagement for the 1937
season, matches preferred to coaching.
Barnes was probably the greatest bowler
England has seen. He was a second-
class county and League cricket per-
former when MacLaren snatched him
out of the blue and introduced him to a
staggered Australia in 1901-02. He came
again with Jones and Douglas in 1907-08
and 1911-12, and was as much of a
headache to Australian batsmen the last
time as the first. On his last tour he
and left-hander F. R. Foster formed a
combination never excelled in this coun-
try, taking 66 and 59 wickets respec-
lively. On his three Australian trips
Barnes took 154 wickets, and in all
Tests 106 at 21.58. He is now 64.
* ‘ i- •
‘ Tenth Slip : The N.S.W. batting
averages for the Sheffield season are
headed by Robinson with 58.14 for seven
innings and a highest score of 163.
McCabe and Barnes, with only two in-
nings each, average 53 and 37. Jack-
son and White, who have played in
most matches, have averages of 27 and
25 for 11 innings respectively, White’s
century against S. Aus. giving him an
unexpected lift. Test cricket kept most
of the stars out of the team, but O'Reilly
managed to top the bowling with 13 at
19.53. Lush collected 14 wickets at
26.28, but left-hander Hynes claimed the
biggest tally with 23 at 28.56 each.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Bad weather did not
prevent 416 Diggers competing in the
N.S.W. A.I.F. Cup at Killara. Howarth,
of the Lakes Club, won with 3 up on
a handicap of 11. A start was made at
6 a.m., but it was not until after 2 p.m.
that the last players began their round.
Jones won the unit competition for the
Gunners, 1 up. Other units repre-
sented were Signallers, A.S.C., L.H.,
Engineers, A.M.C. and Miscellaneous.
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. golfing chiefs
announce the programme in the State
for the season. The amateur foursomes
are down for May 29, and the amateur
championship begins June 5 and finishes
June 12. The Australian championships
at the Australian club’s course begin on
September 4 and run to September 18.
The close championship will be played
on October 9.
*.* . *
Lakeside : The Americans usu y
cut »»■ swathe when it comes »
th , e Bolt, but for once they have
whole-heartedly adopted the new British
method of playing their amateur cham-
pjonship, a method which only Victoria
among the Australian States has had the
sense to try so far. The new system does
away with the old stroke rounds and
substitutes match play throughout,
Match play makes for far more sport-
ing golf and is a far better test of a
player’s fighting capacity than medai
play. The change has come to stay, and
should soon be universal in Australia, as
it is elsewhere.


:
SSitef
w
■
ft
6 ‘
4T»
SSIIIII#
.
»»»*
Mgp-
pigl
•pp f ;
:
II
A REAL OLYMPIAN!
TILLY FLEISCHER ( Germany )
who created a new Olympic Record
for Women s Javelin Throw with
148 ft. 3 ins. at the Berlin Olympic
Games.
This outstanding champion
possesses a graceful physical
symmetry essential to rhyth-
metical action in her branch
of athletics.
Rhythm, poise, balance, in
addition to abundant physical
strength and energy, are the
qualifications of the successful
javelin thrower, just as they are
the outstanding features of the
Australian-made champions
Olympic Tyres
for Cars, Trucks and Cycles l
A DRAMATIC AND TRUE ROOK
/T
you do not need to be powerful or “fighting fit” to defend yourself from
the attacks of bullies or thugs. No one will DARE to molest you once
you are a master of this simple unbeatable art of Ju Jitsu. YOU CAN DEFEAT
ANY ASSAILANT, NO MATTER HOW STRONG, IN A FLASH.
A new method of learning the unconquerable “grips” and “throws” of
im™r.D l ?r y 0 r Ur ° Wn home . has keen discovered and proved. You will be
INVINCIBLE if you learn this defensive art, which requires no hard training
or special apparatus. A free thrilling and fully explanatory booklet is offered
to all who send in this coupon RIGHT AWAY. DON’T MISS IT! Only 400
to be given away. POST THIS COUPON NOW!
ON THE
mysterious, unconquerable
ART of JU JITSU
This book will show you:
O HOW TO BE THE MASTER OF ANY
EMERGENCY.
• HOW TO ACQUIRE A POWERFUL
PERSONALITY.
9 HOW TO LEARN VITAL
SECRETS OF DEFENCE.
• HOW TO GAIN REAL POPU-
LARITY.
FREE!
Fill in
and Mail
the Coupon
below.
•11l Jitsu Training School (B.I.),
CO Margaret Street, Sydney.
Send me immediately, and without obligation
enclose twopence in stamps to cover postage, etc.
, a copy of your free book,
Name
for which
I
Address
(PLEASE PRINT)
POWER
arvd
M©
STILL
3
/ LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-63 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting: Lighting: Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: El|>hinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: AV. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
11, C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street. LAUNCESTON.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The fuss over the visit
of a woman’s tennis team to Europe this
season has been complicated by an invi-
tation from “the International Club” to
Mrs. Westacott and Misses Hartigan,
Wynne and Coyne to play in England
this season ; all expenses paid and 10s.
a day allowed for pocket-money. Con-
sidering that the Australian tennis heads
have shut down on an official invitation
from Wimbledon they couldn’t logically
say “yes” to the latest attempt, and their
answer is in the negative.
* * * *
"Spiggotty”: After all, the Australians
will have to play their Davis Cup tie
with Mexico in Mexico City. One thing
should be noted. Mexico is on a plateau
some thousands of feet above the sea,
and newcomers suffer severely until
they get accustomed to the rarefied atmo-
sphere. Australian cricketers and foot-
ballers have had experience of what that
means at Johannesburg, which is seven
thousand feet above sea level. The
Mexico conditions seem just calculated
to upset Crawford, and it might be as
well if he were left in the lowlands.
Miscellaneous
"Blade Sight”: J. Woolcott-Forbes, of
Sydney, who has provided the funds for
sending an Australian rifle team to Bis-
ley, has come down with another
princely gift to the N.S.W.N.R.A.—
650 guineas, to be applied to the pro-
gramme of the big N.S.W. Anniversary
shoot next January. Five hundred
guineas will be allotted to the King’s,
100 guineas as first prize for the Long-
field Aggregate—it is to be renamed the
Woolcott-Forbes Aggregate and 50
guineas for the second prize. This makes
the King’s 400 guineas and the Longfield
55 guineas richer. In all, £lO,OOO prize-
money has been allotted for the meeting
* * * *
"Huon”: Because it couldn’t send an
eight to Perth last year the Tassie R.A.
forfeited its right to have the King’s
Cup rowed in Tasmanian waters in 1940.
At the annual meeting of the Australian
Rowing Council in Adelaide Tasmania
will move an alteration in the rules to
provide that Queensland shall be exempt
from rowing in S.A. and Westralia,
Westralia from having to show in Tassie
and Queensland, S.A. from competing
in Queensland and Tasmania from
appearing in Westralia. The change
would knock a lot of the inter-State
flavor out of the annual regatta, but
costs of sending crews on these long
journeys are so heavy nowadays that
there, seems no other way until better
days.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The Oxford-Cam-
bridge boatrace will see a curiosity in
the way of coxswains. He is H. P.
Massey, a Canuck at Balliol, who will
steer the Dark Blues if he isn’t mislaid
before the race. Massey is aged 19, is
3st. 131 b. in weight and 3ft. high. The,
maximum weight allowed for a cox is
Bst., so Massey will be able to use the
cushion on which he sits while steering
in order to see the course ahead with-
out fracturing the weight regulations.
'l®
“Blade”: Early in the N.S.W. rowing
season it looked as if North Shore, after
a lapse of a generation, was to taste the
sweets of the State premiership again.
Mosman came with a rush, however, the
junior divisions scoring heavily, and
when the club beat North for the State
eights it practically made its marble
good. There are three regattas to go:
combined on March 13 and Riverview
and Uni. on April 10 and 17. At present
Mosman leads with 196 points to Shore’s
113. Since the war Mosman has won
12 premierships out of 17 competed for.
k * Sts #
“The Gaffer”: I see that a woman’s
professional athletic league has been
formed in Victoria, and if that doesn’t
mean trouble for a lot of folk I’m a
Dutchman. I’ve never had much to do
with women in sport, but my experience
of professional peds. in the old days was
that they were the meanest and most
cantankerous lot of double-crossers in
creation. And I have a dreadful fear
that professional lady peds. will blossom
out on the same lines, with trimmings
and embellishments the nastiest dag in
the old ped. stables would never have had
brains to think out or the nerve to put
in practice. Heaven help the Gaffer of
the future who takes on a string of lady
peds. He will need to be a combination
of Jack Donaldson, Paavo Nurmi and
Jack Johnson to hold his own and keep
his hair on.
: i : * i|:
“96-97”: Evidence of the growth of
the Rugby Union code in Australia was
the visit to Sydney of S. Cooper, of
Westralia, who came along to try to
arrange a visit of a N.S.W. team. He
was told this was impossible, but that if
a privately-financed tour of the West
could be fixed up the Sydney crowd
would give it its blessing. Meantime
N. S. Wales offers to contribute towards
the expenses of the Westralian team to
visit Melbourne this season, and is pass-
ing the Westralian Union £3O!
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby
Union has decided to enlist the services
of Johnny Wallace, captain of the Wara-
tahs, to coach the Australian team to
meet the Springboks. No better man
for the job could be found, for Wallace
is a stickler for hard-rucking forwards,
and has no time for the flapper-press pet
with his antics in the open. The team
will almost certainly be assembled and
housed for a time before the match to
give Wallace’s teachings a chance to
soak in.
* * * *
“Punter”: The falling off in Rugby
League attendances in Sydney is ascribed
by Harry Flegg, president of the League,
to the craze for tennis and s.p. betting.
It seems hardly fair to blame tennis,
which has not a universal vogue in
winter and cannot be played on a real
football afternoon. S.P. is a different
matter. About the only way to combat
it would be to make friends with it by
licensing bookmakers for the football
grounds, provided a complaisant Parlia-
ment, like the tin-hare and fruit-machine
one of happy memory, could be got to
pass the enabling legislation.
* * * *
“Gate”: After banning broadcasting of
matches in Sydney for a couple of years
the N.S.W. Rugby League has climbed
down and put the rights for the season
on the market. It has found that cut-
ting out the radio descriptions did not
increase “gates.” On the other hand, the
Rugby Union, which stuck to broad-
casting, has found “gates” increasing.
The truth seems to be that the genuine
admirer of a sport will always prefer to
watch a match to listening in, while a
good broadcast will tempt many of the.
indifferent out to the ground at the next
match.
* * * $
“Splash”: After beating Noel Ryan
without trouble in the 880-yards chal-
lenge race at North Sydney, Yankee
Medica repeated the dose in the 440-
yards championship of N.S.W. at Manly.
This time the American clapped the pace
on and won in 4min. 52sec., 3 2-ssec.
better than Charlton’s Australian record.
In each race Biddulph, of Manly, beat
Ryan for second place. He is shaping
to be a champion ; so is the Newcastle
nipper, Newbiggin, who won the N.S.W.
220 junior championship in 2min. 20sec.
—an Australian record.
“Six-Beat”: Medica put up a new
Australian record when he won the
N.S.W. 220 championship in 2min. 15sec.
Ryan led three-parts of the way, but
tired ; the American, sprinting the whole
of the last lap, won by six yards. Bid-
dulph and Newbiggen beat the tiring
Ryan into fourth place.
* * * «
“Bias”: Most of the country bowls
championship in Sydney was played in
wet weather. Soaked greens and drizzling
rain marked the singles final, which was
won by D. Lowe, of Wallsend, from G.
Guy, of East Maitland, by 32 to 21 on
the City Club’s green. Guy is only in
his second season as a bowler, but showed
great promise. Lowe has never scored in
the singles before, though three times he
has been a member of the champion
country rink.
“Sturt”: In S.A., where the absence of
shark danger makes long swims highly
popular, the back-marker never has a
hope. The latest development is the
success of young girls, really good swim-
mers and completely underestimated.
The Henley-to-Grange event, in the sea,
went to one of them. In the “through
Port Adelaide” (salt water, fastest time
25min. Bsec.) a girl of 14 recorded
32min. 55sec., had 13min. start and
naturally came home alone. Then
in the “through Adelaide” (fresh water,
strong adverse current, 1 mile 200yds.,
fastest time 28min. 18sec.), a 14-year boy
won with 9min. from the scratch man,
who proved to be faster only by 2min.
37sec. There was a field of 90.
* * * *
“Bundy”: In the joint where I earn
a crust Con Drew’s story “Darkie” (B.
10/2/’37) was eagerly read. Followed
keen discussion concerning a blow de-
scribed as a “right hook.” Did the yarn-
spinner make a slip there, or did he not?
The more knowledgeable of the fans
maintained that, while a “left hook” is
quite according to Cocker, there is no
such blow as a “right hook” in the kit
of an orthodox boxer. He delivers a
“right cross,” not a “right hook”; a
“right hook” would be delivered only
by a pug shaping right hand foremost,
i.e., the unorthodox boxer known nowa-
days as a southpaw.


k
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7£ hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, rHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
TRITTONS, Queensland’s Premier
Furnishing Store, extend to all Southern
visitors a hearty welcome to visit the
TRITTON Art Gallery, one of the most
wqnderful show places in Brisbane.
This Art Gallery displays for sale
magnificent Antiques and Old English
Furniture, Eastern Furniture, Oil
Paintings, Water Colours and Etchings,
and it has already become famous
throughout Sydney and Melbourne as
one of the places to visit during your
tour of the North. F. TRITTON
(PTY.), LTD., Complete Home
Furnishers, George Street, Brisbane.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
HEROIC BRITISH OFFICAHS,
Errol Flynn and Patrick Knowles
COLONEL’S DAUGHTAH,
Olivia de Havilland
TREACHEROUS ASIATIC
POTENTATE .... C. Henry Gordon
RUSSIAN VILLAIN .. Robert Barratt
BRASS-HATS Henry Stephenson
and Nigel Bruce
Looks like an attempt to repeat the
success of “Lives of a Bengal Lancer,”
but lacks the crispness and effectiveness
of that production while retaining its
melodramatic flavor.
About an hour is spent in emphasising
that the two officers (brothers, and in
the Lancers, of course) love their
colonel’s daughtah, and that while she
is engaged to the elder (Flynn) she loves
Henry Stephenson in “The Charge of the
Light Brigade,” coming to Sydney State.
the younger (Knowles). Then comes a
lot of fighting with turbaned tribesmen.
Hundreds of supers, and horses have
been employed, and they come wallop-
ing to the ground in relays under rifle
fire. This is overdone. The phase ends
with the massacre of a fort’s women,
children and defenders in violation of
a promise of safe evacuation.
It is to avenge this dreadful deed that
the Lancers were sent to the Crimea,
for wicked Surat Khan (Gordon) was
there with Count Volonoff. The Lancers’
majah (Flynn) tears up his C.-in-C.’s
orders to retire and substitutes a forged
order to charge the enemy guns. The
charge is done with spirit, but is too
long-winded; shot after shot sees the
Lancers still madly galloping but not
an inch nearer their objective. Finally
Flynn pigsticks the wicked Khan, and
lies dying but happy, leaving his brother
to claim the hand of the colonel’s
daughtah.
A good cast is wasted on this turgid
two hours’ rigmarole. No actor on earth
could make the dialogue sound anything
but ridiculously stagy. Previewed at
Warner Bros. Theatrette,- Sydney.
“Lloyd’s of London.”
JONATHAN BLAKE Freddie
Bartholomew; later Tyrone Power
LADY STACY .... Madeleine Carroll
MR. ANGUSTEIN .. Sir Guy Standing
Opens with a pact between a pair of
youngsters —Jonathan Blake and Horatio
Nelson —to aid each other’s plans through
thick and thin. A plot to take bullion
from a ship, scuttle her and claim the in-
surance on the gold is overheard by the
boys, who agree to walk all the way to
London from their Norfolk village to
take the news to Lloyd’s coffee-house.
Horatio can’t go—he has to join a frigate
as a midshipman—so the boys part, after
renewing their pact, never to meet again.
Blake, an orphan, arrives in London
safely, is taken under the wing of kindly
old Mr. Angustein, head of one of the
oldest and richest syndicates of under-
writers, and is given employment at
Lloyd’s as a reward for his service in
the matter of the, bullion. He invents a
method of signalling from Calais to
Dover, thereby vastly improving Lloyd’s
news-gathering methods; becomes an
underwriter and makes a large fortune by
going in for life, fire and other branches
of insurance.
He rescues from France (where all
English, under Boney’s orders, are being
clapped into gaol) the beauteous Lady
Stacy, and only finds out later that she
is married. Lord Stacy is a most dread-
ful bounder, and that the lady will
divorce him and marry the handsome
young broker is a foregone conclusion.
But before that happens there is a
crisis in the history of Lloyd’s. So many
ships are sunk or captured by the French
that the syndicates are on the verge of
bankruptcy. They raise their risk rates.
The shipowners refuse to pay ; say they
will keep their ships in harbor. So
Lloyd’s sends a deputation to the
Admiralty to demand a naval convoy for
all merchant ships. This would rob
Nelson of half his ships, so Blake, before
the Admiralty can send out this order,
fakes through his telegraphic device a
message announcing a decisive naval vic-
tory over the French. Just as his ruse is
found out and he is threatened with dis-
grace and execution for high treason,
comes news of the great victory at
Trafalgar. At the fade-out Blake (recov-
ering from a pistol bullet aimed by the
dastardly Stacy) watches Nelson’s funeral
from his bedroom window, and murmurs
once again, as he did so long ago, “Good-
bye, Horatio.”
The story is well acted. The brunt
falls on Tyrone Power, who has never
been seen to better advantage. Sir Guy
Standing (news of his death arrived the
day after the Sydney preview) is seen
for once without his moustache. He gives
a fine picture of a dignified, straight-
dealing old gentleman. Miss Carroll
wears the voluminous skirts of Nelson’s
day as to the manner born and com-
mands sympathy. C. Aubrey Smith as
an amorous old nobleman helps to fill
up some of the corners of a well-
presented play. Previewed at Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
“That Girl from Paris.”
SPORTIVE YOUNG PRIMA
DONNA Lily Pons
DANCE-BAND LEADER,
Gene Raymond
ALSO IN THE BAND .. Jack Oakie
CATTISH DANCER Lucille Ball
Opens promisingly. Prima donna,
being married, says “No” loudly and
rushes away. After that it’s a medley
of bedroom comedy, cabaret stuff and
grand opera. Prima donna’s infatuation
for the handsome young gent, who leads
a band causes her to attach herself to
him with all the glutinous persistence of
a Sydney fly. She stows away on a liner,
accompanies him and his three male com-
panions to the U.S.A. (the fantasia starts
in Paris, represented by the familiar old
still of the Eiffel Tower), and, of course,
eventually gets a job with them as a
singer in a beer-joint run by Herman
Bing. But the dance-band leader is en-
gaged to the cattish dancer, and one hour
and 40 minutes is occupied in cancelling
that engagement, getting Miss Pons into
the Metropolitan Opera House to sing
the most florid aria from “The Barber,”
and finally marrying her to Mr. Ray-
mond.
In addition to exercising very pleas-
ingly her remarkably well-trained and
flexible voice, Miss Pons establishes in
this piece a claim to recognition as a
comedienne. She has poise, humor and
intelligence. Mr. Raymond is the same
as ever (which is not said in derogation),
Mr. Oakie has a faithful-friend part that
is well within his capacity, and the rest
of the cast is well chosen. Rather mild
as farces go, but some of the wisecracks
would set any audience chuckling. At
Sydney Regent.
“Racing Lady.”
WOMAN TRAINER .... Ann Dvorak
TIPSTER Berton Churchill
The material for this opus was ex-
tracted from two novels, one of which
required the collaboration of two writers.
All this united wisdom has failed to
produce a presentable scenario. Miss
Dvorak, persistently kittenish and viva-
cious, cuddles a horse or her dear old
pappy every two minutes. She is hired
by a millionaire automobile manufac-
turer to run his racing stable. He sells
his motor-cars by getting his name in
the paper when one of his nags wins, a
method of salesmanship which must
strike Lord Nuffield, Henry Ford and
Walter Chrysler as a blinding flash of
inspiration when they hear of it. For
a while, the female tutor of gee-gees has
a suspicion her boss is not a true sport.
He never lets a horse run unless he
knows it’s sure to win (Isaiah could have
had nothing on him as a prophet). How-
ever, he manages to disabuse the goil s
mind of this idea, and they end in a
clinch. Churchill, as oleaginous as ever,
exerts himself to win a few chuckles,
but it’s hard going. The rest of the
cast’s third-class, barring the motor
baron. He’s below zero. At Sydney
Regent'.
“Hollywood Boulevard.”
ONCE-FAMOUS SCREEN
STAR John Halliday
HIS DAUGHTER .... Marsha Hunt
HER SWEETHEART, Robert Cummings
UNSCRUPULOUS PUBLISHER,
C. Henry Gordon
A Hollywood back-stager. The elderly
actor, after a brilliant career, is down and
nearly out. Publisher of a magazine
gives him 25,000 bucks for the right to
publish his “Life and Loves,” ancLon the
strength of the publicity thus attained,
finances the making of a film with the
oldster as star. The memoirs, as pub-
lished, are a very highly-colored version
of what their supposed author dictates,
and at last, after being bitterly reproached
by his daughter, he jibs and refuses to
write the last chapter. Publisher
threatens to sue him for 250,000 dahlars
damages, which means ruin. But at that
moment in walks publisher’s wife, and
the actor discovers that she was once his
wife. He changes front. Certainly he
will write the last chapter, and publisher
and his wife will find it very interesting.
Errol Flynn in “The Charge of the
Light Brigade.”
Whereupon ex-wife calls on actor and
shoots him just' as her husband, the pub-
lisher, rushes in. Actor collapses uncon-
scious and his daughter and his ex-wife
are both under suspicion of attempted
murder. When he revives he says he shot
himself accidentally, the memoirs con-
tract is torn up and daughter and her
sweetie, a young scenario-writer, marry.
Well acted. Halliday makes good use
of his first opportunity in a leading role,
Gordon is as suave and ruthless as ever,
and the youngsters trip through their
romance very prettily. Second string at
Sydney Civic.
“Smart Blonde.”
DETECTIVE-LOOTENANT,
Barton MacLane
SNAPPY REPORTERESS,
Glenda Farrell
NIGHT-CLUB OWNER,
Addison Richards
One of the slickest thrillers done for
some time. The well-constructed story
moves at lightning pace, but even that
is beaten by the dialogue, rattled off at
250 w.p.m. by two of the screen’s fastest
talkers. The rate at times is a bit too
fast for a non-American audience.
Prospective buyer of night club is
bumped off on his way to complete deal.
This brings detective-loot, and his sweetie
(“ace” reporter for a tabloid daily) on
the scent. Search for logical suspect, the
night-club owner’s “stooge,” ends when
he also is “fixed,” apparently by the
same killer. False clues are sprinkled
about liberally, but, by clever deductions
and some colossal bluff, the real culprit
is eventually exposed. Contrary to most
screen murder mysteries, guilty one is
successfully concealed till the final fade-
out.
Glenda Farrell is the answer to the
casting director’s prayer. She has every-
thing, including intelligence and the right
C. Henry Gordon in “The Charge of
the Light Brigade.”
hair shade, for a happy interpretation of !
a role which has no counterpart in real
life—the crime-sleuthing girl reporter.
Barton MacLane makes a good job of
the live-wire, bull-roaring detective, and
Addison Richards, Charlotte Winters and
Wini Shaw give sound support. At
Sydney Capitol.
“Guns of the Pecos.”
TEXAS RANGER Dick Foran
HIS INSPIRATION .... Anne Nagel
RESPECTABLE VILLAIN,
Robert Middlemass
Typical red-blooder of the bad old
Texan days. “Controlling” villain in this
case is a Judge! Sweeping the bottles
aside (he runs a saloon) and parking his
cigar on the handiest spittoon, he de-
clares the court open, socks a luckless
and defenceless defendant five hundred
“bucks,” which goes into the “peter,”
and then retires to the side of the bar
to concoct nefarious schemes with his
“yes” men to do an innocent girl out of
her patrimony. Of course, he had had
the old man murdered.
There is only one man in all Texas
who can help the hapless maid — the
bullet-proof ranger who dedicates him-
self to her service. As he gallops to her
rescue over the mesquite he bursts
blithely into song, accompanied by one
of those full symphony orchestras that
were a feature of the Texan pampas in
the Wild ’sixties. The thing winds up
with a realistically-done pitched battle
between rangers and bad men.
Dick Foran looks the part as the up-
right, hard-ridin’, hard-hittin’ ranger.
Anne Nagel makes light work of an easy
role, and Robert Middlemass champs
cigars and registers ferocity with equai
zest. At Sydney Capitol.
“A Woman Alone.”
RUSSIAN OFFICER, Henry Wilcoxon
PEASANTSKI Anna Sten
SERGEANT John Garrick
Set in Czarist Russia and frankly
melodramatic. Some of the gloominess
of that lugubrious country has been cap-
tured, mostly in the camera work. The
whole thing moves far too slowly.
Another side has been grafted on to
the age-old problem, making it an Infer-
nal Quadrangle.. A dashing officer meets


THE BENEFICIAL FOOD
ALL CHILDREN LOVE
Delicious biscuits which are eagerly eaten by
children even when they refuse other foods.
They are most valuable and nutritious. Thinly
butter a few and place them in the school bag;
you will thus make the child’s school lunch
more attractive and infinitely more beneficial.
During the past half century over 40,000 photographs of strong, vigorous
children reared from the age of six months on Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot
Biscuits have been sent with testimonials by grateful mothers to William Arnott,
Limited.
Clmotts
FAMOUS
MILK.
arrowroot
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Amott’s ..... .“They are Better than Ever”
JAMES AND DAVID YOUNG.
Reared on ARNOTT’S FAMOUS MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS, undefeated in four Baby Shows, and David
awarded Champion Baby. Prize: Silver Cup; 234
entrants, at St. Thomas’s Church, Granville.
a shawl-clad peasant girl, and they fall
in love ; but ambition guides Itchisome-
thing into marriage with wealth. Then
his sergeant becomes engaged to same
peasant girl and gets her a job as nurse
to his officer’s wife! When scandal
comes, sergeant tries to domino officer.
Result, court-martial, to which the public
is admitted (they did strange things in
pre-war Russia). By this time peasant
girl has become famous dancer (fast
workers, these Russians). Sergeant is
being framed by vindictive general as
political agitator, which was worse than
being a triple murderer. High-kicker
can save sergeant only by disgracing
officer, but she does it. Sergeant is happy
at getting his freedom, politically and
domestically ; officer loses his pips, but
what odds —he gets the girl. Nobody
bothers about officer’s wife, of course.
Acting is nothing wonderful, the best
effort being that of John Garrick. Anna
Sten's beauty keeps interest faintly glow-
ing, but it cannot run the distance. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“It Isn’t Done.”
AUSTRALIAN PEER .. Cecil Kellaway
DAUGHTER .. Shirley Ann Richards
HAUGHTY EARL .... Frank Harvey
AUTHOR-CC/M-WAITER,
John Longden
BUTLER Harvey Adams
A new era dawned for Australian films
when Cinesound produced “Orphan of
the Wilderness.” Now the same concern
has produced something still better, a
thoroughly enjoyable serio-comedy, ad-
mirably directed, good in scenic effects
and soundly acted.
The piece has to do with a fairly
prosperous Australian man-on-the-land
who inherits an English title and, taking
up residence in the Old Dart, stubs
his toes on the snobocracy — not
new, but the theme has been handled
with skill and freshness. The story,
simple and straightforward, has a
romantic interest and gives scope
for humor. Had the supply of witty
gags been more plentiful the play could
have been made uproarious.
Cecil Kellaway has a juicy role and
squeezes the last drop out of it. His
acting is always easy, but he is at his
best when fun is in the air. There are
several hilarious minutes when his wife
and the horrified butler are getting him
to bed following his indulgence in some
choice old whisky while aristocratic
guests wait on the doorstep. Yet there
is none of the hayseed-in-a-boiled-shirt
touch which would have spoiled the
whole thing. The old farmer matches
dignity with dignity when the occasion
demands it. Shirley Ann Richards makes
an extremely promising screen debut.
She photographs well and has charm.
Frank Harvey gives a polished perform-
ance as a pompous earl, and John Long-
den makes a manly hero. Harvey
Adams’s butler deserves to rank with
Arthur Treacher’s and Eric Blore’s.
Campbell Copelin as the unsuccessful
lover and Nellie Ferguson as a homely
mother “gone social” give solid support.
Much of the film’s success is due to
Ken Hall’s directing. He has kept it
briskly moving. Eric Thompson’s set-
tings come out well in George Heath’s
photography, and editing has been ex-
pertly done by W. Shepherd. Coming
to Sydney Embassy.
“Bora to Dance.”
GOBS lames Stewart, Sid Silvers
THEIR WORRIES .. Eleanor Powell,
Una Merkel
DESIGNING BLONDE, Virginia Bruce
SUBMARINE COMMANDfeR,
Raymond Walburn
Gorgeous dressing and lavish sets (the
final spectacle is brilliant), a tolerably
good story, rollicking and melodious
songs, some fine dancing—and a funnily
burlesqued naval background, with
sudden eruptions at odd moments of
nonsensical merriment. For instance,
when James Stewart is conducting an
imaginary orchestra at midnight in a city
park to the gay dancing of Eleanor
Powell, a stern-looking cop comes up,
savagely breaks J.S.’s twig and then,
using his own baton, finishes the con-
ducting in a wild burst of arm- and hair-
waving, to flop unconscious when, on
the final beat, he finds the park deserted.
Also a comic submarine commander
who fishes from his craft during leisure
hours in port and sings harmoniously
with his happy crew. The piece has
plenty such original turns.
The story concerns the theatrical am-
bitions of the girl of one gob and the
domestic affairs of her friend, wife of
gob No. 2. Number one’s girl’s ambi-
tions threaten to be scotched by a. catty
star who also has her eye on her rival’s
boy friend ; but the navy can be trusted
to win engagements even tougher than
that.
James Stewart is shy, tongue-tied and
mildly aggressive, as is his custom.
Eleanor Powell does some amazingly in-
tricate tap-dancing at' high speed and
manages some good acting. Una Merkel
and Sid Silvers get off some bright
comedy, to which Raymond Walburn
adds his meed. Alan Dinehart is at
home in the role of a soulless press
agent. Previewed at M.-G.-M. Theatrette.
STAGE SHOWS.
“A Southern Maid” Returns.
In “A Southern Maid,” seen once again
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, Gladys
Moncrieff gave conclusive proof that her
voice has lost none of its engaging quality.
On her entrance, the audience’s welcom-
ing held the show up for several minutes,
and in turn the audience had the pleasure
of hearing again one whose effortless
singing and enunciation are crystal-clear
to all parts of the house. Moreover,
Miss Moncrieff lives the role of Dolores.
The play, beautifully dressed, with its
South American setting, its vendettas and
its girls, also has Cecil Kellaway, a
guarantee of good fun. In collaboration
with Lois Green, vivacious as Chiquita,
and Don Nicol, excellently cast as head
waiter, Cecil has many bright moments;
but even his talent can’t do much with
quips that had a stubble on them a
decade ago.
One of the best bits of characterisa-
tion is that of Cecil Perry as the swash-
buckling Francesco. Arthur Clarke,
romantic lead, does well, though a less
stagy delivery in speech would be an
improvement. Jean Slapoffski is a most
attractive Juanita. The vendetta band
looks satisfactorily villainous, and the
chorus carols with zest.
The piece is produced by Frederick
Blackman, and the orchestra orchs to
Andrew MacCunn’s trusty baton.
+
Flecker’s “Hassan.”
After months of preparation the Inde-
pendent Theatre has put James Elroy
Flecker’s “Hassan” on the boards at Syd-
ney Savoy. It is an ambitious produc-
tion for an amateur co., but the Fitton-
ites capture a satisfactory measure of
the color, poetry and poignancy of
Flecker’s drama.
Harold Abbott saved much space by
the placing of his simple and artistic sets,
but the stage was still too small, and
there were times when the. sets threat-
ened to crash upon the heads of the
Eastern potentates, soldiers, guards and
dancing girls. Other chief defects were
slowness of performance and waits be-
tween scenes ; the house was not emptied
till about 11.30 p.m.
The acting bore evidence of careful
word rehearsing. In John Alden’s repre-
sentation Haroun A 1 Raschid, although a
sleek and subtle public enemy, appears
as a rather charming fellow. This actor
could be heard clearly and distinctly any-
where in the house. William Rees as
Hassan, the lovesick confectioner, was
too lugubrious, and it was some time
before his remarks could be clearly
heard. Maxwell Osbiston cut a dashing
figure as Rafi, the King of the Beggars.
The entry of Marie Rosenfeld as Per-
vaneh, the slave who preferred death to
dishonor, was effective: Miss Rosenfeld,
the most outstanding actress on Sydney’s
amateur stage, can be depended upon to
give a richness and purpose to any role
she fills. Hazel Hollander as the vampish
Yasmin deserved the applause which
attended her conquests. Hylton Read,
Alfred Race and Harry Hurstwaite were
a reliable trio, and Sumner Locke-Elliott
and W. Grenville Spencer, as two down-
and-out loiterers, provided the best fun
of the evening. Four youngsters were,
pleasingly pert as serving-maids.
The music for the performance was
specially written and conducted by
Ramsay Pennicuick. Jan Kowskey in-
vented and arranged the ballet, which
fitted in harmoniously with the rest of the
proceedings.
•b •b HE*
“On Approval.”
Adelaide Repertory has opened its
1937 season, which is to have 10 “major
productions” in as many months, at its
big new home, the Tivoli. The first
show, in the hands of Cyril Riley, was
Lonsdale’s “On Approval,” the brief and
witty comedy of two pairs who fall in
and out of love to suit the dramatist’s
wishes. The big task, for only four
characters, of keeping an audience in-
terested for a whole evening was well
met by the polished acting of L. B.
Mathews and Keith McDonald, Phyllis
Simpson and Roxy Sims.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
ifj
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals , from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Bdying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St.. Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote yov
price for the original.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2111 of a.d. 1936.
BETWEEN ELLEN LUCY SMITH Petitioner
And GEORGE WILLIAM CHARLES
SMITH Respondent.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM CHARLES SMITH
late of Lithgow in the State of New South
Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN LUCY
SMITH has commenced a suit against you in
this honorable Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of this Honorable Court on
or before the Eighteenth day of May One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Nineteenth day of February,
a.d 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. B. MOFFATT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
119 Phillip Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The King and Queen should not lack
an Australian coo-ee when they pass on
their way to Westminster to be crowned.
Farewell tea-drinkings to Sydneyites who
are going off to the Coronation were last
week’s staple entertainment. The Orion
took away hundreds, and flowers sent in
farewell must have represented a small
fortune to florists. This would be a very
“navy” ship as far as Hobart, for it
carried a cargo of sailors’ wives to Tas-
mania, there to greet their husbands and
the warships. Noticed on deck were
Mrs. R. H. Lane-Poole and daughter
Ann, Mrs. J. U. P. Fitz Gerald, Mrs.
L. K. R. Tyrwhitt and Joan Marks. The
Stanley Cricks, Jean Gillespie, Mrs.
Ritchard, mother of actor Cyril, Lyle
Mason and the John Bruntons were
among the outward-bound.
Sydney won’t be entirely empty this
Easter, in spite of the exodus overseas.
One of the big parties of Easter week
will be the dance which the Hordern
lady is giving at Rose Bay Golf Club on
April 1. As for Coronation Balls, every
ballroom in the city has been long
booked for gaieties on the eve and night
of the occasion.
It is Town Hall tradition that one of
the reigning mayoress’s first brews of tea
is dispensed to the city’s presswomen.
Last week the custom was honored
nobly, and, in addition, Mayoress Parkes
made Sydney’s press matriarch, Mrs.
Fotheringhame, the guest of honor. A
high and very brilliant flower basket was
presented to her by the civic hostess. Be-
ginning presswomen journeyed around
the room getting acquainted with Town
Hall treasures, such as the massive silver
cigarette-box presented by that Mayor
Burdekin whose wife was a famous
beauty of the ’nineties. Mayoress Parkes
wore a black frock that had its cowl
neckline of black satin.
The P.E.N. Club had its annual meet-
ing last week. This was prefaced by
dinner without guests at the Forum Club.
Elliott Napier romped home again as
president—in fact, the whole committee
remains as it was. Secretary Ruth Bed-
ford, who went off to the P.E.N. Con-
ference in Buenos Ayres last year, is still
sampling the mutton and manners of the
Argentine. She doesn’t report on the
mutton, but the manners get full marks.
One new regulation the P.E.N. decided
on was increasing the sub. from five
shillings to a guinea. This, however,
covers price of four dinners which the
Penners eat together during the. year,
and which hitherto had been paid for as
eaten. Lord Wakehurst has already been
invited as a guest of honor. He is a
member of the. London club.
Lance Fallaw and his bright-faced
wife are off roving. They will travel
the road up and down many lands
before, they return to Australia. The
Institute of Journalists, of which Lance
is president, spread one of its best
lunches by way of farewell to the travel-
lers, and their popularity could be
guessed by an attendance that crowded
the Oak Room at Farmer’s. Brunsdon
Fletcher, of the “Herald,” on whijch
paper Mr. Fallaw has been for many
years, spoke the main theme of good
wishes. Many other speakers added their
praises. The guest’s speech in reply was
one of the cleverest the Institute has
heard for a long time.
Mrs. Fallaw, in flowered chiffons,
smiled behind offerings of frangipanni,
and gave her autograph with unfailing
cheerfulness to a small army of hunters.
Dame Mary Gilmore was a guest of
honor, smart in raiment very new and
navy blue. Her health was drunk with
something close to an ovation. Three
times “For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow”
rang out during the jubilations.
Armed with special leave from the
Vatican the Apostolic Delegate officiated
at the marriage of Jeanne Suzor, the
very young elder daughter of France’s
Consul-General Suzors, to Michel
Doucet, in the bride's parents’ home at
Darling Point. That was on Thursday
afternoon. In the morning mass had
been celebrated in the chapel of the
Delegation, attended by the bride’s and
’groom’s families only. To the cere-
mony in the afternoon over 200 guests
were invited. Before the altar were
two prie-Dieu, on which the couple knelt
before an altar that was all white flowers
and candle-glow. The wedding frock
of thick white satin fell into a soft
train; it was high at the neck and long
of sleeve. The veil was not quite knee-
length, and was secured by starry
stephanotis. Little Paul and Yvonne
Suzor followed big sister, Paul in a
white suit, Yvonne in a simple frock of
white georgette.
The wedding was notable for the
number of pretty girls among the guests:
the two Poynters, Ebba de Dardel, Gin-
ette Scamps, Marie Fombertaux and Pat
Collins, from Neutral Bay (Pat is to be
married almost immediately to Jacques
Fourlinnie, who was one of the ’groom’s
supports). The cake was cut on the
verandah. It stood, a glittering master-
piece of cream icing, and when Mrs.
Doucet', surrounded by her girl friends,
plunged the knife into it the act took on
the air of quite a ceremony. The cake
was a mixture of sponge and almond.
Mrs. Suzor was impressive in black
satin, and ’groom’s mother equally so in
a dove-grey ensemble. All the Consular
group was present.
Brilliant pianist Daphne Harpur re-
cently returned to Sydney after almost
four years’ study in Europe. In London
she broadcast with the 8.8. C., and she
also had broadcast engagements in
Amsterdam. Photograph from Falk.
There, was no better teller of a story
than artist B. E. Minns (Ben to his
friends). Two or three weeks before his
death he chuckled when telling about the
way he sold his first drawings in London.
He had arrived very young and lacking
experience in all but his art. Therefore,
when he made his first descent on the
illustrated weeklies a day or two after
his arrival, he wrapped his drawings in
brown paper, and tied the parcel with a
string. He entered an important office
with the parcel under his arm. Upon
murmuring “Art editor?” he was shown
into a small waiting-room divided from
the inner office by a counter. There
were several young men in the. room,
and each had his sketches in a proper
portfolio. Each in turn would place
this on the counter and a brisk girl
secretary would carry it within. Young
Ben began to be very embarrassed
about his brown paper parcel, and while
the girl was away he sneaked it on to
the counter. The next time she emerged,
she uttered the brisk formula, “Mr.
Smith has now all he requires this morn-
ing.” Then she saw the parcel, looked
up and asked “For Mr. Smith?” The
boy Ben muttered “Yes,” and the girl,
thinking it was something the boss had
ordered, made off with it. At the end
of 10 minutes she came back, and B.E.
was ushered into the inner sanctum. The
boss, not dreaming of an art offering in
brown paper, had opened the parcel
himself and liked the work enough to
send for the artist from Australia.
Another B. E. Minns story concerned
Dana Gibson’s introduction by Phil May
to London’s art and social circles. The
already famous young Dana was on his
first visit to England, and Phil May was
living in a spacious house in St. John’s
Wood. It was one of the brightest
meeting-places in the city. To meet the
visiting American the Mays issued invita-
tions widely, and soon the large studio
Was crammed with fair women and
famed men. The visitor did not appear,
and Phil said nothing. Another half-
hour went by, and everybody was cran-
ing towards the wide doorway wonder-
ing if the reason for the party would
put in an appearance. Suddenly the.
door was flung wide, and Mr. Dana
Gibson, dressed in black-and-white
checks, rode into the room on a bicycle.
“Smoke” Garland, of Wagga, now
holidaying in Sydney, intends to compete
in the round-Australia motor reliability
contest that is to be part of the 1938
centenary celebrations. Montgomery
Dunn photograph.
Brian Langley didn’t take the job out-
side his own family when he married his
lima Wolf, of Killara, last week; he
had his father, Archdeacon Langley, per-
form the wedding. Lustrous satin, a
sherbet of tulle, cream roses and orange-
blossom helped the glamor of the bridal
array. Two attendants in turquoise
*tnoire, silver flower wreaths and sheaves
of red flowers added color to the pro-
cession up the aisle of All Saints’,
Woollahra. Padres A. Gallop and L.
Pearce helped in the secure adjustment
of the ring. The reception was at the
Pickwick Club, where bride’s mother,
Mrs. M. A. Wolf, and ’groom’s mother,
Mrs. W. L. Langley, shared the duties
of hostess. Honeymoon in Tasmania.
The wife of Japan’s former Consul-
General Murai was, with the Archdale
Parkhill lady, honored by the Queen
Victoria Club last week. The Victorians
arranged a special party at the Forum
Club to farewell both ladies. Mrs. Murai
smiled above her national dress, which
was of palest blue and white; black-
and-white sheer and a black-and-white
hat were chosen by the wife of Minister
of Defence Parkhill. The club’s presi-
dent, Mrs. Percy White, wore a navy
ensemble. Muriel Edsall, Eileen Boyd,
Thelma Houston and Nora Mack, who
shortly goes to Paris to continue her
singing, presented a programme of
music.
One of the week’s striking entertain-
ments was the open-air performance of
“Twelfth Night.” With unhappy per-
versity the weather turned cloudy on the
opening night, and twice so spattered the
players that adjournments had to be
called. The two following evenings the
moon rode a silver chariot across a
serene sky. Floodlights beat upon the
stage, set at the end of the garden of
St. Vincent’s Convent. At each side of it
rose greenly spreading trees, and before
it stretched the lawns where the audi-
ence was seated. The music of violins
and the Elizabethan costumes of the
ushers helped create atmosphere. The
Palmer-Gardiner players were respon-
sible. Theresian Club charities benefit.
Seeing Gladys Moncrieff on Saturday
night as Dolores in “A Southern Maid,”
at least one of the audience had a vision
of the tragic Tosca, the dramatic Aida
Gladys would have been if grand instead
of light opera had claimed her. Gladys
has not only a good voice ; she has an
attractive face and feminine appeal. As
Dolores, the belle of Santiago, she
changes her frock four times in the course
of 12 hours. Her entry is made in black
satin brilliant with scarlet flowers and
gold beads. In quick succession she
wears an orange chiffon with an unusual
cape that is black satin embossed with
yellow flowers to about the shoulder line,
whence it is thick, long black silk fringe,
to the hem of the dress ; then she wears
a white frock heavy with fringe, and
after that glitters in midnight-blue
sequins.
Hugh Poynter and his lady, with
Jocelyn and Shirley, made a good-look-
ing foursome. Jade shoulder straps
were an interesting touch to the lady's
black-and-gold lace frock. Jocelyn’s
coat, which matched her frock, was of
amethyst taffeta. Both she and sister
Shirley (in Nile, green) wore their sleeves
high and puffed. Phyllis Fuller was White-
clad ; so was Mrs. Ken Hall. Blue and
silver brocades made Mrs. Alexis Albert’s
frock. The Hugh Wards, the A. W.
Skidmores and Phyllis Jardine were
others. After the. show Gladys’s dressing-
room was crowded out with congratu-
lators.
A few years ago the society of Aus-
tralian composers and authors was very
much alive ; then for a time it languished.
Now Glen McGarrity, not long returned
from musical studies abroad, has whipped
it into activity again. As secretary she
should be pleased at the roll-up to the
society’s first party since its rebirth. This
was a late-afternoon affair at the Dun-
gowan, the guest of honor being Daphne
Deane, who sails for Paris this week. On
one side of the guest sat S. A. Rosa, who
presided. He had been on the same
newspaper as Daphne in her journalistic
days. On her right sat singing-teacher
Roland Foster, who had been associated
with her on the staff of the Conserva-
torium.
One of the season’s new coat-frocks in
silk-soft black angora was worn by the
blonde Daphne. Her hat was small,
high of crown and of black velvet.
There was a long list of speakers, among
them president Aubrey Halloran and
Dulcie Deamer. Contralto Elsie Condon
and soprano Lily Mitchell sang. There
was sherry and there was coffee, and
those who think the. cocktail and its
fellows hold sinister and seductive sway
would have been surprised to see how
many preferred the coffee.
A sylvan retreat that is attracting
attention is the Aqua Flora Park near
Sandringham. Here the visitor walks
along paths covered, bush-house style,
with dried fern and leaf. On each side
are miniature ponds, where goldfish and
water-lily dream away the hours. Here
are rock-lilies and tall ferns; and in a
small private zoo near by are kan-
garoos, emus and very small marsupials.
Among the kookaburras is a knowing
one that at a signal from a friendly atten-
dant will burst into his laughter.
A Sydney woman who has a fine col-
lection of silver has returned from Eng-
land enthusiastic over a move to repopu-
larise the use of plate in the home. This
has been suggested by the Sheffield silver
trade, and one item in it is the organising
of a group of expert girl cleaners. All
the housewife need do when she finds the
gleam on her plate somewhat dulled is
ring up the service, and one of the atten-
dant sprites will arrive complete with
chamois, and replete with knowledge as
to the correct handling of the objects
delivered over to her. Is there a sugges-
tion here, for some enterprising Sydney
woman?


“NO” CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATION,
Temple Court.
REFERENDUM
VOTE “NO
The referendum of March 6, 1937, is a very
important one. Voters should know its dangers
and how to avoid them.
A “YES” vote will mean further Government
interference in business. This interference has
already gone too far.
A “YES” vote will mean a rise in prices of the
products involved—such as butter, cheese, dried
fruits, bread, fresh fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs,
bacon, etc.
A “YES” vote will mean more boards. Boards
cost money, boards make regulations and often
they make expensive mistakes. For these you will
have to pay.
A “Yes” vote will mean a lowering of your
standard of living. Do you want this?
A “YES” vote will mean all kinds of inter-
ference with production and the distribution of
products.
A “YES” vote will revive the old “border
barbarisms” —customs-houses and officers at the
border towns and river crossings.
A “YES” vote will not relieve the producer of
the excessive costs caused by heavy customs duties.
You will avoid these dangers and others by
voting NO thus: —
2
YES
NO
WM. F. GATES, “NO” Campaign Association, Temple Court, Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
Util nisi
ST. THOMAS’S
HOSPITAL, London
Founded 1106, situated on the Thames,
opposite Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey. One of the
greatest Hospitals in London, and the
most magnificent in the World. Prof.
H. Maclean, on being appointed
Director of the Medical Clinic at St.
Thomas’s, received one of the highest
honours, not only in British Medi-
cine, but in the entire Medical
Profession. The news below should
interest all Stomach sufferers.
Worlds Most FAMOUS
INDIGESTION REMEDY
COMES TO AUSTRALIA
Offers Stomach-Sufferers Benefits
of Work of PROF. H. MACLEAN-
of the Great ST. THOMAS' HOSPITAL, LONDON
Enables You to
Eat What You Like
AND ENJOY IT!
No More Stomach Pain
Prof. H. MACLEAN, M.D., M.Sc., D.Sc., formerly Lecturer on Physiological
Chemistry at the University of Aberdeen; Senior Assistant in Bio-Chemical
Department of the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine; Professor of Chemi-
cal Pathology at the University of London; Director of the Medical Clinic at
St Thomas’s Hospital; Hon. Consulting Physician to British Ministry of Pen-
sions; Author of many Medical Works and Papers, including “Modern Views on
Gastric Disease.” To this great man the world owes an important part of the
scientific work performed in connection with the treatment of Stomach and
Gastric Disorders, and Duodenal Ulcers. Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder
is compounded according to principles every doctor recognises to be correct.
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder is
made to a formula that millions have
proven by experience to be the most ' C
effective ever devised as a remedy for
Indigestion, Sour Stomach, Gastritis, Dyspepsia, Flatulence,
Heartburn, Palpitation, Nausea, Stomach Ulceration, Etc .
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder ends diges-
tive distress by instant neutralisation of dan-
gerous stomach acids. It provides vital 100%
protection for the stomach lining against ulcera-
tion, while it shields the bowels from attack ,
thus allaying gripe. Additionally ; raw, in-
flamed internal surfaces are healed, a benefit
no less valuable than the prompt relief from
pain. By taking Harrison-Maclean Stomach
Powder, the digestive sufferer obtains and
holds stomach peace even under conditions
that would totally defy old-fashioned, ineffec-
tive remedies. And the stomach is properly
strengthened to resist any return of distress .
NO HARSH DRUGS-NO RISK
Harrison - Maclean Stomach Powder clears up
Stomach troubles safely. Forms no habit. Acts
unfailingly. Pain goes at once; appetite returns.
Many ills, often not associated with stomach dis-
order, depart. New health comes easily, logic-
ally, in the manner proven correct by the
World’s greatest authority on Digestive Disorders.
Sour existence is sweetened. Life itself is guarded.
Try HARRISON-MACLEAN Stomach
Powder UNDER GUARANTEE . . .
If you suffer from menacing stomach disorder,
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder will give you
the fastest, best relief —the most worth-while
benefit—you have ever known. If not, NO COST!
Order a 2/6 package from your chemist to-day.
Take as directed. Then eat what you like. No
pain; no discomfort. If you have long suffered
and learned to rely upon old-style stomach
remedies, make an effort at REAL recovery.
Harrison-Maclean Stomach Powder gives you
the benefits of MODERN medical knowledge.
Money Back if it Fails! You may be offered
something said to be "just as good”.
Be on your guard. See the full name fft
HARRISON - MACLEAN and this
“H.M.” device on the package. Take
no excuse accept no substitute.
m
Genuine Harrison - Maclean Stomach
Powder is sold only in White Pack -
ages with Black - and - Red Printing.
Every doctor, the World over recognised the
pre-eminence of Prof, Maclean, in modern anti-
acid treatment of stomach disorders, This pre-
paration accords with the recent teachings of
this great authority. Made in perfectly equipped
laboratories, of the finest ingredients, carefully
tested. The formula that has given new health,
strength and courage to millions is now avail-
able to YOU. In future, eat what you fancy!
Your Digestive Troubles are
over if you make sure you get
MACLEAN
Stomach Powder
Proprietary Rights are claimed to the
name Harrison-Maclean, but none what-
ever in connection with the name Maclean


I
PETTYS Hotel
Stay at Petty's in Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(2) E. yOUNSS, Manager.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you —now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—ai matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A CORN SILK, at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
IN THE LOCAL COURT OF ADELAIDE,
No. 12130 of 1936, BETWEEN ESTATES
REALIZATION LIMITED, Plaintiff, and MR.
FRANK FLEMING PRINCE and MRS.
PEARL EMMA MOORE, Defendants. TO the
abovenamed FRANK FLEMING PRINC •
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on tne
19th day of September, 1936, commenced
against you by the abovenamed Plaintiff com-
ing as assignees the sum of £4BB/2/- flue oy
you under contracts dated the 15th day of
August, 1927, for the sale and purchase or
Allotments 17 and 18, Rivemew a Estate, and
Allotment 3, Ferryden Park. AND
FURTHER NOTICE that you are requirea
within twenty-one days after the insertion o
this advertisement to enter an appearance
the Local Court, Adelaide, South Australia,
and that in default of your so doing judgment
may be given against you in your absence.
POVEY & WATERHOUSE,
Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the abovenamed Plaintiff.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL the following persons, chHdren of the
late EDWIN GENDALL, of Perth, Western
Australia, or anyone knowing^ eir pERPETUAL
please communicate with THE PtKm
EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES ASSOC A
TION OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, 100 w
Queen Street, Melbourne, C.l—-Elizabeth
Cann (nee Gendall) (thought to be J es or
Sydney, New South Wales), or her /i ast
children, Charles Gendall, Harry Gendall gj
heard of in Melbourne), James Gendall (th
to have resided in Geelong) and Then a
Gendall, or their respective wives and chitarei
Welbourne
Chatte
On the first day of the Test match
queues for the members’ stand were as
uncomfortable as those for the Outer.
By nine o’clock, when the gates opened,
orderly crocodiles were hundreds of
yards long. At 9.30 an extra members’
gate operated unexpectedly, and in front
of the big gates all was immediately
chaos, hundreds of people leaving their
precious places to storm the main en-
trance. Those who had to sit in the sun
on Friday wrapped themselves in news-
papers and, as they slowly sizzled, cast
envious glances at the folk under the
awnings, they in their turn suffocated in
a breathless space. For comfort the
Outer had it all over the members’,
where those in the reserves were packed
like sardines early in the morning-. Many
members left these discomforts and, with
important gold passes or women’s bits
of purple pasteboard, set out for the
other side of the oval.
It takes all sorts to make up a Test
crowd. One woman, carrying the usual
picnic impedimenta, entered the packed
members’ enclosure at 12 o’clock and
demanded in loud, cheerful tones to be
directed to the ladies stand. An early
arrival who had been knitting in the
sun for a couple of hours amiably in-
quired did the teams toss before they
left the hotel, and did all the men have
a turn at throwing pennies. In spite
of orders that steps and aisles must be.
kept clear, those in the reserves were all
occupied as seats.
Male members followed the fashion of
the. Outer and removed their coats. Even
in the committee-box one man, his eyes
glued to his field-glasses, put comfort
before convention and sat in his shirt-
sleeves. Scores of girls came without
stockings, and scores more removed them
with their hats. Forming part of the
shirt brigade were John McCauley and
Frank Mornane. Ray Dureau, who flew
down from Brisbane the, day before the
match, was welcomed by hordes of
friends in and out of coats. Noticed
making inroads into ice-cream were an
attractive pair of cousins from Urana,
Mary Macpherson and Betty Smith. A
foursome who made use of their speedy
tennis-playing legs were Nancye Wynne,
Thelma Coyne, Mrs. Harry Hopman and
Lynette Walker. They hadn’t much luck
in the queue,, where they waited three-
quarters of an hour, but once inside they
annihilated distance to the front of the
top layer of the Grey Smith stand. Frank
Talbot spent what he described as “a
magnificent day” in the Outer, for he lost
Edgar Holt in the crowd, but was carry-
ing the luggage, so he had two cushions
and extra" rations of food and drink.
Clare Salmon was noticed in patriotic
vein—red scarf, white jumper and blue
skirt. Pat Austin wore a linen suit
and scarlet jumper. After standing for
two hours she managed to fluke the
relief of a seat in the sun. Mrs. Hector
Kendall was there in a floral linen dress.
When their new house is built she and
her husband will go to live at the Zoo.
The attraction of the Test noticeably
thinned the crowd at the Newmarket.
Dressed suitably for the warm morning,
feminine patrons were glad of furs by
the middle of the afternoon, or if they
hadn’t brought furs they sought out shel-
tered parts of the paddock. And the
breeze came so laden with fertiliser and
tanning factories that scents of flower-
beds were subservient to the flavor of
Footscrav.
Large black hats were an ascending
note of fashion. Mrs. P. Levett, back
from three months in Sydney and off
soon on the Oronsay, wore hers very
large and flat. With it went an en-
semble born in Paris, a black mesh
muslin suit and jade blouse. Coronation
purple was the predominating note of
Mrs. Fred Gilder’s silk frock, which was
accompanied by a big white hat secured
by a wide band under the wearer’s cur-
vilinear roll of hair. Nanette Power
was all in white, with scarlet laces in
her shoes and a bunch of cherries ripen-
ing on her beret. A couple planning to
leave for England almost immediately
were Mrs. John Sherwin (Beveridge) and
her daughter Margaret, wearing navy
and a saucy little hat. Another prospec-
tive traveller, optimistic though her over-
seas trip is still at the “hoping” stage,
was Margaret Cochran, who wore with
a black skirt a little white coat of wind-
rippled crepe.
Two youthful-looking mothers-in-law,
Mrs. Ted Dyson and Mrs. Ross Clark,
made introductions at Menzies when
Mrs. Dyson gave a party in honor of
the marriage of her daughter June and
Laurie Clark, who are leaving Mel-
bourne. June has inherited some of the
artistic Dysons’ talents, has studied
drawing and painting and has owned her
own pottery-wheel. In Sydney Laurie
will work for his M.Sc. and do ento-
mology research in the Zoology school.
He won a scholarship open to soldiers’
children, and later may go to Cambridge
to take advantage of it.
Mrs. Dyson’s party was tea, cocktails
and very long, very cold drinks to quench
hot-weather thirsts. Among guests who
knew June as a baby was Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, and among those who have
watched Laurie’s progress with interest
were the Percy Clarks, Col. and Mrs.
Whitelaw and Mrs. Percy Everest (Gee-
long). Feeling that she will be very
lonely without her daughter, Mrs. Dyson
is selling her charming home at Black
Rock and is putting up for auction all
her furniture and her interesting col-
lection of pictures, which includes many
Will Dysons and several by various
Lindsays. She will go to Sydney early
in March to help the very young couple
—the total of their ages is 40—get settled
into a flat.
Wearing the elfin cap is one of last
week’s brides, Pat Grant Hay, who mar-
ried Duncan Fraser Smith in Scots
Church. It was an all-white ceremony,
the bride in a long-sleeved trained gown
of parchment satin and her two sisters,
Kathleen and Alison, attending in ivory
lace over the rustle of taffeta. Leaving
Sydney by the Monterey on March 5,
the newly-married couple are off on a
honeymoon which may last a year. Golf
clubs are part of their luggage, for even
if they don’t play much in America they
are sure to in Surrey, where the bride’s
aunt is an enthusiast who runs her own
private links. A Stuart Tomkins camera
made the picture.
when the. International Club’s Swedish
groupj w j t h Mrs. E. T. Svensson as con-
vener, presented a piano to the club
there were two distinguished visitors
present, Dr. Samisioe and B. Helstrom,
electrical engineers of high standing who
were invited to Australia to report on
Victoria’s hydro-electric possibilities,
This week they are leaving for N. S.
Wales on a similar mission. The visitors’
English is fluent, but they are better con-
versationalists than speechmakers. On
their surveys in this State they had to do
some bush riding, and were so stiff as a
result that they couldn’t move for days.
Familiar only with riding on fairly easy
graded tracks the visitors are amazed at
Australian engineers and surveyors who
ride up and down rough gullies and
through thick scrub as part of the day s
work.
In its Victorian headquarters at
Chartres House the League of Health and
Beauty gave a display timed to coincide
with Thea Hughes’s passing through
Melbourne. In spite of a cyclonic trip
from Sydney neither Thea Hughes nor
Myrtle Gillham, who are on their way
to England, were seasick, and both were
full of energy and enthusiasm for the
demonstration. The pair intend breaking
their journey in Adelaide to help Gladys
Cole, who comes from Tamworth
(N.S.W.), launch the League’s South
Australian centre.
Among others who took part in the
Melbourne display were Joan Melvaine,
newly arrived to teach here, Beatrice
Lynch (daughter of the late Rev. Frank
Lynch), who finished her training last
year and now teaches the League’s exer-
cises as well as voice production, Mar-
garet Phillips, Jean Barnet, Margaret
Gasquoine (whose parents were absent
owing to a sudden urge to go caravan-
ning in Gippsland) and three Melbourne
students, Marjorie Forman, Thea Allen
and Barbara Riddington.
The clear-cut profile belongs to Mrs.
L. O’B. Fleetwood-Smith, wife of the
Victorian bowler, who is known to
friends and fellow-cricketers as “Chuck,”
and whose mighty swipe for a “sixer”
shortly before six on Saturday was an
incident of the fifth Test. Before her
marriage Mrs. Fleetwood-Smith was
Mollie Elliott, of Melbourne. Photo-
graph by Eve Ray.
Among last week’s functions at the
International Club were addresses by
Constance Duncan, sec. of the Bureau
of Social and International Affairs, and
by Bina Addy, an Indian singer touring
Australia. Miss Duncan spoke of some
distinguished women of China and Japan,
and mentioned Baroness Ishimoto. The
Baroness has her own health clinic in
Tokio, and last year answered personally
15,000 letters, a formidable task even
with a typewriter, for a Japanese
machine is a frightening and cumber-
some instrument which controls over
3000 characters. The speaker also men-
tioned the clever and charming Mrs.
Gauntlett, a Japanese happily married
to an English professor. She is presi-
dent of the Pan-Pacific Women’s Asso-
ciation, and recently went to China,
her “passport” there being her message
of co-operation of all women for peace.
Of Chinese women Miss Duncan chose,
as the foremost Madame Chiang Kai-
shek, Secretary for Air in the Nan-
king Government and wife of the
general who was recently captured
and held as a hostage for politi-
cal reasons. In Canton, while visit-
ing the Hedley Buntons (Mrs. Bun-
ton was Peggy Paton, of Melbourne),
Miss Duncan and her host and hostess,
sitting quietly on the verandah, won-
dered what was wrong with the autumn
dusk. It was some, time before they
realised that what they missed was the
usual clatter of mah jongg tiles in the
hundreds of homes near by. General
Chiang’s edict against gambling had gone
forth, and so powerful was he that the
Chinese, though born gamblers, obeyed
his injunction. Among those who listened
to the International Club lectures was
Alison Reid, who has recently returned
to her home in Berwick from a holiday
in Japan. In Shanghai Alison called on
the A. R. M. Johnsons, who expect to
visit Australia in November. Mrs. John-
son was well known in her student days
in Melbourne as Dorothy Clarke.
Dymphna Lodewyckx’s proficiency in
languages has been noticed by the
P.M.G.’s Department, with the result that
a new position has been created and
Dymphna secured to fill it. She is assis-
tant-translator to the department, has an
office to herself and her own telephone,
and keeps Federal civil service hours.
Miss Lodewyckx did very well in her
arts course, which she completed last
year, and now tackles French and Ger-
man correspondence, telephone and tele-
graph matter, etc., with as much confi-
dence as she does English. She is also
prepared for sudden, though not such
frequent, invasions of Spanish and Italian,
and occasionally has to switch her mind
over to Swedish. She is very happy in
her busy new life.
In the basement of its building the
Electricity Commission has been demon-
strating various methods of domestic
lighting in four dissimilar rooms. The
Louis XV. room is furnished with possibly
valuable but quite comfortless antiques.
Longstaff, Streeton and Rupert Bunny
are among the artists whose pictures
hang on the walls, and the illumination
comes from flattish frosted globes sus-
pended from the ceiling. Room 2is on
the crest of fashion for modernisms.
Lighting comes from a hidden source at
the top of an alcove cleft in one wall,
from several lamps and from troughs
hanging from the ceiling, in such a way
that the walls are bright while, the centre
of the room is without glare. In No. 3
the illuminations are from louvres
which resemble glass ventilator-gratings
in the ceiling. Room 4 provides a more
sombre atmosphere ; here the lights are
on brackets jutting out from the wall,
and each picture is very brightly lit, the
wall space in between and the centre of
the room being too dark by contrast.
Nancy Grant, who was in charge of the
exhibition, is studying at the National
Gallery, and is the daughter of the
David Grants —which classification is
almost necessary, for she has come
across seven other Nancy Grants in her
travels.
Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan is back from
another trip abroad —this time with a
reversal of programme, for most of the
time she put pleasure before work. A
new experience was a women graduates
conference in Cracow, where the tongues
of 400 delegates wagged in a variety of
languages. Dr. Buchanan is senior lec-
turer in zoology, and although she didn t
do much hunting in the animal king-
dom abroad she came on some speci-
mens just the same, but it was they who
did the chasing. One hundred miles
from land off the Westralian coast the
Ascanius ran into a series of hurricane
willy-willies laden with dust, dead leaves,
insects and birds. One of the birds and
thousands of the insect's were still alive.
The storm lasted for 16 hours.


*iASS4.-
jbr -your holiday
‘ES
,'i'#
SB
*>
'*X
i
miter
n
! ~/*
This land of countless attractions awaits you— ■
ancient temples beautiful scenery—native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY —TELEPHONE B 7901
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Zedo”: Queensland newspapers, hav-
ing been worrying Minister for Labor
Hynes about using part of the unem-
. r , , ,
ployed funds to transfer unemployed
boys to the land, he “explained” that
the Government thought it would be a
waste to operate such a scheme until the
drought broke. Immediately the heavens
obliged. By the following morning Dir-
ranbandi (s.-w. Queensland) was isolated,
Rail traffic on the Clermont railway
(C.Q.) was suspended. The dairying belt
from Rockhampton to the N.S.W.
border had had good rain. The peanut
crop, which had been in jeopardy, was
“Blast it, y' might let a man break is duck!"
saved ; also most of the late maize, which
had been withering. Sheep districts
round Surat had had up to Bin.; Mitchell
2in. to sin. The Central West had been
wept on till the wallabies were climbing
brigalows to keep their feet dry. Next
day again the heavens were still oblig-
ing. The Burdekin was rising, the Daw-
son in flood and Cairns was putting the
double bed against the back door to
keep out the impending cyclone and
deluge. No train was running on the
Central Western line, and men were re-
ported to be fishing in water sometimes
six feet deep over the rails. So one
political excuse has been well and truly
drowned.
* * # *
“M. Turlutu”: If Brisbane’s Lud
Mayor, the massive Alfie Jones, succeeds
in getting the Forgan Smiths to pull down
the decrepit collection of archaic build-
ings which cuts off Adelaide-street from
North Quay, he will hear loud and con-
tinued cheers from his ratepayers. For
years past the Adelaide-George-street
bottleneck has been a civic eyesore and
a traffic danger. The scramble at peak
hours has reached unmanageable pro-
portions, and until the ugly double turn
into North Quay is got rid of, proper
use cannot be made of the expensive
Grey-street bridge in relieving the Vic-
toria Bridge.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: They certainly breed
’em tough ip South Queensland. A
truck-driver recently capsized over the
300 ft. drop near Flaxton, in the Blackall
Range, rolled to the bottom in a series
of head-over-turkey bumps, and was
picked out of his ruined vehicle with
a rib or two gone, but not badly dam-
aged. He had fallen out of one shire
into another. A little later another truck
capsized on the Pacific Highway in the
early morning and jambed the driver’s
neck between the door and the wind-
screen, which was embedded in the
ground. Three hours later a passing
motorist released him—he had a few
bruises only. A boy on a pushbike
darted out of a Maroochydore street and
was run over by a heavily-laden truck.
Although two wheels went over him he
gathered nothing more than a bruise or
two. It sounds a very promising breed-
ing-place for future aviators.
* * * *
“M.T.”: A reunion of old boys of
Oxley West State school (now Sherwood)
presented a remarkable cross-section of
Queensland history for 60 years and
more back. It was attended by the first
enrolled pupil, Oliver Radcliffe, now 80,
and chief inspector of the State Educa-
tion Department when he retired in
1921. Other old boys include Robert
Nosworthy, now a director of Burns
Philp; George Pratten, who took a
scholarship in 1880, and later rose high
in the Queensland Railways ; Dr. Alec
Francis, of Harley-street, London, who
has published a book on old Oxley days ;
Major Trotter, deputy Town Clerk of
Brisbane; the late William Moffatt,
general manager of the Primary Pro-
ducers’ Bank ; the late General Foott;
James Spowers, now Superintendent of
Surveys in Malaya ; Dr. Graham Brown,
of Brisbane, and his brother Dr. Leonard,
of London, Rhodes scholar and once
captain of the All-England Rugby team.
* * * *
“Bootless Inlet”: The chronicler of
the Queensland Government yacht
Lucinda (B. 10/2/’37) forgot to mention
her most notable voyage—when she con-
veyed Governor Lamington and his suite
to British New Guinea during the South
African War. The primitives of those
parts had never seen a paddle steamer
before, and the splash and flurry of her
progress enchanted every brown brother
and sister lucky enough to behold it.
While the Lucinda lay for a week or
two at Port Moresby hastily-organised
expeditions from up and down the coast
and from the hills were formed to see
the latest white man’s wonder. A friend
then at Port has told me that long after
the Lucinda’s departure small boys play-
ing “Lusin’a” would parade about the
streets of Hanuabada and Ela emitting
horrible noises and swinging their arms
violently to imitate the paddles. Refer-
ence to Tom Sawyer will show that the
small boys of Hannibal, Miss,, imitated
the Mississippi steamers in the same
fashion. The yacht played more im-
portant parts than carrying picnic parties
about. Billy Kidston used her for Gov-
ernment party meetings and publicly
ordered from her decks a colleague with
whom he had fallen out on a question
of policy.
# sfc % %
“Ophir”: Tell “Paterson’s Ghost”
there’s no need to go to Tennant Creek
for centipedes, snakes and the like (B.
27/1/’37). That place is featured in the
papers only because it’s new and there’s
a lot of newchums there. Any old part
in W.Q. will erupt lashins of ’pedes,
snakes, beetles, grubs and frogs after a
good fall of rain. It doesn’t matter how
long the dry spell has been previous to
the rain—there’ll be the same multitude
of strange creatures come out to greet it.
West of the Georgina I’ve known clay-
pans which had been dry for at least
five years—glazed mirrors of sizzling
heat. Yet within a day of a film of water
covering them they would be pulsing
with life and clamoring with noise. Near
Winton I’ve seen so many centipedes
after the rains had broken a dry spell
that, rabid wowser as I am, I’ve thought
of the horrors. But fish appearances
have seemed more extraordinary still.
I’ve caught jewfish a foot or more long
in a hole which had not been full a week,
which did not last a month when it was
full, and which was filled so rarely that
it could almost be called an arid spot.
One morning I saw a dabchick swim-
ming in a hole which rain had filled only
the previous night, and which was 20
miles from anything permanent. As a
dabchick won’t fly without being forced,
and as half a mile is his absolute limit,
how did he get there and what brought
him tidings of the rain? Tennant Creek
—P’ff! .
"Australia Jane's" Budget
A new little Queenslander arrived in
somewhat unusual circumstances; he
was born aboard the launch Kaboora
en route from Dunwich to Cleveland. A
qualified maternity nurse was aboard,
and at Cleveland mother and son were
transferred to an ambulance for the rest
of the journey to Brisbane. It reminds
that one childless Queensland couple
have done a fine national work ; they
have adopted, at regular intervals, no
fewer than five children, who are now
all of school age. On being questioned,
reason was given as: No children of
their own, ample means and a convic-
tion that it was a “duty” to make a home
for children.
Though Miss Treweeke, who with her
brother Hugo formerly lived on a station
near Goondiwindi, has latterly dwelt in
Sydney, she has remained one of the
most generous and consistent supporters
of Queensland National Gallery. Aboard
the Maloja from London the other day
arrived the sixteenth picture she has pre-
sented to‘the State —an oil by Charles
Cundall, bought by her recently in Lon-
don. “London from Vigo Street” is an
unusual study, depicting the roofs, spires
and domes of the old grey city. It is
the only example of this artist’s work in
the Gallery.
A charming French lass, Susanne
Mourat, will be among the girl under-
grads. this year at Queensland Uni.
Sheila Thompson gave a tea for her at
Rowe’s to introduce her to other students.
Minister for Education Frank Cooper
is a vice-president of the Repertory
Society this year. Last year he startled
the natives by appearing as the usurping
monarch in “Hamlet.”
Sister E. M. Paten, principal matron
of the Ist Military District, who is going
overseas for the Coronation with the
nurses’ contingent, has had several fare-
well parties. One was' given by the
Returned Sisters’ sub-branch of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. in its room at Anzac
House; another by Mrs. C. F. Bennett
and Mrs. J. L. Mactaggart at the former’s
home at Coorparoo.
There’s been some protesting by ladies,
who don pads over Authority having re-
fused Terry Ahern’s offer to stump up
the necessary for Kath Smith to go over-
seas with the women’s cricket team. A
public appeal is being made. The lady
knocked up 131 in the last match in
which she played here.
Burglars nowadays must employ pan-
technicons. A Toowoomba family who
went happily off to the seaside for the
school holidays returned home to find
that pretty well everything had been
lifted. Even the electric stove had
vanished!
The Vic Blanshards gave a delightful
party before Mrs. Vic tripped off to
Sydney with her sister, Olive McCann,
to join the Monterey for the U.S.A. It
was a cocktail and fork supper affair
at the Blanshard home, and there were
two bands —a genuine Hawaiian and the
Ace Boys’ Novelty Band (mouth-organ
blowers).
Ink-sister Lorraine Streeter, who now
has a job on the London “Daily Mirror,”
was so cheered to find over there an old
friend and Uni. pal in the person of
Harley Stumm that now Lorraine is
wearing a diamond ring.
Marjorie Bulcock, also well known to
ink and daughter of Emily Bulcock and
niece of Vance Palmer, is another to
meet her fate overseas. Marjorie’s young
man is Wilhelm Pueregger, an Austrian,
now on his way out aboard the Orama.
They will be married quietly about the
end of March, after which the young
husband will take on a chemistry job at
Queensland Uni.
Mrs. J. P. Lowson, who has been
abroad with husband Professor Lowson
for about a year, was on returning
amazed to see how aeroplanes had mean-
while increased in number here. The
pair went abroad mostly to see their son,
an engineer, who lives in Rugby, where
Tom Priestley and his wife also live.
J. C. Lowson and Tom graduated from
Queensland Uni. together. Lowson pere
and son went over to France for the
unveiling of the War Memorial at Vimy
Ridge, while Mrs. Lowson went walking
through Scotland. Then the family
joined up again, and all went to Brit-
tany.
Plenty of colored balloons and a cake
with a silver aeroplane atop of it were
features of the party given to celebrate
Lulu Reid’s having secured her A-class
pilot’s certificate. Gwenda Norris, of
Townsville, also was a guest, and there
were floral horseshoes for both girls.


t
n
jH§
M
a 3
V
sure
of Health
TO ensure robust health and abundant vitality at
every season, make “Ovaltine” your daily beverage.
In summer it is particularly valuable because it pro-
vides, in a light and easily digestible form, the nour-
ishment which ordinary summer foods lack.
“Ovaltine” is all health-giving nourishment, scientifi-
cally prepared from the highest qualities of malt, milk
and eggs.
“Ovaltine” does not contain any Household Sugar.
Furthermore, it does not contain Starch. Nor does it
contain Chocolate, or a large percentage of Cocoa.
Quality always tells—insist on “Ovaltine”.
Note: “Ovaltine” is packed in three sizes, the nett
weight in each case having been increased 12 j per cent,
at no extra cost to you.
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample of “Ovaltine”,
sufficient to make four cupsful, will be sent on receipt of 3d.
in stamps to cover cost of packing and postage.
SIZES AND 9oz. 18oZ. ALL CHEMISTS
PRICES j/p 2/l0 5/ AND STORES
OmTINE'
COLD
A. WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK ST. NORTH, SYDNEY
05.18.37
i
x&
w
n:
n
;\a:
(if
\%A ffcX j
Fig 1
FREE
PATTERN
OF TWO
USEFUL
FROCK
STYLES
Eleven other valuable
patterns, ranging from
the small girl to the
larger woman; the
latter patterns revealing
graceful and slenderis-
ing lines.
COLLARS ADD CHARM
The Complete Set for 1/-.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMANS MIRROR
March 9 Issue. Price 3d. On Sale Friday.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
After the arrival of her fiance, Wilfred
Adamson, from Colombo, Gwenyth Am-
brose put in a week’s party-going before
keeping her matrimonial date at St.
George’s Cathedral. In one day there
was a luncheon at the Adelphi, with
pink-linen-clad Mrs. Kim Male as
hostess; a sundown cocktail party at the
E. V. Blackmans’ home in West Perth,
and a dinner party at the Esplanade, with
and W. Brendon Garners receiving the
guests.
For the wedding Gwenyth’s all-
enveloping tulle veil was held in place
by a single water-lily, a match for the
white-waxed blooms carried along her
arm. The curd-white satin, Empire-
waisted and bell-sleeved, was inset at
the back with a gathered panel which
merged into a circular train. ’Maid
Diana Jenkins was a symphony in pink,
built up with organdie over taffeta, silk
mittens, large crin. hat and rosebud
bouquet. The two schoolgirl attendants,
Joan and Pamela Balston, were replicas
of the ’maid from toe to neck, but wore
bands of ribbon in lieu of hats.
A host of city and south-west visitors
trekked to Dardanup for the christening
of the Frank Venns’ three grandchil-
dren, Jane Finlayson, Henty Money and
Dale Venn. After the ceremony there
was a spread at the Venn home, Dar-
danup Park, with the young-looking
grandmother in soft beige georgettes.
Her daughters, Mrs. Finlayson (in mush-
room flat crepes) and Mrs. Jack Money
(with brown accessories for her biscuit
suit), and her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Frank Venn, who pinned a bunch of
violets to her amethyst silks, cooed over
their infants and assisted with the tea-
dispensing.
Three attendants, Muriel and Audrey
Dempster and Molly Affleck, preceded
the bride to the altar of Perth College
chapel when Stella Dempster became
Mrs. William Clarke. Their frocks of
copper ninon over satin were sunray-
pleated to the ground, draped to one
side and caught over the shoulder with
bands of gold leaves. Gold leaves
braided their heads, and their sheaves
of gladioli were shaded from lemon to
rust. The bride’s ivory satins mounted
from a swirling train to a triangular-
shaped bodice, from which rose a severe
choker neckline. Overhead was a bil-
lowing cloud of tulle cascading from a
quaint little gathered tulle headband in
which nestled the spray of orange-blos-
som worn by the bride’s mother on her
wedding day. The cake, cut at the Kar-
rakatta Club, was a model of the Strath-
naver (which will take the couple to
Maoriland for the honeymoon) electri-
cally lit and floating in a sea of silver
wishbones.
Instead of concentrating on a particu-
lar period or style of music as it usually
does, the Kylie Club opened its year’s
activities with a delightful miscellany by
capable artists. Alice Mallon’s soprano,
Edward Black’s piano solos, Val Robert-
son and his ’cello and L. Hancock’s tenor
were received with acclamation ; but the
main interest of the programme centred
in the debut of Pauline Ward. This 15-
year-old pianist deeply impressed the
musical gathering with her deft playing
(without score) of the pianoforte part of
Mozart’s Concerto in A.
Rarely is a mother present at the
golden wedding of her daughter, but
Mrs. Westhoven was well in the picture
on the fiftieth anniversary of the Wilford
Mitchell marriage. From early morn
golden-toned flowers arrived at the house.
Mrs. Mitchell carried one choice tribute
against her black chiffons when she set
off for the cocktail party given by her
son and daughter-in-law, Dr. and Mrs.
Roy Mitchell, in honor of the occasion.
The celebrant’s daughters, Mrs. John
Walsh, Mrs. Dave Walsh, Mrs. H.
Chandler and Maude Mitchell, were busy
with shakers and savories.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
We have not yet finished with confer-
ences. Professors from the various Aus-
tralian universities came in full strength.
The wife of the Vice-Chancellor of Mel-
bourne Uni. (Mrs. R. E. Priestley) gave
joy to all good citizens by saying “Mel-
bourne friends had told me Adelaide
was pretty, but I had no idea it was as
lovely as this.” After the collegiate
crowd came the Australian Engineers,
also bringing their wives.
Canon Hewgill, who has sailed for
England, officiated before his departure
at the wedding of Dorothy, younger
daughter of the J. H. Finlaysons, of
Valkerville, to Thomas G. A. Healy,
elder son of the G. D. Healys, of Toorak,
Melbourne. The bride’s ivory georgette
was cut in flared panels, the long georg-
ette train being a separate affair. The
bodice, was made with a V neckline, long
tight-fitting sleeves and a girdle of
orange-blossom. A halo of the same held
the bridal veil of old lace. Margaret
McLeod, of Melbourne, and Lorna
Dawson were bridesmaids, frocked alike
in deep maize crinkled georgette, cut on
long lines with knife-pleated godets, and
long cape sleeves, also knife-pleated.
Their wide-brimmed hats in the same
tone were trimmed each with a long jade-
green quill across the front of the crown.
They wore jade earrings, the gift of the
bridegroom.
The same day saw the wedding at
Trinity Church, North Terrace, of Ber-
nice, eldest daughter of the Bill Cades,
to Keith McConnell-Brown, of Subiaco
(W.A.). The bride wore white satin
beaute, fitting to the figure and merging
into a train. The high-necked bodice
had long bishop sleeves, and she wore a
satin girdle, caught with a brilliant star.
The tulle veil, very long at the back,
was held in place by orange-blossom and
a Queen Anne coronet of seed pearls.
Two of the bride’s younger sisters,
Josephine and Mignon, attended in early-
Victorian frocks of pastel-toned flowered
taffeta.
Mrs. Louis McCubbin and her daugh-
ter Patricia Jackson gave a cocktail party
at their North Adelaide flat in honor of
their guest, Patricia Osborne, of Mel-
bourne. Mrs. McCubbin was gowned in
a white-and-navy-blue figured crepe, her
daughter wore a linen suit, and Miss
Osborne chose pastel-toned crepe de
Chine.
William Sowden and his lady had a
great time in the Narkunda on their trip
to England. At a fancy dress ball the
Civil Lord of the Admiralty (Mr. Lind-
sey) went as Julius Caesar, and William
Sowden represented John Bull. Lady
Cynthia Colville (Lady-in-Waiting to
Queen Mary) was awarded the women's
prize for her costume of a Spanish lady.
At Colombo Baron Jaytalaaka, who was
in Adelaide for the celebrations, came
out to the Narkunda with his private
launch and took all the English visitors
to Kandy for the day.
TASMANIA.
The Governor-General came to
Hobart in the cruiser Canberra, and
after a week’s stay at Government House
he is to tour the State. There was an
official dinner on the night of arrival.
The Governor opened the Tasmanian
Exhibition at the Elphin Show Ground,
Launceston —the first show of its kind
held in the north for over 24 years.
Many improvements have been made in
the various sections in that time, and
there was a big roll-up.
The Child Welfare Association ran a
Bridge Day at the Town Hall in aid of
the babies. Sixty-five tables were
booked, and the afternoon’s play was in
the reception-room. In the evening the
Lord Mayor’s room and the Lady
Mayoress’s parlor were both filled.
Flowers for decoration were an attrac-
tion in themselves. Lady Clark made
highest score among the contract
players.
The opening of the new aerodrome at
Campania by the Governor drew a big
crowd. Dudley Ransom gave the- land,
which is about two miles out from Cam-
pania. Lady Clark had Joan McLennan
with her. Weather was perfect.
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Locke, who have
been transferred to Melbourne, were
farewelled at a dinner at the Imperial,
with C. A. Newnham and J. Edwards
the hosts. There have been other fare-
wellings per luncheons and tea-parties,
one of the latter being given by Mrs. E.
M. Williams, wife of the State Com
mandant.
Mrs. T. A. Frankcomb (Ranelagh) and
son John are off on a trip to England
via Singapore and Amsterdam. Before
leaving they ran a jolly buffet dinner, and
went on to the Child Welfare Ball in
Huon Town Hall with a party of about
40 guests. Carfuls of guests from town
and many friends in the Huon swelled
the throng.
Mrs. Spencer Brownell and her daugh-
ter, Mrs. R. C. Allwright, are among
the many Tasmanians who sailed for
England last month- They went in the
Moldavia.
Rear-Admiral Lane-Poole, complete
with wife and daughter, has taken the
Lewis lady’s house, Warndee, Augusta-
road, while the Australia Squadron is
in these parts.


Bartz— Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headache, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price 6d.,
]/- and 2/-. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, I,td.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8VV6661.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for 1937 are even brighter.
LET...
" The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t affoi’d to ignore it!
P.
burther details can be had from
A. MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
W arwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
.Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
Visit
this gears
ROYAL
SHOW
SPECTACULAR RING EVENTS
THRILLING ACTION
DARING RIDERS
Will Hold You Spellbound
Interstate and International Contests
CANADA v. U.S.A. v. AUSTRALIA
In Championship Buckjumping, Bulldogging,
Campdrafting, Steer Riding Contests.
Don't miss ALICE VAN
“Champion Cowgirl of America”
At the State's Unrivalled Exhibition
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MARCH 22 TO 31 • NINE DAYS AND SEVEN NIGHTS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capita] Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout tin
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
The Long White Cloud
These “Censorship” Bothers
Censorship idiosyncrasies exist in
Maoriland as well as in Australia, and
there has been recent complaint of the
way Government officials are slicing
American magazines. But this is a pin-
prick compared with Maoriland’s major
“censorship” bothers.
Prime Minister Savage soon leaves for
the Coronation, and Parliament does not
reassemble until August; but he says
Maoriland must wait till then before he’ll
give the details of the purchase and opera-
tion by the Government of the Welling-
ton produce-distributing house of Picot
Bros. Maorilanders want to know the
cost and how much director Picot is
being paid.
Again, the Government Stores Control
Board will not disclose precise informa-
tion concerning tenders. The board says
“tenderers stipulated that their prices
must be treated as confidential,” and the
board itself “is firmly of the opinion that
it is not in the interests of the Dominion
to disclose the particulars of prices paid
for stores”!
Now for Minister Semple:
Cities of the ancient world rose or fell
as caravans called or passed them by;
great ports grew when ocean travel lines
drew near; towns have grown to cities or
returned to village slumber as railroads
turned to them or from them and the
story will be repeated for those countries
which will be upon the great traffic lines
in the coming age of wonder [air] transpor-
tation.
Nevertheless the people are still waiting
for an air-service announcement. Is the
Savage Government encouraging Pan-
American Airways to bring M.L. within
three days of San Francisco or is it fall-
ing in with British wishes?
Government secrecy engenders mis-
trust.
“D.N.”: Some of the vigor born of
the soil has crept back into Maoriland’s
political language since Labor won the
Treasury benches. Minister of Public
Works Semple has been widely quoted
overseas ; Minister of Mines Webb now
and then looses a few striking meta-
phors ; Minister of Lands Langstone,
though frequently helped out of verbal
tangles by a long-suffering press, fires
a few more. Attorney-General Mason
has broken new ground; his latest is
more than a lusty, earthy simile—it
smacks of an imagery unsuspected in such
an enthusiastic amateur statistician. “If
these forms were laid flat on top of one
another,” he said recently, “they would
reach higher than the giant tower at the
Titahi Bay [Wellington] radio station.”
The forms? Oh, merely applications for
mortgage relief.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Premier Ogilvie, who plans
to attract tourists by developing Tas-
mania’s winter playgrounds, might col-
lect some useful tips from an equally
Labor Government in Maoriland.
Latter’s Tourist Department is dabbling
with the idea of running funicular rail-
ways from the Chateau Tongariro (Mt.
Ruapehu), the Hermitage (Mt. Cook),
Waiho (Franz Josef glacier) and Weheka
(Fox glacier); information is being sought
in Switzerland, where funicular railways
have been operating successfully for
many years. They save skiers gruelling
uphill climbs from mountain houses to
snowfields, besides providing sightseers
with comfortable opportunities for seeing
more of the mountains. Maoriland has
one big advantage over Tas.; the Hermi-
tage, Waiho and Weheka are South
Island resorts all within easy reach of
ski-ing grounds that are nearly as good
in the summer as they are in the winter.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Australian dailies would
have used more about Rua, Urawera’s
Maori prophet who died the other day,
if they had been sure of the number of
wives. While the Melbourne “Herald”
credited him with 10, the “Argus” took
a deep breath and made it 12 ; but back
in May, 1934, the Rotorua “Chronicle”
noted that Rua had just bagged his 16th!
He was then 65 and his children were
estimated at 83 ; the “Chronicle” observed
that Rua hoped to reach his century
“before he rubbed noses with his fore-
fathers east of Te Reinga.”
“Mak”: Rua’s assiduous devotion to
the role of Solomon followed his earlier
appearance as Messiah and Kaiser.
More than 20 years ago he announced
from his Urawera stronghold that, on a
certain date, he was to be invested with
Messianic powers, and with his people he
went to the coast to “walk the waters.”
On the beach he harangued his long-
“So then he insist on kissin you twice. T'at all?”
”T'at all he had to insist.”
haired followers; did they believe he
could do it? Yes, they did. “In that
case,” said the wily Rua in a long and
picturesque Maori speech, “there is no
need for me to go to all the trouble” ; so
they went back to their mountains. In
1916 the police learned Rua was trading
in liquor ; about the same time he was
served with a bluey for neglecting to pay
his taxes —but his only response was an
insulting message to the presiding magis-
trate. The first police party was routed
by Rua’s followers, and the prophet, with
a nice sense of the topical, announced
himself as Kaiser and prophesied that
the other Kaiser was to meet him at
Whakatane, the peaceful river town
fronted by the white sand of the east
coast sea where he died the other day.
About 40 grim policemen headed for the
Rua country, and after a bush gun-
battle fought amid the barking of village
mongrels a handcuffed Rua left his wail-
ing women. Following a 56-day trial, he
went to gaol—and came out as Solomon.
“Motu”: Administrators of Maori-
land justice certainly deny the general
existence of bookmakers (B. 17/2/’37),
but they frequently sponsor swift police
raids on known operators —and the
guilty ones who get nabbed too often
sometimes go to gaol. There was one
in Sydney the other day; he described
himself to the “Sun” as a “martyr in
the cause of turf progress,” and, although
proud enough of the 20,000 signatures
that petitioned clemency for him, sor-
rowfully admitted that he had had to
serve his term. But the Maoriland
bookies stick together; the martyr got
five tons of Christmas dinner, much to
the satisfaction of the other 190 who
were in that gaol over Christmas.
* * * *
“Korero”: The National party, still
in the sulky stage, is a long way from
being a spirited and effective critic of the
Labor regime. Most of the bullets aimed
at Mr. Savage by a press largely anti-
Labor in sympathy have been shaped by
a chambers-of-commerce chain that
began churning out economic criticisms,
well salted with statistics, as soon as
Labor got into office. Adam Hamilton,
leader of the deplorably weak Opposi-
tion, has started out to team a hesitant
and divided Farmers’ Union with this
critical faction; even if he persuades
them to take the road together his driving
worries will be just beginning.
“Kiwit”: The truth of Bishop Ben-
nett’s remark that the pakeha is 2000 years
old and the Maori only 100 years (B.
24/2/’37) is most evident in isolated
Maori settlements. But the race is
making up for its age disparity; its
blood is already mingled with that of
many old white families, and at the
present time some native leaders are
keen intermarriage advocates. Te Ari
Pitama, in the South Island, has a list
of famous Maorilanders of mixed blood,
and only a few days ago said:
Many noble English families have had
their greatness enhanced by intermarriage
with Polynesians. It is the only solution
for the survival of the Maori. Until practi-
cal contact has been made —spiritually,
intellectually and physically—the pakeha
has little-hope of understanding the Maori.
Yet, curiously enough, this passage from
a G. B. Lancaster story written some
years ago still holds:
Between the Maori man and the Maori
woman is all this difference. The woman,
by herself, her daughters and grand-
daughters, may mate with a white man.
For the Maori man, there is nothing of
this kind. No white woman weds with
him, to the third generation. And he,
knowing it, shapes his life accordingly,
and has no desire that it should be other-
wise. In his dignified soul he has tolera-
tion for the alien, and perhaps a little
contempt.
* * * *
“M.”: South Westland has been
handed another political promise—but
this time there are reasons why a rail-
way might soon be pushed southward
through districts at present relying for
transport on packhorse and ’planes. With
more than 130,000 tons of boxed butter
leaving Maoriland every year, northern
pine forests are nearly cut out; S. West-
land has stretches of white pine, the most
suitable butter-box timber. Neither the
faithful horse nor the successful air ser-
vice inaugurated by Pilot Mercer can
freight timber over the rough miles to
the railway terminus that has remained
at Ross since Dick Seddon died 30 years
ago. In those years successive Welling-
ton Parliaments have supplied promises
instead of extension gangs, but if Maori-
land’s dairy cows continue to
milk well S. Westland should
soon get a railway that will be
more to its settlers than just a
butter-box expr e s s. Labor’s
Minister of Industries and Com-
merce Sullivan qualified his
transport-improvement promise
with the fair-enough statement
that forests in the south will
have to be officially investigated
before any sleepers are laid.
* * *
“Waitot”: Under Maoriland’s
Agricultural Workers Act, the.
minimum floor space for farm
hands’ sleeping-rooms is stipu-
lated and types of acceptable mat-
tresses are named. There must be “suit-
able” heating and lighting, and, where
steam is available, hot and cold showers
must be provided. No one could quarrel
with the ideal behind these regulations—
on paper they are grand. But too much
depends on possible methods of enforce-
ment for any Maoriland fartner to feel
at all happy about them; under pin-
pricking inspectors they could become a
constant annoyance. Curiously enough,
these accommodation requirements were
announced only a day after another
Labor Minister disclosed the fact that
nearly 34,000 Maorilanders have ap-
plied for mortgage relief —and most of
them farmers!
* * * *
“Xo”: Following Australia’s 1934 lead,
the Maoriland Government has just con-
ducted a scenario competition. Four
efforts have been weeded out of 135 and
sent to Australia for “expert criticism.”
Whether the scenarios have gone to
private Australian critics or to the Com-
monwealth film publicity people isn’t
clear to interested Maorilanders, some
of whom feel that more expert, though
possibly less encouraging, criticism would
have been received from further abroad.
Australian films are certainly improving,
but most of them—and many of the
official publicity efforts, too —could have
been improved by more expert prelimi-
nary scenario criticism and a viciously
efficient pair of scissors.


“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Owing to an increase in the price of this
magazine, subscriptions are now 16/6 per
year in Australia, acceptable at The
Bulletin office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy !
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator —easy to iustal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW,
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7. 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders. 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage.
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
9 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
ķ
ĸ
Radio Constructors.
A limited number of > ssue , s ,
of “Australian
(formerly published by The u
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful * ‘
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy,
age included.
RADIO NEWS.
Dumb Skylanes.
That in 1937, anywhere in the world,
it she uld be possible, for a passenger
’plane -or a mobile unit of any kino.
to disappear without a sign seems ji-
credible, with radio communication as
advanced as it now is. Even when the
Southern Cloud vanished on the Sydney-
Melbourne run some, years ago, radio
was sufficiently advanced for a mes-
sage to have come through. Radio was
not employed, nor was it on the Stinson
’plane which, with pilot and passengers,
is at time of writing missing on the
Brisbane-Sydney route.
Not only should there be radio equip-
ment on passenger ’planes, but there
should be drastic alteration in present
methods of employing it. Of course,
radio equipment is not going to save an
airliner from sudden disaster, nor can
it help, with present methods, unless the
operator has time to slam out his posi-
tion and that brief call is heard and
identified. But if a continuous signal
were radiated, interrupted only to give
position and details of progress at regu-
lar intervals, cessation of such a signal
would give a fair idea of where to start
looking for a missing craft.
This is not' an untried idea. When
the Smith-Shiers monoplane was en
route for England in 1930 the writer was
operator at the Wyndham meatworks ex-
perimental radio station. Using a live-
watt battery-operated transmitter on 34
metres, Smith kept his signal radiating,
with occasional interpolation of posi-
tion, height, conditions, etc. The. receiver
at Wyndham was kept tuned to this
signal, and when it suddenly diminished
in strength, with a slow but positive
change in frequency, it was sensed at the
receiving end that the ’plane was
approaching earth. A little later came
the distress call, weak but readable, to
the effect that they were down in wild
country with a broken camshaft. It
took search parties three days to reach
them, but an approximate, position was
known.
When “Smithy” crossed the Pacific in
the “Old Bus” in 1928 the constantly-
whining 800-cycle note, keyed at inter-
vals by Jim Warner, gave a feeling of
confidence among all those glued to re-
ceivers (the writer one of them) that the
fliers would win through. If they had
gone down, though the Pacific is vast,
there would have been, with the position
known, a fighting chance of a rescue if
the ’plane kept afloat.
A constant signal is needed. Pilots
and owners say that short waves are
somewhat unreliable ; they also say the
600-metre marine wave has disadvan-
tages. Why not both simultaneously?
Two transmitters can be keyed together,
on short and medium waves; a con-
stant marker signal should be. kept on
the air the whole time the machine is
in flight. Then there is the (in this
country) almost unexplored ultra-short-
wave beam. With suitable radiating
systems, such as the proved Bruce, it
would be possible to cover the whole
Brisbane-Sydney route by establishing
an intermediate station —say, at Taree
(N.S.W.). The two terminal stations
could have reflector curtains to con-
centrate the ground signal north and
south respectively. The intermediate
station would operate “bi-directional.”
Taking signals from a plane would be
a matter of receiving on the same beam
aerials.
An ultra-short-wave beam aerial has
the effect of lifting signal strength enor-
mously when used for reception as well
as transmission, and a frequency well
below the atmospheric level and yet re-
taining the utility of distance can be
found under such conditions. It is not a
matter of point-to-point communication
between ground stations, but with an
ultra-short-wave station at a high eleva-
tion. Even novices know that this can
be done, and it merits trial. Additionally,
'planes should be compelled to carry a
small emergency distress transmitter
(battery operation and a gum-tree aerial
would be sufficient) to use in the event
of a forced but safe landing in dense and
isolated country.
D.B.K.
Air-Cell Radio Receivers.
The following is a brief outline of the
major points to be observed when
designing a receiver to be operated by
the Eveready Air-Cell.
The designer can choose any circuit
he likes, but he must not place a drain
exceeding 650 milliamperes on the Air-
Cell, and he must see to it that the correct
amount of resistance is included in the
wiring between the A battery and the
valves to prevent valve damage due to
over-voltage, and to ensure full battery
life by not under-voltaging the valves.
The drain on the Air-Cell is determined
only by the number of valve and lamp
filaments connected to it. There is no
objection to the use of a pilot or dial lamp,
so long as its current drain, added to that
of the valves, does not exceed 650 milli-
amperes. In the. early days of the Air-
Cell the only dial lamps available drew
0.5 ampere (500 milliamperes), which was
so close to the 650 milliampere limit of
the battery that not enough margin was
left for an adequate, number of valves.
Of late, lamps drawing only 0.06 ampere
(60 milliamperes) have been produced,
which removes the former restriction on
lamps, except in those cases where the
valve load itself is so close to 650 milli-
amperes that the addition of another
60 milliamperes would increase the total
beyond the danger point.
The matter of correct resistance in the
wiring between the A battery and the
valves is rather simple, but it is in this
phase of receiver design that errors are
most commonly found. The voltage of
the Air-Cell is higher than the rated
valve filament voltage, and if impressed
full strength on the valves they would
have shorter life. To prevent the voltage
reaching the valves being too high it. is
necessary to insert some resistance in the
wiring to absorb the excess voltage gene-
rated by the battery. The voltage dis-
charge curve of the Air-Cell battery is so
nearly flat that this protective resistance
does not have to possess any regulating
characteristics; a simple, fixed, non-
adjustable resistor will work perfectly,
provided it is of the correct value.
If the amount of resistance inserted in
the filament wiring is too low, the voltage
reaching the valves will be too high, and
short valve life will result. On the other
hand, if the resistance is too high, the
voltage delivered to the valves will be
too low and will fall to the point where
the valves cease operating before the bat-
tery is fully discharged; which means
short battery life. The leeway between
too little resistance and too much is
narrow, and it is because of this that the
makers of Air-Cell have decided to check
pre-production models of all receivers to
be sure that when they go on the market
there will be no complaints either of
short valve life or of short battery life.
The correct way to design the protec-
tive resistor is to so proportion it that with
a brand-new, freshly-activated Air-Cell
the voltage delivered to the valve termi-
nals is 2.20 volts. Under the normal
range of radio loads, the initial closed-
circuit voltage of a freshly-activated Air-
Cell on its first discharge is 2.53 volts.
The resistance associated with the fila-
ment wiring must be of the value to absorb
the difference between 2.53 battery volts
and 2.20 valve volts, or 0.33 volt. The
amount of resistance required to produce
this drop of 0.33 volt is determined by
Ohm’s law, which says that the resistance
(in ohms) is equal to the voltage divided
by the current in amperes. In this case,
the voltage is always 0.33 volt; the cur-
rent is the sum of the individual valve
and lamp currents.
The valves used in the U.S.A. have
their filaments rated at two volts, and
they draw their rated current at this
voltage. They will draw more than their
rated current when the voltage is 2.20
volts, and the figure used in calculating
the required resistance must be the higher
current resulting from the higher voltage,
since it is under
these conditions
that we wish to
produce a drop of
0.33 volt. It is not
necessary to meas-
ure this higher cur-
rent ; it can be cal-
culated. A valve
which draws 60
mill iamperes at
two volts will draw
64 milliamperes at
2.20 volts. There-
fore, to calculate
the resistance re-
quired for any
proposed receiver,
multiply its rated filament current by
64/60 and divide the result into 0.33.
The answer will be ohms required.
The rated current of the receiver is the
sum of the individual valve rated cur-
rents, as published by the valve manu-
facturers.
As an example, take a receiver whose
rated filament current is 540 milliamperes.
This is the rated current which flows
when the voltage is two volts. Multiply
540 by 64/60, and you get 576 milli-
amperes, or 0.576 ampere, which is the
current which will flow when the voltage
reaching the valves is 2.20 volts. Divide
0.33 (the required voltage drop) by 0.576
ampere, and you get 0.573 ohm, which
is the amount of resistance which must
be inserted between the battery and the
valves.
Note this important point: The resist-
ance so calculated is the total amount re-
quired, and this total is made up of two
parts —the resistance of the battery leads
and the resistance of the fixed resistor
which must be designed. Therefore, to
obtain the value of the fixed resistor, sub-
tract the lead resistance (which can be
calculated or measured) from the total
as just figured, and the remainder is the
resistance required for the resistor.
Battery-lead resistance varies through
wide limits, depending on the set-de-
signers’ individual idea, some using short,
stocky leads, others preferring long, slim
ones ; but, in any event, it is easily calcu-
lated or measured. Generally speaking,
the lead resistance of receivers submitted
to the Air-Cell laboratory averages some-
where about 0.14 ohm. Assuming that
the leads of the hypothetical set under
discussion have a resistance of 0.14 ohm,
the resistor must have a value of 0.573,
0.14 or 0.433 ohm. In regular production
a limit of tolerance of plus or minus
5 p.c. from the calculated value is permis-
sible.
E.C.A.
Amateur Chatter.
Identity of a station signing STIAB
or ETIAB on the 40-metre band has
caused speculation. Two reports of
QSOs are to hand, one from VK2DQ
Broken Hill (N.S.W.), the other from
Gordon Kempton, VK2CI Sydney. A
QSI arrived for VK2CI from the dis-
tanl station, establishing identity as
Rotatable array! How the revolving
directive five-metre aerial system is con-
trolled at experimental station VK2NO.
A hand-wheel in the operating-room
controls the direction of the beam on the
roof by a system of ropes and pulleys.
Lieut. A. Boccaletti, Ist Btg. Ceasmiss,
Dessye, Ethiopia. Power used is only 10
watts input to a small portable trans-
mitter and a full-wave zepp aerial. Boc-
caletti worked with VK2CI for over H
hours non-stop, a very creditable per-
formance for a portable “QRP” station.
The Italian army evidently possesses
some very efficient equipment.
Although the 20-metre band seems to
be upoermost in DX minds, the 40-metre
is no laggard. Nourse, VK2DQ, has been
knocking them off without much trouble,
and has worked CR7, FBB, VQ, ZT, ZU,
ZE, VU, XU and J at odd times. With
the advent of winter, this band should
begin to fill again, and so should 80
metres.
The 20-metre band is alive at the week-
ends with aspirants for honors in the.
1937 B.E.R.U. contest, and sundry VK
keys are tapping in fine style. A story
is told of two Sydney rivals in a pre-
vious contest. Scores were fairly even
when both arranged to attend a W.I.A.
meeting which fell on a contest night.
One arrived, inquired for the other,
found he hadn’t turned up, and tore
home to get the transmitter warmed up.
Meanwhile the other chap arrived at the
meeting. Contests are excellent tor
working up a good standard of tele-
graphic proficiency, even if they develop,
as they often do, into marathons.
DX is good again on 20, and Ameri-
cans are appearing in great strength with
their California kilowatt ’phones. In case
anybody has doubts when working a
Briton signing GM for a prefix, this is
the new international prefix for Scotland
which, like the Emerald Isle, likes to be
different.
Five metres is getting a pasting
from transceivers. It is a pity that any-
one with access to up-to-date valves and
components should adopt 1933 methous
in 1937. Stations are arriving weekly in
the Sydney district, and the babeloi
confusion is being intensified. It is behind


L°nc
Lift
IfTTEpY
LOWER PRICE,
HIGHER EFFICIENCY
That is how Impex is helping
you to better Radio.
45-volt Triple 15/.
45-volt H.D 12/6
IMPEX
Impex, Ltd., HoddleSt., Abbotsford, Vic.
181 Clarence St., Sydney.
Position Wanted.
RADIO ENGINEER, with full qualifications,
13 years’ experience, requires position with
B-class station. —No. 279, c/o The Bulletin,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
For Sale
Special Two-valve
SHORT-WAVE RECEIVER.
Covers 10 to 550 metres. Laboratory-type
tuning condenser and dial. Series bandspread.
Uses 6C6 and 38 valves. Compact and com-
pletely screened. Readily portable. Com-
plete with valves and all coils 3LO
DON B. KNOCK,
C/o The Bulletin.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
times to use a super-regenerative receiver
without at least an aerial coupling valve.
In circuit design of commercial trans-
receivers in the latest Jones handbook a
buffer valve is invariably used ahead of
the detector, even with a humble bat-
tery-operated outfit. A 6D6 or 58 (and
even a IC4) will give definite gain and
sharpening of selectivity if properly
coupled to the detector and tuned. If
the utmost in gain is wanted for DX pur-
poses, it is necessary to use the 956 or
954 type valves, designed expressly for
the purpose. No loss in signal strength
will be encountered in local working with
a buffer R.F. valve of any kind, even if
untuned, but re-radiation will be cut out,
which is the important thing. The use
of radiating receivers on five metres to-
day is akin to using an old PI receiver
on the broadcast band in a crowded
suburb.
As a suggestion for those building
superhets for five metres, it may be said
that extra coils to cover the seven-metre
range might result in something being
heard from Alexandra Palace (London)
television transmissions. It is worth try-
ing for, even with a straight tuned R.F.
receiver.
VK2NO.
Power Supplies in the Arctic.
An interesting description of equip-
ment used on the 1936 .Oxford Uni.
Arctic Expedition is given by A. B.
Whatman, 8.A., of the Royal Corps of
Signals, in the “Electrical Engineer”
(England). The object of the. expedition
was to study the structure of the ice-cap,
which was found to be rapidly diminish-
ing. These vast areas of ice, of which
the largest is in Greenland, exert a con-
siderable influence on Northern Hemi-
sphere weather; their extent may be
appreciated from the fact that if the
Greenland ice-cap were completely
melted all the seas of the world would
rise 18ft.
One of the expedition’s stations, occu-
pied for four months, was equipped with
a radio receiver; the other, which had
a comprehensive system of sub-surface
workings and was occupied for 10
months, was provided with a transmitter
as well as receiver. The apparatus was
an Eddystone All-World Four receiver,
run off dry batteries, and a Gambrell
self-excited C.W. ’phone transmitter,
supplied with power from a pedal-driven
generator made by Mortley, Sprague and
Co. This machine supplied both A and
B potentials, and was used every day for
10 months. The effort required to
generate 18 watts at six volts, plus 15
watts at 500 volts, is equivalent to pedal-
ling an ordinary bicycle along the level
at a moderate speed. It was concluded
that the pedal-driven generator is un-
rivalled for transmitter power supplies in
isolated places. Other possible power
supplies are dry batteries, but, apart
from the trouble of transportation and
cost, they are not suitable for such work
at temperatures below minus 25deg. F.
The pedal-driven generator weighs only
501 b. and is ready for instant use.
Pedal-driven radio transmitter genera-
tors have found an excellent proving
ground in Australia. They are used by
Australian Inland Mission stations with
conspicuous success, and Amalgamated
Wireless also makes good use of
“bicycle” generators in several Pacific
islands.
D.B.K.
All Round the Dial.
“Wad”: Maoriland is to have a pub-
lication of the type suggested by “W.C.”
3/2/’37). To be published weekly
at “a reasonable charge,” a Government-
controlled journal containing radio pro-
grammes and the best of the talks that
have been put over will make its appear-
ance a few months hence,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A cabled report of
a Hitler speech says: “Herr Hitler’s
immediate audience was the 741 mem-
bers of the Reichstag, with a fringe of
diplomats, leading citizens and pressmen,
but Germany’s 67,000,000 had been told
to listen in.” Wrong! The immediate
audience would be the listening-in mil-
lions, their reception being several thou-
sandths of a second in advance of the
members. Wireless waves have the same
speed as light, and are so much faster
than sound waves that a concert broad-
cast in a London hall 300 ft. long would
be heard by listeners in Australia before
it reached the audience at the back of
the hall.
* * * #
“Scanner”: Television seems a long
way off for Australia, and it is time
Inside the B.B.C. receiving and checking
station at Tatsfield, showing the four
short-wave relaying receivers in the
receiver-room. In addition to checking
long-, medium- and short-wave stations,
Tarsfield is also the receiving station of
the B.B.C. through which programmes
are relayed from overseas, passed through
to Broadcasting House, and then dis-
tributed as required.
something was done about it. Though
as launched overseas it may as yet be
considered experimental and expensive,
it is nevertheless television, and a big busi-
ness is already build-
ing up around it.
Here the press one
day states that some-
body has acquired
rights of a promi-
nent European sys-
tem ; next day the
Commonwealth
Director of Posts
and Telegraphs is
reported to have
issued warning
to the effect that
“t h e Department
will not permit,”
etc. If Government,
through the Postal
Department, intends
to make it a mono-
poly, isn’t it time it
did something prac-
tical? If that isn’t
the idea, shouldn’t private enterprise be
encouraged to get on with it?
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: It may be coincidence or
sheer cussedness, but Britain and U.S.A.
seem to strive to be different in every-
thing. Railways and roads, for instance:
Britain goes left and U.S.A. goes right!
Same thing applies in radio. In the early
days there were arguments regarding the
merits of the UX valve socket as against
Britain’s different pin arrangements, to
say nothing of valve comparisons. The
latest glaring example has to do with the
“acorn” valves for ultra-short-wave work.
These, first developed in U.S.A., are the
R.C.A. 955, 954, and now the 956. At
a later date —much later —British-made
“acorns” put in an appearance. Adver-
tisements in English radio journals read:
“Acorn valve-holder. English spacing,
90 degrees; American spacing, 60 de-
grees.” Now, why on earth couldn’t
those British “acorns” have been made
with the same pin-spacing as the Radio-
trons? Also, why a four-volt filament in
the British “acorn” when the U.S.A. pre-
decessor —at which there are no growls—
is standardised at 6.3 volts? It’s nearly
as bad an example of sheer cussedness
as the gauges of Australian railways.
Empire Broadcasting
Service.
All programme press details are given
in Greenwich Mean Time. Correct to
local time as follows:
Australia. Hours.
West .. .. .. .. 8
South .. .. .. .. .. +9{
Queensland .. .. .. .. + It)
New South Wales .. .. .. 4- 10
Victoria .. .. .. .. +lO
Tasmania .. .. .. .. +lO
The Empire transmitters at Daventry
can operate on any three of the following
frequencies simultaneously:
Frequency, Wave-length,
Me. Metres.
GSA .. .. 6.05 .. 49.59
GSB .. .. 9.51 .. 31.55
GSC .. .. 9.58 .. 31.32
GSD .. .. 11.75 .. 25.53
GSE .. .. 11.86 .. 25.29
GSF .. .. 15.14 .. 19.82
GSG .. .. 17.79 .. 16.86
GSH .. .. 21.47 .. 13.97
GSI .. .. 15.26 .. 19.66
GSJ .. .. 21.53 .. 13.93
GSK .. .. 26.10 .. 11.49
GSL .. .. 6.11 .. 49.10
GSN .. .. 11.82 .. 25.38
GSO .. .» 15.18 . . 19.76
GSP .. .. 15.31 .. 19.60
Radio Technicalities.
“Sub Terranean”: After having tried
i,* a „ * 1 • 1 r °
eveiy kind of external aerial for recep-
tion, I turned to the underground variety,
Sixteen V.I.R. cable was fed through the
floor of the room adjacent to the set, and
~, ’ *
at a convenient spot in the garden a hole
3ft. deep was dug. The V.I.R. was
soldered to sft. of heavy bare copper
wire, folded in three-ply, and buried
+- ii • ~ , , r, 1. ,
vertically in the hole. Results are excel-
Skywires! A few of the experimental antennee in use at
station VK2NO, Waverley, N.S.W. Two Bruce systems
and one Reinartz for five-metre work are visible in
this view..
lent here in Fremantle (W.A.). Stations
are steadier and clearer than with the
best external aerial I have tried, and
that on a mast 45ft. high. Needless to
say, such an underground aerial is not
affected by temperature or weather con-
ditions and is cheap. Another under-
ground type I have tried uses lead-
covered wire inside a length of garden
hose with a vertical extremity buried
9ft.; the result is only a little better
than the other.
[Underground aerials have been used
from the beginning of radio communica-
tion, and are associated primarily with
the name of Dr. Rogers, of U.S.A. To
be truly “underground,” the entire col-
lector, including the lead-in from earth,
must be completely screened all the way
to the receiver. Otherwise even a short
length of unscreened lead-in will pick
up energy and nullify the desired effect
of the underground collector.
D.B.K.J
Croydon aerodrome, London, is test-
ing ultra-short-wave radio beacons for
blind approach. The systems installed
are the Lorenz, Plessy and Marconi, all
using the same principles—a main
beacon of nine-metre wave-length giving
a defined path of approach to the aero-
drome from a distance of 10 to 15
miles, with two “marker” beacons which
emit a fan-shaped screen upwards to tell
the pilot when he is (a) one and a half
to two miles from the aerodrome, and
(b) when he is about 300yds. from the
boundary.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
Philips “Technical Communication,”
No. 56, introduces the new-type EM I
Electron Star tuning indicator and an
application note on the AL2 power pen-
tode for us in class AB audio ampli-
fication. The EMI is a miniature
cathode ray tube with a novel form of
clover-leaflike illumination. A 6.3-volt
tube with the Philips universal “P” base,
it can be used to advantage in all mains-
operated receivers incorporating auto-
matic volume control.
# # ;J*
J. L. Coote, formerly sales manager of
Standard Telephones and Cables (Aust.)
in Wellington (M.L.), has taken over a
position as manager of the S.T.C. Radio
Division at Sydney head office. He made
a name in the radio trade in M.L. when
he launched for S.T.C. a campaign on
behalf of Raytheon valves. This was so
successful that the M.L. Customs returns
for 1936 recorded that 55.4 p.c. of the
valves imported (and all valves are im-
ported) were Raytheons. S.T.C. and Ray-
theon valves have always been among the
leaders in M.L. Australian radio dealers
will see a lot of J. L. Coote in his new
capacity. Apart from an intimate know-
ledge of S.T.C. products he possesses a
fund of knowledge;, and experience of the
retail trade that dealers can draw on to
their advantage.
The Question Box.
Address of Sterling Radio Co., referred to
B. 17/2/’37 in connection with the Air-Cell?
—5OO.
539 Elizabeth-street (South), Sydney, N.S.W.
* * sK *
My home-made crystal receiver uses a
.0003 mfd. variable condenser, but I am having
difficulty with the coils. What number of turns
should be wound on a 2\in. former to cover
200 to 500 metres? —501.
Sixty-five turns of No. 30 D.S.C. copper wire
should cover the range.
* * * *
(1) Number of turns on coils and size of
formers for use with the single-valve (D. 8 .240)
circuit published in B. 7/10/’36. ? (2) Capa-
cities of variable condensers ? (3) Price of
valve ? —502.
(1) and (2) Depends on what wave-length
range is wanted; also capacity of grid-tuning
condenser. The usual constants will hold good
for short waves and broadcast. (3) The valve is
not ordinarily obtainable in Australia, but this
Page is informed that the Eastern Trading Co.,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney, has secured the dis-
tributing agency for the British Hivac valves.
Try that firm.
i\i ijt $
(1) I am considering buying a short-wave re-
ceiver for use 500 miles north of Brisbane. Can
you recommend a receiver that will suit? (2)
Would I get better reception on short waves
with a dual-wave set than with a short-wave
receiver ? —503.
(1) Any receiver advertised in The Bulletin
can be relied upon. (2) Not necessarily, but the
modern dual-wave superhet has the advantage
that it is simple to use and very effective.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
British made. Fool
proof and trouble proof.
Burn for .1.0 h'ours on
1} pints of kerosene.
Three times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted with
► PYREX . Globes and
insect proof fitting’s.
Model EX4 AH' Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 47/6
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table , Wall, Vase and
Other lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO., LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Minerals for Dry Cows. -
“MORE GALLONS!” You must feed
a cow if you want milk... The cows won t
do any good on those ' dry paddocks.
Certainly they’ll forage round' and seem
to get enough to keep them alive.. Is
that all you want?
I feed my dry cows and give them Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour too —that’s why my
herd milks much longer than it used to.
Another tip that I’ve found useful —give
the Tri-cal-os lick to the milking cows
while they are in the bails. You are sure
of them getting it.
Ask Davis Gelatine (Aust.), Ltd., to send a
35835, Sydney, will find them.
i
■ In
folder. G.P.O. Box
Old Farmer.
INCREASE
YOUR LAMBING
BY USING
SEXINE
FOR YOUR RAMS.
IF your Rams, Stallions or Boars fail in
I the desired vitality, call SEXINE to
their aid. It acts immediately and is
absolutely harmless to the system. One
tablet, dissolved in water and given as
drench, or dry powdered and nuxed. with
a small quantity of food, wlll . g , ive We
desired result. Write for pamphlets. JVe
] lQ ld flattering testimonials from wel
known graziers.
PRICE: 13/6 PER TUBE OF TEN
TABLETS.
Lesser Strengths for Dogs, Cats, Birds, etc.
G. ARNOLD & CO.
LIMITED,
e»l
Dept. 8., 35 Pitt St., Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTIS LINSEED MEAL.
Superfine v. Medium Wools.
“Murrawong”: Growers of fine wool
have had more encouragement this year
than for some time ; but the real posi-
tion is that the rise in the market was
of equal benefit to growers of good 64’s
and 66’s, free from fault.
In N.S.W. Yass clips put it all over
New England wools. The season was
certainly in their favor, but these days
buyers want warp types, and the char-
acteristic shorter N. Eng. wools, especi-
ally the clothing types, are not in strong
favor.
Fancy prices for top lines look well
in the headlines, but the average price
per pound must be considered with the
average weight per sheep. Compare
prices received this year for ( a ) a New
Eng. clip, bulk 70-74’s, with some lines
of 80’s, and ( b ) a clip from the s.-w.
slopes of 66-64’s quality:
Top Price. Average. Cut Per Head.
(a) 30|d. 23d. 71b.
(b) 27yd. 23d. lOflb.
The N. Eng. clip average included
crutchings, but no lambs. The other
clip included lambs, but no crutchings.
The return per head of the superfine
clip was 13s. 5d.; of the medium wool
clip 19s. Bd. This latter was only an
average clip. Several well-known brands
of similar type sold even better.
Although superfine fleece wools have
sold at higher prices per pound, broken
pieces, bellies and locks have not shown
the same margin over good medium
spinners’ wools, prices per pound being
in many cases identical.
A grower is tied to a certain extent
by the class of country he owns, but
many graziers on light-carrying hill
country continue to breed small-framed,
light-cutting sheep when they would do
much better with big-framed wethers.
This has been abundantly proved in N.
England, where, although the top price
of the wether wool was 34d. below that
for super ewe lines, the bulky wether
lines and shaftier warp staple beat the
average price of the ewes by -yd., and
there was a difference of 2|lb. in the
cut per head in their favor.
“Jaundice” in Sheep.
“Corriedale”: Losses from “yellows”
in northern Victoria and Riverina have
become severe enough, to warrant re-
search by both N.S.W. and Vic.
Veterinary Research Institutes and the
C.S. and I.R. A few months ago it
was reported that the cause had been
found, but this is by no means certain,
and a remedy seems as far off as ever.
Research at first indicated that the
disease was caused by Cl. welchii, type
A —a member of the same family as that
causing entero-toxaemia —but this has
not been proved. Diet is also suspected
of causing trouble. It is mostly fat sheep
that are infected, and only in certain
districts. If portion of a mob is re-
moved to another dissimilar part of the
country, losses often cease. This, how-
ever, is compatible with a localised in-
cidence of a germ.
Another theory is that jaundice results
from too great an intake of copper,
either in drinking water, footrot baths
or drenches.
“Albarmount”: Yellows in sheep and
red-water in cattle are the same disease.
In N. S. Wales mortality has ranged up
to 55 per cent, in sheep and 100 per
cent, in calves.
With sheep susceptibility seems to in-
crease with age, and the trouble occurs
far more often in British breeds, especi-
ally fats, than in merinos. In cattle,
dairy calves up to four months old fed
on skimmed milk and green feed suffer
most.; Calf infection always occurs in
spring ; sheep contract the disease at any
time.
Symptoms in sheep arc muddy-colored
mucous membranes, yellowish skips and
“Git a move on an cook this for hreakfus'."
"Jus’ like a man! Always bin thinkin of his slummick .”
urine red to brown in color. Stricken
animals separate from the flock, become
feverish and stand listlessly with heads
down. Mostly they have it in acute
form and die within 24 hours. In less
severe cases, diarrhoea sets in, causing
much loss of condition, but the animal
has a fair chance of slowly recovering.
Cattle also refuse to feed, stand de-
jectedly, the pulse and breathing quicken
and death occurs within 24 hours. Chief
symptom is the claret color of the urine
N.S.W. departmental vets, injected
anti-serum into three calves. They
escaped, but the balance of ; the pen
(nine) became infected and died.
Compulsory Age-marks?
“B-gar”: Several branches of the
N. S. Wales Graziers’ Association have
resolutions listed for discussion at the
annual conference suggesting “that the
Government be requested to establish a
compulsory uniform system of age-mark-
ing all flock sheep throughout N.S.W.”
The necessity has long been obvious,
but many, accustomed to using their own
systems, will no doubt object to being
forced* to change. Others who do not
-age-mark and have to mouth to deter-
mine .most of their sheep’s ages will also
oppose the suggestion. But the uniform
system is a sound safeguard.
Five-, seven- and ten-year cycle sys-
tems are in operation throughout the
various States, but even for the biggest
flocks a five-year cycle will fill all needs.
The chief objection to the scheme is
the time taken for the new method to
become universally established.
The greatest tyro at reading ear-marks
would find no trouble in determining
ages with an ordinary five-year cycle
system operating, and one that has stood
the test *of time is simplicity -itself. For
years 1940 and 1945 the ear is left, full.
For 19.41, and .1946 a plain point mark
could be used. For 1942 and 1947 a
notch in the front'of'the ear. In 1943
and 1948 a sawset or two notches in the
front of the ear, and in 1944 and 1949
a plain point mark and a notch in the
front of the ear.
The cycle then starts all over again.
The span is quite long enough, as it is
easy enough when drafting to discrimi-
nate between a young sheep and one
with the same age-mark five years older.
One great advantage of the system is
that drafting is-facilitated owing to the
fact of the marks showing either in the
apex or in the front of the ear.
Universal Tally.
“Ex-Shearer”; The slowing - down
which inevitably follows the introduc-
tion of a uniform tally must lead to
important alteration of present methods
of timing certain districts to follow on
from earlier sheds.
Many sheds begin with their own com-
plement of shearers and rouseabouts in-
stead of waiting for the cutout of the
delayed earlier sheds.
This will bring into the field a lot of
young men who do not now, on account
of the system, follow the several occu-
pations attendant on shearing. There
will not be long runs from shed to shed
as in the past.
W.A. Mulga Tests.
“R.S.K.”: The mulga tests by the
W.A. University, mentioned by “Jam-
wood” (B. 20/1 / ’37), did not help pas-
toralists to any great extent; it is signifi-
cant that Boolardy owners have sent a
considerable number of ewes south on
agistment. Hand-feeding, first tried on
a large scale in W.A. pastoral areas dur-
ing the present drought, has not proved
very successful. - ;
Most station men are now determined
that if they have a recurrence of the
drought they will simply let flocks
take their chances. In the heavy
scrub areas of the Murchison and Gas-
coyne all the sheep will not die, and the
survivors will not _be burdened with a
heavy fodder bill when rain does come.
Flocks could also be made up from ewes
| bought in the south. A fact often lost
sight of in the pastoral dis-
trict's is that there are more
sheep south of Geraldton than
there are north of it.
Grazing Oats.
“Granova”: Records of sheep
carried in each paddock of a
mixed-farming property in
Temora (N.S.W.) district show
the value of early oats for grazing.
The autumn being dry and the winter
very cold and wet, most paddocks, in-
cluding one sown to Wimmera rye
grass, did not average more than a sheep
per acre for the year. A similar pad-
dock, sown in March with a bushel of
Fulghum and 601 b. super., carried the
equivalent of ewes with lambs per
• acre, and a 170-acre paddock given the
same treatment carried 110 sheep for
the year. This paddock was not stocked
after July, and yielded 60 tons of hay
and 700 bags of grain.
The results would have been more im-
pressive in a normal season. Continual
winter rains prevented the oats from
being grazed down properly and the crop
matured too early, causing loss of grain
through tall patches ripening early and
shedding. The paddock now carries a
fine growth of self-sown oats.
The paddocks were sown after one
cultivation with a “combine.” To save
time some farmers are using discs fitted
with a seedbox and doing the job in one
operation.
(“Man on Land” continued on page 44.)


D
k
uSJs
m
a " f • >;v
K v
&
5^
%
oft
, A \eo-
#> • s w
.# ? tV e v° *S& s o^
A oXC * o«
YX®' , -upt e rt - P
' I ' V -* ■ „., '< # e t>'" V e !‘e
„aS® veV.v\e-
TjJVtS-
**;->Si^
< v^eS 06 ’ • v *P . .
S A otV ,e< oVC v>^
sO^
o.v> _ vJ^.^v.^ 6
V e
Ao*'
X e
\!o e
a
t<V
oft’ °^ v
s>o ,
vA _ „ Oo e 13 V>o^ e .\ fO C V . 'Ae^ft 01
e °>'
■a <U X6t > 6 ’ .
c <e t v vV® V e t
'# 6 ’ e aA\ s 1 # e
lV e s A v^ft V to s %
c° c \ A^6
c °
A
oV
V 5 w
Ce^ e \
v\# e
iV fgK'
[V®-, <e t e# v '
aA aK
ep'
t\v e <? ft w AO
AO oa,tV3
W
e
a**
pft
v>©A •
MILNE’S GIN
is guaranteed absolutely pure,
and taken with iced squash and
soda makes a delightful cooling
and health-giving drink.
Ask for MILNE’S GIN always,
and protect both your health
and your pocket.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SI
a
05
PRODUCE OF AUSTRALIA
MILNE & CO-
DISTILLERS, ADELAIDE.
N£T CONTENTS I PINT 6 FLUID O ZS.
New South Wales Distributors for the House of
CAWSEY MENCK T. & S., LTD
447 Kent Street, Sydney.
MILNE:


An Abbey model in a smart square
toe made in Black Velour Calf.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in
medium and wide fittings.
Price, 39/6.
AND SAVE
SHILLINGS PER PAIR
Every man buys some kind of
footwear —whether the quality is
good or poor is to the individual
taste.
Our Shoes are quality Shoes, giv-
ing comfort and fit to their buyer.
With these, advantages is obtained
that extra wear which makes
every quality article cheaper over
a longer period.
Be a quality buyer and lower the
price of your footwear.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
wnaa
unms
m
\
■
, • i
i
m
■Hi
■
I
<<* 1-iMlfflF
i
m
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
AUCKLAND. N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
J and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from:--'
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. VeF&.)
241 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Razor that Really Shaves
Selected Steel, Black Handle 12/6 ; with guard, 16/-
Extra Quality Steel, Xylo. Handle .. 15/6 ; with guard, 19/-
Superfine Steel, Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each lazor.
THE PEUM KAZOK GUARD, for gin., fin. and Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street. Sydney.
' 7-day sets (7 razors in
oak case): Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in cwo
widths, fin. and }in.
All are set ready lor
use, guaranteed, and
kent in order for two
years free ol charge.
ffi^fyxxlleiz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/8, post free.
“Topping” in the North.
“Walliew”: Tully (N.Q.) Chamber of
Commerce topping-off experiment has
had a setback, adverse reports having
come from the Cannon Hill yards on a
sample consignment.
On the good fattening grasses that
were planted Kamilaroi bullocks from
the Gulf put on excellent condition, but
by the time they reached Brisbane after
their 900-odd miles’ journey they were
so wasted that they were classed as
second-grade, far below chilling stand-
ards.
A good many established pastoralists
frowned on the idea of coastal topping-
off right from the start, and now they
are one up. But with killing on the
spot, which seems the logical procedure,
the story might be different.
Drenching Sheep for Worms.
“Ghanam”: This is the season for
worms, and each worm has its own
special death tipple. Some like the dose
injected, some as draught.
Lungworm Special consists of oil of
turpentine, 1 cubic centimetre ; creosote,
.5 c.c.; olive oil, 2 c.c ; chloroform, .5
c.c. This is put into the windpipe with
a hypodermic. Lambs get half quan-
tities.
Hairworms —the fathers and mothers
of black scour —are found mostly in the
small intestines of sheep; they are
especially prevalent among lambs ; sheep
over 18 months are rarely affected. These
gentry are about £in. to l-3in. long, pale
pink, and almost invisible. Central and
northern N.S.W., sometimes the Darling
Downs and S. Queensland and the winter
rainfall zone are their happy hunting-
grounds.
Diarrhoea, ansemia and loss of condi-
tion indicate the hairworm’s presence.
It needs a whole cocktail bar to hold
the range of drinks given ; perhaps the
best of them is made by mixing Boz.
copper sulphate with 2jr gallons water
and adding Boz. nicotine solution (Black
Leaf 40). Adult sheep should have 20z.,
two-tooths l|oz., six-month lambs loz.
and those under six months joz.
Though the best hairworm destroyer
so far available, that isn’t saying
much. Still, if it doesn’t deal with
the hairworm, it will at least be poison
to the tapeworm. Stomach worms also
may be treated with this drench. There
are no fatal drinks for nodule worms.
In worm country by far the best pro-
cedure is not to wait till sheep are
affected. A long-sleever of the appro-
priate dose, given every three or four
weeks during spring and summer, works
wonders in young sheep health.
Wool-price Surprises.
“C.V.S.”: Wool-price fluctuations in
recent sales have resulted in numerous
withdrawals, .growers being influenced by
the high January prices. Comebacks
and fine crossbreds have been most
affected, but these wools were previously
selling at relatively high rates. What has
actually happened is that the broader
wools have taken a more natural posi-
tion, and growers of fine and medium
merino are receiving more of their fair-
price margin, though medium and strong
crossbreds continue to sell well.
Growers are often surprised when their
broader line in merino wool realises
more than their top line. The reason is
usually because the broader line is a
shafty, better-grown wool. Well-grown,
deep-stapled wool has been rather scarce,
and has commanded good prices
throughout the season, wool of this type,
though sometimes of comparatively low
yield, often easily beating finer and
brighter wool which “takes the eye”
but is inclined to be thin.
Mange, and Hide Prices.
“Stump Jump”: Follicular mange in
cattle, which is seriously lowering the
value of salted hides, is not evident when
the cattle are alive, nor can the skin-
buyer detect its presence on a raw hide.
Only when the hide has had the hair
removed and is treated with a lime-wash
do the pockets appear, and these are so
deep that the hide is waste around the
spot. The loss resulting from having to
cut out these spots has to be offset by
paying less for hides.
Apparently little can be done about it,
though small mobs of cattle may be
dipped with moderate success. The hope
is that the disease is a passing one.
Faulty Breeding Outcome.
“Silky Bag”: Strange as it may seem,
staphylococcal sores on the teats of cows
are more often the result of faulty breed-
ing than of any lowering of the animal s
resistance to skin infection. They are
not the true cowpox, which is now
known to be rarer in this country than
was once believed.
Cows in which the trouble is in-
herent should be culled out. They will
only continue to breed heifers as sub-
ject to sores as themselves, and no
greater curse can be imposed on a milk-
ing-shed than a batch of these.
Meatmeal for Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Meatmeal makes a
good protein concentrate in a mixed pig
ration, proportion depending largely on
what other protein there is In the food.
The limit is about 101 b. in 1001 b. of
ration for two-month-old grunters, the
quantity being reduced gradually till they
are receiving about 71b. in the 1001 b. at
five months.
Meatmeal is particularly suitable, for
feeding with cereals, potatoes and whey.
When ordering specify that the meal is
for stock-feeding ; otherwise it may be
delivered unsterilised.
Hints for the Farm.
“Ataturk”: When running the sheep
through the shed at crutching time have
a hacksaw handy to cut off horns grow-
ing too close to the head.
“Stump Jump”: Use unchaffed
material when making grass silage in a
tub silo. Chaffed stalks “bleed” freely
from each end, and the valuable juices
cannot be retained in the silo.
“Mulgo”: A bait irresistible to a dingo
is emu fat or a piece of the oily skin
pegged out and sprinkled with strych-
nine. A skin, dragged feather side up,
makes as good a trail as a paunch.
“A.Y.”: To bend a water pipe plug
one end, stand the pipe straight and fill
with clean, dry sand, then plug the other
end and p i ace the pipe over a forge,
when red-hot it can be bent without
buckling.
Do n()t deaffl jn or around
an open wound in an animal with wate ,-
as this may wash germs into the wound
and so give them entry to the blood-
stream. Use iodine, permanganate or
other antiseptic and plenty of it.
“Yarri”: Stale bread and crusts,
broken and mixed with chaff, make a
strengthening ration for Dobbin, besides
giving a gloss to his coat. I kept a
horse in good nick over a long dry stage
by giving him a lump of damper twice
a 'day.
“Sandy”: Now is the time to plant
Qats for Winter cowfeed. Such free
stoo i ers as Douglas Haig, Mulga and
Sunrise are best. It pays to be liberal
w j t h both seed and super,, and if the
oats are mowed and carted out it is ad-
visable to plant field peas or vetches with
t b e cro p. Cows milk better on green
oats t h an on ensilage. In grass-hay areas
j t pays best to feed the oats off.
....
“Hanko”: Anagallis arvensis is in the
ne ws as the probable cause of mortality
a mong a Gippsland (Vic.) dairy herd,
and', although the evidence against the
W eed is inconclusive, it is generally con-
ceded that at a certain stage of growth
j t j s po i S onous. Commonly known as the
Scarlet Pimpernel, the weed is a semi-
creeper that flourishes in cultivated pad-
docks, croplands especially, and it carries
tiny starlike scarlet flowers with a blush
G f blue at their centres. If guilty in this
instance (the cows passed out in January)
then the seed-forming stage is when
Arvensis goes Borgia. Incidentally, theie
j s a blue variety, but it is as rare as an
income-tax refund.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
fren Service Depart
Does a ewe rearing a lamb eat mote grass
th..
drY ewe s, for the provision of milk supply, e( c -
Thev would eat more grass of equal quality
]amb than when drv; Whether with
i am b or not a ewe will eat till satisfied if the
feed is there.


•»»«»»«
<**>,*:
cm:
61 3
<Y
arA»
&* a .T SA3HOOX
„, <ir iij.oa'»<J3A*aaa
I
fflbvNi9iacSF7 :
.A/ /-i
\ 'WW //j
ft
a
;y
:y
y
|m
.Ity l
y*
si
V f «
■ <?-C
r
rfy N
.■- ?
\ *
< I !
H
*
lit
;S*2*
y !
m
d
"
wm
/
-<*
R
m
i
iM
■ : d
7,
\
'•^poJpo'^
s • >%
■<*#*
iy
s,
I:
X**- V"- v.
M
1
ft
I
x
I
:■ v,:
■x\
e<
\
\
A HARVEST OF RICH, RIPE OATS
... on its way to build stamina
and radiant health, in the famous
form of Tooheys Oatmeal Stout.
Just as nice off the ice.
TOOHEW
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA—Goldsbrougk, Mort & Co., Ltd.. Melbourne.
SLAM)—Burns, Bhllp & Co.. Ltd., Brisbane.
Q’LAND—Dalgety & C'o., Ltd., Rockhampton.
.SOLTH AUSTRALIA—Dalgety & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA'—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Commonwealth and States Public Debt, June 30, 1936.
Maturing in
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, W-
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (f ederal Territory), Melbourne Sydney, and
branchesin Queensland and Northern Rivers, N S. Wales, ako representahon
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Worid,
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busineg_
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married man, N.S.W., conveyancing and
general legal exp., wants employment in country
town. —4802.
Words of verse, probably by Dennis and
probably called “After the Cup,” giving the
thoughts of a punter who had been put off
backing Phar Lap.—4796.
To exchange surveying kit, 4in. prismatic
compass, tape, etc., for stamp collection, or
will buy collection or loose lots. —4773.
To buy book, Peril Island, by Brebner, pub-
lished in Australia about 20 years ago
Information Sought.
What are the respective batting averages for
the last two seasons, to date, of Oldfield, Tallon
and Ben Barnett; also the number of batsmen
caught or stumped by each of these wicket-
keepers for the same period ? —4679.
In first-class matches for 1935-36 (which in-
cluded Oldfield and Barnett with the Austra-
lian XI in South Africa, and Tallon in Shef-
field Shield matches and against the M.C.C.
team in Australia) and for 1936-37 (up to Feb.
18), the figures are (as near as can be ascer-
tained from differing press reports): Oldfield
scored 566 runs, average 26.95, 14 caught, 24
stumped; Barnett scored 450 runs, average
26.47, 16 caught, 17 stumped; Tallon scored
1052 runs, average 42.08, 28 caught, 13
stumped.
* * * *
(1) Bowling figures of Hughie Chilvers (who
took 4 for 2 v. England recently ) in Sheffield
Shield cricket ? (2) Before this season, who
are the bowlers with more wickets than Chilvers
in Shield cricket, and how many bowlers are
included in such averages? (3) What were
Chilvers’s figures v. the Marylebone XI in
1935-36 ? —4804.
(1) 886.2 overs, 125 maidens, 102 wickets for
2918 runs, average 28.60. (2) C. Grimmett
(377), H. Ironmonger (215), E. Jones (209), J.
Saunders (196), G. Giffen (192), A. Mailey (180),
W. Armstrong (177), H. Trumble (159), W.
Howell (159), M. A. Noble (158), W. Whitty
(154), R. Oxenham (154), T. Wall (150), D.
Blackie (141), L. Fleetwood-Smith (140), T.
McKibbin (136), A. Cotter (131), J. Ryder
(127), C. Kelleway (126), J. Scott (117), P. K.
Lee (115), F. Laver (108), C. McLeod (108);
410 bowlers are listed in the averages. (3)
For N.S.W., 1 for 73 and 1 for 38; for an
Australian XI, 3 for 149 and 2 for 68—7
wickets for 328, average 46.85.
* * * #
(1) What were Fingleton’s centuries and
against whom were they made during the Aus-
tralian XI tour in South Africa in 1935-36 ? (2)
His average for the tour? —4793.
(1) 167 v. Natal, at Durban; 121 v. Natal, at
Durban; 118 v. S. Africa (fifth Test), at
Durban; 112 v. S. Africa (third Test), at Cape
Town; 110 v. Transvaal, at Johannesburg; 108
v. S. Africa (fourth Test), at Johannesburg.
(2) Fifteen matches, 19 innings, 4 not outs,
1192 runs, average 79.46.
* * * *
What is the salary of Australian Rugby
Leaguer Dave Brown with Warrington (Eng-
land) ? —4BOO.
The contract specified £IOOO cash, £6 for each
match and £3 a week.
(1) What is the best locality in and around
Sydney Harbor for bream fishing? (2) Best
time, day or night? —47l7.
(1) Watson’s Bay, the southern end of the
Sow and Pigs, Deep Hole and Bottle and
Glass. (2) Best results have been obtained
from dusk onwards. Best time is from half-in
tide to half-out tide.
* * ♦ jje
Rules of coon can? —479l.
The game is known in Australia as rummy.
Each player receives 10 cards and one is turned
up, the rest of the pack being left turned down
in the centre of the table. The object is to
discard all the cards in the hand. They may be
discarded in sequences of three or more of one
suit —say, 9, 10, J., Q. —or in three of a kind —
say, three sixes. If a player cannot discard
three cards or more he must discard one and
pick up another, either the top card of the
discards laid face up on the turned-up card,
or the top card of the turned-down pack. When
a player goes out he receives a chip for each
card remaining in the hands of opponents.
* * * *
Is it correct for a player in cribbage to have
in hand four hearts or four clubs and count
them as a flush if a diamond turns up ? —4777.
Yes. The flush of four scores. There is an
extra score if the turn-up extends the flush to
five.
* * * *
(1) In playing 500, four-handed, is it correct for
a player to change his call ? For example,
A and C play B and D. A calls six clubs; B
passes; C calls six hearts, and D passes. Can
A change his call from clubs to seven or eight
hearts when neither opponent has called? (2)
In euchre, when a player in a four-handed game
goes alone and takes all tricks, how many
points does he score? (3) If he fails to make
three tricks, what do his opponents score ?
4451.
(1) Not aware of any rule on the point, but
as a matter of commonsense the auction prin-
ciple should be observed. If either his
opponents or his partner betters the dealer’s bid,
dealer has a right to overbid that call in any
suit he chooses or in no-trumps. (2) Four
points. (3) Two points, the penalty for being
euchred.
* * * *
(1) Should cousins marry? (2) What would
be the result of a man marrying his mother’s
sister’s daughter? —4724.
(1) Merits or demerits depend on the “re-
cessives” —hidden characteristics —carried by the
parties to the union. If these traits are harm-
ful, inbreeding will be bad and outbreeding
advisable. The reverse is true if the recessives
are desirable. In the case of human stock with
concealed hereditary defect any form of in-
breeding is to be avoided. (2) Impossible to
predict without knowledge of the persons con-
cerned. Principles laid down in (1) apply.
* * * *
How much was spent on the following
Federal Royal Commissions and Committees
of Inquiry up to June 30, 1936: (1) Petrol
industry, (2) taxation, (3) wheat industry, (4)
banking and monetary systems and (5) West-
ralian secession case ? —4806.
(1) £10,659 12s. Bd. (2) £7772 7s. 9d. (3)
£40,960 16s. sd. (4) £7878 14s. sd. (5)
£19,215 11s. 2d. In connection with (3),
£865 11s. 5d., expenses of an inquiry into the
price of bread in N. S. Wales, was recovered
from that State, and credited to the vote.
* * * *
What is the formula for calculating superficial
feet measurement of timber in sizes such as
8 5-B in. x 1 f/n. and 5 l-16m, x 2 3-16/n.4695.
Take the cubic measurement and multiply by
12. In the cases given, for each foot of length
the superficial measurement would be 759-768th
feet and 2835-36,864 th feet respectively. Angus
and Robertson’s 3d. table-book explains the
matter at length.
* * * *
(1) How frequently do centenarians occur in
the general population ? (2) Is the length of life
increasing, and, if so, to what extent? —4859.
(1) Estimated that about 10 persons in every
million reach 100. More than two-thirds of
them are women; they are more sheltered and
more temperate than men. Average annual
number of centenarians in the British Isles of
recent years is about 110, and 80 of this number
are women. (2) Yes —chief reason, rapid decline
in deathrate for infants. A man born in
1854 had a life expectancy of 40 years. Born
to-day, he may expect to reach 59. At 60, a
man’s expectancy of life is now 14| years, and
a woman’s 16 years.
* * ,p ■ *
(1) Has there ever been an investigation re-
garding the carbon monoxide content of the
atmosphere of a Sydney or Melbourne street on
a still day? (2) Thousands of cars must pour
out thousands of cubic feet of carbon monoxide
each hour. Does this affect the health of the
community; if so, how ?— 4721.
(1) So far as is known, no. (2) Exhaust
fumes from motor-cars and other petrol-burning
engines contain varying amounts of carbon
monoxide, according to the relative efficiency of
the carburetion employed. It is estimated that
at least one cubic foot per minute is given out
for every 20 h.p. It is unlikely that the health
of the general population in Australia has been
affected, but carbon monoxide poisoning by
motor-cars in large American cities has been
seriously considered. Carbon monoxide causes
asphyxiation by rendering the haemoglobin (col-
oring matter) of the blood useless as a vehicle
for conveying oxygen to the tissues.
* * * *
Particulars of the career of Dr. Hawley
Crippen, the murderer? —4848.
Born Michigan (U.S.A.) in 1862. Obtained
his diploma in New York and practised in
various American cities. Married, as his second
wife, a woman known as Cora Turner, and
went to London in 1900 as manager for a firm
of patent-medicine vendors, his wife, under the
name of “Belle Elmore,” trying unsuccessfully
to gain a footing on the English music-hall
stage. In 1905 Crippen developed an attach-
ment for Ethel le Neve, a typist at his place
of business. On January 19, 1910, Crippen
bought five grains of hyoscine hydrobromide.
Twelve days later Mrs. Crippen disappeared.
On July 13, her remains, containing traces of
hyoscine, were found under the floor of
Crippen’s coal cellar. Crippen and Le Neve,
disguised as father and son, escaped from Eng-
land and took ship from Antwerp to Quebec.
Identified by the ship’s captain, who informed
the authorities by wireless telegraphy, Crippen
and Le Neve were arrested when the ship was
off Father Point on July 31, and they were
taken to London. Crippen was found guilty
of the wilful murder of Cora Crippen, and on
November 23 was executed at Pentonville.
* * *
I have heard that square nickel pennies were
once proposed for Australia and that some
were struck. Can you tell me anything about
them ? —4833.
In 1920 the Commonwealth Government con-
sidered minting square nickel pennies and half-
pennies, the reason being a fear of copper
shortage. The project met with so much
opposition, directed chiefly at the shape, that
the issue was abandoned. However, a batch
of the coins was minted, bearing the date 1921.
The coins were never put into circulation, but,
we are informed, are retained in the Melbourne
Museum and in the collection of the Mel-
bourne Mint. The obverse presents an un-
crowned head of George V., and the reverse
depicts a kookaburra of poor design. The
square corners of the coins are rounded off like
the square nickel five-cent pieces of Ceylon.
jj; }jC
Has the Australian aboriginal ever been de-
picted on an Australian coin ? —4856.
In the late ’fifties Hogarth and Eriehsen,
jewellers, of Sydney, issued a quantity of silver
threepences bearing the name of the firm. Most
of these tokens bore the design of a kangaroo
and emu, with palm-tree between, but a few
depicted an Australian aboriginal about to
throw a boomerang, which he held in his left
hand; these are now extremely rare, not more
than two or three being known.
* * * *
What steps must be taken by a person who
wishes to become a licensed bookmaker to
operate at main metropolitan courses in Vic.,
and what would it cost ? —4645.
A printed notice issued by the Comptroller
of Stamps setting out conditions under which
a bookmaker is allowed to follow his calling in
Victoria has been posted. Every racing club
in Victoria issues its own permit to the book-
making fraternity, and the fees asked by the
clubs differ considerably. V.R.C. permit to
bet in the paddock now costs £6O per annum,
on the hill £25, on the flat £7. A person
desiring to obtain a permit to bet in any en-
closure of Flemington racecourse would be re-
quired to make application on the club’s form
and also supply a statement as to his financial
position. He would also be required to provide
the guarantee of another bookmaker to the
extent of £IOOO for the paddock ring, £SOO for
the hill ring and £250 for the flat.
* * * *
(1) Are there any regulations in N. S. Wales
preventing a houseowner from fumigating his
premises with cyanide to kill vermin ? (2) If
not, how is the work carried out? (3) Pre-
cautions to be taken? —4719.
(1) No regulations exist at present, but the
process is dangerous when carried out by un-
skilled hands, and has resulted in several deaths.
(2) and (3) Must decline to give details of
cyanide fumigation owing to the great danger
attending its use. Sulphur is an equally good
vermin-eradicator when properly employed.
Place the required quantity of sulphur, slightly
moistened with methylated spirit, in a shallow
basin. Stand this on two small bricks in a
larger basin filled with water to a level below
the top of the bricks. Stand the larger basin
on bricks on the floor. Seal up all cracks,
windows, ventilators, etc., and light sulphur.
For bugs, repeat after 10 days. Use 51b. of
sulphur to each 1000 cub. ft. of room-space.
* * * *
(1) How many Government servants have
been injured and how many killed by natives
in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea
during the last two years ? (2) Numbers injured
and killed during the preceding two years? —
4213.
(1) 1935 and 1936, two killed, one injured.
(2) 1933 and 1934, one killed, three injured.
* * * *
(1) Functions of the Wine Overseas Marketing
Board? (2) Whence and under what
authority does it derive its revenue ? (3) Income
and expenditure of the board for the last
financial year? —4810.
(1) To control export, sale and distribution
after export of Australian wine. (2) From
levies made upon owners of wineries and dis-
tilleries in terms of the Wine Grapes Charges
Act and Regulations. (3) Income (almost wholly
levies), £9214; expenditure, £7BOO (mostly for
advertising overseas).
* * * *
What parties were in power in March, 1916
— N. S. Wales and Federal? Cabinet mem-
bers ?— 4659.
Labor in both instances. In N.S.W. the
Cabinet, headed by W. A. Holman (Premier
and Treasurer), consisted of J. H. Cann (Public
Works), D. R. Hall (Attorney-General and
Justice), Arthur Griffith (Education), W. G.
Ashford (Lands), George Black (Colonial Secre-
tary and Public Works), W. C. Grahame (Agri-
culture), John Estell (Labor and Industry) and
H. C. Hoyle (Minister without portfolio).
Federal: W. M. Hughes (Prime Minister and
Attorney-General), Senator G. F. Pearce (De-
fence), F. G. Tudor (Trade and Customs), H.
Mahon (External Affairs), J. A. Jensen (Navy),
W. G. Higgs (Treasurer), King O’Malley (Home
Affairs), W. Webster (Postmaster-General) and
Senator E. J. Russell (Honorary Minister).
* * * *
(1) Total Commonwealth debt (a) in Aus-
tralia, (b) in other countries, itemised? (2)
Total of the State debts (a) in Australia, (b) in
other countries, itemised, and (c) amounts of
individual Slates? (3) Total of Australia’s war
debt (a) in Australia, (b) in other countries,
itemised ? (4) Interest paid annually on all
Australian debts (a) in Australia, (b) overseas?
—4661.
Following are the figures:
Brief Answers.
W.D.L.: Write Under-Secretary, Prime Minis-
ter’s Department, Canberra, F.C.T M.G.S.:
Question too large and encyclopaedic to be
answered here. Drop a line to the Douglas Credit
Assoc, in Brisbane... .A.B.C.: (1) Lanny Ross
appeared in “College Rhythm” with Joe Penner,
Jack Oakie and Helen Mack. Bing Crosby was
not in the cast; he was in “Rhythm on the
Range.” (2) Mahommed Kahn in “Lives of a
Bengal Lancer” was played by Douglas Dum-
brille... .T.J.: Henry Ford was born at Green-
field, Michigan, July 30, 1863. His home is at
Dearborn, Michigan, U.S.A C.W.F.: Worth
about 2s. 6d. retail... .W.W.: (1) None. (2)
One-third. (3) Two-thirds. (4) If no husband
or widow or children, father takes whole
estate. If father dead, then mother, brothers
and sisters in equal shares R.J.: (1) In-
struct a solicitor to draw the necessary deed,
which must be registered in the Registrar-
General’s office. (2) No... .L.M.M.: A tennis
court is 78ft. x 36ft., the singles court 27ft. x
78ft. (that is to say, side lines are 4ft. 6in. on
each side). The service court is 21ft. on each
side of the net. Owners of tennis courts for
hire make their own. charges according to the
locality and demand. Generally courts are hired
for an afternoon, or each person is charged Is.
to 2s. and sets arranged L.F.: (1) The
Medaille Militaire is the French counterpart
of the British D.C.M., and was established in
1852. It is awarded to general officers in
command of armies—Field-Marshal French was
a recipient—and to non-commissioned officers
and men who specially distinguish themselves
in action. (2) The medal was awarded to a
number of members of the A.I.F. in the 1914-18
war D.B.: (1) Entirely a matter of choice.
(2) She would describe herself by her married
name and as “divorced.” (3) She would sign
with what was her usual signature S.D.:
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent
Garden, London, W.C.2... .W.S.M.: Bio-
graphical Handbook and Record of Elections
for the Parliament of the Commonwealth (10s.
6d.), obtainable from Federal Government
Printer, Canberra. A new issue is produced for
each Federal Parliament W.G.: “Amateur
Cine World” (6d. monthly), Link House, 4-8
Greville-street, London, E.C.l... .T.W.F.: Write
Chief Secretary’s Department, Macquarie-street,
Sydney... .J.L.: Binnowee is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “a green place”... .E.M.C.:
Scrub with a dry hard brush, then with hot
water and soap. If there is any trace left
and you fear it may show through, give a coat-
ing of size and allow to dry before painting
R.H.: (1) and (2) Cost of living in Rabaul is
approximately £10 per month. Costs in gold-
fields area of Morobe district are from 30s. to
£2 per month higher than Rabaul, according to
locality. (3) Principal items of male clothing
are white duck suits, white shirts, khaki shorts
and khaki shirts S.M.S.: Get in touch with
Macdonald, Hamilton and Co., 247 George-
street, Sydney... .W.J.V.: (1) George III.
guinea (1785) is worth 22s. 6d., George III.
copper (1792), 3d., and Russian 10 roubles
(1900), 25s. The metallic value of the gold
coins is more than their collector value —
W.C.J.: Any of the simple dyes on the market
may be used, made to a rather strong solution
with less water than specified on the packet;
either immerse the leather or paint on with a
brush. All the art-craft or batik stains may be
painted on. House painters’ dry colors dis-
solved in turpentine may be used for rougher
work. It is not easy to dye suede, owing to
variations in texture in the tissues of the skin:
if valuable, experiment first with art stains, pro-
curable from Penfolds, 88 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M.R.: (1) Yes. (2) No, nothing is done
until three years have elapsed M.L.: De-
pends on whether mortgage is subject to Mora-
torium Act. If so, you have no personal lia-
bility and can leave the security to the mort-
gagee. If not, you remain liable for payment.
. ...W.J.W.: (1) Typescript should be double-
spaced. (2) Fix each chapter with an easily-
removable fastener and place the whole in a
spring-back file.... F.H.: Oxford University
Press, 295 Flinders-lane, Melbourne.. . .D.G.E.:
Ignace Jan Paderewski, Morges, Switzerland;
Arturo Toscanini, via Durini 20, Milan, Italy,
but may be addressed care New York Philhar-
monic-Symphony Society, 113 West 57th-street,
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.; Fritz Kreisler, care
Charles J. Foley, 230 Boylston-street, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.; Walt Disney, 2719 Hyperion-
avenue, Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.; John D.
Rockefeller, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, Rockefeller
Centre, New York, N.Y., U.S.A., or 1 Beek-
man-place, New York; Guglielmo Marconi,
Bologna, Italy; ex-Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany,
Doom Castle, Holland.... M.A.: There are two
editions of the book, but neither will bring
more than 3s. to 4s. on the second-hand
market, as they are both very common....
D.G.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence De-
partment, Melbourne.... (Many others mailed.)


A half-dozen or so entries in the Short
Story Competition are without name or
address: “Ordinary People”; “I Tell You
I Know”; “The Outstationer”; “The Press
of the Storm,” by “Wanderer”; and “The
Wonderful Works of Buffo Excelcis,” by
“Patroclus.”
“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
“You can’t help
,1 •99
liking them!
ten*
r
A
V
K
>
/:
/
v
&
\
y
\
avvA«
m
H
" Oh, luxury isn’t always extrava-
gance. For their quality they were
never expensive
ff If they are all I’ve heard about
them, they must be good.”
I
<5%
m
zm
m
<o^
as?
1
<mL
K
£
3
(V
r
"Let me offer you my idea of
perfection: the kind of cigarette 1
used to smoke in London.”
"du Maurier ! You extravagant
man ! Aren’t they supposed to be a
great luxury ?”
" Well, what’s
the verdict? Did
you ever taste
anything to equal
that for coolness
and smoothness
and flavour ? ”
(t They are
marvellous !
Apparently even
the best tobacco
can be improved
by filtering. ”
du M A U R I E R 20 for i'6
CIGARETTES WITH THE FILTER TIP MADE IN LONDON
Also obtainable: 10 for 9d r 50 for V 9, 100 for Vb
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND: ST. JAMES TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS LTD., 185 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES, 217 PICCADILLY, LONDON, W. I
G.C. 13
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
n ° tice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped
name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Honi: Three-quarters of a column about
a provincial cricket match in M.L. What do
>ou take us for? ... .P.G.M.: Tiptop for your
age. Read the best for a few years and have
another shot LJ.D.: Don’t mind bush verse
being a bit rough, but yours would stop a
tractor... .R.H.: Lightly amusing, but don’t
care lor the kind... .E.W.K.: Like all rhyming
couplets, it gets monotonous long before the
end....H.8.: We agree that the “rhapsodic
poem is rhapsodic... .K.P.H.: “Please give me
a scathing.” No; but the temptation is great.
... .N.G.: Not badly done, but for that kind
of thing a trifle heavy L.E.A.W.: Nothing
arresting in either of those D.N.: They’re
roughish... .H.F.: Both gently turned back....
A.M.M.: Verses beginning “When the burden
grows heavy and rough is the way” are always
rejected on sight... .F.M.: So are those be-
ginning :
Bare leafless trees
Waiting for the spring,
You are waiting in vain.
P,T.: It doesn’t really say much, does it?
....C.8.A.: Not for us, but probably market-
able... .L.W.: About as pointless as a garden-
roller... .D.D.: It all boils down to the two
lines:
W hile poor Mr. Spooner shouts loudly and raves,
We’ll wear what we like when we’re riding the
waves.
—M.E.B.: Thin as harvest-time cider in an
English August... .E.M.F.: Considered, and
judged hopeless... .A.M.L.: Some melody in
it, but more of echo M.R.L.: Regret that,
with the best will in the world, we cannot meet
your wishes... .H.R.: A melancholy example
of the fact that verse dashed off “at white heat”
is rarely readable... .G.R.W.: The beginning
suggested possibilities; the end was the last
word in tameness T.H.Y.: It may be that
woman “smokes the fragrant fag with elation,”
but we doubt it T.D.:
It’s five o’clock. The ganger’s voice we hear:
“Just plant your tools; it’s time for# a nice long
beer.”
You must have had some amazingly good luck
in the matter of gangers R.8.A.: “Solution
at Last” provided none for filling up an odd
corner in our columns R.N.: Can’t do any-
thing with them R.R.: As prosy jingle as
we ever encountered Delius: Must find
room for one verse:
.0 you who ever wisely sit
Upon your editorial throne,
Unmoved by passion, graced with wit,
A god upon a mountain lone, .
Heed from afar my distant moan
Ere in your basket you bestrew
My jests 1 For surely you must own
To everyone some joke is new.
Moan heeded, but our dislike for chestnuts
remains... .D.8.0’C.: Uneven, and not very
intelligible to the uninitiated... .J.D.: Your
Pegasus is “a rough horse to ride,” too
A.V.N.: Hardly enough in it....J.5.: Some
quite good stuff in them, but we have inade-
quate space for marine rhymes of any length.
M.R.: There’s something about Gundagai
that hardly seems to fit into a lilting lyric
J.M.M.: They both came near. A little more
care and polish would do much for you
E.A.G.: Too conventional in phrasing
1.F.C.: Afraid we can’t use it, not even to keep
you “occupied and out of mischief.” Verse
isn’t your metier; you might do better at prose.
.. ..S.F.D.: Quite a good peg for a satirical
rhyme, but your craftsmanship scarcely does it
justice P.M.: Even were this the football
season, your effort wouldn’t have much point
for our readers M.P.: “Blossom-ransom,”
“wallow-sorrow,” “maid-aged”! Best buy a
rhyming dictionary or switch to free verse....
H.G.S.: No g00d... .F.C.M.: Not enough
humor in that sketch T.S.G.: Doesn’t
quite make it; you should have twisted that
essay into a burlesque.. . .W.V.L.: Too long
for a par., too short for a story
J.J.; Only a gentle subterfuge C.A.S.:
Nothing in that bunch; one is draped with
long whiskers and the others lack general
interest 8.W.: Written naturally enough, but
that personal-experience stuff is difficult to
place... .W.W.T.: Humor about home-coming
drunks and cops has worn thin M.L.: Un-
suitable, though you’ve set it out well enough.
A.R.: That waterfront incident needs
much more polish Anonymous author of
“Oseous”: Style is right, but subject matter
unmarketable. Send name and address so that
it can be returned... .T.0.M.: Twist ending
isn’t strong enough to carry the rest J. 8.:
Reads like a rehash of the Pygmalion and
Galatea story... .W.J.McC.: Raised only a
faint smile D.D.K.: Cut, it might make a
society par M.T.: Schoolboy joke on callow
schoolmaster merely boring S.E.H.: Charac-
ter drawing better than the story F. 8.;
Doubt if any s.p. bookie would fall for that old
stunt... .N.C.: Reaches zero in interest....
G. 8.; Started promisingly, but faded to noth-
ing Parvus: Some laughs here and there
but such a sketch needs to be packed tight
with them... .A.E.K.: Your racecourse charac-
ters don’t ring true... .R.T.S.: As watery as
poorhouse soup M.L.P.: “Kindly give me a
frank opinion of my story.” Police Offences
Act cramps our style 8.T.: Your metre is
like the one under our gasbox—it runs mad.
M.M.: Averaged four shudders to the
stanza C.H.: Fairly close G.A.McD.:
“Temptation” nearest C.N.: Forced; and
it’s too late... .D.D.: Another swaggie camp-
ing in that haunted hut A.C.H.: “It Can’t
Happen Here” Cassar: Herlock Shomes
and his “pickled onion” ushered off the prem-
ises D. 8.: Think we’re better able to stand
the poetry R.H.F.: “Pink Poison.” Pain-
ful! N.S.D.: Just missed H.C.S.: Too
many mad miners on the waiting list already.
. ...8.W.K.: “Dinner on a Bet” wasn’t worth
the risk T.S.G.: No heart throbs in “The
Love Story of Umberto” J.H.P.: Can’t
provide an asylum for murderer driven to
insanity by the spectre of headless d0g....
D. : “Amusements in Mathematics” con-
ducive to yawns H.A.8.: Mr. Day’s luck
didn’t h01d... .S.E.H.: Merely depressing
E. : Not interested in the “popular host
of the Cow Flat pub,” who “died as he lived
—by the bottle” A.R.Q.: “One Man’s
Meat.” That’s right O.B.: Obvious
D.W. and J.M.H.: Melodrammer... .P.G.:
“Exile’* nearly found a haven J.M.C.:
“Working Back” didn’t keep up 10ng....
J.H.: Dog yarns need to be exceptionally
good.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.T.: There’s a long climb ahead of y0u....
F.M.: Radio humorists have been circulating
that gag for months E.J.C.: Slapdash style
and thin jests... .A.W.H.: Sketch shows merit;
pay more attention to composition L.D.:
Handy Andy and his dog given their marching
orders R. 8.: It’s a little hard to distinguish
between the bathers and the surf-boards....
P.W.G.: Didn’t fancy the collection of queer-
looking gents, with inscribed balloons tied to
their lips.... F.F.: Flo resemblance to the
person whose name is underneath the picture.
• ...C.8.: They all appear to have been cavort-
ing in a quagmire T.L.: Crude.. . .C.R.M.:
The lad shows promise, but he will need three
or four years’ training E.A.: Still totting up
its faults... .G.R.: Cricketing-joke block lacks
freshness....J.D.: Might go well, framed and
hung in a temperance hotel 0.J.: Missed.
“Cent.”: M.L. waterside workers have
swallowed a sacred tenet of the order—
that employment must be casual. Aus-
tralians were of the same mind until the
formation of the Shipping Labor
Bureau in Sydney during one of the
frequent waterfront strikes wrecked the
old casual pick-up method. M.L. is
opening a bureau to engage the men,
presumably on a roster system, as in Syd-
ney. But instead of employing a picked
body of men on the basic wage for a
48-hopr week with overtime —the b.w.
in Sydney was then £4 2s. 6d.—and
standing the loss if there was no work
for them, the bureau being a private
show of the shipping cos., the. M.L.
bureau finds work worth £2 15s. a week
or a guarantee of £2 10s. for a 40-hour
week, with overtime for Saturday morn-
ing work.


MR. FOLEY’S PUPIL
No. 8 of a series of articles on the great Australian boxers.
In these times an Australian news-
paper would be laughed at if it asserted
that there was a home-grown boxer, an
amateur, who was not only the best in
ihe world at his weight but was capable
of whipping representative professionals
many pounds heavier —was indeed in the
habit of tackling representative heavier
men on an undertaking to knock them
out in a given time. Fifty years ago
Australia had such a boxer. He was a
Sydney man, and his name was George
Seale.
Though only a little fellow compared
with Melbourne’s Professor Miller, who
flourished at the same time, he was as
wonderful an all-rounder in his way.
The Bulletin of June 27, 1885, de-
scribed him as “equally at home with
the gloves, in the water and on the cricket
and football fields.
“As an oarsman, Mr. Seale has in a
remarkably short' period won 13 races.
He rowed with the N.S.W. eight-oar
crews in 1884 and 1885, and on June
21, 1885, with W. G. Brett, he won the
senior double sculls at St. Ignatius Col-
lege regatta. In 1878-80 as a cricketer
he secured three trophies for batting and
bowling: highest individual score, 85;
greatest number of wickets in a match,
eight for nine. In 1882-83 he again won
the bowling average, beating Marr, of
intercolonial fame, but since then he has
not played much. As a footballer under
N.S.W. Association rules, he played in
1882 against Geelong and in 1883 against
South Melbourne and Adelaide.
“But it is with the gloves that Mr.
Seale particularly shines. He stands
right foot foremost, and is a natural two-
handed fighter of admirable science.
Mr. Seale’s only match so far has been
with Mr. Tighe, a boxer of the rough-
and-tumble order, for a 50-guinea trophy.
Mr. Tighe was never in it. Mr. Seale is
23 years of age, is sft. in height,
goes 38 inches round the chest and
weighs in condition lOst. 101 b.”
He was one of Foley’s pupils, and one
of the best. Perhaps the original south-
paw, he rather staggered Foley when he
shaped up right hand and right foot
first at that worthy’s gymnasium. The
Old Master at first suggested that he
should change to the orthodox style, but
he did not press the point when Seale
refused. Old-timers agree that Seale
was as clever on his feet as Fred Kay,
who was to box during the Great War
period, and was a mighty puncher before
the Lord, which Kay was not; and that
he was wonderful at timing and judgment
of distance withal.
At the beginning of 1886 Foley de-
cided that his pupil knew enough to
tackle any middleweight in the business.
In February of that year he was matched
with a newcomer who called himself
“the Bogan champion.” “The Bogan
champion” could hardly believe his eyes
when he saw Seale emerge from his
corner —“a fair-haired, hazel-eyed youth
with a melancholy expression” ; but the
next day he was on his way back to the
Bogan, a swiftly-beaten champion.
Already Seale was styled the champion
amateur, and in June Foley announced
“a six-round encounter between the
champion amateur and Pablo Fanque,”
a 12-stoner whom Peter Jackson had
failed to knock out in four rounds, pos-
sibly because he was too good-natured.
“The amateur was giving away lumps of
avoirdupois, and the task he appointed
himself, the knocking out of Pablo in
six rounds, was too heavy a job with the
herculean professional in tiptop condi-
tion in readiness for his match with
Tom Taylor, Jackson’s pupil. The ama-
teur, when so inclined, got on to Pablo
pretty heavily, in the third round land-
ing five heavy blows with both hands
with lightning-like rapidity, but he did
not escape scathless.”
On July 24, 1886, at Foley's, “Mr.
George Seale made his first appearance
in public when opposed to a first-class
professional. Though knowing the ama-
teur to be a clever boxer, we were
scarcely prepared for the masterly show-
ing he made when opposed to an out-
and-out scienced performer such as Peter
Newton, the middleweight champion of
Victoria. Mr. Seale made all the play,
leading on to Newton with the right, and
now and then bringing in his left, one of
which, on his favorite spot, ‘the mark,’
nearly put the professional down. New-
ton hit the amateur about three or four
times during the four rounds, one of
the blows being a vicious right-hander
which landed on the shoulder. Newton,
with his usually lightning-like left, was
short in his leads.”
On October 31, a ‘ big muster put in
an appearance at Foley’s to witness Mr.
George Seale’s attempt to knock out
Professor McCarthy in six rounds.
McCarthy naturally travelled on the de-
fensive ticket throughout, which made
the amateur’s task more difficult. In
the third round he had the Professor
knocked pretty well to a standstill, but
McCarthy’s undeniable gameness carried
him through, and he mutely took his
punishment till ordered to shake hands
at the termination of the sixth. Had
McCarthy fought as he generally does,
making the. play, the amateur would
have put him in his little cot for a cer-
tainty. But McCarthy, a powerfully-
built fellow and a shifty boxer, stood
merely on the defensive.”
This was the McCarthy who beat
Billy Smith, challenger of heavyweights
(Goddard and
Harry L a i n g
fought long no-
decision bouts with
him), and who, a
little more than
three years after
his meeting with
Seale, was to give
Dempsey “a tre-
mendous fight” at
’Frisco for the
middleweight
championship of
the world. In the
meantime
McCarthy fought a
draw with the
American light-
heavyweight' “Buf-
falo” Costello, to
whom he conceded
181 b. This battle
lasted 40 rounds.
GEORGE SEALE.
Only a weltervseight really , and an
amateur, he beat heavyweights.
The discovery that he could lick pro-
fessionals did not induce Seale to be-
come one or turn his head. During the
next year or two, he went on meeting
and beating heavier men for love, his
victims being solaced with their share of
the purse. A welterweight by modern
standards, he pitted himself against Cos-
tello, whom Slavin beat twice in desperate
bouts and Jackson failed to knock out,
and the little man got all over Costello.
Seale even challenged Jack Burke, self-
styled “the Irish Lad,” who had fought
Kilrain and Sullivan, going five rounds
with the latter, and to The Bulletin
of October 6, 1888, “the four rounds
between George Seale, the champion
amateur, and Jack Burke at Foley’s
proved a most scientific bit of play. The
amateur’s unusual style completely non-
plussed Burke, who seemed all abroad,
the amateur landing on head and body
almost without a return. Burke showed
excellent temper and smilingly took the
light gruel so liberally dealt out to him.”
Towards the end of 1888, Seale’s right
to call himself amateur champion was
disputed by a challenger from Maori-
land, George Sandall, son of an Auck-
land butcher; and what was destined to
be Seale’s most memorable match, and
one of the most desperate contests be-
tween amateurs ever witnessed in any
country, was arranged.
The Bulletin put it this way: “On
December 1, 1888, the respective ama-
teur boxing champions of N. S. Wales
and New Zealand are to meet in an eight-
round encounter at Foley’s Hall. San-
dall has improved vastly since he first
showed in Sydney, but in tackling Mr.
Seale he is meeting a phenomenal boxer
who has never been bested for science,
though pitted against the best talent
available in Sydney, amateur or profes-
sional. Tighe, Steve O’Donnell, Fogarty
and the New Zealander Pettingall have
been clean knocked out in public by the
amateur ; and in scientific displays with
Jack Hall, Peter Newton, Tom Lees,
Costello and Jack Burke he would have
been awarded the palm had the decision
gone on points.”
Steve O’Donnell was a heavyweight
who went to the U.S.A. and was ac-
claimed there as almost the best gym-
nasium fighter of his day, although he
never quite succeeded in reproducing his
gymnasium form in the ring. Fogarty
was “Jim the Jaw-breaker,” conqueror
of many middleweights and heavy-
weights. Lees was heavyweight cham-
pion of Australia until Peter Jackson
took the title from him.
Fitzsimmons in a Preliminary.
To Seale v. Sandall Fitzsimmons
fought a preliminary. Mention was made
of this in the article on that great boxer
(B. 13/1/’37), but a more extended refer-
ence would be interesting:
“Fitzsimmons was tall and thin,
McEwen short and thick, with an aspect
of comic ferpeity on his face. He fought
with his mouth open. His strategy con-
sisted in charging wildly at Fitzsimmons
from the begin-
ning of a round to
the end, and he
fought after the
fashion of a cat on
a hot stove. Now
and then, thanks to
his unwonted ex-
citement, the men
got tangled up in
hard knots and had
to be untied by
their seconds, and
at other times
McEwen seemed to
have violent fits
in four corners at
once.
“O c c a s ionally,
too, he would rush
into Fitzsimmons
when the latter
wasn’t there, and
then he would lose
his balance and twirl round like a top,
and Fitz would give him a friendly smack
on the back as he revolved. Towards the
close of the third round, McEwen seemed
to get his legs hitched in his antagonist’s
hair.
“The wildest comedy that the house
had ever seen was brought to a sudden
termination amidst howls of inextinguish-
able mirth from the one-pound seats
and shrieks of fiendish glee from the
ten-shilling department and the gallery.”
“Two of the greatest mugs I ever saw
in a ring!” said one onlooker, wiping
his forehead with a red handkerchief.
One of the “mugs” was to become
middleweight, heavyweight and light-
heavyweight champion of the world.
A Great First Round.
Then came Seale v. Sandall: “a con-
test of eight rounds for the position of
amateur champion slogger of Australia.”
The Bulletin’s report —like that of the
Jackson v. Lees fight, evidently written
by James Edmond, then a newcomer to
the staff but afterwards editor —follows.
“Almost everyone who had any money
about him was willing to pile it on
Seaie at 2 and 3 to 1. The New Zealander
proved to be rather the shorter man of
the two, and he had a shorter reach and
a trifle less science than his antagonist;
but, on the other hand, he was built all
the way down like the bole of a gum-
tree. His physical condition was better,
and from the squareness of his jaw and
other physical characteristics his pluck
appeared to be of a most reliable quality.
“When the men entered the ring,
amidst tremendous applause, some un-
authorised party put them together in
the middle and made a speech which
nobody could hear. Then Foley made
a speech, but nobody could hear what
he said, and a male individual in check
clothes interrupted his eloquence by
offering to ‘take three to one, barring
a draw.’
“Then the referee got the two men
in front of him and stood waving his
arms over them as if he were perform-
ing the marriage service ; and, of course,
he made a speech. Then there weie
symptoms that Dan O’Connor was going
to make a spaiche, and, as the men evi-
dently felt that it was better tio be
punched than jawed at by a profes-
sional jawster, they hurriedly walked 10
the centre of the ring, shook hands and
started.
“The stillness of the crowd was death-
like while they sparred for a few seconds,
and Sandall then hit out at Seale, but
missed him. Before the spectators could
realise it, Seale dashed in at his man
and rained blows on him: left and right;
biff, biff, bang, bang; every hit timed
and every hit placed. The New Zealander
tried to counter, but could get no open-
ing against the awful rain of blows; he
was driven to his corner, and a hideous
uppercut in his breathing apparatus spun
him half round, and a hard left-hand
hit on the ear dropped him like a stone.
“He lay doubled up against the ropes
while Seale stood over him waiting for
him to the fight.
“The crowd had been silent from
sheer astonishment while this was going
on. No such fighting had ever been
seen in Sydney, especially during the
first round of a match. As soon as
Sandall fell, the feelings of the people
broke out, and tbe yelling and cheering
and whooping made one think the folk
were all mad.
“In his corner lay Sandall, with his
seconds fanning him vigorously, while
Foley was frantically urging Seale to go
back to his corner and sit down; but he
might as well have sung a hymn for all
the chance he had of making himself
heard. The referee allowed Sandall to
take his 10 seconds, and then called
‘time,’ but he needed the voice of an 81-
ton gun to make anyone hear him. In-
stead of Sandall going on with the round,
as he should have done, his seconds
sprang into the ring, lifted their man
into his chair and started to rub ice on
his head to bring him round. Seale went
to his corner and was attended to, but
the round was not fought out as it
should have been.”
Of course, under strict Marquis of
Queensberry rules, Sandall had been
knocked out, and Seale should have been
declared the winner; but our rugged
forefathers had an invincible prejudice
against one-round fights. They wanted
more for their money, and invariably
got it. On with the narrative.
Sandall Recovers.
“It looked as if Sandall could not
come up for the second round, but on
the call of time things took a remark-
able change. Sandall, who had arisen
with an affable smile on his countenance,
got an opening and gave Seale a terrific
right-hander on the neck, knocking tic
Australian right under the ropes. Seai-
hopped back, but was immediately floored
again. This time he lay on the floor co
lecting his thoughts while taking every
bit of his 10 seconds’ allowance.
“The amazement of the audience knc\'
no bounds, and when Seale was knoci»e
down for a third time the feelings o
Sandall’s partisans vented themselves m
a series of yells that would have done
credit to Bedlam. They screamed out
‘Go on, Dick; finish him, Dick! et
up, Seale, and fight.’ ”
“Seale’s supporters adjured him to tak<-
his time and get his wind, and heaven
knows he wanted it badly. The feeiDr
of the supporters of each man so com
pletely carried them away that all ove.
the. building perfect strangers v ' elt


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New Soutl Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberrc F.C.T.
Which ofthese dental ills
do you fear most?
mm
o
TOOTH DECAY
Film is judged one of
the chief contributing
causes of tooth do,
cay. It glues “decay-”
germs to the tooth
a* n amnl '•'•'•VvWvX'MvMvMvMv]
enamel.
0
BLEEDING GUMS
Film combines with
minerals in the saliva
..to form hard, sharp
deposits which may:.;:;:?;;:?®'®®
cause soreness
p
bleeding of the giiriii,,'
0
STUBBORN STAINS
ws
Si:®:??
;?;;;?
Film absorbs stains
from food and smok-
ing. To remove these
stains you must re-
move the film.
Remove dangerous Film this way.
Other tooth pastes or tooth
powders may claim to
attack film. Pepsodent’s sole
duty is to REMOVE FILM
thoroughly, safely.
Why results are unfailing
Because the formula is
different, Pepsodent works in
a different way to give dif-
ferent results. The secret of
its effectiveness is due to a
revolutionary new cleansing
and polishing material, un-
excelled in film - removing
power. No other leading
dentifrice contains it! Thus
with Pepsodent you enjoy a
unique way to keep teeth
free from film. Pepsodent
has been found the least
abrasive . . . therefore softest
—of 15 leading tooth pastes
and 6 tooth powders.
So don’t take chances. Try
Pepsodent. See for yourself
how clean your teeth feel
after only one brushing.
Note how quickly that sticky
film disappears . . . how
much brighter your teeth
look. And remember that
clean teeth are one of your
best safeguards against decay
and dreaded dental ills. Use
Pepsodent regularly twice a
day. See your dentist at
least twice a year.
PEPSODENT
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE
MOST ECONOMICAL,
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA « a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
HIP,
•i i
25T1
ISM
te-
llltWT!'
)I
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64—page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
ĸ
The Centre of Tas>
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper
published in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agri- Jk
cultural, Commercial and Tourist Centre of Tas-
mania. “THE EXAMINER” has been published
in Launceston for 93 years, and is the News-
paper read by Northern Tasmania to-day. A
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from: —
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
. cJlmbv*
audit
•bureau of
CIRCULATIONS
wrangling, vociferating and challenging
one another to fight.
Seale is a cur; he won t get up and
nght! yelled a Sandall man. ‘l’ll knock
your New Zealand head off if you
say that again! ’ rejoined a Sealite. ‘Seale
is beaten!’ ‘You’re a liar! I’ll chuck
you down off the seats!’ ‘You’re not
nt!’ Meanwhile Seale was up and at
his man again, though very distressed
and apparently stupefied.
Seale Comes Again.
“On going to their corners, it looked as
if they might as well take Seale away
at once, as he did not appear to have a
ghost of a show. But on coming out
for the third round he exhibited won-
deiful vitality by immediately driving
his right into Sandall’s bread-basket and
flooring that gentleman like a bullock.
Heavens, what a yell there was! Men
shook hands and danced about on the
seats, and the cries of ‘Good boy,
George,’ were deafening. Sandall was
up, as game as ever, and the round ended
rather in Seale’s favor.
From this to the seventh round,
matters varied. The damage was about
equal, though Seale’s nose was, if pos-
sible, a little ahead in point of size, and
at any time a fair flush hit would have
finished the bout. Sometimes Sandall
would work his man into a corner and
deliver his pile-driving blows on the
other s head and neck. Sometimes, Seale
would freshen up and plant his right
and left hits into Sandall’s ribs and on
his nose.
Seale got badly cut over the eyes,
and the blood streamed down his face ;
but with the gameness of a bulldog he
went on fighting, amid the frantic cheers
ol his supporters. However, he was evi-
dently more distressed than his adver-
sary, and in the last round Sandall tried
all he knew to finish it. Seale was so
tired that he could hit with no force at
all, and was fairly staggering about the
ring. Time and again he went down,
hit clean off his feet, and always as his
10 seconds elapsed he staggered up and
pluckily faced his man. However, he
kept falling all over the place, and
several times he had to lunge in to avoid
severe punishment and to save his
backers’ money.
"No Decision. 11
“I he moment ‘corners’ was called, the
crowd surged into the ring. About a
hundred men were carrying Sandall
along the hall; another hundred were
similarly hoisting Seale. Another lot
were offering to fight the referee. Some
yelled out ‘A draw’; others, ‘Sandall
wins.’ Amidst cheers, yelling and hoot-
ing, the doors were thrown open and the
mob surged out into the street.
“Nobody knew who had won, but
every man was as hoarse as a cow and
as excited as a madman. It was the
most' bloodthirsty fight ever witnessed
in the hall, which has witnessed so many
determined battles.
“Sandall undoubtedly had the best of
it at the finish ; whether he should have
been awarded the fight is another ques-
tion, as he failed to knock Seale out,
and would probably have been knocked
out himself, only for the mess-up at the
end of the first round.”
In a subsequent paragraph it was men-
tioned that Sandall weighed lOst. 101 b.
and Seale lOst. 741 b. There was £250
in the house ; rent of Foley’s hall came
to £l5O and expenses reached £124. So
there was a loss of £24 on this, one of
the most desperate glove fights ever
fought; and the fighters, being amateurs,
got nothing.
Seale and Sandall never met again.
With the exodus to the U.S.A. and Britain
of the best heavyweights and middle-
weights, the Game was losing its attrac-
tions for the Australian, and from this
time forward his public appearances as
boxer were few and far between. He
had refereed the Jackson-Lees fight, and
in later years he was to become a noted
referee and tutor of amateurs at his own
Sydney gymnasium.
By the beginning of 1890 Sandall was
back in Sydney and matched to meet
Jack Valentine at the Sydney Gymnastic
Club rooms. Sandall’s towel went in
after what The Bulletin described as
“one of the grandest contests ever seen
in Sydney.
“Valentine is a blacksmith, Sandall a
butcher. Amateur matches between
really good men are always better worth
seeing than matches between profes-
sionals. It is not quite clear whether this
affair was for the amateur championship
or not. Mr. George Seale, who has held
it long and worthily, has not yet been
beaten, his match with Sandall resulting
in a draw. Mr. Seale is a bona fide
clerical amateur and works in an office.
“What a fight it was! No walking
about the stage, no grunting, no sparring
for wind, no in-and-out dancing, one hit
and run away, but sheer savage slogging,
clever enough on both sides and thor-
oughly determined. In the second round
Sandall dropped Valentine with a ter-
rible blow on the jaw. He thought the
order for ‘corners’ had been given and
stopped, with unfortunate results for
himself. In the eighth round Sandall
was knocked down three times. The
matter was settled by Foley, who was
seconding Sandall, jumping into the ring
and taking his man away.”
Sandall and Seale are dead these, many
years. No gamer boxer than Sandall
ever crossed the Tasman. No greater
amateur than Seale ever stepped into a
ring.


Clk mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
Plomp!
right into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIT
Adelaide’s Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION: —Adelaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike,, Ist Floor, Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
WlM£o
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-wide
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House. Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply
any accredited advertising agen
. . ,
trips up the estuary. Perhaps one evening he would.
She had a neat ankle, an amorous eye, even some
liveliness of tongue.
I T was only on those rare nights when he let the
1 flying-foxes in the fig-trees of the reserve keep him
awake that the ghosts of past loyalties and conflicts
crept out to trouble him, telling him he was running
away from life, escaping into an unreal world of the
mind, telling him his idea that civilisation had run
down was a brain-spun fantasy of the beaten, that
new forces had been liberated from the soil he had
forsaken, that the black Ukranian earth was alive
with green shoots, the Caucasian mountains in labor,
known places being transfigured in a miracle of
creation. He shut his inner ear to the voices, pulled
the blankets over his head. He had become used to
being an emigre, to drifting about irresponsibly, find-
ing his amusement in looking at the whole racket from
outside. It gave him a godlike feeling of superiority,
even when he was hunting stray jobs, dossing in holes
and corners. To go back, make his peace with the
ruling powers, as his brother, his sister, had done,
would be humiliating, a denial of his all-sufficient
self. Yet there were these voices, keeping him awake
in the night...
They did not trouble him in the daytime when he
had the freedom of the reading-room and the canvas
chairs on the balcony. There were hardly any regular
patrons, and he could bully the harassed secretary to
send south for most of the books he wanted Spengler,
Keyserling, travels in Brazil, American scientific
journals. Even in: the past, when he could afford only
a monthly subscription,.he had been able to do that,
The secretary, a small, timid old mummy in frayed
alpaca, thought him a little mad, but respected, him
for his authoritative way of speaking, his knowledge
of books, his capacity to keep awake. Most of his
patrons went to sleep very easily over print.
BESANCK had crawled under his blankets one
evening and was settling down to write in his
diary when a call sounded from outside, the flap of
hessian was pulled open, and a surprised face peered
in from the dark. “Good Lord! Is this where you’ve
got to? What a burrow! I’ve been looking for you
everywhere.” '
There was relief, humor, excitement in the blink-
ing eyes: there was also a flicker of doubt. Was it
from me.you were trying to get away? the swift glance
said. An embarrassed smile played around Besanck’s
mouth. “Looking for me? You were?”
“Yes, asking for you at every boarding-house in
town.”
Besanck sat up, not quite sure whether he was
glad of the interrupion. He was preoccupied: his
thoughts had begun to flow. Yet a twinkle came to
his eyes as he waved Neil to a box at the head of the
bed. “I took for granted, of course, there was a
woman—a girl. When he is tired of her, I told
myself, he will come back. No good troubling him
till then... There is a girl, eh?”
»-j^ 0 »
“Not? My dear boy, why try to deceive me?
Your face, yo r eyes, they say the one thing.”
“They’ve invented a little romance of their own,
then I was away for over a week at Tern Island.
Since then I’ve been doing my darnedest to get in
since men i vc uccu
touch with you again. Yon know
“Searching the boat ding- ouse , •
me and still you ask for me at wch places Am Ia
country storekeeper or a traveller in cotton goons.
No you ought rather to have asked the police, Neil,
They would all have known the mad foreigner with
no hat and books under his arm.”
“I did ask them in the end. They sent me to the
unemployed camp on the racecourse. That shows
how much they know about you... Hell, you didn t
take long to ake a home for yourself , Leo .”
“j t tbe dump where I spent the two last
summers. I find myself more than ever conservative,
Tq the em fixed The ways j know, the
} formed why try to change the m?”
He w&§ sitting up> the blanket over his knees,
filing a cigarette, but there was a detachment in his
manner, a blue opaqueness about his eyes, that sent
a chill down Neil’s spine, cooling his blood s warmth,
Leo had evidently made no attempt to find out where
he had gone or what he was doing. glafl to
see him or not? Those blue eyes said so little. They
looked as if they were dimmed by frost
“I’ve been buying a boat, he confessed ; decided
to ta^ e to J he water -
Eh ?
“She’s a bobby-dazzler. The Kestrel—built by
old Jensen eight or nine years ago, and as sound as
a drum yet. I had to act quickly put down two-
thirds of the money. No time to wait till I found
where you were or what you thought about it...
But you’ve got to come in too, Leo: I wouldn’t take
it on alone.” c
Jerkily, tipping himself backwards on Hie box,
be t old how he had been led into the enterprise,
tumbling over his words in his eagerness to persuade
Besanck what a good speculation it was. The boat
was wor th more than double what they were paying
-for it, especially since Jensen \yas overhauling it and
fitt j ng tbe j lu || w j tb anew copper sheath. Then he
Had already made arrangements with the dealers to
take a jj tbe j r fi sb at a fi at rate 0 f sixpence a pound,
Jensen was in touch with a young half-caste, Charlie,
who would go with them for the first few weeks and
s how them the best fishing-grounds among the reefs,
The old man had other udeas for them too: in slack
seasons he would find them carrying jobs along the
coast. | .;c.v ’ ; : ;; t;
with an amused look Besanck watched his trans-
figured face, bewildered ’ by the names he brought in,
only comprehending half. of what he; said. “And
you want me to go shares with you? But what good
would I be in a boat?”; , , i ‘ .
“You know how to run an engine. And most
likely we’ll have to use it more than we do the sails,
g y t be time.we drop the half-caste you’d be as much
ab home in the boat as: anyone. Damn’ it all, Leo,
it’s not such, a hard game to learn.” . ,
< Besanck shook his head. •> “It might be not.
Nothing! is hard if you like it and are willing to waste
on it your time and thought.” .
“Well?” ‘ i • ' i .
“You ask—well. But why should I want to be
a fisherman? A small capitalist even. For another
fi ve mo nths I see myself a free man, and that is
enough. No worry. No one to please but myself.
little money to spend how I like—a new book, a
bottle of wine, a girl from Charlotte-street. What my
mind and my body need at the moment. But to tie
myself down—no! ”
Neil’s face fell; his eyes became heavy with a
du fi chagrin. “But how would you be tying yourself
down? I’d be willing to buy you out in a reasonable
time if.you didn’t like it. Give you back all you put
into it, together with the interest. There! That’s a
promise. . .
A sardonic grin flitted across Besanck s mou
“Already your father beg.ns to work m you, Neil.
Business adventure . f
“Nothing of the kmd! I m oriy looking for a
decent way to live. Using my head for the pair of
us... What’s in front of you now? In a few months
you’ll have used up all your money: then you’ll have
* & won>t be so damned easy to
j & „ ,
get one ether. They’re putting men off everywhere
and before long the whole country will be rotten with
unemployment. Men tramping the roads everywhere
with their swags up, scrapping for places in the mills
and cutting gangs. Take a sensible view of it, Leo,
and reckon up whether you’ll lose anything by coming
in with me.”
He was not making an appeal to the spirit of
comradeship: he knew Besanck was forearmed against
that. And he was shy of exposing his inner feeling to
the mockery of those blue, annihilating eyes. Perhaps
Leo was already reacting against the intimate bond
that had held them together on the tramp to Port
Cowrie. He looked infernally self-dependent, lying
back against the post of the hut, his rag of a blanket
round him, his book and lamp at his elbow.
Yet he himself felt more than ever a need for
Besanck. It was not merely the human desire for a
mate: it had its root in the more calculating part of
him. Something in Leo's mind quickened his own,
kept it from romantic dreaming. In the last few
weeks he had become aware of a new concentration
in himself, a growth in will. Who was responsible
for that if not this man whose light irony had set him
free from the conception of himself as an outcast
from his class? He exerted himself to prove to
Besanck that he would have everything to gain and
nothing to lose by putting what money he had into
the Kestrel. The work would not be hard, and there
would be long spells of leisure. Time for reading,
time for thc ught!
“Thought?” repeated Besanck with a queer lift
of one eyebrow. “What is it you mean by that, Neil?
Sentimental reverie, eh? To spend yourself in action,
and then in a fatigued mood to dream. Oh, yes, after
the day’s work on this boat ol yours there would be
much time for thought.”
He flicked the butt of his cigarette away with
a careless finger and thumb. Amused, he watched
it smoulder, start a few sparks among the straw, fade
into grey ash.
Yet iri spite of his mockery he was being beaten
down. He could not cope, physically, with that
youthful gusto swirling against him like a stream in
flood, changing direction slightly at every check,
sweeping him off his feet. Defensively he began
asking questions about the island, old Jensen, the
luggers along the Reef. How far were the fishing-
grounds from the port? What profits could a boat
expect to make during the season? His blue eyes
shed their scepticism, became reflective. It might be
well to yield to this new current of life, provided he
was not carried too far from the bank.
“Give it a burl, Leo,” Neil was pleading. “You
can’t lose by it. I’m ready to meet you in any reason-
able way, agree ‘ to any conditions you ask. If you
don’t come with me I’m stranded. I couldn’t find
anyone else I’d be willing to spend all my days with.
I’d have to chuck the whole thing up.”
He had uncovered himself: his voice as well as
his eyes betrayed his feeling. Kicking the blankets
aside, Besanck sprang up suddenly, cocked a felt hat
jauntily on the side of his head, executed three or
four steps of a hornpipe.
“All right, Neil: I have no more to say. You
take the wheel. You give the order. From now on
we are fishermen. Hunters for food, like the first
men.”
Neil was overcome by his change of mood, the
look in his eyes, the way he flicked his felt hat from
his head and kicked it as it fell. “You mean it, Leo?
Dinkum? You won’t go back on it?”
“Oh, no, I won’t go back. My help and my little
bit of money—I pour them into the common pool.
No more cooking coarse food for other men. No
more bending the back in work a trained ape could
do. Our own bosses, eh? Emancipated from the
slavery of jobs and wages!... But if only we had
a small bottle of wine. It would be very easy to-night
to get drunk.”
He sat down again and began to roll a cigarette,
the mockery creeping back to his eyes. To get drunk,
he was thinking, to prolong the illusion of the moment,
the illusion that life could renew itself, here on this
far soil, among these bright unrealities...
{To be continued next week.)


A Course of
Pelmanism will
.
1. train you to remember names, faces, appointments, figures and
useful data of any kind, and to call to mind promptly the apt
word or argument;
2. strengthen your power of Concentration;
3. give you a Strong Will;
■" ■ . - "
4. give you a definite Aim in life and the ability to achieve that
Aim;
5. enable you to develop Initiative and the power of accepting
Responsibility;
6. strengthen your Self-Confidence;
7. remove all trace of Inferiority Consciousness;
8. make all your Contacts with other people—social, business,
and casual —-easy and comfortable;
9. develop your Conversational powers;
10. increase your Energy, direct it into the most profitable channels,
and so enlarge your earning capacity;
11. broaden your mind and improve your judgment;
12. give you a stronger and more effective Personality.
DELMANISM is the most comprehensive system of scientific Mind-Training and
A Personal Development in existence. It has won the unqualified endorsement of many
of the most brilliant men and women of the day, and has been successfully adopted by over
half a million men and women of every type, occupation and station in life. 35,000 of
these are in Australia and New Zealand.
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post free. You
can write us fully, or you can make just a bare application by using or copying the form
below. Your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outdoor representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind , Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU 2355.
Headquarters: London.
Branches throughout the World.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide organisation.
Its headquarters are in London. The Institute in
Melbourne has been established for 29 years.
More than half a million men and women have
enrolled for the Pelman Course of Mind, Memory
and Personality training. Of these 35,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
Write fully or use
the form printed
alongside.
j THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.!«
| Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind."
I
| Name
I
j Add re5S e , « *
I
I 441
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
\l*9
qT*
.O „v e
k \o
&
fiV
. a v «£ n*'
s^^'ty r rCr
° 5 ,*l<? ..." -•••
T^'
A\ e
(A' v .••' ..•• . >«V«
..••■' c-


k?:«yn
s
Mini
r; >1 :'• :*'; t •*•:
~ ■ *,r 1 v >;.... f s /■■:; g,r t .yo» to
W- w ( s A
k
%
:>t«s§!OrOi&i'::;
*f/jp
«•*'•* ••«• - :i :: :: - j,<»; *V:jv
!l*B
»
irtva
X'fti
MUTUAL.
A remarkable record—67 years
of sound success— is reflected in
these figures:
1870
1901
1936
Assurance
Funds.
781
3,265,126
40,883,125
Assurances
in Force.
£
77,100
12,064,507
115,761,661
New Business
for Year.
£
85,400
1,367,170
11,348,578
The above figures refer to ordinary Life Assurance only—
the Association does not conduct Industrial Assurance.
EVERY POLICYHOLDER IN THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL IS A PARTNER.
There are no shareholders.
Effect your assurances with this progressive Associa-
tion; it provides benefits unexcelled in Life Assurance,
“Che
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION OF A/ASIA, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1869
Offices:
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: 395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
And throughout Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, India, Ceylon and Straits Settlements.
