

Safeguard yourself
against this
Mil
Ss¥*?»S
sSSs
s
.
mti
i
" ?PF
Ml*
;115
is
i
*s
:
ssss
i \ |
■■ & i f '
ii
:: > ■ •; •
•• . 9
& ,
. N * ... ><
During cold weather, do you have a stay-in strike in
your engine? Does your Oil thicken up, slow up and slug-
gishly Stay in the sump, particularly in the all-important
moments of starting from cold? If it does, even momen-
tarily, excessive and costly wear to bearings, cylinders and
other vital parts will result. In the interest of your car and
lyour pocket, it should be replaced immediately by a free-
flowing lubricantthe new temperature-proof Atlantic
Motor Oil.
From the world’s richest pure paraffin base crude, Atlantic
is refined by the latest scientific methods, which withdraw
all such impurities as carbon, sludge and gum-forming
elements. To the last drop it is a high calibre, full-bodied
lubricant, just as dependable in coldest Winter as hottest
Summer, particularly in closer-fitted, higher-powered,
modern engines. Ask for the New Atlantic Motor Oil and
accept nothing else! Any good garageman will advise you
which Grade to use.
To ensure instant Winter starting your high compression
car also needs Atlantic Ethyl , the modern high, anti-knock
fuel. Test it!
THE NEW ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
PURE PARAFFIN BASE
ATLANTIC UNION OIL CO. LTD. AMO 2-48-37
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 2995.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Wednesday, July 7, 1937.
Price 6d.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,’’
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
2778
wßtßrr
B I iljj I iff
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HERE AM) MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fr«e
Kipp. Illustrated I'knmansiiii' Prospectus explaining
your Musculo Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney BULLETIN.
My Name ..... iy •
My Address
S.B. 437 A
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, ana ine
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature. ,
The trustees will publish the successful work: m.book torm,
and in serial form'any they may deem worthy. If pub shed as th J
serial the winner will be paid for at serial r e addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid o
SU ld Any te feo«a fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works winch must be tl
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
"Sued a’ nom * plum,. and " a ™led envelop
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealea enve•
which will not be opened until the judges have made, their‘decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize ifno™ r
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an awar
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the I rize win
added to the following year's Prize
The Red Page
RUSSIAN-ENGLISH.
Stalin, commenting on doubts about the genuine-
ness of the confessions of the eight Russian generals
who were recently shot, declared that this readiness
to confess could not be understood by persons who
were ignorant of Slav psychology. Unfortunately,
he did not elaborate his observation, and the explana-
tion is left to bewilder an imagination that cannot find
a starting-point. The Occidental does not think with
the Oriental mind.
This “paralysis of the wi11.... which is the con-
stitutional malady of the Russian soul,” as it has
been described by Dr. Charles Sarolea in his illumi-
nating essay on Turgeniev, is no more comprehensible
to the Western intelligence than is the pathetic stoic-
ism of the condemned Chinese who, waiting his turn,
watches his brother’s head being chopped off with
a two-handed sword.
We have an example of this extraordinary “readi-
ness to confess” of quite another type within the
pages of an autobiography recently issued — Angry
Dust, by Nikolai Gubsky (Heinemann ; 10s. 6d. net).
Gubsky is the Russian author of six novels
published in England within the last seven years.
Though most of them were of more than average
interest, five were financial failures. Of one of these
failures. The Greatest of These, Winifred Holtby,
who wrote South Riding, said that it contained one
of the loveliest women in English fiction; of another,
Foreign Bodies, J. C. Squire wrote a glowing review,
and said it would sell 10,000 copies—-it sold 800. One
only, Its Silly Face (atrocious title), achieved a measure
of success.
The author, apparently tired of all this effort
being wasted on an unappreciative public, and frankly
confessing that his novels were largely autobiographi-
cal, divested them of their fictional covers and con-
verted them into a straight autobiography. The result
has been entirely successful, though in the process
he admits that he overruled his wife, who desired that
he should limit his passion for confessing, at least in
so far as it involved her. Whether it was the author’s
purpose or not, the inevitable result will be to send
readers to the lending libraries inquiring for novels
by Gubsky in the hope that they will find there the
unrestrained extension of incidents described with
reserve in this extremely candid autobiography.
Gubsky was the son of a Russian Government
official of pre-revolution days, and was educated at
the Lytzey, a fashionable school at Petersburg which
prepared students for the civil service. The discipline
was lax, though his drinking and amorous adven-
tures through the days of adolescence there were no
better and no worse than those frequently reported
from some American colleges to-day.
From the school he decided to go into the navy,
but he soon grew tired of the monotonous drill and
the sailors’ horseplay, and, being a volunteer, was able
to leave for a clerical position in the Ministry of
Agriculture—hours, twelve to seven —which gave him
ample time for philosophic discussion and love affairs.
Gubsky has a great deal to say of the women
with whom he became intimately acquainted. He
kisses and tells. He says he has no inhibitions about
undressing himself in public, and in his frankness
reveals without undue offence the highly emotional
yet casual attitude of Continental males towards
women who take their eye. There is, however, con-
siderable delicacy, even beauty, in the description
of his courtship and marriage.
His wife made the acquaintance of Rasputin, who
tried to hypnotise her. Gubsky says that after Ras-
putin was murdered his body, on the orders of the
Tsarina, was laid in a mausoleum near the palace.
When the revolution broke out it was put in a wooden
case, loaded on a railway truck and forwarded from
station to station, until it was eventually placed in a
warehouse, where some students found it and
cremated it.
In the year before the revolution the Gubsky
family went to London. The Bolsheviks had no
use for Gubsky, and he drifted into ill-paid clerical
work and poverty, from which he has struggled to
escape by writing the novels that have failed to sell.
He summarises in one swift paragraph the com-
plex Russian temperament:
Russian life is, and always will be, restless and
strained, full of swift changes, with drama lurking behind
every corner, where one least expects it, where it has
no business to be.
No Government, red, white or beige, no revolution
and no act of God can create in the Russian that capacity
for a lasting and uncritical acceptance of and resigna-
tion to the existing forms of life which is inherent in
the German, Scandinavian or Englishman. Whether he
likes it or not, the Russian must always long for what
is not there, he must kick over the traces if life remains
stationary for any length of time. Therein lie his weak-
ness and his strength, his peculiar blend of good and
evil (or rather intelligence and ignorance), his historical
mission and his personal curse.
This autobiography is the best of Nikolai Gub-
sky’s literary achievements, a book written by a
Russian who has become an Englishman. He may
yet prove to be the interpreter of Slav psychology
who will make “confessions” intelligible to uncom-
prehending minds.
A Nobleman with a Duster.
The death of Princess Charlotte in 1817 left the
Crown of England with no legitimate prospective heir,
though George 111. had had nine sons, and Europe
had “the spectacle of four obese and ageing royal
dukes, forced to abandon their mistresses or illegal
wives, hastening to the altar in order to produce an
heir to the English Crown.” Cambridge won the
race, and for two months his son, George, uncle of
Queen Mary, was heir to the throne until a daughter,
Victoria, was born to Kent, his elder brother.
Lord Holden outlines the story in Four Genera-
tions of Our Royal Family (Allen and Unwin; 10s.
net). He says he has not been so bold as to include
all Queen Victoria’s English descendants in “this light
survey of royal circles,” but there are chapters on
Queen Victoria’s championship of the faithful John
Brown and a relation of the highlights of the social
career of Edward VII. Then Lord Holden, who is
a cousin of Anthony Eden, devotes himself to the
careers of Continental personages.
He turns his attention to Victoria’s cousin
Leopold H. of Belgium. Betrothed by his licentious
father to the 17-year-old Marie of Austria before
they had even met, Leopold led her such a merry
dance with his many mistresses that she took lovers
herself. To the dancer Cleo de Merode he owed his
nickname Cleopold.
Leopold had better luck than Princess. Alix of
Hesse. Though the future Tsar of Russia fell in love
with Alix at sight, that didn’t prevent his taking a
mistress, with whom he remained on intimate terms
until his marriage. “The Tsarevitch had a big heart,”
says the author. To break off the affair, Nicholas
was sent to Egypt, where he amused himself with
dancing girls. The royal pair were happy enough,
but Nicky was weak and Alix had no sense, and the
tragedy of their lives was dramatically ended by
Bolshevik bullets in a cellar of Ekaterinburg.
The noble author is no mere muckraker. He has
written a discursive narrative as far removed from the
formal appearance of the jacket and the. 32 photo-
graphs as it is possible to imagine. A real surprise
packet.
William Lane.
Lloyd Ross has done well to make and print a
careful study of William Lane, the man who before
all others was responsible for the remarkable de-
velopment of the Australian Labor movement in the
dark ’nineties, one of the most pregnant periods in
Australia’s history. Lane’s name has been so con-
stantly associated with the failure of his Communist
colony of New Australia in Paraguay that the part
he played in the affairs of the Labor movement
before that expedition sailed has been almost com-
pletely submerged.
William Lane and Henry Lawson were con-
temporaries, Lane being the senior. As editor of the
Brisbane “Boomerang,” upon which Lawson was for
a brief time engaged, Lane was responsible for the
publication of some of Lawson’s early work, but
“Lawson was a poet, not a politician,” and it is the
opinion of Ross in this biography ( William Lane and
the Australian Labor Movement; Forward Press;
7s. 6d.) that this is the reason why Lawson is remem-
bered while Lane is forgotten.
Both idealised mateship—that ideal of trust and
devotion and generosity Lawson was the evangelist
of Mateship; Lane tried to be its crusader.
Lane was born at Bristol in 1861, a son of a
Conservative workingman who worked in a nursery
at six shillings a week. He went to Canada at 14,
and at the age of 20 had become a reporter. A
brother having migrated to Australia, Lane decided
to join him, marrying a girl on the staff before he
left. His most important luggage comprised the text-
books of the radicals— Wealth of Nations, Ricardo’s
Principles, Henry George’s Progress and Poverty and
Gronlund’s Co-operative Commonwealth.
His first job in Brisbane was to report a dance
for “Figaro,” a society weekly to which he also con-
tributed a woman’s column as “Lucinda Sharpe.” A
versatile and ready writer, he soon established him-
self and in two years was contributing a column of
Labor notes to the “Observer,” written with a sin-
cerity that disarmed the Conservatives.
In 1887 he launched the “Boomerang.” Such
was his charm that he induced Samuel Griffith to
say in an article for the Christmas issue that “There
are only two sources of wealth, the gifts or products
of nature and human labor: Capital represents merely
the accumulated savings of the products of
labor.” That article created astonishment and no
little embarrassment for Griffith. But it put the
“Boomerang” on the map, and in less than a year it
had become “the most important journalistic influence
in Queensland.” It was sold to Gresley Lukin, and
Lane took over the editorship of the newly-founded
“Worker.” This involved a I sacrifice; Lane had been
making £6OO a year; as editor of the “Worker” he
accepted £3 a week. Thericeforth he flung himseif
with emotion into the turbulent stream of Labor
agitation, f
“His single passion wai the idea of his mission
to organise the workers so mat they might introduce
a co-operative State.” He entered the Labor move-
ment to provide it with ideks and enthusiasm. Dur-
ing the shearers’ strike of 1891, he wrote The Work-
ingman’s Paradise to assist! the funds. It was the
failure of the strike that crystallised in his mind the
idea of establishing a Comn unist colony on the lines
of previous experiments in America.
Of the development of that idea, of its realisa- l
tion, of file pitiable failure of the venture, and of
Lane’s retirement, soured aid disappointed, to write
leaders for a Conservative daily in Maoriland, Ross
tells in graphic detail in this biography, which is a
useful and unusual contribution to the social history
of Australia, • i
An Imaginary Trial.
, -T~ —
Rex v, Rhodes, The Brighton Murder Trial:
edited by Bruce Hamilton (Boriswood ; Bs. 6d.) pur-
ports to be a transcript of evidence in a murder trial
in England |in the nineteen-forties. A Communist is
accused of having slain a Fascist leader. It is pre-
sumed that |lie rules of evidence have been amended
to admit uncorroborated hearsay and details of an
accused person's previous offences, and that the atmo-
sphere of the time is such that the political bias of
counsel, Judge, jury and witnesses makes the accused’s
conviction, in the face of the strongest evidence for
the defence, a foregone conclusion.
Yet it must be said that fßhodes probably had a
fairer trial in England than he would have had in any
other country under Capitalist!dictatorship. His vener-
able counsel was allowed to fight a gallant battle with
hardly any interference. The .evidence for the defence,
overwhelming as it was, was fairly admitted, however
unfairly it was deal with. And finally it was always
open to the jury to return a verdict of “not guilty”
and with a slight change in its composition it is highly
probable it would have done so. One can hardly
picture these three unhampered counsel,
complete freedom to call witnesses, and a jury lying
under no menace of punishment for contumacy-
obtaining in any other court of Western or Central
Europe at the time. |
Rhodes, the defendant, was deliberately “framed,”
as the Americans say and as he himself put it, by two
members of a Fascist organisation. They assassinated
an unpopular leader, thrust the weapon into Rhodes’s
hand and then called the police.
The report of the trial is, in this} commentator’s
experience, which covers many years of law-reporting,
the best bit of legal fiction yet penned. The tricks
and shifts of counsel, the mannerisms of witnesses, the
Judge’s interpolations, all are presented naturally and
convincingly.
Yet the general impression, after reading and
admiring this tour de force of logic and rhetoric, is
that the point pressed home with s{ich tremendous
vigor hardly needs stressing. The averhge Englishman,
(Continued on page Sp


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
“THE SENIOR STORE.’
ANTHONY HOHDEBNS
A
L
m*
65i
32'6
SL*
Cl
4
— Z2
m
a/
&
m
/
ar
/
/
Special Sale Offer!
150 FRAMES BY THE
Slazenger London Racket Go.
Manufacturer’s own order samples (every frame
new). To be sold in three grades only at less than
cost. 18/6 frames at 12/6, 22/6 frames at 15/6,
25/- frames at 1 7/6. Fully guaranteed, strung with
Bentley’s Supreme Gut, 8/6; Master Gut, 10/6;
or Imperial Gut at 12/6. Also a limited supply
of Orange Perfecto Gut at 15/6, offered at 8/9.
The J. O. Anderson
“SUPER STROKE” RACKET
Late 1936 Reserve Model. Powerful
laminated frame. Overlay shoulders
arid throat. Leather grip. Bentley’s
quality gut. Oval or Flat Top. Fully
guaranteed. List Price ........ 657-
Sale Price 32/6
AUBREY WILLARD
"MAGICIAN” Racket
Late 1936 Model. Oval or Flat Top.
Overlay shoulders. Cane buttressed
handle and throat. Leather grip.
Bentley’s quality gut. Fully guaranteed.
List price •' 757-
Sal e Price ................... 35/-
USE THE D.P.S.
Use our D.P.S. freely during the Sale. Any-
thing may be purchased on this convenient
Deposit Purchase System.
Just send a deposit of one-fifth of the pur-
chase price and the goods will be set aside.
The balance can be paid in easy monthly in-
stalments.
m
Vaj
[7126
ROYAL ENFIELD
England’s Best—“ Made Like a Gun
MEN’S LIGHT ROADSTER
• Finest English Steel Tubing. • Frame 22in.
• Wheels 28 x If. • Best English Dunlop
Tyres. • Best English Saddle. © Enfield Rat-
trap Pedals. • Best English Detachable Mud-
guards. • All bright parts chromium-plated.
• Triple Black Enamel Gold Lined. © Toolbag,
Tools, Oilcan. © Inflat'or, Reflector, Beil.
• Eadie Coaster Free Wheel. Price, £7/19/6.
Sale Price £7/12/6
Q Sports—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W.
and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
fy'l^6
“WHITE FLYER”
All-British Australian
Road or Track Racer
© Highest quality weldless steel. © Close-built, light
weight frame. • Solid fork ends. • Straight chain stays.
• Tapered forks, back and front. • Fish-tail lugs, short
wheel base. • Frame 22in. • Wheels 28 x If x If.
• Endrick rims. • Double-sided hubs. • Front and
rear side-pull brakes. • Best Dunlop Speed Tyres.
• Adjustable Handlebars. • Best English Lightweight
Saddle. © Triple cream enamel finish. • Very hand-
somely decorated. Price £9/19/6
Sale Price £9/10/-
HENRY COCHET'S OWN
AUTOGRAPHED MODEL
with Free Copy of his book,
“Cochet Tells How”
Built by Slazenger to Cochet’s own design, a
laminated imported ash frame, sheathed shoulders in
white. Fluted handle, streamlined. Recess grooved
leather grip. Decorations in Cambridge Blue and
Gold. Fine quality gut. All weights, light, medium,
heavy. Cochet s Book on Tennis (2 7 photos.)
presented free with each racket. Price .... 607-
Sale Price 39/6
“CHALLENGER ”
All-British Australian
Special Light Roadster
• Best English Weldless Steel. • Frame 22in. • Wheels
28 x If. • English or Australian Tyres. • English
Tourer Saddle. • Plated Rat-trap Pedals. • English
Detachable Mudguards. © Triple British Enamel.
© Any colour decorations. © Fixed Wheel Model.
Price £6/15/-. Sale Price ....... £6/5/-
• Eadie Coaster Hub. Price '• •• • £7/10/-
Sale Price £6/19/6


Of the Amorous Adventures of the Baron von Big
OUT OF THE PAST
THE EGOIST.
J .H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY
a r»IR RICHARD TOLMER ARBUTHNOT,”
wrote the Baron von Big, “has just died, in
l J this year of grace 1870, and, though I cannot
pretend to any personal grief over his demise,
nevertheless I regret his passing. He was a figure.
Whilst he lived, he always reminded me that intense
selfishness, undiluted egoism and a total disregard of
the interests of others is a combination of the very
worst of human characteristics. Now that he is gone
and I am myself becoming a very, very old man I
have a haunting fear that, with the loss of his example,
I may easily degenerate somewhat in respect of these
shortcomings.
“The leading newspaper of the day has seen
fit to give greedy, grasping, self-centred old Dicky
Arbuthnot a valedictory push off into eternity that
fills me with amusement. ‘A man of sterling qualities,’
says the damned fool or rogue who wrote it, ‘which
will ever set a standard for his contemporaries and
for posterity. He came to the colony a young man,
without means and without influence, and by sheer
worth of character made a place for himself in a
community where merit alone commands respect. To
the generation which is passing the name of Richard
Arbuthnot stands as a monument of business integrity,
as a synonym for unselfish charity, as the prototype
of uprightness and rectitude. His numerous benefac-
tions and his political activities have made him locally
famous, and such fame has extended to a wider world
than ours. By the death of Sir Richard Arbuthnot
Australia suffers severe loss, but the memory of this
great and good man will remain an inspiration and
a model to all who recall it.’ And this in a leading
article! Ye gods!
“ r\ ICKY ARBUTHNOT might be summed up in
i-s four words. He was a rogue, a thief and a
liar—but above all he was an egoist. His fellow-man
was nothing to him. All that mattered to Dicky
Arbuthnot was Dicky Arbuthnot. He is dead, but
that fact does not make him a saint, ‘an inspiration
and a model.’ It might with equal truth be said of
me when I pass on that I was a monument to chastity
and virtue.
“I remember well his arrival in Sydney as a
young man of about thirty years of age. He had
nothing, and had come out as an immigrant, under a
sort of false pretence of being possessed of property,
to become a settler on the land under the gracious
encouragement of Governor Macquarie. Macquarie
was infuriated by the cool impudence which prompted
him to apply for a land-grant, whilst at the same time
he confessed himself to be altogether without the
means of developing the land. It was then that I
came to the rescue by offering to take Arbuthnot into
my own service.
“I had just taken up my station in the Bathurst
district which I called Salamanca, and thither I deter-
mined to send Mr. Arbuthnot in the capacity of
storekeeper. The overseer would look after the
country and the stock, the storekeeper would have to
do with all the accounts and the supervision of affairs
at the head station.
“It was twelve months before I saw him again.
Then he turned up suddenly one evening at Pam-
peluna, my estate at Castle Hill, to the northward of
Parramatta.
“It was raining heavily, and when my servant
went to the door in answer to his knocking a doleful
and dripping individual entered the house.
“ ‘Good evening,’ he said, in the most casual
manner, as though he had but just strolled out from
Parramatta. “Good evening, Baron von Big. I trust
you are well.”
“ ‘Good evening to you, Mr. Arbuthnot,’ I
returned politely. ‘And where in the world have you
come from, may I ask?’
“ ‘From Bathurst —from Salamanca,’ he replied.
“ ‘And for what reason have you abandoned the
post,’ I inquired, ‘to which I appointed you when you
entered my employment?’
“ ‘I am no longer in your employment, Baron,’
he said. ‘I am myself an employer of labor and a
landholder in the Bathurst district.’
“ ‘The devil you are! ’ I exclaimed. ‘And how
does that come about, Mr. Arbuthnot?’
“ ‘I have acquired a grazing property not far from
Salamanca,’ he replied, ‘and am come to Sydney to
raise funds wherewith I may stock the property with
cattle. It is my purpose, Baron, in calling upon you,
to inquire whether you might be willing to assist me.
I have excellent security, as I think you will admit
when I shall have explained the situation.’
“I twisted him round, ran him towards the tall
glass doors that opened on to the verandah and
literally kicked him through them.”
“ ‘H’m,’ I said, non-committally. ‘I shall be
pleased, Mr. Arbuthnot, to hear your account of this
sudden betterment of your fortunes.’
“Whereupon he informed me, in the most callous
manner imaginable, how he had assisted a neighbor
of my own, whose run adjoined Salamanca, in drink-
ing himself to death. This was a person named Bill
Heritage, a First-fleeter who had been one of the first
settlers upon a grant accorded him by Macquarie in
the Bathurst district. He was a hard old fellow of
over seventy, a frugal, hard-working man, and one
who would be most unlikely to succumb to the tempta-
tions of drink and dissipation. So I wondered at
Mr. Arbuthnot’s good fortune and asked him how it
had come about.
*< i D ILL HERITAGE I discovered,’ said Mr.
Arbuthnot, ‘to be a reformed drunkard. An
old fellow whom you employ at Salamanca, Patsy
Hourigan, the hut-keeper at Black Mountain, told me
this. But Heritage had sworn off the drink and never
touched it again until I made his acquaintance at
Salamanca.
“ ‘He was in the habit of riding over to the station
to consult me upon his accounts and business affairs
generally, and I used to see a good deal of him. One
evening he arrived on foot, badly hurt by a fall from
his horse, which had bolted and left him. It was a
bitterly cold night, and he had broken his arm. He
was half-dead from shock and exposure, and I insisted
upon his drinking a large quantity of hot rum. He
really needed it, and it enabled him to stand the pain
of my setting his broken bone and bandaging it up
in splints. He had two more stiff rums that evening,
and in the morning, after a restless night, a good deal
more.
“ ‘These potations revived Bill’s appetite for alco-
hol. By the time he went home to Stony Creek, at
the end of about a week, he had recovered the ground
lost during a quarter of a century and was become
once again the complete and uncompromising alco-
holic. He bought a barrel of rum from the store at
Salamanca and took it home with him, borrowing
our bullock-dray for its transportation to Stony Creek.
So well did he attend to its contents that he forgot
to return the dray and the team of bullocks, which
he had himself driven from Salamanca to his home-
stead. So after a few days I rode over to his place
to see what had become of them. I found him suffer-
ing from delirium tremens, and I stayed at Stony Creek
to nurse him to recovery. During the four days I
was there I found that he had not made his will, so
induced him, in the period of his convalescence, when
he evinced a childlike trustfulness in the advice I gave
him, to draw it up. I am glad to say that the old
man’s gratitude to myself induced him to bequeath
to me the whole of his estate. The will is a perfectly
valid legal instrument, duly signed and witnessed,
and I took it back to Salamanca with me for safe
keeping. My gratitude to Heritage induced me to
present him with another barrel of rum, which I
purchased from the store at Salamanca and sent across
to Stony Creek, charging it against my own account.
It arrived at Heritage’s hut just as he was finishing
the barrel he had taken home with him from Sala-
manca, and I have reason to know it was made very
welcome.
“ ‘So indefatigably did Bill Heritage
apply himself to making up for lost time
in the absorption of alcohol that before
long he made it his only pursuit. I rode
over occasionally to observe what progress
he was making and found everything very
satisfactory. Last week, on one of my
periodical visits, I found Bill’s body hang-
ing from a rafter in his hut. I think you
will agree with me, Baron, that I have done
very well for myself. Unfortunately, some
little time before he died Bill had sold all
his cattle, and so the run needs restocking
That is why I am here, sir, trusting that
you will assist me. Yes, I think I have
done very well for myself and made a
capital start in the colony.’
“That was all. Not an atom of com-
punction for the villainous part he had
played in ruining old Bill Heritage. The
only aspect of the transaction that appealed
to him was his own astuteness in making
the most of his opportunities. As for a con-
science in the matter, he was entirely with-
out one.
There you have the late Sir Richard
Arbuthnot to aT. He was altogether lack-
ing in compassion, and never in his life
saw any other interests than his own. All
his charities and benefactions were pure


advertisement. It is no wonder he. prospered. The
discovery of gold in ’sl led to his becoming a rich
man—a very rich man. And there were many of
his deals and transactions during his career that were
every bit as cold-blooded and callously cruel as that
infamous one by which he possessed himself of Stony
Creek station. He was the complete egoist.
t i f T was the same in the more private and intimate
' aspects of his life. His treatment of his first
wile, the beautiful Selina Makepeace, well illustrates
the claim of the memory of this ‘great and good man’
to be, as says the leader-writer, ‘an inspiration and
a model.’
“My dear Sally was as beautiful a woman and
as fascinating as any colonial-born female I have ever
encountered. She had not a very happy home life,
for her father had married a second time when Sally
was in the stage of budding womanhood, and a painful
mutual antipathy existed between the girl and her
stepmother. So when Mr. Richard Arbuthnot, the
highly-successful owner of Stony Creek and other
stations in western New South Wales, made proposals
for her hand he was speedily accepted.
“Over a matter of business I had occasion to
visit Stony Creek twelve months after Sally became
Mrs. Richard Arbuthnot. I had no love or regard
for her husband, so did not consider myself bound in
any way to refrain from making love to my host’s
wife. I was there for a week, and was in those
days a handsome and personable fellow of ardent
spirit.
“In the following spring Mrs.
Arbuthnot paid a visit to Sydney, and
so did the Baron Augustus von Big.
Many delights appertained to this holi-
day in the capital, then become, since
the discovery of gold in the colony, a
very different place from the little con-
vict township which I had been familiar
with since 1817. There was a good
theatre —the old Victoria—and endless
other ways of passing the time agree-
ably. We made the most of them,
and then Sally became my guest at
Pampeluna. A fortnight she stayed
with me, and my happiness was com-
plete. But at the end of the fortnight
disaster overtook us with the arrival at
the Woolpack in Parramatta of that
damnable personage Mr. Richard
Arbuthnot. Of course there had been
busybodies in Sydney who had not
neglected to send the evil word across
the mountains, and so this disgusting per-
son had arrived in the district. Word
had been brought out to me immediately
he made his appearance in Parramatta,
and of course my darling Selina had gone
back to her rooms at the Royal Hotel
in Sydney.
“I was, indeed, somewhat perturbed by this un-
pleasant ending to the adventure and fully expected,
at the very least, to be called out by the injured
husband. But that was not the way of Mr. Arbuth-
not.
“A COUPLE of days after I had heard of his
advent to Parramatta I received a visit at
Pampeluna from my rival in the affections of his
delightful wife. I saw him coming, and prepared
myself for a scene —one which, though I do not boast
of it, was not altogether unfamiliar to me. There had
been other irate husbands in my experience, and I
flatter myself that generally I was able to comport
myself with a dignity in which they were sometimes
lacking.
“My butler showed him into the drawing-room,
so lately graced by the charming presence of his
delectable spouse, and I came in immediately after-
wards. I bowed and he bowed, and for a moment or
two no word was spoken between us.
“He opened that curious conversation: ‘I have
the honor, Baron von Big, to call upon you over a
matter of some delicacy.’
“ The honor, Mr. Arbuthnot, is mine,’ I re-
sponded a little feebly. ‘Pray what, then, is the
matter of delicacy to which you allude?’
“There was nothing for it, so far as I was con-
cerned, but to brazen it out and make as good a case
for my angelic Sally as I might be capable of doing.
“ ‘I should like, Baron, to treat with you for the
transference of your station near Bathurst to myself.’
“ ‘What ?’ I demanded, not having fathomed the
fellow’s iniquity. ‘What do you mean, Mr. Arbuth-
not?”
“ ‘I had thought, my dear Baron,’ he said suavely,
‘that your own conscience might have saved any
explanation. But I suppose I shall be compelled to
state in words some disagreeable facts. The first
thing is that whilst my guest at Stony Creek you
betrayed my hospitality. The second is that you have
recently had my wife here in this house. I know all,
and am very well informed as to what has been going
on. The third fact is that you owe me compensation
for these regrettable irregularities. The only com-
pensation I feel disposed to accept is the gift of your
Salamanca property, which adjoins my own estate
of Stony Creek. I think you will agree that my
demand is not an unreasonable one. You have done
me a great injury. Do you understand me, Baron?”
“As a rule I am wont to keep cool in any emer-
gency. But I did not keep cool now.
“Immediately I jumped to my feet and glared
at the fellow. Advancing towards Mr. Arbuthnot
rapidly, I twisted him round, ran him towards the
tall glass doors of the room that opened on to the
verandah and literally kicked him through them,
though they were locked and bolted. I rang for my
servant to tell the groom to bring his horse. He
departed without a word. Such was his incomparable
egoism that I never heard another thing from him
about the affair. It would never have done for such
a rising man to have been talked of in such manner.
He could not afford it, and knew it.
“My sweet Sally never returned to Stony Creek
until the day of her death, which happened all too
soon.
“I have cut out that leading article.”
THE REVEREND SIR
46“|“HE greater portion of the year 1830,” wrote the
I Baron von Big elsewhere, “for reasons con-
nected with my bodily health, and more
because of a frail and highly-placed lady
whose embarrassing attentions I could not otherwise
have escaped had I remained in New South Wales,
I spent in Van Diemen’s Land.
“Van Diemen’s Land at this time
was one of the most curious and
singular of England’s Australasian
“Oh, ho, ho, ho! So that’s it.
dependencies. Some five years before, this province
of New South Wales had been proclaimed an
independent colony and given a Legislative Council,
and that highly-unpopular but very efficient Lieutenant-
Governor Colonel George Arthur during his term of
office guided the country into an era of prosperity
and good order which it had not hitherto enjoyed.
A Supreme Court was established, bushranging was
put down with a strong hand —there were a hundred
hangings in Hobart Town in the first fifteen months
of Arthur’s reign—the model penal establishment on
Tasman’s Peninsula was formed, the Van Diemen’s
Land Company began to exploit profitably the north-
west part of the island, many schools were opened
for the children of the settlers.
“But during all this time, and even more so after
the period of my sojourn in Van Diemen’s Land, the
country was literally flooded with convicts. By the
time transportation was abolished in 1853 nearly
seventy thousand prisoners had been poured into the
island during the half-century of its existence. It
may well be imagined from this that the people of
the country constituted one of the most curious
societies that has ever been seen. There has never
been anything quite like it anywhere during the
existence of the world. It was the most aristocratic
of the Australian colonies, and at the same time the
most debased and degraded. The haughtiness of the
upper classes was contrasted with the servility and
villainy of the lower.
“I had adequate introductions to his Honor file
Lieutenant-Governor and to several gentlemen of
distinction in Hobart Town, so that from my first
arrival there I was able to enjoy the best available
society. There were many charming and pretty ladies
to be met with both in the town and the adjacent
country districts who were willing to solace the loneli-
ness of a bachelor’s existence.
‘ < A MONGST the gentlemen to whom my introduc-
tions gave me access was a very remarkable
one, in holy orders, by the name of Robert Knopwood.
Coming to the colony at its first inception by the late
Lieutenant-Colonel David Collins, he had acted as
chaplain to the settlement until 1823, when he preached
his last sermon in St. David’s Church at Hobart
Town, and then retired to his estate at Rokeby, on
Ralph Bay, across the river from the settlement. Here
he employed himself in doing what he could for his
neighbors, in cursing them with vigor and fluency
whenever he considered them deserving of commina-
tion, in the hospitable entertainment of his friends,
and in exercising a general supervision over the welfare
and morality of the district in which he dwelt. He
was a hale and hearty, red-faced old fellow of about
seventy when I had the honor of making his acquaint-
ance, and used to ride about the countryside, top-
hatted and long-coated in clerical black, on a white
pony of roguish disposition, accompanied by a non-
descript yellow dog. On Sundays he conducted divine
service in the parish church at Rokeby, and on one
occasion when I was present an incident so entirely
characteristic of this reverend gentleman took place
that I feel I must record it here.
“I have written ‘the parish church,’ but the church,
as a matter of fact, was the township schoolhouse,
and the white pony, hitched to a tree outside, switched
flies restlessly and meditated escape, Mr. Knopwood
in the meantime keeping a watchful eye upon him
through the open window. All went well until the
middle of the sermon, when the congregation was
startled by a burst from the pulpit: ‘Damn that pony
of mine—he’s loose again!’
“I first met Mr. Knopwood at the table of the
Lieutenant-Governor, and was so tickled by the guile-
less profanity of his speech that I felt it incumbent
upon me to make his better acquaintance. I learnt
that he came of an ancient and respected Suffolk
family and was educated at a local school and Cam-
bridge University and had then entered the Church.
When his father died he inherited estates to the value
of £90,000, and soon began to make the money fly.
He was a close friend of Lord Claremont, who intro-
duced him to the Prince Regent and his disreputable
circle of intimates. When he had been successfully
rooked of his last shilling by these sharpers the Prince
of Wales obtained for him a chaplaincy in the Royal
Navy, where he served for some time. Finally, he
was chosen to accompany Lieutenant-Colonel Collins
when that gentleman set out to found a new colony
at Port Phillip or in Van Diemen’s Land.
‘ 4 K 4 KNOPWOOD invited me to visit him at
tVI Kangaroo Point, and I was glad to avail my-
self of his hospitality. It was a bright, hot day when
I crossed the water by boat to Kangaroo Point, on
the north side of the Derwent, and I found the cool-
ness of the interior of Mr. Knopwood’s cottage very
agreeable. He met me at the waterside, and as we
walked up to his residence the good man saw fit to
apologise for what he considered the lack of interest
which I might find in the simple rural existence which
was his.
“ ‘But,’ he said, ‘I have asked one or two of my
neighbors to dine with us this afternoon, and I think
you’ll find my cellar not so bad, Baron, not so
bad. I have a standing order with Mr. Simeon Lord,
in Sydney, to send me samples of the choicest vintages
he imports, and I must say the damned old villain
treats me fairly considerately. It’s not everybody can
say that about him. A rascal, I believe he is—
but respectful to the cloth.’
“ ‘Reverend sir,’ I replied, ‘I delight in the simple
joys of the country, and the pleasure of your company
and that of your friends, I am sure, will lend the
deepest interest to this happy occasion.’
“But it was by no means a happy occasion. The
three gentlemen whom Mr. Knopwood had invited
to meet me were, severally and collectively, those
whom I least desired to meet in the world. Each and
every one of them bore me a grudge, and I can only
assume that the motive of each of them in accepting
Mr. Knopwood’s invitation to dine in my company
(Continued on page 7.)


The Shellback
By ALAN HILL.
ILLUSTRATED BY BARNES.
O ny chance of a job, Mister?”
M The mate of the freighter Canopus looked
/ \ up at the man framed in the chart-room door-
way.
“Heard down on the wharf that one of your men
fell down a hatch yesterday and busted his thigh.
That would make you a hand short, sir, so I thought
I d take a chance.
Holroyd glanced him over with an eye trained in
the selection of crews. Clothes, shabby but very neat
in spite of numerous darns and patches Faded
colored workshirt, clean but obviously rough-dried.
As wel, the officer noted the regular trade-marks of
veariTof tXSSTrifckffiS'SkiSs from
cold blue eyes-keei e?e’s in of !he man’s obvious
age; the “fouled anchor” tattooed at the junction of
finger and thumb on a gnarled, capable-looking hand.
But (he man was old .too old, thought Holroyd
to be haunting the waterfront for a job and he did
not appear to be in the best of health Under a net-
work of deep wrinkles his face showed pale beneath
' S ""L i?” a -a rr i a l i “
Well, said Holroyd slowly, we are a man
short and we do need an A. 8., but Im afraid
He pause •
“Go ahead, Mister—say it! My age, I suppose?
Look here, sm—l can stand my watch and do my trick
with the best of the young feUers-aye, and better
than most of em-in spite of my fifty-four years!
“V Ellly " lour? You old ,hought Holroyd '
0a never see seven y again.
The old man dived his hand into an inside pocket
and produced an oilskin package. Opening 1 , he
selected a discharge from a well-thumbed collection
P “H’m. Tames SasTfn I‘b Ta's’ship Carring-
ton—here, this discharge is’a year old, man!”
“Yes, Mister,” said the oldster eagerly. “I paid
off Carrington twelve months ago ; had a nasty go
of fever—caught it in the China trade, years back.
Had to spell in hospital for a while ; but I’m all right
now. Strong as a mule!”
“The hell you are!” said Holroyd to himself. He
handed the paper back to its owner.
“Well, Gaskin, this ship’s on English articles, you
know, and the crew will be discharged when we get
to Liverpool. We’re laying-up for docking and over-
haul. There will be no round trip or passage paid
back.”
“That’ll do me fine, Mister. I’ve got a married
sister in the Old Dart, and I can put up with her
till I get another ship. I’m well known to the shore-
skippers around Liverpool, I can tell you!” he said
with a touch of vanity.
“Still,” said Holroyd dubiously, “I don’t know,
Look here—come back at eight o’clock to-morrow
morning and I’ll let you know.”
He eyed the old _ stager nar rowly. “You’d better
a i on g and S ee the cook if you could do with
a feed ..
The hard Wue s g ]j nted like ice. “I’m not a
water(ront stiffj M ister~l’m after a job. I’ll report
a < dght sharp ’”
‘Touchy old cuss I’’1 ’’ iaughed Holroyd half-angri y
a f he ™ tcbed * e * l,ght ’ l s^ bby flgu !, e s,ep ,aU " 'l
a ong . e oa ' ec an isappear own an a e
understood the fierce pride and
jnd dence J the true Wue . water sailor, and that,
, han thi d made him state Gaski „. s
(q (he ski y per f n (he mos( favorable light .
“I didn’t like to take him on without consulting
sir He , s old t 0 be sur but not , eeb | e>
y y ; , ong chalk P , regu|ar windbag man jf ever j
saw one . And a f ew S q Uare meals would work won-
ders „
“Well, Mr. Holroyd, we can’t afford to carry
ballast knOW) » objected the skipper.
understand that sir I’m sure this man would
pull his weight. But there’s another side to it. We’ve
go t to replace Simpson, and we’re due to sail to-
morrow a fternoon. That doesn’t give us much time
tQ dnd anyone w ho’ll agree to sail on other than
colonial articles> This fcllow Gaskin is wimng to sign
on English artides and pay ofC in Liverpo ? L “ w f
ty*
** lkl “Tagi back to at the end of the
(rj And P on ,f old Save . a .^ ob Sanderson snort at
, F , „
e e *T ense ' .
That settled the matter as far as Captain Header-
son was concerned The manager of the line was a
” a " !° be , s i unnad °" ,he ma,,er of avo ' dable cosls -
Gaskln salled on the Canopus.
A S Holroyd prophesied, a few days of plain food
in ample quantities worked wonders in Gaskin.
The color came back to his cheeks, his face lost its
Oh, never have I seen, since I been born,
A big buck nigger with his seaboots on!
Since Johnny’s gone down to Hilo,
Poor old man!
pinched, peaked appearance. Certainly no fault could
be found with his sailorising. Sewing canvas, splicing
ropes and wires, making fancy knick-knacks for
bridge or gangway, Gaskin had all the tricks of the
sailor’s trade up his shabby sleeve, and not an A.B.
on the Canopus could equal him. Also, to the cap-
tain’s great content, Gaskin was by far the best helms-
man aboard. The Canopus steered like a barrel with
everyone but Gaskin.
The old seaman “rode” the fo’c’sle like a bucko
down-East mate. He butted into every argument that
had anything to do with ships and sailoring, silencing
all opponents with a sarcastic tongue. When it was
anything at all to do with the sea Gaskin was the final
court of appeal. “Well, the old buster says was
the conclusion to many a debatable nautical point.
He openly scorned the foremast hands for “steam
sailormen” and spun countless yarns, between pulls
at a villainous clay pipe, of his experiences aboard
sailing ships that most of the for’ard crowd had never
heard of. But the older men had —and they soon
realised that Gaskin knew what he was talking about.
As the bos’n remarked on the second day out, “The
old barnacle must have been a quartermaster on the
Ark! ”
At all events the crew put up. with the vagaries
of Cranky Jimmy, as they speedily dubbed him, and
saw to it that the old man did not get too much of
the heavy end of the work.
On a dull March day the Canopus took her
departure from the Leeuwin, bound west for the
Cape of Good Hope. Almost immediately she ran
into dirty weather —and Gaskin had a mishap. He
was working on the foredeck, making a cover for a
lifeboat, when the Canopus took a green sea aboard.
If the old-timer had been younger his frantic leap
would have carried him to safety. As it was, the
weight of years was too heavy and the leap too short.
The sea wiped Gaskin off the ladder before he was
half-way up and dumped him crashing to the steel
deck-plates. Then, having given an intimation of
what it could do if it really tried, the comber sluiced
over the lee side, leaving Gaskin stranded and uncon-
scious.
To a man in the prime of health and years the
matter would not have been of much consequence
a knock-out, a few bruises and a possible lay-off for
the rest of the day. But Gaskin’s age told heavily
against him ; he was badly shaken up. He turned
out for his watch at midnight and somehow got to
the bridge, then promptly collapsed at the wheel. His
watch-mates carried him below, undressed him and
stowed him away; old Gaskin was ill
—there was no doubting it. The knock-
ing about had proved too much for his
old frame.
But when Gaskin came to he held
an entirely different view.
“Where’s me duds? Turn in? Me
eye and Betty Martin!” he screeched.
“Anyone’d think I was sick, loafin’ in
me bunk after a sousin’ an’ a bump or
two!”
“You’ve ’ad a fair bangin’ abaht,
Jimmy, y’ know!” said the Cockney
lamp-trimmer. “W’y don’tcher tike it
heasy fer a bit like a sensible ol’ man?”
“Easy? Old man? Why, you Bow
Bells potwalloper, who’s an old man?
Take it easy? Why, I stood me watch
in a hardcase Glasgow barque without
a break once with two busted ribs! Took
me wheel an’ all, parcelled up like a
sore thumb! Here—lemme up!”
Then the officer of the watch, sum-
moned to settle the dispute, took a hand
and Cranky Jimmy subsided. He had
to. The skipper had ordered that Jimmy
should keep off the deck until the
weather moderated.
BUT the weather did not moderate.
It steadily grew worse, until by ten
o’clock that night it was blowing a full
gale. Huge seas heaved up out of the
storm-racked darkness, licking over the
rails, turning the ship into the semblance
of a' half-tide rock as they roared across
her decks and cascaded overside in a
hissing, boiling torrent of foam. She
swung crazily, one instant poised dither-
ing on a wave-crest, the next sliding
her ten thousand tons down into the


was nothing but a malicious one, prompted by a desire
to humiliate me and make me uncomfortable.
“The first to arrive was Captain James Dubarry,
lately of H.M. 48th Regiment, with whose wife I had
had an affair of the heart in Sydney some years
before. The second was Mr. Assistant-Commissary
Baker, who had exchanged from the Commissariat
Service of New South Wales into that of Van Diemen’s
Land owing to an unfortunate infatuation on the part
of his wife for my unworthy self. The third was
Captain Elijah Mottlestone, retired South Sea whaler,
with whom I had had a stand-up fight in the Austra-
lian Inn in Sydney over a wench employed in the bar,
on which occasion the hot-headed seaman had received
a sound thrashing. Such a company could hardly be
expected to be any more agreeable to me than I was
to them.
“I must own that I was a little embarrassed when
Captain Dubarry arrived, and that my discomfort was
increased when the other guests made their appearance.
However, for the sake of our host, there was at least
a tacit understanding that no active hostility between
any of us should be manifested in his presence. There
was no handshaking, and only the most formal of
bows were exchanged between myself and the three
of them upon the Rev. Mr. Knopwood introducing
us. The good gentleman was a little taken aback
when he discovered that all four of us had had a
previous acquaintance in New South Wales.
“ ‘Well, well,’ he observed as he poured out
nobblers of brandy before seating ourselves at table,
‘damn my eyes, but ’tis a narrow world! So ye s ve
all met before? Come, then let us drink to our
mutual good health, and then we will take our seats.
It must be charming for the Baron to meet with old
friends in this distant part of Australia from where
he himself inhabits. Delightful! And for each of
you gentlemen too, no doubt. Captain Dubarry, were
you and the Baron von Big very intimate acquaint-
ances in Sydney?’
“ ‘We were, sir; we were,’ replied the Captain
coldly as he sat down.
“ ‘And you, Mr. Baker?’
“ ‘Oh, I knew the Baron,’ replied the Commissary
almost inaudibly.
“ ‘You, Captain Mottlestone you knew the
Baron too in Sydney?’
“ ‘Oh, yes. Guess I knew Mister von Big quite
well,’ replied Elijah, scowling at me in his cross-eyed
fashion.
‘ ‘ KA R- KNOPWOOD was all joviality in his efforts
* to set us at our ease. He told us scandalous
stories, at which he laughed uproariously, concerning
most of the prominent residents of the colony. He
narrated some of his own adventures before he became
a colonial chaplain. He jested and made merry to
the very best of his ability, but nothing he could do
was able to infuse that conviviality into the party
without which no social function can be other than
a desolation of dreariness. I laughed with the
reverend gentleman and capped his stories, but the
frigid silence in which my best efforts were received
had a dampening effect upon them, and presently I
retired and left all the joviality and wit to our host.
As for the others, when they were not scowling down-
ward at their plates they were glowering at myself in
the unfriendliest of fashions.
“As the meal progressed and the wine circulated
I began to feel a sort of pity for my fellow-guests—
pity that was. not unmixed with contempt. Why, I
asked myself, should these fellows visit upon me the
unfaithfulness of their wives and sweethearts? Why
should I be blamed because the women whom they
had attached to themselves had not proved appre-
ciative of them? Had it not been me whom Mrs.
Dubarry and Mrs. Baker and the girl at the Australian
Inn had preferred, it would undoubtedly have been
someone else. And when they looked at me, these
unlucky husbands and the lover from New England,
they could not but admit that each and every woman
of the three had displayed inevitable good taste in
the selection of a rival for every one of them. How
could the grim Dubarry, with the face of an under-
taker, hope to compete with the six-feet-three of
vigorous good looks and attractive masculinity pre-
sented by the appearane of Augustus von Big? The
round-shouldered Mr. Baker, a quill-driving figure
factor —how could he hope to be regarded by his
wife as I was? And that rude Yankee seaman, rough
and uncouth of manner and wizened and lean of
aspect —in what way might he hope to prove more
attractive to a healthy young girl than a gentleman
of undeniable presence and deportment? It was
more than absurd —it was ridiculous.
“As I considered these matters, and the reverend
sir’s good food and good wines began to induce in
me a sensation of well-being, I began to feel myself
recovering my spirits and resolved to respond to Mr.
Knopwood’s good humor. I filled my glass and raised
it genially to Captain Dubarry.
“ ‘My old friend, a glass of wine with you,’ I
addressed him jovially. ‘Let us drink to the memory
of those jolly old days in Sydney, Come—a glass of
wine, Captain Dubarry.’
“It is almost incredible, but that sour-faced fellow
rose in his place, bowed to Mr. Knopwood and begged
his permission to leave the table, explaining that he
felt a little unwell owing to the heat. Not the slightest
notice did he take of my proffered olive-branch.
“‘Mr. Baker your very good health, sir!’ I
bowed in the direction of the Commissary.
“ ‘I think,’ he said to Mr. Knopwood, ‘that, with
your permission, reverend sir, I will go and offer my
assistance to Captain Dubarry. He seems to me to
be very unwell and to need attention. Pray excuse
me, sir.’
“Not to be daunted in my recovered good humor,
I turned to Captain Mottlestone and raised my glass.
“ ‘Sir,’ I asked him, ‘shall we drink to the Presi-
dent of the United States of America?’ '
“ ‘By thunder, we won’t, sirree! ’ he said.
‘Reverend sir’ —turning to Mr. Knopwood—‘l guess
I’ll have to leave. No offence, reverend sir, no offence,
I hope. Good evening to ye, Mr. Knopwood.’
“He removed his ungainly frame from the dining-
room, and Mr. Knopwood, his face a little anxious,
addressed me.
“ ‘My dear Baron,’ he said, ‘what the hell’s
the matter?’
“ ‘Will you not drink with me, reverend sir?’ I
asked. ‘l’ll give you a toast.’
“ ‘Damme, I’ll drink with ypu with the greatest
pleasure, my dear Baron,’ said the hearty old fellow,
raising his glass to me, a broad grin coming over his
red face. ‘ls it to the health of the gentlemen who
have just deserted us? God bless my soul, I don’t
think they deserve it. What’s your toast, then, my
—— fine Baron?’
“ ‘ ’Tis the health of all cuckolds, reverend sir.
They need it.’
Mr. Knopwood put his glass down after drinking
the toast and stared at me wonderingly. I continued
to smile back at him.
“ ‘Oh —ho, ho, ho! ’ he laughed. ‘So that’s it, is
it? But three of them!’
“‘Well, reverend sir?’ I asked with a mock air
of humility.
“ ‘Baron! ’ he roared, jumping up and seizing my
hand, which he wrung heartily. ‘Damme, you’re a
bad man, a bad man! But I like you. Let ’em
go to the devil!’ ”
trough with a jarring and rattling of racing, bucking
screws.
The wind, blowing hard from the west, pitched
sea after sea over her bows, rendering the lookout’s
usual station untenable. For his safety he had been
placed at the break of the forward well-deck to stand
his trick. At 2 a.m. he struggled up the bridge
companion and made his way in short swoops from
stanchion to stanchion to the weather wing, where the
skipper and the second mate were sheltering behind
a canvas “dodger.” “That boiler on No. 2 hatch, sir
—it’s working loose! I can ’ear it bumpin’ an
poundin’ every time the ship rolls.”
The boiler in question was a ten-ton “lift” stowed
on top of the main hatch, on specially-prepared
wooden bolsters, destined for discharge at Capetown.
Too big and cumbersome to go down the hold, it
was carried on deck, secured by stout manilla lashings.
But heavy seas surging around the boiler had strained
and then parted some of the holdfasts, and the remain-
ing lashings were due to part the next time a really
big sea caught the ship.
“Call the mate, Mr. Osborne!” bellowed the
skipper in the second officer’s ear. “Tell him what’s
happened and to get all hands out and secure the
damn’ thing! If it gets away hell’ll pop! I’ll swing
the ship and run before the weather until the job’s
done!”
Five minutes later Holroyd, with the watch on
deck, stood huddled beneath the bridge, waiting until
the ship came round. A seaman, taking his chance
between seas, sped forward to turn out the watch
below and to warn them to stay in the shelter of
the fo’c’sle until the Canopus swung. It was done
at last. Then the ship, with wind and weather on
the quarter, and speed reduced to dead slow, rode a
good deal easier, with the foredeck fairly free from
heavy water.
Led by Holroyd, the seamen clattered down from
’midships, to be joined at the main hatch by a crowd
from for’ard, who brought with them fresh lashings
and tackles for setting them taut.
Suddenly the mate, about to direct operations,
felt someone brush past him and saw, in the semi-
darkness, a figure clamber on to the hatch.
“Good God!” gasped Holroyd. “It’s Gaskin.
Couldn’t keep off the deck when there was a job
of real sailorising to be done! Here, you!”
“Come on, there, you flat-footed bumpkins!
Bear a hand, d’you hear? Don’t stand there like
wooden men —get your hooks on to those lashings!”
Holroyd opened his mouth. Then he shut it.
What was the use of stopping him? He’d only start
an argument! And this job had to be done smartly.
Strangely, too, the men were around the great mass
of metal, toiling like beavers, responding to a strange
new ring of authority in the old man’s shrill voice as
he goaded them on with the lash of his tongue.
Before, they had hung back a little, waiting for the
mate to give them a lead in the dangerous task.
Gaskin had somehow shinned on to the top of
the boiler, and he stuck there, balancing to the roll
and pitch.
“Not manilla, lunkhead!” he yelped to a burly
Swede who had swung the bight of a rope lashing up
to him. “Wire, you fool! Wire! Ropes won’t hold
this blasted jam-tin—hasn’t it busted ’em once already?
Get a wire winch-runner! ”
CTOMEONE switched on a cargo cluster, and from
the bridge the master of the Canopus looked down
on the struggling men below, now dimly visible
through the sheets of spray that came sweeping down-
wind from aft.
“Holy mackerel! There’s old Gaskin!” he said
in amazement to the second mate. “Look at him,
will you? An old, sick man, working like a tiger
and giving the crowd a lead, b’gosh! Did you ever
see the like?”
Faintly above the soughing and wailing of the
gale the listeners on the bridge could hear Gaskin
“rough-tonguing” the crowd.
“Heave, you lot of Port Mahon soldiers —heave,
will you? No, no, no! All together! Blast the lot
of you! Tally on to that tackle-fall and pull! Why
did I ever ship with such a bunch of tea-kettle sailor-
men? The whole bang lot of you couldn’t tow a
herring off a plate! Hasn’t anyone got a voice? Come
0n”...
The old voice rose in a shrill, cracked pipe:
Oh, never have I seen, since l been born,
A big buck nigger with his seaboots on !
Since Johnny’s gone down to Hilo,
Poor old man !
And the deep voices of half a dozen men who
had served in the tail-end of the glorious era of sail
bellowed out the near-forgotten chanteyman’s chorus.
Oh, wake her!
Oh, shake her!
Oh, wake that gal with the blue dress on !
Since Johnny’s gone down to Hilo,
Poor old man !
“Ye gods!” muttered the skipper.
“There y’are, bullies good enough. Well the
tackle! Come up behind! All—all—all fast!”
And the big Swede deftly caught old Gaskin as
he slithered from the top of the boiler, his job of
sailorising done.
“Take him back to his bunk,” said Holroyd ; “he’s
all-in. I’ll get him a tot of brandy from the medicine-
chest. Right! That’ll do, the watch below!”
But when Holroyd reached the old salt’s berth
in the fo’c’sle he saw that Gaskin was indeed “all-in.”
His face was the color of putty, and a thin dribble
of blood oozed from the corner of his mouth. Hol-
royd gently wiped the slack lips and slipped his arm
beneath the skinny shoulders and half-lifted him.
“Here you are, old-timer —drink this.”
“T-thanks, Mister.”
The spirit seemed to revive Gaskin a little, and
a sudden hectic pink spot showed in each cheek. But
his voice was very weak. All the sting had gone
from it now. “That’s the last nip I’ll ever have,
Mister! ”
“Rot!” laughed Holroyd. “You’ll sink many
more yet. I’d hate to have to pay for ’em! ”
“No, Mister —I’m done; burnt out, I guess.”
Momentarily he brightened ; a flicker lit the dull eyes
and a wicked grin creased the hard old face. “Any-
way, I’ve cheated those undertakin’ stiffs ashore!”
The flicker died down, and he lay quiet for a moment.
Again he spoke, and Holroyd had to stoop to catch
the words.
“You knew me for a liar when I signed on,
Mister, didn’t you? When I told you I was fifty-
four?” A pathetic note of pride crept into Gaskin’s
low murmur. “Seventy-seven, Mister, and sixty-five
years at sea. An’ now I’m pullin’ out in deep water,
as 1 always wanted to!”
And at dawn Gaskin slipped his cable.
Among the few belongings in a painfully light
seabag Holroyd found a package of old papers. A
square-rig master’s certificate and numerous discharges
as mate and second mate of almost-forgotten crack
clippers—ships whose names were household words
in the racing days of the Australian wool and China
tea trades, when the white-winged beauties tore home
from Port Jackson or the Pagoda Anchorage to
“Falmouth for orders.” And all the papers were in
the name of James Gaskin.


with what seems to other nations callous cynicism,
keeps his politics and his moral sense, in separate
boxes. Even in war-time. In one of the British
Dominions a Labor member of Parliament made an
injudicious speech—as seditious as seditions could be,
according to the law. But when he came to trial an
ex-Attorney-General, from the other side of the House,
volunteered to defend him, and did do his best with a
hopeless case, finding no difficulty in getting what
evidence could soften the charge from citizens who
heartily disagreed with the accused man’s politics and
principles.
The Window-cleaner Holds Forth.
He’s John H. Wood, a Glasgow chiel who settled
in Rockhampton (Q.) donkeys’ years ago and who in
intervals between cleaning the town’s shop-windows
has been endeavoring to clean the soul’s windows of
his fellow-men by launching at them a stream of
argument anent almost every subject under the sun.
Concerning one of his earlier polemics, published
under the pen-name “John O’ Rockie,” The Bulletin
remarked “This man, John O’ Rockie, thinks for him-
self. Unfortunately his thinking is all wrong.” On
that occasion John must have stuck to politics. It’s
impossible to polish him off so summarily on this
occasion, for in the course of 536 pages he discourses
not only on the Great Depression, the Douglas Credit
theory (which he rejects), Karl Marx (whom he trips
up over a fatal omission in the Surplus Value theory),
the League of Nations (which he detests), the Initia-
tive, Referendum and Recall (of which he doesn’t
approve) and the Irish Question, but also on Evolu-
tionary Theories, from Darwin to De Vries, the
Philosophy of Nietzsche, the Theatre (including obser-
vations on Shakspeare and Gilbert and Sullivan),
Literature (a horse-foot-and-guns attack on D. H.
Lawrence, James Joyce and Henry Handel Richard-
son), Art and Abstract Justice.
That’s a very brief and incomplete summary of
the contents of Through the Window (Fraser and
Jenkinson). The book left this commentator too
exhausted to argue, and what’s the use of arguing
with a Glasgow man, anyhow? Grant his premises
and his logic can’t be faulted. Deny his premises
and you condemn yourself to lifelong argument. It
is possible to agree with him, luckily, on every other
page ; as, for instance, when he makes a plea for the
proper use of those good old terms Liberal and Con-
servative ; when he suggests that the Right and Left
wings in politics are parts of a circle and that somewhere
on the far side of the ring the ultra-Tory and the
ultra-Radical occupy identical ground without know-
ing it; that James Joyce’s Ulysses is 25 per cent, smut
and 50 per cent, flapdoodle ; that D. H. Lawrence’s
outlook was purblind in many directions ; that Arthur
Sullivan scored as good music as can be found in
many a grand opera, and that it’s significant that
Mendelism falls down in the realm of miscegenation.
Wood is a man of independent mind, and inde-
pendent minds are scarce. He’s still well out along
the Left wing in politics, but that doesn’t prevent him
taking most of the Left-wing josses to pieces and
disclosing the clay their toes are made of. He’s a
born expositor, and if he were a little less verbose
and could cultivate a style as simple as that of
Blatchford, he’d be a mighty big gun in any dialectic
scrap he cared to wade into.
Japanese Color-print.
To palates a little jaded with too many accounts
of Europeans’ journeys, Mrs. Ichikawa’s Japanese
Lady in Europe (Cape ; 12s.) comes as a delightful
refreshment. It is the record of a tour which she
made in 1931-32 with her husband, professor of
English at the Imperial University, Tokio, who had
been elected to the Albert Kahn travelling fellowship.
The object of the journey was not any particular study,
but a general survey of conditions. Mrs. Ichikawa
gives us the lighter side of it. The book was originally
written in Japanese for a Japanese audience.
The author says of herself meekly, but with a
glint: —
My education is limited to a girls’ high school, and
if I had deeper knowledge I should have been able to
make more interesting observations, but on account of
that very defect I endeavored to take in the impressions
of things I met with for the first time with unsophisti-
cated susceptibility, as on a photographic film unmarked
with any preconceived ideas.
The book’s charm is the charm of a Japanese
color-print. It has exactly that pictorial quality—
clear, delicate, precise, with a touch of formality—•
as when she folds her hands at the end of a busy
day and says, “Travel is indeed interesting.” There
is the piquancy of familiar objects seen from an
unfamiliar angle. All sorts of treasures, large and
small, are heaped gaily together—a visit to West-
minster Abbey, a Spanish bullfight, Swiss mountains,
a day at Stratford-on-Avon, a visit to a poet, a Hun-
garian interlude —“A country grinding her teeth”—
climbing Snowdon. The brittle sweetness of the book
is sometimes softened by tenderness, as in the descrip-
tion of the Russian children on the trans-Siberian
train, and often salted with wit. She can be quite
disintegrating in a simple way. She visited the Louvre
and thought it ill-arranged. She comments on some
pictures: — ,
A woman painted by Rubens was nauseating to me
because she looked as if she would melt into thick fat if
she were squeezed. I expected to like Greuze’s girls
better, but, oh, those eyes like rotting gooseberries.
Grand opera does not escape her, nor English
food, nor other quite homely things' She found
herself sitting on a very hard chair in Edinburgh, and
discovered that it was made entirely of deer’s horns.
“It was not in good taste, but very Scottish.” She
pays the usual tribute to the London police, though
not quite in the usual way:
As among dogs, Swiss St. Bernards; so among men,
these policemen—both seemed strong, tender-hearted,
strikingly big.
For her countrymen she describes London cart-
horses :
Upon their shins they have superfluous shaggy hair,
and as they draw the carts their hoofs make a hollow
sound like the tapping of a coconut upon the floor.
Each with its innocence and with abundant capacity
seems not to be worried with its labor, and imparts a
very soothing air to the streets.
There are flashes, too, of another sort of intuition,
as when she records her first impression of Paris:
The first thing I felt about Paris was that it would
be very thrilling to tear up the paving-stones and begin
street fighting with them.
She sums up the nations of the world, giving the
palm of survival to China:
This nation, who have not yet got their nerves
blistered with the stimulating fruit of the tree of know-
ledge, seem likely to inherit the earth and go on for
ever; while the Japanese, the Italians and other Latin
peoples go neurotic and mad, followed by the English
and Danish, who will be a little later in going the same
way.
The chief weakness of the book is in the reported
conversations, which have carried badly. Japanese
Lady in Europe has variety, grace and esprit; to
force upon it any of the heavier virtues would be
unfair.
Mississippi Delta Folk.
Part of the general plan of Green Margins, by
E. P. O’Donnell (Eyre and Spottiswoode ; 7 s. 6d.),
which is having a remarkable run in America, is
rather familiar, but the detail is of exceptional interest.
The book is full of well-presented characters, and
the setting, besides having the attraction of the un-
usual, is dealt with by a writer whose strong sense
of place is joined with an extraordinary ability for
bringing it to the reader’s consciousness.
The scene is the Mississippi delta, below New
Orleans, where the river, except for narrow grass and
timber margins behind the levees, flows through
extensive swamps. The population is a mixed crowd
of negroes and American- and foreign-born Dal-
matians, Italians, Creoles and Cajuus, speaking mostly
a patois based on English.
They live in driftwood cottages strung out along
the levees and in similar structures on stilts among
the swamps. Oranges, vegetables, rice, wildfowl,
furred rodents and alligators, frogs and other inhabi-
tants of the fecund waters go to their maintenance,
but the climate is enervating, and their efforts at culti-
vation, hunting and marketing are directed in most
cases only by the necessities of the moment. In
winter their semi-liquid country is fog-enshrouded,
and in summer they live barricaded against insect
pests. Mocco Kalavich is sitting outdoors on a
summer evening waiting for a shot at a rabbit:
The mosquitoes on his neck and wrists were like fur;
occasionally he smeared them off.
The story tells of the development of Nicolene
Kalavich from a half-civilised levee girl to a woman
of character and insight. She is stimulated culturally
by her contacts with an itinerant artist and a wealthy
woman visitor to the swamp lands. The situation
is not new in fiction, but the writer saves it by real-
istic treatment. It lives in the telling, and the story
sheers away from banality in the end by virtue of
Nicolene seeing through her mentors and using what
she has gained from them to enrich the life to which
she is native. In the same way a god from the machine
proves ineffectual in her lover’s life, and Mitch Holt,
failing in his dream of spectacular success, joins her
at a natural level. The woman, the artist and the
“god,” notwithstanding their conventional employ-
ment in the narrative, each have integrity as char-
acters. Rene is a man of advanced artistic theories.
This is Nicolene’s view of him toward the end of
their relationship. She is sitting in her swamp camp:
She saw Rene outside paddling toward Dutch Scenery
fa village]. His strokes were much too labored, as
though he were not pushing the light pirogue forward,
but rather pushing the whole earth backward, bent
upon being ahead of his time.
Green Margins is a book with a wide reach. All
the characters have vitality, and they seem to have
a significance beyond what is explicitly set forth.
Grampaw still has the saddle in which he rode with
Franz Joseph’s cavalry. Tony Kalavich, dying of
consumption, suggests in his treatment of the young
Nicolene the absolutism of Old World parental con-
trol. Nicolene’s nearly-white girl friend, Unga
January, symbolises the tragedy of miscegenation.
Mocco, Nicolene’s brother, exemplifies the capacity
of that environment for producing moral and physical
degeneration. All this without self-consciousness on
the part of the characters. The minor characters,
from steamboat pilots to little nigger boys, and from
alligator-hunters to makers of fishing-nets, also seem
at each appearance to bring connotations of their
lives outside the actual story.
The love-story of Nicolene and Mitch runs
through the years. It is one of those long-drawn-out,
variously-conditioned affairs that seem to wait on the
convenience of the author rather than attend on the
promptings of nature. But there again Green Margins
is in a class of its own. It does not live on its element
of suspense—there isn’t any—but on the reality of
its passing moments. The reader is never anxious, but
he puts the book down feeling that he has met a lot
of interesting people and got the feeling of a strangely
beautiful country.
Remarque's Germany.
This is the tragic cadence of Erich Maria
Remarque’s novel of post-war Germany, Three
Comrades (Hutchinson ; Angus and Robertson ; 8s.
6d.), translated by A. W. Wheen: —
..'. .we came back from the war, like miners from a
pit disaster, young and disillusioned of everything but
ourselves. We had meant to wage war against the lies,
the selfishness, the greed, the inertia of the heart that
was the cause of all that lay behind us —we had become
hard, without trust in anything but in our comrades
beside us and in things, the sky, trees, the earth, bread,
tobacco, that never played false to any man —and what
had come of it? All collapsed, perverted and for-
gotten. And to those who had not forgotten was left
only powerlessness, despair, indifference and schnapps.
The day of great dreams for the future of mankind was
past. The busybodies, the self-seekers, triumphed.
Corruption. Misery.
The story is of three men, Otto Koster, Gott-
fried Lenz, the “last of the romantics,” and Robert
Lohkamp, the youngest, in whose person the narrative
is told. They fought through the war together, and
now they are fighting through the peace in a world
that is crumbling. It is the universal tragedy of which
they are a small part; a token, as it were, of which
the author is perpetually conscious and makes us
conscious. That is the background, and from it each
individual character draws his own tragic cogency.
Standards are down, values lost, and there is a quiet,
persistent lawlessness abroad that cannot be gainsaid
because it comes out of necessity.
One spiritual value is left — comradeship. In
every heart there is one secret exultation: “I am still
alive.”
Remarque draws his picture with just that
heightening here, that staccato note there, that betrays
him for a romantic turned realist. In his pity and his
sorrow he cannot quite forget that this is dramatic
too. He hovers on the edge of sentimentality at
times when he flees it most assiduously. Cries one of
the characters: —
Drink, my boys. There are stars still shining that
blew up ten thousand light years ago. Drink while yet
there is time. Long live unhappiness. Long live the
dark.
There are many characters: taxi-drivers, bar-
tenders, prostitutes, a painter, a baker, a host of
casuals, the inmates of Frau Zalewski’s boarding-
house, all neatly catalogued: —
Frau Bender. Nurse at a foundling hospital. Fifty
years of age; husband killed in the war; two children
died of underfeeding in 1918. Keeps a tabby cat. The
one thing she has in the world.
Next, Muller, retired accountant, editor of the
magazine of some philatelist society. A walking stamp
collection, nothing more. A happy man.
The story is short and simple for so long a book.
The three comrades keep a garage, eking out its
scanty profits, in a world growing steadily poorer, with
a taxi and a home-made racing car. Lohkamp com-
plicates things by falling in love. Patricia Hollmann
is another fragment of the broken world, rejoicing, on
the last of her money, that she is still alive. Their
love goes its way, snatched, happy and sad, triumphing
over the ugly realism of their life, gaily travestying
romance with gifts of flowers stolen from parks and
churches, till Pat falls ill of the consumption that
undernourishment during the war had planted in her
system. Then follows the struggle of the three men
to keep her in a sanatorium, the failure of their
business, the death of Lenz in a street brawl, his
friends’ vengeance, and at last the slow and agonising
death of the girl.
The style is staccato and condensed, while the
book is long and full of detail. But always it is over-
acted. It is moving, it almost convinces, but at the
last there is always this flaw, which is perhaps in
manner rather than in sincerity. The least important
characters are the most natural. The major characters
all have the air of being posed to the best advantage,
even Koster.
“F.D.D.”: Frank Clune (R.P. 23/6/’37), writing
on the subject of Vance Palmer’s abridgment of Tom
Collins’s Such Is Life, says that I, in an article (R.P.
9/6/’37), “skilfully skedaddled from the polemics of
the case.” The article in question was a compilation
for the benefit of many readers who must have been
mystified by repeated references to Tom Collins, coupled
with extreme difficulty in obtaining copies of his
books. It brought under the eye, and fixed in Red
Page records, certain interesting, critical opinions, the
history of the books in relation to The Bulletin, a
description of Such Is Life and some biographical
and autobiographical notes about the author. That
was the complete scope of its intention, and, as there
was no comment, however indirect, on the abridged
edition, it is difficult to see justification for Clune’s
remark.
One of the finest examples of color-printing yet
done in Australia is a beautiful brochure, Romance
Calling, published by the K.P.M. line, of which is
reproduced a collection of the striking oil-paintings
of scenes in Java, Bali, Sumatra, and other Netherlands
East Indies subjects by Carl Shreve. This publication
goes to the credit of John Sands Pty., Ltd., Sydney,
the firm that has just celebrated the 100th anniversary
of its foundation.


PATIENCE
is a virtue in
the making of
GOOD whisky
1
mm
■
w
I
is
111111
vm
mm
m
Wm
m
mm
' BO
m
wm
m
isSs
m
:
;X\vXv
Hi
msm
m
m
m
m
immm.
m
1®
mmm
mm
MHHMBH
, ** JKBr # m
"If you can wait and not be tired
by waiting,” quoted Johnnie Walker,
"you have one of the essential
qualities for the making of good
whisky —Patience. When whisky is
run from the still into the spirit-
receiver, and from the spirit-
receiver into an oak cask, it
begins the long natural process,
extending over many years,
known as maturing in the wood.
"But while this improving and
4* %
ageing of whisky is going on, there
are other whiskies, laid down long
ago and now fully matured, which
are ready for blending as Jphnnie
Walker. The fact that Johnnie
Walker commands such large stocks
of old and specially selected whiskies
explains why this famous whisky is
older and better to-day than it has
ever been. You yourself will prove
this to be true when you ask for
Johnnie Walker by name.”
WAkKER
dfg
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY
JW 73-FPB


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
Hi
■: :: : :
mm*
■
mm
mZ
.1'
:
W«SS^»3«rr^r
f*
K
%mpwm
;f;<
V S
• r. • ■ ■
j4£lb ' L-• "*<*
Mi
-
r*.w:»
;•
- ;::■■■:K3 ME iH :■-■«
■
'
I
111 ■ |
mm.
»»*
w
'.lr*
Hi
I
wm
v « i
m
oil
Pi§ &
•g* £.? ■: Z *
III!!!
4k-
" "'"■■ v |.'.-; ■•■■.‘■'l ".,
4? X:~', s. ; t '
£/
III!!
Ym7
HI
'■>: •*:<
H
R 1
■I
;**i:
i!®§
■
li
;< •
■
f t !
Ratfel
*» <•* *
' <A v m£
■ I y
m
*
>s
Labelling Department—Bottling from One of the Vast Storage Cellars.
übit c Mne'cfwie ineiibwncMmndlmi^M


THE FIGHT THAT FAILED.
“At the marketing referendum and the Vaucluse and Woollahra by-elections, Democracy turned on the party which has been baiting it with pre-selection, boards,
commissions and prohibitions.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WELL DONE, WOOLLAHRA!
In swift succession two N. S. Wales Assembly elec-
torates, normally U.A.P. strongholds, have rejected
the candidates that the U.A.P. machine tried to impose
on them by means of its bob-a-nob variety of pre-
selection, reinforced with Ministerial bluster and
journalistic claptrap.
There would have been no contest in either elec-
torate had the U.A.P. organisation, Government and
newspapers had their way. The choice of a handful
of electors, mostly women, who had “qualified” by
paying a shilling a head for a branch membership
ticket would have had a walkover. It was taken for
granted that the dictation of an insignificant minority
to the majority would be meekly accepted in Vaucluse,
for the winner of the bob-a-nob ballot was a son
of the dead member, who was greatly respected ; but
an anti-pre-selection U.A.P. man came out and beat
him hands down. A party not completely infatuated
would have learned something from this defeat,
especially as it was followed by the resounding
rejection of the U.A.P. proposals at the marketing
referendum. The U.A.P. learned nothing.
When the Woollahra seat was rendered vacant
by the death of rhe Speaker, the U.A.P. blithely
advertised another bob-a-nob ballot and persuaded
itself that the successful candidate would be auto-
matically elected unopposed. The successful candi-
date proved to be a novice, unknown, even by name,
to nine-tenths of the 18,633 electors, and, although he
led the field of 16 at the end of the first lap, his score
was a ridiculous 130.
Nomination day brought him two opponents,
lawyers like himself. They said they were U.A.P.
but against pre-selection. The U.A.P. denounced
them as bogus. Its mouthpiece, the “Herald,”
screamed that they were issuing “a direct challenge
to the authority of both the party and the Govern-
ment.” Mr. Mason’s challenge was the more formid-
able, so a dead set was made against Mr. Mason, and,
though Mr. Mason had begun by saying that he and
Premier Stevens were old schoolmates. Mr. Stevens
repudiated Mr. Mason with all the vehemence at his
command.
The U.A.P. is a democratic party, but there is a bond
of loyalty to its principles. There is no room in its
ranks for an Independent. The statements made by Mr.
Mason definitely put him outside the pale of the party
should he be elected.
He was elected, so Mr. Stevens will now have
to choose between admitting him to the narty (as
the anti-pre-selection member for Vaucluse was
admitted), in the process dropping its “principles”
down the sink, or going under with the “principles.”
The number of effective votes cast was 14,454
(there were 584 spoilt ballot-papers, one bearing the
legend “Mrs. Simpson 1, Mrs. Freer 2, Jack Lang
3”), and Mr. Mason’s majority was 208. No. 1 votes
for the pre-selection man totalled 6686, against 7768.
When it was clear that the bob-a-nob “principle” had
been beaten again, piercing squeals came from U.A.P.
headquarters, the loudest squealer being Mr. Hors-
field, the secretary. The emotional outburst of Mr.
Horsfield was preserved in “S. M. Herald” type. It
was to the effect that “the U.A.P. vote the two Inde-
pendents received between them was about 2600”
(even if that were so, it would represent a consider-
able revolt against bob-a-nobism); that “the Labor-
vote in the electorate is approximately 5000,” and
that “the U.A.P. electors of Woollahra” might
“derive what consolation they can from the fact that
they permitted the A.L.P. to elect their member.”
The chuckles at the Trades Hall should cause the
U.A.P. electors and part of the 5000 who did not vote
to do some deep thinking.
Actually, those who did not vote numbered 3595.
Mr. Horsfield assumes, the assumption being necessary
to his “argument,” that all the Labor people voted,
all their ballot-papers were marked correctly and
the anti-pre-selection men got the lot. This is utter
rubbish. If there were 5000 Labor votes in Woollahra,
all so regimented that they can be delivered as the
A.L.P. executive pleases, it would be a poor lookout
for the other side at the next general election. It is
questionable whether the solid Labor vote in Wool-
lahra, composed of members of A.L.P. branches
and trade-unions paying A.L.P. dues and their women-
folk, reaches 3000. As for regimentation, it was shown
at the marketing referendum, particularly in Queens-
land, the strongest Labor State, that Labor sympa-
thisers cannot be driven to vote for what they don’t
want, and that they share the current mistrust of
machines and the prevailing dissatisfaction with poli-
ticians and their performances.
That dissatisfaction, as well as the mistrust, con-
tributed to the rejection of the branded candidate in
Woollahra. In common with electors everywhere else,
the electors of Woollahra feel that Australia is carry-
ing too many politicians, who do too little useful
work for the money they get and the money they
are the means of spending.
Electors in general cannot see that it is necessary
to take £104,400,000 from their pockets in a single
year to govern a population of 6,750,000. They are
weary of being stung for excessive unemployed-relief
taxes on gross income when the unemployed notori-
ously get only portion of the proceeds, and sick
of being bled for excessive road taxes to finance
comparatively small road expenditure and for excessive
vehicle taxes to make up the losses on Government
railways, which losses continue in spite of various
disguises, though savage taxation and ruthless penal-
ties are imposed on road carriers. They are tired of
being told that “the U.A.P. saved Australia” and that
Australia should be eternally grateful and humbly
accept anything the U.A.P. chooses to do (or put
over) when they know that Australia was saved by its
own courage, energy, good sense, good temper and
readiness to accept sacrifices for the public good.
And they have no longer any patience with the out-
rageous pretence that it is necessary for the public
good that hordes of politicians and mandarins —
Premiers, Ministers, private members, heads of depart-
ments, railway commissioners, transport commis-
sioners, police commissioners, traffic managers,
auditors-general, customs officials, tariff experts, secre-
taries, assistant-secretaries, assistant-assistant-secre-
taries, clerks and typists —should go abroad so often
and for such long periods that there is always some
happy band away. They don’t believe it, and nothing
can make them believe it.
Electors in general saw in the marketing referen-
dum an attempt to put it over them. A sound instinct
impelled them to reject the hollow cries and counsels
of the multitude of politicians and newspapers and
retain the constitutional guarantee of inter-State free-
trade ; how right they were the raising of butter and
cheese prices immediately the basic wage was increased
has shown. That experience has deepened their dis-
trust of politicians and their aversion to boards and
commissions, though they are threatened with more.
Looking about them, they see an ever-swelling public
debt, a surreptitious resumption of London borrow-
ing and— notwithstanding all the pawning and taxing
and spending tens of thousands of young fellows
still unemployed, though many could be trained to
defend the country. They see the northern gate
“guarded” by the comic Larrakia. And they realise,
however dimly, that their Commonwealth, once
isolated and securely protected by a supreme Royal
Navy, has entered upon a strange and doubtful new
age, an age in which it will need strong men and strong
measures that pre-selection cannot assist it to get
and may prevent it from getting.
By striking a smashing blow at a bad system
which must be ended, since it can’t be mended, the
electors of Woollahra have done a good job for
democracy and for Australia.
Guesswork and Innuendo.
A new school is wanted in Australia one devoted to
a single course: How to Read Daily Newspapers.
Its principal would need to be chiefly proficient in
English usage, particularly the words of the language
that serve to disguise guesswork as statements of fact
or that are naturally loaded for purposes of impli-
cation and innuendo.
Given such a principal, the school could be
inexpensively run. Big libraries and stacks of text-
books would be unnecessary. The “feature splash”
of any one of a dozen dailies would provide material
enough to keep the most voluble instructor talking
continuously for all the class hours of a term.
Pending establishment of this school, anyone can
practise at home towards qualifying as its principal.
He could take, for example, that attempted torpedoing
in Spanish waters of a German warboat about a
week back. In double-column feature-type the guess-
work aftermath was implied in these headlines:
“Further German Action Feared. Assurances
Doubted. Warships in Spanish Waters Cause Mis-
givings.” In that little lot, a competent lecturer would
point out, every clause is loaded. In the context,
“feared,” “doubted” and “misgivings” are all loaded
words —they would be in any context. Their effect
here is to induce a state of mind ranging from distaste
to hatred for the country mentioned. The man who
put up those headlines is not blameable —the cable
text before him demanded them —but the effect
stands.
The first sentence of the cable text recounted
that, “despite German assurances that there will be
no reprisals” and “an official disclaimer of German
territorial ambitions in Spain or the Spanish colo-
nies,” there were “misgivings in Whitehall.” The
opening word “despite” is heavily loaded on its own
account, and more so in its effect of conditioning the
reader’s mind into a state of disbelief against the
“assurances” and the “disclaimer.”
The clause “German territorial ambitions in Spain
and the Spanish colonies” demands a slight refresher-
course on recent history. A few months ago it was
cabled that Germany had landed a large body of
military forces in Morocco. Germany officially denied
it. Newspapers insisted. An official observer was
sent from England to look into the matter. He
travelled extensively, saw no German troops nor trace
of such forces, and reported accordingly. The whole
thing was a fabrication. A day of the course would
not be wasted if it were devoted to an examination
of this lie, of how it was nailed and how the purposes
of innuendo and implication are served by the
resurrection.
The term “misgivings at Whitehall” could keep
the competent lecturer busy for hours. By way of
elucidatory illustration he could instance an occa-
sional resort of sporting writers. A sporting writer
in his eyrie in the grandstand is satisfied that in a
very close finish a certain horse has won. But the
number of another horse goes up. On racecourses
things are so arranged that nobody has a view directly
over the judge’s box, so only the judge knows which
horse in a. close finish is first past the winning-post.
The sporting writer, wishing to express his opinion,
falls back on the resources of the language. “Many
in the grandstand believed that Bullseye won” is
one way of putting it. Similarly, “misgivings at White-
hall.” It implies official unanimity of belief, gives
to the sheer guesswork of an unknown newspaperman
the semblance of authoritative pronouncement.
In this instance, “misgivings at Whitehall” was
quickly nailed as a lie. Mr. Eden, in the Commons,
flatly denied both the “misgivings” and the invented
grounds on which they were supposed to be based.
So much for “misgivings at Whitehall.”
The next clause in this example of the new
reporting art was “it is thought.” This, with “the
theory is held” (another gem plucked from the same
diadem), “it is said” and “it is believed,” is a stock,
journalese term, meaning “This is the reporter guess-
ing ; now don’t say you have not been warned to
take what follows as guesswork.”
What was “thought” in this instance was “that
Germany may possibly be persuaded that modera-
tion is the right policy.” Lifted thus from this crown
of innuendo, the loading of that gem becomes obvi-
ous enough; the persistent danger is that in the
context all such phrases ripple plausibly along, and
can get in their dirty work unsuspected. The impli-
cation there, of course, is that Germany, unless
persuaded that moderation was the right policy,
would act at the extreme opposite of “moderation.”
As both the Prime Minister and Mr. Eden made
clear, there was no basis whatever for any such
assumption. An unknown journalist—guessing wrong
once more —simply assumed it, serving in the act of
invention whatever purpose is being served by the
misrepresentation of this and other countries which
it is the newspaper fashion of the moment to traduce.
One other gem from the diadem (it is studded
with them): “Britain is watching the situation
anxiously.” This is a falsehood from start to finish.
It implies that the people of Britain are burning with
anxiety over a situation which has only at that
moment been fabricated in the mind of an individual
journalist. In the course a special lecture could be
here inserted on the colossal conceit which leads not
only individual journalists but the organs they hack
on to believe that they are the mouthpieces of nations.
Instead, they stand for, on the one hand, a paid indi-
vidual who knows that, in times such as these when
there is a premium on manufactured sensationalism,
he must manufacture accordingly or go under; on the
other hand, a business concern that has found it
profitable to sell such manufactures at a penny or
so a wrapping.
All that is contained in one day’s “reporting” of
one phase of the daily varying European “crisis.”
Selecting his material from day to day, the lecturer
would suffer only from an embarrassment of riches.
Take, as one other representative example, the
presentation towards the end of last week of Italy’s
and Germany’s exasperated final word on their part
in the non-intervention arrangement, which part was
sabotaged by Red irresponsibles of the Spanish Gov-
ernment side. The actual news cabled was an
announcement that since February Germany and
Italy had scrupulously observed the ban on volunteers.
Everything that could be done on the Italian and
German side to isolate the Spanish conflagration has
been done. The last decisive word now belongs to the
cannon.
The sense of the concluding sentence clearly is that,
as far as Germany and Italy are concerned, the civil
war in Spain must now be fought out to a finish in
Spain ; those countries will risk their men and ships
no longer. But up go the headlines: “ ‘Cannon Must
Speak the Last Word.’ Italian Outburst Against
Britain and France.” The implication needs no
interpretation.
The tragedy—it is a dire tragedy—of daily-
newspaper journalism to-day is that opinion—once
restricted to the leading articles and other sections
given to the advocacy of policy —has been allowed
to become inseparably entangled with news. A
daily-newspaper journalist of another day would have
been sacked for the offence. To-day he is promoted.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Alarums and Excursions.
Prophets of the Evil that never arrives must have
enjoyed themselves thoroughly last week. A full issue
of food for anxious and alarmed thoughts was pro-
vided in the prints that trade in that commodity—
and nowadays it is hard to find a daily that doesn’t.
“Anglo-German tension” had become “more
acute.” The Japanese had sunk a Russian gunboat on
the Amur River, and there had been “emergency
meetings” of the Cabinets at Moscow and Tokio. Mr.
Lloyd George had said “I tell you if you don’t stand
up to the dictators there will be war.” The Acting-
Prime Minister of Maoriland had said “Since 1914
we were never closer to a world war than we were
last Thursday.” There was to be a momentous meet-
ing of the Non-intervention Committee in London on
Friday ; Lord Plymouth had already found it neces-
sary to speak sharply to the German and Italian
representatives ; the Fate of Spain, indeed the Fate
of Europe, was in the balance and the Worst was
Feared.
Yet it all passed like a bad dream. Mr. Savage’s
deputy denied having made the alarmist assertion
imputed to him. The Japanese and Russian Govern-
ments agreed to regard the sinking of the gunboat
as just one of the many “incidents” that have occurred
on a debatable frontier and arranged a mutual with-
drawal of forces. And the German and Italian dele-
gates to the Non-intervention Committee, while pro-
posing a general recognition of the belligerents in
Spain and suggesting an alternative to the new Anglo-
French naval-cordon plan, announced that their coun-
tries were “firmly resolved to adhere to the non-inter-
vention principle.”
Why don’t these newspapers give Australia a
respite from their silly scaremongering? Apart from
other and more obvious effects, it is keeping business
unsettled, the sharemarket nervous and honest fellows
on relief work or the dole.
A Use for the League of Nations.
“Senator Pearce said it was extravagant to claim that the
League of Nations had failed or that it could abolish war.
The League had failed in regard to Abyssinia, but it had
had many successes in settling international disputes. The
League had many other useful functions apart from pre-
venting war, such as preventing the drug traffic and the traffic
in women and assisting political refugees.”
This is a very different representation of the League
from that emanating from the Government side of
the House to fill numerous pages of “Hansard”
in the last quarter of 1935. Then, the League having
failed to prevent a war, it was represented as a trust-
worthy means of preventing the continuance of that
war. It was further represented that its “weapon,”
“collective security,” was the one means of ensuring
peace and saving civilisation.
Instead, it was “collective security” which col-
lapsed, as all but confirmed sentimentalists knew it
must. Meanwhile, Australia, submitting to the delu-
sion of Mr. Pearce and others of his kidney that
confiding in the League was both noble and necessary,
stood committed to war in the interests of the Abys-
sinian savages—a privilege only averted because
League members could not agree.
World war was averted in 1935-36 because self-
interest—the countries which declined “collective
security” did so wholly for that reason —proved, for
once, a blessing. Steps should be taken to ensure
that such sheer luck is not to decide such an issue in
the future.
The League’s champions, turned apologists, are
now in the field with reasons why the palace at
Geneva should not be shut. Mostly they rely on
purely social-service possibilities, but a section of
them—including that fated follower of dud causes
Winston Churchill want that militant League in
which deluded people once had faith, but only career-
ists and simpletons have faith any longer.
The Leaguers would show most sense in sticking
to their idol on the social-service issue. It can con-
ceivably be made to do good work in such a restricted
sphere. But, as it stands, the League’s constitution
presumes effectual war prevention as within the means
of the League. While the war-interference clauses
remain there will be fools who will have faith in
them. All such clauses need wiping out of the
“Covenant,” leaving the League reconstituted as a
purely social-service instrument. At this reduced, but
sound, level the contributions of participating countries
could be reassessed —certainly Australia’s share would
want to be a lot less than the present near-£70,000 a
year.
As the League now stands —with its pretence of
being a war-prevention instrument remaining, though
proved a hollow sham—our heavy contribution to its
upkeep is money handed over under false pretences.
Madam Perkins.
Some of the Americans who re-elected Franklin
Roosevelt have turned against him because of his
indulgence to sit-down strikes and other forms of
revolution introduced by the union leader John L.
Lewis. The President broke a long silence with a
reference to the tremendous strikes, accompanied by
shootings, in the heavy industries, saying his senti-
ments were “A plague on both your houses.” But
quotations from Shakspeare won’t prevent sit-down
strikes nor settle others.
A lady is Mr. Roosevelt’s Secretary for Labor,
Miss Frances Perkins. The Republicans call her
“Madam” Perkins and blame her for all the industrial
turmoil, declaring that sit-down strikes became an
epidemic only after she had blithely announced that
persons taking possession of other people’s plants
and property hadn’t been proved to be doing anything
unlawful. The Governor of Ohio has revealed that
the lady’s way of intervening in the steel strikes was
to ask him to collect the employers’ representatives
and “keep them there until they sign an agreement
with the strikers.” He dryly replied that kidnapping
was beyond his legal powers. Madam Perkins hastily
explained that she had merely suggested the use of
subpoenas. She has since scolded the president of the
Republican Steel Corporation for describing Mr.
Lewis’s Committee for Industrial Organisation (the
very name has a Bolshie sound) as “utterly irrespon-
sible.”
Running a Labor Department in unquiet times is
no job for a woman.
Threeha'pence a Letter!
Last week there was “inaugurated the first part of
the Empire air-mail scheme by which first-class mail
will be sent by air to all parts of the Empire for
three-halfpence per |oz. letter and a penny per post-
card.” So Australia was informed in a cablegram ;
but Australians merely shrugged their shoulders and
said “Wrong, as usual.” South Africa, which has
penny postage within the Union, is getting letters
carried to and from Britain at three-halfpence a |oz.
and postcards for a penny. But Australians are still
paying Is. 6d. on letters and 9d. on postcards.
Some reduction has been promised, but no man
knows when it will be introduced. Effective reduction
depends on everything being ready at this end to
accommodate the flying boats that will carry the
mails, and after taking upwards of two years to sign
an agreement with the Britons the Lyons Government
is letting month after month drag on while it
makes up what it is pleased to call its mind on the
question of the terminal site.
All the Government’s advisers have recommended
Rose Bay, Sydney, and it is inclined that way itself.
But a few Rose Bay people object because the
flying boats might interfere with their swimming,
speedboating, golfing and so forth—and they have
evidently convinced two local members that their
votes are important. The Sydney Government, also
sniffing votes, has chipped in, and the claims of other
sites have been urged ; so the Administration at Can-
berra is procrastinating in its feeble way. This is
politics as the game is played nowadays, but it is not
the shadow of government as government used to
be known.
Meanwhile, inland postage remains at twopence
a letter and the Postal Department is engaged on the
agreeable task of ascertaining what its surplus for the
year to June 30 amounted to. It will be less than
the 1935-36 surplus (£2,983,000), for a lot of construc-
tion and maintenance work was done out of revenue
(though, according to the immemorial habit of Aus-
tralian Governments, portion was charged to loans);
all the same, it is expected to reach £2,600,000. The
1934-35 surplus was £2,407,000. Just on £8,000,000 in
three years.
In every State there are bodies campaigning for
a reduction of the outrageous charges which produce
these bloated surpluses. The Postmaster-General’s
invariable reply is that if the charges were reduced
there would be a great fall in revenue which would
have to be made up by taxation. He can’t or won’t
see that a substantial reduction of charges would
bring in more business, or that, to the extent that
his charges and profits are excessive, he is already
imposing taxation.'
"Impregnable National Defence."
Beating the Prime Minister, the Federal Treasurer,
the Premier of Victoria, the Premier of S.A., the
Premier of Westralia, the Premier of Tasmania, the
Deputy-Premier of N. S. Wales, their secretaries,
typists and all the other members of our political
Coronation-tripping flock, Premier Forgan Smith of
Queensland is first to return to a grateful Australia
some of the benefits accruing in advance of the bill.
The people of Great Britain, and the Parliament,
are definitely peace-minded. Everything that can be
done by Britain to prevent a European upheaval will be
done. National defence does not depend upon arma-
ments. The only impregnable national defence is a con-
tented population of industrious people.
No country, according to the historians, suffered
so much from invaders in the days when it was
defenceless as the country which Mr. Forgan Smith
has just seen, now grown to such a strength that its
sheer might can be enough to hold the balance against
a “European upheaval.” First the Saxon, ferociously
invading the Celt, slaughtering and enslaving ; then
the Saxon himself suffering similarly at the hand of
the Dane. Massacres and retribution, pillaging and
plundering, the land laid waste and cities razed to the
ground for generation after generation.
But, as Mr. Forgan Smith reads history, what
does all that matter? England never shifted a foot,
nor did the Roman or the Norman conquerors over
its defencelessness shift it. In all its invasions cruelty,
savagery, all war’s barbarity, was let loose —very real
at the time, but what does it matter now?
Only this—that if England, standing now power-
fully defended as a bulwark of civilisation, were to
adopt the brilliant precept of Mr. Forgan Smith, all
that would instantly happen again. Because the
English are a tough tribe they would fight back, even
unarmed, but they would be helpless against the arms
of the invaders, and presently a few would survive
as vassals to think gratefully of people like Mr.
Forgan Smith.
Or has Mr. Forgan Smith’s recipe a purely Aus-
tralian application? If it has it amounts to this.
Unless while he was in England he was as blind as
his pronouncements would seem to indicate, Mr.
Forgan Smith must have gathered that Britain had
just launched out on the most vigorous defence arming
in its history. Mr. Forgan Smith must then interpret
this as meaning that Australia, under such a wing,
can safely remain undefended.
Some day, if ever it is allowed to prevail, the
gospelling of people like Mr. Forgan Smith will be
given a testing here when Britain’s protective strength
is engaged elsewhere. Australians, as unarmed, will
fight as the early Britons fought, and as fruitlessly.
A new race will inherit the land ; but Australia will
not shift an inch, so what will it matter to the then
historic dust of Mr. Forgan Smith?
The Killed and Wounded.
Steady increase in the half-year’s road killings and
other accidents should at least revive effort in the
anti-hog propaganda that shaped to do good work
until it apparently died of inanition. Little has been
heard of it since somebody in authority ruled out an
excellent poster as “too grim.”
At the rate the figures are mounting it would be
as sensible to rule out an anti-war poster on such
grounds. Already this year in N. S. Wales 130 persons
have been killed and 1964 injured in 2808 road acci-
dents, mostly motor, though bicycles were tangled up
in the tidy total of 359—like the motors, an increase.
Ugliest features of the figures are increases in the
number of children killed (24) and injured (288) and
in the proportion of drivers in the “15-19 and 20-24
age groups” involved in casualties and casualty-
making.
Propaganda as good as that launched early in
the year would check some of the road-hoggery, but,
as anybody who has anything to advertise knows,
spasmodic propaganda is useless. In any case, alone
it is not enough. The laws already designed for
checking excessive speeding and other dangerous
driving—“excessive speed was again the principal
cause”; “failure of drivers to keep to the left caused
84 accidents, involving 17 deaths” —need enforcing,
not by the police, who do their job, but in the allotting
of penalties. Every inadequate penalty, every neglect
to impose an adequate penalty, adds to the casualties
by encouraging looseness.
Additional precautions are needed. For one,
stringent regular examination of motor vehicles on
the wise Maoriland pattern, rendering “mechanical
defect” no longer an easy excuse. Another help would
be a term of gaol, without any option and irrespective
of persons, for anyone causing an accident by being
under the influence.
Easy Money.
On June 28 the Lord Mayor of Brisbane persuaded
his City Council—without any difficulty— to authorise
him to ask the Government for permission to borrow
£lOO,OOO through a Melbourne firm of brokers at 4j
p.c. (price of issue, £9B 155.). His Ludship assured
aldermen that this would complete the borrowing for
the “current year,” which closed on June 30. So
for two days at least there were no fresh loans.
Brisbane raisings for the 12 months tot up to £BBO,OOO.
Very soon, however, Alderman Jones will be
active again, for he proposes to spend something over
£1,000,000 of “new” money in 1937-38, acquiring it
by instalments.
The Lord Mayor has lately been flirting with the
idea of borrowing in London (N.S.W. Premier
Stevens’s Water Board has set him the example), a
particular “merit” being that this would free the
domestic market for the seven Governments to exploit
for themselves. As things are, he has first to get the
consent of the State Government, then of the Loan
Council (every member of which has to be consulted)
and, finally, of the brokers. The approval of the aider-
men is a matter of form, and that of the ratepayers
is not sought. Thus a supply from London would
cut out a lot of circumlocution and bother.
Failing London, a trial might be made in New
York, Johannesburg, Amsterdam, or anywhere else.
The point of supreme importance is easy money.
Brisbane municipality has already found accommo-
dating Uncles abroad. Of all the loans raised up to
June, 1936 (£19,647,397, plus bank overdraft,
£772,884), £5,500,000 was obtained in London and
£3,715,764 in New York. The British loans were
costing last year, in interest and other charges, £6 13s.
6d. p.c., and the American ones £6 17s. lOd. p.c.
The Brisbane municipal debt is approximately
£1,000,000 per alderman. Service charges last year
averaged £5 7s. lOd. p.c. For this kind of “manage-
ment” the Lord Mayor gets £lOOO a year salary and
£lOOO allowance, and the other twenty aldermen get
£3OO a year each.
Maoriland Markets Australian Honey.
“New Zealand's good results on the London market are
obtained by a fine sales organisation.”
The description is C. E. Cottman’s, and he used it
when retiring from the president’s chair at the Vic.
Apiarists’ Association conference in Melbourne.
Attending beekeepers had passed bitter comments on
prices received for Australian honey, consigned and
sold as such, in Britain.
As Mr. Cottman said, there must be something
wrong with Australian selling methods. Maoriland’s
Honey Control Board has found it profitable to buy
honey in Australia and export it to London, though
its powers were supposed to be limited to the export of
Maoriland honey.
The chairman has admitted that his board handled
100 tons of Australian honey profitably, and that
option is held over another parcel. He referred
vaguely to the “necessity for filling certain contracts
with manufacturers,” and “emphatically denied” that
Australian honey had been “blended with New Zealand
honey and exported to the British market as New
Zealand honey.” He mentioned contracts ; it seems
queer that they did not specify that the honey sup-
plied should be Maoriland honey.
Possibly Australian honey tastes sweeter when
marketed by another country’s organisation. It cer-
tainly seems to sell better.


Society
"AND IT'S PERINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Roper, J., is the youngest
Judge on the Australian Bench (he is
35), and there is only one Mrs. Roper.
Solomon, J., was old and had lots of
wives (cones, don’t come into this argu-
ment). But Solomon, J., would assuredly
have subscribed to a judgment delivered
by Roper, J., in the N.S.W. Divorce
Court last week. It was a case of a hus-
band and wife, worthy, industrious people
—he was a piano-tuner, she a music-
teacher—who had quarrelled over the
question of where the domestic hearth
should be. He wanted to live at Kurra-
jong, 49 miles from Sydney. She plumped
for Epping, distant 14 miles and with
heaps more pianos and prospective pupils.
They couldn’t agree, parted and consulted
solicitors. His Honor said, in effect, that,
in the contention as to domicile, com-
monsense was on the lady’s side, law on
her lord’s:
Each sincerely desires to return to and
live with the other. But each is anxious
to score a victory over the other, because
of pride and stubbornness and a wish to
be justified by the result. Both have
brought restitution suits.
And Solomon Roper, J., granted both.
* * * *
“Fitzroy”: In the rainiest June but
one on record in Sydney the eminent
weather prophet Mares mostly foretold
frequent showers on the singularly few
fine days, and when he hazarded a pre-
diction that atmospheric conditions were
clearing up it rained harder than ever
Yet Mares makes his forecasts according
to the guidance of probably the besl
meteorological instruments that money
can buy. I am not decrying his craft, but
I can’t help thinking the methods are
overrated when I remember how my
old man in England used to stump down-
stairs at 8 a.m., thump the huge
barometer that hung in the hall, finger an
immense bunch of seaweed pinned up
close to it, stroke the black cat (in
wintertime), and give his verdict on what
was to be expected in the next 24 hours.
It was rare for him to be wrong.
t * *
“Septimus”: If an elector is too tired
or too utterly uninterested to vote —as
several thousands apparently were in the
recent Woollahra (Sydney) contest —there
is really no occasion for him to trump
up excuses which will save him from a
fine. The defaulter need only represent
himself as an adherent of the Seventh
Day Adventist faith, and authority will
be satisfied. At least that is what has
happened in the Speck, where some hun-
dreds of followers of this brand of re-
ligion refrained from going to the polls
at the. last State elections. Called on for
“please explains” they alleged religious
scruples, pointing out that their Sabbath
had not ended when the booths closed,
and, after some legal searchings of heart,
the Solicitor-General upheld their view.
I suppose (now that practically all Par-
liamentary elections are held on Satur-
day) that Jews could shelter themselves
behind the same objection to Sabbath-
breaking, but I haven’t yet heard of one
doing so.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: That yarn about bil-
tong as firewood (B. 23 /6 / ’37) recalls
Ted Dyson’s story about Victor Daley.
The poet turned up one evening when
Mrs. Dyson was away and Ted busy
at some rush stuff. “Stove’s alight in
the kitchen, Victor,” said Ted. “There’s
tea and some scones —have a feed till
I finish this.” An hour later he found
the bard nibbling at something on a
plate and a powerful smell of cloves
pervading the kitchen. Victor, always
polite, expressed his thanks for the timely
and needed refreshment, which had en-
abled him to think out a sonnet. Ted,
a practical person, began to investigate
the sources whence his guest had drawn
the materials for the feast. They re-
vealed that he had mistaken a tin of
cloves for the tea and was just finish-
ing his second buttered fire-kindler!
* * * *
“Angus Kelly”: “I always understood
that Mac was typically Irish and that
Me denoted a Scotchman,” said a bar-
rister in a Sydney court the other day.
’Sonah threw doubt on the theory, and
he was on safe ground. There are over
100 pages of surnames beginning with
Mac, Me and M‘ in Who’s Who, and
out of idle curiosity I picked out the first
20 Mcs whose parentage was easily ascer-
tainable on the details. I found that
10 of them were of Scottish stock and
10 of Irish. A more extensive survey
would probably show much the same
result. The M‘s seemed more typically
North British ; of the first half-dozen en-
countered only one was Irish.
“Tambu”: “J.M.C.” is too general in
stating that in the Islands (B. 30/6/’37)
it is the women who are tattooed rather
than the males. There are a lot of the
“Islands,” from the Philippines to the
New Hebrides and from M.L. to the in-
numerable groups between there and San
Francisco. Many of their inhabitants do
not tattoo at all, and, while in some both
sexes are tattooed, in. others the men
and not the women affect the custom. A
notable instance of male tattooing used
to be found in the Tongas, where every
male had to have a pair of lace scanties
outlined on his carcass on reaching man-
hood. Mariner tells in his Tonga of the
long agony of the process to which he,
a white castaway, had to submit. An
even more thorough ordeal was the lot
of the Fijian girl in the old days. The
missionaries banished this form of orna-
mentation on the ground that it had a
sinful significance, which was truer than
many of their excuses for banning native
cultural practices. The art is dying
throughout the Pacific, and by mid-cen-
tury should be one with the dodo.
*.* * *
“Chelaka”: Beachcombing is a little-
known local industry that occasionally
pays fairly good dividends on N.S.W.
suburban beaches to searchers who use
rakes, sieves and shovels in prospecting
the churned-up sand. After the recent
cyclonic disturbance and rough seas,
coins, rings and other jewellery formed
the bulk of the recovered articles. False
teeth were plentiful.
* * * *
“Keg”: Some of the things that hap-
pened during the war years to those bear-
ing alien names (B. 30/6/ ’37) were no-
thing short of barbarous. An employee
of a Brisbane daily tried hard to enlist
with me in T 4. His grandfather had been
born in Austria, but both his parents
were Australians. He was rejected on
his name. He made numerous attempts
to join his many mates, but the war was
wearing out before he got into camp. He
died there.
* * * =>
“Warrigal”: It is no wonder unoccu-
pied schools occasionally stray (B.
30 /6 / ’37). The department is too canny
to pay even a nominal sum to a care-
taker, and the chalkie of the nearest
school is usually asked to keep an eye
on the building and remove the fittings for
use elsewhere. I remember receiving a
“That's what comes of standing in the middle of the road, young fellow."
couple of these billets-doux. In each in-
stance the school was over 20 miles from
my residence, and there was no mention
of pay, or even of oil and petrol. My
responsibilities ended with a bushfire in
one case and a campfire in the other. No
department, of course, would dream of
shifting a disused school on the back of
a motor-trailer or bullock-wagon to
wherever it is wanted.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: Melbourne “Argus” of
a generation ago used to take the same
severely academic view as “Alpha” (B.
23/6/’37) when mentioning medical
practitioners in its stately columns. “Mr.
Smith, M. 8.,” or “Mr. Jones, M.R.C.5.,”
was a strict office rule, and the Medical
Register was a well-thumbed and much-
cursed work of reference for reporters,
It came to a climax when one earnest
scribe, having occasion to refer to the
meeting between Stanley and Livingstone
in darkest Africa, decided to take no
chances and converted Stanley’s historic
greeting of the long-lost explorer into :
“Mr. Livingstone, M. 8., I presume?” But,
popularly, every med. pract. is “Doctor”
—or “Doc.”—whatever his qualifications,
Some surgeons object to being “Doctor”
to anyone, even if they hold an M.D.
qualification. “Mr.” prevents them from
being mistaken for a mere: pill-dervish-
their job is a real one. Panel doctor
is in English official use. (
“General Post”: The annual report of
the P.M.G. regularly sets me wondering
whether we Australians are not the most
absent-minded people in the world. Dur-
ing the year just ended over three mil-
lion letters or parcels, containing among
them money and valuables to the amount
of £73,619, were addressed so incorrectly
or inadequately that they couldn’t be
delivered and perforce went to the Dead
Letter Office to await any identifying
clues. On nearly 500 letters posted, with
contents valued at £2770, there was no
address at- all. Is this sort of negligence a
widespread human trait or one in which
we have established pre-eminence?
H*
“Vital”: S.A. thinks it has made two
world’s records during the past year in
reduction of infant mortality: under 32
per 1000 for the whole State (M.L.,
usually first, was just beaten this time),
and for the City of Adelaide —actual
residents —only 23 per 1000 births.
ji. jj- jj* jj;
“Dick Swiveller”: The assertion of
“Morita” (B. 30/6/’37) that one of a
legal firm objected to the omission of a
full stop in a deed prepared by the firm
makes me wonder. When I was a soli-
citor’s laborer in the long ago it was laid
down that deeds and legal documents
generally should contain no stops what-
ever. This practice was designed to pre-
vent a misplaced stop making an incor-
rect interpretation of the document pos-
sible and has existed “since time whereof
the memory of man runneth not to the
contrary,” as Mr. Blackstone has it.
$ * * *
“Walkabout”: Those two bush-
workers who put up with each other’s
company throughout the year but took
it out of each other’s hide during their
annual fortnight in town (B. 23/ 6/ ’37)
call to mind a pair who behaved in just
the opposite manner. They had a falling-
out the first week, and for months each
ate alone and worked in cold silence. If
either had the chance when a stockman
paid a visit nothing bad enough could
be said about his mate. But during the
periodical spree in town they behaved as
long-lost brothers, and it was easy to buy
a fight by running one. of the pair down
to the other. Back in camp again, hostile
relations were resumed,
' „ ’ . .
. M? 03 ™ Experience long ago con-
vinced American Arctic explorer Byrd
that isolating two men at any post is to
be avoided. He plumps for three, at
least, and for one as better than two.
On his last trip to the frozen south ob-
servations had to be taken which necessi-
tated a far-forward post being occupied
for the whole of the winter months. As
three men could not be spared, and as
he would neither send two nor condemn
anybody else to the solitary ordeal, he
himself took it on. As anyone who has
tried it knows, sharing an isolated post
with one other man is about the severest
test to which human patience can be put.
One of the chaps who succeed at it on
the island meteorological service off the
Queensland coast told me his secret of
success. “Don’t matter what the bloke is
you pick for mate he can be anything
at all as long he s got a sense ot
humor, you’re set.” *
» „ / was paymaster aboard
H M A- s. Gayundah on a North Queens-
land training cruise 30 years ago. The
ratings made a complaint about some;
bully-beef I issued to their mess, and the
cook, a German, was sent for by the
captain. Get me a bully-tin, he
ordered. In a few minutes the cook
returned with a copy ot the red-covered
journal.
HIS CROWDED HOUR.
“Senator Lynch said he had been 30 years in
political life without being fully and fairly
reported, as he should have been. The only time
he had ever been besieged by pressmen for his views
was when he refused to allow women in slacks to
enter the galleries.”
Where speeches are serious and solemn,
The press has been hard upon Lynch.
It seldom could spare him a column,
His issue was mostly an inch.
Unfairly, unkindly ignoring
The weight in the House that he pulls,
It burked his rhetorical roaring,
While keeping a niche for his bulls.
It yawned at the fiercest oration
When he dealt his antagonists whacks;
It deemed that the one altercation
On which he’d first-hand information
Of real import to the nation
Was the subject of women in slacks.
However he thundered or snorted
,In noble and virtuous rage,
Our Paddy was never reported
As Hughes is—or Lyons, or Page.
Though he bellowed as softly and gently
As Bottom’s historical dove,
He was never regarded intently
By the chaps who take notes up above.
They reckoned him soppy and sloppy
In talks about tariff and tax;
But in something less stolid and shoppy
From this tall Parliamentary poppy
They visioned material for copy
On the subject of women in slacks.
His often-repeated opinions
Incessantly fail to intrigue
About the idea that Dominions
Should stick to John Bull and the League.
They’ve heard him, unmoved, on the topic
(And whithersoever it led)
If Musso’s made good in his tropic
Adventure, or Russia is red.
But they thought they’d have something worth
telling,
A prospect of copy in stacks,
If they only could get him dispelling
All doubts and all arguments quelling
As to why he’d forbidden his dwelling
To women who came there in slacks.
He's a fine flow of words and he’s clever
It’s quite undeniably true,
With pieas to electors, but never
Have journalists giv’n him his due.
But still there was once an occasion
When pressmen drew round him in packs—
A quite unexpected invasion—
And asked him, with gentle persuasion,
“What’s this about women in slacks?”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dick Tafone”: As for tricks of the
ancient East (B. 23/6/’37), how about
the large crow which kept on tapping at
the window of a religious house in Eng-
land, whither had been brought the
mortal remains of an ancient Egyptian
High Priest? It may be my professional
training, but I’m always suspicious
about crows in cables. It was, I think,
the funeral of the last King of Portugal’s
father, a generation or so ago, which
was described in one Great Australian
daily of the period as having been
attended by “an immense crow, which
demonstrated every evidence of sincere
grief at the loss of a beloved monarch.”
That was the way it read on arrival, and
the first qualification for a good cable-
liar in those days was to be surprised by
nothing, but to blame the comps, for all
slips. Anyhow, it was in Portugal, and
some of the cable news from next door
is no less startling at times to-day.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Port Wakefield (S.A.) is the
region where a disappointed Flinders
found St. Vincent Gulf get narrow (like
“Fes, this is the doctor. I'll be over as soon as I've brushed up after this
operation.”
Spencer’s Gulf) and die away into a
marshy flat, instead of cutting right
through the continent as he hoped—and
what a different continent this would
have been if it had been so! The shore
has now come into the limelight as test-
ing-place for Australian-made ammuni-
tion, in particular the “behavior” of
shells after firing. They pass through
a series of electrically-connected screens,
finish in the sea, and are recovered at
low tide. Port Wakefield is claiming to
be another Shoeburyness, as “the only
accessible place in Australia which fulfils
the requirements—-a long low tide-bank,
with a high rise and fall of tide.”
* * * *
“Nigrus Cygnus”: The black swan is
Westralia’s rightful emblem for armorial
purposes, but it is also an old English
tavern sign, dating back to the begin-
ning of the eighteenth century, if not
earlier. Seeing that the existence of such
a bird was unknown in Europe until the
Dutch navigator Vlamingh returned
home, after having set eyes on hundreds
of them in 1699, a writer in the “West
Australian” suggests that
the tavern signs may have
antedated the discovery
that swans could be black
on the other side of the
world —it must have taken
some time for the news of
Vlamingh’s find to filter
through from Holland. It
is more than likely that
they did antedate it. Inn
signals, such as the “Blue
Boar” or the “White
Lion,” were often adopted
because of their grotesque
impossibility, or what ap-
peared as such in the Eng-
land of 2y centuries ago. I
have seen lingering traces
of the idea in the “Uni-
corn” and the “preen
Man.” And once (in Bir-
mingham) I had a drink in
a hostelry that did busi-
ness under the sign and the
portraiture of “The Swan
with Two Necks.”
* * *
“Boulder City”: Take it
from me, these long-
drawn - out political
speeches (B. 16/6/ ’37) pay
best. In my trade-union-
soapbox-agitator days I
had as “comrades” two of the windiest
bores imaginable. Whereas we other bright
lads would say all we had to say right
off the reel and then stop, these two
would go over all the ground again and
again until, by sheer repetition, they got
their ideas into the thick heads that
listened. Where are they to-day? One
is a Minister of the Crown ; the other a
permanent M.L.C., while I am penning
this par. in the hope of getting some-
thing to pacify the grocer.
“Kwakprak”: Self-diagnosis is one of 1
the occasional worries in our trade, from j
student days when most of us discover 5
the symptoms of everything from g.p.i. ‘
to Rigg’s Disease in our hapless car- <
casses. A doctor friend has been gloom- <
ing about chronic deep-seated pains in 1
the legs, and thinking of ail sorts of
horrid new growths pressing on the
lumbar plexus of nerves. He’s 65 and !
“You go and put your head in a bag. This is the proper treatment for
fainting!”
an ardent week-end golfer. His radiolo-
gist son, after taking and demonstrating
an elaborate i cries of pictures of the
paternal insides for the sake of peace,
cleared up the diagnosis briefly and
bluntly. “You darned old idiot,” he
said, “anno Domini s your only trouble
—don’t you realise yet that your old
circulation can’t clear away the fatigue
products you make with your two days’
golf every week-end? Do more sitting
down.” Excellent advice, too, for active
elderlies with stiffening legs —but don’t
overdo it.
»i> 4' V
“Pitt St.”: Pedantry (B. 30/6/’37)!
How about this sign in some Sydney
buses? “Intending passengers are re-
quested to signify to the driver, in a dis-
tinct manner, their desire to join an
omnibus.”
“D.E.”: Two other overworked words
that have got on my nerves are “impec-
cable” and “brilliant.” Impeccable is
chiefly affected by bores who write what
passes for musical criticism, 70 per cent,
of which is insufferable cant; for
example, “The Bessarabian maestro gave
an impeccable rendering of Flaskovisky’s
transcription of that vast mass of in-
organic nature the Zweiapfennig Con-
certo, Blutundthunder’s most supernal
creation.” Impeccable means incapable
of sinning or doing wrong, but in this
case, and most others when it is trotted
out, it is used as a synonym for faultless.
An impeccable person or thing is like the
light that never was on sea or land. As
for “brilliant,” it is exasperatingly applied
to the most unbrilliant persons and per-
formers: doctrinaires (Communist es-
pecially), statisticians, economists, chess-
players, wrestlers, even walkers. A Syd-
ney hotelkeeper has appropriated it for
his stingo: printed notices stuck on his
windows recommend B ’s Brilliant
Beer. But beer can be brilliant (i.e.,
“glowing with lustre or light, very
bright”); a heel-and-toe performer, step-
ping it out at seven miles an hour, can’t
be. As a spectacle he is the dullest two-
legged animal in motion, yet Melbourne
“Age” bespeaks admiration for “the bril-
liant effort of the youthful St. Mark’s
walker in the five-mile championship, in
which he recorded 38min. 37sec. and
scored a brilliant victory.”
* * * *
“Finn”: As the result of a Dail vote
the name “Ireland” is to be substituted
for “Eire” in the English text of the
Constitution Bill. The Irishman’s objec-
tion to faulty pronunciation is probably
responsible. English speakers would per-
sistently sound “Eire” as “Ire” instead of
“Air-ray.” Also it might revive the use
of the fishy “Erin,” sponsored by non-
Gaelic Thomas Campbell in his doleful
ballad of the Irish exile.
# * * *
“Clio”: I can assure “A. de R.” (B.
30/6/’37) that there are households in
Sydney where tomato juice, plain or
flavored to cocktail strength, is fairly
common and frequently prefaces a meal.
Chicken a la Maryland is served not only
in private homes, but is a specialty at at
least two city hotels. But there are two
American dishes the Yanks and their
visitors write and talk about in superla-
tives that don’t seem to have penetrated
here. These are dill pickles and the
Italian-American delicacy popularly
known as “tamales.”
* * * *
“Chemista”: All these paragraphs
about drinks containing enough alcohol
to floor the hardiest toper leave me cold.
I doubt whether there is a mixture in
existence, with alcohol as its prime
mover, a single glass of which would
have such an effect. Half a tumbler of
absolute alcohol would only be the
equivalent of six or seven nips of any
well-known whisky, and most amateurs
can manage that.
“Siz”: No need to go to foreign parts
to find tipple with a vigorous kick in it;
if you get outside enough of it some of
the local article will be found completely
satisfactory. I knew a Sydney artist who
celebrated to such purpose that when a
tramdriver, failing to get any sense out
of him, helped him from the tram to a
park seat, he was incapable of either
speaking or acting in protest (or grati-
tude). As he tells it, he was fully con-
scious of all that was happening, even of
the systematic search presently made
through his pockets by a freelance of the
park. What convinced him he really must
be drunk was his voluntarily turning side
on so that the pickpocket, when done
with coat, vest and front trousers, could
more conveniently go through the hip
pocket.
$ $
“Johnhop”: One better than that
G.P.O. achievement of delivering a letter
from England to a Brisbane couple with
only a photograph of the pair on their
verandah and the city name underneath
(B. 23/6/’37). Harold Finnis, secretary
of the S.A. Royal Show, received a letter
bearing a Sydney postmark which had
nothing but a Bulletin cartoon of him-
self on the envelope.
(Continued on page 50.)
VITAMIN C.
“The South Pole is one of the healthiest places
in the world. Rain and wind are alike unknown,
for 24 months there is bright sunshine for 24 hours
a day, and the only danger is a lack of vitamin
C .”—Dr. Ingram, Antarctic explorer.
You may picture the Pole as a place
As frigid as Hades is hot.
High time that idea to efface,
It‘s an ultra-salubrious plot.
The popular notion is rot,
Pure bunkum, sheer fiddle-de-dee.
The one disadvantage it’s got
Is shortage of vitamin C.
Of wind there is never a trace,
Of rain not a dash or a dot;
You may bask in the sunshine’s embrace
All midsummer, likely as not,
And it needn’t concern you a jot
If daytime or night-time it be.
Life’s only discernible blot
Is inadequate vitamin C.
What a rare sanatorium base
Is ours for exploiting—eh, what?
What a heritage here for our race,
What a method of cutting the knot
That ties us to tiddley and tot !
What a chance from vile weather to flee
Where there’s naught to embitter your lot
But absence of vitamin C.
If I know what it is I’ll be shot!
But doctors will doubtless agree
That somebody’s sure of a pot
Of money who gets to the spot
With a cargo of vitamin C.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


44 i
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
20fori'®
10 for 9 y
WI884
1
gene ration
THE
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
THIS
POLITICAL POINTS
J. G. Latham, now Chief Justice, was
Attorney-General when the question of
giving legislative sanction to the Statute
of Westminster first came up. He
decided that there was no occasion for
it. Menzies has other views, and a bill
formally adopting the statute, “as from
July 1, 1938,” has been introduced. In
Ireland De Valera has found ratification
a useful aid to his republican politics.
What benefit Australia can derive from
it has not been explained.
Sydney “D.T.” (the “new” one):
Any increase in prices following the in-
crease in the basic wage is condemned by
the economist, Mr. W. B. Reddaway, in
this issue.
That very day the Commonwealth Dairy
Produce Equalisation Committee an-
nounced that butter was up a penny a
pound and Cheddar cheese a halfpenny.
Economists propose ; Equalisation Com-
mittees dispose.
Currants and sultanas are up, too —a
halfpenny a pound in each case. The
A.D.F.A. explains that it is “the usual
mid-season increase.” Before the market-
ing referendum the story was that if
inter-State Freetrade wasn’t voted out of
the Constitution these associations and
equalisation committees would have no
power to do anything but sign bank-
ruptcy notices for their clients, who
would all be ruined.
The old-age and invalid pensions bill,
which was £3,500,000 in 1916-17, reached
£14,000,000 in 1936-37, and £15,000,000
has been appropriated for 1937-38. More
may be required if the weekly pension
goes to £l, and in all probability it will,
1937-38 being an election year. The pen-
sion is supposed to rise and fall with the
cost of living. It could be kept at 195.,
with greater benefit to pensioners, by
cutting sales tax and some of the revenue
duties, and the benefit would be shared
by the people who have to find the
£15,000,000 ; but that is not the Lyons
Government’s way.
One of the things Stevens forgot to
mention when whooping about his
London loan “for the Water Board,”
£2,000,000 at 4 p.c. sterling, was that in-
terest is free of N.S.W. taxes. Had the
loan been floated in Australia, interest
would have been subject to Common-
wealth and State taxes (two in N. S.
Wales), nor would it be necessary to
find another £80,000,000 sterling p.a. out
of excess of exports, if any.
Winston Churchill, that champion
backer of wrong horses, has come out
strong for the League and collective
security. In an article syndicated by our
Glorious Press, he asks “How else are
you going to marshal overwhelming
forces against brazen aggression except
by a grand alliance of peace-seeking
peoples under the authority of an august
international body?” After Gallipoli
Churchill backed the Greeks against the
Turks and the Whites against the Reds
in Russia. He tried to get the Allies to
ask the Germans to make war on the
Bolshies. Two members of his family
have been in Spain mouth-fighting for the
Reds, and perhaps the old gentleman
sees himself leading his “grand alliance”
a long way after Marlborough.
J. J. Daly was one of the very few
Federal Labor Ministers who made good
in 1929-31. Senators on the other
side acknowledged that their House, had
never had a clearer-headed or more
businesslike leader. But from those days
to these he has had bitter enemies at the
Adelaide Trades Hall, and now that he
has won another Senate nomination they
are trying to bring him down. The only
charge against Daly seems to be that he
doesn’t spend his days and nights bar-
racking for the Reds in Spain. “It’s
merely part of the Communist Popular
Front racket,” he said, hitting back.
“Labor is the only political cause I have
ever espoused.”
A few weeks back a German warship
—Germany is one of the nations “itch-
ing for war” —was bombed, with loss of
30 lives, while on international service.
There was an action of reprisal and no
further developments. Later, attempt was
made to torpedo another German war-
boat. Germany turned the international
job in, but made no attempt to get a war
going. Last week a Soviet gunboat was
sunk in the Amur. Again there was no
war. According to the “inevitable war”
prophets an “incident” is all that is needed
FULL SPEED AHEAD!
“The Premier’s trip abroad was no picnic. I had a much better picnic in America than he
has had. When he undertakes to do anything for Queensland he goes ahead and does it.”
Acting-Premier Pease, welcoming the returning Premier.
to start a “conflagration.” What would
they class as an “incident”?
N.S.W. has an Egg Marketing Board
which is nearly always in trouble. If
it isn’t wrangling with a dissatisfied sec-
tion of poultry-farmers, it is in some
financial difficulty. The latest concerned
an employee who “arranged to allow two
men a concession rate of 2d. a dozen
below the market price,” and pleaded
guilty to larceny of £7Ol, “a total defi-
ciency of £8300” being mentioned. The
Government will come to the rescue, if
required. It invariably does.
Walter Massy-Greene, who has been a
Senator for N.S.W. since 1923 but has
lived in Melbourne for years, is not
standing again. It is just as well, for in
five years he has attended only 65 sittings.
Fifteen years ago, Greene seemed to
have the best chance of succeeding
Hughes as Prime Minister, but he was
unexpectedly defeated for Richmond
(N.S.W.). He never quite got over it.
An American tourist who reached
Sydney from Auckland amazed reporters
by expressing the belief that he was still
in Maoriland. Perhaps he became con-
fused by moving in political circles. Half
the Maoriland Cabinet is Australian-
born, and half the Victorian Ministry
has gone tripping over the Tasman.
Premier Dunstan and his deputy, Old,
were in Auckland at the same time as
the rover whose notions of geography
are reminiscent of the poet’s “crazy old
church clock with the bewildered
chimes.”
De Valera has won another Free State
election, but his Constitution “for all
Ireland” didn’t get much of a majority.
Had all the people of Ireland voted it
would have been rejected.
Riverina Transport Prop., which was
refused Victorian licenses to carry goods
to the Riverina, has lost its High Court
case against Victoria and the Victorian
Transport Board—it claimed, among
other things, that under the inter-State
Freetrade section of the Constitution it
did not need Victorian licenses. Special
leave to appeal to the Privy Council is
talked of, but nothing is likely to be done
until the full text of the judgment is
published.
Goldfinch, the C.S.R. man, is turning-
in his N.S.W. Assembly seat —Gordon.
He got it without a contest, and within
a few months had gone to London in
search of a sugar conference (it eluded
him); and now there will have to be
another bob-a-nob ballot, and more
eruptions of pre-selection propaganda
from U.A.P. headquarters and the “S.
M. Herald,” and bob-a-nobism will be
challenged again and probably licked for
the third time in eight or nine months.
It isn’t fair!
Before the Woollahra by-election “S.
M. Herald” had three leading articles on
the subject, all to the effect that if the
pre-selection man was licked it would
be a Disaster. Licked he was, and if the
three articles were not bosh and bunkum
“the whole question of party discipline,”
“the party system” and “the very theory
of Parliamentary Government” are now
in peril. But scared people looking for
“Granny’s” guidance in this grave emer-
gency have been disappointed. During
the week that succeeded the by-election
she hadn’t a line of comment on it. The
old girl made up for it by publishing an
extra lot of articles rocking it into Hitler
and Mussolini. That sort of thing is
safer.
If another world war comes it won’t
be “Granny” “Herald’s” fault —“Granny”
herself says so:
We would not even at this distance
utter the incautious voice which, as Mr.
Chamberlain says, may start an avalanche.
Other and more strident voices may start
avalanches, but not “Granny’s.”
“What’s the use of admitting so many
Southern Europeans?” asked Premier
Forgan Smith at Adelaide. Then, said
the “Advertiser”:
He quoted as a typical example 186
migrants travelling tourist class in the
Orama. They included Italians, Greeks,
Yugoslavs, Czechs, Latvians, Netherlanders,
Germans, French, Poles, Russians, Dutch,
Danes and Finns.
And all Southern Europeans. What a
thing it is to have been educated by
travel!
In the spreading revolt against pre-
selection, Mayor McLeay, of Unley (S.A.),
is coming out for the new Assembly elec-
torate of Unley. McLeay is a Liberal,
and Hogben, who has cultivated Unley
as one of the three members for Sturt,
is also a Liberal. According to pre-
selectionist theory, Unley “belongs to”
Hogben, but McLeay recognises no such
property rights.
Nearly eight years after the bottom fell
out of things, and 12 months or so since
unemployment was pronounced normal,
Premier Stevens has discovered that
N.S.W. has “50,000 registered unem-
ployed,” including “5000 to 7000 young
men aged 21 to 25 [Stevens is nothing
if not precise] and 3000 youths under
21.” He is beginning “a State-wide drive
to absorb them.” The first young man
captured in the drive was former politi-
cian Kavanagh, who has been appointed
Apprenticeship Commissioner. Kavanagh
was a politician 25 years ago, so he
must be fully 25.
Mr. Bertram Stevens on the unem-
ployed situation:
We have been closely examining the posi-
tion and estimating future trends. That has
led us to the conclusion that the time is
ripe to begin now a more vigorous drive.
That other chronic borrower Mr. Wil-
kins Micawber on his unemployed situa-
tion :
There have been periods of my life when
it has been requisite that I should pause.
You find me fallen back for a spring, and
I have every reason to believe that a
vigorous leap will shortly be the result.
Only one (1) Victorian C.P. man has
been found willing to put his name on a
Cocky Senate ticket. There will be three
(3) vacancies. A dismal showing for a
party which is in its third year of office
in the State, and claims to be “ruling
with the people’s will.”
For the third year S.A. has reported a
surplus—£l39,ooo this time. Like the
others (£149,000 in 1935-36 and £36,000
in 1934-35) it was brought about by ex-
cessive Commonwealth grants. Last year’s
special grant, over and above Common-
wealth contributions for roads,, interest
and sinking fund and “towards the
deficit,” and various bounties, was
£1,330,000. If it had been £250,000 less
the State Government could have shown
a surplus.
From a conference table:
N.S.W. fruitgrowers escaped another tax
through the commonsense of one of their
number, F. B. McKenzie, of Kurrajong. At
their annual conference in Sydney a “publicity”
levy of 4d. a case on apples was suggested.
“Why,” said McKenzie, “every second motion
on our agenda, seeks some relief or other, and
here you are implying that we can afford an-
other tax. As it is, most of our overplus of
politicians spend most of their time thinking
out new ways of taxing.” Somebody men-
tioned the entertainments tax. Said the sage of
Kurrajong: “Billy Hughes put that on to win
the last war, and I suppose they’re keeping it
to win the next.” Proposal rejected.


THE BIRD THAT OVERDID IT.
“The use of too much lipstick and cosmetics on fowls led to many entries being condemned at the Mackay (Q.) show.”


We keep nearly 100 cows in regular
employment providing our milk and cream.
It's a big job. this Victoria job. You ask Straw-
berry—her quota is just 600 gallons Of course
the Victoria is the largest, most modern hotel
in Australia It accommodated a quarter million
guests last yearj Tariff from 4/- to 7/6 Single
room. 8/- to 16/- Double room
201-229 LIT COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. Cl (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
J
Uf
■l^/
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN,
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
TVynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write for full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Field-Marshal Birdwood will arrive in
Fremantle on July 27 to visit his daugh-
ter in W.A., and it will be a disappoint-
ment to Diggers in the eastern States
that his duties as master of Peterhouse
at Cambridge will not permit of an ex-
tension of his trip. “Birdy” is nearly 72,
but remains on active service as a civilian.
H. H. Mason, the Independent U.A.P.
candidate who beat the machine in the
Woollahra by-election, was born at
Hunter’s Hill (Sydney) 47 years ago. He
was at Fort-street High, Sydney, at
the same time as Premier Stevens, and
like Stevens was a prominent member
of the school debating team. In his first
year at Sydney Uni. Mason won the
Wigram Allen scholarship, bagging the
“The Winner .”
George and Matilda Harris scholarship
a year later. He graduated in 1913 with
first-class honors and the Uni. medal.
An associate to Justice A. H. Simpson,
Chief Judge in Equity, he commenced
practice in 1914 in all jurisdictions, prin-
cipally equity. Last year he flew to Eng-
land to conduct a Privy Council case.
His wife was formerly Marjorie Macken,
whose father was one of the founders of
Mark Foy’s, Sydney.
Educational supervisor of the Toronto
Art Gallery, Arthur Lismer, one of the
New Education Fellowship Conference
visitors to Maoriland and Australia, is
fresh from a year in South Africa, where
he lectured for different educational
authorities. He has pictures in Canada’s
National Gallery at Ottawa and in the
travelling Canadian exhibition which is
to be shown at different Australian
centres. Lively and humorous, he de-
scribes himself as an “improved Eng-
lishman.” He went to live in Canada in
1910.
Knight Philip Goldfinch, who acquired
Bavin’s Gordon seat in the N.S.W.
Assembly when the ex-Premier was
elevated to the Bench less than two years
ago, has given the Government a fresh
by-election headache by turning it in.
His reason is that he cannot fetch and
carry as a member and do his job as
general manager of, the C.S.R. at the
same time, and of the. two, in his case,
Parliament is the lesser.
Major-General Charles Rosenthal’s fine
record at the war seems to have unsettled
him for the quiet practice of his profes-
sion as an architect, from which he has
repeatedly broken away to engage in
public affairs. He had one term, for
Bathurst, in the N.S.W. Assembly, a
short spell in the City Council, and last
year was elected to the Legislative Coun-
cil. He now takes the place of Capt.
Pinney as Administrator of Norfolk
Island, where the architecture of the
convict-built ruins should intrigue him.
After 33 years’ journalism in Mel-
bourne, W. P. Hurst steps out of the
“Argus” editorial chair and instead will
write its leaders. His place will be taken
by Alec Chisholm, author of a batch of
excellent books on Australia’s natural
history. He also edited E. J. Banfield’s
Last Leaves from Dunk Island. Both
men commenced their journalist careers
in Queensland, and graduated through
the editorship of the “Australasian,” but
Chisholm had a spell in N.S.W. as news
editor of the “Daily Telegraph” and
editor of the “Sunday Sun.” He went
to the “Argus” four years ago to take the
place of naturalist Donald Macdonald.
Sydney “Worker” gets a new manager
in Robert Brown, who has been with the
official organ of the A.W.U. for 26 years.
Bob has had his hands in printers’ ink
since he started with W. E. Smith at lffjk
“Worker” managers or editors in earlier
years took an active part in public affairs,
commencing with Medway Day and in-
cluding Hector Lamond, ex-Federal
Minister, who is now running the “Four
Mails” at Bowral; Albert Hinchcliffe,
former Queensland M.L.C.; George.
Black, one-time Bulletin sub and N.S.W.
Minister; E. J. Brady, poet, and Harry
Boote, philosopher ; but Brown sticks to
the printing business.
N.S.W. Labor has put Anderson,
Amour, Armstrong and Ashley on its
Senate ticket. McEwan, M.H.R., pointed
out the other day that Aarons has “a
greater alphabetical index value,” and
predicted that N.S.W. Labor would “soon
be scouring the country for persons
named Aarons.” As it happens, the
U.A.P. has an Aarons on its Senate
nomination list, and he has more than
alphabetical claims. He is an A.I.F.
captain who was badly knocked in
France, but his affliction hasn’t prevented
him from championing the cause of un-
employed youth.
George Warren Russell, who died the
other day at Wellington (M.L.), aged 82,
was a veteran journalist and politician.
He was Minister for Health when Massey
and Ward returned from England at the
time of the ’flu. The story of Bill and
Joe being brought ashore in a launch
without quarantine is still remembered.
It cost Russell his Auckland East seat.
After a lifetime in the postal service,
Peter Kennedy has been farewelled in
Adelaide, where he has been its head for
the past three years. Starting in Vic-
toria, he went to Westralia during the
Kalgoorlie boom, and since the transfer
of postal services to the Commonwealth
has seen service in four States. A fully-
qualified engineer, he has astronomy and
bowls as sidelines. His successor, until
a permanent appointment is made, is
L. H. Griffiths, at present telephone
superintendent, who has been mixed up
with postal business since 1880.
Norman White, director and g.m. of
the “Courier-Mail” since the two Bris-
bane morning dailies were amalgamated
in 1933, resigns at the end of the month.
Born in the Apple Isle 60 years ago,
Norman has spent most of his life in
Queensland. He was manager of the
“Daily Mail” from 1915 to the merger,
and was the most prominent figure in
the northern newspaper world, taking an
active interest in public affairs.
After 38 years, John May retires from
the Melbourne Stock Exchange, leaving
his business to be carried on by his sons.
May had an unusual career. Starting as
a State school-teacher he became classics
master at the Presbyterian Ladies’ Col-
lege ; then went “jobbing” until John
McWhae took him into partnership, sub-
sequently going into business on his own
account. He was on the Stock Exchange
. executive for over 30 years.
Once editor of the “Morning Herald”
(Perth, W.A.) and later breeder, judge
and “Australasian” writer on blood stock
and agriculture, William Trevallyn Jones
has passed on at Grahamstown (South
Africa). A Launceston (Tas.) native,
born there in ’59, he was the man who
shipped 14,000 horses and mules from
N.S.W. and Q. for the Japanese army in
the scrap with Russia in 1905. He re-
ported on dry farming in Canada and the
tobacco industry in Texas for the Federal
Government before the last war. After
a spell as racing writer for the Rangoon
“Times,” he went to Cape Colony. He
left a son, Llewellyn, at Rangoon.
Three days before his Parliament met,
Victorian Premier Dunstan returned from
The only C.P. Premier.
his Coronation journey via the U.S.A.,
convinced that Victoria needed more ad-
vertising in England than he had time to
give it. Dunstan’s lieutenant, Hogan, has
gloomy memories of a visit to England
as Premier, but although there was
trouble among the Cockies while the boss
was away it did not lead to a party split.
However, the outlook is none too bright
for Dunstan.
Adelaide’s new Lord Mayor, A. G.
Barrett, elected last week with a 2000
majority, is the first returned soldier (Air
Force) to contest the position. Controller
of three large factories in Adelaide, the
principal one a malt business, he went
Adelaide’s Lud Mayor.
into the council six years ago. The re-
tiring Mayor, knight Jonathan Cain, was
not a candidate.
For two years Dr. K. S. Cunningham,
chief executive officer of the Australian
Council for Educational Research, has
been preparing for the regional confer-
ence of the New Education Fellowship
opening at Brisbane on August 4 and
ending at Perth on September 18, after
having met in every State capital and at
Canberra. Born in Ballarat (Vic.), he
went from the Melbourne Teachers’ Col-
lege and the Melb. Uni. to Columbia
(U.S.A.), where he took his doctorate
of philosophy. When the C.E.R. was
founded in 1930 on a Carnegie Corpora-
tion grant of £7500 a year for 10 years,
Dr. Cunningham became its first secre-
tary. Under his close scrutiny, this clear-
ing house for Australia’s six education
systems has produced more than 50 edu-
cational publications, Cunningham writ-
ing a number of them.
Patrick Joseph O’Regan, Maoriland’s
latest Supreme Court Judge, will, appro-
priately enough, commence his career on
the Bench with a six months’ term as
President of the, Arbitration Court —ever
since there has been industrial arbitra-
tion in M.L., O’Regan has been the
authority on all law and procedure
under that heading. Like many other
lawyers he started on the Inky Way ; was
editor of a West Coast rag at 21, and in
Parliament at 24. Fie took up law study
at 30. In his Parliamentary days his
brogue could be cut with a knife, and it
is still in evidence. A dyed-in-the-wool
democrat, he held views on land tenure
that were a bit too advanced even for
Jock McKenzie, but he is a sound lawyer,
and union secretaries will regret his trans-
lation to a sphere where he can no longer
advise them. He’s 68, a giant of a man
with a jaw as massive as an anvil.
Harry Thye.r, president of the N.S.W.
Labor Council during the big coal strike
which brought Peter Bowling into the
limelight and the boycott of Wade’s
Industrial Disputes Act, has reached the
age limit, and retired from the job of
Industrial Officer to the Water and
Sewerage Board (N.S.W.). One of the
moderates who ultimately prevailed in
favor of giving the Act a trial, he was as
good a chairman as the Labor Council
remembers.


W.H. 2494.
A
■ 1
1 i
There is only one whisky with just
this aroma. Only one whisky has just this silk-
smoothness. Only one whisky produces precisely
th is glorious glow. It does not require great
experience to say, White Horse, of course!”
EQUAL TO A FINE LIQUEUR
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes
on sale everywhere at popular prices
(C
I can tell
White
Horse
1 blindfold!


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Old-timer”: A little red kelpie bitch,
Lady, lost her owner in Barham (N.S.W.),
and thenceforth led a nomadic life
among the farms and stations of the dis-
trict. She would spend a few weeks on
one place, accept what it offered in
food, shelter, kicks and love, and then
depart, to turn up days later at some
farm 50 miles or so away. Her removes
were always of considerable distance,
she never stayed more than three months,
always picked one person to whom she
attached herself and for whom she would
work sheep, and refused to be hunted
away or discouraged until she was ready
to go. In time the stations began to
expect a visit from her as they did from
the human nomads who worked regular
beats up and down the Riverina. This
went on for nearly four years, until a
drover camped on the Niemur wel-
comed her one day with visible emo-
tion, and the little bitch’s long search
was ended.
* * * *
“Erroll”: All around Cossack (W.A.)
fresh water can be got by shallow sink-
ing, which must stop when rock is met
with. Once that rock is disturbed the
water becomes as salt as the sea. This
was found out during a particularly dry
spell in 1933, when the fresh water
seemed to be giving out. Gangs were
put on simultaneously to deepen all exist-
ing wells, with fatal results. A new lot
of wells then had to be sunk, during
which time the oldest pearling town in
W.A. had to depend on water carted
from Roeburne, 11 miles inland.
* * * *
“Tockilly”: One of our broad-axe
swingers on the Jimna Range (Q.) broke
a chunk out of a wisdom tooth at work.
The jagged edge irritating, he edged a
broken oilstone (he used to win bun-
eating competitions) into his mouth and
smoothed it off. A brother chip-flyer
now feels quite embarrassed because in-
stead of doing things in real bush style
he did a similar dental job with a very
effeminate tool—a nail file.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: On swampy areas inland
from the S.A. coast between Robe and
Beachport grows a small creeping plant
which bears heavy crops of a berry re-
sembling a tiny apple in shape, smell and
flavor; the abos. knew it as “muntry”
berry. Ripening in January, it can be
eaten raw, stewed or made into jam.
Most commercial fruits were bred from
such small, often ill-flavored, origins, but
to my knowledge no plant-breeder has
tried to do anything towards improving
our native fruits. This berry looks an
exceptionally likely one for experiments.
“Naturalist”: Noticing a great splash-
ing at the young ducks’ bathing-pool near
the stockyards one morning, a neighbor
investigated, to discover that the cause
was an aged laughing-jack having a bath.
Diving into the shallow slabbed pool,
the hilarious one would scramble ashore
with much flapping of wings, and after
a bit of a rest, during which wings and
body were much exercised, would repeat
the performance. This went on until the
bather hadn’t a dry feather. Then, look-
ing as wet as anything in feathers could
look, he fluttered on to the stockyard
and laughed till the capping-rail shook.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: A North Gippsland
identity who spends most of his time
roaming the hills in search of foxes,
“bee-trees” and other perquisites of the
bush-dweller has two full-grown cross-
bred sheep that follow him wherever he
goes. These woollies think nothing of
a 20-mile jaunt over some of the rough-
est country in the State, and even at
night they accompany their owner on
his trap-round. He has manufactured
a pair of miniature pack-saddles for
them, and loads them with spare bullets
and other hunting gear. So far he hasn’t
been able to teach them how to trail a
fox, but at sight of a rabbit in a squat
they will “point” like a pair of setters.
H= * * *
“R.H.”: Mention of the tawny frog-
mouth reminds me of one I kept for
“If you're goin' to cheat, I ain't goin' to play!"
about eight years, after it had its wing
broken and an eye blinded by boys. Two
things I discovered about Jacko: (1) He
had no idea of picking up food from the
ground—it had to be put right into his
beak, which seems to indicate that natur-
ally his food is caught on the wing, thus
ruling him out of the mouse-catching
class; (2) as far as I knew he never
drank water. My early efforts to give
him some he forcefully resisted.
* * * *
.“Dingo”: Allegations that some dogs,
such as Alsatians and St. Bernards, are
congenitally bad-tempered are shocking
to people who understand handling
animals. Taken from puppyhood and
given the correct physical and mental
training, no dog in his sane senses is a
menace to human beings. Just as a man
unjustly imprisoned can understandably
run amuck, so chained-up tykes are un-
dependable. Most of the trouble arises
through people failing to understand the
dog’s point of view, and dogs do possess
one. Nobody likes to be. mauled by a
stranger on a first meeting, and neither
do dogs. People unfamiliar with dogdom
might note this golden rule: Always ex-
tend the hand firmly and gently towards
the dog’s muzzle and allow him to pick
up your scent before gliding onward to
the head.
* * * *
“Kali”: Touching on recent mention
of the pebbles found in the croc.’s
innards, the Malay reckons they are a
tally—one stone for every human bagged.
If Ahmat is right, a big brute I shot up
the Singapore River must have accounted
for two to three hundred.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: Like most chatterers,
the jackass hogs all the publicity for his
tribe. Cousin kingfisher spends a quieter
life by the side of running water, perched
on a stump or fence-post, gleaming in
red vest and blue wings. I cannot recall
ever hearing one make a sound. The
kingfisher goes his own way and man
goes his. There is no question of harm-
fulness or benefit. The relationship is
purely neutral, even to the question of
whether kingfishers tear into Joe Blake
or not; nobody troubles to raise it.
:|= * *
“Wangardook”.: A pal and I were on
our way to a S.A. opal field with our
worldly belongings, which included a
couple of two-month-old cattle-pups in a
box, piled on a Ford truck. Pulling up
at a sandhill to inspect the track ahead
we found the box on its side and the
pups missing. We retraced our tracks
for a mile or so and saw on the ground
a huge eagle with his mate doing a goose
step up and down a near-by log, against
which was a pile of brushwood. Both
took wing on our approach, and peering
into the brushwood we discovered an
almost-scared-to-death but otherwise in-
tact pup. All to be seen of his wall-
eyed brother was a few tufts of hair
and half a tail.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: Reverence for the law
is certainly deeply imprinted in Binghi’s
mentality (B. 16/6/’37). On Badu Island,
Torres Strait, I saw a native constable in
off-duty hours happen on a malefactor in
the very act. Strictly enjoining the delin-
quent to await his return, the dusky limb
of the law went to his hut, and presently
returned attired in uniformed majesty
to make the arrest, the delinquent having
obligingly waited while the constable put
his clothes on.
* * * &
“Buzfuz”: If the Victorian Fisheries
and Game Department has its way,
one of the bushman’s natural enemies—
the water-rat —will be protected. A close
season, from August until May, is recom-
mended by the department on the ground
that the high prices obtainable for the
rats’ skins will result in their extermina-
tion. But surely the department’s duty is
to protect the country’s flora and fauna,
and not fur-coat manufacturers! These
rats live on Australian fauna —the small
fish of our streams which the authorities
go to great trouble to protect and propa-
gate.
“Waranbini”: The water-rat, protec-
tion for which has lately been mentioned,
is a deadly enemy of the platypus. The
duckbill has little chance against its fierce
antagonist, which has sharp teeth and
claws, while the duckbill has only a
spur on the hind legs. This it uses effec-
tively against its own kind, but it can’t
bite. Both animals are valuable for their
fur, but the platypus is worth half a
dozen rats.
* #
“Varanus”: After a goanna has had
a good feed —of snake for choice —his
next job is to provide himself with false
teeth. This he does by swallowing loads
of sand. One that an abo. and I exam-
ined after he’d cleaned up a gidya snake,
with sand course to follow, had in him
over two quarts of grit— -to grind up that
18in. Joe! Another go. on which I
operated had in him a gidya gibber as
big as my shut fist. As he was unable
to get rid of it, and as it would in time
have worn a hole in his inside, his in-
ternal arrangements had got busy and
protected him against his own foolish-
ness, coating the stone with a mucous
skin which fitted it like a glove. Thus
covered, it could shift and wobble with-
out scratching, and, like the pearl in the
oyster, caused the minimum of dis-
comfort.
* * He *
“Awani”: Is there anything in the
widely-held belief that if a shower falls
on a newly slaughtered sheep, pig or
bullock the meat will not “cure”? My
neighbor, a country man of 50 years’
experience, says that, though mutton thus
wet will “cure,” it will be very tough,
but that a wet pig’s or bullock’s carcass
is not affected.
* * * *
“Marsh”: Weight for age I’ll back the
porcupine against any other animal for
strength. Consider his knack of getting
through netting fences where boulders
have been placed to keep in position net-
ting that has become untrenched. The
heaviest boulder a man can place in
position won’t prove
a bar to a por-
cupine, though by
what method such a
small animal can
toss aside gibbers
weighing up to a
couple of hundred-
weight I have yet to
find out.
Hi % $
“F.Y.7”: Agree
with “Ophir” (B.
23/6/’37) that sheep
have had much to
do with the thinning
out of snakes in
W.Q. The friend of
Eve has plenty of
room to move in a
mob of cattle, but a
densely-packed flock
of muttons with
their sharp - edged
hooves is another
proposition. Sheep,
too, have been given
the credit for the
practical banishment
of malaria in W.Q.
Many years ago
this, as “fever and
ague,” was very pre-
valent on the Cen-
tral Western downs
country, and on the
Barcoo few station
workers escaped it.
Stocking with sheep
eradicated what
golfers call “casual
water,” the hooves of the sheep flatten-
ing out the cups and small holes on the
plains and alongside waterholes which
made convenient breeding places for the
fever mosquito. The disease is rarely
heard of now in that part of the world.
'l' # $
“G-r-r-r-r”: So “Old-timer’s” muster-
ing dog (B. 16/6/’37) couldn’t “see more
than 100 yards away,” eh? I’ve yet to
find any dog that can see that distance.
As any veterinary surgeon or knowledge-
able kennel-man can tell you, a dog’s
eyesight is by far his weakest point. Next
time you call Fido, don’t kid yourself he
can see you ; that raised head and cocked
ear indicates he’s exercising his amaz-
ingly sensitive powers of smell and hear-
ing.
* * * *
“Pisces”: The best fishing to be had
in W.Q. is after a river has been in
flood for a few weeks, as happened re-
cently. Find a place where there is a
natural fall or where the water tumbles
over a broken overshot—there are plenty
such on the Georgina—and sling in the
bait just below the overshot. The best
place I know is at Austral Downs home-
stead, just below the old dam. During
the T 7 floods Jack Findlow, then cow-
boy at Austral, rarely put in more than
half an hour a day there, and his small-
est catch was 17 black bream, averaging
about a foot or so in length.
THE MEN WE KNEW.
The hope that gulled us through the years is
wearing thin to-day,
The goal that once seemed very near is still
as far away.
Full-freighted with our blasted hopes the dreary
years drift by,
While we re-tell our dismal tales of how things
went awry;
But life would still be well worth while could
we but get among
Men like we knew out Bulong way when all
the world was young.
There’s little that we hope for now; the time
has long gone past
When ev’ry day its promise brought, each
brighter than the last;
And we are short of many things, but most we
miss to-day
The gallant company that used to laugh our
fears away.
For we could take things with a smile if we
again could know
Men like we knew up Menzies way, say, forty
years ago.
The world is out of joint, it’s said, and maybe
things are wrong;
And then again it may be that we’ve lingered
overlong.
It may be that a change would come and hope
be born anew
If there were men like once there were to tell
our troubles to.
For we have little doubt we could feel glad
to be alive
Could we meet men like those we knew at
Cue in ’ninety-five.
It’s little we expect of life, but now before
we go
We'd like to see just once again the men we
used to know;
We’d like to live with them awhile and re-
create the dreams
That vanished with the rolling years, for still,
somehow, it seems
The world was a far better place in those days
when it grew
Men like we knew out Bardoc way when every-
thing was new.
WESTRALIA.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Gidya George”: Though his owner
may be dressed in a blue shirt and khaki
trousers to-day, and white moles and a
tartan shirt to-morrow, a horse will
pick him in one by sight, smell or
sound. Were the horse to act the giddy
rainbow like that how many of us could
pick our mounts when they were run to
the yard in the morning? The only
thing which seems to flummox horses
which I ride, and which know me well,
is when I put on a coat. They won’t
stand me in that strange garb at all. I
pass muster in any other rig, though I’ve
never tried them as a nudist.
i’fi i|c
“Centre”: I doubt whether kooka-
burras require any of that “special vocal
training” (B. 16/6/’37). I once rescued
a nestling Jacky from the attentions of
two crows. He had fallen from the nest
and was in a pretty bad way, but a
couple of weeks’ careful tending put him
right, and, making a thorough recovery,
he lived with us for several years. With-
out ever attending classes for voice pro-
duction, he could run the whole gamut
with the best of them, and left us in no
doubt about it when his crazy cachin-
nations daily heralded the coming dawn
and in the evening told the world at large
that the sun was down. I’ve never yet
heard Jacky talking in his sleep in the
bush, but our particular bird frequently
chuckled to himself during the night,
though whether he was dreaming or had
awakened to laugh at some joke that had
occurred to him I can’t say. He finally
deserted us, lured away by the blandish-
ments of a lady Jack he’d picked up at
the bottom of the garden.
* * * *
“Cadge”: “R.W.D.” can take, it for
granted that his duck (B. 23 /6 / ’37) did
not take the k.o. from the tip of the
falcon’s wing or any portion of it. The
falcon and his kind kill their quarry by
striking with the talon, and the blow
often has enough force to decapitate a
comparatively small bird like a wild
duck. With greater prey, such as herons,
bustards and swans, the knock-out blow
is not always a finisher, and then the
falcon “binds” the quarry and volplanes
“Go and ring up the hotel , George — l've forgotten the leather trunk."
to earth with it. The teachings of ten
thousand years—the falcon has been used
by man to catch game even longer than
this—are behind the fact that the bird
uses the talon only in striking.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Once saw a bulldog
separated from its victim, but not by
the method recommended by “Sykes” (B.
9/6/’37). The owner of the other canine
simply inserted the thin end of a tommy-
bar behind John’s teeth and put all his
weight into the twist. It was touch-and-
go for a second, but the bar held. The
bloke said he got the tip from a Jack
London novel.
“Printi”: The goanna, which turns in
in a rabbit burrow or similar hole in the
ground for the winter, does not emerge
until the first thunderstorm, which acts as
its alarm-clock. If the thunderstorm is late,
in coming, the go. wakes up very weak
and poor, but even this has failed as yet
to cure it of oversleeping. Though it
is one of his chief items of diet, Binghi
will rarely attempt to catch a go. on its
emergence, in spite of the fact that, owing
to its emaciated condition, it would be
an easy victim.
* * X *
“Porcupine Joe”: Why pick on poor
old William Wombat (B. 16/6/’37) as
Australia’s most useless native animal?
Lots of politicians are native, too, far
more destructive, and with even less
valuable hides. As for looks, what have
some of them got on William? I have
never tasted a politician, and certainly
never wish to, but a young wombat was
a bush delicacy in old days, and still is
in parts of Tasmania. Rightly, too. A
feed of “badger ham” has put new life
into many a wet West Coast prospector,
and “badger springers” are common
items of bush scenery in those parts. Wil-
liam’s hide tans into a tough light leather,
almost as good as kangaroo, and with
the hair left on makes a warm floor rug
or bunk underlay. One old Tassie pros-
pector of my acquaintance always
reckoned that some day he’d tame a
wombat and train him to stoping and
tunnelling.
' , ’
W.P.T. : Wombat hide useless?
Properly treated it is as good as pigskin,
Miners in the Pambula (N.S.W.) gold-
mines found that it was the only leather
that would stand up to the chemically
affected water that rotted the ordinary
soles off a pair of boots in a fortnight.
There, also, the miners made ore-
buckets from it which proved the best
ever used. I’ve also seen an excellent
hunting saddle made from wombat hide,
and I have a razor strop of it which,
“You runnin' late, too?”
after being in daily use for 25 years, is
as good as ever.
“Harry N.”: Roast leg of wombat
gives roast pork a mile start and a sound
thrashing. But it must be reasonably
young, and, as with all meat, hanging
for a couple of days improves it greatly.
Incidentally, a ration of boiled wombat
fed to fowls that have fallen down on
their jobs will soon have them producing
hen-fruit with the expedition of Burnley
competition winners.
❖ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a big shed and
a wet day, so the shearers’ hut was full.
Mat, after lighting a fag, carelessly
threw the lighted paper squill against the
hessian lining as he walked back to his
bunk. Fourteen men and five boys
launched themselves at the danger with
yells and curses and, when the menace
was scotched and the flurry over, looked
for the cause. He regarded them
solemnly from his bunk, and drawled:
“Cripes, the way y’ rushed I thought I
must’ve dropped a quid!”
“Shamuseen”: One of the queerest
species of sea lice occurs in Torres Strait
waters ; it grows to about 4in., and shows
a marked affinity for sharks. Binghi
superstitiously regards the shark as the
guardian of the repulsive-looking para-
site, which he calls epi baidem, or shark’s
wife, and he avoids harming the creature
in any way, holding that the shark will
wreak vengeance —a very easy vengeance
when Binghi derives his sustenance from
“swim diving” for pearl and trochus.
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: “Poopoonbah” slipped
when he alluded to the pallid cuckoo as
“commonly called stormbird” (B.
9/6/’37). The pallid cuckoo is a sad-
looking individual only half the size of
his stormbird cousin, variously known as
storm hawk, fig hawk, coo-ee bird and
cornplanter, the latter because his
raucous howls supposedly warn farmers
that rain is approaching. This, unlike
many bush prophecies, is not without
foundation, for he is never so noisy as
just before a storm. The male is a
shining blue-black, but the female is
clad in the conventional cuckoo shades of
grey. The pallid cuckoo gives voice in
a melodious if melancholy whistle, syn-
copated, and descending in scale. Further,
he is insectivorous, while his piratical
relative dines exclusively on fruit and
berries.
“C.C.C.”: Brolgas are wonderful
stickers for their own particular bit of
territory. Practically every bore-drain-,
creek- and river-crossing along the 250-
mile stretch of the Boulia road (W.Q.)
has its little family of them. I’ve seen
those crossings as a gorgeous tangle of
vegetation, as shady waterholes, as stink-
ing depressions and as a wilderness of
dust, and I’ve seen them disappear be-
neath roaring floods. But in every in-
stance except the last the brolga families
were somewhere at hand.
* * * *
“Cooee-Bird” : “H.A.L.’s” utility truck
(B. 23/6/’37) seems to have done good
service in numerous ways, but he says
nothing about its capacity for yanking a
beast out of a bog. I’ve seen a Queens-
land stock-raiser employ it for this pur-
pose, and the beast was high and dry
almost before it had time to utter a groan
of protest. The cattleman reckoned that
the only thing he couldn’t shift with his
utility was the mortgage on the station.
sjc * X X
“Larrakeah”: Things certainly grow
quickly in the tropics. On the way back
to Darwin from Koolpinyah Harry
Stocker broke a rear axle about four
miles on the wrong side of the Howard
crossing. It was almost the end of the
dry season, and the ground where he left
the car was as innocent of grass as a
Sydney beach. The wet broke next day,
and when Stocker returned a week later
with a spare axle he was confronted with
a waving mass of sft.-high grass and
vegetation, in which he searched for three
hours before locating Lizzie.
* * * *
“Ficus”: Touching on these vegetable
water-chasers (B. 23/6/’37). Once I
lived at Charters Towers in a des. vill.
res., meter, water, gas, etc. Came a
minion of the Water Board, who put the
wife through a cross-examination as to
the family’s washing and drinking pro-
clivities. He said the meter showed an
astonishingly small quantity of water
passing through, and with some friends
unsuccessfully dug up most of the front
garden looking for an illegal connection
with the main. At last it occurred to the
pa|ty to examine the bowels of the meter.
It was completely compacted with root
filaments as fine as silk thread from a
weeping fig over 20 yards away, the stuff,
when extracted, looking like a well-built
bird’s nest. While the board and I were
arguing over what rate 1 should pay, I
was called away to Brisbane and never
went back. The Statute of Limitations
having made it safe to do so, I now spill
the yarn.
THE DESERTED SELECTION.
A tangled quince; a pear-tree tall;
A foot or so of mud-brick wall;
A half-filled hole that was a tank,
Where nettles grow profusely rank;
Some posts still staving off decay;
An axe-head rusting in the clay;
While creeping brambles smother all—
The posts, the axe-head and the wall.
That’s now; but once a home was there,
Built, post and brick, by labored care,
With tall slab fence, to keep the stock
From beds of pinks and hollyhock.
In youth, in hope, a vision grand
Saw waving corn and pasture land;
And, after all the strain and stress
Built upon years of toil, success.
But Fate can with a cruel grin
Decide all triers shall not win.
So now the brambles smother all—
The posts, the axe-head and the wall.
VICTORIA.
AITCHEMSEE.


t A private executor
is presumed to
know the LAW
The full responsibility for an estate during its
administration falls on the trustee’s shoulders.
He is presumed to know the law in all its
intricacies, and is held responsible for any
mistake.
Many trustees, realising the burdens placed
upon them, prefer to transfer their responsi-
bilities to The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited, which devotes its whole
time to the duties of Executor and Trustee.
Private trustees desirous of relinquishing
their duties are invited to make an appoint-
ment to discuss how this may be conveniently
arranged.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
I.ACEKCY COMPANY LTD.
( Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell Wb.te. K.C.8.. K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0.. D. 5.0.;
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W. D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: I W. Russell French.
T
T 3.16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
r Dividends —Nominal
Not Pref. To Re- Re-
March, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 179,305 15,750 10 p.c.= 93,044 70,571 266,694
1928.. 184,868 15.750 10 „ ~93,048 76,070 342,704
1929. 207.952 15,750 124 „ ~116,310 75,892 418,656
Staff fund, £2500 416,156
1930.. 187,254 15,750 12Jp.c.=116,310 55,194 471.350
1931.. 76,768 15,750 6 „ „ 55,828 5,190 476,540
1932.. 92,137 15,750 74 „ „ 69,786 6,601 483,141
1933.. 122,439 15,750 9 „ ~ 83,743 22,9.46 506,087
1934.'. 129,602 15,750 9 „ ~ 83,743 30,109 536,196
To superannuation fund, £5000.. 531,190
1935.. 175,522 15,75013 p.c. =120,962 38,810 570,006
1936.. 205,493 15,750 15 „ ~139,572 50,171 620.177
1937.. 231,199 15,750 15 ~ ~139,572 75,877 696,054
t Subject to goodwill, £114,500.
Emphatically one of Australia’s most
prosperous industrial undertakings, which
enjoys almost a monopoly of some sec-
tions of the trade. Manufacturing plants
have been set up in all the Australian
States, except Tas., and at Auckland
(M.L.); they turn out bottles and jars
of all descriptions, cut crystal, pressed
and blown glassware, lighting bowls,
units and fixtures, pyrex ware, sheet and
figured rolled glass, glass bricks and steel
and iron castings, etc.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, further substantial pro-
gress was recorded in all sections of the
business, especially in the engineering,
glass-brick and plastic-ware departments.
A mining subsidiary has been formed in
Westralia, to work felspar deposits there,
and the. Australian and Maoriland rights
in a new roll-on and pilfer-proof bottle
seal has been bought. Gross earnings,
which had dropped from the pre-slump
peak of £432,396 in 1929 to £238,669 in
1931, sprang £73,629, reaching the record
figure of £644,500. Including provision for
taxation and depreciation, exes. (£413,301)
took £47,923 of the increase. The net
result was thus £25,706 better at £231,199,
or enough to pay the pref. div. and show
23.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against 20.4,
17.1, 12.2, 11.4, 8.2, 6.5, 18.4 and 20.6
p.c. back to 1929. The div. was kept
at 15 p.c., of which 5 p.c. came from in-
come derived from the co.’s investments.
Together with an unspecified amount of
loans, investments figure at £902,389 (up
£97,454). They include the Crown
Crystal and Australian Window Glass
cos. and a number of other subsidiaries.
The £75,877 of the year’s profit that re-
mained lifted visible support and assist-
ance for the £1,105,478 of capital
(£175,000 of it carries a fixed cumulative
9 p.c.) to £696,054, subject to £114,500 of
goodwill.
Owing to competition from overseas,
the Crown Crystal Co. has called a halt
in its production ; it has sufficient stocks
on hand for another six months’ trading
or thereabouts. The Minister for
Customs says the protection against glass-
ware from Germany and Czechoslovakia
—the countries from which most of the
imports came —is 10 p.c. natural (freight
and so on), 20 p.c. in exchange, 50 p.c.
duty and 5 p.c. primage, making 85 p.c.
in all. Imports were valued at £91,000,
1934-35; £109,000, 1935-36; £119,000
for the nine months to the end of April.
Recorded sales of Australian manufac-
turers were roughly £42,000, 1934-35 ;
£56,000, 1935-36; £62,000, 1936-37.
The co. says it is prepared to carry on
at a loss “if the Government will show
us how to find a market.”
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the business, especially of
subsidiary interests, and a strong financial
structure:
1924. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £950,695 £1,105,478 £1,105,478
Liabilities . . . . 87,507 362,746* 390,588*
Freeholds .. 206,067 206,760 217,582
Machinery & plant 451,364 306,252 316.276
Stocks . . . . 316,225 537.648 541,534
Book debts.. .. 127,901 219,246 196,021
Loans, i nvestments,
etc-. .. .. 18,816 804,935 902,389
* Includes “provision for taxation.”
To meet last year’s outlay rjn investments,
already referred to, add £10,822 to the
book value of freeholds, £10,024 to plant
and £3886 to stocks, debtors’ balances
were reduced by £23,225 and £27,842
was tacked on to the debt, which includes
an unspecified provision for taxation.
Plant now appears at £135,088 less than
it did 13 years ago, despite substantial
additions meanwhile. That is to say,
additions have been paid for out of
earnings, and then, from the same source,
the assets have been severely written
down.
Anticipations of extra benefits had sent
the pound ords. from 275. in 1925 to 61s.
in Sept., 1929. A year later the figure
had dropped to 235. on a nervous and
oversold market. It rose steadily to a
peak of 98s. in Oct., 1936, and was 925.
last week-end. At 925. the return is 3.2
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 4.4 p.c. on
a 20 p.c. distribution. A one-for-two
gift issue and maintenance of a 15 p.c. div.
would lift the yield 4.9 p.c. The prefs.
and ords. together would then call for
£225,107 p.a., or £6092 less than last
year’s declared net earnings. The prefs.
at 395. return 4.6 p.c. Visibly the net
tangible cover is £9 12s. 9d. prefs. and
325. 6d. ords.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. ten Of!, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927 .. 90,515 10 p.e. = 61,875 27,700 31,316
1928 .. 102,146 10 ~ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Old.
7 p.c. 10 p.c.
1929 . . 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
8 p.c.
1931 .. 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) 41 fi67
Provident fund, £lOOO .. i ’
All reserves written off assets, £41,667..
10 p.c.
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
8 p.c.
1933 .. 122,252 9991 63,333 47,150 ) 778
Provident fund, £lOOO .. J
1934 . . 129,351 10.208 63,333 54,865 ) 723
Provident fund, £lOOO ~. J
1935 . . 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
1936 . . 133,994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 . . 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
This co.’s franchises cover nine suburbs
in the metropolitan area, all hemmed in by
the big Sydney electric-supply undertak-
ing. Still, the growth of industrial acti-
vity and of building, etc., ensures steady
expansion of the business. There is
£937,500 of capital to feed in 166,667
prefs., paid to 17s. 6d. each and carry-
ing a fixed cumulative 7 p.c., and 833,333
ords., of which one-tenth is paid to 10s.
each. For the decade to the close of
accounts in 1929 it was a steady 10 p.c.
proposition. The co. is not subject to
the N. S. Wales Gas and Electricity Act,
which fixes divs. at 5\ p.c. on pref. and
6 p.c. on ord. capital, restricts allow-
ances for depreciation and other reserves,
and provides for the issue of new shares
by auction. Yet, with things as they
are, it might prove to be an indiscretion
for a co. enjoying a monopoly of a
public utility to pay more than 8 p.c.
Owing to the rise in the cost of living
and the tendency of interest rates to
harden, investors look for a slightly
better return now than they did a year
ago. Hence this co.’s fully-paid pound
ords. have fallen from 355. to 325.
6d. in the market over the last 12
months. The return at 325. 6d. is 4.9
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the contribs. at 18s. 9d. return 4.3
p.c. The board says it has no intention
of calling up outstanding capital at the
moment, though plans to provide for
future extension of the undertaking are
under consideration. The prefs. at 235.
9d. yield 5.1 p.c., and last year’s net
earnings more than seven times covered
their annual requirements.
The Government Statistician’s gas and
electricity consumption index for Syd-
ney (100 = average 1929-31) rose from
95.5 for 1931 to 108 for 1935 and 112.1
for 1936. Also, for the period covered
by the latest accounts, there was a net
growth of 1214 in the number of con-
sumers connected to the co.’s mains,
making the total 34,488. After meeting
generation, distribution and mainten-
ance costs, gross earnings (£201,138) were
up £6lBO. Exes. (£66,188, including pro-
vision for taxation) took £5224 of the in-
crease. Allowing for depreciation, shown
as written off in the table, the net result
benefited by only £550, reaching £74,124,
or enough to pay the pref. div. and show
a wink over 8 p.c. on ord. capital.
Visibly there never has been a lot to
spare. Much depends upon whether
allowances for depreciation prove to be
more or less than are necessary. The prob-
abilities are that they are no more than
a fair thing for the purpose.
Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell:
1930. 1933. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £875,000 £937,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors .. 126,096 83,913 106,772 122,287 "
Fixed assets 1,312.605 1,017,339 1,014,544 1,021,353
Stocks, etc.. . 21.072 13,357 21,501 17,553
Rook debts.. 11,289 9,192 7,578 14,067
Cash, etc. .. 6,182 31,961 51,792 63,724
* Including provision for taxation.
Liabilities (up £15,515) now include an
unspecified provision for taxation, but do
not take into account the staff pension
fund (£28,681, up £3560) or retirement
gratuity fund of £2627. The cash hold-
ing increased by £11,932. When the books
closed, outside liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £26,943, or £lO4l more
than at the previous balance.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends N Nominal
Half-year . Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 15. e. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 p.c.= 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 13,142 108,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,019
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 ~ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,775 4000 10 ~ „ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 ~ ~ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 . . 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20,000 261,465
Sept.,’32. .23,458 4000 8 „„ 20,000 260,923
Mar.,’33 .'.25,678 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,678 262,601
Sept.,’33. .31,280 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 7,280 269,881
Mar.,’34. .30,867 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 1,867 271,748
Sept.,’34. .32,989 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 3,989 275,737
Mar.,’3s. .31,660 4000 10 „ ~ 25,000 2,660 278,397
Stept.,’3s. .33,548 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 4,548 282,945
Mar.,’36. .37,593 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 3,593 286,538
Sept.,’36. .41,970 4000 12 „ ~ 30,000 7,970 294,508
Mar.,’37. .45,235 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 11,235 305,744
* Subject to goodwill, £118,074.
The investor who bought 100 G. and
G. pound ords. at 255. 9d. in 1932 and
still holds them is now getting a return
of 9.3 p.c. on his money, and the shares,
which cost him £l2B 155., are worth £265
(535. each) on the market. He can thus
see a capital profit of £ 136-odd (106 p.c.)
if he cares to take it; the difficulty would
be to find something offering a better
return with equal or more security. The
return to the buyer at the present price
is 4.5 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. The, prefs. at 335. return
4.8 p.c.; they carry a fixed cumulative
8 p.c., but have no other prior rights.
After deducting £118,074 of goodwill, the
net tangible backing is 265. 3d. for all
shares.
The present co. took over the scattered
Gordon and Gotch businesses about 18
years ago, put the Maoriland section on
a sounder footing and tightened up the
organisation generally. The div. climbed
from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in March, ’27, and
a 2 p.c. sweetener was added for the 18
months to the end of Sept., ’29. Then
slump brought the figure back to 8 p.c.
in ’3O; it rose to 10 p.c. in ’34, and to
12 p.c. again two years later.
Taking figures for the 12 months to
the end of March, gross earnings fell
from £162,104 (their highest point) in
’29 to £89,100 in ’32. They have since
advanced by annual steps to £153,481 last
year, when the spring was £25,449. The
growth of £9385 in exes. (£66,276) was
mainly on account of taxation. The net
result was £16,064 better at £87,205, or
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
15.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
12.6, 11.3, 10.8, 8.2, 7.6, 8.8, 13.3 and
18.9 p.c. back to 1929. After deducting
the pref. div., net earnings for the last
half were at the. rate of 16.4 p.c. p.a. on
ord. capital. The div. was kept at 12
p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a very
comfortable financial position and con-
tinued expansion of the business:
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’36. Mar.,’37.
Paid capital .. . . £600,000 £600,090 £600,000
Mortgages . . .. 69,000
Sundry creditors . . 127,050 105,682 116,872
Bank overdraft . . 79,880
Total liabilities .. £275,930 £105,682 £116,872
Freeholds .. .. £199,230£.211,824 £208,230
Leaseholds .. • • 25,515 18,139 17,576
Plant, fixtures, etc. .. 46,595 29,699 29,540
Stock .. .. 332,896 158,772 236,595
Book debts .. .. 353,249 241,069 261,183
Cash, investments, etc. 18,560 272,200 218,661
Tangible assets .. £966,045 £931,703,£971,785
Last year £77,823 was added to stocks
and £20,114 to debtors’ balances. To
meet the outlay cash, investments, etc.,
were drawn upon for £53,539, and
£11,190 was tacked on to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. On fixed
assets £4316 more was written off than
was spent. The year’s growth in the
more or less liquid surplus (£599,567)
was £33,208.
Hume Pipe (Far East), Ltd.
To Rc —
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927 . . 7,800 8 p.c. = 3200 4,600 3,499
Reserves.
1928 . . 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7,301 3,802
1929 .. 11,699 15 ~ ~ 6000 5,699 9,501
1930 . . 12,074 15 „ „ 6000 6,074 15,575
1931 . . 11,001 15 ~ ~ 6000 5,001 20,576
1932 .. 1,679 10 ~ „ 4000 18,255
1933 . . 2M43 6 „ „ 2400 13 18,268
Written off, £365 .. •• •• 17,903
1934 . . 3,627 6 p.c. = 2700 927 18,830
Written off, £3286 .. •• •• 15,544
Currency adjustment, £14,118 .. 29,662
1935 .. 1,610 3 p.c. = 1500 110 29,772
Unexplained additions, £3281 • • 33,053
1936 . . 14,345 5 p.c. = 2500 11,845 44,898
Share premiums, £351 . . • • • • 45,249
1937 . . 18,664 10 p.c. = 6625 13,039 58,288
This is the smallest and most success-
ful unit in the Hume organisation. It
first set up in Singapore in 1922, and
over the next decade shareholders aver-
aged 9.5 p.c. ; £19,168 of intangibles
was rubbed out of the accounts, and
over £IB,OOO of genuine reserves was ac-
cumulated. Then came slump and the
collapse of the tin and rubber markets,
with consequent curtailment of Gov-
ernment spending in the F.M.S., upon
which the co.’s turnover largely depends.
Still, the business never failed to earn
a profit or pay a div., and the outlook
has gained in brightness as the economic


Fa « SUMMER
starting
IN
"INTER
father
USE
m
PER
Plus
ETHYL
'.m
' Get that
Empire Spirit
CB6/12/SP
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
P/h$ BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
Order Now —
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and AH States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume will represent the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
The book will be available shortly, and should be
ordered now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT
& CO. LTD.
Annual Meeting of Shareholders
held 25th June, 1937
At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on
25th June, 1937, the Chairman, Mr. K. M. Niall, after dealing
with the fluctuations in the figures in the Balance Sheet and certain
domestic matters, gave a comprehensive review of Seasonal Con-
ditions and the Wool Market. Mr. Niall then made the following
general remarks:—
“Prices at the closing auctions, though receding slightly
from the highest point, were still at acceptable levels and were
almost unaffected by the nervousness over gold values and conse-
quent uncertainty observable in other markets. There seem
abundant reasons for regarding the position to-day as thoroughly
sound and the future with confidence.
“For such satisfactory results we have a good deal to
thank Great Britain, but increased competition from France and
other Continental countries was also forthcoming, whilst the United
States of America have again become one of this country’s
important wool customers, shipment for the 12 months last year
being only 90,126 bales as against 263,164 for the eleven months
to date this season.
“As to the vexed question of the encouragement of the
use of artificial fibres for wool should prices for wool continue at
present levels—undoubtedly the higher prices ruling are encourag-
ing the use of artificial fibres in certain countries where trading and
currency difficulties do not permit of their purchasing their full
requirements of raw wool. On the other hand, the admixture of
such artificial fibres with wool has proved of advantage in the
distribution of finished products at low retail price levels with a
consequent increase in consumption of wool.
“Although the majority of people engaged in the Wool
Industry have had a successful year, this, unfortunately, does not
justify any implication that the profits made since the depression
lifted have been anything like sufficient—in many cases —to replace
the losses of previous years. Many pastoralists, in fact, cannot
look forward to even partial rehabilitation unless conditions remain
favorable on the whole for a period of years. This means, so far
as we are concerned, that they will still require a great deal of help
and sympathetic treatment. A typical area is the North-west of
Queensland, and I am pleased to say the Government of that State
—from an announcement recently made by the Minister for Lands
—recognise the need for special treatment of this area and express
the intention to look into the question of granting special relief to
settlers, by way of adjustment of rentals' and tenures. This
announcement is very satisfactory and serves as encouragement to
the people interested to persevere. We feel sure this is the right
policy and businesslike attitude for a Government to take up. We
think it would be wise for all Governments to realise that the
continued prosperity of Australia depends largely on their taking
a broad and sympathetic attitude towards primary industries. We
get droughts and depressions, and then a period of prosperity, and
we must have reserves to meet the uncertainty of our climatic
conditions and markets. In the matter of taxation this reasoning
should be applied. Here we are with the depression generally
accepted as no longer in existence, but taxation remains at a very
high level.
“It is an axiom that the stimulus of Government spending
should be used in periods of depression, but restrained when the
need is past—otherwise there is nothing to fall back upon. These
remarks are somewhat elemental, but I am sure a great many
taxpayers are perplexed that the heavy revenue requirements of the
State and Federal Governments should persist in spite of more pros-
perous conditions. I have, on previous occasions, referred to
Unemployment Tax. In Victoria, this tax is expected to yield this
year more than in 1931-32, when unemployment was at its worst.
Then there is the Federal Land Tax—a thoroughly unsound piece
of legislation under present-day conditions—which, under pressure,
has been reduced as regards rate, but this relief is now being offset
by increased valuations.”
barometer has continued to rise. Mean-
while, the co. took over Hume Steel’s
interest in a steel-making plant previously
operated on joint account, and a factory
was erected at Hong Kong and another
at Shanghai, neither of which has been
the success anticipated.
During the last term, the Shanghai
plant was removed to Penang (F.M.S.),
where the Government is erecting aero-
dromes and fortifications and a sewerage
scheme is in prospect. At Hong Kong
the steel-pipe factory “carried out impor-
tant orders,” and a contract for the
Canton waterworks is on hand. At
Singapore sales showed a considerable
increase, though plant there slowed down
toward the close of accounts, owing to
labor troubles which affected pipe-users.
Still, after handing Hume Steel £7067
as its share of the profits from the steel-
pipe section of the business, declared net
earnings (£18,664, up £4319) were the
best yet, being 33.1 p.c. on average capi-
tal as against 28.8, 3.2, 8,6, 4.2, 27.5
and 30.1 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was lifted from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.; money
was wanted in the business to carry
extra stocks, owing to the slowing down
of plant already referred to.
To help finance the larger trading and
relieve the pressure of outside, debt,
25,000 new £1 shares were offered in
November —825 shares not applied for
were sold at a premium of £351, which
was added to reserves. Here are balance-
sheet figures:—
IQ9O IQQ9 IQQfi 1 QO7
Paid capital . . £40,000 £40,00*0 £50,000 £75,000
Sundry creditors.. 2,637 2,269 44,494 37,006
Land, buildings and
plant .. . . 21,694 18,083 91,826 87,907
Stock .. .. 13,307 6,013 19,158 53,925
Book debts .. 5,506 1,591 26,175 43,631
Cash, etc. . . 25,979 40,533 7,985 743
The fresh capital, the year’s surplus earn-
ings and a reduction of £7242 in the
cash holding were used to carry an extra
£34,767 of stocks and £17,456 of debtors’
balances. On fixed assets £3919 more
was written off than was spent.
Improved Government revenues in
Malaya and the rise in the price of
iron and steel have enhanced prospects
for the co.’s reinforced concrete pipes,
and further improvement in earnings is
expected at next balance.
At 375. (par a year ago) the pound
shares return 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 355. 6d. in net tan-
gibles.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Formed nine years ago, this pioneer
of air transport in New Guinea has paid
divs. averaging 24 p.c., sweetened with
£20,000 of bonus scrip in 1930. Increas-
ing competition is now whittling mar-
gins, and many mining cos., having failed
to locate what they were after, have given
up the hunt, while successful ones
have installed their immediate plant re-
quirements. The co. is therefore divert-
ing portion of its surplus fleet to Aus-
tralia. An Adelaide-Darwin schedule has
been inaugurated, and to buy new
’planes and establish additional ground
organisation —an Adelaide-Melbourne
link is immediately contemplated—the
board is on the market for £BO,OOO of
fresh capital in £1 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs.,
having priority to capital and equal vot-
ing rights with the ords.
Offered one-half to existing share-
holders and half to the public, the issue
has been underwritten by Adelaide and
Melbourne brokers at Is. 3d. per share.
After allowing £36 for depreciation as
against an average of £20,960 for the
four preceding terms, last year’s declared
profit was £14,909 (down £11,989), equal
to an all-round 9.3 p.c. on £160,000 of
capital.
Though a Yl\ p.c. div. was sent out in
the last term and the new money may
be almost immediately reproductive, just
what, if anything, the prefs.’ participat-
ing rights are likely to be worth after
adequate depreciation has been charged
it is difficult to say. Much depends on
the trend of events in New Guinea and
upon the possibility of a Government
subsidy in the Commonwealth. The co.’s
past performances in New Guinea can-
not be accepted as a reliable guide to the
future.
(“Wild Cat” continued on next page.)


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., 1.L.8.,
Joint Managing Director.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Ocean Housed 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
1 per bond than other buyers fqr N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
Norseman Developments, N.L.
This offshoot of Norseman Gold Mines
(W.A.) is being formed to take over and
develop three near-by properties, which,
after preliminary prospecting by the
parent, show a reasonable possibility of
turning out satisfactorily. Nominal capi-
tal is £125,000 in a million shares of
2s. 6d. each, of which 400,000 are offered.
Those on the parent’s register have prior
rights to 250,000 of them. The vendor
(Norseman Gold Mines) takes 100,000
paids, and £4OOO goes to Hedley Mit-
chell for services in securing the options
and in formation of the co. The other
500,000 shares are in pickle. The co.
will go to allotment when 200,000 shares
have been applied for. Preliminary exes,
and brokerage are estimated at £1750.
The parent has undertaken to treat all
development ore at a flat rate of 17s.
6d. per short ton, and to provide all
technical services—administration, en-
gineering, metallurgical, surveying, etc. —
for a fixed charge of £lOO per month.
The co.’s initial outlay on plant will
therefore be mostly confined to the re-
quirements of underground work, in
which it will thus get a flying start.
If large tonnages of pay-ore are de-
veloped, the parent is willing to make ex-
tensions to its plant in co-operation with
the new co., an arrangement which should
mean much so far as economy of capital
outlay and working exes., etc., is con-
cerned. Further development of these
Norseman leases has been made possible
by the present high price of gold and
extension of transport facilities and of
the goldfields water-supply scheme.
The three groups of leases to be taken
over are the Abbotshall, Star and
Penneshaw. The Abbotshall, about six
miles sou’-west of the parent’s mine,
consists of two 12-acre blocks, giving a
length along the strike of 30 chains.
Actual mining has been confined to a
length of about 400 ft., principally in dark
quartz, 4ft. to 9ft. wide, with values vary-
ing from 2dwt. to Bdwt. It is proposed
to recover some of the old shafts (deepest
about 130 ft.) and crosscut to the channel
from the bottom of each. Further de-
velopment will depend upon results. On
the Star (36 acres, giving 21 chains along
the strike, about two miles north of the
parent’s mine) the reef has been stoped
out above water level. It appears to be
going strong underfoot. Floor samples
average 4dwt. over 48in. for a distance
of 258 ft., and further north the average
is s.9dwt. over 40in. for 105 ft. At
Penneshaw three 24-acre leases are held
and four others have been pegged, giving
a length of a mile along the strike. The
outcrop has been traced for half a mile,
but mining has been restricted to a length
of 108 ft. In one of the old inclined
shafts, deepened by the parent below
water level (total depth 175 ft.), the reef
split into two sections, with about two
feet of country between. A parcel of
194 tons of ore from this shaft averaged
7dwt. Driving north and south will be
necessary to prospect the reef at this
level. In each case the reefs consist of
quartz in greenstone country. In the
parent’s mine values have strengthened
at depth.
On the board are A. W. Brown, G. C.
Campbell, H. Mitchell, W. S. Padman
and A. E. Paton.
Floated by Tanah Biji in 1925, and
now in the Anglo-Oriental (Malaya)
stable, Jelapang Tin Dredging, last year
recommenced operations on its Perak
(F.M.S.) property after five years’ idle-
ness. At Dec. 31 there was 22,500,000
c.y. of wash, estimated to contain 8750
tons of t.o. (an average of 0.881 b.) ahead
of its Werf Conrad dredge, capacity
now 152,000 c.y. monthly, giving the
property a life of 12 years, working
full pressure. Last year the dredge
worked only 10 months, turning over
949,000 c.y. for 408.6 tons t.o. (aver-
age 0.961 b.), of which 393.8 tons was
sold at an average £122 ss. Bd., after
paying royalties, etc. Revenue totalled
£49,331. Exes, took £25,163, leaving
£24,168, of which £1126 was struck off
lor depreciation, £2500 for river de-
viation and £4OOO was reserved for re-
placement of the bucket band. The
£16,542 that remained was equal to
2s. 9d. per share. No divs. were paid—
6d. from sale of quota rights was sent out
in the two preceding terms—money
being wanted for the conversion of the
dredge from steam to Diesel power.
Since the machine set in again in March
of this year it is reported to have given
every satisfaction. Working costs (4.42 d.
last year) should benefit. The co.’s out-
look seems bright enough. Capital is
£120,000. When the books were ruled off
there was £13,281 in the bank ; indebted-
ness totalled £5387.
* * * *
Kundang, also a member of the Anglo-
Oriental group, is another Malayan tin-
dredger to recommence active opera-
tions, after a five years’ spell. Equipped
with a 120,000-c.y.-monthly dredge, the
co. is working a 20,000,000-c.y. Selangor
holding (taken over from Ratrut in 1925).
The ground was originally estimated to
average 0.751 b. t. 0., but recent checkbor-
ing gave an average of only 0.331 b., or
nearly 3000 tons gross. Last year 452,000
c.y. were dug for an average recovery of
0.311 b. t.o. ; costs were 4.19 d. per yard.
For the year to Dec. 31 ore sales, etc.,
turned in £14,385, of which £5097 was
left after charging head-office and other
exes., but before writing £7349 off sundry
assets. To enlarge output and reduce
costs, plant is to be reconstructed and
electrified at an estimated cost of be-
tween £35,000 and £40,000. When the
books closed, the cash holding was
£15,000, which has been used to reduce
the underwriting commission account.
Paid capital is £125,000 in pound shares,
priced at 11s. 6d. each on the market.
* * * *
Early difficulties with slum, drift sand
and the bucket line, which has been
renewed, having been overcome, Cocks
Eldorado (Vic.) has reached the div. list
—ls. a share ( = £13,750) is to be sent
out on Aug. 5. With recoveries of gold
and tin improving and yardage increas-
ing, regular quarterly distributions are
looked for. Four weekly clean-ups to
June 25 yielded 821 oz. smelted gold and
14J- tons tin concentrates from 182,000
c.y. At the present rate of working
(45,500 c.y. weekly), there is approxi-
mately eight years’ life in the co.’s Reedy
Creek properties, containing 18,000,000
c.y. of wash, averaging Bd. per yard, of
which 7,000,000 c.y. goes Is. —gold at
£AB and tin concentrates at £175. If
bore values are realised, the proved area
should be worth £375,000 net, with
dredging costs at 3d. a yard—they are
slightly below that at the moment. Values
are found in soft, friable wash, free from
large boulders and timber, on false bot-
toms of pug, granite bedrock being as
low as 220 ft. The plant, Australian-
built, is digging down to 90ft. If
boring discloses payable stuff below that
depth, it is proposed to stack the tail-
ings, thus lowering the depth of the
pond to enable the dredge to get at
deeper ground and lengthening the life
of the property. The co. also holds 170
acres of sluicing ground on the east side
of the neighboring Pioneer lease, besides
other untested lands north and west of
its own property.
:|: jfc
At the end of July Lancefield hopes
to have its new 600-ton-a-day re-
treatment plant running at Beria (W.A.),
where it has about 1,000,000 tons of tail-
ings available. For the 10 months to
the end of April, 101,438 tons of ore
had been put through the mill for gold
valued at £260,508, as against 106,218
tons for £271,544 worth for the preced-
ing 12 months. Also a shilling or so
has been chipped off working costs (235.
6d., excluding development), and capital
expenditure (£26,168) has been lighter.
Since the co. began milling in March,
1935, three shilling divs. (£150,000)
have been sent out; another announce-
ment is due. Last estimate, of visible
ore reserves was 330,000 tons (grade
not stated) down to No. 11 level,
with a probable tonnage of 850,000 below
that. Head value of ore milled last year
was 7.8 ldwt. Chief doubt concerning
this property is whether the present
method of mining and development will
meet future requirements.
* * * *
At Sons of Gwalia (W.A.), where the
mill feed now consists almost entirely of
sulphides, additions and improvements
to plant have lifted recoveries from about
91 p.c. to 93 p.c. Present ore reserves,
which average approximately 7dwt., are
equal to about five years’ supply at the
current rate of treatment. However, two
winzes, sunk 250 ft. and 237 ft. respectively
below No. 28 level, have proved con-
tinuation of the ore-body to that depth,
with values above mine average. The
present shaft and winding equipment are
capable of satisfactorily serving the mine
to an inclined depth of 5000 ft., which is
about the depth of the future No. 30
level. It is therefore proposed to sink
an internal shaft below No. 30 level. The
work is to be commenced in 1940 or
1941, and the cost, estimated at £50,000, is
to be met out of earnings—£20,000 has
already been reserved for the purpose.
The board expects to pay the same rate
of div. in 1937 as it did last year, when
6s. (stg.) per share, or 60 p.c., was dis-
tributed. Last week-end London priced
the 10s. shares at 395. ; locally, sellers
asked 545.
•S 8 *
On August 9 North Kalgurli (1912),
owner of 147 acres on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, where it is working three
mines, will pay a final 9d. per 2s. share,
making a total distribution for 1936
of Is. 6d. (75 p.c.). During the
year, 112,338 tons (up 41,714 tons) was
milled for a return of £A325,333.
Recoveries were 58s. a ton, and working
costs 28s. lOd. As for the current term,
55,340 tons had been put through the mill
to the end of May, for gold worth
£185,256. Principally owing to improved
recoveries, returns have lifted to 675. a
ton, while costs have receded to 28s. 3d.
The margin for working profit per ton
is thus now almost 10s. better than the
average for 1936, while throughput has
been lifted to 11,000 tons a month.
Capital expenditure has shown only
slight increase. Latest available estimate
of positive ore reserves was 460,000
tons, assaying 7.7dwt., in January,
1936. Probable and possible reserves,
not then blocked out, were conservatively
put at 200,000 tons. Though reserves
have been depleted by last year’s crush-
ing indications point to a lot of unde-
veloped ore on the property. Most
heartening recent development has been
the disclosure at No. 6 level of 16dwt.
to 20dwt. values on the “end” lode,
worked at greater depths, which is also
to be explored at No. 8 level.
* *' * *
Paringa (W.A.) recently crushed 78
tons for 950 z. The parcel included 12
tons from the rich development in the
south drive at the 300 ft. level, which re-
turned 60oz. This shoot is the. most im-
portant discovery made by the co. since
it resumed active operations at Kalgoor-
lie. It was first located some months ago
on the 400 ft. level, where it carries ounce
ore over a width of 24ft. and for a length
of 85ft. It is hoped to pick up the same
make on No. 2 level and at the 500 ft.
level. Values are in quartz-dolorite, not
calc schist. The co. has taken a 12
months’ option over seven leases at
the northern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, near Hannan’s Hill
Amalgamated. The ground, worked only
to shallow depths, includes Mayman’s
Consols and Cassidy’s Hill, and will be
tested by diamond-drilling.
* * * *
May output of Sand Queen-Gladsome,
one of De Bernales’s Westralian resur-
rections, was 1605 tons ore for 6500 z.
bullion, worth £4778. Total outgo
amounted to £5585, of which £3OOB (equal-
ling 375. sd. a ton) represented working
costs and £1709 development expenditure.
The mine was a regular producer in the
old days, some 215,000 tons being taken
out down to 800 ft. for an average return
of 675. The present co., which has a
2000-ton-a-month battery running, is
down below 1200 ft.
:i: * * *
London-controlled Mount Magnet
Gold Mines (W.A.) treated 4655 tons
of ore in March for £5304. Working
profit (subject to depreciation and de-
velopment charges) was £622. Milling
values were reduced, owing to lower-
grade ore encountered in proving the ex-
tension of the rich shoot between
Nos. 2 and 3 levels. Because of the en-
couraging ore position, the board has
decided to double mill capacity.
* $ * *
Cox’s Find Extended and Deeps, near
Laverton (W.A.), has encountered a
number of rich floaters on the block east
of and adjoining Cox’s Find, values rang-
ing from 25dwt. to 30dwt. of gold per
ton. Further prospecting is in progress.
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
taken an 18 months’ working option over
the Edward Carson mine at Mt. Magnet.
Purchase price is £40,000, inclusive of
complete mining and treatment plant,
etc. The mine is opened up by three
levels to 200 ft., and 15dwt. stuff, with
some richer patches, is being worked.
* * :j* sjc
Ora Banda United, which has substan-
tial London backing, is encountering
low-grade ore on its Ora Banda prop-
erty. At 350 ft. ldwt. to 2dwt. stuff has
been exposed. Several barren crosscuts
have been discontinued.
* * * *
Ora Banda North, North Enterprise
and Luxall Gold, three Adelaide cos.
which have had no luck with their options
in W.A., all continue to live on the hope
“that suitable properties might be
obtained.”
* * * *
Backed by Australian Glass, Western
Australian Felspar, Ltd., has been
formed to mine a felspar deposit at
Londonderry, south of Coolgardie. Over
the last five years the vendor has dug out
3000 tons of the stuff annually.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney’
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * s]i
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals!
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, trv O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write, to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy.— Advt.


SMOKE-OH!
“Women, after all, do not admire men who
dress elaborately.”— Woman’s paper.
They like something simple in a serge
suit.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Certain actions put an extra strain upon
clothes.” — “Tailor and Cutter.”
For instance, bending the elbow affects
the pockets.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Defendant said he did not have a wireless
of his own; but he had a neighbor’s set.”
—“D.T.”
Who hasn’t?
*!• 4* 4* 4*
“Put the politicians of to-day beside those
of the past ” — “Sun.”
A dashed good idea!
4" 4* 4* 4*
Among Our Flora.
“We have 150 varieties of wattle to choose
from.”— Nurseryman’s advt.
A few more he’s either forgotten or
never heard of:
Watde uhav. —Most popular variety
with week-end gardeners (male). Grows
well in pots, but needs plenty of liquid
stimulant, as a dry spell destroys its
bloom.
Wattle wintermorra. —Practically ever-
lasting. Blight-proof. Retailed also by
butchers, bakers, grocers and milkmen.
Hardy sort, but needs a good deal of
luck to establish firmly.
Wattle Itelerthistime. —This is the
variety for the amateur with imagination.
Before attempting to produce a really
good specimen, however, a course of
“Where was YOU last night? The wharf's on THIS side of the ship!"
lodge functions, smoke socials and re-
unions should be undertaken. Cut back
hard after the first frost.
East St.
4* 4* 4* 4*
To some motorists life is all skittle and
biers.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Only a man who does not know his business
need fail in the hotel business.” — “D.T.”
Only a bungling Bung goes bung.
Daze of the Week.
Sunlessday.
Moanday.
T-t-tishoosday.
Wetnessday.
Thu (this one’s in bed with bron-
choniasy).
Frightfulday.
Saturateday.
Jupiter Previous.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some wives seem to spend a lot of time
going for their husbands’ beer,” says a P.M.
Others simply go for their husbands.
4. 4* 4* 4<
“Beautiful girls are the chief box-office attrac-
tion. It is what is inside the costume that
counts.” — Musicomedy producer.
Or what is outside the costume?
“He had loved her madly when she was
merely a slip of a girl; and now that she had
grown into a broad, buxom woman his de-
votion remained unaltered.” — Short story.
He loved her through thick and thin.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Flapper Chatter.
The modern girl doesn’t believe in the
man in the moon, but she has plenty of
evidence of the moon in the man.
When trouble leads to marriage, mar-
riage generally leads to trouble.
Some motorists are speediest when the
car is standing still.
Remember the old days when a girl
had to be formally introduced to a man
before she would kiss him?
When a girl starts out to make money,
she generally lands him.
Some men look for a girl in a million,
others look for a million in a girl.
L. S.
Most of these hot-rhythm melodies are
more in the nature of maladies.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Marriage is good for one,” says a doctor.
Perhaps ; but people have to marry in
twos.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Secretary of nude club declares that mem-
bers occasionally warm up with a game of
cricket.”
Of course, no one is allowed to field
in slips.
Lover’s Plea.
Be merciful and warm me with a kiss,
Or else I die ! There’s nobody about !
Just one, for pity’s sake J Consider this:
I pawned my overcoat to take you out !
N.
* * * *
p. .
*^ rama *
“Gilbert’s lips parted in a mirthless grin.”
—Short story.
Leaping to his feet with lamblike
ferocity he frowned happily upon his
opponent. “Traitorous dog!” he shouted
in an undertone. “Vile villain!” whis-
pered the other at the top of his voice,
Gilbert emitted a laughterless guffaw,
"Them rabbits've saved us a lot o’ diggin, boss . They've dug all the
post-'oles."
“You shall die!” he gritted forth with
angerless temper. The other, loving
hatred gleaming from his eyes, con-
fronted him in roaring silence.
Dougal.
It may be impossible to square a circle,
but modern misses have a good idea of
how to turn curves into a straight line.
•1*
These Used Vessels.
“Prices for second-hand ships are rising.”
— Melb. "Herald.”
These, second-hand ships! I’ll have
none of them again. The first I had was
damp underfoot from the start. Off
Pago Pago we all went down with lum-
bago except the Javanese cook ; he went
down with the ship and what was left
of the curry and rice.
1 was picked up by the Something
Maru, and on landing at Kobe I imme-
diately ordered a brand-new second-hand
ship. They specialise in brand-new
second-hand things in Japan. I put out
of Kobe with a scratch crew —and that
was my downfall. The tub fell to bits
near the bottom end of Formosa. The
scratch crew had scratched off all the
synthetic rust with which the Nippon-
ese shipwrights had stuck the vessel to-
gether. My Scandahoogian bos’n offered
me consolation: “Dem dam’ chaps vos
cheat you,” he said. “Onder der rust dere
vos no second-hand ship at all; it vos a
new von mitout rivets.”
Even so, I’ll go down to the sea in no
more second-hand ships, used, brand-
new or whatever.
Hanko.
4* 4* 4* 4*
It’s the woman who puts on dog who
is usually the cattiest.
•J*
“Strenuous competitive exercise by women
can be carried to dangerous lengths. In many
cases the after-effects are serious.”
—Sydney doctor.
Bargain-hunters’ husbands who suffer
from their wives’ nerves heartily agree.
A Static Job.
Judging by the cynical incredulity with
which the news has been received that
two Czech artisans had demonstrated
their ability to receive and transmit radio
programmes through the mediums of
their bodies, anyone would think this was
an unheard-of feat. Not so.
Take the case of Keipon Maggan,
whose vocal chords have kept him in
comfort ever since he left school.
It was in the early days of wireless
that Maggan’s queer gift became pro-
nounced. One night, in the middle of a
long speech at a debating society, he had
just taken a sip of water when the
tumbler in his hand started to play a
xylophone solo. Keipon got an awful
s^oc k.
Professor Ginswiper, the eminent
psychiatrist to whom he went for advice
after this phenomenon had occurred
several times, gave the simple explana-
ti°n that it was the intensified cerebro-
globular induction acting on the pent-up
syntropic energy resulting from his con-
stantly vibrating larynx that made him an
ideal medium for the reception of ether
waves, and that when he touched any-
thing with properties sufficiently acoustic
it completed the circuit. He gradually
developed his gift to a remarkable degree
of efficiency, though he was always hav-
ing trouble with what he called his audio
circuit. This disappeared, however, when
he got married —his wife turned out to
be a perfect loudspeaker. By concentrat-
ing on “thought waves” he in time elimi-
nated the manual contact which hitherto
had been essential to transfer the “ether ’
to her.
At first he used to amuse himself and
his pals at the pub on Saturday after-
noons by getting close up alongside the
wireless in the bar and messing up the
description of the second division of the
Flying at Robbery Park by tuning him-
self in to the Adelaide or Brisbane races
and letting his upheld glass do the rest.
The bob-each-way punters used to be
furious —they wouldn’t know whether
they could go two more pots on the
strength of a win or not.
Later Maggan got a job as organiser
of women’s committees on the Y.A.P.
It was only his enormous capacity for
continuous talking that allowed him to
hold his own among them. He found,
though, that the enormous quantity of
unused ether stored up in him was en-
dangering his blood vessels, which were
the equivalent of his valves. Soon he
got to know so much about politicians
from the scandal discussed by the women
that when he put up for pre-selection in
a safe seat nobody was game enough to
oppose him. When he went on the hus-
tings he soon had his opponents in despair
at the way he got a hostile audience
around to him.
His method was simple. He used to
park his wife in the back of the hall or
the crowd on a corner, tune himself in
to a celebrity concert, timing his speech
to end with the finish of an item by a
foreign visiting artist. The storm of
applause that reverberated around the
welkin came, of course, from the
“thought waves” which he flashed to her.
He finished up with a magnificent
majority.
It was the soporific atmosphere of Par-
liament, however, that settled him so far
as his gift went. What with the padded
seats that induced in him an irresistible
somnolence, and the heavenly peace away
from his wife, he could never raise more
energy than to interject with a few bone-
headed remarks that passed for wit, or
to stagger up when the division bells
rang and vote as he was ordered to.
Eventually his stored energy gained
through his former vocal activity be-
came so low that he was of no further
use as a receiving set. He tried talking
to himself away from the House in an
endeavor to recover his lost gift, until a
sympathetic colleague gently told him
that that was considered the first sign.
But his loudspeaker still broadcasts
when he gets home, without any assist-
ance now from him, and, if possible,
with greater vigor than ever.
S. W. K.
Cacophony.
“She was musical; her husband, however,
had no taste for music.” — Woman’s paper.
Accordion-pleated skirts she wears;
Her harping’s more than he can stand.
On top of this, her spouse declares,
She dresses up to beat the band.
She fiddles round with housework, too ;
She grabs his notes and makes things
hum;
No concert for her husband, who,
Poor fellow, never has a drum.
H.M.
Providence.
Though fickle and false are the vows of
the fair,
I am wholly unable to see
Why that should occasion a fit of
despair ;
It is more like a blessing to me.
In making them fickle my fate has been
kind —
Hurrah for the feminine vow !
If it wasn’t for Sylvia changing her mind
I might have been married by now!
T.W.N.


Edwards, Dunlop Contribs.
Contributing shares in Edwards,
Dunlop and Co. are paid to 6s. 8d.,
and carry .a further capital and
premium liability of 20s., 10s.
being payable on July 31, and a
like (final) amount on Oct. 31.
These shares were at 25s. 6d. last
week, when the fully-paids were
selling at 49s. 6d. If the market
for the latter holds at the present
figure over the next four months,
the contribs. at ruling rates will
show a 4s. capital profit in that
time, and will return £4 3s. p.c. on
a 9j p.c. div. basis, or £4 7s. 9d.
if the rate lifts to 10 p.c., which
seems likely. It is a very sound
stock, and divs. are paid quarterly.
Incidentally, the new Tasmanian
paper-making co. will distribute
through wholesale houses such as
Edwards, Dunlop.
Invest Soundly In
These 20
“Listed” Companies
SECURITY
Commercial Rank of Aust.. Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
David .Jones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
It will pay every investor to
study the many marked
advantages of investing in the
way made possible by FIRST
AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES.
These enable you to apply the
SAFETY-FIRST principle of
wide diversification to your
investment—be it as little as
approx. £2s—by spreading
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., litd.
Electro. Zinc C'o. of A/sia. Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
(Soldsbrough, Mort .& Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
AV. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
A’arra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
it over 20 of Australia’s
strongest and soundest Com-
panies, all listed on Change.
The investment, moreover, is
always safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE
SOCIETY OF CANTON,
LTD. (Union Building, Bond
Street, Sydney), as Custodian
Trustees, and it is realisable at
any time.
Remember— ONE Certificate, ONE Transaction
covers 20 Companies.
DIRECTORS: ~
Victor G. Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager. The Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd., Melbourne; Nonnan L. Cowper, Esq., Solicitor; Messrs.
Allen, Allen and Hemsley, Sydney; John A. L. Gunn, Esq., ICC.A. (Aust.),
Chartered Accountant (Aust.); Palmer Kent, Esq., Retired Chief Inspector,
The Bank of Australasia.
For full details and descriptive Booklet No. 1 apply to the
Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294.
BOX 4028, V.V., G.P.O.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout--
New South Wales; Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Golden Plateau
Over the short period of three years
the variable pay-shoots worked by
Golden Plateau, N.L., at Cracow, near-
Theodore (Q.), have been highly profit-
able. But total dividends in the future
will need to be greater than in the past to
justify the present market for the shares.
Yields to start off with were over an
ounce and a half to the ton ; then, as
the rich ore in No. 1 opencut worked out,
development in other parts of the prop-
erty failed to keep up the grade, and for
the 13 four-weekly periods ended August
17, 1935, the average recovery was slightly
under 18dwt., falling to 13dwt. for
1935- and to 10.6dwt. for the year to
June 30 just finished.
Though the annual accounts closed
seven days ago, they are not usually pre-
sented until the second week in October.
The monthly production figures most
nearly applicable to the latest financial
year cover the 52 weeks from July 18,
1936, to June 21, 1937. In that period
48,462 tons was milled for 25,8080 z. fine.
In the preceding year 45,075 tons
returned 29,2120 z., and net profit was
£195,509, equal to about 87s. a ton of ore..
All-in costs that term were 265. a ton.
In 1935-36, also, average recoveries
were worth about 113 s. Aust. a ton. For
1936- the figure was nearer 935.
Assuming that total costs for the year just
closed have been steady at 265. a ton (on
a slightly bigger milling overhead should
be lighter, if anything) a net profit of
£162,500 seems indicated —slightly under
4s. a share.
Shareholders have had a rich time in
the past, dividends to March 31 last hav-
ing totalled £525,000. The distribution
of Is. a share on July 22 will add another
£42,000. Divs. have been earned, as
already indicated, from the milling of
ore ranging from 30dwt. in the early
stages down to 11.5dwt. at the end of
1936. From the commencement of full
crushing on Feb. 6, 1934, to the end of
October, 1936, 108,428 tons was milled
for 81,1030 z. of fine gold.
Over the last eight weeks, follow-
ing larger millings, the recoveries
have dropped to B.Bdwt., which is
above the average grade of the ore
reserves at Sept. 29, 1936, when 233,640
tons containing 93,4300 z. (about Bdwt.)
was mentioned. Some substantial blocks
of probable ore were then talked of ; each
100 ft. of sinking below the 294 ft. level
should produce 90,000 tons of ore, it was
thought, if widths kept the same. That
was from all three, shoots. As the work-
ings go down the ore is changing to sul-
phide, though values are said to be well
maintained. In the sulphide zone, too,
these values may be more widely distri-
buted.
In the opinion of the manager,
“with the sinking of the shaft, it
is the starting of another mine.”
Though it sounds promising in one way
—it may result in a much larger but
lower-grade mine—it has already meant
a revision of div. prospects (3s. a year
instead of 4s. being officially forecast),
and it may also mean dearer mining
and milling in the future. Up to the
present shareholders have had no cause
whatever to fret over costs. Results have
reflected great credit on the management.
The property is on a plateau, with a
tunnel driven in to the main shoot from
the southern rise of the hill, where the
plant is situated. On the long east drive
(roughly at right-angles to the tunnel,
and on the same level), which connects
up with the Sunrise lease, No. 2 shoot is
met with at about 300 ft. east, with No. 3
shoot about 560 ft. further along. The
Sunrise is roughly an additional 920 ft.
east, all measurements-being in a direct
line. Tunnel level is 190 ft. at the prin-
cipal workings. Most development
recently has been on the 294 ft. level,
which now connects up with all three
shoots ; but a lot of driving and winzing
will be necessary before the ore between
levels can be called “proved.”. The main
shaft (that referred to by the manager)
is between No. 2 and'No. 3 ‘Workings,
and is to be deepened to 440 ft. From
that depth crosscuts will be. driven
to intersect the shoots, which were going
strongly underfoot at 29.4 ft. and carry-
ing above 14dwt. This supports the
belief of Dr. Loftus Hills (16/2/33) that
“the pay-shoots are not merely surface
enrichments of unpayable lode material,
but are in the main primary in character.”
A great deal depends on what- shows
up on the 440 ft. level. A. K. Denmead,
of the Queensland Mines Department, re-
cently figured probable ore (not blocked
out) at 205,000 short tons, with a possible
190,000 short tons, grade being Bdwt.
or thereabouts.
Taking proved ore alone on last Sep-
tember’s basis, and assuming that costs
average 4s. a ton over last year’s experi-
ence and that the gold price doesn’t fall,
there is about £670,000 net profit in
sight, as against a present market capi-
talisation (14s. 3d. a share) of £600,000.
At latest rate of milling (4500 tons a
month) it would take about four years to
win that result.
Something will depend on how the
deeper-seated ore yields to treatment, and
whether grade, can be controlled. Mining
hasn’t been difficult up to the present.
From chairman K. M. Niall’s address
to shareholders at the annual meeting of
Goldsbrough, Mort:
It is an axiom that the stimulus of Govern-
ment spending should be used in periods of
depression, but restrained when the need is past,
otherwise i there is nothing to fall back upon.
These remarks are somewhat elementary, but
I am sure a great many taxpayers are perplexed
in that the heavy revenue requirements of the
State and Federal Governments should persist
in spite of more prosperous conditions. I
have on previous occasions referred to unem-
ployment-relief tax. In Victoria this tax is
expected to yield this year more than in 1931-
32, when unemployment was at its worst. Then
there is the Federal land tax —a thoroughly
unsound piece -of legislation under present-day
conditions —which under pressure has been re-
duced as regards rate, but this relief is now
being offset by increased valuations.
No less an authority than Per Jacobs-
son, Swedish economic adviser to the
Bank for International Settlements, has
been writing in the bank’s weekly report
on the present world financial situation.
He points out that armament expendi-
tures are on three times the scale of 1943,
and twice as high as the average of the
1920 V; also he says: “Whatever may be
said for the policy of public works in
times of depression, there can be no
question about the undesirability of in-
creased Government outlay once the ex-
pansion of business is in full swing, for
then there is the danger that extra stimu-
lus may produce an unhealthy boom. ...
Considering the phase that has been
reached in the business cycle, this in-
crease comes at a wrong time and tends
to stimulate wrong trades —namely, those
that already are benefiting most from
general recovery of business.” The
8.1.5. report, incidentally, remarks that
recovery periods rarely exceed five years,
and dates recovery in the “sterling area”
(Britain, Scandinavia and some British
dominions) from about 1932-33, so that,
according to the five-year theory, the run
of prosperity there is about up; the
U.S.A., which got on its feet later, has
still a couple of years to go.
* * .. * * ...
For the 50 weeks ended June 23, Mt.
Morgan (Q.) treated 389,780 tons ore
(including 81,530 tons oxides) for
37,6290 z. fine gold and 1749 tons copper.
In the 1935-36 full term 259,929 tons
sulphides produced 35,6180 z. gold-and
1513 tons copper.. Grade of ore has im-
proved the last two months. On a
throughput 20 p.c. higher, latest gold
yield was over 900 oz. (26 p.c.) more than
in April, which looks all the better when
u is remembered tnat most of the in-
creased milling is on account of low-
grade oxides.
With the final capital and premium
payment of 55., Broken Hill Prop, con-
tribs. became fully paid last week, and
were sold at 82s. 3d., equal to 775. 3d.
to those who bought before June 30.
B.H.P.’s ingot-steel production figures
for the period approximately coinciding
with the financial year (which ended on
May 31) were published in B. 23/6/’37.
Output was up 17.9 p.c. over 1935-36,
and the last four-weekly period showed
record production.
* * if
Castlemaine Perkins (the Brisbane
brewery) 12s. 6d. shares were in keen
demand last week, 265. 6d. being paid
freely. The yield on an 8 p.c. div. basis
is about £3 16s. per cent. It has been a
most progressive concern over the past
eight years, and, though the present price
of the shares brings the immediate return
to the buyer down to about the average
obtainable from Commonwealth brewery
investments, for those who like, a spread
in their holdings C.-Ps. are worth atten-
tion.
* if * * »
In Melbourne last week: —•
Holeproof ords. have been weaker since
Prestige’s div.-cut, sellers asking 305., with no
buyers about. Holeproof earned 19 p.c. on
ord. capital last year after satisfying the prefs.,
and it paid 10 p.c. for the term that closed
three months earlier than Prestige’s account-
ing period. Holeproof makes men’s socks as
well as women’s wear, and, altogether, its ords.
seemed a fair buy at 30s.
Associated Pulp ords., suggested here at
16s. 9d., sold at 17s. 6d. in fair parcels.
Yarra Fails scrip weakened to 38s. 9d.,
showing over £5 3s. p.c. In spite of the new
Federal basic wage, which seems to be the
market’s worry, this scrip looks excellent buying.
Australian Cement shares changed hands at
31s. 6d., after previous sales at that figure.
After sales at 535., Olympic Tyres shares
were on offer at 525. 6d., buyers 50s.
(Continued on page 28.)


II
NIET NOODIG ZICH ZIEK TE VOELEN
said "ficmcl /few
■/'
st
m
MX
%
Vs
0
y
r
9
0
Outer) wcufo^Mu/incj^.
THERESNO
NEEDIO FEEL
SEEDY
II
The way to feel fit and well every day is to take a daily glass of Wolfe’s
Schnapps. This purest of all gin spirits, distilled in Holland, sends a rich glow
of health through your system. It invigorates , purifies the blood-stream and
cleanses the kidneys. Doctors inevitably recommend a glass of Wolfe’s
Schnapps each day to tone up an ailing system, for no other spirit contains the
same unique medicinal qualities.
WOLFES
W.S. 3.60.
GENUINELY
DISTILLED
IN HOLLAND
TAKE IT HOT
WITH LEMON
AT BEDTIME
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
-Jifi uuiO)AcJb,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable in large, half and quarter size bottles at all hotels.


: •
SSK
m
£BB
■
SKK
.
m
mm
m
m
day
tiring
a
elite*
m
tatty
esP eC
up
tulllStt*
yoa
m
btace
COtJBt
to
oto
tliaa
better
thing
too
no
boas®
tbe* c
the
in
bottle
a
have
to
baitdV
Its
mi
k
MANUFACTURERS AND
DISTRIBUTORS.
Increase Queensland Sales.
Increase Sales of well known N.S.W. or Vic-
torian Manufacturer’s Product, now distributed
in Queensland. A Queensland traveller well
known and large connection, seven years
present appointment, thoroughly good experi-
ence general lines, business and finance organ-
ising. Credentials and references first class.
Offers sole representation throughout the State
of Queensland. Present remuneration £l5OO
per annum. Write in first instance “Increase,”
C/o Gordon and Gotch, Brisbane
For Sale.
De Havilland Moth Cirrus Mark II engine,
slots, airwheels, three-ply leading edges, to-
gether with spare engine, undercarriage, spare
propeller and a quantity of new engine parts.
For further particulars apply TASMANIAN
AERO CLUB, Launceston.
SALE BY TENDER.
BINNEY & SON
WELSHPOOL, W.A.
Manufacturers of Fertilizers
and Ice.
Cool Stores.
Licensed Weighbridge.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of the
Assets and Undertaking of Binney and Son,
carrying on business at Welshpool, W.A.
The principal Assets consist of about 53 acres
of freehold land, upon which are erected Fer-
tilizer Works, with all the requisite plant and
machinery, Ice-making Plant and Cool Store.
The plant and machinery are in full working
order, and the whole undertaking will be sold
as a going concern.
Appointments for’ Perth Agents to inspect
may be made by the latter telephoning the
Manager, Telephone No. Cannington 26.
Tenders should be addressed to MESSRS.
NORTHMORE, HALE, DAVY AND LEAKE,
Howard Street, Perth, and will be receivable
until 31st July, 1937. All tenders should be
marked “Binney and Son Tender.”
Neither the highest nor any tender neces-
sarily accepted.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MEANS FOR
HANDLING DETACHED VEGETABLE
MATTER.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
25734/30 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassei
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
If Australia goes in for a 40-hour work-
ing week it will be more “advanced” in
that way than Soviet Russia. In the
land of five-year plans and so on the
working week is 35 hours—but it is a six-
day week, one of the little dodges intro-
duced to dispense with the Sabbath. In
terms of a seven-day week, the Soviet
workman does just under 41 hours.
France under Blum took on a 40-hour
week, and the increased costs that fol-
lowed have been partly responsible for
the large-scale flight from the franc and
the further depreciation of that money
unit from about 105 francs to the pouad
sterling to 129. Before the tripartite
agreement which became effective about
last October the usual thing was about 70
francs to the English pound.
* * * *
North Kalgurli’s div. is up, a final of
9d. sterling a share making Is. 6d. for the
year, equal to 75 p.c. p.a., as against 624
p.c. in 1935. This is in keeping with the
opinion offered here a fortnight ago,
when much-improved profits were fore-
cast. In the absence of special obstacles,
100 p.c. p.a. should be possible later on.
At the south end of the mine, on the
Kalgurli lease, North Kalgurli continues
to open up values well above the aver-
a B e § rad . e (about Bdwt.) of ore reserves,
Over fair distances average assays of
13dwt. and 20dwt. have been reported.
These are further developments to those
mentioned on this page in B. 23/6/ 37.
The shares have firmed a couple of
shillings in the past two weeks, but at
19s. 3d. are still about 6d. under London
quotes.
* * * *.
Myer ords., recommended in B.
26/5/’36 at 365. 6d., touched 375. 9d. last
week in Melbourne. Return at that figure
is £4 11s. p.c. on an 84 p.c. div. basis,
allowing for div. accrued. Last term 13
p.c. was shown on ord. capital. For the
year closing at the end of this month
results should be better.
Henry Jones scrip (B. 26/5/’37) has
held its own better than most industrial
shares during the prevailing weakness.
The highest quote this year was 48s:-*
and last week there were again sales at
that figure. Earnings for the term to
Nov. 30 last were equal to 13.7 p.c. on
capital, and a 10 p.c. div. was paid—
interim 2\ p.c., final 1\ p.c. Interim this
year was on the same basis. At 48s. and
a 10 p.c. div. rate, present yield is £4
3s. 7d. per cent.
* * * *
The market was quick to appreciate
the opportunity offering in Mauri Bros,
and Thomson ords. (B. 30/6/’37). There
was a quick rise from 68s. to 70s. on
Wednesday, and on Thursday buyers
were offering the higher price, with sellers
holding off at 735. The co. does a big
business (bottle seals, malt, shopkeepers’
plant, etc.) in all States and Maoriland,
but the scrip is listed only in Sydney.
* * * $
Motor-finance cos. have a number of
followers at the moment, a substantial
premium being paid in some cases.
There has been a great flow of hire-
purchase p.ns. to the cos. lately, following
the motor-trade revival. Australian
Securities (Bs.. fully-paid) seems to offer
as good an opportunity as any to buy into
the business, and the shares are certainly
better than unlisted p.n.-discounting cos.’
scrip being hawked around. The co.
earned 11 p.c. in 1935-36 and paid p.c.
If only that rate is paid this term, the
return to buyers at 9s. 6d. would be 6.1
p.c.; if 9 p.c. goes out, 7.5 p.c. Net tan-
gibles amounted to Bs. 9d. a share last
balance-day, and that value should be
realisable.
❖ ❖ *
Meggitt’s accounts, made up to April
30, should shortly be to hand. In the
1935-36 term 12 p.c. was earned on ord.
capital and p.c. handed out; interim
this year was 10 p.c. p.a., and the final
is almost certain to be at that rate. The
market for the fully-paid ords. has kept
firm around 335.; at that figure the yield
is a little over 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
rate. Some people wonder why Meggitt
scrip isn’t higher. The fact that earnings
depend to a large extent on the building
and pastoral industries is partly respon-
sible, also the co.’s record of fluctuating
profits in pre-depression years. At pres-
ent, by virtue of its associations with
Blundell, Spence, and Michael Nairn and
Co. (the flourishing Australian offshoot
of the Scottish lino concern), profit-
earning is more stabilised ; but the link
with the chief oil- and meal-absorbing
industries still remains, and with it the
susceptibility to building-trade and pas-
toral conditions.
Actually, Kandos Cement has a better
div. record than Meggitt, Ltd., and its
shares are being bought to return £6 7s.
per cent. Its disclosed earnings last year
were equal to 11.6 p.c. on capital. An-
other high-yielding 10-percenter is New-
bold Firebrick, which earned 11 p.c. in
1935-36, and at 365. returns £5 11s. p.c.
In this case, after a 10 p.c. handout in
1927, there was nothing for shareholders
until 1932.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
On a day of miserable weather—it
rained at intervals and was intensely cold
—Triteleia gave Harry Freedman an-
other lift up the ladder of fame as trainer
by landing the Grand National Hurdle
at Flemington. The Great Star gelding
took charge, after a mile had been
traversed, and revealed unsuspected
stamina by running out the three miles
without faltering.
Much of the credit of Triteleia’s vic-
tory is due to his jockey. Dummett pre-
served a monumental calm when chal-
lenged by Douglas, on Dakwood, at the
last flight of battens. Douglas subse-
quently told the sporting writers that
Dummett would have lost the race had
he used the whip on Triteleia. “When
1 ran to him in the straight,” Douglas
continued, “Dummett did not lose his
head, but held Triteleia together. He
rode a very clever finish.”
Triteleia began his jumping career by
capturing a Trial Hurdle at Williams-
town on March 17. He followed this
up by wins at Caulfield (April 17),
Moonee Valley (May 8) and Moonec
Valley again (May 29). Freedman’s prad
then looked like an excellent National
prospect, but he finished out of a place
in Tapageur’s Port Phillip Hurdle at
Williamstown on June 12, and was
beaten by Dakwood at Caulfield a week
later.
Caulfield form suggested that Dak-
wood had more stamina than Triteleia,
and when the National came on for
decision he was accorded preference. If
the track had been dry on Saturday suc-
cess might have gone to the Pakenham-
owned candidate, who put up a splendid
fight, considering that he met Triteleia
on 101 b. worse terms than at Caulfield.
Five of the 11 competitors were pre-
ferred to Triteleia, who started at 8 to 1.
Pooley Bridge eased to fours, but re-
mained favorite. Next in request came
Tapageur, at 6 to 1, with Highland Fling,
Bridge of Mar and Dakwood each a
point longer. Tapageur shaped shock-
ingly, beating only one horse. Bridge
of Mar had to be pulled up. Highland
Fling ran off and Pooley Bridge fell
without ever flattering his backers.
The manner in which Bridge of Mar
dropped out of the race was remark-
able. After completing a round of the
course and jumping a hurdle near the
members’ stand, he veered across to the
judge’s box, where Foley pulled him up
and dismounted. It then became ap-
parent that the right rein had snapped.
W. Burke, the trainer, was fined £5 for
using faulty gear. His experience was
particularly unpleasant, as Bridge of
Mar belongs to the V.R.C. chairman.
Past winners of the National Hurdle
include such illustrious gallopers as
Malua, Tim Swiveller, Marmont and
Realm. On breeding lines Triteleia is
not unworthy of comparison with such
celebrities. His sire, Great Star, and
dam, Mauve, were imported from Eng-
land. The former is a half-brother to
Papyrus (English Derby), while Mauve is
a half-sister to Polycletan, winner of the
A.J.C. Metrop. of 1924.
Seymour redeemed his reputation by
winning the Kensington Steeple with
list. 111 b a stone more than
he will have to carry in the National
next Saturday. A mile from home Ber-
muda ran past Seymour, but the latter
outjumped him and had 31 lengths to
spare, with something in hand, at the
finish. Montargis divided second place
with Bermuda.
Those associated with Seymour do not
doubt that he will see out three miles
and a furlong, arguing that he would
have won the Oakbank Steeple last
Easter with a stand-up. However, public
opinion is that Santa Casa will equal the
achievement of Mountain God (1921-22)
by succeeding in two successive years.
Pooley Bridge has been scratched. Cape
Lilock beat Santa Casa by a head at
Flemington on June 14 and has a strong
following. So, too, has the champion
hunter Deckard, while Lady Madge, who
won the big race at Onkaparinga, may
have to be reckoned with.
Martin Whelan, of Adelaide, did good
service to C. L. Moorhouse as jockey and
trainer, riding York to victory in
Nationals many years ago and preparing
Mountain God for crosscountry triumphs
at Flemington. The style in which Cape
York annexed the Maiden Hurdle on
Saturday suggests that Whelan will credit
Moorhouse with further jumping stakes
through the agency of this M.L. gelding.
Dick Bradfield, the veteran Fleming-
ton trainer, has a most promising young
thoroughbred in Stoic (Heroic-Hasta),
whom he trains for C. O. Fairbairn. Fol-
lowing up his victory at Moonee Valley
a week before, Stoic (7 to 1) inflicted
another defeat on Bill Tindall’s represen-
tative, Sun Beau. A liver-colored chest-
nut, Stoic strongly resembles his famous
relative Hall Mark.
Beau Spear is very consistent, and de-
served his win in the Iramoo Handicap,
but was lucky to beat the favorite, Spini-
fex, who got away badly. Humorist can
be forgiven for missing a place, having
got boxed up in the ruck after turning
for home.
It was a bad day for favorites. Spear-
flash (9 to 4) seemed to have the Winter
Handicap well won when Plectrum, an
Irish-bred stallion in the stable of J. G.
Heywood, came with a marvellous rush
and scored on the post by a head. Alin-
ura, who will win soon, was an excellent
third.
The proprietary-racing business has
ceased to be a goldmine in Sydney, but
Rosebery shareholders could not com-
plain on Saturday. The attendance was
good, and tote betting fairly brisk ; as
for the track, it was in first-class order
despite all the heavy rain. Bookmakers
had a winning day, only one favorite
scoring. And there were nine races.
Mohican is about the most consistent
sprinter in training. Hambly got him for
250 guineas, and Cecil Russell has since
won five races with him. In the first divi-
sion of the Lakes Welter Mohican (2 to
1) made hacks of his opponents. Second
was the badly-handicapped Turbine;
Babili was third and Deputy Ruler—well
backed—fourth. The Moabite horse has
7st. 91b. in the Epsom.
The Menangle-tfained Speardale (16 to
1) gave the bookies a clean sheet in the
second division. Bulldozer looked to
have the race in his keeping in the last
furlong, but the task of beating off the
pacemaker, Assai, proved too severe, and
in the end Speardale worried him out of
the prize. Windbird was a failure. New
Tip and Trick were others who dis-
appointed.
The Queensland-owned Hastate (5 to 1)
outstayed Improvement in the Winter
Handicap. The latter was in front com-
mencing the last furlong, but Hastate,
who had been ridden patiently on the
rails, drew away when required. A great
improvement orf his Randwick showing.
Monogram, last half a mile from home,
showed that he is an improving stayer by
securing third prize. Osculum was boxed
up in the field throughout. Scintillo and
Lucky Kid may win in weaker company.
Water Waggon, always favorite for the
first division of the Three-year-old,
missed a place. Silver Cap (8 to 1) out-
stayed Bonnie Legion and Dameitta. The
second division went to The Caliph (14
to 1), who beat Gold Spur on the post.
Maggie Honan (7 to 2), after many
failures, was never off the bit in the
third division. She scored from Mirth
and Jew Suss.
Poly Joy (10 to 1), Moree-owned but
Ascot-trained, won the Juvenile Handi-
cap from Hopalong and Correct. In
most of her races this filly has been
ridden in front; here her trainer in-
structed Keith Cook to wait for a final
run. She cleared out from the others in
the last furlong, and is evidently a smart
galloper.
Televise (5 to 2), who has done a fair
amount of picnic racing, took the Novice
Handicap from Rockne and Kerry Bay.
Televise ran the 10 furlongs in 2min.
B£sec., equalling Hastate’s time —Rose-
bery is not a fast course. Ted Bartle
showed good judgment in accepting the
mount on the winner ; he had been asked
to ride Rockne.
* * * *
Talking is back on the Randwick
track, and expert opinion on his appear-
ance is favorable. If he is as good as
his owner believes, he should have a
chance in one of the spring handicaps
he may be reserved for —he has 9st. 21b.
in the Epsom, the Metrop. and the Caul-
field Cup, and 9st. in the Melbourne Cup.
* H= * *
“Tote Tickler”: In life he was a
shrewd tipster and across the divide he
is not to be sneezed at. His latest tip,
given with all that impelling assurance I
once knew so well, was that I should put
my shirt and suspenders on St. Oic. “Be
damned!” I woke up redundantly shout-
ing, “there’s no such animal.” And
neither there was when I ran through the
published acceptances to check up. Next
night he came again with a great waking
light, to report a lamentable misprint in
the “Asbestos Times,” St. Oic appearing
instead of Stoic, which had duly won in
Melbourne at 20 to 1.
* * *
“Ellerton”: Bob Derrett, reckoned in
the Dominion the greatest jockey M.L.
has produced, has weighed in at 85. Aus-
tralians will recall him as losing on Car-
bine in the 1888 Victorian Derby. His
colt was winning easily when Derrett
eased him up, and Ensign pipped Car-
bine on the post.
* N= * sN
“Retired Urger”: American advices
tell that jockeys and trainers have no use
for the Australian starting gate and that
their campaign is proving overwhelm-
ingly successful. Most of the courses
are returning to the quaint method of
starting the nags out of stalls, like the
tin-hare dogs, and even Belmont Park,
America’s most up-to-date course, has
now followed suit. There are many
reasons for the apparent failure of the
gate to satisfy the malcontents. One is
that jockeys cannot handle their mounts
properly at the gate, and prefer the com-
parative security of a closed-in stall.
Another matter that seems strange to
Australians is the employment of half
a dozen or so “assistants” to the starter,
who rush about, pulling the horses into
position and even cracking whips behind
them —enough to drive even placid old
Carbine off his equine pannikin.
{Continued on next page.)
Fooibrawl
Saturday’s V.F.L. games went accord-
ing to expectations, but Melbourne only
staved off South Melbourne’s challenge
by six points, at the bell the scores being
13-10 to 11-16. St. Kilda, 16-6, was
steadier than Richmond, 10-13, while
Geelong, 13-15, had no difficulty in
downing Footscray, 11-8. Collingwood
outclassed Hawthorn, and ended up 13-23
to 6-13. Carlton, 13-11, beat Fitzroy,
8-19, and Essendon, 11-22, overhauled
North Melbourne, 11-11, in the final
quarter.
The “four” at present are Melbourne,
Collingwood, Geelong and St. Kilda, four
points separating each team. Carlton
has moved up to fifth place, with Rich-
mond and South next in order. Foots-
cray tails the field.
*. * * *
“Hotham”: Players and spectators
alike take the Australian game whole-
heartedly, and the ladies are as enthu-
siastic as the gents. At Burrumbeet (Vic.)
a damsel was so delighted when a lad
kicked a goal for her side that she rushed
on the field and kissed him. Burrum-
beet is in what the Yankees call “the
sticks” ; but the same enthusiasm is not
wanting in the metropolis. An Essen-
don player bumped a rival heavily. In-
cautiously he ventured too near the
fence. A lady leaning over smote him so
shrewdly on the head with a thermos
flask that he was quite off his game for
the rest of the day.
* * * $
“Cottesloe”: The appearance of the
Victorians in Perth at the All-Australia
tourney in August is being looked for-
wai'd to by the Jarrahlanders. Since the
war the two States have met in five tour-
neys, from 1921 to 1933 inclusive, as
well as in other matches in Melbourne
and Perth in 1925, 1926, 1928, 1929
and 1935. On the last occasion Victoria
won both games. The Westerners are
determined to reverse the medal this
time.
* * * *
The Springboks’ match against an
Australian XV in Brisbane greatly dis-
appointed the 24,000 people who wit-
nessed it. The Afrikanders were all
right; it was the Australians who fell
down on the job, though four of them
had been brought up from Sydney. For
a change the ’Boks got a hard, dry field ;
their forwards had little trouble getting
the ball from the loose Australian pack,
and the backs ran purposefully with it.
At lemons it was 13-nil; at the finish
36-3. The only bright spot on the Aus-
tralian side was the showing of the full-
back, Walker. For the winners, Bester,
a centre having his first game as winger,
impressed everybody.
* * * *
Sydney Rugby Union got back to' its
grade competition on Saturday. West
whitewashed North, 23 -nil. University,
which is second to West —one point
below—accounted for Drummoyne, 11-3.
Third now is Manly, another point
further away. .Parramatta gave the sea-
skiers a scare ; each scored one try, but
Manly scraped home, 12-9, three penalty
goals to two. East, which played all
over St. George, 35-8, makes up “the
four.” Gordon, beaten 9-8 by Randwick,
is at the bottom.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland is showing tre-
mendous interest in the tour of the ’Boks.
All reserved seats for the Test matches
and the Auckland and Wellington games
have been booked out, and money has
been returned to applicants who came
too late. At Auckland they are putting
up special stands, and arrangements have
been made for 10,000 schoolboy spec-
tators, who will find squatting room
inside the fence round the playing area.
Soccer, as played on the Sydney
Cricket Ground on Saturday, is fast and
interesting. There was no score the first
half, and individually there seemed no-
thing between the teams: the New South
Wales men were faster with the ball at
toe, the Englishmen had better combina-
tion. A change came over the scene in
the second half. Finch, on the left wing,
scored for the tourists, and the N.S.W.
backs became rattled. Another goal to
the English centre, Matthews, and another
to Finch, and it was all up with N.S.W.
But Hughes, the inside left, took the
ball past several men and got a fine goal
for N.S.W., and at the finish his side was
holding its own. Joy, the captain and
centre-half, had a lot to do with the vic-
tory. He played as a third back, never
left the N.S.W. centre, and gave him no
chance. He was much the bigger man ;
indeed, height and weight were, factors
n his team’s success, as well as ball con-
trol.
For the Test next Saturday there have
been six changes in the N.S.W. team —
they’re still all N.S.W. players.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The English Soccer
players sprung a new one on Australians
with the employment of the “third-back”
system. Ordinarily Soccer is played with
two men at back and three halves. In
the third-back move the centre-half drops
back in line with the backs proper. This
adds greatly to the defence, and enables
the forwards to take more risks in press-
ing an attack.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Queensland Rugby League
has raised its quota of £l5OO towards
the £3OOO needed by the Kangaroos for
preliminary expenses. It still holds that
too few Queenslanders were chosen, but
will hope for the best. On form it
could not reasonably expect stronger
representation. Most of the 28 players
picked have yet to make names for them-
selves outside N.S.W. and Queensland.
The team is not likely to be the worse
for that, for there are youngsters who
should furnish on into stars during the
trip. The side sails from Sydney on
July 27.
o Continued on next page.)
“Tortoise”: During play for the N. S.
Wales women’s golf championships, one
lady pondered so long over her shots that
she caused a serious traffic block. When
this happens with men nothing is heard
of the matter but bad language. The
much more efficient women managers of
the show carpeted the offender and an-
nounced that if lingering by the wayside
was repeated the players behind would
go through the dallying pair without
further parley. This is according to the
rules, and it is cheering to find officials
not afraid to enforce them.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Relf, the Sussex cricketer,
who recently committed suicide, left over
£20,000. Too often it is the other way
about with professional cricketers.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Hurdles: Dakwood, first start.
Lawn Handicap: Regular Bache-
lor.
Braybrook Handicap: Alinura ;
next, Tapestry.
G.N. Steeple: Santa Casa, 1 ; El
Damaroyal, 2 ; Cape Lilock, 3.
July Handicap: Alinura; next,
Irving.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Carlton Mile: Dutiful ; next,
Distinguished or Hope.
Moorefield Handicap : Fair
Diana ; next, Improvement.
Flying Welter: Distinguished or
Brazandt; next, Heroic Faith.


G°
CP
&
9-r
G\ &
OP
EDGE"
BRAKE LINING^
. "BRAKE TROUBLES
#
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or mal- adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then all the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING—
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENG.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Rox 71, Melbourne, Vic
tISK
Under the Whip
On A.J.C. Derby morning a tram can-
noned into Mala in Prince-street, Rand-
wick, and, according to Russell, the
owner-trainer, the experience was the
cause of the colt’s losing the Derby—he
ran a good second to Talking—being
taken out of the A.J.C. Clibborn Stakes,
which would have been a certainty for
him, and being below par for his Mel-
bourne engagements. Before he took
his neddy back to Maoriland, Russell
began an action for damages against the
N.S.W. Transport Commissioner, and an
eight days’ hearing was concluded last
week. Billy Cook, who rode Mala in
the Derby, said he had refused the mount
on Talking to ride what he considered
the best three-year-old he ever bestrode,
and Russell said that Mala had shown
the finest Derby trial he had ever heard
of.
*.* * *
“O’G.”: N. S. Wales anti-s.ps. are
backing a loser in expecting Queensland’s
allegedly effective legislation to clean up
the industry in the southern State. In
Q. it used to be possible to go into bet-
ting shops and see your bet booked as
on the racecourse. That is all that has
been changed. Driven to it, Queensland’s
s.p. bettors will no doubt now emulate
methods of N.S.W., where s.p. has long
been well organised. In Sydney the
punter never sees his bet booked and
seldom meets his bookmaker ; more often
than not. he doesn’t even know who that
gentleman is. It is done by agents; the
punter gives one of these his bets for
the day, and these the agent passes on to
his principal. Except among the very
small bettors no money changes hands
when the bet is made. On settling day
the agent does his rounds, collects from
losers, uses this cash to pay winners and
hands the balance to the bookie. The
people who think they can put a stopper
to this have it all ahead of them.
* * * #
“Bob Punter”: Only a conviction that
handicappers, like court Judges, are. not
influenced by such things holds me from
a belief that superabundant publicity
may somewhat account for those aged
stallions Turbine and Oro getting such
terrific burdens, though they seldom win
a race (B. 30/6/’37). The stable they
belong to —King’s—is always in the
sporting “news.” For one thing, it runs
an exceptionally big string of horses ; for
another, they hit up notably fast track
times. Then there have been almost as
many statements about his charges
credited to King as have been credited
to the talkative owner of Talking. A
recent one was that Oro has already run
158 miles in races in five seasons, starting
119 times for 11 wins. Incidentally, in
this time tipsters have, unsuccessfully,
tipped him to win probably more often
than any other horse. It may be impos-
sible for a trainer of King’s prominence
to avoid having publicity wished on to
him, but I’ve noticed that one or two
obscure trainers who receive virtually no
limelight get remarkably effective results,
especially considering the number of
horses they feed.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Boxing very intelligently, Tod Morgan
outpointed Clever Henry at Leichhardt
on Wednesday night. The Filipino is a
good lightweight, but he allowed Morgan
to set the pace; otherwise he might have
won. In the tenth, the veteran should
have been disqualified ; a butt, obviously
accidental, so infuriated him that he
brought his knee up twice. He was
cautioned. In the last two rounds he
merely defended himself, but he was
right in judging that his vigorous
methods had brought him the advantage
in points.
* * * *
“Turps”: Compare with bull-baiting,
cockfighting, bare-fist pugilism and
other coarse amusements that delighted
our rude forefathers the tender pleasantry
called wrestling which entertains big
crowds —including a large percentage of
women —at Sydney stadiums twice a
week. Of course, the reason for its popu-
larity is not that it is ever the most brut-
ish of all clashes that pass as sport, but
simply because it is “all showmanship.”
For instance, the “drop kick.” This con-
sists in leaping into the air and kicking
the opposition —preferably in the face or
under the. chin —with both feet, and thus
dazing him or knocking him unconscious,
in which state a wrestling hold is applied
and he is pinned. Putting in the boot
exalted to an art governed bf “rules”?
Not at all —“showmanship”! The “fore-
arm jolt” is a staggering blow with any
part of the arm from wrist to elbow ;
brought up under heart or chin with 15st.
or 16st. lift under it, it is effectual “show-
manship.” A relation to it, used on an
opponent who has been brought to his
hands and knees, consists of locking the
hands and rabbiting him with that double
fist as he rises—an unquestionable
“rabbit-killer” with locked bare fists,
making the kindred barred blow of box-
ing look like kindergarten stuff. Prob-
ably the most pleasing effort of all —it
has won two matches in Sydney in the
past couple of weeks, the victim being
unable to continue—is the merry assault
called the “pile-driver.” In this one
light-hearted antagonist, standing, holds
the other gripped around bent knees,
face outward, head down to the canvas,
and lifts and drives him down, as a pile,
successively until he’s reduced to a fit
state for pinning. The part of the “pile”
thus feelingly driven into the mat is the
back of the head or back of the neck.
Four or five successive “drives” seem to
be demanded by wrestling etiquette—
“showmanship” so conclusive that the
man who can rise to his feet five minutes
after the application is a better man than
you are, Gunga Din.
FootbrawS
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian F.L. has got
itself into a horrible tangle over its
permit laws. It is nowadays easier to get
“It’s no good, Isobel. I simply can’t master your cannonball service!"
a passport for the Soviet Union than to
transfer from one League club to an-
other in some cases. Once the only bodies
agreed on a permit system for the trans-
fer of their players were the V.F.L., the
Ballarat and Bendigo Leagues and the
Association. Then a Country League
was formed with elaborate regulations,
and this seems to have led to most of the
tangle. According to disgruntled city
complaints your much-sought-after coun-
try footballer is accustomed to flit from
one Country League club to another with
all the abandonment of butterflies
among the flowers. This sort of thing has
had its repercussions in Melbourne
League and Association football, and
sorting out the. tangle is a full-time job
for the metropolitan heads.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The Victorian team to
play in the All-Australia tourney at
Perth in August consists of the usual col-
lection of two players from each of the
League clubs. It is doubtful whether any
representative team at any sport else-
where is chosen on these peculiar lines.
Bunton, of Fitzroy, has been picked as
skipper—the first wearer of the maroon
jersey ever to figure in the position.
* * * *
The Springboks had an easy run
against Newcastle, helped by two Sydney
players, winning by 58-8. They scored
16 tries, five of which Turner converted.
The visitors played a much more open
game than in Sydney.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: A pity Australia could
not have snatched a last-minute win from
the ’Boks in the first Test. It would have
meant that the two countries would have
been pegging level, the visitors having
won three to two against the Wallabies
in South Africa. The All-Blacks and the
’Boks peg level. The 1921 Afrikanders
won one of the three Tests, lost one and
drew the other. In South Africa, where
only four Test matches were played, each
side won two.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W.R.U. is prob-
ably realising that one sometimes grabs
responsibility with authority. It is liable
for £3OOO as its share of the Springboks’
expenses, and the infernal weather during
the two matches in Sydney has converted
what promised to be a huge profit into a
possible loss. The faithful are adjured
to offer up supplications for fine weather
for the final Test in Sydney on July 17.
If the games in Queensland are fairly
close there should be a bumper crowd.
The Australian team for the final match
will be picked on July 10 after the ’Bok
game with Queensland in Brisbane.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: C. E. Parkinson, the
Queensland water and sewerage expert,
who has been sent abroad to pick up
some new tips (B. 30/6/’37), was more
than “an inter-State Rugby player.” A
sterling three-quarter, he played for Aus-
tralia against the All-Blacks in 1907, and
was a member of the 1907-08 Wallabies,
the team which put Australian Rugby on
the international map.
* * *
“Gate”: The selection of the Rugby
League team for England has produced
the usual crop of blanky. N.S.W. country
Leagues are furious at the inclusion of
only six of their men after Country re-
cently walloped Metropolis so hand-
somely. In Queensland dissatisfaction
takes the form of an attack on a selec-
tor whose Sydney club has excep-
tional representation in the side. Country
football gets a poor spin from Sydney
controllers, but that is as true of the
Union game and cricket as it is of the
League.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Sydney Rugby
League heads are considering a proposal
for an “international” tourney in Paris
while the Australian side is in Europe.
The folk this side are weighing the
financial offers made and should decide
shortly. The “international” side of the
proposal has its comic aspect. England
will be represented by a team drawn
from 32 League clubs in Lancashire and
Yorkshire, Wales by ex-Rugby Union
players hired by these clubs —the League
code is not played in Wales —and Aus-
tralia by a team chosen from the two
States in which the code is played.
France will be represented by players
from the South, where the League has
had some vogue since the British Inter-
national Board expelled France for fail-
ing to squelch dubious practices.
* * *■ *
“Outside Right”: The English amateur
Soccer players now in Sydney had a.
record trot in Maoriland, scoring 85
goals to 6 in nine matches. The last
Australian side in Maoriland ran up 100
goals to 13 in, a greater number of
matches. Wreford Brown, manager of
the visiting team, has been one of the
stars of amateur football in Britain.
Grounded at Charterhouse, he played
for Oxford and England, while for years
he was a leading light in the Corinthians
and Old Carthusians. He was a good
cricketer, also ; injury prevented him get-
ting his blue against Cambridge. He
appeared occasionally for Gloucestershire
and went to America with Lord Hawke’s
team in 1890.
Nineteenth Hole
The U.S.A. defeated Britain in the
Ryder Cup competition, seven matches
to three. Sarazen was among the suc-
cessful ones ; on the British side Cotton
beat Manero, 5 and 3.
* =i= * $
“Muirfield”: Pam Barton’s amateur
status is at stake (B. 30/6/’37) because
she has had her book on golf “ghosted.”
St. Andra’s has laid it down that to figure
as the author of a book on golf which
has been written by someone else is an
act of professionalism, provided, of
course, a profit is derived from the use
of the player’s name. The practice cer-
tainly opens the way to a lot of funny
business, and in this case the only remedy
is for Pam to sit down and write the
darned thing herself.
Racquet and Bawl
“Centre Court”: Australia vanished
from the Wimbledon singles with the
defeat of Crawford and McGrath in the
quarter-finals. Crawford rehabilitated
himself against Von Cramm, who won
6-3, 8-6, 3-6, 2-6, 6-2. McGrath could
not stay with the devastating Budge, who
made it 6-3, 6-1, 6-4. In the final Budge
beat Von Cramm in straight sets. He
lost only one set —to Parker —in the
tourney.
In the doubles Bromwich and Sproule
reached the quarter-finals, when they
were beaten by Budge and Mako. They
did well to take the third set, 8-6. Budge
and Mako won the final. In fact, Budge
won everything.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Manager Sproule has
been told by cable that the Davis Cup
team is on no account to miss the boat
which leaves Naples for Australia on
August 22. There are some who think
the side should have returned after the
American flop, but the £125 per man
offered by Wimbledon was too tempting.
Miscellaneous
“T’hare”: Another thing in favor of
dogracing (B. 30/6/’37) is that it’s hard
to “stop” a dog. A good feed is sup-
posed to do it, but an owner who handed
his hound an extra 21b. of steak as soon
as possible before the race had the morti-
fication of seeing him romp home with-
out a bob on him. Ditto another who
refrained from backing his tyke because
the animal had pinched a couple of
pounds of butter off the kitchen table
and wolfed it down. Nor is tiring the
hound with a long run completely satis-
factory, as a trainer found when he took
the dog for a run behind a car five miles
out of town and five back, then straight
to the track, to see him shortly win.
One feasibly effective means is putting
into the dog’s eyes drops of the harm-
less kind that make people coming from
the eye-doctor’s grope for railings. But


c
The Rural Bank not only lends money to
farmers and home-builders, but provides
Fixed Deposit and cheque account facilities
for people in every walk of life. The money
derived from this part of the Bank's business
is carefully invested to promote the prosperity
of the whole community. You may invest in
an interest-bearing Fixed Deposit or open a
cheque account at any branch of the Bank.
Rwialßank
OF nEUU SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. MclCerihan (Pres.), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
c
*
Uniqu*
Ni on
ns*
y&sSF,
yoco:.
«<y^ y
£2<
114 privately-owned 1937 V-B’s driven on 114
different Australian roads averaged
dfg
114 privately owned and driven 1937 V-B’s
officially checked and observed travelled a total
of 12,583 miles averaging 23.02 miles per gallon.
Tested simultaneously in 114 places from Cairns
(Q.) to Perth (W.A.), the \-B’s operated over
every type of city and country road and in
extremely bad weather. Under these conditions
the figures recorded are exceptional. Cars were
driven at touring speeds and no coasting or aids
to economical running were permitted.
Through its Distributors and Dealers, the Ford
Motor Company invited one hundred and fourteen
1937 Ford V-8 owners to submit their cars to this
economy test on Saturday, 19th June. Each car
was observed throughout the test by an indepen-
dent official. Speedometers were checked over a
measured mile. Tanks were drained and filled
with five gallons of petrol and cars driven until
petrol supply ceased. Any residue of fuel which
remained in tanks after cars stopped was drained
off and measured to give an accurate reading.
Speeds of from 40 to 50 m.p.h. were maintained,
except in those Slates where regulations necessi-
tated lower speeds. (Despite unfavourable
conditions the actual average speed of the 114
V-B’s was 39.18 miles per hour).
proved a fact thousands of \-8 owners already
know: the Ford V-8 is not only unrivalled for
performance and value ... it is an outstanding
economy car.
Write or ask your local Ford Dealer for full
details of every car’s performance in this test.
■ • a
FLASHES OF THE TRIPS
"Ruts and potholes filled with water from heavy
rain . . ."
"Muddy detours due to road repairs . .
"Six gates to open and shut . .
"Flocks of sheep met . .
"Such rough going near Wyee, had to plough through
new-formed'road in second gear . .
"Had three water crossings to negotiate . .
"Some parts under reconstruction—going slow and
heavy . . ."
"Wet roads and deep ruts necessitated changing into
low gear . . ."
The result, 23.02 m.p.g. average for 114 cars, has
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD V-8
The Proved Economy Car
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA).
FI 83.27 V
stewards are wideawake to most such
tricks, and they, with the generous prize-
money, help to account for the thing
most in favor of the dog sport that the
hounds pretty well always lun on their
merits. * *
* * * *
The Maorilanders were hard put to
it to make their first Test with England
a draw, a successful appeal against the
light saving the day. England made 424
(Hammond 140, Hardstaff 114), Cowie
and Roberts bagging four wickets each.
The All-Blacks saved the follow-on with
295, thanks to a fine stand by the tail-
end batsmen, Moloney (64) and Roberts
(66 n. 0.). Robins, with three for 58, was
the most, successful of seven bowlers
tried. England’s second knock was
closed at four for 226 (Barnett 83 n. 0..
Hardstaff 64), Cowie and Roberts again
splitting the wickets. Interrupted by
intermittent rain, M.L. had an un-
pleasant job in its second try, but stood
up to it manfully, having eight wickets
down for 175 when the innings closed.
* * * *
A batting collapse in the second in-
nings saw the Australian girls beaten at
Blackpool by 25 runs when they looked
home and dried. England made 222
and 231 ; Australia 302 and 126. The
bowling of Miss Hide (5-20) was respon-
sible for the second-innings collapse.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: British gutter papers
are finding fault with our cricket girlies
because, under their agreement, they de-
cline press interviews. The rags have
tried to make up for this by publishing
imaginary conversations with the girls,
these including such gems as “it”—the
voyage to England—“was lovely, but” -
and “I prefer gin when not under con-
tract to this team.” Certainly the man-
agement is to blame for the mid-Vic-
torian regulations laid down for the con-
duct of the girls on the voyage, and in
England, but that sort of dirt is over the
odds.
* * * *
“Major Pendennis”: N.S.W. Minister
Dunningham is trying to revive the pro-
posal to make the Sydney Cricket
Ground the h.q. of a social club as well
as a sports arena. He no doubt has in
mind the success of some of the Ameri-
can cricket clubs at Philadelphia and else-
where, which combine the social side with
the sporting. One difference is that such
clubs elect their members by ballot.
Membership of the S.C.G. can be
secured by payment of an entrance fee
and an annual subscription.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Plum Warner’s magazine
“Cricket” gives warm praise to Sydney
cricketers Mudge and Walsh, who' toured
Malaya with a private team. It describes
Walsh as a brilliant left-handed bowler
and a distinct find. Walsh was second in
the averages with 45 wickets at- 14.22 ;
Mudge was second in the batting to
Dempster, the M.L. and Leicestershire
player, scoring 570 runs at 43.83. His
118 against Ceylon was the highest score
of the tour.
* * =!= *
“Stretcher” : The chaps chosen to repre-
sent Australia in the Empire Games row-
ing are going to earn their oats. N.S.W.
members of the tentative selection have
been asked if they are prepared to train
at Penrith from December 29 to Febru-
ary 9. Unless the crew is to be selected
from the N.S.W. choice alone, it follows
that the Victorian, Westralian and
Queensland provisional selections will be
expected to go through the same course
of training—a tough proposition for
genuine amateurs.
*** ' *
“The Gaffer”: Long-distance and
crosscountry running calls for courage,
stamina and judgment above the
ordinary. One of Australia’s finest
exponents, Sheaves, of N.S.W., has
just retired after 17 years of suc-
cessful running, his wins including
the 10,000-metres crosscountry cham-
pionships of Australia and N.S.W., as well
as shorter-distance championships by the
dozen. Sheaves comes of a distance-
running tribe. An elder brother won the
N.S.W. 10-miles championship three
years in succession, and an uncle was a
noted pre-war runner over distances.
* * * *
“No. 3”: J. H. Ashton, skipper of
the Goulburn polo team that beat the
Jaguars at Hurlingham and won the
champion cup, told an interviewer that
it was unlikely his team would ever
return to Britain, though it might con-
tinue to play in Australia. The retire-
ment of the famous brothers would be
a big loss to the game in Australia, but
there is a likelihood of the gap being
adequately filled. Harden, a few years
ago undisputed N.S.W. champions, are
to take the field again next season, led
by T. F. Ross, their old skipper. The
club had intended to start again this
year, but for various reasons postponed
their return to next year. Harden won
the Dudley Cup in 1925-26-27, as well
as the Australasian Gold Cup. In 17
meetings between Harden and the Ash-
ton brothers, Goulburn won only twice.
$ * *
“Blade Sight”: The British rifle team
is to reach Fremantle on December 19
and will shoot at Perth, Adelaide and
Melbourne, and after that go on to
Tassie. N.S.W. will see them on January
16, and will entertain them for a month
shooting at the Anzac meeting, which
begins February 5. They will also take
part in the Anniversary celebration
shoots, and then go on to Brisbane to
wind hi their tour.
* :? *
“Slaiom”: Skandarasy, the Austrian
ski champion, has returned to Australia
for the annual meet of the Australian ski
addicts after a visit to his native land.
He says that the progress of the sport in
Australia has been keenly watched on the
Continent and has been a good advertise-
ment for the country among folk who
would never have otherwise heard of it.
With him came Mr. and Mrs. Glasersfeld,
both champion ski-runners, who are to
visit Buffalo and Kosciusko, later report-
ing to their friends in Europe. Skan-
darasy thinks our ski courses as good as
any in Europe and advises this country
to enter for the ski contests at the Japan-
ese Olympiad.
■i" -I'- ❖ '•*
“Unco Guid”: Bonnie Scotland
appears to be getting painfully like
N.S.W. The rules for a bowls tourna-
ment for British women at Glasgow laid
down, among other things, that the ladies
should not leave the rink for a quick one,
should not smoke, should wear dresses
“reasonably long” and “non-transparent”
and should observe the utmost circum-
spection in kneeling to measure shots “in
order to avoid unseemly disturbance of
their skirts.” It is now up to Glasgow
to confer the freedom of the city on
Spooner.


gd
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
MI,< £?.P ON to EDINBURGH,”
miles in hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SFEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, FHIEP & CO., ETD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
K. A. MANZIE, Genera) Manager.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“John Meade’s Lady.”
UNSCRUPULOUS LUMBER
MAGNATE Edward Arnold
MID-WESTERN SPITFIRE,
Francine Larrimore
HONEST LUMBER BOSS,
George Bancroft
SOCIETY GIRL Gail Patrick
To spite the society girl who he
knew only wanted his dough, the lumber
magnate married a girl he had picked
up starving in Chicago, intending to pen-
sion her. off immediately. As soon as
she found this out Mrs. Meade went back
Charley Grapewin in “The Good Earth,”
Sydney Liberty.
to the Middle West, where she came
from, and organised the farmers to re-
volt against Meade, who was squeezing
them out (having turned his attention
from forest-despoiling to wheatgrowing).
But because he has failed to reafforest
his lumber areas there comes a plague
of dust over the wheatlands. At the
moment of repentance for his sins and
reconciliation with his wife, Meade dies
by an assassin’s bullet.
A rather tangled yarn, but it is made
palatable by the extraordinarily vital
acting of Francine Larrimore. Arnold
plays up to her more effectively than he
has with any previous feminine lead, and
Bancroft, as ever, makes his part stand
out, too. The scenario is cleverly con-
structed, abounding in interesting situa-
tions and effective dramatic passages.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Bulldog Drummond Escapes.”
CAPT. HUGH DRUMMOND,
Ray Milland
ALGY LONGWOOD, Reginald Denny
POLICE COMMISSIONER,
Sir Guy Standing
ARCHVILLAIN Porter Hall
COMIC VALET E. E. Clive
GIRL-IN-DISTRESS .. Heather Angel
Choosing as a site for a counterfeiting
plant a country house which has as
neighbor the mansion of the Commis-
sioner of Police, the bearded malefactor,
surrounded by sinister men and women,
beguiles the time with murders, planting
the bodies of his victims in a bog. For
some not very clear reason he keeps as
prisoner, and occasionally tortures, a
beautiful young girl. Bulldog Drum-
mond (his mountain of brawn misrepre-
sented by the svelte and almost dapper
Mr. Milland) gets wise to these a-goings-
on when the girl (again for some not very
clear reason) pinches his car so that she
may escape. But, of course, she is re-
captured, the film having at that stage
only been unleashed to the extent of
1000ft. So Capt. Drummond, attended
by faithful friend Algy and equally faith-
ful valet, breaks into the house of mys-
tery and finds out all about the crimes
committed there. Whereupon the Com-
missioner of Police (still again for no
very clear reason) has Algy and Drum-
mond arrested and handcuffed and put
under armed guard, but they don’t stay
put. Finally the archvillain gets shot in
the stummick, and Drummond marries
the girl, though the title definitely says he
escapes. All “Sapper” had to do with
the fantasia, it may be guessed, was to
allow the scenario-manufacturers to use
some of his characters. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“The Good Earth.”
CHINESE FARMER .... Paul Muni
HIS WIFE Luise Rainer
HIS FATHER .... Charley Grapewin
HIS UNCLE Walter Connolly
HIS MISTAKE Tilly Losch
With this adaptation of Pearl Buck’s
novel of Chinese life M.-G.-M. has
created a film of rare beauty—one of
the greatest ever produced. It gives
with notable sincerity an authentic repre-
sentation of the lives, customs and fine
courage of the Chinese people. An extra-
ordinary wealth of detail has gone into
it, and in direction it is practically fault-
less.
Revolutionary scenes in a city, on the
downfall of the Manchu dynasty, are
most realistically represented, and the.
effects of a terrible famine in North
China starkly depicted. But both these
dramatic occurrences are capped by the
filming of a locust plague. Countless
millions can be seen winging over a hill,
a huge, audible black cloud that darkens
the land, to fall like plummets on to the
wheat. The toiling laborers are soon up
to their knees in a seething mass of them.
The simple story, which plays over the
whole range of human emotions, begins
and ends with the vagaries of Mother
Earth. It traces the life of a humble
farmer who dutifully marries the wife
preordained him by his father. Through
extreme poverty to riches this heroic
Paul Muni in “The Good Earth.”
woman sticks to him, and doesn’t re-
proach him even when, yielding to his
rascally old uncle’s blandishments, he
brings to his house a fascinating younger
woman as his second wife. The rehabili-
tation after disaster and the reconciliation
are brought delicately to a logical con-
clusion. Only the faintest glimpse of
humor—that of Walter Connolly’s de-
lineation of a lazy, worthless uncle —
lightens the tragedy. Throughout the
Chinese virtue of filial piety stands out
like a gold thread against a sombre
background.
Luise Rainer brilliantly interprets the
submissiveness and sense of inferiority of
the Chinese wife, and Paul Muni, though
looking less Chinese than Miss Rainer,
finely captures the spirit of a difficult
role. Supporting players act as if in-
spired by the nobility of the theme. At
Sydney Liberty.
“The Man Who Changed His Mind.”
CRAZY SCIENTIST .. Boris Karloff
NEWSPAPER PEER .. Frank Cellier
HIS SON John Loder
CRIPPLED MISANTHROPE,
Donald Calthrop
FEMALE M.D Anna Lee
The scientist has discovered that mind,
which means memory, is an entity apart
from the physical structure of the brain
which houses it, and has devised a highly
complicated electrical process whereby a
transfer of minds can be effected between
Luise Rainer in “The Good Earth.”
individuals. He experiments successfully
on chimpanzees, and is then taken up by
the millionaire newspaper peer, Lord
Haslewood, who places at his disposal a
magnificent laboratory. After a quarrel
with the peer the scientist switches the
minds and bodies of Haslewood and his
crippled henchman. The body of the latter
dies as a result of the operation, and, the
new Haslewood proving as difficult as the
original, the scientist throttles him. He
then conceives the idea of stealing the
young body of Haslewood’s heir, and
effects the switch, but his beautiful girl
assistant, who loves the young man, sus-
pects what has occurred and reverses the
process again.
The fantasia, a Gainsborough (Eng-
lish) effort, is much better produced
and directed than the average English
thriller, and the acting, especially when
it involves the assumption by one char-
acter of the mannerisms of another, is
excellent. At Sydney Tatler.
“Spy of Napoleon.”
LOUIS NAPOLEON III., Frank Vosper
HIS UNOFFICIAL DAUGHTER,
Dolly Haas
PLOTTING ARISTO,
Richard Barthelmess
Barthelmess suffers in this opus from
wooden direction and a mediocre vis-a-
vis; even so, it has to be sadly recorded
that he is no longer a virile romantic
figure. Vosper as Boney and Francis Sul-
livan as the police chief give sound char-
acterisations, but the rest of the cast are
in the am.-dram.-ass. class.
The screen play, an adaptation of
Baroness Orczy’s novel, has as its scene
the Court of the last of the Bonapartes
and the plotting which led up to that
vacillating monarchy stupid war against
Prussia, culminating in his defeat at
Sedan and exile in England. The situa-
tions are stagily melodramatic and the
tempo sluggish. The best of the film is
the faithfulness of the period costumes.
At Sydney Tatler.
“To-morrow—We Live!”
PHILOSOPHIC MILLIONAIRE,
Godfrey Tearle
There are 20 or more other characters,
all very capably played, but none that
stands out. Plot is out of the rut. A
millionaire faced with total financial ex-
tinction and determined to end it all
selects (from their replies to an adver-
tisement) 12 other desperate would-be
suicides to keep him company in shuffling
off the. mortal coil. But before offering
them poison he makes a little speech
pointing out that death is an irrevocable
event, and suggesting that it is possible
some of them may regret something left
undone—something they hadn’t the pluck
to undertake, but which they might dare
knowing that there could be no conse-
quences—as they had all put themselves
under sentence of death, the. extreme
penalty. So he gives to each of his
guests £50 and 24 hours’ respite. Imbued
with the courage of desperation they go
out into the world again. A wronged
husband faces the man who stole his
wife, and finds his wife wasn’t worth
grieving over ; a young airman who has
lost his nerve finds it again when it is
necessary to fly through fog at night to
reconcile a frantic girl with her family ;
an ex-convict who goes to “have it out”
with the constable who got him lagged
finds him a decent chap who is willing
to hold out a helping hand ; a wife whose
husband has deserted her finds a better
man. And so it goes. The millionaire,
too, putting all fear behind him, em-
barks on one last fantastic gamble.—and
wins. When the 24 hours are up only
one of his guests returns, an old woman
who has had her life’s dream—one day
of holiday with no worry about ex-
penses. She doesn’t want to live, she
explains, because, she has no one to care
for. So the millionaire, who can do with
plenty of newspaper publicity, has the
happy idea of adopting her as his
grandma.
The necessity for cramming into a
little over an hour such a wealth of
Walter Connolly in “The Good Earth.”
material makes for brevity and swift
action. At Sydney Mayfair.
“For Valor.”
OLD LAG Tom Walls
HIS FINANCIAL-SWINDLER SON,
Tom Walls
DOTTY OLD COLONEL, Ralph Lynn
HIS GAOLBIRD SON .... Ralph Lynn
A Ben Travers comedy. The old lag
was a soldier in the Boer War and saved
the colonel’s life. Out of gratitude the
colonel brought up the lag’s son with
his own boy, with the result that both
took to crime—the lag’s son on the grand
scale, and successfully ; the colonel’s son
in smaller fashion, involving sojourns in
quod. Banished from the lag’s son’s fine
house (where the colonel is a pensioner),
the old lag and the colonel’s son are con-
tinually trespassing there, ransacking
safes and eavesdroping, and putting
spokes in the wheels of the lag’s son’s
nefarious schemes. It’s a rather tedious
business, every point made forecasting
itself 15 minutes in advance. The only
bright spot is Tom Walls’s really mas-
terly character study of the old lag. At
Sydney Mayfair.
“Borderland.”
HOPALONG CASSIDY, William Boyd
JOHNNY NELSON ,. Jimmy Ellison
WINDY .. . George Hayes
■ CHIEF BADMAN .... Stephen Morris
The cast well-nigh tells the story.
Hoppy is on the trail of a band of border
rustlers, led by an individual who pre-
tends to be an idiot, and who is the butt
of the little township of El Rio. To gain


fg
3m
m
1111
.-vt-
mm
■■■ ■ ’
IB
m i
■■HI
mm
m
11
I
m
X
-
-
. ■ . : w&m H
70 Gerrard Street.
Alexandria.
To
Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs ,
I have much pleasure in forwarding a snap of my
six months old baby boy Kevin. I have been feeding
him on your famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since the
age of three months, which / am sure have been most
beneficial to him regarding his physical fitness.
Yours in appreciation,
Mrs. K. E. Dwyer.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
CLmotts
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Amott’s
“They are Better tkaa Ever”
the rustlers’ confidence Hoppy, by con-
nivance with the Rangers, is denounced
and discredited as a purloiner of cattle.
At the end Hoppy is holding up the bad
man with his trusty Colt in the lonely
shack, but he is sore wounded. The
Rangers are galloping to the rescue. Will
Hoppy faint before help arrives? No,
because it’s too near the final fadeout.
Going the rounds.
“Killer at Large.”
JEWELLERY SALESMAN,
Russell Hardie
STORE DETECTIVE .. Mary Brian
CRAZY CRIMINAL.. Henry Brandon
POLICE CHIEF Thurston Hall
The killer has a job in a big depart-
ment store as “Mr. Zero,” among a group
of wax dummies in a nautical scene.
Public is invited to guess which of the
figures is alive, and “Mr. Zero’s” capacity
for immobility is such that it never
guesses right. He takes advantage of his
sojourn in the store to watch the safe
through a pair of binoculars, thus learn-
ing the combination. He then assassi-
nates the managing director, gets the key
from him, and rifles the safe. Foiled by
heroic young female sleuth and her very
wooden finance, who discover the jools
in the coffin of another of the killer’s
victims, “Mr. Zero” devotes all his ener-
gies to revenge. But at last he falls into
a police trap. A fairly interesting thriller.
At Sydney Lyric.
“Sea Devils.”
SWASHBUCKLING PETTY
OFFICER Victor McLaglen
HIS DAUGHTER Ida Lupino
WILD SEAMAN Preston Foster
NICE SEAMAN Donald Woods
Fast-moving comedy-drama of the
U.S. coastguard service, with McLaglen
as a hard-drinking, hard-fighting bos’n’s
mate of a coastguard cutter, determined
to marry off his motherless daughter to
his gentlemanly offsider, a student for
commissioned rank. Preston Foster, a
hard-fighting but not so hard-drinking
seaman, is equally determined to marry
her, as is also the gentlemanly seaman.
When the mate gets his daughter’s
aggressive admirer under his authority
he makes things hot for him, but the wild
seaman takes it all cheerfully and fights
back when opportunity offers, for which
his superior secretly admires him. Good
comedy is mixed with a few he-men
battles between the two pugnacious
mariners (one all-in brawl in a pub,
which is wrecked in the process, is a
clinker), there is plenty of excitement in
some realistic coastguard rescues, and the
climax is first-class. At Sydney Capitol.
“Student Doctors Can’t Take
Money.”
GANGSTER’S WIFE, Barbara Stanwyck
HOSPITAL DOCTOR .. Joel McCrae
Hospital scenes in this film are enough
to make the medical and nursing pro-
fessions green with envy. The luxurious
out-patients’ department produces a nurse
for every doctor and a cubicle for every
patient. That which isn’t medical in the
film is gangster. Bewchus goil’s gangster
husband has been shot, and he didn’t tell
her before he died where he’d hidden
their baby, and she’s burnt her wrist and
has been in jail for “not squealing.” An-
other gangster won’t tell the whereabouts
of the baby unless the goil and $1000
become his. She pinches the grand from
the doctor; he repinches it —it’s his fee
for an op., but, according to title of the
film, it has to go back where it came
from, to a gangster patient. About that
time the goil and the blackmailing gang-
ster run away, he gets shot, the doctor
performs an emergency op., and the
victim, while recuperating, is forced to
squeal about the baby. Final black-out
is goil, doctor and baby a happy family
in an orphanage. At Melbourne Capitol.
STAGE SHOWS.
Maugham’s “Constant Wife.’’
Sydney’s Thespians took a large bite
at Somerset Maugham’s “The Constant
Wife” at St. James’s Hall, found the
piece somewhat beyond their chewing,
but kept at it and managed to get through
it. It lacked sparkle. It’s one of those
sophisticated comedies, dependent for
their effect on the quickness of the
dialogue. A wife of 15 years’ standing
knows her husband is having an affair
with her best friend, but does nothing
about it. Before the finish she’s got a job
and established her “economic equality,”
and goes off for six weeks with a girl-
hood suitor. Husband agrees she can
come back when it’s over.
As the wife Mavis Corven did make
an effort to keep the thing going, and so
long as she and her mother (Beatrice
Wenban) were there it did progress. But
the piece is one that needs experienced
players and plenty of rehearsing to time
it properly.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Work of Darlinghurst Tech. Art Students.
Sydney’s most interesting art show of
the year comes out of the grim old gaol
in Darlinghurst, now the home of Syd-
ney Technical College. Rayner Hoff,
lecturer-in-charge of the Art Department,
in addition to being a very distinguished
sculptor, is an extraordinarily successful
educator, successful probably because he
looks upon education as a bringing-out
more than a drilling-in. There is a pre-
liminary examination for candidates for
instruction in this school, to ensure that
there is at least some germ of talent to
work upon. No matter how tiny or
peculiar the germ the Hoff method seems
to agree with it, and it grows amazingly.
As in previous years the sculpture sec-
tion is most striking. A life-size figure
of a young man and another of a young
woman (Olive, of course) are excellent,
and there are some ambitious groups,
very gracefully designed, a decorative bas-
relief with an owl as centrepiece, and
an anatomical figure, a very faithful piece
of work.
In the senior art class painters from
the nude in oils have in some cases
adopted a sort of stipple technique which
gives excellent results—a canvas signed
Peggy Oldfield is a case in point. Posters
are legion, and mostly cleanly designed
and strikingly colored. Book-jackets,
wallpapers and other examples of com-
mercially-applied design are up to the
usual high standard. There are also
some promising black-and-white illus-
trations, some sound still-life studies, and
fashion drawings that show snap and
sparkle. This commentator saw the show
before catalogues were available, and as
very few of the exhibits are signed it is
not possible to give names. But that
doesn’t matter much—the best students
of this year’s excellent crop will cer-
tainly be heard from again, and not
anonymously.
*l* *l* -I* *l*
“Lost Horizon” Drawings.
At Anthony Horderns’ gallery is an in-
teresting show, the first of its kind in
Australia, of the drawings by Cary Odell
and Dan Grossbeck for the costumes
and scenery of the spectacular Columbia
film “Lost Horizon.” The screen pro-
duction presents a galaxy of scenes and
groupings that delight the eye, together
with some very beautiful and effectively
simple exterior and interior architecture.
The drawings now being shown in Syd-
ney show some of the material from
which these effects were obtained—a de-
tailed drawing in color of each costume,
and a color-impression of each of the big
scenes. The water-color technique is
interesting—a little like that of Blamire
Young, but firmer and more polished—
and the color harmonies are masterly.
This part of the show is flanked by a
series of stills from the film, showing
the final form of the artists’ designs.
•I* v •'!• •b
The Evergood Show.
An exhibition of paintings by father
and son, Miles and Philip Evergood, is
providing a show in contrasts at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. Miles, the father,
is a well-trained and experienced painter,
an individualist with courage and imagi-
nation. He is not a realist, but uses sug-
gestive methods, giving particular im-
portance to color and light values. His
exhibits are all smallish canvases in oils
painted since his return from abroad. A
few charming flower-pieces ring the
changes on his landscapes. Son Philip
is a young American painter with un-
doubted talent. His mood in his odd
dozen of pictures is virile and aggressive.
He satirises the modernisms of his own
time with quick wit and bold brush. His
colors are like a tonic, and his work,
whether yomedy or satire, is potent
enough to provoke thought. “Marathon
Dance” scourges dreary endurance tests.
“Popular Song” is a grim theme, a
wounded soldier singing for his living.
“Art” is humorous entertainment among
some 30 students who are in deadly
earnest while mutilating canvas on the
beach at the artists’ summer camp at
Princetown.


SELF-PROPELLING MODEL.
INVAUD WHEEL CHAIRS
Available in all Ball-bearing Push and
Self-propelling types.
for full particulars,
LEWIS
CYCLE WORKS LTD..
HI GAWLER PLACE,
BOX 873 G - - - - ADELAIDE
ft.
\ v
1
7
\
P
WAKE UP ! !
BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidney, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
1/- and 2/-. Cheaper and better. Send 2d. stamp
for liberal sample to Box 1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors tl’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repi.: F. W. L. Beckmann. 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL FORREST RALPH BROWN, who re-
sided at Wellington, N.Z., in 1927, and left
that place in that year for Sydney, N.S.W.,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
CURATOR of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia,
relative to the estate of his late uncle, Robert
Stephen Brown, of Kingaroy.
Knape—Maiden Name Dellar or Deller.
If any brother and/or sister, or their children,
of ELIZABETH KNAPE (whose maiden name
was Dellar or Deller) (Widow of Richard James
Knape), formerly of Bendigo and Williamstown,
will communicate with THE EQUITY TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, they may hear something to their ad-
vantage.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney was pleased to get the warrior
contingent back from its travels. Behind
the smiles of welcome in the eyes of
every mother and wife there were tears
for the wife of Gunner Arthur Sullivan,
V.C., who met his death by accident in
London. Nine V.Cs. were the pall-
bearers of the urn in which the ashes of
the dead soldier had been brought back
to his own land. In the rain and under
the lowering skies the way from the Man
o’ War Steps to the Bridge, and beyond,
was lined with grieving onlookers.
Draped with the Union Flag the gun-
carriage bore its heroic dust to the
Northern Suburbs crematorium. Sol-
diers with reversed arms; a curtain of
rain ; heaped masses of beautiful flowers,
the procession passed.
From the Domain to the Town Hall
was one prolonged coo-ee during the
Coronation contingent’s march. Weather-
bronzed and soldierly they stepped along,
worthy of all the plaudits won abroad
and at home. In the evening there was
a ball at Mark Foy’s to welcome them.
The Mayoress and her husband, Aider-
man Parkes, came to this function. Her
frock was a handsome mingling of purple
and gold and drew a purple, velvet tjain.
Fourteen debs, in white bowed to the
Mayoress, and then went off into a special
waltz, each partnered by a member of the
contingent.
The hockey girls who arrive in the
Comorin to-morrow come from Surrey,
Kent, Aberdeen, Roxburgh, Essex and
other smiling bits of Great Britain, and
are as varied in their outlooks and tastes
as a group of healthy young women can
be. Hilda Ennis, who represents Surrey,
is games instructress at a girls’ school
in her own county, and in between is
keenly interested in poultry-raising. The
captain of the team is no stranger to
many of this State’s star hockey girls.
She was in South Africa when the Aus-
tralian team toured. Vice-captain Blax-
land, an Oxford graduate, is a niece of
Dr. Blaxland, of Palm Beach. The doctor
and Mrs. Blaxland are entertaining the
visiting team at a tea-party in their home
next Friday.
The visitors are being billeted among
Sydney’s most luxurious homes. Lady
Gowrie is taking a keen interest in all
their doings, and will be at the match,
together with Mayoress Parkes, on the
10th. One of the hostesses, Miss Mary
Fairfax, is putting up two of the girls,
and is having a small dinner-party for
her guests. The Kelso Kings, Mrs. A.
E. Grace, Camilla Wedgwood, of the
Women’s college, Nancy Jobson, of Hope-
wood House, the Walder lady and Dr.
Mary Booth are other hostesses. Manager
Mrs. Bolt will stay at the Queen’s Club,
the guest of Mrs. Walter Swinson. On
Thursday morning the Mayoress will
receive them with a morning-tea. On
Friday morning the Victoria Leaguers
have arranged another morning-tea, after
which they all go to Palm Beach. To-
morrow (Thursday) afternoon there is
the hockey reception to them at the Aus-
tralia. In Canberra the Whiskards are
cleverly combining a party to the hockey
girls and the Springboks. On their way
to Orange, Bathurst throws them another
tea-party. They will have a night and
a day at Mittagong, too, staying at
Frensham. And after the Brisbane
match the visitors are taking a trip to
the Barrier Reef.
Nearly 1500 played bridge in the in-
terests of the R.S.P.C.A. one afternoon
last week. The Trocadero is a large
place, but even it felt a bit fagged with
the tumult and the calling. In addition
to cards, four fortune.-tellers worked at
top speed. There were guessing competi-
tions, and a pile of animal pictures neatly
framed in passe-partout found a quick
sale. Posies and sweets netted a silver
catch. One. of the week’s successes.
The Con. was a full house for the Folk
Festival which had been arranged in
honor of Clement Hosking. Clement,
whose knowledge of folklore, especially
of the Hebridean variety, goes deeper
and further than probably any one else’s
in Australia, is the founder of the Syd-
ney Folk Song Choir. Its members, wear-
ing the national dress of most of the
countries of Europe, sang the gay, the
haunting and the old love songs of each
nation in a manner to captivate the emo-
tions. Clement, who leaves in August to
browse still deeper in folklore, sang a
group of Hebridean songs. Verve and
color warmed the eye in the spirited vil-
lage dances of other days directed by
Marjorie Swain. The old days of Ireland
were shown in the play “The Quern,” in
which poetry and faery dance blithely to
a happy ending. Edith Sterling Levis’s
clever hand mixed the ingredients.
This Letter’s congratulations go to the
Norfolk Islanders for drawing Major-
General Charles Rosenthal as their new
Administrator. He knows soldiering—
who better than a man who was men-
tioned seven times in dispatches for ser-
vice in the field? He has been a member
of Parliament, and he served the city of
Sydney as an alderman for several years.
Besides that he has a pleasant manner
and a heart that is in the right place,
and that’s nearest the pocket, when any
appeal for the returned soldier is made.
Elworthy is a name as well known in
Maoriland as is Macarthur Onslow in
Australia. The subject of this Monte
Luke photograph is Mrs. Arthur
Elworthy, who with her husband has
been visiting her brother, knight George.
Julius, of Darling Point. The Elworthy
home is in South Canterbury.
As soon as Mary Morgan O’Neill had
become Mrs. Bruce Moore, in all her
wedding finery she and her husband
motored up to the Mater Hospital, where
Mrs. O’Neill is a patient. This was the
reason for the wedding being such a
home affair. Mary, radiant in magnolia
satin and tulle, the exquisite hand-made
lace veil that had been worn by her
mother, and the platinum-diamond wrist-
let from her ’groom, was attended by
sister Kathleen, in the palest lilac chif-
fons. Her coronet was a deeper tone of
shasta daisies, and her flowers were
violets.
Art-director Marsden has made an im-
pressive job of the “Lost Horizon” show
in Anthony Horderns’ gallery. The
photographs and paintings are displayed
in one of the small corridors. The pic-
tures are not hung, but placed on a long
shelf on each side of the passage. Each
picture is between two white cylinders of
light. These at first glance have some-
thing the look of alabaster, but tipped by
the finger they prove to be of fluted
parchment. On the left as you enter are
the stills of the sets used in “Lost
Horizon,” showing a truly magnificent
staircase and hallway. In the Grand
Lama’s own rooms there are some im-
pressive bits of furniture, a reading desk
of noble proportions catching the eye.
But on the right there are sketches in
color of the lamasery, exquisite bits of
valley and mountain of the Blue Moon,
where all the story happens. Some, vivid
and striking Tibetan costumes should
prove rich in suggestion to those about to
go to a fancy-dress dance.
A note from Earl Beauchamp describes
the joys of Juan-les-Pins, where at the
time of writing all his daughters were
holidaying with him. Although it was
almost midsummer when the letter was
written he describes the. weather as not
particularly good. In spite of this the
almost universal beach wear among the
sun-bronzed fair was a white brassiere
and very short white trunks. Lord
Beauchamp had just got back from Tan-
gier, the last town of his tour of North
Africa. By this time he. is on his way
to the U.S.A. to attend a gathering of
Ligons (note how the English “y” has
been Americanised to “i”). They are the
descendants of those who emigrated
from Madresfield early in the seven-
teenth century. Richmond, Virginia, is
the place set for this almost historic
family gathering.
Joyce Abbott (pictured here) and Pixie
O’Harris have a joint show of their work
on the walls of the Wynyard Book Club.
It is an interesting exhibition, showing
the possibilities of both as portrait artists.
Joyce, who is a pupil of Fred Leist,
draws attention by her striking decorative
work and her warm handling of still-
life.
The Recording Angel probably keeps a
special pen for totting up the good done
by and through the committee of the
Bush Book Club. During last year it
sent off to readers in the outback almost
15,000 books, together with mountains
of magazines. The tale of its doings,
mingled with letters from men and
women far away from bookshop and
lending library, enthralled listeners at its
annual meeting last week. This was
held in the Royal Empire Society’s rooms.
Ex-Chief Justice Street’s wife was in the
chair. Lady Wakehurst was among the
interested. Treasurer Barbara Knox read
her report. Beulah Bolton announced
that subscriptions now amounted to £3OO.
Jimmy Bancks and Derek Burnell spoke,
and Hugh Denison’s lady invited every-
body to tea.
The P.E.N. Club ate filleted sole and
ice-cream with hot caramel sauce last
week to the glory of the Pat Lawlers
from Wellington, Maoriland, and Hart-
ley Grattan. Twenty-three Penners
turned up, including Will Lawson, who
came across the Tasman years ago. Mrs.
Lawler has pretty black hair and bright
cheeks, rosy from the cold, misty winds
of Wellington. Eleanor Dark, down
from Katoomba, told of a projected jour-
ney to the U.S.A. with her doctor hus-
band. They will be away three months
at least. President Elliott Napier wel-
comed the guests, and told of Ruth Bed-
ford’s new book of verse which is now
on sale. Ruth, who is the P.E.N. secre-
tary in Sydney, went off to South
America almost 12 months ago to an
international conference. She is still
rushing about from the north to the
south, from the east to the west of the
Americas. Dora Moore reported hus-
band Bill much improved in health, and
Municipal Librarian Bertie was pleas-
antly excited over a brick whose birth
year he knew by its ingredients was
round about 1807. This was got from
some Market-street excavations last
week.
Loud sneezes of disapproval shook the
foundations of Sydney last week. A rise
in butter prices is threatened, landlords
here and there want to smack up the
rent, and now the. onion kings have gone
back on suffering humanity. Just when
the midwinter cough is at its loudest,
noses at their reddest and sniffs so fre-
quent you might think we were a com-
munity of bloodhounds, onions have
been bumped up 10 shillings a ton. How
is the mother of 12 to supply her
streaming-eyed, sneezing and wheezing
offspring with the baked onion that
grandmother taught is anathema to the
common cold? Housewives’ Association,
td arms!
John Appleton, bounding with health
and energy once more, is back on his
loved job of producing for the Players.
The current production, “A Sleeping
Clergyman,” by James Bridie, is under
his direction. Two of Bridie’s plays—
“ Tobias and the Angel” and “Jonah and
the Whale”—have already made Sydney
audiences laugh with their vivid charac-
terisation and keen humor. The “Clergy-
man” shows more emotional depth and
employs a big cast. The Players are
back at their old stand in St. James’s
Hall. Alice Gould, one of the directors,
showered the city with postcards last
week. They were posted at Colombo,
where Alice has been having a great time
riding elephants and visiting temples. By
the time this is read she will have arrived
in London.
Still another of K.C. Andy Watt’s
many daughters was married last week.
All the Watt girls are good-lookers, and
Mollie upheld the family reputation in
her outfit of pale carnation pink cloque,
her jaunty black toque banded in pink
flowers, her rich furs and her great bunch
of lily-of-the-valley. Bridegroom was
Bernard Hollingdale, one of the city’s
well-known solicitors and most eligible
bachelors. His mother was not able to
go to St. Mary’s, or even to Elizabeth
Bay House, owing to illness. Cousin
Countess Freehill was also unable to be
present. The party at Elizabeth Bay
House, though it was made up of rela-
tions and close friends of the family, was
nevertheless quite an outsize affair. St.
Mary’s blessed the vows, Gerald Holling-
dale stood by his brother, and Margaret
Grainger was bridesmaid.
Something new in flower decorations
was achieved at the dance of The King’s
School Old Boys’ Union. Flower can-
delabra, their branches white camellias,
their bases white and blue blooms, held
tall pale-blue candles and were set on
the official table. From its standard of
pink stock and roses in the middle of the
board flew a blue pennant emblazoned
with the school crest in silver. Marion
Riley helped her father, who is president
of the union, to entertain the official
guests. Marion carried out the school
colors in her chiffon frock flowered in
blue and white. The Blaxland Galleries
were hung with flags and fluttersome
with streamers of blue and white ribbon.
The school’s headmaster, Padre C.
T. Parkinson, and Mrs. Parkinson
were in the group representative of
the G.P.S. Blue was the recurrent color-
note in the frocking. Mrs. B. B. O’Conor
wore it in pale-hydrangea tones. Rose-
mary Budge drew a long train to her
periwinkle-blue moire and deep blue and
silver mingled in Mrs. Vincent Welch’s
frock.
The N. S. Wales branch of the British
Drama League is set on the right path.
Over 100, mentally and verbally unfurl-
ing the banner “Excelsior,” took the
matter up and onward at the meeting in
the ballroom of the Australia last week.
Most of the office-bearers had been
nominated before this rally, and social
Sydney and the A.B.C. are well repre-
sented. The Gordon lady is president,
W. J. Cleary and Harry Dangar vice-
presidents along with the Owen lady,
Mrs. David Cohen and Mrs. Victor
White. Education gets a look-in with
Professors Sadler and Mackie, and Law
with Justice Nicholas. Barbara Knox is
another interested. John Gould is chair-
man of a council which includes several
directors of amateur groups. Speakers
were the president, W. J. Cleary, Win-
deyer, K.C., Alderman Harding, John
Gould and Miss West, of Frensham. The
room was bright with the gay hats of
budding actresses. The air was full of
plans and much talk of a living theatre.
When the last word had been said, Rose-
mary Benjamin went off into the gloomy
night, remarking briskly that she. had a
date at a near-by hospital for having her
tonsils out, and she’d have to hurry along.


Sun yourself
IN THE
O IV T II E
OHMS
1.
• 9
7
BY ORFORD
(2 0,0 0 0 TONS)
LATE JULY
From
FREMANTLE
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
Duration
July 20 Aug. 23
July 24 Aug. 19
July 26 Aug. 16
July 29 Aug. 11
Aug. 1 Aug. 11
Tourist from 26 Gns.
Tourist from 20 Gns.
Tourist from 18 Gns.
Tourist from 13 Gns.
Tourist from 15 Gns.
Saloon from 40 Gns.
Saloon from 35 Gns.
Saloon from 30 Gns.
Saloon from 20 Gns.
Saloon from 22 Gns.
At the end of August “OTRANTO” will cruise to Noumea via Brisbane,
and by way of Barrier Reef, Whitsunday Passage, Lady Elliott Island;
returning by way of Lord Howe Island, Ball’s Pyramid and Sydney.
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO.
LTD.
Incorporated
1 n
England
X. 66


The Richardson Chain Hotel
df
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
SHOPPING, meeting and escorting children,
driving cars in city, engaging domestics. —
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Road, Toorak, Vic., U 4032.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 575 of 1937.
BETWEEN ERNESTINE MAGGIE JOY
HARMER Petitioner
And HAROLD HARMER Respondent.
TO HAROLD HARMER late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ERNESTINE
MAGGIE JOY HARMER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the 23rd day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of you not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this 25th day of June, a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SULLIVAN BROTHERS, Solicitors, 16 Bar-
rack Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
The heavy showers that came down
round about lunch-time for the first
meeting of the Grand National soaked
the Flemington lawns and made shallow
shoe-splashing lakes of the cement path-
ways round the stands. The little up-
stairs tote was a boon, even to those who
picked the wrong horses with consis-
tency, for if it hadn’t been there they
would have done their punting just the
same, even though it meant jumping
round and into the puddles on the jour-
ney to the big tote. Among wearers of
beautiful fur coats were Mrs. Richard
Turnbull, in ermine and cocoa fox collar ;
Wyn Kellow, in dyed squirrel ; Mrs.
A. B. Patterson, who wore sables and
was all for comfort about the feet in
her ankle-high boots ; and Mrs. Jim Pax-
ton, whose fur coat covered a blue frock
and whose hat curled heavenwards within
the tall crest of a halo. Mrs. Claude
Palmer wore silver foxes with her blue
coat, and crossed foxes made a sumptu-
ous collar for Gwen Munro’s'slim-fitting
black coat. Those who braved climatic
vagaries with white raincoats included
Frances Winter-Irving, whose dash of
color was a woven scarf in gay canary-
yellow ; Iris Connolly, otherwise in
brown ; Mrs. Trevor Clarke, who puts
comfort first and wore golf socks with
her brogues ; and Mrs. Massey Burnside,
whose rainproof was decorative as well
as useful, for it had spates of fur at neck
and wrists. Barbara Gibson wrapped
herself in a coat of grey Indian lambskin,
Merrie Urquhart wore black and furs,
and Mrs. Cyril Gove had a transparent
green oilskin as weather protection for
her brown tailored suit. Another spot of
green noticeable among the sombre
shades that are usual at winter meetings
was in Mrs. Brian Hogan Taylor’s suit
and sway-back coat, made of green and
white check tweed.
Melbourne’s ski-ing enthusiasts are
shivering without grumbling, for they be-
lieve that with this sort of weather the
Alps should soon lie thick with snow.
Almost as fine a thrill as the holiday ahead
is the buying of new snow kit. When new
skis arrive home their proud owners have
an orgy of sandpapering, dressing with
linseed oil, pitching the underneath por-
tions (a dirty job done with a Mother
Potts iron) and, finally, waxing them with
either an iron or elbow grease. Black
and navy-blue are still the most popular
colors for gabardine ski-ing trousers.
Boots heavy black clodhoppers are
caressed by fair hands before being
painted with dubbin and occasionally
walked round the block after dark so
that they and their owners may be on
intimate terms before they rush down
mountain-sides at 60 miles an hour. Silk
wind- and waterproof jackets (the kind
they wear at the South Pole) are worth
the extra cost. For head-coverings favo-
rites are Tyrolean hats, as worn by
Franz Skardarasy, helmet-shaped caps
with earflaps, berets or woollen bandeaux
to keep hair out of eyes and snow out
of ears.
The Skardarasy brothers, professional
skiers from Austria, have arrived for
their second season in Australian snows.
Tall, handsome Franz is engaged by the
Railway Department to enhance the in-
terest of ski-ing in this State. Ernst,
graded several rungs higher than his
brother a a ski-ing expert, goes to
Kosciusko, where the Australasian cham-
pionships will be held a few weeks hence.
Madame Skardarasy, who has accom-
panied her sons, made the acquaintance
of several Australians in Zurs, at Arl-
berg, where the family has interests in a
tourist hotel. The “boys” have been
good propagandists for this country ; it
was through them that Madame Helen
Glaserfeld and her son Ernst travelled
here in the Orama specially for snow
sports. The visitors’ luggage is cumber-
some if not weighty—many of their skis
are eight feet in length.
The drift homewards has started
among Australians who have been
nibbling the pastures of the Northern
Hemisphere. Betty and Roma Stephens
are back after having a social time, in
London, where they were presented to
Edward VIII., attended many parties and
watched the Coronation procession from
good seats in the Mall. In Paris they
were thrilled by the shows and the shops.
Their visit to Germany was in response
to an invitation to stay with friends of
friends in a lovely old chateau. They
also saw something of the Riviera, and
went ski-ing over the Alps in Switzer-
land. Fay Robinson is also home, and
tells yet another tale of how well Aus-
tralians seem to get on abroad. She got
herself a job in, for her, a new line of
business—a cosmetics shop in Mayfair,
where the aristocracy from royalty down-
wards used to buy perfumes, skin foods
and pine-scented “Woods at Night,” the
Duke of Kent’s favorite bath oil. Fay,
as a saleswoman, wore a long tight-
around-the-waist garment of pink bro-
cade, called a “house-coat.” Her return
to Australia to see her family was the
result of a sudden decision made, the
day before the ship sailed. She has been
promised her job back again if she
returns to London within a year.
In this Broothorn portrait is Mrs.
Jimmy Clymer, one of the organisers of
the American Ball which made a “Night
in Hawaii” of the evening of July 2, for
the Fourth fell this year on a Sunday.
The old Palais hardly knew itself with a
smoking Mauna Loa. the Grand Hawaiian
Hotel painted behind palm-trees, the
band playing on the beach at Waikiki,
beach sunshades placed here and there
around the dance floor and Mrs. Guy
McHenry and Mrs. W. R. Nevins selling
smokes in a seaside kiosk. The Children’s
Hospital is the beneficiary of this func-
tion, for which tickets were at a premium.
For the trip-to-Honolulu raffle several
thousand tickets went into the hat out of
which the Canadian Trade Commissioner,
Fred Palmer, drew one of a batch bought
and given away only 10 minutes before
by Jim Fletcher. Mrs. Fletcher had the
partner to the lucky butt screwed up in
the bottom of her evening bag ; she had
nearly thrown it away, and she’d-very
nearly not come to the ball owing to a
sudden bout of toothache, which hasn’t
returned since she found herself being
escorted in a dazed dream to the platform
for vise and congratulations. Mrs. Earl
Moser and Mrs. Charlie Roice were glad
when midnight came and they felt safe
in leaving their cold ticket-secretarial
duty at the door to join in toasts of
George VI. and President Roosevelt and
to find out that Charlie Roice, who sings
as well as he plays golf, knew all the
words of “The Star-spangled Banner.”
The Larry Hartnetts were there, Mrs.
Hartnett wearing a frock like a
pink rainbow with velvet flowers here
and there and a powder-and-patch spot
in the corner of her chin. Horrie Ford
was among the many men present who
during the day had tried unsuccessfully
for a camellia at several flower shops and
had finally made compromise with a
white carnation.
An attractive young American couple
looking very well groomed after their
journey per utility truck from Wanga-
ratta were the Jim Hastons. The Vincent
Woods and the Gordon Gutteridge
couple made up a foursome with leis
around necks and wrists. The Arnold
Woottons were there, Mrs. Wootton with
ermine tails a-dangle upon her black
velvet wrap. The Geoff Smiths visited
several parties, Mrs. Geoff being notice-
able for her color scheme —auburn head,
scarlet fingernails, frock of purple-grape
stiffened chiffon and big green orchids.
Mrs. Herbert Benson wore black with
sparklets upon the corsage, and Mrs.
J. E. Holt, who took her turn in the
wicker drink-ticket box, had her thoughts
on two nations, the U.S.A., for the flag
of stars and stripes pinned into her
shoulder posy, and Australia, for the
sprig of wattle in her hair.
For some time Frederick Hughes has
ben thinking seriously about Melbourne’s
million-plus population and wondering
if this growing city could absorb more
dramatic entertainment. He has an idea
it can, and has backed this up by found-
ing the Frederick Hughes Players, sub-
scribers being entitled to concessions for
seats at eight plays per year. Mr. Hughes
has spent most of his life at theatrical
work. At eight, his talent being his boy-
hood voice, he knew his first thrill of a
public appearance. When his voice
broke he turned to acting, and was for
some years with Beerbohm Tree and
Lewis Waller. One of his Australian tours
was in a co. with Madge Titheradge as
leading lady. The war caught him here,
he enlisted with the A.I.F. and between
battles did some useful work cheering
the troops with music and drama. After
his return to Australia, he played in
the “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” co. with
Nellie Stewart, stage-managed for Mar-
garet Bannerman, was connected with
J.C.W. for many years in various capa-
cities, and has also been associated with
Gregan McMahon.
Christine Heinig, the American prin-
cipal of the Kindergarten Training Col-
lege, who took over duties for this year,
is pleased to report the result of a con-
ference with Mr. Clapp, the other Rail-
way Commissioners and Sister North-
cote, who is in charge of the delightful
railways creche with its dormitory of
tiny cots, jolly playrooms, fairytale
lunchroom and open-air roof garden on
the top of the Flinders-street station. Mr.
Clapp has promised that jobs will be
available in the railways nurseries for
two trained kindergarteners. That Miss
Heinig’s refresher course for kinder-
garten and primary teachers is popular is
proved by the 120 enrolments. One hun-
dred enrolments were also received for
her special course for parents.
Pictured here by Broothorn is Susan
Staughton, daughter of the S. J. Staugh-
ton couple, of Clendon-road. Susan and
Patricia Mein are the ticket secretaries
for the Grand National Ball, to be held
at the Palais on Friday night in aid of
the Ministering Children’s League’s Cot-
tage by the Sea. This being a week
spaced on the calendar between the jumps
of the Grand National Hurdle and
Steeple, the ball will take place in a full
measure of racing atmosphere. “Tote”
tickets will be sold, after which thirsts
may be quenched in the same manner as
bets are made, under bookies’ umbrellas.
Wraps and toppers (if any) may be left
in the “saddling paddock,” and those who
eat supper at the official table will have
to guard against swallowing miniature
racehorses in mistake for olives.
One of the worst things that have be-
fallen Melbourne University is Prof.
Wood-Jones’s notice of resignation. This
erudite professor of anatomy (his fame
is world-wide) has a many-tracked mind.
During and subsequent to the war he
became a neurologist of standing, he is
an anthropologist and is sufficiently in-
terested in the broad science of biology
to fill the office of president of the Mc-
Coy Society. He’s an active president,
and accompanies the students on their
camping expeditions. In addition to his
other gifts, Prof. Wood-Jones has per-
sonality and wit, the hand of cartoonist
with chalk and blackboard, and Unscien-
tific Essays from his pen are great enter-
tainment. He has his students just where
he wants them, laughing one moment
and concentrating deeply the next. Dur-
ing recent years his lectures and demon-
strations have been so overcrowded with
medical, dental and massage students
that medical practitioners who had made
a point of attending them had to be
refused admission.
Birger Batholin (or Billy, as everybody
calls him) gathered up sketches of work
done over a very long period for his ex-
hibition at His Majesty’s. He sent home
to Denmark for a few paintings and
drawings, and the fact that dozens
arrived instead of a small bundle was one
reason why he had two shows in Aus-
tralia. Billy’s countrywoman Kirsova
opened the exhibition. Philippoff and
Lidji were there, too. In the large crowd
of spectators, which contained almost as
many men as women, the most noticeable
figure was Mrs. Douglas Stephens, all
dark blue and white and Arctic fox fur
the same color as her hair. Mrs. H. F.
Maudsley was with Rupert Bunny’s niece,
Mrs. Reid, who wore a red-and-white
check scarf and a broad sweep of cor-
duroy velvet tarn. A headwind from the
Ukraine brought along Mary Patterson’s
Cossack cap of astrakhan. Of a different
ancestry was the olive-green hat with its
Florentine rolled brim which accom-
panied Dorothy Wilson’s green dress.
Marjorie Carney and the Moran girls
were together, Janet in green and silver
foxes, and Wyn with her hair in a plastic
swathe and an aristocratic orchid giving
an air to her brown coat. Mrs. Thevor
Oldham in black and silver foxes and
with a cluster of curls around her fore-
head was with Mrs. Raynes Dickson,
Jnr. The warmth of the foyer, another
world after the nip of frost in the street,
brought forth the perfume from Mrs.
Harry Whiting’s lapel of violets. Nancy
Mair, who is up to her ears in ballet
(she appeared either in the audience or
backstage on practically every night of
the season), was a spectator, as was Mrs.
Esmond Lillies, but only after she had
helped with hanging the pictures and
distributing catalogues.
Dr. Moritz Meyer, who last week
won his case against the Vic. Medical
Board, with the result that he is entitled
to registration here, had to leave Ger-
many on account of his non-Aryan de-
scent. He was accompanied to Australia
by his wife, who is Swiss, and her charm-
ing daughter, Miss Neumann. Mrs.
Meyer is writing a book, but not in Eng-
lish. Her limited command of the lan-
guage so far is the cause of much good-
humored banter from her friends. Miss
Neumann speaks several languages well,
and is working at her first job here in
the office of a chocolate factory. Her
duties bring her in contact with the
friendly and cheerful factory girls, who
are fast adding “dinkum Australian” to
her other linguistic accomplishments.
Strong as the kick in the hind hoof of
Mala is the work of Philip Evergood to
be seen with that of his father, Miles
Evergood, at the Athenaeum. Father and
son are individualists, as unfettered by
conventionalisms as were their exhibition
invitations —which, as specially designed
postcards, came through the mail in their
natural state, without envelopes. Much to
Mrs. Miles Evergood’s alarm, her hus-
band a few minutes before the show was
due to open became involved in a heated
art argument with H. S. Gilkes, director
of the print section at the National Gal-
lery, for Miles himself was the opener
and his wife feared that he wouldn't
have any vitality left for his speech. But
all was well; at five to three the pair went
out to sink their differences at the nearest
hostelry in the froth of a pint of beer.
Mrs. Evergood was responsible for the
“decorations,” which at a distance looked
like hand-blocked linens but were in
reality strips of calico patterned with
last squeezes from discarded tubes of
paint.


VISIT
Hill THE EXHIBITION
OF AUSTRALIAN
ART
THE MACLEOD
GALLERY,
252 George Street
(near Bridge Street),
SYDNEY.
Where the latest pictures
by the best Australian
Artists may be purchased.
ADMISSION FREE
Tel.: 87971.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO.. LTD.
( England )
Transacts All Classes of Insurance.
FI RE ACCIDENT MARINE
HAIL —WOOL (sheep’s back to store)
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Mrs. Putnam Goes Down
At time of writing another spectacular
flight had come to a disastrous end. Mrs.
Amelia Earhart Putnam and her navi-
gator, after dropping in on Darwin on a
round-the-world flight, were down in the
Pacific and the search was on.
Belatedly, the executive of the U.S.A.
Bureau of Air Commerce said it was re-
gretted that a permit had been issued to
Mrs. Putnam; “the flight would have
been banned otherwise.” The flight was
stigmatised as belonging to the “category
of freak flights... .dangerous, useless
and more likely to harm aviation than
help it.”
This is the customary award to failure.
Had the flight been successful Mrs.
Putnam would have had more honors
heaped upon those she had already won
and would have been held up as an
example of the greatness of the age, and
of femininity in particular.
If the flight was what it is now, in
failure, said to have been, it probably
should have, been banned. The moral
obligation to search for lost fliers, how-
ever “freakish” the flights, is inescapable
and the cost enormous.
But if all adventures—hazardous flights
especially-r—considered to be worthless, in
failure, by those who never venture out
of an armchair had been banned, very
little would ever have been achieved.
Anyone who reads the accounts of Kings-
ford Smith’s flights over the perilous
stretches where Mrs. Putnam went down
can hardly reach any other conclusion
than that they were “freakish.” He suc-
ceeded on those flights, and if not directly,
then indirectly, added much to the know-
ledge of what aviation could do and con-
fidence in it. He was lionised at the
time. Failure is the one thing unfor-
givable in adventurers.
At Darwin Mrs. Putnam’s papers were
slightly out of order, but authorities soon
got her fixed up with a special dispen-
sation. A bright, active, typical young
woman of her times —“not pretty,” some-
one unchivalrously recorded —she had
held a sound position in aviation since
she flew the Atlantic solo in 1932. She
shared with fewer than 20 others (not
all living) America’s highest award for
geographic achievement, also the Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross of U.S.A.
“Canis Jr.”: They still breed ’em
tough up here. A chap was picked up
wandering towards a station west of
Longreach the other day with one stump
of a hand freshly bandaged. On the
way per aerial ambulance he told the
doctor to deviate a little, and he would
show him a bird’s view of where it
happened. Simply, his car had over-
turned, and unable to free his hand he
had hacked it off with his knife, after
applying a tourniquet with the free hand.
* * * *
“Lunar”: One of the best bushmen
I’ve struck in a long experience “north
of 28” is Arthur Campbell, of Glencoe
station (where Mt. Isa is now). He had
a standing bet for years that, under any
conditions of weather, day or night, he
could strike a line across the hills for 20
miles and come out within 100 yards of
the point at which he aimed. That would
be a feat on the plains and open country ;
to do it in the mountainous country
where Campbell’s bet applied borders on
the miraculous. Yet, having ridden with
him for days, I wouldn’t put threepence,
let alone 20 quid, on saying he could
not do it. Another, since dead, was Dick
Holt, for years manager of Alexandra
Downs (Barkly Tableland). Holt was
one of the very few men who could belt
at a bushfire for hours, put it out, lift
his head in the blanket of darkness, and
say unhesitatingly and unerringly: “That
is the line for home.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The Torres Strait Binghi
is the complete wowser in regard to
Sunday observance. Once while I was
there a fire swept through the outskirts
of a village, destroying fowls and other
livestock so necessary to his existence,
but, because a native lay reader was hold-
ing forth in the mission house, not a
sable psalm-singer budged forth, through
motives either humane or economic.
Even Binghi’s love of the dance, which
is probably the dominant trait in his
mentality, is subdued on Sunday.
* * * *
“Settled”: “X.T.” is sadly out of date
when he tells us that Mount Bartle
Frere was recently crossed for the first
time (B. 23/6/’37). Just 27 years ago a
botanist climbed it from Peeramon
(which, by the way, is on the Tolga-
Millaa Millaa line). There have been
other ascents since. Three times since
1913 I have seen fires on the top, and in
1915 a party of four went right over
from Peeramon and came out at Mooliba
on the other side. Bartle Frere is sup-
posed to be about 5500 ft.
* * * *
“Storm”: A North Queensland church
paper reports that one of the lay-readers
of St. George’s Church, Palm Island
(Aboriginal Mission), has turned out “a
very neat though small billiard table for
use in the hall,” and adds this touching
appeal:
The Bishop supplied the necessary
rubber by sending over a few punctured
car wheel tubes and Canon Cue sent a
billiard ball. All we need now are two
more balls (one red).
* * * *
“Wanderer” : “Dungeness,” when writ-
ing of the Mornington Island Mission,
Gulf of Carpentaria (B. 23/6/’37), might
have given a few lines to old Bob Wilson,
the Presbyterian missionary whose work
in controlling the hostile Mornington
abos. is an epic of the North. Bob had
just finished establishing the Port George
IV. mission, 300 miles from Broome
(N.T.), when he heard of the murder of
his pal, the Rev. Hall, the first mission-
ary to land at Mornington. He immedi-
ately volunteered to take up his friend’s
work. That was 25 years ago, and he
has been there ever since. He faced
death many a time, but, with the aid
of his wife, gradually eradicated the
natives’ bloodlust, until now they are a
model community, engaged peacefully in
various industries. Bob’s next self-im-
posed task will be to win the friendship
of the Bentinck Island abos., regarded
as the shyest and most primitive natives
in existence.
“Soothsayer”: The John Hops of a
North Queensland town struck a snag
recently when they “booked” an itinerant
for “imnosine on a nerson hv a fake
renresentation orallv P to wit that he
r.d“ m
obtaining money, viz., two shillings.”
The lady testified that defendant had
taken her by the hand and informed her
that «he was voinv with a dark haired
"J at ™ thi Siliampvitidiv
man whom she would marry eventuall}.
This was quite true so far as the fact
that she actually was walking-out with a
dark-haired man. Defendant had warned
her to have nothing to do with a fair-
haired man who would arrive on the
scene subsequent to the marriage. This
scurvy knave witness was not able to
identify at the moment. On the, whole
the “reading” had not been very wide
of the mark. She had not been imposed
upon, and thought that she had had a
good two-shillingsworth. What was there
for the police prosecutor to say after
that? Case dismissed.
"Australia Jane's 11 Budaet
, , T , 1,0 ”" 4 ,
John Lane and his wife celebrated
their golden wedding at Coolangatta, and
the whole family gathered round them
to help. Mrs. E. M. Wallis came from
Coogee (N.S.W.), Mrs A. Davidson from
Cecil Plains, Mrs. Clayton-better known
to the musicai world as singer Hfida Lane
-from Melbourne, and Eric from Austin-
ville Cosme the only unmarried daugh-
ter, lives with her parents. At 71 John
“Another new skirt! You must think I'm made of coconuts .”
Lane surfs daily. Until 1893 he was a
teacher with the Queensland Education
Department; then he joined brother Wil-
liam in an attempt to form a socialistic
colony in Paraguay. In 1905, after the
colony dissolved, he returned to Queens-
land, and once more joined the Educa-
tion Department, until his retirement a
few years ago. A steady stream of visi-
tors drifts through the Lane home from
year’s end to year’s end —mostly old
pupils who have recognised just how im-
portant a part John Lane played in their
lives. A born giver, John Lane has fed
and clothed more needy, without any
publicity, than a whole charity organisa-
tion could have done.
A charming London visitor, Evelyn
Dempsey, is with us, and a round of
teas has been arranged for her. Mrs.
R. J. Pumfrey began, and other hos-
tesses have been Mrs. D. A. A. Davis
and Mrs. W. D. Ryan.
Pat Carnegie, whose engagement to
Tony Fairburn was recently announced,
is enjoying some of our sparkling winter
weather with her parents, the Walter Car-
negies, of Melbourne. Lillian Walsh,
one of our prettiest, is doing the rounds
with Pat.
Neil McDermott and Josie Healy
quietly married at the Church of the
Holy Spirit, New Farm. Families and
a cluster of old friends witnessed the
knot-tying. Mrs. McDermott, bride-
groom’s mother, looked handsome as
usual with her rosy cheeks and lovely
silver hair, and sister Mrs. Dan Joyce,
just back from Sydney, also looked hand-
some in navy and fox furs, with red
roses pinned on the shoulder.
A record in six-o’clock parties was put
up by Mrs. E. Cowan, who entertained
between 150 and 170 young things at
Belle Vue in honor of daughter Eliza-
keth- Elizabeth wore black wool repp,
, Wlttl a sc l uare - cu t neck, and no hat on
her pretty f a i r head. Mrs. Cowan, also
VVmt; ad d ded furs ve,ou ! hat
TL *l?’ ? e gu f sts .in-
torf t f of Q c . ountry . Y ISI ‘
j ’r» , r a °, ney , B . lds n
~n Bayley ’ Grace Curlewis and Molly
Weisener—Margaret Tucker, of Armi-
da]e> and Katherine Pitt f Hobart.
T , „ ... - ’
. . ie G ir }S s s h i B ed the supper dance
“l ' lo^ or . dau Shter Florence s coming-
, " a f e tde JHoss studio, and the
on ,- t ie tables were
om Mt as
, f . ay greeting. Florence looked
eariy-VKtorian in her frock
, 1; ,. ta Fm as ’ lth kl tu ! e f r , l s
. /, ' he - va!l ey on the shoulder,
£ floral halo of violets and hyaemths-
ol. the Tamborme flowers-circled
'
, hen a S rou P of 50 g uests arrived at
the home of the E. F. Sunners couple to
enjoy an informal supper dance, they
didn t know they were t 0 hear an en g a § e-
ment announced. Mary, pretty daughter
0 f host and hostess, had just agreed to
an altar date with Dr Garth May? of
Gympie, eldest son of the Sidney Mays,
0 f ip SW i c h
Mothers ; sist cousins and aunts
trptted down to the Domestic Science
High Schoo] to admire the display of
sewi and cookj don£ b the P ils
under the supervision of tl^ir teachers,
xhe next generation of brides should be
a godsend to the
man who likes his
socks kept darned
and his food eatable.
Miss G. E. Jones
greeted the visitors,
escorted them round
the display, and
then poured tea for
them in her official
sanctum.
Brisbane Women’s
Club had a full
house for the fare-
well party for Lorna
Flower, who has
been general secre-
tary for nearly eight
years. Almost every
second woman
brought along a
bunch of flowers for
her, and Gwen
Hughes, on behalf
of the members,
handed over a wallet
of notes. Mrs. A.
O. Thom will be the
new secretary.
In Sydney this
month a wedding
that will interest lots
of people from
Townsville to Mel-
bourne will be cele-
brated. Bridegroom
is the well-known Brisbane business-
man, E. E. Forth, and bride is Hazel
Grant, daughter of the late Walter
Partridge Grant and of Mrs. Grant, Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Otway Falkiner is an aunt
of the bride-to-be. July 20 is the wed-
ding day, and there is to be a trip to
Singapore in the Nieuw Holland for
honeymoon.
Another new engagement is that of
Betty Cowell, B.Sc., and Ross Fardon,
B.Engr., who first met as students at the
Queensland Uni. Ross is the Southport
shire engineer and the only son of the
late D. R. Fardon and of Mrs. Fardon,
of Toowong. Betty’s parents are the
S. G. Cowells, of Albion.
Nancy and Jean Blane have brought
back a more tangible memento of their
travels in England and the Continent than
many tourists —large quantities of movie
films, including quite a lot taken in
London during Coronation Week. They
also looked in on the West Indies.


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment' of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
Wonderful holiday tour to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
I m
JRjgtfi!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
w %\ s «
*
sp
m
\
■
m
m
/to
/
PRICES:
1/9, 2/10, 5/-
At all Chemists
and Stores.
Exposed~^a^
Protected
against Wintry Weather
THERE is no better protection
against wintry weather than your
own natural powers of resistance
strengthened and maintained hy
drinking delicious Ovaltine regu-
larly every day.
Scientifically prepared from the finest
of Nature’s protective foods,
“Ovaltine” is supremely rich in the
protective vitamins and all the nutri-
tive elements needed to build up
abundant vitality and perfect health
of body, brain and nerves.
“Ovaltine” will help more than any-
thing to keep you free from coughs,
colds, influenza and other winter ills.
TRIAL SAMPLE of “Ovaltine, sufficient
to make four cupsful, will be sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover cost ot
packing and postage.
OVALTINE
Best JJealthcjuard
A WANDER LIMITED, 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
022.18.37
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
For the Diggers’ Ball at the Palais
Royal battalion colors of the A.I.F.
formed the decorative note. The Gover-
nor and Lady Dugan were present and
were received by the State president of
the R.S.L., W. S. Hosking, the Lance
Lewis couple and Mrs. R. L. Butler.
The Caledonian Society’s pipe band
played outside until the arrival of the
vice-regal party and piped them into the
hall. Lady Dugan was gowned in ice-
blue satin, with sash ends of soft pink
falling to the hem, her kid gloves matched
and her long black chiffon velvet coat
had a collar of white fox fur. About
700 were present.
The gift tea in aid of the Mothers
and Babies’ Health Association at head-
quarters, Wright-street, was well attended.
Dr. Elma Sandford Morgan, medical
officer of the assoc., gave an address on
baby welfare. The president, Mrs.
Napier Birks, and vice-president, the
Mawson lady, were there.
Sixty took part in the costume sets of
lancers at the Hunt Club Ball at the
Embassy. They formed a guard of honor
on the arrival of the Governor and his
wife, who took part in the dance. Lady
Dugan’s gold-and-white tissue gown,
moulded to the figure, was worn with a
coronet of pearls mounted on gold tissue
and black velvet. Mrs. J. O. Haselden,
sister of his Ex., was in the v.-r. party.
The M.F.H., F. C. Bickford, received
with his mother, Mrs. Reg. Bickford.
The retiring Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H.
Dunstan, carries with her the good wishes
and appreciation of the Adelaide public.
No previous holder of the title has ever
held office under such adverse circum-
stances. Mrs. Dunstan’s mother, Mrs.
Cain, was taken ill just after becoming
Lady Mayoress, and throughout her long
illness her daughter acted as her deputy.
Later, on the death of her mother, Mrs.
Dunstan had to carry on. Social en-
gagements were never heavier, for the
period covered the visit of the Duke of
Gloucester and the centenary year with
its avalanche of visitors, international and
inter-State, entailing receptions morning,
noon and night. There is to be a farewell
tea and presentation.
Response to invitations issued by the
Mayor and Mayoress for a farewell cock-
tail party in the Mayoress’s reception-
room was so enthusiastic that the place
was crowded. Among the guests were the
Ritchie, Parsons, Bonython and Bruce
ladies.
The twenty-first anniversary of the for-
mation of the 43rd and 48th Battalions
was celebrated by a ball held in the
Torrens Hall at the Parade Ground, when
Lieut.-Col. M. J. Moten and officers
entertained friends. A women’s com-
mittee had undertaken the floral decora-
tions. It was*one of our coldest nights,
but all went merrily.
A crowd of girl friends of Marjorie
Day were present at the morning-tea
given by Mayoress Dunstan in her room
at the Town Hall when Miss Day and
her mother came up to the city from the
Outer Harbor. They are passengers in
the Maloja for England, where Miss Day
will be married to Colin Crawford.
WESTRALIA.
Perth Hospital Women’s Auxiliary’s
dance at Darlington attracted carloads
from the city. Bowls of mimosa set off
bright frocking,and in the supper marquee
there were roses. Mrs. E. R. Browne-
Cooper, in flimsy floral georgettes, was
sponsor of the doings, and had as a co-
committee helper Mrs. Arthur Hard-
wick, her black georgette resplendent with
rose patterns. Parma-violet velvet
adorned Mrs. F. O. Gaze, and Mrs.
Gerald Parkes attached crisp white
organdie flowers to black chiffon. The
Saws, who have a week-end cottage at
Darlington, were there, Isla’s ninons a
film of pastel shades and Valma in wood-
land-green flat crepe. Dorothy Victor’s
snowy nets were pin-spotted, and Jean
Moffiin had a floral pattern embossed on
her gold velvets.
Decorations for the Women’s Club
fiance at the University were unusual, the
Refectory being decked with streamers
representing vines, and illuminated blue
balloons clustered to form bunches of
grapes. Supper was a buffet affair.
Heather Sharp, one of the organisers,
danced in sheer white crepe, and Jessie
Parker, another committee member, had
headings a-twinkle on moss-green maro-
cain. Merle Levinson’s self-striped taf-
fetas were shrimp-pink, and Jean Wood’s
coin-spotted nets flared over soft-pink
satin. A jewelled belt glistened on Kath
Baird’s tiered midnight-blue georgettes,
and Jean Coppin’s multicolored tunic
topped a sleek black satin skirt. Joan
Harwood’s misty-blue chiffons had silver
lame girdle and strappings as adjuncts.
At St. Matthew’s, Guilford, Gretchen,
daughter of the Harcourt Harpers, was
wedded to Lieut. William Calder. Her
mother-of-pearl satin, falling in a gleam-
ing train, was fashioned on classic lines
and engirdled with plaited satin vanish-
ing into a studded pearl buckle. Her
billowy tulle veil was attached with an
heirloom pearl headpiece and side sprays
of orange-blossom. Sisters lole and
Cecilie followed in contrasting gold and
apple-green taffeta, bodices shirred,
sleeves puffed and skirts ruched aft in
bustle effect. Their topknots were of
stiffened net enwreathed with tiny flowers.
After-festivities were at the Harper home
in Guilford.
Betty Wood forsook traditional veil
and orange-blossom for a simple cock-
tail frock of burgundy crepe, spray of
orchids and tiny hat when she entered
the holy bonds with Geoff Hill, younger
son of the J. Manners-Hills, of Pepper-
mint Grove, at St. George’s Cathedral,
with the Dick Stawell couple as the only
witnesses. At their Bellevue-terrace home,
massed with roses, gladioli and maiden-
hair fern, the Hilton Woods welcomed a
host of guests.
With a background of black drapings
and bowls of poinsettias, Lotte Lehmann,
entranced sold-out houses at each concert.
Lieut.-Governor Mitchell attended the
first, and had with him daughter Mrs.
Terence Anketell and her husband. In
the sea of faces were Talbot Hobbs, with
Nancy, the Edemond Faye couple, Mrs.
Faye wrapped in sable cape, and Madame
Faye, a visitor from France, spending the
winter months with her son and daughter-
in-law. Eila Vincent set off her neatly-
coiffed fair hair with high-necked black
chiffon and escorted her mother, Mrs.
W. H. Vincent. Other music-lovers were
the Frank Downings, Dr. and Mrs. Bald-
win Gill and Beth Johnston.
From London comes news of the Bill
Urquharts (she better remembered as
Kath Cramond, of Cottesloe). They fin-
ished holidaying in Germany and Austria
in time to be of the company of some
500 guests at Agent-General Hal Cole-
batch’s reception at Australia House in
honor of Premier Willcock. They intend
returning in two or three months’ time.
Lorna Sydney-Smith, local soprano,
has been described by Lottie Lehmann as
the possessor of “a marvellous voice.”
Madame strongly urges that public steps
be taken to send the young singer to
Vienna, and would like to have her there
by September, when she has a month
free from engagements to devote to her.
Dorothy, of the Fred Mosey family, of
Bellevue Terrace, has announced her en-
gagement to Dick Gibbs, a pastoralist of
the Kellerberrin district.
TASMANIA.
Mrs. Frank Parsons, with her two girls,
Sheila and Anita, are leaving Bloomfield
to her son Douglas and his bride (she
was Nancy Slade, Sydney) and are
settling in Hobart. Mrs. Rupert Shoo-
bridge and Mrs. Charles Shoobridge fare-
welled them at Forest Lodge, Cjlenora,
and Mrs. Walter Gellibrand made them
a presentation on behalf of many friends.
Mrs. D. M. Shoobridge and daughter
Molly were two more hostesses to fare-
well them.
The Dean of Hobart and Miss Rivers
entertained a big throng of guests at
the deanery, Charles Benson’s singing
providing the chief entertainment. The
two big rooms were thrown open, fires
blazed cheerfully, and in spite of the
season there were flowers.
At the end of the series of lectures
given by A. Lismer, of the Toronto Art
Gallery, Canada, the Alfred Pedders gave
a party for him at the Imperial. Mr.
Pedder is president of the Tas. Art
Society, and his wife and daughter Sylvia
helped do the honors. About 120 guests
rolled up. Mrs. Pedder’s frock of green-
ish-blue crepe had lace of the same
color in its trimming. Sylvia’s floral-
printed satin had a square neck.
Keir Murdoch went to endless parties
in her honor before her wedding, among
them a bridge and supper party given by
the E. Brettingham-Moores, which had
a second string to its bow —a farewell to
the Colin Bisdees, who have gone back
to Sydney. The P. C. Walches had a tea-
party for Keir at Moreland, Wanda
Piesse hostessed a morning-tea and Mrs.
C. A. S. Page gave a bridge party. Also
Barbara Murdoch (Craigow), who’s to be
one of the bridesmaids, was hostess at a
big party at Hadley’s. ,
The recital given by singer Charles
Benson at Mrs. Mitchell’s house was en-
joyable, and the guests were delighted
with the well-chosen programme. Lady
Clark was among the throng.
Mary Gillett, Wetmore, Ross, and
Tom Frankomb, Clifton, Ranelagh, an-
nounce their engagement.


BILLABONG
AUTO-
OILED
ENCASED
GEARED
WINDMILLS
BUILT TO WITHSTAND THE
ROUGHEST STORM
SENSITIVE TO THE SLIGHTEST BREEZE
EMBODIES ALL THE LATEST IMPROVEMENTS IN WINDMILL CONSTRUCTION
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
%
*
■
gd
f=>-rv. jL.'tld ■
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l,
and at
324-330 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
The Long White Cloud
“Get a Bag!”
Minister of Internal Affairs Parry has
pushed his proposal to form a “National
Council to co-ordinate and encourage
sports activities for the advancement of
health, sport and recreation” as far as
a Wellington conference with represen-
tatives of different national sports bodies.
It shouldn’t go any further.
The idea of young and middle-aged
Maoriland goose-stepping in shorts and
in unison is evidently Labor’s poor sub-
stitute for a previous
Government’s belief
in compulsory mili-
tary training. The
amazing feature is
that amateur sports
body leaders have
stomached its foreign
flavor in the hope of
getting their teeth into
State subsidies likely
to promote their own
sports.
One so-called neces-
sity for this scheme is
that the greater
leisure afforded by
Labor’s industrial
legislation should be
turned to a health ad-
vantage that might
some day result in a
smaller national hos-
pital bill. But Labor
also boasts that it has
increased wages, and
if more Maorilanders
wanted to indulge in
athletics they could do
so without the doubt-
ful inspiration of
official State “encour-
agement.” Maoriland
is like Australia in
that every village has
some facilities for
sport.
Funnily enough, the political Mr.
Parry robs his own proposal of signifi-
cance by stating there will be no “com-
pulsion.” Anyway, the regimentation of
sport is no way to compensate British
people for the “dullness of machine
regimentation” mentioned by Minister
Parry. One of the best characteristics
of present amateur sport in Tasman Sea
countries is that it still breeds self-
reliance —which is directly opposed to the
Parry principle.
“D.N.”: Of the five Maorilanders
whose Leg. Council tenure recently ex-
pired, only Mark Fagan has been reap-
pointed—and he was born in Tasmania.
Fagan worked as a miner in several
States before he left Australia for the
Westland goldfields 37 years ago. When
Labor won office in Maoriland he be-
came Leg. Council leader and was added
to the Cabinet as Minister without port-
folio ; he has been acting-Minister of
Customs since Minister Nash took his
wisdom overseas. Fagan was a Westland
gold- and coalminers’ union official for
years, and will be long remembered on
the West Coast for his fights to improve
underground working conditions.
* * * *
“Mak”: Expansion of commercial
aviation in Maoriland has not yet been
marred by airline disaster, and the Labor
Government’s policy of providing good
emergency landing-grounds and its plans
for extension of radio direction-finding
facilities are useful contributions to con-
tinued service safety. About £900,000
of public money has been earmarked for
landing-grounds, and another £35,000 has
just been set aside for the installation of
the latest direction-finding apparatus at
main ’dromes in both islands. The clean
flying records of operating airline com-
panies is a tribute to their pilots and
organisation ; Maoriland, by reason of
sudden mountain ranges and consequent
cloud-belts, is not an easy flying country.
Along some service routes where emer-
gency grounds have been prepared bush-
covered hills make unexpected landings
more hazardous than in most overseas
countries.
* * * *
“Waitot”: North of the Lake McKer-
row district, where the remains of that
high-pooped ship are rotting away (B.
30/6/’37), is Okarito harbor, which still
contains a few of the shell-covered piles
used for mooring the ships from Mel-
bourne that landed Australian gold-
miners at the steps of a waterside pub in
the days of the Westland rushes. Oka-
rito’s mining population reached 3000
before it faded quickly away. To-day
the small harbor settlement is being re-
vived by timber- instead of gold-chasing,
and the harbor is the only privately-
owned one in Maoriland. Its controlling
company is linked with expanding
timber-milling interests, and £12,000 has
already been spent to prepare the harbor
for the export of white pine and other
timber. Near the settlement is the 3000-
acre lagoon, home of the Maoriland
white heron after which Union Airways
has named one of its inter-island ’planes.
* * * *
“Korero”: The Admiralty ship En-
deavour, now in Maoriland waters to
“Perhaps you'd better dig the boy-friend out first."
carry out a coastline survey (B. 16/6/’37),
is one of the 12 British ships among the
70 flying different flags and still at work
along unexplored or imperfectly-mapped
world coasts. Actually, the major share
of accurately mapping the world’s coast-
lines has fallen to Britain, whose early
navigators set a high tradition; the
Endeavour itself will be using Cook’s
Maoriland chart of 1769-70 for checking
purposes. Cook was a pioneer of accu-
rate marine surveys. Experts say his
first Maoriland chart is better in outline
and detail than any map or chart of
the British Isles published before 1800.
Curiously enough, because old Cook was
such a sound navigator, marine authori-
ties have not bothered until recently to
amplify his original surveys of New-
foundland and Labrador, as well as parts
of Australia and Maoriland.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: Overseas visitors to Maori-
land for this month’s New Education
Fellowship conference should be par-
ticularly interested in the Education
Department’s latest scheme to help pupils
in isolated homes who receive their
schooling by mail. Although radio is
now assisting correspondence teachers,
their work can never overcome that lack
of personal contact with the 2000 young
learners on lighthouses, islands and back-
block stations. To reduce this problem
to its unavoidable minimum, the depart-
ment is planning to bring these children
into suitable centres during ordinary
school holidays ; there they will be pro-
vided with accommodation and oppor-
tunities for becoming acquainted with
the teachers whom they have previously
known only by voice and signature.
“M.”: Over the last 10 years, Maori-
land’s annual drowning total has been
round 130 —an extremely high figure in
view of the population and the fact that
it is largely confined to only five months
of each year. Reasons for the death-
roll vary to some extent with localities.
West coast surf beaches, for instance, are
notoriously tricky, currents and under-
tow changing with tide and wind and
sea-bottoms dropping more sharply than
on most popular Australian beaches.
According to experienced surfguards on
different Maoriland beaches, it isn’t so
much the 75 per cent, primary school
population that never learns to swim
which contributes to Maoriland’s drown-
ing total as a proportion of the other 15
per cent.; these young people become
too venturesome on the strength of hold-
ing 25-yard swimming certificates gained
in the calm safety of school and muni-
cipal baths.
* * * *
“Ticker”: Slow cargo-loading and -un-
loading at different Maoriland ports is
worrying farmers’ organisations, which
fear consequent cost rises will cause more
ships to avoid Maoriland ; and exporters
of chilled beef have already cut pur-
chases on account of shipping delays.
The casual attitude of wharf-lumpers
was the. subject of an earlier protest. On
that occasion, Acting-Prime Minister
Fraser explained that the Labor Gov-
ernment was just as dissatisfied. But
he raised a novel point. The trouble, he
said, was largely due to young wharfies
who were on their first jobs after long
spells of unemployment; they were still
“undisciplined.” In other words,
although they are working shorter hours
for better money than has been available
at any other time in Maoriland’s water-
front history, toil just doesn’t agree with
them. Or have the psychologists any
other reason the hard-working and well-
taxed farmers are likely to accept?
* * * *
“Xo”: Melbourne’s, nudism case men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin par. had a
parallel on this side of the Tasman. In
the Wellington instance, however, the
man was not in court as a result of a
domestic bust-up, but appeared on
charges relating to the publication of a
couple of nude photographs in a monthly
health magazine. “Garments of Naked-
ness” was the title of one picture. Coun-
sel for the defence —who pointed out
that no one in Auckland had been prose-
cuted for the nude bronze discus-thrower
in the Domain there—allowed his case
to rest on the fact that 20 years had
gone by since the leading case was de-
cided, and in that time “public opinion,
like bathing-suits, has changed and
nudism as a cult has made marked
strides.” Asked if he would consider
“indecent” a girl “at a recent music-
hall show who wore only a coat of paint
and a pair of Vs,” a police witness said
he would have to see for himself before
he could venture an opinion! The Beak
gave himself time to chew over the
evidence.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and' experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin"
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure ol
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
New "Phase Inverters."
Modern amplifier design almost invari-
ably runs to push-pull where quality plus
power is required. To dispense with
costly p.p. input transformers the “phase
inverter” system was developed and,
using such tubes as the 56, 76 and 55
(triode portion), has been much favored.
The system also permits of resis-
tance-coupling being used, with a further
cheapening of the amplifier and an in-
crease in tonal fidelity.
Phase-inverter systems which depend
for their action upon the operation of a
single triode tube with plate and cathode
load resistors suffer from the drawback
that both sides of the input circuit are
above earth or chassis potential and are
therefore touchy when the stage of prac-
tical design is reached. In addition, bias
is required for such valves, and provision
for this is another source of worry.
Cathode bias is suitable, but care must
be taken that the resistor is liberally by-
passed, since the tube, although deliver-
ing push-pull output, is still operating
Fig. 1.—V can be either a type 53 or
6A6, and Rx is the bias resistor of 3000
ohms. A small by-pass of Jinfd. or so
may be found a slight advantage, but is
not essential.
as a single-ended stage. By-passes of
the 25mfd. electrolytic tubular type are
used with excellent results, but these,
like other “semi-chemical” components,
age and exhibit their length of service in
clicks and crackles. Experiments with
dual triode types like the 53 and 6A6
have been very satisfactory.
The circuit shown in Fig. 1 was tried
in place of the 56 inverter tube used in
the amplifier described in B. 10/6/’36,
and has given excellent results. In effect
the amplifier is now push-pull from input
to output, and the increased brilliance
minus second harmonic distortion makes
the change well worth while. The input
resistors, R-R, are chosen to suit the. ex-
ternal circuit —say, .125 meg. each to
load up the secondary of a 3i-l input
transformer. If a c.t. transformer is
available the earth connection is taken to
the c.t. ; if an ordinary transformer, the
connection may be ignored or merely
taken to the metal case of the trans-
former.
The bias resistor should have a value
approximating 3000 ohms where plate
coupling resistors of .25 meg. are used.
The coupling condensers will be a matter
of personal choice. In the writer’s case
values as high as .25mfd. give excellent
results with no trace of instability. Volt-
Fig. 2. —The resistor R is again in the region of 3000 ohms.
The coupling condensers C may be of any convenient size
from Olmfd. up to .25mfd. All resistor values are in megohms.
ages of from 200 to 300 may be safely
applied to this arrangement, since the
high values of load resistors safeguard
the valve.
Another and more complicated way of
accomplishing p.p. output from single-
ended input is shown in Fig. 2. This cir-
cuit uses a dual triode tube, but works
on a somewhat different principle. One
valve acts as a single-ended input tube
and feeds into the grid circuit of the fol-
lowing stage. From that stage an audio
voltage is picked up, equal to but 180 deg.
out of phase with the original signal
voltage impressed on the grid of’the first
section of the tube. (The signal voltage
on the grid of one valve in an amplifier
is 180 deg. out of phase with the voltage
on a preceding or a following valve.)
By feeding, the. second section of the
tube in this manner balanced or p.p. out-
put is obtained, again without p.p. inter-
stage transformers.
There is the additional advantage that
it is not necessary to use an input trans-
former if the amplifier is only to be used
with one sound source, such as a single
pick-up or single mike. This is an asset,
since input transformers are a frequent
source of induction-hum troubles.
The system in Fig. 2 needs care to
ensure perfect balance of the two sides
of the circuit. Where a potentiometer is
used there is always the temptation to
twist the knob, and if the correct setting
is once found for the pick-up voltage to
the - second half of the 6A6 the pot.
should be locked or otherwise protected
against maladjustment.
VK6WZ.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Thousands of Australian lis-
teners will miss the laughing cheerfulness
of H. M. H. Watts, the 2BL “early bird,”
dead last week after a collapse at his
microphone. He took charge of 2BL’s
early-morning session a year or so ago,
and he was soon given an all-Australian
hook-up. “Watteau” was an English-
man, born in London 39 years ago, and
educated at King’s College. He took a
hand with British cavalry in France,
Mesopotamia, Persia, Egypt and Russia,
then went rubber-planting in Malaya.
After coming to Australia in 1923, he
tried horse-raising, fruitgrowing, sheep-
farming and gold-digging. Broadcasting
then gave him the opportunity to exercise
a ready wit and a happy personality.
Somewhere he found time to bring out a
book of verses for children, and his
“calling all kids” was a regular feature
about breakfast-time.
He H* H*
“D.C.N. Jnr.”: Many people overlook
the surest safeguard against blowing
valves in experimental battery sets by
accidental wrong connections or short cir-
cuits. The handiest of high tension fuses
is the humble “pea-lamp” of the 2.5-volt
variety, which can be had for a penny ;
the socket-holder costs about sd. They
provide insurance against a new set of
valves, which may run up to about £5.
The lamp-fuse blows first and prevents
blowing the valves. It should be con-
nected between B negative and A nega-
tive in the receiver circuit. Make sure
that the lamp makes good contact in the
socket.
* * * *
“Cluny”: The connection between
sunspots and DX reception, particularly
in the higher frequencies, is so evident
that theories are being aired by the dozen
to account for it. Most suppose a
number of ionised layers of ether or
atmosphere at varying distances from the
earth’s surface, which vary in strength
with the sun. As
this in turn de-
pends upon sun-
spots, the reflect-
ing of aerial
waves to earth
varies with the
sunspots. So far,
little attention has
been paid to the
effect of sunspots
upon ground
waves. I have
noticed that there
seems to be some
con nection be-
tween the pres-
ence of sunspots
and volcanic ac-
tivity. Volcanic
eruptions clutter
up the atmosphere with minute particles
of dust which, especially as the nucleus
of moisture drops, improve atmospheric
conductivity. If this should prove to be
the case, a strengthening of the ground
wave through alterations in transmitting
aerials might partially overcome the loss
in the aerial wave. Some freak recep-
tion recently recorded in the higher fre-
quencies lends a little plausibility to the
idea.
Anfi-noise Aerial Installation.
It is of little use installing a noise-
reducing receiving aerial if the job is done
in a haphazard manner. This illustration
is an example of how it should be done,
where the aerial is of the kind using a
matching transformer and shielded lead-
in. The transformer is arranged as far
away from the sources of interference as
possible, and the shielded lead-in is
buried in the ground as far as possible
from the receiving position.
Sydney-Newcastle Five-
metre Record.
At last the seemingly impossible has
been achieved. During the W.I.A. 56mc.
field day on 27/6/’37, stations VK2ZC
Newcastle and VK2NO Sydney com-
municated both ways by telegraphy and
telephony on five metres. Communica-
tion was effected at various times. In
addition, the special VK2WI station
erected at Port Kembla heard the 2ZC
signal intermittently and the signal from
2NO regularly, although 2WI was not
audible either in Sydney or Newcastle.
Various stations were working on test
schedules, and on the tick at 11.45 a.m.
VK2ZC was heard strongly, the signal
at this period rising to RB. Nothing was
heard again until 3.15 p.m., when stations
2ZC, 2WI and 2NO used 40 metres to
check results. Duplex was worked first
between 2ZC (five metres) and 2NO (40
metres), and, upon 2NO changing to five
metres, two-way communication was
effected on the u.h.f. circuit. The signals
as received at both ends were character-
ised by severe fading, just as is experi-
enced on the higher (short-wave) bands.
Across the harbor in Manly, VK2DA
was able to hear VK2ZC at R 9 during
the morning test. A schedule was kept
between 2ZC and 2NO for 9 p.m., and
communication was again effected, but
with intense fading. The signal from the
Newcastle end varied from R 2 to R 7.
Communication throughout was ren-
dered difficult at the Sydney end owing
to the weather having affected the rotat-
ing mechanism of the beam aerial, which
could not be moved. Distant and inter-
state stations were co-operating during
the day, but no further reports are to
hand yet. This should go down as a
day of historical achievement in Austra-
lian experimental radio. It was fitting
that VK2NO should be assisted by E. B.
Ferguson (ex-VK2BP) throughout the
test, as VK2BP was the first station to
put an ultra-short-wave signal into Syd-
ney from a distant location three years
ago, achieving continuous and unfailing
two-way communication from the Blue
Mountains.
VK2NO.
Experimented Probationary
Period.
A circular issued by the P.M.G.’s
Department on 14/7,/’36 stated that all
new licensees will be required to serve a
probationary period of six months before
being allowed the use of telephony. If
a licensee has not been active during the
period he will not be considered as hav-
ing served the necessary probation.
Radio inspectors in the various States
have received instructions to see that
any applicant for permission to use
telephony has carried out a reasonable
amount of experimental work, with the
equivalent of six months’ experience
with Morse transmission and reception,
and that there has been no interference
to other services as a result of this ex-
perimental work. «•
The value of the proficient telegraph-
ist cannot be overstressed. Stations and
operators capable of using telephony
alone would be of no value at all in any
serious emergency.
VK2NO.
Amateur Chatter.
The Australian transmitting experi-
menter is, in most respects, more fortu-
nate than overseas colleagues, and the
officers of the P.M.G. wireless branch
on whom the duty of regulating amateur
radio falls are sympathetic and helpful.
Men like J. Malone
and W. Crawford
have nothing but the
welfare of amateur
radio generally at
heart. Still, they
have been subjected
to severe criticism
on account of the
suggested special
telegraphy test of
16 w.p.m. for those
desiring higher-
power permits, and
usually from people
who cannot qualify
for the regulation 12
w.p.m. or the tech-
nical requirements
that the genuine
exp e r i menter of
schoolboy years can pass. If amateur
radio became a matter of merely filling
in an application form and presenting
30s. to the P.M.G., every irresponsible
with a desire to “broadcast” might take
out a license. A fact that is often lost
sight of is that amateur radio actually
has no rights, only privileges, and that
those who are blessed with extra privi-
leges should be grateful.
VK2NO.
S.-W. Aerial Tuner.
No matter what type of aerial is
used for short-wave reception, if it is
actually tuned to the frequency or a
harmonic of the signal frequency better
reception will result. The diagram
shows a simple piece of apparatus for
the purpose. The coil is wound with
12 turns of 24 enamelled wire on a
former, and tapped at every second turn.
The writer uses it with a simple 1-V-l
receiver, connected between aerial and
receiver. It may be considered as a
tuned loading coil. With a completely
screened receiver the unit can be con-
nected in a somewhat different manner
to avoid a trapping effect where there is no
actual inductive or capacitive coupling to
the receiver. In this case the connection
marked to “Set” in the diagram should
be connected to the chassis earth (or B
negative) and the aerial terminal of the
receiver connected to the stator plates of
the .0005mfd. variable condenser through
a small trimmer condenser. A five-plate
midget will serve nicely. The unit then
becomes a pre-selector in effect. Induct-
ance variation is obtained by a crocodile
clip to the tappings on the coil, but a
better job can be made by using a rotary
switch with soldered leads. If used for


OLD
IDEAS ABOUT
COUNTRY RADIO
NO WORE Transporting
HEAVY ACCUMULATORS
every FEW weeks
<r
rr
HO
a
OVtR
fOvt
Air Cell operated models
are already available under
the following well-known
brands:
BRITON S.T.C.
STERLING ECLIPSE
TASMA KREISLER
ZENITH LEKMEK.
GENALEX BREVILLE
WELDON SYSIFONA
STBOMBERG- CARLSON
ARISTOCRAT (E.S.AI.)
PARAMOUNT - - -
Times have changed. No longer is it necessary
for the man on the land to put up with the
cost and inconvenience of recharging heavy
accumulators for his radio. NOW he can
own an
AIR CELL OPERATED RADIO
Latest and most modern advance in the con-
struction of farm radio. Equipped with an
EVEREADY AIR CELL that gives more than
a year of trouble-free "life" with normal use—
it requires NO SERVICINGI
EVEREADY AIR CELL
EVER READY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY.
S.E.A.Sa.
amateur band work solely, the unit can
be built up in a small metal box to give
complete screening.
D.C.N. JNR.
Electric Pipeless Organ.
For years inventors have been trying
to perfect instruments with radio valves
oscillating at audio frequencies for the
Fig. 1. —The magnet and tone-wheel, 91
of which, arranged in the box below, are
driven by a synchronous motor.
production of musical tones. Some have
been fairly successful, but it remained
for Laurens Hammond, of Chicago, to
apply the principle of the tone-wheel
(long known to radio engineers) and to
reproduce the sounds in the accurate
manner of a high-fidelity amplifier and
speaker system.
Fig. 2.—The double manual keyboard,
a tone-mixture set up on one of the har-
monic controls, and graphs of the wave
patterns of string and reed, pitch “A.”
The. first of the Hammond electric
organs is now in Sydney and was demon-
strated by E. F. Wilks and Co. Smaller in
size than a grand piano, this remarkable
instrument has practically no audio limi-
tation. The heart of the mechanism is
contained in the small console, and
sound is augmented by an external ampli-
Hammond Electric Organ.
fier and speaker system. The volume
can be adapted to the requirements of
a large theatre, church or hall. It is
merely a matter of the capacity of the
audio channel. Some idea of the re-
sources of the instrument may be ob-
tained when it is stated that 253 million
different tone combinations are at the
disposal of the organist. It has a light
action, giving instantaneous response, and
its pedal keyboard is ideally suited to
meet the demands of advanced pedal
technique. There is no air pressure to
reckon with ; the thing is electrical from
start to finish.
The tone-wheel is a
metal disc no larger
than a half-crown,
with a number of
corners or “high
spots.” Close to this
is a permanent
magnet with a sur-
rounding coil. Fig. 1
shows the idea. The
tone-wheel rotating
induces a current in
the coil. Such a
principle was employed in the early
days of wireless transmission for
tone generation. With the disc rotating
at such a speed that 440 “high spots”
pass the magnet each second, a small
alternating current is generated at a fre-
quency of 440 in the coil and circuit.
Variation of the number of “high spots”
on the disc produces the required variety
of notes ; 91 of these graduated discs,
driven by one synchronous motor, pro-
duce 91 notes. The organ can never
be out of tune. There are two keyboards,
and above these a
row of drawbars con-
trolling the harmonics,
giving an almost in-
finite variety of tone.
As the organist presses
a playing key, current
of the proper fre-
quency flows to the
drawbar of the har-
monic controller, the
position of which de-
termines the harmonic
intensity. A small
knob above the key-
boards operates the
tremulant, and a foot-
pedal controls the
swell. Besides the
two five - octave
manual keyboards
there is a pedal clavier
of two octaves. In
U.S.A., the Ham-
mond Co. has sold
over 5000 of these
amazing instruments,
mainly to churches.
To hear it is to realise
the steady progress in
musical reproduction
by electrical means.
It may be that the
massive and complex
pipe organ, operated
by air pressure, is
doomed to fade out of musical history.
D.B.K.
Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News”
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin”
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful short-
wave and broadcast constructional
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post-
age included.
Seventy-mile Television.
Despite the weather the television of the
Coronation procession as it passed Apsley
Gate, Hyde Park Corner, on the return
journey to Buckingham Palace was a
marked success. Three Emitron cameras,
mounted on the plinth of the gate, gave
well-defined views, and brief but highly
satisfactory pictures were obtained of
the State coach, their Majesties being
clearly seen. Many congratulatory tele-
grams and telephone messages were sent
to Alexandra Palace. They showed that
the transmissions were received at many
places well outside the normal 25-mile
range of the station. One viewer at
Ipswich, nearly 70 miles from Alexandra
Palace, telegraphed: “An unforgettable
experience; sound and vision received
perfectly.” Another at Brighton, over
50 miles away, told the 8.8. C. that he
had been able to entertain an audience
of 60 people. The procession was also
seen perfectly at Fleet, Hampshire, 37
miles away. A cinema at Southgate,
Middlesex, sent a message to say that
100 people, after seeing the entire pro-
cession on one set, had stood up and
cheered wildly.
“V.E.”: To-day the term “ham” is a
misnomer. It originated from the Ameri-
can telegraph lines where learners used
to come on at night to practise sending.
Their awkwardness led to their being
called “ham-fisted.” The term should be
laid aside with “galena” and “banjo-wire
cat’s-whiskers.”
The Question Box.
(1) For some time 1 have been using a simple
detector and one audio headphone short-wave
receiver with PM2DX and PM22A valves.
During windy weather aerial sway affects
signals. Would a pre-selector or tuned R.F.
stage overcome this ? (2) Please supply a cir-
cuit with details' of a T.R.F. unit that l could
add.— ss7.
(1) Yes. (2) Circuit is illustrated. A good
valve to use in this position is the IC4 Radio-
tron nr Pbilinc KFi The coil L will corre-
spond to the detector coil in the receiver for
the particular range, and the tuning condenser
should be around .00016mfd. This condenser
needs no vernier dial, and can be operated by
a pointer knob and indicator scale. Battery
connections can be taken from the receiver bat-
tery supplies, and the coupling condenser shown
as .OOOlmfd. should not exceed this capacity.
In fact, a much smaller capacity will do for
all frequencies, and a small mica trimmer with
about 35mfd. maximum capacity is suitable.
The R.F. choke should be a multi-section
honeycomb, such as the Radiokes. \\ volts
negative bias should be used on the valve (from
a single-torch cell). C plus will connect to A
minus and B minus.
My four-valve battery set, with B eliminator
(from D.C. mains ) and A battery, gives good
results, but the tone is poor. The speaker
vibrates discordantly on many notes sounded
on a piano, and, although many speakers have
been tried, they all do the same thing. Valves
are A 415, A 409, A 409 and 5409. Are valves
at fault or is some component functioning in-
efficiently ?—: 558.
If valve trouble is responsible, it is most
to lie with the second A 409 or the
8409. No mention is made of grid bias. If a
C battery is used for this purpose, it may
need renewing. Have the valves tested first,
and check the voltage of the C supply. An
audio transformer may be faulty or a fixed
condenser leaky.
* * * *
(1) Formula for ascertaining turns and core
dimensions of loudspeaker transformers? (2)
Particulars and turns
ratio of a trans-
former suitable for
coupling a Radiotron
6F6 to a Magnavox
405 speaker ? (3)
Voice-coil resistance
of this speaker? (4)
Correct load impe-
dance and power
output of the 6F6 ?
-559.
(1) and (2) Trans-
former specifica-
tions are not de-
rived from simple
formulae; a know-
ledge of alternating
current theory and
transformer design is
necessary. Since the
load impedance
should be 1000 times
the voice-coil impe-
dance the turns ratio
will be 31.6 to 1,
step down. The “L”-type pentode transformer
will be suitable for a single 6F6 when used as a
pentode; price 10s. 6d., from Amplion (A/sia),
70 Clarence-street, Sydney. (3) Seven ohms.
(4) When used as a pentode; impedance 7000
ohms, power output three watts at 250 volts,
five watts at 315 volts.
From July onwards the A.B.C.’s Sym-
phony Hour will be transferred from the
Sunday-evening national programme to
another night of the week. The Sunday-
night programme will be devoted to brief
celebrity recitals by, for instance, pianist
Paul Schramm, the Budapest String
Quartet and ’cellist Edmund Kurtz.
There will also be a lightening-up of
the programmes.. The film broadcast will
continue on alternate Sundays from
2FC, usually beginning at 9.10 p.m.


VITA-LICK
IN DRY SEASONS.
Mr. E. H. Litchfield, Woodstock,
Cooma, N.S.W., writes, 8/81’23 :
“We have just passed through
one of the worst droughts I
have ever known in this district,
particularly during the Winter
season, and I have found your
Vita-Lick of marvellous benefit.
I consider there is nothing on
the market to equal your lick in
any particular.”
MINERALS AGAIN!
“Tri-cal”: Just read that every gallon
of milk a cow produces contains an
equivalent of l|oz. of phosphoric acid ;
a cow yielding 500 gallons gives the
equivalent of 6250 z. of phosphoric acid.
That’s something to think about. I find
a great difference in my winter produc-
tion since I fed that Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour, supplying over 32 per cent, phos-
phoric acid. It is certainly improving
the digestion of the feeding stuffs; evi-
dently the herd was not getting enough
mineral matter before to digest the non-
mineral portion of the feed. Yes, the
makers, Davis Gelatine, Sydney, will
send you all particulars.
Old Farmer.
/2s
r/msl
8s ’>=!&
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 18«"
Incorporated in. South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised ..
Capital Issued
. . £1,250,000
. . 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund • • .
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
» i«o 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: This year there was a
continuation of the steady decrease in
the numbers of stud sheep catalogued,
but the average price per head was the
best for some time. No sensational
prices were reached —750gns. was the
limit, shared by Haddon Rig and Bun-
demar—but buyers bid freely for any-
thing they fancied, and the averages of
some of the big studs were particularly
good. Conditions were more favorable.
Certainly the season has been patchy, and
there is a shortage of feed in more than
half the State, but in Queensland things
are getting back to normal, markets
are prosperous and the future seems
sound and clear of trouble like the
Japanese embargo which clouded last
year’s sales.
A steady improvement in quality was
apparent. There were some exception-
ally fine rams, and, while striving for size,
breeders are managing to retain wool
quality, density and evenness. Strong
wools were in the ascendant; fine and
superfine types did
not share the upward
trend of values to the
same, extent.
Buyers showed a
pronounced tendency
to pin their faith to
well - known studs,
though newer studs
like Buckinbah more
than held their own.
Average to lower-
quality rams met
a slack demand ;
many were passed in
and many more failed
to elicit a bid. Some
were so uneven in
covering as to defy
any attempt at typing
—66’s on the shoulder
gave way to coarse,
sta r e y patches of
rough 60’s, kempy
hairs outcropping on the tip, and short,
characterless growth on folds. There was
the usual percentage of bad heads and
horns, and the frontal development of
some rams was overdone. Bad backs
were not so prevalent.
British breeds were in greater num-
bers, but the average price was lower
than last year. Border Leicesters had
a successful sale, one young Brunskill
ram changing hands for 77gns. In spite
of their established reputation as fat-
lamb sires, Southdown prices were not
up to last year’s average, and Dorset
Horns suffered also.
Corriedales met with keen demand,
and spirited bidding brought the general
average up to more than double last
year’s record. Cullingral had some splen-
did sheep—three special stud rams sell-
ing at 350gns., 340gns. and 330gns. re-
spectively. Nine rams made the tidy
average of £lB6, and 25 Corriedale ewes
belonging to the same owner averaged
over £42 a head. Present-day prices for
topnotch Corriedales are the envy of
the majority of merino studmasters.
Fleeces at Sydney Sheep Show.
“Murrawong”: According to statis-
tics, there are over 54,000,000 sheep in
N.S.W. There are studs innumerable,
each constantly striving to surpass the
others in breeding a sheep that will grow
a more even, denser, longer-stapled and
heavier fleece. Other States may beat it
in record price per pound of wool, but
in commercial fleeces quality plus
weight cut per head —N.S.W. can hold
its own.
Yet the Fleece Section at Sydney
Sheep Show attracted only six entries!
The association in its prize schedule
made available nine classes for fleeces —
fine, medium and strong merino fleeces
for rams and ewes, two Corriedale
classes and one open to fleeces from any
breed, to be judged on commercial
value.
Of the fleeces sent in the medium
wools showed nice style and quality, but
one strong-wool fleece detracted from
the appearance of the exhibit as a whole.
Anyway, as representing the wool wealth
“Hey, Dig.—the crossing's further, down!"
of the State, a few fleeces in a solitary
glass-case are ludicrous. Any country
show can attract 30 to 50. Why not
arrange with such shaws to have their
winning fleeces sent to Sydney for next
year’s exhibition? Other entrants would
then have something to challenge. As it
is, it’s rare to meet a looker-on who
doesn’t reckon he shore better fleeces
at home.
Of course, an explanation is that Syd-
ney Sheep Show takes place at the worst
time, as the shearing season starts just
after the show and ends six months
before next year’s show. Still, owners
could instruct their woolclasser at shear-
ing time to put aside half a dozen of
the best fleeces from which to pick
entries for next year’s show. Anyone
who adopts this idea can secure a box
for each fleece by applying for it. No-
thing heavier than a sheet of paper
should be stacked on top of the entry.
People are interested in wool ; the
keen attention paid to this year’s meagre
exhibit proves it. It is up to merino and
Corriedale men to start now organising
a show of fleeces that will be worthy of
the industry.
Rugging Sheep.
“J,.R.D.”: The advantages to be gained
from rugging sheep were strikingly
demonstrated by an exhibit of several
pens from Manilla (N.S.W.) at Sydney
Sheep Show. Animals which had been
rugged since shearing were shown with
controls from the same flock. The dif-
ference not only in fleeces but in size
and constitution was so pronounced that
many people found it hard to believe
that the two lots of sheep had ever been
on even terms.
A pen of four-tooth ewes showed the
greatest improvement. Rugged sheep
were almost twice the size of unrugged ;
they were stronger and healthier in every
way, and it was stated that the rugged
sheep had been drenched once only since
shearing, while it had been • necessary
to drench controls four times.
The comparison between fleeces of
rugged and unrugged sheep - was over-
whelmingly in favor of -the former.
Staple was at least half an inch longer,
the wool was denser, better nourished
and better grown, and there was abso-
lutely no tip except on the head and
neck, which were not covered by the rug.
Staple was clean and sound,7 and the
crimp was carried right to the tip.
The increased commercial, value of
these rugged fleeces is considerable.
Because of the absence of waste in tip
the percentage of noil in combing would
be reduced to a minimum. A woolbuyer
who inspected the sheep in the writer’s
presence ventured his opinion that the
rugged fleeces would yield 8 p.c.-to 10
p.c.' higher than the unrugged, which at
present. market prices would mean an
increase in value,of 3d. per pound. The
extra return from one year’s wool'alone
would more than pay for the cost of a
well-made rug, which could be reason-
ably expected to last for several years.
There was a striking difference be-
tween lambs which had been rugged and
those left as controls. The rugged lambs
were much heavier, but the most note-
worthy feature was the clean, soft-hand-
ling fleeces, with practically no sign of
lamb-tip except on exposed portions.
It looked as if the tip had been rubbed
off by the rug, and gave the lamb the
appearance of having been shorn while
young.
All the sheep shown had been run on
fairly clean country. Had burr been
prevalent, the advantage of rugging
would have been more evident in the
increased value of the protected fleeces.
It is claimed that rugged sheep are
less liable to fly-attack, and that rugging
keeps sheep at a more even temperature
throughout summer and winter.
The results of the Manilla experiment
suggest that better results still would be
obtained in the open, dusty north-west
districts of N.S.W., in the red, sandy
western country and on open Queens-
land downs. The rugging of lambs should
also be of great benefit in colder dis-
tricts where checks in the growing stage
are frequent.
Minerals and Stock.
“Ghanam”: There would be a lot
less disease and malnutrition among
sheep and cattle if owners would study
the deficiencies of Australian pastures.
Sheep need sodium, lime, phosphorus,
potassium and chlorine in fairly large
helpings, and a dozen other minerals, in-
cluding copper, manganese, boron, sul-
phur, iron and iodine, in lesser quantities.
Lime is mostly fairly plentiful, but phos-
phorus is often lacking, though sheep
are wonderfully adaptable and their
phosphorus needs compared with other
animals are not large.
Many a sheepman, noticing soft bone
and lack of development in his animals,
rushes to feed a phosphorus lick. Short-
age of lime and phosphorus may be the
cause, but it is much more likely to be
the result of pfotein shortage. At the
same time, especially where the sheep
are in their crucial growing stages and
the pasture is poor and dry, a little added
phosphorus will do no harm given with
salt licks. But the heaviest betting should
be on protein-making materials.
Cows seem to become particularly
phosphorus-hungry when carrying their
first and second calves. The remedy is
simple enough, even where the animals
have begun to develop rickets symptoms.
Where trough-watering can be prac-
tised, add six drachms of phosphoric acid
to every 10 gallons of water. An addi-
tion of chaff to the. ration, with bran if
possible, helps. On larger properties
there is nothing for it but a lick, which
is not nearly so easy to administer with-
out some waste. Try one part of coarse
salt with two parts of sterilised bone-
meal added to molasses.
' It has become, the fashion of late years
to stress the necessity for iodine. But
' can anybody tell me of any district in
Australia where a definite and damaging
iodine deficiency has been proved? Any-
way,- there is usually enough in salt licks
to make up for as much iodine as Nature
has forgotten to include.
Udder Shape and Position.
! “Silky Bag”: The only way to get
i well-shaped udders is to breed them.
Use a bull that comes from generations
j of females who have had them, and mate
('Continued on page 44.)


The Traffic Cop who hadn’t taken HEENZO.


4008
A
r.v
y/
w
SQUARE
TOES
•
THE NEWEST
OF THE NEW
IN MEN’S
FASHIONS.
Of all the latest fashions in footwear, the new square toe
certainly heads the list. This Abbey Model, with full punched
golosh and welted heel, has a definite character that would
certainly be hard to find in any other type of Shoe.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in medium and wide fittings.
Price, Black or Brown Calf . 42/-
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’*
f i/r x
t V^"'„ o v.» esS
7#
AaV
as e - $c° vC
vv" e
vX
\< % * ’
i\ »*'
\\o
00~
rt' e
ve'
\^ a
t\v e
v ev
V» a * v> \o& » \ o'~
.Ue *° V
&V ? iX . J
v\e
B° v
\A'V
a’ l '
vv\e*
Bo
\V^'
t
rs
9S&
*
Iftliiilili
lliiiilillii
Distributors: JoKn Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
guaranteed
for mo
FREE SETTING 11111111
m
Selected steel, black handle 12/fi
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .... 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit 5 and J blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &, AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 1 1
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
TTie'^nlleS/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
which has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages . . . . Page 39
Rations ~ 15
Sheep bought „ 20
Wire netting ~ 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O Connell Street, Sydney (before July I 5 of the year to avoid
late lodgment of tax return), and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
Checking of Assessments. —The fee does not include the
checking of assessments made by the Taxation Departments.
Arrangements for doing this may be made with Mr. Stevenson
for a small charge.
NOTE.—The company reserves the right to cancel any obligation by the return
of the purchase money in full. It is not intended to have recourse to this provision
where it can be reasonably avoided. The company will not be responsible for errors
or omissions bn the part of the taxpayer.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
“THE BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
its heifers with another animal similarly
descended.
What is wanted primarily is a capa-
cious udder that will remain disease-
free for years and will not break down.
A large udder is only out of harm’s way
if it is lowest an inch or two above the
line of hock movement. Banging and
bruising of bags hung below this often
cause mastitis. Besides, low teats are
always sore, dirty and scratched.
Capacity is only possible with the
high bag when the hind legs are wide-
spaced—that is, the thurls are well apart.
And leathery connections fore and aft
are necessary if the udder is going to
keep in its high, out-of-the-way pocket.
They must be broad and go direct on to
the body in straight lines without dips.
Animals bred with these principles in
view move about with greater freedom
and high production is not the strain
it is to cows whose low bags trail over
logs and drains—when they aren’t Icing
belted from side to side by the legs.
Mitchell Grass Hay.
“Sheepo”: The C.S. and I.R. is to carry
out investigations on the value of
Mitchell-grass hay. At different stages
of maturity tests will be made to deter-
mine the capacity of the grass to sup-
port sheep and wool growth.
As hay, the grass might have lost some
of its nutritional qualities, but I can
certify to several instances where stock
were fed on Mitchell-grass hay during
dry periods, although on a small scale,
and there is ample, proof that mowing
and stacking the grass are valuable, if
only for feeding horses and stud stock
during lean times.
With no heavy freight rates to pay,
many graziers might be tempted to take
advantage of flush years and conserve
enough Mitchell to tide over dry years.
And until some practical and economic
means of fodder conservation is adopted
in western Queensland, sheep-grazing will
ever remain a gamble.
The Web-worm in Westralia.
L. J. Newman, Westralia’s indefatig-
able Government Entomologist, has
issued a warning against the web-worm.
It is apt to infest wheat land that has
not been worked for several years ; it
never touches clean, weed-free fallow.
Winter and spring are the dangerous
times. Once the pest is fairly established
there, is little second growth ; the plant
is eaten down below the crown. Several
caterpillars may be found attacking a
single stool.
The parent moth is of the color of
dry stems of wheat and measures about
an inch from tip to tip of outspread
wings. It issues after the first autumn
rains. The eggs—tiny, round, pale yellow
bodies—are laid among grass and stubble.
The plough turns eggs and caterpillars
in, and the pest gets to work immedi-
ately wheat is sown.
The caterpillars construct small tubes
at the base of the plant attacked; these
tubes are lined with silk and particles
of soil, and may descend into the soil or
run along the surface of the ground
round the plant.
The insect does not migrate, but
breaks out in patches throughout the
crop. As one stool of wheat is eaten it
moves on to the next.
Prevention is better than cure, and
cropping only on fallow is a sure preven-
tive. Where fallowing is impracticable
burning the stubble helps. If a crop is
badly attacked, fallow at once.
Where patches of the pest are found,
Mr. Newman recommends ploughing a
sharp trench or ditch round each in-
fested area, the sharp edge being opposed
to the advancing caterpillars. Then use
a poison bait: Bran, 301 b. ; Paris green
or sodium fluoride, lib.; molasses, 51b.;
water, 2\ to 3 gallons; or powder
arsenite of soda at the rate of fib. may
be employed.
Whichever poison is used, mix thor-
oughly with the bran dry. Dissolve the
molasses in water (hot for preference)
and incorporate with the bran until a
moist (not overmoist) crumbly mash is
formed. Bait should be distributed in
the trench and among the caterpillars as
late in the day as possible ; spread in
fine particles. Keep stock off for at least
three weeks, remembering that lumps
are always a potential poison to animals.
It may be necessary to repeat the baiting.
Insect pests have a bad habit of spread-
ing from one State to another, so this
advice of the Westralian entomologist is
of general application.
Sorrel Eradication.
“Rusticus”: A costly experience in
growing summer fodders has shown me
the only economic way of eradicating
sorrel. Even with maize and chou-moel-
lier it is not possible to keep this weed
in check on light soil. There is less
chance with millet, which cannot be cul-
tivated during grazing.
Having changed to grassland farming
with ensilage making, it took two or


df
gdf
NOZAC
Pens - Pencils - Sets
Built with watch-like precision
the Conklin Nozac presents
the revolutionary Cushion
Point a new scientific de-
velopment that makes writing
easier and smoother. Other
outstanding Conklin advan-
tages include self-filling de-
vice that “Winds like a
Watch” —new controlled feed
—visible ink supply—exclusive
Conklin Word Gauge—beauti-
ful penline design.
Before buying any pen, see
the Conklin Nozac —a truly
precision pen.
Available in Black, and in
Grey, Green and Red Pearl.
The Pens are priced at
22/6, 30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match, 17/6 and
25/-.
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Cases, 40/-, 55/- and
65/-.
Conklin Fountain Pen Ink—
the best for every pen—4oz.
Bottles, All Colours —1/- per
Bottle.
From Stationers, Jewellers and
Departmental Stores every-
where.
Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO. A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now.
THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
Ulll I CU COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE U HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Aii classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAW SO. R,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
ST lIL
•IsTTSR
UGHTUI'j
with
LISTER-LITE
LIGHTING PLANTS
HI
&
In N.S.W. alone, there are over 2000 “Lister-
Lite” installations in Country Homes. Add
your name to this ever-increasing list of satisfied
owners. Write to-day for particulars—you’ll
be under no obligation.
driven by
tsTen
British built
Diesel Engines
■
s
m
Hi
B H
: H I
The use of the Lister Diesel Engine is cutting
generating costs to a minimum. For every
purpose you will find a Lister Engine to give
you unfailing and economical power.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
three years to clean the summer culti-
vation paddocks. Sub. clover, plus top-
dressing, does trick un er my con
After cukiration was abandoned the
sorrel seemed to retard the pastures. On
land top-dressed and sown with clover
the sorrel was stimulated for a while, but
it is noticeably wilting now. The method
needs time. Once the clover gets under
way it crowds the wee out. _
Sorrel indicates an acid soil (lacking
in lime), but the acid added by top-
dressing with super, is insignificant. Sub.
clover, unlike Interne, thrives in an acid
•i ’
Black Oats in Wheat.
“L.F.P.”: Reports from N.S.W. wheat-
belt districts indicate that the black oats
pest has come back with a vengeance.
Reason may be that, owing to the eco-
nomic conditions of the past few years,
farmers have reduced the number of
cultivations of the fallows.
The black oat is a tricky customer to
gel rid of. It lies dormant for so long
that farmers think the seed has d!ed. it
Be TT/ short, velvety hairs on the seed
protect it. They prevent moisture com-
ing into contact with the germ. If,
however, the soil immediately surround-
ing the seed is kept moist long enough,
the oat will germinate.
The best eradication method is to make
the seed germinate by producing right
soil conditions. Plough well, harrow
thoroughly and roll. Right time is June
or July. After rolling, leave the land
untouched.
When the plants appear feed off with
sheep or plough. It’s perfectly safe to
feed off during the cool weather, but
plough under as the weather becomes
warm.
Care should be taken, when cropping
next year, not to till deeper than the pre-
vious ploughing, else latent seed may
come up.
Frost Effects.
’-.13 f -to mnrp nh.
• RUS I V CU , S i B sf aUS£ Um frnct
vious ill-effects, the good done y
.s often overlooked Lucerne flea and
other pasture insects, cockchafer larvae
and underground grass grubs are all in-
terrupted in their ravages and killed off
in large, numbers.
Burrowing grubs when 6in. or Bin.
below the surface are not affected, but
most of them work by night and so get
refrigerated. There is still room for a
great deal of research work in this field
of entomology.
The chief damage done by frosts is to
the softer types of herbage. Water ex-
pands on freezing. The frozen moisture
in the plant cells bursts the tissue when
the thermometer touches rock bottom,
But cutting the top growth back prevents
rankness, hardens the plant, and gives the
roots a chance to store up plant food.
Hints for the Farm,
“Silky Bag”: An ointment made from
p ar^s ] ar( j 5 three parts boracic acid and
one part zinc oxide will prevent cracking
and keep Strawberry s teats smooth and
pliable. Use it before milking, and work
it into the skin.
“Corriedale”: Most straight-out scours
ca^ves are caused by indigestion from
the coagulation of large masses of milk
. b & .
the stomach Two flu.d ounces
l.mewater-the clear liquor dra ned from
a settled mixture of slakedjime and
water—given every day by mouth—is the
best remedy.
“ Horse y” : , Horses with long thick
manes and tails often get them into
hopeless-looking knots. Don’t cut these
out p o ur kerosene on above the knots,
an( j massa ge into the knots but not the
s j c i n> The following day, the knots can
b e CO mbed out easily. Failing kerosene,
h ot f at or so f t soap w ifl do if rubbed
W ell in.
.
rry Firmer ” : Those recently-photo-
he/ beekeepers of Eyre Peninsula
(S.A.) who are troubled by small black
ants should raise e ,
B round hv a .eg on ,
arou " d each leg tack 4in.-wide strips of
< a "" ed rabbtt skins fur side out If any
a " ts wak ov s £ “ r ;. l « d walk across
< he continent and eat the lot.
“Mookau”: In August, 1920, I saw
from the Townsville-Ingham train as
fine a mob of export bullocks as I have
ever seen in Australia. They were
Devons, presumably from Bluff Downs
stock. Next morning I went out to have
a look at them, a little mystified that
they were doing so well on high blady-
grass flats. There was no need to be
surprised—underneath the blady grass
there was a mat of clovers, wild lucerne
and other herbage which it would have
been hard to beat for baby-beef fatten-
ing. Given the proper grasses and the
establishment of a local technique for
feeding sugar “refuse” and maize from
tbe Tableland, I predict that in 20 years
export fattening will be a big North
Queensland coastal industry bigger
J an dairying by a long chalk f
, ... ...
Fancar : Khaki weed, which will
seed a thousandfold within about six
weeks from germination,' becomes estab-
lished on properties through being mis-
taken for a harmless cousin of the Alter-
nanthem family. Chief points of de-
struction in the pre-seed stage are that
khaki weed is coarser and more hairy
and lies flatter than its cousin. The
khaki weed’s stem has a pinkish tinge,
and its leaves are bigger and have a
more pointed end. Jn my experience,
dogs are not such sufferers as fowls on
khaki-infested country (B. 19/5/’37). A
neighbor had to get rid of all his fowls
which were suffering from bumblefeet
caused by khaki prickles.


gd
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wffl. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d pet packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Gentleman (30) wants appointment and
training as representative of firm ot good stand-
ing. Refs. —6231.
Young man, studying forestry and botany,
wants employment with forestry co. or private
plantation to get further experience.—6274.
Exp. typist wants typing, MSS., copying
circulars, etc. Also teach commercial subjects.
—6270.
Old students of Xavier College, Mayfield,
Sussex, England, please communicate with
Terence C. Trumble, Toganmain station, Hay,
N.5.W—6278.
To buy, second-hand, Rydge’s Business
Course or Pelman course.—622B.
Information Sought.
(1) I intend spending six months cruising in
my own boat inside the Great Barrier Reef.
What is the best period of year for weather?
(2) How far north of Cairns is interesting ? (3)
Where can charts of the coast from Brisbane
to Cape York be obtained? (4) Any books
dealing with this region ? —6214.
(1) May to September. The majority of the
islands visited are in the tropics and not
affected by weather conditions other than the
wet seasons from January to the end of April.
(2) The whole of the Queensland coast is inter-
esting. Crocodile-shooting and excellent fishing
can be had north of Cooktown. (3) From
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., Sydney. (4) Books
concerning the Barrier Reef and Queensland
can be obtained from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. See the Queensland Tourist Bureau
before sailing from Brisbane.
* * * *
Are Australian wines artificially colored, or
is the color naturally derived from the grapes
the wines are made from? —6184.
Australian wines are not artificially colored.
Red wines are fermented partly on the skins
to yield the required coloring matter. Certain
fragrant white wines of the muscat type are
also allowed to come in contact with the skins,
but with white wines generally the juice is
fermented separately.
* * * H=
(1) What countries are shareholders in the
Suez Canal Company, and in what proportion ?
(2) When does the canal revert to the Egyptian
Government ? —6191.
(1) The British Government, which owns
seven-sixteenths of the shares, is the only Gov-
ernment with such an interest; for its admini-
stration the co. is predominantly French, but
no shares are held by the French Government.
On the board of management there are 10
British representatives, one Dutch and 21
French. (2) The concession granted to De
Lesseps, January 5, 1856, was for 99 years,
so that, in default of other arrangements, the
canal will pass into the hands of the Egyptian
Government in 1955.
* * * *
A friend of mine received a letter stating that
she had been divorced in India. Where or how
can she confirm this? The parties were mar-
ried in N. S. Wales. —6240.
To have any hope of success you would
require to know where the divorce took place.
Perhaps the writer of the unofficial communi-
cation could assist you, or a letter to the Direc-
tor of Intelligence Bureau, Home Department,
Supreme Government, Delhi, India, might help.
* * * *
(1) How does one enter the diplomatic ser-
vice ? (2) Is it easy to graduate to the posi-
tion of a Consul? (3) What is the purpose of
having Consuls, and what are their chief
duties ? —6187.
(1) Admission is by competitive examination.
Compulsory subjects are English, French (at a
very high standard), German, elementary eco-
nomics, a viva voce examination on matters
of general" interest in which attention is paid
to ,the intelligence and alertness of the candi-
date and his potential qualities of leadership,
and from two to eight other subjects taken at
the discretion of the candidate, who has a very
wide choice. The fee for the examination is
£B, and prior to the examination the candidate
must be passed by a Board of Selection which
meets in May of each year. (2) The consular
service is separate from the diplomatic ser-
vice, and qualifications required are not of
such a high standard. Candidates must take
the diplomatic service examination, but German
is not compulsory. Candidates must be be-
tween 21 and 25 years of age, unmarried, and
are liable to be called on to serve in any part
of the world. Successful candidates must fur-
nish a bond in the sum of £3OO, which is
subject to forfeit if they leave the service
within five years from the date of joining it.
(3) Consuls are appointed chiefly to protect
British interests. They make commercial re-
ports, answer business inquiries, assist British
trade, perform duties under the Merchant
Shipping Acts and Insurance Acts in connec-
tion with merchant shipping and seamen, per-
form notarial acts, register births, deaths and
marriages, issue passports and visas, and arrange
for the repatriation of British subjects. In
addition judicial functions are exercised by
consular officers in countries where Britain has
extra-territorial rights.
♦ sfs
(1) How many Sydney University exhibitions
will be awarded this year on the leaving certi-
ficate results ? (2) What is an exhibition winner
entitled to ? (3) What is the monetary value
of bursaries ? —6158.
(1) 200 public exhibitions will .be awarded,
the first 100 purely on order of merit; the
second 100 on order of merit, with the circum-
stances of the candidate and his family taken
into account. (2) A public exhibition exempts
the holder from payment of matriculation,
tuition and degree fees; it carries no monetary
allowance. (3) The Bursary Endowment Board
of the Department of Education will probably
award from 20 to 25 bursaries tenable at the
University; these are of the value of £26 p.a.
for students living at home, and £5O p.a. for
students whose homes are in the country.
* * * *
How is mushroom spawn made ? —6009.
The process is a delicate one, requiring a
proper chemical laboratory and even-tempera-
ture ovens or chambers. Mushrooms are
placed gills downward on clean white paper
until they drop their spores in a black pattern.
These are then germinated either in an agar-
agar gelatine solution or in fresh horse manure.
When growth comes it is worked through the
manure in glass jars until it has reached the
right stage for development.
* * * *
Is it the usual procedure for the convener
of a meeting to act as chairman until a chair-
man is appointed by the meeting? —6l97.
At the first meeting it is usual to appoint
an interim or temporary chairman pending the
election subsequently of a chairman proper,
and there is no reason why the convener should
not act in that capacity if the meeting agrees.
* * * *
I am a commercial traveller employed by
a Vic. firm, and am paid a salary and commis-
sion weekly in Melbourne. I work in the
western part of Vic. and now and then cross into
S.A. Must I pay income tax on commissions
earned in S.A. and Vic. separately? Thus, if
1 earned £4OO in a year and of this £350 came
from work in Vic. and £5O in S.A., should I
make out returns accordingly? —6l9s.
Vic. taxation authorities are of opinion that
as you are domiciled in Vic. you are taxable
on the whole of your earnings while tem-
porarily engaged on duties outside Vic. If
you are taxed by S.A. on that portion earned
in S.A., on production of receipt you would
be entitled to a rebate from the Vic. depart-
ment.
* ❖ ;'f-
What are the chances of a carpenter obtaining
work in Queensland, and what are the con-
ditions of the building trade there at present ?
—6103.
Building trade is fairly brisk, though there
are numbers of tradesmen registered as unem-
ployed. The wages for a carpenter are £5 3s. 7d.
per week in the southern division to £5 13s. 7d.
in the northern division, for a 40-hour week,
less relief tax and unemployment insurance
amounting to approximately 4s. per week. It
would not be advisable to go to Queensland
from another State unless under a definite
promise of employment.
❖
(1) Names of the mountains on each side of
the Burrinjuck dam? (2) Where does the river
rise ? (3) Best map procurable giving the rivers
of N. S. Wales?— 626o.
(1) The mountain on the north bank is
known as Barren Jack Mountain; the mountain
on the south bank has not been officially
named. (2) The Murrumbidgee rises in the
Fiery Range near Yarrangobilly and flows south-
easterly towards Cooma. About five miles
from Cooma it turns northerly and passes near
Bredbo and Michelago. It then flows north-
westerly through Commonwealth territory
about 10 miles from Canberra, and continues
this course to its junction with the Yass River
near Burrinjuck. (3) The most comprehensive
map published by the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment showing the rivers of N. S. Wales is a
map of the State at a scale of 16 miles to the
inch, price 15s.
H*
(1) Where in Sydney can I obtain tincture of
iodine (for use on livestock) in pint quantities ?
(2) Cost ? (3) How long will iodine retain its
potency kept in the bottle ? 6162.
(1) Pegasus Pty., 56 Hunter-street, Sydney.
(2) Us. per 16oz. bottle, plus postage. (3)
Indefinitely if kept properly corked.
H= * * *
Name of a textbook dealing with small brass
castings, suitable for amateurs? —6196.
Brass and Iron Founding, by J. E. Danger-
field, from Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney, Is. 3d.
* x * *
(1) Brief outline of the electroplating process?
(2) Plant required? (3) Cost of same? (4)
Where can tuition, by correspondence, be ob-
tained ? (5) Any books on the subject ?— 6248.
(1) Electroplating is the process by which a
metal held in solution by a liquid is deposited
electrically on a prepared surface. From the
solution, the metal (silver, nickel, chrome, etc.)
is thrown on to the object receiving the deposit
and simultaneously an equal quantity of a
similar metal to that held in solution is fretted
off from a metal plate suspended in the solu-
tion. Although the solution is being constantly
robbed of metal, it is yet being fed and its
strength maintained. (2) Plating dynamo, re-
sistance board and ammeter, plating vats and
appliances for preparing and finishing work.
(3) Depends upon size of plant, details obtain-
able from J. E. Dick, Foster and Blackburn
streets, Sydney. (4) I.C.S. (A/sia), Ltd., 140
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. ,(5) Electro-Plating
(Amateur Mechanic and Work Handbooks),
2s. 6d., from leading booksellers.
* * * *
Is there any treatment short of breaking up
and resurfacing that will remedy a concrete
floor which is always sandy owing to insuffi-
cient cement having been in the mixture ?
6224.
Brush over the surface a solution of silicate
of soda 10 p.c.; when thoroughly dry apply
another coat, and continue thus till satisfactory.
After this treatment white stains may appear,
but will disappear in two or three weeks.
H: ijs :J: *
Information regarding the writers Marjorie
Bowen and Georgette Heyer? —6lBs.
Marjorie Bowen is the pen-name of Gabrielle
Margaret Vere Long, author of many historical
and romantic novels, as well as works dealing
with historical research. Born 1886 at Wassail
Court, Rolvenden (Eng.), the daughter of Vere
Douglas Campbell, and educated privately in
London, Paris and Rome, she married in 1912
Don Zeffirino Emilio Constanzo, who died in
1916, and again married, in 1917, Arthur L.
Long, of Richmond, Surrey. The novels under
the name of George R. Preedy are also her
work, and she has used, in addition, the
pseudonyms Robert Paye and John Winch.
Georgette Heyer is in private life Mrs. G. R.
Rougler, and was born 1902. She has written
a number of successful novels, a favorite set-
ting being the Regency period. Titles include
The Great Roxhythe, The Black Moth. Instead
of the Thorn, Simon the Coldheart, These Old
Shades, Helen and The Masquerader.
$ * * *
(1) 1 wish to renew the charge in 40 Edison
1 i-volt accumulators, marked 4256 H. What
solution do 1 require, and where procurable?
(2) Quantity necessary, and price ? (3) How is
it mixed? —6242.
(1) The electrolyte is a specially prepared
solution of potassium and lithium hydroxide,
and is sold by C. M. Terry, Ltd., 115 Pitt-
street, Sydney, under the name of Edison Re-
newal Electrolyte. (2) Depends upon the size
of the cells. When ordering electrolyte, state
either the size of the containers, the amp.-hour
capacity or type number of the cells, such as
A 4, 81, C 6, etc. (3) Electrolyte is mixed
with distilled water. Instructions accompany
each tin.
* * * *
I have a quantity of vanishing cream in pots
which has shrunk and become hard. How can
it be moistened ? Would brilliantine be suit-
able?—6lss.
Brilliantine is most unsuitable. Make ur a
mixture of equal parts glycerine and water and
shake well together; place the cream in a china
or enamel basin, break it up and add the gly-
cerine and water gradually until the mass works
up to the right consistency. If the cream is
very hard, stand the basin in another basin of
hot water to soften it. Mix with a wooden
beater, as this cream sometimes contains
materials which are sensitive to metals, and if
worked with metal tools may become dis-
colored.
* * * *
What is the proper way to iron a crepe de
Chine dress ? Should it be brought in from the
line while wet or allowed to dry and damped
down? —6l49. ,
Different qualities require slightly different
treatments. Pure silk crepes de Chine may be
ironed dry or slightly damp; inferior ones are
better damp. They may all be taken from
the line before quite dry or damped in the
usual manner when convenient. Use only a
moderately hot iron; iron on the wrong side
if a crepe surface is wanted.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for a green paint made from lime
suitable for painting lattice work ? (2) Method
for keeping white-ants from eating woodwork
bedded in the ground? —6lBB.
(1) Assemble two pecks unslaked lime, one
peck common salt, 31b. rice flour, |lb. whiting,
lib. clean glue and sufficient water for mixing.
Slake the lime with water in a vessel of about
10 gallons capacity; cover, strain it and add
the salt, previously dissolved in hot water. Boil
the rice flour in water; soak the glue in water
and dissolve in a gluepot or over a water
bath; add rice and glue to the whiting, then
add to the main mixture with five gallons of
hot water, stirring well all the time. Cover
from dirt, allow to stand for a few days before
use, and make it hot to paint on the wood;
keep hot during application. May be colored
by the addition of dry color bought from a
paint store. (2) Remove soil from about wood-
work and apply kerosene plentifully to wood-
work. Two or three applications a year should
suffice.
* * * *
Should food be cooked with salt or without,
and why? —s9s2.
Depends on the nature of the food. Die-
titians advise thus: Vegetables should be salted
during the last 10 minutes of cooking; boiled
meats and stews salted before serving or
thickening; roasts lightly salted when put into
the oven; fried meats salted before serving;
soups well salted when being made to extract
the meat juices; cakes, puddings,, custards, etc.,
should all contain a pinch of salt when assem-
bling materials for cooking. It is considered
that salt is inclined to harden the fibres of
vegetables and to extract flavors which should
be retained. The common practice of salting
all foods when they are put on to cook is not
a good one, and is mainly due to fear of for-
getting to add it at the proper moment.
* * * *
Value of the following “Sydney View”
stamps: (1) Id. red, with clouds; (2) 2d. blue,
vertical-lined background; (3) grey-blue, hori-
zontal-lined background, impression indistinct?
—5833.
(1) Catalogued at from £7 to £l2, according
to paper and shade. (2) Early impressions £2O
to £22, worn impressions £4 to £5. (3) Cannot
say, as there were four different plates with
horizontal-lined background; probably from
£3 to £5. These stamps can be purchased at
from one-fifth to one-half these figures, accord-
ing to condition.
H= ' > * * *
Names of stamp dealers in Sydney, Mel-
bourne and M.L. ? —6186.
Sydney; J. H. Smyth, 114 Castlereagh-street;
A. C. Campe, 50 Sydney Arcade, King-street.
Melbourne: Orlo-Smith and Co., 244 Collins-
street ; W. Ackland, Collins and Elizabeth
streets. M.L.: Wilcox, Smith and Co., 14
Manse-street, Dunedin; A. Brodie, Ltd., 19
Hellaby’s Buildings, Auckland.
Brief Answers.
Lindfield: The Duchess of Norfolk and the
Duchess of Somerset.... J.M.: Cannot undertake
valuation of pictures. Consult Rubery Bennett,
Hunter-street, or John Young, Macquarie Gal-
leries, Bligh-street... .L.M.A.: The Old Inns of
England, by A. E. Richardson, 1 Is. 3d.;
postage 8d T.V.W.: Pamphlet regarding the
smoking and salting of N.S.W. fish has been
posted. Inquiries as to probable markets
could be made of Marks and Co., Regent-lane,
Redfern, and W. King and Son, Municipal Fish
Market, Thomas-street, Sydney W.H.S.:
“Kyogle Examiner,” published every Tuesday
and Friday afternoons... .F.M.C.: See Genesis
of Queensland, by H. S. Russell R.D.: Get
in touch with the Co-operative Shearing As-
sociation, Toowoomba and Hughenden (Q’land).
....8.M.: The best marking inks are impos-
sible to remove, and even poorer kinds are
difficult. Try applications of lemon juice and
salt, exposed to the sunshine, and renewed as
the linen becomes dry. Rinse well in cold water
and dry in the sunshine... .T.Q.: The day wool
course at the East Sydney Technical College
requires an attendance of two periods of six
months from February 1 to July 31 in each
year. During the intervening period it is
customary for students to accept engagements
on stations so as to obtain experience in shed
work. The college does not undertake to place
successful students in positions at the end of
the course, but when possible assistance is given
in this direction W.A.S.: (1) An officer
resigning from the public service is entitled to a
refund of the superannuation contributions
paid by him, without interest. (2) No leave
save on medical certificate. Sick leave is a
privilege, not a right... .A.K.: Punnets and
ooxes ror berries are obtainable from J. Slater,
21 Quay-street, Sydney, who would quote prices
on application. The price for jam strawberries
could be obtained from any of the canning and
jam factories, such as Henry Jones and Co., 1
Golden Grove-street, Darlington, Sydney. A
leaflet on strawberry culture has been forwarded.
. ...L.W.: As you have by your own sub-
division treated the two blocks as three separate
parcels of land the council would, apparently,
be entitled to levy its rate on each parcel sepa-
rately ... .H.J.W.: Section 504 of the N.S.W.
Local Government Act provides that a council
may expend for purposes not authorised and not
expressly prohibited by law a sum not exceed-
ing in any one year 1 p.c. of the general rate
levied in that year. This would appear to
cover such an expenditure as you refer t 0....
M. : Receipts given for salary, pay or wages
are exempt from stamp duty.... W.M.: If
the pensioner relinquishes his pension he may
apply for its re-grant immediately the circum-
stances which caused him to relinquish it cease
to exist. Payment would not commence from
date of application, but from date fixed by the
Deputy Commissioner. All expenses incurred
in the sale of his lines would be allowed as a
deduction in assessing his income, and it would
be advisable for him to keep a record of his
receipts and expenditure. Leaflet posted....
W.G.8.: Cannot trace Australian agency for the
co J.C.: If the gift was made within three
years of the death, or if the donor retained any
interest in the property, it would be subject to
probate duty; not otherwise... .J.T.: No vali-
dating legislation has been passed, and the
board is still functioning... .8.F.E.: J. Sandy
and Co., George-street, Sydney, stock a dye for
blinds... .K.D.: Communicate with any of the
island traders listed in P.O. Directory....
J.W.P.: The teacher you inquired about is now
at State school 4316, Preston East, Melbourne,
Vic K.M.W.: Australasia won the Davis
Cup in 1907, 1908, 1909, 1911, 1914 and 1919.
....J.R.: Poem is published in Beyond the
City Gates, by Jack Moses, obtainable at lead-
ing booksellers... .T.C.R.: Eulomogo is a
N. abo. place-name meaning “no finger-
nails”; Goondigal means “ambush”... .T.L.:
The generally accepted Australian—probably
the world’s —record for blade shearing stands
to the credit of Jack Howe, who, on October
10, 1892, at Alice Downs, near Blackall (Q.),
shore 321 sheep in 7hr. 40min. Howe’s average
for the previous week was 259 per day, 1437
for the week H.C.: A. G. Stephens was
born at Toowoomba (Q.) in 1866, and died in
Sydney on April 15, 1933... .C.C.: John Dick-
son Wyselaski was born Dumfriesshire, Scot-
land, June 25, 1818; settled at Mount Bunin-
yong in 1838 and became a successful pastoral-
ist; died May 4, 1883. He bequeathed £54,000
to public institutions, including £lO,OOO to build
the Wyselaski Theological Hall, Melb. Uni
1.D.: The Imperial War Graves Commission
was created to treat and care for the graves of
the fallen of the British Empire. War graves
on Gallipoli are cared for by that body,
and not by the Turkish Government.
....E.M.D.: Last December a message
from New York stated that Alan Vil-
liers, owner-captain, had sold the Joseph
Conrad to Huntington Hartford, son of a tea
merchant. The new owner was installing more
power, and proposed cruising in the West Indies.
Most of the crew, including the Maorilanders
and Evans, of Sydney, stayed by the ship.
Villiers was writing a book, after which he
planned a lecture tour of the U.S.A
Arthric: Make application in the prescribed
form to the Commissioner of Patents, Canberra.
Obtaining a patent involves full disclosure of
the ingredients of the remedy, and it may not
be advisable to do this. Consult one of the
patent attorneys advertising at end of “Wild
Cat” column... .1.F.: Value of the first
number of “Art in Australia” (1916) is 635.;
the complete set is worth £lO 10s E.C.H.:
(1) Yes, according to Who’s Who (1937). (2)
The Nightwatchman (1932) and Cruises and
Cargoes (1934) E.M.M.: Closes on June 6
every year. See Bulletin for particulars
H.W.H.: N.S.W. wages tax is an allowable
deduction for purposes of Federal income tax,
but not for normal State income tax. The
aggregate amount of wages tax deducted from
a taxpayer’s salary should be shown under
item 50 of the return. If the deduction has
not been claimed for previous years, and the
taxpayer is liable to Federal income tax, a
claim for refund for the past three years could
be made (Many others mailed.)


m
\9«
mm
m
4
134
'Til,
m
imvi'
X/&
/
nm^
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
Ls*i t
7 or full information and all literature on
7 iji write:- „
-IJI PUBLICITY BUREAU, Suva, Fiji
THOMAS COOK & SON, UNION
5 S CO. LTD.. MATSON NAVIGA-
TION CO., Sydney & Melbourne
HCKFORDS TRAVEL SERVICE Clo.
Oagety & Co. MR.F.W. HENNINGS;
Muster Builders’ Exchange; 12 Castlereagh
street, Sydney, Australian Representative
of the Fiji Tourist Bureau.
a
isLnnos o
HmiTmEnT
Spsrt,
Clamour— await
igeu new ii% FIJI
Fiji - a magic paradise of tropic sun-
shine, set in sapphire seas - less
than a week's journey from Sydney !
Leave winter behind and bask now
in colourful tropic summer where
sport and recreation await you. See
picturesque native villages - quaint
customs and ceremonies of native
races - visit coral islands of unsur-
passed enchantment and revel in
carefree hours amid idyllic sur-
roundings.
For the holiday of your dreams,
come this winter to Fiji - islands of
colourful enchantment.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.G.: Never heard of anybody being called
a peasant in this country... .A.T.: Fair to
middling, but hardly enough swing in it
E.M.: Poem on the Cousin Jack miner who
~ . .. wAmQTi’c
feared that he would miss the old woman s
crib-pasties in heaven reluctantly rejected....
K. : It wouldn’t have any interest outside
of Katoomba... .J.E.M.: We can’t say that it
impressed us. Still, that other poem described
as being “midway between the Athletic world
and the Religious world” (sort of Mahomet’s
coffin, eh?) might do so R.F.8.: “Have
these poems any genuine merit whatever in
your judgment?” In our judgment, none....
M.P.: Toshy... .P.0.M.C.: Don t quite get
the hang of it J.P.O’C.: Tolerable jingle,
but the gloomy reflections of broken punters
have long lost their freshness J.P.: Poem
“To the Cat That Sits on the Turnstiles at
the Cremorne Ferry Wharf” feelingly declined,
M.Y.: Not our sort, but a remarkable im-
provement; try it elsewhere N.K.: Feeling
in it, but the verse is very rocky H.P.: Kan-
goola failed to stir any enthusiasm... .C.M.A.:
Steering clear of “The Pimp” H.F.H.: It’s
just a yarn... .J.S.: Fizzles 0ut....G.5.:
Nothing there that hasn’t been done better
before... .C.WJ.: Idea’s all right, but it
doesn’t quite get over A.H.: Neither does
yours... .W.D.F.: Very nearly took that one.
W.H.B.: Cleverly done, but not for us.
....K.H.: Stodgy... .J.8.C.: Though “inter-
national espionage” yarns rarely make the
grade yours began as if it would, then went to
the pack... .A.F.F.: You sent that one to the
wrong address F.F.: Slight J. 8.5.: Con
Drew handles that sort of thing better....
L. : Burnt as per instructions... .R.G.P.:
Both came close... .J.F.M.: Missed....
J.M.W.: That King’s Cross dog’s been written
of too often—and, please, get a new ribbon
for that typewriter... .J.R.L.: Not up....
M. : Doesn’t stick E.C.: The “cocky-
ess” didn’t bring so much as a smile... .M.M.:
Not for u 5.... A.H.: Makes hard reading
E.A.8.: “Is it worthy of use—or abuse?”
Neither; merely an average yarn... .D.W.Y.:
No life in it 8.D.8.: No reward for that
capture.. . .B.B.: Nor can we add to “The
Legacy” J.A.K.: Obvious D.C.: Just
missed out... .G.E.M.: Doesn’t get there....
E.S.: Afraid it can’t “go into The Bulletin
in a month’s time”—nor any other time....
M.B E.: Drags.. . .W.G.R. : Not in our line.
Adventure failed to stir us
F.X.R.: Don t like that racing yarn
Av H . Very nearly fixed M rs. V oal’s ghost
with a res ting-place... .G.S.C.: Not quite.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
L A . You must have ransacked a cemetery
for that batch of gags H.W.T.: Enormous;
but tbe basket was equal to swallowing it
RB- . Cartoon reveals some sense of humor,
but not a scrap of artistic ability... .P.D.:
y o u’ve given the gent, stilts instead of legs,
and t b e lady is in need of repairs A.P.:
Send your pictorial tilt at Sunday sport to some
re li g ious periodical W.G.: That chestnut
reached the retiring age years ago 8.N.:
stiff figures and ponderous jests C.A.:
Promising student’s work; look us up when
you ’ve finished your course T.S.F.: Can’t
appreciate your passion for scalloping outlines.
D.R.W.: The perfectly-proportioned tooth-
brush mo. was its one redeeming feature....
N.H.: Have pity on our eyes 8.T.: Missed,
but only by a small margin; pay more heed
to composition P.F.: Illustrations to riddles
for school-children are off our beat... .K.M.:
Select a broader nib, and look around for less
hackneyed wheezes... .D.W.: The “strip-tease”
dancer was wrapped in brown paper and sent
home M.J.C.: Yes, you can call and
remove your dead... .N.C.A.: You carry the
process of elimination too far H.S.: Not
in the market for illustrated “knock-knock”
jokes .... A.L.W.: Radio-church-service-ai.d-
collection-plate gag is at least 10 years 01d....
J.G.: Arriving during the wettest month for
50 years it deepened our g100m... .K. 8.:
Artist must have had a badly sprained wrist
when he put that on paper G.C.F.:
Youngster has some talent, but won’t get far
without lessons S.Y.: Don’t want transla-
tions of jests priqted in foreign papers
T.F.: Boil gags down and put more life into
drawings L.R.: Caricatures should be of
persons in the public eye... .C.C.:, A ragged,
untidy batch J. 8.: Black-and-white art is
not your vocation.
A MIXED GRILL.
“K.N.”: Sir Hugh Poynter is probably
one. of Sydney’s best linguists. French is
as easy to him as English. This is why
his translation of French Consul-General
Suzor’s book on big-game hunting is
both racy and picturesque. This book
strikes a note of hope for the not-so-
young who aspire to shoot lions and
tigers; Mr. Suzor let them alone till
youth was past. The backgrounds of
South America, particularly the Argen-
tine, Siam and South Africa are sketched
in with artistry. Here and there the
writer even trembles on the verge of
poetry.
* *■ ' * *
“Dungeness”: The British Phosphate
Commission has recorded an output of
over 1,000,000 tons of phosphatic deposits
from Nauru and Ocean Island for the
year which ended with June. The bulk
of it is absorbed in Australia and Maori-
land, and there is a constantly increasing
demand. Forty-five years or so ago, a
young analyst in the Sydney office of a
company which was making a bare liv-
ing from guano deposits in the South
Pacific happened to chip some pieces off
a lump of rock used as a doorstep at
the office, and put in a loose hour or
two on them in his laboratory. They
contained a high percentage of commer-
cially valuable phosphates. The rock had
been brought back, as a fossil curio, by
an employee of the firm who had looked
over Nauru for guano, without promis-
ing results.
* * * *
The “Cronk News” doesn’t only
specialise in war furphies. A book on
the King who wasn’t crowned preserves
a priceless “Cronk News” reference to
the cruise of the Nahlin, during which
photographers got snaps of Eddie and
Wally grinning in beach togs:
The “News-Chronicle” declared that the
King’s visits to the heads of the Greek,
Turk, Bulgarian, Yugoslav, and Austrian
States was a political move to restore con-
fidence in Britain after the collapse of
“sanctions” against Italy.
It is to be hoped that Eddie and Wally
were properly appreciative.
* * * *
“Ma'cann”: To an average set of ear-
drums there are few noises so hideous as
those which emanate from loudspeakers,
strung up at large, crudely tuned and
amplifying the talker’s voice enormously.
In Woollahra during the by-election cam-
paign, loudspeakers, blaring forth plati-
tudes, were used with indiscriminate dis-
regard for the feelings of anybody what-
ever. The only refuge for the more for-
tunate out in the open was to board a
tram and enjoy the peace of its compara-
tively soothing noise blanketing the other
out. ;To go indoors was no escape. The
voice of the speaker was “amplified to
about 3000 times his ordinary speech.”
Conveyed through an arrangement of
loudspeakers each “14ft. long and a yard
across the mouthpiece” the hideously dis-
torted voice penetrated inside houses on
the other side of the harbor. The patients
in two big hospitals were among the suf-
ferers. Reading was impossible in a
house completely shut. Thinking—
except of a hostile nature. —was out of
the question. Public men being what
they are, it is certain that the nuisance
will be repeated on a vast scale at the
general elections. That is, unless local
governing bodies do the least that can
be expected of them and put a stopper on
it in advance by declaring loudspeakers
in public places to be public nuisances.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Although the hours of
daylight grow steadily, albeit very
slowly, longer through July, it is Aus-
tralia’s coldest month. There is sound
reason behind the old saying that the cold
strengthens as the. day lengthens. Ever
since the March equinox the hours of
sunlight have been less than those of
night, with the result that the earth-
heat, radiated off, has been less than
that supplied. Also, the sun is only very
slowly returning from its furthest north-
ern point on June 21, and its obliquely-
directed rays enable less heat to be ab-
sorbed. The gain and loss in heat will
not be balanced until the early days of
August, and the hours of sunlight will
not equal those of darkness until the
September equinox, but in the interven-
ing weeks there will be a universal stir-
ring and awakening in the life which
now hibernates below the soil surface.
* * * *
“E.L.”: Asked in London why his
Government had sent to America for the
model of a military ’plane to be put to-
gether in Australia, Mr. Parkhill ex-
plained that “British machines of a suit-
able type could not be delivered under
two years.” He added that “the board”
had decided in favor of the American
model, and that when he “resubmitted
the report” the board “insisted” that the
American was the best general-purpose
machine. If the comic side of the ex-
planation was not immediately evident, a
hearty British laugh doubtless greeted
Mr. P.’s solemn announcement that
“Britain lacks the long-range types neces-
sary for the Commonwealth.” Even
before the development of the new
geodetic types, British military transport
’planes held world’s records for long-
distance non-stop flights, and among the
bomber and transport machines now in
the testing stage there are some which
could fly from London to Melbourne
comfortably in two hops.


<r\
%
9
t
c:
X
■
i
■I
.--.j
wm
\:n
■>%
K
'“~n .
w
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are mane at
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, T.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.:
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars jrom:-~
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. i
INC.
IN N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to "England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
#c4
?*======
I
V mr-=
T/=ii
-jfe
Champions: Past, Present and Future
After beating Corbett on March 17,
1897, Bob Fitzsimmons sent Larry Foley
a pair of diamond-studded sleeve-links,
inscribed “From the Champion Boxer to
. „
the Champion Teacher.
It was a simple statement of fact,
Fitzsimmons was the world’s best middle-
weight and heavyweight, and Foley was
the world’s best teacher. He must have
been a great boxer when he had assimi-
Infed all the lore that Tern Mace im-
iated all the lore, that Jem Mace im
parted to him ; he was unequalled in his
time as an instructor (and as a match-
maker withal), and has certainly not been
excelled since.
Before Foley went out of the game, in
the Roaring ’Nineties, Victoria had pro-
duced or trained such boxers as Farnan,
Lees, Creedon, Boland, Tracey, the Wil-
liams brothers, “Dummy” Mace, Peakes,
Hegarty, McGowan and Anthony. All
good men, but none a world-beater as
Jackson proved to be, and Fitzsimmons
and Griffo; nor was any of them the
peer of the best Sydney-trained boxer in
his division. It is only reasonable, to
suppose that Foley made the difference,
Americans candidly acknowledged the
superiority of the Foley-tutored boxers
who began to descend upon their country
in the late ’eighties, and American sport-
ing writers were keenly interested in
Foley’s methods. About 1895 they began
to remark that all Foley’s men stood up
straight, threw their weight forward, as
it were, depended, in the main, on the
left for offence and the right for defence
—except when an opportunity came, for
the delivery of a damaging or finishing
right-hander—and were stylists all. These
Australians, they wrote, were remarkable
for the quickness, rather than the force,
of their blows ; even the matchless Jack-
son owed his supremacy, not to slogging,
but to the science which enabled him to
stall off opponents until they had worn
themselves out by their vain efforts to
hit him. In common with other Austra-
bans Jackson habitually scored more
points than his opponent because his
blows had a shorter distance to travel,
and his quickness enabled him to fore-
stall and stop a perhaps harder hitter.
Here, and there it was suggested in the
U.S.A. that an upstanding Foley man,
though perfectly poised and beautiful to
watch, couldn’t hit as hard as a pug
whose centre of gravity was further back.
This objection disappeared when Fitz-
simmons, boxing in the F y y ,
demonstrated that he was Perhaps
most terrible puncher of all time.
i ■-
Learning from roiey.
One of Foley’s pupils still on deck in
Sydney is “Chiddy” Ryan. In the old
White Horse days Ryan was “Griffo’s”
pal and partner in four-round exhibition
bouts—they had over 100 in Sydney alone
—and he was to have followed his chum
to the U.S.A., having been invited to go
by Captain Morse of the Alameda, bene-
volent patron of migrating Australian
boxers in those days, but he was over-
home by his family When the late Bill
Corbett saw Griffo in New York alter
the Johnson-Jeffries fight at Reno, the
incomparable “fedder’s” first words were
“How is ‘Chiddy’ Ryan?”
Not long ago, Ryan contributed some
very interesting articles on old-time
fighters to the “S. M. Herald.’ For The
Bulletin he has written an account of
fifst introduction to Fo i ey .
~j was a boy jn Sydney when Foley
and the white Horse Hall were names
to conjure with. The hall stood in
George-street, where the Strand Arcade
i s now, and there many great boxers
were grounded in the art of self-defence
and had rousing mills with the, less great.
I wanted to be among them. For
upwards of a year I tried to get an mtro-
duction to Larry Foley through the m-
fluence of mutual acquaintances. They
always put me oft with Its no use,
“Chiddy”; you’re too young,
“At last I went straight to Larry him-
self. ‘Mr. Foley,’ I said, ‘I want to learn
boxing and I want you to teach me.’ ‘All
right,’ he replied, after looking me over ;
‘come to-morrow.’ I said nothing, but
my disappointment must have been
evident, for he called me back. ‘Would
you like to start right away?’ he asked.
‘You would? Then strip.’
“Larry was in gym. togs, and his fists
were cased in gloves, for he had just fin-
ished putting a couple of pupils through
their paces. He went up to them and
whispered something that made them
laugh. He must have told them he was
going to put the acid on me, for as soon
as I shaped up to him I stopped a stinger
with my nose. In I went, slatherum-
whack, in my own crude style, but he
gave me no more hard knocks in that
lesson, which lasted one round,
“At subsequent visits, I was taught
how to standj duckj f eint> i eack cross-
counter and defend myself. Foley was
mos { patient of teachers, and lesson
a ft er lesson was devoted to this part of
instruction until he was satisfied that
j had got the hang of it< F hen by the
same painstaking methods I was taught
how to duck t 0 th g, left and t 0 t h e right
without moving the legs, how to time
pr operly and how to develop a solid
p Unc h
« My old master > s master had been
g / £at Jem Mace> The main features
Q £ ]yj ace sys tem were a correct pose,
leading, blocking, countering, ducking,
feinting and body movements. Judging
by what I see, the Mace system is little,
taught nowadays. Jem Mace I never saw,
but j n my presence Foley would talk
about him for hours. Mace was the
father of scientific boxing in Australia ;
it was he who taught Peter Newton and
Newton who taught most of the noted
Victorians.
“I often saw Foley teaching Fitz-
simmons; ‘Griffo’ and Jim Hall, too.
Some of Foley’s pupils have not been
mentioned in The Bulletin articles:
George McKenzie, for instance, and
George Mulholland. Mulholland went
to England and fought a lightweight 108
iounds in the National Sporting Club—
yes, 108 rounds.
How Old-timers Trained.
“Public appearances? My first was
made in 1888 at the Carrington Hall,
Waterloo, where I knocked out a fellow
in a featherweight tournament. I knocked
out half a dozen in four nights and was
paid £4 4s. Twenty-four years later I
boxed four rounds with Dick Cullen, a
HARRY STONE,
As he looked in the days when he boxed
a draw with Abe Attell and got decisions
over Johnnie Summers and Fritz Holland.
good Californian lightweight (he settled
in Australia), and middle-aged as I was
and out of condition, the ‘Referee’ wrote
that I ‘made. Cullen look like 30 cents:
Ryan absolutely outboxed the young ’un
and vividly demonstrated the superiority
of the old style over the new.’ And in
1916 I gave a four-round exhibition with
Harold Hardwick three days before he
fought Darcy.
“That brings me to another point.
Modern boxers don’t last as long as the
old-timers did, although fights to a finish
were the rule, in the old days. The train-
ing has a lot to do with it. Athletes who
don’t train the right way for fighting can’t
box more than a couple of rounds with-
out tiring. A footballer develops leg
muscles for running and kicking, and
can play football for hours without
growing weary. Put that lad into the ring
on a football preparation and he will
have that tired feeling in five, minutes.
“Gymnasium work won’t make a pugi-
list fit, though it is widely believed that
it will. The best training for a boxer is
boxing, and plenty of it. Boxing, skip-
ping and ball-punching for featherweights
and lightweights; boxing, bag- and ball-
punching for welterweights, middle-
weights and heavyweights—that and
roadwork made men fit to fight 40 and
50 rounds and last 24 years in the busi-
ness, as Billy Murphy did. A wonderful
little fellow was Billy. He was only Bst.
41b., and I saw him knock out feather-
weights, lightweights, welterweights,
middleweights.
“Murphy was a great believer in box-
ing and roadwork. When he was training
for (I think) Sam Stewart, an list. 61b.
man whom he knocked out in 17 rounds,
Murphy and I left Foley’s hall one morn-
ing to ‘walk’ to South Head. We sprinted
most of the way. Arrived at South Head,
I boarded a Watson’s Bay ferryboat to
return to Sydney. Murphy walked back.
“But the long-distance record must go
to Fitzsimmons. His career in pugilism
began in 1880 when he won that tourna-
ment at Timaru. Jem Mace promoted it
and presented Bob with a pipe. On a
long-ago morning in Foley’s Hall, Fitz
told me that when handing it to him the
Gipsy said: ‘Lad, I hope you’ll keep it
till you win the championship of the
world.’ When Fitz came back to Syd-
ney in 1909 to fight Bill Lang, he said
to me: ‘ “Chiddy,” I kept that pipe, and
had it when I became middleweight
champion in 1891 and heavyweight
champion in 1897.’ Bob’s last fight was
a six-round no-decision bout with a
fellow named Knockout Sweeney. It
took place in 1914, so he was a fighting
man for 34 years. That shows what
Foley taught him.”
The Importance of Meat.
Foley never visited America, but
Americans interested in boxing knew all
about him, and those who visited Sydney
made it their business to seek him out
even 20 years after he had given up his
connection with the ring. About 1900
a trans-Pacific party called on him at
his house at Waverley and found him
in a voluble mood.
“You’re asking me,” he said, “why 1
haven’t sent you any more champions
like Peter Jackson and Fitzsimmons
lately. It isn’t because I can’t. They are
here, undeveloped. I could pick out a
hundred men in New South Wales to-
day, keep my eye on ’em, try ’em out
and in 12 months’ time I’d stake almost
anything but my immortal soul that I’d


You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
ONCE ASHAMED
OF HER FIGURE
Kruschen Made Her Slim,
Healthy and More Active.
Overweight and rheumatism often go together,
because they frequently arise from the same
cause. It follows, therefore, that the remedy
which cures the one complaint will also cure
the other. That was what happened in the case
of this woman.
“A year ago,” she writes, “I was racked
with pain from rheumatism and other com-
plaints. I also put on so much weight that
I was ashamed of my figure. I used to feel
so miserable, until I was persuaded by my hus-
band to take Kruschen Salts. After taking
Kruschen for a short time the rheumatism grew
less painful, my nerves got stronger, and 1
lost a lot of fat. I am not boasting when
I say that I feel younger and more active
every day. I have a much better figure and
am much healthier than I have been for some
years.”—(Mrs.) J.S.
Kruschen is an ideal blend of mineral salts
found in the waters of those European Spas
which have been resorted to from time imme-
morial for the relief of various ailments, in-
cluding rheumatism and obesity.
Who pays
them
after
you're
yone*?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget? .
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
. . . . whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE.,,
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office —371-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
tVingrello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
JULY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
INVESTORS AND THE STOCK EXCHANGE
GOLD QUESTION
BASIC WAGE
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
f mbassu
FOOTWEAR
for Gentlemen
FAULTLESS IN STYLE,
FLAWLESS IN CONSTRUCTION.
Smartly dressed men unfailingly choose Embassy
Footwear. Their sound judgment is an indica-
tion of the true worth of these fine shoes, which
add that essential touch of elegance and
individuality.
Wear the new Embassy Medium-pointed Toe.
Prices from 23/6.
PIKE
DROTWELRS • LI M IT ELD
OF ©UEL E_N ST. BRISBANE
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
have three world champions among them.
But I’ve, other fish to fry.”
He was getting Government contracts
for knocking down old buildings and
making big money.
“But I’m telling you the truth about
champions,” he went on. “We have ’em
in the raw, and always will have. Its the
country and the food. I’ve thought it
all out and I’m sure of it. Look at the
best fighting animals and the gamest.
What are. they? Why, the lion and tiger.
What do they feed on? Meat! That’s
the secret. Australians eat meat, and
plenty of it. It doesn’t matter what their
occupations are, if they’re reared on meat
they are natural fighters and game. Of
course, it is better if they’ve got an
Irish father; but a meat diet’s the prin-
cipal thing. Those fighters of mine were
made with meat.”
Larry was a “character,” and he was
entertaining strangers and intent on
amusing them; but a great truth was
wrapped up in his remarks. Young
fellows can’t grow into fighting men or
fight for all they are worth unless they
are well fed. Friends of Peter Jackson
always maintained that he suffered his
first defeat —the slow-moving Melbourne
blacksmith Farnan inflicted it—because
he entered the ring half-starved. For
weeks before the fight he hadn’t had a
square meal, and his own exertions more
than the enemy’s punches left him so
BERT SPARGO.
One of t he best of modern Australian
boxers. Now o referee in Melbourne.
weak and faint as to be at the mercy of
the first wild swing that landed on a
vital spot. And during the recent de-
pression there were many instances of
youngsters crumpling up in the ring
because they were ill-nourished.
Producing Champions.
Nevertheless, a lot more than good
feeding is required for the production of
champions. Is it worth while trying to
produce them? Other countries seem to
think it is. Nazi Germany has found the
prowess of Schmeling a help to its Hitler
Youth Movement and a useful political
advertisement. The old English con-
tempt for the French —“one Englishman
is as good as six Frenchmen” —began to
disappear when Carpentier started knock-
ing out the English heavyweights of his
time, Bombardier Wells and the Smiths
and Becketts, after going through the
English welterweights and middleweights.
“O. Henry,” who introduced Fitz-
simmons into one of his stories, lived
long enough to learn that he had blun-
dered when he wrote of “the pathetically
fistless Latin races.” An increased re-
spect for the Latins has developed since
Firpo, Camera, the Italian who fought
as Johnnie Dundee and a score of other
excellent Italian, Spanish, Mexican and
South American boxers have proved him
wrong.
According to all accounts, Tommy
Farr, who on his record is far and away
the best home-grown heavyweight that
Britain has had this century, is an ex-
ponent of the Jem Mace style, his prin-
cipal asset being a clean straight left. He
also claims to have had over 350 fights,
having gone from a coalpit into a boxing
tent. Reversion to the Jem Mace style,
and a sufficiency of carefully-planned
matches are necessary to the making of
champions. In Australia the one has
fallen into disuse; the other our boxing
tyros don’t get. Youngsters who in other
days would have been considered mere
novices are matched for title fights. Many
have been burnt out while still young-
sters.
Boxers Must Be
Protected.
Said the American Newman, who
brought Leo Kelly to Australia and made
a lot of money with him, though Kelly
was far from being first-class, “Your
boys are brought along too quickly. They
should be graduated through four-round,
six-round and eight-round matches
before they are allowed to box 15 rounds,
and they should be reserved for short
bouts until they are clearly able to go
15 rounds. In America we give bonuses
to boys shaping well in preliminaries.
The bonuses encourage them, but not to
the extent of inducing them to go out of
the four- to six-round class before they
are strong enough for 10- or 15-rounders.
Your boys don’t get enough boxing.”
It’s a true bill, and because coaching,
training and matchmaking have degen-
erated standards have, fallen away dread-
fully. Of recent years we have had
“champions” who never learned the rudi-
ments of the game. In sad cases they
had to retire early because, as pitying
friends have explained, they “took too
many punches about, the ’ead.” One of
the best of them was doing his stuff
when a pressman and an old-timer were
looking on. After delivering a punch
the “champion” would flounder and grab
wildly at his opponent to save himself.
“Very unsteady on his feet, isn’t he?”
said the pressman, who had never seen
him before. “What’s the matter with
him?” “He’s badly balanced,” the old-
timer explained. “That’s the trouble with
a lot of these young pugs —they’re not
properly balanced. Balance was the first
thing we were taught.”
“Australians need boxing commis-
sions,” said Newman, and Australia
does. Practically every other country in
which boxing is firmly established has
them. Until Australia gets them Aus-
tralia is unlikely to see another breed of
champions. In the old days boxing was
almost the only sport in which the young
Australian could hope to earn a living as
a professional athlete. The rise of track
cycling (now experiencing a great re-
vival) and football opened up other fields,
and still other forms of competition have
arisen, with the result that the Ring has
ceased to attract the finest physical
types. On the whole boxers are poorly
paid, and they have no workers’-com-
pensation insurance or anything like that.
Why should a lad go fighting for, at
the beginning, a few shillings a round,
and take his chance of being knocked
silly in a few years—punch-drunk and
useless for any calling—when he can do
far better as a professional footballer,
bike-pusher, motor-cyclist or lifesaver?
At boxing, as things are, he is unlikely
to make even the basic wage. v (In the
’nineties, no doubt, the Game got many
recruits because there was no basic
wage.)
It is by no means suggested that box-
ing commissions should be paid by the
State. They should be financed by stipu-
lated deductions from boxers’ and train-
ers’ earnings and promoters’ cuts. If
they were composed of the right men they
would secure for the public more sport-
ing contests and fof boxers more pay and
proper protection against bad match-
making and ring accidents. Also, they
might enlist the co-operation of men
like “Chiddy” Ryan, Jack Reid, Dave
Smith, Harry Stone and Bert Spargo, so
that, among other things, the best avail-
able skill and experience would be placed
at the service of the novice and he would
know where to get them.
Promoters should support the estab-
lishment of boxing commissions in then-
own interest. There is not much in their
business nowadays ; there would be big
money in it if the golden years of Aus-
tralian pugilism, 1888-1892 and 1911-
1915, returned. They are never likely
to return until existing methods are
reformed altogether.


“Oxmead”: Sydney “Sun” devotes one
of its Sunday pages to “School Notes,”
from which even adults may derive a
good deal of information, including rules
for the proper use of the English lan-
guage. But surely this is a case of
Homer nodding:
Try and use the Present Participle of a
■ verb in composing
There can hardly be a commoner sole-
cism or vulgarism in our language than
“Try and ,” yet 19 people, out of 20,
if not 99 out of 100, are habitually guilty
of it. I frankly admit that I have written
it again and again myself, until alert
sub-editor insisted on altering the “and”
to “to.” Then I reflected that nobody
ever says or writes “Attempt and meet
me” or “Endeavor and come,” and began
to speculate how “Try and” ever became
verbal currency. But when it gets into
even “School Notes” I fear it is beyond
eradicating.
*** . *
“R.L.”: Some years ago a widely-
known Maoriland businessman had one
almost invariable greeting for any ac-
quaintance he met: “Have you eighteen-
pence?” The amount represented the
price of whiskies for three, that being
considered the ideal school for a short
session. When Cruickshanks, the light-
ning-sketch artist, visited Dunedin his
most successful caricature was a figure
in frock-coat and silk hat with “Is. 6d. ’
where the face should have been. Before
the chalk stopped the Princess Theatre
audience shrieked out the correct name.
One musical celebrity, after a visit to
the Dominion, addressed a letter from
London to “Eighteen Pence, New Zea-
land.” It was promptly delivered to the
right quarter.
* M: * *
“Ex-Navy”: I can beat “Salt Horse’s”
entry for the staying power of salt meat
(B. 16/6/’37) by many years. In H.M.S.
Drake in January, 1913, we were issued
with salt pork from casks inscribed
R.V.Y.P. (Royal Victualling Yard, Ports-
mouth), a.d. 1807. The paymaster as-
sured us it was perfectly fit to eat, and
he was right.
* * * *
“Bos’n”: The title of “captain,” like
“doctor” or “professor,” is very loosely
used (B. 16/6/’37). I recall a marine
inquiry at which a ship’s skipper in the
witness-box was addressed by a barrister
as Mr. “Captain, please,” corrected the
witness. Nevertheless, counsel was quite
right. The master of a vessel is a plain
Mister; it is as a master he signs the
ship’s articles, not as a captain.
“Kwakprak”: A lot of car-drivers
ought to get and read the M.L. Trans-
port Department’s “Road Code,” especi-
ally the passages on the effects of alcohol
on motor-drivers. One stiff whisky, it
sets out, slows the average driver’s pull-
up length by 10ft. at 50 m.p.h. Also, it
reduces his brake- and steering-control
by 15 p.c., and results in an increase of
road speed of from five to 15 m.p.h.—
of which the driver is not aware. The
amount of alcohol that would leave a
man on foot cold sober may render a
motorist actively dangerous when driv-
ing his two-ton projectile. “Short drinks”
on an empty stomach are the most fre-
quent trouble-makers. Alcohol’s worst
effect is that it does not remove the
fatigue feeling, but merely substitutes for
it one of entire competency and well-
being.
He * * $
“Ron J.”: What seems an almost in-
credible railway mishap occurred when
the Up Brisbane Express was speeding at
40 miles an hour from Casino to Grafton.
A sudden erratic lurching of the heavy
engine caused the driver to swiftly check
over his controls and glance back at the
long string of carriages. Everything
seemed right. Still apprehensive* he clam-
bered out to get a close-up of the spin-
ning wheels beneath him, but had to
return to the cab completely baffled.
Later, marks were discovered on the per-
manent way which proved beyond all
doubt that the engine had leapt the rails,
bumped over the sleepers for a few hun-
dred yards, and then, striking the check
rail of a level crossing at high speed, had
been jerked back to its normal position
on the rails.
* * 3: *
“Ex-Officer”: That yarn of “Hanko’s”
(B. 16/6/’37) about the officer friend
whose sword got entangled in tent ropes
after a big night at the mess could only
become credible if it were explained what
the officer was doing with a sword at that
time. In the army in which I wielded a
sword there was an invariable rule against
bringing any equipment of that sort into
the mess.
**■ ' *
“Pitt St.”: “Deer sir,” ran the letter
received by a city office, “I got the
radiator you sent to me alright, but the
thing won’t work. It goes all red in the
middle when you switch on, and gets
verry hot, but I’m blowed if any musick
or words comes through it. It’s the funny-
est radiator I ever seen.” Hasty dispatch
of new radio, with instructions to firm’s
agent in nearest town, is expected to ease
the Situation.
* * * *
“C. Mac”: Banned for years by our
censors and now admitted, with no ex-
planation for' either action, Huxley’s
Brave New World is offered for sale in
Sydney with appropriate historical refer-
ence. Thus, as happens in such cases, the
banning achieved nothing except to
ensure that all hands who would not
“IVhat’s another Word for ‘passionateMiss Jenkins?”
ordinarily have seen the book —including
those the censorship professes to save
from themselves —will now certainly
read it. These will feel that they have
been grievously misled. Far from being
a concocter of pornography, or anything
else on which a sane censorship would
act, Huxley is a clinical Puritan. Even
his style has an astringency apparently
derived from some laboratory process.
Those who feel like investing in his book
for anything other than sharp intellectual
entertainment would be well advised to
save their -money for the movies.
* =i= * *
“Cimex”: It isn’t only doctors who dis-
agree :
S. M. Herald
(June 25).
Huberman gave an
extraordinariy vivid
performance of the
Brahms D Major
Concerto last night
at the Town Hah.
It was an inter-
pretation ripened
and enriched by a
whole lifetime of
study and of keen in-
tellectual and emo-
tional development.
Energised by his
example, the general
body of players gave
of their best.
Telegraph
(same date).
Huberman’s per-
formance of
Brahms’s Concerto
in D Minor at the
Town Hall last night
was rather disap-
pointing.
His usually impec-
cable intonation was
quite often at fault.
His support from
the orchestra was
anything but inspir-
ing.
You pay your money and have your
choice of believing Granny in ecstasies
or her rival in the doldrums.
* * * #
“Semaphore”: We were on our way
back from laying the 6ft. deep telephone
cable to Hill 63 (Messines), as one of
the preliminaries to the battle, when
Fritz started a strafe that compelled us
to detour. A machine-gun rally hastened
our departure in the black night, and
caused us to plump into an old section
of barbed wire, the crossing of which
was not assisted by the. occasional sweep
of the searching machine-gun. “Ginger”
suffered most on the flank, and found
himself at the finish with his uniform
torn to pieces and bleeding from a host
of scratches. . In the safety of the dug-
out we all had an extra issue of rum
(30 per cent. 0.p.), with an extra helping
for Ginger. By the time this had acted
he was ready to return and take on the
Kaiser with his fingernails. . “What’s
wrong with you, Ginger?” asked the
skipper after hearing the report. Ginger
gathered breath. “Gunned us —hie —
gunned us,” he said irascibly. “I dunno
where .they didn’t' ’it me. Take a peek—
I’m shot to ruddy ribbons!”
* * * *
“E.C.H.”: Japan’s a needlessly long
way to go to see notices, in quaint Eng-
lish (B. 23 /6 / ”37). Tacked on an electric-
light pole in front of our leading store in
the main street, my eye lit on the fol-
lowing announcement, and curiosity sent
me to-the sale to see what it meant:
NOTCE J. F. -
Wil Sel Sum tills privet at hes back yard
most farm an garden tols
, 1 ' - Satday tweny May
I bought a rake and a stable-broom.
«i»
“Harold Hardupp”: Recent mention
of our political poets recalls one or two
leading Sydney citizens of their day, out-
side politics, who had an appalling faith
in themselves as bards. One such ran
f pubs and boarding-houses, and, on one
; occasion, even a circus. Every hard-up
bard or poetaster of that period knew
that a certain way of getting a skinful
of drinks and a little spending silver was
to ask him to read some of his verses.
The author expected—in fact, insisted
upon —flattery, and invariably presented
a copy of his doggerel after the ordeal.
Another was a city tobacconist who daily
scrawled his verse efforts about current
events in soap letters across his window.
He, too, loved to mix with writers and
feel that he was a man and a brother.
One of his boasts was that Henry Law-
son was a daily customer, who was
never asked to pay.
* * ip *
“Teed”: The finest panoramic view in
Australia has been seen by a mere hand-
ful' of people. It may be obtained from
the top of-Mount Selwyn, on the rugged
Barry Mountains (Victorian Alps).
Although less than 5000 ft. above sea
level, Selwyn is the centre of an impos-
ing Circle of mountains. Not the least
remarkable feature is that in all the
miles of country in sight there is not a
sign of human habitation.
* * * *
“Orwell”: Chinese in Australia im-
port £20,000 worth of rice a year,
although that grown on the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation area is cleaner and
better flavored. Locally-made spaghetti
is similarly ignored by Italians who can
afford to get supplies from their native
country. Curiously enough, the unpopu-
larity of these two articles of diet, as
procurable in Australia, is due to quite
different causes. The yellow man insists
on rice that can be boiled so that every
grain is separate. The Latin objects to his
staffof life, breaking before the full
force of suction has been expended.
Local products are held to lack the two
essentials mentioned.
* * * *
“Kauri”: Cable operators have their
weaknesses, like the rest of us, and one
way they have of filling in odd moments
is to tap out on the tape machine a
little story beginning “Have you heard
this one?” Then, in the slack hours, the
tape is fed through the transmitter. The
operator at the next station has his grin
and speeds the item on its way a few
hundreds or thousands of miles along the
line. The censor wouldn’t let me publish
the last one I heard from that source,
but meet me at the “Pig and Whistle”
some time, and I’ll oblige.
* * * V
“Narooma”: The beret is most suit-
able headgear for working in a confined
space, particularly among machinery. In
the Tanks in their early days, the stiff ser-
vice cap was worse than a tin hat, which
at least gave protection against collisions
with overhead steelwork. The present
Basque-like headgear of the Tank Corps
is one of the most sensible things ever
credited to the War Office. In Australia
workers who have taken to the beret in-
clude also woolpressers and rouseabouts
in the western N.S.W. shearing sheds.
They have been wearing them for years
to keep the red dust out of their hair.
* * * *
“Newtowner”: Touching these much-
paragraphed kilts, there are only five
Highland regiments which are really en-
titled to them and have genuine tartans of
their own. These are the Gordons, Sea-
forths, Black Watch, Camerons and
Argyle and Sutherlands. On donning the
kilt, the recruit kneels down and
braces are adjusted so that the tip of the
garment just touches the floor, which en-
sures that all kilts reach the bottom of the
knees. They are fastened, of course, by
two buttons at the waist. Breeks have
always been worn under the kilts, except
for 12 months in France. In 1916 they
were abolished on account of vermin, but
in 1917 they were restored.
* * * *
“Prac”: The deathrate from typhoid
or enteric fever (B. 9/6/’37) has been
falling like a stone down a well since
1888, the date when the Dairies Supervi-
sion Act struck the first blow against the
disease. It’s not the doctors with their
inoculations who have done the trick, but
sanitary inspections, garbage disposal and
fly-swatting. The average Sydney or Mel-
bourne man has as much chance of
dying from leprosy or sleeping sickness as
from typhoid. Lord Roberts’s army cer-
tainly had a tough time with typhoid
outside Bloemfontein, but there was a
war on then, and wars give any disease a
fillip.
sfc # * *
“Gotha”: Coronation numbers in
English papers, with their back reviews
of the eight monarchs since the Stuart
dynasty petered out, set one thinking
how German most of them were in every-
thing but residential qualification. George
I. could hardly understand his subjects’
mother tongue ; George 11. spoke it with
difficulty, and both had German wives.
In George 111. —“Farmer George”—the
Hanoverian stock was by way of becorn-
ing thoroughly naturalised, but he, too,
had a German consort. His two sons,
George IV. and William IV., were simi-
larly equipped. Then came his niece
Victoria, to be furnished with a German
husband. Edward VII. broke the sequence
by marrying a Danish princess. George
V. found an English bride to share his
throne, but the Queen Mother is the
daughter of a German duke. The dash
of Scottish blood introduced into the
royal family by the Queen is therefore a
novelty, though, of course, the King got
a dash of Scottish blood from the Stuarts.
* . ■ # * *
“Excise”: When passengers see squads
of overalled men exploring a steamer
with torches and steel rods they can
make a pretty safe bet that Anon,
has put the Customs up to the likeli-
hood of opium being smuggled ashore.
And it isn’t always for a reward, if
any. Suppose, for instance, I had a
parcel of dope I was trying to unload and
I got word that someone else was bring-
ing in a parcel. Am I going to let the
other fellow land his lot on an already
top-heavy market and cruel all my
profits? Hardly ; but with his lot seized
and confiscated, the value of mine rises.
;1; $ * *
“Rokko”: The elderly lady descended
from the tram at the terminus near the
once-notorious Rocks area, and looked
nervously at the dimly-lighted street that
led to the M.L. steamer. She voiced her
apprehension to a more elderly but
cheerful-looking woman who was stand-
ing by. “Don’t you worry, lady,” said
the other. “This place is as respectable
as a church nowadays. Why, you’d
never know it for what it was when
I come here 50 years ago. Lively!
There was fights every night, and you
couldn’t go out without being hit on the
head with a bottle. After a jubilee
or anythink like that there wouldn’t be a
window whole in the street. I dunno
what’s the matter with the young folk
to-day—they’re that quiet. Don’t seem to
have no go in ’em at all.”
DEFINITELY A MENACE.
“Australian poultry farmers have protested vigor-
ously against the request of Australian Chinese for
a lower duty on lOO-year-oldi eggs imported from
the Flowery Land.”
These ancient googs, in beautiful condition
Of overripeness, would be just the thing
With which to sock a spouting politician.
Or hand to ma-in-law when breakfasting.
But seeing Chinks devour them for nutrition,
Letting the flavor to their palates cling,
Our hen-fruit cockies naturally dread
Lest taste for these comestibles should spread.
’Tis well they take this instantaneous action,
Which has its genesis in self-defence,
To scotch what might become a big attraction
To all of us to try the difference
(If any) in degree of putrefaction
’Twixt these and eggs in our experience.
They’d be no worse than some that masquerade
Beneath the brave old banner of “new laid”!
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


mm
m
. ■ i ■'s?
m.
To prevent ’Flu, sprinkle a few drops
Eucalyptus on your handkerchief —it quick
germs.
Attack ‘dF'iu 3 ways
DoubleD
Uticaliffttud £xPmct
’PLU germs settle in the nose, throat and bronchial tubes and must be attacked
1 at these ttiree sources if you would make a speedy recovery from your ’Flu. The
Take-Rub-Inhale metliod of the Double “D” Eucalyptus 3-Way Treatment enables the
antiseptic vapors of Double “D” to penetrate these three main centres in which the
flu germs lurk.
□
□
TAKE
'’ t> %
RUB
i. -
INHALE
3 drops of Double “D” on a lump of sugar.
chest and back thoroughly with Double “D.”
15 drops of Double “D” in hot water before
retiring.
You cannot' do better than follow the Double “D” 3-Way Treatment —it smashes ’Flu
in record time. Double “D” Eucalyptus is double distilled, thus ensuring that all
impurities, such as Phellandrene, are removed. It contains over 70 p.c. Cineol, and
conforms in every way with the British Pharmacopoeia standard.
For your own safety demand Double "D" and take no other.
9d.
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
/
fg
The causes which produce Rheumatism are often silently accumulating
in the system for years. Poor digestion, stomach troubles, weak
kidneys, torpid liver and a general inactive condition of the system
leave the refuse and waste matter, which should be carried off, to
sour and form uric acid, which is absorbed into the blood streams.
When the blood is in this acid-charged condition, it deposits the poisons
and irritating particles with which it is loaded into the muscles, nerves,
joints and bones, and we suffer from what is commonly known as
Rheumatism.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are for one purpose only, and that is to
assist weak kidneys to become strong and healthy again, helping them
to remove excess uric acid from the system, and by invigorating and
cleansing the blood of the acid poisons, and sending a stream of fresh,
rich blood to all parts, remove the pain, reduce inflammation and
bring lasting relief from Rheumatism in a very short time.
Buy a bottle of Gin Pills from your Chemist and begin your
campaign against Rheumatism to-day.
m
>\ ;'
mm- m
pppspii
anp
a
• J
,
■
FT.
m
t- •• -
......
£*2
■
HI
/
■
27 Pills 1/9 60 Piiis 2/9
Take 2 Pills
To-night—
you’ll feel better
T o-morrow!
YOUR KIDNEYS “let you down” GIN PILLS WILL “pick you up
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers livinq outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
s
>
<TLo
G°> v -**'*
A* 6
** ;*»
w
c \i^
v^'
.* f-°"
p
o
\0
. •'
a <,\cV v o'
of) \9 '\ v> S^ c>


or Australian farmers
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
ft
I
s
-z-_
K
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE . ..
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE POSTS will not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc .
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING ...
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. War at ah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
The World*s Best
ii \
HAND
RYLANDS
I
'mum
MADE BY
BROS. (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers *
Handbook
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
1
