

Introduced in 1934
anti still the Leading Lady!
ff.
**
mm
m
■:“■> ' ■
. ■:>'
:i?Mi
' J
i
• : *%
Wmmm
:r
&
1111
SE#
*SKSg : f
lit
w>:;:
i:;:
■
I
fill
m
:::S:^
:•:#:
mi
:': V;
'1
x ; x-:
7:
m
: If!
7!!7!
;• i-
■:: 7:
The spotlight of success singles out the star of modem motor fuels - Atlantic Ethyl. For
its unbroken record of brilliant performances in the last, three years this fuel
has been voted firm public favourite and its popularity is still increasing!
Why not enjoy the company of this star-performer yourself? Drive with Atlantic Ethyl!
Tn lore etmrnrfssron cars (almost all models built before 1934) Atlantic Petrol is sufficient to develop full power output.
|AE 4.48.37|
The Bulletin
“The Workers 9 Paradise ”
Vol. 58.—N0. 2990.
Wednesday, June 2, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S feoOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Bloch,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
I
mssLiJwiafl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Rams
My Address • • •
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in b?° k torrn ’
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If P. u , b lisheci as_a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid tor a
bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will £
eligible to enter for the competition works which must oe m
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, eith
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume , and the true name and add
of the author must accompany each entry m a ? ea ilr de Sn'
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right, to withhold the Prize it no wo
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an a •
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize vuu
added to the following year’s Prize
The Red Page
COWARD IS NO COWARD.
The phenomenal success of Noel Coward on the
English stage shows what can happen to a man when
foitune provides him with the opportunity to work
out his destiny in the calling for which he is by
nature fitted and he backs his luck with sheer hard
work. There is no doubt that Coward was born
to be an actor and playwright. He showed this when
at the mature age of two -plus he danced in the aisle
at a church service, and yelled so much when his
performance was interrupted that he had to be taken
home; and before he was ten he hated singing
anthems in church because the absence of applause
depressed him.
All the members of his family were fiercely
musical and played discreetly in local theatricals; but
there was an uncle who ran concert parties at an
English seaside resort, and Noel’s first taste of fame
and unquenchable thirst for more came when he won
a children’s competition and carried home as. first
prize a box of chocolates that was three-parts shav-
ings. In which there is something symbolical.
There was another uncle, by the way, who cleared
out to Canada, married a pianist, had a daughter,
deserted them both, and has never been heard of by
the family since, except for “a few vague rumors from
Australia.”
Coward tells of this with the most engaging
frankness and not a little of the exhibitionism that
is common to the theatre in his autobiography, Present
Indicative (Heinemann; 12s. 6d. net). But if the
reader takes up this volume with the idea that
Coward’s own story would be a weaving of his private
life into a design for living he will be disappointed.
Instead he will get as faithful a picture of the English
and American present-day stage as he is ever likely
to read.
The book was obviously written at the same
furious pace at which he wrote his plays by a man
famous enough to be absolutely honest and far too
busy to be bothered about any attempt to dissemble.
Vital, alert, alive, Coward reproduces the atmosphere
of constant excitement that surrounds the theatre by
the swift narration of his story—the curtain is no
sooner down on one scene than it is up for the next,
with the actors waiting on eager toes in the wings
and Coward himself already in the centre of the stage.
Before he ever reached there he had visions of
himself on Broadway:
Broadway by night seemed to be my cup of tea
entirely. Its splendors and its noise and its crowds
haunted my imagination. Its gigantic sky-signs dazzled
my dreams, flashing in a myriad lights, with unfailing
regularity, the two words “Noel Coward.”
It was a dream that was to come true, but not
yet, though he sold a play to a Manhattan producer
for 2000 dollars, which was a windfall “which even
my self-confidence was unable to meet calmly.” He
celebrated by expensive lunches at a restaurant which
had provided him with many free meals in his days
of penury.
His first play, “I’ll Leave It to You,” was based
orr an idea of Gilbert Miller’s. His comment reveals
the man Coward:
The dialogue, on the whole, was amusing and un-
pretentious and the construction was not bad, but it
was too mild and unassuming to be able to awake
any really resounding echoes in the hearts of the great
public... .1 had at least the sense to write a part in the
play for myself in which I should undoubtedly, when
the moment came, score an overwhelming personal
triumph. . - ■
After being tried out in Manchester it ran for
five weeks in London, and Coward, selling the amateur
rights for a comfortable sum, was a playwright. In
no time he had produced the review “London Calling,”
with Gertrude Lawrence, which was a great success
for three months, until Gertrude left the cast to go
to America. He played on to diminishing houses, and
decided to go to America, too, and here he casually
indicates the amazing energy with which he has been
gifted: —-
It was considered by some people to be very foolish
of me to chuck up a forty-pound-a-week job merely to
satisfy my mania for travel and change, but to me it
wasn’t foolish at all. It was the result of careful
thought.
To remain hopping about in a revue for which all my
spontaneous enthusiasm had died ages ago, only for the
sake of the salary, seemed to be a static, over-cautious
policy. I felt, sincerely enough, that my creative impulse
was suffering from the monotony of eight performances
a week, and although during the run I had managed
to write two full-length plays, “Fallen Angels” and “The
Vortex,” I was far from satisfied... .The future was
drawing near and I was already twenty-four.
.‘The Vortex” opened the door to fortune. When
the curtain came down finally on the first night:
The first person to clutch my hand was Michael
Aden His face was white with excitement, and he
said: “I’d be so proud, so very proud, if I had written
it.”
And ordinary acquaintances asked him “How
does it feel tp be a genius?” which gives Coward the
opening to say what he thinks of himself:
The general illusion that success automatically trans-
forms ordinary human beings into monsters of egotism .
has, in my case, been shattered. I am neither conceited,
overbearing, rude, nor insulting to waiters.... I am
neither stupid nor scared, and my sense of my own
importance to the world is relatively small. On the other
hand, my sense of my own importance to myself is
tremendous. I am all I have, to work with, to play
with, to suffer and to enjoy. It is not the eyes of others
I am wary of, but my own. I do not intend to
let myself down more than I can possibly help, and I
find that the fewer illusions that I have about me or the
world around me the better company I am for myself.
Followed success after success, with one big crash
over “Sirocco.” Coward has written the words of 20
plays, two with the music, four revues, four volumes
of miscellaneous writing, besides this autobiography;
and he is now 37.
A Woman on the North.
A few years ago a book about Northern Australia
was something of an event Now it is a rare season
which does not produce two or three. The experi-
enced reader of them can forecast the contents and
atmosphere of them without opening the covers. There
will be lonely bushmen, the humming overland tele-
graph line, luggers, the curiously shaped Darwin
wharf, buffaloes, galvanised iron and plenty of arti-
ficial confidence about the future.
“Vast potentialities,” “unlimited resources” and
crocodiles are the plums and lemon-peel in most of
these classics. Some day a local northerner will arise
who will forget saurians and buffaloes and mulga and
come a little nearer to the deadly monotony of
northern town life and the sameness of bush existence.
The latest effort of the northern school has been
produced by Ernestine Hill after wandering round the
top and centre of the continent for several years.
Her book is called The Great Australian Loneliness
(Jarrolds), though she does not ever appear to have
had cause to be lonely. It differs from most other
books in that she takes lightly a good many of the
problems which other writers settle twice every mon-
soon, and that a longer sojourn and wider journeying
have given her a wider range of material.
Allowing for a certain romantic inflation, her
effort is the most comprehensive northern epitome
which has been written for many a year. She
admits that she began her travels completely
inexperienced in outback conditions, and it is
probably this fact which adds descriptive zest
to her impressions of such out-of-the-way spots
as Shark Bay and Cossack, Broome and Borro-
loola. Her journeyings were wide—-virtually right
round the continent, and particularly the whole length
of the northern coast, with excursions by sea to the
out-of-the-way Carpentaria Gulf ports. And she also
saw a good deal of the inland down to the Flinders
Ranges and into the mining country.
Any novelist looking for characters will find her
book a rich mine—Mrs. Witchety, the white woman
who married a black and lived in a blacks’ camp
after his death, the polyglot Hunters of the north-
west, the old men of Borroloola, the luggermaster
Harney, whose beat is down the western side of Car-
pentaria Gulf, and an assorted medley of pearl-
buyers and experts, drovers, policemen, civil servants
and mixed bloods, forming a caste which Kipling
would have liked to know.
The volume is well illustrated, and it gaitis by
a certain modesty of attitude in the authoress—as
distinguished from her attitude to atmospheres and
situations —towards her own achievement in accom-
plishing her journeys. They certainly could not have
been either easy or comfortable to a woman bred to
city life.
X. T.
Broadcast Advertising.
Radio Advertising in Australia, by W. A. McNair
(Angus and Robertson; 355.), is a book which would
have pleased Carlyle. Its author’s appetite for facts
is insatiable, and, lest the reader should lose one-tenth
of one per cent, of the information that bears upon
the problems of the prospective or actual radio adver-
tiser, he has gone far outside his brief and compiled
a complete history of and an account of the present
condition of broadcasting in Australia, put into per-
spective by copious comparisons with conditions in
other lands.
Mr. McNair spent two years issuing question-
naires and compiling tables and charts dealing not
only with radio advertising but with competing modes
of publicity. He is able to state the circulation and
advertising rates of every important newspaper, as
well as of every commercial broadcasting station in
the country. He has ascertained that Australian
traders spend £14,000,000 a year on making their
wares known, and that only one-eighth of that sum
goes for wireless propaganda. He finds that the
commercial broadcasters in Sydney and Melbourne
alone have a revenue from advertising as large as
the whole amount the A.B.C. receives from license
fees, while the commercial stations as a whole have
double that revenue. He goes deeply into the pycho-
logical reaction of the public to radio and newspaper
advertising respectively, and sums up, very fairly, the
respective advantages and disadvantages of both
systems. .
But whereas this large thick volume, teeming with
tables and charts compiled according to the latest and
most scientific statistical methods, can convey very
precise information as to what the newspaper adver-
tiser gets for his money, there is more speculation and
deduction about the broadcasting side of the matter
than the copper tacks of fact. That’s not Mr. Mc-
Nair’s fault. He was not able to extract from the
commercial stations all the information he desired.
To even attempt to summarise what he has discovered
by communicating directly with thousands of listeners
is impossible here. It need only be said that this
volume is a sincere and industrious attempt to throw
light on a phase of business which heretofore has
been wrapped in total darkness, and that no fact
which could be educed has been left in hiding by
the author.
National Songs and Their History.
In Songs That Made History, by H. E. Piggott
(Dent and Sons; 3s. 6d.), something is added to
information—rather scanty in some instances, and
scattered through a vast variety of works of reference
—concerning the origins of songs that have been
adopted by whole nations.
Foremost comes “God Save the King.” We have
the authority of Beethoven for the assertion that it
is a good strong tune, and the fact that the U.S.A.
uses it for “My Country, ’Tis of Thee,” that Prussia,
in pre-republican days, sang “Heil, Dir im Sieger-
krantz” to its strains, and that Switzerland’s
national anthem still goes to the same melody
is some sort of guarantee that it has a digni-
fied and patriotic flavor. But who wrote it?
It is ascribed to Dr. John Bull, who was Court
musician to James 1., on the evidence of a manu-
script volume of Bull’s harpsichord pieces which came
to light in the middle of last century. But the “ayre”
was not as it had left Bull’s hand. It had been
doctored up with sharps to convert it from a minor
key to A major. However, there is an identity of
structure, easily apparent, with the tune which nowa-
days makes us stand up. There is, however, no clear
evidence that Bull wrote the melody. Other “ayres”
in his MS. book (which has been lost for close on
a century) were popular melodies of the seventeenth
century, just “arranged” by Bull, and this may have
had the same obscure origin. It seems to have
attracted to itself something like the present words
in 1688, 60 or 70 years after Bull penned his score,
and it was not till 1743, 55 years later still, that words
and music got into print together. They blazed their
way into public favor in 1745, when a version scored
by the erudite Dr. Arne, director of music at Drury
Lane Theatre, was sung at that playhouse in honor
of George 11., as a smack at the “knavish tricks” of
the Jacobites. Fifty years later still we find a son of
Henry Carey, composer of “Sally in Our Alley” and
other good old ditties, claiming that his dad was the
author of the air Arne appropriated, but the claim
was disallowed. Arne’s version, with a few deft
touches that vastly improve it, stands to-day.
In the section Mr. Piggott devotes to Irish songs
there is additional evidence that Thomas Moore,
whose name is tacked to so many fine ballads, was
not above pinching a good tune. Grove gives some
examples of the eleven airs out of sixteen which
Moore lifted from Bunting’s “Collection of Irish Airs”
(1796), but misses the most flagrant steal of all—
“ Love’s Young Dream,” which derives from “The
Shan Van Voght,” Mr. Piggott’s reproduction of which
places the matter beyond doubt.
Touching on “The Marseillaise” Mr. Piggott
reveals that, contrary to all the legends, it wasn’t com-
posed or even first sung in Marseilles, and that there
is no record that its composer, Rouget de Lisle, e-ver
sang it in public, despite all the Academy pictures
that represent him beefing it forth. The song was
composed in Strasbourg, and was first sung by the
Mayor of that city, Baron Dietrich, who boasted a
robust tenor voice. That was on April 25, 1792, the
music and words having, been evolved by De Lisle in
a few hours in the early morning of the same day.
It was a month before the song got to Marseilles, but
there a great professional singer declaimed it, and its
success was immediate. So the Chant de guerre pour
(Continued on page 8.)


IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act.
ANTHONY
‘THE SENIOR STORE.’
■ "N
<m\A Utal Oauu m.
EASY CHAIRS
' ' m
Hi
- $
aiil
. .
■Vt
XV, •
m
w
iL ,'v)^
■mm
Tired?. . . Then sink into
an easy chair a chair
that has just that little
extra height in design that
ensures head rest and
makes all the difference
between a chair and an
easy chair. The chairs
illustrated here represent
some of the most popular
designs that promise years
of comfort and service.
&
&
SMOKER'S CHAIR
2.—Smoker’s chair in fabrikoid. Sleepy-
hollow type, but adjustable to various
angles. Fitted with pipe rack.
In oak or maple. Price . .
£7's'-
BjBS§fPPsjP? fXfsmmxy.
mitm
mmm
mmmi
mmM
Wm
m
BOH
m
y
5
SHil
ssm
mm
m
sm
■
m
!SB3sR
' **
fUIS
7, -V
Sf ■
agg&gS
i Si
••
very
with
"KANGAROO" ROCKER
3.—The “Kangaroo” rocker is a
popular fireside chair. In tapestry,
polished-wood arms. £2'l9'6
In Genoa velvet, 7/6 extra.
Price
"CHAMPION"
s.—The "Champion” easy chair is- fully
sprung, and is fitted with a spring-filled
loose cushion covered i
tapestry. Price .
In Genoa velvet, 15/- extra.
£4/4'-
"REGAL"
6.—The “Regal” chair is fitted with a
sprung back which automatically adjusts
itself to the weight of the user, and gives
a feeling of comfortable
suspension. Price ...
In Genoa velvet, 7/6 extra.
£4/12/6
"RENOWN"
7.—The “Renown” chair, with large, com-
fortably-shaped back and recesses. The
back and seat are adjustable and give a
maximum of comfort in any £ M Ckl£t
position. In tapestry. Price, 'JL ' w
In Genoa velvet, 7/6 extra.
"RICHMOND"
B.—The “Richmond” has a deep, sprung
loose cushion seat and polished frame.
. £3/10/-
In Genoa velvet, 12/6 extra.
O Furniture Third Floor. Free Delivery
to City and Suburbs only.
mm*
MORRIS CHAIR
I.—Morris chair, with adjustable back which
reclines at various angles to v suit the user.
Available in tapestry or 1 O !££.
fabrikoid. Price °
In Genoa velvet, 7/6 extra.
4
It
a
2L.cS
l**Jr*.. * “vc
hi.
LADY'S READING CHAIR
4.—Lady’s reading chair, with polished-wood
arms and convenient recesses for sewing,
books, etc. In tapestry.
Price
In Genoa velvet, 7/6 extra.
7
£ i
! ? V..<5
* $.«
V !' I '
iff*
i '■ Y" f I I; I 2
pJMt-Ujzi
i ?■ .< r •> j -r r .<"■ y ■
.:'/ .•/ .. V ; i./ V- c' i '*
m
Mmim
m
li|llll§
liiiiii
B
HB H
HB
I
"Us#
ANTHONY HORDERN and SONS LTD., SYDNEY


Comedy with cl Sting in Its Tail
James Winfer, JOURNALIST
BY STEVE BENNETT
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
LL r\ RTICLES like this,” he said emphatically,
r \ pushing aside his mug and folding the news-
/ \ paper noisily on the bar, “cause wars.”
“Whenever I read an article like that
I imagine I know the bloke who wrote it. There’s
an old shipmate of mine in some newspaper office in
Australia writin’ articles like that—articles that stir
up your blood against some individual or some
country, and make you feel like hopp.n’ miotic*.
I wouldnt be surprised to know that this article here
was written by Jimmy Winter, although it’s thirty
vpars since T saw the bliehter
years since i saw tne Diigmer.
“I met him first in the shippin’ office in London
and took a likin’ to him at once. He was an awk-
wardly-built young feller for a sailor, but he had a
smile that reminded a man of trade-wind weather:
Mue sky, bright sunshine, chuck,in' wave,
in the^Ardencraig— two thou-
sand tons We cracked the usual jokes and slung off
sand tons. We cracked the usual jokes, ana slung oil
at t e cer e way e a e r ° ® ~f ?-
articles and skipped over the pound-an
beef-three-times-a-week, pound-an-a-quarter-ot-pork-
three-times-a-week, halt-a-pound-of-flonr-three-timcs-a
week,’ and so on, till he came to the real point of
the big joke, ‘substitutes-at-the-master’s-option-sign-
here-please.’
“And then everyone looked at the bloke nearest
the clerk who should have taken the pen and signed,
He was leanin’ on the counter, scribbling notes in a
pocketbook, with his head down over his hand, takin’
no notice of anybody. He was trying to catch up
with what the clerk had been gabblin’ so fast. When
the clerk said again, a bit snappy, ‘Sign here, please,’
the happy-lookin’ bloke just smiled, quite innocent,
and signed his name, James Winter.
*‘The crowd laughed, but young James Winter
stared back at the clerk with such an innocent face
that I think the clerk reckoned he was runnin’ empty.
We all signed on, grinnin’, and outside the shippin’
office I had a yarn with Jimmy, just because I reck -
oned he was goin’ to be a good shipmate.
“He wasn’t much good at talkin’—at least, he
let me do most of it—but he had more education than
you’d find in most windjammers’ fo’c’sles. A couple
of the ships he said he’d sailed in were' well-known
hard cases, and he had the hide to tell me that he
had only shipped in the Ardencraig because someone
had told him she was a hungry Glasgow hooker with
a measly Welsh skipper. If someone had told me
that—well, I’d never have met Mister James Winter,
anyhow.
“We had to be aboard by seven in the mornin’,
and Jimmy Winter was the last to turn up. He was
late enough to give the mate a chance to chip him.
The mate was a lanky Scotchman with a face like
a hatchet. ‘Shake yourself up there,’ he yapped at
Jimmy like a fox-terrier pup; ‘we ain’t carryin’
passengers.’
“Jimmy had his gear in a big canvas bag
balanced on one shoulder and his donkey’s breakfast
tied in a roll under his other arm. It always used
to make an awkward load for a man, and as Jimmy
turned round to get a good squint at the mate his
bag slipped and nearly fell. Anyone else would have
swore, but Jimmy just looked the mate up and down,
all smiles, and he says, as gentle as a baby, ‘Very
well, sir.’ Then he straightened up his bag and
strolled for’ard. You should have seen that mate’s
face! I don’t think he knows yet whether Jimmy was
dead scared of him or only puffin’ his leg.
“Anyhow, the crowd laughed, and when I
sneaked into the fo’c’sle just to give Jimmy a
sort of welcome to his new quarters he was
lookin like a sunny day in London. The
fo’c’sle was a dreary, black, stinkin’ hole, and
there was Jimmy, with his blue eyes sparklin’
and his smilin’ face all flushed like a happy
girl. He was leanin’ over his bunk writin’ in
his pocketbook ; and when I asked him, a bit
downhearted, ‘What do you think of the
mate?’ he just showed the prettiest set of
teeth I’ve ever seen in my life, and he says,
‘Quite a character, isn’t he?’
il \\l E towed down the river and into the
W Channel, and durin’ the day we all got
acquainted a little. We were a pretty mixed
lot English, Scotch, Yank, German and
Swede. At dinner Jimmy told us he was an
Australian, born in some God-forsaken place
with a name no one else but himself could
ever spit out. He said his father used to run
the local weekly newspaper, and when he pro-
posed to follow in his father’s footsteps and
start a newspaper aboard the ship, with me as sub-
editor and office-boy, I jumped with enthusiasm.
“Of course, the crowd laughed at that. They
seemed to be quite ready to laugh at Jimmy since
he had amused them in the shippin’ office. They
reckoned he was a comedian, and nothin’ he said
or did ought to be taken serious. So, while they
were makin’ some fun offerin’ crazy suggestions about
the ship’s newspaper, Jimmy was introducin’ me to
the editor’s office.
“The editor’s office was Jimmy’s bunk. Under
his donkey’s breakfast he had three tuppenny bottles
of ink, some pens and pencils, a ha’penny rubber, a
couple of penny rulers and a big box of paper, all
nicely stowed where they wouldn’t get messed up
with the ashes from his three or four pipes.
“I felt quite keen about the journalist business,
and I proposed to call our paper the ‘Craig Critic,’
which so pleased Jimmy that in the second dog-watch
on that first day out from London he sat down and
designed a front page with big fancy letters on the
top spellin’ ‘Craig Critic.’ And then he started in to
write our first leadin’ article.
<t|T was a Tuesday when we left London, and on
* the followin’ Sunday mornin’ three copies of the
‘Craig Critic’ came out from the office. It was a
four-page paper, all written by Jimmy himself. One
copy was sent aft for the skipper, the mates, the
steward and the four prentices. One was kept for
the office, and the other was let loose in the fo’c’sle.”
He paused to puff at a freshly-lit pipe, glanced
over the-burning match from behind star- and dagger-
decorated hands, and leaned forward confidentially.
“I went to sea for fifty years, deep-water and
on the coast here,” he said deliberately, “and I never
saw such a rumpus aboard any ship, sail or steam,
as was caused by that little newspaper. Jimmy Winter
was a humorist. He was a master-writer—and a
blasted snake.
“The blusterin’ mate was made to look so childish
by what Jimmy wrote about him that the crowd
began to laugh in his face every time he came on
the bounce.
“Then there was a Yank named Stoney in the
fo’c’sle. He was a powerful bloke, with a hard dial
and the biggest pair of paws I’ve ever seen outside
a menagerie. Well, in the same issue of the ‘Critic’
there was a letter from Willie Schmidt, a nuggety,
fat-faced German, complainin’ of the bugs that had
crawled from the Yank’s bunk into his, with stars
and stripes on their backs. He wanted to know what
could be done about it. Willie couldn’t understand
enough English to get the hang of it; but the Yank
could, and what he left unsaid about Germans gener-
ally and the Schmidt family in particular wasn’t
worth mentionin’.
“Of course, we couldn’t let Willie agree with what
the Yank said about him and his parents, and so they
kept the Sabbath Day holy by choppin’ each other
to pieces in about half an hour. It was a good go,
but the only way the German could dodge bein’
brained by the Yank’s horrible fists was to sink the
boot.
“They were both laid up till next mornin, and
then they didn’t know each other. The crowd couldn t
agree as to who really won, so they all reckoned it
ought to be finished another time.
“While the fight was
on and we were all a bit
excited Jimmy Winter was
takin’ notes in his little
pocketbook. He had a pipe
stuck in his mouth, and
looked as happy and cool
as a kid suckin’ ice-cream.
And the next Sunday’s
‘Critic’ had a wonderful
account of the fight, with
a challenge from Axel
Johannson, a Swede, six-
foot-two, to the winner—if
the fo’c’sle could decide
who had won.
“When the ‘Craig Critic’ was handed out to the
fo’c’sle that mornin’ Axel had been at the wheel
exactly five minutes, which gave the fo’c’sle exactly
one hour and fifty-five minutes to talk behind Axel’s
back. Cunnin’, did you say? Jimmy Winter was a
genius!
“The argument about who did win the fight led
to a few more hot-headed challenges, which were all
jotted down by the editor of the newspaper, although
he never had a damn’ word to say one way or the
other. He let the crowd do all the arguin’—and all
the fightin’. He just kept on writin’ and grinnin’ to
himself. Writers are like that—and they get away
with it, too!
“After the long Swede had come in from the
wheel, wonderin’ what all the chatter was about, I
saw Willie Schmidt lookin’ him up and down, a bit
nervous. Now, I didn’t like the German’s chance
myself. He was a lot too short. And me, bein’ the
sub-editor, I reckoned that if the Yank took the Swede
on the ‘Critic’ would publish a better story. So I
caught the German’s eye, winked very hard and shook
hands with myself.
“Willie Schmidt took my tip and stepped up
sudden to Stoney. ‘l’ll give in, Yank,’ he said, quite
respectful; ‘you are a better fighter than me.’ The
Yank chucked out his chest and shook hands before
he tumbled to thei joke.
“So we had to explain to Axel and prove it
by showin’ him the newspaper—that he had chal-
lenged the Yank. He swore he didn’t want to have
a row with any shipmate, and he got quite sentimental
about it, too. The Yank didn’t want to fight either
until Axel lost his temper at last and shouted, quite
savage, ‘lf de feller t’inks I’m as soft as Villie Schmidt,
by hell, he makes a mistake.’
“Stoney got offended at that, and told Axel he
wasn’t scared of a blasted Scowegian. So the fight
was on, and the honor of the press was saved.
< i J T was a much better scrap than the first one.
* Inside ten minutes the Yank’s upper lip was split
and sprayin’ the deck red. The Swede had a reach
like a baboon, and every clout of his done some
damage ; but he was a wee bit slow, and Stoney woke
up to that after his hard dial had been softened a bit.
“Stoney learned to duck and sidestep, and began to
plant his big fists into the Swede’s guts now and then.
It was funny to hear the big bloke grunt, but he
kept swingin’ his right and lungin’ with his left and
follerin’ the Yank round the corners of the fore-
hatch and back to the fo’c’sle-head ladders.
“The Yank got him one on the chin, and the
crowd yelled. You should have seen the six-foot-two
balancin’ on his heels, with his eyeballs rollin’ and
showin’ the whites. If Stoney could have hopped in
quick and lively the Swede would have been done;
but the old wagon rolled. She held the Yank back
and brought the Swede flat on his feet again.
“Stoney said afterwards, when I interviewed him
as the sportin’ representative of the ‘Craig Critic,’ that
the ship was sidin’ with the Swede. ‘But,’ says he,
‘this old limejuicer woke me up to another little point
in deepsea boxin’.’
“It was a lovely sunny mornin’, but the wind was
dead aft, and the old box certainly did roll now and
again. No one had taken any notice of that before,
but the Yank started in to notice it now. He would
prance about awhile, kiddin’ to the long bloke, till
the roll came with* him. Then he would lash out.
And he never missed.
“I’ve seen these mugs in the Stadium playin
tiggy-touch—they make me cry. But if that scrap I’m
tellin’ you about could be staged in Sydney the pro-
moter could retire for life. Axel’s face was red, black
and blue —mostly red. He was fightin’ mad, and a
Swede fightin’ mad is like a livin’ Cape Horn gale
The Yank was gettin’ well knocked about, too, and
had only one eye to peep through; but he kept his
head better, and watched for them little rolls that
put him above the Swede. You could safely bet that
every time the old hooker rolled the Yank high the
Swede got hurt, and every time she rolled the Swede
high the Yank was out of reach.
“The crowd danced for joy, but the sweetest
thing in the whole pretty picture was Jimmy Winter.
He sat at the top of the fo’c’sle-head ladder on the
starboard side, scratchin’ and scribblin’ like the ham-
mers of hell, smilin’ like one of them frosted angels
on a penny Christmas card.
“The Yank won the fight, but I always did say
that if it had been Marquis of Queensberry rules


the Swede would have got it on a foul. You see, it
ain’t lawful to hit a man with the inside of your wrist,
and that’s how Stoney hit Johannson. It was a right
swing, and the Yank’s arm, with the big ugly fist at
the end of it, looked like one of them fourteen-pound
hammers the boilermakers use. And the Yank swung
it like one, too. It shifted the Swede's nose half-way
across to his cheekbone. It stopped him fightin’, with
his bleedin’ mouth wide open and both eyes buried
under big lumps of meat.
“Well, everybody was satisfied, so we put Axel
into his bunk. None of us knew how to straighten
his nose, so it just stayed crooked.
“Of course the crowd was sorry for Axel, and
glad to see the ‘Critic’ boost him up next week. The
report said he was gallant and courageous ; had won-
derful stayin’ powers and all that sort of thing. And
so he had. The fight lasted over an hour, and they
had no bloomin’ nurses to splash ’em and fan ’em
and fuss over ’em every couple of minutes while they
got their breath. So what the ‘Critic’ said about the
Swede was well deserved, although it was only soft-
soap to keep the ‘Critic’ in the boom.
“A ND I tell you that newspaper was in the boom.
The crowd reckoned it was the greatest account
of a great fight they’d ever read. They read it over and
over and were more proud of it than the editor him-
self. There , was three and a half pages of details, all
in Jimmy’s fancy language, and it ended up by pointin’
out how it was only bad luck that lost the fight for
the Swede, and that a more tactful fighter, like the
first mate, for instance, could have beaten the Yank
at his own game of attackin’ as the roll of the ship
favored him.
“Naturally, the Yank swore that he hadn’t played
such a trick, and argued that the mate nor no one
else could beat him. The mate read the account of
the fight, and the prentice boys told him that the
Yank was blowin’ about how he had the mate bluffed.
“They didn’t wait for Sunday mornin’. They
got into it on the Wednesday at midnight, when the
Yank laughed because the mate ordered the main
to’gans’l to be clewed up.
“Frightened to crack on in a bit of a breeze,”
says the Yank.
111 crack on to you, you blatherskitin’ swine,
if you don’t keep your mouth shut!” roars the mate.
So they got to it in the dark. It was very disap-
pointin’. It only went a few minutes. The Yank
put the mate to sleep with a split skull when he sent
him head first against an iron stanchion. We just
got a bare three columns out of it by makin’ a lot
of comments on the mate’s rotten temper, his soft
head and his bad judgment in pickin’ iron to play
the goat with.
Of course I can’t tell you about all the fights ;
my memory ain’t good enough. But this sort of
thing, and worse, went on for weeks. The old man
and the mate snarled at each other all the voyage.
The second mate had no time for either of them, and
they all three bullied the steward and the prentices.
The steward chucked a pot of greasy stew over the
cook because it was reported in the newspaper that
the steward had been cuttin’ the fat off the meat and
savin’ it for himself. It was the cook’s right to sell
that fat in port.
“In the fo’c’sle every man had rows with every
other man, and everybody knocked everybody else
about —that is, of course,
exceptin’ the staff of the
‘Craig Critic,’ and we was
always neutral. The
fo’c’sle only agreed to-
gether when the paper
showed them what a lousy
lot the after-gang really
was.
“One night when all
hands was on deck for
over twelve hours—it was
blowin’ a livin’ gale
Jimmy sneaked into the
fo’c’sle for about five
minutes’ scribblin’, and
the next Sunday’s ‘Critic’
had an excitin’ account of
a great sail-stowin’ com-
petition between the two
watches, which was won
by the starboard watch on
points.
“Well, the port watch
got jealous of the star-
board watch about how
smartly they done their
work, and the ‘Critic’
faithfully reported all that
was said on both sides,
and a helluva lot that was
too clever for any of them
to ever. say.
“And so, a week or
two later, when it was a
case of ‘all hands’ again,
the two watches raced aloft
and slid down the backstays and rushed about the deck
like lunatics. They got so snappy with their remarks
just on four bells that it took one half the crew to
separate the other half when they got themselves into
a free fight.
il A LL this time the crew were losin’ weight, but not
Jimmy Winter. When he wasn’t smilin’ and
chucklin’ openly he was laughin’ in his guts enough
to keep him fat even if he got no grub at all. So
long as everybody was at loggerheads with everybody
else James Winter, the newspaper editor, was livin’ in
a sort of writer’s paradise.
“Of course he went too far with the business.
Them sort always do. Yes, Jimmy Winter flopped.
He seemed suddenly to remember, about ninety days
out, that his quiet little sub-editor and office-boy—the
bloke who used to write notes and a bit of poetry—
he seemed to remember that I was enjoyin’ myself
aboard the hungriest old windjammer afloat. He was
broody for a whole day, and lost his everlastin’
Salvation Sammy grin. When I asked him if he was
crook he just showed me his pretty teeth and said,
very soft, like he had said about the mate, “Scotty,
you are quite a character.’ ”
Scotty struck another match, his hands trembling
a little, as though nervous at his own recollections.
“I always used to read the articles and news and
make an alteration here and there before Jimmy wrote
the three copies for the ship. I thought I had done
that for the last edition before we fetched the Sema-
phore, but I missed one article. Jimmy had kept it
back.
“There was a lot of good news about the mean-
ness of the old man and the rottenness of the salt
junk and the stupidity of foreigners in British ships,
and then there was a sort of farewell poem from the
whole crew to the stingy Welsh skipper and his lousy
old Glasgow tub.
“And then there was a complaint— two columns
and a half of it on the inside of the paper—about the
bombast and bucko of American seamen and their
brazenness in lyin’. Some of the yarns the Yank had
told durin’ the voyage were dished up
word for word. And such a master
writer was Jimmy that he made lies
out of what the Yank himself believed
was true. Jimmy proved that the
Yank was the most barefaced liar
aboard and that was sayin’ some-
thin’. Then at the end of this bit of
work there was the letters ‘J.B.’
“Now, I was always called Scotty
Brough, but the crowd knew my name
was John. No one else could be
accused of bein’ J. 8., so I got it. I
got it before I had time to read the
dirty article through. The Yank’s big
fists looked bigger than ever while he
questioned my lawful right to own a
father, and then I thought the ship
had suddenly gone down.
“The first thing I saw when I
came to was Jimmy Winter sittin’ on
someone else’s sea-chest, smilin’ very
happy and scribblin’ notes like a
maniac. It was better than smellin’-salts to me. I
was on my feet in one second, although they told me
afterwards that I had been out for about five minutes
and only a bucket of sea-water chucked over my head
had made me shift.
“MO.I didn’t hit Jimmy. I wanted to really hurt
1 N him. I stepped out of the fo’c’sle, stood on the
fore-hatch and called the crowd to a meetin’. The
Yank was the first to foller me, and the rest follered
him. Jimmy settled on the corner of the hatch with
his pipe, his notebook and pencil and his fair-weather
smile. He was expectin’ a great treat.
“Well, he got it. I never was much of a fighter
nor a writer, but I could always talk, and I talked
to that bunch of sailors like a Prime Minister. I
reminded them of all the crazy arguments and fights
that had spoiled the whole voyage, and I showed them
that what had turned the good old ship into a den of
wild animals was Jimmy Winter’s newspaper. It was
Jimmy Winter’s pen, I explained, that had made the
ship miserable, and I told them it was pens like Jimmy
Winter’s that made the whole world miserable. I
talked till the sweat dripped off me, and if the crowd
hadn’t come my way I’d have been talkin’ yet.
“Well, Jimmy was game. He saw me workin’
the crowd up against him and he heard them
threatenin’ to keelhaul him ; but he was too anxious
about not missin’ a word I said to worry about what
was goin’ to happen to him. He just kept on scratchin’
away in his notebook and smilin’ sweetly up into my
face till the Yank suddenly grabbed his notebook and
pencil and chucked them over the side. And then
grabbed Jimmy.
“I yelled at the Yank not to hit him. I didn’t
want to see him simply knocked unconscious. What
the Yank had already done hurt him more than the
Yank’s big fist had hurt me. He looked sorry for the
first time on the voyage. He gaped pleadin’ up to me
like a little kid ready to cry over a lost toy.
“The crowd was ready for anythin’ now, so I
fixed Jimmy properly. ‘Dump the lot!’ I yells.
‘Dump the lot! Wreck the whole blasted office!’
“And we did. We chucked overboard every
scrap of paper, every pen and pencil, his ink and
('Continued on page 6.)
“He was fightin' mad, and a Swede fighnn' mad is
like a livin’ Cape Horn gale.”


even his collection of back numbers of the ‘Craig
Critic.’
“Jimmy sat there watchin’ us with his head hung
down, a helpless thing of misery, weepin’ over the loss
of all that had kept him alive durin’ the voyage.
last few days at sea was just a holiday. We
* had some good dog-watch concerts, and every-
body was friendly but Jimmy. We almost forgot he
was aboard, but I noticed he was fast losin’ weight,
and I know now that if we had dumped his stuff a
month sooner we would have buried him at sea before
we fetched Adelaide.
“Ten minutes after the old hooker tied up in
the port Jimmy cleared out —and I can hear the crowd
laughin’ yet.
“That’s thirty years ago, and I’ve never seen the
blighter since. In nineteen-fifteen, though, I read that
James Winter was goin’ to the front as a war corre-
spondent. I knew then that Jimmy had been doin his
bit for years to make the blasted war. And then 1
saw his photo, in a Sydney paper after the Armistice,
and he looked as fat and bloated as an overfed por-
poise. Naturally he would ; but this peace has lasted
so long now I reckon he must be a livin’ skeleton.
A Striking Brevity
THE LEAD BUTTON
BY JAMES HACKSTON
MY father’s cyanide plant was twenty miles off
the main road. The heap of tailings he was
treating was hidden among rugged hills, and
I can still remember the trembling stillness
of the place, the stretching loneliness, the merciless
quiet that shadowed each day.
The business of cyaniding makes no noise, and
the only sound that broke the stillness was when my
father wheeled barrow-loads of tailings over a rough
wooden bridge into the vats. Once when I came
upon him suddenly he dropped the barrow in fright,
and I felt then that he, too, was conscious of the
loneliness.
But the quiet of the day was bearable, for I
could see things and do things. I could throw stones
into the dam close by and listen to them plunge
heavily into the still water; then watch the ripples
run wide to the edges, as if seeking help to heal each
wound I had made ; and I could look deep down
into the clear depths and see little white clouds asleep
on the other side of the world. It was the night-time
that frightened me. The slumbering bush seemed
full of strange noises, and when the fence wires beside
the hut twanged to sudden movement then my father
would say, “They’re kangaroos going to the dam
to drink, sonny.”
I was timid of things about me, of my father
and of the spectre that loomed up behind it all —
the possibility of there being no gold when we
cleaned up.
To me a cleaning-up meant happiness for us
all or continued misery. Gold had done a lot for
us —the gold my father had never got. I knew a
lot about it, too. I had helped to cradle old creek-
beds, gone prospecting, dollied specimens; and there
were days when I took my turn at a small hand
stamper in our back shed.
Gold! My father was gold-drunk-—drunk with
the lust of looking for it. Drifting for it. Lost in
the pursuit of it, half-starved, neglected—father,
mother and family. I hated it, and yet I was forced
to hope for it. It meant no more quarrels, no more
sobbing, no more despair on the part of my father.
'T’HIS last cyaniding was to be the end, the last
1 throw if the gold again failed us. I did my odd
jobs about the place fearful of it all and what might
be. I remembered the previous cleaning-up at the
same plant-—how I had cried and pleaded in the
breathless silence of those never-ending hills. We
had cleaned up, there was little gold, and we had
set off on our long tramp home. As we passed the
mouth of the old mine my father handed me the
things he had been carrying, saying “Take these for
me and tell Mum I’ve gone. I can’t stand it any
longer.”
How awful that yawning shaft in the earth
seemed then. I had rolled a rock down it one sunny
day, and my knees had trembled as it thundered down.
And now my father was going to throw himself down
that terrifying chasm, and his body, too, would make
sickening noises as it fell. I screamed out, tugging at
his sleeve as he ran from me, “You musn’t do it!
You mustn’t do it! You mustn’t do it, Dad!” and
the gaping hills took up my cry.
Now there was to be another clean-up, and 1
felt nervous for my father.
I was familiar with the cyanide process. Cyanide
dissolved the gold that was in the vats of tailings.
The solution then ran from the vats over zinc shav-
ings, which collected the gold. The shavings were
washed clean, and what came off was put into
crucibles and then into a furnace. When the crucibles
came out there was a glassy substance at the bottom
which contained a lump of lead. The lead was cut
into small pieces which my father called “lead
buttons.”
All the gold from weeks of cyaniding and many
vats of tailings was in the lead. Cupels made of
bonedust were modelled to hold the lead buttons ;
the little furnace jvas lit, and, when the heat was
right, the cupels with the lead buttons in them were
put in and the lead . . .
greedy bonedust sucked
up the lead, leaving
only the gold round
globes of trembling,
glittering, molten gold,
shimmering in the white
glow of the little fur-
nace.
Then my father
would take the tongs,
open the furnace door,
and peer in to see
what size the beads of
gold were.
~FHIS last part of our cleaning-up operations we
* generally left to the evening. The furnace was
in the centre of the hut which was also our living
quarters, and I felt on this night that we were
marooned on a little red-hot island in an impenetrable
sea of darkness.
The glow from the furnace door when it was
open made moving stencils of weird design. The
movements of my father cast fleeting shadows on the
walls. One moment he would be in shadow, the
next lit with fire as he peered into the furnace, like
a devil at the gate of hell.
When the crucibles came out I broke the glassy
substance away and put the lumps of lead aside to
be cut into “buttons.” My father took one of the
pieces of lead and bent it until the ends met. He
did the same thing with another piece, then looked
at me and said, “Give me a piece out of the last lot.”
I gave it to him and he slowly bent it with both
hands.
“We’ll try one button first to make sure,” he
said, “before we put the rest of the lead in,” and he
put the first jead button in the furnace.
I sat back on my bunk and watched him as he
stood waiting for the hungry little cupel to devour
its leaden meal. Little springs of perspiration beaded
his forehead, and his cheeks were red with excite-
ment.
Then it happened.
My father was trembling like a leaf and whisper-
ing to me. I could just hear him ask “What was
that?”
“Kangaroos p’raps,”. I lied.
Everything was so still I could hear the soft white
ashes in the furnace falling through the bottom grat-
ing. Little frenzied shadows fled from corner to
corner of the hut, hither and thither as if seeking some
escape.
Somebody was knocking on the door. It shook
and rattled on its rusty hinges, the hut shook, the
sides, the roof, the floor, louder and louder, keeping
time with the beating of my heart, which pounded
away like a stamper.
“Who’s there?” my father asked.
“Open the door,” a voice replied.
My father moved to the door and opened it, and
then I saw the figure standing there against the night,
His beard was as black as the night itself. He
stood in the red glow of the light, and where the
light caught him glowed vividly against the blackness
behind him. Two thin lines of wicked red ran up
the barrels of his gun, which pointed into the hut.
“What do you want?” my father asked.
“Oh, just passin’ by,” the man replied.
There was a long silence.
“Won’t you come in?”
“No, just passin’ by.” He shifted his gun a bit.
“Cleanin’-up?”
His eyes searched the hut. They moved from the
furnace to the crucibles, and back again from the
crucibles to the furnace, the door of which was still
shut.
The cupel inside had long been ready to take
out, but my father made no movement to remove it.
He may have forgotten it, or else he did not want
the man to see it. His eagerness to know 7 the possible
results of his labors had been set aside. I was think-
ing how easy it would be for the man to shoot us
and throw our bodies down the mine.
My father pretended to do things about the place,
picking things up and putting them down again, and
then suddenly he said, “I must get some more bone-
dust. I won’t be long,” and he walked out of the
hut. I knew that he had gone out to calm his nerves.
~THE man looked at me for the first time and took
1 a step into the hut.
“Cleanin’-up?” he asked.
It was the question my father had not answered.
He stepped a little nearer.
“Gettin’ any gold?”
I shook my head.
“Cleaned up here before?
“Yes.”
“Get any gold?”
“Not much. My father tried
to jump down the mine.”
“Jump down the mine?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“It was a failure, and he wanted some money.
He came nearer to me. “Who stopped him'
jumpin’ down the mine?”
“I did,” I said. “An’ he might want to do it
again to-morrow, because there’s no gold this time.
He looked towards the furnace. “Won’t you
get any gold this time?”
I shook my head.
“Have you finished cleaning up?”
“No, not yet.”
“Well, how do you know there’s no gold?”
I took up one of the pieces of lead and bent it.
“There’s not much gold in the lead.”
“In the lead?” he said. “How do you know
there’s not much gold in the lead?”
“If it’s easy to bend there’s not much gold in it.
If there’s much gold in it it’s brittle and won’t bend.”
He picked up one of the pieces and folded it
right over. “Soft as cheese,” he said. “Soft as
cheese.” He then asked me if there was anything in
the furnace.
I told him that my father had put one piece in
and that we had not looked at it yet. “You can
have a look,” I said as 1 got the tongs and lifted
the furnace door. I had some idea what would be
inside. I had seen my father bending the lead pieces
and I knew then that things were going to turn out
badly. I had prayed that the bent lead was lying,
but as I opened the furnace I fervently hoped that
those pieces of bent button told the truth, and that
the cupel in the furnace held a bead of gold no bigger
than a pin’s head.
“Is that the gold?” he asked.
I nodded.
He seemed surprised. “Is that all the gold out
of one bit of lead?”
I nodded.
“Not much, is it?” he asked.
“No,” I said. “My father’s frightened.”
He gave me a quick look. “What’s he frightened
of?”
“That he won’t get any gold.”
“Is all the rest of the lead like the bit you put
in the furnace?” he asked.
“Yes. It’s all the same.”
He grunted. “The same as the piece I bent?”
I told him yes.
He took up another piece and bent it round his
finger. “Soft as cheese,” he said. “Soft as cheese,
son; an’ so’s your father,” and walked to the door.
“Are you going?” I asked.
“Yes. Just passin’ by.” He smiled and then
walked out into the night.
WE left our cyanide plant the next day, taking very
little gold with us, but had the cleaning-up
yielded t-ads of gold as big as pumpkins we would
have been none the richer. My father made no
attempt to jump down the mine; on the contrary, he
seemed to be more than pleased to be alive, and I
was happy, for we were leaving our last cyanide
plant for ever.


Another Skinny Hazlitt Yarn
HALF-
INTEREST
BY A.C. HEADLEY
I’D been away in the backblocks selling miners’
rights to people who thought the Eureka Stock-
ade was still on, and I’d left Skinny back in the
city. Now, leaving Skinny alone at any time is
a complication in itself, and so, when I’d collected
enough grist to pay the bill, I bought a ticket for the
great metropolis, and came down to see what had
happened to the twenty quid I’d given him to mind.
I was right. The first thing Skinny said was:
“You know those few coppers you gave me to keep
for a wet track?”
“A few coppers,” I said, going cold in the
stomach. “Don’t tell me you’ve tampered with the
money I was going to send to my poor orphan
mother!”
Skinny got a look of smug soulfulness on his
dial.
“Listen, Scut,” he said. “Life is an investment.
You oughter know that. There’s a bit in the Sunday-
school texts about if you don’t speculate you can’t
expect to accumulate.”
“I’ve got a left hook I’d like to speculate,” said I.
Skinny grinned. “That ain’t my old friend Scut
Jamieson talkin’. That’s an inhuman monster who
don’t deserve to be told of his good fortune.”
“Is it good fortune,” said I, “to git your ’ead cut
orf? Is it good fortune to let your right hand know
that your left hand’s cut your throat behind your
back?”
“Listen,” said Skinny; “you know that lousy
twenty?”
“It’s a memory,” said I.
“0.K.,” said Skinny, “have it your way,” and
with that he dived his hand into his pocket and pulled
out a fistful of notes. “The unearned increment,” he
said, trying to look as though it didn’t matter.
We were settling down to a pint of beer before
I’d quite got over the shock. By the time I was half-
way through the schooner I’d given up the idea of
awarding credit to the fairies and passed the honor to
Skinny.
“Tell me,” said I, “is it the interest on my twenty
quid that you’ve kept safe in the bank all this time?”
Skinny skipped the question.
“What,” he said, “would be the result of putting
forty quid on a horse at five to one if the judge had
an interest in the owner’s wife, who was blackmailing
the jockey for staying out late at night?”
I worked it out.
“Two hundred and forty quid,” I said. “I’ll
take a hundred and nineteen and be satisfied. I’m
not the man to quibble over trifles.”
Skinny got a look on his face that might have
made me uncomfortable if it hadn’t been for the
thought of the treasury in his trouser pockets.
“Listen, Scut,” he said.
“Orright,” said I; “you go right ahead and tell
me that you put the lot on another five-to-one shot
that had its number in the box before the race started.
It’s the kind of small-town gossip that I like to hear.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, looking solemn. “I bought
a horse.”
“Many in it?” said I, thinking for the moment
that he was talking about that ceremony when every-
one throws in a bob for a shout an’ whoever has
the lucky number collects the change.
Skinny spat noisily at the brass rail.
“Scut,” he said, “this is a real horse, with a head
and tail and four legs and a place to put the bit.”
I nearly upset my beer.
“Yeah,” I said, “an’ you bought a caravan an’
you intend tourin’ the rural industries with Dr. Haz-
litt’s celebrated painkiller and cattle-drench.”
“It’s a racehorse,” said Skinny briefly.
I picked up my schooner and drained it. “It’s
a what?”
Skinny went on to explain. He’d picked the horse
up at a sale, and to hear him talk you’d have thought
the thing was a Phar Lap. I just leaned back on
the bar while he prattled on about times and furlongs.
The way he put it you’d have thought paradise was
another name for a racetrack. The horse was this
and the horse was that; in fact, the horse, according
to Skinny, was just about everything.
“So what?” said I.
“So this,” said Skinny, “for your measly twenty
quid not only have you become half-owner of a
magnificent specimen of equine thoroughbred, but
we also have enough cash in hand to further its
activities.”
“Meaning what?” said I.
“Meaning,” said Skinny, “that the horse cost a
hundred an’ twenty, and we’ve still got eighty left.
I’ve paid for a month’s training.”
“What’s its name?” said I, not feeling too bad
about it because of the eighty quid that was still in
the kitty.
“Elsie Benn,” Skinny informed me.
“Elsie Benn.” I knew the horse ; a good class
of three-year-old that had done more than its share
of taking out the win money on the provincial tracks.
I also remembered that it hadn’t gone near winning
a race for a long time. I said as much to Skinny.
“She ain't been handled right,” said Skinny.
“Hammy’s had her for a couple of weeks and you
oughter see the difference. She could do four in fifty
if she was dragging a cart. I got her entered for
Wednesday week. She oughter walk in. I tell you,
Scut, there ain’t no limit to what our eighty quid is
goin’ to be.”
| WAS down at the track with Skinny in the early
*■ hours next morning, and Skinny introduced me
to a horsey-looking gent, with a stiff collar and no
tie. It was Hammy, and presently a boy trotted up
to him on a bay horse.
Hammy looked at Skinny and said, “How does
she look now, Mr. Hazlitt?”
Skinny preened up like a proud parent. He
went up and rubbed his hand down the horse’s neck.
“She’ll do me,” he said.
But I was looking at the boy stuck up some-
where about the horse’s neck. He was a thin bird
with a big nose and no place to put it, and he had
a look in his eye like Mr. Barnum when he’s thinking
of mugs and minutes. No one could ever mistake
him. for one of those picture-show jockeys that has
to win on Tugalong to lift the mortgage on the gold
' plate and to save the honor of the metal-polish blonde.
The only thing I’d have trusted him with was one
of Skinny’s ties.
Just then another horse trotted past where we
were standing, and it took my mind off the boy. It
was a horse that could take your mind off anything.
It was beautiful. I’ve never seen a horse with a
better action. I noticed Hammy giving it an eyeful.
“What’s its name?” said I.
Hammy rubbed his chin.'
“Country Star,” he said, “and a good ’un.” He
dragged a stopwatch from an inside pocket. And
just then Country Star jumped. I’ve never seen a
horse pick up speed quicker. He seemed to streak
along as if he was floating in the grey of the early
morning. At the four-furlong mark the boy eased
her up.
“Fifty dead,” said Hammy, looking at his watch.
Then Elsie Benn had a workout. There was no
doubt about it, she was no slug at covering the turf.
She breezed in an easy fifty-two. I was satisfied.
Well, that was that, and practically every morning
we were down at the track to watch the workouts.
Elsie Benn went on improving, and it looked as
though Skinny might have made a good purchase.
Skinny bought a stiff collar and left off wearing a tie.
And then the weights came out, and the way
they read you could see that we had the handicapper
on our side. Then I got the shock of my life. Coun-
try Star was also entered, and seven pounds better
off!
It didn’t worry Skinny as much as I thought it
would.
“What’s it matter?” he said. “What’s track
form? She had a light boy up, and you can bet she
carried no lead. An’ Elsie ain’t never run with less
than eight-seven. She’s a stone better anyway. There’s
nothing else in the race with a show.”
There must have been something in what he
said, because on the night before the race all the
papers were tipping Elsie
Benn. Most of them,
too, I noticed, were
giving Country Star their
place preferences.
That night I did a
good bit of thinking.
The way things were
looking our horse was
sure to start a short-
priced favorite. On the
would probably be at a
fair price. Those two
other hand, Country Star
ideas were getting them-
selves tangled up in my
thoughts.
The next morning I
took a trip down to the
stables and had a quiet talk with the kid with the
big nose.
“0.K.,” he said after a while. “You want me
to let Country Star win, an’ I git the odds to twenty
quid. You can trust me, mister. Elsie couldn’ win
not even if she was to start now.”
When I got back Skinny was waiting for me.
It had been arranged that I was to do all the betting.
Skinny had given me our sixty quid of punting money
that morning. That was all we had left. So I was
surprised when he counted out another hundred.
“That makes a hundred and sixty,” he said. “I
borrowed it. Shove the lot on.”
I didn’t say anything about my talk with the
boy. That was my secret. I was going to wait until
Skinny’s face fell under his boots when Country Star
won, and then show him a pocketful of betting tickets
on the winner. Skinny had sprung plenty of surprises
on me, and now it was my turn. To make it easier
I said, “Why don’t you have a saver on Country
Star?”
“Because,” he said, “Elsie is gonna win this in
a canter.”
I didn’t say any more.
T"' HAT afternoon we showed up on the course.
* When it was time for the race Skinny shoved me
in the back.
“Listen,” he said, “shove the wad on and get
the best you can.”
I moved off.
Country Star was at a fair price. I got rid of
the lot and came back to Skinny. He had a pair of
glasses and was picking out the horses as they came
out on to the track. There was Elsie Benn with a
seven on the saddlecloth and Country Star with nine.
My eyes were on Country Star. She looked in the
pink, as though she was jumping out of her skin.
A couple of minutes later they were lined up
at the barrier. It was a good start. Country Star
and Elsie jumped out together, and at the furlong
post they were two lengths in front of anything else.
Country Star was moving like a champion. Even
though my nerves were jumping I felt nice and warm
inside. The stewards don’t get too curious when
a horse only goes down by a narrow margin.
At the half-way mark they were still neck-and-
neck, well out from the main bunch. Another hun-
dred yards and Country Star had a half-length advan-
tage. I looked at Skinny, but he didn’t seem to be
worried. He saw the look I gave him and grinned.
“You needn’t worry,” he said. “It’s worth fifty
quid to the boy on Country Star if he runs second.
I saw him this morning.”
Everything inside me seemed to freeze up.
“You what?” I yelped.
“I bought Country Star’s jockey,” he said, the
grin plastered all over his dial.
I didn’t say anything. I couldn’t. I was too
busy thinking of what was happening out there on
the track —both boys trying to let the other win. It
was one of those things that never happen, but it
was happening.
I could see it because I knew all about it. Right
now each of the boys was trying to let the other
get ahead, and while they were doing it they were
coming back to the rest of the field. Not that it
mattered, because they were still good enough to
romp in from that bunch of scrubs, and one of them
had to win. I began to pray that the boy on Country
Star would turn honest. But they were still on level
terms, with half a furlong to go. Skinny still had
the grin framed on his face. I was down now to
praying for a dead-heat.
And then it happened. Right out of the ruck
shoots a big grey. In a couple of strides he’d gathered
the leaders in and was showing a half-length advan-
tage. I saw the two boys go for the whip together.
But it was too late. It was all over.
Skinny said something not quite under his breath,
and I looked around to see if any coppers heard him.
I felt the same way, but it didn’t stop me from giving
a sigh of relief. Skinny was striding towards the exit,
but I stayed for the numbers to go up. No. 3
first. A dead-heat for second. I didn’t trouble to
look at the dead-heaters’ numbers.
I caught Skinny at the gate.
“Listen,” I said, “that was bad luck. We’ll do
better next time.
Skinny scowled. “There ain’t gonna be no next
time,” he said. “We ain’t got a horse. That was
the security for the hundred quid.”


Varmee du Rhin got shortened to La Chant Marseil-
laise and then to La Marseillaise. The words read
jerkily, but no wonder! De Lisle dragged in quota-
tions from patriotic proclamations posted up in Stras-
bourg market-place— “Le jour de gloire est arrive” ;
“Aux armes, Citoyens, formes vos battailous” ; “Trem-
blez, tyrans !” But, musically, the thing is an inspira-
tion, the perfect song for the time and the occasion.
Mr. Piggott reproduces the score of Degeyter’s
“L'lnternationale,” much more inspiring than the
dismal “Maryland” (really an old German hymn) to
which “The Red Flag” is usually chanted, but not
nearly as easy to remember. Finally, without com-
ment, he gives Calixta Lavalee’s music for “O
Canada,” the best-liked of three alternate melodies by
the same composer. No wonder the Canucks plumped
for No. 3. It is a slightly-colored steal from the
magnificent march in Mozart’s “Magic Flute”!
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
A Broadside for Snobs.
In his new story of love and art —with a tang of
the sea in it —G. U. Ellis has written a well-made
book, New Wine at Cock Crow (Cassell; Dymock’s ;
Bs. 6d.). It is a picture of two worlds, of two different
sides of life, compacted like the globe, half in dark-
ness, half in sunlight. The setting is divided between
Wyefleet, a backwater village on a silted-up canal
fifty miles from London, and La Cise, a gay little
French seaside town straight off a poster, all sunshine
and Bohemian freedom. Wyefleet is ruled despotically
by the Colonel’s widow and the Major’s sister. The
sort of ladies and the sort of despotism are illustrated
by this vignette of the former:
She always carried her late husband’s shooting-stick
—not because she tired quickly and needed it to sit on,
but because she was tired of telling people that her
husband used to shoot before he was shot himself.
Occasionally, if a shop were crowded with people not
long enough resident in the district to remember Colonel
Culforth, she would press open the plated seat, stick
the point in the floor and sit down, with her Aberdeen
at her feet and an expression indicating that, if those
around her wished to learn manners, the dog would
teach them. She was rather a thin woman who wore
flat heels and walked with a quick, irritable uncertainty,
as though expecting at any moment to have to inter-
vene in somebody’s affairs.
It is in Wyefleet that we first meet the characters:
Burney, a retired sea-captain, rejecting and rejected
by local society as “not quite quite”; his beautiful
daughter Trix, child of a runaway marriage with a
society girl; his younger daughter, the elfin Pippa,
about whom there is some slightly discreditable
mystery (her mother was an Australian, and the first
time Pippa, aged nine, saw Mrs. Culforth she handed
her an envelope, saying “If you think I’m a love-child
you’re wrong. My mother’s marriage lines are in
this.”); the Captain’s friend Major Scone, who is
also cold-shouldered, for, though he is of the true
army vintage, he gets into highly-colored scrapes;
the Major’s sister, who is the perfect snob; the
Major’s son Kim, who blotted the family escutcheon
by serving in the ranks during the war and clerking
in a shipping office after it; Kim’s friend Philip Ave-
bury, who is rich, conservative and honorable ; and
Kim’s other friend, Finnion, who is sensitive and
dissolute.
They balance one another in an almost mathe-
matical pattern, and they move, like chessmen, accord-
ing to rule. Kim falls in love with Trix. She
responds at first and then grows cold and wayward.
She wants what he cannot give her fortune and
place. Philip Avebury is also in love with her, but
he is honorable. He bites his lips, he goes away, he
does everything the circumstances demand except go
big-game hunting; but in the end, assisted by Trix,
love triumphs over honor. Kim is comforted in his
despair by the staunch child Pippa. He goes to
France for his firm, and in sunshine and freedom his
painting, which had been his hobby, blossoms into
something more. Pippa remains his confidante and
friend, and before he realises it she is eighteen and
beautiful. At last it dawns on him that he loves her.
Her old rascal of a father dies providentially in his
sleep ; his friend Finnion dies of consumption hastened
by a hopeless and hidden love for Pippa; Kim is
able to give up shipping for art, and all ends happily
in blissful marriage. Kim even has his revenge on
Trix —he paints her portrait.
Travellers in Brazil.
The better parts of Dead Man Leading, by V. S.
Pritchett (Chatto and Windus ; 7s. 6d.), are in the
depiction of incidental characters, the vividness with
which the condition of human life along the banks
of the Amazon is suggested and the way the reader
is made to feel the physical distress of men toiling
in the steamy greenness of tropic jungles. This is a
snapshot from the river boat:
A thatched hut built upon a platform of piles....
and on the platform brown people sat like grubs, half-
naked, watching the wash of the launch chuckle along
the banks of mud. The people made no sign with their
hands, nor was there any expression of curiosity in their
eyes, nor recognition. They sat fixed and still, with the
water light wavering over their bodies in their aquarium
of soundless shade Then on again, the forest con-
tinuing and the wake dragging behind like an old mat.
The book tells what purports to be the inside
story of a disaster that overtook an English explora-
tion party in the Brazilian interior; a party of which
one of the three white members lost his life for cer-
tain, and another, like his missionary father before
him, disappeared. It is suggested that the story has
been sensationally exploited by the British and Ameri-
can press. There have been arguments as to whether
the leader, Wright, was wrong in following the
deserter, Johnson, and speculations as to Johnson s
motives in deserting. The explanations and sett-
important assertions of Calcott, a degenerate Cock-
ney with whom the party stayed a short while in his
riverside village, have been given greater credence than
is warranted, and so have the fantasies ot Silva, a
Portuguese who accompanied Johnson a short dis-
tance, and who himself believes half what he invents.
The real explanation, the writer would have us
believe, lay in a puritan’s need of a sense of sin m
order that salvation might be won. The puritan is
Johnson, who thinks—in fact, seems to hope—that his
leader’s stepdaughter in England is going to have a
baby by him. He could have learned the truth by
cabling before going inland. He preferred to go to
meet Wright at the appointed rendezvous up-nvei,
hugging his sense of guilt, struggling with his immortal
soul. ,
An English mail catches up with the party at the
meeting-place, and there are letters to Wright from
his family. Johnson fears his guilt will be made
known. Wright is out of camp for the day, so, accom-
panied by Silva, who has made up his mind that the
party is in search of gold, he clears out. This is a
heinous offence, therefore a luxury to the obsessed
Johnson. Guilt is added to guilt. Wright and the
other man, Phillips, overtake the runaways after some
days, and Wright, while out hunting with Johnson, is
accidentally killed. Johnson clutches this to his
bosom. If he had not deserted and fled up a tributary
stream his leader’s death might not have occurred.
With Phillips following, because he fears to turn back
alone, Johnson plunges inland toward the country
where his father disappeared 17 years ago. It is the
hopelessness of ever finding him that provides him
with a convenient Calvary. Perishing of thirst in a
country without surface water, the two men separate
Phillips, in the last extremity of suffering, is rescued
by a party of German explorers. Johnson’s fate is
never known ; presumably he reached his soul’s desire.
The author presents Johnson as a normal man
outwardly. That is what holds the book together.
At Calcott’s home, driving his way up the jungle-
hooded river, leading Phillips in their desperate march
across country, he is convincing. The weakness of
the picture is in a couple of retrospective chapters
near the beginning, in which his relations with
Wright’s stepdaughter are dealt with and an attempt
made to make real to the reader the inwardness of
Johnson, the puritan, the solitary, the unwilling lovei
and the seeker of difficulties. It doesn’t quite come
off, and the result is that the reader is haunted later
by a doubt as to the reality of the motives attributed.
It says something for the quality of the rest of the
book that the writer holds attention notwithstanding.
A Humorous Fantasy.
Those of Robert Nathan’s readers who enjoyed
his One More Spring will welcome his latest story, The
Enchanted Voyage (Constable ; Moore s Bookshop ,
65.). It deals with the extraordinary voyage of the
boat Sarah Pecket from a New York suburb overland
toward the seas of romance. The book is really a
piece of gentle irony at the expense of human ineffec-
tuals. The humor is obtained largely by the juxta-
position of the homely and the fabulous. The chief
characters are Mr. Pecket, a mild little jobbing
carpenter ; Mary, a waitress in a small restaurant;
Henry Williams, a dentist who learned his profession
in a “dental college” and whom bad times have
reduced to trundling a grinder’s cart through the
countryside teeth filled or extracted or scissors
sharpened. Typical of Nathan’s characterisation is
Mary, who is good, not for goodness’ sake, but
because of an instinctive belief that it is the way to
rich rewards.
Mary Kelly was not a realist, although that is the
way she liked to think of herself. As a matter of fact,
she lived in a world no more solid than a bog. It was
made up of her hopes and her ignorance; and it was
a world in which everything looked firm and bright. She
left each tussock of illusion as it sank beneath her, only
to hop happily over to the next. Thus she kept going
without ever losing her courage.
Miles from water Mr. Pecket builds a boat in
his backyard just to sit in at odd times and wish
himself far from his troubles. His wife, in her need
of money for household expenses, puts wheels under
it preparatory to selling it to a neighbor for a ham-
burger stand. That night Mr. Pecket sleeps aboard
with the cotton sails hoisted —and that is the start of
the enchanted voyage. Mary, it being a rainy night,
has decided to be bold enough to “thumb” a ride
from the restaurant to her lodgings. That is how she
comes to be picked up. The journey, involving small
amusing mishaps, lasts several days; Mary, under
Mr. Pecket’s somewhat inept guidance, learning to
lengthen or shorten sail, to say “Aye, aye, sir,” and
generally to behave in a sailorly manner. They are
headed for the Caribbean, the South Seas —anywhere
where reality cannot lay hard hands on them. Henry
joins them after they have bumped into him and
knocked him and his grinder’s cart into a ditch.
They are very serious in their make-believe,
therefore comic and therefore pathetic —points which
Nathan quietly brings to light in the story. It is part
of his purpose and delicate humor that, although one
of their misadventures is the result of a guileful
person’s scheming, most of them are of their own
unconscious devising. This is particularly true regard-
ing the cause of their ultimate defeat.
Mr. Pecket expands with hope and triumph as
the journey lengthens. He even gets mildly drunk
and has an altercation with an onlooker; and he
sends his deserted wife a postcard with the inscnption
in his own handwriting: “Greetings from Valparaiso.
Unfortunately, on the bottom of the card is the printed
legend “Greetings from Beaver Dam, Virginia.” Next
day Mr. Pecket is gaoled for attempting to steal a
chicken which he was really trying to save from
being run over by the Sarah Pecket. He is bailed-out
by his wife, who looks the crestfallen little man up
and down and utters the one word “Valparaiso!”
Nathan sets a little pitfall for the romantic reader
in arranging love and a happy ending for Mary and
Henry. They have about three dollars between them
—so more “hopping from one tussock of illusion to
another” is indicated.
American Medley.
When a play is called Happy and Glorious or
a book entitled Very Heaven the experienced reader
immediately smells tragedy and bitterness; nor will
he be disappointed in Fannie Hurst’s Great Laughter
(Cape ; Angus and Robertson ; 9s. 6d.). The laughter
is perhaps not so much bitter as Puckish (“What fools
these mortals be!”), but the story with its burden of
human futility is in its essence tragic. That is not
to say it is either dull or morbid.
The book, 460 close-knit pages, is not one story
but many. Linda Neale had 10 children ; one was
killed in the war, one died soon after, the other eight
lived, married and generally went on their way.
Their lives spoke out from the great old family ark
in St. Luke’s Place where their gentle and perennially
adolescent mother fussed and their iron grandmother,
Gregrannie, ruled. There are John, pink and soft, who
exploited on a large commercial scale a tenor voice
that drew tears ; Chauncey, who married a deformed
girl for the money and power she brought him ; Josie,
who lived with her employer and tried to cut his
throat with a paper-knife; Hervey, the dentist with
the latest thing in lacquered dental chairs ; Cox, and
his farm that failed ; May, who ran a beauty “shoppe,”
patented a brassiere and married a man too young
for her; Abbey, who went to Moscow ; Louis, who
taught school and had a painful kink in her mind.
Between them, with their husbands, wives, children,
friends, they manage to cover pretty completely the
field of modern life and to absorb a startling amount
of modem psychology.
The book is most skilfully woven. It achieves
unity while flourishing its heterogeneity. The mass is
held between two magnetic poles—the old lady,
Gregrannie, and Carmella, the young widow of the
son who died soon after the war. Gregrannie is one
of the matriarchs of fiction. She belongs to the same
genus as the Duchess of Wrexe and Adeline White-
oaks of Jalna. Her favorite expression is “Pish! ” ;
she can throw Chauncey, the Wall-street magnate, into
a sweat with a word. She speculates in land, and
when she gets a tip her eyes look like “a couple of
empty lakebeds being filled in.” In her parts she is
often unconvincing, but nevertheless she permeates
the book. Carmella is the beauty of life. She attracts
and troubles all the brothers. “She was a warm bath
with a primrose floating on it. She was a cherry in
the bottom of a glass.” Carmella succeeds in her
sweetness, the old woman succeeds in her power. The
others drift to and fro, choosing between these two :
choosing wrongly and falling into futility. The book
ends with Gregrannie’s one-hundredth birthday and
the depression, which has driven all her grandchildren
back to dependence on her in one way or another.
In style Great Laughter is a bold experiment in
opposites. Most writers make up their minds whether
they are romantics or realists. Fannie Hurst elects to
be both. It is as if she twirled a disc before our eyes,
one side painted in the rosy hues of romance, the
other in the acid green of the most plain-spoken
' realism. She flickers the two, each exaggerated, before
us, and, one correcting the other, we get something
approaching a lifelike picture. She describes Josie:
There was one mask of her that was the almond-
shaped serenity of a Botticelli; another, with its curve of
eyebrow and scythe-like smile, that might have inspired
the terra-cotta head of Nefertiti. Arid then, paradoxi-
cally, there was still another mask of her; it was chiefly
a mouth that gave the illusion of belonging to a very
young child, the lips of a darling wreath around milk
teeth.
With a complementary precision Fannie Hurst
turns out before us the contents of Linda’s mind:
Of babies and goloshes, change of life and cockroach
powders, Chauncey’s carbuncle and Josie’s lateness,
bowels, taxes, Protestant Rummage Sale, throat spray for
John, What-will-people-think, Now-when-I-was-a-girl.
The contrasts continue. Fanny Hurst is at once
long-winded and concise, getting her effects with a
multitude of short, quick strokes, repeating them again
and again, teasing and worrying at what she has to
say until at last she gets it fully said. Great Laughter
is built up in front of the reader with an artlessness
that is very artful. It is unnatural and natural. It
knocks you awake with crudities and wins you with
delicate touches of naturalness. Some very melo-
dramatic things happen without apology, as when a
long-lost son returns after 45 years and his mother
advises him to go out into the park and shoot him-
self, which he does, and no more heard from him.
This is a book with a surface, not a highly-
polished and veneered surface, but a changing, sensi-
tive one that transmits smells and tastes and textures
with a curious sensuous exactness. The prose is
colloquial and racy and crackles with wit. It is an
interesting book, stimulating in its imperfections.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize.
Entries for this year’s S. H. Memorial Prize close
on June 6, but manuscripts received the following da>
will be deemed to have been received in time. Receipt
of entries will be acknowledged by the trustees throug
the columns of The Bulletin as soon as possible attei
the closing date.


“It’s
p
Ml
no
z\e
to
tn e
said J° m ' e
\Valk er
H'f: ,>>:*
mm
wm
m
SST*
(yOyw/.v^
■
:• '
m
mz
& . m
*
•m
« r T'HIS jigsaw puzzle,” said Johnnie Walker, “reminds me of a good
* blended whisky. Each separate piece, in helping to make the
puzzle complete, is like one of the many ‘single’ whiskies that are
blended together as Johnnie Walker.
“Each of these whiskies is different; each has its own natural
charm which has been fully developed by the many years the
whisky has spent in the wood. These fine qualities in each
whisky are retained by skilful and experienced blending, and the
result is a blend of harmony and ‘roundness’—a fact which
makes Johnnie Walker worth asking for by name.”
JOHNNIE
m
WALKER
Born 182 0 still going strong
JOHN WALKER AND SONS. LIMITED, LONDON. KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.


9
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
jHIBHHHHHHI I
■"
g—l
mi
H
■
. : ■
II
-
ira
BHH
V .
Hi
ra
raß
. •
m
11
n
»
§&«MsfS!lip' ' v
• .. s'B!
■-.■■• --C
. I n
■
Mi
H
m
111
in
Hi
I a: ■
::
I
■HH
Ml
M
PI
■I
I
n
v; : ; '
9kBh
mLA
mm
a
MJZ
m
Wm
mm
WM
wmm
■
as
• >:/.
rtpim
. x:' '
Hi
: n.
■
■■iiillll
ZJ*.
m
W
■
1
HB
-
.
jmm
wm
s
-HH
■
HHH
■. ill
»
afps
•v
tlti
'
mi ''
. ■" - . ■
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars.
im


“TRUST HIM NOT—HE IS FOOLING THEE.”
“Hitler Proffers Pact to Empire and Talks of Disarmament.”— Sydney “D.T.” headline.
“But he can’t be dinkum—genuine, I mean. He’s invading Spain, and he’s about to invade Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and all those
other places. Our great Australian newspapers have just shown him up.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
THE LONG-WINDED LAW.
A Sydney newspaper, the “Sun,” recently allowed a
legal contributor to say that “enforcement of laws
which permit and encourage glaring injustice and
patent oppression is breaking down the respect which
the community held for our judicial system.” He
mentioned jn particular the N.S.W. Moratorium and
Landlord and Tenant Acts, and quoted abuses which
presumably have been or would have to be sanctioned
“by Courts whose natural standards are so different.”
In subsequent issues the newspaper stated on its own
account that N.S.W. Law Court business is so con-
gested that “overworked Judges cannot overtake their
arrears, and parties to lawsuits find themselves put
off, not merely from month to month but from year
to year.”
At the present moment 100 to 150 defended divorce
suits and 300 to 400 civil actions await hearing and
trial. Actions have been stringing on for 12, 15, 18
months; they cannot be heard because Judges are not
available to hear them.
These things are natural results of the system
which permits seven Parliaments to make laws at the
rate of 50 to 100 per Parliament per session. Many
of these enactments aim at pleasing the many at the
expense, of the few, and towards the end of a session
they are nearly always passed in a hurry, with the
result that stacks of measures are slammed on the
Statute Book with imperfections thick upon them. The
position is worst in New South Wales, because. New
South Wales goes in for more laws and more litiga-
tion than other States, and it is not relieved to any
extent by the dubious expedient of temporary appoint-
ments to the Bench. Sometimes the temporary
appointee merely takes the place of a Judge who has
been put on a royal commission.
Nevertheless, the whole story has not been told.
Justice, to command universal respect, must be dis-
pensed without delay as well as without partiality. This
is done in Britain, and British justice remains the envy
of the world.
In New South Wales, the Law has developed an
unfortunate tendency to become, long-winded.
Criminal cases last for such a time that juries, it is
suspected, acquit because they are tired out or are
anxious to get back to their own businesses. Civil
cases drag on to such an extent that, rather than go
through further expensive ordeals—perhaps appeal to
the Full Court, appeal to the High Court, appeal to
the Privy Council —parties retire hurt and settle out
of court.
Roclas, who manufacture cement pipes in Vic-
toria, sued the Sydney Water and Sewerage Board
alleging breach of agreement. A bald record says:
After a trial lasting 49 [sitting] days the jury gave a
verdict for £2186 13s. 4d. The Full Court of the
Supreme Court, after considering an appeal for 16 days,
set aside the verdict and directed a new trial... .After
some months a settlement was arrived at.
The manager of the Hodson concern, to which The
Bulletin has given some attention, was charged in
Sydney with having conspired with another party, and
with birds who have flown, “to obtain by false pre-
tences money, scrip and other valuable securities with
intent to defraud.” He was convicted, the other party
acquitted. A bald record again:
The hearing before the Lower Court occupied 23
[sitting] days. The first trial —at which the jury disagreed
—lasted 12 days and the second trial 21 days.
This brings to mind the case of Lord Kylsant. It is
difficult to believe that it was less complicated than
Hodsons’, but his Lordship’s hash was settled within
10 days. He entered the dock on July 21, 1931, a
Tuesday; his counsel, Sir John Simon, “opened” and
put him into the box on July 25 ; addresses for the
Crown and for the defence were over in a day, and
accused was convicted and sentenced on July 31.
The same expedition is shown in Britain when
investigations are referred to special tribunals. The
Budget Leakage Inquiry is a case in point. It was
opened on May 11, 1936 —a Monday. By May 23 the
tribunal had ascertained facts so damaging to the
political reputation of the Dominions Secretary that
he resigned from the Cabinet that day. The tribunal
issued its report on June 2, three Saturdays and three
Sundays having intervened; and on June 11 Mr.
Thomas and Sir Alfred Butt had ceased to be mem-
bers of the House of Commons.
In other words, the tribunal did the whole job—
a job transcending in importance any on which our
multitude of royal commissions has been engaged—
in 22 days. At Sydney’s s.p. inquiry, as the. Judge to
whom the commission was handed reported,
“counsel addressed for 23 days.” That inquiry cost
£14,000, and the extension which is dealing with the
cases of policemen who gave evidence is expected to
cost £lO,OOO. At both 25,000-odd questions have been
asked, answered, taken down in shorthand, typed
and printed. Hundreds of questions relate to
whether a copper got on well with his wife, whether
he asked a girl to go out with him, whether another
copper asked the girl to go to the pictures, and what
all and sundry think of “Terewth.”
And there is the Royal Commission on Banking,
which has been wandering about Australia for the best
part of two years, and of which a member of the
Government that appointed it has said that he didn’t
know where it was, much less when it would report.
This royal-commission racket may disappear in a
sea of verbiage, but the need for law reform will
remain, in New South Wales especially. Fewer and
better laws are required in Australia, and the require-
ment is much more likely to be met by one Parlia-
ment than by seven. N.S.W.’s special law-reform needs
in the special circumstances that will exist until Aus-
tralia sweeps away its surplus Parliaments are aboli-
tion of the archaic division of the legal profession
into two branches —there is only one in other States —
simplification of pleadings, appointment of at least one
more Supreme Court Justice and adoption of safe-
guards (security for costs is one) against specu-
lative and blackmailing actions, tedious repetition on
the part of policemen and roaring cataracts of
forensic eloquence, carried to the point where there
may be a denial of justice. The late Daniel Levy
took up the question of law reform when he was an
Opposition member, but dropped it when he became
Speaker again. It is the most useful sort of reform
that could be tackled in Macquarie-street, Sydney, so
it is not attempted.
Wrangle House Is Shut.
Even those who knew them best scarcely expected
Australia’s and Maoriland’s representatives at the
Imperial Conference to make such ludicrous exhibi-
tions of themselves. Mr. Lyons, with his uncon-
sidered squib of a “pact,” and both he and Mr.
Savage in solemn lauding— at this date! —of that
synonym for utter worthlessness the League of
Nations have managed between them a conclusive
exposure of the barrenness of statesmanship in these
parts of the world.
They have been, as they deserved, incontinently
snubbed. They have been told, in the plainest lan-
guage so far officially spoken, that, as far as com-
mitting Britain to the folly of “collective security”
goes, the League is dead. The simplest common-
sense reading of the past two years’ events might
have told them as much. Their sources of foreign-
affairs information must be as rotten as —probably
identical with —those which have made the cable-
“news” of Our Glorious Press read like plagiarisms
of overseas comic strips.
Mr. Lyons—Mr. Savage and the rest from these
parts with him —evidently went to the Conference in
the same bemused state of mind that he was in when
he sacked the only Cabinet Minister with any notion
of European affairs merely for having dared to ques-
tion, amidst all that doltish acceptance, the possible
efficacy of “collective security” and “sanctions.” The
period our anachronistic P.M. has represented—with-
out doubt to the hilarious amusement of the better-
informed delegates—is that dark age when daily
newspapers here fumed that the time had come for
“war to enforce” those shibboleths of the League.
The plain truth is that not only is the League of
Nations dead, but for the sake of world peace it is
better so. It will figure in history as the shabbiest
political instrument ever invented. About its only
valuable accomplishment was to prove conclusively
that, both the structure of nations and human nature
being what they are, no country will take the risk
of becoming embroiled in war unless its own interests
are to be served or are threatened.
It is better dead because while it stood in the
form into which it had evolved, with three of the
greatest nations—the U.S.A., Germany and Japan—
standing out, it was not merely an obviously hopeless
instrument for preserving peace but a positive means
of provoking another world war. Its fantastic palace
at Geneva had become a wrangle-house of conflicting
interests wherein there was no hope of reaching
agreement on any vital matter, though in the guise
of fair discussion provocative insults were continu-
ally being hurled at such of the non-co-operating
nations as League delegates wished, or dared, to insult.
Particularly in the interest of the British Empire
the wrangle-house is better shut. No country was so
comprehensively entangled by the League as Britain.
It was bound to act in the interest of France, Russia
and the whole of the several dozen sprat nations
which supported the show ; and in the event of, say,
a League war in the Mediterranean it could expect
no active assistance from any of those nations —
except, perhaps, Turkey—and little or none from
France, a house divided against itself. That menace
to the Empire’s and the world’s security from war
lasted quite long enough.
If it is true that the simple facts of the position
have been so driven into the heads of our feeble
representatives that they “have modified their views
on what the League is capable of achieving,” that is,
at least, something accomplished. The occasion is
right for some plainer speaking still. It should be
officially given out —as it will have to be sooner or
later —that Britain is no longer bound to act on the
strength of any League entangling “obligation
whatever. It is merely discreditable humbugging to
act in Britain on the agreed conclusion that the League
is dead and pretend on the Continent that it and its
“covenant” are still alive. The whole status of the
League needs shifting to its proper level, that of an
innocuous chatter-house, with no more power of
interference in the affairs of nations than a suburban
branch of its comic offshoot the League of Nations
Union.
Dr. Page's Defence.
A Canberra estimate of the value of the season’s
wool clip is £67,500,000 Australian, production being
975,000,0001 b. This has given Dr. Earle Page a chance
to burst into platitude.
The doctor “does not agree that active, participa-
tion of the Japanese would have appreciably increased
the wool cheque.” Although he has heard that some
people assess the cost of Japan’s withdrawal from the
market at £7,000,000, “dispassionate examination” —
in which, of course, politicians are highly skilled —
convinces him that there is no just basis for this
assumption:
Even the Japanese wool people have frankly admitted
that it did not have the effect anticipated.
In fact, the doctor asserts, Japan’s absence from the
sales did not affect the general market position any
more than did the drastic reduction of Germany’s
purchases, because of exchange difficulties, in 1934-35.
If, during the coming season, the wool market is
as strong as Dr. Page’s nerve, Australia is in for a
good time. Germany and Austria bought 533,587
bales of Australasian wool in 1933-34, 159,133 bales
in 1934-35 and 227,000 bales in 1935-36. But while
1934- was a bad year for the trade in Germany and
Austria, it was a year of enormous expansion for
other countries. Britain’s buying of Australian wool
that year mounted to 1,153,000 bales, an increase of
327,000 bales over its 1933-34 purchases ; Belgium
and Holland increased their buying by 167,000 bales
to 513,000 bales; Australian manufacturers took
60,000 bales more than in 1933-34; Japan’s demand
increased from 618,000 bales to 741,000 bales.
European countries bought heavily because Germany’s
withdrawal provided them with an automatic market,
which was augmented because Italian military demands
had to be supplied—even’surreptitiously.
The Japanese situation in 1935-36 was entirely
different, because Japan’s buying was mainly for local
consumption. The Germans, when nominally out of
the market, were getting their wool from neighbors.
The Japanese could not hope to import thq manufac-
tured product at prices they could afford to pay.
It is absurd to argue that Japanese competition
throughout 1936-37 would not have made an appreci-
able difference in our market. When they returned as
buyers prices had been pushed up by speculators who
hopped in while Canberra was dilly-dallying with the
capitulation which the whole trade knew it would
have to make; but this did not affect losses earlier in
the season. Subjoined is a record of prices realised at
Commonwealth wool auctions for ten months, the
average price per pound being given:
Japanese Out of the Market.
Greasy and
Greasy. Scoured,
d. d.
July 11.5 15.3
August .. 12.4 15.2
September .. .. 12.4 12.7
Speculators Begin to Operate Freely.
October .. .. 14.0 14.2
November .. .. 16.7 16.9
Japan Comes Back Early in December.
December .. .. .. 17.1 17.3
January .. 19.4 19.5
February 18.2 18.3
March 18.3 18.6
April 17.5 17.9
Ten months .. .. .. .16.6 16.8
Now for Japanese purchases in countries other
than Australia. To April 30, they imported 835,000
bales of wool from those countries —60,000 bales
more than their 1935-36 purchases from Aus-
tralia. In South Africa in 1935-36 they bought so
little wool that the record of it was lumped in the
record of purchases from minor countries ; in 1934-35
their South African purchases were 1,955,0001 b. greasy
out of a total of 215,000,0001 b. sold. (S’Africa that
year sold only 386,000 bales out of 614,000 bales
offered.) In ten months of 1936-37 Japan bought
285,000 bales from South Africa and only 278,000
from Australia —and the S’African bale is heavier
than the Australian. In the same ten months Japanese
buying in Maoriland absorbed 110,000 bales—3s,ooo
bales more than in the whole previous year —doubling
prices. To April last year Japan bought 4000 bales
from Argentina and Uruguay (the bale down there is
5001 b.); to April this year, 172,000 bales.
In terms of Australian weight, Japanese pur-
chases in South Africa, Uruguay and Argentina dur-
ing 10 months of 1936-37 amounted to 700,000 bales,
compared with 12,000 bales in the same period of
1935- If Dr. Page hopes to persuade Australians
that diversion of the difference to this country —the
purchase of another 680,000 or 690,000 bales in 10
months, or even half the quantity—would have made
no difference to market values, he is wasting his energy.
They simply won’t believe it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Betrayal.
Interest on the overseas debt has to be paid in
sterling out of the proceeds of exports. The greater
the overseas interest bill the less spending power
there is in Australia.
During 20 post-war years, Australian Govern-
ments borrowed so vastly in London and New York
that when prices collapsed Australia was hard put to
it to meet the overseas interest bill —it had indeed to
resort to heroic measures to checkmate would-be
defaulters and pay it.
In some years the excess of exports has actu-
ally been insufficient to meet the overseas interest
bill, and our London balance has had to be drawn on
for the difference. Observing this, and observing also
that, with the cessation of overseas loans transferred
to Australia in goods, an impetus has been given to
Australian industrial development, all competent and
impartial financial advisers in Australia and Britain
alike have urged the Australian Governments not to
resume overseas borrowing.
Resumed, however, it has been, disingenuously
and without forewarning. A £2,000,000 flotation at
4 per cent, sterling was put on the London market last
week. It is nominally for the Sydney Water and
Sewerage Board, but really for the N.S.W. Govern-
ment, being part of the N.S.W. Government’s plan
for borrowing prosperity or popularity or something,
in the process making a joke of the Loan Council
and a mockery of the Financial Agreement.
The N.S.W. Government suggested a £15,000,000
works scheme to the Water Board, and as a pre-
liminary transferred £11,400,000 of Water Board
debt to the general taxpayer’s back. “Works” being
expected to result in steady losses, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment has guaranteed the difference between rates
and interest, and it is also guaranteeing the interest
on the £2,000,000 of 4 per cents. It gleefully points
out that £2,000,000 sterling is £2,500,000 Australian,
but not that 4 per cent, sterling is 5 per cent. Aus-
tralian, or that the difficult task of keeping Australia
solvent abroad in lean years is now to be made more
difficult.
If this operation stood alone it would look a
political crime against the nation. When it is con-
sidered that the British Government is going on the
market for vast defence loans and that the Australian
Government will have to float more conversion loans
before long, it looks unspeakably selfish, unpatriotic
and wicked. The members of the Commonwealth
Government now in London could have stopped it
had they chosen ; a word to the Chancellor of the
Exchequer would have been sufficient. The fact
that they elected to let it go through will provide
Australian nationalists with another reason for turn-
ing them out bag and baggage at the general election.
And the people of New South Wales will settle
accounts with the Stevens Administration when its
time comes.
Swapping Horses.
In any country other than England it would be diffi-
cult to imagine a change of leaders taking place in
critical times with so little stir as the transition from
Baldwin to Chamberlain has caused. In France, Ger-
many or Russia such a substitution would be almost
a revolution. In Britain it is scarcely “front-page
news.”'
But the English are a peculiar people. They hate
to make themselves conspicuous and they don’t care
much who governs them so long as he does it decently
and efficiently.
Their royal family has few drops of English
blood in its veins. The first George did not trouble
to learn the language, and the second George spoke
it with difficulty. And during the last century their
Prime Ministers have been mostly Scots by birth or
recent lineage, though one was Jewish and another
Welsh. Until Chamberlain succeeded Baldwin no
Englishman had followed Englishman in the office
for 70 years.
Baldwin did not score in foreign affairs —like the
vast majority of his countrymen, he failed to divine
continental Europe. But he understood the English,
and they gave him their confidence and unusual affec-
tion.
He was a very fine specimen of the businessman
in politics. As a speaker he was lucid, scholarly
and well informed. In person somewhat untidy,
he was to be seen almost any day wandering down
Parliament-street, pipe in mouth and stick on arm, like
any ordinary citizen. He was never seen parading in
a large official car with a corporal in uniform for
chauffeur, after the Parkhill fashion. He was a good
employer, and in a fateful hour for the nation he
gave it —anonymously—a large part of his fortune.
Neville Chamberlain is a tall, gaunt man with a
ragged moustache and a collar which looks as if it
had been bought in the ’nineties. Fortune has been
kinder to him than it was to his father, whom it
struck down with paralysis when he was entering
upon his greatest task; but the son has inherited the
sire’s capacity to do a job of government well without
making a song about it.
But it is lucky for him that he was a candidate
for the British Prime Ministership and not for a post
in an Australian department. Mr. Stevens, for one,
would have found him four years too old to stand up
to the strain of clerking.
Dangerous Rabaul.
Rabaul is built on hollow ground. Small earthquakes
— gooriers —sometimes shake the crockery on the table
and roll the beer off the sideboard. A toast drunk
in old careless days was “Here’s to the big blow-up.”
There have been several volcanic eruptions at
Rabaul in the last couple of hundred years. One
blew twin mountains off the side of the Mother Moun-
tain, which overhangs the town. Another knocked
the top off Matupi crater. Still another spewed up
Vulcan Island, in the harbor, six miles from Rabaul.
After the war a tidal wave deposited the B.P. steamer
Marsina on the beach.
Last week Rabaul had another eruption. Bits
of Vulcan Island were hurled all over the place.
Matupi crater behaved like a hot whale. The Admin-
istrator being on the New Guinea mainland, Judge
Wanliss had the population removed to Kokopo, the
old capital, which is nearer to the open sea and con-
nected by road with Rabaul round Blanche Bay.
There are about 700 whites, 900 Chinese and
3000 natives in the Rabaul area. No lives have been
lost. Two steamers are standing by. A naval sloop,
the Moresby, is on her way with stores.
Ever since New Britain was colonised competent
geologists have been saying that there is no more
dangerous place for a capital than on Blanche Bay, at
the very rim of an active volcano. The administra-
tive centre should be moved to Madang, on the main-
land, or to some spot near the goldfields and the
future centres of development.
Beads of Perspiration.
Foreign travel at the public expense, the U.A.P.-
U.C.P. recipe for enlarging the minds of politicians
and heads of departments, doesn’t seem to have im-
proved the logic of N.S.W. Police Commissioner
Mackay.
At the small-beer sequel to the s.p. inquiry,
which lasted months —the small-beer sequel has
been frothing since March 11 —Commissioner Mackay
let fly at counsel for Constable Miller, shouting: “I
don’t know how your Honor stands this man yelling
at you all day,” or words to that effect. A little
later he said at a Police Association conference:
If everybody is going to have a hand in the govern-
ment of the police force —if Judges, barristers, solicitors
and others are going to be drawn in—it will be a sorry
day.
Last week in an emotional monologue at the small-
beer affair aforementioned, he said:
Nobody knows more about these cases [i.e., those of
the numerous policemen who were sacked by the
Government after the s.p. report, and who have issued
writs claiming thumping damages] than these learned
barristers. My proposal is that these barristers, who are
all fair-minded men, should meet together to discuss
the whole features of the cases and come to a recom-
mendation whereby the severity of the sentences may
be lightened in the knowledge of their experience.
The Commissioner got out of hospital to make these
remarks and others on the administration of the
force of which he was placed in sole control, the
U.A.P.-U.C.P. having at the time a wonderful faith
in government by commission. It is recorded that
beads of perspiration stood on the devoted officer’s
forehead as he was perorating. Beads of perspiration
stand on taxpayers’ foreheads when they contemplate
the cost of the s.p. inquiry (£14,000) and the probable
cost of the small-beer sequel and the possible cost of
the actions for wrongful dismissal. More beads will
form if the gentlemen of the Bar “meet together” for
the discussion proposed and are paid on the current
scale. One has been drawing £32 10s. a day, two
others £2l 15s. a day each and two more £l6 ss. a
day each, in addition to £133 15s. marked on their
briefs.
N. S. Wales isn’t exactly broke, but it is not made
of money, though some people, notably politicians
and Commissioners, seem to think it is.
"No Use for Scientists."
G. L. Sutton, the Westralia Director of Agriculture,
retires in October, when he will have committed the
now-intolerable crime of being 65. He was one of
Farrer’s young men, and, with little encouragement
from politicians, has carried on the Farrer tradition,
having bred or helped in the breeding of wheat varieties
of continent-wide reputation ; but, since he was ex-
pected to attend to headquarters as well as field work,
he has had too much to do. An office man is to
succeed him, and it is announced that, although Mr.
Sutton joined the service in 1911, he was “too late
to secure pension rights.” This looks bad. The
Government will be expected to struggle out of the
dazed condition in which T. J. Hughes’s attacks left
it last session, and give an assurance that a faithful
servant of the State will get a fair deal.
As in other States, agricultural scientists are
poorly paid in Westralia, and have to carry on with
primitive equipment in ancient dens. Mr. Sutton
was always handicapped that way, and Entomologist
Newman, who has something of an international
reputation, is obliged “to prosecute his investigations
in a frowsy and dilapidated rear annex of a ram-
shackle old structure.” The “Primary Producer”
vouches for this, and compares the Government’s
neglect of its highly-trained advisers in agricultural
matters with its eagerness to “destroy one system of
transport between the city and Claremont, on which
thousands of pounds have been lost, in order to sub-
stitute another on which probably many more thou-
sands will be lost” —meaning Government trolley
buses.
Even the equivalent of the losses on the two
Government trolley buses now on the roads would
provide Mr. Newman with a decent laboratory and
office.
Bishop and Dean.
How Europeans must hate these comfortable Eng-
lish bishops and deans who meddle insultingly in
European affairs!
Told that the Spanish rebels regarded their civil
war, ghastly as it is, as a war of Christianity against
Communism, the Douglas Credit Dean of Canterbury
replied that he had risked his life in Spain (he has
mentioned this on several occasions), and that the
Germans did bomb Guernica —he had been shown a
photograph of four German airmen, taken after the
event. This is reminiscent of the American humorist
who wrote that he believed the story of Jonah and
the whale because he had seen a whale.
Now Bishop Barnes, leaving his Birmingham
palace to make a speech in London, has expressed
his lofty contempt for the country which, according
to his account, has taken “a public-house politician,
a doss-house dreamer,” for leader, and for another
whose ruler is “making pathetic attempts to force up
the birthrate.”
I was recently at Palermo, which is a huge slum.
And perhaps it is a huge slum, and perhaps it
is because each of these countries is poor and
crowded, and because it was without hope and in
imminent danger of the crowning humiliation and
horror of a Communist civil war (Britain has had no
civil war for three centuries, and then it was a most
respectable upper-class and middle-class affair) that it
accepted a dictatorship. And no doubt there are
English bishops and deans who view the situation of
these nations with understanding and sympathy, and,
while opposed to dictatorships (as are the great
majority of Britons and Australians), can see no good
in baiting them into hatred by attacking their policies
and rulers. The Bishop of Birmingham and the Dean
of Canterbury are just different.
Tariffs and Textiles.
Arguing for increased Protection, W. E. Foster, tex-
tile section secretary of the Melbourne Chamber of
Manufactures, told the Tariff Board that China would
“soon be able to sell manufactured goods cheaper
than Japan.”
Before representatives of 24 nations, gathered
together at the world textile conference at Washington
(U.S.A.), Chinese delegates actually complained of
the fact mentioned by Mr. Foster. One, supporting
an international 40-hour week in textile manufactur-
ing, said the textile industry’s biggest problems were
those in the way of higher wages, a shorter week,
improved working conditions and the insurance of a
legitimate return for employers. Another Chinese
spokesman elaborated his colleague’s case:
Labor laws in China are being overridden by foreign
factory-owners in our territory. Of China’s textile
workers, 46 per cent, are employed in foreign factories
largely owned and operated by Japanese. These foreign
factories are all operating 11 hours a day, 66 hours a
week and paying about 18 American cents per day.
Chinese factory laws are being defied by these operators,
and they are not bound by the laws of their own
country. Operating in a sort of no-man’s-land, they
are exploiting the worker and forcing decent Chinese
employers to do the same.
Japanese spokesmen, for their part, said that
the substitution of rayon for silk in women’s clothing,
especially in the U.S.A., was retarding Japanese im-
provement of present low labor standards. The
livelihood of 9,000,000 Jap cocoon farmers depended
on the maintenance of silk sales.
European and British representatives, who in-
cluded India and China with Japan as low-standard
countries, declared that the U.S.A. example of a
40-hour week in textile areas could not be reason-
ably followed until Asia had at least conformed with
the 1919 1.L.0. convention of a 48-hour week.
The lesson for Australia is that there must be
sufficient Protection to enable necessary industries to
be preserved and decent living standards maintained.
"Reform" in Victoria.
Victoria is to have a Legislative Council election on
June 12, and “reform” of a sort will be the issue.
U.A.P. nominees have come out in defence of the
Second Chamber. They declare that the Country party
—still in office but never in power—is playing into
the hands of a Labor party pledged to abolish the
thing.
Certainly the odd alliance —odd because Federal
Labor and the Federal C.P. were at daggers drawn
in the Qwydir (N.S.W.) by-election—is being carried
into this campaign. There are contests in 11 provinces;
only in Ballarat is Labor competing against C.P.
There are two other candidates for Ballarat, both
U.A.P. In two of the three contested metropolitan
provinces Labor is tackling U.A.P.; in other districts
C.P. and U.A.P. are struggling, and the C.P. men
expect to get Labor preferences. It is a confused state
of affairs, and there will be greater confusion still
when (or if) Labor, U.A.P. and C.P. tickets are nomi-
nated for the Senate.
Meanwhile the compulsory-voting provision is
adding to the general fog. Electors can be fined
for not voting at all; fined for not voting in a province
where there is an election, although there may be no
poll in the province where they reside; and fined
although they have voted. Because plural voting has
been preserved they can vote 17 times without penalty.
However, because enrolment is not compulsory, any-
one eligible to vote evades all risks of punishment
if he is not on the roll.
Citizens eligible to vote include property-owners,
householders, mortgagors and lessees, graduates
of any British university, barristers and solicitors,
doctors, clergymen, certified school-teachers, navy and
army officers and matriculated students of the Mel-
bourne University. If they run true to form vast
numbers of them will fail to exercise the privilege.
The “Age” professes to see signs of intense interest
in “reform.” If the proposal were to do away with
State Parliaments the interest wouldn’t have to be
searched for or imagined.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tuart”: Long-distance stunting in the
upper regions has a shabby side, as Aus-
tralians in business can testify. Light
was thrown on this phase of the useless
pursuit by a King’s Bench Division case
in which the young Llewellyn man
was sued by his female partner in a
flight from London to the Cape for £549,
money lent. Like other back-seat females
crazy to get their names and pictures on
the front page, the lady is married. She
had the gall to ask her husband for
£lOOO, “to finance the Cape flight.”
When he refused, she pawned her jewel-
lery for £550 and gave it to Llewellyn,
“on the understanding that he would re-
pay the loan and give her half the
bonuses resulting from the flight” He
said £550 wasn’t enough, so she took the
jewels out of “Moscow” and pawned
them for £6lO. According to her story
the fellow got that, and she also paid
his Cairo and Cape Town hotel bills,
£6B. Verdict for £549, with costs.
* * * *
“Mak”: Nudism took a young Mel-
bourne couple to General Sessions last
week, when the husband appealed against
a maintenance order secured by his wife,
after sharp differences of opinion on the
merits of the cult had broken up their
home. The husband and his parents
wi re practising nudists, but the wife ob-
jected to mixed sun-bathing—and Judge
Foster decided she was justified in refus-
ing to accept the offered home. It
appears Vic. has a nudist colony in the
Dandenongs, but, according to a letter
produced in court and stated to have
been written by a Melbourne nudist to
a “pen-friend” in Austria, “this year has
been a bad one for Vic. nudists ; it has
tained nearly every week-end.” Psycholo-
gists should be interested in the circum-
stances of the case —the nudist husband
is a bank clerk, and Melbourne banks
have an unwritten law that on city streets
during the working week their clerks
must wear hats!
* =H * *
“D. Empson”: Great is the appeal of
smut. A case in point is the current
craze for the American magazine
“Esquire.” It gives little more reading
matter than the “Saturday Evening Post,”
which can be got for 6d. in Australia,
and the articles and stories are certainly
no better. For the rest, it has drawings
in color, which, except in one particular,
are nothing out of the way. Superior
work is done in Australia. But the
“humor” is largely bedroom and lava-
tory, so “Esquire” sells for 4s. 6d. in
Sydney, and flappers and pimpled youths
of the pseudo-intelligentsia rush it. It
is almost as popular with the young
female as moving-picture magazines
which purport to give precise and illus-
trated accounts of the loves of alleged
actors. Probably “Esquire” will be super-
seded by some smuttier periodical, but
meanwhile it is having an astonishing
vogue among people to whom 4s. 6d. is a
consideration.
* * * *
“Loftus”: Boys win oe ooys even on
the best regulated warships! My young
brother, stationed on one of our most
recent cruisers, tells of a Tasmanian lad
who bitterly complained of getting no
mail. His companions took it on them-
selves to remedy this by placing these
two advertisements in a Sydney paper:
Wanted, convenient to city, two-room
flat. Willing to pay up to 6 gns. Apply
E. Blank, H.M.A.S. —.
Wanted to purchase, a second-hand car.
condition no importance. Apply, etc.
That lad from down south received more
mail during the next few days than the
most popular Hollywood star.
* * * *
“D.E.”: The trussed-up body of a
man who had been shot or knocked on
the head was found last week in N.S.W.
blacksoil country, not far from the
Queensland border. Burrs and bits of
red soil found on or about the remains
suggested that he had been done-in in
Queensland, where murder is no hang-
ing matter, and deposited in N.S.W. by
car—possibly as a protest against capital
punishment. Three or four years ago a
nomad who had decided to get rid of a
female partner half his age carried her
from the hanging State to Queensland
and took her life there. He was caught,
but his careful attention to geography
ms careiui auenuun to geugiapny
saved h.s cowards neck.
“Macann”: I read that “that pecu-
liarly American entertainment ‘strip
tease’ ” is doing good business on London
stages. There is nothing new or, apart
from the name, peculiarly American
about it. It is merely the old dodge of a
lady taking off on the, stage as much of
her clothes as local laws permit to be
shed in public. A play at the old Sydney
Cri. a few years back did a roaring busi-
ness chiefly because a stripping turn was
worked into one of the acts. The lady
was worth looking at, dressed or other-
wise, but the success led to the inclusion
of an identical turn at another theatre,
where the lady was a heavyweight, a
fact that became more and more obvious
and disillusioning the more she took off.
Both these turns, however, stopped at the
Australian idea of the decent thing,
which was only fashion-parade quality
compared with a turn put on by a French
lass at London Palladium in 1917. She
went to her own limit, and additionally
made use of shadow for enlarged effects,
No doubt she. was no innovator there,
and the stunt, of course, has been a
Parisian attraction for ages—it probably
dates from Eve.
* * * *
“Pounce”: I suppose the Crown has
to prosecute for bigamy, but I am con-
vinced that it rarely breaks hearts. As
often as not when the criminal is a man
'the wives can be seen sitting together in
court and chatting amiably before the
proceedings commence. In a case heard
in Sydney not long ago, Bride No. 2
broke up the junior Bar by saying, in a
perfectly audible whisper, to the rightful
missus as their betrayer paced into the
dock, “Doesn’t he look nice in his
Charlie Chaplin mo.?” The Westralian
CJ. has had to deal with a lady, aged
25, who coolly admitted having left her
Perth husband, to whom she had borne
two children, to “marry” a man in
Wiluna, 600 miles away. She. didn’t
know the Wiluna man from Adam, but
she had “seen his advertisement in the
paper” and had calmly set off to go
through the ceremony with him, leaving
one child with her husband, with whom
she was on the best of terms, and the.
other with her mother. From Wiluna she
returned to Perth with her new partner,
to whom she broke the news that she
was married. The bewildered man went
“ Ain't y' got no romance? Carn't y ’ see a mans on ’ees Way to an elopement ?”
back to Wiluna; she followed him and
they set up house again; but before
long she was, back in Perth “living
happily with her husband and children.”
Then the police interposed. The CJ.
was informed that she was in an interest-
ing condition and that her rightful lord
was the father. Saying that it was an
“extraordinary case, and the more I hear
of it the more extraordinary it seems,”
his Honor bound the lady over, sen-
tence to be executed if she sees another
piece in the paper and commits matri-
h re
mony once more. .
„ . .. .
Ek Dum : Australia may have some
°f the biggest newspaper plants in the
Empire, but I back India to provide the
most picturesque newspaper potentates.
One Bombay journal which proposes to
r& i se itself to London quality when it can
g et £lOO,OOO, for which it is asking the
public, boasts the following board ot
directors: Sir Hormusjee Cawasjee Dm-
shaw Adenwalla, Sir Jehangir Bomonji
Bomon-Behram, Sir Dossabhoy Hor-
musji Bhiwandiwalla, Sir Bahadur Seth
Bagchand Sim and Messrs. Ranchordas
Vijbhucandas Mehta and Ratanshaw
Merwanji Dadabhoy Chamarbaugwalla.
The manager is a mere Scot named
Hamilton.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Presumably as a sequel
to the case in which the widow and
daughter of a golfer were awarded
thumping damages against another who,
after a game on the links at Katoomba
(N.S.W.), drove his friend back towards
the city and struck grievous’ trouble on
the journey—the car crashed into cattle,
the driver was hurt and the passenger
killed—a lady is going about Sydney
with a large printed notice pasted on the
windscreen of her sedan. It reads “Any-
one Riding in This Car Does So at His
(or Her) Own Risk.” Under the law
as laid down, I question whether it
would save her from liability if the car
toppled over with a passenger, but she
obviously thinks it would,
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Passengers sometimes
won( j er what sort of job is done by the
d f overalled carrying
M ... , , ’ ,
torches and steel rods, who board ovet-
seas vessels in the main Australian ports.
They are Customs searchers, and their
mission is no sinecure. They crawl about
parts of the ship that landsmen never
hear about and sailors never want to visit,
sound bulkheads and partitions, examine
bilges and limbers, climb over hot
boilers, turn over tarpaulins, shift coils
of rope, peer down ventilators and some-
times borrow shovels and shift many
tons of coal. Many of them have served
at sea in some capacity, but nobody
loves them on a ship or ever wants to
see. them again. They collect a good
deal of undeclared stuff, mostly tobacco,
but those who should know say that the
whole job is useless, as most modern
smuggling is done in more subtle ways,
*.„ * ,• .-
A^ an }J c w\ e . Fe< J ral dlvlsl ™
Gwydir (N.S.W.) in the throes of is
l ates - election, with 80 politicians taking
P art > a fleet of motor-cars and a stack
of loudspeakers, presented a very dif-
ir t om lts a P p earanee when
old Bill Webster was its representative
(B - hv an old
m a sulky drawn by an ol
black horsehis chief assistant v,as his
daughter Polly, who did her canvassing
for dad on horseback. The pair had one
unforgettable experience in the election
Q f Webster was marooned for
severa i days an( j nights in the loft of
a se ther’s home in the Binneguy district
w hi] s t the swirling floodwaters of the
G W ydir River swept past, leaving havoc
an( j destruction in their wake. With
t^e .h.R. were the settler, wife and
family. The water was several feet high
i n house, but the upper storey sur-
vived the buffetings. A couple of miles
awa y Webster’s daughter was in much the
plight, her place of refuge being the
roo f 0 f an outbuilding occupied by an-
other settler. Neither of the campaigners
whether the other was alive or had
b een swept away by the flood (the worst
eve r recorded in the Gwydir) until the
waters receded and a horseman estab-
lished communication between the two
houses.
THE PRIMITIVES.
“Mr. Lionel Lindsay said that ten thousand years
ago primitive men were doing better drawings, on the
walls of limestone caves than many artists produce
to-day.”
In caves and in treetops he dwelt,
The forebear of modern mankind,
With nothing to cover his pelt
Apparent, before or behind.
He rioted round in the nude;
He bolted his sustenance raw.
His art was admittedly crude,
But still, when he started to draw
The beasts that a-hunting he went
(Or from which on occasions he ran),
No time in conjecture was spent
As to which he designed to present.
They never mistook what he meant,
The fellows of Primitive Man.
He’d doubtless the musical ear—
Our own aboriginal
But he might have been jabbed with a spear
If his gumleaf descended to jazz.
He danced, as all savages must,
In the light of the sun or the moon;
But one may reliably trust
He never attempted to croon.
In the dimmest of dawns of our race,
Before ever hist’ry began,
There was never a singer could face,
Soprano, contralto or bass,
If his notes were not easy to place
In the era of Primitive Man.
He was tough, our pre-Adamite dad,
An absolute savage, or worse;
But there may have been times when he had
An urge to pre-Adamite verse.
When his voice hit the listening throng,
Who troubled the metre to scan,
Or to mildly suggest what was wrong
With the stuff that was floating along
In pleasant, melodious song
Directed at Primitive Man?
And, now and again, it survives
All thoughts in my ev’ryday span,
Endearments of sweethearts and wives,
Long beers (from the bottle or can),
How better than ours were the lives—
And brighter—of Primitive Man.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“M.F.”: W. M. Hughes, the doleful
higher-birthrate propagandist, should go
to Ireland for cheer. The Free State
Government has broken up for agricul-
ture rich grassland in the heart of the
country and settled upon it 100 families
from bleak and barren Connemara.
These families average nine children
apiece!
* * * *
“Buzfuz”: Six just men of Melbourne
have had occasion to regret their hasti-
ness. They formed half of a jury which
had been empanelled for a Criminal
Court case, and had been found at the
last moment not to be needed. Before
discharging the panel Mr. Justice Lowe
asked if any wished to be excused. Six
did, and gave reasons which ’Sonah re-
garded as adequate. Then he directed
the remainder to the Sheriff’s office for
their fees. The Crown was saved £3 12s.
« * K- * *
“Oof”: An anonymous person whose
conscience impelled him to send the
Queensland Commissioner of Police the
sum of £7 10s. cut the notes vertically
with scissors and posted the separate
halves in two envelopes. This old method
of safeguarding readily negotiable securi-
ties was not killed by the registered-letter
system, though it is probably rare enough
nowadays. Not everybody is so careful,
however. The most casual depositor in
my experience was one who transmitted
a dilapidated boot-box to his bank by
parcel post. When the box was opened
over 300 golden sovereigns were shaken
gradually from the folds of masses of
newspaper carelessly . stuffed inside. A
note enclosed read: “Credit a/c W,
Bloggs, £317 19s. lid.” It was all
there.
* * V *
“Cautious”: Belgium would give the
Balearic islands (B. 19/5/’37) a run in
the matter of different possessors. It
appears first' in history as the part of
Gaul that Julius Caesar found the most
difficult to conquer. When the Roman
Empire fell it emerged from the welter
of the Germanic invasions as part of the
kingdom of the Franks, presently to
become a bit of Charlemagne’s Holy
Roman Empire. Later, nine provinces,
each with its own feudal chief, existed
until in the fifteenth century the Dukes
of Burgundy bagged eight of them,
Through marriage connections, these with
other Burgundian territories were in-
herited by the Kings of Spain, who in
1714 handed them over to Austria. After
the French Revolution Belgium spent 19
years as part of the French Empire, and
another 15 under the United Kingdom
of the Netherlands, set up by the Congress
of Vienna. In 1830, after a lot more
trouble, two years of fighting and seven
of “barneying” among the Great Powers
the country became a kingdom. If you
count in occupations by British, French,
German and other armies at various
times, Belgium wins in a canter.
* ❖ * $
“Mudurup”: Some newspaper pro-
prietors are unreasonable souls. There
was a story current in press circles two
or three years ago of a Westralian one
who was motored down to his office one
morning, to find a very dead kangaroo-
dog on the pavement out-
side. His gorge rose at
the sight, and, all his
finer instincts outraged,
he strode up to the edi-
torial sanctum and de-
manded that the occu-
pant should side-track
whatever he was en-
gaged on to “give the
council hell” for neglect
of its hygienic duties.
But the editor, sur-
rounded by books and
maps, was writing an in-
formative article on the
Polish Corridor, then re-
garded as the danger-
spot of Europe, and
rather brusquely sug-
gested that the defunct
canine could wait until
international affairs had
received his undivided
attention. The result was
a strained situation, cul-
minating very soon after-
wards in a severance of
professional re 1 a tions,
each disputant accusing the other of
having “no sense of proportion.”
4*
“Corporal Wanst”: “Wang’s” other-
wise convincing and very touching story
of the old-time Imperial soldier who
wiped the tears from the eyes of the
dead colonel’s horse with his handker-
chief (B. 26/5/’37) fails in one particu-
lar —no one in the Old Contemptibles
ever owned a handkerchief. It was not
an issue, and anyone buying or stealing
one for his own use was regarded as a
gilded sybarite who could only redeem
himself with much beer. Failing his
cleaning-rag the soldier relied on Nature’s
provision, the fingers. Many a newly-
joined man suffered severe penalties in
the shape of c.b., shot- and pack-drill
for inadvertently using the cuff of his
tunic. The dark-blue facings of a royal
regiment, showing up every mark, were
particularly unsuitable.
ifc *• * *
“Forme”: It doesn’t always pay to
advertise. The other day a suburban fac-
tory-owner notified all and sundry that it
had a job for a nightwatchman. The
“Half a jiffy, Nurse — I'll get out and Walk!
same night, 12 hours before, the usual
host of applicants arrived, the premises
were entered by some burglars who evi-
dently read “Wanted” ads. Their enter-
prise was rewarded with goods to the
value of £2OO.
* * V
“Adelaide”: A family case that began
as a murder charge, diminished to man-
slaughter and faded out as “common
assault” has been heard in Adelaide. Over
the tea-table a man gave his married
sister a blow ; she died a fortnight later
of haemorrhage, doctors disagreeing as
to the precise cause. “She called me a
dirty dog, and I slapped her with my
open hand,” was the version given by
the accused in court; another brother
called it “a fairly heavy punch on the
jaw.” The C.J. called it “a grievous and
“Well, Count, you gave me the choice of Weapons !”
wanton assault,” but directed the jury
not to find the prisoner guilty of any
more serious charge; and as he had
“been in gaol for 19 days, part of the
time expecting a charge of murder,” a
£lO bond for good behavior was thought
enough punishment.
** , *
“J.0.L.”: “Kwakprak (B. j 7)
is wide of the mark when he says that
fats produce body heat but not fat.
Bogqrt and Porter hold that “besides heat
and energy, fats are also used to build
necessary fatty tissue, forming a reserve
supply upon which the body can draw
when needed.” The same authorities de-
scribe “Kwakprak s despised beef tea
as “a good source of phosphorus and
some vitamins,” while Dobbs “admits the
value of beef tea for anasmics.” As for
dry toast being more fattening than
bread, Plimmer gives the respective fat
content as 1.4 and 1.2. “Kwakprak” can
nibble his morning toast secure in the
knowledge that any extra fat resulting
will be indiscernible to the naked eye.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A nephew of the late
Viscount Snowden is a postmaster in
Australia, and a lot of stuff is being
talked by newspapers which should know
better and, according to reports, by the
nephew himself as to the possibility of
his succeeding to the peerage. Of course,
no such thing is possible. Some peer-
ages become extinct when there is no
direct descendant to inherit; others may
go to a relative, however remote. It all
depends on the terms of the patent of
nobility. In a peerage conferred by
patent, the line of succession may take
any shape that the Crown chooses, the
most common limitation being to the
heirs male of the body of the grantee.
Snowden’s was obviously such. He had
no children, and hence Who’s Who
winds up the account of his activities
and dignities with the two words “Heir:
none.”
*** * .
“Tid’apa”: The cabled statement that
Prince Ratu Sukuna applied to the Earl-
Marshal for leave to wear the Fijian
lava-lava at the Coronation ceremony
sounds like boloney to me, especially as
the reason given was that Sukuna was
unused to trousers. I don’t know if he
wore such garments at Oxford, where he
graduated with honors, but he certainly
did during his war service. Sukuna spent
four years in the French Foreign Legion ;
he was twice mentioned in dispatches and
collected a few decorations, including
the Croix de Guerre.
“Beesknees”: I saw Prince Ratu
Sukuna when he. was in Sydney on his
way to the Coronation. He and a fellow-
Fijian were walking down Elizabeth-
street, and both were dressed in lava-
lavas, black dinner-coats, white shirts and
black bow-ties. Also, both were bare-
footed. It was about 10 a.m., so I was
left wondering whether dinner-coats are
the usual morning accompaniment to the
lava-lava or whether the pair were
homing late from some entertainment of
the night before.
$ * ❖ *
“Nipper”: Loaded advertisements?
Quite lately the picture showman in our
suburb advertised that all male patrons
on a certain night would be presented
with metal coat-and-trousers hangers. A
bumper house resulted —every man on
leaving was offered a three-inch nail!
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Most Parliamentary re-
forms originate outside of Britain; the
mother country takes them up tardily
but, more often than not, wholeheartedly
in the end. For years past Opposition
leaders in Australian Parliaments have
received extra remuneration, but the
House of Commons has only just recog-
nised the principle as a just one. Per-
haps its warmest advocate has been the
amiable Baldwin, and the first man to
benefit thereby is Labor leader Attlee,
whose salary goes up with a bound from
the private member’s £4OO (now £600) to
a cool £2OOO. Probably he and his suc-
cessors will earn it, but when Opposi-
tion leaders were, first subsidised in this
country it wasn’t on that handsome scale,
incidentally, an intelligent visitor from
(say) Mars might regard it as somewhat
illogical that any nation should pay a
set of Ministers so much for framing
laws and passing measures and pay an-
other man half as much for doing his
best to harass and impede them at every
turn. But we’ve become used to the
anomaly—in English-speaking countries
anyway.
(Continued on page 50.)
FOOL’S LYRIC.
Dark eyes that hold no dreams,
Why must 1 love you so?
Blind mirrors that but show
The shadow of what seems!
How should you know
The faith of fools, that damns me and redeems.
Ah, never heed!
Tis but a jester sings, with lips that bleed!
Hush, sweet! the rose endures,
Beyond the roseless creed —
Love’s rose and yours!
Once long ago
I came to you, and once found Paradise!
But Death was king there, and the coiling
snow
Lay deep across Illusion’s dying eyes!
Heart of my heart, how bitterly men grow
wise!
Now as a child I know
But this: I love you so.
Q.
J. HOLLOWAY.


%v
ili
foform
10 for 9 s )
WI884
*» Q
All over the world Craven A
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
THIS
GENE R A T
THE
TIP P E
CIGARETTE
CORK
mmrnm
W
POLITICAL POINTS
Though the withdrawal of the High
Court cases against the Communist party
and the Friends of the Soviet took all
the shine out of Melbourne “Argus’s”
anti-Communist articles, which were pub-
lished even while the proceedings were
being cancelled, the “Argus” elected to
be as unvocal as a drum with a hole in it.
In Sydney, however, Barclay, of the Sane
Democracy League, which was supposed
to be a U.A.P. show, came out with a
protest and a demand for an explanation
of the mystery. Explanation there has
been none. Was the ignominious sur-
render inspired from London?
The Senator McLachlan who isn’t
P.M.G. has been rebuked by the Adelaide
“Advertiser” for saying that the idea of
constitutional reform by referendum is
“positively ridiculous.” This McLachlan
it was who burbled in the Senate that
“Sir Geoffrey Whiskard has been sent
from England to guide us.” Another of
his Great Thoughts is that “the Senate is
the navy of the politics of Australia.”
Admittedly, Governments have had as
little use for the Senate as for the R.A.N.,
but it is decidedly no silent service.
Maoriland Labor has made the proud
discovery that its first full year of office
closed with a surplus of £472,000. Can-
berra helped by bestowing on the sister-
Dominion, whose spuds it shuts out, un-
precedented Japanese purchases of wool
at high prices; but increased taxation is
chiefly responsible. Maoriland income-
tax rates used to be. well below the Aus-
tralian level; now there is little differ-
ence.
Butter-and-eggs politicians are denounc-
ing Prof. Wadham, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, for saying that “the Australian
dairying industry stands convicted of
inefficiency.” But the prof.’s offence
might have been ranker; it might have
been committed before the referendum
which was to have enabled boards to
charge what they pleased for eggs and
butter, which, incidentally, was 102 s.
sterling in London last week and 1465.
Australian (the pre-referendum price)
here.
Foreign Consuls must get a lot of fun
out of the foreign news cabled to Aus-
tralia, especially as correspondents have
taken to contradicting themselves. Asso-
ciated Press discovered that the Hun-
garian Foreign Minister had implored
Mr. Anthony Eden to save his country
from the Germans, Hungary being one
of “the smaller Powers in constant fear
of a Nazi putsch” Only two days after-
wards, Associated Press conveyed the
news that Germany had made a
£2,500,000 barter agreement with Hun-
gary, swapping war materials for cattle
and grain. Hungary was one of the
countries that refused to apply “sanc-
tions” to Italy, and its relations with Ger-
many have been just as cordial.
A. G. Alanson is once more plying a
busy pen on “the necessity of granting
Federal aid to education, because the
States are financially limited.” It would
only mean expenditure of heaps more
tax-money without responsibility; but Mr.
Alanson, while declaring that “youths are
being educated for Australian citizenship”
(“State limitations being impossible”),
protests that the Federation “does not
advocate that the Commonwealth should
administer education departments.” Why
not? Half-measures are no good. If
education were made a Commonwealth
matter there would be one department
instead of six attending to education for
Australian citizenship, and the unneces-
sary services of five Ministers and their
personal staffs could be dispensed with.
Victoria’s “temporary” unemployed-
relief tax produced £1,979,000 in 1935-36
—£240,000 more than in any previous
year—although unemployment registra-
tions have dropped from 61,000 in 1932
to 22,000. Party politics being what
they are, the Cockies can play this tax
against any Labor-party move to aban-
don their Ministry. Retention of the
impost and the higher rates of sustenance
introduced by the Government are held
to be vital by Labor.
A Sydney writer declares very con-
fidently that “a new transport era is
about to dawn” in his city—buses are to
supersede trams.
The Commissioner of Transport went
abroad and experienced an awakening.
No, it was the public who experienced
the awakening. The Commissioner was
Maddocks.
Stewart, M.H.R., who six weeks ago
was going to stand against Parkhill in
Warringah as a protest against the Gov-
ernment’s inertia, has squibbed it, and
“Sir Frederick Stewart, has decided not to carry out his proposal to contest
Warringah against Sir Archdale Parkhill, M.H.R.”
“Quack, quack, I’ve scared somebody at last!”
will remain in his soft place “to strengthen
the efforts of those who are fighting
for a more liberal social programme.”
He amplified his “explanation”:
To contest Warringah after the generous
action taken by the Parramatta U.A.P.
.Conference would show that I was merely
spoiling for a fight.
Fond as he is of using the word —a
peculiarity of N.S.W. politicians on both
sides who never did any fighting in their
lives —there is no more fight in Stewart
than there is in a frilled lizard.
Sued by the widow of a Sydney share-
broker for £843, alleged to be owing on
shares bought on his account, McCall,
M.H.R., pleaded the Statute of Limita-
tions in bar of amounts alleged to be
due prior to July 21, 1930, and also
“never indebted.” In the witness box he
said he had received a statement, dated
July 23, 1930, showing that the account
was £2O 10s. Bd. in credit, had written
closing it early in August and had re-
peated this instruction verbally. The jury
disagreed. McCall is U.A.P. member for
Martin and a city alderman as well. The
U.A.P. “electorate conference” in Mar-
tin has given him “a unanimous vote of
confidence.”
The Melbourne “Herald” group of
newspapers sent its well-informed Can-
berra correspondent through Gwydir.
With this result:
The main impression I obtained from
my tour was that the people were bored
with the Government.
Other observers get the same impression
elsewhere. And it is ominous for the
Government; France, when bored with
Louis Philippe, chased the Citizen King
out of the country. He was' a good
family man, like King Joseph Aloysius,
but he thought that his mere presence on
the throne should be enough for every-
body.
The warmest greeting for the returning
Premier Dunstan will come from his
substitute, Old. Wonthaggi has been an
almost continual worry to Old; then he
had to face the C.P. conference, at which
the Dunstan group was defeated ; now
he’s being bombarded with criticisms of
farmer’s debt-adjustment and “reform” of
the Leg. Council. He has been a staunch,
it prosaic, Horatius, although the “Argus”
has referred to him as being “a little
awkward in his unusual surroundings.”
Brisbane property-owners are swearing
horribly about jumps in valuations,
which mean leaps in taxes. A property
was given another £lOOO rise in Federal
valuation. That meant £l2 p.a. more
Federal land tax; the State, using the
Federal valuation as a basis, added
£29 3s. 4d. to its annual rake-off, and
the council came along for another £66
p.a. And that is only one case out of
many.
It is rare for a politician to acknow-
ledge that his memory has been at fault;
but H. I. Cohen, M.L.C., has been seen
in this performance. At an election meet-
ing he had said he was not aware that
a “safeguarding” amendment to the Vic.
Council “Reform” Bill had been circu-
lated last October. Taken to task by
Acting-Premier Old, who brandished a
“Hansard” containing a Cohen reference
to the amendment, Cohen remembered
why he had forgotten. That was the day
on which he was smacked on the head by
the whirling brake-handle of a cable-
tram taking him to the debate.
“To stimulate interest in Australian
literature and to encourage young
authors,” the A.N.A. bosses in Victoria
are going to do Something Really Big.
Offer a substantial prize for an Austra-
lian novel, play, historical study or book
of verse? Put a promising writer on their
large staff, with pay and leisure enough
for the production of something worth
while? Nothing of the kind.
The A.N.A. has decided to request the
Government to institute a national award
for Australian literature.
Always “the Government”!
The average Victorian doesn’t care two
straws for Leg. Council “reform” or the
Leg. Council either; but the “Age” re-
cently succeeded in persuading itself
(never a difficult task) that reform was
as dear to him as the ruddy drops that
visit his not-so-sad heart. When nomina-
tions for 17 L.C. vacancies were about
to close, the “Age” discovered that “keen
interest” had been “aroused by the para-
mount reform issue,” and that “there
was keen public indignation” at U.A.P.
opposition to “the moderate measure pro-
posed.” Then the nominations came out
—one each in six provinces and 25 in all
the rest. It must have, been a crusher ;
but the “Age” rallied gamely, and pre-
dicted that “the general interest already
shown in the vital and urgent reform issue
will be increased.”
“The inauguration of the winter time-
table” is a great occasion in the N.S.W.
Railway Department. This year’s “in-
auguration” will be remembered by Syd-
ney people who train it to the Blue
Mountains at the week-end. Coming
back, hundreds had to stand, because the
department cut down the service, and a
train advertised to reach Central at 6.15
p.m.—which would have given ‘Manly
and northern suburbs people time to
catch ferries leaving at 6.30 —did not
arrive till 6.43 p.m. Many rode a mere
40 miles or so to be 28 minutes late. This
kind of thing perhaps explains why a
concern carrying goods between Sydney
and Orange can pay £2OO a month road
tax and beat the department which eats
taxes.
S.A. Labor has managed its affairs very
badly for five years at least. Just when
a long truce to faction fighting seemed
probable, the United Trades and Labor
Council has introduced a new source of
disturbance by announcing that “the
trade-union movement” in its State has
“decided to support the democratically-
elected Government of Spain.” It is
rank impertinence,- especially as “the
democratically-elected Government” is
representative of Communism, which
Australian Labor has repudiated.
Victoria’s newspaper-radio cover has
been extended by the opening of an-
other “Argus” station —at Warragul.
Australia has been assured by the head
of the Melbourne “Herald” group that
dailies are entering the commercial
broadcasting field only “in a limited
way.” It would be interesting to know
what the gentleman means by “limited.”
Going into a shop at Aden to buy
clothing, Butler, the Premier of South
Aus., was the victim of an attempt
at doping or something. Anyway, he
went into a back room to try on a
dressing-gown, and, on returning to the
shop, had “two distinct punctures on his
hand,” which was “covered with blood.”
No doubt the news has reached the im-
memorial East that Australian Premiers
borrow expansively and travel exten-
tensively, and perhaps an impression
exists that they carry huge pieces of
loans about with them. They could
avoid dangerous adventures with inscru-
table Oriental clothiers by buying their
duds in Australia.


k \
Tiere.3 a pew more to come.dear .
n
"Three years • vv
Much obliseo, VeR. x ONOR
„ =— w
' Nqvn *TWS S #
a
What about
these Silver
Handle-sticks!
*An # ERes another pony por LucvJp^
ft / w
No j g»u\/njor. / it vs/aanjt vour p-mjlt,,
// .
W»t_u You BEWMTW fy\(=
PA.WTS, BAtutKP ? VN
TAKE IT ON THE CHIN, TAXPAYER!
“In an address on the intricacies of Australian taxation, F. W. Spry, of Melbourne, advised men, ‘perturbed and concerned,’ to be philosophical and, if possible, humorous."


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders* Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
"■>*,!!•sSj*""
DEPEND 1)N Champions
If the hills slow your car down, if your en-
gine knocks and becomes hot —the cause
may be faulty ignition. See what a big im-
provement a set of new Champions makes!
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
Cs\
'
gif
/
mm
mm
V*
*
%
55
<2*s
W/ffi
W///7A
w/H
&
»#*>
*i>.
'»j
'ini
;
4/
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
With the removal to Government
House of Chief Justice James Blair, who
will act as Lt.-Gov. during the Gover-
nor’s six months’ absence in England,
Queensland has acquired a new acting
puisne, Judge in Douglas Graham, now
in his sixties. Graham was a brilliant
youngster turned out by Brisbane Gram-
mar School in the ’eighties—he won an
exhibition to Melb. Uni., was a cham-
pion high-jumper, and played inter-State
Rugby for Vic. and Q. and tennis for
his own State. For a time he was asso-
ciate to Griffith, C.J. He is the author
and editor of a dozen legal publications.
His son, now at the Bar, was an inter-
state tennis rep.
“Mac Fergus”: Toowoomba (Q.) has
not waited for one of its best citizens to
pass out before doing him honor in
stone ; a fountain in the park expresses
the' community’s appreciation of W. C.
Peak. Before collecting directorships on
financial concerns, Billy Peak was a No.
1 polo player, and a member of the
Queensland team —the others were Feez,
Philp and Caswell—that went undefeated
through an inter-State tournament. His
first job was wearing a grocer boy’s
apron in a store he subsequently owned.
S. J. Lamorna Birch, first English R.A.
to visit Australia, takes his unusual
Christian name from his Cornish place of
residence. He was attracted south by a
poster advertising the fishing in Maori-
LAMORNA BIRCH, R.A.
land, and took in Australia on his way
home. Before he left he said that
national galleries should auction un-
wanted pictures to make room for better
ones.
“El V.” on a title:
It is nearly 700 years since there was a Bald-
win in the British Lords, and then the title was
ecclesiastical. It belonged to Baldwin, Arch-
biship of Canterbury, who rose to that job
from being a master in Exeter Grammar School,
founded Lambeth Palace, in which archbishops
still live, set up a memorial to Thomas a Becket,
crowned King Richard the Lionheart and died
on the latter’s Crusade at Acre. In the early
romance ages, Baldwin was a popular name—
it meant “Bold Friend” in the old Germanic
languages, and some of the owners of it cer-
tainly lived up to it.
That fine Australian Scott McLeod, of
Terrica station, Stanthorpe (Q.), has gone
to his last muster. His Highland grand-
father, Alexander McLeod, arrived in
Australia with five sons 100 years ago,
and began the long fight of the pioneer
against drought, pests, fire and flood. In
1875 Roderick McLeod secured Terrica,
unfenced and unimproved, and gradu-
ally made it a first-class property. Rod-
erick’s son Scott was born there in 1879,
and trained to make of Terrica perhaps
the best-managed station property in
Queensland. He went with the 42nd Bat-
talion overseas in 1915 as a sergeant,
though a commission would have been
his for the asking. He won it on the
field instead, and was invalided home in
1917. Fine sportsman and hospitable
soul, he entertained widely, and enjoyed
life to the full. The Duke of Gloucester
was his guest at Terrica in 1934.
After two ballots N.S.W. A.L.P. en-
dorsed J. R. Donovan as candidate for
Barton Federal seat. First ballot gave
Mark Gosling (Lang ex-Minister) a
majority of two ; but, as he had protested
against alleged irregularities before the
count had been completed, he was
ordered to a second trial and defeat.
Donovan was member for Murray for
18 months during the last Lang regime,
prior to which he managed a pub near
Deniliquin. He is now employed in the
State Department of Labor and Industry.
From an ex-colleague:
Daniel Levy remained an ordinary member of
N.S.W. Parliament for 16 years until elected
Chairman of Committees in 1917, and, with
John Jacob Cohen as Speaker, two Hebrews
controlled the Assembly debates. It was owing
to Cohen’s acceptance of a Judgeship in 1919
that Levy became Speaker. After the general
election of 1920 John Storey had a bare
majority, and Levy continued in the Speaker-
ship despite the vitriolic attacks of his National-
ist colleagues. The late J. C. L. Fitzpatrick
was in rare form at this period, attackmg Levy
mercilessly for his association with ‘ the
Christian Socialists.” Levy stood the barrage
well. Shortly after Storey’s death in 1921, Levy
resigned, and the Government had to place
its majority in the Chair. When Simon Hickey
returned thanks to the House for the honor
he made his famous observation that he would
discharge his responsibilities impartially, for ‘ as
long as I hope and as short as I expect.
He reigned for a week. George Fuller met the
House on December 20, but was immediately
defeated when Hickey vacated the Chair. This
Government lasted four hours, one of its mem-
bers, Perdriau, not having been sworn in.
Governor De Chair then commissioned Dooley,
and gave him the right of dissolution, but
Levy was again placed in the Chair, Bagnall,
of St. George, having offered himself to the
House without response. Levy’s prestige with
his own party was quickly restored, as he was
once more elected Speaker when Fuller re-
turned from the polls with a definite majority.
Members and stafE alike will miss the kindly
and democratic little scholar.
Horace Park, just dead in Adelaide,
had a life like that of an old-time novel
hero. A junior of an earl’s family, he
was all about the world in the Merchant
Service. He was a dispatch rider in the
Boer War, then he had a shot at African
exploration (like his illustrious relative
Mungo Park), but mainly he interested
himself searching for diamonds; and he
always declared that the great. Cullinan
stone was found on his reef just after
he had to abandon it. He took up land
in S.A., lost a leg in the war, married,
entered the Taxation Department and
lived in the Adelaide hills till the end.
The Bank of N. S. Wales, which makes
a point of having a visiting professor
on its economic staff, has brought from
England, in Noel Hall, one of the young-
est and ablest men to hold the job. A
Tynesider, Hall’s brilliant Oxford career
led him to a lectureship, combined with
a job as civil service tutor, at London
University a decade ago. At 27 he was
acting head of the University’s Political
Economy Department, and was given
full status as professor in 1935 at 33.
Charlie Prell, of Gundowingra, Crook-
well (N.S.W.), deserved more than a
Coronation 0.8. E. Prell, who runs
a noted Corriedale stud, has done
his State an immense amount of
good by practical sermons on improved
pastures, and is so convinced that a
closer-settlement scheme would be suc-
cessful if properly handled that he
offered the Government free use of por-
tion of his land for demonstration. So
far, the Government hasn’t shown any
interest.
The Shoobridge family maintains a
long connection with the public life of
Tasmania by the election of Rupert of
that ilk for the Derwent seat in the
Legislative Council. He is the son of
Alderman L. M. Shoobridge, who held
the Derwent seat for many years. Rupert
is warden of New Norfork Council, and
is the second of that office to go into the
Legislature, Ellis Dean holding the dual
offices 16 years ago.
Edward Angus Johnson, Adelaide’s
Medical Officer of Health, with sufficient
letters after his name to fill this para-
Adelaide’s Principal M.O.
graph, was born at Angaston (S.A.) of a
Manchester father and a mother who
claims descent from Oliver Cromwell.
After a grounding in Australia he pursued
his education as far afield as Gottingen,
Berlin, Strasburg, Paris, Cambridge and
London before returning to practise in
his native. State. Preferring public ac-
tivity to private practice he is medical
adviser to several authorities, with botany
as a sideline. He served as city councillor
for 21 years.
First police wireless patrol car in Aus-
tralia was the result of experiments 15
years ago by Sub-inspector F. W.
Downie, dead in Melbourne, at 57.
Downie sought the aid of Amal-
gamated Wireless and brought quali-
fied operators into the police ser-
vice, with a transmitting station at
headquarters. There are now 15 operat-
ing a 24 hours’ service. Downie
had to wait 32 years for commissioned
rank, which he received two years ago.
He was due to retire at the end of 1939.
A policeman son carries on.
Rt. Rev. A. Campbell Grieve, newly-
elected Moderator of N.S.W. Presby-
terians, was a Wollongong boy and
taught other South Coasters in the State
school at Balgownie before he went to
Rt. Rev. A. C. GRIEVE.
Sydney Uni. to collect his B.A. with high
distinction in history. His theological
course followed at St. Andrews, since
when he has had charge at Bingara,
Penshurst, Bathurst and Drummoyne.
Dead in Brisbane in his early forties,
Keith Eliott, once an officer in the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha and during the
war the holder of a substantial naval job
in London. Eliott was Brisbane-born,
a descendant of the captor of Gibraltar
and of an A.D.C. to Governor Gipps
who became one of the first half-dozen
pioneers of the Darling Downs and an
early Speaker of the Queensland Leg.
Assem. After the war Keith became
the youngest Torres Strait pilot, and had
been leading ships through the tortuous
channels of the Gt. Barrier for 16 years
when an illness developed which ended
in his death.
Sydney sculptor L. R. Dadswell comes
back to Sydney after two years’ study
abroad to take up teaching of modelling
and sculpture at East Sydney Tech,
under Rayner Hoff. Dadswell was a
Wynne Art Prize winner.
Matthew Heib, of Southport (Q.), is a
standing testimony to the fact that the
Queensland climate is not altogether un-
endurable. At 80 he is busy building a
38ft. deepsea fishing-boat, the latest of
many stout craft from 150 tons down.
Nine years ago he turned out a 36-footer
for two Dutch engineers, who fitted an
engine, took the craft from Brisbane to
Singapore and back under her own
power and sail, and sold her to the Gov-
ernment for use as pilot boat at Thurs-
day Island. Heib has lived in the Nerang
district for more than 60 years, bullock-
driving, timber-getting and boatbuilding.
“Lid”: Lieut.-Col. E. G. Lister, D. 5.0.,
who at the end of April retired from his
position as C.O. of the 22nd Field Brigade
(Vic.), joined the army as a cadet, has
held a commission for 35 years and was
decorated in France. In 1908 he organ-
ised the Boy Scouts in Victoria, and was
their first master. He is now attached to
the overseas department of Mcllwraith,
McEacharn, Ltd. ; and was recently made
president of the Travel League, of Vic-
toria.


m
A
A
RDATH
SK FOR
1
m
wM
rt
40
ft
9
2
'XO 3
ID FOR 9 d
&
20
l'B
FOR
Also Flat and Round
and
Boxes
100
ARDATH . . . Famous in
ENGLAND for Quality
61G9-—5.7.
THE CIGARETTES
YOU ARE
PROUDER
TO OFFER !


ABORIGINALITIES
“Harry N.”: I’ll back Gippsland as
the most versatile part of Australia. In
addition to dairying, it is the principal
sawmilling district of Victoria, and has
an up-to-date kiln-drying plant that turns
out high-grade flooring. Most of the
State’s power is generated at Yallourn,
situated on the finest deposit of brown
coal in the world. Within a few miles
of it is soon to commence a large wood-
pulping factory, where hardwoods will
be converted into paper. Gold, copper
and platinum are found within its boun-
daries, and it manufactures all the sugar
it needs from locally-grown sugar beet.
Products from its minor industries in-
clude flax, limestone, marble and chemi-
cals. Last, but not least, the world’s
largest earthworms are found there, huge
fellows up to 13ft. in length.
* * * *
“Cocky”: A peculiarity of the major-
ity of old station homesteads in Queens-
land is that they are built right on their
boundaries. In nearly all instances the
owners had the choice of putting the
house anywhere in a couple of thousand
square miles or more, yet, either to be
close to a neighbor or to get away on
their own, the boundary had it. One
result was that sometimes the homestead
was found to be miles outside the coun-
try it was supposed to govern, but that
was always easily adjusted—a mere
matter of swapping a few hundred miles
of land.
* * # Jf!
“Ellenvale”: “Ringer’s” camp horse
that can distinguish a cleanskin calf from
a branded one (B. 12/5/’37) may be a
useful animal, but as far as intelligence
goes it runs a bad second to old Bill
Johnson’s kelpie dog. If Bill walks out
of the stable with a pair of winkers in
his hand, the observant hound dashes
off and rounds up the draught-horses,
while the sight of a bridle is enough *o
send him hotfoot after the hacks. This
sort of thing is all in the day’s work for
the kelpie, but he excelled himself last
week when Bill was giving his wife a
hand with the washing. Bill came, out of
the washhouse with a brassiere in his
hand and half an hour later he discovered
his dog shepherding two terrified flapper-
hikers towards the homestead.
sH * * *
. “Ugar”: Recently an innovation was
made in giving the women a vote at
Torres Strait island council elections.
One interesting result is that all the new
councillors are. young men. Native coun-
cillors perform a variety of duties relat-
ing to the domestic affairs of their vil-
lages and islands; and they constitute a
native Court. Some of the old coun-
cillors were illiterate, and interpreted
“white man law” in curious ways at
times; no doubt the island ladies expect
to get a better spin under the more en-
lightened regime. I recall one island
councillor of mature years who made an
improper suggestion to a 15-year-old
damsel; she promptly scurried off to her
mother, and that irate dame interviewed
the native police sergeant, who in turn
passed it on to the councillors. But the
girl found herself doing “gaol-house”—•
on the ground that it was a punishable
offence to make reports concerning the
conduct of a “Guv’ment councillor.” A
visiting official later quashed the convic-
tion. “Yes, I been speak to that girl
that way,” admitted representative No.
1, “but that girl she got no right to tell
somebody else—law he say nobody must
carry yarn!”
* * * *
“L-fire Jack”: I have frequently re-
moved half a hundredweight of marble-
sized gravel from the interior of estuary
crocodiles. Binghi says the dog-chewer
“listens” to ground sounds (or vibration)
with these. Abo. lore is not to be de-
spised, but more likely the pebbles act
as a balance weight when the croc, rises
from the bottom of a deep pool to re-
main suspended with nostrils and eyes
just peering above the surface.
* * * *
“Moe”: One of my mates has an
unreasoning set on all farmers. Wheat,
dairy, poultry or any other variety, he
lumps them under the one heading
“cockies.” Our mill employs several
cockies’ sons, and the other day Joe was
holding forth on his favorite subject.
“Cockies!” he said scornfully. “Fifteen
million quid the cows owe the State, an’
I maintain there’s only one way to square
the bill —declare an open season on the
blighters an’ pay a bonus on their scalps.”
Just then a farmer’s son wandered along
and caught Joe’s last sentence. “But
they’re payin’ a bonus for ’em now, 2s.
6d. a scalp,” he interjected. “What the
hell are you talkin’ about?” asked Joe.
“Wombats,” was the answer. “Wom-
bats?” barked Joe angrily. “Dammit,
man, I’m talkin’ about cockies. They’re
a real pest. Wombats is harmless.”
5p *
“R.8.C.”: “You can have your
Sahara deserts and sandstorms,” said
Joe, “but the time when I was
thirstiest was up the North Coast. I
had been to a Highland gathering, and
we’d drunk nothing but neat whisky all
day. I was half-drunk, and had a raging
thirst when I set out on the 40-mile ride
home that night. I don’t know how far
I’d gone, but my tongue was almost
touching the saddle when I came to a
small creek. I was off the moke in a
jiff, an’ didn’t stop till I’d polished off
three pannikins full” “Three panni-
kins,” someone interjected. “That’s only
a sip!” “Three pannikins full,” resumed
Joe, “before I found out that it was salt
water.”
“Teed” : The primest and highest-
priced sheep at Newmarket Yards (Vic.)
on a recent saleday had been reared and
fattened in one of the most thickly-popu-
lated areas of the metropolis the
Coburg Penitentiary!
* * * *
“R.W.D.”: To decide on Australia’s
most beautiful bird would be a task
that would make the judgment of Paris
ridiculously easy by comparison, but it’s
safe to say that the male regent bird
would be in the running. Its markings
of bright orange merging into flame on a
ground of black velvet present the most
striking contrast I have met with. To
see a flock of them gathered on a dead
bush before settling down to a gorge in
the ink-weeds is to gain a remarkably
realistic impression that the bush is on
fire.
* * * *
“F.J.”: At a time when porpoise-hide
had a great reputation for various leather
uses, particularly for bootlaces, we har-
pooned a full-grown porpoise, at Broken
Bay (N.S.W.). It was brought ashore
and, with visions of unlimited porpoise
hide bootlaces, was skinned and the skin
pegged out preparatory to tanning it.
The sun melted the half-inch or so of
blubber which separated the outer skin
from the carcass, and it oozed away, leav-
ing the outer skin only, which was almost
transparent, little thicker than tissue
paper and useless for any purpose what-
ever. What animal did contribute its
overcoat to the production of the good
old “porpoise hide” bootlaces?
* * * *
“Brock”: It is news to me, though it
seems to be authenticated, that the
British badger may occasionally vary his
mostly vegetarian menu with a feed of
bunny (B. 28/4/’37). Even if he. does
occasionally raid a “stop” of infant
rabbits that hardly warrants his inclu-
sion among “the natural enemies of the
breed” ; considering the growing scarcity
of badgers and the amazing multiplicity
of rabbits all the former could do in
“What’s Wrong , Prodigal? Feeling a bit homesick?”
checking what has become a pest would
be almost negligible. And I maintain that
there is no more inoffensive animal, if
left alone, than the one of whom some
English poet has written:
Last of our land's night clan
He goes his way,
A simple gentleman
In sober gray.
“Gryllus” seems to think that the
badger’s “strong-arm methods during the
courting season” detract from his repu-
tation for inoffensiveness. Still, the
platypus, than which there is surely no
more harmless animal, is credited with
being anything but a gentle wooer. And
the hare, most timid of beasts of the
chase, lets himself go considerably in
mating time.
“Bacalas”: I support “Brock” in re the
general inoffensiveness of the badger,
although when attacked or cornered he
can be relied on to fight desperately.
The beast is more plentiful in Ireland,
particularly in the south, than in Eng-
land nowadays. As a lad, when living
near Wexford on the banks of the River
Slaney, I often watched them come from
their burrows at dusk and roam across
the paddocks in search of roots, etc.
Evidence of their presence could always
be found in the woods when the acorns
and beech nuts were ripe. So far from
being an established enemy of bunny, it
was not unusual to find their “earths
adjacent to a rabbit-warren, and the
rabbits didn’t seem to mind. Foxes,
however, always object to badgers as
neighbors.
* * * *
“Carapace”: All of us, even lady novel-
ists, know that turtles are rendered more
or less helpless if they are turned on
their backs on the land. Unless some-
thing helps them over, they’ll be there
till the cows come home. In experiments
with baby turtles I found they could turn
off their backs and right themselves with
no trouble at all. That ability lasted until
they were about six weeks old. If turned
after that they were as helpless as old
dad. It isn’t any softness of the shell,
and I’m doubtful if the shape of the shell
alters much. Apparently it’s something
inside them which they lose as they grow
older and the centre of gravity shifts.
Certainly this attribute is essential for
the newly-hatched turtles, which put in
three days under the sand before break-
ing the surface. If they couldn’t turn
right side up they’d never come. up.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: “C. Coral’s” disappointment
at finding curing being done with
“bottled smoke” (B. 12/5/’37) opened
memory’s treasury for me, and again I
saw our old smokehouse, a little wattle-
and-dab building with a corrugated-iron
roof. For most of the year it was used
as a lumber-room, but in the winter when
the pigs were killed all the rubbish was
cleared out, and when the carcasses had
been salted and “turned” two or three
times they were hung for a few days
from the rafters and a bucket of burning
chips placed on the earthen floor. This
meat always had a good smoky flavor,
and that was the best that could have
been said of it. The bacon was usually
too salty, and the excess salt couldn’t be
removed even by steeping the rashers in
hot water, while the ham was “strong"
to overripe.
* * * *
“Awani”: Choom, who was milking,
kept butting the cow’s stomach with his
head. Explanation? “Aw, well, that’s
the way the calf butts ’er, and I thought
I might get more milk if I gave her a
few.”
♦ % * ♦
“W.”: On Long Plain, Kiandra
(N.S.W.), may still be seen in early
summer those “fairy rings” the origin
of which has puzzled scientists. During
the winter that country is covered feet
deep in snow, and occasionally wild
horses are snowed in. The warmth gen-
erated by their own bodies and the long
coarse grass keep them alive until the
spring thaw sets them free. Result: a
perfect circle of smooth lawn, with a
generous sprinkling of bright-colored
mountain flowers. Anyone might well
be pardoned for thinking fairies had
been at work.
DEAD SUMMERLEES.
Cobwebs hang, and the yard’s deserted,
The cottage windows are dark and blank;
Round the walls that his paths once skirted
Grass grows thick and weeds grow rank.
The bucket he said that Betsy dented
Hangs there still in sun and rain;
No matter the cloths are bleached and rented,
Summerlees will not milk again.
The old man’s dog—l often wonder
Where he sleeps in the noisy dark,
When from the hills the great winds thunder,
With the cracking of limbs and falling bark.
Under the small red-currant bushes
Ripe fruit lies like a crimson stain;
Through the gateway white-weed pushes;
Blackberries twine on the fence again.
Things are growing, the days are sunny,
Warm winds stir in the apple-tree;
Hives are dripping with amber honey—
Summerlees is not here to see.
I think that it must have hurt him going,
Leaving summer, and fruit and trees,
The dew-wet world, and the sweet winds
blowing
He loved so greatly—Summerlees.
TAS.
PHYLLIS GURNEY WRIGHT.


“Grumpy”: You can have all your
fighting dogs—l’ll back the harmless-
looking koala to beat the lot of ’em.
When the dog attacks, Koala sits back
on his haunches, grunting and spitting,
and with his grappling hooks of claws set
to grab. No matter how the dog mixes
it Koala ends up underneath, with his
arms and legs around the dog’s back,
raking hell out of him. The fight, >'f
fight it can be called, may end half a
mile away, with the koala in the same
position, hanging on and swearing, and
the hound looking for an easy break to
discontinue the scrap.
* * * *
“Harry N.”: Some old-timers must re-
gard the modern craze for community
singing with disfavor. Time was when a
song was known outback not so much
by its title as by its local singer. For
an outsider to hop in and offer to warble
“Sweet Alice, Ben Bolt” would be to
invite the curt advice to find a ditty of
his own, as “Sweet Alice” was “Tom
Smith’s song,” and Tom had been sing-
ing it satisfactorily for 30 years without
having to call in any outside aid.
if * s;s &
“Porosus”: Some Syuney papers are
never so amusing as when they venture
into the realms of natural history. The
“Daily Telegraph” has told of a fight
between a N.T. abo. and a mother croco-
dile “whose baby he was stealing.” The
“D.T.” is evidently under the impression
that, like the dugong and the seal, Mrs.
Croc, has but one cherished infant which
she carries about under her arm. Her
habit is to lay about 100 eggs in some
swampy spot, cover them with rotten
vegetation and leave the sun to hatch
them. In case Mr. Croc, comes along
and digs out the eggs to eat them, the
lady hangs about the nest as a sentry.
Once the little ones are hatched they
scatter in all directions, and the lady
takes no further interest in them. The
crocodile which attacked the coon was
just as likely to be an old bull as an
indignant mother, and he was after a
square meal and not the rescue of his
che-ild.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Black ducks are no slug-
gards when they’re winging flat out, but
the little falcon can hurtle past a flock
of those speedy fowl as though they were
glued in the atmosphere. Another slick
traveller is the jack-snipe, a flier whose
lightning getaway when flushed is simply
sight-confounding. Off a standing start
I’d back this long-billed mud-puddler to
lead anything in feathers.
•I*
“C.V.S.”: When I arrived in n.-w.
Queensland the first thing I noticed was
the rarity of snakes in the Mitchell-grass
plains between Hughenden and the Gil-
liat, especially as I had just left a cold
mountain plateau on the Speck where
wrigglers abound. Other notable absen-
tees were sheep ticks and rabbits. 1 met
middle-aged people who had never seen
a live cottontail. What I did see, when
trying to read at night, was every kind
of flying, buzzing, creeping annoyance
imaginable ; but snakes and frogs, no —-
possibly because I never was there long
enough to see a good fall of rain. None
of my visits lasted more than eight
months.
H- * * *
“Leirum”: Cape York Peninsula
(N.Q.) and adjacent islands possess two
rare and little-known Australian beasties.
One is the cuscus, a tiny cross between
a flying squirrel and possum in appear-
ance. He dwells in smaller trees and
shrubs, subsisting on bark and leaves.
Unlike the possum and squirrel, he defies
attempts at petting, and snarls his hate
“But where does one FIND these jobs, Cert?"
at all and sundry. He resembles a tiny
simian in some respects, and beyond
doubt was the basis of the monkey myths
of Cape York Peninsula. The other is
the striped phalanger, a little fellow
with a hide like a zebra’s and equally
beautiful. However, his beauty is of
the sight only, for he is an olfactory
offence, his smell being one of the most
repulsive met in many climes.
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat, chequed up, went
to Melbourne. About a week later he
came to me at Echuca to borrow ten
bob. “Y’ soon got through it,” I sug-
gested. “Races, women or what?”
“Dunno,” he confessed happily, “but I
had a bonzer time; must’ve done in about
sixty quid!” “But how do y’ know you
had a gobd time?” I insisted. He looked
“This is MOST annoying, Martha. I've forgotten to bring a spanner !”
at me pityingly. “Course I had a good
time. A man must’ve had a good time to
get through sixty quid in a week, whether
tie knows anything about it or not!”
*"* * *
“Tamata”: Betel-chewing is respon-
sible for most of the Papuan tendency
to sleepiness (B. 19/5/’37), particularly
when backed with a heavy feed. Was
out on the Mamba River one Sunday
afternoon with the R.M. in a whaleboat,
our objective being the big blue pigeons
that flighted down the river to their roost-
ing trees in the cool of the evening. We
were approaching a notorious nest of
snags round which the fast-running river
was boiling. The R.M. was content to
leave the matter to the native steersman
who sat behind us, and it was not until
we were right on top of the danger that
he looked round to find the darky fast
asleep. There was a lurid minute of
furious effort before disaster was averted.
A slumbrous Sunday loaf plus a big tuck-
in and betel to follow was responsible
for the steersman’s lapse. He was Ser-
geant Gaibari, of whom the papers have
been making so much of late, and this
was about the only dereliction of duty I
ever heard of his being connected with.
# * * *
“Hanko”: I’ll grant “First Blue” that
there is a slight difference in size and
coloration between the brown and stubble
quails (B. 21/4/’37), but the birds fly
too fast and too short for even the
keenest-sighted gun-lugger to be certain
as to their species. And you can’t gamble
on habitat when you’re dealing with
quail; the browns have to get to the
rush-covered river bend—they don’t
grow there. As for those sportsmen who
know their bird at a squint-eyed glance
—huh, I’ve seen members of the ilk mis-
take flitting ground larks for some
variety of toast-decorators.
* * * *
“Leirum”: The generally-accepted be-
lief that the mixed breed acquires the
weaknesses of both races and the virtues
of neither seems to have been negatived
in the case of inhabitants of Yorke
Island, Torres Strait. In the ’eighties a
deserting Yankee bucko mate chose
this sand-speck as a likely place to be un-
disturbed, and took unto himself many
wives of the people. The Yankee leaven
of forcefulness seems to have acted won-
derfully well on the Binghi indolence, for
a superb type of native peoples this
island to-day. Among other results, their
inherited traits are spurring them to reap
rich rewards in the pearlshell business.
Their Yankee forebear perished through
treading unwarily on a stonefish.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: For an hour I watched a
scrub-wren taking in part of his after-
noon meal along the old logging track,
every now and then swelling his yellow
throat in a melodious grace-note. He
averaged two insect items —grubs, eggs
and whatnot —per minute. . What would
happen to mankind were the world s
birdlife suddenly terminated? Scientific
people affirm that the world’s insects
probably outweigh the combined animal
life—elephants, whales and State Govern-
ments included. A large part of man’s
life is spent in war against insects;
grasshoppers devour his crops, silverfish
his trousers and white-ants his houses ;
but all his effort against this vast fecun-
dity and voracity is but a trifle compared
with that of any one of the commoner
species of insectivorous birds. Some
would have us believe that, by reason of
man’s unthinking destruction of their
real enemies, insects will some day clear
him and all his works from the surface
of the globe.
♦’* ♦ ♦
“Ida D.”: I join issue with “Bull-ant
Bill” when he says that coo-ee is non-abo.
(B. 12/5/’37). My father learnt to coo-ee
from the blacks; I have heard him prac-
tise and use the call many times (and
he taught me), and I have never heard
him, or any other old-timer, complain
of its tiring the throat. Of late years
there is a tendency to pronounce the
word wrongly. “Coo-oo” should be
long-drawn-out, on the one note, and the
“ee” should be very short and sharp, on
a much higher note. I will guarantee
that enunciation to be more resonant and
to carry much farther than the call
given the other way round, besides being
correct.
* * * *
“Nowt”: Maybe “Capricornius,” as-
serting that wild dogs would easily locate
“planted” kids (B. 5/5/’37), does not
realise the difference age makes in the
scent of animals running wild. An
American naturalist noted that coyotes
hunting within a yard of the young of
Big Horn sheep failed to discover them ;
and the coyote is credited with an extra-
keen nose. Recently I forked up a nest
of field mice, but a pair of fox-terriers
passing their noses an inch or two above
the litter were not interested. In their
downy youth the offspring of some wild
animals seem scentless to their enemies.
ONE THING IN COMMON.
You’ll meet all kinds of fellows humping bluey
any day,
The strong and weak, the wild and meek, the
dismal and the gay,
The chap who’s headin’ somewhere and the
one who merely walks,
The cove who’ll skite from noon till night and
the clam who seldom talks;
There’ll be some who look for yakka and
some who’ll knock it back;
Teetotal blokes and hardened soaks —you’ll
find both on the track.
But they’ve all one thing in common, glum or
cheery, young or old:
I’ll swear I’ve met no bagmen yet who don’t
know where there’s gold.
The man may be a derelict, unwashed, be-
grimed with dirt,
A stony-broke who’ll hum a smoke and try to
cadge a shirt;
His clothes may be in rags, his boots extrava-
gantly holed,
But still he’ll swear he’s wise to where there’s
tons and tons of gold!
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
ANGLO-ORIENTAL MINING CORPORATION LTD
For the Quarter ended 31st March, 1937.
Company. j
I
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd. . .
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd. . . I
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd I
Rawang Concessions. Ltd
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd |
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd. . , |
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd. .. \
Output (Tons).
941.80
256.61
255.06
204.47
60.42
263.69
258.93
387.68
36.67
35.12
Net
Operating Profit.
Actual
Working Costs.
£37,133
11,552
13,248
7,215
5,584
14,330
6,275
14,406
862
4,542
£124,898
28,838
28,493
25,635
4,138
28,438
30,731
39,250
2,750
2,345
NOTE. —All figures are expressed in English sterling^
Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
* per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.
R. F. CORMACK,
440 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICES!
Sill
r
: ::iS
ml
*..w
• •■■■■ • - ' \ ’ \
■%wL*L>
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. ■ • 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. i-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
P-'.intry and Interstate Agents Wanted.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
1925.. 69,425 12,350 15,018 42,057 296,393
1926.. 78,071 14,524 21,365 42,182 338,575
Staff Provident Fund, £lOOO .. 337,575
1927.. 86,733 21,195 16,919 48,619 386,194
1928.. 94,783 20,066 18,058 56,659 442,853
1929.. 104,903 26,728 29,875 48,300 491,153
1930.. 107,381 30,150 23,924 53,307 544,460
1931.. 103,705 29,153 23,641 50,911 595,371
1932.. 103,276 40,742 25,302 37,232 632,603
1933.. 105,990 44,022 27,060 34,908 667,511
1934.. 121,747 48,269 26,071 47,407 714,918
1935.. 124,100 49,359 25,162 49,579 764,497
Reserves drawn upon, £530 .. 763,967
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 819,832
Profit sale assets, £3589 .. 823,421
*lneiudes divs. to shareholders: 1918, £458;
1923, £3708; 1926, £5208; 1929, £8333; 1930,
£3958; 1931, £4167; 1932, £4375; 1933, £4375;
1934-35, £5OOO ; 1936, £5500.
(Includes sundry reserves.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.t
£:£ £ £ £
1925.. 125,012 27,136 59,411 38,465 267,149
1926.. 136,445 31,240 68,811 36,394 303,543
Profit from sale of assets, £2023.. 305,566
Staff Provident Fund, £4OOO .. 301,566
1927.. 148,553 35,920 71,633 40,980 342,566
1928.. 160,359 38,179 74,212 47,968 390,534
1929.. 170,172 41,272 80,961 47,939 438,473
1930.. 171,353 42,173 78,432 50,748 489,221
Staff Provident Fund, £2OOO .. 487,221
1921.. 160,648 49,612 72,488 38,548 525,769
1932.. 156,665 48,268 75,400 32,997 558,766
1933.. 162,491 52,203 77,083 33,205 591,971
1934.. 176,016 48,451 77,353 50,212 642,183
1935.. 185,054 55,484 80,974 48,596 690,779
Reserves drawn upon, £470 .. 690,309
1936.. 197,045 57,571 83,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
*lncludes divs. to shareholders: 1922, £888;
1923, £l4BO ; 1924, £1966; 1925, £3473;
1926-35, £7500; 1936, £7OOO.
•(■lncludes sundry reserves.
The business of this 41-year-old spreads
over the three eastern States and S. Aus.,
and progress, which continues along
sound lines, is becoming more marked.
Policy-holders receive regular and satis-
factory bonuses, while more business is
being written at less cost, and the funds
are invested in good-quality assets,
which are yielding profitable returns.
Combining the figures of both depart-
ments, £1,011,246 (up £62,713) of new
business was put on the books last year
—£379,229 (up £26,864) in the Ordinary
and £631,254 (up £35,849) in the. Indus-
trial section. Net premium income was
£260,805 (up £14,404); consideration for
annuities, £3500 (up £2500); interest,
rents* etc., £63,952 (up £2200); total in-
come, £328,257 (up £19,104). In addi-
tion there was a profit of £6790 on sale
of the co.’s Adelaide-street, Brisbane,
premises, which was added to the in-
vestment reserve, making it £76,780.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., striking off £676 for depreciation
of equipment, and transferring £12,500
(same as for the previous term) to share-
holders’ account, £110,560 (£13,721 more
than in 1935) was added to the Assur-
ance funds, raising them to £1,477,273 —■
Ordinary £780,862 (up £55,865) and In-
dustrial £696,411 (up £54,696). In addi-
tion, policy-holders have the protection
and assistance of £97,790 (up £7727) of
special reserves plus the share capital
(£50,000).
Results of actuarial investigations are
published triennially. The last was for
the three years to the end of 1934, when,
after substantially strengthening the basis
of valuation (the idea being to benefit
policy-holders in the future), the sur-
plus (£48,290) was £2Bll stronger than
at the previous valuation, and sufficient
to provide bonuses on Ordinary whole-
of-life and endowment assurances rang-
ing from 30s. p.c. to 40s. p.c., and on
Industrial contracts 10 p.c. on the sum
assured for policies 15 years in force,
plus 1 p.c. for each additional year.
Another heartening feature has been
a marked reduction in the cost of
handling the business. Excluding the
tax bill, exes, took 18.2 p.c. of last year’s
net premiums plus consideration for
annuities in the Ordinary branch, com-
pared with 19.8 p.c. in the previous term
and 25.7 p.c. in 1929. On the same
basis, and for the corresponding periods,
exes, in the Industrial section took 45.1
p.c. of the net premiums, compared with
46.3 p.c. and 48.9 p.c. respectively. The
co. assumes that its Assurance funds will
earn 3 p.c. in the Ordinary and 3y p.c. in
the Industrial department. After deduct-
ing the tax bill, last year’s net effective
rate of interest on the Assurance funds
in both departments combined was 4.3
p.c. compared with 4.5 p.c. for the pre-
vious term. The net effective rate on
total funds (Assurance funds, capital and
reserves combined) was a shade under
4 p.c.
The protection for policy-holders is
in this form:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. ..£259,746 17.1 £250,988 16.3
Govt, securities .. 770,571 50.8 912,558 55.7
Shares other cos. 22,047 1.4 21,345 1.3
Mortgages.. .. 281,649 18.6 285,755 17.4
Loans on policies.. 101,384 6.7 108,999 6.6
Book debts .. 45,247 3.0 46,193 2.8
Cash .. .. 37,632 2.4 13,947 . 0.9
Last year’s surplus and more besides (the
cash holding was reduced by £23,685)
were invested in Government securities
(up £141,987), which amounted to 55.7
p.c. of the balance-sheet total, compared
with 36.4 p.c. at the end of 1929. The
net reduction in the book value of free-
holds was £8757 ; the co. sold its Adel-
aide-street premises, already referred to,
and bought another property in Queen-
street, Brisbane.
Mark Foy's, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends *
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£» £, £ £ £
1927.. 16,374 15 p.c. = 71,250 45,397 387,100
Assets written down, £112,500 .. 274,600
1928.. 100.901.16,374 15 p.a = 75,000 9,527 284,127
Reserve adjustment, £5500 .. 278,627
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288.525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4,500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10,868 .. 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 182,065
Unexplained reductions, £2,885 .. 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1,792 .. 177,388
Profit. 54 p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. .. 138,817
6 p.e.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
* Includes £40,166 of arrears.
For the half-dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1928 it was a steady 15 p.c.
proposition. Trouble began with recon-
struction of the main premises, which
cost a lot more than was expected, and
the co. went to its bankers for most of
the money, raising the overdraft to
£349,337 at March 15, 1931. Then slump
and competition brought a run of losses
aggregating £85,119 for the four years
to the close of accounts in 1934. There
were changes on the board, and a small
profit (£2642) showed up for the follow-
ing term, when adjustment of stock
values spoiled results. Arrears of
pref. divs. were wiped out by a cash
payment of £15,123 and by the issue of
40,364 fully-paid £1 ords. at par, for
which reserves were drawn upon. It
was a generous settlement, which cleared
the way for resumption of payments to
the ords. For the 1936 term, profit shot
up £51,699, reaching £54,341, or 6.6 p.c.
on capital (pref. and ord. combined),
and an all-round 5 p.c. was distributed.
During the last term, turnover con-
tinued to expand, and, after striking off
£12,094 for depreciation, gross earnings
(£340,571) sprang £34,434; exes.
(£280,546) were up £28,750. The net
result benefited by £5684, reaching
£60,025, or enough to pay the prefs.
their full contract rate (6 p.c.) and show
a shade over 8 p.c. on ord. capital. An
all-round 6 p.c. was distributed. The
£11,229 that remained lifted reserves to
£150,046 ; they were £387,100 in 1927 —
demolition of the old building and the
losses already referred to explain most
of the difference.
The result and other things disappointed
the market, and the £1 ords., which rose
from 16s. 3d. a couple of years ago to
325. 3d. early in 1937, were offered at 285.,
with buyers standing off at 265., last
week-end. At 275. the return is 4.9 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs., which
carry a fixed cumulative 6 p.c., subject
to the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act, return 5.6 p.c. at 21s. 3d.; last year’s
net earnings more than 3| times covered
their maximum annual requirements. The
net tangible cover is 70s. 9d. prefs. and
255. 7d. ords.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1920. 1932, 1936. 1037.
Paid capita]. . £722,902 £772,902 £513,269 £813,269-
Liabilities . . 27,181 390,054 337,823 376,593
Property . . 306,000 731,386 723,352 725,400
Plant, etc. . . 20,805 163,320 145,427 144,348
Stocks . . 494,611 399,943 362,370 409.351
Book debts . . 17,114 36,716 ' 79,961 69,810
Cash, etc. . . 92,818 12,769 11,024 15,396
To carry an extra £46,981 of stocks and
add £4372 to cash, etc., the board went
outside, for an extra £38,770 net and re-
duced debtors’ balances by £10,151. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£117,964) was £2432. The
overdraft was increased by £54,000, rais-
ing it to £333,588 when the books closed.
Arrangements have since been made to
liquidate £250,000 of it by raising that
amount on mortgage from the A.M.P.
Society at slightly lower than bank rate
of interest; a sound move, all things
considered.
The general outlook favors further ex-
pansion of turnover, but competition
continues to sharpen, and diversion of
the electric trains on the Bankstown line
from St. James to Wynyard isn’t any
help to the co. either.
Bankers and Traders’ Insurance Co.
To
March, Surplus. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ ,-e
1827.. 18,145 7 p.c. = 6312 11,833 61,929
1928.. 21,271 7 „ ~ 6452 14,819 76,748
1929.. 17,264 7 „ „ 6522 10,742 87,490
1930.. 13,996 7 „ „ 6568 7,428 94,918
1931.. 12,642 7 „ „ 6568 6,074 100,992
Loss.
1932.. 3,909 7 „ „ 6568 90,515
Profit.
1933.. 14,031 7. „ „ 6568 7,463 97,978
1934.. 12,469 7 „ „ 6568 5,901 103,879
1935.. 16,057 7 „ „ 6568 9,489 113,368
1936.. 18,822 7 „ „ 6575 12,247 125,615
1937.. 13,910 7 „ „ 6662 7,248 132,863
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks.
The slip of £4912 in last year’s net earn-
ings was due to a heavier crop of claims,
which is something outside the control
of the management, despite care in selec-
tion of risks. The experience was a
general one, arising out of losses on risks
labelled “first-class” in the best fire-
underwriting circles. The business, which
spreads all over the Commonwealth,
north to Asia and the Indies and out
over the South Sea Islands and elsewhere,
continued to expand. The growth in
gross premium income (£237,246) was
£21,466, and net premiums (£170,729)
sprang £24,807 ; a little less business was
reinsured:
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1922. . £22,358 £7,605 £8,884 34.0 p.c. 39.7 p.c.
1924.. 58,442 33,296 20,172 56.9 „ 34.5 „
1926.. 97,486 55,048 33,890 56.5 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 157,422 96,737 48,348 61 4 „ 30.7 ~
1930.. 172,870 114,099 55,860 65.9 , 32.3
1931.. 138,729 82,066 55,261 59.1 „ 39.8 ~
1932.. 100,171 69,356 44,254 69.2 „ 44.1 ..
1933.. 104.137 58,637 40,041 56.3 ~ 38.4 ..
1934.. 105,781 59,596 42,137 56.3 ~ 39.8 ~
1935.. 130,221 71,367 51,741 54.8 „ 39.7 ~
1936.. 145,922 82,382 53,876 56.4 „ 36.9 ~
1937.. 170,729 105,358 61,626 61.9 ~ 36.2 ~
Another pleasing feature was that the
larger business was handled at 14s. p.c.
less cost, notwithstanding that the tax
bill (£5370) was £2075 heavier and that
outgoings included £2164 of non-recur-
ring charges connected with purchase of
equipment. Losses (up £22,975) made
off with an extra £5 10s., or £6l 18s., of
each £lOO of the. year’s net premiums,
leaving the underwriting surplus £5919
lighter at £3745, equal to 3.9 p.c. on
capital. Interest and rents were £lOO7
better at £10,167, approximately 10.7
p.c. on capital. Profit from the two
sources combined was thus 14.6 p.c. on
capital, compared with 20, 17.1, 13.2,
14.9, a loss, 13.4, 14.9 and 18.4 p.c. back
to 1929 —the loss was due principally to
London marine business, from which the
co. has withdrawn. The div. was kept at
7 p.c., and £586 more than was dis-
tributed was put in the cupboard, making
the lay-by £132,863, which was £37,688
in excess of paid capital.
All this and the chairman’s assurance
that “the directors have well before them
new avenues through which the co.’s es-
tablishment may be further advanced”
augur well for the future. Still, the
market, disappointed with the result of
the year’s trading, shortened its bid for
the pound shares paid to 10s. from
345. 9d. a couple of months ago to 30s.
last week-end, thus less heavily discount-
ing the future. The return at 30s. is 2.3
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for 4 p.c. on his money
counts on a 12 p.c. distribution, which
was well within reach last term, and
only 1.4 p.c. more than was gathered in
interest and rents.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1922. 1929. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £75,000 £93,175 £93,925 £95,175
Sundry creditors.. 8,028 99,072 85,906 100,750
Public securities.. 40,260 121,675 178,952 196,938
Fixed deposits .. 31,500 27,000 14,000 16,000
Cash, etc... .. 13,209 13,872 18,682 26,237
Book debts, etc... 7,098 49,671 26,346 22,235
Freeholds.. .. 74,041 74,041 74,041
Liabilities consist of outstanding claims
(£42,316), up £11,176, and sundry credi-
tors and provision for contingencies
(£58,433), up £3668. Public securities
(up £17,986), fixed deposits (up £2000)
and cash (up £7555) together account for
over 71 p.c. of the assets. When the
books closed, net tangibles were equal
to 133 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
and shareholders could be called upon
for another £95,000-odd if need be.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. r~ Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 (. , fi7l r.o 222
Provident Fund, £1641 )
1928. 29,229 8 p.c. =l4 000 84 90 J 4948 67 170
Provident l)und, £l/91 \
1929. . 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 j 3gg4 61 164
Written off, £3640 J
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil (5407 66,571
Provident Fund, £612 )
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil j 331 g 69 890
Provident Fund, £5OB .. (
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 ) 71 qxq
Provident Fund, £524 .. J ’
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) - -
Provident Fund, £612 .. ( 2087 74 ’ 036
1934.. 20,739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9,440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22,403 5 „ ~12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 „ ~ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
This semi-co-operative co. has been in
the wool-and-produce and pastoral-


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered by an Institution may be judged very simply by
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
grown consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of Trust and Agency
Funds now under its control is over £50,000,000. Arrangements exist for the
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abroad.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. ,T. Playfair. M.L.C., E. R. Knox.
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Y. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
Call or write for explanatory booklet. P. Cureton, Manager.
sl'
to
4 \ ' x*
atoo
n
\ise
SUPER
Plus
SUPE
Plus
ETHYL
ETHYL
s>s
%
k
* /
*
ik
►
Get that
Empire Spirit
r
CB3 -« SP
L « K PMws BENZOL (tinted Blue)
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE
IS
PRICE
A SURE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
mES
£lOOO has grown to
£1864
Many a man takes out his A.M.P. policies
occasionally and sees with satisfaction how
they continue to grow in value.
‘ls it possible,” said a certain member
recently, “is it possible that the A.M.P. policy for
£l,OOO that I took out in 1906 has grown to
£1,864? It is hard to believe.”
Yet it is true. A.M.P. bonuses, even through-
out the depression, kept building members’
policies up and up. This member’s policy was
taken out in 1906 when he was 20. He has paid
only £561 in premiums, yet if he were to die
to-morrow his widow would receive £l ,864. Won-
derful! Very wonderful!!
A certain old member whose A.M.P. policy
for £l,OOO was taken out when he was 25, in 1876,
finds that policy has grown to £3,225.
Have you enough A.M.P. policies, reader?
Ought you not to take out one or two more and
get the pleasure of watching them grow?
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an
experienced man to advise you. Do this at once,
for to-morrow may be too late—who knows?
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C, A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
finance business for the past 40 years.
For 27 years it was known as the
Co-operative; the present name-plate
was put up in 1924, owing to re-
quirements of the N. S. Wales Co-
operation, Community Settlement and
Credit Act. Only twice during the last
34 years (in 1921 and 1930) have share-
holders failed to receive a div., the aver-
age being 6.4 p.c., which is more attrac-
tive than it looks for most years, because
clients (the majority of them are. share-
holders) receive substantial cash bonuses
in the form of rebates of carded com-
mission charges. The outstanding feature
of the accounts since the war has been
a steady expansion of the business by
absorptions and otherwise. Turnover re-
ceived a big lift when the goodwill of
Grant, Hedge and Co., a Melbourne firm
of stock and station agents, was bought
a little over four years ago and the co.
put up a new wool-store at North Mel-
bourne.
During the last term the co. sold less
wool, more sheep and fewer cattle. It
put 124,305 bales under the hammer
(95,617 in Sydney and 28,688 in Mel-
bourne), or 18,240 less than in the pre-
vious term. The contraction was due to
the heavy carry-over at the close of
accounts in 1935. Actual receipts were
9654 bales better at 133,267. An extra
84,906 sheep were auctioned, making
624,133 in all (282,191 Sydney, 341,942
Melbourne), but 7483 fewer cattle were
sold (30,394). In the produce, station-
supply and insurance sections of the busi-
ness turnover continued to expand. For
the 10 months to the end of April, wool
averaged £2O 18s. lOd. per bale in Syd-
ney, compared with £l7 12s. 7d. and
£l2 10s. 4d. for the corresponding periods
of the two preceding seasons. Sheep
fetched better prices, too, but the cattle
market was unsatisfactory.
The spring in gross earnings from all
sources (£163,493) was £11,589. Includ-
ing an unspecified provision for contin-
gencies and taxation, exes. (£136,871)
took £7370 of the increase, leaving the
net result £4219 better at £26,622. After
handing clients £7056 (up £333) in re-
bates, enough remained to show 7.8 p.c.
on capital as against 6.3, 3.4, 6.6, 3.9,
3.9, 4.4, 2.3 and 9.4 p.c. back to 1929. A
point was added to the div., making it
6 p.c., and the £4617 that remained lifted
reserves to £85,231.
Most of the recent expansion of the
business has been financed by outsiders,
as the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:
1924. 1930. 1936. 1937.
Capital .. £93,871 £232,314 £249,116 £266,851
Sundry 1 f 325,878
creditors, etc. 1 169,790 206,222 361,692 {
Overdraft, etc. J [ 53,386
Freeholds, etc. 211,635 257,308 416,275 439,939
Stocks .. 2,170 1,340 10,994 14,921
Book debts .. 90,553 1 [316,551
Cash and public {■ 271,885 315,917 •
securities .. 15,753 j 8,012
When the books last closed there was
225. Bd. of outside money in the business
for every pound belonging to share-
holders. To meet a net outlay of £23,664
on freeholds, etc., add £3927 to stocks
and carry an extra £8646 of debtors’ bal-
ances, etc., £17,572 was tacked on to the
debt, raising it £39,780 in excess of more
or less liquids.
To ease the position 50,000 new £1
ords. have been issued at par since the
close of accounts. When all the new
money is in, and including £845 of un-
paid calls when the books closed, paid
capital will be £300,000, on which 6 p.c.
will call for £1566 less than the £19,566
of profit available last year. At 225. the
shares, backed by net tangibles of 255. Bd.
including new issue, show a 5.4 p.c. yield
on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Tableland Tin Dredging, N.L.
This is a promising-looking venture in
able hands. Its £246,000 of issued capital
is in 240,000 £1 ords. and 120,000 Is.
deferreds. All the deferreds and half the
ords. were taken by the vendor (Alluvial
Prospectors) for cash; the public quickly
oversubscribed the other half of the ords.
at par. The deferreds rank equally with
the ords. on a share-for-share basis for
distribution of profits and voting power,
but after the ords. for return of sub-
scribed capital. Vendor’s consideration
(£20,000 cash) and estimated preliminary
exes. (£1000) are moderate, leaving
£225,000 for working capital. The pur-
chase price represents the value of assets
taken over, plus cost of testing the prop-
erty, etc.; there is no loading for good-
will.
The property, comprising 1096 acres,
extends for five miles along Return
Creek, near Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), and has
been close-bored by J. B. Ferris, Mal-
colm Newman and, earlier, by Roberg
and Wilson. Malcolm Newman, who
enjoys a high reputation in tin-dredging
circles, figures that there are 40,000,000
c.y. of 0.621 b. dirt and 8,000,000 c.y. of
0.371 b. stuff on the upstream side of the
Cairns-Mt. Garnet railway line, which
runs through the property, and another
25,000,000 c.y., averaging between 0.501 b.
and 0.621 b., on the downstream side of
the line ; and there is another 5,000,000
c.y. of dredgeable ground not yet tested.
The intention is to equip the area with a
large electrically-operated bucket dredge,
to dig 55ft. below water level, with an
annual capacity of 4} million cubic yards.
So there is 17 years’ work or more ahead
of the dredge. Values occur in clean
shingly wash, with some 20ft. of over-
burden on the terraces. There is some
clay and fairly heavy boulders in places,
but these are not expected to cause any
serious inconvenience. No buried timber
was met with in boring.
All-in costs are figured at £A40,000
p.a., equal to a shade over 2d. a yard
with the dredge working to capacity. On
this basis, and assuming that the wash
averages 0.51 b. t.o. per yard, profits vary-
ing with the price of tin between £2OO and
£250 London should run from £A120,000
to £A160,000 p.a., equal to 6s. Bd. and
Bs. lOd. per share respectively.
The area was originally worked by
Return Creek, N.L., a Melbourne co.
formed in 1927. Its small dredge, unable
(Continued on next page.)


This advertisement does not comply with Section 137 of the Companies Act
1936. It is published for public information only. No application for shares is
invited and no shares are available, the whole issue having been subscribed. The full
prospectus may be obtained at the office of the Company.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Tableland Tin Dredging
No Liability
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1936.
Capital - - - £246,000
DIVIDED INTO
Ordinary shares of £1 each .. . . £240,000
and
Deferred shares of 1/- each which rank
equally with the Ordinary shares as
regards voting power and participation in
dividends and profits, but are deferred as
to repayment of capital in so far that the
capital of the Ordinary Shares is repay-
able in full before the capital of the
Deferred Shares . . . . £6,000
£246,000
The Ordinary Shares of £1 each will be taken up on the
following terms:—
1/- upon application, 1/- upon allotment and the
balance in calls as and when required.
The Deferred Shares of 1/- each will be taken up on the
following terms:—
1/- per share upon application.
Directors:
JAMES MALCOLM NEWMAN, 8.E., of Caboolture, Queensland,
Mining Engineer.
TOM MACKELLAR OWEN, 8.E., of Sydney, New South Wales,
Mining Engineer.
PERCY HUNTER, of Sydney, New South Wales, Company
Director.
Registered Office:
11 c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Secretary:
ALLUVIAL PROSPECTORS, LIMITED,
11 c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Solicitors:
MESSRS. CARRUTHERS HUNTER & CO..
v 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bankers:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Auditors:
MESSRS. C. A. LE MAISTRE WALKER, SON & CO.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foreword.
The general objects of the Company are set out in the
Company’s Memorandum for Registration.
The primary object of the Company is to acquire and work tin-
bearing lands of approximately 1096 acres which are situated at Return
Creek, near Mt. Garnet, in the Herberton District, Queensland, and
the intention of the Directors is to equip the property with a large
capacity bucket dredge.
As will be seen from the subjoined report of Mr. J. Malcolm
Newman, the area has been well tested, and the Directors confidently
regard it as a highly profitable mining investment.
In view of the upward price trend of steel and manufactured
machinery, the Directors, when considering capital requirements, have
thought it wise to allow ample margin on the estimates of its technical
advisers. This procedure has been adopted because the success of the
enterprise is essentially based on the provision of efficient plant of large
capacity, for which world demand is very keen. It is hoped that the
official estimates will not be exceeded, in which case it will not be
necessary to call up the whole of the capital.
240,000
120,000
360,000
to dig to the bottom of the deposit,
experienced frequent stoppages owing to
water trouble. The co. gave up when
slump brought the price of concentrates
below £lOO per ton, and the cash ran out.
The present co. proposes to construct a
300,000,000-gallon concrete, gravity dam
(45ft. high), which, with the surface water
available in the wet season, is considered
sufficient to ensure continuous running of
a larger dredge than the one now to be
installed.
On the board are Malcolm Newman,
Tom Owen and Percy Hunter.
Dr. Woolnough, Commonwealth geo-
logical adviser, and Dr. Ward, Director
of Mines in S. Aus., who together re-
cently examined Tennant’s Creek gold-
field, Centralia, reckon that the place
will continue to produce gold for many
years, even if the life of some of the in-
dividual mines is comparatively short.
The gold occurrences are related to in-
jections of quartz and ironstone, many
of the outcrops of which have been in-
adequately prospected. No workings
have yet penetrated to water level (100 ft.
or more) on any part of the field, though
bores put down on the southern portion
by the North Australian Mineral Survey
encountered some 17dwt. stuff between
136 ft. and 176 ft. In the oxidised zone
much of the gold is of secondary origin,
and associated with small quantities of
bismuth. Leaching is considered to have
been largely responsible for the general
absence of alluvial deposits, and for dis-
appointment in some, shallow prospects.
The most economical and satisfactory
method of treatment is by amalgamation
followed by cyanidation. To date the
field has produced about £150,000 worth
of gold bullion.
* * * *
Gold production is increasing on the
Etheridge-Oaks field (N.Q.). Since first
worked in the early ’seventies, it has
yielded more than £2,500,000 worth of
the yellow metal. Production for the
first quarter of this year totalled 1260
fine ounces, compared with 135 fine
ounces for the corresponding period of
1936. At the John Haigh, the last five
tons gave a striking yield of 24|-oz. of
gold, of silver, about 3cwt. of
copper and 1 ton Bcwt. of lead. A pre-
vious parcel of 7 } tons yielded
of gold, of silver and about 2cwt.
of copper. Wet weather has hindered
operations at the Golden Horseshoe,
where a reef up to 3ft. 6in. in width is
being developed. The last 36 tons re-
turned 30oz. of gold and 620 z. of silver.
The last 465 tons from the Mountain
King was crushed at the Oaks Battery
for 970 z. of gold, valued at £630, and
another 1000 tons or so is ready for the
mill.
ifc $ Sfc Jg
F. W. Cuthbert, who did well out of
his Misima (Papua) show, has returned to
his old love, Croydon goldfield (N.Q.),
where he made a pile in the early days,
and now hopes to make another out of
a 50-acre lease in the Golden Gate area.
He has bought the plant of Georgetown
Gold mines, which recently closed down
at Hawkin’s Hill. From 1886, when gold
was first discovered at Croydon, to the
end of 1924, when operations ceased, the
field yielded 770,9500 z., valued at over
£3,500,000. Since 1924 most of the gold
produced has come from old dumps,
although a number of small mines are
being worked.
4= * * *
Kelsey Creek G.M., which recently
took over the Duffer and Scorpion, at
Kelsey Creek, Proserpine district (N.Q.),
has installed plant, and is engaged in sink-
ing the main and No. 2 shafts, and in
driving the 60ft. level, where the reef
shows ore of an estimated value of soz.
over a width of lOin. The last crushing
of 15 tons at Chillagoe returned 560 z. of
gold, 360 z. of silver and a little copper.
A couple of shows are also being worked
at Mount Hector, along the Andromachie
River; the Last Try and Cedar Ridge
are both on flat reefs up to 18in. in width.
**' # *
Zeehan Tin Development is being
formed in Melbourne with a capital of
£30,000 in 120,000 shares of ss. each to
work a lode tin deposit, near Zeehan
(Tas.), over which Sapphire Creek Syn-
dicate exercised an option on the recom-
mendation of Hartwell Condor and W.
E. Hitchcock. Sapphire Creek share-
holders have priority to allotment of
100,000 shares. Vendors take 16,500
paids and £4OOO cash, and Sapphire Creek
will receive the £lOOO it spent on the
property. A considerable quantity of
oxidised ore exists in and about the
various surface workings ; what the de-
posit is like in the sulphide zone remains
to be proved. Approximately 1000 tons
of 4 p.c. tin-bearing material is ready
for treatment.
# # * 4=
Despite extraction of 140,294 tons dur-
ing the year to December 31, Sons of
Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), has ijtaintained
its ore reserves at five years’ supply to
the mill, the grade averaging 7dwt.
Values look like living down, too. Two
winzes from No. 28 level have proved
higher-than-average stone over an in-
cline depth of 200 ft. A new internal
shaft, to cost £20,000, is eventually to
be sunk from No. 30 level to prospect
deeper ground. At present diamond-
drilling is proceeding at the surface on
surrounding areas to locate continuation
of known existing ore-bodies, thus far
without important result. The lift in the
year’s crushing was made possible by the
addition of a new tube section to the mill:
1935. 1936.
Tonnage crushed .. .. 105,820 140,294
Gold yield, oz. .. .. 35,417 45,566
Value £253,121 £318,446
Working coats (including
development) . . . . 245. 2.8 d. 245. S.Bd.
For the first four months of 1937 the co.
milled 49,388 tons for 14,9340 z. gold.
On the basis of present costs and recov-
eries, working profit should work out at
approx. £1 stg. a ton at the present price
of gold.
* * * *
The old Webb’s\ Consols silver-lead
mine at Strathbogie, New England
Ranges (N.S.W.), last opened up in 1915,
may be reopened by Charlton South, a
Vic. co., which has obtained a working
option over the property. Crosscutting east
at 205 ft., the deepest level, has disclosed
two lodes. The first, 30ft. wide, assays
9-18 oz. silver, 12-20 p.c. lead and 12-18
p.c. zinc. The second, 20ft. in width, is
exceptionally rich. Over the first 15ft.
assays have averaged 50-80 oz. silver, 28
p.c. lead and 25 p.c. zinc ; the last 6ft.
is a clean section of zinc ore assaying
50-64 p.c. zinc. The mine was discovered
in 1885. The lodes are almost vertical,
the principal one, on which most work
has been done to date, consisting of
quartz and felspathic material containing
bunches, veins and impregnations of
galena, mispickel, copper pyrites and
zinc-blende. A considerable amount of
prospecting has been done. The Charl-
ton co. will concentrate on the main zinc
reef. Extent of available tonnage is not
known.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Randa: Sign co. scrip has following, but
felt co. appears to have a more assured future.
Holeproof ords. and Yarra Falls also look in-
teresting... .GJ.Mc.: Write Electrolytic Refin-
ing and Smelting Co., 25 O’Connell-street,
Sydney R.S.: (a) Your Australian broker,
if pressed, should be able to expedite transfer;
and in any case the scrip could be sold even if
not delivered to you. The Maoriland brokerage
you mention seems heavy. In Sydney only the
seller pays on investment shares (4d., 15s. to
255.). ( b ) Directors’ qualifications laid down
by articles of association. A stipulated share-
holding and the consent of shareholders are
principal qualifications A.C.: Keep your
money D.G.W.: ■ Estimates would be pure
guesswork. There are over a million shares
already issued, and, say, £lO a share would
mean a £10,000,000 value on the co. The
shares are a decided speculation, with perhaps
more promise than the usual oil venture
Stung: A mixed batch, with Mt. Coolons the
best. Sell the others Wilty: No radio
station we know of is a public concern; finan-
cial results are unknown.... Mallee: No regu-
lar market for Whakatane Paper Mills shares.;
It is a forestry spec., now approaching produc-
tion. Outlook is difficult to prophesy
J.F.R.: Yarra Falls, Holeproof, Kandos
Cement, Howards (Bris.) all yield 5 p.c. or
•more and are among tne better-class higher-
yielding stocks. Australian Paper prefs., now
paid to 55., would eventually give a good re-
turn at Bs. 2d H.C.R.: No recent informa-
tion, but don’t like the proposition D.J.F.:
“Age admitted” means that birth certificate
has already been produced. Just make appli-
cation to branch which issued policy or head
office on due date... .G.A.W.: Don’t know
enough about concern. Should prefer home-
buildmg assurance issued by National Mutual
and other life offices W.H.F.: Leave it
alone A.D.C.S.: (1) A good little concern
of its type, and should pay fair divs. in good
times. Capital should be fairly secure, but
divs. low in bad times. (2) Don’t know enough.
(3) They seem sound. Yarra Falls shares appear
a good buy at 40s South-west: (1) Electro-
lytic. (2) Same thing, apparently J. and J.:
A speculative proposition. R. F. Cormack, 440
Little Collins-street, Melbourne, may buy
L. : Leave them alone J.M.S.: (1) Cer-
tificates would be issued only on surrender of
bonds. (2) Highly speculative. (3) No way of
computing fair price. Most transfers we hear
of seem to be at about 20 p.c. 1055... .C.P.M.:
Mutual Credits, 16 Spring-street, Sydney, or
German Verge Trust, 12 Spring-street, may
advise. A bit off our beat Max: (1) See B.
23 /10/’36. (2) October. (3) Just fair. (4) Hard
to advise; but return to local investments
seems to have its points Roy: Don’t know
the mine Safety First: Suggest one of the
industrials, Beau Monde or Kandos preferred.
R.M.S.: Anglo-Oriental Mining Co., 55-
61 Moorgate, London, E.C.2, is the only such
co. we know... .W.P.: Too much like guess-
work to suggest V.D.: Don’t know the co.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
•* * * *
DAVJES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M. and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L.- MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.—Advt.
* * 4= *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH- 1
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our ]
1935 General Catalogue.—Advt.


Tableland Tin Dredging
No Liability
Report of Mr. J. Malcolm Newman, B.E.
Sydney, 15/4/’37.
LOCATION:
The dredging area is comprised in a length of five miles of the valley of
Return Creek contiguous to the town of Mt. Garnet. The Cairns-Mt. Garnet
Railway crosses the area, two-thirds of the material to be dredged lying on the
north or upstream side of the railway and one-third below.
TITLES:
The land is contained in six dredging claims having a total area of 1096 ac.
Or. 35p. In addition an “Authority to Prospect” has been granted over about
2100 acres of the Valley representing a length of about eight miles of Return
Creek. Under this permit it will be possible to secure rights over the catchment
urea of a proposed dam and to take up further areas for dredging if such should
be considered necessary.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION:
The deposit occupies the bed of Return Creek, its anabranches, flood plains
and terraces. Boring has disclosed that the old channel of the creek does not
always follow its present course, and the deepest hole bored, namely of a depth
of 83 feet, is nearly 30 chains from the present bed. The difference in surface
levels of the terraces, flood plains and creek bed wfll necessitate the use of an
efficient tailings stacker, and at times temporary damming of the dredging water
will be necessary. However, the bottom contours show that the old stream had
a comparatively flat gradient, so that the topographical features will cause no
serious dredging difficulties.
CLIMATE:
The Mt. Garnet tableland enjoys a good climate, being well over 2000 feet
above sea level. Monsoonal rains fall in the summer months, but the winter
is dry and salubrious.
TRANSPORT:
The locality is reached by rail from Cairns, a distance of 135 miles, and
except in the worst of the wet season motor transport facilities with Cairns and
Jnnisfail are good. The Queensland Government is naturally anxious to foster
mining development, and the Minister has quoted a very substantial cut in
freight rates for the dredge material.
WATER SUPPLY:
The average rainfall at Mt. Garnet is some 30 inches per annum. Practically
ail of this falls in the summer months and Return Creek runs a fair stream for
several months in the year. It will be necessary, however, to provide substantial
reserves of water to ensure efficient dredging during the drier period of the year.
A detailed contour survey has been made of the catchment area above the Com-
pany’s property, where a stone-and-timber dam of small capacity already exists.
A survey has also been made of a good dam site just below the present dam.
Here, it has been calculated, a thousand cubic yards of surface rock excavation
and six thousand cubic yards of concrete will be required for a concrete gravity
dam 45 feet high. This dam will impound about 300 million gallons of water,
sufficient with the surface water available in the wet season and with the operation
of a system of slimes-settling and water-returning to ensure continuous running
of a very large dredge.
TIMBER:
Scattered eucalyptus and casuarina trees are growing on parts of the area to
be dredged, but can be cleared at a nominal cost.
POWER:
The district is fairly well timbered with hard woods, but both from the point
of view of facility in supply and of capital costs I am definitely of opinion that a
Diesel electric station should be provided. I recommend that 1000 kilowatts be
made available.
PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE DEPOSIT.
BOTTOM:
The bottom is of decomposed sandstone and shale with decomposed granite
in places. It is easily recognised, and is quite favorable for efficient cleaning
by buckets.
MATERIAL TO BE DREDGED:
Gravel and shingle are found on the surface (in and near the present creek
bed), and throughout the property the values occur in clean shingly wash. On
the terraces there is usually found some 20 feet of overburden of a rather
clayey nature in places, and here and there where t o beds of wash are found
the intervening matter is somewhat clayey. Nothing, however, is of such a sticky
nature as to be difficult of disintegration in the screen.
The material can in fact be described as good digging and quite
suitable for treatment in an ordinary revolving screen followed by jigs.
The boring suggests that local occurrences of fairly heavy boulders will be
found, but it is certain that there is none which will cause any serious incon-
venience in dredging with large buckets.
BURIED TIMBER:
Though no buried timber was found in boring it can be expected that
occasionally eucalyptus logs will be found in the wash. These, of course, would
be of very infrequent occurrence.
VALUATION.
TESTING: The area has a history dating back to 1927, when a Company
called Return Creek No Liability was formed in Melbourne to bucket dredge
the area on the reports of Mr. Eric Byron Moore and Mr. H. H. Miller. These
eentlemen tested about 90 acres and reported average values of over a pound
of tin oxide per cubic yard. A bucket dredge was installed to work the tested
ground, but
(1) It was of small capacity and not sufficiently robust in design.
(2) It could not dig to the bottom of the deposit.
(3) There was a shortage of water ; and
(4) The date of dredging operations coincided with the bottom of the
financial depression when the concentrate realised less than £lOO a ton.
Nevertheless, although the dredge did not dig to bottom and the tin saving
owing to dirty water was inefficient, the Company recovered some 260 tons of
concentrate from rather less than one million cubic yards, and no doubt would
have gradually achieved successful economic results if the price of tin had not
continued abnormally low.
The failure of the dredge, however, prevented the exploitation of the
adjoining ground, which had been bored by Messrs. Roberg and Grey Wilson.
Mr. Roberg reported in the area immediately south of that on which the dredge,
was operating 200 acres 42 feet deep, worth 12 ounces of high-grade tin concen-
trate per yard, while he and Mr. Grey Wilson reported in the area still further
south considerable quantities of similar value. The intervention of the financial
depression no doubt was the means of preserving these areas from equipment
till two years ago, when our prospecting campaign began.
With Mr. J. B. Ferris, the well-known tin mining man in charge of field
operations, I have now bored the upper area thoroughly and the lower area
sufficiently to warrant the making of estimates of yardages and values. In valuing
the latter I have taken into account the bore results obtained by Messrs. Roberg
and Grey Wilson, as my boring is generally confirmatory of theirs.
CONCLUSION:
On the upstream side of the Mt. Garnet Railway, forty million yards
are estimated to yield an average of five-eighths of a pound of
concentrate per cubic yard, and eight million yards, a low grade
strip part of which has been previously dredged, three-eighths of a
pound per yard. On the downstream side of the Railway it is
estimated that twenty-five million yards will yield from half-a-
pound to five-eighths of a pound per cubic yard.
A further five million yards are indicated as being available for dredging
and of average value, but cannot be included in ore reserves until more testing
has been done.
A mineralogical examination of the field concentrate by Professor Eastaugh,
of Sydney University, shows that magnetic separation will produce a very high-
grade product for marketing.
EQUIPMENT:
I recommend that the area be equipped with a large modern electrically-
operated bucket dredge with an average throughput of A\ million cubic yards
per annum. The buckets should be of 18 cubic feet capacity in a close-connected
band, and the ladder should be of such a length as to give a digging depth of
55 feet below water level when inclined at 45 degrees from the horizontal. An
efficient stacker should be provided to stack tailings to a height of 25 feet above
paddock water level.
YIELD:
As the boring plan shows, a higher yield of tin concentrate will be obtained
from the northernmost part known as the Glutton Gully area, and operations
should commence at the mouth of Glutton Gully. The average yield of the
property at -£lb. per cubic yard should be
1000 tons of concentrate per annum, worth
with tin at £2OO per ton London about £A 170,000 F. 0.8. Cairns.
At £250 per ton London the figure is considerably higher, namely
£A215,000.
The all-in annual cost my be taken at £A40,000, so that, after providing
for Federal and State Company Income Tax of 1/- in the £ each, profits varying
with the price of tin between £2OO and £250 London will run
from £120,000 to £160,000 per annum over a period of about 17 years.
It is appropriate to point out that the Queensland Income Tax Act of 1936
makes special provision for the recoupment of capital when assessing taxable
income of mining companies, and that under the State law dividends of Mining
Companies are not liable to tax in the hands of shareholders.
Attention is drawn to the important fact that this proposition offers the only
Australian instance of a tin-winning venture comparable with typical high-class
Malayan tinmines. The comparison holds good for high yardage, average values
and good facilities for large throughput, but the Australian venture has the
advantage of no restriction of output and no royalty on the product as well as
the all-important one of being paid for its product in Australian currency.
Probably few people are aware that the absence of royalty and the exchange
premium together make a ton of high-grade tin ore worth much more in
Australia than in the F.M.S., as the following table will show:
The facts stated in this report and the estimate of profits given above
constitute in my opinion a very strong recommendation for the undertaking.
On the proposed basis of a share issue of 360,000, annual earnings available for
dividends should be. equal to,
with tin at £2OO London .. .. 6/6 per share.
„ „ „ £250 „ .. .. 91- „ „
This high rate of profit over a very long life earned in the production of a
commodity, the long-term demand for which is notoriously satisfactory, makes
the enterprise especially attractive.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The. minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised
by this issue of shares in order to provide the sums required to be provided in
respect Of each of the following matters is:
(0 The purchase price of the property to be purchased .. £20,000
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the Company, including
all commissions so payable to any person in consideration
of his agreeing to subscribe for or of his procuring or
agreeing to procure subscriptions for shares in the
Company .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £ 1,000
(iii) The repayment of moneys borrowed by the Company in
respect of the foregoing matters .. .. .. .. Nil
(iv) Working capital .. .. .. .. .. .. £225,000
No amounts are to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise
than out of the proceeds of this issue.


gOR SEC UFilj'y
SECURITY to a thoughtful person means a permanent
income sufficient for present and future needs.
SECURITY to a prudent Company means the steady
expansion of its business by which large
reserves of capital may be built up without
sacrifice of regular and adequate dividends to
shareholders.
SECURITY in an investment means safety of an investor’s
capital, plus a satisfactorily high income.
Such an investment is
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
since the purchaser’s risk is spread over no less than 20 of
Australia’s foremost industrial and commercial undertakings.
Custodian Trustees: UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF
CANTON, LTD. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney).
Write for descriptive booklet No. 1 to the Managers
of the Trust: ,
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
David Jones Ords.
Retail-store scrip was marked
down generally last week, and D.J.
ords. dropped to 425. 6d., return-
ing £4 14s. per cent, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. This is the lowest quote
for some time. Last term 19.7 p.c.
was shown on ord. capital after
paying the prefs. If the new
capital when fully paid was en-
tirely unproductive, earnings on
last year’s scale would still amount
to 14.8 p.c. on ord. capital. Syd-
ney retail-trade statistics show
increasing sales.
u YEARS’
guauantei
“INVINCIBLE”
SINCE
1906
V.
INVINCIBLE ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3to 100 horse-
power in I, 2,4, 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD..
53' Xon ii (Jeorse Street . X.S.AV. |
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Hodsons Swindle
Last week ended one of the longest
trials in the history of Sydney Quarter
Sessions. Guy Paul McDonald, formerly
manager of Hodsons Investments, Ltd.,
was found guilty of having conspired with
ohn Thornton, John R. Perriman, George
Thompson, Kenneth Williams, Robert
Lehman and other persons unknown to
obtain money, shares and other securities
by false pretences, with intent to defraud.
He was sentenced to 4\ years’ gaol.
Between £35,000 and £40,000 was said to
have been involved over a period of less
than three months. John Henry David-
son, who was a salesman for Hodsons,
was acquitted of a similar charge.
The case has a special interest for The
Bulletin, because it was this paper which
first drew attention to the ramp that was
being worked on trusting people. Al-
though the “scheme,” on the face of.it,
looked fishy, it was carried out so boldly,
and Perriman, by calling a lawyer’s clerk,
who was delegated to deal with inquirers,
was so bluffingly evasive when questioned
by a Bulletin representative, that very
careful investigation and collection of
facts was necessary before anything defi-
nite could be published. The article in the
issue of June 17, 1936, however, was
sufficiently to. the point to attract the
attention of Wragge, M.L.C., who read it
to the N.S.W. Upper House on June 18
and demanded an inquiry. On June 22
McDonald was arrested (he absconded,
from bail and was re-arrested). Mean-L
while, those gentlemen whom Mr.
Rooney (who appeared for McDonald in
the conspiracy case) described as “the
prime movers in the gigantic swindle”
had got out of Australia “with their
booty aggregating between £30,000 and
£40,000.”
Inquiries were received at this office
from holders of Pacific Forests, Ltd.,
shares in April and May last year. The
holders had received letters from Hod-
sons Investments, one dated April 17,
another three days later. The first
aroused interest by concluding:
DO NOT CONSIDER ANY OFFER
FOR YOUR SHARES until you again
hear from us.
The second told shareholders that their
£1 shares had an asset value in excess of
£6 15s. a share, mentioned a “London
pool” proposition, and asked share-
holders to write in for further informa-
tion.
Hodsons had secured an option over
149,000 £1 shares in Pacific Forests at
£1 each (this fact was first published
here), and had paid cash for another
1000. Existing P.F. shareholders were
offered these shares at £2 10s. each, the
representation being made that they
would be bought back on behalf of the
London pool within 90 days at £4 a
share. It is a matter of sad history that
none was ever bought back.
Few shareholders who wrote to The
Bulletin explained the manner of
Hodsons’ approach, and all, at the start,
neglected to send in that co.’s correspon-
dence with them. However, inquiries
were made of Pacific Forests’ Syd-
ney manager, who gave particulars of
the option and details of Hodsons’ propo-
sition as it had been presented to him.
Then a call was made at Hodsons’ office,
where McDonald and Thompson were
interviewed. No information as to the
identity or substance of the “London
pool” could be got, and as this paper
continued to press for information a
foreign voice called over the telephone
one day and said “Lehman speaking,”
and asked The Bulletin inquirer to call
at the office of a Sydney solicitor.
The call was made on May 15, 1936.
A heavy-jowled, darkish man seemed
to know of the appointment. He got on
the high-horse immediately the word
“canvassing” was used in connection with
Hodsons, and said that only shareholders
in P.F. were being “approached.” He
resented any inquiry regarding the bona
fides of “his principals” (Hodsons) and
said that any slurs cast on his own or his
clients’ good name might result in action
that would be “taken a long way.” Asked
who one Perriman connected with the
scheme was, he, said “I am Perriman, and
if you have anything against me I’d like
to hear it.”
Perriman said P.F. shares would be
good value to buyers at £2 10s., even if,
as was suggested to him, the pool didn’t
buy them back. He admitted that Hod-
sons out of its own funds couldn’t
guarantee £4 a share for the scrip.
Following these inquiries The Bulletin
management advised Hodsons, who had
a small advertisement running in the
paper, that until further information was
forthcoming no advertising could be
accepted from them. This action was
immediately followed by a hand-delivered
cheque from Hodsons for their account
to that date, and a visit by Perriman, who
wanted the advertising resumed. Told
that such a thing was impossible until
the identity of the London “buyers” and
their financial position was disclosed, he
arranged a visit by a member of an-
other firm of solicitors, which was act-
ing in a professional capacity for the
London syndicate.
Asked who his London principals
were, the legal man said he was unable
to disclose their names. He thought they
were wealthy, however. Hodsons’ adver-
tising was not readmitted.
In the article on June 17 The Bulletin
gave an account of its investigations, and
stated that it was unaware of any actual
guarantee by Hodsons, that several in-
quiries had not brought concrete informa-
tion as to the worth of the guarantee, that
the identity of the London people could
not be ascertained, and that in the letter
sent by the legal firm on behalf of the
“London syndicate” to a purchaser at
£2 10s. a share there was no guarantee
on behalf of anyone.
The stunt represented one of the
boldest rackets ever put over in the Com-
monwealth, bluff and time (“90 days”)
being the essence of it. The prospect
of making 30s. a share in 90 days would
appeal to anyone, but the question of
why the Hodsons co. itself was not pre-
pared to hold for three months the shares
it was selling at 50s. and collect 80s. did
not, unfortunately, occur to those who
put up their cash.
' «
The sharemarket’s first reaction to the
explanation of Mount Morgan’s ore and
plant position here last week was to
mark the scrip down about 9d. a share.
The ore problem is somewhat similar
to that of Raub (F.M.S.) about two years
ago (ignoring the entirely different types
of mining proposition); some months’
development is necessary in order to gain
proper access to the ore-body and work
off excess overburden. With more work-
ing faces opened up grade of ore could be
controlled at a steadier average. Under
the at-present rather difficult system of
mining the co. came into richer values
in respect of its last working month (to
May 26); from 24,900 tons sulphides
and .18*618 tons oxides 41730 z. gold (up
6640 z.) and 151 tons copper (up 32 tons)
wererecovered. The overall recovery of
gold was I.9dwt., against I.7dwt. aver-
aged during the first 12 weeks’ operation
of the low-grade plant.
When the oxidised-ore treatment plant
is working to plan it should put a dif-
ferent complexion on earnings, as its
costs are understood to be quite satisfac-
tory. The co. has 2,348,000 shares out
(of 2s. 6d. each); at last week’s quote
market valuation is around £1,600,000.
In order to preserve profit-participation
values it is not intended to issue any
more new shares —a wise decision. So, if
in financing development shareholders
find that profits are temporarily with-
held from them, they should realise that
it is all to the ultimate good.
* * * *
The Big Bell mine, near Cue (W.A.),
has 3,000,000 tons going 3.7dwt. in sight,
and production is expected to start in
July. Premier Gold, a pup of American
Smelting and Refining Co., is developing
the property (outlay over £400,000 to
date), and Ruwolts, of Melbourne, have
supplied most of the machinery.
* if $ *
Directors of Rothsay Gold Mines,
N.L. (B. 12/5/’37), are recommending
that a new N.L. co. be formed, and that
for each of the 500,000 shares of 2s. 6d.
each now issued one new 2s. share, paid
to Is. 3d., be exchanged on payment of
3d. a share. Debenture-holders have first
to approve of the scheme. The proposal,
if accepted by shareholders, would bring'
in £6250 immediately, and leave £18,750'
at call (without liability). The deben-
ture debt totals £32,500, and is repayable
on Nov. 1 this year at a premium of £l6
per cent. Holders may convert into
shares —if they wish. Meanwhile results
of the new treatment plant are awaited.
The scrip slumped to l|d. in Adelaide,
then recovered to 3d. M. B. Hamer has
resigned from the board.
s? sf * S:
Those people who took up rights to
Australian Paper Manufacturers’ 6 p.c.
prefs. at Is. 7d. and paid the initial ss.
application and allotment money can
already see. a good profit. There were
sales of the 55.-paids at Bs. 2d. last week,
which represents about Is. 6d. a share
clear to buyers of rights at Is. 7d. Last
week’s quote represents 235. 2d. on a
fully-paid basis, returning £5 3s. sd. p.c.
The rights were recorrihiended here when-
at Is. 9d. The scrip will be fully paid
on May 31, 1938.
*
Illawarra Brick shares have firmed to
21s. since mentioned in B. 19/5/’37.
Yield at that figure on a 5 p.c. div. basis
is £4 16s. per cent. Next distribution is
due in September.
* * * * s [i
Holders of Gordon & Gotch ords.
perked up at news of the increased pro-
fit, and sharemarket quotations hard-
ened to 535. 6d. At that figure the re-
turn is £4 11s. 2d. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The stock has long been favored here.
*•** . . • *
A factor likely to affect market values
of shares in newspapers, especially the
variety given over to freak issues of large
size for circulation purposes, is the up-
ward climb in the cost of newsprint.
Canadian newsprint, which cost $4O a
year ago, is fixed at $5O a short ton until
June, 1938. London authorities anti-
cipate that by 1940 the price will go to
$7O or $75. The recent sharp setback
in commodity prices may have a curb-
ing effect on the climb, which in the
case of paper-pulp has been startling
both in Canada and Scandinavia. Wood-
pulp, the same thing, is extensively used
in making artificial silk and guncotton.
Incidentally, the lift in the price of paper
overseas should increase the profit-earn-
ing possibilities of Associated Pulp and
Paper, the Burnie (Tas.) venture.
❖ * * *
Associated Newspapers (“Sun”) ords.
have been weak at around,22s. 9d., and
there have been sales of the 6 p.c. prefs.
at 235. 6d., yields being £5 ss. 7d. p.c.
arid £5 3s. sd. respectively. Consolidated
Press (“Telegraph” and “Women’s
Weekly”) 6y p.c. prefs. are changing
hands at 16s. 6d., showing £7 18s. p.c. if
the div. charge is regularly met. Mel-
bourne “Herald” ords. sold at 70s. last
week, and “Argus” cum. prefs. at 21s.
Last sale of “Smith’s” prefs. was at
10s. 6d. .
\
* * * *
Some authorities in Sydney were say-
ing last week that coal is going up, and
a rise of Is. a ton was definitely men-
tioned. Greater and more economical
production by the J. and A. Brown Co.
has also been talked of. Shares in Adel-
aide Steam, which has a big interest in
the co., recently changed hands at 31s.
9d. in Adelaide, but Sydney turnover
followed at 325., immediate return being
£3 15s. p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or
£4 7s. 6d. if the annual distribution lifts
to 7 p.c. Through Adelaide Steam
appears to be the best way of acquiring
an . interest in the Maitland coalfields.
There is a bit of labor trouble on them at
present.
* * * SJ«
In Melbourne last week:
Yarra Falls ords. sold down to 405., but
the. rights firmed to 9s. 6d. In the circum-
stances the fully-paids were the better buying.
Australian Cement shares were in firm
demand at 31s. 3d., yielding £6 Bs. p.c.
Associated Pulp shares, now paid to 155.,
changed ; hands at 16s. Id. This represents
a drop in the premium paid.
The week opened with a slight but general
firming in quotes for industrial shares, British
Tobacco and Broken Hill Prop, being notable.
Myer ords. weakened still further, 355. 6d.
being taken on Thursday. G. J. Coles ords.
firmed a little.


The Solution
oft tfOuh VuunApoit Vhaifom ■ •
INTERNATIONAL 1,2 a„«. 3 TONNERS
CHASSIS
PRICES
> from
1133§
g
The International one-ton
delivery van.
Don't ruin a light truck with a big load—Don't squander big-truck power
on parcel deliveries . . . International can give you different trucks for
different kinds of haulage . . . and every International, whatever its
capacity, is a thoroughly engineered all-truck job ... It will pay you to
submit your transport problem to International.
The International one-tonner offers you swift, sure, smooth, flexible
transport for light haulage and sizable deliveries.
International 35-cwt. Model C-30 is built for everyday all-round truck
work . . . Fast, streamlined, perfectly sprung for full or empty running
. . . Powerfully framed without excess of deadweight. Model C-30 is a
cheap truck to run whether lightly laden or filled to capacity.
For solid haulage jobs the International 2 and 3-tonners give you
power and stamina plus low-cost operation over a long truck lifetime.
Send us your transport problem. We have the trucks to solve it.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
International 3-ton
Model C-40
. .
m
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
Cumberland Paper shareholders are
sitting tight despite the disappointment
and commotion following the issue of
prefs. in the operating co. that come in
ahead of them for divs. They are wise,
too, because the business is a solid one,
even if the mode of issuing the latest lot
of capital was something of a knock.
Australasian Paper ords. have been
changing hands freely at 325. 6d., show-
ing £4 18s. sd. p.c. if the 8 p.c. div. is
maintained. These shares have slightly
better div. prospects than Cumberland
ords., but Cumberland participating
prefs. represent a better investment. The
seconds were on offer at 325. last week.
* * % *
Holeproof ords. have held their price
well in Melbourne, changing hands at
30s. 6d., and returning above £6 10s. per
cent, on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Lustre ords.
have also been stronger in Sydney, sales
being registered up to 235. Bd. Well-
established textile cos. may be bought
giving a higher return than is usual
among manufacturing concerns even on
the present depressed market, and Yarra
Falls rights at Bs. 9d., showing a yield
of £5 3s. per cent, (on a 10 p.c. div.
basis) when the scrip is fully-paid, are a
shining example. Holeproof ords. are
also attractive. Prestige 10s. ords. at
225. 4d. are firm, and yield £5 12s. p.c.
This co. had an excellent depression
record, and has a wide market for its
products.
# K* * *
Associated Portland Cement and Brit-
ish Portland Cement are two cos. thriv-
ing on the great revival of construction
activity in the, Old Country. Each paid
22\ p.c. last term. The £1 shares of
the first are around 965. in London, those
of the second near £5. All important
British cement cos. are prosperous at the
moment.
There has been considerable debate
lately among those who take an interest
in such things as to whether higher
wages would be for the better or worse
of the community in general. Some say
higher rates of pay to workmen would
tend to curb company profits, keep share
and land values down, and generally tend
to prevent boom conditions, which usu-
ally bring a slump in their wake. It is a
very involved question. One thing, how-
ever, emerges in perfect clarity, and it is
that higher wages don’t necessarily mean
a higher standard of living for long.
If advocates of high wages say that
prices force wages and other costs up,
they must admit that higher wages and
other costs tend to send prices up, too.
This paper believes still, as it has said
all along, that steady figures are more
likely to bring a real improvement in the
standard of living than lifting, unsteady
figures. High money wages have always
accompanied booms. It is real wages— ■
buying power—that matters, and better
real wages can be accomplished as much
by keeping costs and prices down as by
increasing pay-envelopes. It seems
equally true, however, that margins for
skill and efficiency are not high enough
in Australia.
* * * *
There was a firming in the shares of
most Australian gold-producers early last
week, the initiative coming from London.
Sons of Gwalia sold at 545. in Adelaide,
after 495. a week or two ago, Lake Views
firmed to 255., and Raubs (F.M.S.)
changed hands at 19s. in Brisbane. Cuth-
berts Misima was also up. Emperors
hardened to 17s. 6d., and Lolomas firmed.
Lancefields and Tritons (W.A.) were
slower to fall in with the movement. The
market was disappointed with the
monthly return of Golden Plateau (Q.),
and quotes dropped a few pence.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Streets, Sydney
I 4
ill
■
iiilllli
< ifillll
* ifiini
111
Mi
111
I
■ I
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
"METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Immunity.
Let others praise, with envious eyes,
Your clothing so superbly fair;
Let others fondly eulogise
Those dainty little hats you wear;
Let others laud your modish ways
In choice of color, pleat or frill :
I’ll never join their song of praise —
For I’m the goat who foots the bill!
T. W. N.
•F *F *F *F
“New film has the largest cast of any picture
ever made.”
They must have done a talkie short
of Australian politicians at the Coro-
nation.
*f 4* -i*
It seems that world peace will be
achieved when Christian nations agree
to protect one another from one another.
*F -F »F 4*
“A worm can be trained by a system of
sounds and looks,” says a scientist.
Wives have known this for years.
•F *F *F *F
“A motorist complains of the danger from
cows on roads.”
And pedestrians complain of the
danger from hogs.
►F *F *F *F
Kinks of History.
“There were trees and shrubs of many
kings ” — Melb. “Herald.”
Blow the fuchsia, lettuce turn back
the calendula. Aha! Here’s Sweet Wil-
liam the Cornflower. Strange, verbena
expecting Plantagenets, but thistle show
us. History unfolds, we see scabious
violets in the steaks and salvias of grape
being fired at anemones. It convolvulus
with delight.
Come, phlox of people, we haven’t
zinnia for centereaus! By gum! Wis-
taria in astonishment, and well we may
—everything is so plane. Interest never
flags ; and the sweet-peas of those olden
dahlias! Brave thymes when flourished
all kings of trees and shrubs! Lilac-a-
day, why carrot we have them now?
Hanko.
•F *F *F *F
“Mae West earns £96,166 in a year.”
—News item.
A swell figure for a swell figure.
•F *F *F *F
“Give your husband a questionnaire, and get
to really know him.” —Magazine article.
A good one to start with is to ask him
whether he’d sooner have your mother
along for a fortnight, or buy you a fur
coat.
•F *F F •F
“Man uses saxophone to charm snakes.”
—News item.
It’s the first time we’ve felt any sym-
pathy for snakes.
•F -F *F *F
“The average woman is a born gossip.”
—Social news.
She has a strong sense of rumor.
•F *F *F *F
The Wobble.
The badly-bent axle gave my off front
wheel a decided wobble, but I was con-
fident that by proceeding cautiously I
could make the garage.
At first it was rather pleasant to be
able to reply to the queries of fellow-
motorists in an offhanded manner, sug-
gesting that, if a wheel did come off, I
was just the chap to deal with it. And,
anyway, who cared? Life’s short, at the
best of times, and a little spice of
danger
But it soon palled. Three times in
half a mile I stopped to reassure people
who had stopped to warn me of my im-
pending danger.
Then the idea struck me. With a lip-
stick I discovered in the side pocket, I
printed the following notice on a piece
of cardboard, which I affixed over the
wobbly wheel:
THIS WHEEL WON’T COME OFF.
That did the trick! At least a dozen
cars passed without any comment, and
I was congratulating myself when a car
swung in and stopped in front of me.
Perforce I stopped. The driver alighted
and approached me, cheerily waving a
spanner.
“Jack her up, old man,” he called to
me. “We’ll soon get her off.”
“We’ll what?” I gasped.
“Get her off,” he repeated. “I’ve never
yet”—he seemed proud to admit it —
“been beaten by a wheel.”
I asked him what the devil he was
getting at.
“Why! ” —he seemed surprised—“that
wheel of yours. You want it off, don’t
you?”
I assured him, coldly, that nothing was
“ You've stowed away on the Wrong boat , matey. We amt bound for
’ Frisco !”
further from my mind. He had a pro-
minent proboscis which irritated me.
“Then what,” he demanded, “do you
mean by confounding your fellow-motor-
ists? It’s drivers like you”
I called him an adjectival, blue-nosed
idiot, and he left.
Then the second idea struck me. I
reversed the cardboard and wrote:
WARNING.
THIS WHEEL MAY COME OFF AT ANY
MOMENT.
Thereafter I made good progress, until
a peremptory voice ordered me in to the
kerb.
“Driving to the danger of the public,”
he commented. “Anything to say?”
I explained the position, but it didn’t
satisfy him. Truth to tell, it didn’t sound
so hot to me. I went over it again. This
time he was impressed.
“Drunk,” he remarked, and made a
note of it.
I shall plead guilty to the charge. I
know I shall be fined—l have just found
out that Bluenose is the magistrate.
W. J. W.
•F *F *F *F
“Frosty weather makes dogs bad-tempered,”
says a dog-lover.
The cold snap.
•F »F *F 4*
“There are occasions when the teeth require
special protection,” says a health hint.
Such as when a big bloke catches you
out with his girl.
»F *F *F »F
The Sign Manual.
My wife is hard to understand;
When first l pleaded for her hand,
Though she demurred, no spoken word
Foreshadowed her unmasking.
My wife is hard to understand ;
I’d then to ask her for her hand.
But now a right or left she’ll land
On me without the asking!
Jim D.
•F *F *F *F
Facing the Consequences.
With the Coronation over we should
be wise to prepare for the inevitable
aftermath.
Immediate steps should be taken to
save ourselves from being bored to
death by the personal reminiscences, reci-
tals of “How I Met His Majesty,” “What
the Duke Said to Me,” “How I Worked
My Seat in the Abbey,” etc., that will
burst from the returning horde in an
irresistible flood.
Failing the imposition of a dictation
test in ancient Tuscan, or compulsion to
wear some sign to distinguish them from
normal people, these pests may be recog-
nised and avoided as follows:
A dignified gait, an expression of in-
tense pain and the use of grandiose
phrases, such as “Our Great and Glori-
ous Commonwealth of Nations,” etc.,
will mark politicians and, to a lesser
degree, Lord Mayors and J.Ps. These
may be eluded by luring them on to a
public platform—a simple matter —and
leaving them to their own devices.
Individuals with horn-rimmed glasses
and a mysterious look of bearing the
destiny of nations may be set down as
official secretaries. May be got rid of
by questioning closely on what really
did happen when Mr. Lyons’s belt came
undone.
Characterised by a distant manner, a
suggestion of gracious hauteur, one of
the varieties of the Australian Oxford
accent and a regal air in entering crowded
rooms, the lady who has been presented
at Court could easily become tiresome
if permitted. A polite inquiry as to
whether the beak said “ten bob and
costs” or “the rising” will relieve you
of her.
Not so easily squelched is the chatty,
informative person who has spent a
week-end in a haunted castle, learnt
Elgar’s rendering of “God Save” by
heart, secured G. Bernard Shaw’s auto-
graph or drunk a pint of ale in a Chel-
sea studio. The best way to get rid ot
this type is to send it to the A.B.C. with
the idea of broadcasting a series of talks.
No one is compelled to listen in.
Turoar.
-I- -!• -I* •!' ...
“Some women seem to have an instinctive
desire to do something against their husbands’
wishes.”— “Sun.”
The opposite sex.
A Matter of Magic.
“Members of the craft must continually be
on the qui vive for new ideas,” says a profes-
sional magician.
And not only for new ideas, as I found
out when / was magicianing.
I had been sacrificing for 255. each
some marvellous 18-carat, 25-diamond,
self-adjusting, triple-levered, platinum-
spring chronometers, guaranteed for life
or 60 years, whichever was the greater
or less, to the rural populace of the ter-
ritory I was working. But when a large,
aggressive rustic at Spudworth, where I
had been tempted against my better
judgment to stay overnight, had made a
trifling complaint that his watch had lost
10 hours in 12, and that it wouldn’t wind
up, I stood on my dig. and told him to
call a cop. I knew that the town flatfoot
was 45 miles away collecting a 2s. 6d.
dog tax from an outlying cocky, so I
felt reasonably safe. His grab missed
by an inch, but a snappy sidestep, a fast
sprint and my trusty grid soon had me
out of the dahger zone. At the next
town I sold out my stock, but, receiving
a wire from Ike McSnitchstein that there
wouldn’t be another shipment of the 2\-
yen gilt boyproofs from Japan for a
month, I donned my ginger walrus mo.
and heavy hornrims and became Profes-
sor Plonkbottle, the eminent magician.
It was back at Spudworth, where I
called in again on my way back to civil-
isation, that I learned about this qui vive
business. In the local hall I proceeded
to stun the natives with feats of leger-
demain, magic and what not. I saw the
large, aggressive one again, sitting a few
rows back, but 1 was feeling confident
that my disguise was impenetrable, when
suddenly it happened. Whether it was
caused through all the
hay brought in in the
yokels’ hair I don’t
know, but I was un-
able to hang on to a
tremendous sneeze
which blew my ginger
zonker clean off. I
could tell by the. way
my pet aversion came
to the upright, after
having sat there like a
warmed-up corpse, that
he’d recognised me. I
couldn’t hear what he
sang out owing to the
unfeeling yell of laugh-
ter.
Later on I did my famous watch-
bashing and hat-wrecking act, always a
winner, and it was with some misgivings
that I took the aggressive fellow’s hat
and watch (I recognised the latter), his
being the only ones offered. Nugget, my
usual assistant from the crowd, was
away cleaning up on a patent combina-
tion rat-catcher and bean-stringer, so my
call for one brought up a dopey-looking
individual. I hastily whispered that I’d
sling him a caser to ring the changes
with a dud watch and cady behind the
curtain, while I made a few spectacular
passes at the mugs. Then with a hammer
I made a hash of the watch, while a
mixture of dubious eggs and some flour
didn’t exactly improve the hat. Came
the great moment when I was to hand
him back his own untouched articles, but
I found that the idiot of an assistant
hadn’t made the change.
The aggressive one adopted a threaten-
ing attitude, and soaked me for 455. for
the watch, which, he swore, was solid
gold, and 575. for the hat, which, he
claimed, was an imported one. As the
cop was in the hall he had me where the
hair was short, and I had to spar up.
But that wasn’t all. As I was going
back to the pub after leaving the hall
he was waiting on me ; and there was
no cop about. He had the dopey one
with him. I was trapped.
“Now,” he snarled, “cough up that
caser you promised me brother.” Just
like that. Beautifully rhythmical, though
I didn’t appreciate the poesy in the words
at the time. I coughed up.
His brother! The Judas!
“And cop this for trying to be smart,”
he went on. I copped it. A magnificent
stinker. The third color showed up in
it next morning. But the “trying to be
smart.” That hurt almost as much, com-
ing from a rube.
On the qui vive is right.
S. W. K.


FOR THE V.R.C. MEETING.
Royal Handicap: Ogwell; next,
Studio.
Sandringham Handicap: Art;
next, Petit Fils.
Buckingham Handicap: Dutiful;
next, Humorist.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Santa Casa, winner of the V.R.C.
Grand National Steeple of 1936, staged a
most impressive comeback in the Com-
monwealth Steeple at Moonee Valley.
Carrying list. 71b., which is 111 b. more
than J. H*. Davis has allotted him at
Flemington, the six-year-old son of
David scored by half a dozen lengths
from Character, with Montargis a mod-
erate third. On this form another
“National” success is well within the
compass of Santa Casa, even if the han-
dicapper imposes a penalty.
The dashing display of Santa Casa
took Valley punters by surprise. His un-
placed outing in the Great Eastern at
Oakbank on Easter Monday and a sub-
sequent failure in Adelaide were sugges-
tive of waning powers, and 15 to 1 went
begging on Saturday. Twelve months
ago Santa Casa took a considerable time
to warm up in races. “Bluey” Armsden
adopted wholly different tactics at
Moonee Valley. He didn’t hesitate to
mix it with the tearaway Philax, who
was collared and beaten half a mile from
home.
Monkey Tricks, who won over hurdles
at Warrnambool on the day that Kenna-
mon landed the Grand Annual Steeple
there, started a hot favorite. When travel-
ling fairly well behind Philax and Santa
Casa at the back of the course in the
second circuit Monkey Tricks fell. He
should improve with experience at the
new game, but at this juncture does not
appeal as a National horse. Kennamon
finished strongly.
Triteleia rewarded the courage of those
who took 5 to 4 about his chance in the
Federal Hurdle. It was the Great Star
gelding’s fourth successive win over the
battens, but he somewhat lost caste by
tiring towards the end and reaching the
judge only a neck in advance of Devon-
brook. Three miles at Flemington may
overtax the. stamina of Harry Freedman’s
representative, if he can be safely judged
on the week-end exhibition.
The bubble of Manrico’s galloping
reputation was pierced when he signally
failed to see out six furlongs in the Picca-
ninny Handicap. J. M. Niall’s colt had
romped home over four furlongs and
nine chains at Epsom on May 15. For a
similar distance on Saturday he looked a
sure winner. Then came a dramatic col-
lapse by the 10-to-9 favorite, who fin-
ished far back in the field.
To the added delight of fielders the
spoils went to Plymouth Hoe (12 to 1),
owned by Victor Newhouse, one of their
brethren. Newhouse, who was a pro-
fessional boxer, gave 325 guineas for
Plymouth Hoe a few weeks ago, and has
won twice with him since at handsome
odds.
Plymouth Hoe, who carried topweight,
lasted just long enough to score by half
a head from Winoobra, with the heavily-
backed Great Eastern two lengths farther
off. Wally O’Dwyer trains Plymouth
Hoe ; his uncle. Jack is owner and trainer
of Winoobra, a smart filly by Heroic’s
half-brother, Cimbrian.
To some extent Irving (9-to-2 favorite)
may be forgiven for being beaten out of
a place in the middle-distance Mount
Alexander Handicap. Six furlongs from
home Ashley Reed tried to force a pas-
sage on the rails, with the result that his
mount was knocked back second-last.
The manner in which Irving made up
ground to run fourth shows that the cast-
off from Bailey Payten’s stable does not
lack courage.
Worth £4OO to the winner—as against
£145 in the Rosehill Handicap on the
same afternoon —the Mount Alexander
Handicap went to Villius (12 to 1), who
scampered merrily in front from end to
end. Nissa, nearest as they passed the
post, was four lengths off, with the con-
sistent Strymon a good third.
P. T. Heywood races Villius (Gay
Lothario-Violet Rays) in conjunction
with H. G. Mcßoberts, the head of a
firm of wholesale druggists. Before he
retired and went on to the land in the
Albury district Heywood was a noted
trainer. As far back as 1883 he won a
Caulfield Cup for D. S. Wallace with
Calma ; but, of course, his greatest tri-
umph was with Artilleryman in the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1919.
Finch, prime fancy for the Keilor
Handicap, led until passed by Kanuri at
the home bend. The Pakenham-owned
gelding had to be ridden right out to
score by a head from Ogwell, who came
on the scene a trifle too late. Ogwell, a
fine type of thoroughbred, lumped 9st.
71b. and conceded his conqueror 201 b.
The Highweight Handicap produced an
even more exciting finish, Beau Roi, a
four-year-old stallion by Baralong,
squeezing home by half a head from the
9-to-4 favorite, Steer Clear, who suf-
fered somewhat in a battle of riding
tactics as they faced for home. A pro-
test was expected, but none was lodged.
Beau Roi had appreciable support at
sevens.
* * * *
Tiring of Old Rowley, A.J.C. com-
mitteeman Pat Osborne passed him on
to Jack Scully, the trainer. At Rosehill
on Saturday he saw Old Rowley (7 to 1)
beat The Raider, racing in his own
colors, and half a dozen others in the
principal handicap. And The Raider
was favorite ; Old Rowley was at 7 to 1
in most places, though eights could be
got. But Mr. Osborne is a bit of a
philosopher, as every sportsman should
be, and he took the thing with a smile.
Old Rowley was bred in Queensland.
He is a big chestnut gelding by The
Buzzard-Syceonelle, so there is Carbine
blood in him; and he shaped like a
stayer-. The Raider failed to see out the
mile and a quarter, and at the end was
relegated to fourth place by Oro and
Vice Royal. That sour brute Barak
finished last.
Four of the eight events were won by
horses sporting trainers’ colors. One was
Duke Caledon (10 to 1), who is one
of Jack King’s numerous string. Taking
charge in the straight, he hung on gamely
and just beat Beaupre, who finished
under the judge’s box. Rosmead, boxed
up on the rails most of the way, did well
to run third, and might have done better
ridden on the outside. Kaylah, backed
heavily, got into lots of trouble, but did
not make up much ground in the final
two furlongs.
Jim Pike saddled up the winner
of the second division, Timurkhan
(14 to 1). Weiss handled the former
Victorian neddy in artistic style;
waited on the field till Timurkhan had
reached the home turn and then shot his
mount away. Timurkhan won with a lot in
hand from Lavage and King Moab. One
of the favorites was the pony Blinky
Bill; outclassed, he was the last neddy
home. Punjab lost his chance at the
start.
Pastoralist G. N. Magill furnished a
surprise in the Maiden Handicap with
Red Clover (20 to 1). His filly was
piloted by Mulligan, who is to ride
Mohican in the Doomben Newmarket.
Red Clover hung on when challenged by
Tickle and Pancake. The favorite, Mor-
rence, tired badly. Six furlongs is appar-
ently her distance.
Dan Lewis was not present to see
Theolos and Gay Knight score. For the
Juvenile Handicap Theolos was not
fancied, and the price drifted from fives
to fifteens. But the youngster made most
of the running, and had enough in re-
serves to hold off Careerbra, with Troy
a fair third. The second division of the
Juvenile went to Denis, owned by a Cal-
cutta man but bred and trained by Bill
Booth. A son of the Caulfield Cup
winner, Denis Boy, Denis was hav-
ing his third race. He finished like an
old-stager to beat Lady Ivy.
Gay Knight’s race was the Granville
Stakes. War Machine made the pace
warm, was carried along by Bringa after
passing the five-furlong post, and his 9st.
beat him in the straight. He missed
a place. Gay Knight is by The Buzzard-
Maid of Scots. Maid of Peru, last into
the straight, nearly caught him at the
end. There was some crowding over
the last furlong, and, holding Hanley,
Gay Knight’s rider, responsible, the stew-
ards suspended him for a month. The
Granville Stakes was the only race which
was at all favorable to backers; on all
the others the Ring was well ahead.
* * * *
Unless Duke changes his mind again
or something happens to his steed,
Pamelus is to start in the Doomben
Newmarket at the Queensland course of
that name on June 12. It is a six-furlong
race with a 7st. minimum, and, consider-
ing that Pamelus ran a close second in
the V.R.C.’s Newmarket giving 161 b. to
an exceptionally good sprinter like
Aurie’s Star, he must be accounted well
treated, especially as after the New-
market he had two good wins at weight-
for-age. There is no Aurie’s Star en-
gaged at Doomben ; the horse nearest to
Pamelus in the weights is High Speech,
who has 9st. Few Sydney people would
back High Speech to beat Pamelus at a
difference of 111 b. Mohican (Bst. 81b.)
and Heroic Faith (Bst. 71b.) make a
greater appeal, but even they would be
at generous odds if the race took place
at Randwick. Not that the Doomben
handicapper is to be blamed for refus-
ing to overburden a good horse.
* * * *
“Bob Punter”: According to press re-
port, Casino (N.S.W.) is the latest country
race club to discover itself threatened
by the effects of s.p. Not for 20 years, at
least, has Casino been a flourishing racing
centre, but any ammunition serves in this
largely wowser-inspired campaign. Most
of these country centres suffer from
nothing else but that they haven’t any-
thing like enough population to support
regular racing, especially with prevailing
charges, plus taxes, as surely deadening
the sport in the country as in the city.
Like many another such place, Casino
distributes about as much cash in prize-
money at any ordinary meeting to keep
one horse in active training and racing.
If every place of like size were to con-
centrate on one good meeting a year, with
prize-money that would attract a string
of Sydney and Brisbane neddies, none
of them would need to yell “S.p.!” or
make any other such strained excuse:
Going to “the Dogs”
Unless the N.S.W. horserace people do
something pretty lively and move the
Government to do something as well,
the dogs are going to beat them. In
Sydney one night last week qualifying
heats were run for a Maiden Stake and
Trial Stake. There were 10 heats to each
Stake and 10 dogs to each heat —200
dogs attempting to qualify, only 20 of
them to start on race night. There were
dogs there from Victoria, S.A., Queens-
land and Maoriland.
On the say-so of the Dog Association’s
president there are 30,000 dogs on the
books for the Sydney metropolitan area.
The sport is now as finely run as meet-
ings at Randwick. There is a public
draw for box positions; there are usually
eight starters or more in an event; bet-
ting is spirited, and watching the tykes
from the best seats costs less than half
as much as looking at the horses.
The “sport of kings,” the “thunder of
hooves” and the rest of it are to most
people so much eyewash ; they go there
to gamble, and the dogs serve as well, or
better. All the dog controllers are afraid
of is restrictive Government interference.
They are getting as big crowds as they
can accommodate, broadcasting and s.p.
making no difference to them.
Of course, the dogs represent economic
waste, but the debit side is not all blank.
Each dawg chews 31b. of steak a day,
and has to be rugged, and catered for in
other ways. There can be no question as
to which —horse or hound —is of most
use to the country. But the horse people
are doing nothing whatever to meet the
menace. They are as smug as when
there was no opposition and they held
a monopoly of gambling-sport. They
won’t either reduce their charges or try
the effects of prize-money worth a Jot
of horses’ while racing for. The best
they can manage is to join the. squeals
of wowsers about s.p. and the yells of
interested newspapers about broadcasting.
The Government, for its part, con-
tinues to bleed the sporting public with
taxes that make losing money at the
dogs seem like saving money compared
with what’s squeezed out of them for
merely watching the horses. If this is to
go on, Randwick and elsewhere might
as well be subdivided into dog courses.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. series on Saturday went
according to general Melbourne predic-
tion. Melbourne remains at the top of
the premiership ladder, having a lead
of four points over Collingwood. Rich-
mond has n;oved into third place, and
St. Kilda is fourth. Geelong and Fitz-
roy are on level terms in fifth position.
South Melbourne, 15-11, had just enough
margin over Hawthorn, 13-20, to swap
bottom position for that immediately
above it; North Melbourne, Carlton,
Essendon and Footscray lead South by
two points.
In an exciting and spectacular clash
Richmond, 15-19, beat Geelong, 12-6.
St. Kilda, after a last-quarter spurt,
headed North, 15-13 to 13-8 ; and Mel-
bourne, 11-12, stayed too well for Foots-
cray, 8-8. Fitzroy, 11-9, scraped home
against Essendon, 8-18. Collingwood
led at the end of every session to beat
Carlton, 11-16 to 8-7.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The great Diggins con-
troversy, which has been obscuring all
other matters, local and international, in
Melbourne has spread to Perth. Lured
from Westralia by South Melbourne,
Diggins fell out with that club and was
immediately pursued by the officials of
others. One party, turning up at a meet-
ing of “Sowth’s” committee, asked to be
allowed five minutes’ conversation with
Diggins. The reply was that the gentle-
man was at that moment in Perth,
whither he had flown to see a sick rela-
tive. Next day the Melbourne press
bubbled over with wires from Perth an-
nouncing that Diggins had alighted from
a ’plane there and immediately been in-
terviewed by the agents for pretty well
every club in Perth. More than that,
“they have practically monopolised his
company ever since,” as one press mes-
sage puts it. If the late Rockefeller had
suddenly flown from wherever he is an-
nouncing he proposed to lend Westralia
a couple of million on its lOU he
couldn’t have attracted greater interest.
* ❖ • ?{: *
In the most vital, though not the most
interesting, Sydney Rugby Union match
on Saturday St. George was beaten 8-6
(two tries to one) by Parramatta, and
now has to share the leading position
with Western Suburbs. West easily ac-
counted for University, 21-7, rattling up
four tries to one, chiefly because of the
speed and sure handling of the back line ;
and East beat Gordon the same way—
-16-12 ; two tries to none. North (9) and
Manly (6) put on a ragged show. The
best match of the day, and one of the
best of the season, was Drummoyne v.
Randwick at Coogee. The forwards on
both sides fought hard for the ball, and
then gave it to the backs, leaving them
plenty of open field to work in. Each
team scored two tries and each converted
one, but Drummoyne picked up two
penalty goals to one by ’Wick, to win
14-11.
* * * *
The difficulty the Rugby Leaguers are
going to have in getting together a team
for England—more than half the mem-
bers of last year’s Australian backline
have gone away or given up the game—
was made evident at Sydney C.G. when
the first Country team gave the pick of
the City men a solid drubbing: 20-12;
four tries to two. Five of the country-
men, a winger and a centre among them,
go into the State team to meet the
Queenslanders next Saturday.
* * * *
“Centre Half”: Just off the boat the
English amateur Soccer team made a
hash of the opposition in its first match
in Maoriland, Hawke’s Bay succumbing
by 12 goals to nil. This match took the
place of the game against Auckland
which was to have opened the tour. The
first Test will be played at Wellington on
June 5, with others at Dunedin and
Auckland on June 12 and 26.
o Continued on next page.)
Racquet and Bawl
The Australians are out of the Davis
Cup competition. Quist and Crawford
were nominated for the singles at Forest
Hills; but Quist, suffering from an attack
of gastric or intestinal ’flu, stupidly con-
cealed, could not play, and McGrath,
still a bit off color, was another absentee.
Bromwich was substituted.
Crawford hadn’t the ghost of a chance
against Budge. .He’s slowing up these
days, and, more important, has lost con-
fidence. He won only six games—6-1,
6-3, 6-2. Bromwich, opposed to Grant,
began nervously, losing the first set 6-2.
Although the second went to 7-5, Grant
was never troubled; and it was over
in the third, 6-1. In the doubles Mc-
Grath was considered well enough to
pair with Crawford ; Budge and Mako
were on the other side of the net. Here
our boys made a better showing, but the
Americans carried far too many guns.
It, too. went only three sets —7-5, 6-1,
8-6.
o Continued on next page.)
The British amateur golf champion-
ship went to an American, Sweeney, three
up and two from the veteran Munn (he
is 50). Sweeney was fancied for the event
last year, but was outed by Australia’s
Jim Ferrier in the sixth round.


"silver
EDGE*
TRADE (/MARK REC/STERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
i£a
Si
urn
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not • wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with * RAYBESTOS BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
LONGEST USEFUL
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy is
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
tyre gauge gives you best-value. It is made with
precision-—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always, ..
Get a Kismet —the extra cost
comes back to you in longer I i
useful service.
UK
xc 3 Calibrated
itfr' 0-50 pounds,
<y\& r clearly marked
0 n w j(j e flat sur-
faces in single
pounds; in neat leather
wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia,
Manufacturers: ; YViLLIAjj
Tt RN Kxi & IfftO.,
LTD , Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, Englano.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Elliott v. Smedley, at Leichhardt
(Sydney), saw the Jem Mace style beat the
American crouch, as it always will, other
things being equal. By standing up
straight, Elliott took every advantage or
his extra height and reach, and he sent
out his punches the same way. They in-
variably landed while Smedley’s swings
were still disturbing the atmosphere.
Smedley failed to win a round. He was
so badly beaten when the ninth ended
that referee Barling pointed to Elliott.
Farrington v. Dal Costa resulted in
Farrington scoring on points. Leich-
hardt has now in Elliott and Farrington
two worthy opponents for Filipino
featherweights it is bringing to Sydney.
% % *
Max Baer has won a fight in London
—knocked out Ben Foord in nine
rounds. Foord must be as clumsy a
fighter as Storbeck, who came to Aus-
tralia from Africa in 1914 and was
beaten by third-raters.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: Melbourne football’s latest
upset is the sudden resignation of Syd
Coventry of his job as player-coach of
Footscray. No reason is given, but the
happening is momentous, for Syd has
done remarkably well since he took
charge of the club. Possibly ’Scray’s
famous atmospheric conditions, which
vie with those of Cologne or Botany,
have got on his nerves.
* s:= * *
“Donghim”: The Australian game in
Queensland is losing Hadwen, perhaps
its finest player. Bogging in for Mayne
v. Windsor he let a fist fly in the direc-
tion of the umpire and was disqualified
for three years. Three years! Why, in
Victoria when I knew it stoushing the
umpire was part of the game. It was
as much as an ump.’s job was worth to
report a leather-chaser for dotting him
one on the eye or smashing his smeller.
The grand old code has never made
much progress in Queensland, and, re-
viewing Hadwen’s case, I don’t wonder
at it.
* * * *
“Rover”: Sydney, with a bit of luck,
may see a first-class Victorian F.L. club
in action in August—Melbourne, which
beat Collingwood recently and, at time
of writing, stands at the head of the
League premiership table. Melbourne
wanted the S.C.G. It will be quite im-
possible to get that from the Rugby
League, which has surrendered several
of its dates to other codes this season.
H:
“Dubious”: Beware of the bold, bad
amateur! N.S.W.R.U. is out on a wrist-
slapping campaign, and announces that
teams playing professional footballers
will in future automatically disqualify
themselves from the R.U. I can recall
one season after the war when the R.U.
announced that from a certain date no
person playing League could ever hope
to figure again as an amateur with the
R.U., and could spare himself the trouble
of applying for a splash of whitewash.
The new rule was overlaid or something,
and died in infancy or was stolen by the
fairies. Anyway, it was never heard of
again.
* * * *
“Rus”: Country Rugby Union players
and officials are properly incensed at the
suggestion of some of the Sydney heads
that a leavening of city players be intro-
duced to the Combined Western team to
play the ’Boks at Orange on June 16.
The countrymen state with considerable
truth that they have talent to burn if it
can only get a chance to show, and that
lugging second-rate city men to Orange
is not the way to increase the popularity
of the reviving Union game in that dis-
trict. Among other home truths is the
statement that Mau, the W.D. full-back,
has proved himself in the top class. Yet
at a time when the State and Australia
badly need a custodian, his name is not
even mentioned by officials or news-
papermen.
* * * *
“Mak”: Rugby Union football again
has Maorilanders by their winter ears.
Which recalls the story of a Payne Trophy
match between the champion sides of
Christchurch and Dunedin. Winners of
the Christchurch competition that year
were the Canterbury University College
XV, and they went south under the man-
agement of an ex-bursar of the college
and a well-known city lawyer. The night
before the game, these two keen sports-
men addressed the team in moving lan-
guage; it was an important match, the
players had to bed down before 10 p.m.
and any sonovagun caught out of the
blankets later than that would be tom
into small pieces. Whereupon they de-
parted for a personal reunion. Back at
the pub at 2 a.m. and solemnly inspecting
the rooms to see if all the players were
in, they were hurt and disgusted to find
two unoccupied beds. Said the ex-
bursar: “Shall we wait up and catch
these dogs?” “No, but we’ll take their
room numbers, and in the morning we’ll
show them up,” said the lawyer. But
the whole side denied having been out
later than 10. “Two of you,” declared
the managers, “were obviously out on a
“Your missus Was goin' lousy, Spike—reckons you're chuckin' the fight
away just to nark 'er!"
binge ; we know.” They sent a porter to
find out who slept in rooms 16 and 17.
Back came the porter —-the ex-bursar,
he reported gravely, slept in 16 and the
lawyer in 17. The momentary silence
was broken by an athletic candidate for
the ministry who chanted, “Whoso dig-
geth a pit shall fall therein.”
* * * *
“Gate”: Calamity has again kicked
at the Rugby League’s door. Thick-
nesse, its crack half-back, has retired
from the game on the eve of the tour
of the North of England. Thicknesse
learned his football in the Rugby Union
and played Union for N.S.W. against
Queensland in 1931. The loss of this
player and Hey will make it more difficult
to field a good side for England than ever
before. The League may strike a vein
of undiscovered talent, and will need to.
“Old Q.”: The trouble between certain
Queensland League clubs and Vic Hey,
who was hired by them to play football,
was settled. The young gentleman con-
tracted to repay £l5O, to be divided
among the Toowoomba and Ipswich
clubs, as satisfaction of amounts paid by
them for his services. The Q.R.L. has
notified Leeds that everything in the
garden is now lovely, and that Hey is
now free to enjoy the roses and rap-
tures of professional football in the
North of England.
* * * *
Queensland Rugby League will play
its first match of the season against
N.S.W. at S.C.G. on June 5, with the
return on June 12. The Bananalanders
are very confident this year and report
much new talent. It will all be needed
for the Australian team.
* # # *
“Gate”: The concerted action to be
taken at Bathurst (N.S.W.) to test the
legality of Sunday football is alarming the
State Rugby League, since some of its
country affiliations play all their games
on that day. Saturday football is no
use to country clubs, which have heavy
expenses, for, since the s.p. craze has
grown to such proportions with the ad-
vance of radio announcing, takings on
that day do not pay the gatemen’s ex-
penses. The. State League does not per-
mit Sunday football in Sydney—though
matches are not uncommon —but it has
handed over the management of the
game in the country entirely to the coun-
try Leagues, and can only look help-
lessly on while the matter is tested in
the courts.
* * * #
The English amateur Soccer team of
18 players, two managers and a trainer
cast up in Auckland last week, and will
make its Sydney landfall on June 30. The
first match will be against N.S.W.. at
Sydney Cricket Ground on July 3, the
first game against Australia at the S.C.G.
on July 10, after which the side makes
for Brisbane. The Victorians have en-
gaged Melbourne C.G. for the All Aus-
tralia v. England game on July 24.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Though the tax-
gatherers were on the spot, as usual, Von
Nida can scarcely regret his recent visit to
his native Q’land. In addition to lifting
the open championship for the third time
in succession, he won four of the liberal
purses for professionals, making five wins
out of seven starts and breaking five State
records. For 15 rounds his average was
71 against the average standard score of
72 for the four courses played on.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: When Bobby Locke, the
South African amateur, started the sea-
son an Afrikander syndicate took an
unusual bet —£30,000 to £lOO that Locke
would win the Transvaal, South African
and British amateur and open events.
Locke brought off the two South Afri-
can titles and started favorite for the
British amateur in a field of 223, but
was put out by a Scot, Peters. The
entry was lower than last year’s cham-
pionship played at St. Andrews. This is
attributed to the unwillingness of Scot-
tish players to pay the expenses of a
southern trip, with the possibility of
being knocked out in the first round.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Having won the Queens-
land amateur championship Mick Ryan
rubbed it in by a stinging criticism of
the lack of interest shown by Queens-
landers in championship golf.
According to Mick, the spec-
tators of the first round of the
championship final were mostly
caddies. He pointed out that
unless Queenslanders could
show more interest in big golf
events they had no hope of see-
ing an Australian championship
staged in Brisbane —an objec-
tive dreamed of nightly by all
good Bananaland golfers.
* * *
“Divot Digger”: Golfer
Hock, of Avalon (N.S.W.), put
up a wonderful show the other
night. It was a moonlight four-
baller, and Hock equalled par
for the nine holes, going over
the 2080yds. course in 32. Only
one ball was lost by the party,
which recovered two in return.
An outstanding feat, but the
writer could name more than
one player who could better it —
if he played in pitch darkness
and marked his own card.
* * *
“Baffy”: The younger genera-
tion had its field day at Ken-
sington when Miss Crago, of
the Australian club, won the
women’s junior State golf
championship, which carries the
schoolgirls’ title, by five strokes
from Miss Crowe. The latter
ran neck and neck with her
opponent until the last hole,
when an eight left her lamenting.
$ # * *
“Divot Digger”: Very foolish is the prac-
tice of giving up a hole without playing
it out. No less a player than our old
friend Michael Scott, with the experience
of years behind him, threw away a
chance in the British amateur in this
way. Playing Tolley, Scott picked up at
the 17th, thinking Tolley was two up.
As it chanced, Tolley was only one up,
and if Scott had played his putt to win
the hole he might have taken the game
and entered the next round, with Tolley,
one of the favorites, well and truly outed.
Racquet and Bawl
“E.D.”: When a King-Emperor falls
ill the people are told all about it, and
they are kept informed by the doctors
in regular bulletins. When a tennis-


Instant Ignition
Greater Power
Output
IRS
5 . •
pvnux
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
mm
Ullfp
111
m
gggK
•: *:v:-: : :v>: : :v^:*:';-XA:$:y:r:
II
mmmwm.
■■■■' -41
HHi
WmMm
WmSm
lllllil
tf : : :::J
$i
WASSsKS
fMmfi
vm-.y-m
. :•:;
.
1111 l
tiiilfl
illiil
■
my.
m
:•:•:•:••
co«?S
oi»
«,eolKe* is
ed «!
It»
yott
u
fOU
'<:?•': f XJTv %p_ •••• , ?
' l v
| £#Ml
: Mi£M n
mil
/MIP- V,; C.X7 p
'<' v »
SS
player is sick—well, here is what hap-
pened in the case of Adrian Quist:
' New York, May 24.
Mr. Sproule told the Australian Asso-
ciated Press representative that Quist was
in such perfect condition that he was
afraid he might overtrain. Hence he had
spent the day in idleness.
* Forest Hills, May 25.
“I am not working Quist very hard,”
Mr. Sproule said, “because he is ready
tn nlav now and is in his best form.
t 0 P y Forest Hills, May 27.
It is revealed that Quist has been suf-
fering from intestinal influenza since Satur-
day, when he complained of stomach pains.
He ’ was put to bed immediately with a
high temperature and remained in bed
on Sunday. „ , , .
Other members of the team kept the
secret of Quist’s illness when he prac-
tised on Monday, and there was nothing
about his play to indicate his illness. He
suffered a relapse as the result of the
practice, however, and returned to bed
on Tuesday, Mr. Sproule explaining his
absence from the grounds by saying Quist
was resting to avoid overtraining. Only
to-day was it discovered he was in bed
under a physician’s care.
I suppose there are people who think
that kind of thing is clever.
* * * *
“Stade Roland”: Barred by the doc-
tors from taking part in the clash for
the French singles title, of which he is
the holder, Von Cramm won the doubles
with Henkel from South Africans Kirby
and Farquharson after beating the Eng-
lish Davis Cup pair, Hughes and Tuckey.
The German job was made easier when
an injury prevented Bernard, who was
partnering Borotra, to retire from the
semi-final against the Afrikanders.
* »* * *
“Cash Oop”: The Bulletin has often
commented on the disinclination of
athletes and members of sports clubs to
pay the usually paltry fees demanded for
entries. So bad has this attitude become
that the international tennis heads have
now ruled that, unless fees are paid
beforehand, players may not compete.
St. Kilda (Vic.) club has hit on an in-
genious method of collecting the brass.
Competitors’ admission tickets are to be
left with the gatekeeper. Unless the fees
due are paid by him the ticket is not
handed over, and the defaulter remains
on the outer. A fine idea, but it would be
as well to carefully choose large and un-
pleasant-looking gatekeepers of rough-
house proclivities.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Latest news of the Empire
Games is that England is sending over 40
athletes, male and female, covering all
departments, including a sculler ; even a
team of bowlers is threatened. M.L.’s
team will exceed 70, and Rhodesia sends
five, with a possibility of a small team —
swimmers for the most part —from
Malta. Scotland and South Africa are
dispatching men and women athletes to
cover practically all branches of the
games, the Afrikander side including
cyclists. Wrestling and boxing will be
under international rules.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: E. E. Keary, selector of
the crews to row for Australia at the
Empire Games, has asked the Rowing
Council to ascertain from the 24 men
he has named whether they are pre-
pared to put in six weeks’ training in
Sydney before the events. Seven of the
24 come from N.S.W. —which means
Sydney—four from Westralia, three
from S. Aus., eight from Victoria and
one each from Queensland and Tas-
mania. The races will be held on Feb-
ruary 9.
*
“Aigburth”: Marylebone is celebrating
its 150th birthday. The matches North
r. South and Allen’s Australian team v.
the Rest of England, just concluded, were
special events to mark the occasion. A
North v. South match was played to cele-
brate the club’s jubilee in 1837, and that
year, like the present one, was also dis-
tinguished by a coronation. On July 17
a dinner for members only will be held
at the Savoy.
“Tenth Slip”: A couple of years ago
a bat with a steel spring in the handle
was put on the market. The hysteria
press saw in the new gadget the doom
f bowler and extended its imagina-
-1 ,
tion to bursting point wondering what
Bradman would do with the magic wand.
The forecast of sensible people that
making runs depended on the man and
not on any particular make of bat was
fulfilled. Now someone in America
wr ites to Plum Warner’s “Cricketer” to
* ■« • i , « i • ,
say that he was using a bat of this make
40 years ago. He could not remember
where he got it, but it was known as the
J ° e Darli "S bat. Sounds Australian,
Anyone remember it?
$ * * *
c .. T „ _ .. , ,
Bramall Lane : English papers have
found a new batting hope in Hutton, a
Yorkshire professional'of 21, who made
102 for North V. South. The young
gentleman resembles Sutcliffe in one par-
ticular-he takes his time about making
™ ns - A few more fast movers llke
Barnett and Gimblett are badly wanted
in English professional cricket.
“o * i „ : L. * *
Sprocket : The Australians in the
Coronation six-days bike race at Wemb-
ley were well out of it, though Buckley
and Smith finished eighth with 100 points
—a fair performance, as none of the
Aussie riders had had any experience of
teaming tactics. Opperman lost his part-
ner, Rogers, through injury, and thence-
forth played a lone hand. Van Kempen
and Buysse, the Belgian pair, won.
* * * *
“Ride Off”: N.S.W.’s Dudley Cup
polo tourney comes off at the Kyeemagh
ground July 23-26. A feature, will be
the reappearance of the Wellington club,
which dropped out some years ago. At
least eight teams are expected, including
two from Scone. The Polo Council
intends to hold a big tamasha as part of
the anniversary jamboree in April; the
Australasian Gold Cup competition will
be staged. This year it will be played
for in September at Toowoomba (Q).
“Stoush”: The Australian Rugby
League team and the girl cricketers
should not want for Australian cobbers
in England, for a hefty bunch of Aus-
tralian croquet players is on the. way. The
tourists will be some 16 weeks in Eng-
land, and will play 26 matches.
* * * *
t™ t
’ In Londoi \ re f n / ly lhe
artlstlc temperament ruined what prom-
lsed t 0 be a unique sporting event,
Five singers—one from Canada, one
from the U.S.A. and the others boys
of the bulldog breed—were matched
for a stake. Elaborate preparations
were made for a world broadcast, but
when the time came to pipe up the devil
a squeak could be got out of the five
mice—Johnny (Canada), Minnie (U.S.A.),
Mickey, Chrissie and another Mickey,
all of the U.K. Singing mice have for
years been a fad among Anglo-Saxon
fanciers, and this show was to carry the
title of world’s sweetest mouse-singer in
addition to the stake.


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Lost Horizon.”
IDEALISTIC DIPLOMAT,
Ronald Colman
HIS BROTHER John Howard
PALEONTOLOGIST ... E. E. Horton
REFUGEE MILLIONAIRE,
Thomas Mitchell
CONSUMPTIVE SPITFIRE,
Isabel Jewell
UTOPIAN HEROINE .... Jane Wyatt
RUSSIAN GIRL Margo-
BENEVOLENT PRIEST, H. B. Warner
Frank Capra, they say, took two or
three years over this picture. The time
was not wasted. It tells, in a remark-
ably impressive way, the story of the
kidnapping of a great man, Robert Con-
way, who, with the other passengers in
an airliner, was taken to a Utopian
community among the mountains of
Tibet. Here, though blizzards rage
and icy-cold reigns outside, the climate
is pleasant; the people are equally so.
This place was founded by a Belgian
priest 200 years ago as a sanctuary of
culture and good ethics, against the day
when a warring world should revert to
barbarism. The old priest, still alive
(the mountain air confers remarkable
longevity), but failing, desires Conway,
whose philosophical works he has read,
to succeed him as leader of his mission.
Conway’s fellow-kidnappees are his
younger brother, a pompous professor
of geology, a “big business” crook
eluding the police, and a girl dying of
consumption and bitterly hating the
world.
The reaction of these varying
characters to their new environment is
interestingly and humorously sketched.
Ronald Colman in “Lost Horizon .”
At the end the only irreconcilable is the
younger Conway, who by retailing a
pack of lies fed him by a Russian
woman (aged 67, but looking no older
than 20) induces his brother to attempt
to regain civilisation. But their porters
desert them, the Russian woman (like
“She” in the Rider Haggard romance)
becomes a withered old crone as soon
as she is exposed to the Himalayan
storms, the younger Conway goes mad
and leaps over a precipice, a fearful
avalanche overwhelms the traitorous
porters, and Conway is left to wander in
Himalayan wastes. He reaches a
Tibetan monastery, and thenceforth his
aim in life is to return to Changra-la. It
would be unfair to reveal the ending.
From the opening scene, where Con-
way is supervising the escape, in ’planes,
of a small colony of Europeans threat-
ened with massacre by Chinese bandits,
to the effective finale, the production is
a model of what the screen can be made
to express when its vast resources are
intelligently marshalled and expense is
a secondary consideration. The wild
scenes amid incredibly mountainous
country, the peace and magnificence of
the Utopian temple are splendidly repre-
sented.
A feature is the musical accompani-
ment, so nicely fitted to the varying cir-
cumstances that it is never obtrusive,
certainly never in competition with the
dialogue. Possibly it is continuous
throughout the film, but it chimes so
appositely that one cannot be certain.
Certainly its effect is to supplement and
enhance an unforgettable series of pic-
tures.
“Lost Horizon” is a Columbia film,
and was previewed at the Western Elec-
tric Theatrette, Sydney.
“Swing High, Swing Low.”
“HOT” TRUMPETER,
Fred Mac Murray
“SWING” CROONER, Carole Lombard
TORCH-DANCER .. Dorothy Lamour
KEYBOARD AGONISER,
Charles Butterworth
Opens promisingly. Fred Mac Murray,
his army uniform just discarded ; Carole
Lombard, discouraged from becoming
a “beautician” after having burnt her
first client’s hair clean off, and Charles
Butterworth, pill addict and bachelor
pianist, get together in Panama, where
all three are at loose ends. Comedy in
these early sequences is snappy; Mac-
Murray and Miss Lombard, both fast
talkers, are supplied with an abundance
of witty wisecracks. The situations, too,
are full of hufnor, with the unobtrusive
Mr. Butterworth as an excellent foil in a
quiet “sap” role. They all team up in a
cafe turn, Mr. Mac Murray being the star
performer. A casual romance buds be-
tween Mac Murray and crooner, but its
growth is slow and uncertain, and by the
time they marry it is almost withered,
owing to the “hot” expert’s fondness for
booze and a seductive torch-dancer.
When the scene changes to Noo Yark,
whither Mr. Mac Murray takes his bugle,
the film slips into sentimentality. By
ripping the welkin with some awful ca-
cophony, Frederick becomes a star, does
his head and then his job. Follows the
old familiar fall to the week’s-growth-
and-hashhouse depths preparatory to the
inevitable regeneration, with his wife
crooning him to a comeback in a spon-
sored session over the ether. At Sydney
Prince Edward.
“Let’s Make a Million.”
AMATEUR OIL OPERATOR,
Edward Everett Horton
HIS PATIENT. FIANCEE,
Charlotte Wynters
HIS SALES MANAGER,
J. M. Kerrigan
SEVERE AUNTS .. Margaret Seddon,
Margaret McWade
A straight comedy guaranteed to keep
any audience bubbling with merriment.
Horton has a role that suits him down
to the ground—that of a businessman
who says and does the strangest things
under the influence of high excitement,
while urging everyone around him to
keep calm. He is an ex-soldier who, in
defiance of the two prim old maiden
aunts with whom he lives, invests his sub-
stantial “war bonus” in a shady oil con-
cern and airily persuades his ex-service
cobbers and other businessmen to follow
his example, which results in a swelling
of the concern’s bubble. It bursts when
the sharks announce failure to strike oil
at 6000 ft. (actually they’ve only drilled
to 1000 ft.). His former pals turn on poor
Edward, but with the aid of his loyal
sales manager (he runs a small engineer-
ing co.) he fights back. That he eventu-
ally becomes the town hero and gets
among the big money is never in doubt,
and the manner in which he does it is
engaging. At Sydney Prince Edward.
“Her Husband’s Secretary.”
GAY HUSBAND Warren Hull
TRUSTING WIFE Jean Muir
SECRETARIAL SIREN, Beverly Roberts
The new twist given here to a well-
worn theme has the benefit of com-
petent acting and generally intelligent
direction.
The seductive secretary and the wife
had been fellow-typists and pals. No,
the wife wasn’t the boss’s wife. She
made a love match with a young dog-
man who used to pass her office window
on his way to the dizzy heights. But
hold your horses! There’s none of the
putting - the - t.p. - man - off-till-next-week
about this opus. The dungaree-clad,
handsome lad with the nice coiffure is
E. E. Horton in “Lost Horizon."
none other than the scapegrace heir to a
fortune, out to prove to Dad that he
could hold his own with the old man’s
wage plugs. So it’s roses for the key-
puncher until her old pal, though she
owes gratitude to the wife for getting
her a job, puts the headlock on the hus-
band. There’s a bit of feminine skir-
mishing before the denouement, which is
guaranteed not to cause tears. At Syd-
ney Capitol.
“Men in Exile.”
EL FUGITIVE Dick Purcell
SENORITA DA BEERPUMP,
June Travis
CORONEL DA POLICEMANS,
Victor Varconi
Thees ees what you calla da spiggotty
peecture, no? Da Sout’ Americ’ re-
publique where manana and banana
str-r-ruggle weeth da revolutione, wheech
ees da beegest industry. Caribo ees dees
place, where coronel da policemans is
ver’ strong mans. Heem ’ave to finda
out beeg plotta da revolutione. One bad
mans Americano getta much whatta you
call spondulicks for runna da gun for
General Alcatraz. But not all Ameri-
canos bad mans, yes? Jeemy, he good
Americano, but ’e ’ave to run away from
country da Dios because they theenk he
keels man. But bad mans getta shot —
pouf!—by what you calla accomplees,
an’ Jeemy ees suspectos of da bump-off.
Eet looka like da firing squada for heem,
but el senorita, who pulla da beer-pump,
say no. Not Jeemy but her yellow
brother shoota da bad mans. Coronel da
policemans he satisfied. Feenish revo-
lutione, General Alcatrez he coppa da
bullets and Jeemy and el senorita plenty
kees. Gooda peecture, plenty action, no
sleep.
Deeck Purcell heem gooda da act!
Throwa da fist and mak’ love. Senorita
Travis —ah, carrissima! —she looka da
goods. Senor Varconi heem da besta
act’ een. da peecture. Atta da Sydney
Capitol.
“Too Tough to Kill.”
BLAST-PROOF ENGINEER,
Victor Jory
INSULT-PROOF SOB-SISTER,
Sally O’Neill
F.a.q. melodrammer, set in a big con-
struction job, where men are men and
hairy torsos gleam with honest glycerine.
Mr. Jory, newly-appointed engineer for
the huge undertaking, finds things not as
they should be, and suspects sabotage,
though he fails to suspect that the
double-dyed dastard is his own offsider.
But the rascally assistant and his yes-
men, who are conspiring to blow the
works up, aren’t going to get away with
it. And who else can stop them but
she who is snooping around looking for
a “human-angle” story for her paper?
Persevering in spite of a chilly reception,
she insists on helping Mr. Jory confound
the villains, afterwards claiming the
usual reward. The spectacular in the
matter of cave-ins, landslides, blastings,
etc., usually played to the limit in this
class of film, is indulged in sparingly, so
it’s a rather tame affair. At Sydney
Lyric.
“Easy to Take.”
RADIO UNCLE ....... John Howard
BAD-TEMPERED SCHOOLGIRL,
Marsha Hunt
MANAGER OF BROADCASTS,
Eugene Pallette
Eccentric old woman dies willing her
assumedly vast fortune to “Uncle
Roddy,” in trust for her grandson, a
spoilt brat of 11, utterly excluding brat’s
schoolgirl sister. It transpires that the
vast fortune is an illusion, but the pub-
licity enables young “Uncle Roddy” to
earn sufficient to keep the family in the
lap of luxury, finally winning the hand
and heart of the schoolgirl. Of this lass
her brother said she had a very even
temperament —always sore —and he was
right. Most of the time is taken up with
a children’s-hour broadcast a terrible
affair. At Sydney Civic.
“Trail Dust.”
HOPALONG CASSIDY Bill Boyd
OFFSIDERS Jimmy Ellison and
George Hayes
GYURL Gwenne Shipman
Evil cattlemen are holding back their
stock because there is a famine in “the
East” and they desire to boost prices.
But better men than they (including
Hoppy, Jimmy and Windy) will have no
part in this vile plot, and propose to
drive their herds to market, despite the
Cattlemen’s Association, the crook sheriff
and all the powers of darkness. Riding
along, beset by treacheries and am-
bushes, they discover a riderless horse,
and, near by, a beautiful gyurl lying un-
conscious. Poor dear, she is in sore need
of protection. Follows a whirl of gallop-
ing and shooting which leads to a happy
conclusion. Only trouble about these
Two-hundred-year-old priest in “Lost
Horizon."
Hopalong films is that the villains are
so familiar it’s a wonder Hoppy doesn’t
identify them sooner. At Sydney Civic.
STAGE SHOWS.
Moiseiwitsch in Sydney.
When Benno Moiseiwitsch first visited
Australasia his playing (for he was
young) suggested Wordsworth’s “trailing
clouds of glory.” Since those days he
has added a great deal to his digital pro-
ficiency and his playing has become
sophisticated and disillusioned. The ten-
dency grows upon him to concentrate


NOTICE OF REMOVAL
The Royal Exchange Assurance.
Batavia Sea and Fire Insurance Co., Ltd.
British Equitable Assurance Co., Ltd.
The State Assurance Co., Ltd.
On and after this date the address of the above
companies will be:—
Royal Exchange Assurance Building,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone No.: B 714! (5 lines). G.P.O. Box 16 1 8 88.
1937, f. H. WRIGHT , Manager for Australia.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Head Office: 343 George Street, Sydney
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
CLOTHES
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
Have Your Old LEATHER COAT Made Like NEW
Compare the appearance of your leather coat with a new one. Only
then will you realise how shabby, soiled and discolored yours has become.
Have its newness restored by Pike Brothers expert reconditioning service.
Leather coats thoroughly reconditioned and buttons resewn. Price, 257-
Lumber Jackets given a fresh, new appearance. Price 12/6
Relinings. Price 8/6
Complete renovation. Price 19/6
Take advantage of this wonderful service. Bring or sepd in your Leather
Coat or Jacket without delay.
Pike Brothers
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
fiercely on the mastery of technical prob-
lems and to go on working at them long
after they are solved. Velocity has be-
come a fetish, the pursuit of “atmo-
spheric” effects an obsession, and so it
now happens that the only glimpses of
the very great interpretative musician
Moiseiwitsch promised to be are obtained
when a composer sets him a task that is
very near the limit of 10-finger attain-
ment —such as Liszt’s paraphrases of
Wagner’s most frenzied moments, or
Brahms’s richest variations.
To take one of last week’s recitals
somewhat in detail, it contained a read-
ing of Schumann’s “Carnaval” that was
more Lisztian in its dynamic contrasts
than Schumannesque ; a performance of
Bach’s Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue at
a speed that surely must exceed the com-
poser’s intention, despite the much more
facile fingering possible on the clavier of
1720; a rendition of the A Flat Major
Impromptu of Chopin in which the
melody in triplets was swept clean away
in an orgy of speed —prestissimo instead
of Chopin’s allegro quasi presto —and a
version of Liszt’s third “Liebestraum” in
which the arpeggios were subdued to an
evanescent, unidentifiable murmur.
There may be a feasible case for each
of these innovations, but they were evi-
dently not very congenial to an audience
that reserved its most enthusiastic
applause for the triple forte of “Isolde’s
Liebestod” and the really masterly direc-
tion of the storm created by Wagner (and
turned into more polished music by Liszt)
in the “Tannhauser” overture. The
encores, which included a bravura left-
hand study and the showman’s-joy finale
from the sixth “Hungarian Rhapsody,”
were among the most successful efforts
of the evening.
4*
The Russian Ballet Returns.
The Monte Carlo Russian Ballet re-
appeared in Sydney on Saturday night,
rejuvenated rather than jaded by its
Maoriland and Queensland seasons.
There was nothing new in the pro-
gramme, which included “Lake of
Swans,” “Destiny,” “The Spectre of the
Rose” and “Prince Igor,” but the con-
cluding number was given with more
dash and abandon than ever before.
Helene Kirsova and Leon Woizikowsky
were in particularly fine fettle, and the
orchestra has never been heard to better
advantage.
•h •b •£•
An Adelaide Repertory Success.
Adelaide Repertory has made a strik-
ing success of its latest venture, Bridie’s
“Sleeping Clergyman.” (The irrelevant
title is a bit of plain foolishness, such
as a clever Scot like Bridie or Barrie can
get away with.) It is an essay on heredity
in 11 scenes, on “Milestones” lines. In
the 1860’s a Scotch medical student, dis-
solute but brilliant, dies before he can
either anticipate Lister’s discovery or
make an “honest woman” of his doctor’s
sister; the scene in which his landlady is
tidying his room and scolding him vigor-
ously as he lies dead is true drama.
The doctor adopts the child, who (in
the ’eighties) runs true to form, throwing
herself at the head of a stolid student,
and poisoning him when he becomes
troublesome. The doctor adopts the
twins, of whom the girl grows up bril-
liantly modern but straight, while the
boy is his grandfather over again—in
1940 (the ending is sheer Shaw, with too
much talk) he saves the nation in a
plague epidemic. And the doctor, now
about 100, sees it all out.
The work is mostly in the hands of
three, for whom the word brilliant is
hardly too strong: Arthur Fay ageing
gradually, Thelma Baulderstone in three
incarnations, Jack Ham in two. Of
their varied supporters, the best chances
go to Mimi Mattin as a Scotch landlady
and Ronald Peterson as her son, father
of the twins. Cyril Riley producer.
•I* •b v ❖
A Young Violinist’s Farewell.
Howard Brown, the young Melbourne
violinist who is shortly going to Europe
to seek the tutorship of Kreisler, found
Melbourne Town Hall crowded for his
farewell concert and left it with his popu-
larity remarkably enhanced, although his
test piece was a concerto by Max Bruch
which was very long, teemed with diffi-
culties and was not as easy to listen to
as his previous selections. He solved its
technical problems with the same re-
markable dexterity that he brought to
lighter items. Horace Stevens, just re-
turned from Europe, lent his operatic
prestige and his dignified appearance to
the occasion, and Joan Jones showed her-
self to be one of Melbourne’s coming
vocalists by singing Verdi’s “O Don
Fatale” and other numbers with the same
freshness that Brown brought to his
violin playing. Vera Bradford and Mar-
shall Sumner assisted at the piano.
+ 4* 4* •i 1
“The Chocolate Soldier” Again Revived.
“The Chocolate Soldier,” under the
J. C. Williamson banner, opened at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday, when
a competent cast, catchy music and an
absence of hesitations pleased first-
nighters.
Strella Wilson is Nadina, and her sing-
ing, especially of “My Hero,” is as pleas-
ing as ever. Gregory Stroud makes a
good and tuneful part of Bumerli, and
Leo Darnton as the conceited Spiridoff
swaggers successfully through two acts.
Eileen Kelly, improving with every
J.C.W. appearance, deserved the applause
she won with her depiction of the
comedy role of Mascha. Evelyn Hall
plays Aurelia Popoff, and is at her best
in the first-act finale scene in which, with
Nadina and Mascha, she bewails the
absence of her men at the wars. Clifford
Cowley, who made such a good fist of
Walter Wilkins in “Merrie England,” is
the quietly-genial Popoff, with an eye
for a feminine leg.
Strella Wilson’s duets with Gregory
Stroud, “The Chocolate Soldier,” “That
Would Lovely Be” and “The Letter
Song,” and that with Leo Darnton,
“Never Was There Such a Lover,” are
among the best features of the show.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
The Lamoraa Birch Show.
This English artist’s show at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Sydney, contains, pre-
sumably, all the gleanings of his recent
visit to Maoriland, with a garnishing of
pictures from Scotland and England.
Birch evidently has looked at the
mountains and valleys of Fernland with
an eye to discovering either the pictur-
esquely unusual or the unusually pic-
turesque, and has had success in both
directions. He has found scenes in the
Mackenzie country that strangly combine
English and Maoriland aspects. In the
North Island he has found queer-shaped
mountains that dominate fertile plains.
A very characteristic feature of Maori-
land bays, the shining of wet sand on
nearly level beaches, has been caught
in “Mahurangi Heads.” “Piha” is prob-
ably the best land- and seascape that ever
came out of the Shivery Isles. “Huka
Falls,” though authentic in its bright
coloring of orange-hued volcanic clay
and sky-tinted water, is as pretty a pic-
ture as ever graced a chocolate-box.
“Through October Woodlands,” being
autumn, is evidently English, but just
such a scene could have been found in
Canterbury or Nelson in March, for the
English trees flourish all over the South
Island.
Birch is one of those few artists who
are equally at home in water-color and
oils. His water-color technique is beauti-
ful ; “River at Raetiki” and “Near
Whangarei Heads” are complete essays
on the effective, competent, employment
of the medium. Three pencil-drawings
show the fine draughtsmanship and eye
for composition that are the foundation
stones of the other very engaging pictures
in this instructive show.
•h *J* 4*
Press Illustration Show.
The Sydney Industrial Arts Associa-
tion is holding a press-illustration exhi-
bition at its Victoria Arcade rooms; it
will be open till June 11. It contains
exhibits from most of the Sydney papers,
including The Bulletin, the “S. M.
Herald,” “Daily Telegraph,” “Home”
and “B.P. Magazine.” The Bulletin
exhibit includes a series of prints show-
ing the process of reproduction from the
artist’s hands to finished pages, the artists
represented being Norman Lindsay,
Percy Lindsay, Scorfield, Townshend,
Frith, Such, Horner and Lock.


Ho
a a U
ness
o/
ir‘\?
Whether your visit to Sydney
be business or social—stay at
the Wentworth. This fine hotel
offers you everything; comfort,
service, convenience. You will
enjoy your stay at the Went-
worth; wire or write for reser-
vations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.'PHONE BW 1361
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J, S. LEVY, Manager.
ROMANOFF
and RED KE T A
CAVIAR
CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
«okl bv Leading Stores and Served at all
‘ ‘ Fashionable Resorts.
Repr.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
Prevent the
infection caused
by Dust-storms
A
/IVHAI ANT\
2r TUM IttM
INHALANTX
Sore throat and catarrh,
due to the irritating effect
of dust, are effectively
countered by Vapex.
Simply put a drop of Vapex
on your handkerchief and
breathe the pleasant germi*
cidal vapour. It gives in-
stant relief and protection.
And use Vapex whenever
you have a cold. It clears
the head, relieves stuffiness,
destroys the germs —and
soon your cold is gone.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the world
AA WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Victoria League celebrated
Empire Day with a lunch at the Aus-
tralia, at which the Governor and Lady
Wakehurst were guests of honor. Lady
Wakehurst’s black frock had brilliant
beading, repeated on the pocket of the
accompanying coat. Her presentation
bouquet was pink roses. Philip Street
was one of the speakers, striking a bright
spark of enthusiasm when he mentioned
the scheme for libraries for bush schools,
by which the league hopes to commemo-
rate the Coronation. The Archbishop
and Mrs. Mowll were there; so were
the Mungo MacCallums. Dame Mary
Cook, Beulah Bolton and Miss N. Veitch
were other ardent leaguers at the board.
The Royal Empire Society was festive
at a dinner spread at the Australia in
honor of Empire Day. Red, white and
blue were the flowers and the. ribbons
that tied the menus. Miniature Union
Jacks and Australian flags were part of
the decoration scheme, and a full-size
one of each draped the balcony. The.
Governor and Lady Wakehurst rounded
off the day’s ceremonial with this dinner,
which also burgeoned with speech. The
heavy crepes in Lady Wakehurst’s frock
were rose-white. Hugh Denison, of
course, was host of this party, and his
lady wore Arctic-blue and gold laces lit
with diamonds. Mayoress Parkes’s
choice was deep-blue satin.
Another of the great theatrical Tither-
adges has passed. Last week Lily
Titheradge, in private life the wife of
Dr. Herrick Knowles, collapsed and died
after a short illness in the Mater hos-
pital. Mrs. Knowles had been in bad
health for three or four years, but she
had pluckily carried on with her play
readings, which of late had been the only
histrionic outlet her illness had allowed
her. It was at one of these readings that
she collapsed. Pretty and fair, and vital
to her fingertips, Lily Titheradge was
one of the cleverest comedy actresses
Sydney has seen. She was a daughter
of the famous George Titheradge.
Brother Dion and an older sister re-
cently died within a year of each other.
Sister Madge is still carrying on the
family tradition not only of good acting
but of the beautiful utterance of words.
It was in the latter that Mrs. Knowles
excelled.
Sydney’s exciting thing just now is the
Town Hall piano with Benno Moisei-
witsch seated at it weaving delicate, pat-
terns. Moiseiwitsch conjures up as a
background to his music days spent on
stretching beaches, walks in the flower-
ing bush when the. air was soft with rain
and warm with hidden sunshine. In the
flying, fluent tempo of a valse came a
vision of the whirl of autumn leaves
spiralled along the avenues of the Luxem-
bourg. His first-night audience fell
quickly under the spell, and Mrs. Moisei-
witsch, dark and vivid, her satin frock
warm with magnolia tones under her
sweeping black velvet coat, glowed as the
applause thundered.
Mrs. Harald Bowden’s crepes were a
rich amethyst in tone. With her was
Mrs. Cecil Kellaway, her chiffons a deep
hydrangea blue. Mrs. F. J. Davy’s fair
complexion was very striking above the
Coronation purple of her velvet frock
and cape. Black velvet and a glossy
skunk cape were contributed by Ruby
Adams. Mrs. Byron Wrigley decked the
furs about her shoulders with lily-of-the-
valley and stephanotis. Mrs. A. G.
Thomas’s frock was lily-of-the-valley
green, and her flowers were the modest
little lily itself. Pianist Jean Grey, all the
way from Scotland, was one who en-
joyed the night.
Amid the murk of last Thursday after-
noon fur-coated and mufflered figures
could be seen hurrying to the Forum
Club, where Miss Fairfax was at-home in
the interest of Coronation libraries for
bush schools. Justice Bavin told the
gathering the details of the scheme,
which is a very simple one. It is to send
25 books to each outback school as
nucleus of a children’s library. Any
school that applies can have the. books.
The idea was Beulah Bolton’s, and it is
to be the Victoria League and the Bush
Book Club’s way of making the Corona-
tion rejoicings a joy for ever to bush
children. The Philip Street lady, Dame
Mary Cook, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, the
Thomas Hughes and Walder ladies, the
Mungo MacCallums and other stalwarts
of the V.L. and 8.8. C. helped to cheer
the. scheme. Already the fund for buying
books amounts to £9O.
Mrs. Benno Moiseiwitsch has been one
of the most decorative among her hus-
band’s listeners at the pianist’s recent
concerts in the Town Hall. Monte Luke
picture.
‘ If you knew Maoriland you liked the
pictures in Lamorna Birch’s show in the
Grosvenor Galleries. Some of the Scot-
tish scenes have a look of bits of the
South Island, too. The opening was a
very crowded affair, and had for speaker
Sir Hugh Poynter, whose father and
grandfather had been for many years
linked up with the Academy; The wife
of the R.A. listened attentively to her
husband when he defined his attitude to
modern art. In essence it proved to be
a smiling “Paint, and let paint!” Friend
of the family the Hon. Mrs. Vane was
there, tall and trig in tailor-mades.
Likeable was Shirley Poynter’s tiny
green hat finished off with a sort of
rabbit’s ear bow, and the Poynter lady’s
soft brown outfit complete with furs was
attractive. Julian Ashton was sur-
rounded throughout the afternoon ; Dat-
tilo Rubbo and the National Gallery’s
Will Ashton were also on deck. Mrs. J.
Bennett, who only a few months ago
had her home at Wellington (M,L.),
longed for a bit of her own land as
painted by Lamorna Birch. Jeannette
Hogg was a pretty youngster in tartan
checks and a pork-pie hat. All the art-
lovers were present, Mrs. Welsh, from
the North Shore, Mrs. Stacpoole and
the Derek Burnells.
Black is almost becoming a uniform
with Sydney women by day and night,
so that the return of color noticed at the
Theatre Royal on Saturday was welcome.
Perhaps, with all the dazzle on the stage,
woman in front thought she must light
herself up a bit, too. Mayoress Parkes’s
crystal-embroidered pale-pink georgettes
were worn with an ermine coat, and Mrs.
E. Wunderlich’s coat of white embossed
velvet opened over blue satin frocking ;
the flash of blue sequins as Nuttie Mac-
kellar passed toned in with the delicacy
of the fairylike “Swan Lake,” “Vision of
the Rose” and suchlike Ballet blandish-
ments.
The company seemed very fit after
its tour. Helen Kirsova, all fluency
and expressiveness, moved the audience
to warm response. In the inter-
val Mrs. Bertie Kelly, handsome in
platinum satin and a gold-embossed black
moire cape, was noted; so was Mrs.
Venour Nathan, a dancer herself, in a
black velvet coat, fur-trimmed, fitting at
the waist and flaring as to skirt. Deetje
Andriesse, who, with Loma Latour, will
give a studio party to-morrow, had an
unusual appearance in a redingote frock
of black-and-silver lame. This had a
choker of white chiffon.
Mrs. Burley Griffin came back to Syd-
ney last week in the Chitral. This was a
sad homecoming, for it is not more than
a year since she and her husband set out
for India, where he designed the Luck-
now Library, and was busy with many
more commissions. After her husband’s
death in India Mrs. Griffin remained for
some time. There was much to see to,
for Mrs. Griffin had been in charge of
her husband’s drafting office. Some of
Mrs. Griffin’s friends flew to Melbourne
to meet her, and a great crowd of others
were on the wharf when the Chitral
berthed.
A dash of color was put into the pre-
sentation of the debs, at the Home Ball
last week. Three small visions in buoy-
ant pink muslin went ahead scattering
rose leaves in their path. Mrs. Harry
Lesnie, in moth-grey chiffons, led them
to the Mayoress, in whose frock silver
lame and violet chiffon were mingled.
With Mrs. Parkes were her husband,
Alderman Parkes, and niece Marjorie.
Marjorie’s chiffons gleamed primrose in
the official group. Vice-presidents Mrs.
C. Ungar, Mrs. Harold Phillips and Mrs.
Simon Green added rich frocking in
cameo pink, black and moonlight blue.
Mrs. David Cohen was ermine wraps
over delphinium blue. Dr. Fanny Read-
ing remembered that coronation was still
in the air and wore purple. Dr. Iza
Harris shone gold like a daffodil.
A mystery barn dance, a mystery dip
and an exhibition dance by Rene Knap-
ton and John Henry are a few of the fun
specials which will speed up the Musical
Association’s Ball next Monday night.
David Jones’s ballroom was almost
booked out last week. The city’s singers
and instrumentalists seem keen on show-
ing that they have rhythm in the base-
ment as well as the top storey. Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones is president of the
ball, and a number of the meetings have
turned into informal tea-parties in her
home, Rosemont, Woollahra.
This is Mrs. Lamorna Birch, wife of
the visiting artist. The National Gallery
last week bought, for 150 guineas, a
new picture from his brush, a typical bit
of English stream and meadow. Dorothy
Welding photograph.
Mary Denise Wentworth, a descendant
of William Charles Wentworth, was mar-
ried last week. Friends and relations
from all over came to the wedding.
Bridegroom William Walker’s supporters
came from as far north as Stanthorpe
(Q.). St. Michael’s, at Vaucluse, blessed
the vows, and the church was packed to
capacity for the passing of the bride in
her silvery frock. This had a square
neckline, long sleeves and a pointed train.
Lily-of-the-valley caught the tulle veil to
her head, and her bouquet was a cas-
cading affair of the same flower. Sister
Diana and cousin Letty Horsfall ’maided
in romantic-looking lilac taffetas. Over
their heads they wore veils of tulle the
same shade as their frocks. Bride’s
parents, the W. C. Wentworths, held the
reception at their Point Piper home. A
honeymoon that may last anything up
to two years is planned.
Ruth Pearce-Jones’s recital drew an
audience of Sydney’s well-knowns, for
Ruth has often sung at the various music
clubs and for many good causes. Ener-
getic and capable, the singer had not de-
pended on a committee, but had seen to
the details herself. The only thing she
had not done was make her own dress.
This was of supple gold material that
flowed into a long train, and with pianist
Marjorie Hesse’s hyacinth-blue crepes
and the red poinsettia on the green-cur-
tained stage made a nice color harmony.
Whoever takes Ruth in hand when she
goes to Europe will not have much to
teach her in the way of diction or pro-
nunciation. Her German and Italian are
about perfect. Lute Drummond, her
teacher, has seen to that.
Mayoress Parkes brought a frock of
rich gold lame and a cape of brown
tulle to the seats of honor. The Parker
lady, a former Mayoress, kept her com-
pany. So did the Harry Twigden couple.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Mrs. Vernon Cole
and Mrs. Harold Bott were there ; so was
the music-loving Professor Brose, sur-
rounded by nieces. Bette Ainsworth and
other fellow-students sold programmes,
or at the interval worked like beavers
carrying up armfuls of flowers. Mrs.
Ainsworth brought a group ; so did Mrs.
Rex Bennett. Betty Higgins, another bud-
ding prima donna, came wrapped in a
cape of white fur.
Mrs. Guy Wyatt, who was blessed
with the attractive name of Tien Hogue
(one brother was the well-known and
much-loved writer “Trooper Bluegum ),
came home, for a visit last week in the
Merkur. Before her marriage Mrs.
Wyatt was one of Australia’s bright
young actresses, and brings back good
news of the success in London and New
York of some old theatrical friends.
Husband Captain Guy Wyatt is in H.M.S.
Endeavour, now in Maoriland waters
for two years’ service. After a short
holiday with her sister, Mrs. Gibbs, at
Vaucluse, Mrs. Wyatt will sail for Enzed.
Commander C. H. Rolleston
Mrs. Sterling Levis’s short play, “The
Quern,” built on Irish folklore, will be
featured at Clement Hosking’s farewell
recital at the Conservatorium next
month. Mr. Hosking, who has a deep
knowledge of the folk songs and dances
of many lands, is off to Europe in search
of further treasure for his store. He
will, of course, visit the Hebrides, whose
songs and poems have become part of
himself. Mrs. Levis has again designed
and made all the costumes herself.
The Flying McEvoys will be almost
in China by the time this is read. Mother
and father, Cettien, John and Robert
took to the air last week in their ’plane,,
the Dragonfly. They will glimpse the
Dutch East Indies, Singapore and Hong
Kong, and expect to be back in five or
six weeks’ time. It’s just one of those
little holiday cruises we’d all like to take
on the spur of the moment. Cellophane
waterproofs, lace or chiffon evening
frocks and uncrushable cotton dresses
are the chief ingredients in Mrs.
McEvoy’s and daughter Cettien’s lug-
gage. When the wife of Antarctic ex-
plorer Hubert Wilkins made her first
flight from London to New York she
had among her baggage a handsome and
expensively stocked beauty box. The
trip was particularly stormy, but amidst
all the pitch and toss, instead of worrying
about her own safety, the Wilkins lady
was worrying about her new present.
When the ’plane finally landed she found
herself hugging the precious box tight
to her chest.
The Benjamin Fullers, the Ken Halls,
the George Rayners, the Lionel Dares
and half of Potts Point and Elizabeth
Bay turned up on Sunday to the first per-
formance of Ken Brodziak’s “Positions
Vacant.” The play was given at the
Pickwick Club, and attendance was by
invitation. There must have been 400
or more in the fashionable audience.
Looks as though Sydney really wants
some form of entertainment on Sunday
evenings.
A woman with an eye for clothes, just
back from Europe and America, says we


rrsz-
ft
U
or
Provid
FUTURE
NANCUI
1
simple and safe method
to invest money for education of children, a tour
abroad, or comfort in old age, is by means of
interest bearing deposits with the Bank of New
South Wales."
These deposits may he made at any time at any
branch of the Bank. They bear interest from
the date they are lodged and may be withdrawn
when they fall due at full face value plus interest
earned or they may be renewed for a further
period.
Interest may be withdrawn every six months if
so desired, or the amount due lodged as a further
deposit.
Deposits of £5 and upwards are received by any
branch of the Bank. Current rates in Australia
are: —
3%
21%
2£%
2%
months
99
99
99
vm/i, opy vmvs&ou&l /mm.
ESTABLISHED
17
fg
UNION THEATRES
6th WEEK
AND STILL SYDNEY’S MOST POPULAR SHOW.
3rd WEEK “MAJESTIC,” MELBOURNE,
And • Season Extended Indefinitely.
BRISBANE.
WATCH FOR THEATRE AND EARLY
RELEASE DATE.
Vie Show
goes on
she fernir
-^VALERIE-HOBSON •
HADDON-
WATCH FOR
CINESOUND’S SUPER PRODUCTION,
“TALL TIMBERS”
With
SHIRLEY-ANN RICHARDS,
FRANK LEIGHTON
and a
CINESOUND ALL-STAR CAST
AT THE NATION’S LEADING THEATRES
can make up our minds that evening
frocks are mounting. She got quite used
to instep long skirts even for formal
after-eight-o’clock affairs. Some frocks,
while retaining their length at the back,
are shortened above the ankles in front.
That horror the transparent hem is
threatening a comeback. Coming events
cast their shadows before: first we get
the shadow legs, then the legs themselves.
Grey is the newest and smartest day
color. Suits in this very easy-to-wear
(and, alas! easy to soil) shade are being
turned out by the best designers. In
soft grey wool they look smart as paint
made with wide revers, and worn with
crisp white pique blouses.
Black alpaca is another material to be
looked on with favor. In little severe
suits it has piquancy. Long coats for day
and night are fitted and flaring. Evening
skirts are slit to show inlets, very
often of pink. Capes of lace and colorful
fringe accompany many formal-occasion
frocks. Daffodil yellow and deep blue
are a nice color combination if the coat
is yellow, the dress blue. When June
comes, spring is not far around the
corner, and a fitting coat of soft-grey
woollen, kept snug with pearly clips, over
a frock of yellow woollen gets top marks
from this Letter. A snug hat of the
yellow clipped with a mother-of-pearl
bird as a finish would be likely to get
your picture in the papers,
White still leads the way for evening
frocks, and if your figure is of classic
&*
Hnes Funny tQ think tha[ whi|e our
m j nc j s are thinking of winter suits and
working out the problem of how many
more payments there are still to make
on the Arctic fox we’ve got tucked away
from moth and rust in the lay-by, Eng-
land is going merrie over spring hats,
By advance pictures they have even more
of that insouciant “dare-you-to-wear-
me * look. Fine tentacles of green and
yellow and cyclamen straw wave around
the crown and over the brims of some,
suggesting the exotic in underwater life.
Or the top of your closely-fitting coarse
straw toque may resemble a platter of
cherries.
Tapestry and Paisley pattern coats and
capes are again with us. When the
groundwork is black or dull beige
woollen, brightly printed in what might
be a bit of Maori carving, the effect is
distinctly good. The beauty of the coats
is that they are suitable for afternoon
or for evening wear. This old-new
fashion of brilliant designs on soft wool-
lens puts quite a dash, when worn as
vest or blouse, into a black suit. So do
the touches of gold in vest and braid
that French designers fancy.


Always
carry a
small tin in
pocket or
purse
HUDSONS!
"EUMENTHOL" ■«-
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
influenza.
6d. & 1/6 tin
df
The
Flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run,
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7i hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILFRED GEORGE KEMP, son of Arthur
Kemp, of Horsham, Victoria, or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts, will hear something to his
advantage by communicating with POWER &
BENNETT, Solicitors, Horsham, Victoria.
Barfs Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/. and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
G 5-69 York Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 8W6661.
THE
IlillTCn INSURANCE
UNI I tU COMPANYLTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United”
a. c. daw so: lf,
Gen. Manager.
is an Australian Institution.
T C. REYNOLD'-
Asst. Gen. Manager.
Melbourne
Chatter
In honor of Empire Day the Royal
Empire Society dined last week at Men-
zies, where a large picture of the King and
Queen was placed in a prominent posi-
tion behind the tables, Lieut.-Governor
Frederick Mann filled the unusual posi-
tion of being both host and guest or
honor. Among others present were the
Spencer Harpers, Professor and Mrs.
Ernest Scott and Major-General D. E.
Robertson, who is a guest at Govern-
ment House. Valerie Purves, Captain
Wilbraham, Harold Holt, M.H.R., and
the Gengoult Smiths were among those
at the only table where young folk were
to be found. The party was definitely
the older generation’s night out.
Heather Stein and her bridegroom-elect
were guests of honor at the Austral
Salon last week. Mrs. J. L. Stein is
president of the Salon, and as her daugh-
ters have always helped their mother
with her responsibilities club members
were glad of the opportunity to show
their appreciation of the family and its
new member, Alex. Bottomley, who is
a son of the Rev. Bottomley ; the mar-
riage takes place this week. Speeches
were made on the platform, which was
so loaded with flowers and winter foliage
that people mounting it had to wait their
turn to traverse the narrow jungle
path to the region of the piano. The
club’s gift to the young couple was an
oak clock, which will tick over the fire-
place in their flat at Bendigo.
The Athenasum is sure to be crowded
this afternoon (Wednesday) when Lotte
Lehmann opens the exhibition of John
Wolfang Elischer, John Farmer and Mrs.
Farmer (who . signs per pictures P.
Hurry). Elischer, who is a sculptor, was
born in Budapest, and won the Prix
de Rome at the age of 18. His European
education did not include much English,
for the only expression he knew when
he boarded an Australian-bound ship at
Naples six months ago was “0.K.” _
Elischer’s favorite sports are ski-ing,
skating, riding and Soccer, and he hopes
to get exercise in all of them during the
winter. Included in his first exhibition
are portrait-busts of Pat Chilvers, Wil-
liam Mortill and Bryan Cherrington-
Hunter. Largest exhibits being shown
are a forceful “Ecce Homo” and a
rhythmic semi-relief design for a foun-
tain. Another of Elischer’s fountains, in
marble, was bought by ex-President
Hoover, whose garden it adorns. The
last commission he executed before leav-
ing Vienna was a portrait-bust of his
fellow-countryman Franz Lehar, com-
poser of “The Merry Widow” and other
comic operas.
Air-mail letters from Australians in
England mention the great expenses of
Coronation Week and the difficulty of
getting anywhere for crowds. People
staying at Grosvenor House found that,
unless they were considered “perma-
nents” or residents who had booked very
early before the date of the Coronation
was fixed, they were not entitled on Coro-
nation Day to the windows in their rooms
if they commanded a view of the route.
Something like £l5O was the charge for
a window during the few important
hours. On Coronation Night Grosvenor
House ran a dinner-dance, a very jambed
affair, at three guineas a head.
Some Australians in London have re-
newed acquaintance with the George
Buchanans (of Wenz and Co.), who are
expected to arrive here again before long.
Their son Alan Buchanan and his fasci-
nating American wife, who were here a
few years ago, gave everybody a sur-
prise on their return to England by be-
coming almost immediately the proud
parents of twin daughters. Their home
at Esher, in Surrey, is warmed by one
of the most modern methods of central
heating, and contains a sage-green grand
piano and two Austrian servants who
can’t speak English.
Justice Evatt was expected to open
Moya Dyring’s exhibition of pictures. He
sent a telegram to the effect that he was
“forbidden to leave Sidney” but would
be ready to make a postponed speech
during the lunch hour of next Thursday.
Riddell’s Galleries were so packed that
there were several casualties in the middle
of the room over a small table which
was felt but not seen.
Madame Lotte Lehmann has ordered
a crate to be made for the packing of
the presents she has received in Aus-
tralia. Her gifts are daily events ; an
admirer in Sydney, for instance, sends
her flowers every day by air mail. Such
a long-distance token of admiration was
the spray of white hyacinths and violets
which sank into the thick pile of her
silver foxes when she was guest of honor
at the International Club’s reception.
Madame appears not to diet —she had
two cups of tea and ate chocolate- and
cream-cakes with relish in between
snatches of conversation in English and
German. She is no icicle of aloof dig-
nity, and the main purport of her speech
was that she loved talking. With an
ingenuous gesture she handed round two
pencil sketches of kookaburras, one by
herself, the other by the A.B.C.’s chair-
man, W. J. Cleary. Madame’s prefer-
ence, with which everybody agreed, was
for her own bird, which she said had
more “temperament.”
Among guests present at this reception,
which provided - standing room only for
latecomers, were Madame Lehmann’s
husband, Major Otto Krause, who wore
a navy-blue Continental overcoat with a
velvet collar ; her pianist, Paul Ulanow-
sky ; the Acting-Consul for Austria and
Madame Rath, and the Consul for Ger-
many and Madame Drechsler. Mrs.
Tom Hogan wore black with astrakhan
motifs upon collar and cuffs. Mrs. J. E.
Don had a deep cape collar to her black
coat. Mrs. A. W. Foster’s rust-colored
ensemble went with a turquoise blouse,
and the tweed suit worn by Marjorie
Formes was accompanied by an Anthony
Eden hat. Mrs. Frank Faulkner was
among the guests who were able to
understand practically all the German
that spun through the rooms.
Having disposed of their home in Lan-
sell-road and of most of their furniture,
the Arthur Gasquoine couple, with their
two daughters and three sons, are going
off to live in England. They say the
move is to be a permanent one, but, as
they sold all their property in England
before coming to Australia little more
than a year ago, friends here have a
hopeful feeling that the present decision
is not irrevocable. In the Broothorn
photograph is elder daughter Margaret,
who is quite sure that she will return to
Melbourne in the interests of her pet
hobby, the League of Health and Beauty.
An improvement on the usual grim
boards, dismal backcloth and a few aspi-
distras thrown in for luck was the Town
Hall stage plan for Lotte Lehmann’s con-
certs. The centre of the platform was
covered with strips of white cloth (which
looked much better than they sound, and
made suitable relief for Madame’s
trains), and the curtain was partly drawn
so that the aspidistras, helped by asso-
ciation with more exclusive botanical
relatives, crept so stealthily over the
organ loft that most people didn’t notice
they were there. For her third concert
Madame Lehmann wore midnight velvet,
blue roses and a yard of pink chiffon
hitched to one of her rings. One wonders
why these prima donnas have departed
from the elegance of long kid gloves for
the “bittiness” of such handkerchief
attachments.
It was an audience of hats and coats,
practically every music-teacher in Mel-
bourne and comparatively few people
in evening dress. The Prockter sisters,
who play in the Symphony Orchestra,
were in the front row downstairs. Peggy
Fraser’s black wrap, collared in silver
fox, was worn over a flowered dress ; her
handsome mother’s distinctive headdress
was of black feathers swaying down to
the shoulder from a bandeau. Joan
Bourke wore many rows of pearls over
black velvet. Molly McAuley was in
her favorite brown, and Marjorie Kim-
lim was black velvet amidships and white
camellias aloft on the top of her head.
Jule Kiddle’s cloak was of ruby-red
velvet, and Wendy Tudehope’s metal
tissue gown was protected by a fur wrap.
Last week Mrs. M. Hoban produced
“Children in Uniform” for a four nights’
season in aid of the cancer appeal. St.
Peter’s Auxiliary, the National Theatre
movement and the Lord Mayor’s fund.
Mrs. Hoban, whose photograph is by
Maxwell Porteous, recently had news of
her appointment as elocutionary adjudi-
cator for the Railways Institute Eistedd-
fod to be held in Sydney later in the
year. In her Melbourne work she has
the secretarial assistance of her daughter
Rosalie. Virginia, who is eldest of the
family of five, commenced a law course
at Melbourne University, but has
switched over to social science.
Lotte Lehmann was the cause of the
“House Sold Out” sign at the Town Hall
for last Saturday’s concert. At ten to
eight an ear-splitting bell made so much
clamor in the foyer that the congestion
was relieved by most people seeking their
seats in self-defence. Subscribers and
other music-lovers would be pleased if
these concerts commenced at 8.15 or
even 8.30, for Saturday-night traffic and
parking jambs make difficulties even for
those who impair their digestions with
bolted dinners. Dr. Edgar Bainton was
the conductor. The organ loft was
crowded, and some enthusiasts stood all
the evening along the south wall. In
addition to the general excitement several
people fainted and had to be assisted out-
side and revived with glasses of water.
In the audience were the Robert Wil-
kins couple, Mrs. Wilkins with fuchsias
and berries making a gorgeous splash of
color on her fur-clad shoulder; Judge
and Mrs. Beeby, Dr. and Mrs. Ivan
Maxwell, Dr. John Dale, Enid Verco,
who wore red velvet under a black coat;
Betty Timmins, Dr. Arthur Hill, Cara
Barrett, in jade chiffons; Alan Corr,
Arnold Shore, Dr. and Mrs. Ewen
Downie and Mrs. John Goodall, wear-
ing a new coiffure whereby waves rippled
to a perpendicular instead of a horizon-
tal pattern. Mary Guy Smith wore
exotic diamente earrings with her gown
of greeny floral cloque. In the cluster
of Spivakovskys was Mrs. Tossy Spiva-
kovsky, who no longer has an inclina-
tion for ringlets but wears her blonde
hair brushed smoothly back and rolled
into a bun on the nape of her neck.
Pat Chilvers gave a farewell dance on
Saturday night at Tudor Court in honor
of Margaret and Sheila Gasquoine, but
Sheila had bad luck. Returning from a
brief holiday in N.S.W. a car breakdown
caused her to miss the train and the
party, so that her sister had to hand out
apologies and shoulder responsibilities.
Youth and beauty were being welcomed
at eight, and everybody seemed to know
everybody else by nine. Wearing maize '
colored satin, with coral shoulder strap,
and sash, the tall young hostess enjoyed
her party; with sittings for her portra .l
by sculptor John Elischer and re h ea *^ a s
for both “School for Scandal” and Bees
on the Boat Deck ” it was practically the
first free evening she had had for weeks.
Miss Gasquoine wore butterflies m her
hair and a white satin gown with pleats
swishing into a train. An Adelaide visi-
tor, Mary Leitch, had her curls coaxe
into a halo, and her navy-blue lace coa
went over a foundation of paler-blue
taffeta. Joan Colman’s shot taffeta dress
was made with a befrilled bodice and
rosettes scattered over the skirt.
Iser’s gown was of pale-pink pleated
chiffon.
It was a very appreciative audience
which waved its hands to “The Choco-
late Soldier,” sugarcoated version of
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man.” Strella
Wilson sang beautifully. Seen in the
first-night audience, which contained
several white fox or feather capes, was
Mrs. Fred Thiel, wrapped in summer
ermine ; Mrs. Alex. Lilley and Nancy,
Mrs. Jack Leckie, whose frock was of
black velvet; Mrs. Lem Callaway, wear-
ing a flyaway cloak of chintz moire ;
Dr. Bob Strong; the John Cumming
couple, Mrs. Cumming with a rose-dust
collar to her parchment velvet wrap;
Mrs. Herbert Journeaux; Peggy and
Ruth Tait, in overseas models of coats;
J. J. Liston (who resigned his seat on the
City Council last Wednesday) and Mrs.
Liston.
Two years ago representatives from
some 20 girls’ public schools were in-
vited to a meeting to discuss a co-opera-
tive effort in aid of the Girls’ Ward at the
Prince Henry Hospital. The outcome of
the meeting was the Gloucester Ball. At
the third Gloucester Ball, to be held on
June 18, a new idea will materialises—
two hands of bridge to be played with
living “cards.” The “pack” of 52 dancers
in costume will be shuffled and dealt by
a bridge specialist and played by Mrs.
J. L. Thwaites and Miss Mussen against
Vic. Bridge Union’s office-bearers, W.
Noall and M. M. Phillips.
At the motor show the caravans were
so popular (or at least they were during
the first few days) that people had to
wait in queues to go inside them. The
smallest are carriers which are really
roofed-over bunks for two (with canvas
erected at the side) and a built-in stove
at the back in the manner of a dickey-
seat. Most of these travelling houses
contain radios, clocks, ice-boxes, stoves,
both obvious and fold-away, and per-
manent bunks or those that in the day-
time are seats round collapsible tables.
All have wardrobes and cupboards for
clothes and kitchen impedimenta, and
some contain a special recess for axes,
fishing-lines, etc. The largest caravan
in the show is over 20ft. in length and
is fitted with walnut furniture and a
shower.
Silver streaks are widening in the
gloom of Melbourne’s puritanical Sun-
days. Sunday-morning trams have come
to stay, and now, after years of argu-
ment, the City Council has agreed to
allow some of its tennis courts to be
played on during four hours of Sabbath
afternoons. This decision was not easily
won ; many religious dignitaries and civic
diehards opposed it, and some council
members turned on the plea that it would
be too bad if council employees would
have to work on Sunday.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.) '
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
w w T, . . N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir h fi r^ an rl ;^ n - Sir H<mry Brad'don, K. 8.8., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
TfiUi Chr ,
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal •
June Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
BORROWING IN LONDON.
THE GOLD QUESTION.
DECLINE IN POPULATION.
THE SHAREMARKET.
PRICE 21- PER COPY. OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all Statea
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Passage Pilot”: Papers—flapper and
other —have been giving flaming head-
lines to the matter of a Japanese sampan
allegedly trying to ram the Hayman
Island launch June. There are no sam-
pans in the Passage at the present time ;
one did not try to ram June; it did not
make off hurriedly after the alleged act
of piracy; the Hallams, who own both
Hayman and June, did not lodge any
complaint about the alleged offence. The
real facts of the case, as reported to me
by Bob Hallam, are: June was running
up the Passage when she overtook a Jap
lugger. Both craft ran side by side for
a while, the tourists on June being
allowed to admire the lines of the lugger
while Bob hailed the skipper to know if
he had any shells which would appeal
to tourists. As there was nothing doing
Bob swung June away to her island home
and the lugger went on towards the
north.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: In Brisbane’s million-
pound Town Hall is a map showing the
unused roads and streets of the 385
square miles which make up Greater
Brisbane, a strange weave of erratic lines
and nought-and-cross patches. The
reason the 100 square miles or so are not
used is lack of transport. Sandgate alone
has nearly 10,000 vacant allotments;
more than 11,000 vacant freeholds are
situated on the city sewerage lines, more
than 22,000 along its water pipelines. At
rate of increase 20 years ago the
waste area would hold Brisbane’s popu-
lation for the next century; on present
and anticipated figures it can never be
possibly filled. It is nearly all good
building land, above flood level, but un-
served by train, tram, bus or trolley.
Meanwhile, the City Fathers, by their
archaic adherence to obsolete tram sys-
tems, encourage slum formation in
already crowded areas.
* * * *
“Col. Bungstarter”: Two fine Austra-
lian women have died in Queensland
within a week of each other, totalling
184 years between them. Mrs. E. J.
Raff was born in 1844 at Main-street,
Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, in a stone
house, built by convict labor for her
father, Edward Lord. A beauty and a
notable horsewoman in her youth, she
married G. B. Molle in 1864. After his
death in 1879, she married George Raff,
of the old Queensland pastoral family.
Mrs. S. M. Fox was born at Gundagai
(N.S.W.) in 1847, and in 1866 married
W. R. Fox, later of Helenslie station,
near Charters Towers (N.Q.). The blacks
were wild in central west Queensland in
the days when she was bringing up her
young family, and one of her accom-
plishments, preserved to quite recent
years, was that of quick, accurate shoot-
ing with rifle or revolver.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Under present arrange-
ment, the New Hebrides, which lie a
little over a thousand miles east of the
Queensland coast in the latitudes between
Bowen and Townsville, are under joint
Anglo-French government. The French
have dominance in population by four
to one, and the proximity of New
Caledonia gives them dominance in
trade. The ratio of French to British
shipping tonnage is two to one. It is
suggested that Australia should take over
the islands to avoid the danger of a hos-
tile Power using the Hebrides as an air
base against us. Why there should be
any more danger of this than of using
Timor (500 miles from the Australian
coast), Rabaul (1066 miles airline from
Townsville), Noumea (795 miles from
Brisbane), all of which are undefended,
is not explained. Anyway, if a Singa-
pore base on a smaller scale was built at
Suva (Fiji) or near by, any Power which
tried to use the Hebrides would find its
expedition in a sad hole. The sensible
thing is either to divide the islands or
hand the lot to France. Australia has
quite enough to develop without adding
fever-stricken islands a thousand miles
away, whose government is complicated
by the presence in them of a majority of
foreigners.
* * * *
“X.T.”: In the rescuing of the Gepp
expedition it seems to me that the
Department of the Interior picked
the worst possible track by which to
reach the stranded men —over the sand-
hill country from The Granites. It was .
reported that the rescuers proposed to
cross the sandhills with the aid of coir
matting, which is so much useless lumber
to an experienced sand-groper. Also,
they had a plan for hauling themselves
over the hills with wire ropes and, pre-
sumably, Spanish windlasses. I doubt
if there is any sandhill in Centralia in-
vulnerable to a modern-tyred car under
“ Seein ’ it's y'r birthday, Bill, I'll let you fix the new 'un up!"
its own power and in the hands of a
driver who knows his job—certainly a
thoroughly experienced man with a few
years of sand-driving experience would
not fear any sandhill over which he could
Spanish-windlass his bus. Also, by start-
ing from Erldunda further south they
could have avoided all sandhills and
have had the benefit of water every 20
miles and a reasonable track for a bush
driver; and in the Alice they would
have found Ben Nicker, who was over
the route a year or two ago with the
Terry expedition.
* * * *
“Prague”: So Cooktown is to be the
“hopping-off place” for the New Guinea
mail ’planes, and that looks like a fare-
well to our flying foxes. Recently a
North Queensland Airways Dragon, con-
taining six passengers and two pilots,
was landing here from a flight from
Coen. As the ’plane was circling pre-
paratory to landing the pilot noticed that
a cloud of ’foxes had risen up into his
path. To escape them was impossible,
so he shut off the engine and the ’plane
smashed through. When the party got
over the shock they found that the only
damage was a buckled ’plane-window and
about 200 dissected ’foxes. The ’foxes
live in the mangrove swamp close to the
’drome and provide meals for sundry
snakes and abos. They have roosted
there since, the Year One.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
What Brisbane didn’t do iji the way
of paying for seats at the Russian Ballet
—the prices were a bit stiff for us —
various private citizens made up for by
entertaining the members of the. company
out of dancing hours.
The. Russian community provided a
deferred Easter dinner, which was eaten
in the foyer of H.M. Theatre. A priest
of the Russian Orthodox Church, in
colorful vestments, held a brief service
before the piles of Easter cakes, two
feet high. These and pyramids of Easter
cheese, fish, cucumbers and vodka dis-
appeared. The ladies of the Ballet arrived
in evening gowns that shouted Paris, and
the lads of the Ballet fell upon the piano
and hauled it from orchestra pit to foyer.
A strenuous programme had just been
concluded on the stage, but that didn’t
prevent the members of the co. from
whirling merrily together to the strains
of the band, which came from Lennon’s.
North Queensland and the islands off
the Barrier Reef are drawing southern
tourists like a magnet. Every boat from
the south is crowded, and many Bris-
bane people are holidaying there, too.
Freda Bage is at Heron Island, and Doris
Bowden, Brisbane’s only woman man-
ageress of a movie house, is off to New
Guinea; her brother, whom she has not
seen for years, will fly down and meet
her somewhere in North Queensland.
Mollie and Bardie Benson and a party of
other girls are going to Lindeman.
The annual pageant and fashion parade
which Mrs. Forgan Smith and her com-
mittee arrange for the Metropolitan
Branch of the C.W.A. and the Queens-
land Playground Association is based on
air travel this time. The pageant, which
was written by Edgar Ferguson, is
“World Flight,” and the ’plane calls in
at such cities as Naples and Calcutta,
Hollywood and Bagdad. Dances, cocktail
parties in a tropical setting and garden
parties given by friendly Consuls will
provide an opportunity for the display of
fashions. The show will be staged early
in August, and one innovation is to be
a singing mannequin—the first that has
burst upon Brisbane.
The Pacific Golf Club—its members
smite golf balls round Mt. Gravatt—isn’t
very old yet, but it has had two bright
dances. The last one had baby fir-trees
in pots, and chains of colored electric
lights for decor, but a fire of real logs
blazed in the open fireplace, and it made
everything cosy and homelike. Presi-
dent Dr. J. F. Dunkley and his wife re-
ceived the guests, the lady handsome in
black chiffons with a floral pattern.
Acting-Governor Blair and his lady
have a private suite at the National; Gov-
ernment House is being renovated. They
gave their first dinner party in the new
dining-room the other night, with a large
crystal bowl of red roses in the centre
of the table. Afterwards they went on
to the Ballet, taking with them their
guests, the Percy Pease couple and Mrs.
Forgan Smith.
Amy Daphne. Sapsford, radiant in a
princess gown of white embossed moire
and a wreath and veil, had four of her
small dancing pupils as attendants when
she married Eric Hugh McWatters at St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church. Mary
Edgar and Leila Ramsay, in rosy taffetas
with shirred panels and bonnets of pink
and green, were the ’maids, and the four
little flower girls were Jocelyn Lever,
Dawn and June Rees and Ailsa Gillies.
They were in green organdie net, and
carried pink carnations and sweet-peas.
The wedding cake was cut at Rowe’s,
and the bride’s aunt, Miss B. Sapsford,
in ciel-blue lace and carrying red roses,
acted as hostess.
Hilda Hancock, who is to be married
in June, was entertained by the Choral
and Dramatic Circle of the Catholic
Daughters of Australia, and presented
with a crystal cake
stand. Mary Irwin,
secretary, was hostess.
Over 150 guegts
went along to the
afternoon - tea and
evening party given by
Mrs. J. Dash, at
which daughter Mar-
garet’s trousseau was
displayed. (Mar-
garet was married to
Justin McCarthy at
St. Stephen’s Cathe-
dral on May 27.)
Dorothy helped to
entertain in the after-
noon, and at night
Minister Dash and
daughter May helped
look after the guests.
There were 400
guests at the annual
ball and bridge party
in aid of the funds
of the Society of St.
Vincent de Paul. It
was at the Belle Vue, and Archbishop
Duhig and Dr. English were there, the
committee, headed by Rev. Father R. M.
Copley, receiving them. Mary Windsor,
only daughter of Dr. and Mrs. H. J.
Windsor, was an unofficial deb., in a
charming frock of mignonette-green
moire taffetas and coatee to match, with
a red rose on the lapel. Ray O’Keefe
and Janet Lucas, who have an altar date
early in June, were guests of honor of
one bright party, and scored a crystal
bowl.
Rhoda Felgate and her Twelfth Night
Players are to stage “Precious Bane,”
with Marjorie Mant, not long returned
from England and the Continent, as lead.
Marjorie studied in London with the
Neilson-Terry Guild, and made some
appearances with them.


Legal Notice.
Re JAMES JOSEPH CAVANAGH,
Deceased.
A Rule to Administer the Estate of JAMES
JOSEPH CAVANAGH, late of Gannawarra,
Victoria, farm laborer, deceased, intestate, who
died on the 22nd day of August, 1933, has been
granted to me, and creditors, next-01-kin ana
others having claims against the estate, and m
particular the following persons, namely, 1A i -
RICK .CAVANAGH, father of the deceased,
and JOHN CAVANAGH, PATRICK CAVA-
NAGH and CATHERINE CAVANAGH (also
known as CATHERINE McCAWLEY),
brothers and sister of the deceased, or the
children of any of such persons who died
before the 22nd August, 1933, or the personal
representative of any of such persons who died
after such date, are requiredi to.sendl m par-
ticulars of their claims to THE CURATOR
OF THE ESTATES OF DECEASED PER-
SONS, 283 Queen-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
within three months from the date of this
advertisement, or they will be excluded trom
the distribution of the estate which the Curator
intends to make. M M pHILUPS>
Curator of the Estates of Deceased Persons,
Melbourne, Victoria.
“How my
ASTHMA
ended when
I bought
a Stamp”
illlls
... I never get those
choking spasms noio.
This was said the
other day hy a
woman who for-
merly suffered
agony from acute
asthma. She
told how, after
years of suffer-
ing, she rid her-
self of the
choking gasping
attacks which
were ruining her
life. The first
real step to this
blessed relief was
when she placed
a stamp on an envelope addressedto
■ns . . • for by doing so she leaint the
BASIC CAUSE of Asthma, and how
Dr. Hayle’s treatment gave permanent
relief.
ENDS STUBBORN CASES
Hayle’s new treatment has earned
the praise, of thousands of men and
women who have had cause to bless
its marvellous healing action. They
all tell of the amazingly quick and
PERMANENT relief it brings. They
all praise the simplicity of the. treat-
ment. There is no resorting to noxious
drugs, sprays, injections and other
useless and expensive “remedies.
RELIEF FOR YOU!
This same marvellous help is offered
to all sufferers from Asthma, Bron-
chitis and Hay Fever. By Posting the
Coupon below, you will be sent, abso-
lutely FREE, a copy of the 32-page
book in which the discoverer of the
only NATURAL Asthma treatment
tells of his wonderful work. From
this book you will learn the REAL
cause of Asthma and Hay Fever. You
will learn how all those distressing
svmptoms, which are making your
life a misery, arise from this cause.
Most important of all, you will learn
How you can clear out all traces 01
this agonizing complaint from your
body. We do not offer you any free
sample. Relief can omy be gained by
a proper, scientific treatment, and this
book tells you HOW!
Clio out and mail the coupon below.
Relief is waiting for YOU. Every
day you delay, your insidious disease
is gaining a stronger hold. Send for
this book and banish Asthma from
vour system AT ONCE. Why delay,
when relief can be YOURS for no
more trouble than the licking of a
postage stamp?
CUP HERE
Charlton Sinclair Ltd., Dept. A.8./6.
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Please send me FBFF a copy of the
82-page hoolc, “Discovery of Cause of
Asthma, Bay Fever and Bronchitis.
I enclose 2d. for postage.
NAME-
ADDRESS
il any illustration m ihe bulletin
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
CRUISE to FIJI
commencing
Early JULY
by
' ORAMA'. 20,000 tons
or Late JULY by ORFORD
mm
m
Carrying First Saloon
and Tourist Classes
Prompt booking is recommended.
\ \\W
v\ „\
St
\
> V v\v
»1
%
'jtyW
D. 34 HF I J 1 CRUISE
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD., INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND^
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
The women’s auxiliary of Perth Hos-
pital put on a cheery supper-dance at
the Hotel Adelphi. Masses of chrysan-
themums decked the ballrooom under
softly-shaded lights. Mrs. John Har-
greaves’s fur-trimmed gold lame cape
swung back from rose-patterned satin,
and black velvet sheathed Mrs. Frank
Downing’s slimness. Mrs. John Hicks s
sunray-pleated turquoise georgettes were
engirdled with cyclamen-lacquered satin,
and a topknot of the same color nestled
in her fair locks. Mrs. Francis Henstock
appliqued quaint velvet flowers on her
billowy black taffeta skirt and fitting
bodice, which faded to mere strappings
at the back. Violet taffeta set off Jean
Loutit’s Titian tresses, and Dick Trigg
was ruched into filmy leaf-green tulle.
Pastoralists from near and far dropped
their woolly pursuits in favor of the
“Back to Cue” week-end. Timely rains
had restored pre-drought high spirits,
which overflowed at the Club Hotel
packed to three or four times its normal
capacity. A succession of race meetings,
golf and tennis matches and organised
visits to the mines crammed the days,
with sundown parties and dancing at
night. From Perth came the Eric hand-
overs, the J. Munros and Jane Bunning
to week-end with the Dale Pitts, of
mining fame. The Don Beatons came
from Thundelarra, and the Charlie
Beatons from Cogla Downs, and were
keen punters at both race meetings. From
Meka motored the Pat Maxwells. Other
pillars of the pastoral industry noticed
were Frank Wittenoom and Langlois
Lefroy.
For the Empire Baby Ball festoons of
red white and blue mingled with multi-
colored lights at the Embassy ballroom.
The Acting-Governor and his wife were
there, the Mitchell lady in silver and
black lam£ embossed in floral pattern,
enhanced with a bouquet of old-gold
roses. Ethereal cyclamen chiffon was
swathed on Mrs. S. W. Perry, wife of
the never-tiring organiser of infant-wel-
fare appeals. Mrs. Reg Summerhayes
slipped a brief lacquered black satin coat
over her stiffened black nets, and mid-
night blue laces graced Mrs. J. C. Murray.
Mrs. Gordon Hislop traced a design in
gold on her flat-white crepe, and Sheila
McClemans, another toiler in the cause
of charity, donned rich russet taffetas.
Plasterers, carpenters and decorators
have at last finished their work on the
interior of the Town Hall, which is drab
no more. Margaret Pitt-Monson was
called in to design a proscenium to con-
form with the architecture of the hall.
Across this she hung heavy blue-and-gold
brocade curtains. The mural refurbish-
ing was also left in the hands of this
talented young architect. She gave the
walls a modern treatment in a soft gold
shade, slightly bespeckled with red and
green to the dado and finishing in plain
biscuit at the ceiling. The gallery now
boasts a polished jarrah rail matching
the rest of the panelling. Windows have
been made proof against the noises of the
street, and an air-conditioning system
has been installed.
The newly-glorified Town Hall was a
fitting setting for the National Rose
Society’s autumn show. President H. E.
Mofflin welcomed the Lieut.-Governor
and his wife, and the Mitchell lady
opened the show. Heavy early rains had
not ruined the blooms, which made a
colorful display. Mrs. A. Emerson car-
ried all before her with her champion
Dame Edith Helen, a variety more plenti-
fully represented than any other.
Musical enthusiasts foregathered at the
invitation of the Royal Schools Music
Club to do honor to Sir Percy Buck, Pro-
fessor of Music at the University of
London. The club’s president, Mrs.
Cecil Mason, in sequined white satin,
made a welcoming speech, and secretary
Marjorie Huddleston, in black velvets,
gave a helping hand in receiving the
guests. The visitor delighted his audi-
ence with tales of schoolboy howlers en-
countered when he was Director of Music
at Harrow. A musical programme sup-
plemented this levity. Young musicians
will be examined by Sir Percy during
his visit.
The Charon bore off many with trunks
packed for warmer climes. Mrs. Flarry
Vincent departed to explore the delights
of Singapore and Bangkok. Mrs. K.
Osborne and Mrs. J. Clark travelled to-
gether to Sourabaya, and Mrs. Bob
Hawson, putting holidays behind her,
returned with her small son and ayah
to Singapore, where her engineer-hus-
band is stationed. Lorraine, youngest'
of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Diamond’s fair
daughters, took off for Batavia, where
lives her sister Mrs. Hugh Bomford.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
At the University Ball there were only
four debutantes. The Governor and
Lady Dugan were there. Guests were
received by Dr. C. B. Sangster and
his mother, Mrs. J. Sangster, Lady
Dugan wore a trained gown ol pale-
blue, pale-pink and mauve chiffon
brocaded in gold. Mrs. Haselden chose
black self-striped taffeta cut on diagonal
lines, the Ritchie lady’s beige chiffon was
flowered in red roses, and Mrs. Sang-
ster’s wine-toned chiffon had sequins o
the same shade on the bodice.
For her marriage at St. Frances
Xavier Cathedral to Lieut.-Commandet
John Anthony Walsh, son of Mrs. Walsh
and the late Richard Walsh, of Queens-
land, Lorna, elder daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Dean Dawson, of Hyde Park, wore
cream ring velvet mounted over pale-
gold taffeta. The skirt was full, and the
bodice shirred in the centre with short
puffed sleeves, the neckline being out-
lined with pearls. Her long tulle veil
was held in place by a wreath that had
belonged to her grandmother, the late
Mrs. Charles Deeley, the flowers myrtle
and jasmine, with small green leaves.
Bride’s younger sister Josephine and
niece Virginia Deeley attended, frocked
in cream ring velvet made with full skirts
and long, close-fitting sleeves, topped by
Juliet caps of pearls.
Dr. Margaret Cleland, eldest daughter
of Professor and Mrs. J. B. Cleland,
who has been living overseas for some
time, has accepted a position in a Bir-
mingham hospital, which postpones hei
return for possibly another year. An-
other Adelaide girl who has been in
London for some time is Athalie Cum-
ing, who will return in the Orama in
July. Her mother is still in England,
and does not contemplate returning until
next year.
The latest seaside cottage for country
folk added to the C.W.A.’s list has been
donated by descendants of the late Mrs.
Andrew Mortlock and Mrs. William Fer-
guson. The opening ceremony was per-
formed by Mrs. Samuel Reid, of Furra-
murra (N.S.W.). J. T. Mortlock gave
the furniture. His great-grandfather,
John Tennant, arrived in S.A. in 1838.
William Ferguson came in the Buffalo
in 1836. His daughter Rachel married
Andrew, son of John Tennant, and
united the families.
The Movie Ball, a charity affair, was
a huge success. A feature was a try-
out of aspiring film actors, half a dozen
couples each enacting a brief scene. The
filmed results were sent to Ken Hall, of
Cinesound Studios, to be judged by him.
To finance the Florence Nightingale
International Foundation Scholarship, a
bridge party, organised by Mrs. M. H.
Downey, was held in John Martin’s
dining-hall. Over 200 tables were
booked. The money raised will send a
nurse overseas for training.
The Hudd lady presided at a morning-
tea in honor of Mrs. Ariel Bension, a
visitor from Palestine, who gave an ac-
count of the re-establishment of the Holy
Land, its colleges, trade schools and wel-
fare centres. Cooks, gardeners and
nurses are provided to instruct the in-
creasing population.
A marriage of interest in tennis circles
was that of Jean, elder daughter of the
G. A. Wilsons, of Prospect, to Cecil,
only son of the H. E. Davies couple. The
bride looked charming in magnolia satin.
The bridesmaids, in Marlborough-blue
crepe georgette, were Edna Collison and
Shirley Wilson.
TASMANIA.
Tasmanians are falling over each other
in London. Letters tell of Betty Giblin’s
arrival there from India. Isabelle Win-
ston Simmons and her niece Dorothy are
seeing all the London sights, and are
going to Holland to see the tulips. Mary
Sharland and a friend travelled back
from France for the Coronation. Rymer
Maxwell is staying with her niece, Mrs.
Lethbridge. Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
E. Dechaineux were lent a delightful flat
in London for several weeks. Betty
Yencken had reached London after
winter sports in Switzerland and a thrill-
ing time in Berlin.
The writer of “John Peel,” John Wood-
cock Graves, left descendants in the
Speck, and one of them, Laurie, second
daughter of the J. C. Graveses, Bagdad,
has married A. L. Hume, son of the late
Dr. Hume, Longford. The bridegroom
has been in charge of the aerodrome, at
Forrest, Nullarbor Plains. As he had
been transferred at short notice to Mel-
bourne, the wedding was speeded up:
the pair were married in the chilly dawn
at the cathedral, and went off in the
Loongana to Cambridge afterwards.
Viti Allardyce and Lieut.-Col. J. F. |
Corlett had a romantic wedding at the j
little mountain church of St. Raphael s,
Ferntree. The bridegroom, formerly or
the 15th Lancers, Indian Army, is a son
of John Corlett of the “Pink ’Un.
Only relatives were present at the church,
but afterwards the bride’s sister, Mrs.
C. T. Butler, bade, about 60 friends to
drink healths and wish joy to the newly-
weds at her home. The bride wore
under a loose coat a woollen frock of
soft dark blue with an emerald-green
sash, and her tam-beret had a cluster of
velvet bows at the side. She wore a pair
of diamond-and-opal earrings, the gift of
her Bengal Lancer. Little Anne Butler
(niece) ’maided in a pink frock and hat.
The cake, was cut with a sword, in mili-
tary style. The honeymoon will take
in Africa, India, Europe and England.
Barbara Murdoch, Cambridge, was the
young hostess at a jolly dance at the
Continental. Mrs. Murdoch and Bar-
bara received the guests, Mrs. Murdoch
wearing floral chiffon with long net cape,
and Barbara a smart frock of printed
crepe, low in the back. About 100 guests,
chiefly young people, enjoyed the party.
Dr. and Mrs. Ramsay, of Launceston,
gave a party at their home to raise funds
for the furnishing of the new general hos-
pital. All sorts of games were provided,
including deck horseracing, keeno, rou-
lette and billiards. Mrs. Ramsay was in
black, with a bunch of gold roses on the
shoulder.
Mrs. Keverall Mclntyre and Mrs. F. C.
Dougharty, president and sec. of the
recent Georgian Ball in Launceston, were
presented by the Governor with a silver
spoon each, by way of congratulation on
the party’s great success.
Rosabel Radcliff, home on holiday
from her job in Sydney, was given a sur-
prise party by way of welcome at her
own home. Barbara Atkins, Ann Ashton-
Jones and Pat Rex were the prime
movers.


l m
am
fAh
>*■
m
i’HE
“LONG-
REACH”
STOCK
SADDLE
£l5/13/6
(Mounted).
One of the
most com-
f o rtable
saddles we
make. It is
made on a best
“Fouright” Tree.
N.S.W. freight paid
for cash with
order.
WALTHER &
STEVENSON,
LTD.,
,3£s_George St., Sydney.
COME TO THE
LEIPZIG
TRADE FAIR
(GERMANY).
Plan your seasonal buying profit-
ably at this world-famous market.
Thousands of exhibitors from 23
different countries offer the newest
and best merchandise at prices that
allow most favourable resale margins.
□
AUTUMN FAIR Commences AUG. 29
Comprising General Samples Fairs, Textiles,
Sports Goods, Engineering and Great Building
Fairs.
kformalicn feludmg Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks)
available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia
° r the Leipzig jptfmational Industries Fair, Challis House,
Martin Place, GP O Box 3127 P, Sydney; C. N. KEPPEL,
Temple Court, 422 Collin. Street G.P.O. Box 20245, Mel-
bourne; H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W. Australia
WHO 9
PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE an,
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingcllo House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R- V. PERKINS, General Mamo-gw..
The Long White Cloud
State House Rents
The first block of houses to be built
under Maoriland Labor’s State scheme is
evidently nearing completion; cables
from Maoriland say weekly rent-rates,
ranging from £1 for three-roomed flats to
£1 13s. 6d. for six-roomed houses —with
a 2s. 6d. rebate for “good tenancy”—
have just been announced. The working
man, full of early plaudits for his Gov-
ernment’s enterprise, will be wondering
why he was so optimistic.
Maoriland is in need of more houses,
and in its larger cities it would welcome
the demolition of near-slum dwellings.
But these are the very houses populated
by families unable to meet rent demands
of better establishments. If their bread-
winners can pay the State rents just an-
nounced, then Maoriland is indeed in a
good financial position.
Actually, the worker with the large
family and the slim and often uncertain
pay-envelope is the chief difficulty in
Maoriland as well as in Australia. The
Maoriland scheme provides a lower-
than-average rental for the unencum-
bered couple who can squeeze into a
three-roomed flat, but the man with
heavier family burdens must still meet a
State house rental obviously beyond his
means. It will take considerable Labor
ingenuity to lure him and his family
from the cheaper near-slum areas.
If the cabled rental figures are correct,
Maoriland taxpayers are providing for
the civil servant and the moderately-well-
paid artisan ; the worker whom the world
believed was to benefit from the mil-
lions the Savage Government planned to
spend on housing must still be suited.
“D.N.”: In accord
with Maoriland Labor’s
policy of casting a close
eye over newspaper
statements and issuing
“replies” to any calcu-
lated to “convey harm-
ful impressions,” Public
Works Minister Semple
sprang to the defence
of the South Island
main trunk railway,
work upon which has
been recommenced
under the Savage Gov-
ernment’s £10,000,000
works programme.
Someone in Canterbury said the line
would not be finished for six years.
Absurd, stormed Minister Semple ; “just
another case of a man talking through his
hat and rushing into print when he knows
nothing of his subject.” The job, he
added, would be completed in four
years—if the department could get its
materials.
* * * *
“M,”: Shortage of Maoriland orange
supplies persists in spite of innumerable
Labor assurances that “all oranges re-
quired to meet the needs of the people
will be imported.” And with the short-
age exists a retail orange price that
would stagger Australians. Orange juice
is an important ingredient in the ad-
vanced infant-feeding system evolved by
Truby King and widely practised by
Maoriland mothers; it is also part of
various hospital diets, and there is a
growing irritation with the short-sighted
inter-trade policy preventing the general
importation of disease-free Australian
fruit. A Savage Government spokes-
man has announced that 180,000 cases
of S. Australian export oranges will be
allowed entry between May and Novem-
ber. He carefully avoided mention of
the remote likelihood of a lower retail
price or of any equally remote official
determination to let unlimited importa-
tion, popular demand and the lowest
price secure Maorilanders plenty of
oranges. Despite all the back-slapping
swapped by Australian and Maoriland
politicians in recent months, there is
still that inter-Government quarrel keep-
ing one embargo set against another.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: The Maoriland Labor tilt at
Australian newspapers for publishing
“little favorable information” about
Savage Government achievements (B.
26/ 5/ ’37) should have been aimed at
touring Maorilanders who, in overseas
interviews, thoughtlessly stress those re-
sults of Labor legislation that Minister
“Call yourself a MEDICINE-man/ Why, I've only got to look at you
and I feel sick!"
Semple would prefer to overlook. The
other day two delighted Sydney with
reports that Maoriland’s beer sales
and racecourse betting had been im-
proved by Labor’s “shorter working
week, which gives the people more leisure
in which to spend their higher wages.”
Although they would undoubtedly en-
joy similar benefits, Australian unionists
were probably a little upset by this re-
port. It came at a time when 52 unions
were applying to the Full Arbitration
Court in Melbourne for an increased basic
wage, and was promptly used by an em-
ployers’ representative as an argument
against such increase. But Chief Judge
Dethridge came to the rescue of Minis-
ter Semple and the workers with the un-
answered question: “Why shouldn’t the
working man go to the devil in the same
way as the rich man?”
* * * *
“Korero”: According to details of a
Post Office radio survey, 68 per cent, of
Maoriland households have receiving
licenses. The 1936-37 increase was nearly
49,000, compared with 39,000 for the
previous year—an increase rate that will
bring household cover up to 80 per cent,
if maintained for only another year. It
is not clear from the survey report
whether cover percentages are based only
on individual residential buildings or
whether sets installed in blocks of city
flats are included —they probably are,
because districts taking in the cities of
Wellington, Auckland and Christchurch
fill the first three percentage places.
Otago-Southland, where there are fewer
flats than anywhere else in Maoriland, is
next on a list revealing intensive national
radio cover.
* * H= *
“Motu”: Farmer, journalist, politician,
lawyer and now a temporary Judge of
Maoriland’s Arbitration Court —an im-
pressive record for a man who until he
was 14 had never been to school. But
P. J. O’Regan, the Wellington lawyer
who has been appointed to act for Jus-
tice Page, now on sick leave, should be
as successful on the Bench as he has been
in his other ventures. Son of an old-
time gold prospector and farmer, he had
picked up considerable learning before
he ever went to school, and he made
quick progress there. At 21 he left his
father’s farm and turned to newspaper
work ; he quitted a country editorship
to oppose Robert Stout in the general
election of 1893, but he did not make
the Wellington Parliament until a by-
election later in the year. He was beaten
in the Butler electorate in 1899, and then
began his law studies; since 1905 he
has practised in Wellington. The
O’Regan career should be an example
to young Maorilanders to-day complain-
ing of lack of opportunities. He made
his own, and his years have been full
and varied.
* * * *
“Kohi”: More publicity should have
been given to the complaint of a Maori-
land alpine guide that, under present
employment conditions, the work offers
no prospects and good men are leaving.
With more local and overseas climbers
going to the mountains every year,
there are fewer experienced guides on
the Southern Alps than ever before.
Local experience is the big thing in
mountain guiding, and it is to Maori-
land’s interest to have guides not only
capable but happy enough with their
jobs and prospects to remain on the
mountains until they can no longer carry
on efficiently. If inclusion in some Gov-
ernment superannuation scheme would
prevent frequent changes in guiding
personnel, the Tourist Department should
urge that provision. It is the depart-
ment responsible for the excellent over-
seas publicity now attracting alpine
visitors.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Chaps who hunt deer in
Maoriland are emphatically uncompli-
mentary to the stag. A full-grown animal
with a spread of antlers looks the acme
of nobility as he surveys his seraglio
when danger is absent. When he feeds
or takes his sleep he sets his females to
keep watch. If one of these raises an
alarm the stag makes speedily for the
horizon, leaving his retinue to fend for
themselves. He is the great apostle in
the forest of Safety First.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Maoriland is not the
only place where seagulls have settled in
the interior (B. 12/5/’37). Large colonies
of the birds have taken up residence in
the farming districts of Western Victoria,
where numerous salt lakes provide them
with a home from home. The gulls are
enthusiastic worm gatherers and appear
to have no fear of humans —it is a com-
mon sight to see a dozen of them perched
on a plough or cultivator while the teams
are on the move.
:Jc
“F.A.J.”: Earthquake shocks? Six
were lately experienced in Christchurch
within 10 days. Harmless all, though
some set windows rattling. Scientists
assure nervous people that these small
shocks act as a safety valve. One of
their chief causes is the loading of the
Canterbury Plains with shingle from the
mountains; the pressure thus caused is
released by movement off the coast.
Christchurch is fortunate in having
a base so elastic that it absorbs much
of the violence of the shocks ; the hill
suburbs experience them with greater
intensity.
* * *
“Ticker”: Straying circus animals
have surprised more Maorilanders than
the mother who saw her small son
calmly inspecting that backyard lion (B.
26/5/’37). A few weeks ago a New
Plymouth-Auckland motorist rounded a
corner along the sparsely-settled Awa-
kino yalley and found two elephants,
broadside on and contentedly cropping
some overhanging foliage, blocking the
road. Eventually, their owner arrived
and helped him manoeuvre past. Then,
a few miles on, he was heartily cursed
by a cage of monkeys just being hauled
back to the road from the river bank,
20ft. below the road. Further on again,
he came up with a trailer of lions being
towed by a truck. Later, he read where
the troubles of that circus proprietor
were just beginning; the bush the
elephants were enjoying when he met
them was the poisonous tutu, which kills
many cattle every year. It took some
solid work by a Te Kuiti vet. to restore
the blown animals to circus shape.


1-11
Amplion
qenemotor
For every requirement where it is
desired to convert low tension D.C.
to high tension D.C. They can be
supplied with inputs from 6, 12,
32 volts, etc., having outputs from
135 volts up to 1000 volts. Practi-
tically any type of special gene-
motor can be made as required.
Prices from £6/10/-.
Special Filters are available for
each type of Genemotor. Prices
from 30/-.
Write for comprehensive bulletin giving
full details of all models.
AMPLION (A/sia), Ltd.
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
RADIO NEWS.
SON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Radiotron Senior Amateur
Receiver.
The modern receiver displayed on
A.W. Valve Co.’s stand at the 1936 Ama-
teur Radio Ex-
hibition in Syd-
ney and designed
by engineers of
the co. was a
fine example of
radio engineer-
ing. The illustra-
tions show the
w o r k m anship,
and the circuit
diagram indicates
the completeness
of its equipment.
There is sen-
sitivity to spare,
and selectivity is
well taken care
of by the use ot
a quartz crystal
filter. It is a 13-valve
arrangement; not the sort
of receiver that could be re-
commended for home con-
struction by the tyro, though
it is well within the possi-
bilities of the more advanced
experimenter. In fact, there
are many amateur-built re-
ceivers in use to-day closely
approximately this commer-
cial product. The virtue of the Valve
Co.’s product is that it has graduated
through rigorous laboratory tests.
It should be stressed that the Valve
Co. has no interest at present in the sale
of such receivers. It has been produced
just to show what can be done commer-
cially in this line. It is not a “communi-
cations” receiver. It does not, by the
twist of a wave-change, switch, take in
everything from five to 2000 metres. It
is designed solely for amateur band
coverage and uses plug-in coils to change
those bands.
The valve line-up may appear formid-
able to the uninitiated, but everything
has a definite use. The first valve is a
956 “acorn,” in the T.R.F. stage ahead
of the mixer. It may seem unusual to
employ a special ultra-short-wave valve
here, but this is quite logical. The
receiver covers the 10-metre band, and
the advantages of the “acorn” are well
The receiver from the front panel. Bandspread tuning dial is on the left and
midget speaker on the right.
emphasised there. The mixer is a 6L7,
followed by 6D6 oscillator, 6L7 noise
silencer, 6C6 noise amplifier, 6H6 noise
rectifier, 6D6 first 1.F., 687 S second 1.F.,
detector and 8.F.0. mixer, 6J7 8.F.0.
for C.W. reception, 75 A.V.C. diode
and first audio, 42 pentode output, 6G5
tuning indicator and 80 rectifier. The
values are all shown on the diagram,
with the exception of coil data. The
coils are on liin. formers. The various
handbooks can be consulted for coil
windings with appropriate capacities.
The layout shows how carefully
everything is screened: each R.F. coil and
individual bandspread condenser is con-
tained in a box-type section. The band-
setter condensers are underneath the
chassis and are similarly screened. The
crystal filter is at 465 kc., and a Radiotron
vacuum-type crystal is used. It is in a
glass valve envelope and plugs into a
socket similarly.
Looking at the front of the receiver,
all the controls with the exception of
band-setters are seen. These are on the
lower left side of the chassis and are
used only when changing bands. Each
control is clearly tabulated on the panel,
and, although the array looks extensive,
the receiver is quite easy to use. The
midget speaker is contained on the panel,
with a headphone jack adjacent.
The writer had the pleasure of testing
this receiver, and found it to be the kind
of thing that every amateur dreams of
owning some day. The dial —an Eng-
lish Eddystone product—has a double
ratio, 20 to 1 and 100 to 1. It is of the
front-of-panel aero type, and the drive
is so designed that noise cannot enter
Circuit diagram of the Radiotron Senior Amateur Superhet.
into the working. There is no metal-to-
metal friction or geared drive, and the
vernier actioh is a planetary affair ex-
tremely smooth in action. Interested
readers can obtain similar dials through
R. H. Cunningham, 397 High-street, Glen
Iris, Vic.
Naturally the receiver was thoroughly
tried out on the crowded American 20-
metre ’phone channel, and gave a strik-
ing performance in the weeding out of
stations perilously close to each other.
On C.W. the crystal filter gave the true
single signal effect strived for in many
receivers and seldom attained. The
demonstration of the noise silencer was
most effective. Ignition interference from
passing motor-cars could be absolutely
banished while receiving. A crucial test
was the switching on of a spark coil
on the table, 4ft. from the receiver.
Normally the din would be devastating,
but it was dropped to a faint murmur
with the silencer on, and American
’phones could be received well through
it. One could not imagine a more con-
vincing test. Further particulars of this
excellent receiver are contained in
“Radiotronics No. 75,” or may be ob-
tained from the engineers of the A.W.
Valve Co., Ltd., 47 York-street, Sydney.
D. B.K.
Receivers for the Islands.
The usual form of commercial re-
ceiver, even of the best battery super-
het variety, is likely to have serious short-
comings a thousand miles away from
Australian broadcasting centres. The
employment of an intermediate fre-
quency channel to change a signal fre-
quency to a much lower one courts an
increased static level, and unless the in-
termediate channel is so designed that
there will be no variation by atmospheric
action the I.F. channel will gradually
get “off peak,” sensitivity will drop and
noise level rise. The same applies to
R.F. coils. Trimmed circuits will suffer
in the same way, even with the most
rigorous precautions, where the accepted
methods of trimming are employed.
Probably with the variable permeability
feature of such iron-cored coils as
Sirufer much of this trouble may be
banished.
The writer has proved by trial in the
most difficult isolated receiving locations
that the tuned R.F. receiver is the most
suitable type for work in such places as
the N.T. and the Pacific islands. The
type referred to is not the ganged form
of tuned R.F. receiver, but something
similar to the Ideal Tuned R.F. battery
model, described B. 28 /4 / ’37. Here is
the simplest of circuit arrangements, with
a separately tuned single R.F. stage,
regenerative detector and audio. It is a
1928 arrangement, but so far it has not
been bettered for the particular appli-
cation in view. Away from broadcasting
centres the horse to put the money on is
not selectivity but sensitivity—and at
signal frequency. Plenty of this is avail-
able with the old tuned R.F. affair, with
modern valves, and it is just as easy to
apply the arrangement for coverage
around 10 metres and even up to 2000
metres as a superhet.
The need is emphatically indicated by
the following letter from a Pacific islands
radio dealer:
Why is it so hard to get decent service in
Sydney? Small wonder that we go overseas
looking for better. Why is it, again, that
Sydney, when it bothers its head over the
tropics, won’t try to give us what we need?
An English concern got nearest to our require-
ments with a four-valve all-wave set (T.R.F.)
which everybody praises, but now it adver-
tises an eight-valve mixture of gadgets that is
doomed to do it harm. The first two to arrive
here failed to give a tweet, and they have to go
back to England. I am a fair sample of Island
listener, and since I started 10 years ago with
a three-valve earphone set I have bought six
sets, using up to seven valves. They have all
Rear view showing the general above-chassis layout.


p
.■O?
S
V 5.7
o»
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL |jj| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of Amalgamated- Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
been rank failures. And that three-valve job
1 am still using and have to use most of the
time; it will bring Hitler or Baldwin into my
mosquito-room on short-wave and Perth in
W.A. on the broadcast. None of the later
receivers would even dream of it.
The remedy lies in the T.R.F. type of
receiver, with good R.F. insulation and
only the highest grade of components.
If any further evidence is required of
the suitability of the plug-in coil T.R.F.
four-valver, reference to The Bulletin’s
Wide-World Four, Electronic Battery
Four and other similar designs will show
the way. There are hundreds of this
type of receiver doing perfect service in
New Guinea, N.T. and islands locations.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
Cape Town has adopted ultra-short-
wave radio communication for its fire
brigade. Fire engines keep in direct
touch with headquarters, mainly to report
the extent of fires attended and whether
extra assistance is needed or not. So
far Cape Town is the only city in the
Union to employ radio for this purpose,
but others will probably follow suit.
* * # *
At Cranwell, the Sandhurst of the
R.A.F. in England, where wireless com-
munication plays an important part in the
training, an amateur transmitting radio
society has been formed by members of
the R.A.F. wireless section and a station
has been erected with the callsign GBFC.
Through this station overseas members
of the force who indulge in radio trans-
mitting as a hobby will be able to keep
in touch with the training address.
* * * *
A Strasbourg professor says that
astronomers are keenly interested in
present television developments. The
television technique is expected to play
a great part in future astronomical
studies, affording a means of illuminating
magnified images far greater than is ob-
tainable by ordinary telescopic methods.
* * * #
France is considering the nationalisa-
tion of the whole of the radio manufac-
turing industry, as part of a policy of
putting under Government control all
industries having any connection with
war activities.
Vibrator Power Supply.
So many inquiries reach the writer for
constructional details of vibrator power
supplies that this description by W6QK
in the current issue of “Short Wave and
Television” is reproduced: Both the
vibrator and the power transformer are
readily obtainable, and the circuit tells
most of the story. Such a unit will
deliver 225 volts at 50ma. from a six-
volt accumulator. The rectifier valve is
an 84 or the metal type 6Z4. The unit
was designed for five metres, but obvi-
ously it can be applied to almost any
transmission or reception work. The
power transformer is of the type de-
signed for car radio receivers, but an
ordinary transformer can be used by
employing a centre-tapped five-volt recti-
fier winding intended for a type 80 or
5Z3 for the primary. The high-voltage
secondary is used normally. In emer-
gency, such as a failure of the public
electrical supply, a power supply of this
kind, which can be used at a moment’s
notice, would be very handy.
D. B. K.
Portable Receiver Switching.
The Bush Companion receiver (B.
7/10/’36) can be converted into a nice
little dual-waver by using the English
method of switching from the medium
to long waves in simple sets. For short-
wave results the aerial is taken to the
top of the grid coil through a 15mmfd.
Raymart condenser, and superfluous
turns short-circuited to earth as shown
in the diagram. Another condenser of
the same type is connected across the
tuner for bandspreading purposes. A
good type of two-point toggle switch
would be excellent for wave-changing.
The position of the taps on the coil is
best found by experiment, gradually
working down from the top of the grid
coil until widest band coverage is ob-
tained. The tap on the reaction coil is
adjusted for smoothest oscillation con-
trol. Convenience is the sole reason for
this suggestion, and it will be obvious
that, by the simple expedient of mounting
broadcast and short-wave coils on the
usual plug-in formers, the receiver, which
is simply a regenerative “det. and one-
step,” can be used over any frequency
from 12 to 600 metres.
D. C. N. JNR.
AH Round the Dial.
Annual Radio Church Service.
The third anniversary radio service is
to be held at Holy Trinity Church,
Miller’s Point, Sydney, in conjunction
with the church’s ninety-seventh anni-
versary on Sunday, June 6, at 7.15 p.m.
W. M. Hughes will give the address, and
the soloist will be Wilson Ewart, bass
singer of the A.B.C. The service will
be broadcast through 2BL, and the
rector, Re 4 v. Stanley Best, has extended
a general invitation to all engaged in
radio to be present.
•¥ ¥ H* H*
“Dial”: One of the tests given to
would-be radio announcers by a Perth
(W.A.) station ran: “As the 'wretched,
ragged robber ran rapidly towards the
rugged rock whither the weary Willow
River wound he saw a Psyche in a niche
near a schism in the chasm.”
Amateur Chatter.
Current “QST” says in an editorial:
“The world’s needs for radio frequencies
increase. Some day the point will be
reached where non-essential services must
give way to those for whom the use of
radio is imperative. When that time is
reached, will amateur radio have become
a non-essential service?” It is worth
considering. The answer depends on the
degree of co-operation between amateur
radio organisations and their regulating
authorities ; it depends on what amateurs
make of themselves. If the really useful
amateur is, in that not-so-distant future,
in a minority, submerged by a majority
of dilettantes, then amateur radio will
receive very little consideration.
Another section of the same issue of
“QST” illustrates very nicely the neces-
sity for cleaning up the. house before
trouble comes. An article headed “Any
Night—Was It You?” gives examples of
offences on the part of ’phone stations.
It includes “the foney ’phone that ‘has
all the dope on that,’ with a bar-room
tenor’s voice, parroting all bits of gab,
and with a ‘handle.’ ” It is ’phone of
this description that is blotting the copy-
book of amateur radio. It can be heard
day and night in Australia as in other
countries, and the worst of it is, it is not
only amateurs that hear it, but the
Philips W.A. retailers assembled at the Hotel Savoy, Perth, for the
official convention dinner.
general public as well. Sensibly de-
livered telephony transmissions, minus
movie slang, can be quite interesting to
the casual listener, but the “Okey dokey,
hunky dorey” stuff is nauseating.
An interesting conversation was had
with Ross Hull, of “QST” staff, through
WIJPE the other day. Ross takes his
ultra-shorts very seriously and his rela-
tionship findings of upper atmospheric
temperatures and signal paths on five
metres are of great importance. This
month the “great five-metre panic” of
May, 1936, was repeated, and U.S.A.
amateurs on the East Coast were again
able to work direct with the Middle
West. Long-distance signal paths appear
to open up very late at night, when a
warm layer of upper atmosphere pre-
vails. Late October or November would
be the useful months for tests in Eastern
Australia, and late night inter-State tests
might be worth a trial. Most attempts
at five-metre DX here have been in day-
light, but it will be recalled that VK4AP
reported hearing DX signals at 8.30 p.m.,
Brisbane time, a year ago.
In testing the new 956 acorn T.R.F.
super-regenerator, many stations have
been worked around Sydney that are
completely inaudible with the usual run
of receivers. At present the active sta-
tions include VKs 2ZN, 2ZH, 2ABZ,
2ACB, 2HL, 2IP, 2QF and 2NO. In a
few weeks’ time a special attempt is to
be made with portable stations between
Newcastle and Port Kembla districts
(N.S.W.). Success should be possible if
the right kind of aerial arrays are used
at both ends. According to the M.L.
amateur magazine “Break-In,” interest is
being reawakened in the possibility of
five-metre DX across the Tasman.
VK2NO.
Radio Trade Spotlight.
A useful booklet issued by A.W. Valve
Co., Ltd., is “Radiotron Circuits for Ex-
perimenters.” Described fully therein are
a two-stage transmitter with suppressor
modulation, a three-stage transmitter
with suppressor modulation, plate modu-
lated three-stage transmitter, 25-watt
modulator, 60-watt modulator, and a five-
metre transmitter. Constructional details
are given of the various transformers and
coils used in the circuits (a most useful
feature). The booklet can be obtained
from the co. at 47 York-street, Sydney,
for 2d. postage.
Philips Perth Convention.
At the Perth convention of Philips
retailers A. Dening, manager for W.A.,
occupied the chair, and George David-
son, Australasian sales manager, gave an
address. The new models and audio-
scopic reproduction were shown, and for
half an hour the proceedings were broad-
cast over five stations.
The Question Box.
A friend of mine here in Suva has an Emer-
son 240 zvolt D.C. receiver. It has no earth
terminal and is supposed to operate without an
earth. My receiver is a Pilot, working on the
same power-supply but fitted with an earth
terminal. My friend cannot get Australian or
M.L. stations because of heavy induction from
the power-lines, and if I remove my earth con-
nection I get the same noise. If in my friend’s
house a water-heater is plugged in the noise
disappears and he is able to hear the stations
perfectly. Th&re is no earth connection from
the heater or the container in which water is
heated. It appears to act as a line-noise elimi-
nator. What do you suggest ? —542.
The set without the earth terminal can be
used with an earth by connecting a fairly large
condenser between the chassis and earth. This
condenser should be about lmfd. and capable
of standing the line voltage for continuous
working. One rated at -500-volt D.C. working
should be safe. The water-heater effect is prob-
ably a result of some filtering action due to
the extra load imposed on the house supply.
Such heaters are greedy in current consumption.
Perhaps a simple line-filter would help materially
in remedying your friend’s trouble. They can
be obtained in Sydney from most dealers. Try
Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place.
* * * *
A garage proprietor in a near-by town is
giving up his wireless business and has a num-
ber of sets for sale at half-price. He offers
(a) five-valve dual-wave Majestic, in stock two
years; (b) six-valve dual-wave set made in M.L.
of American parts. Which do you recommend?
—543.
Have had no experience of either. Ask for
a trial of one against the other and make your
own decision.


MTFS
LYS
PROOF
100% Alls tralii an-made
from Australian Material
LYSAGHT’S
Wire Netting Fencing Wire
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
&P3l
I*
%/ Vs
KSS&j
•>*^
Mil
; ±i vjfi!
.<
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydi3/
SPEC IF Y
"LY SAG NT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
any, average 50s. per week clear in any
year in N.S.W. . .
The work is purely seasonal, limited
to four or five months, and made up of
spells of two to five weeks’ work, with
breaks of days, or even weeks, between
jobs. Travelling expenses are heavy, and
the shearer has also to provide himself
with combs and cutters out of his earn-
ings. Further, if there is any harder,
more exacting work than shearing I have
not yet encountered it. Gun shearers
seldom die of old age.
The award states that one shearer
in every six engaged shall be a learner.
Some contractors and stations do give a
genuine learner a pen, but insistence by
others on keeping down shearing costs
and contractors who cut prices to the
bone militate against the learner’s
chances of getting into the industry.
When a shearing contract is made at
a particularly low figure the contractor’s
only hope of showing a profit depends
on his team shearing as many sheep as
possible on the lowest possible wages
bill. This means employing as few shed-
hands and as much boy labor as pos-
sible.
Officially, there may be shearers desig-
nated as learners, but often they are old-
fashioned learners of several years’ stand-
ing whose tallies compare favorably with
Blades v. Machines.
“The Buster”: The change from hand
to machine in shearing (B. 5/5/’37) was
undeniably worth while, and very few
owners of to-day could be persuaded to
return to the methods of the ’nineties.
Perhaps the greatest difference to be
noted is in the sheep themselves. In the
’nineties the jumbuck was not very im-
pressive. A store animal of that era
very rarely weighed 501 b. liveweight,
and was sparsely woolled. The legs,
heads and, in 50 to 75 p.c. of
the flocks, the bellies were almost
bare. The neck, often enough half-bare,
was closely skinned like that of a goat,
and the wool was of a coarse, open
nature, short and without much condi-
tion.
To-day sheep have been developed to
average 60-751 b. store weight. They are
woolled from nose to toes with a long
superfine staple, oily with condition.
The body is often covered with wrinkles
where the Vermont blood comes in, and
the neck hangs lower than the brisket in
big, wool-packed folds.
The old blade warriors would die on
the 50 or 60 mark in our present-day
flocks, and their sheep would not be any
better shorn or less hacked about than
those “Walgett” saw go down the chute
this year.
As “Walgett” states, bruising is com-
mon with machine shearing, but bruises
are more often caused by hot, worn
handpieces than by indiscriminate hand-
ling. Then it is not the shearer’s fault.
The statement that the machine
shearer’s fleece is more broken than that
of the bladesman is not fact, as anybody
of experience knows.
I will admit that the machine shearer
leaves less wool on the skin than the
tong-jammer, but this seems fairly popu-
lar with owners.
To , the statement that machine-shorn
sheep are lost through weather condi-
tions one can only say that sheep do die
from the effect of the cold and the sun,
but will “Walgett” tell us that they didn’t
in ’B7?
It would seem that the Australian
shearer, in “Walgett’s” opinion, is a
puppet of the union. I wonder if it
would surprise him to know that at least
50 p.c. of N. S. Wales shearers are not
union members.
Shearing Learners.
“Bungaree”: A matter that is due for
the attention of graziers, particularly in
N.S.W. and Vic., is the supply of shear-
ing labor in relation to the demand.
For years there has been a steady
shortening of the season at both ends, so
that the majority of sheds now shear in
August and September. Every owner
should be able to begin shearing on the
date that suits his own convenience, but
if the owners of more than half the
52,000,000 sheep in N.S.W. want to. start
shearing within a few weeks of one an-
other they will either have to make
allowance for the state of the labor mar-
ket or take steps to improve it.
Much has been said and written about
the high cost of shearing, and envious
remarks about the size of shearers’
cheques are common. Admittedly, a
cheque for several weeks’ work by a fast
man looks tempting, but few shearers, if
the ringers of some other,sheds. It is a
short-sighted policy, and it is a pity that
those who do employ genuine learners
should have to shoulder the burden of
providing shearers for the future.
It is the big sheds that are providing
the industry with shearers, and when it
is realised that at least a third—probably
more —of the sheds in N.S.W. and Vic.
to-day are under six stands, the labor
question of the future does not look
rosy.
A. stricter definition of the term
“learner”,is necessary in N.S.W. and Vic.
After shearing in three sheds a man is
no longer entitled to be regarded as a
learner, but as sheds from 500 to
3000 sheep a man it is evident that the
term is too loose to be practical/ If a
learner had: shorn only: 1000 sheep in his
three sheds no contractor would sign him
on as a regular shearer, and that is where
many learners are dumped.
In Queensland a man is a learner until
he has shorn 10,000 sheep. A definition
on those lines is sensible.
Two policies are available. Either the
shearing season must be spread out to
lighten the labor requirements of August
and September or else, with the increas-
ing number of small sheds, the proportion
of learners should be increased from one
in six to one in four. The matter is not
one for individuals, but for the organisa-
tions controlling the industry.
Longtails.
“Curly”: If those who have lately
written” that they have never seen a
blown longtail sheep would only go
looking for them, they’d find the blown
proportion nearly 100 p.c. On green
and fresh feed they’d find longtails with
masses of dags on the hindquarters, and
that would in itself induce a blow. One
of the reasons, if not the main one, for
docking sheep is to prevent that accumu-
lation.
If these . advocates had ever tried to
breed from longtailed ewes t they would
be converted in one season to the bene-
fits of docking. Under exactly similar
conditions I would say the stumpies
would drop anything from 20 to 40 p.c.
more lambs than the longtails.
The added wool can be discounted.
If it was worth anything, it would have
been collected long ago.
Toxaemic Jaundice in Sheep.
“B-gar”: The disease may be brought
about by several causes, and “Corimba”
(B. 12/5/’37) is probably right in refuting
the sqggestion of “Corriedale” that the
use of bluestone is contributory. If
given too frequently bluestone does give
sheep a yellow tinge about the face, but
it’s not jaundice. , - , •
In the main, t.j. can be put down to
liver-rot or flukes blocking up the ducts
and thus preventing the flow of bile. The
“It don't take long t' shut th' gates now, Jim."
first symptoms are the staining of the vis-
ible membranes and mouth dribbling.
Treatment does not seem tb.be effective,
but in the early stages, doses of ,6-Bgr.
calomel with ldr.- of aloesf might allay
the complaint. - -
N.S.W. Fodder Competitions.
. In central-western N.S.W. R.A.S. fodder
championship awards N. Watts, Strath-
isla, Trundle, was the leader, with H..R-
Syme, Warrangong, Koorawatha, and
F. H. Shepherd, Acton, Narromine, next
in that order. In the graziers’ section
H. R. Syme won, with Berry and Sons,
Woodview, Trundle, second, and W. H.
Swain, Riverview, Peak Hill, third.
For five previous years the prize had.
gone to K. Gault, Trundle, but this year.
' he was not eligible to compete.
The Syme grazing property was an
object-lesson of what the inland can do
under skilled husbandry. Its natural-
condition carrying capacity would be a
sheep to, the acre. For five years ended
in 1925 the 6200 acres carried an aver-
age of 8000 sheep,, cutting, roughly, 81b.
Pasture improvement has increased
carrying capacity to 11,000 sheep, cut-
ting 101 b. j
The system followed is largely ®.
on top-dressing. About one-third of the
area is treated every year with up to 1-+
tons super. Lucerne receives 2cwt. per
acre, natural pasture lcwt. p.a. over the
whole area. First-cut lucerne from
acres goes into pits at a cost of 9s. per
ton. The other four cuts normally ob-
tained are baled and stored under covet
—cost, 17s. a ton. These are supple-
mented by outdoor stacks of both lucerne
and cereal hays, and there are two grain
silos to hold 1100 bags.
The ewes are comebacks of Pol war tn
type carrying mainly 58-60’s wool, kept
to standard by heavy culling. A few
Southdown crosses are bred. Great care
is taken to feed ewes up to breeding con-
dition and to throw them on silage at
the right moment to increase milk-yield
at lambing'. n
The farm grows its own wheat (->ou
acres) and oats (250 acres), and runs an
Aberdeen-Angus stud apart from > s
sheep. Normal fodder stocks are -00-
odd tons lucerne hay, 50 tons cereal hay,
1300 tons silage and 90 tons oats.
Avoiding Bar Bales.
“C.V.S.”: In disagreeing with me
about the time factor “Dead Finish” (B.
19 /5 / ’37) bases his criticism on the
fact that a mob will not run evenly to
the end. This is true ; but, in practice,
mobs will-run evenly within limits close
enough to allow the classer to judge the
wool on a time basis.
Once a good shearing team has got
into its stride it should work at an even
pace. Catching-pens should never be
filled till the last sheep is caught ; other-
wise there will be a pen of “cobblers
left at the cut-out. Though it is accepted
that good-woolled sheep take the lead,
the tail, of “scrags” is very small except
with aged or weak sheep. A mob of
young, even-aged sheep will yield top-
line fleeces practically till the very last.
Suppose a classer has noticed that he
gets a 3201 b. bale of AA every hour.
At smoke-oh he asks the number of
sheep remaining in the mob, and, by
calculations based on previous runs, finds
that there is 90 minutes’ shearing left.
If he pressed a 3201 b. bale after an hour,
the next half-hour would yield only about
* 1601 b.; but by pressing a bale after 45
minutes and another at the cut-out he
would get two bales of about 2401 b. each
.—weight bales for anything except
merino.
If the penner-up does his job well the
tail will not be large enough to upset
these calculations, and I repeat that it is
a more accurate method than casually
running the eye over the pens to estimate
the number of sheep remaining.
Bales of pieces, bellies and locks may
be judged by this method with great
accuracy, and lambs, also, run very even.
(Continued on page 44.)


w
mmmm
■: ' M I'
il
ill
. ;
:
MM
Mi
AMAZING RESULTS
FOR USERS
Drummoyne,
25th July, 1935.
Dear Sir, —I cart confidently recommend your “ Bido-
mak ’ to anyone suffering from weakness and nervous
debility, or in a run-down condition of health after
'flu.
Its effects, even after the first few doses, are really
magical.
The many friends to whom / have recommended it are
equally enthusiastic about it, and I consider that in
placing so splendid a tonic on the market at so reason-
able a price you are conferring a benefit on the public
that they will need to try but once to appreciate.
Wishing it the success it deserves,
Yours faithfully,
( Signed ) Mrs. A. Q.
THESE ARE THE BENEFITS
BROUGHT YOU BY
BIDOMAK
1. Ends Mineral Starvation by providing ferrum,
calcium, potassium, sodium, phosphates, glycero-
phosphates and sucrose.
2. Gives you a good appetite.
3. Brings sweet sleep.
4. Strengthens nerves.
5. Relieves stomach upsets.
6. Builds energy, “pep” and endurance.
7. Clears out body wastes from every cell of the
body by increasing the amount of oxygen in the
blood stream.
8. Creates rich, red blood, new healthy nerve cells
and nerve fluid.
9. Makes you feel well all over.
10. Safe to take and nice, too. Children like its wild-
cherry flavor.
YOUR MONEY BACK
If you do not benefit by taking Bidomak we will refund
your money within 14 days of purchase on return of
the nearly empty Bidomak bottle to the Douglas Drug
Co.
CHILDREN
love this easy way to
KEEP THEM FREE FROM
COUCHS and COLDS
It s easier to catch cold during winter months because bodily
resistance is lower. There is less sunlight, more time is spent
indoors, and quick changes in temperature from warm rooms to
cold out-of-doors relax the membranes of nose and throat and
make them more open to attack by the cold germs which are
everywhere.
Children suffer also from jumping out of warm beds to play in
the cold winter air.
Build up General
RESISTANCE
All these dangers may be over-
come if means are taken to
build up the general resistance,
because a perfectly healthy,
vigorous system will either
throw germs off altogether or,
if an infection does take hold,
the attack is mild and soon over.
TONIC NECESSARY
You should therefore btfild up general
resistance NOW. Take BIDOMAK,
give it to all your family, and you’ll be
spared a great deal of discomfort later.
BIDOMAK is rich in protective minerals:
ferrum, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphates
and sucrose. These build rich, red blood,
strengthen nerves and reinvigorate every body
cell.
They aid digestion, so that you make better use
of your regular food, extract from it the precious
vitamins you need for extra protection. BIDO-
MAK thus makes run-down people—children or
adults —fit and sparkling with health. It charges
the system with power to resist infection. It
prevents colds or helps you throw them off
quickly, NOT by merely relieving them, but by
correcting the debility which makes it possible
for the cold germs to attack in the first place.
KEEP IT UP !
When you give BIDOMAK to your children
or take it yourself keep it up regularly every day.
Then you will experience its greatest benefits.
It’s safe for even the youngest child, and
so pleasant to take everyone will like
taking it. A big bottle costs only 3/- at
any chemist or store, so get one TO-DAY
and make this a different winter, free from
long-drawn-out coughs and sniffles.
’FLU IS ABOUT!
There’s a great deal of ’flu about,
and if your resistance is not suffi-
ciently good you may be attacked.
Nothing then is so good as BIDO-
MAK to correct that after-’flu de-
pression and build you up quickly
to prevent a relapse.
ALL \
CHEMISTS >
AND STORES
3/-
New Zealand,
3/6 /
i i
m
«<•>>: »:.vV::::5
<«>x
Msmm
BIDOMA
The Tonic of the Century


K W 8 * WANTS
Value!
No matter what article
or product he buys, to
get any satisfaction out
of the purchase a rea-
sonable man wants
value for his money.
Abbey Shoes are made to satisfy ; they
are therefore made to give the utmost for
the money outlaid.
A model made in Black Box Calf and
Brown Willow Calf.
Price 29/6
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address —Abbey Boots, Sydney.
r r
r r
rr
df
Write for
a Catalogue.
DON’T FORGET TO
ORDER YOUR TIN
OF ABBEY POLISH.
iisn
m
ml*
fe'iSiSiwiai
it,
m
MX
m-
V
\lt
r 7
i/I
n
i *
/mCW JKnt
3u2 Afa/ne is—
(DGallum's
Z/A q CC//usA(/ /s
2nJed*
36C
Distributors for the House oj McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. ----- Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
Fremantlt
- - Hoban
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
For perfect ease and comfort, sliave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge. .
Selected steel, black handle - /,■
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 01/
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/6 extra. Fits f and i blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN
gd
fi to,
«ts
Off
fg
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEI.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Thursday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
6AM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
AVilliam Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
FREE HANDBOOK.
Concrete pipes for Irrigation, House and Land
Drainage, Well Linings, Septic Tanks, Culverts,
at Lowest Prices, from Rocla, Limited, pipe
manufacturers. Free Handbook on Irrigation
sent on request. Write to
ROCLA, LIMITED,
PUNCHBOWL ROAD, BELMORE, N.S.W.
J7uTstille&i/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
PASTURE SEEDS.
Write to Hawthorne Bros. Pty., Ltd., Kerang,
Vic., for price list of Wimmera and Cert. Per. Eyes,
Sub. Clovers early and late, all other seeds, and
save 7i% to 10%. We pay freight.
I have used the time method success-
fully in several medium-sized sheds, often
going through the entire shearing without
pressing a single lightweight or mixed
bale.
A Book on Land Management.
“Lion”: Dr. Thomas Cherry’s Austra-
lian Settlement (Oxford University Press)
is a comprehensive, lucid and remark-
ably accurate work.
The author, for many years Victorian
Director of Agriculture, holds that “suc-
cessful farming needs a combination of
practical experience and up-to-date
knowledge.” For 14 years I have followed
much of the. advice given, and the results
have borne out all he asserts. He deals
especially with conditions and possibili-
ties in Victoria, but his methods are
applicable to all parts of southern Aus-
tralia.
Farming in the driest areas is treated
in detail. He points out the immense
possibilities and the profitable results of
adequate moisture conservation, correct
manurial treatment of the soil and the
necessity of stock where wheat is grown.
The evils to be avoided are stressed, and
ways of increasing and improving the
annual output are provided. Careful
attention is paid throughout to rainfall
conditions, and many graphs and illus-
trations are given. He proves that sheep
can be carried without any loss of grow-
ing-crop acreage.
Heavier-rainfall areas are equally well
treated ; and whatever the rainfall the
need for conserved fodder is repeatedly
stressed.
There is an interesting chapter on the
care and feeding of farm livestock, with
which is included the growing, making
and storing of silage. Tables of fodder
values have been compiled from field
experiments, together with rations for
various classes of stock. This chapter
alone makes the book invaluable.
The arguments for and against silage
are effectively laid out, together with
comparisons with the same product in
hay. Construction of silos, the wastage
likely to be encountered and other
methods of storage are included, and
there is a chapter on right feeding
methods.
Then the author has two long sections
on summer and winter crops, covering
ground preparation, manures to use, the
value of stubble, reasonable yields and
the most suitable kind of crops to grow.
Much attention is rightly paid to lucerne,
the advice given being hard to fault.
Included here are hints on the estab-
lishment of all leguminous crops, and it
is shown how poor soils can be rebuilt
by their aid without any loss of income.
Dr. Cherry passes on to sheep and
pastures, common diseases of sheep and
the production of fat lambs for export.
In this chapter it is shown that profitable
sheep-raising and agriculture must pro-
ceed together if the highest net return
off any area is to be obtained. The
correct types of ewes and sires for
fat lambs and how the lambs should
be handled from birth are carefully de-
tailed ; and, although I am surprised that
there is no mention of the English
Leicester, those breeds which are men-
tioned fully merit their inclusion. I have
personally experimented with several of
the breeds and crosses, and still find that
the English Leicester produces some ex-
cellent price-per-head returns. However,
this fact cannot in any way detract from
Dr. Cherry’s advice.
Comparisons, calling for careful con-
sideration, are made between the land
progress in Maoriland and the lack of
it in Australia. Dr. Cherry points out
many markets that could be exploited in
the East and yet are practically untried.
On the whole the book is a very valu-
able addition to the literature of Austra-
lian stock-raising and agriculture.
Rabbits.
“B-gar”: For years rabbit - skins
have reached a high price during the
cold months. At present best bucks are
worth up to Bs. per pound, and with five
to six to the pound there’s money in ’em.
Where rabbits are at all plentiful ex-
perienced trappers are only too glad to
go in and clean up most of them during
autumn and winter months. Trappers
are even prepared to pay for trapping
rights. But many graziers, instead of
employing a man or two to carry on after
the winter trappers have thinned out the
rabbits, leave the paddocks alone until
the following autumn. Meantime, if
seasonal conditions are favorable, Bunny
breeds up again.
Still, the damage done by rabbits in
recent years has been exaggerated, and,
pests though they be in some districts,
they don’t warrant the use of the newly-
evolved European virus. Other means,
not so repulsive, have been used with
success.
“Salmon Gums”: “Natural Law” (B.
28/4/’37) misses the main point, which
is that trapping doesn’t exterminate
rabbits —it increases them.
If a sheep-farmer put 50 rams to run
with 50 ewes his lambing percentage
would be low; so he reduces the pro-
portion of males to females and in-
creases production which is exactly
what the rabbit-trapper does.
The proportion of bucks to does in an
undisturbed warren is practically equal.
But 85 p.c. of rabbits caught in traps are
bucks. Thus the fertility of the remain-
ing does is increased and they breed con-
tinuously instead of for only about four
months of the year.
Another New Pest.
“Zamia”: Queensland is beginning to
suffer from the groundsel bush, from
U.S.A., which is spreading along parts
of the coast.
Groundsel has a curious toothed leaf,
and different shrubs carry the male and
female flowers. The latter are attrac-
tive ; so tourists pick them or the fruit,
which is showy, and help to carry the
pest to new districts.
Groundsel has no feed value, and
farmers should be ready for it with a
couple of pounds of arsenic pentoxide
in a gallon of water. Stock must be
kept away after the spraying.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sandy”: A piece of curved steel of
lft. radius bolted to the braces and cross-
bar on the off handle of an s.f. plough
will save wear on the end of the mould-
board and prevent the handles from be-
coming muddy.
“Rom”: To sharpen a hoe in the
paddock, make a furrow about two to
three inches deep and three to four feet
long, place the hoe on its back so that
the shoulders of the blade are supported
by one side of the furrow, then, with one
knee on the handle, the hoe will be held
firm, allowing two hands to be used on
the file.
“Lam”: The right doses of bluestone
worm drench for calves are: Four
months old, 1| fluid oz. ; six months,
two fluid oz.; nine months, three fluid
oz.; 12 months, four fluid oz.; over 12
months, six fluid oz. The mixture is lib.
fresh bluestone in five gallons of water.
“Marsh”: Often in shoeing a badly-
driven nail will cause pricking. Flinch-
ing by the horse will generally indicate
that this has taken place, and sometimes
a little blood will flow. The. shoe should
be removed, the puncture enlarged and
the foot bathed in antiseptic. If neglected,
the germ-carrying nail-point may cause
a gathering to form, and unless the punc-
ture has been enlarged the pus is unable
to come away freely.
“Abi Tonus”: A Swedish outbreak of
milk-borne tuberculosis in August, 1936,
shows what can happen under present
systems of examination. Fifty children
were infected from one cow in a herd of
22 which had previously been examined
by a vet.; all had been found healthy
clinically, but no skin tests were done.
The animal responsible was found when
the milk from each cow was examined
separately. At the post-mortem, tuber-
culosis was found in the lungs as well as
in the udder. The lesson is that unless
all cows are submitted to a skin test
there will always be a doubt about milk,
all of which should be scalded before
use. Scalding (to 170 degrees) does not
affect the value of milk, except to destroy
some of the vitamin C content.


C M
STAMINA
and
STRENGTH!
m
-*§B
V/
.
f • *
m
[fOß.i
the
ORIGINAL
&
au*
OATMEAL
STOUT
Brewed from the finest
malted oats.
"jfekfyTcee
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Short Story
f Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to wiite and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
IHE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL SANK, LIiVIITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors — J ames Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, 1,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES. .
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also represeiitarii-.
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the norifl, i -
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be c<pnfined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Disabled Digger desires unwanted rationalist
literature. —5869.
Companion - help, gentlewoman, Sydney,
middle-aged, seeks position country, good cook,
needlework and gardening, excellent creden-
tials. —5870.
Station hand, N.S.W., wants work on sheep
station anywhere.—sB73.
Engine-driver, machinery hand, shift boss and
cyanide expert (N.S.W.), 20 years’ exp., can
treat residues and work battery amalgamator,
wants employment anywhere.—sB77.
Country boy starting stamp collection will
give reading matter, knitting or crochet patterns
in exchange for foreign stamps. —5891.
Critic and polisher to read and revise manu-
script, Irish-Australian story.—sBBB.
Address of descendants or relatives of poet
Henry Kendall.—sBBs.
To buy Bushman and Buccaneer: Harry
Morant: His Ventures and Verses, by Frank
Renar.—s7s6.
Sydney concert pianist and teacher with Con-
tinental training and high qualifications seeks
opening in good country town, N.S.W. or
Queensland. —5831.
Information Sought.
(1) Description and history of the Australian
coat of arms? (2) Why were the kangaroo and
emu and the motto “Advance Australia”
adopted ? —5812.
The coat of arms had its origin in the flag
designed and flown by John Bowman on his
farm at Archerfield, Richmond (N.S.W.), in
1805, on the arrival of news of the victory of
Trafalgar. The original, in the Mitchell
Library, Sydney, shows the kangaroo and emu
supporters with Nelson’s famous signal be-
neath. During the following century the sym-
bols were variously adapted by public and pri-
vate bodies for representation on coins, docu-
ments, tokens, etc., usually with the words
“Advance Australia” beneath, but the arms
were never authoritative nor accorded any
official recognition. In the official blazon even-
tually adopted and recorded at the Heralds’
College, London, the arms consist of a shield
containing six divisions bearing the badges of
the six States, supported by the kangaroo and
emu, with the word “Australia” beneath. The
design as still shown in the coinage, and bear-
ing the words “Advance Australia,” is there-
fore officially incorrect. The present arms
were granted by King George V. on Septem-
ber 19, 1912, in place of those granted by King
Edward VIII. in 1908. (2) The symbols, of
course, are distinctively representative and the
motto an expression of patriotic hope.
* * * *
(1) If a boy of 18 wins a “certain” lot-
tery, can he collect the money personally, or
must some responsible person be given the
money in trust? (2) Should the application
form be filled in in any particular way if the
money is to be kept in trust? —5661.
(1) The boy cannot collect the money. Sub-
ject to the approval of the Colonial Treasurer
payment can be made to the father of a minor,
on his furnishing a satisfactory indemnity.
(2) The Act makes no provision for money to
be held in trust for minors.
* * * *
What portions of her European territories
did Germany lose after the Great War? —5883.
Under the Treaty of Versailles Germany lost
(1) Alsace-Lorraine, ceded to France; (2) the
greater part of the provinces of West Prussia
and Posen, to Poland; (3) a part of Upper
Silesia and of East Prussia, likewise to Poland;
(4) portion of Upper Silesia, to Czechoslovakia;
(5) Memel, to Lithuania; (6) Danzig, a Free
State under the protection of the League of
Nations; (7) Eupen and Malmedy, to Belgium;
(8) part of Schleswig, to Denmark. Of cer-
tain areas whose fate was to be settled by
plebiscite the northern zone of Schleswig went
to Denmark, while the southern zone, together
with East and West Prussia, reverted to Ger-
many, as did also, after 15 years’ alienation, the
Saar Basin (in 1935). The total area lost is
approximately 28,000 sq. m., and the population
between six and seven millions.
* * * *
(1) Sir James Jeans, dealing with temperature,
refers to the “absolute scale which has its zero
at minus 273 deg. C. or minus 469 deg. F.”
What is absolute zero? (2) Is minus 469 deg.
F. equal to minus llhdeg. C. ? —-5827.
(1) The pressure of a gas kept at constant
volume, or the volume of a gas kept at con-
stant pressure, varies by 1-273 of its pressure
or volume at Odeg. C. for every deg. change of
temperature. This leads to the conclusion
that its pressure or volume will become zero
at —273 deg. C. It is assumed that a body
reduced to this temperature will contain no heat
at all; it would be at absolute zero. All gases
except helium become liquid long before this
temperature is reached. (2) No. To convert
—273 deg. C. into F. multiply by nine and divide
by five. Deduct 32 from the result and the
answer is —4s9deg. F.
* * * *
(1) Is the heliograph still used in the army?
(2) What is its maximum range ? (3) Could it
be used between two points about 20 miles
apart? (4) Is skill required for its operation ?
(5) Can the instrument be used when the sun is
behind it? —5910.
(1) Yes. (2) About 70 miles over suitable
country and under best atmospheric conditions.
(3) Yes, if the two points are intervisible
and if the sun is shining. (4) It can be easily
learnt, but a knowledge of the Morse code is
necessary. (5) Yes. When the angle between
the sun, the heliograph and the distant point is
greater than a right-angle, a second, or duplex,
mirror is used.
* * * *
What is the legend of the owl and the baker’s
daughter, as mentioned in "Hamlet,” Act IV,
Scene 57—5906.
A baker’s daughter was turned into an owl for
refusing bread to Christ. The story is said to be
well known in Gloucestershire, also among the
English gipsies, among whom the name for an
owl was Maromengro’s Chavi, or Baker’s,
Daughter. The connection in the mind of
Ophelia (in whose mouth the allusion is put)
is simply that of a sudden transformation sug-
gested by the change in Hamlet, or the altera-
tion in her own circumstances, brought about by
the death of her father.
H: * * *
(1) Designer of the Crystal Palace, England?
(2) Particulars ?— 5903.
(1) Sir Joseph Paxton. (2) Constructed en-
tirely of iron and glass, the building was 1600 ft.
long, with towers at each end 282 ft. high.
It was reconstructed at Sydenham in 1854 from
the building used for the Great Hyde Park Ex-
hibition of 1851. From the top of the north
tower a view of eight counties was possible on
a clear day. The building was used for musical
festivals. In 1920-23 it housed the Imperial
War Museum, and later became an amusement
centre. The building was recently destroyed by
fire.
* -i' * *
What is a tontine? —s9l3.
The name given to a financial plan in which
a number of persons pay down a certain
sum of money, for which they are each guaran-
teed an annuity for life. As each member
dies his share is equally divided among the
rest, until at last the single survivor inherits
the whole. The scheme is so called after Tonti,
a Neapolitan, who invented it.
$ t V
How did the word “grog” come to be applied
to the navy rum issue? —5837.
During the eighteenth century the rum issued
to the Navy was watered down to one part
spirit and three parts water by Admiral Vernon,
who was nicknamed “Old Grog” because of
a coat of grogram (a coarse mixture of silk-
and mohair) which he wore in bad weather.
The connection is obvious.
* * * #
What were the allegations regarding a pre-
vious marriage of the late King George? Were
they ever authoritatively refuted? —5824.
A story that King George had been secretly
married before his marriage with Queen Mary
and that the union had been ignored for
reasons of state was current for some years
before his accession. At Queen Victoria’s de-
sire the rumor was authoritatively denied in
1893; and again in 1910. Finally, the story
appeared in the “Liberator,” published in
Paris, and was to the effect that the King,
when a midshipman, had married in Malta a
daughter of Admiral Sir Michael Culme-Sey-
mour. The publisher, Edward Mylius, was
arrested on a charge of criminal libel, and
tried before the Lord Chief Justice and a jury,
when the story was proved to be untrue. Sir
Michael Culme-Seymour gave evidence that he
had no daughter of an age whom the King
could have married in 1890. Other evidence
showed that the King was not at Malta be-
tween 1888 and 1891, while the Maltese regis-
ters contained no record of the alleged mar-
riage. Mylius was sentenced to one year’s
imprisonment, after which a signed statement
by the King, denying any previous marriage,
was read in court.
❖ % % *
Who was the author of the penny postal
system., and particulars? —sB4o.
Sir Rowland Hill (1795-1879), English adminis-
trator and educationist. He succeeded in
demonstrating that the chief expense of letter
carriage was in receiving and in distribution at
the end of the journey, and that the cost varied
so little with the distance that a uniform rate
of postage would be the most practical course.
He recommended within the United Kingdom
a penny rate for letters not exceeding in
weight, and suggested that the difficulty might
be overcome “by using a bit of paper just
large enough to bear the stamp and covered on
the back with a glutinous wash which, by
applying a little moisture, could be attached
to the back of the letter.” The Government
was opposed to the measure, but was eventu-
ally compelled to yield to public opinion. Penny
postage was included in the Budget and carried
by the House of Commons on July 12, 1839.
The new rate commenced on January 10, 1840.
* * * *
Is the grammar correct in the following:
“Brotherhood as a sentiment was easy, but the
mechanics of brotherhood were different, its
obligations crushing,” and “....haven’t pro-
gressed since ‘ldylls of the King’ were pub-
lished”?—sB4l.
In the first sentence there is ambiguity as to
whether it is the mechanics of brotherhood or
brotherhood itself whose obligations are crush-
ing, and ambiguity is a grammatical fault. The
plurality of “Idylls” may be held to justify
“were” in the second quotation.
* * * *
(1) How to become a licensed electrician?
(2) Date of next examination ? (3) Must I
come to Sydney for same ? (4) Fee ? (5)
Where to apply? —5748.
(1) The applicant must furnish evidence to
show that he has had at least five years’ prac-
tical experience in electrical installation work,
and the application must be accompanied by
a certificate of good character signed by a
iesponsible person. The examination includes
a kno /ledge of electricity and the electrical
wiring rules of the Standards Association of
Australia. (2) November next. (3) No.
Arrangements may be made for it to be held
locally. (4) ss. (5) Electrical Contractors and
Electricians’ Licensing Board, Box 44A, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
* * * *
Particulars regarding Henry Van Dyke ?
5780.
Born November 10, 1852, at Germantown,
Pennsylvania, he attended Princeton University,
Princeton Theological School and Berlin Uni-
versity. In 1879 he joined the Presbyterian
ministry and was pastor at Newport, Rhode
Island, and from 1883 to 1900 at Brick Presby-
terian Church, New York City; he was also
for a term Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church in the U.S.A. In 1900 he became Pro-
fessor of English Literature at Princeton Uni-
versity, and in 1908 was American lecturer at
the Sorbonne; in 1913 was appointed U.S.
Minister to the Netherlands and Luxembourg,
but resigned in 1917. He died 1933. His most
popular publications have been his outdoor
essays, such as Fisherman’s Luck and Little
Ruins; others include The Other Wise Man,
The Ruling Passion, The Blue Flower, The
Golden Key, Even Unto Bethlehem and The
Man Behind the Book.
* * * *
(1) Who was the inventor of bakelite ? (2)
Details of its manufacture ? (3) Its chief uses ?
—5919.
(1) Dr. L. H. Baekeland, a Belgian. (2)
It is manufactured by the interaction of phenol
and formaldehyde, which gives a viscous
fluid; on heating this in moulds to a tempera-
ture of about 180 deg. C. and under pressure
the mass sets to a hard material which is in-
fusable and insoluble in most solvents. (3)
Largely used in the electrical and radio industry
as an insulator, and for articles such as switch
covers, etc. Also used for trays, inkwells,
cameras, developing tanks, wireless cabinets, etc.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding Dr. Axjl Munthe,
the author? —5770.
He is of Swedish birth, and studied and also
practised in Paris. He was for many years
physician to the Queen of Sweden, but has
now retired from practice, and resides at Torre
di Materita, Anacapri, Italy. His publications
include The Story of San Michele, Red Cross
and Iron Cross, Memories and Vagaries and
Letters from a Mourning City. Dr. Munthe
possesses the British decoration of Comman-
der of the Royal Victorian Order.
* * * *
(1) Will a 12 -volt car battery provide suf-
ficient current to light a room 9 x 7 x 16 feet?
(2) If so, suitable type of lamp ? (3) Could the
lamp be attached to the ceiling? (4) Could the
battery be charged fortnightly by the car
generator, assuming lamp to be used two hours
nightly? (5) If so, what mileage would the car
have to cover ? —5822.
(1) Yes, if short leads of 1/.044 wire are
used. (2) A 20-watt, 25-c.p. Philips, or similar
type, D.C. auto lamp; price Is. 6d. A 32-c.p.
lamp would require greater current. (3) Yes,
by using a S.B.C. batten holder, price about
lOd. (4) Depends upon the amp.-hour capacity
of the battery. Would be advisable to charge
each week, as a 20-watt lamp, used over a
period of 28 hours each fortnight, requires
about 47 amp.-hours of current. (5) Depends
upon the charging rate. This should be ascer-
tained by test.
* * * *
(1) Preparation to protect and polish veneer
on wireless cabinet in a dry climate ? (2) Is
a rag which has been dipped in raw linseed oil
and wrung out and then rubbed over the cabi-
net useful ? (3) A good preservative for oak
furniture? —5817.
(1) White furniture cream. It is difficult to
preserve veneers in hot climates; the furniture
should be covered with baize during the day
to preserve any coolness acquired by the wood
during the night. (2) Too sticky. Mix to-
gether in a bottle equal parts of raw linseed
oil, turpentine, vinegar and methylated spirit.
Shake well, apply with a flannel, polish with
silk. Olive oil and vinegar in equal parts is
also a useful mixture. (3) Nothing better than
shredded beeswax dissolved in turpentine to a
paste, applied sparingly with a flannel and
polished with a clean dry cloth.
t * * *
(1) Scientific name of the native tamarind,
and to what family does it belong? (2) A
brief description of the tree ? —5619.
(1) Diploglottis Cunninghami,\ it is the only
species of a genus of the family Sapindaceae,
which is endemic in Australia. (2) A tall,
slender bush tree, ranging north from southern
Illawarra into Queensland. The leaves have
10-12 leaflets, up to one foot long, covered
with a velvety coat of rust-colored hairs; fruit
is a globular, fleshy capsule, the seeds em-
bedded in an amber-colored pulp (arillus)
which has a pleasant, somewhat acid flavor
and may be made into a palatable jelly. The
wood is white and close-grained.
* * * *
(1) Value of 20s. Victorian stamp dated Oct.
19, 1885 ? (2) ss. dated Jan. 28, 1889? (3)
likely buyers ? —5942.
(1) Violet or lilac on yellow 60s. to 705.,
orange on yellow 55., orange on white 10s.
(2) Blue on yellow 405., claret on yellow Is,
blue and red 20s. These stamps may be bought
at about one-third these figures. (3) Try W.
Ackland, Collins and Elizabeth streets, or A. B.
Forsyth, 31 Queen-street— both Melbourne.
Brief Answers.
C.L.: Representative of the British Color
Council in Sydney is G. Seddon, Grace
Building, York-street, Sydney... .L.W.8.:
Write Civil Aviation Branch, Dept, of Defence,
Melbourne W.G.A.: (1) No limit. (2) If
proof of paternity be established the father of
each child can be made responsible for its
maintenance... .W.8.A.: You will have to
write to the War Office, Whitehall, London.
J.D.J.: The iron clipper ship Loch Torri-
don, 2000 tons, was built in 1881, and made
frequent trips to Australia until sold to Russia
in 1912. She was sunk, probably by a tor-
pedo, in the English Channel, January, 1915.
... .N.C.A.: Yes, you can sue him in the same
way as you may sue any other person. Any-
one of average education and good character
may become a Justice of the Peace. The mere
fact of indebtedness to some person or persons
is not a disqualification... .F.H.: (1) and (2)
Yes. (3) An executor may be a beneficiary, but
cannot give himself preference over other lega-
tees K.M.P.: Ceylon has an area of 25,332
square miles and a population of about
5,000,000, of which approximately two and
three-quarter million are Buddhists and one
million Hindus, Mohammedans and Christians
in about equal numbers. It has been a British
Crown colony since 1796, and is administered
by a Governor and a State Council of 46
elected members... .R.D.: Coolup is a W.A.
abo. place-name meaning “a watering-place.”
J.K.C.: The spider is probably Arbanitis
fuscipes, a species which sinks a shaft in the
soil and lines it with web. This spider is
sometimes confused with the “funnel-web”
spider Atrax robustus, also popularly termed
a “trapdoor” spider, and a harmful species.
These spiders remain in their retreats during
the day, and emerge at night in search of
food. There is no method of trapping known
and eradication would be difficult... .D.S.:
The rail fare from London to Glasgow is
£3 3s. Bd. first class, and £2 10s. 3d. second
class... .S.C.C.: From Universities Bureau of
the British Empire, 88a Gower-street, London,
W.C.1... .H.J.: Royal Microscopical Society,
B.M.A. House, Tavistock-square, London,
W.C.I J.J.P.: (1) British Australian Lead
Manufacturers, Ltd., 32 Market-street, Sydney,
manufacture “Necol” plastic wood. (2) Ob-
tainable wholesale or retail from the above
address, or retail from leading Sydney paint
firms. Retail prices, 2s. 2d. per ; 3s. lOd.
per lib.; 13s. 4d. per 41b. tin S.G.L.: The
Reich banknote for twenty thousand marks is
of no value... .J.M.L.: Taggart’s Handbook
of Ore Dressing (£4 45.) contains chapters on
the subject....J.G.D.: (1) 2177.81760 z. (2)
2722.2721 b. troy, 22401 b. avoirdupois
J.T.M.: Try the B.H.P. Co., Melbourne. Price
varies according to size of the scrap... .M.G.:
Write N.S.W. Railways Dept., Bridge-street,
Sydney J.R.M.: Waterglass is the common
name of sodium of potassium silicate, and it is
impossible for an amateur to make it
A.M.D.:*Get in touch with Brunton Gibb, 16
Ash-street, Sydney... .E.A.W.: X-ray films
offer the only chance of detecting such trouble
in its early stages... .W.M.F.: There is no
one remedy. “Catarrh” is not a disease of
itself, but the sign of any one of several. The
exact cause can be determined only by examina-
tion. The use of ephedrine sprays and of
chloretone or benzedrine inhalants often re-
lieves the symptoms. All chemists sell these
preparations L.M.M.: Communicate with
Superintendent, Institution for Deaf, Dumb
and Blind, City-road, Sydney. He will advise
whether you can get tuition nearer home
F.H.C.: Best plan is to communicate with (1)
Director of Public Health, Queensland, or (2)
Superintendent, Brisbane General Hospital.
Cannot give specific advice as to the exact
cause of your symptoms without seeing you.
Testing by an allergy specialist seems essential.
J.G.: The attacks are very infrequent, even
although, on your own statement, you are tak-
ing no drugs to suppress them. Under proper
treatment they may disappear altogether, and
your depression with them. Cannot give further
advice as the medicines now employed can
be dispensed only when prescribed by a medi-
cal man W.H.M.D.: No such possibility
at present M.M.L.: Not necessarily. Swal-
lowing of large amounts of fluid will produce
this result; but it also occurs in some forms of
nephritis. Medical examination will settle the
question of ailment and the treatment, if any,
required F.C.5.8.: (1) The address of the
Christian Science Publishing Co., publishers of
the “Christian Science Monitor,” is 1 Norway-
street, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A. (2)
Address the headmaster, London County Coun-
cil Board School, Peckham, South London,
England E.F.: The aboriginal word Wyong
means “place where Christmas-bells grow” or
alternatively “fresh spring water” or “running
water”... .H.C.: Tullibigeal is a N.S.W. abo.
place-name meaning “Yarran wood spears”
W.D.M.C.: The owner of the Kelpie dog Red
Budgeree is W. E. Temple, Darouble, Nyngan
(N.5.W.)....M.L.: (1) Not for mere childless-
ness. A marriage may, however, be annulled on
the ground of impotence when the marriage was
solemnised. (2) Yes; having “tolerated the situa-
tion” in the past amounts to condonation. In
cases of adultery condonation is forgiveness
legally releasing the injury. (3) Yes; so long as
she remains his wife he is compellable to main-
tain her. Leaving her husband, in the circum-
stances stated, would not in all probability be
construed by the Court to be desertion without
excuse. (4) and (5) Cannot see grounds for
successful action A.P.G.: Robert Towers
Gillies represented Byron in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly from May 30, 1925, to Sep-
tember 7, 1927... .C.K.A.: The Pleasant Career
of a Spendthrift, by George Meudell (Wilkie
and Co., Melbourne, 7s. 6d.) H.H.:
Quirindi is a N.S.W. abo. place-name meaning
“dead tree on mountain-top” K.E.P.: Write
W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Syd-
ney... .A.E.H.: Write Burns. Philp, 7 Bridge
street, or W. R. Carpenter, 19 O’Connell-street
—both Sydney M.G.T.: Questions are too
vague A.J.H.: Write Australian Labor
party, Trades Hall, Goulburn-street, Sydney
....(Many others mailed.)


Valuable
jSBP
Data
in Interesting Courses.
metropolitan school
f ' Halley St.. ■Ry.ln.T. OF JOURNALISM
Wool Yams No. 5.
Through the Mill
Have you, Dear Reader, any idea, when you choose
a suit or dress material, what has gone into its
manufacture? What has happened to it as it passed
through the mill? Why it is good? Why it appeals
to you? If not, let us give you. . . .but a small idea,
certainly. . . .but one that will let you see some of
our problems. . . .and yours.
TAKE WOOL AND YARRA FALLS
Take wool. . . .and Yarra Falls, the largest textile
mills in the Southern Hemisphere. Yarra Falls uses
20,000 bales of wool, and turns it into 4,000,0001 b.
of yarn and 3,000,000 yards of woven fabrics
annually. It has mill floor-space of eight acres; plant
and buildings representing a capital investment of
over £1,250,000; and employs 2250 skilled operatives.
In short, Yarra Falls is in itself a great Australian
Secondary Industry, and, as such, is of interest to you.
As an Australian, wool, of course, interests you. You
will see plenty of it at Yarra Falls. Here, in the
sorting and hlending rooms, are great heaps of it.
£5OOO worth passes through the mill every week.
Raw wool is greasy, so first Yarra Falls scours it,
removing grease and dirt and foreign matter, making
it soft, snowy, fleecy. This the “Carding Engines”
take in hand. These “card” the wool, open out and
intermingle the fibres and remove impurities, and
deliver the wool in the form of a long, continuous
“sliver.” This sliver goes to the Noble combing
machine, which combs from it the shorter fibres,
or “noils,” and delivers for spinning the longer fibres,
or tops.
In the Yarn Department, these tops are spun into
yarn. Yarn for weaving and yarn for knitting—that
is, after being dyed if colours are required; and it is
as well to mention that Yarra Falls produces 1250 solid
shades and 5000 tonings in its yarns! The weaving
yarns—with which we are concerned—are produced
on machinery which gradually draws out the fibres,
reducing the diameter of the “sliver” and simultane-
ously twisting it slightly. The completed single yarn
is then twisted into 2- 3- or 4-ply yarn as required,
4
Woven Fabrics going “Through the Mill” at Yarra Falls.
“The Wool
Gir1—1937.”
■
m
Wm |
and finally wound on to large warp beams—the
“warp” of your material.
The weaving looms of Yarra Falls are wonders to
behold. Over, under, through, between the threads
of this “warp” and “weft” threads fly, following
uncannily the pattern arranged by the designer, pro-
ducing Twills and Fancy Worsted Suitings. .. .
Venetians .... Baratheas .... Covert Coatings ....
Wool Crepes. . . .Wool Georgettes. .. . Then there
are inspections for defects. Dyeing Yarra Falls
offers you, Madam, 5000 exquisite shadings in piece-
dyed materials, fast-dyed with British dyes Shrink-
ing all Yarra Falls materials are pre-shrunk—Milling,
Cropping, Pressing. . . .
Specify YARRA FALLS Materials
Those are some of our problems, some of the things
we have to look to in transforming the raw wool into
finished materials for Australian men, women and
children to wear. That we have tackled them
successfully is evidenced by the growth of Yarra
Falls in the 16 years since it was established. For
Yarra Falls operatives know their jobs. They have
been “Through the Mill.” And your material prob-
lems? They are easy of solution. When ordering
your next suiting or dress material, just specify
YARRA FALLS .... And your material problems
will be solved.
YARRA FALLS
Limited
Worsted, Spinning and Weaving Mills,
Abbotsford, N 9, Victoria.
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) wi
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
S.H.C.: Still misses... .M.T.: That one not
up L.A.: Nothing in it... .L.0.J.: Nor in
that A.C.: Prospectors, explorers or others
killing their mates for gold are definitely on.
L.P.C.: “I left home—in spite of Mothers
tears and pleadings and of little Sister’s wide,
questioning eyes.” Very heartless of y0u....
M.G.: “Back to the Herd, James.” You said
it E.G.P.: Thin R.G.H.: Gets no-
where J.F.8.: It’s been done better....
A.H.: Obvious....H.H.W.: The long arm
spoils it; but you may place it elsewhere....
R.J.S.: That one not for us; but keep trying.
V.N.F.: Bellowdrammer try it on a
flapper magazine... .A. 0.: Both stodgy
P.W.P.: Yours, too N.L.: Food for flap-
pers M.H.S.: No place for sharpshooting
newchums F.C.: Like Jones’s efforts, it goes
back J.H.: Doesn’t grip....L.E. (U.S.A.):
Not up... .L.T.: Came close, but you seem un-
able to strike what we want... .V.L.8.: Too long
for Smoke-oh; not enough in it for a sketch.
J.McG.: Tough luck for your Greek god,
but we can’t do anything about it... .E.M.N.:
Charming little romance about June, the boss’s
nephew and his crimson roadster can’t be re-
corded here R.W.: Just missed E.C.0.:
Admire the youngsters’ grit, but that’s a 11....
K.H.-C.: Dull J.E.: You don’t get
away with it A.R.M.: Didn’t raise even a
snigger N.A.M.M.: Quite off our beat....
J.C.: This week’s gloomiest K.T.: Bumpy.
MJ.L.: There’s an idea there, but it’s
three times too long L.G.: Too slight
M.E.M.: Both dull N.T.: The first scrappy,
the other not our type M.A.: That one not
up; keep trying A.M.A.: Labored
H.G.: Not for us E.B.S. (India): No corner
for “The Tragedy of Imperial Delhi”
C.MacP.: Nothing new there... .J.E.F.: Nor
there G.M. (England): Those matchmakers
making a return trip Ersantee: Not worth
a par R.F.: Slight E.P.P.: Magazine
stuff J.S.: “The Female of the Species” no
better than the dozen others we regularly get
with the same theme... .J.T.8.: Wife runs
away with lover and dies when he deserts her.
Iwenty years later husband and lover meet in
Centralia. That’s as far as we got A.K.:
Merely fine writing F.C.: Doesn’t make the
grade... .R.J.S.: “ The Octerpus ” nearly
crawled in; the others failed to show up....
R.A.A.: Still misses R.S.C.: No market
here for spy stories A.McK.S.: Try it on
a magazine C.C.S.: Your “humorous story”
caused no hysterics W.J.A.: Unsatisfying.
....K.V.W.: It drags E.W.: Still much too
light H.P. (London): “The value I place
on the enclosed poem is ten guineas.” It would
be dear at tenpence H.L.W.: Those Joneses
were dealt with a month ago J.G.E.: Some
faulty rhymes; and there’s no such word as
“tresper” J.C.J.: Might do for family con-
sumption-nothing more H.P.: A long, long
way after Tennyson’s “8r00k”... .E.S.: A very
ragged rhyme indeed J.McD.:
I was on an Easter vacation
When I first set eyes on you.
’Twas in the silvery moonlight
I fell in love. What else could I do?
Well, falling in the river might have been
safer I.McK.: Unmetrical as well as ill-
rhymed... .A.G.: Not enough in it....L.N.:
A wild maze verily H. 5.8.: Tolerable
enough verse of its kind, but hardly our kind.
....J.C.: No, they’re not of the standard re-
quired. .. .J.C.McL.: Not at all a bad parody,
but fails to get past... .P.C.W.: After four read-
ings we were still hazy regarding what it was
about J.S.: None of them makes the faintest
appeal P.C.W.: You can’t make a nocturne
out of the simple fact that it’s dark outside
8.W.: You’ve some facility for rhyme, but not
much neatness of expression or fertility of idea.
Cannot answer any further questions.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENIS.
G.W.: Jest might amuse an archaeologist, but
nobody else.... T.W.: All the figures seem to
be stricken with paralysis S.R.D.: Let us
hear from you when you have finished your
studies P.N.: The wash-drawing got nearest
the mark; anatomical details very faulty
H. 8.: More like an overgrown dachshund than
a horse, and the rider is a wooden figure....
8.R.: Didn’t you learn anything about per-
spective during your “intensive art training”?
• •..J.K.: You’re ten years too late with that
quip about the drunkard and the tin-hares
A.L.: Gwydir by-election cartoon is based on
a tame and far-fetched pun C.8.H.: That
deadbeat turns up at 252 George-street about
once a month K.M.J.: You still have to
master the elementary rules C. 8.: Not an
acceptable one among the half-dozen
f.E.H.: Linework is hesitant, but you should
make g00d... .A.P.G.: Came a cropper
when it tried to clear the editorial hurdle
A.N.: Did you dip the brush into a gluepot?
• ••.L.S.: Same old dossers, same old park-
bench, same old gag R.D.: Dad and the
family must have been eating green apples, by
their doubled-up attitudes H.J.: Slick style,
forced humor A.J.W.: What the angular
charlady said to the face at the window didn’t
raise a laugh... .P.J.: Idea too muddled for a
political cartoon; also, drawing is hopeless....
M.S : The lass on the raft is hardly distin-
guishable from the makeshift flagpole J.T.:
rriends, barbers, tram conductors, newsboys
and sundry others had already whispered that
wheeze into our ears A.M.: Abo. more like
a Chinaman whose face has been treated with
burnt cork... .E.F.: You’re a champion at
producing yawns G.R.: A stiff and untidy
batch W.C.8.: Picture of performing fleas
oidn t tempt us.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Another Autopsy
“C.P. Official” (B. 19/5/’37) says there
was nothing wrong with the C.P. organi-
sation in Gwydir. Rubbish!
In Wee Waa on the night Dr. Earle
Page spoke hardly anyone knew he. was
coming. As a consequence, the few
listeners were chiefly children who were
attracted by the noise of the doctor’s
loudspeaker beefing out “It’s a Sin to
Tell a Lie.” At Walgett Yeo, M.L.A.,
was to have given Milling a helping voice.
He was in Sydney and knew nothing
about it. At Werris Creek, Fadden,
M.H.R., Minister Vincent and Milling
blew in to preach the C.P. gospel to the.
railwaymen. Again no one knew they
were coming. Not that it mattered much
to Werris Creek ; that night “the dogs”
were operating, and the populace pre-
ferred dogs to politicians.
It was common to read in one of the
papers that So-and-so would speak at a
certain place on a particular night. The
candidates and their support had a dif-
ferent programme, and the meetings
lapsed.
But Labor never failed to stage-
manage a good meeting for its dispensers
of political wisdom, and Labor engaged
in an intense house-to-house canvas.
Members of Parliament and keen organ-
isers from the city put in a couple of
weeks at a stretch in some of the larger
towns interviewing everyone.
Another extraordinary phase of the
C.P. campaign was the singling out of
Batchelor as the party man. Batchelor
is a school-teacher. Moore is a grazier;
Milling has a stock and station business
at Dunedoo, and is a human volcano as
far as energy is concerned. An ironical
Labor organiser said to me “We’re help-
ing the cause of Batchelor all we can.”
The wrangle with the Japanese
alienated graziers throughout the elec-
torate.— The Rover (Dunedoo, N.S.W.).
f , - T
ln the News
Art is in the Melbourne news. Attor-
ney-General Menzies described some
trends of modern art as “cross-eyed” and
“absurd.” Melbourne artists hit back
at him enthusiastically, and in the pro-
cess got valuable publicity for their
profession.
Like Mr. Menzies, I’m a layman, and
I find modern art lacking in essential
1 g 'f a H ' f k SaW K° n u canv ?f
of a girl who looked as though she could
stand a healthy kiss, one boat that might
conceivably weather a bay squall, one
bush hill that could make a cow hungry,
but where are such paintings to be seen
nowadays? 6
T , c tut • r . .
• ef V J *° r ’ Me nzi esfor begin-
ning the controversy. What I d like now
is for some pedestrian mind with life-
ong interest in music to emit a loud and
scornfu haw-haw the next time musical
critics throw U P their usual yards 01 un-
intelligible blah. Bones (Vic.).
“A Substantial Preference”
A curious anomaly in taxation has
come to light with the putting of a
Junkers Diesel aeroplane on an Australian
route. Daily press writers have outdone
themselves in advertising the cheapness
of the Junkers to run. Here is the. ex-
planation :
Petrol, which British and Australian
machines must use, is taxed over 7d. per
gallon and is worth more than Is. per
gallon wholesale at tanks (Is. Bd. retail).
Fuel oil, used in the German ’plane, is
not taxed, though it comes from the same
overseas sources as petrol: it is, there-
fore, worth under 4d. at tanks (7d. retail).
In other words, a state of affairs exists
which gives German ’planes a substan-
tial official preference over British and
other ’planes.—E. H. M. (N.S.W.).
No Risk or Responsibility
The amount of consideration which
the still-unpublished report of Queens-
land’s Royal Commission on Transport is
likely to receive is evident from the
Ministerial sanction given to a new com-
bined rail-road service from Brisbane to
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), via Southport.
Present excursion fares on this heavily-
losing Government line are 10s. 9d.
second-class to Tweed Heads, roughly
half-way from Southport to Murwillum-
bah. The new venture, rail to Southport
and road to Murwillumbah and back,
will charge 9s. for week-end return trips,
or Is. 9d. less for the whole journey than
to Tweed Heads. The existing services
which pioneered the route will, of course,
continue to pay the extortionate license
fees demanded by the Traffic Strangula-
tion Board, and will ha,ve to compete
against the new railway venture made
from public funds with no risk or re-
sponsibility in case of failure. — Dick
Tafone (Q.).


EVERY HOME
NEEDS the
not*
of a
TORCH!
• You never know when you may
want a torch. An unusual sound that
demands investigation—a peep to see
that the baby’s alright—a glance at the
clock ... are occasions when you need
a trusty Ever Ready Torch within easy
reach.
If you haven’t one, BUY ONE
TO-DAY! And for long life, brighter
light and greater reliability, see that
it’s charged with Ever Ready Torch
Refill —made in Australia and always
“factory fresh”.
Ever Ready
TORCHES AND
TORCH BATTERIES
THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.), LTD., Sydney.
T.l.
t
I
PACIFIC
CANADA
aruL
ATLANTIC
TO
.9*
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA AORANGI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
A World-beater at Nineteen
No. 19 of series of articles on great Australian boxers. The drawings were done by Low, also a champion-at black-and-white.
It has already been mentioned that the
first and the last of the great Australian
boxers were united in death. Just on
20 years ago Larry Foley lay dying in
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, and the
embalmed body of Les Darcy was being
borne across the Pacific for burial in
his native New South Wales. Foley was
in his seventieth year; Darcy had not
completed his twenty-second. Among
Foley’s pupils were boxers as good as
himself, and Fitzsimmons was probably
his superior, although this was never
proved. Darcy has had no successor who
can be compared with him.
First Fight with Holland.
Darcy’s history as a boxer was bound
up with that of the Sydney Stadium in
its most prosperous days ; but he had
been boxing for a couple of years in
Newcastle and minor Sydney rings—with
unbroken success save when a sturdy
fellow named Whitelaw got a decision
over him, a reverse briefly avenged in a
return match —before, the Stadium people
discovered him. Then he was matched
to meet Fritz Holland on July 19, 1914 ;
and half the lads of Newcastle and Mait-
land swarmed down to Sydney to cheer
him on.
Two points noted about Darcy at this
first appearance were that his hands were
cased in gloves specially made for him,
being so enormous that no pair in the
Stadium would fit him, and that he
sported green satin trunks. The trunks
had obviously been fashioned by some
fond female relative who, in her enthu-
siasm, had put frills on them. The youth
wore a cheerful expression in addition
to pimples and his frilled pants; but
immediately the gong went he. hurled
himself into the fray and fought like
lightning.
This unorthodox procedure appar-
ently disconcerted Holland, whose ex-
pression became grim, almost sinister.
Holland’s bald dome gave the. idea of a
young man grown suddenly old, and he
had evidently shed his teeth early in life.
As the battle proceeded he beamed on
all and sundry with a demoniac sort of
grin that made the crowd angry. At
times, very little makes a crowd angry.
For the first few rounds Darcy didn't
give Fritz much time to smile. He hit
with both hands alternately, and then he
hit with both hands simultaneously. The
fury of his onslaught staggered Holland,
but" that experienced ringcraftsman soon
pulled himself to-
gether and gave
Darcy his arms,
gloves and elbows
to batter at.
Darcy’s speed
was out of the
ordinary, and
Holland had to
take a lot of
punishment about
the. body before
he sized up the
situation in that
quarter; there-
upon he set to
work to sidestep
his rushing oppo-
nent’s tremendous
wallops to the
body, and did it.
At intervals Hol-
land would lean
forward and de-
liver a straight
left, and Darcy’s
head would shoot
backwards. When
they got into
clinches Holland
uppercut his
DARCY.
enemy.
Against a straight left the enemy had
no defence except the endurance of crude
and scorbutic youth. Of Darcy’s courage,
hitting power and stamina nothing but
praise could be written: the amount of
punishment he assimilated was amazing,
but at 18 he had not the knowledge to
turn his assets to account, and he was
outpointed by his older and wiser oppo-
nent. When the gong of peace sounded
Harald Baker placed his hand on Hol-
land’s hairless brow.
Then about 2000 back-benchers arose
and commenced to hoot with their
mouths, while they kicked and stamped
with their feet. They gathered newspapers
and made heaps to which they set fire ;
they dropped burning sheets through
cracks between the planking. When Fred
Baker turned the hose on one burning
heap, he and his assistants were bom-
barded with bottles. They put out the
lights, and, manning another fire station,
poured water promiscuously.
The would-be incendiaries broke and
fled. Outside the Stadium they pulled
themselves together and announced their
resolve to storm the building. Met by
about 20 police-, they thought better of
it and retreated to the outer darkness.
Second Fight with Holland.
It took place at the Sydney Stadium
on September 13, 1914. Short as the
interval was, the Maitland blacksmith
had contrived to improve his boxing
greatly, and all the skill and ring general-
ship of Holland could not prevail against
his youthful vim. Though there was
little difference in the weights, Holland
scaling list. Hlb. to Darcy’s list. 3flb.,
the Australian was much the stronger and
the more telling puncher. His chief trouble
was over-eagerness. He went berserk and
gave the wily American toko.
Holland started out with the deliberate
intention of closing the hostile army’s
left eye. Twice he got on to it with a
right and made it bulge considerably.
Later on, he cut it, but the optic was
never put out of action, and when Hol-
land tried to besiege the right eye he had
no luck. Darcy had developed consider-
able agility with his head, and the way he
slung it about —over his shoulder, down
between his knees or under his arm
caused Holland to miss badly and fre-
quently. And so great was Darcy s force
and imperviousness to punishment that
Holland’s straight left could not beat him
off. The Yankee had to back and side-
step to get away from the rushes.
Holland fought a cool, clever fight, but
he was being steadily walloped when
Darcy went mad or became blind in his
wild eagerness. Once, ducking, he swung
his head into Holland’s stomach; once
Holland was down from a low blow.
Although warned by the referee, Darcy
roughed and hustled Holland across the
ring, hurled him to the ropes, hit him 16
times simultaneously, fell on him, stepped
back, swung another blow —and was dis-
qualified. It happened Jn the eighteenth
round.
"Knocked-out" Marchand.
In the following month Darcy encoun-
tered a Frenchman named Marchand
“Knock-out” Marchand to over-enthu-
siastic friends and admirers. Darcy had
now become associated with Dave Smith,
and he speedily absorbed all that Dave
could teach him, his great natural ability
and advantages doing the rest. Close
observers of his work against the French-
man described the improvement in his
boxing as almost beyond belief.
Marchand charged like a bull, disre-
garding punishment, and hurled blows
like those flung round by the lions of
King Francis. Darcy did not back
away; on the contrary, he rushed in to
meet his virile opponent, and as he came
in he ducked, smashed and clinched.
While it lasted, the fight was terrific in
its. savage vigor and wild energy and
tremendous hitting.
But it didn’t last long. The end came
in the fifth round, when Darcy met a
Gallic charge with a terrific right swing
to the body. Marchand swung two wild
wallops; Darcy got home with an upper-
cut, followed with left and right to the
head. Marchand attempted another
charge, but a short left hook and an
apparently mild uppercut took him fair
on the chin. He fell like a log, rolled
over, hauled himself up by the ropes,
fell down again, turned a complete
somersault, rose once more and fell for
the last time.
The Jeff Smith Affair.
Then came the first of Darcy’s two
unsatisfactory bouts with Jeff Smith. Jan.
24, 1915, was the date, the Sydney Sta-
dium the place; and 15,000 excited
people looked on.
On his record, the American was a
thoroughly worthy opponent. He had
beaten Jimmy Clabby, and, although ad-
judged the loser of a fight with Carpen-
tier in Paris and another with McGoorty
in Sydney, each decision had been pro-
nounced bad by a large proportion of
the newspapermen and of the paying
patrons. He was undoubtedly a clever
middleweight, and, opposed to men for
whom he thought himself a match, he
had proved game enough; but he had
evidently seen enough of Darcy to con-
vince him that he had no chance with
DARCY LANDS ON HOLLAND .
the lad in fair encounter. His fights with
Darcy left blots on his ring reputation
which were never erased.
Yet Les was a sick lad when he
ducked through the Rushcutter Bay ropes
that summer night in 1915. He had in-
fluenza. Smith, for his part, looked as
if he had been at a wedding.
The Maitlander won the first round
by miles. He also won the second and
the third. The fourth was about even,
with the balance, if anything, slightly in
the American’s favor. Half-way through
the fifth, Darcy was hit low by a pile-
driving right. He doubled up and limped
to the ropes. Smith provided the best
possible evidence of the fact that he
knew he had made a bad mistake by
standing off, although his comer was
howling to him to wade in.
The referee failed to see the foul. He
ordered Darcy to box on. Darcy, aftet
consultation with his corner, did resume,
and for the few seconds that remained
he battled with some vigor. But
diately the gong went he showed the
house and the referee his metal shield,


KNOCKED TEN YEARS
OFF HIS AGE
When He Got Rid of
35 lbs. of Fat.
This man found he was carrying far too
much weight. As is usually the case—with
women as well as with men—his overweight
made him appear older than his years. When
he eventually got rid of 2\ stone of fat, he
looked ten years younger. His letter tells you
how he achieved this result: —
“I am 33 years of age and weighed 14 stone
10 lbs., yet my height was only 5 ft. 6 ins. I
was looking older than my age. For about five
months I kept up the ‘daily dose’ of Kruschen
and I could see each week a gradual improve-
ment all round. My friends, unaware of what
I was doing, noticed this alteration of form,
and in time it became quite a mystery that I
should lose some 2\ stone so perfectly. My
appearance and body form have improved so
much that I look 10 years younger. I did
not diet at all, nor did I do any special exer-
cises.”—A.A.D.
Kruschen is based on scientific principles—
it is an ideal blend of mineral salts found in
the aperient waters of European Spas resorted
to by the wealthy for the reduction of excess
weight.
BRANDAUER'A
PENS
ft
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUER A CO.. Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
w.v
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London, Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller
The First Work of a Young
Australian Writer,
THE TRAMP, AND OTHER
STORIES.
By DAL STIVENS.
(Empire Library.)
“This young Australian gives promise
of first-rate work to come.”
—“Morning Post.”
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
OF RUDYARD KIPLING.
Something of Myself: For My Friends,
Known and Unknown.
Library Edition in Red Cloth, 7/6.
Pocket Edition: Cloth, 6/-; Leather,
7/6; and Dominions Edition.
GONE WITH THE WIND.
By MARGARET MITCHELL.
(Colonial Edition.)
Over ONE MILLION copies of this
superb novel sold in America and
England.
GOOD-BYE TO THE LADY.
By lAN RANKINE.
(Empire Library.)
A gay and amusing study of modern
life by the author of “Good Morning,
Good Morning.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
rO/Ttl
5*5
ws^m'S
s**
The Basis of
Perfect Cocktails
(PRE-WAR STRENGTH)
Agents:
John Woods & Co.
Ltd.,
388 Sussex Street,
Sydney.
Distilled by:
Hiram Walker & Sons
Ltd.,
Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada.
Since 1858.
The Cocktail Recipe that won the
prize in a competition open to the
World had as its main ingredient
Canadian Club Whisky.
This Whisky, bottled in bond at pre-
war strength, costs no more than
standard Scotch brands, yet it has
won and retains International repute.
Write for a free Cocktail Recipe
Book to the Agents.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
which had a dent in it the size of a
saucer; and Dave Smith threw in his
towel.
The return match was arranged for
May 23, 1915, Darcy having in the mean-
time had four other fights and victories.
On the second occasion, as on the first,
Smith was a beaten man before he began
boxing. His offensive was broken and
his mobility ruined by blue funk.
He left his corner to meet the blithe
and eager Darcy as nervous as a rabbit.
Before the first round was over, every
judge of boxing in the audience realised
that he was doomed, and he knew it
better than the onlookers.
Except when Smith was claiming one
of his arms, Darcy hit his man pretty
well where he wished. The Yankee’s
footwork, which had stood to him well
in his mill with
Clabby, was use-
less against the
rugged, rushing
blacksmith.
When Smith
entered upon the
second round, his
countenance wore
a great resolve to
get in and out of
the storm with-
out a second’s
unnecessary de-
lay. Amidst a
hurricane of
straight lefts and
right crosses from
Darcy, he aimed
a blow which
would have been
foul had it
landed. He next
butted the Aus-
tralian in the
face, Then came
his master-blow
—a right hook to
the crutch. Darcy
had apparently
provided himself
with a bullet-
pro o f shield ;
anyhow, though,
he winced, he
was ready to go
on. But the in-
tention was so
obvious that
MICK KING.
Harald Baker had to act, and, amid a
storm of hoots for Smith, he declared
Darcy the winner. Smith was palpably
relieved, and not a moan or other funeral
note was heard from his corner.
Loughrey and Demlen.
Darcy was a wonderfully good-
natured youngster, and his good nature
asserted itself in a fight with Frank
Loughrey, a game fellow from the Jeff
Smith stable, which took place on Feb.
28, 1915. Les was now an list. 61b.
man; Loughrey was 111 b. lighter, and
he was treated with justice tempered with
mercy. Every round was Darcy’s, and
by the fourteenth Loughrey was as com-
pletely beaten as a man could possibly
be without being actually unconscious.
So dazed was he that at times he could
only dimly have known what was going
on. Had Darcy straightened his left and
kept the clinging Loughrey away for half
a minute, the knock-out could have been
delivered easily. Smiling most of the
time, the youngster let the lOst. 91b. man
go 20 rounds.
Henri Demlen was even easier meat.
He was a Belgian, and after methodical
punching on Darcy’s part the Belgian flag
was lowered in the fifth round.
Holland Dished.
Darcy shaped up to Holland for the
third time, on March 13, 1915. He pur-
sued Fritz with the resolution of one to
whom biff is an inherited instinct, and
soon piled up a long lead. Holland de-
fended himself with admirable skill. He
seemed at times to be waiting for Darcy
to tire himself out, but Darcy was tireless.
Though the American lasted 20 rounds,
it was only on sufferance.
This was shown on May 2, 1915, when
the pair traded punches for the fourth
and last time. It was Melbourne’s turn
to see Darcy in action, and every Mel-
burnian left the building convinced that
he was in the same class as Hall and
Creedon —Melbourne never saw Fitz-
simmons. Darcy knocked Holland out
in the thirteenth round.
Middleweight Champion.
In the following month, Darcy became
the. Australian champion in his division
by defeating Mick King. King was a
Westralian, a product of the Dooley-
Doherty school, like other good West-
ralian fighters of the period, notably
Thorn, Kay and Morey. He had some
capital performances to his credit, hav-
ing gained decisions over Jeff Smith and
Gus Christie, another American with a
reputation, and he was presently to out-
point Fighting Billy Murray. In after
years he went to the U.S.A., where he
fought with distinction against some of
the best middleweights and light-heavy-
weights of the time, among them Tommy
Gibbons, whom Dempsey failed to knock
out. King had a good straight left, and
was an adept at boxing on the defence.
But he did not trouble Darcy. Darcy
crowded on top of him with a full
spread of canvas the moment the. order
to “box on” was given. Les slammed his
adversary about the ribs, uppercut him,
crossed him, smote him on nose and
chin with a straight left, and on ribs and
stomach with a short right; and then he
proceeded to do it all over again. For
all the hope King had of winning, he
might as well have left in the third round.
The Westralian looked in a bad way
when the massacre was stopped by the
police in the tenth.
First Fight with McGoorty.
In 12 months, with Dave Smith’s assist-
ance, Darcy had transformed himself
from a raw country pug into a real cham-
pion, who had beaten some of the best
middleweights in the world. Only one
antagonist remained for him in Australia,
though others were on the way from the
U.S.A.
The solitary foeman was Eddie
McGoorty, of the wonderful left hook.
In America and again in Australia
McGoorty had knocked out Dave Smith
in half a round. Until Darcy came along
the middleweights of three continents
showed no exultation at the prospect of
fighting him. Darcy was different.
After a lot of haggling about weight,
a limit of list. 61b. was agreed upon.
McGoorty had some difficulty in making
it, but had he weighed 12st. 61b. he could
not have whipped Darcy.
They fought in Sydney on Aug. 5,
1915. From the beginning Darcy hit
McGoorty in every place permitted by
the rules, the principal localities being
EDDIE McGOORTY CHEWS GUM.
the nose —which bled freely—the jaw and
the ribs. McGoorty repeatedly flung his
left hook in the direction of Darcy’s chin,
but it never once landed. Sometimes his
blows missed by inches, sometimes by
feet, Darcy’s sidestepping and back mov-
ing being superb.
By the fourteenth round McGoorty
was a wreck. Strength, speed, confidence
and aggression had all been battered out
of him. The man who had never gone
to the boards before was knocked down
four times. He was saved from the
finishing stroke only by the intervention
of the police.


“Kirk”: I came across this passage in
Melville’s Moby Dick :
What kind of oil is used at coronations?
Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor Macas-
sar oil, nor castor oil, nor bear’s oil, nor
train oil, nor cod-liver oil. What, then,
can it possibly be but sperm oil, the
sweetest of all oils in its unmanufactured
and unpolluted state?
Is this correct? Did some whaling-ship
supply the material for anointing George
VI. the other day?
* * * *
“Warrigal”: By the recent death of
Charles Cufnow Phillips the disturbance
at Eureka in 1856 has lost its last surviv-
ing witness. Phillips saw the shindy as
a youngster of nine. Without dragging
in any inter-State jealousy, I always feel
that Eureka unjustly overshadows the
N.S.W. affair at Lambing Flat, where
issues quite as important were decided
for all time, particularly in regard to
White Australia. Incidentally, despite
Peter Lalor’s sober legislative maturity,
the adventurous tradition of Eureka re-
mained strong in his family. One grand-
son was killed at the Gallipoli landing;
he had carried the family sword into
action.
* * * *
“Sandpatch”: The par. about Joseph
Cook took my memory back to a visit
he paid to Westham Camp, Weymouth,
in September, 1918. A mob of us were
attending an army school, and just prior
to his arrival there had been a discussion
on languages. I admitted to a nodding
acquaintance, with four tongues besides
English, including Greek. A nark, sit-
ting close by, challenged me to write
“Go to hell” in that language. I promptly
scribbled on the blackboard the words
“pempe moron pro ter on” in Greek cur-
sives. Just then we were suddenly called
to attention, and in walked Joseph,
accompanied by a retinue of brasshats.
He was an affable old bird, and talked
to us nicely about the army’s educational
scheme. Suddenly he noticed the. phrase
on the blackboard. Appealed to, one
brasshat thought the writing might be
Arabic, and there were other guesses
until a young sub. suddenly decided it
was Greek, though he professed himself
unable to translate it. The then High
Commissioner seemed interested, and,
learning that I knew something of three
other languages, Latin, French and Ger-
man, offered me a job as an instructor,
with sergeant-major’s rank and pay.
Being booked for Australia on the next
boat, I declined it. Fortunately he didn’t
ask what the phrase meant.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A stream of young
men is drifting northwards past our S.Q.
place, sometimes calling in to ask for a
job, more often with a hard-luck story or
just a plain begging touch. It happens
every year at the beginning of winter,
and every year there are more of them.
I’ve tried some on jobs. They weren’t
work-shy or wasters, but the plain fact
was that five out of six are too poorly
nourished to stand up to a fair day’s
work. Worse still, they don’t seem to
want anything more than mere existence.
Quite a lot are trained artisans, some are
well-educated. One told me that he was
a 8.A., and he probably was. They are
not drinkers, as a rule ; few of them steal,
and they are civil to women. They
admit freely that they are getting away
from the cold southern winters, that they
will get rations from the police, and that
in spring they will drift south again. As
an Australian social feature, and a grow-
ing one, they worry me with thoughts or
what things will be like in another -0
years.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: There is no reason why
equestrian statues should be erected in
this year of grace, as all our celebrities
habitually use motor-cars, unless they
happen to be engaged in picturesque
ceremonials. The craze has been going
strong since before the time of Louis
Quatorze, and has no more justification
than the avalanche of elder statesmen
who, at one part of the nineteenth cen-
tury, appeared in marble togas as Roman
Senators. If statuary is to reach pos-
terity, the best hope of survival lies in
having the work natural, with contem-
porary accessories. The Romans fully
realised this, which is why the work of
their sculptors has been jealously pre-
served.
* * * *
“Fosco”: The latest biographer of
Edward Gibbon, author of The Decline
and Fall, has thought it worth while to
stigmatise as a malicious invention the
story that the historian once went down
on his knees to propose to a lady and
was unable to rise again owing to his
hampering weight of solid flesh. My
own impression is that the humiliating
experience was originally attributed to
Grote, the historian of Greece, a much
more corpulent man than Gibbon, but
possibly the pair got mixed with the
passage of years. On such evidence as
is available, the yarn doesn’t seem to fit
either. Gibbon lived and died a bache-
“ Nonsense, John, it MUST fit you. Why, I made it EXACTLY to the
pattern .”
lor. An early love affair was frowned
on by his father, and he dutifully resigned
the lady; nor is there any record that
he ever contemplated matrimony again.
Grote, on the other hand, was married
in the early twenties, and his wife out-
lived him.
* * * *
“Opiate”: My own experience of
radium (B. 19/5/’37) is much the same
as “T.R.’s.” A rodent ulcer on the bridge
of my nose long worried me. Three
applications of a radium needle over a
period of 12 months had no effect. A
local anaesthetic and the doctor’s knife
did the trick.
* * $ *
“Questo”: Rattler -jumpers (B.
19/5/’37)? I knew one who must surely
hold the long-distance record in this
country. Leaving Mount Isa (N.Q.) at
the time of the big strike in 1933 he
1 ravelled the 604 miles to Townsville
under a railway tarpaulin. Thence he
made his way to Cairns, and after a tem-
porary job jumped the rattler to Bris-
bane, where he left his swag with me
after mentioning that he was bound for
Wiluna (W.A.). Avoiding Kyogle, he
travelled “on the rods” through Wallan-
garra, Parkes and Broken Hill to Adel-
aide. Here he stowed away on the West-
ralia for Fremantle. From Perth he
was a non-paying passenger to Meeka-
tharra, W.A.’s most distant terminus, and
got a lift on a lorry for the final lap to
Wiluna. Except for the trip across the
Bight he covered the whole distance be-
tween the two furthest points joined by
Australian railways in less than five
weeks, and would have improved on this
but for two or three short rest-cures as
his Majesty’s guest. The lad has since
left Australia —he paid his passage, too—
and the last time I heard from him he
was diving for a trading and salvage
company somewhere in the Malay Straits.
* * * *
“Scorpio”: Post-office scales are not
subject to an annual check by the Weights
and Measures Department (B. 19/5/’37),
and they are not always accurate. I
received several surcharged air-mail
letters from overseas; three shillings
(double the amount of the alleged short
stamping) was required on each of them.
The last one I weighed carefully on my
office scales, which showed it a fraction
under the weight permitted. I next tried
the scales of our local chemist, with the
same result. The small spring scales at
the P.O. showed it a shade overweight.
They had no balance scales and admitted
that the spring scales might be wrong.
Anyway, they gave me my money back.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: The stranding of the
Erica on an uncharted reef at Vanikoro
is a reminder of the perils attending navi-
gation in those waters. Surveys in most
Pacific Island groups have been far from
thorough, and known reefs have a habit
of disappearing, while new ones crop
up and are shown on no chart. Port
Resolution, Tanna, where Cook found a
commodious harbor for anchoring his
ships, is now useless for the purpose
owing to the uplifting of the area by
seismic disturbances. Cook’s Pyramid,
a rock noted by that navigator as “just
awash,” now rears its head 60 feet clear
of the water. After H.M.S. Ringarooma
had spent an uncomfortable time perched
on a reef in South West Bay, Malekula,
the existence of which was unsuspected,
men-o’-war cruising in the islands were
ordered to anchor nightly at sundown.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: What has become of the
tight-rope walkers (B. 19/5/’37)? The,
most notable performer Australia has
ever produced, Con Colleano, j.s now
paying his own country a visit. Col-
leano was found by the Fullers in a
country circus which never came to the
city. I have a vivid recollection of the
furore his act created, reduced from the
bigger circus performance to a stage
show. He leaped at once from a mere
fill-in act to the star turn. A Bulletin
notice predicted that he would probably
astonish Europe, which he has done for
nearly ten years past. In Germany he
was a particular favorite.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Quite a number of
the big coastal steamers will have to
follow the example of the Orungal and
adopt “bald-headed rig” in order to pass
under the Story Bridge at Kangaroo
Point, Brisbane River. But the tendency
is all for it in modern ship design, either
as a permanent rig or with telescoping
topmasts, to meet canal or river needs in
various ports of the world. After all,
standing masts are merely a tradition
from sailing days. Their actual use to-
ports, samson posts, lookouts in low fog,
day is distributed between wireless sup-
lights and a few other things which could
all be served by telescoping or dipping
gear. With wireless there is no longer
need to share McAndrews’s perilous
venture, and
Mak’ Kerguelen under sail —
Three jiggers, black wi’ smoke.
s{: Jj: # *
“Fisher”: A Sydney newspaper is
almost alone in its agitation for a special
Gallipoli medal. The War Office has
never issued medals for unsuccessful
campaigns. Why the French ever issued
a Helles medal has me beaten, although
there is every justification for the Turkish
tinware.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Prof. Lee, of Bris-
bane, has made the gloomy discovery
that a man who goes into a caisson under
pressure with a quantity of recently con-
sumed. beer in his interior is looking for
trouble. It appears that the bubbles from
the delectable fluid are liable to be forced
into the. bloodstream and carried to the
nerves. When the pressure is released,
they expand, and produce the dire and
painful symptoms of caisson disease.
Brisbane union circles are in active
debate as to whether the Prof.’s revela-
tion is a good basis for application for
new award rates for caisson workers, or
whether they will approach him with a
request for research to discover a more
solid kind of beer.
* * * *
“4 x 2”: Looking over the back
premises of a chain store I saw two cats
in an elaborate cage, bedroom, lounge
and toilet-room. Hanging near by was
a notice-board which dealt with every
detail of their nine lives. Object, to
catch rats; liberty, certain prescribed
hours; rations, raw meat three days per
week, raw fish two days, and once a week
raw liver for medicinal purposes. Quan-
tities were defined as one half-ounce to
each lib. of cat (i.e., to a 51b. cat),
and so on. The document, which looked
like an official h.q. order to all stores in
that chain, finished with the injunction:
“At least one cat must be kept in every
store (except those stores with fire
alarms); cats to be requisitioned from
bulk.” Why the fire-alarm-equipped
stores are exempt was about the only
thing left unexplained.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: “Four Score,” by Henry
Parkes (B. 12/5/’37), was included by
Louis Lavater in his Australian Sonnets;
it was also printed in the introduction to
Serle’s Australian Anthology, with the
comment that many a poet of greater
pretensions would gladly put his name
to it. There is little else, however, in
any of Parkes’s books of verse that any-
one would be bothered quoting, except
perhaps the lines:
Fling out the flag and guard it well!
Our pleasant fields the foe ne’er trod;
Long may our guardian heroes dwell
In league with truth, in camp with God.
“The crimson thread of kinship” was a
phrase coined by Parkes —not in his sing-
ing moments but in a speech in advocacy
of Australian Federation. If he was a
poor poet, he could write good prose, as
is shown in the letters contained in the
volume An Emigrant’s Home Letters.
Though not printed till after his death,
these were written to his family when
he was 24 years of age.
* * * *
“Twenty-seven”: Whenever botanically-
minded gentlemen wish to bestow their
name on a new flower, all they need to
do is add “ia” to their moniker. Sir
Joseph left us the banksia, and the
familiar purple creeper rejoices in the
appellation of an intrepid French navi-
gator. But who were Poinsett and
Bouvard?
if if if *
“Petrovicksj”: Present-day Bohemians
are a quaint lot—quite different from the
old school. Instead of foregathering in
modern variants of the Mermaid Tavern
they make merry in certain small cafes
decorated with murals depicting happy
Russian peasants dancipg the samovar
or chasing the fierce vodka to its lair.
In one of these resorts recently, with the
malted milks and the black coffees flow-
ing freely, I heard long-haired youths
delivering themselves of long-winded free
verse masterpieces (unpublished) dealing
with the woes of the downtrodden
workers and reading soul-stirring extracts
from Great Proletarian Novels refused
by unimaginative publishers. And, just
before the last tram was due, some ot
the more daring spirits broke into a devil-
may-care rendering of “The Inter-
nationale.” The females of the species
were there, too, their job apparently
being to pay for the coffees and malted
milks.
THE FIRST TIME.
I’ve knocked about this country, been a battler
in my time,
But always used to kid myself I looked right in
my prime. .
Why, just last week Bill Bodgers said I hadn t
changed at all .
In twenty years; but now, I fear, the writings
on the wall.
To-day—and, strike me paralysed! I took it
like a lamb —
A flapper gave her seat up when I got aboard
the tram.
I never even looked her way, I never made a
sign;
Lord knows I’m no Methuselah, I’m only sixty-
nine.
She sprang it on me sudden-like and took me
by surprise.
“Please take my seat” . . . I’ll bet she saw
amazement in my eyes.
“Please,” she continued tactfully; “you’re older
than I am!”
Still, it’s a shock to get your seat from flappers
in a tram.
1 might have grown indignant, but her eyes
were soft and kind,
And all at once I felt the weight of long years
left behind,
Those tough times in Coolgardie and those
tougher ones in Bourke,
That battle with pneumonia, those lean years
out of work.
I s’pose I’m getting on the road —not that I
give a damn —
But, spare me days, gave me her seat a
flapper in the tram!
N.S.W.
ABIE.


M" v f
r.
%vSML_
Kl
i <%f^>
* FOOLISH
FORTIES
SC
\v
V
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to, altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic. ,
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
- digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.NO USES
k
I
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
For Simple Constipation
ill
PILLS
Attendant Ills .
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried rub Mirpil well into the skin,
repeating the operation two or three
times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, Chilblains, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Try rubbing on soles of sore, tired
feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
; W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
'or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
I Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue. f
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
'
A'-"'
N» V
\v
■■' j(y
b)
<y
%
y<<i'*y
yy ->•'
V
■8
#•
■ ,
o^ tV S 6 V
O vA
" ' ,^°


RATIONAL
i i : '
% ■.
ECONOMY OF OPERATION
In the construction of all Rational Battery Receivers particular
attention has been paid to economy of operation, and, with the
addition to all models of an economy switch, to switch off dial lights
when not required, a remarkable degree of economy has been
obtained.
The “A” Battery consumption of Models 5 and 6, without dial
lights, is only .47 amp., and Model 7, .52 amp., whilst the
“B” Battery drain of these Models is 12 ma. when the batteries are
fresh.
No “C” Batteries are required, as bias is automatically provided.
All Rational Radio Receivers are supplied with a 2-volt “A” Battery,
with the extremely high capacity of 145 ampere-hours, and three
45-volt Superdyne “B” Batteries.
JSJ.B. —As the “B ,s Batteries age, there is a natural decrease in “B” Battery consumption,
but all receivers will operate satisfactorily on as low as 60 volts with a current consump-
tion of 6 ma.
REMARKABLY CLEAR
OVERSEAS RECEPTION
In all Rational Dual Wave Receivers the frequency converter
(Octode KK2) is thoroughly decoupled with an mfd. electrolytic
condenser which completely eliminates frequency instability on the
short waves —particularly below 25 metres —assuring remarkably
clear overseas reception.
RADIO
Rational Radio is built up to a quality. The high standard of
Rational Radio demands components which will give the brilliance of
performance and clarity of tone which a fastidious public demands.
The range of Rational Radio comprises outstanding examples of what
modern manufacturing methods can obtain in - P ro uc * lon ° a
receiver at a rational price.
There is a Rational Radio to suit every purse and every purpose, and
each is available on Rational Hire Purchase Terms at remarkably low
prices.
' *>-
mm
■vmsmi
ml
BATTERY MODELS.
Model 5.-5-Valve Battery Broadcast,
with R.F. amplification, full A.V.C., low
battery consumption and economy switch
to switch off dial lights when not required.
Model 6. 5-Valve Battery Dual-Wave,
with tone control, Bin. permag speaker,
full A.V.C., low battery consumption and
economy switch on both bands. Short-
wave band 18.5/51 metres.
Model 6-Valve Battery Dual-Wave,
with A.V.C., lOin. permag speaker, tone
control, economy switch on both bands,
low battery consumption. Short-wave
band 18.5/51 metres.
Model 15. 4-Valve Battery Broadcast,
with high gain intermediate and audio
stages ensuring daylight reception, full
A.V.C., low battery consumption and
economy switch to switch off dial lights
when not required. Mantel cabinet.
ALL BATTERY MODELS ARE AVAILABLE
WITH THE EVER-READY AIR-CELL.
Rational Radio Receivers for A.C. and
A.C./D.C. operation are available in a com-
prehensive range.
All Rational Radio Receivers are available at
Rational Prices on Rational Purchase Terms
from your radio retailer.
Briton Electrical and Radio Pty. Ltd
152-156 PARRAMATTA ROAD, PETERSHAM, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone L 3621 (3 lines).
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS
Harris Radio, Ltd., 10th Floor, Grac
Building, Cnr. York and King Streets,
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Irvine Radio and Electrical Co., 1 1 1 Elizabeth
Street, Brisbane.
