

%
♦
* • * • ' '.V’*.‘. m
. 5S3^
; 4 M<
■3s
®S§E
* • •■
The man on the land
save
Pi....
in 3 Dears by using
VESTA
RECHARGEABLE
BATTERIES
LET US WORK IT OUT FOR YOU
COST OVER THREE YEARS, WITH A 5-VALVE 2-VOLT BATTERY-OPERATED RADIO SET,
drain, USING SET 4-5 HOURS PER DAY = (SAY) 5000 HOURS in 3 years
0.65 amp.
Using VESTA Rechargeable Cell
COST OF NEW VESTA 2-VOLT
RECHARGEABLE Accumulator
Guaranteed 3 years minimum life . . .
Recharging this 2-volt 110 A.H. accumu-
lator over 3 YEARS at 1/6 for each
recharge, every 5 weeks—or at most
11 times a year
1 10 9
2 9 6
£4 0 3
Using NON-Rechargeable Cell
Cost of NON-rechargeable cells based on
advertised minimum life (each) 1000
hours 5 NON-rechargeable cells in 3
Years for 5000 hours same set use.
Five at £2/16/3 14 1 3
£l4 1 3
SAVING OVER TEN POUNDS
USE VESTA RECHARGEABLE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MADE BY VESTA BATTERY CO. (AUST.), LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, DUNEDIN.
The Bulletin
Thunder in the North
Vol. 58— No. 2983.
Wednesday, April 14, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapej.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
*A±ht
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
— CUT HEBE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address l
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 8, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision.
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
THE MAORIS AND THEIR LAND.
In Land Problems of the New Zealand Settlers
of the ’Forties (A. H. and A. W. Reed, Dunedin ; 10s.),
a thesis presented to the N.Z. University for Honors
in History, Mrs. E. W. Wilson, M.A., summarises and
analyses a vast mass of documents, most of which
have been raked over by other historians, with a view,
fundamentally, to ascertaining the terms on which the
land of the Maoris passed into European occupation.
The author casts some new light on a question
which has often puzzled this commentator—who, in
British law, are the original owners of an uncivilised
country in which British settlement has been com-
menced? One might guess that the aboriginals held
a good title on grounds of possession and occupation,
but that raises the rather subtle question as to whether
they possess lands they don’t occupy; and the further
subtle question as to what constitutes occupation.
Hovering in the background, too, there must be some
standard of equity as between aboriginal and Euro-
pean.
These were problems that presented themselves
very forcibly to Maoriland’s first administrators and
Judges. Prior to the signing of the Treaty of Wai-
tangi in 1840, several purchases of land from the
Maoris had been entered, into. Most importantly the
New Zealand Company claimed to have spent £45,000
in buying 200,000 acres, including the present
provinces of Wellington, Taranaki and Marlborough.
The soundness of the company’s title couldn’t have
been very clear even to the company’s London direc-
tors, for part of the land was taken over from a still
older company. Notwithstanding, the N.Z. Co. sold
at £1 per acre (it had paid about per acre)
990,000 acres.
As soon as the Treaty of Waitangi was signed,
guaranteeing to the natives “full, exclusive and undis-
turbed possession of their lands and estates, forests,
fisheries and other properties which they may collec-
tively or individually possess, so long as it is their
wish to retain the same in their possession,” the
question of the validity of the N.Z. Co.’s land titles
was raised. The company chaffered with the British
Government over the matter for several years. There
were investigations and reports by Select Committees.
The company never established its claim to its original
holding, and it went out of existence after ten years
of activity, having cost the British Government and
the colony £436,000.
In the meantime there had arisen a theory that
there were in Maoriland vast areas of land to which
the natives could have no title. Land Commissioner
Spain, reporting in 1844, speaks of “millions of acres
of first-rate available land upon which the human
foot had scarcely ever trod.” But the Maoris strongly
opposed the view that they had no title to this land.
They invoked the Treaty of Waitangi, and they were
supported by the missionaries. Governor Grey,
though he had orders from Earl Grey to proceed upon
a policy of confiscation of so-called “waste lands,”
put the telescope to his blind eye. The Maoris out-
numbered the white settlers, and as soldiers they were
not to be despised, as George Grey had the best of
reasons for remembering. While the Governor pur-
ported to hunt with Earl Grey’s hounds he virtually
ran with the Maori hare by virtue of a policy of
masterly inactivity. He earned hatred and distrust
from the white settlers, and indeed his wriggles were
enough to earn anybody’s distrust, but he was hoeing
a hard row and looking further ahead than most of
his contemporaries.
There are two quotations bearing on the Treaty
of Waitangi which refute the suggestion sometimes
made by historians that the history of Maoriland’s
colonisation is uniformly one of chicanery and fraud.
Lord Stanley, in a reply to the N.Z. Company’s claims
in 1842, wrote:
Lord Stanley is not prepared, as her Majesty’s
Secretary of State, to join with the company in setting
aside the Treaty of Waitangi after obtaining the advan-
tages guaranteed by it, even though it might be made
with “naked savages,” or though it might be treated
by lawyers as “a praiseworthy device for amusing and
pacifying savages for the moment,” and his final answer
to the company must- be that, as long as he has the
honor of serving the Crown, he will not admit that
any person or any Government, acting in the name of
her Majesty, can contract a legal, moral or honorable
obligation to despoil others of their lawful and equit-
able rights.
And then, when Lord Stanley had gone and Earl
Grey was attempting to drive coaches and fours
through the treaty, a declaration by Maoriland’s first
Chief Justice, Judge Martin, in a letter to Governor
Grey:
I conceive, sir, that when a State paper is once
made public, thenceforth and for all after time it is
not the author, but the paper itself that speaks; and
that which the paper says is that which men who
speak the language in which it is written and are
acquainted with the facts and circumstances to which it
relates agree in understanding it to say. Now in this
case there has been a very rare and remarkable concord
of understanding.
That’s sound law and common honesty, and that
same good light has shone more and more brightly
on native-lands questions as the years have sped
onwards. At the moment the Maoriland Government
is still engaged in an attempt, at considerable expense,
to compensate for past errors and injustices. But, had
the British Government and the British settlers and
their first public men been as rapacious and as
conscienceless as critics of British colonisation some-
times declare they were, the Maori race would to-day
be extinct, instead of increasing in numbers and
advancing in prosperity, as is the case.
ARTHUR D. WYLIE.
Rejected Short Stories.
The Editor Regrets (Michael Joseph, Ltd.; Angus
and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.) is a book of fifteen short
stories by well-known English writers that have
been consistently rejected by magazine editors ; eleven
now appear for the first time.
George Joseph, the compiler, in a foreword quotes
the old Arab saying: “After the harvest the best grapes
still cling to the vine.” The adage would have a better
bearing in this instance if these were magazine stories.
With the exception of Martin Armstrong’s “Sea Air,”
a scrap of well-oiled mechanism, and possibly Louis
Golding’s “The Vicar of Dunkerly Briggs,” they are
not. They are experiments in literary expression, and
in many ways challenge conventional taste.
Dorothy Whipple offers a study in comparative
grief, the principals being a dead youth’s mother and
his fiancee. L. A. G. Strong tells of a Highland doctor
who was called to attend a crofter’s wife who was
expecting a child; to keep from being frozen lie
got into bed with the woman and her husband until
his professional services were required. H. E. Bates’s
story is of a middle-aged spinster who committed
suicide because the man she secretly loved was having
an affair with a girl. C. S. Forester tells a story by
means of what purport to be the letters produced in
evidence in a trial for murder. John Brophy’s hero
goes into a decline and dies through falling in love
with the photograph and musical compositions of a
dead woman who, if living, would have been twenty
years his senior. Alec Waugh attempts 'to elucidate
the sex and color question in a rather diagrammatic
effort set in the West Indies. In L. A. Pavey’s story
an inoffensive middle-aged man retorts to his wife’s
attempted interference in his lunch-time friendship
with a fellow-clerk by coming home at midnight very
drunk. Daphne du Maurier records the agony and
final madness of a man who learns that the girl he
loves is afflicted with a particularly unhappy form of'
sex mania. A. E. Coppard investigates the psychology
of rural tramps.
These are good stories, but obviously not grapes
left hanging after the magazine harvest. The adage
doesn’t apply. The moral to be derived from the
collection is merely that it is the writer’s prerogative
to write what he likes —or must —and the editor’s to
buy what he requires. It' throws the serious short-
story writer, at any rate in respect of some of his
work, back on a limited market and a Spartan creed ;
but what other is there? De Maupassant and Anton
Chekhov, if they were submitting their stories to
modern English magazines, would collect some
rejection slips. Aptly enough to the deduction made
here, the best story in The Editor Regrets is H. A.
Manhood’s “Worm in Oak.” It tells of a friendship
between two writers —a young man, gifted, with his
struggles still before him, and an older man, out-
wardly a success, but who, as the story reveals, stunted
his own spiritual development when he married a rich
girl to escape from poverty. The moral —if one is
intended —doesn’t really matter ; but there is a bloom
on the story, a feeling for nature and the humanities,
that sets the reader browsing through it a second time
in search of the secret of its beauty.
American Domestic Life.
If the canons of literary art demand that a writer
give shape to the amorphous mass that is life, or,
alternatively, discover natural patterns in apparent
chaos, then Helen Hull, author of Candle Indoors
(Cobden-Sanderson ; 7s. 6d.) fails as a novelist. If,
on the other hand, it is sufficient to tell of a number
of lives over a given period of time and make every
page of the telling alive with interest, then she is a
significant novelist.
Her story opens when Arnold Carlton, a pros-
perous young American manufacturer, has just lost
his wife and is faced with the problem of bringing
up his young children. Carlton had been in the habit
of amusing himself with other women. Candice had
not protested, but had quietly withdrawn from him.
In their country home she had contented herself with
the companionship of her children, unwittingly put-
ting her impress on their young minds. She had
shared with them her very real interest in the garden
and in the small life of the surrounding patch of
woods. She could not, with premeditation, have
chosen a more complete revenge on Carlton for his
neglect.
Candice lives on in the children’s minds. Her
sister, Doris, a doctor of medicine, would have taken
the youngest child, Candy, after her death and have
had Carlton send the others to school, but Carlton
realises that her offer is an implicit condemnation of
himself for his past conduct and refuses it. He will
keep the children at home. It is then that he
encounters the enduring presence of Candice. There
are taboos. “Mother would have d0ne....” or
“Mother would not have done.... ” Three pairs of
youthful eyes are watching him, not without affection,
but always ready to judge him according to standards
inculcated by Candice. The eldest girl, Francis,
assumes responsibilities too great for her years uncom-
plainingly—Candice again.
Carlton makes a number of ironic discoveries.
One is that his escapades have been practised under
Candice’s indirect protection. His women acquaint-
ances, now that he is free, are no longer willing to
recognise the tacit limitations of friendship with a
married man. There is an offer of help and an
expression of concern over the children’s welfare
within a day of Candice’s burial. Another discovery
—now that he has become the intimate guardian of
the children —is that he himself subscribes to Candice’s
standards of conduct, but had not thought of himself
as having a personal responsibility for their main-
tenance. Between the demands of his business, his
paternal responsibilities and his discoveries, he is a
harried man. He accepts the path of duty as the way
to comfort and safety. It is here that the story changes
step.
The depression arrives and Carlton, now much
older, is confronted with the problems of keeping his
financial head above water and of controlling the
natural waywardness of his growing children. Bill,
just out of college, can’t find a job and spends his
days “lounging about like a hound dog,” Candy is in
danger of developing into a “thrill-hunting jazz baby,”
and Francis has an unfortunate friendship with an
older woman who cultivates her for wholly material
purposes, the shattering of the girl’s idealism being one
of the most poignant things in the book. Carlton
sticks to his job, and the children, once the fever of
adolescence is over, show their true metal. This may
be Candice’s influence reasserting itself in them, but
the author doesn’t suggest it ; and instead of com-
pleting the pattern it leaves her otherwise very good
story with a loose end.
A Couple - and a Cat.
The third position in the eternal triangle which
is the basis of Saha the Cat, by Colette, translated
from the French by Morris Bentinck (T. Werner
Laurie; 7s. 6d.), is occupied by a small blue-grey
Chartreuse cat. It seems improbable at first glance,
but that again at first glance —is a quality of the
world that Colette imaginatively inhabits.
It is a world in. which youths are modestly
reluctant and damsels are ardent and bold ; a world
in which a young man waking on the morning after
his wedding is astonished and embarrassed to see his
bride dancing in front of the mirror clad only in a
smile. He shouts at her to put some clothes on. The
young man in the case is Alain, son of the declining
house of Amperat (silk warehousemen), probably
for reasons decided upon by the parents married to
Camille of the prospering house of Malmert (washing-
machines). Alain was not eager for marriage. An
only son of a widowed mother and given to the enjoy-
ment of quiet ways, he loves the old garden that
surrounds his home and the company of Saha. Often
they watch the deepening twilight cheek to cheek. She
sleeps on his chest, and, a week before the wedding,
stroking her and staring into the dark, he murmurs:
“Seven more days, Saha. Ah, Saha! these nights of
ours!”
After the wedding the young couple go to live
in a ninth-floor flat overlooking Paris. Alain bears
up as best Camille is happy, but Saha, left in
the garden, is inconsolable and grows thin. She is
brought to the flat. Alain’s interest in life is renewed,
Saha waxes content, and Camille’s happiness is dis-
persed. During ensuing weeks Alain’s devotion to
the cat causes in him a growing indifference to the
charms of Camille, charms which she is at no pains
to conceal from his notice. While Alain is at the silk
{Continued on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—AIways. ‘‘While I Live I’ll Grow” "The Senior Sto
"Strength that is founded on Quality will Endure ” —"Jumbuk Motto.”
re
Anthony Horderns 1
vl£LtM£L/ miel
' ;
n
.
,
worn
&
v * '* ’■ ’‘V •
r : >t
AUSTRALIAN THROUGH AND THROUGH
i l ’ : it 1 : ; ; : i
mt
Regd. Trade Mark
JUMBUK” fßegd. Trade Name)
SS^I
,
M
idm
■m
m
mm
H:
>S t
%
M
mm
iia
m
.i Vy
m
s!S
a
I
■
-
§3
m
M
m
. ;
u
'-M s
V
1
a#
50H
■
1
si
a*
*
a
ai
■■ ■ > ;
*
ass
m
•a
£ >
II
■
s*
m
'■Shi
m
m
kk?
PS
0 Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all Railway Stations
in N.S.W. and Seaports in the Commonwealth.
“Jumbuk” (Regd.) Underwear for
Men. It is Australian through and
through, and is guaranteed and
recommended by Anthony Horderns’.
Made of selected long-staple pure
Merino Yarn, the soft down-like sur-
face of the fabric is faultless, and
will not irritate the tenderest skin.
The “Jumbuk” (Regd.) Brand of Underwear is a typical example of Quality,
Strength and Endurance, radiating in its native warmth the stored-up virtues
of our country’s glorious Sunshine; and to say that Quality is coupled with
Comfort is to repeat Anthony Horderns’ Quality-Value formula which has
gained ascendancy throughout the land. Note the wide range of sizes stocked
in every quality. “Jumbuk” (Regd.) Underwear is obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’.
The IDEAL WINTER WEAR for MEN
No. 220 — “Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Light weight.
Short Sleeves, Trunk Leg 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/-
Short Sleeves, Long Leg 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/6 28/-
Long Sleeves, Long Leg 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/- 26/- 27/6 29/-
BUY FLEECY “JUMBUK” UNDERWEAR FOR BOYS !
No. 220. “Jumbuk”
Light weight.
Sizes, inches
Shirts, short sleeves:
No. 330. “Jumbuk’
weight
Sizes, inches
Shirts, short sleeves:
Trunk Drawers . . .
Combinations, half
sleeves
Long sleeves
Boys’ Natural All Wool Singlets. Half sleeves-
No. 15. “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Half sleeves.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/3 5/6 5/9 6/-
No. 25X. “Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets. Winter
weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
Combinations, short
sleeves 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/6 9/3
Q Boys’ Mercery—First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all Seaports
in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.
SYDNEY
’Phone: M2401,
Day and Night,
Postal Address:
Box 2712C, G.P.O.


Skinny in the Show Business
SKINNY HAZLITT'S
PARTNER
BY
G.L.Headley
SKINNY HAZLITT is always saying that he’s
the brains of the Hazlitt and Jamieson Exploita-
tion Company. Well, maybe he is some of the
time, but, as Barnum says, some of the time
ain’t all the time.
There was the time when Skinny and I were
roaming around the country with a tent show which
was “the marvel of the age” and “the furore of two
continents.” In other words Madame Thora, the
bearded lady. Skinny was Madame Thora.
It wasn't an act that Skinny went into raptures
over, but the doubloons were scarce. There wasn't
much coin in it; maybe expenses and enough for an
occasional two bob each way on the favorite for the
Novice.
There wasn’t much difficulty about the act, neither.
There was Skinny’s voice, to begin with. It was one
of those voices that when a choirboy uses it the
choirmaster shakes his head and wishes the rest of
the boys weren’t bassos. That, the beard, and a pair
of trunks padded in the right places was the stock-in-
trade. Skinny Hazlitt and company had the pleasure
of presenting Madame Thora.
We were paying our rent when we had to and
still having enough to buy toothpaste at the local pubs.
Up till then Skinny hadn’t mixed any thoughts of
effeminacy with his chosen calling.
That was before we blew into a place called
Carlson. It has a general store and a pub, and if the
same man owns both he can’t do much better than
drink the beer out of the profits he makes from
selling himself food. Imagine our surprise, then, to find
another of those spangle-and-glamor holdups they
call a touring circus. Skinny looked at me, settled
his skirt in a ladylike manner, and from behind the
veil that ambushes the fungus he pipes “The laws of
supply and demand and the unearned increment have
been violated.”
“You mean,” said I, “that the pennies are in the
pocket and the pocket ain’t ours.”
“It’s enough,” said Skinny, “to bring me grey
beard down in sorrow to the henna.”
We drifted along to the pub, Skinny going into
the ladies’ parlor while I went in to scrape the mud
off my shoe on the brass rail and an acquaintance with
the brass blonde that was sent to minister to the wants
of the sick and suffering. As soon as she sees me she
gets the look on her face that she ain’t seen a white
man in ten years. She wasn’t a bad line, either.
“Stranger?” she said.
“Same to you,” said I.
Just then there comes a knock on the side window
that leads to the ladies’ parlor and Skinny shoves his
head through the opening to order a gin sling.
“Hullo, Thora,” said I.
“Hullo yourself, Mr. Jamieson,” said Skinny’s
choirboy falsetto.
One thing led to another, and pretty soon Skinny
was around in the public bar with me and the barmaid
was giving us the local gossip. The circus, we learned,
had been there two days, and it was run by a feller
named Sherdel, and it was “marvellous.”
“I seen it twice already,” she said. “They got a
feller there that walks the tightrope I’d go miles to
see. He rides bikes on it.”
“The lazy hound,” said Skinny.
WELL, to cut the story
short, there was nothing
else for it but to fix up the tent
and see if the cash customers
had another sixpence tucked
away in the sock.
While we were busy
rumor must have travelled
across the twenty yards that
separated us from the circus,
and in ten minutes the con-
versation was on the level of
a third-rate sports commentator. I was doing most
of the answers, because Skinny was too ladylike to
enter into that kind of conversation.
Presently, however, Sherdel himself came across
and addressed himself to Madame Thora.
“Madame,” he said, very polite, “it’s labor in
vain. The population has spent its sixpence on the
spectacle of the age, by which I mean Sherdel’s
Mammoth Circus.”
“It’s customary,” said Skinny icily, “to remove
your hat when you address a lady.”
“I don’t see no lady,” said Sherdel, trying to be
funny and winking at his back-ups.
“Mr. Jamieson,” yelps Skinny, turning to me, “I
been insulted.”
I looked at Sherdel, and that was the first time in
years that I realised that I wasn’t such a big bloke
after all. I’d have liked to have punched Skinny on
the nose.
“Go on,” said Skinny. “What are you goin’ t’
do about it?”
“Aw,” said I, “Mr. Sherdel was only jokin’.”
Sherdel turned his head towards our poster.
“The artist made a mess of that,” he said,
plugging his finger at a picture of the bearded lady.
“Wha’d’yer mean?” said 1.
“Nothin’,” he said, “except that it looks nearly
human. What’s it supposed to be, anyway—a talking
pig?”
“I can’t tell,” said Skinny, “till it takes its hat
off.”
Sherdel was one of those fellers who can hand
it out but can’t take it. He became mildly annoyed,
and began saying things that wouldn’t even be said
between ladies in a wine bar towards six o’clock. He
was right in the middle of it when out of the crowd
stepped a cove that would have made Tom Lurich
look like a small-men’s mannequin.
“No one,” he said, addressing Sherdel, “can’t say
things like that to a lady —not in my presence.”
And with that his fist travelled ten inches and knocked
Sherdel ten yards.
Skinny grinned with his eyes, touched him on the
muscle and said “How can I ever thank you, Mr.”
“Me name’s Bill,” said the mountain.
Well, Bill, Skinny and I, in the natural course of
events, finished up in the parlor of the local pub.
Bill told us about how his mother had told him that
his chief duty in life was the protection of the female
sex, while Skinny kept touching him on the muscle
and telling him how strong he was. It was me moan-
ing about how the dirty thieving circus had robbed us
of all our customers that brought Skinny back to the
idea that life was real.
“We’re stranded, Mr. Jamieson,” he said, and
looked as though he was going to embark on a weep.
Bill gulped and looked uncomfortable for a
minute.
“No, you ain’t,” he said presently. ‘You jist go
right ahead. I’ll see you git a full house even if I
have to punch the silly cows’ heads orf.
BILL’S prediction proved true. There was a full
house, even though a few of the gents had then
eye in a sling; and from what we saw of Sherdel s
Mammoth Circus it looked as though they were only
wasting lights.
The next night business was just as
good, but Bill was beginning to show a
few scars. The following morning Sher-
del’s folded the tents and faded.
“Nice feller, Bill,” said Skinny when
we got packed out that night for the third
time.
“Yeah,” said I, just for a joke. “I
think he’s gettin’ serious about you.”
I got the shock of my life when
Skinny came back at me.
“Yeah,” he said, with a worried look
on his face, “that’s the trouble. He
reckons I’m the only woman, except his
mother, who ever gave him sympathy and
encouragement.”
I could believe that. Bill might have
had a heart of gold, but even with gold
the price it is he couldn’t make up for
his face. His nose covered the greater
part of it, his mouth would have been in
the right place on a grey-nurse shark, and
his ears stood so far off his head that you
weren’t sure they belonged to him. And
to have Skinny (here talking about the
lovelight in its eyes!
“You’re mad,” said I. “What about
the beard?”
“He likes the feel of it,” said Skinny ;
“and he’s started to tell me how much
money he’s got in the bank, and about the
farm that was left to him by his uncle,
who was worth millions. He thinks that
thirty-eight is the ideal age for a man to
marry.”
Well, that was the beginning of our trouble with
Bill. A couple of nights later he broke his finger, and
the audience dropped off to nothing. It looked as
though a move was on the cards. It was while we
were packing up that Bill came round.
“You’re not goin’?” he stuttered, with a look of
anguish in his eyes.
“It’s our life,” said Skinny dolefully. “Wan-
derers on the face of the earth —that’s what we are,
Bill.”
“Listen,” said Bill, as though he’d forgotten that
I existed, “I’m a decent bloke. Why don’t you marry
me, Thora? You could stay ’ere an’ look after me.”
Skinny dropped his eyes like a tenth-rate amateur.
“I got me career to think of, Bill.”
“I seen pictures like that,” said Bill. “It don't do
you no good. You got t’ marry me, Thora. I’ll foller
you till yer do.”
HE did, and by the time we reached the third town
Skinny was getting fed-up. Bill was always
around saying sweet things to him, and love’s sweet
dream was making a mess of my drinking hours. We
tried to shake him off, but it wasn’t no use. He
always turned up just as we were climbing into the
train. Whenever he saw Bill Skinny was always plead-
ing with me not to leave him alone. And even when
Bill was away from him for an hour or so he was
always writing letters to Madame Thora filled with
poignant love-messages.
It got that way that in the finish I said: “Listen,
Skinny, we’ve got enough to keep the wolf from the
bar for a period. Why don’t you shave off the ziff
and let us return to civil and honest life? I’ll tell Bill
that Madame Thora was called away to her ailing
grandmother in Alice Springs.”
Inside ten minutes Skinny was dabbing the blood
from his chin. In another ten minutes he’d shoved on
the suit he carried for eventualities. Madame Thora
was gone to her grandmother in Alice Springs.
“Now, listen,” I said. “I’ll stay here and square-
off with Bill. You’d better grab a train and drift
back to the city. I’ll be with you in couple of days.”
Skinny grabbed his hat and vamoosed, and I sat
down to think of the best way of handling Bill. I
only had about ten seconds of thinking, because it
was just about that long before Bill banged on the
door. I’m in full agreement with Skinny when he
says that it was one of the best ten seconds of
thought in the history of the world.
Bill nearly knocked me over as he entered the
room.
“Who was that man?” he demanded.
I looked serious. “I got some bad news for you,
Bill. That man was Madame Thora’s husband.”
Bill nearly toppled over.
“ ’Er ’usband! ” he yelped, and looked like a
stricken cow.
“Don’t tell me you didn’t know she had one,'
said I.
“S’elp me bob, .1 didn’t,” said Bill.
I folded my arms and looked stern.
“Well, you’d have soon known, all right,” I said.
“He’s been watchin’ you, and he’s makin’ you the
co-re. in his divorce case. He’s got all those letters
you wrote. They’ll be used as evidence.”
“Gosh!” said Bill, and went about ten shades
paler. “Where’s Thora?”
“He sent her back to the city by car,” I said,
“with a private detective.”
“Gosh!” said Bill again.
“The way he’s talkin’,” said I, “it’s going to cost
you a packet of coin. You won’t have a chance with
(Continued at foot of next page.)


those letters against you. If I was you I’d try to
settle out of court. You wouldn’t want to drag
Thora's name in the dirt, would you?”
His mother’s teachings came to the surface.
“No, I wouldn't,” he said.
“All right,” I said, “you leave it to me. I’ll see
if 1 can get those letters back for you. How much
would you be willing to pay?”
“Would fifty quid be enough?” asked Bill.
“Make it sixty,” said I.
And Bill dived into his coat and fished out a
bundle of notes.
“Try your best, Mr. lamieson,” he said, “and I
won’t forget you.”
WHEN he’d gone I fished out the letters from
behind the clock, where Skinny had shoved them,
and put them in an envelope addressed to Bill.
Three days later Skinny and I began spending
the sixty pounds, together with the bonus of a tenner
Bill had sent me for doing the job. Which proves
that Christmas comes when you least expect it and
Skinny ain’t always the brains of Hazlitt and
Jamieson.
A Dramatic Brevity
FEAR
By
VIN. CLAYTON
sat on a timber balk outside the little
boatshed. On each side stretched sandy beach,
L.,7 deserted except for a few distant figures. He
filled his pipe again. It was good to sit there
feeling the sun and moving air.
This was going to be a holiday of relaxation and
rest. There were some compensations when a man
got on in the forties. He could sit placidly and
appreciate peace, free from the hot-blooded impulses
of youth and the urge to constant physical activity.
A man came round the side of the shed, his
weather-beaten face and stained clothing suggesting
that he was the fisherman owner of the shed and
boat.
“Good morning,” greeted Smail brightly.
The man nodded without speaking and went into
the shed, coming out a few minutes later with a bundle
of netting, which he proceeded to overhaul.
“Fishing good?” Smail inquired.
“No.”
More silence. Smail cast about for a lead, rather
amused and idly seeking entertainment.
A woman came out of the tea-tree towards them,
shabbily dressed but having a fine carriage and supple
movements. She ignored Smail.
“Aren’t you going out?” she demanded of the
fisherman.
“What’s the use? There's nothing on the bite,”
he muttered resentfully.
“No. That’s why Kit Stone and Snowy are out.”
She pointed out to sea.
Smail could distinguish only a couple of specks
on the water. “They’re satisfied to get a few whiting
for the hotel. You want the fish to come and jump
up on the beach.”
“Oh, all right,” he said wearily, “I’ll give it
another go.”
CTMAIL had been embarrassed by the domestic
conflict, his sympathy inclining to the woman. She
was still young, he observed not more than thirty.
The shabby clothes made her look older. Properly
dressed, she would be striking.
The point gained, she said no more.
With the idea of putting a few shillings in their
way Smail asked “1 suppose you wouldn’t care to take
me out with you. I’ll pay
whatever you like.”
The man considered him, re-
sented the charity.
“No, I don’t take casuals,” he said,
and busied himself with the boat.
Smail and the woman watched him till
the splutter of the engine was a faint tap-tap in the
distance. Neither of them had spoken. She turned
to Smail, the sombre cloud of resentment still on her
face as she looked steadily at him, weighing him.
Then, astonishingly, she smiled, and her face was
transformed to bewitching beauty. She was cap-
tivating. Languor deserted Smail. He was suddenly
alert, young.
“It’s awful of me to talk like that. But he’s so
lazy. I have to keep at him. Even two or three
whiting are worth catching. The hotel will buy them.”
“It’s a hard life, fishing,” said Smail sententiously.
She considered him, then gave him another of
those astonishing smiles without speaking. Smail
reconsidered his conception. Perhaps the life wasn’t
so hard. She had answered him effectively with that
smile. It said “I have health, the sun, sea and air.
I can smile. What's wrong with that?”
With a lissom movement she sat on the sand
facing him. They chatted casually about his holiday,
the weather. Her hand strayed with a fluttering
movement to her black hair, and the straight gaze
changed to a sidelong glance.
Presently she looked up and down the beach,
then rose, saying softly “I must go.”
Smail stood up as she started towards the scrub,
hesitated, then walked into the little shed. Giant
hammers beat in Smail’s head, his legs felt uncertain,
but with sudden resolution he followed.
'“THAT afternoon Smail walked along the beach
' again. The fisherman was standing by the anchor
which moored the boat, and Smail would have passed
with a nod when the man said “I’m going out to the
reef after snapper. You can come along if you like.
I don’t want your money.”
Curt refusal was Smail’s first thought, but secret
guilt obtruded other considerations. If he was already
suspect, bland innocence was the best defence. The
woman must be protected.
“Thanks very much,” he said with only a slight
hesitation.
The boat was hauled in close enough to allow
Smail to jump aboard dry-shod, and they headed out
off-shore. The fisherman volunteered no conversa-
tion, and Smail felt ill at ease. He began to fill his
pipe from a tin of tobacco.
“Would this be your pouch?” asked the man,
holding it out.
“Why—yes—thanks,” stammered Smail.
“Found it in the shed. You must have dropped
it this morning,” explained his companion.
A panic of guilt sent Smail’s thoughts racing.
So he knew! What was he up to now? Smail could
think of no ready explanation in his own defence. A
hasty glance showed the beach too far off already
for his swimming ability. He was trapped.
He cursed himself for his stupidity. At his age,
with a comfortable position, wife and family, to allow
impulse to trap him into disaster was idiocy. Yet how
many men in his place would have resisted?
The fisherman, expressionless and silent, steered
the boat and watched the distant shore for his bearing
marks. Presently, switching off the engine, he ran
forward, light as a cat, to let down the anchor.
Startled by his agility, Smail studied him more closely
and realised that the badly-fitting clothes hid a power-
ful body. The fellow could snap him in two without
effort, pound him, smash him. And there was no
escape.
He was alert and fearful, but the fisherman
quietly prepared and baited two strong hand-lines,
handing one to Smail. “Cast well out. It’s deep
here. Wait for a good bite before you strike.”
They fished for an hour, Smail hooking one big
snapper which his mentor landed, while the fisherman
caught four good fish. Then, as ne was hauling in
another, the fine went slack.
“Get away?” queried Smail. He was beginning
to feel, more at his ease again, almost convinced that
the former fears had been mere nervy panic.
“No —shark. Look!” Smail saw the sharp fin
cut the water not ten feet from the boat.
“Might as well give up,” he suggested.
“No, I may have a bit of fun with him,”
answered the fisherman slowly and thoughtfully.
“Funny thing about your pouch. Wonder who put it
in the shed.”
SMAIL felt the perspiration burst in a cold prickle
all over his body.
“I don’t know,” he almost gasped.
So the fellow had known all along, was subject-
ing him to slow, subtle torture. That sullen, dull
exterior was a mask for devilish shrewdness. And
what did he mean by having some fun with the shark?
Where was the brute?
“There he is!” pointing with a stubby finger.
“Big fellow, too. You or me wouldn't be more than
a couple of bites to him.”
Smail thought of the big grey-nurse he had seen
in the zoo, the vast cruel mouth with the serrated
teeth. His stomach turned sick. Surely the fiend
did not contemplate just feeding him to that monster!
Cracking nerves almost precipitated a craven appeal
for mercy, but a remnant of his spirit revolted against
such a final indecency, and he pulled himself together.
The fisherman picked a large flathead out of
the box and, making a slit, packed something into the
body from a tin. “Caustic,” he explained. “You 11
see some fireworks presently.”
Hoisting up the anchor, he started the engine,
then threw the bait overboard. About five minutes
later they watched an almost incredible display of
threshing aerobatics by the agonised shark.
When it was over the fisherman said “1 think
that’s enough fishing.”
Smail had himself better in hand now, though still
apprehensive of some subtly dramatic climax. As
they approached the shore his hopes rose steadily till
at last they stood on the beach. He resisted an inclina-
tion to bolt for the scrub.
The fisherman buried the anchor deliberately and
tied a cross-rope to a balk, then walked over to
Smail and faced him squarely.
Smail braced tensely to meet the impact.
“I reckon,” said the fisherman thoughtfully, “that
was prob’ly someone walking along the beach saw
that pouch and put it in the shed, thinkin’ it was
mine.”


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter IX.
/.
poisoned foot was healing badly,
and it would be a matter of at least a
I Sr/SpS couple of months before he was any use
| on tf l6 water again- Just bad luck, was it,
or fh e clumsy handling of Besanck 'iiat
fi rs t morning?... He was inclined to let
ugly doubts about Besanck cloud his mind, to fret
at the uncertainty that hung about his future. It
wasn’t that he was worried about his job: there was
no fear that the Kestrel would find anyone to take
his place: but suppose he had to pad about, dot-and-
carry-one, all his days with a wooden stump like old
Courtney at the front, whose leg had been bitten off
years ago by a shark in the Timor Sea?
On the verandah of the hospital he lay stretched
out in a canvas folder, whittling at the model of a
lugger and letting his eyes stray every now and then
to the quivering jumble of white and green below—the
square block of Berry and Mason’s, the straight line
of palm-bordered esplanade, the misty stretch of
harbor beyond which lay coral cays, dim islands.
Beside him Myra squatted with her feet beneath her,
stitching at the miniature sails. She adored Charlie:
she had a deep fear that unless she remained near to
keep guard over him the doctors would cut off his
leg and thus rob him of all desire to live. In her
very bones there was a distrust of the doctors. If it
hadn’t been for other people’s insistence she would
never have let Charlie be carried off to hospital but
would have nursed him herself as she had done two
years before when his arm had been laid open by a
stingaree.
“Look!” she said, holding up her work. “I’ve
got brown cotton for the ropes and thicker stuff for
the stays. And I’ll soak the sails in wattle-tan.
Better make it seem as if it had been out in plenty
bad weather, not just come off the slips.”
There was no permanent worth in the model
they were shaping. As soon as it was finished they
would give it to one of the Luggertown youngsters,
and probably it would be smashed to pieces in a week
or two: but the girl knew that Charlie must have
something to do with his hands. Left inactive, he
would go all dark inside as their Uncle Albert did,
mope, burst into sudden rages, pick quarrels with the
other patients in the ward. There was deep content
in using your hands. She encouraged Charlie to give
the model the whole of his attention, comparing it
with the sketch she had drawn down at the estuary,
exclaiming in delight over the masts, making sure all
the measurements were right so that it would fit
together without nails or wire.
They were silently occupied when Neil came
along the verandah, flushed and hearty after a week’s
tramp in the hills. He tossed his hat on the floor,
plumped down on a cane chair beside them. “Well,
Charlie, how’s it going now?”
The boy looked up with a self-conscious grin,
brown eyes touching Neil’s as lightly as a swallow
dipping its wing then flitting back to the bandaged
leg. “Not too good yet. Long time before they let
me go back to the Kestrel.”
“Never mind,” said Neil. “She won’t need any
of us for awhile. Keep reminding him he’s not
wanted, Myra—that he’d only be a nuisance down
there on the boat. I’m going to lay her up on the
slips and give her a complete overhaul. See if her
sheath’s cut about or the borers got into her shell.”
“They tell you she need that?” said Charlie
sharply.
Neil slowly filled his pipe. “Perhaps she doesn’t.
Old Peter went over her pretty thoroughly before we
got her, and must have taken out any bad wood.
But it’s slack time. Cyclone-warnings going up every
few days and boats coming in with no fish. I may
as well take the chance of getting her out of the
water while there’s nothing doing. Besides, I can’t
manage her single-handed.”
Swift as twin beams of light the eyes ot Charlie
and his sister flashed up from their work. There was
no expression on their faces except for the dark
intensity of those eyes, gleaming like snakehead
cowries from still, shallow pools. It was as if they
felt as one, responded with the same instinctive move-
ments of pleasure or disappointment to any breath of
wind touching them. m
“Besanck —he don’t want to go out, eh?’
“We’ve parted company.”
“Good! ” The word came in a grunt deep from
Charlie’s throat.
It made Neil move uneasily in his chair, frown
slightly, turn his eyes in laughing challenge not on
Charlie but on the girl, who sat with her needle
poised and her legs doubled beneath her. That your
opinion, Myra?”
“It’s Charlie’s,” she said.
“Eh, Charlie, why do you say ‘good’? I’m not
likely to get another partner like Leo. The best cook
along the waterfront, an expert when there’s trouble
with the engine. We’d have had a damned sight
rougher time last winter if he hadn t been with us.
Isn’t that so?”
Charlie was silent a moment, his face heavy with
cloud, his eyes on the slowly-moving blade. Then he
said with sullen conviction “The Kestrel she s better
without him.”
“You think so? Why?”
“He don’t like the sea. He don’t belong there.”
Flushing under the dark of her skin, her head
bent low over her work, the girl echoed his words:
“He don’t belong here, neither. He don’t want to.
Not for long. He’s different from all the crowd along
the front, Besanck. One day he’ll speak to you
friendly, the next he don’t know you. Other people—
they don’t count with him no more than flies.”
Long accumulations of unspoken hostility sounded
in their voices, burned in their half-sullen faces, their
still bodies. Neil was disquieted by the force of it.
What had Leo done to create this?
“Anyway, you’ve got nothing against him per-
sonally, Charlie,” he said blandly. “He always
treated you well.”
The boy twisted on his lounge, heat showing in
his eyes. “No, he don’t treat me well. You know
yourself, Neil, he only gammon when he listen
what I say. Sometime he talk to me friendly, but
he laugh behind the eyes. Oh, yes, always that
laugh behind the eyes. And I know damn well
what it mean. I swim like a fish because Im no
more than a fish. To handle a boat well—one day
they will teach the monkeys to do that. Same in
everything. While Besanck sit there T don t enjoy
to live any more. No good to spear fish along the
reef. No good to lie out on the bowsprit looking
down at the coral.”
“He don’t like colored people,” supplemented
the girl, “and he don’t like white people neither.
Only himself.”
“While he’s there on the boat,” persisted Charlie,
“I don’t enjoy to live any more. No matter if we
make a good haul. No matter if we beat the other
boats home. All that seem silly to him. When I
boast about the shark I catch with the night-line I
look at him aross the table and the words turn to
little bones in my throat.”
I T was the first time he had given full utterance to
1 the exasperation pent up in him. Neil, looking
at his dark head bent over the model, at Myra’s
waxen face foreshortened as she stitched, knew
that their feeling was very like his own. The
resistance of unconscious life to something that
would penetrate it, spill its sap, destroy its sources
of nourishment. The impatience of the senses with
the cold, destructive workings of the mind. Had
there been some softening of his mental fibres that
had left him nearer to Charlie and Myra than to
Besanck?
“They’re more at home with me now he’s gone,"
he told himself. “More ready to talk freely—open
out.”
And the thought gave him a subtle thrill of
pleasure: their increased confidence in him was a
gift of power. He could dominate these two, bind
them to him with threads of loyalty, Charlie with his
capacity for work, Myra with her instinct of devo-
tion. It was an easy relationship: it exacted very
little, yet it warmed a man, made him feel comfort-
able around the middle.
Up there in the hills he had been happy because
his break with Besanck, dreaded so long beforehand,
had come without unpleasantness. What a lucky
thing that Leo had been able to understand his
point of view so quickly and thus relieve him of
embarrassment: “My dear Neil, why talk? I am
free, you are free ; there is no marriage-oath between
us. And even if there were... Myself, I did not
expect we should remain together so long. Perhaps
it was too long, eh? But there is nothing to regret
except that a habit grow on you. Habits —hell, what
a creeping death!”
He had been generous about the terms of their
settlement. No need to worry because the value of
his share in the boat couldn’t be paid immediately:
a few pounds would satisfy him, and he could draw
the rest from time to time. “For a little while now
I shall be free from the necessity to think about
money. And you, Neil, will find pleasure in having
to earn a little more than is easy.”
Humping his baggage, he had gone off to the
other side of the town, where the suburbs petered
out in swamps and sandy stretches. He would be
there now, reconstructing the camp he had occupied
over a year before, making himself comfortable in
his own way, determined to retire into his shell till
the time came for taking a boat to China or Singa-
pore.
Neil deliberately put the image away from him.
“You think we could run the Kestrel on our own,
Charlie?”
The boy whittled in silence for awhile. “Two
men they can often manage a boat better than
three.”
“And one man than two, eh?”
“If both want to be boss. Besanck—he believe
a man can do more work with his mouth than his
hands.”
Neil rose to his feet, took up his hat. "Forget
all that, Charlie: we’re not going to talk about him
any more. It’s you and me now, and we’ve got to
make a do of it... Look after him, Myra, if he
doesn’t get back the use of his leg I’ll have to ship
you as a deckhand instead.”
She smiled up at him, eyes moist and abashed,
throat faintly flushed with pink. “If only you really
meant it! ” her look said.
HE went down the gravelled path of the hospital
and back along the hot, paling-bordered streets to
the estuary, content soaking through him as he thought
of the dark head bending over the model. There
would be no tension on the Kestiel when ie an
Charlie were working together. Charlie, for all fua
THE STORY SO FAR...
Chris Sanderson, “ex-scrub-worker,
-contractor, -Cabinet Minister, undis-
charged bankrupt—a hell of a lot of
other things as well," dies in Port Cowrie,
a North Queensland coastal town. Neil,
his son —they had met only once since
Neil was a youngster —buys a boat, the
Kestrel, and takes up fishing. Besanck,
whom he met in a cane-cutters’ camp,
goes in with him as partner. They quarrel
and part company.
Other characters are:—
Laura Clune, who runs Cayley’s, a
large new tourist hotel in Port Cowrie,
Corcoran, sub-editor of the Port
Cowrie “Times,”
Peter Jensen, an old Swedish car-
penter and boat-builder —he built the
Kestrel —and contractor who worked for
Sanderson in the early days, and
Freda, Jensen’s daughter.


seeming independence, would carry out any order of
his with doglike devotion and let his will be moulded
by a word.
What an inspiriting thing to have someone who
looked up to you, someone on whose loyalty you
could rely, who took you for his natural boss! It
put heart into a man, made him feel twice himself.
His mind went back to the vague thoughts that
had filled it as he lay on a spur of the range looking
down over the winding road his father had built, a
white spiral penetrating the red cuttings, the green-
dark belts of jungle: “You’ve kept up this quarrel
with the old man too long. It’s divided you, split
your will in two. You ought to be able to get a
kick out of what he did in the early days. His devil-
may-care spirit, the way he could make himself felt.
Instead . . . half-ashamed of it, aren’t you? Scared
any old shellback you talk to might bring up his
name... Scrap all that foolery. Fling yourself into
life: make yourself a power in this town. You could
do it.”
He felt an uprising of new force in him. It was
physical in essence, sheer excess of health and high
spirits. He wanted to get drunk, fling himself into
argument with the wharf-lumpers at the Crown and
Anchor, spill thoughtlessly the overflow of life in him.
Heaviness of the monsoon lay on the estuary, on
the mossy fringe of mangroves. The sky was leaden,
no wind stirred, and in the diffused light of late after-
noon the wide stretch of water seemed stagnant, a
mere backwater pool that was evaporating in the heat.
A stone’s throw out from the spindly jetty the Kestrel,
inert at anchor, looked like a beetle held fast in a
gathering scum.
Neil suddenly became aware of a girl sitting on
the bank, hatless, her hands linked around her knees,
her body as still as if it was a root or an outcrop of
rock. There was intentness in her humped back, the
droop of her shoulders: she was inert as the boat,
yet her body had a tautness, a suggestion of spring;,
wound up, ready to relax at a touch.
Until he moved down to the waterline he took
her for one of the colored girls of the quarter: then
the light on her fair cropped hair made him pull
himself up with a jerk. “Freda! Yes, it’s Freda,
right enough. What the devil’s brought her here?”
11.
FOR over an hour Freda had been sitting there,
watching the mullet leap from the still water,
the boys move away with their tins of shrimps
up the hill, the waterbirds playing about the
black snag that rose like a crocodile’s snout twenty
yards from the jetty. There was a heat in her that
did not come from the moist air or the hidden sun.
It had been gathering ever since she had met Besanck
outside the butcher’s, a parcel of stewing-bones under
one arm, a broken bag of fruit under the other, down-
at-heel, seedy, a little drunk, as if he had ceased to
care how he looked, what people thought of him, now
that he had been driven back to his old camp among
the rubbish-dumps.
A haunting figure! With his swaggering aloof-
ness and his straggling parcels he was an object of
amusement even to the two Chinese who squatted
in the wide opening of their store, inhaling cigarette-
smoke and the smell of rotten bananas. Yet it was
not his frowsy look, rather the belligerent mockery
of his eyes, that had set her imagination working.
Why had he so suddenly turned against her? Sandy
might have let him down, but what reason had he
for thinking she knew all about the quarrel? Why
did he fend her off with quips about his new way of
living, the meat-safe hanging from a limb, the pest
of fleas, the colored girl who wanted to come and
cook his meals for him?
She felt she had lost touch with him, that a
precious thread of contact had been snapped.
“He won’t stay there long,” she was thinking.
“He’s itching to get away. Why am I overcome by
the thought of his going away? I don’t trust him,
don’t even like him. His laugh with its mocking
echo ; his eyes like glass, denying everything, breaking
everything into little splinters of light. But while
he’s there life moves, flows, sparkles. The very
thought of him being there is enough... You can
dislike a man yet want him to be about. You can
feel a desperate need of him without wanting to live
with him. But he’ll go away, fToat over the skyline.
In shallow water, he’s always saying, the dragon
becomes the joke of shrimps. Everything runs into
the sand. He’ll go away to Europe or China, and
Katie will marry Keith Macready. Only Guthrie
will stay put, watching me across the table with his
little piggish stare, drying my heart up into a bead
of jet.”
She had a vision of Besanck’s face as he came
down the gangway of the Chinese boat, pale under
the light, alive with inner excitement, so much quicker
and more vital than most faces she knew. It roused
something in her: she was aware of her blood respond-
ing to the challenge of his lifted eyes. Why did he
want to go away? He had no real intention of
returning to his own country. If Sandy hadn’t been
cantankerous they could all have been a happy family
on the Kestrel.
SHE was moving over the crumbling breccia, crush-
ing the briny sea-grapes beneath her feet, running
on with an assenting shout when Besanck’s voice called
her to look at some shelled thing in one of the pools,
a patterned crab, an enamelled cowrie, a family of
tiny clams not yet broken adrift from the protective
rock. When Neil’s step sounded behind her she
sprang up, flushed, aggressive, the blood burning
beneath her eyes and at the roots of her hair. “Hallo,
you’ve come back at last. I’ve been waiting about
for hours, not knowing where to find you... What’s
this trouble between you and Besanck, Sandy?”
He looked at her heated face and stiffened.
“Why? Been telling you things, has he?”
“No,” she said. “I only saw him for a few
minutes outside the butcher’s shop. He spoke as if
I knew all about it. Why should I know anything?
There was no word of this when I saw either of you
last.”
She was trying to talk of the matter casually, but
there was feeling in the tightness of her lips, the inten-
sity of her eyes. He pretended not to notice it.
“Peter would have told you. We talked it all over
before I went away. Leo and I decided a couple of
weeks ago we’d better part company. There wasn’t
any particular argument or mud-slinging: it was just
that we’d come to the end of things. He’d never
liked the work on the boat.”
“It wasn’t you who made the move, then. I
can’t believe it.”
“You think he was so enthusiastic about the job
of getting fish or cooking lobscouse, eh?”
“I don’t think he’d have broken away from the
Kestrel if you’d wanted him to stay. What’s he got
to go back to? A rotten old dump out there by the
swamp that isn’t fit for .a half-caste.”
“It’s his own choice. It’s where he was camping
when I gave him a chance to come in with me.”
There was a hardness in his voice, a glaze over
his eyes, that made her draw in upon her Self.
“You gave him a chance?” she repeated.
“Well, didn’t I?”
“I thought you were friends, that you needed
his help on the boat —his money, too.”
He winced. “I didn’t suggest I was being a
philanthropist... Look here, Freda, let’s sit down
and talk it over quietly. There’s no need to get
worked-up or make insinuations. Besanck doesn’t
believe I treated him badly. We agreed when we
started off that if anything held us together it would
be a slipknot. He was the one who insisted on that:
he was always scared of something cutting into his
freedom. We’re two people, not one, he was always
saying, and even on the boat he always insisted on
his own little quiffs and privacies. He sneered at the
idea of mateship, men sticking to one another for
sentimental reasons or from habit. He’d have thrown
the Kestrel over as soon as he was tired of it.”
“Yet the impulse to break came from you?”
“Well, why not? If he had freedom, so had I.
It would have been a rottenly one-sided agreement
otherwise. Things hadn’t been going too smoothly
these last few months: we’d got on one another’s
nerves —that was the truth of it. If you come to
loggerheads with another man in a little boat like
ours you could choke him for the color of his eyes.”
She said with deliberate dryness “You’d con-
sidered the idea, then, of going off and leaving the
Kestrel to him?”
“No,” he said doggedly, “there wouldn’t have been
any sense in that. He didn’t want it, couldn’t have
run it on his own. Charlie wouldn’t have gone with
him, for one thing.”
“He was buying scraps of bone for soup,” she
said. “Making cigarettes out of old bits of news-
paper. How much did he put into the boat when
you started?”
He grew dark with anger. “You suggest I’m
giving him a raw deal?”
“He was buying scraps of bone for soup,” she
repeated.
“I’m paying him off by degrees,” he told her.
“He was satisfied with that. If he’s got through the
first instalment it’s because he’s been spending it on
drink and women. He always liked to chuck it around
when he had it, pretend he regarded it as dirt. 1
can’t go around mothering him now, seeing whether
he’s out of tobacco and if he’s laid in enough stores
over the week-end... Why have you suddenly gone
so soft on him, Freda?”
She was sitting down beside him, her eyes
moody, her body gathered in upon itself, looking
absractedly at a gull hovering over a floating fish-
head. “It’s not him I’m thinking about. Not him
o Continued on page 50.)
She smiled up at him. “If only you really meant it,” her look said.


Next Weeks “ Bulletin ”
“ Emu-In titj uma”
S. V. Porter’s winning entry in the
special Brief Story section of the
recent BULLETIN competition.
warehouse Camille, in a fit of jealousy, pushes Saha
off the balcony railing, an act that perhaps, with more
point, might have been directed against Alain. Alain
returns with Saha in his arms. Her fall has been
miraculously broken by an awning ; but the epileptic
yowl she lets out at sight of Camille gives the game
away.
And so Alain goes home to his mamma, and
Camille —in Alain’s runabout leaves for distant
scenes. Under the absurdity of the story there is
pathos and —at second glance even a sense of
probability. Colette is a gifted story-teller with a
delicate style. She is an Officer of the Legion of
Honor and one of the very few distinguished women
writers of France, and as Parisian as Notre Dame.
Australian Writers: Norman Lindsay.
Norman Lindsay, a son of Dr. Lindsay, was born
at Creswick, Victoria, on February 23, 1879, and
was educated at Creswick Grammar School. He is
most widely known as a fine artist and, through his
work for The Bulletin, as a political cartoonist; but
he also occupies a prominent position in Australian
literature. Those of his books that were published
overseas met with more than ordinary success, which
at least points to sufficient vitality to secure attention
where no favor was likely to be shown. His literary
and artistic proclivities appear to have sprouted
simultaneously. While at school, for the entertain-
ment of his fellow-pupils, he wrote, illustrated, printed
and distributed a paper called "Boomerang. v He
also illustrated school-books according to ideas of his
own. His life has been uneventful but busy. He has
visited England and America. His hobby is the
craft of ship-modelling, and connoisseurs describe his
work in this field as "exquisite.”
His literary work has followed two collateral
lines, the discursive and the dynamic—the essays on
life and art. including Hyperborea and Madam
Life's Lovers, and the true novels such as Redheap,
Miracles by Arrangement and The Cautious Amorist.
The latter are more important than the former. His
books for children, of course, belong in the second
category.
The example of Lindsay’s work that was possibly
—by that irony that dogs us all intended as a
magnum opus, Creative Effort, subtitled An Essay in
Affirmation, is the least satisfactory. The affirmation
appears to be that human effort is of two kinds: the
effort of existence—that is, the filling of the general
stomach —and creative effort —the setting up in art,
letters and music of an image of life whereby life
is consoled, modified and inspired. He believes that
creative effort is the lamp of the ages, that what
virtue little minds possess they owe to the great creative
minds of the past; and, further, that in so far as
creative effort gives life a fresh direction, impulse
and shape it is greater than life: it is a manifesta-
tion of the Universal Mind.
That is his credo. It is worth stating, though few
readers seem to have been willing to drag it toil-
somely forth from the mountain of verbiage in which
it lies buried in the book. It is a serviceable working
hypothesis, although it must be admitted that Lindsay
appears at times to confuse creative effort with what
is just one of its means of expression—romanticism.
Reference to the turgidness of Creative Effort is
necessary because it occasionally shows itself in the
dynamic Lindsay. He is capable sometimes of an
almost wilful misuse of his medium, English, and
during one of those clean, swift dramatic presentations
for which his work is notable he will occasionally
put forth a sentence in “psychological” jargon in
which his thoughts and his prose momentarily Jose
their clarity.
Lindsay’s discursive writings are really studio
talk about life and art. They are spirited, penetrating
and, like his novels, often hilarious. They are a tour
of the workshop by a craftsman who delights to
season his talk with wisecracks. Here are a couple:
We [the Hyperboreans] are not bound for that slum
department in space where Man carries his saved soul
like tuppence in a tin money-box The Doleful Ones
of earth are forever seeking to invade it [Hyperborea],
wishing to destroy its taverns and vineyards and alehouse
benches in the sun, in order to set up instead millions of
rows of semi-detached villas of worship to the sanctity
of trousers.
Here is a scrap of workshop philosophy—bear it in
mind, for the dynamic Lindsay lives up to its impli-
cations: —
Does this art stop only at beauty? Its utterance must
know all tragic realities also, for beauty is its recoil from
ugliness. Therefore its eyes are averted from no aspect
of life; for if its happiness is to scale to heights of
Olyhipus, its courage must also descend into that abyss
which is Man. One thing only is it ashamed of—shame.
Madam Life’s Lovers, “a human narrative
embodying a philosophy of the artist in dialogue
form,” is an abstract version of life. Its dramatis
personce, though they are designated by names, might
well have been labelled Female Parent, Male Parent,
Ancient, Clown, Female Parent’s Paramour, First
Lover, Second Lover, etc., etc. The action takes
place variously in a romanticised garden of the kind
made familiar in Lindsay’s drawings and in a stylised
Sydney with the Conservatorium of Music, a slum
and glimpse of the harbor disposed about the fore-
ground. The characters, it is to be gathered, achieve
the peak of mundane experience and the threshold
of a more rarefied existence in their embraces, which
occur frequently. It is successful in its intention —an
amusing discussion of life, love and art with some
dramatic action—but it is highly artificial. It is not
until Lindsay essays the natural, deals with life in the
vernacular, tells a story in the manner of the times,
that he puts his literary abilities really to the test —
and begins to carry conviction.
His approach is that of the caricaturist, a method
as legitimate as that of the satirist, the romanticist or
NORMAN LINDSAY.
any other, for none of them can hope to capture more
than an aspect of the truth. It is at the opposite pole
to romanticism and is possibly wounded romanticism’s
retort to life. Red heap, Miracles by Arrangement
and The Cautious Amorist all portray humanity with
its vulgar and ridiculous attributes strongly empha-
sised. The characters are still Madam Life’s Lovers
—though now more fully vitalised—and are mostly
in process of being disdainfully treated by that
capricious lady.
More than any other Australian writer Lindsay
deals in human oddities. There is always a sprinkling
of them among the straight character studies in his
stories, and he seems to have a clear image in mind
at the moment of introducing them. Uncle Jobson,
Mr. Bandparts, Grandpa Piper, Old Bill, Rev. Knee-
bone in Redheap, and Pa Puncheon and Captain
Gruntle in Miracles by Arrangement are all lively
portraits. Here is Uncle Jobson:
Uncle Jobson’s temper, like his corns and his bell-
topper and his armor-plated frock coat, was as much a
part of the Sabbath routine as the church bell. Attend-
ing his unseasonable frock coat he wore a pair of woollen
wrist protectors, while from the interior of his hat
depended a red bandana handkerchief, in pleasing
harmony with the color of his face. In church he made
almost as much noise as the parson. Prayer with him
was an exercise of groans, mutterings and snorts. He
had the art of blowing his nose like a trumpet, and his
"Amens” were ejected at the pulpit with the severity of
a reprimand. Even the text was repeated after the
parson with the air of one who corrects rather than cor-
roborates. Sometimes he stood up to count the con-
gregation, and when, as churchwarden, it behoved him
to take the plate round, he bestowed a further hint
of criticism by deliberately adding up the amount
donated.
A Curate in Bohemia, sufficiently described by
its title, is the lightest of Lindsay’s novels. The
Cautious A morist comes next; a vivacious tale of a
woman and three men, one of whom is extremely
cautious, marooned on an island. Its quality is that
which is usually termed Rabelaisian, which is not to
say that it fails in being a revealing human document
—rather otherwise. Redheap and Miracles by
Arrangement have a wider intention and, though
largely humorous in treatment, are serious novels.
Both are family novels and, in the main, devote
themselves to showing human beings, from adolescence
to old age, in conflict with their romantic propen-
sities. Granting the caricaturist his right to a certain
degree of exaggeration and elimination —particularly
the latter —they carry out their intention with fidelity.
Lindsay’s pen in literature is as sure and unhesi-
tating as his pencil in drawing. Though he exag-
gerates, it is the norm as he sees it that he seeks to
reveal, and in his pursuit of the truth nothing comes
amiss to him. (“One thing only is art ashamed of —
shame.”) Superficially considered, he makes humanity
ugly and ludicrous, but closer examination shows a
depth of sympathy.
There is an obverse and reverse side to his method.
Gresham, in Miracles by Arrangement, seeking a last
contact with romance yet fearing inability to play
his part, is a pathetic figure. Nina, his daughter,
herself faced with the insistence of sex and shocked
at the evidence of its insistence in her parents, is a
figure calling for pity. She is not an admirable
character, but she is real. Wally, the small boys
Peter and Jerry, the Puncheon family, the girls Ida
and Trixie, have their living counterparts, and if, as
might be argued, they would in the nature of things
possess attributes not presented by the author, the
answer is that these lie beyond the scope of his
intention —just as those he often does reveal have been
in the main intentionally disregarded by other writers.
In his depiction of character he reaches far both
as regards age and social condition. He convincingly
presents the prosperous professional man«of the city,
the small-town merchant, the lady of idleness, the
self-respecting working man’s wife (Mrs. Arnold in
Redheap ), yokels young and old, middle-class adoles-
cents, street-corner louts, small boys, slaveys, clerics,
the seedy intellectual, the repressed and the liberated
young woman. He has a feeling for the tragic as
well as the comic element of life and can touch both
with equal sureness. The handling of the situation
between the sisters Hetty and Ethel Piper in Redheap
is very well done. Hetty is a strait-laced girl of
twenty-four, all eagerness and no courage, one of those
people “so constituted as to fear love and scuttle
behind all sorts of reservations at its approach."
Ethel is eighteen, and her inhibitions couldn’t be
detected with a microscope. While conducting an
amour with Arnold, the proprietor of the local bicycle-
shop, she contrives to steal the interest of the man
Hetty hopes to marry and whom she entertains sedately
in the drawing-room—young Dr. Niven. There are
open clashes as well as hidden hostilities, an almost
uncontrollable hate on one side and casual contempt
on the other. The repressed Hetty’s share in the
conflict is portrayed by Lindsay with something akin
to pity. Here is the introduction to Hetty and to the
family situation: Dr. Niven is the guest of the Pipers
at dinner: —
Between these two relatives Hetty suffered a Spartan
endurance. The graces were hardly worth practising
before an uncle [Jobson] and a grandfather of such
obnoxious table deportment. Short of banishing them
to the kitchen she was forced to accept them as a pair
of privileged buffoons. Indeed, she upheld the family
dignity entirely at the family expense. Her method
was to surround the guest by that species of flattery
which takes the form of humor at the expense of all
save himself. It implied that he was absolved from
being bored by these dull dogs if it pleased him to
ignore them. The younger members of the family
endured these underhand tricks as best they might. She
called Ethel “our Ethel” and Robert “our younger
brother” when inviting attention to their insignificance.
The understanding of Hetty’s tyranny was: “It is
sufficient that the family dignity be vindicated in me.”
Three notable qualities of Lindsay’s work are
brilliance, vigor and candor. In regard to the last
a word in his defence may be timely—the advisability
of it being also his justification. He refuses to deny
any aspect of life. If people say and think and do
certain things whose image in art embarrasses them
then they must decide for themselves whether these
things are bad or merely natural. They must get
rid of shame. The onus is on them, not on the
artist who merely portrays. There are some who
would aver that he waves the “freed image of life”
round his head like a battle flag. If so it is his
challenge to the dark forces of Puritanism, with which
he has seen himself always in continual conflict.
As for the other two qualities named, he is a
hasty writer; his novels, mostly, are thrown together.
There is little evidence of considered craftsmanship
and much evidence that he is led always by the
inspiration of the moment; one bright improvisation
after another. It is one of the aspects of genius,
really, a scarcely considered welling up of the creative
impulse. It robs each book, taken in its entirety, of
the bloom of pattern and detail which is the product
of patient care, but has its compensation in a sense of
freedom, a feeling that the story has possessed the
teller. It is from this that his feeling of brilliance
and vigor derive.
Lindsay’s children’s books have a noticeable
peculiarity in that he writes for children more success-
fully than he writes about them. In writing about
them he uses his flair for caricature, and —in this
reviewer’s opinion, at any rate —it is hardly acceptable.
Saturdee, set in Redheap, records the adventures of
a number of small boys. It is valuable chiefly for
its incidental pictures of life in and around an old
goldmining town. Its young characters, while very
amusing, incline to the monstrous in that their gentler
attributes are entirely overlooked. Flyaway Highway,
a recently published fantasy, has proved popular
among those for whom it was intended, and The
Magic Pudding, a delightful account of the adven-
tures of a koala, Bunyip Bluegum, and his magic
pudding, has been recently reprinted both here and
abroad, indicating that it has been remembered by
those readers who make it their business to treasure
and guard that which is too good to be lost; that, in
short, it is a classic. It is mere concession to adult
vanity that dictates the granting of less space to the
consideration of Lindsay’s writing for children than
to the consideration of his writing for grown-ups.
Lindsay’s achievement in each of the fields of
writing he has entered entitle him to an honorable
place in that small but ardent group of Australian
writers who practise prose fiction as literature, who
seek not commercial reward nor to provide an escape
from life, but to discuss it by projecting a faithful
image of it as it appears to him or her.
One thing should be noted about Lindsay: Hi'
literary art, since the publication of Redheap. ha'
been retrogressive in importance ; on the other hanu.
his last book, The Cautious Amorist, showed grea:
development in external modelling, in preconsidereu
control. Perhaps it is an upward swing towards a
fresh statement.
BIBLOGRAPHY.
A Curate in Bohemia (N.S.W. Bookstall Co., 1913) ;
The Magic Pudding (Angus and Robertson, 1918) :
Creative Effort (Art in Australia, 1920) ; Hyperborea
(Fanfrolico Press, 1928); Madam Life’s Lovers (Fan-
frolico Press, 1929); Redheap (Faber and Faber. 1930);
Miracles by Arrangement (Faber and Faber, 1932) ;
Saturdee (Endeavour Press, 1933) ; The Cautious
Amorist (T. Werner Laurie, 1934); Flyaway Highway
(Angus and Robertson, 1936).
FRANK DALBY DAVISON.


imp*
STRANGE SIGHTS
m
t i
m
m
m
DoIpL ins and flying fish . . .
historic coasts . . . native peoples
and strange customs .... The
Ship’s Bell punctuates the life of
shifting scenes and happy days!
SIGHT
HEARING • TASTE
SCENT • FEEUNG
*— Whether you travel across the
world or on a cruise to Papua,
Fiji, New Guinea, New Zealand
or Tasmania •
fl N ORIENT LUNI E VOVfIGE
G R R Tl F I E SENSE
ORIENT LINE
R 0 V fI.L MAIL STEAMERS
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO. LTD. INCORPORATED IN ENGLRND


ROYAL
PURPLE.
PARA
WM
i m
I
H ■■ H Hi
' . . -V- j
m
wmaMam
■.■ r: ■
*. f.--
■
g»
|tJL
*BPK
m
m
tSx
is
SSS
PPi
ps
K?S
SsS
~ % ~ n ' ®**aw«B. ''*'#£
■
H
i
>3
\
K
ms
m>
' :
M
■
K
Pi
>*
m
91
mm
wm
w&
m
n
i2l
m
is.
wm
m
I s
m
■
■
■
m
m
wM
n
m
Zrm
H
■
H
Si
IS
■■
IB
s' s
Miliiill
■
: :
.
1
dome Idea of One of the Many Vast Storage Cellars .
tfht t Mne cfla'ie mettcnmeJJ andleuy/iiet


GETTING TOGETHER.
“If any politician mentions ‘prestige in the Pacific' to me I'll bite him.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Wesiralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-Slate cheques .)
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand. Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"KINSMEN, HAIL!"
It is all to the good that the Governments at London
and Washington should be moving towards a friendly
understanding in matters that vitally concern both.
A military alliance is not contemplated, nor is one
possible while Britain has European engagements and
the U.S.A. refuses to interfere in the affairs of that
continent; and Democrats and Republicans alike have
returned to the traditional foreign policy of their
country. But there are problems of trade, commerce
and finance which are ripe for discussion, and dis-
cussion may well lead to mutually advantageous
arrangements, even if solutions are not to be expected.
Events have compelled responsible Americans
and Britons to do some hard thinking. They are
living in an age in which twisting the Lion’s tail and
girding at Brother Jonathan have become dangerous
as well as foolish. They retain their belief in demo-
cracy, and democracy is still the hope of a world in
which man must be a political being or nothing.
But democracy has been rejected by other
powerful nations, and it is under fire even in the
Empire and the Republic. It is assailed by many
writing men and some university professors, and the
writing men seem to have no difficulty in getting their
stuff published, whether their attacks on the insti-
tutions that shelter them are open or sly. Through
all their propaganda runs the insinuation that the
makers of the Republic and the Empire and the archi-
tects of their liberties were inferior to the crowd of
seedy adventurers, men without a country, whom the
Germans let loose on the Russian Bear when its tail
was down, and who strut their hour on the Com-
munist stage until they bolt or get bullets in the back
of the head. It shows how very foolish clever men
can be.
In no field of human effort have the English-
speaking peoples anything to learn from the polyglot
crowd who use the machinery of Soviet “justice” to
exterminate friends and enemies alike. While the
toils were closing round Yagoda, for years a hero
of the forced-labor system, now denounced as “an
incorrigible gangster and racketeer,” another bright
page was written in the history of their peaceful con-
quests: the arrival of the Pan-American Airways
flying-boat at Auckland, 49 1-3 flying hours out from
San Francisco, distant 7000 miles. In September,
1928, two Australians, Kingsford Smith and Ulm,
made the first passage in a flying-machine from North
America to Australasia ; now Americans, helped by the
organising talent of another Australian, Harold Gatty,
have completed a survey flight that is to be followed
by the institution of a four-day service between Maori-
land and California.
In the rejoicings over this achievement of
English-speaking men, the only false note was struck
at Canberra, the city of insensate trade wars. There
it was suggested that the arrival of the clipper and
“the decision of the Government at Wellington to
co-operate in the plans of Pan-American Airways”
had “introduced an embarrassing element”; that
“British air prestige in the Pacific” was “threatened,”
and that “this development” would be “seriously
discussed at the Imperial Conference,” with cut-
throat competition as a probable sequel. “A section
of the Cabinet” that started the trade wars and held
up the air-mail agreement with Britain for two years
—because flying-boats were “too slow” and tuppenny
postage on airline letters “too cheap”—was particu-
larly concerned. It has been well answered by the
Acting-Prime Minister of Maoriland, who states that
“adequate steps have been taken to safeguard British
interests,” that “the granting of reciprocal rights has
been specifically provided for,” and that, so far from
his Government having entered into an air-mail con-
tract with Pan-American Airways, it has never been
asked for one.
In refreshing contrast with the ignoble attitude of
“a section of the Cabinet” at Canberra, Mr. Fraser
“expressed the belief that the British Commonwealth
and the United States should co-operate in the friend-
liest spirit in the development of trans-Pacific
aviation” ; and so they should. Nor should it be
beyond the wit of English-speaking men to arrange
for the employment in amicable association of Ameri-
can and British Empire machines and men, for the
common use of airports and the virtual neutralisation
of services, both trans-Pacific and trans-Atlantic, for
all time. No more fruitful contribution to British
Empire and American friendship could be imagined.
Thunder in the North.
That much-advertised Commonwealth launch the
Larrakia found a number of Japanese fishing luggers
lying within territorial waters off the deserted Arn-
hem Land coast. The luggers tried to run away, and
the crew of the Larrakia unlimbered its machine-gun
and fired a few warning shots. They were sufficient:
the strangers stopped ; the captain of the Larrakia
admonished them, and let them go.
Reports of the incident came south and—heroes
being scarce at the moment —newspapers reached for
their blackest fonts of type. There were wild
references to “international complications.” They did
not disturb the Japanese Consul-General, who
remarked that he knew nothing about the matter and
was not reporting to his- Government.
“If a man bites a dog, that’s news,” and it’s
news likewise that at last something official in North
Australia has worked, if only a machine-gun on the
Larrakia. Previously the main intelligence about
the Larrakia was that it had been hung up by its
painter in mid-air or that it was temporarily at the
bottom of Darwin Harbor. In ordinary circum-
stances, the firing of shots across the bows of escap-
ing lawbreakers in Australian territory scarcely calls
for comment. Policemen do it from time to time
and have occasionally fired at the lawbreakers. The
fact that these particular lawbreakers are foreigners
does not exempt them from the obligation to obey Aus-
tralian laws, and the fact that a mile or two of travel
will take such lawbreakers out of Australian juris-
diction renders them all the more liable to be fired
upon. This, in the interests of Australian prestige,
should be made clear to poachers and smugglers.
Around Japanese territory it is clear enough.
Any Australian crew that transgressed entry laws
along the coast of Nippon could expect a warm recep-
tion. A British newspaperman was recently deported
from Tokio. Innocent visitors suspected of taking
photographs of fortified areas have been haled before
the police and had cameras taken from them.
The great danger in the northern situation lies
not in desultory breaking of laws by Japanese but
in the continued tolerance of it which has allowed
a substantial precedent to be created.
Public attention was first called to the position
in 1933, when fast motor-sampans began to operate
in groups in the New Guinea Mandated Territory,
off the Australian coast, in the Solomons and as far
south as Fiji. At the end of that year 36 Japanese
from a sampan landed at the Awinn plantation, in the
Ninigo Islands (Mandated Territory), after indulging
in illegal fishing offshore. They left only' when the
owner of Awinn fired on them. After two or three
such incidents, the Mandated Administration, follow-
ing the example of the Dutch —they regularly seize
sampans found without papers in Dutch waters —
captured and confiscated a sampan, and had the
captain tried and sentenced to imprisonment. Less
has been heard of poaching in the Mandate since.
About the same time a Customs boat near
Thursday Island signalled a fast sampan, which
carried fishing canoes, to stop. It went blithely on,
fished its fill off Denham Pass, in Australian terri-
torial waters, and was caught on its homeward jour-
ney. Its captain was fined £lO for failing to obey
a signal, but the vessel was allowed to lie unguarded
at T.I. pier overnight and its crew was allowed ashore.
It, also, carried away its cargo of shell.
On that occasion a Thursday Island pearler wrote •
to The Bulletin that Japanese boats visiting the
coast “openly defy Australian quarantine, immigra-
tion, Customs and fishing laws.” The gentle Mr. Marr,
then Minister for Territories, said that if the facts
were as stated “the Government would no doubt
make representations to the Japanese Government.”
If the Japanese Government has been approached it
has been under cover of secrecy and without effect.
Every year the armada of Japanese vessels has
steadily increased. Japanese have fished the richest
beds along the North Australian coast. They have
been allowed to come to Darwin for oil and water
and stores. They have been accused of smuggling,
of landing prohibited immigrants, of establishing
dumps of stores at isolated points in Arnhem Land.
They pay none of the taxes with which Australian
pearlers are loaded. There are now reckoned to be
120 Japanese vessels with mother ships cleaning up
the N.A. shellbeds.
No doubt the thoughts of the strangers, like
those of youth, are “long, long thoughts.” The coast
from Darwin to the Queensland border has scarcely
a dozen white inhabitants, nearly all missionaries.
East, to the mouth of the Gilbert River, and north, to
Cape York Peninsula, there is little more evidence
of permanent settlement; every year there are fewer
whites along the coast and more Japanese and
Malays. Yet sea and land alike are full of resources
for supporting life. An Asiatic might argue that if
Australia will not exploit them it is a dog-in-the-
manger policy to deny the opportunity to others
desperately in need.
In an age like the present it needs more than
the hanging-out of flags and a declaration of owner-
ship to hold empty country, and more than a few
patrol boats armed with machine-guns to keep off
landing parties. The one real safeguard is settlement,
and one way of encouraging it in an exposed land
lies in the establishing of military posts, round which
settlement would grow.
Licensed Fools, Fiends, Etc.
“Sixty persons were fatally injured in road accidents
in N.S.W. last month.” —Daily paper.
With the responsible Minister flitting to the Coro-
nation, the banning of a road-safety poster has been
given some airing in Sydney dailies. The poster has
a child in the foreground, with shadows of ambulance-
men in the background carrying off a stretcher-load,
and the legend “Where is my daddy?” Implication is
that daddy is on the stretcher, knocked by a road-hog.
Ground given out for the veto on this poster was
“Too grim.” A war-book was banned in the same
State by a colleague of the same Minister on no
better ground. First of the flood of grim war-books,
it stripped away the romanticism with which war
had been covered and presented a coarse and filthy
picture of a coarse and filthy subject. It was adjudged
too grim for the tender stomachs of N. S. Wales,
including those of the Diggers who had been through
the horrible business it depicted, and knew it for a
broad representation of the tiuth.
Comparatively, the poster has drawing-room
refinement. But the banning of the book makes the
banning of the poster understandable. The spirit is
the same ; and that spirit is the reluctance to face
realities in anything unsavory—like the massacre of
men in war and the killing of men, women and
children by those who drive cars dangerously.
Contrary to popular belief, all who thus drive
are not drunks. Fools lead in this as in many other
things, including prevention of road slaughter. Latest
N. S. Wales police figures available show for a
January-December period only 22 had up for driving
under the influence, compared with 1086 for driving
at a speed or in a manner dangerous to the public.
Fools and others can get driving licenses too easily.
Unless it is getting money on a horse at s.p., there is
nothing easier than getting a license to drive a car. It
can be achieved by people mentally incompetent to
mark a ballot-paper. They have to pass what is called
a “practical” test; a kindergarten matter of driving for
a while, backing and turning. It is extremely doubt-
ful if there is any person anywhere so subnormal
that he could not pass this test after a week’s tuition.
There is no test regarding the prospective car-
driver’s knowledge of the power that is under his
feet. Even taxi-drivers can get a license without the
faintest knowledge in that respect. Companies might
insist on their taxi-drivers passing some privately-
imposed test, but as far as a driving license goes a
driving test is all that has to be passed.
This is Gilbertian romanticism, and it urgently
needs scotching. All prospective car-drivers —private
as well as taxi —should have to pass a rigid test
regarding power. There is no need for them to be
mechanics, but they should know such things as the
distance within which they can stop a given car
travelling at a given speed. They should know within
what distance this can be done on new and on old
tyres. Other tests in power-knowledge will become
obvious from those suggestions. To-day it is pretty
safe to say that not one driver in ten could pass the
most rudimentary of such tests.
The whole system of licensing is thick with absur-
dity. A prospective car-driver living in Sydney need
not go to a city police station for his license. He
can arrange for the test to be in a pleasant, compara-
tively lightly-populated suburb such as Hornsby.
Having secured his license, he can then drive through
the thick of the city traffic without having to pass any
further test. It is the same if he takes out his license
at Gohanna Flat. With a test as to the driver’s know-
ledge of the power under his feet, a license would
have the same meaning wherever it was taken out.
It would mean that the man at the wheel not only
could drive but knew what it was he was driving.
Not one in ten knows that.
There is plenty more dangerous absurdity about
it. A man can get a license in a car incapable of
doing more than 40 m.p.h. He can then drive the
ancient into a garage and drive out, fully licensed,
in the latest supercharged road-roarer. It can be
done more dangerously even than that. A man can
drive an old, slow car for years, and then buy him-
self one that can do 80 m.p.h. and upwards, wholly
unaware of the difference in power beneath him.
Used to the old car, he can put a foot on an accelera-
tor that plunges his car forward 30 to 40 feet literally
before he knows where he is.
There should be a knowledge test not only before
the first issue of a license but before the holder of a
license to drive one car is permitted to drive another.
Except when they happen to be drunks or
criminal-minded, the safest drivers are those who
understand what it is they are driving. What passes
for competence among the rest of the licensed thou-
sands would become startlingly apparent if a simple
knowledge test was imposed.
There was such a test in Adelaide about a week
ago. No knowledge of the real danger in cars—
which is power—was called for. It was merely an
examination in knowledge of road rules. Of six
applicants for driving licenses, only two proved
capable of answering nine out of 12 questions cor-
rectly, 75 p.c. knowledge being sufficient for a pass
in this elementary test.
The people kicking up a rumpus in Sydney over
a poster, in common with most others everywhere
who concern themselves about the tragic road-
slaughter, make the mistake of tackling this increas-
ingly urgent problem from the wrong end. Propa-
ganda is very well in its way ; but for all the exposing
of war hideousness in the war-books terrible slaughter
is to-day going on in Spain, and for all the posters
the slaughter on the roads will go on while car-driving
licenses are as casually obtained as they now are.
People pinning their faith wholly on the effectiveness
of frightening posters are no less romantics than
Ministers who ban the posters as too grim an appeal
against the grimmest business known to peace-time
communities. They all need to go back to the source
and look into the licensing regulations.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fifty Millions for Wool.
For all practical purposes, the Australian wool season
is over, and the industry has come out immeasurably
better than seemed likely when the trade war was
raging. When, to the astonishment of Canberra, the
Japanese went out of the market, the average greasy
price was only 11.5 d. Australian per pound. That was
in July. Until the end of October the average did not
exceed 14d. in any month.
Then it became evident that the Government
would have to come to terms with the Japanese.
Heavy speculative buying sent the price up 2.7 d. in
November, during which month nearly £9,000,000
worth of wool was sold. With the Japanese back
January saw the price up another 2.7 d. Even though
there was a slackening-off in February values,
£16,000,000 worth of fleece was sold in the first two
months of 1937 —for the whole year in 1931-32 the
value of the clip was only double that. Prices at
present for greasy average about 7d. per pound more
than at the beginning of the wool year.
Value of wool sold to the end of March was
£50,260,762. According to the Woolbrokers’ Associa-
tion budget, there should remain about 300,000 bales
to be auctioned, and 250,000 bales or so will not
figure at auctions. Total value of clip may exceed
£60,000,000.
Demand has become so strong that the market
could absorb considerably more wool than is at present
available. Even after returning to the Australian
sales the Japanese pushed the markets of S. Africa
and S. America so hard in competition with U.S.A.
as to cause substantial rises in prices paid for crossbred
types. This affected London prices in January, though
there was no Japanese buying there, so that values
increased 15 p.c. for merinos and from 10 to 15 p.c.
for crossbreds.
The U.S.A. is operating more heavily than for
years. Russia is becoming a fairly substantial buyer.
There are less tops in stock in Europe than a year
ago, and no sign of an easing-up. In England, unem-
ployment in the woollen trades has been the lowest
since 1924 —only 1000 woollen and worsted weavers
were on the out-of-work lists in December.
If no interfering politician puts his oar in next
season, Australians will be able to sell all the wool
they are likely to produce, and could sell more if they
had it.
.<►
Maddocks, and Some Reflections.
S. A. Maddocks, who was arrested in Sydney last
month on two disgraceful charges, has been found
guilty and sentenced to 18 months’ imprisonment. He
was convicted mainly on the evidence of a young
ruffian whom counsel for the defence described as “a
blatant and filthy pervert,” but there was supporting
police testimony, and the verdict was just.
Possibly in England, though the law there is no
respecter of persons, dismissal and exile would have
been Maddocks’s punishment—-seldom are such
offenders brought to trial. In parts of Europe he
would not have been prosecuted at all. Australia
exacts sterner standards. It is nevertheless difficult
to contemplate unmoved so dreadful a finish to a
long career in the public service or to reject the
uneasy thought that insufficient attention is given by
society to the need for the study and treatment of
sexual aberrations and mental disorders, especially
in the cases of elderly persons who have lived decently
until their lives are tormented by vicious inclinations
or blasted by sudden lapses into crime.
Maddocks was Commissioner for Road Transport
and Tramways for upwards of four years. He pleaded
that overwork and worry drove him to drink. He
certainly had far more powers to exercise, and far
more privileges too, than should have been entrusted
to any non-elected person.
The terms of his commission enabled him to
become the complete transport boss. He alone decided
whether this or that neighborhood should have
Government tramways, trolley-buses or motor-buses
or go without. He absolutely controlled (or refused)
the issue of taxi licenses and the terms on which
motor-lorry competition with Government vehicles
should be permitted, if permitted at all. He had a
multitude of drivers fined for giving foot-passengers
lifts, and he had motor-lorries seized on the public
highway. He even made the anti-socialist pretensions
of his Government ridiculous by building up a
Government bus department, which now employs the
best part of a thousand men, expropriating private
services when the spirit moved him. And, of course,
he went abroad for long periods (twice within six
years, although he was not Transport Commissioner
on the first occasion), and availed himself of the
authority ” mentioned by the Auditor-General in his
last report:
The Commissioners administering various Govern-
ment activities have been given authority... .to sanction
all classes of expenditure incidental to their manage-
ment without seeking Ministerial or other approval.
By virtue of such authority they can make or direct
payments to themselves for expenditure on entertain-
ment, travelling expenses and the like The check
through audit is made after the expenditure has been
incurred and cannot therefore prevent extravagance;
moreover, it is outside the province of an auditor to
question the actions of a Commissioner exercising
authority or power vested in him by statute.
So there was no restraint on Maddocks, Parliamentary
or official. It would have been better if he had been
subjected to restraints.
One thing is certain: the public will stand no
more of this Commission-control racket.
"Alliance with Russia."
Having routed the “30,000” —no, “40,000” —Italians
who “attacked” Madrid, the “ ‘New’ Daily Telegraph,”
published in Sydney, is annoyed because doubts have
been thrown on this achievement and others also
reminiscent of the Abyssinian war news. With searing
irony it suggests that The Bulletin should “stop
growling and spend a little money on a cable service
of its own so that Australia can get the truth.”
Not a bad notion. Much better than the “ ‘New’
Daily Telegraph’s” March-hare idea of an “Alliance
with Russia” —described in the “ ‘New’ Daily Tele-
graph” as “a country of vast spiritual wealth” in
which “iconoclasm was a necessary phase.” France,
it seems, has found a pact with Russia “practical
politics.” And Belgium? Belgium’s objections to “the
pact with Russia” are such that an effort has had to be
made to coax it back into the Franco-British orbit
with a guarantee of independence which doesn’t even
require it to notify the guarantors should hostile
air squadrons fly over Belgian territory; but the
“ ‘New’ Daily Telegraph” didn’t mention Belgium.
Possibly volunteers for the war on the Don or
along the Urals or about Lake Baikal could be recruited
from readers of the “ ‘New’ Daily Telegraph” who have
gone broke backing its fancies (it artlessly admits that
a pound s.o. on each of its “system tips” would have
set the “investor” back £9O 19s. in four months), but
they would certainly demand to be covered by “ ‘New’
Daily Telegraph” insurance.
No Fine for Professor.
Under the headings “ ‘War Inevitable.’ Professor
Roberts’s Opinion,” the “S. M. Herald” on February
26 came out with this:
War in Europe is inevitable as a result of Herr
Hitler’s overtures to 65,000,000 Germans for world
supremacy. This opinion was expressed by Professor
S. H. Roberts, professor of modern history at the
University of Sydney.
The Bulletin took a mental note of this fruit of
the Professor’s four years’ sojourn in Europe, simply as
a matter of general interest and politeness. Then a
doctor, having travelled from Singapore up through the
Orient, across Manchukuo, across Siberia, across
Russia and down through Europe to England in 16
days, was also reported by the “Herald” in a bit of
war-tipping: “War between Russia and Japan is
inevitable,” etc. On his heels came a moving-picture
representative who assured lunch-eaters at Sydney
Millions Club that
they were closer to a war in Europe to-day than the
day before the last war began.
These tippings having happened within less than three
weeks, The Bulletin (17/3/’37) made the fair pro-
posal that
every war-tipster whose tip fails to come off within a
given time should be fined £lOOO.
Last week (April 7) the “S. M. Herald” reported:
Professor Roberts, who recently made an investiga-
tion of the political and economic position in Europe—
especially in Russia, Italy, Germany and France —said
that war was not inevitable.
If correctly reported, Professor Roberts has had a
change of opinion, and the proposed sock of £lOOO
is therefore waived in his case. The flying doctor
and the moving-picture man are still runners in the
event.
The Sugar Impasse.
To grow sugar in Queensland it costs £7 to £lO a ton
for cane labor alone. Raw sugar, under the existing
agreement, expiring in August, 1941, brings £24 per
ton for consumption in Australia; grower collects 70
p.c. and miller 30 p.c. Wholesale price of refined
sugar in Australia is fixed at £33 4s. per ton, retailable
at 4d. a pound in cities, more in distant parts. Home
consumption for 1936 is estimated at 335,000 tons and
aggregate production at 780,000 tons.
Production is supposed to be controlled by a
Peak Year Scheme which takes the 1929 production
as a peak year, and each mill is restricted to a definite
quota in respect of Australian pool prices. Produc-
tion has increased since 1929 by 242,000 tons, and two
sharply-divided bodies of growers each claim that
they, and they only, are entitled to special considera-
tion, both with respect to the Australian and the
outside market.
Shortly before he left to attend the Sugar Con-
ference in London Premier Forgan Smith gave both
sides a warning that they were cutting their own throats,
and reminded them that “they who gave the sugar
producers a constitution could also take it away.”
London representatives of the A.S.P.A. warned them
that uncontrolled production would imperil the
preferential British duty.
Britain to-day offers the only open market in the
world, and that market does not exceed 3,000,000 tons
yearly. The Chadbourne Plan failed by reason of
too-high export quotas and too many outsiders. The
London conference has doubtless been frequently
reminded of the fact. After one of its sittings Mr.
Forgan Smith acknowledged that “a satisfactory agree-
ment” was “unlikely,” adding “It remains to be seen
what Britain will do.” Britain, it is suggested in
another quarter, will lower the preferences.
If Britain takes this step it will not be long before
Australian consumers demand a fall in Australian
prices on the ground of overproduction. The growers
would do well to settle their differences and come to
some definite agreement for limiting production within
reasonable margins.
Should the industry be sharply reduced to purely
Australian limits it would mean halving the employ-
ment furnished by it and throwing 100,000 acres of
rich land out of cultivation. It would also have a
serious effect on the prosperity and settlement of the
North.
The Bunyip's Curse.
The Kalkadoon blacks have a legend about a gentle-
man who was cursed by a flying bunyip and who
thereafter was never able to make up his mind. When
it was time to go hunting, his indecision kept him in
camp. And when the old men placed food in front
of him he could not muster up the will-power to eat it.
So the camp council put him in a billabong, and
there (not having the determination to come out) he
went to sleep. Whenever the yellow-bellies bite his
feet or the cold gives him nightmare he can be heard
snoring and muttering, though the uninformed
attribute the noise to the bullfrogs.
A continuing train of aerial trouble and its
reactions strongly suggest that there is a bunyip
around the Civil Aviation Department.
Early in 1935 J. Bull began trying to get this show
to the point of decision about the establishment of
a flying-boat service. The Old Man is still trying.
Occasionally a Minister has muttered “All right! ”
to some query or has turned over in perspiring fear
at the thought of boats which regularly span about
800 miles of land across Europe braving the 400
miles of land flight across Cape York Peninsula. The
Government has made no move to settle on and equip
the necessary harbors on the north coast. Though a
survey party will set out on April 15 to look at possible
bases it now seems certain that the service will not
begin on January 1, 1938, as Imperial Airways hoped.
By that time every other part of the British Common-
wealth on regular air routes will be served by machines
with up-to-date sleeping accommodation and victual-
ling facilities.
Meanwhile, the public concern caused by aero-
plane crashes has not moved the Government at
Canberra to approve of a public investigation. There
may, however, be a sort of dormitory party, and if
anybody mutters anything damaging nobody outside
the four conference walls may know anything about it.
Victoria's Departmental Maze.
Since the Coroner’s jury found there had been negli-
gence on the part of the management of the Wonthaggi
(Vic£) State coalmine prior to the disaster that recently
cost 13 lives Acting-Premier Old has been asked by
Wonthaggi interests to remove control of the mine
from the Railways Commissioners. The fact that
a State mine is administered by the Railways Depart-
ment when there is quite a good Mines Department
is only one of many anomalies in Victoria’s peculiar
departmental structure.
The Miners’ Accident Relief Board and the Coal
Miners’ Accident Relief Board both function under
the Minister of Mines, but the State Accident
Insurance Office, which administers the Workers’
Compensation Act, is under the Chief Secretary.
The Chief Secretary has the Pharmacy, Dental
and Medical Boards, but the Midwives’, Masseurs’,
Nurses’ and Cinematographers’ Registration Boards
are under Health Department jurisdiction. The Lara
Inebriates’ Home and the Department of Mental
Hygiene, usually interests for Ministers of Health, are
also in the Chief Secretary’s varied bag.
The Children’s Welfare Department and the
Travancore subnormal school are lumped in with the
Chief Secretary’s dipsomaniacs, although the general
care of children’s health and education is ostensibly
the lot of the Minister for Public Instruction. And
there are other nightmare groupings that a private
department store wouldn’t countenance for ten
minutes.
A Message from Queensland.
Mr. Percy Pease, the Deputy-Premier, says he is
taking it to the Loan Council, and it is to the effect that
there must be no slackening of “development.” The
bearer of the “message” chooses to forget that Premier
Forgan Smith told Parliament that as private business
and employment increased so should, and would,
Government expenditure be reduced.
This Queensland “message” actually means that
to the limit of the availability of borrowed money
the development of the public debt must proceed
Unchecked. The idea is that this somehow “increases
the spending capacity of the community,” making
everybody happy (or feel happy) and politicians
popular.
Mr. Pease will perhaps brighten the proceedings
of the Loan Council with his “message,” but he must
be careful not to quote from page 5 of the Auditor-
General’s report, which shows that service charges on
the Queensland Government debt in 1935-36 were
£6,295,433.
The cash earnings attributed to public-debt expendi-
ture for the year were £2,610,368, which sum was
deficient by £3,685,065 to cover the total charges on
account of the public debt.
The loss on the debt was £10,095 a day, Sundays
and holidays included ; and the “message” to the Loan
Council, is that this sort of thing must keep on
developing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Finn”: Screen publicity gives out that
Edith Fellows, a child star, “is a direct
descendant of British essayist Charles
Lamb.” The next offering should be a
film in the “ Berkeley-square ” manner
showing the staggered Elia confronted
with his descendants. Charles, of course,
was a bachelor.
* * * *
“D. Empson”: Lives of statesmen oft
remind us that there is nothing in poli-
tics as a profession for the straightgoer.
Old Stuart-Robertson, who was in
Lang’s second Ministry, had 26 years in
the N.S.W. Assembly. Towards the end
of his career he was hard put to it to
beat off creditors who wanted to garni-
shee his salary. At one stage it seemed
probable that he would have to camp
permanently in the sanctuary of Parlia-
ment House and grounds. He died and
was given a great funeral, there being a
hazy impression that the State would
foot the bill, or, failing the State, his
party. Now his widow has been made
bankrupt on the undertaker’s petition.
Liabilities £2Ol, undertaker's account
£125.
* * * *
“Wandella”: Hector Bolitho's asso-
ciation with King Edward and his
residence at Windsor Castle did not
prevent him falling into error con-
cerning the “old servants dismissed”
upon Edward’s accession (B. 24/3/’37).
I was at Windsor last July, and
from one of a family of royal re-
“Tuart”: In an exciting week, or it
may have been 10 days, Errol Flynn, the
moving-picture actor, who is said to have
been born in Tasmania, flew to Spain,
hurled himself into the fighting round
Madrid, was killed there, and then harrow-
ingly wounded, leaving a broken-hearted
woman to weep copiously in the pres-
ence of her press-agent. The lady with
the fractured heart is Lili Damita, other-
wise Mrs. Flynn. Presently the alleged
victim of Franco’s mercenaries turned
up at Barcelona safe and sound. Bar-
celona is full of press-agents, and the
news was flashed to a palpitating world
that Mr. Flynn had used a machine-gun
on the rebels. He must be a very foolish
young man. The feeling against Com-
munists and their sympathisers is fiercer
in the U.S.A. than it has ever been in
Britain or Australia, and Catholic influ-
ence is increasingly powerful in the film
world. When James Cagney seemed
likely to become the highest-paid Holly-
wood actor, it was alleged that he was
a Communist. He denied it, and the
charge was never proved, and perhaps
there have been other reasons for Cag-
ney’s descent to comparative obscurity.
True it is, anyway, that he is now seldom
seen in films that reach Australia.
t- * * *
“Fiona”: Asked what had impressed
him most in London, a recently-returned
M.L. tripper gave the biscuit to small
boys in London’s East End on Christmas
Eve singing, as waits,
Hark, the herald angels sing,
Mrs. Simpson’s pinched the King!
* * Hi *
“Uramao”: The wife of a bibulous
garbageman in the employ of a Maori-
land council appeared in court to plead
for leniency towards her lord and master.
She informed the beak that her husband’s
insobriety was due to “company—vil-
lainous company.” He was a good fellow,
and if the magistrate could not only
grant a prohibition order against him, but
also forbid his entering the company that
proved his undoing, she could promise
that he would never darken the court-
house again. His Washup stroked his
chin and asked what undesirable com-
pany she referred to. “The Mayor,”
said the lady promptly.
“Eureka”: Have Albert Medals been
placed on the extinct list in Australia?
Some years ago a youth was awarded this
medal (it was presented to him by the
present King) for rescuing a lad from a
shark. There have been a number of
similar acts of bravery in recent years,
yet there has been no mention of this
peace-time V.C. But even shark rescues
are insignificant when compared with
(he act of Benstead, one of the sur-
vivors of the Stinson crash. On the day
before the pair were rescued this man
crawled away from permanent water,
knowing that he would never be able
to reach it again, in order to give water
to a fellow-victim. The amount of
courage necessary to do this seems to
me altogether extraordinary. Yet Ben-
stead, apparently, doesn’t even get a
highly commended.
"I will guarantee this bird not to swear , madam.”
"Then what the hell's the good of wasting my time? Show me a
blasted parrot that will!”
tainers for generations gathered the
strength of it. After the Russian up-
heaval various exiled personages found
sanctuary on the royal estates in Eng-
land. They dug in for themselves and
took root in the cottages provided ; some
even branched forth into business in
London while still living on the King’s
bounty. My informant quotes Edward
characteristically: “I see no force in
retaining foreigners while people of my
own are in need of jobs.”
* * * *
“Trochus”: “Dungeness” wonders why
Australians have allowed Japanese to get
a stranglehold on profits from reef and
sea (B. 24/3/’37). I was mixed up with
a beche ce-mer company which was
going to draw a fortune from tropic
waters. We had islands leased, boys,
boats, gear, the will to do and money to
back us. In less than a year we had only
debts. Three or four years afterwards
Jap luggers came in and succeeded where
we had failed. The reason can be
summed-up in a few words: “Japanese
dive with the boys.” The white man sits
on deck or stays at his office and takes
what is brought to him. With Nippon
it’s no use the boy trying to spring a tale
that there isn’t any shell there ; the Jap
sees for himself. Another thing is that,
contrary to the white, the Jap keeps a
discipline on his boat and in his camp
that makes man-o’-war style look like
kindergarten.
•f* *i* ; i : #
“Jamwood”: I read in the cables,
with irritation at the inanity of
it, that Freddie Bartholomew has
been adopted by an aunt, and, with
rage and envy, that F.B. gets £3OO ster-
ling a week. Strange that the heirs ol
all the ages, who have mechanical
geniuses probably capable of making
robots that could do what Bartholomew
and Shirley Temple do, should go com-
pletely off their rockers about such brats.
After one experience, they are incapable
of entertaining anyone above the mental
age of 11, and in time they grow so in-
sufferably conceited that they can’t even
walk naturally—the Temple miss has
reached that stage already. And they
won’t train on —the infant phenomenon
never does. Forty years ago Australia
had in Ivy Scott a precocity who was at
least Shirley Temple’s equal in singing,
dancing and acting. Etched in my mem-
ory is a “song scena” in which she ap-
peared with the Great Charles Godfrey
—only a small part, but amazingly well
done. When Ivy grew up she was quite
an ordinary actress. Like the girl who
writes impassioned poetry at 16, the
infant phenomenon has its little hour
and is never heard of again.
# * * *
“Pedant”: What has become of the
word “junta”? In the conscription-
referendum it was a red-hot favorite,
and politicians allegedly kept their wives
awake mumbling it in their sleep. Yet
here we have just passed through a
referendum campaign and no one
thought of resurrecting it. Also, there’s
a war in Spain, where the word origi-
nated, and there are juntas there now in
plenty, yet not even a special correspon-
dent has brought the word out of the
verbal museum.
❖ sfc
“Greenhide”: The caravan looks like
enjoying wide popularity in Australia
within the next decade, just as it has
provided permanent homes for half a
million Americans and week-enders for
perhaps two or three millions more.
Judging by examples at Sydney Show,
interior design, economy of space and
comfort have received a good deal of
attention from Australians. If the new art
of living comes up to its present promise
Australia will be faced with new prob-
lems, including education for caravanning
families, municipal regulation of semi-
permanent camps, and mobile electors on
the grand scale. Precedents are lacking,
as neither Tartars nor gipsies have left
much behind in the way of administrative
records. But, anyway, there is not much
the matter with this kind of life in Aus-
tralia.
“A. de R.”: Lawsuits in the U.S.A.
have raised the question of air owner-
ship and trespass. English law says :
“No action shall lie in respect of tres-
pass or in respect of nuisance by reason
of flight of aircraft over any property.”
In 1930, in Pennsylvania, a suit brought
against a pilot for low flying produced
the judicial ruling that “Invasions of
the air space are trespass only when
they interfere with proper enjoyment or
reasonable use of the surface.” Recently
an air transport company was sued in
California by landowners who deposed
that the company’s ’planes frequently
flew as low as sft. above their property
adjacent to the aerodrome. They
claimed “sole rights to the stratum of
air superadjacent to and overlying our
land and extending to such an altitude
as we may reasonably expect to occupy.”
The Court ruled that “the air, like the
sea, is by its nature incapable of private
ownership, except in so far as one may
actually use it.”
❖ * sj: *
“Llib”: “Sailor Once” (B. 10/3/’37)
mentions that R.N. ratings in his sea-
faring days received their issues of
tobacco in the leaf. The old custom still
flourishes. I have just finished a “stick”
made up on the Sussex. It was rather
dry when it came into my possession,
so I bored a hole down its centre and
filled it with brandy, no rum being avail-
able, and it smoked deliciously. By-
standers sniffed and looked askance, but
1 survived.
"0.R.”: The “sit-down” strike isn't a
Yankee notion, as most people assume.
It’s merely a development of the “stay-
in” strike, a bright idea that had its
origin among
miners in Central
Europe a year or
two ago. Since
then it has been
copied in Eng-
I i s h collieries,
but America is
the first country
to see it applied
to factories. Per-
haps, after all,
the original idea
was English, in
which case it
dates back over a
century and be-
gan (of all places)
in the public
schools. In the
back history of
those institutions
there are many
instances where
disaffected boys
adopted this
drastic method of
emphasising their
grievances against
authority. They
called them “bar-
rings-out,” which
meant that they
barricaded them-
selves in strategic
strongholds and
defied the mas-
ters to dislodge
them. But these
demo nstrations
were so seldom
successful and (he ringleaders generally
suffered such condign punishment that
the practice had died out' at my own
school (Rugby) even before Tom Brown's
day. Only tradition preserved memories
of the places where the beleaguered
rebels had made their last stands.
* * * *
“Canis”: The Balearic Islands, which
the Spanish war has brought into the
limelight, claim, among other distinc-
tions, to be the home of the oldest and
purest breed of dogs in the world. The
tyke is called the Ibiza (from the name
of the smallest island), and is said to
have been brought there, long centuries
ago, by the Moors. The Moors acquired
its remote forebears from the Phoeni-
cians, who brought them from Egypt,
and the animal—of which pictures ap-
pear in a recent London periodical—
certainly bears a strong resemblance to
the dog shown on Egyptian carvings
and papyri, the first of its kind (since
dogs emerged from wolfdom) of which
anything in the nature of pictorial re-
cord exists. It has greyhound character-
istics, although it is much smaller and
hunts by scent, while its ears are those
of a bull-terrier. It may seem strange
that, when we are perpetually being in-
troduced to new canine breeds in shows,
few people have ever heard of the Ibiza,
but, according to an English visitor to
the Balearics, the islanders are exceed-
ingly loath to part with their tykes.
A TIGHT PLACE.
“If Mr. Curtin desert* the Lang faction an im-
mediate attempt will be made in N.S.W. Labor
circles to remove him from the Federal leadership of
the party. Unless he does so, his present supporters
in at least four other States will seek another
leader.”
Tough, isn't it? It needs a lot of cunning
To keep beside the hare with leaps and
bounds
One half of you, the while the other’s running
Enthusiastically with the hounds.
The trials of a Labor politician
Who hates the notion of the sack or shelf
Might well have puzzled that astute tactician
Old Yes-No Reid himself.
Whichever path I take 1 see impending
Calamitous disaster upon me.
Suppose to Lang that I continue bending
A ready ear and an obsequious knee,
My outlook in the other States is murky;
I’m buying trouble and inviting cracks;
In other words I’ll get it where the turkey
Collided with the axe.
Alternatively if I leave the blighter
“Dowered with my oath and strangered with
my curse”
My chance of office, far from getting brighter,
Will be, they tell me, definitely worse.
Halting 1 stand. How can a fellow level
Stinging indictments at the U.A.P.
When he's between, as one might say, the Devil
And the devouring sea?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jabu”: Libraries of recent Bulletin
mention remind me of the one possessed
by a rabbit-trapper in the Riverina. This
library held only one book, by C. J.
Dennis, and it was there only because
of two lines:
Rabbies! Wild rabbies!
Blast the flamin’ war!
To the trapper they were the greatest
lines ever written.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has taken a big step for
preservation of the aborigine. Fergu-
son’s Ernabella station, of 400 square
miles, has been bought by the Medical
Mission, and will be vested in the Pres-
byterian Church. It is in the extreme
north-west corner of the State, at the
east end of the Musgrave Range, and,
with permanent water, forms the best
approach to the adjoining great Abori-
ginal Reserve of 65,700 square miles,
carved out of Centralia, Westralia and
S.A. The main value of Ernabella may
bo as a medical headquarters for a cen-
tral area bigger than England and Scot-
land put together. The head of it is to
"Sometimes, Mabel, I wish we Were something more than just men's
playthings !”
be parson J. R. B. Love, latterly of Kun-
munya Mission (W.A.), the recent author
of Stone-Age Bushmen of To-day.
i* * * *
... in k : Others can say what they
like about the best stuff to work a quick
recovery after battling with a bottle.
Salts, oil, painkiller, sauce —I’ve seen them
all tried —but my vote goes to raisins,
which I’ve advocated ever since I saw a
station manager of other days sober up
quick when he got word that the owners
were coming. Well and truly blithered,
with just enough sense left to realise the
importance of the message, he sent the
house-gin to the store for a pound of
raisins. He didn’t trouble to tip 'em out
of the bowl —just dipped his head in
and chewed as a horse might go for the
contents of a manger. In a very few
hours’ time his eye was bright, his gait
was steady and his tongue was under
control. I don't know what sort of a
head he had.
* * :J:
“Septimus”: Seven has always been
vaguely regarded as a lucky number;
the superstition dates back to the Greeks
or Babylonians or Egyptians—l am not
sure which—and the most plausible ex-
planation I have ever heard was that it
arose from the seven apertures in the
human head, as represented by the
mouth, the two eye-sockets, ears and
nostrils. But the tradition that “the caul
which has adorned the head of a seventh
child” (B. 7/4/’37) is particularly valu-
able as a ’ mascot is new to me. A
seventh son —not merely a seventh child
—is mentioned by several old English
writers as likely to be favored by For-
tune beyond his brothers, and the seventh
son of a seventh son as notably so. But
in these days of declining birthrates I
take it that the latter would be a very
rare bird indeed. Certainly I never met
one who claimed the distinction.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: British tars’ custom of
drinking their rum at the tub (B. 7/4/’37)
had gone out of fashion even when I
entered the navy 37 years ago. The
prescribed mixture was issued in bulk
to the different messes, the “cook” of
each mess taking along a large kitty and
receiving the quantity laid down for the
number he represented. This “cook”
was changed daily, and his job consisted
in being a sort of scullery-maid for his
mates, fetching and carrying between the
galley and the mess, washing-up and
tidying generally. Each man looked for-
ward eagerly to his turn at the work, for
the whole of the mess’s rum-issue was
his “perks.” If he felt that way he could
swig the lot, but usually he made himself
a good fellow with it and “spent” the
rest on buying necessities, rum passing
as current coin on board ship just as
freely as it did in early Sydney.
“Bogaduck”: I nominate Harrow
(Vic.) as the quaintest township in Aus-
tralia. Situated on the Glenelg River,
midway between Hamilton and Eden-
hope, it was founded before Melbourne,
soon after the Henty brothers had settled
“Don't come up, boys — We've declared a sit-down strike!"
at Portland. Many of the. buildings are
more than 90 years old, including what
was once the local gaol, which remains
a wonderful testimony to the enduring
qualities of Australian hardwood. Later,
the structure became one of Cobb and
Co.’s stables ; to-day it is the tyre store
of a near-by service station. A shed
in the town houses the remains of one
of Cobb’s coaches, and above the door
appears that now very rare relic of
muzzle-loading days, the notice “Gun-
powder Sold Here.” An obelisk at the
side of the main road marks the spot
where Major Mitchell camped 100 years
ago, and on the recreation ground
stands a monument to the memory of
Johnny Mullagh, the Don Bradman of
the team of cricketers formed of young
men from the local tribe of abos. which
T. W. Wills and J. P. Hayman took to
England in 1868. Harrow was once the
centre of one of Australia’s richest
pastoral districts; to-day it resembles
some old English village, with petrol
bowsers supplying the modern touch.
* * * *
“Esters”: Am inclined to doubt that
97-year-old port (B. 7/4/’37), and refuse
to believe it was some of the immortal
“1840,” that having long since passed
from this mundane sphere. There is a
lot of nonsense talked of the age of
wines. Only the heavily-fortified wines
grow old with dignity. Even the clarets
and burgundies, to say nothing of most
other beverage types, lapse early into
senility. I fancy that if one could get
hold of a late ’sixties or early ’seventies
port—there were some good years in
that decade —it would be about the age
limit in wine of the type nowadays.
* * * *
“His Ex.”: A writer in the Sydney
“D.T.” recently told of a N.S.W. press-
man, now aged 46, who as a young re-
porter in Brisbane sat in the vice-regal
box and was mistaken for the new Gov-
ernor, Sir Herbert Chermside. Cherm-
side began his vice-regal term in Queens-
land in 1902, when the subject of the
paragraph, on the face of it, can have
been no more than 11 years of age. No
wonder there were “general comments
on the surprising youth of the new King’s
representative.”
* * . * *
“Sixenate”: A curious anomaly in
N.S.W. divorce law was revealed in a
recent case before the Supreme Court.
An ex-wife having appeared as co-re. in
a divorce case, the ex-husband ap-
proached the Court confident of
securing relief from contributing to
her support, only to sustain a knock-
back. His Honor, however, was suffi-
ciently impressed to announce his
intention of making representations
to the right quarter for an amendment
of the lav/.
“Bobstay”: Recently ventilated theories
regarding seasickness are interesting, but
can anyone explain why blue-eyed
Caucasians, after their first introduction
to sea voyaging, invariably become im-
mune, while dark-eyed ones are liable
to suffer again and again? Is it a matter
of descent from the old blue-eyed Viking
strain while dark eyes tend back towards
the Latin? Latins mostly kept to the
land, and, in any case, seldom ventured
outside the relatively calm Mediter-
ranean.
“Umgeni”: Touching on knife-throw-
ers (B. 7/4/’37), the slickest I ever saw
were the gauchos who brought Argen-
tine horses to South Africa during the
Boer War. I once had to pick up a lot
of remounts at Newcastle (Natal), where
there was a big depot, and was there in-
troduced to knife-throwing and mate,
the Argentine tea which I notice is now
being sold in Sydney shops. The
gauchos were deadly with the knife up
to about 25 yards. They laid the knife
flat on the palm, point toward the shoul-
der, and threw it with an underhand
flick. The knives were ordinary straight
double-edged affairs, and were used in-
discriminately for throwing, cutting
greenhide into strips or dissecting tucker.
* * * *
“Mr. Potts”: The Bulletin has
recently been complaining of the. singular
differences in accounts of the same hap-
penings as cabled from Europe by one
or other of our industrious news organi-
sations. It seems to me that local news
as dished up in the local rags is little
better. On April 3 the “S.M.H.” an-
nounced :
The Earl of Lindsey arrived in Sydney
by the Themistocles yesterday In 1885
Lord Lindsey came to Australia as A.D.C.
to the then Governor of New South Wales,
Lord Carrington.
On the same day the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” told the world:
After a health trip in South Africa,
the 12th Earl of Carrington is revisiting
Australia It is his first visit here since
1885. He was aide-de-camp to the Mar-
quis of Carrington when, as Earl of Lin-
colnshire, he was Governor of New South
• Wales.
If the Earl read both newspapers I
wonder what he made of it.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: I won’t have it that
Cantonese is an easier language to learn
than Japanese (B. 31/3/’37). I spent
about three months in Kobe a few years
ago and could answer the ’phone before
I left, and in the Motomachi bazaar I
was able, to make my purchases in
Japanese. But after three years in charge
of Cantonese labor my limit was “yet,
yee, sam, tse” (one, two, three, four),
although I could write the figures up to
a hundred. One reason why Japanese
is much easier to learn than Cantonese
is that almost any Jap one meets is
ready to help the foreigner with practice.
I have often had one attach himself to
me for a whole day to try out his
English.
IN THE NUDE.
“The Auckland City Council has received an ex-
tensively-signed petition from ratepayers asking’ for
a covering to be placed on a nude statue outside the
Domain gates, on the ground that ‘public displays of
nakedness and low morality go together.’ ”
Is Mrs. Grundy dead? You thought so,
brothers?
But there are places where she still survives,
Grimmest and primmest of the race of mothers
And most impeccably correct of wives.
Ev’n in days like these, when sculptors boldly
Express themselves where’er their art is
viewed,
She looks askance, forbiddingly and coldly,
On statues in the nude.
We Sydneysiders one another follow
At lunchtime, man and matron, boy and gal,
To gaze unblushingly at the Apollo
Who tops the Archibald Memorial.
He seems the final word in radiant, rippling
Physique and ever-glorious youthful life,
Ev’n if he hasn’t got (to quote from Kipling)
Clothes that could dust a fife.
Ah, well, it's all a matter of opinion.
On points like these are no established laws.
They’re different from us in the Dominion —
Mayhap their Scottishness provides the cause.
Withal, if pious Aucklanders would sooner
Have human figures draped with frills and
flowers,
One can’t help thinking that they’re one with
Spooner—
And Mister Spooner’s ours.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


sadf
sdf
m
A
am.saf
sdf
sadf
20 forUB
10/or 9 d
051
My throat is grateful for
that extra touch of quality.
Ob£fM£*Hj(feh.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
THIS
ENERATI
sadf
. -■■■■
m
i m
m
m
POLITICAL POINTS
It may be only a regrettable accident,
but in the only two photographs of
Curtin published in Lang’s newspaper
since that Easter conference Curtin has
his head down.
Some queer people have had the
directing of British foreign policy since
the war. After taking “the Locarno
spirit” for ten years, J. Bull now dis-
covers that he alone “remains pledged
to defend the Rhine frontier in the event
of France, Belgium or Germany being
attacked.” And if Ramsay Mac-
Donald, who was the first to recommend
“the Locarno spirit,” had had his way,
the Old Man would have to do the de-
fending with reports of League of
Nations Union pamphlets and Anthony
Eden’s speeches.
It was an unfortunate day for the
Empire when Eden went to Moscow.
Some of the consequences were another
Franco-Russian alliance, German re-
pudiation of the Versailles Treaty, dan-
gerous Red intrigues at Geneva and loss
of British influence, previously predomi-
nant, in Belgium and Portugal. The Bel-
gians have had to be humored with a
British and French guarantee of inde-
pendence which gives them security with-
out responsibility.
It is considered in London that the
new guarantee of Belgian independence
will allay fears held by “a large section
of the Belgian public” that “the Franco-
Soviet pact will embroil Belgium.” It
would be more to the purpose if Mr.
Eden and his friends did something to
allay fears held by a much larger
section of the English-speaking public
that the Franco-Soviet pact will embroil
the British Empire.
Returning to the attack on Lang and
his Inner Group, the “Worker” (A.W.U.)
demanded “the abolition of the Lang dic-
tatorship, so dangerously approximating
to Fascism.” The “Labor Daily” (Lang)
retaliated by aiming a polthogue at “the
A.W.U.-ridden Labor party in Victoria,”
turning to snort at “the pallid sequence
of political stagnation in Queensland,”
where “ ‘the mighty A.W.U.’ holds sway
with a reign of terrorism little less than
that of Stalin.” Yes, “Labor unity was
effected by the Federal A.L.P. executive
early in 1936.”
Still harping on Dunstan, Melbourne
“Age” mentioned that he “spent the
week-end in Paris,” and that “in depart-
mental circles it is thought unlikely that
he devoted much time to Victorian poli-
tical developments.” Most unlikely.
The French lady who shot a French
gentleman to prove that she was Musso-
lini’s mistress, and whose story was ac-
cepted as gospel truth by Associated
Press, contrived at the magisterial in-
quiry to remember that she had had
other lovers. She also “scouted the sug-
gestion that she is mad.” The evidence
suggests that she is as sane as a lot of
syndicated foreign “news.”
For the first time on record, Gullett,
Forde, the Federated Chambers of Com-
merce, London financial newspapers and
Tory Commoners are of the same mind
•—that there must be no resumption of
Australian borrowing in London, though
Casey send up trial balloons till his
hand is paralysed. When The Bulletin
considers this unanimity of opposition to
what would be a crime against the Com-
monwealth, it feels that it hasn’t lived
in vain.
The discovery of an American long
resident in Sydney who fought at Gettys-
burg has prompted “S. M. Herald”
to come out with an impassioned eulogy
of Lincoln—“statesman, orator, national
hero and noble man, whose speech at
Gettysburg was one of the greatest ever
made.” It is all true, but the “Herald”
strangely omitted to mention that Lincoln
never took the contemporary equivalent
of its prescription for Making Statesmen
(the heading of a previous leader): foreign
travel at the public expense. He spent
all his days in a very small part of the
U.S.A. and never left that country.
A week after President Roosevelt
hinted at a change in his policy of boost-
ing prices a rumor got round that he
was going to revalue the dollar down-
ward. The fact that exchange stability
between Britain, U.S.A. and France has
been hardly won, and that a change
isn’t likely to come from one country
alone, didn’t save metal boomsters from
panic. Metals, commodities and shares
flopped all over the world. It may prove
to be a stitch in time. Some prices had
risen crazily.
“While State authority is striving to suppress s.p. betting, Federal authority is
encouraging it.”
“Helping a lawbreaker, you say ? Ask me no questions, officer, and I’ll tell
you no lies.”
n ,
Before the N.S.W. Railway Commis-
sioner and a secretary went to Britain
on the trip from which he returned in
a Pacific luxury liner, the salaries of
officials surrounding him were raised
substantially. The terms of his commis-
sion permit him to do such things. Last
week the • same Commissioner was a
party to an Industrial Court application
for cuts in the wages of trades-
men employed in his department, on
It 115 «™“ nd * hat th ( ey suf ?L ed no , lo L° £
,ime due ‘° Wealher an 'L° th ,? r
fo f S 9s 6d“foi
i s P ”
v c ■ a : ■ i .
ceed,ng m a tlme of mdusmal ™ rest -
One of the Sydney Government’s
achievements in the permanent-and-
reproductive-works line was the. voting
of £5OOO for electric lighting of the
Sports Ground so that a boxing pro-
moter might run fights there. The box-
ing promoter is transferring his fights to
the Stadium.
Last year the Stevens Government
extracted £6,100,000 from N. S. Wales
taxpayers for unemployed-relief, and
it expects more this year. A lot
of the money is passed on to suburban
councils conditionally on their bor-
rowing as much more as anyone
can be found to lend. Government
is so pleased with Willoughby’s success
in playing up loans and grants that it
is making Willoughby a special gift of
£42,700 “to complete the Northbridge
golf links without additional cost to the
council.” You see, Spooner’s Govern-
ment is “country-minded.”
At a singularly awkward time for Page
and Bruxner, N.S.W. North Coast men
have reminded them that they used to
be strong for New States. To a meeting
of Federated Chambers of Commerce at
Lismore, the president, P. E. Tighe, a
Ballina solicitor, spoke in this strain:
No one now feels the district is getting
a fair go. When we mention harbor de-
velopment, we receive the same stereotyped
replies. Civil servants must laugh each
time they have to type the letters.
So these North Coast men are going to
do “something original, in a manner
which will rivet attention on our needs.”
The plans of the N.S.W. North Coast
malcontents run to a popular convention
• *
of representatives of municipal, political,
farming and commercial organisations
“to devise such alterations in the machin-
ery of government as will enable north-
eastern N.S.W. to control more effectu-
ally its public affairs.” Proposals sug-
gested for consideration are “revival of
the New State movement, establishment
of provincial councils and transfer of
this district to the State of Queens-
land”
The leading U.A.P. newspaper pre-
dicts a Ministerial victory in Gwydir,
because four of the five State electorates
included in it, Castlereagh, Barwon,
Namoi and Liverpool Plains, are held by
C.P. members, and the bit of Gwydir
included in Mudgee “invariably gives a
solid C.P. vote.” This was the voting
in 1935 for Stevens-Bruxner against
Lang:—
C.p. Lab.
Castlereagh 6944 6517
Barwon 8148 5934
Namoi 7404 6678
Liverpool Plains .. .. 7590
Mudgee 6818 7598
Rather too close to be comfortable,
especially as since 1935 Lyons and co.
have blundered into a series of fiascos,
the trade wars and the marketing refer-
endum among them.
London’s “News-Chronicle" has cor-
rected Sydney’s “Daily Telegraph,” which
reported that “6000 natives of Addis
Ababa were butchered with the flame-
throwers, machine-guns, bombs and
bayonets of Fascism.” The “Cronk
News” has dug up an “eyewitness of the
massacre,” who swears that “30,000 per-
sons perished.” He counted them.
In the latest bag of Soviet prisoners is
Yagoda, the former head of the secret
police, who is charged with “sexual
crimes and debauchery of the lowest
kind,” also “embezzlement of £40,000 of
State funds.” “It is alleged, although it
seems almost incredible” to the cable-
man, that “he embezzled State funds
quite openly.” Obviously a case of an
old habit reasserting itself.
Giving evidence in an arbitration case
in Melbourne, H. L. Goldbeck, of the
S.A. Government Railway Department,
said annual loss, which was £718,100 in
1935-36, is expected to reach £BOB,BOO
this year. As for 1937-38,
From July 1 we shall suffer a serious
annual disparity as a result of opening
the new railway to Port Augusta via
Red Hill.
A thick-headed Commonwealth Govern-
ment insisted on the new railway. No
doubt the long-suffering Commonwealth
taxpayer will be called upon to make up
the “serious annual disparity.”
Victorian A.N.A. bosses came rather
badly out of the marketing-referendum
business, and the new president, J. W.
Morrows, has not improved matters by
“suggesting” that “in 1900 Australia
bought a gold brick.”
Because the Constitution modelled in
1900 curbs and confines the people, we have
no power to implement the aspirations of
the native-born.
And this from an A.N.A. president!
In the world situation developing at the
beginning of the century, union in any
form was a priceless blessing to Aus-
tralia, and Australians ought to be eter-
nally grateful to the men who got it for
them. Eternally grateful to them also
for providing Australians, through the
referendum, with the means of curbing
the powers, not of the people, but of
politicians and jacks-in-office, and of
altering the Constitution to meet the
needs of the nation as made manifest
from time to time.
Some generous Scot has sent The
Bulletin a souvenir of Lyons’s last visit
to Glasgae—a sheet of the Glasgow
“Herald” dated June 12, 1935. A perti-
nent extract: —
After all, Australia is just another part
of Great Britain.
Yes, Mr. Baldwin.
Partly because of the archaic division
of practitioners into barristers and soli-
citors litigation is dashed dear in N. S.
Wales. For this reason, and others, law
reform would be a live subject if the
State had politicians capable of appre-
ciating its importance. As it is, people
who go to law find crumbs of comfort
in the protest of a Supreme Court Justice
against the stringing-out of cases and the
declaration of the Chief Justice that
“new trials can be an enormous evil."
They have to be thankful for small
mercies.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


ALL PERSONALITY GIRLS.


nim
Mill
111
m
Hill
BY SEA TO CAIRNS
THE exhilaration of a trip to Cairns thrills even the most hardened
travellers. Halcyon days truly describes a cruise aboard one of the
Interstate liners to Australia’s Wonderland.
WHILST gripped in the mantle of Winter the call to Tropical Queensland
rings a clarion note. The wonders of the Barrier Reef and Cairns,
the home of Warmth, Color and Beauty.
VISIT . . . MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND, GREEN ISLAND,
BARRON FALLS AND THE WONDERFUL TABLELAND.
Book your Passage by ORUNGAL, MANOORA, ORMISTON, CANBERRA, KANIMBLA.
A SUNSHINE cruisf to the warm north
r u ,l particulars and pamphlet, from A.U.S.N., Ltd., Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd., Heard Smith, Ltd., MclKmuth McEacharu, Ud., a. all port,
n
n=\
n
yi
i \
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Dowager Marchioness of Linlith-
gow, widow of the first Governor-General
of Australia, has died in England, having
survived her husband for nearly 30 years.
She was a daughter of Lord Ventry, and
first came to Australia when her hus-
band, then Earl of Hopetoun, was
appointed Governor of Victoria in ’B9.
W. J. Adey, born, reared and edu-
cated in South Australia, rose through
the principalship of Adelaide High School
An Education Director.
and the superintendency of secondary
education to the directorship. Chairman
of most of the crow State’s education
councils and committees, he has his
63rd birthday next month.
In Sydney, nearly broke, about seven
years ago, Errol Flynn, who has been
getting more publicity out of the Spanish
scrap than General. Franco, sold a New
Guinea gold claim he had abandoned,
bought a 50ft. yacht, the Sirocco, and
sailed up the coast to New Guinea.
The boat was lost on a reef in Torres
Strait and the amateur skipper Flynn
had taken with him was drowned. Flynn
recently wrote up the adventure in Beam
Ends.
For the second time, H. T. Lane, a
businessman of Devonport, defeated at
the polls, gets his Labor seat for Darwin
in the Tasmanian Parliament as the result
of a by-election. Ten years ago he
took the place of A. J. Hurst, who
resigned, but two years later lost the
seat at the general election. This time
he becomes successor to J. W. McGrath,
re-elected last month, who died before
Parliament met.
“Trooper Campbell,” one of Lawson’s
best recitation pieces, was written of
Senior Constable Hugh Campbell, a
police officer in Mudgee (N.S.W.), who
was thrown from his horse and killed
in '6B when in pursuit of two bush-
rangers, Johnson and Slater, who escaped
from the police at Talbragar and had
stuck up Langbridge’s hotel at Menah
Flat. E. R. Langbridge, who took part
in the chase, is still hale and hearty,
though over 90, and lives at Mortdale, a
Sydney suburb. He talks of “going
mining again, to kill time,” as he is tired
of the quiet life.
N. H. Sonenberg, Melbourne’s most
prominent criminal lawyer, has taken his
own brief to the Highest Court at 60.
Sonenberg, in a practice extending over
35 years, was solicitor for the defence
in 29 murder trials, the most notorious
being that of Colin Ross, hanged for
the Gun Alley murder in 1922. His last
appearance was in the Detective-chief
Brophy shooting case.
Bishop Radford, who came from an
English rectory in 1909 to become
Warden of St. Paul’s College at Sydney
University, whence, in 1915, he was
consecrated Bishop of Goulburn, to
remain there 18 years, has preached his
last sermon and penned his last text-
book. A scholarly man, he was a live,
force in Anglican churchdom in Aus-
tralia and often took off his coat' in
public affairs. Failing in health, he
returned to England in 1933, but for the
last two years took up the rectorship of
a quiet parish in Gloucestershire. His
second wife, married in 1930, was Miss
Enid White, of Sydney. One. of his sons,
Denys, is on the staff "of Cranbrook
school. The end came in a London
hospital at 67. Two ex-Australian
Bishops, Crotty, of Bathurst, and Harmer,
of Adelaide, officiated at the final service.
Australian Wool Board is sending Dr.
I. Clunies Ross to London with a salary
of £l5OO (free of tax) and allowances,
to act as Aus. representative on the
International Publicity and Research
Secretariat. Ross is in charge of the
McMaster Animal Health Laboratory,
Sydney, and is 38. A Newington boy, he
graduated at' Sydney and did post-gradu-
ate work at Cambridge. He went to
Japan in 1929 and again in 1935-36,
when he conducted a sheep and wool
survey of north-eastern Asia for graziers’
associations. A ready writer and broad-
caster, he is as strong on publicity as in
research.
Corporal Arthur P. Sul-
livan, only V.C. in the Aus-
tralian Coronation contin-
gent, was knocked down by
a cyclist in Birdcage Walk,
London, and killed. A
South Aus. native, Sullivan
was a bank clerk when he
joined up with the gunners
in 1918, but the Armistice
arrived before he could
reach France. He then en-
listed with the British
relief force which went to
Russia to stop the Bol-
sheviki, and it was while
the Royal Fusiliers were
fighting a rearguard action,
with the enemy within 100
yards, that Sullivan, under fire,
rescued an officer and three men
who had fallen from a plank into
a swamp. His 'heroism brought him his
decoration. He was National Bank
manager at Casino (N.S.W.) when he left
for the holiday that ended in tragedy.
He had taken the ashes of Sergeant'
Evans, V.C., to be placed in an English
grave; his own will be brought back to
Australia.
“Hamer”: Two men who trailed rifles
in the American civil war, both now 95,
were brought to light when an American
Ex-Servicemen’s Association was formed
in Sydney the other day. Frank Buck-
ley, who came to Australia as a vaude-
ville artist and until recently was still
able to give turns at community concerts,
was one, but he was too ill to attend
a meeting. The other was George Wilson,
of Coogee. He took part in the battle,
of Gettysburg, and has been invited to
go to Pennsylvania next year—all ex-
penses paid—to attend a meeting of
Gettysburg veterans.
“Den”: A gracious gesture towards
his successor was made by Prof. W. N.
Kernot, ex-Dean of the Faculty of
Engineering at Melbourne University,
who forwarded a cheque for £lOO to the
’Varsity authorities for Dr. A. F. Bur-
stall, who takes his place, as “personal
research expenses.” He said that he was
impressed with Dr. Burstall’s methods
and ability.
“S.T.S.”: A new story about Nor-
man Lindsay, by the noted London art
critic Frank Davis. Norman was show-
ing in London about 1925. “A pretty
wit,” says Davis, “a distinguished sense
of form, the ability to compose a multi-
tude of figures into a vital, rhythmic
composition, and no liking for anaemic
banalities —in short, a serious artist. He
was accordingly recommended to vulgar
nitwits as a monster of iniquity.” His
show at Burlington House was close to
one of British primitives, with the en-
trances easily to be confused. “I have
a most vivid recollection,” Davis con-
tinues, “of two elderly and most respect-
able ladies standing in front of a four-
teenth-century painting of the Nativity,
and remarking that if this was the work
of the shocking Mr. Lindsay all they
could say was that they had wasted their
entrance money.”
Georg Schneevoight, here for six
months to conduct for the A.8.C., is the
first musical celebrity to fly to Australia,
making the journey direct from Helsing-
fors. He is world-famed as conductor
of the Finnish National Orchestra, which
he took to London two years ago. A
personal friend of Sibelius, that com-
poser acclaims him as his authoritative
The Flying Conductor.
interpreter. Kreisler has played his
violin and Horowitz the piano under
Schneevoight’s baton. Though Finnish-
born, his name is Dutch and pronounced
“Schnayvoikt.”
The return to Australia of Rev. Dr.
Eris O’Brien coincided with the publi-
cation in London of his new book, The
Foundation of Australia. He spent two
and a half years abroad in study and
research for that book and a life of
Cardinal Moran, upon which he is now
engaged, but found time also to gain his
Doctorate in Social and Political Science
ERIS O’BRIEN, Priest and Historian.
at the University of Louvain. A son of
Terence O’Brien, once alderman of
Sydney City Council during Mostyn's
Lord Mayoralty, he was born at Con-
dobolin (N.S.W.) 41 years ago. Educated
at St. Aloysius, North Sydney, and a
Fellow of St. John’s College, Sydney
Uni., he is author of Foundation of
Catholicism in Australia, Dawn of
Catholicism in Australia and The Hos-
tage, a miracle play in three acts.
On the motion of Professor Stratton,
of Cambridge, Mrs. Rosina Dafter, of
Brisbane, has been made a fellow of the
British Royal Astronomical Society.
When her husband went to the war Mrs.
Dafter took to astronomy as a hobby to
keep her mind occupied. In 1927 she
rediscovered the Pons Winnecke comet:
since then her contributions to new
astronomical knowledge have been so
considerable that the society intends
publishing a booklet dealing specially
with them. She is research observer in
Australia for a world chain of obser-
vatories.
“Trebron”: Old soldier William John
Smallwood has died at Windsor (N.S.W.)
at 84. At 16 he enlisted in the N.S.W.
Lancers; he fought in the Boer War,
and on his return remained on the active
list of the Lancers for several years. In
1914 he reduced his age by 11 years to
enlist, but was sent home from France
after serving two years.
“Percy Pawnticket” on some fellow-
unfortunates :
Stuart Robertson, who was a long-distance
N.S.W. M.L.A. (1907-33) but was always in
financial difficulties, was only one of the many
Australian legislators who died broke. Parkes
lived on the doorstep of the Bankruptcy Court
and died there; and the “genial Daniel”
O’Connor, once a N.S.W. P.M.G., was in the
Liverpool State Home when his end came. A
worse fate was that of Niels Nielsen, who
was found dying under a tree in Nielsen Park,
which, as Lands Minister, he had created —it
was his only sleeping-place. Another of them
was “Harry” Peters, a brilliant member of the
Labor party, who lost his seat through bank-
ruptcy in 1914. He then disappeared. After-
wards it was found that he had died on active
service as Private Henry Murray.


STANDS FOR ARDATH SPECIALS . . .
the cigarettes you are prouder to offer .... Ardath
has 1
ong
ieen a
famous name in England. And
now
the entirely new hlend in ARDATH SPECIALS is the
very last word in luxurious smoking.
68Bt
i
m
.
m
i
j
TEN for NINEPENCE . . . TWENTY for ONE and SIX
ALSO ROUND AND FLAT FIFTIES AND ONE HUNDREDS BOXES
58578
MOD ERN E
Tlie Ardatk LauLe
box is tbe smartest,
most intriguing
package ever invented.


BEENLEIGH RUM 'MINE TINK IT BEST'
“C.C.C.”: The wether weaners at the
outstation were running themselves poor
in the midst of ample feed. A dingo
had been originally to blame, but he
had left the paddock ; yet the sheep were
scaring worse than ever. It puzzled the
boss for quite a while, until a visit to
the paddock at sunrise revealed a mob
of wethers in full flight, a black object
bobbing a couple of hundred yards in
the rear. Each time the mob eased up
and the creature approached they would
break again in wild alarm, while their
pursuer doggedly set forth on the trail
once more. The trouble ceased as from
that morning, and the outstation fed
daintily for a while on lamb. Theory
was that the dingo had been a black
mong. ; his successor was the only black
lamb in the flock.
* * |V
“H.D.”: The daily press is a great
educative factor. Glancing through
Sydney “Telegraph’s” Royal Show
Souvenir photographs, I discovered that
my many years in the bush have left
me laboring under some amazing illu-
sions. _ “Cattle pausing for a moment’s
browsing during a muster” were repre-
sented by some 30 head of young bulls.
A kiddie on the broad back of a show
Clydesdale was represented as “proud
of his perch on the champion thorough-
bred.” A wide-horned sheep with bare
legs figured as a “merino” A picture
of cattle drinking at a watercourse was
captioned “Mustering cattle to the water-
“Agra”: They do still exist, those
Daves and Kates beloved of the humor-
ists. Recently I drove a young couple
.10 miles to the nearest town for their
wedding ceremony. Starting time was
arranged so that the morning’s work
could be finished first, but there was a
slight holdup while Dad and Dave
measured up the pump for a new piece
of piping Dave was to get in town. Mum
came along, but Dad stayed behind (o
get the cows in if the wedding party was
delayed. There were no guests apart
from the necessary two witnesses, and
no reception or honeymoon afterwards.
The whole affair had to be rushed a
little to allow family shopping to be
done, and the return trip started later
than had been arranged. “We’re going
to be late for the milking, Mum,” said
Dave. “I suppose we will be,” agreed
Mum, but added cheerfully, “Never
mind! There’s one more to help with it
to-night.”
* * * i\:
“Gryllus”: Rabbits are costing Britain
£70,000,000 yearly in lost food and crops.
They have lately increased immensely,
partly by reason of professional trappers
going out of business because of low
prices, and partly because their natural
enemies, stoats, badgers, weasels and
owls, are being wiped out by game-
keepers because they prey also on game
birds. A Select Committee of the House
of Lords is obtaining expert evidence,
and rabbit-keeping will soon be made
illegal except under license. Licensed
breeders will be required to keep their
premises rabbit-proof, and the fee will
be increased yearly until breeding be-
comes unprofitable. The money so
raised will be used to pay official exter-
minators until wild rabbits are com-
pletely wiped out, as the destructive
musk-rat has been.
* * * *
“Toki”: Our “next-door” bachelor
was always grizzling about his cow. His
roadside bread-box had long since fallen
from its stump, but as it still answered
the purpose he didn’t worry. The cow
developed a sporting instinct, and it was
a neck-to-neck race between it and Ned
to that bread-box every time the baker
called —and the cow generally won. I
suggested a few nails and the box re-
placed on the stump. “What! Me give
in to a cow!” he retorted. A few
weeks later he passed by looking as if
he had drawn the first prize in a lottery.
“I beat her!” he yelled. “Just come
from the saleyards. That’ll learn her
to eat my bread.” It had cost him a
fen-mile ride to town, a poor price and
a wasted day—but he “won.”
"See what I’VE just done!"
hole is a typical daily task of the Aus-
tralian station-hand.” Memory brought
me back to painful attempts to prevent
thirsty bullocks on a dry stage from
rushing into bogholes that they had
winded miles away and headed for at
the trot. Finally, I turned to a photo-
graph of a piebald horse clearing a high
jump to find that he was a “dappled”
animal.
* ijc $ ?*•
“Nordbo”: A poultry-farmer outside
Cairns (N.Q.) lately saw two dozen or so
of his white leghorns commit suicide
against the wirenetting when a ’plane
flew low over his runs. Stupid things,
fowls. In a Cairns picture-show a large,
two-bladed fan overhead, apparently
running dry, began to send out smoke.
Some darn fool sang out “Fire!” Only
a blind man could fail to see where the
smoke came from ; there was nothing to
burn in the theatre, roof and walls
being of corrugated-iron, floor of con-
crete, exits wide and numerous. Yet
there was a wild stampede towards the
doors, some of the featherless bipeds
getting a bruise or two by way of an
object-lesson.
* ij : «.
“Mornie”: That recently mentioned
cook who mixed boot polish and hot
water as a snifter reminds me of an
elderly lady of my acquaintance who is
emphatic about the kick provided by a
mixture of boot polish, metho. and
ginger ale. No wild spending of the
pension money every second Thursday
for her. Eighteenpence spent on the
foregoing ingredients reduces her to such
a state that only by next pension day
can she pass a bootblack without a
shudder. Then there was the chap on
Lake Nash (N.T.) who discovered the
Jamaica ginger extract in the station
store. His was a memorable jag; in
certain phases of it three of us had our
work cut out to prevent him from having
a scrap with a bull. But the weirdest
and wildest results I’ve ever seen were
those his favorite tipple produced on a
rabbit-fence attendant. His potion was
a few drops of spirits of salts in a
pannikin of water.
* * * *
“Ex-M.L.”: News that the enlightened
Soviet is injecting thallium into sheep,
thus allowing jumbuck to be plucked
clean in seven to 10 minutes, will cause
no frantic rush for the drug hereabouts,
Apart from the question of whether
wool will grow again after being plucked
out by the roots, a fair Australian shearer
can peel a sheep in five minutes, his
only drugs being tea and tobacco.
* * ... ...
“Palencia Creek”: Strange sun .
downers? One old chap who called at
our Gippsland (Vic.) farmhouse recently,
instead of asking for the usual hand-
out, produced three books which he
handed to the lady of the house. “Just
a hobby of mine, missus,” he explained.
“Sort of spreading the light, you might
say. Nothing like books for improving
the mind.” He said that his family
flowed him 30s a week, and after pro-
viding for himself he spent the balance
on books, which he distributed wherever
e went. Apparently he tried to cater
for all tastes as our parcel consisted of
an Edgar Wallace thriller, Henry Law-
son's Popular Verses and a copy of
Gorki’s Mother.
“Wombat”: Doing a trip down through
the Vic. Mallee before the country
was surveyed, I came on a miniature
specimen of humanity making south,
with the nearest house 90 miles off. With
the amount of furniture-packing growing
around his face flies did not appear to
trouble him, although it was nearing the
100-mark. His worldly belongings were
stacked on a pram drawn by a nanny-
goat, and, asked what he did for water,
he said he always drank milk and there
was the dairy in the shafts. To my query
as to how the goat managed with no
water within 50 miles that I had ever
heard of, he told me that, let rove around,
she seemed to get enough from odd salt-
bush and other vegetation to do her.
Making for Melbourne, he said. Ten
years later, riding down the same track,
I sighted a bit of newspaper, and, dis-
mounting, found close by a dog-trap, and
in it the hand of a man. I still wonder...
* * * $
“Saddle-flap”: Nobody has yet ex-
plained how arose the bush superstition
associating black cockatoos with the com-
ing of rain. My experience of them
suggests that the fable originated in an
ironic bit of leg-pulling. When living
in the dry hinterland of the Gape York
Peninsula (Q.) and again outside rain-
less Broome (W.A.), these red-tailed
squawkers were always with us. The
Darling River, between Menindie and
Louth (western N.S.W.), is the home of
them —once on Murtee I saw over 3000
in a mob—and that country’s the driest
imaginable. Yet move along the river
into the better rainfalls and you leave
the birds behind. By the way, 111 n ® m !7
nate this cockatoo as the toughest of all
birds to eat—or try to eat. Leather is
tender compared with its flesh,
* * * *
_ “Garda”: The proposed fine tor war
tipsters (B. 17/3/’37) has caused much
concern in some quarters. If, as well
as politicians, novelists, tourists, etc.,
chooks are liable to this fine, a certain
American fowl is faced with the prob-
ability of having to produce £lOOO-wortn
of eggs in under four months. The bird
bas laid an e SS the inner shell of which
bears the words, War J une ~oth.
,* m * .
okl . : be ma h er in dispute was the
ownership of a two-year-old steer,
of the litigants being an abo. The while
man seemed easily to prove, with plenty
white and half-caste witnesses, that
the animal was undoubtedly his. There
was llttle left for Binghi to say, but he
stubbornly insisted that he had branded
' b e beast when it was three months old ;
“ the C° u « adjourned to see the brand,
“?J»' ned !° Jaclcy No
brand - no . c ! a ™,* be said Somebody
™ e a k " lf '- Then, slitting the skm
S* 1 f a i houlder - K h f, P robed lnto lb J
"? sh , o£ the now bellowing steer with
.4a"d”-a tlrmS tee'
, *•. brand a tarnished thiee-
*'* * *
“ Y o”: “Brumby’s” theory that noise
and “wheeling ’em” are the stuff for cap-
turing WJ -| d horses (B . 17/3/’37) is so
much hot air. Where would “Brumby”
wheel them to ? As an old hand at the
g am e, I suggest that the less noise made
the better. The finest bush riders I have
known have been silent, except when
forcing the mob through the wings into
a trapyard. When started wild horses
generally have a favorite getaway in a
well-defined direction. Give them a
few preliminary goes at intervals ; then
build your yard, strong and high, run
light, half-mile wings out on each side,
start your mob from the feeding-ground
(this is important) and follow hard and
fast. If done efficiently, without din and
fuss, result will be a yardful of brum-
bies. Should they once slip past the
wing no bushman on earth will ever
“wheel ’em.”
* * * *
“Creel”: Many male fish build nests
for the female’s eggs, and others have
pouches for carrying the eggs. But
the male “percelles” ( Cheilodipteridce ) is
unique among all finny fathers. He
catches his wife’s eggs in his mouth as
they are laid, and carries them there
until they hatch. Even then his job isn’t
finished, for until the babies are old
enough to look after themselves they
continue to lair in his mouth.
“Ex-hobo”: Many and devious are the
ways of catching rattler-jumpers. The
bouquet for ingenuity I sourly give to
a N.Q. cop. who used to walk along a
goods train rattling a billy with a few
pebbles in it, whispering, “Any room
for me in here?” Whether the inno-
cents under cover of the tarpaulins in-
vited him in or told him to go to blazes,
they were goners.
THE OLD PROSPECTOR.
I m sick of the sounds of the Sydney street,
The million faces, the million feet!
What do they care for the things I love,
*he leaves beneath and the birds above,
Wood-smoke]s tang on a mountain track,
A rattling dish in a swaying pack?
I hate their Charity’s shabby fee,
Their doles and pensions for such as me
1 hat’s worked and wandered my whole life
through,
That’s followed the gold and found it, too,
And spent it free as a man should do.
I think I’ll give it a fly once more;
Maybe I’ll find what I’ve missed before,
II fhe ranges somewhere a dinkum place
With a timbered slope to the north-east face;
Where a bit of a spring drips clear and cool
rrom a ledge’s lips to a rock-rimmed pool;
Where the winds are friendly and free the sky,
And a likely creek in a gully nigh,
lhat the boys just managed to overlook
Somehow since the coming of Captain Cook,
Holds, not so much as a miser’d wish,
But good, coarse colors to every dish;
And a “leader” gleams on the weathered
face,”
Like a jeweller’s shop in the years of grace.
And though with dolly and dish, all told,
It mightn’t be what you would call good gold,
Lhere’d be tucker to spare, .and powder and
caps,
And maybe a drink for a couple of chaps.
And an ounce or two for the “shammy,” per-
haps,
In the ten-by-twelve with the spotted fly—
And a camp for a cobber, come wet or dry.
I loathe the streets with their smoke-dimmed
sun,
And their million faces that seem as one.
So, though I’m not as young as I, was,
I reckon I’ll give it a go, because
It's the sort of a place that's dinky-di,
Where even a mug would have half a chance
In the devil’s raffle of circumstance,
And it’s worth a try.
For a man wouldn’t mind it
If he could find it!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Ellenvale”: From the London “Illus-
trated News” of January 30:
An Australian station owner never knows
how many horses there are on his land, as
the horses run wild the whole year round
except at mustering times, which take place
once or twice a year. Then the jackeroos.
as Australia’s sturdy cowboys are called,
get busy and round up all the wild horses
on the vast estates, which may easily exceed
100,000 acres. Lt is a difficult job to drive
the horses into the stockyard, but preferable
to the old method of lassoing them,
which often meant injury. Then the
jackeroo’s job really starts, and there are
few finer sights than to see these strong
fellows of the Outback breaking in the
horses. They use no bit, just a halter or a
rope. The young jackeroo does his best to
hold on, but sooner or later he must part
from the saddle. Australian jackeroos are
fine horsemen, but few can stay for long
on the back of an unbroken colt.
The article is illustrated by double-
page photos, of the sturdy fellows break-
ing in the wild mustangs. Apparently
things have changed since I was out-
back a couple of months ago, as all the
horses are flank-roped and the stock-
yard is ringed by hundreds of spectators
who have rolled along to see the gallant
jackeroos handle the station colts. Inset
is a chap with a surprised look on his
dial —probably the station owner, no less
astounded at the number of horses he
owns than at the breaking-in methods
of his enthusiastic cowboys.
* * * *
“Bluetongue”: “L’Allegro's” experi-
ence of often having lambs born with
the homestead earmark on ’em (B.
10/3/’37) serves to back up the defence
I made at my last trial for sheep-duffing.
As I explained to the jury, my ewes are
marked with a back quarter and my
rams with a front quarter, so it’s natural
“Now are you satisfied? I've been at yer for months to dig a drain
round the place!"
that the young sheep should have no
registered ears at all. The sheepmen
seemed to have a set on me, and they
reckoned it wasn’t possible; so if
“L’Allegro” can prove that heredity
counts in these things I’d like to meet
him, and maybe we could go into part-
nership. His knowledge and my ear-
marks should do well together.
“O. W. Waireki”: When Henare heard
that his cousin Cutti was coming to reside
next door, he frowned darkly. “I got
no time for t’at ferra since he work a
dirty one on me over te tangi turnout,”
he explained. “I work hard getting ready
kai pork an’ kai mutton, but it go to
waste on me, because, five days after
te operation, Cutti go an’ come con-
scious again.”
“ Well , y' told I to get ’arnessed oop and run into town!"
,
Gravelsnatcher : I hadn t seen Bill
f° r well, the last job we were on to-
gether we collected our pay in sovereigns,
So we had a wongi about old times, and
particularly Macadam, the ganger. He s
crossed oyer, Bill tells me, to where they
lay good intentions end to end and make
the lastest speed-track m existence, bu
there must be some old-timers who re-
member him. I first met him when 1
blew into his camp at Ksllerberrin
(W.A.) and asked for a job. Weel, he
sized me up shrewdly. “Ah kin do wi’
a mahn—a guid mahn ; no’ a loafer,
Ah’ve gut loafers enough the noo. Luk
at thim!” I did. They were working
like Trojans. “Bluidy loafers. Vera
weel, ye kin start the morn—on trial,
ye ken.” He didn’t have much to say
until payday. Then, “Hoo d’ye like
yer mates? he asked. They were a fine
crowd, and the pace was a cracker, but
I must have been young those days,
“Theyre not bad, I opined slowly. A
bit slow, p raps; but 111 soon lick em
into shape. Sparks spat out of his
eyes and his whiskers stood out like wire
bristles. Ye will, wu l ye? he snorted,
' Weel, noo, Ah tell ye. Ah ve gut
the brawest lut o’ boys in the State, ye
ken. There’s no yin o’ thim whit wudna
pull his ain weight in hell. If ye wasna
a guid mahn yer ainself Ah’d kick ye
tae hell oot o’ this. Noo, Ah’ll gie ye
a week in the graavel-pit. Gin ye kin
lick ony o’ them graavel-snatchers intae
shape tell ma.” I didn’t.
* * * #
“Old Camper”: Recent mention of
the prospector-murderer Butler recalls
how, tramping from Broad Arrow
to Coolgardie late in 1894, three
prospectors came on a lone digger
filling in a hole. Returning next day
expecting to see the uncovering of a lode
they found a dead man, his skull shat-
tered with a pick, quite in the Butler
technique. The lone digger was never
discovered, nor the identity of the vic-
tim. Butler operated as a camp robber
around Coolgardie for a couple of years
—it was a Ballarat School of Mines
diploma stolen from the camp of Frank
Harwood, assayer of Bayley’s, that en-
abled him to delude his N. S. Wales vic-
tims. Had he escaped the gallows there
the W.A. Ketch would almost certainly
have collected him.
* * * *
“Cobbler”: In the blade days a shearer
had time to look where he was going
and was never likely
to apologise to a
post into which he
bumped, as the
overhurried machine
man has been
known to do. It’s
the vibration of the
machine which gets
’em. A man could
loaf with the blades,
and I’ve seen dozens
going slow. It’s a
rare thing to see a
man going steady
with the machines.
They just can’t do
it; they’re flat out
all the time, sweat
and oil spraying
about them and
nerves on edge.
That a shearer is
knocking up a good
cheque is only of
secondary import-
ance. I’ve tested
myself, and I’ve
asked others to ana-
lyse their feelings.
The conclusions are
the same. When a
man’s in the com-
pany of others go-
ing hard, with the
vibration of the
machine spurring
him along, he just
can’t go steady.
“Bundeena”: If the stingray’s barb
does not secrete poison (B. 17 /3 / ’37)
how does the ’ray jpanage to inject such
venom into wounds? If the venom is
composed of putrescing organic matter
—the ’ray presumably burying his barb
in some defunct ocean-dweller until the
weapon becomes covered with virulent
poison—why doesn’t the water wash
it off?
* * * *
“Scrubber”: Talking of the lyrebird’s
powers of mimicry reminds me of an
ancient bird that frequented our camp
at Glen Wills (Vic.). It used to catch
its tucker without scratching—merely
imitated the patter of heavy rain on dry
leaves and the worms would come from
yards down to provide its breakfast.
* * * *
“Dominic”: They do catch fish at
Peel Inlet (W.A.). There, a while back,
a chap named Skelton, with a kingfish
line out strong enough to carry the
family wash and weary of waiting for
a bite, tied the end round his ankle,
selected a shady tree close to the
water’s edge, dropped off to sleep
and awoke to find himself in the
water. At least, that was the best
interpretation the old hands could
give when a few days later they
dragged up the line in midstream with
Skelton on one end and a 10ft. shark on
the other, both drowned.
* * * *
“Warrigal”: The old gaol at Robe
(S.A.) once sheltered a Greek named
George Cateola, who one day thumped
the gaoler with an axe and escaped. He
was almost forgotten when a couple of
youths went to bathe in Lake Eliza, a
few miles away and swam bang into
him. He had been dead for weeks, and
yet was in a perfect state of preser-
vation. Lake Eliza is as full of brine
as a butchers tank.
% ❖ ❖
“Dickie Beech”: Ever see the curious
“crucifix” in the head of the Queens-
land blue catfish? Although not so re-
markably shaped as the skulls of some
allied species in South American waters,
it can, with a little imagination, be made
to show the outline of a distorted human
figure on a cross. The common “fresh-
water jew” has a somewhat similarly-
shaped skull. Catfish, so called from the
whiskery trimmings on the lower jaw,
belong to a large and widely-spread
family, dating back for an immense
period in geological records.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Does any garden seed ger-
minate quicker than cornflower? I
sowed a row at noon, and early the fol-
lowing morning quite a few had thrust
their “wings” above ground. Previously
I’d thought zinnias, with two days, held
the belt for slick sprouting.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: Our pup was mostly
chained up because he was such a thief.
Entreaties of a humane citizen occupy-
ing the adjoining semi-detached res.
having prevailed, he was loosed, and the
same day brought home a roast leg of
pork with a fork sticking in it. Through
the wall we shortly heard loud demands
for “me dinner,” and tearful incoheren-
cies in response. A belief in super-
natural beings addicted to roast pork is
my neighbor’s latest fad.
* * * *
“Cascade”: Yes, Monaro still breeds
wild horses. On the western side of the
Snowy River brumbies are more numer-
ous than on Willis, “where Johnson runs
them.” Kerry Pierce, an Upper Murray
grazier, annually catches a mob.
“Straighty” Pender earns his living at
the game, and the McGufficks and Mc-
Gregors, of Jindabyne, catch up to .
30 a year. Tom Golby, a veteran at the
job, sets salt yards with trap gates and
often gets a horse worth money.
AUTUMN SONG.
I heard a voice in the river willows calling,
Calling down the valley, crying by the lake,
“Garner now this beauty, autumn days are
falling,
Red is on the bramble, gold is on the brake.”
Mellow peace and fullness of the year at ember,
When the airs are tranquil, when the stately
trees
Burn with flames of saffron, bidding us re-
member
Winter waits to scatter autumn’s vanities.
1 heard the rain as it lashed the swinging
hedges,
Surging through the gorges, beating on the
grass,
Foam of silver cataracts leaping from the ledges
To the turbid river roaring through the pass.
Gone is the glory of the wild mint in the hollow,
All its purple splendor spent by gusty rain;
Far flies the cuckoo, knowing now must follow
Snow upon the upland, flood upon the plain.
1 heard the wind as it waked in hill and valley,
Rioting in orchards of their harvest shorn.
Through the thronging city, down each lane
and alley,
Blew the wind of autumn on a plangent horn.
N.S.W.
LYNDO.


Mrivate executorship
demands sacrifice !
The demands of knowledge and sacrifice
which a private individual is asked to face
as an Executor or Trustee are such that he is
rarely, if ever, able to completely fulfil them.
Moreover, the intricacies of estate adminis-
tration often lead to the neglect of the
trustee’s own affairs.
But while the private individual may find
his appointment an intolerable burden, the
functions he has been asked to fulfil are the
everyday work of corporate trustees. If you
wish to surrender a trusteeship or act in an
advisory capacity only, consult us —an inter-
view can be arranged at any time. The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited has had nearly 60 years’ experience
in the administration of Estates.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
*. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne . . . 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £10,000 with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O.J
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading. K.C.M.G.: Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman), W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.,
General Secretary.
Arthur Eedy,
Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
to To Re- Re-
did y, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
p p £ £ £>
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 16,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. .. 57,449
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66,723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 .. .. 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £16,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4.872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. 567 Nil Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1.164 Nil Nil 1,104 49,033
*lncludes bad debts written off.
This is one of a strong network of co-
operative selling organisations, here and
overseas, which have done good work
for the farmer by endeavoring to market
his produce at the best price and low
cost. Its activities cover all the most
important branches of primary produc-
tion in its home .State, and include mer-
chandise, insurance and chartering
arrangements, too. Because it borrowed
heavily to lend to wheat-farmers before
the, big break in the markets, net losses
aggregating £98,627 showed up for the
three years to the close of accounts in
1932, and practically all surplus earn-
ings since have been swallowed by allow-
ances for doubtful debts. Hence the
absence of dividends to shareholders and
bonuses to clients over the last eight
years.
The question of dividends depends
mainly on the debts problem in the
wheat areas, and that in turn hinges on
seasons and prices. Prospects are
brighter than at any time since the storm
clouds burst eight years ago.' All other
sections of the business are expanding
nicely, and as costs are reduced so are.
service charges, which is as it should be.
The next table illustrates what hap-
pened in connection with wheat:
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel, f per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. BJd. £2/15/4
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7Jd. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 10£d. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. Bgd. £l/15/7
1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. sd. £l/9/9
1934.. 37,305,000 11.7 2s. 2M. £l/5/7
1935.. 26,985,000 9.8 2s. sd. £l/3/8
1936.. 23,315,000 9.2 3s. 2td. £l/9/4
1937*. 19,816,000 7.9
* Estimate. f Excludes bounty.
Nature was unkind, and last year’s yield
was the poorest since. 1924. But since
the pool price is expected to average over
Is. a bushel better than for the 1936
season, the return per acre to the grower
should be a bit better, and bulk hand-
ling, of which the co. has been a strenu-
ous advocate, is expected to keep costs
down. As agent for the pool, Westralian
Wheat Farmers, Ltd., and Co-op. Bulk
Handling, Ltd., the co.’s grain interests
cover about 60 p.c. of the State’s total
production. With wheat now fetching
around ss. lOd. f.0.b., the debts problem
has become less acute.
Although the year’s commission earn-
ings (£86,152) dropped £20,114, revenue
from other sources (£117,112) was up
£20,692, leaving little change in gross
takings:—
Gross Profit. Exes.f Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340,809 300,013 34,796
1929. . 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254 217 259,089 4,872
1931.. 264,830 319,180 54,350*
1932.. 232,391 249,244 16,853*
1933.. 201,137 201,137 *
1934.. 198,839 198,839 *
1935.. 202,686 202,686 -- *
1936.. 203,263 203,263 *
*N’ot allowing fpr reserve adjustments.
tlncludes allowance for bad debts, etc.
Ordinary trading charges (£178,945) were
£ll,Bll lighter. The surplus of income
over outgo was thus £12,388 stronger
at £24,318, which was added to the
reserve for doubtful debts, now £56,203,
or £5165 less than at the previous
balance. The total amount written off
for bad debts since 1930 amounts to
£261,328, practically all in relation to
debts incurred prior to 1930. Since then
bad debts have amounted to Jess than one
half of one per cent, of annual turn-
over. The small profit shown in the
introductory table arose out of reserve
adjustments, and reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £49,033.
The year’s net reduction in debtors’
balances was £26,456; £10,236 was
snipped off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, including the bank:
1930. 1933. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £212,567 £213,790 £213,862 £213,845
Debentures . . 140,901 107,730 108,768 108,169
. ?-■•> 1 693,434 546,117 535,881
Other liabilities 622,587 J
1' l'benuius, etc. 148,058 123,449 119,412
Plant, etc. . . 62,188 37,190 31,198 33,206
Shares in other
cos. . . 48,570 48,705 78,221 79,221
Stocks . . 159,018 119,311 89,035 108,148
Debtors . . 818,640 599,279 477,421 450,965
Cash, etc. .. 13,057 12,907 18,226 17,910
Freeholds, etc., were down £4037, despite
reconstruction of the skin-and-hide store
at Fremantle, owing to increased business.
Including stocks, but not shares in other
cos., the excess of liabilities over more or
less liquids was £67,027, or £3176 less
than at the previous balance.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Di vidends—(W rlt—
Pref. Ord. ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 71 p.c. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20.000 633 14.199 88,999
12J p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,063 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
3J p.c.
1934.. 17.311 9000 7,500 709 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
71 p.e.
1936.. 29,912 9000 15,000 987 4 925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 31,012 9000 20,000 968 1,044 95,903
Modern developments in the art of dis-
tribution, to give shopkeeping its more
resounding title, have brought. big
changes in the financial structure of this
co., which specialises largely in men’s
wear. For many years it had nothing
invested in bricks and mortar, and was
therefore able to get along with a com-
paratively small capital and pay hand-
some divs. —an average of 18| p.c. for
the five years to the close of accounts
in 1925. Meanwhile, retailers, whose job
it is to collect from manufacturers and
others the things the public wants and
make them available to customers, began
to display a new eagerness to render
service, which has now been developed
to a point that would have seemed suici-
dal to the shopkeeper of a generation
ago. The real services he has rendered
to his customers have been mainly (1)
convenient location of the store, (2) com-
fort and facility in shopping, which have
meant newer and brighter stores and
better display, and (3) variety and qual-
ity of merchandise and equity in prices,
which have led to a closer study of
family budgets, keener buying and ex-
tensive advertising, etc.
Partly because of all this and partly
to anchor goodwill the co. bought the
freehold of its old premises at the corner
of Bourke and Elizabeth streets, oppo-
site the G.P.0., and put up a new 11-
storeyed building thereon. To meet the
outlay £129,000 was raised on mortgage
and £lOO,OOO of 9 p.c. pref. capital was
gathered. Including £lOO,OOO of bonus
scrip that had been handed to the ords.,
paid capital thus became £300.000. When
the books last closed the co. had
£374,376 more invested in ijxed assets
and £19,541 less invested in stocks than
it had in 1920. With this change, it is
plain that the co.’s ability to earn pro-
fits depended very largely upon the ex-
tent to which turnover livened and unit
sales costs were reduced. Appearances
are that turnover responded nicely ; the
ords. got 12| p.c. for the two years to
the close of accounts in 1930. Then
slump brought trouble with stocks and
a host of other difficulties, and the ords.
were passed by in 1931. But they got
into the picture in the following term
with 5 p.c., and, with one exception,
earnings have continued to improve each
year since.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a substantial
increase in sales. After striking off £96S
for depreciation (shown as written off
in the table) declared net earnings were
£lll9 better at £30,044, or enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 10.5 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 9.9, 5.4, 3.7 and 5
p.c. for the four preceding years. The
div. was lifted from 1\ p.c. to 10 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1920. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300.000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 36,100 139,391 104,516 105,052
Property, etc. 40,199 385,086 412,253 412,253
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 5,306 7,478 7,036
Shares in other
•cos 5,767 5.804 5,804
Stocks.. .. 98,819 103,168 86,527 79.27 S
Book debts . . 5,054 6,075 5.079 5,492
Cash, etc. . . 20,465 35,040 2,234 16,091
The year’s surplus earnings and a re-
duction of £7249 in stocks are reflected
in a growth of £13,857 in cash, etc. Of
the £105,052 of outside liabilities, the
mortgage accounts for £99,000. Includ-
ing the mortgage, the excess of liabili-
ties over more or less liquids amounted
to £4191 when the books closed, or
£6485 less than at the previous balance.
On the market the ords., which ad-
vanced from 245. 6d. a year ago to 275.
in December, now fetch 345. The return
at 345. is 5.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 335. 6d. return 5.3 p.c
The net tangible cover is £3 19s. 2d.
prefs. and 295. 7d. ords.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 64,104 7.1 p.c. = 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 n „ ~ 56,250 8,891 75,420
1929.. 62,995 74 „ „ 56,250 6,745 82,171
1930.. 60,489 7 \ „ „ 56,250 4,239 86,410
Jan.,
1932*. 56,695 5j „ „ 46,875 9,820 96,230
1933.. 52,188 6-J „ „ 46,875 5,313 101,543
1934.. 38,058 6 „ „ 37,500 558 102,101
1935.. 37,158 5 .. 37,500 101,759
1936.. 42,754 5 „ 37,500 5,254 107,013
1937.. 58,088 5.8 .. ~ 43,750 14,338 121,351
*l3 months.
This branch of the B.P. organisation
took over the parent's extensive island
produce and shipping business for
£500,000 in scrip in 1920, and B.P.’s
. shareholders put up a further £250,000
(cash), making paid capital £750,000. No
goodwill figured in the deal. Only once,
in 1922, following the short, sharp post-
war slump, have shareholders failed to
receive a div., the average over the last
17 years being 6.1 p.c. The policy has
been to keep the div. moderate and ex-
tend and strengthen the business, visibly
and otherwise. Thus, although the Lon-
don price of copra, which affects not
only the co.’s direct earnings therefrom
but its merchandising sales and shipping
and other revenue, fell in fluctuating
stages from £27 a ton in 1928 to £7 ss.
in 1934. the div. never dropped belov
5 p.c. The 5 p.c. was mostly earned by
the shipping and merchandising sections
of the business ; for a while copra trans-
actions showed a loss.
Meanwhile, costs had been largely re-
adjusted to altered conditions, and over
the last three years prices and trade gen-
erally have continued to strengthen. The
last term opened with copra around £l2
10s. in London ; the figure had advanced
to £l9 15s. at the close of accounts,
thanks partly to an expanding demand
in the U.S.A. and Germany, which has
helped keep the price around the same
mark since. Improvement in the
position of other island products, in-
cluding sugar, and development of the
Fiji goldfields (the co.’s headquarters are
at Suva) helped turnover, too. Gross
earnings sprang £26,796:
Cross Exes. p.c.
Drc., Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1925 .. .. £169,632 £108,826 64.1
1927 . . . . 161,785 97,681 60.4
1929 .. .. 192,137 129,142 67.2
1930 . . . . 185,060 124,571 67.0
.Tan.,
1932 . . . . 169,182 112,487 66.4
1933 . . . . 158,121 105,933 66.9
1934 .. .. 147,700 109,642 74.2
1935 . . . . 137,507 100,349 72.9
1936 . . 153,393 110,639 72.1
1937 .. .. 180,189 122,101 67. S
Exes., which include an unspecified
allowance for depreciation, bad debts,
etc., took £67 16s. of every £lOO of gross


®uo jWen
— GM
loot (malL(ie<i
‘HINK of the men you know in
-1- business careers today—there are
some in a rut —disgruntled slaves to
old-time custom —who scorn the need
for qualification by examination— for
study. THEY never qualified.
Compare these men with others
whom you know are fully trained;
Compare the positions and the
organisations they serve; the security
of their relative positions. Long years
of service may keep the first man in his
job, but life for him is just eternal grind
—and secret worry lest the trained
man supersede him.
Times have changed. Thirty years
ago, the man “with experience” ob-
tained the post. Today, when YOU
have the experience those who
secure the positions are men who have
trained with H. & R., and are qualified
by examination.
H. & R. train boy and girls, men and
women in Accountancy-Secretary-
ship—Bookkeeping—Cost Account-
ancy methods, on modern lines. For
forty years these men and women have
been stepping over those who would
not see the writing on the wall.
H. &. R. training is STILL your oppor-
tunity. With H. &R. you are assured
of thorough, complete training —and
it is never “too late” to study. A few
hours each week can make you the
success you would like to be. No mat-
ter what your age is, get out of the
crowd—stand alone. Let H. &. R.
show the way. Cut out the coupon
and send for our "Guide to Business
Careers
Personal-Individual Tuition. Open till 8 p.m. Fridays.
Service Consultants in All Country Centres.
OUR 40 tb YEAR.
P.N\O
lettehs
/N.
-J
Melbourne: 38 Bank House, Bank Place, C.l.
Sydney: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack St.
Offices in Melbourne, Sydney, Newcastle,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and
Launceston.
H. & R. Nearest Capital City is sufficient
address.
"post" this“coupon"to-day:
Dear Sirs,
I am interested in Business. Please send
me free copy of the 1937 Edition of “The
Guide to Business Careers.”
Name Age I
Address
Subject 38/260 |
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated in England, by Royal Charier, 1835.)
The liability of members is limited.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the bank) . .
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . .
£4,500,000
2,475,000
2,000,000
4,500,000
£13,475,000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 12th OCTOBER, 1936,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, Ist APRIL, 1937.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 12th October
last, with the Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing
for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian, and New Zealand rates and
taxes, and making a transfer to the credit of Contingencies Account', out of which
account provision for all bad and doubtful debts has been made, the net profit for
the year amounted to £300,961/1 1/2.
To this has to be added £182,266/0/11 brought forward from the previous
year’s account, making a total of £483,227/12/1. From this, £120,093/13/- was
paid as an Interim Dividend on 2nd October last, and the Directors have now
appropriated a further sum of £169,804/13/9 to pay a Final Dividend of 4/6 per
Share, less Income Tax at 3/2|- in the £, making in all £289,898/8/9, equal to
8/- per Share less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at' the rate
of 8 per cent., less Tax. There will remain £ 193,329/3/4 t'o be carried forward
to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London, Australia, and New Zealand, on 2nd
April.
The Directors have to record with much regret the deaths of their esteemed
colleagues, Lord Aldenham and Mr. C. E. Barnett.
To fill the vacancies on the Board caused by the deaths of Mr. Harold Nelson
and Lord Aldenham the Directors have appointed the Hon. Geoffrey Cokayne Gibbs
and Mr. Edmund Godward, the Manager in London. The names of these gentlemen
will be submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting,
in accordance with the provisions of the Deed of Settlement.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: The Hon. Geoffrey C. Gibbs, Kenneth
Goschen, Esq., and Horace Peel, Esq., who, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for
re-election.
Since the date of the last Report, Branches have been opened in the Melbourne
suburbs of East Malvern and Toorak, at 139 Bathurst Street, Sydney, at the Sydney
suburban district of Waterloo and Alexandria, and at Wollongong, New South
Wales. In addition the Agency at Grafton, New South Wales, has been converted
into a Branch.
F. V. C. LIVINGSTONE-LEARMONTH, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 22nd March, 193 7.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM OCTOBER 15, 1935, TO OCTOBER 12, 1936.
Balance brought forward from October, 1935 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £182,200 0 11
Profit for the year to October 12, 1936, after deducting Rebate
(£7146/2/10) on Bills current at Balance date, and after making a
transfer to the credit of Oontingencis Account, out of which account
provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made .. .. £1,149,446 19 11
Less:
1. —Charges of Management—Australia and New
Zealand—
Salaries and allowances at 234 Branches
and Agencies .. .. .. .. £518,083 8 l
General Expenses .. ...... . . 108,038 3 2
London —-
Salaries and allowances .. .. .. 23,275 15 7
General Expenses, including Directors’
remuneration .. .. .. .. 25,823 1 9
If.—Rates and Taxes—
Australia, New Zealand, and London
£675,220 8 7
173,265 0 2
848,485 8 9
— 300,961 11 2
£483,227 12 1
Prom which deduct —
Dividend paid October 2, 1936 .. .. .. .. .. £120,093 15 0
Dividend payable April 2, 1937 . . .. .. .. 169,804 13 9
—— 289,598 8 9
Brdance carried forward per Balance-sheet .. .. .. .. .. •• ..£193,329 3 4
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 12, 1936.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts ..
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit,
and other Liabilities, includ-
ing provision for contingencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£2,795 0
23,612,110 3
13,553,470 6
4,338,964 17
280,943 8
0
8
1
6
1
Capital:—
900,000 Shares
of £5 each,
fully paid ..£4,500.000
(There i s
under the
Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of
the Bank) .. 2,475,000
Currency Re-
serve (used
in the busi-
ness of the
Bank) . . 2,000,000
Dividend pay-
able April
£41,788,283 15 4
0 0
0 0
0 0
9,338,133 17 1
2, 1937 .. 169,804 13 9
Profit and Loss
Account
Balance .. 193,329 3 4
£51,126,417 12 5
A. H. BULLOCK, Accountant.
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances
British Government Securities . .
Australian and New Zealand Gov-
ernment Securities, and other
Investments .. ..
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit
Advances on Securities, and other
Assets
Liability of Customers for Accept-
ances as per contra
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and
London, at Cost, less amounts
written off
Note.—The Australian and
New Zealand assets and lia-
bilities are included at the par
rates of exchange, and the net
difference which would have
arisen had they been converted
at the rates ruling at the date
of the Balance-sheet is covered
by Currency Reserves.
£4,899,822 10
2,113,057 1
7,365,869 15
2,598,641 .5
33,300,768 0
280,943 8
567,315 11
4
10
3
6
1
0
£51,126,417 12 5
E. GODWARD, Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE PROPRIETORS.
We have examined the above Balance-sheet with the books of the Bank in
London and with the Returns received in London from the Branches in Australia and
New Zealand. We have verified the Cash Balances, Bills of Exchange, Investments
and Securities held in London. We have obtained all the information and explana-
tions we have required, and, in our opinion, the above Balance-sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs,
according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as
shown by the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
DELOITTE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.
London, 17th March, 1937.
earnings, or £4 6s. less than in the previ-
ous term, leaving the net result £15,334
better at 7.7 p.c. on capital as against
5.7, 4.9, 5, 6.9, 7.5, 8 and 8.1 p.c. back
to 1929. The div. was lifted from 5 p.c.
to 5.8 p.c., the final being at the rate of
6.6 p.c. p.a.
The market, which expects the co. to
do better yet, prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 365. as against 295. a year ago.
The return at 365. is 3.2 p.c. on a 5.8
p.c. div. basis, or 3.6 p.c. on a 6.6 p.c.
distribution. The investor who looks for
a shade over 4 p.c. on his money counts
on the div. reaching 1\ p.c. again, which
appears to be a reasonable expectation,
given maintenance of present conditions.
Visibly the net tangible cover is 235. 2d.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1923. 1929. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £760,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 57,058 85,092 30,724 48,624
Properties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 435,890 554,179 551,832
Merchandise 0 . 8 ! m|665 } 287 * 61S 168 > 898 172 ’ 997
Book debts .. 126,148 189,962 175,498 185,785
Dash .. . . 28,083 60,048 36,662 53,110
The year’s brisker trading is reflected in
an all-round expansion of the figures,
except fixed assets, on which £2347 more
was written off than was spent. The
growth in the more or less liquid surplus
(£363,269) was £22,834. Since 1920 the
board has added £379,772 net to the
book value of fixed assets and lopped
£255,777 off the outside debt without
asking those on the share register for
any more.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
r Dividends
Pnef. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 7,989
1929.. 14,234 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 10,341
1930.. 10,746 720 3 „ „ 4,651 5,375 15,716
Loss.
1931.. 970 720 Nil 14,026
Profit.
1932.. 2,505 720 Nil 1,785 15,811
Loss.
1933.. 1,678 720 Nil 13,413
Trans, to bad debts reserve, £11,000.. 2,413
Profit.
1934.. 3,910 720 2L p.c. = 4,651 952
1935. . 10,544 720 4 „ „ 7,441 2,383 3,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ ~ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
* Includes directors’ interest (5 p.c.).
The improvement of £2349 in last year’s
net earnings was more apparent than
real. The dairying industry was affected
by a dry spell in the south and south-
west of the State, but elsewhere both
seasons and prices were good and the
economic barometer continued to rise.
But competition lost none of its keen-
ness, and gross earnings (£91,360) moved
up only £626. Including something for
bad debts, exes. (£74,046) were up £1194,
leaving the profit claimed £568 lighter at
£17,314. That was before setting aside
£l5OO (down £2000) for doubtful debts
and £4OOO (down £971) for the tax-
gatherer. Taking these figures into the
reckoning, the net result was £2349 better
at £11,814, or enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 6.4 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 5, 5.7 and 1.8 p.c. for the three
preceding years. Shareholders, who were
passed by for the three years to the close
of accounts in 1933, got an extra 1 p.c.,
making 5 p.c. for the year, the finaTbeing
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a. The ords.
averaged only 4.5 p.c. for the decade to
the close of accounts in 1930, and 2.2
p.c. for the seven years since.
Business, which swung away from the
George-street end of the city some years
ago, now shows signs of returning. This
and the outlook in other directions sug-
gest that a 6 p.c. distribution is likely
to remain within reach for the current
term. Still, the market is not impressed ;
it notes past performances, the trend
of competition and the slender sup-
port for capital, and prices the
fully-paid pound ords. at 14s. 6d. as
against 16s. 6d. a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 6.8 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis, or 8.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribu-
tion. At 21s. the 8 p.c. cum. prefs. return
7.6 p.c. The net tangible cover is 41s.
7d. prefs. and a shade over par for the
ords.
The financial position slipped slightly:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 53,000 49,500 48,750 48,000
Overdraft .. 77,343 60,000 60,000 60,000
Sundry creditors 38,336 11,964 17,258 14,399
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 131,730 128,091 128,562 128,101
Stocks., .. 120,079 90,398 106,121 110,542
Book . debts,
cash, etc. .. 117,216 98,364 89,905 87,989
Stocks, the most vulnerable point in the
business, are up £4421. The excess of
liabilities over more or less liquids moved
up £6114 to £76,132.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
r-* —-Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves
1927 .. 40,127 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 27,539 12,588 43,823
1928 .. 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. .. 80,117
1929 .. 62,757 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 105,733
1930 .. 55,568 8 „ 15 „ 37,141 18,427 124,160
1931 .. £5,911 8 „ 10 „ 25,028 883 125,043
1932 .. 18,037 7.6„ 7 „ 17,717 320 125,363
1933 .. 25,354 8 „ 10 „ 25,027 327 125,690
Plate-glass reserve taken in, £458 .. 126,148
1934 .. 25,515 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 25,027 488 126,636
1935 .. 30,193 8 „ 10 „ „ 25,027 5,166 131,802
Shai'e premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 . . 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
Steady expansion of the business and
an uninterrupted flow of attractive divs.
have been the outstanding features of
this retail drapery business over the last
14 years. In 1924 paid capital was
£88,309 ; now it is £302,726. The new
capital and more besides were used mainly
to buy the freehold and improve and ex-
tend the premises from which the co.
trades, and partly to finance expansion
of the cash-order offshoot acquired when
the neighboring business of W. T. Waters
and Co. was taken over. For the seven
years to the close of accounts in 1930
{“Wild. Cat” continued on next page.)


If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart Housej Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Personal.
WILL Yoemans or McNamarra dredging men
write to TED CLIFFORD, Emmaville?
Public Notice.
FORESTRY BONDS.-—Those wishing to sell
N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Sinus House,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN Cmberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification of
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENS’OMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
»«S&5
i«*S
cUP tR
plus
SUPER
wv
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
BE PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVEN'T GOT!
lit
ujii
&¥$
Do You Seek Adventure?
Explore Central Australia
With PIONEER!
9 Here’s an interesting and unusual
holiday . . . travelling through sparsely-
settled and little-visited country. Seeing
new sights—aborigines on the walk-
about,” making corroboree, age-old land
where each rain brings new life, giant
ant-hills, mangroves, lily lagoons. These,
and, for the sportsman, the thrill of
crocodile and wild buffalo shooting, make
your holiday an adventure away from
the routine of everyday life.
Tours, which may be varied by land and
sea cruise, ’ are conducted in special
saloons, radio-equipped, with ample room
for each passenger. Tours leave Mel-
bourne monthly from May to September,
and may be joined at any city visited
en route.
28 days by car through Central
Australia, £59/10/-
Other tours, 45 to 105 days. Send for
specially illustrated brochures and com-
plete itineraries TO-DAY.
sadf
POST TO-DAY TO
PIONEER
TOURIST BUREAU
j4vulAalLa--wub IkafotTouAA.
SYDNEY - - 38 Martin Place. Tel. B 7648
MELBOURNE 241 Collim Street. Tel. Cent. 5775
BRISBANE - 206 Adelaide Street. Tel. B 6715
Send me full details of Central Australian
Tours without obligation. (‘-Bulletin )
Name
Address
(State)
divs. averaged 13.5 p.c. For the seven
difficult years since the average has been
9.5 p.c,, which suggests a sound trading
policy and quick adjustment of the busi-
ness to altered conditions. The co.’s
strength lies mainly in a lively turnover
for cash, which means shrewd buying,
and in the suitability of the site, which
is in the G.P.O. block.
Despite a certain amount of inevitable
dislocation of business owing to re-
modelling of the co.’s main premises,
last year’s gross earnings (£176,027) were
up £11,409. Exes. (£141,144) took
£10,706 of the increase. Since there was
more capital to feed —50,224 ords. were
issued at a premium of ss. each shortly
before the close of accounts in 1936 —■
the net result (up £664) was sufficient to
pay the prefs. their £BOO and show 11.6
p.c. on ord. capital as against 13.2, 12.1,
10.2, 10.1, 7.1, 10.3, 20.8 and 25.2 p.c.
back to 1929. The div. was kept at 10
p.c.
With building operations out of the
way, prospects of a better showing at
next balance are encouraging, subject,
of course, to economic developments
meanwhile. At the moment there is
nothing in sight to suggest a sharp re-
cession in trading activity, notwithstand-
ing the psychological reaction of the
sharemarket to rumors about the pros-
pective value of the U.S.A. dollar and
the bull-and-bear battle in metals.
The market prices the pound ords. at
435. 3d., at which figure the return is
4.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
backing is 30s. 9d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1925. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £252,272 £298,234 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 75,000 75,000
Overdraft .. 30,111 5,762 30,892
S'undry creditors 456 18,091 18,621 26,788
Freeholds, fit-
tings, etc... 11,583 j 400,888 420,131 372,613
Investments .. 17,292 j ’
Stocks .. 58,800 94,488 102,236 99,600
Book debts .. 23,078 14,082 15,530 52,801
Cash, etc. .. 14,754 20,011 42,324 3,091
Shares in sub-
sidiary .. 90,903
The apparent drop of £47,518 in free-
holds, etc., is due to disclosure of shares
in other cos. (£90,903). The drop of
£39,233 in cash, etc., and growth of
£37,271 in debtors’ balances are mainly
accounted for by advances to the subsidi-
ary (£34,896). To help meet the year’s
outlay on premises, etc., £25,130 was
added to the overdraft and £8167 to the
amount coming to trade creditors. The
year’s reduction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£22,817) was £37,890.
Early developments on the. Barrier
South leases, Broken Hill (N.S.W.), have
run ahead of announced anticipations.
It was expected that the broad or western
portion of the lead lode met with at
1900 ft. in Zinc Corp.’s ground, 1139 ft.
from the Barrier South boundary, would
be encountered at between 2200 ft. and
2500 ft. in the last-named property. A
week or so ago No. 8 bore, put out at
an angle of 80 degrees from the 1130 ft.
level in the South leases, entered calcitic
lead ore at 1257 ft. At 1301 ft. it was
still in ore. From 1257 ft. to a
true width of 12|ft., the average assay
was 13.4 p.c. lead, 2.60 z. silver and
7.8 p.c. zinc. This augurs well for the
opening up of, perhaps, 10,000,000 tons
or more of additional and, with metal
prices as they are, highly profitable ore
at the Barrier. Again it looks as though
the diamond drill has postponed an early
demise of the field, first thundered by
the prophets as far back as pre-war days.
New Broken Hill Consolidated, in which
Zinc Corp. is substantially interested,
was floated last year to develop and work
the South leases. Its ss. shares fetched
21s. on the market last week-end.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell’s production and recovery
figures and the average London price of
electrolytic for the six months to March
31 compare with those for the corre-
sponding half of the previous term as
follows:
6 Months C Months
Ended Ended
31/3/’36. 31/3/’37.
Ore milled, tons.. .. 306,736 411,629
Ore, etc., smelted, tons 23,977 27,865
Blister produced, tons.. 5,275 6,087
Contents—
Copper, tons .. .. 5,236 6,046
Silver, ounces .. 43,600 45,509
Gold, ounces .. . . 3,027 3,283
Copper cathode produced,
tons .. ■. .. 6,509 6,715
Average price electrolytic* £39/14/3 £55/13/11
* London.
For the periods mentioned the equivalent
price of electrolytic in Australian cur-
rency was £49 12s. 9d. and £69 12s. 4d.
respectively. Last week-end the stuff was
fetching around £7O in London, equal to
£AB7 10s. Last year the co.’s all-in cost
of producing and realising a ton of
copper was approximately £42 145., and
the figure is expected to be reduced
during the current term, thanks mainly
to lower mining costs, owing to open-
cutting. Wages have increased slightly.
* * * *
A Pitt-street story behind the sharp
rise in Oil Search shares to above 6s.
last week was that Royal Dutch-Shell
(Papua Oil Development) has struck
oil on its New Guinea property, and
that Oil Search has concessions along-
side ; another was to the effect that the
Shell bore was put down on Oil Search’s
area. The first story has been current
for more than a month. Some official
statement from Oil Search’s office is due,
* * * *
Boulder Mining and Finance, one of
De Bernales’s two biggest Westralian gold-
mining and finance cos., has been review-
ing its prospects. Its interests are varied
and its funds considerable. Co. holds a
four-ninths interest in the dazzling
Comet, Marble Bar, a 16 p.c. share in
the equally glaring Yellowdine, and is
the largest individual holder of Gt.
Boulders. Other assets include the prom-
ising Gladiator and Lochinvar mines
at Laverton and Paddington respectively.
Concerning Gt. Boulder’s outlook, a
Bulletin man says the last published
estimate (697,394 tons) of ore reserves
has been substantially increased. Treat-
ment, which is now at the rate of 15,000
tons a month, will be expanded early
in 1938 to 25,000 tons.
* * * *
Owing to the poorer stone opened up
in Nicholson’s lease, due to the rich
shoots in the upper levels being lost about
No. 3 level, ore reserves at Ora Banda
Amal, (W.A.) now show a pennyweight
decrease in grade (11.5dwt.) com-
pared with the figure at March
31, ’36. Still, proved tonnage has
gone up from 14,480 to 20,000, thanks
to developments in Hall’s and Mc-
Kenzie’s leases, where the ore is above
average. From Mar. 31 to Feb. 28 14,479
tons was put through the 10-head mill
for 806 loz. gold (a recovery of
11.13dwt.). Head value of ore aver-
aged 12.55dwt. The loss of 1.42
’weights in the tailings has since been
reduced to 1.06dwt., which may partly
compensate for the lower average grade
of ore. In the year to Dec. 31 £26,696
was cleared after providing for deprecia-
tion on mine plant, etc. Two 6d. divs.
were disbursed, calling for £20,000.
Finances are in good shape.
sic * * *
Mt. Charlotte Gold Mines, Ltd., a
London co. operating the old Hannan s
Reward and Mt. Charlotte blocks, at
the east end of Hannan’s-streel, Kai-
goorlie, claims to have, struck something
worth blowing about. The latest bore,
down 300-odd feet, is reported to have
stabbed ore averaging 6jdwt. over a
fair width. Boring done last year showed
the existence of a gold-bearing ore
channel over at least 100 ft. in length.
Co. is busy unwatering the workings and
installing plant. Chairman C. S. Beaie
thinks that, when the property is fully
developed, it will become one of the
important gold-producers at Kalgoorlie.
He * * *
Westralia’s latest find is a “rich copper
field” on the beach at Yampi Sound.
The find is not new, but little was done
in the past to exploit it, owing to the
big rise and fall of the tide and the
belief that the trend of the deposit is
under the sea.
*!• v
Greenbushes (W.A.) pressingly invites
capital to come along and enable it to
test its tin deposits at depth. Two or
three concerns are operating in a small
way, but more cash than they possess
is required to give the field a chance to
show its capacity as a producer.
* * * *
The rise in the price of lead has caused
Northampton, Westralia’s one and only
lead-producing centre, to buck up ; some
of the old shows have been reopened.
The value of Northampton’s output to
date is round about £200,000, but very
little of this wealth has been taken out
in recent years.
% * sje jfc
Sixteen years’ unsuccessful search for
payable oil hasn’t put a damper on
Freney’s hopes. Shareholders are urged
not to lose faith and to keep on paying
calls. Meanwhile, negotiations are pro-
ceeding with a “large oil co.” to provide
financial help. At a recent meeting in
Perth two additional directors were
appointed, notwithstanding the need to
keep a tight hold on outgoings.
H= * * *
Yilgarn goldfield (W.A.) moves for-
ward. Production for 1936 was 45,254
fine ounces, a substantial increase on the
preceding year and the best since 1919.
A number of centres, including Yellow-
dine, Mt. Jackson, Bullfinch, Marvel
Loch, Parker’s Range and Southern
Cross, contributed. At Fraser’s mine,
one of the De Bernales group, at Southern
Cross, a 20-head mill is being installed,
and in other parts of the field power
and treatment plants are being erected.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.F.G.: (1) Quite sound. (2) As a long-term
investment scrip looks attractive... .A.S.C.:
(1) Outlook very uncertain. (2) Question of
forfeit does not arise concerning fully-paid bond.
. ...E.V.D.: Hold; prospects brighter than
for some time 1.K.: Write secretary and ask
him to find a buyer for you F.M.McL.: (1)
A very speculative investment. (2) Yes....
Goldminer: (1) and (2) No further record. (3)
Yes... .A.J.M.: Impossible to say what divi-
dends, if any, co. will pay. Outlook not very
encouraging... .J.D.: Clause quoted does not
govern voting power. “Ex officio” means
by virtue of office. In the absence of pro-
visions to the contrary, such a member of a
committee would enjoy the same powers and
privileges as other members... .H.H.: (1)
Chrome-ore deposits in Australia are small and
irregular. (2) Demand about 3000 tons p.a.
(3) Present price 40 p.c. ore about £3 15s. per
ton f.o.r. Sydney.


SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. Lang sang ‘For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow’ for Mr. Curtin.” —“ Sunday Sun.”
Is Lang using Curtin for a blind?
•F *F *F *F
“The man who suffers needless eyestrain is
unwise.” — “Sun.”
A blinking fool, as a matter of fact.
4* + + 4 1
“His forehead was perpetually wrinkled with
worry.”— Novelette.
Indeed, he had to screw his hat on.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
She'said she had ‘‘turned twenty-three,”
A statement quite possibly true.
If you turn twenty-three it is easy to see
The answer is just thirty -two.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Barmaids seem to hold the secret of eternal
youth. Always they are the same bright and
cheerful beings,” says a writer.
Age cannot wither nor customers
stale their infinite vivacity.
4* 4* -I* 4*
“He indignantly repudiated the suggestion
that he was guilty of careless thriving.”
— “Sun.”
Yet that is something most of us
would be glad to claim, if we could.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Advice on the Perfect Murder.
In planning a murder, strict observ-
ance of the points enumerated hereunder
will ensure a perfect example, com-
pletely baffling to investigators.
Locality. —Anywhere, so long as you
are well away from the scene of the
murder. As you can’t be in two places
at once this will baffle investigators.
Motive. —As this is an important
aid to the detection of the murderer,
you should have none. If, however, you
find it impossible to do without one, use
a motive that is both innocuous and in-
comprehensible, such as: (a) You dis-
like the color of the victim’s suspenders ;
b) you are bored with life and want to
fill up the hole ; (c) you wish to become
an unknown hero of the Great Crimes
Series.
Method. —Original methods are abso-
lutely essential. These are grouped here-
under :
Strangling. Attach the end of a
rope about the neck of your victim and
the other end to a parachute. Then
throw him out of an aeroplane. If the
parachute fails, all the better; death
from strangling cannot then be proved.
Poisoning. —Secrete strychnine in a
straw at a milk bar. Lure your victim
there for a drink. Keep on drinking
milk-shakes till he uses the loaded straw.
Should you accidentally take that straw
you will know it by the presence of pains
in the stomach. In this event, do not
delay in writing out a full confession of
the plot, so that your heirs will not lose
the insurance because of the suicide
clause.
Stabbing. —lnduce the victim to start
a course of sword-swallowing. In the
middle of his exercises, tell him his shoe-
lace is undone. He will immediately
stoop to tie it up. The sword will do
the rest.
Drowning. —Buy your victim a pas-
sage in the Struthnever. Bribe the cap-
tain to lock him in his cabin and then
open the sea-cocks. This never fails.
Shooting.— -This is very simple. Merely
get your victim a job in Melbourne tak-
ing large sums of money to the bank.
An artistic touch is to make him a Gov-
ernment employee.
Having settled upon your scene,
motive and method, you now require a
victim to complete your murder. Do
not act precipitately and decide upon a
member of your wife’s family. Cast
around till you find someone utterly un-
connected with you. Further, it is of
no use attempting to shoot a man who
is born to be hanged. In making your
final decision, it is imperative that you
study the horoscope of your victim in
order to know whether he is the right
type or not. In consequence, you will
determine your victim by a process of
elimination. Having found him, you
will then eliminate him in accordance
with the points enumerated.
I give the following, taken at random
from my notecase of perfect murders,
as a sample of what can be done.
Having received a bill from my wife’s
costumiere, 1 was ripe for murder. I
selected the Fijis as my locale and freez-
ing to death in a. ship’s refrigerator as
the method. My victim, appropriately,
was an Australian politician at the Coro-
nation. With good staff work, the
murder moved smoothly to its consum-
mation. Seeing that the victim was
bludgeoned to death by a Russian, who
was really a Nazi disguised as a Spanish
loyalist, one would have thought I would
escape even the breath of suspicion. Not
so. Next day I was fined a quid for
late return of income-tax statements.
S. H. C.
•b 4* *f*
A good time is often a matter of life
and debt.
“This is the last time YOU'LL get out t' open the gales!”
“But the young men who come from Eng-
land to Australia do not leap with joy over
the change.”— “S.M.H.”
Probably , they have beeh told that
this is a country of boundless oppor-
tunity.
A man who has been singed by the
fire of love usually has a sneaking fond-
ness for the old flame.
»E *E *E 4*
“11.0: The A.B.C. Women’s Session: Talk,
‘The Foot We Eat.’ ” —Perth “Broadcaster.”
Dietitians often tell us
We indulge in too much meat;
Now, it seems, that they propose to
Firmly put us on our feet!
•E *E *E *E
“Cupid's aim was very sure at Easter.”
— “Courier-Mail.”
Yet he made a lot of Mrs.
•E *E »E *E
“There are men who give themselves airs be-
cause they patronise more expensive tailors
than their fellow-workers.”—' “Telegraph.”
Considering themselves a cut above
the others.
Y
“John Milk, charged with vagrancy.”
— “Sun.”
Did they really put Milk in the jug?
•E 4* *E *E
With too many of us, alas, it’s a case
of hair to-day and gone to-morrow.
•E *E *E *E
Hay Fever.
He thought his wife knew her onions,
but when she took to the Hay diet he
reckoned it was the last straw. Trying
to put up with his chaff about her treat-
ment went against her grain so much
that she was reduced to a mere husk of
her old self and began to feel very seedy.
In the finish he transplanted his affec-
tions, became a bit of a blade, and the
only harvest she reaped from her Hay
diet was a grass widowhood!
McM.
* * * *
“There’s an autumn epidemic of gastric com-
plaints,” says a doctor.
Autumny-ache?
q* * * *
“His father was a journalist and his mother
onion' ”-"Arg r us children ° f
If they write there’s a hot chance of
it’s being tripe
q. q. q. q.
D ‘ . D * .
Russian rastoral.
“Russian experimenters claim that the wool
off easily.”—“s. M. Herald.”
It was shearing time in Obolonsk-
Kabitzka. The sheep were moulting
well, and Ivan the Ringer gaily hummed
the Vodka Boat Song as he deftly flicked
fleece after fleece towards the carpet
sweepers.
“Fools,” he thought, as he noticed the
scowls of the other shearers making in-
effectual grabs. He had the laugh on
them now, these moujiks who had
sneered at him learning shearing at the
Moscow Chemical Works. No one in
all Russia could use thallium like Ivan
the Ringer.
With the cheque he was snatching so
easily he would marry Olga, and they
would slip over the border, and so to
Paris, the city of beauty, where, Ivan
knew, he could make a fortune with his
knowledge, by plucking eyebrows. Soon
Olga would be here with the morning-
te a.
Ivan got it sooner than he expected.
The samovar hit him on his raspberry
birthmark, and without a sound he fell
unerringly into a barrel of sheep dip.
None turned to him in his plight. All
eyes’ were on the erstwhile beautiful
Olga, now bald as a bust of Lenin.
Poor girl, she had never had Ivan’s
cultural advantages and in her girlish
ignorance had tned a shampoo with
some of Ivans OP. thallium mixture,
just because, as she said at the inques
on Ivan, she liked the smell of it.
Angus O’Cohen.
* * *
A Major (Douglas) Matter.
This hustle for cash is the curse of our
time:
Health crumbles before it;
Gold’s mostly the cause of our worries
and crime,
Yet people adore it!
Jt seems very wrong and quite pagan to
me m m
To woo it or wed it;
I can get along nicely without £ s. d. —
Well, while / get credit.
. IM
u * . r *** i
Hints tor Husbands.
[This informative and helpful series, written
by an expert, is especially designed to assist
husbands whom abnormal circumstances may
force to perform various domestic tasks or who
are simply ordered to do them.]
IV. — Ironing, etc.
Before proceeding with the ironing, a
major problem confronts the washer-
man: that of disposing of the boiled
starch—a problem paralleled only by
that of the used razor-blade. As the
starch will approximate the consistency
of a blancmange-cement mixture, it will
be found impossible to poke the mess
down the sink ; consideration for the
dustman precludes its consignment to
the dirt-box; buried, it might choke the
root system of anything near it in the
garden.
There remain two alternatives: either
to dump it behind the piano or sling
it over next door’s fence. As wives
have a habit of making sudden furniture
changes, the latter method is advocated.
If skilfully slid down the proper side of
the dividing fence it should make a
noiseless landing. I forgot to mention
before that, to allow of its easier re-
moval, the. basin the starch is made in
should previously have been liberally
greased with cocky’s joy.
Now to the Zoning. A choice ex-
amP^e °f the illogical reasoning of
women may here be noted. Whereas a
man’s superior logic would urge him to
bring in the clothes already “damped
down” — i.e., half-dry—women insist on
the age -old ritual of getting them bone-
dry and immediately wetting them again.
However, as masculine logic invariably
, ri i ns a ad seco^ d to feminine, insistence,
et us con f° rm to tradition,
The idea of dipping the fingers in a
basin of water and flicking them hap-
hazardly over each separate article must
appear to the methodical and practical
man essentially crude. The. writer has
devised a highly scientific method which
he presents gratis to husbands. This in-
volves spreading the entire washing out
over the whole available floor space of
the. house. Should there be insufficient
floor space the piano, tables, beds, side-
board, etc., can be utilised. Now fill
the watering-can, taking care to fit the
rose to the spout. Next peg two parallel
lines along the clothes, just as if you
were marking out a straight edge for
the lawn. By walking at a measured gait
you should be able to distribute an even
quantity of water over the allotted area
—two pints per square clothes yard is
the correct quantity. For those clothes
draped over the piano, etc., a ladder will
be necessary. Keep moving the parallel
lines till all the clothes are done, when
they may be raked together with the
garden rake, info a convenient heap
beside the kitchen table,
xhe advantages 0 f this method are
(i) speed; (2) accuracy; (3) ability to
eas j] y discern and pair off kindred
ar ticles, such as right- and left-foot socks,
back and front corsets, etc. This latter
phase is important. One unfortunate
Benedict I knew got horribly mixed in
bis sorting and paired his winter pyjama
pants with his summer coat—he almost
got' pneumonia.
Now heat the iron. To test if it is
hot enough, place it flat down on some-
thing white—say, a Cluny lace pillow
sham—and count 30. If by that time a
triangular piece has been burnt clean out
of it, or even if it is only scorched a
dark brown, it may be assumed that the
iron is too hot, and it should then be
plunged into cold—not hot—water.
As the greater proportion of a shirt is
hidden when being worn, only those few
square inches visible on each side of the
t j e need be i ron ed. The same applies to
•_, . , , KP .
singlets, underpants and socks. Pyjamas
may be put away “rough dry”—as they
look that way after being worn for one
night, why worry? Doormats, fur coats.
blankets, blinds, handkerchiefs and floor-
cloths should be ironed only on the
wrong side. Care should be exercised
when ironing stone marten fur chokers
to see that the fingers don’t get caught
in the teeth when you bring the iron
down wallop on to the defunct animal’s
head.
When ironing the starched things have
your hammer ready to belt them into the
desired shape. For instance, collars,
after being ironed and before they are
cold, should be put around a cake-tin
and banged into shape,
S. W. K.
Sacrifice.
Torn with anguish o'er the problems
which are still our country's bane,
Horace Blowbags, doughty statesman,
bravely sails the rolling main.
There are many urgent matters which
confront this patriot,
Such as that all-vital question: “What
about another spot?”
As with knife and fork he forges links of
Empire over there,
When the liv’ried flunkies stagger under
dishes rich and rare,
Though dyspepsia may assail him, he will
valiantly chew —
Fellow-citizens, remember, he is doing
this for you !
D. McM.


Bigger Income
Better Safety
gqR SECURE
jyjONTH by month an increasing number of people
recognise the intrinsic worth of FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES for small investors. Every-
body desires safety and as large a return as possible from
an investment, and to-day these Certificates provide an
unequalled margin of security, potential capital appreciation,
plliS attractive interest yield—all this for anyone who has
approx. £25 or more to invest. In one simple transaction,
investors’ money is spread over shares of the following
leading Australian Companies:—
Commercial Bank of Aust., I Ad.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
David Jones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.
Klectro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Rtd.
General Industries, I,td.
Goldsbroug-h, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ud.
Kandos Cement Co., Ud.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
A world-famous institution— Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd., (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney)—acts
as Custodian 1 rustees and distributes the Income twice-
yearly, on June 15 and December 15,
If you want to know more about this safe and
profitable method of investment, write for booklet
No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND ST BEET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294, BOX 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
What Shall It Profit?
Seven years ago the world was be-
~.•. , , f •
wildered and panicked by falling prices.
Individuals and firms, property-owners
and businesses, all experienced reduced
incomes, losses or bankruptcy as a result
of lower prices and shrunken turnovers,
Business people found expenses impos-
sible to reduce at the rate of the fall in
prices. Property - holders who owed
money saw a greater proportion of their
income swallowed up in debt charges,
Many forfeited their properties.
With the passing of years and con-
siderable manipulation of currencies,
costs were brought more into line with
prices, which, on the whole, showed a
gentle upward rise alter the collapse,
Those countries with extensive supplies
of raw materials, or with colonies able
to supply them in return for manufac-
tured goods, were among the first to
show recovery. Especially Britain, where
the gold standard was abandoned in 1931
after six years of top-heavy costs. .
As confidence returned so did trade,
employment and national well-being,
Slowest to benefit were Continental
countries on the gold standard. One by
one they converted the standard into a
fiction or abandoned it altogether, with
their exchanges controlled in relation to
currencies of other countries. Old stand-
ards of currency meant high costs and
low prices ; devaluation aimed at bring-
ing about a balance by lifting the latter,
Suddenly, with less warning than that
preceding the onset of slump, prices of
many things (especially metals) started
to soar. Just previously there had been
a boom in investment-share prices. The
great rise in company earnings was
partly due to industrial and household
re-equipment after the pinching of the
slump years, and the phenomenal lift in
shares partly to a fear that Government
securities and paper-money would de-
preciate in value if war occurred.
The rocketing in metals could be traced
in a measure to industrial re-equipment,
etc., and war talk, and largely to the
transfer of speculators’ interest from
investment shares to base-metal mines
and commodities. The extent of specu-
lative activity was indicated by last
week’s sharp setback in spelter and lead,
after a big and steep rise. Rubber and
copra have lifted steadily, but not nearly
so steeply as some other items.
A number of industries in which the
cost of raw materials is a large item
have been forced to lift their prices ;
others which are not so directly penal-
ised have been tempted to follow suit.
f n Britain the cost ot lood and cloth-
ing has risen sharply over the first three
m = nths of 1937 ; FJ and the movement,
whether economic grounds for it exist
or not, is becoming world-wide. Even
President Roosevelt, that apostle of
higher prices until a matter of months
a go, announces a reversal of his policy,
and says steel and copper are too high ;
London “Economist’s” opinion is that
the problem now is to protect the con-
sumer rather than save the producer.
It is all in keeping with the warnings
uttered here for months,
W h at shall it profit a man if he is
pa j d jos. a week more and has to pay
j | s _ extra t 0 ]i ve ? Or a company that
raises the prices of its products 20 p.c.,
and t h e cost of its labor and materials
increases by an equal or greater amount?
j-j as an a fi-round increase in prices and
costs anything to offer in place of the
stability on which Australia has stepped
back to comparative prosperity over the
pas t few years? In nearly every case
it will be found that higher figures are
a delusion and a snare. The only per-
sons likely to benefit are debtors and
speculators, and both, as a rule, unfairly,
So long as a manufacturer is able to
make a decent profit he should shy at
putting his prices up. So long as wages
buy something more than before the
slump, labor should not be too envious
of the present prosperity of the silver-
lead and copper mines, and of the wool-
grower, wheatgrower and a few other
industries, because they have had their
hard times, and high wages all round, in
any case, would largely defeat them-
selves.
A country that can maintain a good
living standard on low figures is in a
far stronger position to weather world-
wide slumps than one which allows costs,
prices and incomes to soar. If the
Commonwealth can keep its figures
steady it has a chance of expanding, at-
tracting population and increasing op-
portunities for employment not offering
for many a year. That is because as
export industries grow more prosperous
—which they must do if costs give prices
a chance—that increased wealth will not
remain idle. It will be put to work,
Our export industries are a large item
in our welfare, and rising costs would
undo most of the spadework of the last
quinquennium when the price-boom
turns out to be unwarranted—as to a
greater or lesser extent it will turn out.
Ii is up to the banks to put the brakes
on any unhealthy lift in property values ;
unfair valuations can do almost as much
harm as crazy costs.
There is little profit in buying gold in
the international marts since an ex-
change agreement was reached between
Britain. France and the U.S.A., and
when some U.S. banks gave up dealing
following Roosevelt's changed attitude
towards high commodity prices rumors
got abroad that Washington was going
to pay less than 35 dollars an ounce for
the metal in order to lower all prices.
A panic in New York and London mar-
kets followed on April 7. America or
any other country cannot refuse to take
gold in international settlements; and if
it alters the “price” it alters its currency.
That would be a breach of the exchange
agreement, and Britain and France would
be at liberty to devalue their currencies
(“lifting” gold) in order to maintain ex-
port prices. There is too much slum-
mocky thinking concerning gold, especi-
ally in regarding it as a commodity only.
It is still the standard of value, as was
plainly shown by absence of fluctuations
in its sterling price while commodities,
notably metals, practically looped the
loop last week.
* * * *
The pendulum of investment support,
in its extremes, invariably swings un-
justly against buyers and sellers. Six
weeks ago the sky only seemed to be
the limit for Barrier stocks ; last week
spec, buyers were on the run, and sell-
ing was panicky. Broken Hill shares
generally are still a big price, and can
be recommended only to those who can
afford to hold over a long period. Elec-
tro. Zincs and Lyells, however, are worth
watching for quick and smart profits.
* * H= H=
If electrolytic copper averages £6O
sterling a ton (£67 was last week’s
lowest), and costs at Queenstown don’t
get out of, hand, Mt. Lyell should have
little difficulty in earning profits of 6s.
a share a year. Mining and treatment
exes, are by far the lowest in the co.’s
history. At 465. a share the scrip seems
fair buying.
* * * *
Banks in London last week put the
screw on speculators trading on bor-
rowed money; action was taken at the
behest of the Government. Coupled with
President Roosevelt’s changed attitude
towards the necessity for higher prices,
and the possibility of Britain and the
U.S.A. forming a peace-assurance alli-
ance, much of the froth and bubble was
blown out of soaring war-material prices.
A lower-gold-price furphy also played
its part. Something more like stability
in metals may follow.
He H= H= *
In B. 3/ 3/’37 the following opinion
was expressed in an article on base-
metal and other prices:
Recent lifts in some world commodity
prices are more boisterous than strong,
There are some who will go so far as to
say the position is dangerous.
Also,
Overspeculation begets slumps; and how
much speculation has entered into the
present metal boom is indicated by the
fact that not one penny of the proposed
British rearmament loan has yet been
raised, let alone spent.
Since that was written copper has risen
£6 sterling ,a ton and fallen £lO ; lead
and spelter together rose about £6 and
then fell £ll. Again there has been par-
tial recovery. To those interested in
metals and investments the article is of
value for re-reading at present, in con-
junction with the headed article on this
page to-day. The immediate financial
future of the world —and finance covers
the welfare of investors, employers and
employees alike —is largely wrapped up
in what is happening now, and what is
about to happen.
* * * H=
Before base metals took to the skids
last week Barrier stocks, Electrolytic
Zinc and Mt. Lyell had been unsteady
for some days. On Thursday the pre-
vious day’s London quotes for metals
showed lead down £3 7s. 6d. a ton (to
£25 13s. 9d. stg.), spelter down £4 2s. 6d.
(to £26), and electrolytic copper down £3
ss. (£6B). Norths and Souths crashed
about 3s. a share each, and Mt. Lyell
slumped Is. 9d. —though copper has
shown the smallest reaction of all the
metals, the Tas. West Coast show has
been marked down most heavily over a
period of weeks. There was a quick
partial recovery in metals and shares on
Friday.
The speculative aspects of the metal
markets have been given enough space
here, goodness knows. In B. 24/3/’37,
holders were advised to sell Norths and
Souths at the favorable prices then ruling,
and to hold Zinc Corps., if they insisted
on retaining an interest in Broken Hill.
Zincs have shown least market deprecia-
tion over the past week.
H: * * *
Among stocks carried to a high specu-
lative price lately, G. J. Coles continued
b e amon g one G f the most depressed
j ssues j n i as t W eek’s relaxed market, sales
being recorded down to £5 Is. Quotes
went as high as £5 Hs 6d in Fesruary
Maoriland support for the scrip has been
s t ro ng following the exodus of capital
across the Tasman since the Savage
Government started interfering with in-
dustry and ]abor conditiolls . M L Labor
has had ite a bit to do with the boom
on Australian ’Changes lately,
* * * *
Nine months’ wool-selling in Sydney
has brought in an average of 16.6 d. a
pound f or grea sy and 16.8 d. for the
complete range. The State’s wool cheque
f or t he season up to March was over
£22,000,000 (Aust.).
Commonwealth wool turnover for the
nine months was 2,427,001 bales, average
price 16.7 d., and total return £50,260,762
(Aust.). With about a fifth of the clip
sd ll to go, the cheque is already slightly
more than for the full 1935 _ 36 season
* * * *
Though exports, including gold, for
the eight months to the end of February
were £7,742,000 sterling higher than for
the same period of 1935-36, by reason
of a lift of nearly £3,000,000 in imports
the trade balance was only £4,797,000
better at £21,985,000. We have to thank
higher nrices for wool, wheat and metals
for most of the improvement. The sur-
plus to date will almost pay for the
year’s overseas-domiciled public-debt in-
terest; the next four months’trading will
need to provide for local government
and p U b]jc bodies’ interest, capital de-
P ar ' ure > Coronation jaunts and so on.
the extra surplus isn t large enough
will mean further drawings on our Lon-
don reserves. The year 1936-37 needs
t° be a good one to meet our scale of
spending overseas,
* * # *
Payers of sizable divs. not particularly
.- nil i„,
popular on Change at present include
Producers and General Finance (1j
} General Industries {m p . c .), Cash
orders (Amalg) (1J c ) Gar f atts (pref .
and ord„ 10 p.c.), Standard Cement (8
> Kandos Cement (10 p.c.), Arthur
£ o< £ (d 8 , Automatic Totes
( f fo ’ c) i nvestm e„ts (10
£ } Neon Signs (10 p.c.), Waldas
g h * ( , 5 j b Ush ' er . s f, O pc j and
Ham ,^ n C ourf (pref., 9 p.c.). Yields on
k p t ; p f om 6.5 p.c. in the
we i|. e stablished concerns like
Kandos Cem£nt and Arthur Cocks , 0
,j and J 4 in the ins , ance s of
newcomers to the list like Producers’ and
General and Waldas. Whether P. and
G. quotes show a firming will large
de P end what ,he s>’, s first accoUnU
as a lc con £ ern disclose.
Speculation in Maitland and New-
castle coal scrip continues, hopes of
price _ slabi ns ation in , he industry being
, ure Some agreement has been
reached regarding incre ased prices for
N s Wales coal jn Victoria; but it will
be amazi i£ a profitable and amicable
arrangement is reached regarding the
N s b Wales market itself . The position
; SQ bad , hat jt can hardly get worse .
Tenders {or railvvav coal have been cut
, 0 wha[ must be lh( ; lowest possib i e limit.
Some improvement may therefore be
expected as time goes on,
J ! t 0 be . a res V 1 genera • 0 f
developments rather than unanimity of
“tion among coalowners There has
never en a a^ is a^ t f 0 J „ n£ j
amo P§ them, number of
var y in | conditions #
In Melbourine last week:
Olympic Tyres shares sold at 485., after
465. This co. is doing a greatly expanding
lurno ver in the most profitable lines of tyres.
Holeproof ords. lifted to 3.15.
Broken Hill Prop, at 84s.
Three things affected Broken Hill
Prop, scrip last week. First Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel showed a
loss ; then the sharemarkets gener-
ally weakened ; and finally came
the slump in lead and zinc. The
fully-paid shares, up to 925. 6d. in
February, dropped to 83s. 6d., with
sales at 84s. following. The A.I.
and S. loss means little ; wonder-
ful re-equipment has been carried
out under 8.H.P., and returns from
Kembla are in the future. The Bar-
rier mine returns also may be dis-
regarded for the moment. But from
the Newcastle interests alone more,
than £1,000,000 of profit should be
shown for the term ending on May
31 —enough almost to pay last
year’s div. rate (12£ p.c.) twice
over. At 845., allowing for div.
accrued, the immediate return is 3
p.c.—that is on a 12-£ p.c. basis.
The Port Kembla works and other
large potential money-making in-
terests should make the scrip
sound long-term buying at 84s.


Equal to
a fine
liqueur
U
99
r
m
1
7
/•
/■
.<y
m
*■
m
H
■y
V
m
mmf
Va
%
&
1
Va
m
m
m
wm
m
20
m
m
m
m
m
Va
I can
m
jp
tell
White Horse
blindfold
f
The distinctive aroma,
the wonderful softness and smoothness, tell me at
once that this whisky is as fine as a fine liqueur.
-.WHBC-37
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes
on sale everywhere at popular prices.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Bulletin’s impression that Kins-
lolk required a distance longer than a
mile was borne out in the April Handi-
cap at Warwick Farm. Some backers
got eights—in a field of eight—but 7to 1
was the general quotation. The Payten-
trained filly made all the running. Soft
Step ran up to her at the home turn,
and momentarily got his head in front’
but Kinsfolk kept plugging away. In
the end, showing rare determination, she
fairly worried the Queensland-bred stal-
lion out of the big end of the prize.
.tapestry came in third, and was
doing good work at the end. It was a
capital trial for the Wagga Cup. Auto-
land, the favorite, had every chance, and
was beaten on his merits. Barramul sub-
sided suddenly from second to last.
Evidently the Leger race was too much
for him.
Battlers must envy pastoralist F. L.
Moore the possession of Goorka. This
aged son of Ghurka, who was bred by
his owner, seldom fails to run well. At
14 to 1 for the Denham Court Han-
dicap, Goorka put in a long run over
the last half-mile, and it carried him
to victory over Mark Antony and
Shackleton, though Mark Antony—
heavily backed —may have been a bit
unlucky.
Bonnie Legion finished up favorite
after wobbling in the market. She looked
light and petered out. High Speech and
Moonray cut at one another: High
Speech was the first to give in, but
Moonray finished fourth. Misnomer’s
fifth was a fair effort.
Full brothers Fountain (5 to 1) and
Dan Dee fought out the finish of the
Farm Novice. Fountain, trained at War-
wick Farm by Cecil Battye, had on the
Thursday scored at Newcastle; and he
cleverly made it two. Spreadeagle, sport-
ing the colors of pastoralist Victor
White, was third. The favorite, Bertha
8., gave her backers a very poor run—
Jamieson has some disappointing neddies
in his stable.
Auditor, a stable-mate of Kinsfolk,
owned by A.J.C. committeemen Pat
Osborne, outclassed his opponents in the
April Nursery. He is a son of John
Buchan and Financial, and must have
shown his party something good on the
training tracks, as he was made favorite
at threes. Hickey had to drive the colt
along to hold his position on the rails,
and the youngster was in a pocket at
the turn; but when he got clear he-
finished splendidly under the whip. Poly
Joy was second and Publicity third. Pub-
licity looked in need of the race.
Valbeau, a Valiard colt, trained by
Frank Grisdale, formerly secretary of
the Newcastle Jockey Club, was pro-
nounced a moral for the Maiden, but
proved no match for Hunter White’s two-
year-old Glen Esk (8 to 1), who led
throughout. Glen Esk is the first of
Buoyant Bachelor’s offspring to win.
If Lolorua can’t be restrained from
playing up at the barrier his nomination
should be refused. He delayed the start
of the Edensor Park Handicap, and
could not have improved the chances of
nervous candidates. Eventually Lolorua
was one of the first to move. In the
straight he ranged alongside Mohican,
and passed him, but Mohican raised an-
other effort, and got on terms again, only
to go under by half a head. A most
exciting race: Lolorua, Bto 1 ; Mohican,
fives.
Barak, who has never looked better,
was a fast-finishing third. Yerrapie was
a false favorite. Beaupre and Grand
Warbler—heavily backed—were promi-
nent for most of the way; but Lolorua
and The Bulletin’s fancy had the
finish to themselves.
* * * *
Three horses that won at Ascot (Mel-
bourne) on April 3 were, successful again
there on Saturday last. Marion Melton
took the Wokingham Handicap, Black
Mac the Aylesford Handicap and Beau
Spear the Plymouth Welter. In his
capacity of secretary, Gilbert Dyett
selected distinctive names for Ascot races.
Some of them must have been obtained
from “Ruff’s Guide.”
Master Motley met Marion Melton
on 81b. better terms than on the occa-
sion of their previous encounter. Natur-
ally he was accorded preference over the
mare, starting a 9-to-4 favorite, whereas
twice those odds were obtainable about
Marion Melton, who was in equal second
request with game little Hostile, a Can-
tala Stakes hero.
With increasing age Master Motley
appears to be developing stamina at the
expense of speed in the early stages of
a contest. On Saturday he kept Marion
Melton company at the tail of the field
while Craigavad made the running,
attended by Belle Silhouette and, at the
half-way period, Conchita.
In the absence of Turoa Webster —who
has been enervated by continual “wast-
ing” and is taking a rest —Breasley had
the mount on Master Motley. Having
noted the failure of Webster’s tactics in
trying to get through on the rails on
April 3, he took Master Motley to the
outside at the home turn. Woodhouse,
the apprentice rider of Marion Melton,
did likewise, and in the process carried
the favorite out of his true line.
Marion Melton reached the judge
lengths in advanqe of Master Motley,
with the improving Conchita a neck
farther off. A protest against the winner
for interference was dismissed. The
stewards considered that what occurred
did not affect the result, but they admon-
ished little Woodhouse. This made the
third victory on end for Marion Melton.
Late in her five-year-old career this mare
is fulfilling the promise she gave by a
juvenile success in the important V.R.C.
Stradbroke Stakes.
P. C. Einsiedel, of Pakenham, farmer
and cattle-dealer, buys cheap yearlings
and leases them to Melbourne trainers.
One of his prize-packets was Waltzing
Lily, who passed into the hands of a
former cab-proprietor at Caulfield and
soon brought her amateur trainer
strongly into the limelight. Another is
Black Mac (Beau Fils-Falugo).
The future of Black Mac looks bright
now; he might even develop into a Cup
horse. Hitherto a slow beginner, on
Saturday he led all the way throughout a
journey of just over \\ miles, and beat
Keeping Watch, an Adelaide Cup aspir-
ant, by 2\ lengths without visible effort.
Lilirene, solidly supported, faded away
after being third to Black Mac and
Prince Sion at the straight entrance.
Black Mac was backed from fours to
3 to 1, and deposed Keeping Watch from
favoritism.
Beau Spear added to the stud fame of
defunct Beau Fils by romping home in
the Plymouth Welter, for which, at 3 to
1, he was next in demand to the Spear-
head stallion Spearflash. A week before
Spearfiash had run Marion Melton to
half a head in the Eclipse Handicap of
six furlongs. The extra furlong and a
rise of 121 b. in weight on Saturday pre-
vented Harry Boan’s castoff from get-
ting nearer than 2} lengths to Beau Spear
at the finish. Gold Streak came home
well, in third position. Palatinate, who is
striking form again, made the running
and finished fourth.
In winning the Strafford Trial Hurdle,
Volant (Rael Locin-Wing) equalled the
course record for two miles over the
battens. Spoils might have gone to David
Quex if W. Burke’s candidate had not
unseated his jockey at the last obstacle
but one. After being far out of his
ground Stylist (7-to-4 favorite) finished
only a neck behind Adverb, the second
horse.
An official inquiry ended in explana-
tions accepted and severe censure on
Maher for riding an “ill-judged race.”
The speed set by Rivdale in the first
mile was too fast for Stylist. The
mean-looking winner is a brother to
West Wing, who was a clinking good
performer over fences a few years ago.
In 1917 his sire won the Toorak Handi-
cap, and ran third to Bronzetti and
Chrome in the Caulfield Cup.
Divisions of the Encourage Handicap
were easily appropriated by High Park
and the Adelaide-owned Gold Nugget.
Juvenile event went to Spray, a Spear-
head filly that W. Burke trains for T. C.
Manifold, of the V.R.C. committee.
Phildean, a hot favorite for the latter race,
cut up badly, being pipped for third
place by Good Fun. Ouverte, who lost
to Spray by a neck, is certain to win
races for H. R. Telford.
* * * *
It will be a pity if the odd revival of
the prejudice against Australian-bred
stock (Heroics excepted), noticed at the
Easter sales in Sydney, extends to sires
and mares. In some instances both have
been going very cheap lately; for
example, Sion, though a proved stallion
and still young, was sold for 300 guineas
last week. The English-bred Salma-
gundi, though his prospects seem no
better, brought 600 guineas. On the
other hand, A. E. Thompson and Sons
paid 1900 guineas for Sylvandale, who
is by Silvius-La Bergeronette. Sylvan-
dale was a good racehorse, though by
no means a great one—certainly inferior
to his sire, who would have won a Mel-
bourne Cup if he had not been called
upon to run too often as a young horse
when not thoroughly acclimatised. Syl-
vandale is to stand at Rylstone (N.S.W.),
and it is reckoned that he will do well
if mated with mares tracing back to
St. Simon.
* * * *
Joe Cook, who got a good race out
of Grand Mogul, is again to become a
witness of what an amateur trainer can
do with the handsome fellow. Grand
Mogul is now owned by A. E. Cooper,
who gave £19,000 for Talking, and
Cooper is to train Grand Mogul him-
self, together with St. Constant and Joan
Darling. He is taking Grand Mogul to
Brisbane for winter racing, and possibly
he will also decide to ride the brown.
If so, he is sure to get a substantial price
for his money.
* * * *
“T.”: N.S.W. Ministers Dunningham
and Chaffey, whose Government’s idiotic
taxation for instance, 9 p.c. on tote
tickets and 33 1-3 p.c. on admission to
the Leger at Randwick—is largely re-
sponsible for the slump in racecourse at-
tendances, have been trying to throw the
blame on the other Government at Can-
berra. Said Dunningham: “The Postal
Department lets s.p. bookmakers have
six to a dozen telephones and permits
the broadcasting of information which
encourages illicit betting.” True enough ;
tipsters are allowed to use commercial
broadcasting stations, and at least one
of these concerns gives ante-post odds,
though it is unlawful for newspapers to
print them or to publish tipsters’ adver-
tisements. But both Governments are
guilty of feeding the craze for lawless
wagering, the effects of which they pro-
fess to deplore.
* * * *
Ever-loyal to Pamelus, a Queensland
writer who was in Sydney for the autumn
meetings avers that he would win the
Doncaster if it were run over again. Few
Sydney people will agree with him; the
general verdict in the Bridge City is that
Silver Rose, who had to beat off chal-
lenge after challenge, and then moved
away from the rails when she had only
to remain there to be assured of victory,
was the good thing beaten. The
Queensland writer is on firmer ground
when he declares that Pamelus has too
easy a time. He mentions that the big
fellow wasn’t required to walk to Rand-
wick racecourse to do his training, but was
taken there in a motor-float. Pamelus
has great speed, but horses more re-
nowned than he ever will be weren’t
coddled in this way.
Before the Doncaster, shrewd ob-
servers expressed the opinion that Pame-
lus could have done with another gallop
or two, nor did his appearance before
the Cropper Plate suggest that he was
quite strung up. Sterner treatment has
succeeded with King’s Head, who is like-
wise a Bullhead stallion inclined to gross-
ness. Up to a mile and a furlong Pame-
lus is probably a 101 b. better horse than
King’s Head, but this season he has
not been nearly so profitable to back.
Evidently the difference lies in the fact
that King’s Head has been kept up to
the collar. The more racing he had the
better he looked and galloped. Pamelus
needs not only a new rider but different
training methods.
* * * *
At Newcastle on Thursday, after many
disappointing experiences, Jimmy Pike
led in his first winner since he turned
trainer. The affair was singularly appro-
priate, for Pike was born in the district
and rode his first winner there; and
Kagawa, the nag with which he “broke
it” on Thursday, was ridden by a
younger brother. Timurkhan, owned and
trained by J. E. Pike, and ridden by C.
Pike, made a double of it, so it was a
memorable day for the Pikes.
Footbrawl
The Springbok team for the Aus-
tralian-Maoriland tour was chosen on
Saturday. Ten of the 29 played against
the Wallabies in 1933. The forwards
(14) average 14st. 101 b.; the backs 13s.
31b.
The Sydney grade competition began
the same day, and the form was promis-
ing. Drummoyne, last year’s premiers,
just got home against West, 17-16. Uni-
versity had an easy spin against Gor-
don, 21-9 ; Nicholas, who put up a points
record last season, notched three tries
and kicked a goal. Things went as ex-
pected between Manly and East (Manly
12-nil, Kelaher showing nicely and run-
ning well for his try), and between North
and Parramatta (North 11-3). The
wooden-spooner, St. George, surprised
Randwick: Saints got three tries, two of
them converted, to two tries, 13-6.
dowers is back with Randwick.
* * * *
Hotham”: There have been about
a thousand explanations of the origin
of the word “barracker,” but R. Rush,
president of the Australian National
Football Council, has sprung one new
to me. He says that in the early days
o- Melbourne Rugby used to be played
on Yarra Bank. The British soldiers
then stationed in Melbourne were rabid
followers of their own team, and always
attended the games from the barracks in
vociferous crowds. They became known
as ‘the barrackers,” so there you are.
(Continued on page 30.)
Sydney G.P.S. crews in training for
the Head of the River next month
showed up well at the 51st annual St.
Ignatius’ Regatta on the Lane Cove.
wScots, rowing evenly and with good judg-
ment, won the first heat of the Challenge
Eights by a length from Haberfield, and
Riverview took the second from Uni-
versity by four feet. ’View didn’t start
in the final, but Haberfield, helped by a
light breeze and a flooding tide, had to
row better time than Balmain’s 1911
record for the race to beat Scots by half a
length—4min. 59sec. for the mile. Drum-
moyne won the Maiden Fours, with St.
Joseph’s half a length away, and Scots
another length, in 4min. 41 4-ssec.; and
the G.P.S. junior events went —the
Eights to St. Joseph’s and the Third
Fours to Shore.
* * * *
“Spot”: To the best of my knowledge
and belief the game of darts has not yet
taken the Australian proletariat by the
throat. In England since the war what
was simply a public-bar diversion has
grown into a national undertaking,
organised to the nth, with special press
support and claiming adherents by the
hundred thousand —the National Associa-
tion alone boasts a membership of
350,000. The darts are thrown by hand
at a round target—originally the end of
a beer-barrel divided into numbered
spaces. The skill shown by the cham-
pions who recently competed for the
English title at London Olympia amazed
onlookers. It is played by teams or
individuals.
* * * *
Wally Hancock, now a somewhat
elderly naval man, was Australian welter-
weight champion for a year, 1929-30. His
13 years of ring activity are telling on
him, and at Carlton (N.S.W.) on Wednes-
day Max Raynor stopped him in seven
rounds. Hancock did some boxing in
the Mediterranean when the Australian
cruisers were there.
FOR N.S.W. RACES.
Ascot Handicap (to-day): Kil-
fern.
Wagga Cup: Tapestry.
Coronation Cup (Maitland): Red
Thespian ; next, Mohican.
On Warwick Farm form, Mis-
nomer should be dangerous next
start—at Kensington, perhaps.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Glenhuntly Handicap: Evening
Mist; next, Lilirene.
Glenferrie Handicap: Gay
Circle ; next, Sunraysia.
Brighton Welter: Master Mot-
ley ; next, Cry Havoc.


'More people ride
on Goodyear tyres
than on any other tyre
Why ]s that?
' i
'YOU SAVE
a" d Y °“Jgs
///?a
a*
i
Will
g
i
V
1
0
i
as
'Two things I like about the G-3 — its extra
safety and its extra mileage!
"You couldn't find me another tyre with the grip
of the G-3's sharp-edged diamonds, placed right
in the tread-centre. The CENTRE! That's why they
DO grip — that's the part that meets the road!
" — Or another tyre that can live as long on the
road as the G-3's thick, flat, wide All-Weather
t rea d —giving plenty of honest extra mileage at
no extra cost. That's real tyre economy!
"I'm only interested in safety and mileage — so I
stick to G-3."
THE PUBLIC PREFERENCE FOR GOODYEAR HAS
BEEN ACHIEVED BY —
SAFETY and
MILEAGE
N
I)
6-C'io- 37.
y.
\
r\
AUSTRALIA


(HAMPIOi
*o
21
EXCESS SOOT/
-it steals your carls power
To get all the speed, aU the power that
your engine can give, you must provide
iulL powerful sparks that ignite and bum
all the fuel instantly. This reduces carbon
and soot, the thieves of power. For these
better sparks, install new Champions once
every year.
sadf
sdf
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
.CANADA • •T-AN EMPIRE PRODUCT •
••SILVER
EDGE”
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
UNINQ
MOTORISTS! SAVE MONEY!
HP HERE is never any true economy in cheap articles; particularly
A does this apply to your motor-vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS have
maintained a name for quality, building up a reputation for
consistency of product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove
cheaper in the long run if you ask for your brakes to be relined
with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BE LACO LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, V:C.
Foofbrawl
“Same Old”: More alarums and ex-
cursions in V.F.L. circles. Essendon
signed up two lads from North Tas-
mania. Rival clubs pityingly pointed out
that the rules forbade these men to
play until after 12 months’ residence in
Victoria. Essendon called attention to
another rule which laid down that in
the case of North Tassie players only
three months’ residence would be re-
quired. The joke is that the players had
advertised for some time their desire to
play in Victoria, but clubs which would
otherwise have jumped at them shied off
because of the 12 months’ clause. Then
some Essendon smarty made a discov-
ery, and the men are now sewed up in
a watertight contract.
* * * *
“Hotham”: A curious statement was
made by a delegate to the V.F.L. meet-
ing in opposing the Rugby Union’s
application for the use of the St. Kilda
ground for the Springbok match. During
three years spent in Sydney, he said, he
found that “Rugby had given the Aus-
tralian game no quarter.” The relations
between Union and Rules players in
Sydney have always been cordial,
especially since neither code is in opposi-
tion to the other. The delegate made
the common Victorian mistake of con-
fusing Union and League.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: A feature of Victorian
football a few years ago was the high
marking of Cazaly, of South Melbourne.
“Up there, Cazaly!” became the
watchword of “Sowth,” and since his
return to the club as a coach a few days
ago the old slogan
has been revived,
it is being rapidly
popularised with
the new generation
of barrackers by
“Sowth’s” official
cockatoo, which
resides at the
ground and has
caught the cry to
perfection.
* *
“G ate”: The
Rugby League is
having as hard a
time in the coun-
try as in Sydney.
The knock in the
wild woods comes
from s.p. betting,
which, in many
country centres,
has made it hardly
worth while to
stage a match on
Saturdays. As a
result matches
have to be played on Sundays, and
for many reasons this is undesir-
able. It was not so bad before
the radio butted in. Men made their
bets on slips of paper, handed these in
and went to the football. Now they
cannot be torn away from the pubs,
where they listen to the siren song of the
loudspeaker announcing results.
He * He *
“Gate”: Sydney Rugby League is
altering the rules as to administering the
Retention Fund formed to assist out-of-
work footballers to remain in the city
instead of touring the backblocks for a
job. State selectors have now to say
whether the player is worth the money.
If they decide he is, payments retrospec-
tive to a month before the grade com-
petition begins will be made. There is
£373 in hand. This season three per
cent, on gate takings of all gates in the
metropolitan area will be deducted for
the fund.
* * H= *
“Stoush”: When the Australian Rugby
Leaguers are in England a conference
will be held with English, M.L. and
French professors of the code ; object,
the formation of an International Board
allee same the R.U. The R.U. has a
dozen countries and thousands of clubs
throughout the world among its affilia-
tions, What the bobtail board will do
when formed, goodness only knows.
However, it might make a try at con-
verting the Springboks.
* * * *
“Premium”: Insurance companies
have been shying off football risks. It
is a serious matter for clubs that have
heavy calls on them for injured players.
The Queensland Union is trying a volun-
tary fund to cover “representative
players” only. Each club is to pay the
Union a bob a nob for registered play-
ers, with a maximum subscription of a
guinea. Funds will be helped by profits
from special matches, such as the annual
final for the Old Buffers’ Cup. Players
injured will receive hospital and medical
expenses. It is a fine idea, but there is
always the hitch in such undertakings
that contributors will not pay up.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Every country editor
knows the enraged citizen who bursts
in and yells “For printin’ that muck
“Get out there an' fight with y'r BRAINS!”
about Flanagan’s cows bein' better’n
mine, take out me ad.” Melbourne V.F.L.
clubs are afflicted with people like that.
Should anything occur to annoy one of
them—they are generally important
players—he is apt to yell “Orright, then
I’m leavin’ the club.” A conference has
been called, and it is hoped to reach an
agreement by which a deserter of this
type will be refused by another club
when he applies to join.
Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham” : Financially, the match
between Hagen-Kirkwood and Williams-
Ryan in Melbourne was a washout; the
golf—the visitors won narrowly—was of
the best. It was played on the wide
public links at Albert Park, and though
500 followed only 98 paid. Considering
that the charge was ss. 6d. this is not
surprising. Most of the visitors said
when asked for the brass that they were
just strolling about the park. It was
noticeable that all of them strolled after
the players. One woman registered an
emphatic protest. When asked for the
admission money she belted the collector
over the head with her gingham, and
he left it at that.
* $ *
“Lakeside”: A feeble glimmer ema-
nated from an arc light of other days,
Bobby Jones, in the U.S.A. recently. It
was in the open championship at
Augusta, won by one Nelson with 283.
Far down the list in 29th place was the
name of Jones opposite a score of 303.
Bobby has been doing golf work for the
flicks for some time and has had little
match or tournament play.
* ❖ * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland golf cham-
pionships start on May 17. The “open”
is down for May 18-19, 36 holes each
day ; the first 16 amateurs qualify for
the amateur title, to be decided by match
play on May 20-21-22. Big purses are
provided for the pros., both in the open
and in special events.
H*
“Whoosh”: Moore Park (N.S.W.) has
narrowly escaped what would have been
something like an explosion shot from
one of the bunkers. The clubhouse has
been recently burgled and the safe blown,
and an associate, seeing in one of the
sand bunkers a letter to the secretary
which had obviously come from the
clubhouse, reported the matter. Investi-
gation showed that just under the sand
was a layer of gelignite and detonators.
These had evidently been planted by the
burglars. Had someone trying a hefty
shot out of the bunker with an iron
struck those detonators he would have
been surprised at the result.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Of ail the burdens
laid upon a golfer, the player who lingers
over his shots is the limit. The Ameri-
can worms have turned, and in future
any player who, “by delay in play,” un-
fairly interferes with the play of any
other is disqualified for that particular
game. The champion Sydney specimen,
long departed from our midst, was a
clergyman of some eminence who be-
longed to a suburban club. By reason
of his cloth, he could not be urged to
faster methods by appropriate language,
and those unfortunate enough to be be-
hind him had to grin and bear it.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: There is no
foundation for press moans about the
Australian Davis Cuppers being “forced”
to play on unsuitable courts at Forest
Hills because the accommodation for
cash spectators is greater. Norman
Brookes on his way to England has
inspected the courts and reported they
are in fine condition. The winter of the
eastern States, which usually checks the
growth of grass, has been unusually mild,
and the courts are far ahead of their
usual condition at this time of year. By
the time the tie with the States is due
they will be in perfect nick.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Perry has announced
that he will retire from professional
tennis and go into “business” as soon as
he has amassed £50,000. It sounds a tall
order, but Freddie’s first three months
of exhibition tennis have brought him
£15,000 net. He expects to have reached
his objective by the end of 1938.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The Americans are fussing
over the team to meet Nippon at ’Frisco
on April 30. Mako’s studies are delay-
ing his training and practice. He may
not be played, the doubles pair, Yankee-
land’s problem, being Budge and Parker.
Wood and Grant could not go West for
business reasons, but have been invited
to practise for the match with the Aus-
tralians at Forest Hills. So far the
American team comprises Budge, Parker,
Riggs and Hunt. Riggs and Hunt are
new men and came to the front with a
splash at the end of last season. Both
are Californians and under 20.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The English Public
wSchools have long set their faces against
tennis, the plea in writer’s day being that
it spoiled a boy’s eye and action for all-
important cricket. However, the Eng-
lish L.T.A., resolved to find reserves for
future 'Davis Cup teams, has now cir-
cularised most of the big schools pro-
posing the organisation of a body to be
affiliated to the L.T.A. It is likely that
the wealthy L.T.A. will provide a fund
to subsidise professional coaches en-
gaged by the schools. There is already
a G.P.S. Old Boys’ L.T.A., and when
the new body is formed a hook-up with
this is suggested. In the average school
there is always a large number of boys
for whom room in the various cricket,
football and rowing organisations, can-
not be found. They have little to do in
the way of sport, save for desultory fives,
and tennis should absorb most of them.
* * * *
“B.”: Like the gentleman who was
kicked out of Gehenna and given a box of
matches and the advice to start a place
of his own, New Ireland, part of Man-
dated New Guinea, has instituted its own
Davis Cup competition. Davis, a planter
of Kavieng, has donated the pot to the
local tennis association to be played for
in perpetuity.
Miscellaneous
“Mt. Eden”: The Englishmen played
the last match of their short tour in M.L.
against an Auckland-Wellington com-
bine at Auckland. Combined made 183
and 123 ; England, 205 and 102 for eight
wickets. The tourists left Maoriland
that evening by the Mariposa on their
way to England, where they should arrive
in time to greet the All-Blacks.
* * # *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland cricket
heads have been stung into something
remotely resembling action by criticisms
of the fowlhouse accommodation offered
spectators and players at the Brisbane


High Blood
Pressure...
THE TRUTH AT LAST
High Blood Pressure, giddiness,
pounding and trembling are now-
being successfully treated in a new
way that is safe, natural and scien-
tific. Specialists have now traced the
cause of Hyperteusion (High Blood
Pressure) to self-poisoning, i.e., a
clogged colon. As a result of inac-
tivity of the colon (large intestine)
fragments of food waste encrust on
the colon walls and there putrefy.
Virulent poisons, acids and lime salts
that should be evacuated seep into
the blood stream. Normal “alkaline
reserve” is overthrown and the
arteries undergo a fibrous change due
to deposits of lime, salts and blood
impurities. They lose their elasticity,
become rigid and narrowed in
channel. The same amount of blood
has then to be “forced” through the
narrowed arteries. This places extra
effort on the heart which results in
the many alarming symptoms ex-
perienced by blood pressure sufferers
—such as headaches, shortness of
breath, giddiness, hot flushes, heart
pains, ear-ringing, trembling, un-
steadiness when walking, exhaustion
and pufiiness.
To relieve high blood pressure you must re-
move the encrustations on the colon.
Normal bowl movements cannot do this—
the walls of the colon become inactive.
Opening medicines only purge the lower
end of the colon. Drink warm water and
‘Coloseptic’ every morning. This simple
plan cleanses the colon, tones up the walls,
giving them back their power of normal
movement. ‘Coloseptic’ alkalinises the blood
and helps dissolve the lime salts and blood
impurities from the arterial walls. The
arteries then bcome soft and flexible per-
mitting the blood to circulate without in-
creased heart effort. ‘Coloseptic’ further
stimulates the action of the kidneys, skin
pores and lungs vital organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. Get
‘Coloseptic’ from your chemist to-day.
Individual size, 2/9; Economy size, 5/6.
PBEE SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC (AUST.)
LTD., 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
'for your holiday
<&■
m
in
a
%
MS
Wen
PlHtf
I
This land of countless attractions awaits you—
ancient temples beautiful scenery —native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
minq pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE B 7901
There's a V-8 TRUCE
“made-to-oriler” fer
your job I
mmmm
.
i
WW«Whw
2 V-8 Truck Engines anti the Finest Truck
Features giving A NEW GREATER ECONOMY
Select the logical power for your job. The 3-ton truck
engine, designed for heavy haulage, develops 170 ft.-lbs.
engine torque. The engine designed for 1-ton, 30-cwt., and
2-ton models develops 152 ft.-lbs. This wide range of V-8
power, combined with the finest truck features, offers a
new standard of truck performance and economy.
* -**•
mm
m
i
m.
FULL TORQUE TUBE DRIVE AND RADIUS
RODS.—Ford is the only truck in its price
class with this exclusive feature. All driving
and braking strains are transmitted to
chassis frame through torque tube and
radius rods and NOT through springs. Sole
function of springs is to cushion the load.
BRAKING AREA OF 4702 SQ. INS.—Brake
drums are of cast alloy iron heavily ribbed
to improve cooling and reinforce drum
against distortion.
m
&s
mm
5>
£=s
41 BALL AND ROLLER BEAR-
INGS: Extensive use oi ball
and roller bearings in the
Ford V-8 Truck reduces
frictional power loss.
asdf
NEEDLE ROLLER BEARINGS
IN UNIVERSAL JOINTS: A
quality feature which fur-
ther reduces wear at these
important points.
FULL FLOATING REAR AXLE WITH STRADDLE
MOUNTED PINION AND 4 DIFFERENTIAL GEARS •
CENTRIFORCE TRUCK CLUTCH • HEAVY-DUTY
TRANSMISSION • IMPROVED OIL BATH AIR
CLEANER • IMPROVED DISTRIBUTOR • DUAL
DOWN DRAUGHT CARBURETTOR.
Ask your Ford Dealer to arrange an "on-the-job" test of
the 1937 V-8 Truck with your own loads over your own
routes. Easy and convenient purchase terms arranged.
The 1937
FORD V 8 TRUCKS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F156.24C
C.G. during the Test there. Nearly all
the brass received from the English tour
will go on stand and accommodation
improvement generally, the playing area
being admittedly of the best. Some £3OO
is being reserved to enable country
centres to improve their wickets.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English county cricket is
in a bad way, only a few of the counties
being able to keep head above water.
The Marylebone heads are appointing a
commission of three to inquire into the
why and wherefore, of the trouble. The
three named are W. Findlay, for years
secretary of the M.C.C., but now retired ;
R. H. Mallet, who is Australia’s repre-
sentative at the Imperial Cricket Con-
ference, and N. Kenyon, ex-skipper of
Lancashire. The trouble seems to be
the same as that affecting big cricket in
Australia. People will not flock to see
anything but high-class cricket with
visitors from overseas teams. By all
accounts the cricket played by most of
the counties is deadly wearisome, now
that professionals make up most of the
teams and the hard-hitting amateur
whose living didn’t depend, on the game
has vanished. We have the same experi-
ence here. Even Sheffield cricket last
season verged on the ghastly, and one or
two of the Tests were little better.
* * * >!=
“Jolimont”: In these days of altering
the laws of cricket something ought to
be done to the fool by-law which makes
the captains sole judges of whether a
wicket is fit to play on. They have also
the power to decide the condition of
the light, and only if they fail to agree
may the umpires make a final decision.
The umpires should have sole discretion
as to this and also as to the state of the
wicket, and decide without reference to
the captains.
* * * *
“Shell”: Once more N.S.W. is to see
a big professional sculling race, Burns,
for long holder of the title, having been
challenged by young Paddon, son of the
one-time world’s champion, to row for
the Australian title on June 19 at Wood-
burn.. The winner is to meet Pearce in
.Sydney during the 1938 corroboree if
it can be arranged. There are, however,
long-standing differences between Pearce
and the Olympic Council to be adjusted
if Bobby is to return to his native heath.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: The N.S.W. crew for the
King’s Cup has stopped a nasty one iri
an injury to stroke Burrell, who will be
unable to go to Murray Bridge. An old
Shore oarsman, he first came to the front
as a stroke for Mosman, winning many
races for the club. Last year he stroked
the victorious N.S.W. eight in the King’s
Cup. D. Elias, the Sydney club oarsman,
though only a ten-stoner, fills Burrell’s
place. He is not to be confused with
Olympian G. Elias, who is rowing No. 4.
* * * *
“Huon”: As all expected after the
barge between North and South Tassie
oarsmen, the latter’s crew will represent
the Speck at Murray Bridge on April 24.
The crew has been boated since January,
so there should be nothing wrong with
combination. On the subject of the big
meeting, it is worth nothing that for
the first time for ten years a South Aus-
tralian will try for the sculling champion-
ship. He is A. V. Runoth, of Berri.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The question of the
“artisan” status in amateur rowing in
England cropped up the other day in
the Commons, when someone asked
whether the Australian police crew which
competed at Berlin would have been
allowed to row in the Grand Challenge,
as was at first intended. In England
John Hops rank as working men ; in
Australia they are civil servants. Though
one Australian bobby was in the 1912
Sydney R.C. crew that won the Grand
Challenge, it was tacitly understood that
this would not constitute a precedent.
The “artisan” rule was universal before
the war, and workers of that rating had
to run their own shows. After the war
the English Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion abolished the ban, and nowadays
workers may row as amateurs anywhere
but at Henley. This regatta is practically
a preserve for Oxford and Cambridge
oarsmen and G.P.S. crews, though some
of the events are open to Continental
crews, into whose status no one seems
to inquire. There is a strong feeling
that the beastly example of snobbishness
should be wiped out, and it probably
will be.
* * * *
“Parsley”: The conference of the Aus-
tralian Olympic Council in Melbourne
on April 30 promises a fireworks dis-
play. The principal change to be at-
tempted will authorise the different sports
to keep the funds raised by them for
the Olympiad for their own use instead
of paying them into a common sock to
be used at the council’s sweet will. One
or two of the organisations which do
go after the cash from their members
resent most of it being used for the bene-
fit of members of other concerns which
do not bother to enforce the levy. The
horrible hash-up in selection methods
which marked the departure of the last
team is sure to come in for toko, and
the yelper press, which was chiefly re-
sponsible for that hash-up, can be trusted
to contribute fresh floods of gas to the
flames.
*. _ T * , . *
Third Base : In spite of heavy ex-
penditure, the crowd trying to fasten
baseball on the English public did not
make a success of its job last (the initial)
Y ear - This season efforts have been in-
creased: cricketers like Hendren have
been engaged, and the National Baseball
Association hopes to open with 300 affili-
a.ed club. In the 1880’s baseball and
lacrosse were fairly well known in Lan-
cashire, the big American-Canadian
colonies in Liverpool and Manchester
being, no doubt, responsible: but they
gradually faded out.
* * * *
Long Rest : Australian world cham-
pion amateur billiards-player Marshall
will need to look to his laurels. In Eng-
land the other day one Kennerley, of
Birmingham, won the English title from
the holder, Thompson, by 4703 to 3633.
His score included a break of 549, a
world’s record for an amateur under
baulk-line rules.


WIRTHS ,B “ CIRCUS
Greatest Show on Earth!
Cnr. Kiley and Goulburn Streets.
8 p.m. Matinees, Wed. and Sat. at 2.30 p.m.
Mammoth programme includes several star
acts from overseas.
2/-, 3/-, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-. Res. Chairs.
> Children half price.
Plan Nicholson’s.
EVERYTHING HERE: WE NEVER DIVIDE!
SHADOW
SHOWS
"Beloved Enemy."
ENGLISH PEER’S DAUGHTER,
Merle Oberon
IRISH REBEL LEADER, Brian Aherne
ENGLISH PEER .. Henry Stephenson
FANATICAL SINN FEINER,
Donald Crisp
The post-war Irish “troubles” afford
a good historical setting for drama, as
was proved in “The Informer” and “Our-
selves Alone.” This latest essay, “Be-
loved Enemy,” is about the love affair
of Dennis Riordan and Helen, the
daughter of a titled political big-pot sent
across to advise The Castle how to cope
with the patriots. They meet when
Dennis rushes up on a bicycle to stall
off a plot to bomb the Rolls-Royce in
which peer and daughter are driving into
Dublin. Attraction is mutual. Helen
learns her lover’s identity—and betrays
him to the Black-and-Tans. But he
escapes a net set for him —he has bolt-
Brian Aherne in “Beloved Enemy,” at
Sydney State.
holes all over Dublin. The girl meets
him again, and frankly confesses what
she had done. Riordan’s associates, very
reasonably in the circumstances, make
him promise he will give up this dan-
gerous love affair. Helen promises her
father to see no more of Riordan.
But of course that isn’t the end of it.
The rebels are invited to send envoys
to London to discuss terms of peace,
and Dennis heads the delegation. There’s
a grand reception for them at the politi-
cal big-pot’s house. They give their
Gaelic names to the footman announc-
ing arrivals, completely flooring the poor
man. “Never mind,” says Dennis kindly,
“just say ‘six men from Ireland.’ ”
A peace treaty is signed, to the joy
of the people of Ireland, but Helen
learns that her lover is going back to
certain death. She journeys to Dublin
just in time to see her lover shot while
addressing a great meeting of thanks-
giving. But the wound is not fatal (“ ’Tis
terribly hard to kill an Irishman,” says
Dennis).
Of all plays seen on the screen this is
one of the best-written. The dialogue,
particularly in the numerous scenes be-
tween Dennis and Helen, has a whimsi-
cal Celtic flavor. There are no heroics
and no long-winded speeches. Aherne
and Miss Oberon are ideally cast, and
the supporting actors fit snugly into the
background. Previewed at the State
Theatre, Sydney.
“Murder with Pictures.”
PRESS PHOTOGRAPHER, Lew Ayres
REPORTER Paul Kelly
MYSTERIOUS BRUNETTE,
Gail Patrick
GOLD-DIGGING BLONDE,
Joyce Compton
CROOK Ernest Cossart
A shyster lawyer is shot dead in San
Francisco while being photographed by
six press photographers. The occasion
is the handing-over of a fee of 25,000
dollars by a crook he successfully de-
fended on a murder charge. Immediately
a perfectly innocent young woman rushes
out of the room, scrambles down a fire-
escape, rushes into a press-photographer’s
apartment, hides 25,000 dollars in his
oven, and gets him to conceal her in his
bathroom. She is vigorously pursued by
the police and eventually captured. But
a half-witted press photographer
(Benny Baker) who is always falling over
his own feet has taken a picture of his
six colleagues lined up to make a flash-
light of the pay-off ceremony. His
photograph shows that one of the
cameras has a silenced automatic in place
of a lens. After about an hour and a
half, during which a reporter and a crook
are assassinated and the heroine is
wounded, Mr. Baker’s photograph turns
up in New York, and the murderer is
discovered to be Mr. Ayres’s mysterious
assistant. Trouble about this sort of
affair is that it takes such a tremendous
lot of explanation, but the acting is
spirited and the action is brisk. At
Sydney Civic.
“O’Riley’s Luck.”
COLLEGIATE FOOTBALLERS.
Tom Brown and Buster Crabbe
GOIL Eleanore Whitney
After about five minutes of this con-
fection, screened at Sydney Civic, it
becomes apparent that what is being led
up to is the last-minute appearance of
Mr. Brown in a football match on which
the future of the U.S.A. depends, and the
consequent discomfiture of his bumptious
rival, Mr. Crabbe. The programme as
foreshadowed is ruthlessly carried out.
A welcome variation on this old-timer
would be a finale in which the opposing
sets of padded and helmeted gladiators
destroy each other utterly like the Kil-
kenny cats, but that’s too much to hope
for.
“Sally of the Regiment.”
GOLDARNED TOMMY, Wallace Ford
ONE-STRIPE ARTIST .... John Mills
SAR’N-MAJOR’S DAUGHTER,
Anna Lee
Third-rate recruiting propaganda, pre-
pared with the co-operation of the Brit-
ish Army Council; had the producers
let a sergeant direct it the film could
hardly have been worse. It is a succes-
sion of spit-and-polish parades and color
trooping, with an unconvincing skirmish
with Chinese pirates tacked on.
The setting for about an hour is an
English barracks-yard where every
ranker, from swaciaies to the sar’n-major,
talks knife-cutting Cockney, and officahs
indulge in the “Oxford” bleat.
Plot concerns a tough Yankee gang-
ster who flees to England, impersonating
a Canadian with whose murder he has
been unjustly accused. He joins the
army, and, after a string of insignificant
incidents, goes with the regiment to
China, where he dies a hero, etc.
Wallace Ford forsakes his usual slick-
reporter roles, but it’s a bad change.
Others are poor. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Penrod and Sam.”
PENROD Billy Mauch
HIS PAHP Frank Craven
HIS MAW Spring Byington
SAM Harry Watson
The spirit of boyhood which Booth
Tarkington captured in his novel is as
alive as ever in this film version. The
plot has been slightly modernised so
that the boys who form the secret society
can figure as juvenile G-men. Domestic
scenes are done with the faithful touches
that characterise those of the Jones
family series.
Penrod, as the schoolboy leader, em-
barrasses pahp by stoushing with grim
regularity the spoiled son of his parent’s
employer, the town’s banker. There
are heart-to-heart talks, more fights and,
at last convinced that his boy is in the
right, pahp, exasperated, unleashes a left
swing at his boss’s jaw. Then a trio of
bandits who rob the bank and elude
the cops bite the dust in the youthful
G-men’s barn-headquarters, where Pen-
rod, Sam and the banker’s son outwit
them and land the reward, mutual
anxiety and pride bringing the respective
pahps together again.
Billy Mauch makes a manly young
schoolboy, and Harry Watson gives him
good support. Frank Craven portrays
an understanding father with naturalness,
and Spring Byington is admirably cast
as the mother. Philip Hurlic, a diminu-
tive black boy whose mother falls to the
gangsters’ bullets, deserves a word for
the most heartrending cry this commen-
tator has heard roll off the screen. At
Sydney Capitol.
STAGE SHOWS.
“Maid of the Mountains.”
Under Frederick Blackman’s guidance
the revival of Fraser-Simpson’s popular
operetta at Sydney Royal is well up to
standard.
Gladys Moncrieff, revelling in the role
of Teresa, sings her many numbers
charmingly. Frank Leighton makes a
tiptop Baldasarre, though a heavier
quality in his speaking voice would be
an improvement. The comedy side of
the offering is strong, with Cecil Kella-
way in his best form as the Governor.
Sydney Wheeler as Crumpet gives an un-
commonly clever piece of characterisa-
tion. Don Nicol, now one of Australia’s
leading comedians, is the mercurial
Tonio and, in collaboration with the.
vivacious Lois Green as Vittoria, keeps
the fun bubbling. Arthur Clarke is in
fine voice as Beppo, Lesley Crane is the
Henry Stephenson in “Beloved Enemy.”
Governor’s daughter and Leslie Don-
aghey the diminutive but aggressive
Mayor. Choruses were at times ragged.
Andrew MacCunn conducted.
■P *P *P *P
“Lilac Time.”
Impressions of “Lilac Time,” as pre-
sented at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on
Saturday night by the Gilbert and Sui-
livan company (unsuited for the enter-
prise, however well adapted they may be
for their customary repertoire), were oi
a great deal of overacting ; a moderate
amount of good singing—by Gregory
Stroud and Leo Darnton; fragments of
Merle Oberon in "Beloved Enemy."
lovely orchestral music (all too frag-
mentary) ; whole acts of an extraordi-
narily boring story ; much forced atten-
tion on the part of a large audience to
the lamentable comic business of Elved
Jay as Novotny, the black-garbed and
incomprehensible detective ; and equally
forced attention to the sentimental situ-
ations between Schubert Darnton, Stroud
von Schrober and Lilli Helen Langton,
which have hardly any emotional value
in the script and lost what they had in
the performance. To anybody who has
heard Schubert’s lyrics sung on the
gramophone by distinguished singers,
the current rendering was necessarily
disappointing; nevertheless, Leo Dam-
ton sang “Hark, Hark, the Lark” and
“Underneath the Lilac Bough” skilfully,
assisted by McMurray, Bermingham,
Stroud and Cowley. If the playwright
had made Schubert less of a jellyfish
Lilli’s preference for him above the
Baron von Schrober would have been
more understandable; that he should
have committed the grave error of asking
the baron to propose for him and thus
lost the lady is humanly possible; but
to believe that the melancholy person of
the play could have written the songs he
sang is asking too much of an audience.
As Veit, the. Court Glassmaker, Bernard
Manning was funny, especially when he
was swept off his feet by Marini (Eileen
Kelly); but the conclusion of the adven-
ture is unresisting imbecility, which
makes W. S. Gilbert by comparison seem
like a Shakspeare, although the music
that accompanied it doesn’t make Sulli-
van seem like a Wagner. Evelyn Hall
sang well, as usual.
%«
Gilsullivanism in Melbourne.
The final night of Melbourne’s Gilbert
and Sullivan season was a gala farewell
to Ivan Menzies in Act II of “The Gon-
doliers,” followed by Act II of “The
Mikado.” Other programmes of the
week were “lolanthe” and “The Yeomen
of the Guard.”
“lolanthe” retains its charm and fairy-
tale freshness in spite of the fact that the
point of the political wheezes has iong
been forgotten and that Gilbert's sly digs
at peers of the realm have lost their signi-
ficance. The music is whimsical, and
soloists, choruses and orchestra collabo-
rated to make a well-balanced produc-
tion. Ivan Menzies was a Very Suscep-
tible Chancellor, alternately grave, gay
or.bursting with his own importance.
Encores are the elixir of life to him:
through their repetitions his tongue and


'What do they say
of your smile?
r \
If you use Calvert’s, the gleaming whiteness
of your teeth will be the admiration of all
your friends. All dentifrices contain some
powder that’s what does the cleaning, but
Calvert’s is ALL POWDER. That’s why
it keeps your mouth so fresh and healthy and
gives such sparkling brilliance to your smile.
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
CALVERT’S
canbol ic TOOTH POWDER
1111811
Uil
111 1111881
' ill
iMMpwWMMHMMM
igljfe;
*
■ ■
■anaiii
i
*
P"
/>:
■ -.:
: v
3LJ?
mm
' ,:."5
H
’ ' ' '
M
19 Edward Street,
SUMMER HILL.
To Messrs. William Arnott, Ltd.
Dear Sirs, —
I am sending a photograph of my son,
4 Arthur,” aged 2 years, which I have much
pleasure to send, as he looks so well. He
weighs 2 stone 4 lbs. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
ever since he was five months old, and they
still form part of his diet.
Yours truly,
(Signed) Edith B. Makin.
During the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
have been sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
CLmotts
FAMOUS
MILK
ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s
“They are Better than Ever
his toes move quicker and quicker, ex-
pressing his sense of comedy-in-motion.
Menzies, Bernard Manning as Montara-
rat and Leo Darnton as Tolloller made
a great success of their trios and several
recitations in which they lead up to the
metamorphosis of peers sprouting angel
wings. As “It is I, Young Strephon”
Gregory Stroud looked more than 24, but
he sang and acted with ease. Evelyn Hall
had a chance to show the world that
without her usual character make-up she
is young and easy to look at. She was
the fairy queen who decreed that “a
duke’s exalted station is obtainable by
competitive examination.” Eileen Kelly
and Helen Langton were satisfactory as
lolanthe and Phyllis respectively.
Richard Watson’s part was small as the
sentry Private Willis, but he made a
noble enough figure to inspire “a peculiar
feeling” in the heart of the fairy queen.
•I* *l* >2*
“Mary Rose.”
In Barrie’s “Mary Rose,” being given
an airing by an amateur co. in a matinee
season at Sydney Royal, the best of the
action occurs in the second act on the
island, where the dialogue is first-rate.
Anne Gordon, in the title role, makes the
most of her opportunities in this scene.
Generally her performance is natural
and even, but a bigger percentage of
audible remarks would be welcome (and
that goes for the entire cast). Stephen
Staughton appears as both Simon and
Harry. He is much more at home in
the role of the Digger, being too re-
strained in the bigger part. Gordon Pat-
rick as the father is happier in the
lighter scenes than in the melodrama,
which is not his forte. Tony Craig as
Mr. Amy is overstilted in speech and
deportment. Gloria Neldon is gently
dignified as the mother, her acting in the
last act admirable. The neatest piece of
characterisation is given by Ethel Gabriel
as the housekeeper.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Streeton’s Sydney Show.
A Streeton show is an event in the
Australian art world, and usually a very
happy event. The current exhibition at
David Jones’s establishment in George-
street, Sydney, however, does not fulfil
expectations. The characteristic Streeton
touches, such as contrast of heavy fore-
ground and ethereal distance, the glow
of setting sun on red gum-boughs, the
ultra-pinkiness of Sydney-by-the-sea, a
snappy trick of painting roses and vege-
tables, and landscapes in which yellow
plains make an effective foreground for
blue mountains in the distance, have
so impressed themselves on other
painters that their originality is no longer
apparent.
The artist’s latest affection is for the
clouds-dripping-rain effect. His biggest
canvas, “The Cloud,” states this natural
phenomenon, which is restated in “Pass-
ing Shower,” “Mountain Side” and
“Mernda Hill,” all excellent landscapes,
but not helped by the fact that the cloud
effect is melodramatic. Eight studies
of roses are staged, and the best one can
say of any of them is that it is as good
as any other Streeton rose study.
“Southern Ocean” and “South Coast”
bring once again to view a combination
of preternaturally blue sea and yellow
cliffs—very effective sea-pieces but done
before.
Artistically, about the most satisfying
thing in the show is “Pro Patria, Amiens,”
a pile of grey ruins—not a very interest-
ing subject, but it makes a picture which
hangs together. “The Black Log”—a
fallen tree in the foreground, dead black,
with a pile of red chips, over which is
seen a distant range of blue mountains
—decidedly does not hang together. A
flash of the old Streeton is given in
“Blue Pond, Cork,” where two bright-
hued figures are artfully introduced as
foil to a gloomy-looking land-locked
pool. There are few other such flashes.
New South Wales Gallery has bought
three pictures—’“Passing Shower,” a
characteristic Streeton landscape with the
new rain-cloud effect, “Slopes of Olinda,”
a faithfully-painted but rather dull-look-
ing study of a hill, and “Melon,” a still-
life. The Gallery paid 100 guineas for
“Melon.”
•!* * *3>
Water-colorists Show Their Mettle.
The Australian Water Color Institute’s
fourteenth show at the Education Depart-
ment's Gallery, Sydney, is the crown of
a year in which the institute lost its
foundation president, B. E. Minns. As
a tribute to the memory of one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest water-colorists a panel of
Minns drawings has been given a place
of honor, the collection including the
N.S.W. Gallery’s self-portrait, an abo.
head, such well-known pieces as “Sydney
Harbor,” “Outlook from Wahroonga,”
“Sydney Environs from Pymble,” “Dun-
gog,” and some European studies, lent
by their owners.
Taking the other pictures in their cata-
logue order, Kenneth Macqueen indulges
his love of esoteric curves in a couple of
characteristic landscapes ; Joseph Connor,
of Hobart, heads a trio of drawings with
a very effective study, “Wharves” ; C.
E. S. Tindall, who has been transferring
Scotland to paper, scores best with “Brig
o’ Feugh, Aberdeen” ; and J. R. Elder-
shaw, whose color effects grow richer
every year, gets something new, true and
striking in “Church by the Sea.” G. K.
Townshend, always a master of water-
color technique, excels all previous per-
formances in a very fine panel of six
pictures; led by “Bobbin Head.” Fred
Le.isfs most effective exhibit is a poin-
tellist essay, “Wind and Sunlight,” a
figure study. R. H. Steuart’s quiet offer-
ings include a very effective study of
light on water —“Grey Calm, Ettalong.”
Albert J. Collins could have made “Street
Scene,” a period costume piece, a great
picture with a little more attention to
drawing. He is less open to priticism in
the warm and harmonious “Windsor
Group.” Norman Lindsay heads his
quartet with “Out of All That” —a mass
of figures dominated by an elephant.
“The Chase” is a gorgeous little decora-
tive piece that would pass as a relic of
Blamire Young.
Maud Sherwood’s sextet includes the
well-known “Three Boats” and some
Continental studies, most striking of
which is “A Hill Town in Italy.” A. D.
Rubbo’s head, “Tam o’ Shanter,” is a
rather too careful piece of painting. H.
R. Gallop, who in his bright, confident
morning did some great stuff, disappoints
with four sketches that lack distinction.
Frances D. Ellis gets the spirit of Old
Sydney in a drawing of the Agar-street
steps. F. S. Davis achieves the richness
of oils in “Church Hill” and “Cathedral
Rocks,” both notable for excellent
draughtsmanship. M. J. McNally’s three
pictures are all gems. G. V. F. Mann
shows his usual sound judgment in a
couple of landscapes and a still life.
Most of Tom Garrett’s offerings have
been seen before, but “4 a.m.” is worth
another word of praise.
* * * *
A Lambert Landscape.
To Anthony Horderns’ Galleries, Syd-
ney, there has recently come a landscape
“Marthaguy Creek” which was painted
by George Lambert in the same district
and at about the same time as the famous
“Across the Black Soil Plains” which
hangs in the N.S.W. Gallery. The pic-
ture shows cattle browsing in a deeply-
shadowed grove, while in the distance
are sunlit plains with more cattle, the
lighting contrast being remarkably effec-
tive.


The Richardson Chain ITotel
Mm
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
SINCE
1834
P E TTYSs Hotel
Stay at Petty's in Sydney—the hotel of 102 years' service. Enjoy the
excellent service; the air of comfort; and the convenience of its position.
The best of everything at sensible prices.
New private dining room and lounge room at your service.
Tariff, room and breakfast from M/6, inclusive from 18/-.
12) E. yOUNGS, Manager.
sadf
WILCOX; SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying an*!
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Friday .
A AWOMAN'S
LETTER
With three Governors arriving in two
years, Sydney has worked out quite a
formula for the occasion of the landing.
When Lord and Lady Wakehurst arrived
last week everything was done to
schedule. First there was the farewell
scene on the Orford, then the State’s
new Governor and his lady were trans-
ferred to H.M.A.S. Penguin. Later came
the landing at the very beflagged Man-
o’-War steps. Besides flags many Minis-
ters of the Crown and members of
Parliament decked the vantage points.
The wife of Premier Stevens brought a
great cluster of yellow roses to present
to Lady Wakehurst. These burned gold
against the grey of her suit and were a
welcome brightness, for, truth to teli,
the ladies’ frocking lent nothing of in-
souciance to the scene. The first nip of
winter was in the air and browns, blacks
and navies were the dominating colors.
On the red-carpeted landing, stage
stepped Lady Wakehurst in a jaunty
frock and little jacket of Paisley pattern,
small pink flowers close on a grey ground.
Her belt was red, and her black hat
with its sloping brim wore two debonair
red roses centre front. She wore a long
string of pearls and pearl earrings that
were quite equal to the plumed and
cocked hat, the heavy gold epaulettes,
and the many decorations of her hus-
band’s uniform. They made a good-
looking couple as they stood while the
guns boomed and diplomats bowed and
farther away, along the road, the people
who get no cards to these shows cheered
and waved. As with the pictorial accom-
paniment of Lancer and Mounted Police
the two drove through the beflagged
streets, the city liked the lopk of the
tall man with blue eyes and red hair,
and of his wife with bright eye and ready
smile.
With the coming of the Governor
Sydney hostesses will have three new
bachelors to add to their party list. They
are private secretary Captain K. O.
Harding and As.D.C. Blake Pelly and
Lieutenant Lawrence. The last-named
added quite a dash to the vice-regal
group with his scarlet uniform and his
high bearskin cap. David, Christopher
and little Robert Loder look as though
they will make the welkin ring about
their new home. A tall girl with raven-
black hair is Hermione Llewellyn, Lady
Wakehurst’s private secretary. By one
o’clock on Thursday they were all pretty
sure they would like the old house that
will bear their imprint for five years.
Lady Wakehurst, looking around the
drawing-room at Government House,
remarked that she thought she could
judiciously mix some modern with its
old-time furniture. This Letter thinks it
will be an interesting experiment —some-
thing like trying a jazz cap on Queen
Victoria. Allied to his taste for thrillers
(he is the author of two or three, but
doesn’t want it held against him), the
new Governor has a love for and under-
standing of classic music. He doesn’t
care, for jazz, and does not dance. Old-
fashioned and national dances he is
partial to, so the folk-dancers can now
take heart.
The four most striking-looking males at
the Governor’s investiture were Sydney’s
two Archbishops, Dr. Kelly and Dr.
Mowll, Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert
and Clifford Hay. The two churchmen
won approval, the first for his amethyst
cloak, the second for the immaculate
sheen of his lawn sleeves. Belgium’s
diplomatic uniform is rich with gold, not
only on the shoulders, but about the
waist, and Henry Segaert has a neat
waistline. Clifford Hay’s figure, too, is
of the right architecture for a morning
suit. There’s no doubt that for cere-
monial occasions men’s plumage is more
sleek and dignified than the woman’s
way of each to her taste.
Old pupils of Shirley, for so many
years one of Sydney’s best-known girls’
schools, will be pleased to learn that the
grounds are to be more lovely even than
they knew them. The old gardens are not
to be made drab with brick and mortar
and overrun with flats, even of the most
model kind. They are to be turned into
a little park and a bird sanctuary, where
small ones and their mothers or nurses
may dream many happy hours away.
The property belongs to the Rodney
Dangars, and the place of leaf and shade
and the call of babe and bird is to be
a memory of Mrs. Dangar’s mother,
Mrs. McDonald —a gracious tribute to
a gracious life.
A woman has entered another office
hitherto sacred to man. She is Margaret
Walkom, newly-elected president of the
Sydney University Students’ Representa-
tive Council for 1937, and the first
woman president since the council
started. Margaret has been a member
of the last two S.R.Cs., representing the
Women Undergraduates, of whose asso-
ciation she was secretary in 1935 and
president in 1936. Another distinction
is that last year she was editor of
“Hermes” —the second woman editor of
this undergrad, magazine since it started
50 years ago.
Lady Wakehurst, wife of the new
Governor ot N. S. Wales, Lord Wake-
hurst. Photograph from Hood.
The wedding of Alix Lamb to Ernest
Bennett Bremner was rounded off by a
reception at Woniora, the home of the
bride’s aunt, Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax. Two
hundred or more guests came to this and
congratulated the newly-weds. The
white daisies, gladioli and heath deco-
rating the lounge were of a note with
the thick white crepe wedding frock.
This was embroidered over with silver
birds. So was the chiffon handkerchief
Alix carried. This, the work of the
donor’s own hands, was a gift from
singer Evelyn Lynch. The diamond
bracelets which flashed on the bride’s
wrists as she cut the cake with its top-
knot of lily-of-the-valley are heirlooms,
and were lent by Mrs. Lamb, who wore
Parma violet in chiffon frock and velvet
toque. ’Groom’s mother mingled black
crepes, an ermine cape and a black
velvet toque. Midnight blue and a dash
of petunia were Mrs. W. Fairfax’s colors.
All the professors and their wives were
at the University Fete on Saturday. The
Quad, was simply bursting with learning
and devices for turning an honest penny
for the benefit of the University Settle-
ment. Premier Stevens said the prelude,
surrounded by Mrs. Stevens, daughter
Lorna, Chancellor Justice Halse Rogers,
the Mungo MacCallums, Mayor Howie
and Mayoress Parkes and other notables.
Hard workers in the cause included Pro-
fessor Dew’s wife, who was president of
the committee, Isobel Fidler, Mrs. Walter
Burfitt, Mrs. Greg. McGirr and Camilla
Wedgwood, principal of the Women’s
College.
If you are off to Iceland, or feel the
chill where you are, why not have an
evening frock or two made of the soft
and pliable woollen fabrics now being
hand-woven in and about Sydney? There
are some really lovely examples at the
All-Wool Exhibition in David Jones’s
auditorium. Black two-ply wool and
bronze threads make one handsome
weave ; another glittersome affair of fine
white wool and silver is proudly en-
throned as a wedding dress. This has
a long square train, and has the appear-
ance of a heavy white and silver crepe
or velvet. On an opposite stand is a coy
three-quarter evening coat with young
elbow-length puff sleeves. This is white
and silver, too, as becomes a debutante,
and it will be worn by Noela Browne
when she comes out at the Diggers’ Ball
on May 11. It was woven by Mrs.
Anderson on a cottage-size loom.
Noela’s mother, Mrs. Toby Browne,
organised the exhibition, which is a
C.W.A. effort on behalf of the men who
grow sheep. Home-weaving has already
consumed as many bales of wool as the
knitting of socks during the war ; and,
speaking of socks, one visitor to the
exhibition, Mrs. Charles Moore, was re-
sponsible for 1070 pairs of them for
soldiers! Among those expertly guiding
a hand loom was Miss Dunster, who was
one of the first to take up the craft.
Mattresses filled with wool, sheepskins
dyed to brilliant shades, and with calves
and sheep disporting on them, are among
the wealth of arguments to use more
wool. As restful as the gardens from
which they derive their colors were the
wools that owe their greens, blues, pinks
and browns to vegetable dyes. The exhi-
bition was opened by lan Clunies Ross,
who goes off to London as Australia’s
representative on the Wool Publicity and
Research Secretariat.
Gwen Sherwood is the girl responsible
for some sparkling productions by the
Players’ Club. At present she is pro-
ducing “Half-way to Paradise,” a comedy
by Nora Kelly, which will be presented
at the Savoy on April 17. Action is
centred in a tourist inn in Maoriland.
The play is a short three-acter, and will
be preceded by “The Spirit Host,” a
poetic drama based on Irish legend.
This has been written by Mrs. Sterling
Levis, a well-known “Mirror” contri-
butor. Raymond Sawyer photo.
The red roses and lily-of-the-valley in
Jean Batten’s presentation bouquet were
just right with the black tulle dress she
wore to the Royal Empire Society’s party
in her honor. The flowers were handed
over by Hugh Denison’s lady, whose
dark-blue laces were patterned with gold
thread. The brilliant airwoman from
Maoriland proved an interesting speaker,
and told of some of her experiences in
a vivid manner. Virginia Bassetti and
Stanley Clarkson were the evening’s
music-makers. Mrs. Norman Lowe was
handsome in brown taffeta. Olive King,
too, chose brown, her fabric the finest of
lace.
Two hundred years after his death,
Giovanni Battista Pergolesi’s opera “The
Music Master” will be given for the
first time in Australia. The Savoy
Theatre will have a very correct repro-
duction of an eighteenth-century setting,
and will represent, as far as possible, the
surroundings in which the composer
lived and worked. All the singers will
be in beautiful eighteenth-century cos-
tumes. Bertie Kelly is producing the
opera and W. J. Grieves will lead the
orchestra. A week or so before the
opera Mrs. Bertie Kelly is having a party
at her home in Sutherland-crescent to
which all the guests must go in the same
century garb. Already Mrs. Kelly and
Mrs. Mick Dalton have chosen their
costumes, and these will be seen on the
night of the performance, when the two
ladies will be the programme sellers.
A Hawke’s Bay girl, Eileen Wighton,
daughter of a well-known sheepman who
died a few years ago, learned all about
perms, and facials, was in Melbourne in
time for the centenary, and landed her-
self a job; later, she got another in
Sydney. Then Johannesburg (S’Africa)
had an exhibition, so she went to see it
■ —and set hair there, too. Back in Syd-
ney, she got another job, and now she’s
off to Maoriland, but this time on a
honeymoon trip. The prospective bride-
groom is George, eldest son of the Wil-
liam Hughes couple, of Vaucluse, Syd-
ney. Bride’s mother, Mrs. A. M. Wigh-
ton, arrives from Maoriland in time for
a quiet wedding on April 28.
Stephanie Edye, of Bellevue Hill, with
the help of her school friends from
Ascham, will give at the Conservatorium
on Saturday her eighth yearly matinee
performance for the Far West Health
Scheme. That’s not a bad record for 17.
Stephanie will dance some Spanish num-
bers which she studied with Elsa Bru-
nelleschi in London. Paul Furness has
written a children’s play, “Behind the
Curtains,” to open the afternoon.
An interesting visitor to Sydney is
Victoria Powell, who in America was
official lecturer for Max Reinhardt’s
“The Eternal Road.” Her work opens
a new field to women of Australia —
theatrical advertising. This has been
Miss Powell’s job for 20 years. She is
a sparkling and fluent speaker, as those
who heard her laugh-raising lecture
“2000 Years of Theatrical Advertising”
can testify. Through Canada Miss
Powell was lecturer for the Stratford-on-
Avon Festival Co. She has met almost
every stage and screen celebrity of the
moment, and in Sydney is helping to
form a branch of the British Drama
League.
A clutch of Sydney’s pleasantest
women will be the guests of honor at
the music party in the Blaxland Galleries
on the 19th. Mayoress Parkes, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly, the Kelso King and Waley
ladies, and Mrs. Melrose will be seated
at the top table, bouqueted and, if not
sung, at least sung at. A programme of
vocal and piano works will be given
by Ray Beatty, Heather Kinnard and Vir-
ginia Bassetti, and for all of the singers
Mrs. Hope Gibson will supply accom-
paniments. South Australian composer
Miriam Hyde will play one of her own
works. The Kanimbla Ball in aid of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital will
benefit. Mrs. Harold Bott is the organ-
iser.
The Coronation Ball of the Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers is getting its
gold epaulettes into position. Fellow;
will foregather at a “Lloyds of London"
night. Dulcie Deamer has already held
a studio party ; the wife of author Frank
Davison is giving a basket and beaker
party at Jan's Cafe on the first of May.
and Mrs. Norman Lowe’s symphonies-
and-Siam afternoon will be on Satur-
day, April 24.
The Frank Pauls gave a party that was
tinged with a “before the war” Spanish
influence. That was in keeping with
their new home at 43 Wunulla-road, Point
Piper, which is designed in the Spanish
manner. The party was in honor of
Peter Blau’s (he is Mrs. Paul’s son)
coming of age, and the years of the
guests were in accordance. There was
dancing, and two singers in Spanish cos-
tume on the terrace serenaded the pari}
throughout the early evening. There was
an awninged beer garden on the lawn.
Mrs. Paul’s brunette coloring showed to
advantage above wine-colored silk velvet


YES
/ /
but where’s jMP B *b
the lima Da ■
m **tssaa
•'' <w44 **V ****<«&
(.ro )
§|;|i| |
i-i. \u i
V.
Vi
ft
§
A
1
y
—'■
j
V
r
fe,'"
k?
/<
y
B
SP&WiWii
kS-S®
wssgsB
*' V - ;
m
i
iisa;
sm.
KM
mmM
K*
SftSfc
«
gw
A/
TOOTHS
LAGER
IN BOTTLES AND HALF BOTTLES


11l
1?
HlJli
3" 1
■]\ 35
11 H
Hate
< v?4.9Z wr
VICTORIA PALACE
201-239 kittle Collins St., Melb. Cl.
• Melbourne’s largest, most modern hotel.
Central —next to Town Hall. Quiet —off tram
lines. Comfortable—luxurious appointments
throughout. Inexpensive—popular “Room
Only” tariff: Singles, 4/- to 7/6 per day;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/- per day. Write Dept.
R 27 for catalogue.
|AU STR ALI A’S f; L AjRQE ST NON-I,'i CEN BE teHOTIL
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and_ Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free! Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Etd.,
Go-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81V6661.’
Personal and Missing Friends.
PRIVATE CHARLES LIONEL MUMBY,
No. 872 of the 2nd Battalion, is anxiously in-
quired for by his aged mother. Last heard of
in Sydney several years ago.—No. 281,
Bulletin Office, Sydney.
SHOPPING, meeting and escorting children,
driving cars in city, engaging domestics. —
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Road, Toorak, Vic., U 4032.
Public Notice.
BANISH Loneliness by joining Betta Bright’s
Social Correspondence Bureau. Individual
attention —select clientele. Write or call. —
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Public Notice .
TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF SCOUTING.
EX-MEMBERS and Officers, both Cubs and
Scouts, of Ist Hornsby Troop of Boy Scouts
are requested to communicate as soon as pos-
sible with MR. C. TILNEY, 64 Clovelly Road,
Randwick.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 453 of 1937.
BETWEEN GEORGE CLARENCE MISSING-
HAM Petitioner
And MAGGIE MISSINGHAM Respon-
dent. , .
TO MAGGIE MISSINGHAM formerly of
1334 Rocky Point Road Sans Souci near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenameil
GEORGE CLARENCE MISSINGHAM has
commenced a suit against you the said
MAGGIE MISSINGHAM in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution ot
marriage on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years ana
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit in the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Seventh day of July
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven
and in the event of your not so doing within
the time limited or obtaining further time tn
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be hear
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be na
on application to the undersigned Solicito
free of charge. .. ...
DATED this Eighth day of April, One thou
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) R. S. JOHNSON,.
Cleric in Divorce.
WILSON & CLAPIN, Solicitors, 17 Castlc-
reagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Wilson Hall Bal Masque was so
crowded that it became like massage en
masse, some getting a consistent rubbing,
others unexpected thumps that took their
breath away. Among planned stunts
looked upon with approval by those who
could get near them were an engineers’
and a nymphs’ ballet. Among those who
showed no signs of getting tired as night
turned to morning were Jule Kiddle,
whose white gown had a frothy tulle
hem, and Anna Dane, who called her-
self a Russian princess and danced with
an elaborately turned out courtier who
said he was Dorian Le Gallienne, exe-
cuted in 1649. Among others were
Nancy Glass, with a red bow of patent
leather op her black frock ; Helen Hock-
ing ; Pamela Browning, in white ; Peggy
Maxted, in a green-and-white floral
dress; Gwen Terry, in aquamarine
blue; Sybil Finley, who wore a white
gown and fanciful headdress, and Sheila
Gasquoine, whose color scheme was
mostly pine-needle green, and whose
hair was softly rolled over her forehead.
Helen Pride was a pirate, but not a
fierce one. Harry Ireland, who has the
right-shaped face to start with, pulled
a lock of hair over his forehead, painted
himself a moustache, climbed into khaki,
hung his chest with beer-bottle-top
medals and greeted his pals with the
Nazi salute. Nobody had to ask who
he was supposed to be. A sixsome
who danced a lot together were Lois,
Hazel and Margaret Evans, Ron Lowe,
Alan Nelson and Ken Facey—those of
them who were not in rustic costumes
of England of the Middle Ages became
Spaniards of an era before a civil war
turned thoughts from roses and guitars
to sniping and machine-guns.
At the Commencement Ball, in spite
of the bait of cheaper tickets for
graduates who wore their hoods, self-
consciousness routed economy. Only
one hood played a part in the dance
reserved for graduates, and the three
which gave an academic flavor to the
evening were hung upon Chancellor
James Barrett, Vice-Chancellor Dr.
Priestley, and John Lister, president of
the S.R.C. In the graduates’ dance,
which just covered the Palais floor with
comfort, were Dymphna Lodewycks and
Monica Gilmore, who both received arts
degrees with honors next day, Jessie
Brookes, who got an arts degree, and
Judy Armstrong, who became a Bachelor
of Commerce. Judy was in the news last
winter for her ski-ing adventure in the
Alps, when she fell over the precipice
of the Razorback, descended' several
hundred feet in a few seconds and re-
turned to civilisation with only a couple
of mild bruises.
Among others at the dance were Pro-
fessor and Mrs. G. W. Paton. He is
Dean of the Faculty of Law, and when
appointed a few years ago was the
youngest university professor in the
Empire. Ivan Smith and John Parry
were noticed in good form. Sue Broad-
hurst glittered in gold lame. Peggy Old-
field and Audrie Wyse concentrated on
their headdresses—Peggy’s a halo of real
hair in corkscrew curls and Audrie’s a
topknot of rhododendrons. Dorothy
Ratcliffe wore green and Margaret
Stuckey, a B.A. of the next afternoon,
chose black velvet. Eder Lindsay
wrapped herself in raisin-toned velvet,
and for a change took some exercise by
dancing instead of chasing silverfish —a
research student attached to the Agricul-
tural Department, she hopes some day
to help discover a way to give silver-
fish indigestion. A fresher from America,
Helen Leberson, scored a great success
with her slim lilac frock, her vivacity
and the novelty of her American accent.
The success of a portrait in pastels
was the cause of a party last week.
Mrs. Gordon Lane, who commissioned
the portrait called “Nada” from Dora
Wilson, was so delighted with the result
that she asked Margaret Mac Lean to
exhibit it in her gallery and to act as
hostess there at a sherry party in Miss
Wilson’s honor. Mrs. Lane is an invalid
and unfortunately could not be present.
The principal guest was modest among
her congratulations and said she feels
more at home sitting in the street with
camp stool and easel suffering disturbing
remarks from passers-by than she does
as the lion of a comfortable studio.
Last week there was no exhibition in the
Kodak House gallery, but Miss Mac Lean
always has pictures on hand and was
able to make her walls interesting. There
were several canvases by Dora Wilson,
including her charming adventure into
modernism which she has called “Peas-
antry.” Max Ragless’s aquatint was re-
markable in that it had not a stroke of
etching upon it. Malcolm Warner had
some fine water-colors, Ethleen Palmer
a couple of linos, and there was a dashing
drawing in pen and ink, the work of the
only feminine Lindsay, the late Mrs. Will
Dyson, who signed her pictures “Ruby
Lind.”
Among Universily graduates who had
degrees conferred on Saturday was Beryl
Anderson, elder daughter of the W. H.
Anderson couple, of Euroa. The ground-
work to Beryl’s career was accomplished
at- Fintona. She has now completed a
science course, won a Zoology exhibi-
tion last year, and during the Christmas
vacation went to Banks Islands with the
McCoy expedition. She keeps fit with
swimming and tennis, and in the winter,
when she can get there, with ski-ing at
Feathertop or some other snow-covered
alp. Her new job is in the library of
the C.S. and I.R. Broothorn made the
portrait.
Mrs. George Bell is finding herself
unintentionally greeting her friends with
“Take a bit of fruit,” a line which Clif-
ford Odets has made a habit of Sara,
the wife and mother in “Paradise Lost.”
Mrs. Bell, as a member of the original
cast, has been rehearsing Sara for three
months, and is playing in the present
season with her usual professional polish
and her perfect accent. The production,
as well as being the first in Australia of
Odets’s latest play, is the Little Theatre’s
first blossoming for 1937, and marks its
first appearance on the north side of the
Yarra. It is also Jack Wiltshire’s first
production on a large scale. Brett Ran-
dall, producer of the earlier rehearsals,
went to Adelaide several weeks ago.
Jack originally was cast as Sara’s son,
and had his part thoroughly learnt when
the original Sara’s husband slipped
through his fingers and the son had to
turn round and adjust himself to becom-
ing his own father.
The Victoria League had a working
bee at-home one day last week, when
friends and acquaintance were asked to
come along with gifts of money and
reading matter and stay a while and see
how the job of organising and servicing
the Bush Library is carried out. Among
committee people who spent a busy few
hours were the library's acting-chairman,
Mrs. Harold Brookes, its hon. sec., Mrs.
O. W. Tiegs, Mrs. Leslie Moran and
Joan Hill, chairman and hon. sec.
of the young contingent, Mrs. Rupert
Greene and Miss E. M. Traill, whose
sectional interests are among the news- 1
papers and magazines, and Vaire Wil-
kinson, who, though still very youthful,
has shown good organising ability in her
secretaryship of the children’s library.
With rubbers, paste and paper or linen
covers many deft fingers make worn
volumes neat and clean. Magazines, too,
which are sent as gifts to lonely folk,
have their faces cleaned and stiffened,
and are ornamented, when possible, with
cut-out picture pieces from the original
cover. The Victoria League’s library has
several methods of distribution for group
centres (which may keep their large
parcel of books for six months), for
schools, and for individual members.
Members are encouraged to state their
preferences in reading matter, with the
result that some naive letters are re-
ceived in reply. One man wrote to say
that he was interested in crime, and his
wife was fond of light love. Another
wife turned the tables by requesting
“good books for myself and something
suitable for my old man.”
In its book-room the League has a
map of Australia with Victoria and parts
of other States pricked with many hun-
dreds of blue pins, each pinhead repre-
senting a destination mark for regular
parcels. In the magazine-room the map
shows a greater portion of the world
and red-ink lines drawn to the Pacific
Islands, New Guinea and the F.M.S.
Most of these far-off subscribers are in
a position to help with occasional dona-
tions. Their advantage in getting read-
ing matter through the League is that
its large, well-marked parcels always
arrive safely, whereas smaller, though
more up-to-date, bundles from news-
agents often go astray in transit.
Mrs. A. Munro-Robinson, pictured
here by Eve Ray, is leaving for her first
trip abroad on Saturday, 17th, in the
German cargo ship Leuna. It will be
a long voyage, with the Canary Islands
as the first port of call. In London
Mrs. Munro-Robinson will be met by
her brother Ronald Boone and by the
George Booths, her host and hostess for
the early part of her stay. Her husband
will join her in England at the end of
the year. This couple are so fortunately
situated that they can live wherever
they like, and they have fixed no time
limit on their travels.
Norah Gurdon’s exhibition was a ben-
evolent gesture to St. George’s C. of E.
Hospital at Kew. The artist handed to
the hospital building fund the profits
on all pictures sold. Miss Gurdon, born
in England, is Australian by adoption,
for she has lived here since her child-
hood. She studied under the direction
of Bernard Hall and Frederick McCub-
bin, and has been abroad on several
occasions for more experience and the
joy of travel. Her home is among the
blue Dandenong mists at Kalorama.
Several hundred people had a sur-
prise on Saturday afternoon when they
arrived at the Oriental and found them-
selves at a wedding reception. Doris
Moore and Allan Tregear kept their
secret well; until a few hours before the
ceremony they hadn’t even told Doris s
father, C. B. Moore, that he was
requested to be at Wesley Chapel at
2.30 to give his daughter away. The
bride was all in blue, with a short veil
attached to her peaked cap. Lone ’maid,
Burneice Swaine, who had the escort of
Jack Ferguson, wore honey-tinted lace
with a headdress of tulle and a thick
twist of satin. Allan Tregear is clerk-
assistant of the House of Reps. After
their return from Hong Kong (they leave
from Sydney to-day in the Tanda), the
honeymooners will live in the Federal
Capital, where Mrs. Tregear might be in
the running with Isla Taylor and other
short-marked golf associates.
Among guests at the wedding was
William Mortill, a grass-widower for a
few months more. During March he
and his wife wrote a line in telephone
history by holding the first conversation
ever recorded between Australia and
Latvia. At 4.30 p.m. one afternoon Mr.
Mortill thought he would like to talk to
his wife. He rang the post office, gave
her address in Riga and suggested that
the call should be made round about
6.30 p.m., Melbourne time, any day that
week. That means 10 a.m. on the eastern
shores of the Baltic, which seemed a
good time to catch the traveller, who is
seldom out early in the morning. The
call came through promptly at 6.30 on
the same day that it was ordered. Voices
were easily heard, but Mrs. Mortill spent
the whole three minutes expressing her
surprise, and forgot to tell her husband
any news other than that she was well
and having a good time.
A most unusual and very charming
bridal picture was made by the leading
lady and her attendants at the marriage
of Claudia Palmer and Alex. Creswick
in Christ Church, South Yarra. The
bride was all in white, and her sister
Valerie Palmer, who walked first in the
procession, wore palest pink. Next came
Sheila Creswick and Susan Staughton in
frocks of deeper pink, Moira Creswick
and Heather McKellar in a yet more
definite shade, and the final pair of the
septet, Pat Mein and Lorraine Cumming,
in ruby-red. The ’maids’ gowns were of
tulle, and brief wisps of veil were attached
to flower wreaths in their hair. The
home of the newly-married couple will
be Liewah, Balranald (N.S.W.).
Several charming Americans were at
the David Robertsons’ farewell cocktail
party. Mary Saenger’s dimples were just
the right accompaniment for her quaint
little black hat. Her sister, Mrs. Mark
Graham, wore a tunic suit; her hair was
worn in soft ringlets over her brow. The
Jimmy Clymers were there and the Guy
McHenrys, Mrs. McHenry looking dis-
tinctive, as always, with her big brown
eyes and a small black tulle hat which
hid little of her white hair. Husband
Guy feels he is pretty safe in claiming
the honor of catching the greatest number
of swordfish off N.S.W. for this year-
seven of them —and he was photographed
with the smallest. He has landed 15 in
all (some at Catalina Beach in the
U.S. A.), and has kept neither stuffed heads
nor flags as trophies. Other guests in-
cluded auburn-headed Gerry Gerahty,
the J. A. Pietzcker couple and the
Bob Scotts. Bob had slipped on a game
of golf for the afternoon; forgetting it
was guest day at Victoria, he went down
full of energy and found 38 people
waiting on the first tee.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 513 of 1937.
BETWEEN OLIVE CLARIZA DARNLEY
STUART Petitioner
And DUNCAN DARNLEY STUART
Respondent.
TO DUNCAN DARNLEY STUART of
Tnverell.
TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE CLARIZA
DARNLEY STUART has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to this suit
in the proper office of this Court on or before
the First day of July One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit will be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 31st day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for Peti-
joner, Wmgello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 512 of 1937.
BETWEEN HAROLD JOHN DOUGLAS
TURNBULL Petitioner
And CATHERINE MAY TURNBULL
Respondent.
TO CATHERINE MAY TURNBULL of 65
Wigram Street Harris Park.
TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD JOHN
DOUGLAS TURNBULL has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to this
suit in the proper office of this Court on or
before the First day of July One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-seven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
' DATED this 31st day of March One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
VINCENT J. BRADY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes.
No. 96 of 1937.
BETWEEN FLORA HESTER MAYHEW
Petitioner
And EDWARD RICHARD MAYHEW
Respondent.
TO EDWARD RICHARD MAYHEW late
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in this Court citing you to appear and
answer the charges in the petition of FLORA
HESTER MAYHEW of Wiluna in the State
of Western Australia praying for a dissolution
of marriage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address the
Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said Petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereof AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid within
Sixty (60) days after the date of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your Solicitor
at the Central Office of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia at Perth and there enter an
appearance in a book provided for that pur-
pose.
G. J. BOYLSON,
Acting Registrar.
This abstract was taken out by FRED
RUSSELL THOMAS, of the firm of DWYER
& THOMAS, of National House, William
Street, Perth, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 77 of 1937.
BETWEEN BESSIE NEAL Petitioner
And HERBERT EDWARD NEAL Re-
spondent.
TO HERBERT EDWARD NEAL.
TAKE NOTICE that the said BESSIE NEAL
has commenced a suit against you in this Honor-
able Court and is applying for dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion for three
(3) years without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the 23rd day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-seven and in the event of you
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-third day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
M. C. TILBURY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
28 Martin Place, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Dungeness”: Cherbourg, Queens-
land’s mid-western abo. settlement,
affords proof that the genuine Aus-
tralian can thrive and multiply despite
white-man association. In a community
of about 900 there are over 240 kids be-
tween five and 14, and the full-blood
population grows steadily by natural in-
crease. The cricket team, undefeated
for four years, holds the Murgon Cricket
Association premiership; the football
team has cleaned up everything in sight,
including Maryborough and Bundaberg.
School results are fully equal to those
of white kids, and better in manual arts
and crafts. Hunting is encouraged, and
snake, kangaroo and goanna figure on
domestic menus. Jerry Jerome, once
Queensland’s champion heavy, shows the
young ’uns how to put ’em across.
Twelve abo. cops preserve effective law
and order with immense dignity.
* i!: * ❖
“Ewai”: Papuan cricket and local
press descriptions of it are alike refresh-
ing. No Test stone-
walling “heroes” up
there! Powell joins
Knight and the
game “goes into a
gallop.” The bats-
men “give the bowl-
in g wha t - o h,”
Knight hitting up
153 n. 0., and Powell
being “sent back to
the gunyah” for 91,
with enough day-
light left for six-
more wickets to fall
before 6.15. Total
score for the after-
noon, 355 for 3hr.
40min. of play.
* *
“K a 1 o a”: The
League of Nations
has come to light
with a “new” stand-
ard quinine treat-
ment for malaria.
It is new to Aus-
tralia, but it has
long been in use
in many malaria countries. Protection
calls for six grains a day throughout the
malaria season and for a few weeks
afterwards ; dose best taken in the even-
ing. For actual cases there is a “short
treatment” —15 to 18 grains a day for
from five to seven days ; the daily dose
is divided into five and patients are kept
resting. This “short” method reduces
fever quickly and is completely safe.
* ❖ H :
“Zedo”: The breed remains tough!
H. N. Booth, a legless Digger, of Kinga-
roy (Q.), where the peanuts grow, runs
his own motor-cycle, driving it from a
sidecar which he has packed with kanga-
roo skins to take up the jolts. The other
day he jogged down from his home town
to Southport—2oo miles—in a single
day. Now a 53-year youngster, Booth
left the Somme with 29 wounds and both
legs missing.
* * ❖ *
Papua has lost an old hand in Father
Gil baud, who came out to join the R.C.
Mission at Yule Island 43 years ago. He
was on the point of retirement and due
to leave for Europe within a few weeks
when he passed on.
* * * *
“N. Coast”: Torres Strait Binghi’s
knowledge of herbs with Stopesian pro-
perties (B. 24/3/’37) extends to natives
of the northern parts of Papua, but no
amount of cajolery could induce one of
my native constables to procure me a
specimen of a plant in which the medical
world would be vastly interested. He
pleaded ignorance for his own part, and
that “wife belong him no talk.” From
what he told me I inferred that the herbs
were gathered by the women secretiy
and when properly treated were effective
taken in a drink or smoked in the form
of a cigarette. To my constable’s know-
ledge, no male had ever seen the plant.
It was woman’s elose preserve.
:|: * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Celebrated her ninety-
third birthday on April 4 at her pretty
bungalow in Southport (Q.), Mrs. Molle-
Raff, the oldest living white person born
in Brisbane. She was a daughter of the
Edward Lords.
* * >it *
“Dungeness”: Barcaldine (W.Q.) has
been mustering its goats by order of the,
“Struck Water, have y' Ma? Then taste it an' see if it's fit fr 'Lijah t' drink."
Shire Council, a periodic measure of
civic management which operates when-
ever the atmosphere reaches a standard
mephitic figure. Only 1150-odd were
rounded up, averaging less than one for
each two Barcaldinites, which sounds an
understatement to anyone who has ever
visited Barcaldine. Only 877 were found
to be registered. These were released to
follow their avocations of wood- and
water-hauling, devouring tin-cans and
gardens, and mountaineering on the local
rubbish tips. Forty-two were sold at 9d.
each to local butchers, and the remaining
231, not being up to mutton standard,
went at Id. each under condition of
immediate slaughter. By some terrible
mistake, Hold-Yer-Nose, the speed cham-
pion, was included among the doomed,
but, luckily, the appalling news reached
the school in time, and a rescue party
saved the local Phar Lap's valuable life.
* * * *
“Polyp”: Now that the seasons have
definitely changed, the coastal areas of
N.Q. are soon going to have their
periodical visitations of “whale spawn.”
There’ll be acres of it, throwing dull
rainbows as the swell of the sea lifts it
to new lights, and the stink when it's
thrown up on the beach will make tour-
ists sniff and say: “I love the ozone of
the sea, don’t you?” There’s a diversity
of opinion about the origin of this stuff.
Some say it’s the whale’s tucker, and the
reason it is plentiful in summer is that
the whales are elsewhere. Others assert
that whales eject it after gathering their
food from the sea. One or two favor
the notion that, with the change of the
season, coral polyps die in millions, and
that the spawn is the dead bodies of
what had been coral builders. Men who
have some authority to speak say the
polyp comes to life at certain times
when conditions favor it, and that its
method of propagation is simple; one
animalculus says to itself “I think Til
have a baby,” and lo! it happens—by
the simple process of its breaking into
two pieces.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
The Institute of International Affairs
is planning a big farewell for the Gover-
nor and his lady before they leave for
England in May. It is to be an “All
Nations” Ball, and should be picturesque.
The Governor and Lady Wilson will fly
to Singapore, thence to England by boat.
Captain Reggie de Leathes is also going
back, to rejoin his regiment; and John
McDonnell is to be in the party, there
and home again.
Another Sydney young man to come
north for his bride-to-be is Tom Mc-
Kinney, of Strathmore, and the lass is
“Babe” Milburn, the daughter of the
F. Milburns, of Cunnamulla.
Parliament House grounds will be the
setting for “As You Like' It,” to be
played in aid of that excellent cause the
Bush Children’s Health Scheme. Vivienne
Taylor is Rosalind, and Jack Walsh
Orlando.
Helen Street, who goes to America on
April 24 for her wedding with Manning
Gibson, has started on a whirl of pre-
teas. Joyce Rounsfell gave one at Rowe’s
and Mrs. J. T. Loadsman has invitations
out for another. Helen is very pretty
and petite; her Texas lad is tall and
handsome.
Noel Stephens, who marries Archie
Douglas, was a guest of honor at
a bridge party given by Joyce Davies
at her home at Dornoch-terrace.
Nancy McWhirter, who leaves by the
Merkur for England, was also a guest
of honor. Mrs. J. P. Davies assisted in
entertaining, and there were gifts for
the two girls.
Brisbane amateur theatres have had
another private evening. Estelle Thomp-
son —she is the wildflower lady, and
knows all our bush flowers by name —
produced one play, and one was put
on by Mollie Crompton. Thelma and
Beryl Sanderson, Edna Rose and Harold
Walker supplied the music.
The Lord Mayor officially opened the
Pacific Golf Club, and club president
Dr. J. F. Dunkley and R. M. King said
the usual charming things afterwards. In
the evening there was a dance, and a
buffet supper was served on the lawn,
which was gay with fairy lights, hung on
shrub and tree. Mrs. J. F. Dunkley and
her husband received the guests, the ladv
in black lace.
Members of the Italian community in
Australia presented to Archbishop Duhig
a fountain of marble, which was made
in Italy. F. M. Bianchi, who rules the
destiny of the Italian newspaper in Bris-
bane, was the moving spirit of the com-
mittee which arranged the presentation,
and Dr. Raphael Cilento was also a
member. The fountain, a lovely thing,
has been erected in the grounds of Wyn-
berg, New Farm, the old Willcocks
home, now the Archbishop’s palace.
About 50 guests, almost all of them
relatives, attended Onorah Jessamine
Joyce’s wedding. The bride is the third
daughter of Edgar Joyce, of The Over-
flow, and the late Mrs. Joyce, who
was a member of
the Collins family
and a kinswoman of
Lady Gowrie and
Hugo Bras s e y.
Bridegroom Lindsay
Lyle Young’s father
was for years g.m.
of the Australian
Pastoral Co. The
wedding was at St.
Thomas’s, Beau-
desert, where there
is a memorial win-
dow to the bride’s
grandparents, the De
Burgh Persses, pio-
neers of the district.
There was a recep-
tion at The Over-
flow, Edgar Joyce
and his eldest un-
married daughter
Patricia receiving the
guests.
Colonel and Mrs.
Frank Newton came
down to Brisbane to
ware farewell to
daughter Wendy, off to England after
securing first-class honors in Arts in Syd-
ney Uni. Wendy is to spend the summer
in England as the guest of her aunt,
Lady Verney.
Roger Hartigan and his Wanderers
went out to Morven for Easter and
played the local cricketers on the ground
at the Nebine. A crowd came in from
Boatman station, and after the match
both teams went out to Boatman to be
entertained. Patricia Hartigan accom-
panied her father on the trip, and thor-
oughly enjoyed it. Mrs. George Mace
looked after the luncheon.
The Cinema Association is anxious to
buy some more equipment, and has had
a lew small parties with that end in view'.
They have all been well patronised, and
the pre-Coronation Ball, to take place
at Lennon’s on May 5, promises to be
a huge success. Moya Connolly, who is
the pivot on which the society re-
volves, is attractive enough, and actress
enough, to catch the eye of any pro-
ducer.


Compounded
from
high grade
medicinal
products
HUDSONS
"EUMENTHOL" «»*
JUJUBES
For Coughs,
Colds,
Influenza.
6d. & 1/6 fin
FORMER CRIPPLE NOW
PLAYS TENNIS
Vanquishes Rheumatism
in Feet.
Here is a story of a young man who had
given up hope of taking part in active sports
with his fellows again. He tells how he tried
one remedy after another and how finally a
former sufferer put him on the way to re-
covery :
“Two years ago I started with pains in the
feet which gradually got worse. I tried ‘every-
thing under the sun,’ but to no effect. Whilst
waiting for treatment one evening, another
patient advised me to try Kruschen Salts. That
was twelve months ago; the relief was not
sudden, but the pain and swelling gradually
left my feet, and in six months I amazed
my friends by taking long walks into the
country. This year I have played a good deal
of tennis, a thing which I had begun to think
1 should never do again.”—C. W.
Most rheumatic pain and swelling is caused
by an excess of uric acid accumulating in the
body. Kruschen will quickly dissolve away
the needle-pointed crystals of uric acid which
are the cause of all the trouble. It will also
flush those dissolved crystals clean out of your
system.
Snwke. stains cm MYtevtk ?_
NEVEfe!
rr a
THIS SPECIAL TOOTH PASTE
No other leading dentifrice contains the special STAIN-REMO VINQ ingredient
that is in Pepsodent. Nor can any other restore the natural whiteness and sparkle
to dull, ugly, smoke-stained teeth ... so speedily, effectively and safely.
You SMOKE, then you have
noticed stains on your teeth,
or ugly yellow smudges.
Pepsodent, the special film-remov-
ing tooth paste, removes that film,
those ugly stains, keeps teeth white
and sparkling. If you use Pepso-
dent, not the faintest smoke stain
will show.
Safest and Most Effective Way
The special ingredient in Pepso-
dent is designed especially for the
removal of film. It is this film that
absorbs the smoke stains. To re-
move the ugly yellow colour, the
film must be removed, and Pepso-
dent will remove it. Your dentist
too, will tell you the advantage of
removing film to avoid tooth decay
and other dental troubles.
In addition, Pepsodent is the softest
. . . therefore the safest, of 15
leading tooth pastes and 6 tooth
powders. Scientific tests have
proved it.
Try Pepsodfent today, then you will
know how really white your teeth
are, how smilingly attractive your
mouth can be!
PEPSODENT
THE SPECIAL FILM-REMOVING
TOOTH PASTE
2*
NOW IN A
NEW 10%
LARGER TUBE
MORE TOOTH PASTE
FOR YOUR MONEY
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery”
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
A torchlight procession through the
city started the students’ revels of
Graduation Week. The customary topi-
calities were featured, and local lumi-
naries were burlesqued. Characterisa-
tions were less risque than hitherto. An
impressive function was the unveiling of
a memorial to the late Professor Shann.
Lieut.-Governor Mitchell, standing at the
end of the sunken garden, withdrew the
covering from the stone sundial, a pleas-
ing piece of craftsmanship. After this
ceremony there was tea in a lecture-
room, where Professor and Mrs. Alex-
ander, she in black French crepe, did the
honors. Mrs. Shann and her daughters
Jane and Marjorie were topmost names
on the long list of honored guests.
Loudest applause at the graduation
ceremony was given to G. L. Sutton,
Director of Agriculture, who received an
honorary degree of Doctor of Science in
Agriculture. His was the last name on
the list of 124 degree and diploma re-
ceivers—a sort of grand finale, com-
plete with red gown, green hood and
trencher. Most of the newly-degreed
trod a measure in Winthrop Hall at the
Grad. Ball. Dorothy Tangney, with a
ripple of ruby-red velvet, directed affairs
with assistance from Charles Anderson
and Frank Wilson. Professor Whitfeld
and his other half, she in a sheathing of
scarlet lace, stood at the portals as the
crowds rolled in. Marjorie Shann took
the floor in a slinky gown of quilted
white velvet, Mollie Wreford’s plum-
bago-blue silks were wrapped firmly
around her throat, and Joan Read
slipped blue dotted net over rustling
taffeta.
Bunbury was alive with traffic for the
Garland-Withers wedding at St. Paul’s
Cathedral. Bride Linda was given away
by F. J. Withers, M.L.A., who marched
beside his daughter’s parchment satin.
Pearl clips gleamed from the shoulder
ol the cowl neck, which undulated off
into a long train. In her wake came
Jean Clarke and Hazel and Sylvia
Withers, their bouffant gold taffetas
shirred into puffed sleeves and topped
with haloes of gold lame.
Plans were afoot for an escort of the
Goldfields Infantry detachment to ac-
company Lord Gowrie on his way to
Perth. Tunics were issued, badges,
equipment and general trappings were
supplied and orders of the day drawn
up. But on the day the detachment was
missing. Trousers had been omitted
from the list of supplies.
King’s Park Tennis Club wound up its
tournament with a cheerful dance in its
pillared pavilion. Joint guests of honor
were racquet-wielders Nancye Wynne
and Thelma Coyne. Nancye’s stiffened
taffetas ran to a riot of multicolored
blooms, and over Thelma’s patterned
satins swung a circular cape. Mrs. Boyd
King, who partnered one of the visitors
in carrying off the doubles championship
cup, was girded with shining gold lame.
Mrs. Basil Bruce’s black cloque was
liberally embroidered with beads ; a gold
thread was wrought into Mrs. Sam
Mortimer’s heavy black silks, and Joan
Everett changed her tennis kit for a
frothy creation of flame georgette.
From the north comes news of the
engagement of Fit! Grace, daughter of
the Ross Drages, of Northampton, and
Vaughan Kempton, from the station’s
port of call, Geraldton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
George Ritchie and his lady returned
from a trip to Colombo in time for him
to take up the duties of Premier during
the absence of R. L. Butler, who has left
for the Coronation. Isobel Ritchie, who
accompanied her parents, has remained
in Ceylon for a few weeks.
A Story Book Ball, in aid of funds
of the Junior Red Cross Home for
crippled and invalid children at Henley
Beach, was held in the Town Hall, and
was a great success. The children and
many of the adults were in fancy dress.
The decorations, carried out by Mrs.
Frank Harcus, were effective. The stage
was peopled by life-size images of animals
—tigers, lions, giraffes and other fear-
some beasts. Round the hall were huge
colored posters, the work of Miss M.
Oldfield, depicting nursery-rhyme char-
acters. Lady Dugan, in a white satin
patterned with a foliage design in black
and made with little jacket effect, ar-
rived at 9 p.m. and was received by Mrs.
Clive Bonython, who, in a rose-pink
poudre costume, trimmed with pearls,
represented Madame Pompadour. Fancy
dresses were judged by the Bonython
lady, Mrs. Frank Harcus and Louis Mc-
Cubbin, and Lady Dugan presented the
prizes.
A garden-party gift afternoon in aid
of the Lavis Free Kindergarten was held
in the beautiful garden at Kalymna,
Kent Town, the home of the E. W.
Holdens. The Bonython lady, who
opened the party, was presented with
a sheaf of dahlias by one of the
kindergarten children. Mrs. Holden’s
daughter, Mrs. Frank Buttfield, and
Mrs. Max Field ran a tennis tour-
nament that lasted all day. The spacious
verandah afforded space for stalls, and
there was a big demand for afternoon
tea. The children of the kindergarten re-
cited nursery rhymes, and their “Per-
cussion Band,” in which saucepan lids
are among the instruments, gave a per-
formance.
At a luncheon at the Lyceum Club
Louis McCubbin gave an address on
“Art Makers,” in the course of which
he remarked that art in Australia has
not been affected as in other countries
by forms of revolt. Mabel Marryat
(president) welcomed Mr. McCubbin,
and Violet de Mole thanked him for his
address.
St. Peter’s, Glenelg, was decorated
with pink hollyhocks, dahlias and
gladioli for the marriage of Lorna, only
daughter of Mrs. and the late A. Rug-
less, of Glenelg, to Donald Robert,
youngest son of the late Mr. and Mrs.
W. Lindsay, of Unley Park. The bride
was gowned in magnolia satin made on
princess lines merging into a long train.
Her tulle bridal veil in the same shade
was held in place by a halo of orange-
blossom and leaves. Her bridesmaids,
Edna Christison and Connie McArthur,
and the flower-girl, Julia Gunning, were
frocked alike in peach-pink taffeta.
Council and committee members of
the C.W.A. entertained Mrs. L. Whisk-
ard at morning-tea at the Lyceum Club.
The lady was spending a few days in
Adelaide en route for Canberra on a
visit to her son, the British High Com-
missioner. Mrs. Whiskard is a member
of the -Women’s Institute in Suffolk.
Phyllis, daughter of the Cecil Brays,
of Glenelg, who was injured at the Syd-
ney Show, where she won two hack
prizes with Echo, is still in St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Sydney. She had a bad fall
off her hunter Royalty, cutting her face
severely.
TASMANIA.
Before the ships of the R.A.N. steamed
out of the Derwent in gallant style there
was a very jolly dance in the Canberra,
preceded by a cocktail party given by
Commander and Mrs. R. Dowling in the
Swan. Lady Clark, in a mauve lace
frock, was at the dance.
The weather rather spoilt the enjoy-
ment of racegoers at Elphin (Launces-
ton), but there was a good attendance.
Dressing was mostly a matter of mackin-
toshes and brollies, but some women
managed to look smart even while de-
fying the rain. Among others on the
lawn were Dr. and Mrs. L. O. Macna-
mara, the H. C. Barnards, the Val
Taylors, the H. P. Harrissons, Dr. and
Mrs. G. T. Harris, the J. Vranisans, Dr.
and Mrs. Rail Robertson, Mrs. C. W.
Martin and Mrs. Alan Wood.
Mary and Mabel Icely returned Hobart
hospitality with an at-home at the
Queen Mary Club. There were about
60 guests, including several of the hos-
tesses’ Sydney friends still lingering in
the Speck. The Icelys are among the
Mount Wellington devotees who come
over from N.S.W. and other parts every
year, and don’t mind even our early bliz-
zards.
The Lord Mayor and his lady gave a
civic reception to C. C. Wicks (newly-
appointed manager of 7ZL in place of
Lt.-Col. L. R. Thomas, reshuffled to
Adelaide) and to J. W. Kitto, of the
A.B.C. Mrs. Wicks accompanied her
husband. They are from Westralia.
Ninie Gibson is one of the many lucky
travellers London-bound. Before sailing
her mother and two brothers, Trevor and
Roy, entertained about 100 guests at the
Imperial to bid her bon voyage.
The inter-’Varsity tennis teams were
entertained at a committee dance in the
’Varsity library. Chancellor W. J. T.
Stops welcomed the guests at supper-time.
Elizabeth Bowling did the secretarial job,
helped by Pat Rex.
That persistent traveller Mrs. A. Stour-
lon is off to England in the Nestor for
the nth time. The Lyceum Club said its
good-bye to her with tea and flowers.
Mrs. Stourton is not keen on corona-
tions, but while away intends doing
something to help her pet institutions,
the Victoria League and the N.C.W.
“Lond”: Critic A. G. Macdonell’s
cheerful summary of English drama and
poetry for 1936: “The theatres had on
the whole a good year, in spite of Sir
James Barrie, O.M. . Not a single poem
worth a tinker’s damn was written
throughout the year.” The slighting
reference to Barrie doubtless refers to
his “David,” written for Elisabeth Berg-
ner, in which, according to critics, the
author and the lady have between them
turned the hefty young shepherd into a
sort of Peter Pan.
* * * *
“Crank”: The latest mischief His Nibs
has found for idle hands to do in the
U.S.A. and Europe is a table game. This
consists of upsetting a box of wooden
sticks, like long matches, on a table and
then hooking each one out of the heap
with an implement without disturbing
the others. It is that friend of our child-
hood “spillikins,” now masquerading
under the name of “Pell Mell.” This
properly belongs to a long-dead outdoor
game popular in the time of Charles 11.
of sanctified memory. It consisted in
propelling a ball over a course through
rings with a special stick, and gave its
name to the famous London thorough-
fare in which it was played by the Court
and is called to-day “The Mall.”


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel a'.er A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Mfaspwm/zmm r
£Y£#y IV££K
Australasian
on£ale~4llStateS'~P/2/ce&?
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price for the original,
Australia!s Leading Financial Journal.
April Issue Now on Sale.
SHARE AND COMMODITY MARKETS ANALYSED.
RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES IN UNIT TRUSTS.
LEAD—ZINC—COPPER—TIN.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSILD.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Unclaimed Funds.
JAMES and WILSON.
WANTED, relatives of DOUGLAS LIOSKEN
HARPER JAMES, deceased, and WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON.
Any descendants of FREDERICK JAMES,
CHARLES ANDREW JAMES and EDWARD
JAMES may be entitled to a share of property
in England. All three were sons of Lieutenant
James, R.N., of Cornwall, who died in 1857.
I. CHARLES ANDREW JAMES, supposed
unmarried, born 1840, formerly of Naracoorte,
South Australia, not heard of after 1894.
11. EDWARD JAMES, born 1842, died
about 1866 in Australia, having married and
left one child, Thomas Henry Andrew Hosken
James, last mentioned in 1886.
111. Rewards will be paid for proof of the
death of any of these persons or the present
whereabouts of them, if living, or of any de-
scendants.
IV. Information also required of WILLIAM
VERNON WILSON, a seaman, son of Cap-
tain Charles Pooley Wilson, a first cousin of
Douglas James, not heard of since 1908, when
he was in Melbourne.
A reward will be paid for proof of his present
address or date of death or whereabouts of
widow or children, if any.
All applications can be sent to BUDD & CO.,
33 Bedford Row, London, or MOULE,
HAMILTON & DERHAM, of 394 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
The Long White Cloud
“Motu”: Tasman Sea susceptibilities
are easily injured—if you doubt it, spend
a few thousand pounds presenting any
Australian or Maoriland city with a
nude, in marble, bronze or paint, and
listen to the uproar. Auckland (M.L.)
was left £lO,OOO for memorial gates, sur-
mounted by a bronze statue, at the en-
trance to its Domain. Moralists had one
swift look at the sculptor’s nude athlete,
and began a tirade of criticism that is
still reaching the town hall. Fourteen
of Auckland’s city councillors took deep
breaths and voted against the addition
of the modest fig-leaf—but another
thousand petitioners have since accused
them of helping to “destroy the conven-
tions which protect decency and moral-
ity.” They declare the mute discus-
thrower “establishes a precedent which
will render ineffective any efforts to sup-
press indecent pictures and books.” The
unusual feature of the statue is not its
nakedness but the way.in which it is
throwing the discus; contrary to gen-
eral practice, it is chucking with its lejt
hand.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Fog, cloud and mountains
are a bad flying combination, especially
where phenomenal weather variations
occur over comparatively short distances.
Maoriland suffers these climatic changes,
and, particularly in the area north of
Wellington, it has mountain ranges and
cloud. More air accidents have occurred
in that vicinity than anywhere else in the
country ; the two Taranaki fliers whose
club machine disappeared in fog over
a stretch of this coastline are the latest
victims. Every smash in the locality has
involved club pilots, who are naturally
less familiar than service pilots with the
intricacies and dangers of blind flying.
Union Airways machines, flying from
Palmerston North to Dunedin, have tra-
versed this section for more than a year
without mishap, and the day the, Tara-
naki ’plane disappeared an airliner on
its regular run flew through the same
conditions.
* * * *
“M.”: Australian yachtsmen will
chuckle to learn that Johnny Wray, who
sailed his Ngataki against George Dib-
bern’s Te Rapunga in the Melbourne
century Tasman Sea race from Auck-
land (M.L.), is still knocking round the
Pacific in the same boat. Both skippers
had another lick at each other in a Bass
Strait race from Melbourne to Hobart,
the start of it being in the bar of the
Royal St. Kilda Yacht Club. Dibbern
and his Te Rapunga are now at Hono-
lulu, and soon he will continue his Pacific
voyage ; after that he crosses to the Old
World and the Germany he left in the
same boat some years ago. Wray has
been in odd corners of the Pacific ever
since he and Dibbern cleared the Aus-
tralian coast on their return to Maori-
land—at time of writing he is just
completing a trip from Norfolk Island
back to Auckland. So he has had a
lot of fun —as well as a reasonable living
—out of the boat he built himself in the
Waitemata Harbor a few years ago.
* * * *
“Mak”: Westralians meet an old ac-
quaintance on Maoriland’s larger lakes
and estuaries, but they will almost cer-
tainly be told it is a native of Maori-
land. Acts of Parliament protecting
native animals and game can be quoted
by Maorilanders in support of their
claim that the black swan is a native
bird; it is classed as native game in
Maoriland, and is subject to the same
regulations as the ducks that sportsmen
will be so hopefully stalking on May 1.
But R. A. Falla has dug up facts show-
ing that the first black swans were im-
ported from Australia to Nelson as early
as 1864. In the same year Sir George
Grey —who was in Westralia long be-
fore he first saw M.L. —procured some
for his island home at Kawau in the
north, and Walter Buller released a few
more in the Wellington district. Accli-
matisation societies in Canterbury, Otago
and Southland made further black-swan
importations, and for years the bird has
been an important member of Maori-
land’s waterfowl population. Actually,
it is more plentiful in Maoriland to-day
than it is in Australia.
* * * *
“Fergus”: Wives in Christchurch
(M.L.) are in a unique position for cut-
ting a bit of a dash when husbands say
they can expect an art-loving client for
dinner. Instead of shifting all the best
pictures into one room and hoping the
gaps on other walls will be overlooked,
"A few chips off the old block , Hori?"
“Py korry, yes. A few more chips an' there Won't pe any of te old block left!”
the enterprising wife can now run round
to a picture-lending library and borrow
a few Maoriland originals. The idea
originated with Frank Birkinshaw, a
medical man, who persuaded Christ-
church artists that such a library would
be a good way of bringing “unsolds”
before a public always chary of spend-
ing money on works of art. Sixty paint-
ings by Christchurch artists are available
to subscribers at reasonable borrowing
rates, and members can buy over a long
period or outright.
* * * *
“Xo”: Apropos of the number of
Taranaki (M.L.) aspirants for the Bulle-
tin cadetship (B. 7/4/’37), credit should
go to the “News” and the “Herald,”
both published in New Plymouth. The
“News,” firmly established by the late
T. C. List, and now controlled by a local
directorate, conducts annual essay com-
petitions on provincial history as well as
offering annual short-story prizes. The
“Herald” also helps local writers among
the youth of the province ; it has been
owned by the Weston family since New
Plymouth began. Numbered among
Maoriland’s oldest sheets, both dailies
are in the top flight of Maoriland’s pro-
vincial press, and both have young editors.
Moreover, the Don Saxton who has
edited the “News” for some years and
the Brian Scanlan who has just com-
pleted a world tour preparatory to taking
over the “Herald” are local products.
% * * *
“Korero”: If an abo. has crept into
any Australian party now on its way to
the Coronation, the event has been kept
very dark ; but there are two Maoris in
the military contingent that will repre-
sent Maoriland in London. One of them
is a member of Parliament and the other,
a 38-year old farmer, was an All-Black
Rugby three-quarter in 1923. E. T. Tiri-
katene is Labor member for Southern
Maori, and is also one of the official
Parliamentary delegation. Sam Gemmell,
the Hawke Bay footballer who married
a Sydney girl in 1931, enlisted when he
was 16 and was on active service before
he was much older. After it was over
he played with the Maori pioneer Rugby
team in England and Wales before re-
turning, in 1920, to school at Te Aute
College in his home province. From
there he won his way into Hawke’s Bay’s
series of champion representative Rugby
teams ; he has been twice to Australia,
and in 1926-27 revisited old scenes with
the Maori team that went to England
and France.
* • * * *
“Mak”: Two changes affecting Mel-
bourne and Sydney newspapers carry
more than ordinary interest for Maori-
land. W. McKenzie, perhaps the best
known of the McKenzie Rugby Union
footballers, has retired from the Mur-
doch press, and R. H. Kempton, a former
Auckland journalist, has left the Mel-
bourne “Sun-Pictorial” to become pic-
torial editor of the Sydney “Herald.”
One of Maoriland’s most destructive
Rugby Union wing-forwards, “Off-side
Mac” still has brothers actively associ-
ated with Rugby refereeing and Maori-
land administration. He was on the old
“N.Z. Times” and the “Dominion” be-
fore he crossed to the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” back in 1912; an early
Maoriland boss was the late E. D. Hogan,
a “Times” managing-editor, who was one
of the N.Z. Rugby Union founders. An
old football friend and business associate
who still thrives in Maoriland is printer
Jim McLeod, New Plymouth’s M.L.C.
Their last meeting was in Melbourne
about 10 years ago when McLeod went
to Vic. as manager of an All-Black
team and found McKenzie, then circu-
lation manager of the “Sun-Pictorial,”
doing his bit to help the V.R.U. through
its early trials. Kempton, one of the
many “N.Z. Herald” men in Australia,
is remembered in Maoriland for the great
job he did when covering the wreck of
the Wiltshire.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Leon Woizikowsky’s inten-
tion to use Maori dances as a basis for
a ballet (B. 7/4/’37) will' not surprise
artists in overseas countries; various
theatrical managers who have toured
Maoriland in the last 20 years have tried
to buy Maori singers and dancers from
different native centres, particularly
Rotorua. But Rotorua natives are ruled
quite sternly by their tribal chiefs, and
most offers have foundered on the deter-
mination of these elders to see that their
people are not exploited or spoilt. Some
native missions have formed Maori
choirs and taken them abroad—the
Waiata party, well enough known in dif-
ferent Australian capitals, has just begun
a tour that is to take in America as well
as England—but the elders have suffi-
ent ad J? mission leaders to give
these parties then blessing.


PORTABLE SHORT-WAVE
THERAPY UNITS
Designed for the General Practitioner
Embody Large Output, Compactness and
Ease of Control. Also larger units as at
present being used in Hospitals and Clinics.
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
KINGSLEY TELERADIO CONSTRUCTIONS
PTY., LTD.,
249-251 Spring Street, Melbourne, C.l.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227, 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grip
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
9 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
=*HPLIOh=
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“Amplion Dynamic Speaker*
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.’
“Fitted in all quality He*
ceivers.”
“ Publication forwarded on
request.” .
MPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD
66 Clarence Street, Sydne?.
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
1937 Amateur Radio
Exhibition.
The exhibition will be held in Sydney
Town Hall (lower hall), with entrance
from Druitt'-street, from May 3 to 8.
Hours are to be: Monday, opening at 6
p.m., with official opening at 9 p.m., clos-
ing 10.30 p.m.; Tuesday, 6 p.m. to 10.30
p.m.; Wednesday, noon to 10.30 p.m.;
Thursday, 6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.; Friday,
noon to 10.30 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m.
to 9 p.m. Admission, 6d. adults, 3d.
children.
In the first competition section radio
clubs affiliated with the W.I.A. will com-
pete for a cup for the best complete
stall exhibit. Three prizes are offered,
£3 35., £2 2s. and £1 Is., for the best
pieces of apparatus shown on these
stalls.
In the second section there are seven
sub-sections. One consists of two prizes,
first and second, for the transmitter
showing most originality and economy in
design. A special prize is also offered
here. There are also prizes for the most
efficiently designed and correctly built
amateur receiver; the most efficiently
designed and correctly built multi-band
transmitter; the most compact and port-
able station (U.H.F. gear and trans-
receivers included); the best U.H.F. re-
ceiver (one prize only); the best U.H.F.
transmitter (two prizes); the best
example of a piece of apparatus, exclud-
ing gear that' could be. exhibited in the
foregoing sections, including wave-meter,
monitor, key or similar accessories (two
prizes); the best dual or all-wave receiver
of home construction (three prizes), pref-
ence in this to be given to a receiver
completely home-built if all other points
are equal.
It is necessary to include with each
entry a description of the gear, with
points of merit and circuit design, etc.
The judges can request, if considered
necessary, that gear be demonstrated ; so
that all exhibits, to gain maximum
points, must be in working order. Points
will be awarded for ( a ) design, (6) work-
manship, (c) covering description. Com-
petitions are open to all members of the
W.I.A. and affiliated clubs free. A
nominal entry fee of 2s. 6d. is required
of non-member competitors. Entries* will
be received at Sydney Town Hall (lower
hall) on Sunday, May 2, from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m., and on Monday, May 3, from
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Judges whose know-
ledge of the various sections is unques-
tionable will be appointed.
Stall allocation is not completed, but
stands booked when this page went to
press were:
W. G. Watson and Co., A. W. Valve Co.,
Price’s Radio Service, North Suburban
Radio Club, Manly Radio Club, Waverley
Radio Club, Lakemba Radio Club, Zero
Beat Radio Club, Noyes Bros (Sydney),
Amalgamated Wireless (A/sia), Slade’s
Radio, Working Exhibits (amateur stations
in action), extra W.I.A. stand for work-
ing exhibits if required, Philips Lamps
(A/sia), Swains (Pitt-street, Sydney), Ducon
Condenser Pty., E. F. Wilkes and Co.,
Committee stand, “Wireless Weekly,”
George Brown and Co., Radiokes, Ltd.,
“Australian Radio World,” Radio Trans-
mission Equipment, Ltd. (London), Post-
master-General’s Department, Vesta Bat-
tery Co. (Aust.), A. G. Davis and Co.,
Paton Electrical Instrument Co., John
Martin, Ltd., and Lekmek Radio.
Short-wave Aerial Coupling.
The simple regenerative short-wave re-
ceiver of the detector-and-audio variety
invariably relies upon the coupling of
any kind of aerial through a small fixed
or variable condenser direct from the
grid circuit of the detector. This is nor-
mally satisfactory, but often the user is
faced with the problem of local elec-
trical interference and considers a
twisted pair or transposed feeder
doublet aerial as a possible cure. The
ordinary aerial series condenser coupling
is then not applicable, and the use of a
doublet calls for a coupling coil. Such
a coil should be variable in relation to
the grid coil. The diagram shows a
simple manner of arranging this where
the existing plug-in coils are of the four-
pin type and where there are no idle pins
available for extra windings. This ar-
rangement is better, in any case, because
of the variable coupling feature. The
coupling coil is mounted on a swivel
bearing at the top of a stand-off pillar
or insulator and controlled by a |in.
bakelite (or other insulating material)
rod. Metal should not be used for this
rod; hand-capacity affects the tuning.
With a double aerial coil, as shown, series
tuning condensers can be effectively in-
cluded in the feeders for tuning the
aerial system additionally. Some experi-
ment will be necessary with the turns, to
suit length of aerial. Generally, the
amount of inductance should correspond
to that of the grid coil for the particular
wave range. Changeable coils are an
advantage.
D. B. K.
Looking Backwards.
Old radio hands recall the time when,
with valves that would be looked at
askance to-day, overseas broadcasting
stations could be pulled in clearly and
enjoyably with single-valve receivers.
When Australian broadcasting stations
came into action around 1923 they were
received well, although they were located
possibly several hundred miles apart.
Some single-valve receivers of those days
made use of Dutch valves of the “soft”
type. When the plate voltage exceeded
about 30 volts they gave out a blue glow.
Coils were home-made, of the basket
kind, fitted into a two-way coil-holder
in which one coil could be moved in
respect to the other. The valves were
supposed to be four-volt filament types,
but it was advisable to keep the filament
rheostat well down for fear of a burn-
out. With a good pair of headphones
(and they were good in those days), cost-
ing five guineas or so, and a simple
“swinging-reaction” receiver, many early
Australian experiments succeeded in even
hearing American broadcasting stations,
such as the old KGO Oakland.
The question arises as to why these
results could be obtained with valves and
components which (excepting the
’phones) were much inferior to those now
available, whereas to-day it is quite an
effort to locate an American station on
the broadcast band. Receivers are cer-
tainly better to-day, so it follows that
conditions of reception must be worse.
Again, in earlier days broadcasting
stations didn’t use hundreds of kilowatts
of power ; they were mostly 2kw. plants,
One possible explanation of the fact that
much more powerful stations are now
more difficult to pick up is that the ether
acts towards the huge number of re-
ceivers and transmitters somewhat like
a sponge and mops up a fair amount of
energy. This may sound fantastic, and
will be considered improbable by most,
but the fact remains, making all allow-
ances for sunspot theories, that things
aren’t the same as they were. Perhaps
technical readers have some better ex-
planation than the absorption theory.
D. B. K.
Radio Code.
The Standards Association of Aus-
tralia announces the issue of a new radio
The Ever-Reacly stand at Sydney R.A.S. 1937 Show featured prominently
the new Air-Cell described in B. 24/2/’37.
code. This has been awaited with in-
terest by the radio business, and without
doubt will be of considerable import-
ance. and assistance.
The code is divided into two parts —
standard rules for the installation of
radio, electro-acoustic and combined
radio and electro-acoustic apparatus, and
a standard specification for safety re-
quirements.
The standard rules are based on those
previously included in the 1931 edition
of the S.A.A. electrical wiring rules. The
1937 edition of the wiring rules retains
only certain rules relating to actual
power wiring of buildings in which radio
apparatus is installed. Separation of
radio rules from the. electrical wiring
rules was considered desirable because of
the growing importance of radio and the
need to keep the electrical wiring rules
within reasonable, limits. The standard
rules have clauses dealing with quality
of materials and apparatus, power con-
nection, earthing, aerials (exterior to
buildings and within buildings), and
special aerials. The specification portion
of the code was prepared by a special
sub-committee of the association, and is
based on the British and Canadian speci-
fications, the regulations of the Institu-
tion of Electrical Engineers, London,
and similar standards. The specification
for safety requirements deals with defi-
nitions, electrical characteristics, mark-
ing, design and construction, including
protection of live parts, connection to
supply mains, component apparatus and
wiring, and numerous relative tests.
The new code is on sale at the head-
quarters of the Standards Association of
Australia, Science House, Gloucester-
street, Sydney, and at branch offices.
Television in England.
Sir Noel Ashbridge, 8.8. C. chief en-
gineer, in an address to the Royal
Empire Society, said it would soon be
possible to develop a more sensitive
“electron” camera which would greatly
reduce the difficulties under which the
producer of television programmes now
works. With such a camera it would be
possible to use a telephoto lens in order
to televise scenes at some distance, or a
microscopic lens for the transmission of
small objects.
While it might be possible to pick up
the signals from the Alexandra Palace
in distant parts of the world under ex-
tremely favorable conditions, reception
would be erratic, and the day was still
a long way off when it would be possible
to provide a television service from
London to the distant parts of the
Empire.
After the adoption of one technical
standard of television transmissions from
the 8.8. C. station at the Alexandra
Palace, London, British manufacturers
announced sweeping reductions in the
price of television receivers. It is now
possible to obtain for £6O a receiver of
reputable manufacture which will receive
both the television and sound signals
from the Alexandra Palace ; and for £BO
television receivers can be obtained
which include also provision for the
reception of ordinary broadcast pro-
grammes on the long, medium or short-
wave bands. T.-p. arrangements are
liberal.


“RADIO”
The world-wide technical authority of
amateur, short-wave and experimental
radio.
Subscriptions are now 16/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at The Bulletin
office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
‘■Radio" is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly, in-
cluding special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all radio
magazines—on the bookstall to-day, sold
out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy !
RADiOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
you money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/-.
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently .
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
Amateur Chatter.
Contests are ever popular, and none
has been more so than the first W/VE
DX ’phone tourney, just concluded.
Previous crowding of American ’phones
between 14,150 and 14,250 kc. was mild
compared with the jostling screech of
heterodynes in Eastern Australia during
the contest. Prominent Americans who
had previously been all for the code DX
contests remarked that henceforth they
will be interested only in the phone con-
tests —one gets more fun. Quite so, but
A.R.R.L. would be wise to inaugurate
senior and junior sections to give the
really QRP ’phone stations added in-
terest. The big fellows boom through
incessantly, and hundreds of lesser
lights are reduced to striving valiantly
to ride in on the crest of somebody’s
wave. Contests are probably very good
tor amateur radio —or part of it—but
much of the cream is skimmed off when
they develop into marathons. A frantic
exchange of serial numbers clutters up
the air for week-ends, or, perhaps, for
weeks on end, and the poor little ham
who is interested in amateur radio in a
different manner finds himself an in-
truder if he dares to try to work DX
with any other aims or thoughts than
those of piling up points. Still, some-
body benefits by these contests, and it
is perhaps as well that likes and dis-
likes differ widely.
Not many years ago the old-timer who
would work early-morning DX arose
with the knowledge that if he heard a
European or two on 40 or 20 he would,
signal-strength permitting, get in a good
yarn with a G, F or perhaps a D. By
a “good yam” would be meant some-
thing more than a mere “Good-day, how
are you? See you again.” Each would
find something out about the other, and
a more or less uninterrupted QSO might
last for two hours. How different are
things to-day! Lucky indeed is the VK
who can work a European for longer
than a few minutes before the man at
the other end throws in the towel on ac-
count of “ ’phone QRM.”
One does not wish that there were
fewer active amateurs in the world —the
more the better. This “QRM-prolific”
state of affairs is no fault of the ama-
teur collectively. But when, despite the
guff written about how much respective
Governments love their amateurs, about
60,000 amateurs are jarnbed into tiny
crevices in the frequency spectrum there
is room for complaint.
In sharp contrast to the Convention
Signatory countries is a nation that
signed nothing, and wisely looked to its
amateurs to develop what may be termed
its “commercial” short-wave communi-
cation services. “Commercials” in that
country can be heard working with ama-
teurs, and one understands that the ama-
teurs are not by any means obliged to
stay within the band limits as set for
other countries. Yet one never hears
of chaotic QRM in “commercial” chan-
nels, caused by these fortunates with
wide frequency ranges. <
Very valuable is the abbreviated style
of “international English” one finds
spoken by key in amateur radio. Two
phone communicants might be at a loss,
but it is a certainty that on the key
everything would be understood. As a
contrast and a demonstration of how
the other fellow may be more than
fluent in English, the writer quotes these
extracts from a key yarn with a German
in the early morning of 27/3/’37: “Bad
QRM that time, OM. Some old dame
has an orange-juice squeezer going some-
where.... Will have to get toward eat-
ing now ; the frau is raising hell as I am
late.” How many Australians —or Eng-
lishmen —could talk to a German thus in
his own language?
Congratulations are due to GSBY for
being the first English station to get his
five-metre signals across the Atlantic.
They were received and verified by a
2nd District American. GSBY used cry-
stal control with 1500 watts input to a
final push-pull stage, using 35Ts and a
diamond array.
If there is any chance of a west coast
American reaching Australia on five it
should be W6AM. He is erecting an
array with 25 half-waves broadside for
Australia, and years of knowledge of his
methods ensure that he is likely to use
power, and plenty of it.
Add to queer callsigns that of a station
heard at 3 a.m. Sydney time on 20 call-
Portion of the A.W.A. stand at Sydney’s R.A.S. 1937 Show, showing the
communication map and the 10kw. short-wave transmitter.
ing “CQ de ABCDE.” He remained
deaf to calls. Another one for W6QD’s
doubtfuls?
‘ ' ' '. , ‘
The week closed with large numbers
of ’phone amateurs suffering from sore
throat as a result of the ’phone contest,
VK2NO.
FOR CONSTRUCTORS.
A new type of three-wave-change battery
superhet will shortly be described here.
It is designed around the latest Radiokes
kit, with Sirufer iron-core intermediates
of the permeability peak-tuning type.
As with all Radiokes kit-sets, it will be
a comparatively easy assembly for the
home constructor'.
A.W.A. Royal Show Exhibit.
This year the Amalgamated Wireless
display in the Hordern Pavilion at the
Sydney R.A.S. was on a far larger scale
than any previous ones. Chief among
the exhibits were the 1937 Radiolas and
Radiolettes, the place of honor being
accorded to the new Fisk Radiola
model 262.
A feature of the display was a large
relief model of the Southern Hemi-
sphere, showing Australia as the centre
of Pacific communications. A lOkw.
A.W.A. short-wave transmitter was the
subject of much interest: it occupied a
frontage of 25ft.
One side of the display was taken up
by bays illustrating the beam wireless
communication services and those of
New Guinea, Papua and Fiji. Further
bays illustrated a broadcasting studio,
wireless telephone services between. Aus-
tralia and overseas, beam picluregram
service between Australia and Great
Britain, beam wireless stations at Fisk-
ville and Rockband (Vic.) and A.W.A.
radio-electric works at Ashfield (N.S.W.).
A comprehensive display was made of
the company’s communication, aircraft
and broadcasting equipment. An ex-
tremely small transreceiver used for the
transmission and reception of wireless
messages over a range of a few miles
only was displayed. It works on the five-
metre wave band, which has lately en-
gaged the close attention of radio scien-
tists, particularly in experiments relating
to television.
Recent developments in broadcasting
studios illustrated included a desk which
enables a producer to take complete con-
trol of a radio programme before it goes
on to the air. The desk has a series of
controls and switches, by means of which
the producer blends the output of vari-
ous microphones and gramophone turn-
tables to give whatever balance and
volume he considers requisite. The desk
enables him also to introduce “effects”
and generally to govern the output of
the studio.
Relationship between aviation and
radio was illustrated by equipment car-
ried on aeroplanes enabling pilots to keep
in touch with ground stations. The
utility of radio in this connection has
so impressed itself that the Common-
wealth Government has instructed Amal-
gamated Wireless to provide additional
land stations on the aerial routes of Aus-
tralia for the convenience of travellers
by air.
Several forms of marine wireless
equipment were on show, and consider-
able interest was taken in the small SOS
signal transmitter, evolved by A.W.A.,
which is carried on small vessels, enabling
the distress signal to be transmitted, if
required, without the assistance of a
wireless operator.
Sydney-Newcastle 5-metre
Achievement.
Individual reports are to hand touch-
ing on the successful 56mc. field day of
the W.I.A. (N.S.W. Div.) last month,
From the Newcastle end (VK2ZC) comes
particularly interesting information. In
addition to reception of VK2NO very
strongly (the signal was R 8 and could
be heard well away from headphones),
VK2ZC reports hearing VIC2EM, also of
Sydney, at QSAS, R 5.
Further, VK2EM heard VK2ZC
answering VK2NO’s calls. In this the
Bruce aerial has thoroughly proved its
efficiency. VK2EM is a small station
operated by A. F. Sutton at Darling
Point, Sydney. The location is such that
any experienced five-metre man would
take one look and depart for higher ele-
vations. It is right on water level, and
the Bruce aerial is only about 40ft.
higher. Despite this, the signal from a
25-watt transmitter at this point careered
over mountains and valleys northward to
the station located for the day, up on
Sugarloaf, near Newcastle. There could
be no question of “optical range,” and
the distance is 70 miles.
The report from VK2ZC (J. Cowan,
of Newcastle Radio Club) shows that he
was also using a Bruce array. Whereas
stronger signals were received from
VK2NO at Sugarloaf, there is a vast
difference in the stations and the loca-
tions in Sydney. VK2NO is well up in
the sky. In fact, the position was chosen
with 56mc. and higher frequency work
in mind a few years ago. VK2EM’s
results should be an inspiration to ex-
perimental transmitters who consider that
they are poorly placed for U.H.F. work.
Again it shows that more than nine-
tenths of success lies with the aerial. It
must be a concentrated beam, and it
must be rotatable. The Bruce array fills
the bill.
D. B. K.
For the Bookshelf.
The A.R.R.L. story of amateur radio,
Two Hundred Metres and Down, by
Clinton B. De Soto (our copy from
Swain’s, Sydney; 65.), is a revelation to
the younger radio amateur and a stimu-
lant of memories for the old hand. It is
written from the American point of view,
but it must be conceded that no nation
has had more influence in the develop-
ment of amateur radio communication
than U.S.A. It was in that country that
the seeds were first sown, and De Soto
may be, pardoned his emphasis upon the
emergency services of American amateurs
to the almost total exclusion of similar
work in other countries. From the
start the American Radio Relay League
has been the foundation on which
amateur radio has grown, and this book
gives a clear insight into the important
part the League has played through the
years. Those who knew the early days
of the League will revel in the accounts
of the first trans-Atlantics and trans-
Pacifics. Australia’s part in the latter is
recalled by the work of Chas. Maclurcan
(A2CM) and Jack Davis (A2DS)i The
story of the early “spark” trans-
continental in U.S.A. recalls the battle
between the “rock-crushers” and C.W.,
and the victory of the latter. It will
come as news to present-day amateurs
(hat Deloy (F8AB) was decorated by
France for being the first to put signals
across the Atlantic below 200 metres.
Most of the pioneers pass by as one,
scans the pages, and the realisation is
brought home that amateurs in radio
have a long history of achievement of
which they may well be proud. Two
Hundred Metres and Down took the
author over seven years to compile, and
it should find a place in every radio
amateur’s library.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries. Write legibly to avoid confusion in
addresses, etc.
Would the new Air-Cell be suitable for use
with the Astor type 77 receiver ?—526.
No. The receiver uses six-volt valves, and
the high-tension supply is derived by vibrator
from the six-volt accumulator. The Air-Cell is
not applicable.
H: „ * % *
(1) Would the Little Twin or Companion
Portable be effective on the broadcast band in
my district (280 miles from Melbourne ) ? (2)
Can you suggest any other easily-transportable
set which has been described in The Bulletin ?
—524.
(1) Yes, preferably the Little Twin. (2)
The portable described B. 16/12/’36 is par-
ticularly good.
* * * *
(1) Can Air-Cells be used to replace a six-
volt accumulator in an Astor receiver ? (2)
If so, number of cells required? (3) Hours
of service before recharging is necessary ? (4)
Cost per cell? (5) Cost of recharging? (6)
Any other information ? —525.
(1) and (2) No. (3) and (5) The Air-Cell
cannot be recharged. (4) £2 13s. 6d. (6) The
Air-Cell was recently dealt with in detail. It
is entirely different from the rechargeable kind
of primary cell, and is marketed by the Ever-
Ready Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Marshall-street, Surry
Hills, Sydney. It is intended only for two-volt
receivers.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Eiie Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRJS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.F.0., SYDNEY.
BONE CHEWING
“Tri-cal”: Don’t like the sound of
your finding evidence of bone-chewing.
You must get on to that right away.
Some time ago I found that Tri-cal-os
Bone Flour quickly remedied this trouble,
and during the dry spell my cattle held
their condition better than my neighbors.
I found, too, that stock of all ages took
readily to Tri-cal-os. You know our
coastal lands are more or less mineral-
deficient, and inland, where you are,
bone-chewing and osteomalacia are being
observed on a widening area.
Write to Davis Gelatine (Australia),
Ltd., G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, for
""■ VHf
w
m
\tiri
f i*v
notes about this Tri-cal-os. It will cost only 2d. for a stamp.
Old Farmer.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
Also 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usuaJ
banking business transacted.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Influence of Yield.
“Murrawong”: Woolgrowers are often
perturbed when their AA lines auction
for as much as or more than AAA lines
from the same flock. Faults in prepara-
tion are sometimes responsible for this,
or it may be due only to vagaries of
buyers.
Chief in the former category comes
bad classing. The classer must be in
touch with the market. If demand is for
superfine clothing types, he should brand
that line higher than his long, stronger
wools. On the other hand, if shafty
wools are bringing the best prices and
the clip is mixed in length and con-
dition, the top lines should comprise the
longest, lightest fleeces of even quality.
Fleeces from a well-classed flock
practically class themselves. A small
mixed clip is invariably the hardest to
prepare for market, and only a
thoroughly experienced wool man knows
to what extent he can stretch the boun-
daries of any one line. Even if length
of staple is of paramount importance,
evenness in quality is also essential, but
there are conflicting ideas as to the mar-
gin of yields between different grades
and the range of condition that may be
included in one line.
No hard-and-fast rule can be laid
down regarding condition. The range
within a flock is so variable and depen-
dent on season and on sheep type that
the classer must strike his own margins.
The following table will indicate the
difference in values occasioned by the
yield, and owners and classers can draw
their own conclusions. Four types of
wool are taken as examples: 7.o’s spin-
ners (* warp); 64’s spinners (a sound,
well-grown, shafty wool, soft and fairly
clean, free or nearly free from burr);
64’s topmakers (lacking the length, ten-
sile strength, and attractiveness of pre-
vious type and probably carrying burr);
warp 60’s (a deep-stapled, well-grown,
strong wool). The clean cost per pound
of each type is shown:
64’s
70’s 64's Top-
Yield. Spinners. Spinners, mkg. 60’s
p.c. d. d. d. d.
Clean cost: 44 42 40 39
66 294 27* 25*
63 27* 26* 24*
60 26* 25* 24 23*
58 25* 24* 23* 22*
55 24* 23 22 21*
The values are approximately those
ruling, and it will be seen that, on the
average, 1 p.c. difference in yield means
a gain or loss of *d. per pound. There-
fore, if a line of fleece is kept fairly even
in condition, the buyer can afford to bid
to his limit for it; if a line is mixed in
condition, he must put a conservative
yield on it to cover himself, and the
grower loses more money than would
pay the wages of the best woolclasser in
the country.
If an AA line differs from the AAA
only in condition, the table will give
some idea of the price margin that should
exist between the lines.
Lucerne and Dead Lambs.
“Bullar Birril”: Is there anything in
the theory that too much rich food
immediately before calving or lambing
leads to a high percentage of dead
calves or lambs?
Working on a dairy-farm in England
I was staggered at the number of calves
born dead when a high protein ration of
dairy nuts was fed to calving-down
heifers. Previously, when the heifers
were left to themselves and natural pas-
tures > dead calves had been the eXCCp '
llon the rule,
I n Coonabarabran district (N.S.W.),
where in recent years lucerne has been
extensively grown, a local grazier was
puzzled last lambing by the high pei-
centage of dead lambs dropped by ewes
which had been pastured on lucerne only
f° r the weeks immediately befoie lamb-
in S- On natural pastures he got a gooc
cro P l arr| bs from similar ewes,
“The quack says it took sixteen stitches to fix her up!"
“ Cripes! And there's only twelve to a chaff bag! ”
Sheep Here and in England.
“Ryedown”: Interesting comparisons
between English breeds of mutton sheep
and Australian are made by J. M. Cole-
man, N.S.W. sheep and wool expert, just
returned from England. Making the
trip to buy high-class rams for local
breeders, he gained some interesting
knowledge of English sale- and show-ring
practices.
In breeds common to both countries
he found that, while several types in
England were far superior to local sheep,
in others the Australian type had forged
ahead of the parent breed. English
Southdowns he described as “marvel-
lous” ; we have nothing to approach
their best. English Southdowns com-
mand stiff prices, anything from 250 to
400 guineas being asked for a first-class
ram. The English type diverges greatly
from ours in covering. Here preference
is for clean faces and points, largely on
account of grass-seed trouble ; in Eng-
land they like them woolly to the tip of
the nose.
In England the old leggy type of Dorset
Horn, once common here, is still preva-
lent. The Australian D.H. has been
brought closer to the ground and im-
proved to such an extent that it is a far
better sheep than the parent stock. Cole-
man saw a champion D.H. ram sold in
England for 66 guineas. The same sheep
would not have realised a tenth ot the
pnee here.
English Ryelands weie exceptionally
good, but almost as scarce and as greatly
sought after as in this country.
The Scottish Border Leicester is rapidly
changing from the old lustre type to the
denser-woolled Australian type. .Eng-
fish Romneys were most disappointing
in comparison with the Australian.
Breeders use all sorts of devices to
get their sheep up for show. Fleeces aie
dyed various colors, Southdowns m par-
ticular. The predominating color was
a bright yellow, and dyeing recipes are
closely-guarded secrets. Ryelands are
shown with their na t ura J fleeces, per-
bifpS T^ beCaUSe ’i, eing , l^e best-woolled ot
the Downs sheep, they can do without
adornment. .
Intensive feeding of sheep is practised
in England. One particularly fine Sout -
down flock is fed on a rotation ot root
and other crops, and the sheep are never
put on grass until they reach 14 months.
A tour of Smithfield markets resulted
in hearing a reiteration of the old com-
plaints. Butchers still complain of the
irregularity of shipments and poor
grading of Australian lamb. The best
Australian lamb compared more than
favorably with lambs from other parts
of the world, but on general standards
M.L. lamb was far in advance. The
reason why third-grade lamb sold well
was found to be the provincial demand
at certain seasons ; but on the whole first-
grade lamb was the best all-round pro-
position.
One reason for M.L. superiority lies
in better and evener types of ewe. So
long as Australian farmers breed from
any old sort of ewe, especially those
which are mainly merino, we cannot hope
to compete. Ordinary breeding ewes are
much dearer in M.L. than here, but even
at present prices there is excellent money
and an insatiable market for good cross-
bred ewes. Hundreds of sheepowners
outside the fat-lamb areas, especially in
the west of N.S.W., could make money
supplying that demand.
Wool-price Vagaries.
“Murrawong”: Often vagaries in
prices paid for wool are a matter over
which the grower has little or no control.
A buyer may get the AAA for 24d.
because he is splitting with the opposi-
tion. Several buyers may compete for an
inferior AA line and go to 24*d. for it.
That does not mean they have paid too
much, but merely that the AAA was
worth at least-Id. more more than was
paid for it.
Again, buyers of different typ.es may
be working on varied limits. Another
factor is the ability of the buyer to
“yield” a lot correctly.
Japanese buyers are responsible for
more unaccountable prices than anything
short of lot-splitting. In the months
when Japan was out of the wool market
the price margin between a well-classed
clip and a badly-got-up one was most
evident. On Japan’s re-entry the market
bounded up, but to varied extent. The
rise in good, well-classed lots was some-
where around 2* p.c., whereas some
types of mixed lots jumped up 10-15 p.c.
The grower who has to let his wool
go for what is bid for it should make a
point of getting it carefully classed.
Badly-got-up wools are only of interest to
repackers and indiscriminate buyers;
an even, well-classed clip has the atten-
tion of the entire market.
Rugging Experience.
“B-gar”: Here are my results
and deductions after rugging
sheep (B. 24/3/’37) for 12
months in Queensland.
Semi-drought conditions pre-
vailed. Rugged and unrugged
sheep grazed together, and the
rugged did the better. After
three months’ rugging the clean-
liness of the wool as compared
with that of unrugged sheep
was remarkable. Of two sheep
slaughtered a fair selection
being made—the rugged sheep
dressed 71b. better than the
unrugged.
The wool of the rugged sheep
would have yielded at least 15
p.c. more than that of the un-
rugged, and length of staple was
better. There was not enough
wool from the rugged to allow
of a separate line being made,
but all lleeces from them went
into the top lot, while the
first pieces were put in with the broken
of the unrugged. On an average, fleeces
from the rugged weighed l|lb. more
than those from the unrugged. When
rugging off-shears a fair run was taken.
Blowflies were normal, but none of
the rugged ones received attention.
But there were disadvantages. Home-
made rugs were used, and adjustments
had to be made from time to time. Rugs
were torn by scrub and collected odd
pieces of wire.
Although possibly not practicable on
a large scale and likely to prove trouble-
some in scrubby country, rugging would
pay well in confined areas, and especi-
ally so where there are plant pests, sand,
etc.
Whatever types of rugs are used there
must be ties to allow for readjustment
as the wool grows.
Thallium Shearing.
“El V.”: These Russians surely are
marvellous discoverers. The latest in
the cables is the discovery of one of
them that a good feed of thallium will
make a sheep moult.
If they can do no better than that they
will lose their reputations, even with
flapper-press reporters and visiting
schoolmarms. Thallium was discovered
o Continued on page 44.)


tifßf's TO’ff
ililiii!
a\i
A
i >
N:
V #.
SSH
m
/
ft
-***"■*
vm
■/:,/ m»
T
in
liti
««><«s
Sj*
< <y
ONE'*
Z
il
Js?l
*•:/' I m
m
i ||
/
3
!
■
!
&.
rich, sustaining value of sun-
ripened oats that is what you get in
every health-bringing glass of Oatmeal
Stout. It nourishes —it strengthens without
fattening.
no 0 H EYS
OflTHflL STOUT
inn
Z"
"There's New life in Tvery Bottle
//
.
Agents: VICTORIA —Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND —Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty„ Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Brogues are never
out of fashion
Summer, Winter, any time of
the year, brogues are worn
by men who like that rugged,
sporty, well-dressed appear-
ance which can be obtained
in no other type of Shoe.
A pair of brogues are an
asset to any man's wardrobe,
especially Abbey Brogues, in
which the quality and style
are unquestionable.
This style is made in Black
or Brown Calf in full and
half sizes.
PRICE:
BLACK OR BROWN - - 32/6
Write for a catalogue.
sadf
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS.” SYDNEY
“SPENSHAW” WOOL-DUSTING MACHINE
(PATENTED).
GROWERS Why pay freight and charges on dirt, when it can be safely
and economically removed with a “SPENSHAW’ before
it is pressed and sent on an expensive journey to market?
—Buyers don’t pay for dirt.
SCOURERS Using “SPENSHAW” Machines save labour, liquor, time,
and give clients a BETTER PRODUCT.
BLENDERS-
BUYERS
Why continue hand-blending?
it better and quicker.
The “SPENSHAW" does
Buy “SPENSHAW” Willeyed Wool—because they know
that the staple has not been damaged, and with the sand,
dust and vegetable fault removed, the margin of error in
the “Yield” is reduced to a minimum—resulting in full
market value FOR THE GROWER.
“SPENSHAW” Machines installed at the North Western Woollen Mills, Stawell,
Victoria; Jandacot Scour, Western Australia; Merriwa Contracting Co., Sydney;
Warrnambool Woollen Mills, Victoria; Foster and Co., Hindmarsh, S.A.; Phrenix
Wool Company, Pty., Geelong; William Smith, Geelong; R. M. Duncan, Footscray,
Victoria; Henshaw Jackson, Port Adelaide; Kinchega Station, Broken Hill; R. M.
Fowler, Fremantle, W.A.; Whakatu Scour, Hastings, N.Z.
For full particulars write the proprietors
Frank Young Woolwilleyers Co., Ltd.,
22 King William Street, ADELAIDE.
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
«
1
m
/
A/ Afrf- 4r* Ar // A'
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra, F.C.T.
TTw’^'ctlletz/n.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
by an Englishman—William Crookes —
in 1861, and a metal ore in which it
occurs in Sweden is named after him.
Australia could turn out unlimited
quantities of it if it wanted to —pyrites
is a fruitful source. The stuff achieved
a link with Australia half a century ago
when Dumas, a great French chemist,
christened it “the platypus among
metals.” And a couple of decades ago
textbooks canvassed its use as a hair-
remover.
It is never likely to replace shearing.
Any Russian who thinks it will should
try it on his own whiskers. When he
has taken enough to make him as bare
as the egg of the Caucasian roc, he will
discover that thallium has a lot of the
qualities of lead. All the salts of T 1
are poisonous, and I’m afraid their main
use will continue to be to add refrac-
tiveness to optical glasses.
What Is an Illawarra?
“Mookau”: Argument over the
history of the Australian Illawarra Milk-
ing Shorthorns is far from ended, but
it is no longer dangerous to tell an Illa-
warran that his cattle are not “pure.”
Beyond question the Illawarras were
built like a good Irish stew, with a
little of everything in the larder and
with each generation served up richer
through the development of a “stock
pot.”
The basic breeds of the 1830’s were
Shorthorn with a touch of Ayrshire,
probably introduced by Alexander Berry.
The Lomaxes, who came out with their
own ship, brought Red Lincolns, which
closely resemble the finer type of Red
Illawarra as produced on the Shoal-
haven flats.
Then came a sprinkling of Devons,
whose ivy-leaf marking is still to be
seen in I.M.S. judging rings.
Again, the period of beef fancy which
sent Australian graziers a little off their
balance in the ’sixties, ’seventies and
’eighties brought a flood of the choicest
Bates and some of the finest Booth Short-
horn blood in England to the fringes of
South Coastal N. S. Wales. Thence,
when the slump of the ’eighties came,
they were dispersed out of such herds
as those of Jenkins, of Nepean Towers,
M. H. Devlin, the Chisholms, Weston
and others.
To tell a South Coaster that his prize-
winners were descended from beef cattle
used to be regarded as an insult. But
the Bates Shorthorns were rare doers
and milkers of splendid constitution and
an ideal foundation for a dairy breed.
Some famous animals found their way
into the dairy herds of the Illawarra.
A farmer who was sensitive on the sub-
ject of his stock’s origin once showed
me a photograph of the Adam of his
herd.
“Look at him,” he. roared. “D’jer
ever see a better dairy bull, eh? And
some flaming cows say me stock come
from the beefs.”
I looked. The bull was Robin Hood,
a beef Shorthorn —and Booth type at
that —imported by Robert McDougall
to Victoria, after winning the equivalent
of the junior championship at the British
Royal in the late ’sixties. His mark is
still on some of the herds.
Botulism in Farm Stock.
“Corriedale”: Eating musty or mouldy
fodders, usually hays, is the common
means by which stock develop botulism.
There is nothing in musty feed itself
tc cause this trouble, and often whole
stacks of rain-spoilt hay can be fed with-
out risk. The trouble occurs when a
certain organism has been developing in
rotting vegetable matter.
This organism produces a toxin about
as deadly as anything known. It is only
in small quantities, so that stock may
consume doses in their feed over long
periods, but the toxin is stored cumu-
latively.
The general symptom is paralysis
of nerves, resulting in stiffened gait and
sometimes contortion, coupled with im-
paction and general thinning off. Death
is usually painful, and sickness can last
over weeks. Recoveries are rare in
severe cases.
The only chance of recovery lies in
the animal’s power to get rid of the
toxin. This varies with the individual
and according to how much of the toxin
has been taken. The best preventive lies
in preserving feed from rust and weather
rot.
Another source of the trouble is old
bones or rotting carcasses, in which the
microbe breeds freely. These cannot
always be kept away from stock ; but
if animals have plenty of calcium phos-
phatic licks it helps.
Hints for the Farm.
“X.”: Clover seed should be covered
only lightly—it can be put in well
through the fertiliser box on a drill. On
open and light soils the seed should be
rolled in and treated gently with a
harrow. In cold districts don’t leave
sowing too late.
“Mat”: A good top-dressing for
autumn pasture is Jcwt. sulphate of
ammonia, lcwt. super, and Jcwt. sulphate
of potash per acre. For most soils lcwt.
super, alone is nearly as good, but to
bring on clover and wipe out weeds and
useless grasses the. first recipe is easily
the best.
“Bangalow”: It pays to fertilise for
silage—in northern N.S.W. a couple of
cwt. of super, per acre is worth up to
four tons of extra green feed.
“Zedo”: A silo 20ft. deep x 10ft.
diameter will hold 20 tons of properly-
made maize silage. Double the diameter
and it will hold 105 tons ; increase to
25ft. and the capacity is 163 tons. A
25ft. x 25ft. pit holds 242 tons; a 25ft.
x 10ft., 36 tons. These figures are esti-
mated with allowance for shrinkage. A
convenient size for the small dairy farm
is 15ft. x 30ft., which should hold a
little over 100 tons, or enough to feed
401 b. a day to 32 cows for six months.
Better to have more than one medium-
sized, easy-to-manage silo than a single
unwieldy one calling for the use of an
elevator.
“Moo”: Month-old calves under 751 b.
weight need 101 b. skim milk per day ;
those from 751 b. to lcwt., roughly 151 b.
Milk should be increased by about lib.
per week up to 201 b. The milk ration
may be fed without harm till a calf is
nine months old.
“Pappamosca”: Lice-infested pigs
should be at once isolated, litter and
bedding burned and sties disinfected with
lysol. Seven parts fish-oil and one part
kerosene well rubbed into Dennis once
a week will soon make his visitors re-
member an engagement elsewhere.
“Silo”: White corn lacks the fat
soluble vitamin which is characteristic
of butterfat. Stick to yellow grain for
stock feeding.
“Lam”: Now is the time to sow
pasture, especially English grasses; these
make little growth in winter, but estab-
lish themselves to be ready for the
spring flush. Only Rhodes, Kikuyu,
Sudan and paspalum are suitable for
spring sowing.
“Uncle Sam”: While Australian
orange-growers are struggling to live,
people in Auckland (M.L.) are paying
sd. each for oranges. Mainly, they are
American oranges, since the Common-
wealth Govt, and the M.L. Govt, prefer
embargoes to trade. This year U.S.A.
can spare a few boxes. The yield is
estimated at 61,119,000 cases —13,000,000
cases more than the average of the five
years before 1932.
“Nor”: Prices of beef in U.S.A. are
enough to make the mouths of Aus-
tralian growers water. At Chicago in
December, 28,000 prime steers averaged
11.82 dollars per 1001 b. and weighed
an average of 11001 b 10s. per
head. “Common” steers, the lowest
grade, of which only 8865 were offered,
brought 6.76 dollars per 100 and aver-
aged 8591b.—£14 10s. per head. But
then Chicago prime steers are prime
and common steers compare with Aus-
tralian average top grades at Homebush.
“Horsetailer”: Commonly wasted
farm manures (B. 17/3/’37) include
sheep droppings under shearing-shed
gratings. After being left to decay in
the open and raked over to strike the
weeds they are first-rate for gardens,
orchards and top-dressing. In pre-wat
days along the Darling and Murray this
fertiliser was collected by the bargeload
as back-loading for steamers stations
were glad to have it cleared away—and
dragged to Mildura (Vic.) to be sold to
fruit-blockers. But chemical fertiliser
have long since outed the practice.


e c
n
i
U fj
N CQUSTIC4/
l 4b
&
m
\
07
7
'S
A
R^OJO
Action
And now Stromberg-Carlson, with the patented acoustical labyrinth,
brings perfection to radio reception. Being the only known method to
eliminate boominess and cabinet resonance, the acoustical labyrinth
brings you entertainment with a new realism as life-like as life itself.
Not only local stations, but the entire world, offers you continuous
programmes of music and song. World-famous celebrities and artists,
far-off lands and strange people, await you. Stromberg-Carlson, a name
that has been outstanding since 1894 in the transmission and reception
of sound, now offers you perfection of radio reception.
-
*
■-
■
■
US;
an
si
4 T *d\
a >
: : S
I
\
TROmBERB - CRRLSOn
AUTHORISED DEALERS EVERYWHERE
You can obtain typical Stromberg-Carlson quality from as low as 14 guineas.
ONLY STROMBERG-CARLSON HAS THE PATENTED ACOUSTICAL LABYRINTH


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Laxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
Copy of 1928 Chevrolet hanaooox or in-
structions for four-cylinder National model.
—5302.
South Australian (36), qualified accountant
and secretary, keen yachtsman, wants position
in Sydney or Melbourne.—s 273.
Young man, well educated, widely travelled,
former office executive, soldier, writer, trade
scout, investigator, experienced in international
commerce and finance, seeks hazardous mission
or position requiring executive ability and re-
turning high remuneration. —5264.
Grazier’s daughter (38), N.S.W., strong and
willing worker, fond of children, desires domes-
tic work, no laundry or cooking.—s 243.
To buy copy of The Little Sentinel. —5290.
Ex-schoolteacher, S.A., will coach in Pitman’s
shorthand. —5311.
Dispatch and packing expert (31), N.S.W.,
with nine years’ training, seeks responsible
position.—s32s,
Does Anybody Know?
How to make wickerwork lobster pots?—
5225.
Information Sought.
Was it in the first or second bout between
Jack Dempsey and Gene Tunney that Tunney
was down for over 10 seconds, owing to Demp-
sey not retiring to a neutral corner? —slsB.
It was in their second match at Chicago on
September 22, 1927. Dempsey floored Tunney
in the seventh round, but continued to stand
over him, and referee Dave Barry halted the
count until Dempsey retired to a neutral corner.
It was claimed that Tunney was down 14
seconds, although only nine were counted.
After regaining his feet Tunney won on points.
* - * # Sjt
(1) Was Bob Fitzsimmons really an Aus-
tralian ? Where and when was he born, and
where and when did he die? (2) What world’s
championships did Fitzsimmons win, and from
whom did he win them ? —5320.
(1) After taking part in two tournaments at
Timaru (M.L.), Fitzsimmons boxed as a pro-
fessional in Sydney. He was born at Helston,
Cornwall, on June 4, 1862. It is understood
that he became a United States citizen before
dying of pneumonia at Portland, Ore., on
October 23, 1917. (2) Fitzsimmons beat “Non-
pareil Jack” Dempsey for the world’s middle-
weight championship in 1891, Jim Corbett for
the heavyweight title in 1897, and George
Gardner for the light-heavyweight title in 1903.
* * * *
Did Maoriland ever, in any district or dis-
tricts, have total prohibition? —s26l.
No. Under local option legislation any
citizen could import for private use as much
alcoholic liquor as was desired, and sly-grog
shops existed. Shopkeepers and other business
folk kept liquor on their premises for the enter-
tainment of customers. Moreover, many of
the prohibited districts were so small that a
few minutes’ run on a train would take a resi-
dent to a licensed hotel outside the boundary.
# SjS * *
Reference is often made to “totalitarian”
principles. What is understood by this term?
—5255.
A “totalitarian” State is one such as modern
Russia, Germany or Italy, where government is
in the hands of a political party which permits
no opposition to its policy nor criticism of its
acts.
* * * *
(1) Where can I obtain plans and instruc-
tions for building a 32//. carvel motor-launch,
and particulars of suitable material? (2) Any
books on the subject? —s2o2.
(1) Particulars, plans, etc., are obtainable
from W. D. Bailey, Naval Architect, 11 Ocean-
street, Kogarah (N.S.W.). (2) Boat Building
Materials and Methods, by A. H. Lindley
Jones (7s. 9d., post free), from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney; How to Build Twenty
Boats (3s. 9d., post free), from Dymock’s,
Sydney.
* * * *
Particulars of the first steam vessels in use
in Australian shipping?- —5295.
The small paddle-steamer Surprise, launched
in Sydney in March, 1831, for service between
Sydney and Parramatta, was first on the scene,
but, as her engines were not connected until
July that year, the first in" service was the
Sophia Jane, a paddle-steamer of 256 tons
and 50 horse-power, which arrived in Sydney
May 16, 1831, and ran between Sydney and
Newcastle. The Surprise was the second in
use, and the William 4th, built locally soon
afterwards, the third. Another early steamer
was the Australia, constructed for the Aus-
tralian Steam Conveyance Company. By 1837
Australia’s steam fleet comprised the Corsair,
William 4th, Maitland, Clonmel, James Watt,
Victoria, Sovereign and Tamar.
* * * *
(1) Where can I take a course of shearing-
machine supervision in Sydney or country ? (2)
Cost? (3) Possibilities of employment after
tuition? (4) Award wages? (5) Do duties in-
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
elude anything beyond care of machinery ?
5219.
(1) Tuition can be arranged for with Graziers’
Co-op. Shearing Co., Sirius House, 23 Mac-
quarie-place, or Dangar, Gedye and Co., Ltd.,
10 Young-street, Sydney. (2) Fee for course is
£5. (3) The trade is as crowded as any other,
but there is work for reliable, experienced men.
Firms mentioned endeavor to find work for
their students. (4) and (5) There is a mini-
mum wage of £6 6s. In all but the largest
sheds, duties may include overseering, book-
keeping, engine-driving and sometimes shed
duties. For grinding, rates vary according to
number of stands in use. Additional work of
overseering-bookkeeping is paid for at the rate
of 375. 6d. per week for five stands, plus
2s. 6d. per additional stand per week. Board
and lodging is provided, and first-class fares
and travelling expenses are allowed within the
State.
* * * *
Which of the following are correct: (1)
“We shall be glad if you will forward” or “We
should be glad if you would forward” ? (2)
“Will you kindly forward” or “Would you
kindly forward” ? —5283.
All the examples given are in common usage
in correspondence, and none can be condemned
as positively incorrect, since there is no serious
degree of ambiguity and the request is clearly
expressed. (1) Here the preference is for
“shall.” “Shall” implies a promise to be glad.
“Should” may merely mean that the writer
would be under an obligation to be glad,
without giving a promise. (2) “Will” is prefer-
able. “Would,” as Webster remarks, is “usually
employed in a conditional, subjective or
optative sense,” and carries with it a faint
suggestion that in certain circumstances the
request might not be complied with, which is
not the intention.
* * * *
History of the Confederate steamer Shenan-
doah which visited Melbourne in the ’sixties?
—5299.
Originally the Sea King, a steam clipper
employed in the England-Australia run and as
a transport during the Maori War, she sailed
in 1864 from London to Madeira, where she
was handed over to Confederate owners and
had her name changed to Shenandoah. Flying
the Confederate flag, she was then used in
raiding Federal shipping. The visit to Port
Phillip in 1865, when the captain and crew
were much feted, was the cause of serious
embarrassment to the Victorian Government.
* * * *
(1) What will it cost Australia for Mr. Lyons
and family and his personal staff to attend the
Coronation of King George? (2) What other
members of the Federal Parliament will attend
the Coronation, and at what cost to Australia?
—5lOl.
(1) The Prime Minister’s Department replies
that the Prime Minister, the Minister for De-
fence and the Commonwealth Treasurer will
attend the Imperial Conference to be held in
London at the time of the Coronation celebra-
tions, so that the expense involved in their
visit to London would have been incurred quite
apart from the fact that they will be in London
at the time of the Coronation celebrations.
Total cost of the Commonwealth delegation is
not yet known, but up to the present £5119
has been spent in this connection. (2) As the
guests of the United Kingdom Branch of the
Empire Parliamentary Association, Senators
J. F. Guthrie and W. Plain, Messrs. R. Green,
J. T. Jennings, N. O. Makin, W. Maloney and
T. H. Scholfield, Ms.H.R., will attend the
Coronation celebrations.
* * * He
(1) Dimensions of a ping-pong table? (2)
Minimum space between side of table and wall
of room ? (3) Would a verandah 9ft. bin.
wide give sufficient room ? (4) Does five-ply
wood make a suitable table top, or would four-
ply or six-ply be better? —5190.
(1) Full-size table should be 9ft. x sft. (2)
Three feet. (3) No. (4) The most suitable
wood is five-ply.
* * * *
Origin of names of the days of the week? —
5314.
Sunday, from Anglo-Saxon Sunnandaeg, “day
of the sun”; Monday, A.-S. Monandaeg, “day
of the moon”; Tuesday, A.-S. Tiwesdaeg,
from Tiw, god of war; Wednesday, A.-S.
Wodensdaeg, from Odin or Woden, god of
storms; Thursday, A.-S. Thunresdaeg, “day of
Thor,” god of thunder; Friday, A.-S. Frige-
daeg, “day of Freya,” goddess of marriage;
Saturday, A.-S. Saterdaeg, “day of Saturn,”
the god of time.
* * * *
Source of quotation “Eat, drink and be
merry, for to-morrow we die”? —5172.
The phrase, but not in its entirety, occurs
three times in the Bible. In Isaiah xxii, 13, it
runs: “Let us eat and drink; for to-morrow
we shall die”; in Luke xii, 19, it is: “Take
thine ease, eat, drink and be merry”; and in
1 Corinthians xv, 32, “Let us eat and drink,
for to-morrow we die.”
* * * *
Meaning of the word Israfel? —5162.
In Islamic mythology the angel of music,
who possesses the most melodious voice of
all God’s creatures and entrances the ears of
the faithful in Paradise. To him also is en-
trusted the sounding of the resurrection trump.
With Gabriel and Michael this angel was one
of the three that warned Abraham of Sodom’s
destruction. The name is commonly rendered
Israfil.
Brief biography of Myrtle Reed? List of
her best-known writings and how regarded? —
5169.
Born Norwood Park, Chicago, Illinois, Sept.
27, 1874, she married James Sydney McCul-
lough in 1906, made her home in Chicago,
and died 1911. Wrote Love Letters of a
Musician, Later Love Letter of a Musician,
The Spinster Book, At the Sign of the Jack
o’ Lantern, Love Affairs of Literary Men,
Flower of the Dusk, A Spinner in the Sun,
The Master’s Violin, Pick-a-Back Songs, The
Book of Clever Beasts, Lavender and Old Lace
and Old Gold and Silver. She also wrote a
book of poems, under the pseudonym of Olive
Green. Her writings are graceful and pleasant,
and were extremely popular in their day, but
possess very little literary value.
* * * *
Information regarding Marion Cran, includ-
ing address and married name? —5229.
Daughter of the Rev. H. E. Dudley, rector
of Little Billing, Northants, she married in
1931 Fergus Scott Hurd-Wood, who died 1936.
Her address is Coggers, Benenden, Kent. She
has lectured extensively, investigated on behalf
of Government departments, and is the founder
and director of the Garden Club. Her works
•include “The Shell of a Man” (one-act play),
Life of Herbert Beerbohm Tree, A Woman in
Canada, Song of a Woman, Garden of Igno-
rance, Garden of Experience, Garden Register,
Garden Talks, Garden of Good Hope, Joy of
the Ground, Gardens in America, I Know a
Garden, The Keys of Heaven, The Story of a*
Ruin.
* # * *
How to prepare a dance floor? —5232.
The floor should be sand-polished, then
waxed with beeswax or Carnauba wax, pressed
into the wood with a hot iron or laid on very
hot with a brush. Polishing with a woollen
cloth follows. Ballroom floor powders can be
bought from hardware or paint shops ; they
are sprinkled over the floor and rubbed up,
full directions being given on the containers.
* * * *
Most suitable material for mending a broken
Doulton jug, and where obtainable ? —5224.
Seccotine, obtainable at any hardware or
paint store.
* * * *
What are the length and cost of the B.A. course
at Sydney Uni., and books required ? Would it
be necessary to attend lectures or could 1 study
at home ? —5216.
The courses for the degree of Bachelor of
Arts at the University of Sydney may be
completed in three years. The fees payable
amount to £29 p.a. for three courses and £32
p.a. for four courses. Attendance at lectures is
compulsory. The textbooks required depend
upon the courses taken for the degree.
* * * *
How to clean porcelain-enamelled bath
stained with bore water ? —5245.
Apparently the minerals in the bore water
have eaten deeply into the enamel. Try kerosene
applied with a cloth rather wetly, and wipe
dry with a clean cotton cloth.
* * * *
Explanation of the term “deus ex machina" ?
—5306.
The Latin phrase, meaning literally “a god
from a machine,” is used in reference to forced
or unlikely events introduced into a drama,
novel or other representation to resolve a diffi-
cult situation, and is derived from the use of
deities for the same purpose in ancient dramas.
* * * *
How to deal with a lawn infested with moss
and lamb’s tongue (plantain) ? —5252.
Nothing short of a thorough digging of the
lawn will destroy the lamb’s tongue. Moss will
yield to the application of sulphate of am-
monia at the rate of about 6oz. per gallon of
water, using one gallon for each square yard.
* He * *
Shrubs here (North Island, M.L.), particu-
larly Japanese flowering cherries, are badly
affected with a slug which is known as a leech.
Treatment? —5254.
With a contact spray apply Katakilla (accord-
ing to formula on bottle) three times with
four-day intervals. Give very large shrubs a
spraying of arsenette, making certain to get
under the leaves or where the leeches are feed-
ing. Spray while the dew is on the leaves in
the earlv morning.
* * * *
(1) how to preserve giant maidenhair fern?
(2) How do you put autumn tints into the
fronds ? —4596.
(1) Can be preserved between sheets of paper
or in dry sand. (2) After sap has dried out of
fronds, dip them in vegetable dye tints, using
shades of brown, red and yellow. Allow the
leaves to dry in one color before using the
next.
* * *
How to make kerosene emulsion for spraying
rose-trees and shrubs? Also strength to apply,
and where? —5205.
Dissolve ilb. yellow soap in one gallon boil-
ing water, and when reduced to paste-form add
one gallon kerosene. Emulsify the mixture
thoroughly for about 10 minutes, and then
place in an earthenware or glass container. It
is ready for use in 24 hours. One part emul-
sion to 30 parts water is the right strength for
spraying. Mix it when needed. It can be
safely applied at any time of the year.
* * * *
Please advise on growing carnations in
quantity for marketing. What do you recom-
mend —cuttings or seedlings? When should the
work, be begun, and what is the most sought-
after color of blooms? What market prospects
are there in Sydney? —4B42.
First essential is well-drained sandy loam or
soil well helped by river sand; an easterly
situation protected from wind should be selected.
Plants raised from cuttings of selected colors
are the most satisfactory: those raised from seed
are likely to be faulty, although they may give
unusual colors. Plants set out in autumn will
flower in early spring, when the demand is
greatest. Most sought-after colors are pink
(for weddings), white (for wreaths) and bright
red (for presentation bouquets). An interview
with Sydney florists outside the big nurserymen
is the most likely way to make a business deal,
especially if you can guarantee high-class
flowers.
Brief Answers.
G.L.H.: (1) We know of none. (2) Napier,
Gardiner and Co., 79 Pitt-street; and Gerrards,
15 Park-street —both Sydney. (3) Cannot trace.
(4) Depends upon the college K.V.S.: Get
in touch with Boat Supplies, Ltd., 7 Barrack-
street, Sydney... .A.K.: Lord Rothermere con-
trols in London the “Daily Mail,” “Evening
News,” “Daily Mirror,” “Sunday Dispatch”
and “Sunday Pictorial.” Lord Beaverbrook
controls in London the “Daily Express,” “Even-
ing Standard” and “Sunday Express,” and the
Berry group (Lord Kemsley and Lord Cam-
rose) controls in London the “Daily Telegraph,”
“Daily Sketch,” “Financial Times,” “Sunday
Times” and “Sunday Graphic” E.T.: Les
Robinson has had published one book of short
stories, The Giraffe’s Uncle (Jackson and O’Sul-
livan, Sydney). Address: care of The Bulle-
tin, 252 George-street, Sydney E.M.:
Motor-cars registered in Australia at June 30,
1936, were: N.S.W., 177,289; Vic., 141,205;
Q’land, 67,398; S.A., 47,501; W.A., 16,208
(metropolitian area only); Tas., 14,036; N.T.,
333; F.C.T., 1268 J.T.: You make out a
hard case. Suggest you write to the local
member of Parliament and submit the facts to
him with a view to inquiry and relief H.S.:
Address posted; remember that these devices
will not detect all forms of ocular defect.
C.J.S.: The operetta “Viktoria and Her
Hussar” was adapted from the Hungarian by
Harry Graham; the music was by Paul Abra-
ham.. . .A.T.: Reginald Denny is English; born
at Richmond, Surrey, on November, 20, 1891.
He served with the R.F.C. in the war, and
began his film career in 1919 5.8.: Keep
fingernails very clean and cut short. Rectal in-
jections of infusion of quassia or of salt solu-
tion (H P-c.). Internally, mineral oil (liquid
petrolatum). Restrict sugars and all starchy
foods... .C.G.C.: Bandage the hands or put
on thick cotton gloves. The habit is of little
practical consequence, as the child soon forgets
it. (2) About 76 years S.K.: See answer to
Question 5024, last issue E.H.: In suscep-
tible persons and in improper doses, yes. (2)
Cannot recommend any hypnotic or sedative
drugs here. Regulations require such medicines
to be sold only on presentation of a prescrip-
tion from a qualified medical man G.H.W.:
Neuritis is a term meaning inflammation of a
nerve. Cannot detail treatment without further
particulars as to the seat of the trouble
G.H.C.; Alcohol is used so sparingly in modern
hospital practice that its use might almost be
said to have been abandoned S.C.G.: W.
Bardsley was the first to make a century in each
innings of one Test match —136 and 130 at The
Oval in 1909... .L.T.: Phar Lap had 51 starts,
37 wins, three seconds, two thirds, and was un-
placed nine times. His stake winnings were
£66,738... .D. 8.: The phrase is from Voltaire,
and in English reads: “History is but a picture
of crimes and misfortunes” M.N.: Write
Department of Agriculture, Sydney K. 8.:
The Carlisle Castle (1458 tons), built about
1868 for Green’s Blackwall line, and a favorite
passenger ship till sold in the ’nineties, was
wrecked July 12, 1899, near Rocking-
ham, on the Westralian coast, during a heavy
gale, with thick weather. Eleven lives were
lost and 15 saved... .G.H.: See Penrose Fitz-
gerald’s Life of Vice-Admiral Sir George Tryon.
....J.H.R.: From Commonwealth Meteorolo-
gist, Commonwealth Meterological Department,
Melbourne K.T.: In Australia Luxemburg
is represented by the Belgian Consul F.J.:
Fifield, 351 miles west of Sydney (rail to
Trundle, thence coach 20 miles), is the centre
of a pastoral and agricultural district on the
Bogan-Lachlan watershed. There is also mining
for magnesite and platinum... .H. 8.: Inquire
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution, William-
and Boomerang-streets, Sydney N.E.F.:
Illustrated Australian Encyclopaedia, edited by
A. W. Jose and H. J. Carter, obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .R.H.C.: Full particulars from Miss
Gertrude Johnson, hon. organiser. National
Theatre Movement, Nicholas Building, Swan-
ston-street, Melbourne L.C.: There are
British Chambers of Commerce at Bagdad and
Basra. Either should be able to assist
R.8.D.: Use sodium perborate as a tooth
powder (it is contained in many commercial
dentrifices). Excessive accumulations of tartar
may be removed by a dentist, as with natural
teeth... .C.J.G.H.: (1) Probably; all depends
in what amount of fluid the sugar was present.
(2) If the sugar was found to be present after
a fast, the condition calls for medical examina-
tion. The specific gravity is usually much
higher in diabetes T.W.G.: Sydney book-
sellers state that the work would be hard to
sell at any price M.J.: (1) No. (2) No, but
it will be necessary to produce some other con-
clusive evidence that she has attained the statu-
tory age of 60 years. (3) N0....R.J.: N.S.W.
Parliamentary Librarian is J. J. Quinn; ap-
pointed June 1, 1924 E.O’R.: The native
name for New Farm, Brisbane, is Binkenbar,
which means a small tortoise J.C.: Wabra
is a Vic. native name for a bronzewing pigeon.
T.L.: The Court of Claims is a body of
members of the Privy Council formed by special
commission previous to a coronation, their
office being to determine the validity of claims
to appear at that ceremony. A Lord High
Steward is appointed to preside E.T.L.:
The Tower of Babel, erected at Ur, in lower
Mesopotamia, has completely disappeared. The
base of the tower was 300 ft. by 300 ft., tapering
through seven stages to the shrine at the top.
The height also was 300 ft P.J.D.: Write to
the administrator of the estate at the address
given in the notice, stating the name of your
brother in full, his age and other facts within
your knowledge (such as where last heard of),
and give generally any information which may
assist in proving his identity G.E.H.: (1)
One-third to husband and two-thirds to chil-
dren, share and share alike. (2) All to father
or, if only brothers and sisters, to all equally.
If any brother or sister be dead, leaving chil-
dren, they take their parent’s share in equal
portions... .W.P.: The badge of the Order of
Mercy, established in 1899, consists of a red
cross surmounted by the Prince of Wales's
feathers, with, in the centre, a group of figures
representing “Charity,” by Joshua Reynolds.
....(Many others mailed.)


wr i
LEARN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINEERING
AT HOME
We teach you:—
• Aeroplane control.
• Construction.
• Rigging.
• Types of Engines.
• Engine Auxiliaries.
• Instruments.
• Aerial Navigation.
• Licences “A,” “B,”
“C” and “D.”
Australian wniefor -
L aviation
SCHOOLS
Wembley House, Railway Sq., Sydney
Est 1934 Phone MA4642
Profitable!
SHO* t Enjoyable!
metropolitan school
6 Dailey Si., Sydney. OF JOURNALISM
Art
Learn this fascinating well-paid profes-
sion at home from noted Artists.
For finely illustrated literature
FREE write - D
..i. Pt»T. O '
IT Training Institute
|:l»iSuianslon Sh Melbourne
econds out
Linger a little more lovingly over the marma-
lade in the morning. Look a little more leisurely
at the morning’s news. You’ll still have time
to catch your train, provided you have used a
'Valet’ Shaving Set—the original self-stropping
razor which knocks so many valuable seconds
out of shaving time. Stropped in a few seconds.
Cleaned in a few seconds. Nothing to take to
pieces. Nothing to unscrew. Weeks of perfect
shaving from every blade.
“VALET
MADE IN ENGLAND
p?
No. 101 Set. —This Set is packed in a richly coloured
Mouldrite case. Contains self-stropping razor, strop in
nickel-plated hinged container, and three blades in
plated sheath 9/ -
Other sets from 4/6 to 65/-.
Of all dealers.
British made.
VALET
1 AuJkosSivop
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LIMITED, 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vn unfirr (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Nnine and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
AG.: To say that your verse is suggestive
of “ a pencil that squeaks on a slate” is putting
it mildly ...J.8.: “Would you please criticise
this poem in your columns?” Well, it’s no
„ o od ...G.D.H.: None of them came within
coo-ee of publication standard D.McL.:
Nothing in that one, but try again... .A.K.C.:
An idea there, but you’ve no notion how to
set it down... .E.P.: April Fool’s Day yarn
too late K.L.S.: Sugary.. ..H F.H : Failed
to raise a grin....M.N. (London): No corner
for an account of chicken-stealing in Spain.
E.D.C.: Sentiment laid on with a trowel.
..V.C.: Overdrawn... .R.W.: Make the
ending clearer and it might get through....
G.K.: “Shop” too much so C.J.R.: Not
quite, but you should get rid of it elsewhere.
...M.A.D.: “‘Phoenix is shorely booming.
Been deader’n a rattler’s old skin, but now she’s
hollerin’ and snortin’,’ drawled the old man.”
He’s on the wrong side of the Pacific M.P.:
Can’t put Elsie in qur window D.F.8.:
Flappers should lap it up... .M.H.S.: Then
they might tackle your “Swan Song for
dessert....C.K.P.: Begins well, but fades away
long before the finish... .Old Bird: Afraid
audience for Boer War reminiscences would be
very limited D.H.W.: Situation interesting,
but you make nothing of it....T.5.: “This
story is of more importance to you than my
name.” Wrong, brother; we can’t send it
back without your name... .R.G.R.: The office-
boy reckons his young sister could pick the
hole in that alibi E.McE.: No; it leaves
the impression that the reader’s been tricked.
E.T.F.: “The New Boy,” in which Light-
ning Jimmy, the famous boxer, visits a boys’
school, is mistaken for a new pupil and then
wades into two brutal masters, should be sent
to “Comic Cuts” B.B.: Nothing new in
"Arson” C.D.R.: The Religious Editor was
deeply touched to learn that little Willie “nearly
sold himself to the devil”.. . .D.R.H.: Out of
our paddock L.C.S.: Well enough done,
but it doesn’t grip 1.E.5.: Unreal P.A.:
“He leant over and spoke to his horse. ‘lnjuns’
smoke signals, ole boy.’ ” Nobody can speak
to a horse that way in these pages 8.J.M.:
Not up K.M.: “One Way Traffic” return-
ing W.E.H.: Found “Strange but True”—
14 closely-written pages with neither full-stop
nor comma —utterly incomprehensible
G.A.S.: “The Woman in the Camp,” “guar-
anteed to be a genuinely possible bush situa-
tion,” sent away again K.F.C.: Steering
clear of “widowed wife of six” R.M.: Pre-
fer an Australian setting; you should place
it elsewhere... .H.G.G.: Too morbid for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.M.: Don’t want faint pencil strokes on
crumpled copy-paper T.S.: Gent, looks as
if he had been flattened by a steam-roller
E. 8.: “Six drawings enclosed” —and returned.
W.R.-J.: What material are your farm-
hands wearing? It looks like galvanised-iron.
J.N.W.: About time that drunk signed the
pledge A.L.8.: You’ve drawn a few stiff
outlines and poured the details in T.H.:
Joke unintelligible; drawing an artistic wall-
flower H.C.M.: A collection of haphazard
lines P.Q.: Mourning-coach humor and a
scratch-as-scratch-can sketch... .W.J.: Effort
to squeeze in a bogged bullock team, a leap-
ing bullocky and a praying parson on the back
of a postcard was disastrous E.C.D.: Would
like you to remove corpse from our premises.
G.G.: You would pass if we required
sketches of telegraph poles J.D.: A ragged
effort N.S.: “I hope you will be able to
place this.” We were —in the basket
J.L.M.: Drawing fairly well done, but there has
been an epidemic of that particular joke
J.R.: Cannot recall previous efforts. They
doubtless ended where the present batch did.
. ...C.8.: Have another shot. That one got
near the mark T.W.: Ought to interest the
editor of some parish magazine... .S.F.M.:
You’ll have to get better likenesses C.N.W.:
Teach your pen to obey you P.L.: Youth
has an idea of composition, but is inclined to
be scratchy A.H.8.: Your friends must
have been in a generous mood when they
praised that J.G.8.: Picture of Coronation
jaunters with balloons fastened to lips is quite
hopeless L.S.: Fair, but lacks the extra bit
of polish M.8.M.: Strong men needed a
reviver after gazing at the spectre on the
icicle A.E.R.: Some sprightliness about the
drawings, but the gags are lifeless J.T.:
Went over that square foot of muddy wash
with a microscope but couldn’t find Helen or
Joan A.8.J.: Nothing arresting about any
of the four.
"IRREFUTABLE EVIDENCE.”
Cablecrammers have plumbed the
utter depths, and can sink no deeper.
This achievement was duly marked by
a great Australian daily with the head-
lines:—
“Invasion” of Spain.
Italian Army Units.
Loyalist Appeal.
Note to Britain.
The “Note” which thus inspired the
headlines in bold type directed attention
to “irrefutable evidence of the presence
in Spain of large numbers of Italian
troops.”
It is accompanied by photographs, in-
cluding one of a telegram from Mussolini
during his Libyan tour, allegedly encourag-
ing the Italians fighting for the rebels in
Spain. Photographs of two letters on the
stationery of the Italian War Ministry, and
of a communication from the Fascist
Grand Council, greeting “50,000 'comrades
in Spain,” are also included. The diplo-
matic correspondent of the “Daily Tele-
graph” says the Non-Intervention Commit-
tee will probably decide that the matter
does not fall within its competence, as
charges of foreign invasion can only be
dealt with by the League of Nations.
Certainly for “irrefutable evidence” of
that nature the League would be the
right sort of court. Only in such a
parrot-house could it be given a hearing
on its merits. In British courts —includ-
ing the Australian —the original of a
telegram may be tendered as evidence.
An allegedly received telegram would be
instantly laughed off the premises. A
photograph of an allegedly received tele-
gram would send all hands and the usher
into hysterics. A photograph can be
faked and a telegram can be faked.
Thus the “irrefutable evidence” could
be the fake of a fake. The same applies
to “letters on the stationery of.”
Stationery can be pinched or faked. That
may be why only photographs of the
letters also were sent.
And that is the sort qf stuff taken seri-
ously in what Mr. Keith Murdoch de-
scribes as “veracious reporting, of great
breadth of mind.” Nor is Mr. Murdoch
alone in being misled by this crude
propaganda. Others have solemnly as-
sured The Bulletin that it is “quite
wrong about the cables.” If the fore-
going example of “irrefutable evidence”
does not convince them, they are wholly
beyond convincing.
Naturally the papers which publish
such “irrefutable evidence” from day to
day are influenced thereby. It is the old
business of telling anybody anything often
enough and he will believe it. Dealing
out “irrefutable evidence” of that sort
every day, the great minds of the dailies
are inevitably colored by it. They are
being shamelessly used as propaganda
vehicles, and nobody is more unaware of
the fact than they are themselves. Their
columns stuffed out with cablecrammers’
rubbish, they are bemused into believing
the stuffing is gospel.
The paper which published the fore-
going example of “irrefutable evidence”
and headlined it was the “S. M. Herald.”
It was published, of course, by dozens
of other papers as well, but in the issue
in which Granny featured it Granny also
reviewed a recent book on Spain. The
author of this book makes specific
charges of false reporting against the
London “Times” and the 8.8. C.
In her review Granny made no men-
tion of these charges.
Attacking the 8.8. C. for spreading
false information this author —Mrs.
Eleonora Tennant —says:
I can testify from personal observation
to one 8.8. C. inaccuracy. On Wednesday,
October 28, they broadcast that on
October 27 Talavera had been bombed,
great havoc caused, and 19 insurgent
’planes shot down.
I was in Talavera during this attack.
About three Red ’planes came over and
dropped a few bombs, which all fell just
outside the town. No damage was done,
and no ’plane of either side was shot down.
She adds that “the inaccurate broadcasts
from England were a source of general
comment among British residents in
Seville.” One of these, a Scotsman, she
quotes as saying:
I hear you are out here looking for in-
formation —well, I have come round to tell
you what I feel about our people. I want
to know why the “Times” and the 8.8. C.
are supporting the Reds. What is making
the people in England so Madrid-minded
when there is so much British capital in
Spain? Don’t they realise that if the Reds
won this capital would be confiscated?
She quotes this from the “Times”:
One of the main objectives is Toledo,
where 400 army cadets are still besieged
in the Alcazar. The Government forces
prefer to starve out the garrison rather
than rush their positions because an un-
known number of hostages are held by
them. The cadets were believed to be
on the point of surrender some days ago,
but insurgent aeroplanes have succeeded
in dropping medical supplies and food for
them by parachute.
On that her comment is:
This information was false from begin-
ning to end. There were only seven cadets
in the fortress. No hostages were ever
held in the Alcazar, and throughout the
siege no supplies of any kind were dropped
by parachute—only on one occasion was
anything dropped by air, and then only
letters and newspapers.
The writer, who refers to Franco’s side
as the Nationalist Government, quotes
chapter and verse on those lines for
pages, and then unloads this:
It is true that some of the “Times” cor-
respondents appear to have quarrelled with
the Nationalist Government (see the
“Times” of September 12, which reports
the expulsion of one of their reporters),
but this should not excuse our most
famous newspaper from having, day by
day, given so prejudiced and inaccurate
account of one of the most courageous
episodes in history.
This evidence and comment, as distinct
from the “irrefutable” variety, comes
from an Englishwoman who went to
Spain to see for herself. Many people
in Australia —as well as those British
people in Spain—are asking why preju-
diced and false reporting are being served
up to them as “veracious” news. It is up
to Mr. Murdoch, as the most voluble
supporter of the cable services which
make great use of the “Times” and far
less reputable papers, to answer that
question. And it is up to Granny
“Herald” to do a bit of answering on her
own behalf.


7957
/
$
<V ' f k - '
W I 4 ># : N
PATENT STOVES
lo
m
or
fm. ■'
CONTINUOUS
WARMTH
A
■
■
HEALTHY HEATING
AT
LOWER COST
CALL AND INSPECT NEW 1937 DESIGNS
Late Shopping Friday, 9 p.m. Visit our exhibit. Strand Building
Centre, Strand Arcade.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
JOHN BANKS
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE M 6505
391-403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE ’PHONE CB3BO
SSSf
V
■
m
m
- An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at „
AUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FUJI; HONOLULU, T.IJ.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
’ and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD. inPSSs.)
;»47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bill Sparkes and "Yankee Sullivan"
No. 13 of a series of articles on old-time Australian boxers.
According to an old chronicle, “Jem
Mace, finding the Game unprofitable on
both sides of the Atlantic, resolved to
try new fields. The result was his visit
to Australia and the founding of a new
school of boxers.” Correct as to the
founding of the “new school of boxers,”
but the Norwich Gipsy’s voyage to these
parts seems rather to have been the con-
sequence of a complicated affair of the
heart than of any pugilistic slump on
either side of the Herring Pond.
Though Jem had a wife in England he
incautiously “married” another. She bore
him a boy, who was drowned at the age
of 11 and the facts came out at the in-
quest.’ The mother gave evidence; she
said she could have had Jem prosecuted
for bigamy, but had refused to do so,
and not only because her Romany lord
sent her money from Australia. She
had acquired a real husband and she
wanted to forget all about the ex-cham-
• _ r7 n<T i„ n H
pion of England.
Black Perry.
Had Mace come to Australia looking
for fight when he was in his prime—
i.e., in the ’sixties—he would have been
accommodated. There was a certain
Black Perry who couldn’t get matches
because he was reckoned too big and too
good. A tradition has come down from
that time that Perry was a wonder in the
ring ; but he was a child of misfortune,
He was a negro convict, transported to
Australia for banknote frauds of
which he always declared himself guilt-
less. The story went that he had been
matched to fight an Englishman and had
been “framed” when it was discovered
that he was another Molineaux. .
In Australia, Perry served another sen-
tence—l2 months for killing an opponent
in a prizefight. He landed one punch,
just under the left ear, and the other fell,
to rise no more. After that Perry said he
would never fight again, and he kept his
word. Once he was prevailed upon to put
on the gloves in Melbourne with Curran,
who had become the bare-knuckle cham-
pion of Australia by defeating Sallars—
like Perry, a negro. At the end of a
round, although he had shaped bril-
liantly, Perry pulled off the gloves and
could not be persuaded to put them on
again.
An old Melbourne policeman’s story:
“When I was watchhouse-keeper, I knew
Black Perry well. We used to have him
in for being drunk. When he had slept
it off, he would call and ask me what
he was in for. ‘Drunkenness? Thank
God,’ he would say. ‘You know I was
innocent over what I left home for’—and
then he would cry like a child.”
*
"Bungciree" V. Broome,
J , . ,
But Australia had good native-born
bruisers before Maces time, as well as
afterwards. Upwards of 95 years ago
the “sports” of Sydney thought so much
of a middleweight named Gorrick, the son
of a soldier, that they subscribed enough
to send him to England to meet the best
man at his weight in the Old Country,
Though it was only six years since the
Port Phillip district had been proclaimed
for settlement, and Ballarat was not yet
on the map, Gorrick was known as
“Bungaree.” It is pretty certain that he
had never seen the place long afterwards
immortalised by “Coffee” Jones in an
election address (“Gentlemen of Ballarat
and savages of Bungaree”); but as “Bun-
garee” he challenged any man in Eng-
land at lOst. 71b. After some haggling
on both sides, he signed articles to meet,
Johnny Broome on April 27, 1842, for
£3OO a side,
In binding himself to come in at lOst.
71b., “Bungaree” made a sad mistake,
During the long voyage he had put on
weight, as pugs do on much shorter trips,
and he found it very difficult to take off
the surplus beef. On the day before
the fight he scaled lOst. The neces-
sary reduction was effected by the rough-
and-ready methods customary in those
days, but it was an inauspicious prelimi-
nary to a fight to a finish.
Broome was a very clever two-fisted
fighter, and was trained to the minute
In the very first round he showed clearly
that he was the cleverer man, and he
soon discovered that he had only to pro-
vide against a dangerous right and take
advantage of the Australian’s weakened
condition to make the stakes his own.
He found a stop for the right with which
Gorrick had won all his Australian fights,
and administered terrible punishment.
But “Bungaree” was dead game.
Punched from pillar to post, and unable
to land on the elusive Englishman with
any effect, he came up stoically for his
gruel round after round. In the forty-
second he was limp and could scarcely
see. “Take him away!” shouted Corin-
thians in the crowd ; “the poor devil’s
blind.” So the slaughter was stopped,
having lasted 57 minutes.
Sparkes v. Langham.
“Bungaree’s” experience did not pre-
vent Bill Sparkes from going to England
in 1847 and trying to succeed where his
fellow-Australian had failed. He, too,
offered to meet the best man in Eng-
land at his weight, which was lOst. 121 b.,
and the challenge was taken up by Nat
Langham, who was six years later to
defeat Tom Sayers —the only man who
ever did. There followed one of the classic
encounters of the English Prize Ring.
The conditions permitted Langham to
weigh 21b. heavier than the Australian,
and he was taller and longer in the reach.
But when they shaped up he seemed
puzzled at the attitude struck by the
stranger. Sparkes stuck his left straight
out from the shoulder and bent his body
back in a fashion which the critics found
extraordinary. Langham feinted and led
with the left. Sparkes blocked it and
countered on the jaw with his left; then,
closing, he got home two heavy body
blows.
This was a surprise for the English-
man and his supporters, but it was no-
thing to what was to come. In the
second round Sparkes knocked Lang-
ham clean off his feet.
The fighting was exceptionally fast.
As a rule, rather less than a minute of
fierce milling found one or other down
and being borne to his corner by sec-
onds. A slip or a throw was generally
the cause, but when the opportunity pre-
sented itself Sparkes felled his formid-
able opponent with clean punches. This
happened in the seventh, thirteenth, four-
teenth, thirty-sixth and fiftieth rounds.
They entered upon the sixtieth
round with the Australian slightly the
stronger man. He had impressed every-
one with his calm courage, solid and
accurate hitting and endurance, ana
there were now as many cheering him as
were urging on the Englishman.
In the sixty-second round Sparkes
brought his man down once more. It
was a throw, and his right arm was
underneath, and in falling Langham
accidentally, of course —broke the fore-
arm in two places.
A cruel misfortune, but Sparkes
affected to make light of it. He gallantly
kept going, though his seconds pro-
tested. The Australian’s principal seconu
was Johnny Broome, “Bungaree’s con-
queror. In the sixty-seventh round
Broome stepped into the ring and said
he would not let his man continue; and
Sparkes was led protesting away.
Sparkes never forgave Broome for
capitulating, and never fought in Eng-
land again. Though overwhelmed with
compliments by the sporting press and
with invitations to remain, he returned to
Australia a bitterly disappointed man.
He survived the contest 50 years, dying
at Leichhardt, Sydney.
"Yankee Sullivan."
He was neither a Yankee nor a Sulli-
van ; his real name was Frank Murray.
At an early age he evinced a liking for
the noble art, and he met in Ireland and
whipped for a side-wager a fellow named
Brady. He thereupon crossed the Irish Sea.
At Liverpool the hopeful youth’s Prize
Ring career was interrupted by a con-
viction for burglary. He was sentenced
to 14 years’ imprisonment, with trans-
portation to Australia.
It was customary for landowners in
those days to hire convict labor from
the Government, and a colonist in a big
way engaged Murray as a farmhand.
Other convicts who could “use their
dukes” were hired by other landowners,
and Murray’s master soon discovered
that in “Ginger,” as Murray was known
on the estate, he had the makings of a
better bruiser than any of his neighbors.
“Ginger” had several fights with con-
victs, all of which he won.
They were all desperate affairs.
Steward stood up to “Ginger” for two
hours and eight minutes, Dick Trainer
for an hour and three-quarters (73
rounds), White for 40 minutes (13
rounds) and Sharpies, alias “Bumbles,”
for 65 minutes (27 rounds). “Bumbles,”
so christened because of a cloven foot,
was especially tough, and it is on record
that “Ginger” confided to a friend: “It
would have done your heart good t’ve
been hit by ‘Bumbles.’ ”
Australia did not have Murray for a
permanent settler. Only a youngster
when he took to burglary, he was just
26 when, with a pal, Maguire, he
stowed away at Sydney in the ship


s*r^F**
;
VSItV??.
ft
i3SVV
*f»
as
TO*
isKf?
535
;-'V
M#*?
SS
3-v£‘. *vv*i
*36
mm
J&s£»g
»,**.V*’''! ? 4j>
I*.
»isg?Ss*2
•I ■ A
aw**
£8
SO
'MI
S*
>o3*
fr-«r-
Jff
w»
'v.V'rP-
/<■ . ia.*.‘.,-- r/‘. %'v
jvWRS 4 * 4 ? >/' '.%& ’.’ •'! V' •*''
JjBfys*~j.,; «. tf*js'?., *«,*••*
ptpgt :■"■
haste?*’
x ?■** <* f
aS'.;¥,.- J
gsS|#
-*»>s
Ss7* : *
Ic-i u
frfA
if
«c
*B5
w
mps v
Q u
t&.rj
“British Built
»»
What a world of confidence
these words inspire—what a
promise of performance they
hold! In every sphere of engi-
neering, British workmanship
stands supreme.
<*>
*/i
gear
a
3*
5C
g>
co
Js.
O
fS
V
isren
rn
c:
<n
<c
*
Sheep Shearing
MACHINERY
Ha NDPV
Lister Guaranteed Sealed, Ball-Bearing Overhead Brackets, equipped
with the new Ratchet “in-and-out” Gear, and driving Lister “Ace”
Handpieces, are outstanding examples of British workmanship. They
offer every improvement that engineering skill and ingenuity can
devise, coupled with the guarantee of lifetime service that only Lister
can give. Sooner or later you will equip your shed with Lister
“Duplex” and Lister “Ace” Handpieces. Let us have the oppor-
tunity now of proving to you how much time and money this ideal
combination can save you.
Sole Agents for New South Wales:
DANGAR, GEDYE & Nl ALLOGH Ltd.
Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Citizen bound for Maoriland. Thence he
voyaged round the Horn, reaching New
York in safety.
Before the Citizen put out from Syd-
ney, the authorities discovered that the
two convicts had escaped. Following a
pleasant custom of the period, they
bored for them through the deck with
immense augers.
One pierced Maguire’s leg. Murray
drew a bowie knife and whispered that
if Maguire groaned and thus gave them
away he would get it through the heart.
Maguire did not utter a sound. When
the auger was withdrawn, he coolly
wiped the blood off the point with a
handkerchief, and the searchers moved
or;.
Arrived in America, Murray changed
his name to “Sullivan” and took to fight-
ing again, beating one O’Connor. To-
wards the end of 1840, after twelve
months in the U.S.A., he boldly returned
to England, where, on February 2, 1841,
he fought the famous Hammer Lane.
“ ‘Sullivan,’ ” wrote the editor of “Bell’s
Life,” “is stated to be a Yankee, but
we are inclined to think he is an East-
ender, like Jem Ward, of Irish parents.
Having quitted his country at an early
age, he has for the last 15 years been
improving his knowledge of the use of
his digits in foreign climes, closing his
travels by a residence of 12 months
among the Yankees. His age is 28, his
height about sft. 10in., his frame mus-
cular and well proportioned, his weight
list. 61b.”
"Sullivan" Beats Lane.
“Bell’s Life” gave considerable space
to the “Sullivan”-Lane contest. Its
account, abridged, may be interestingly
compared with descriptions of Australian
fights reprinted in this series.
“On entering the ring ‘Sullivan’ sported
a green throttle-squeeze with yellow
spots. Lane displayed a purple flag with
yellow border. Lane exhibited a playful
devil-may-care confidence, while ‘Sulli-
van’ was as grave as a mustard-pot and
looked as fierce as a devilled kidney. The
odds on starting were 2 to 1 on Lane,
which increased to 5 to 2 and 3 to 1 on,
the latter odds being taken to a large
figure.
“ ‘Sullivan’ led off vigorously with his
left, which was prettily stopped, and he
in turn stopped Lane’s left and right.
‘Sullivan’ popped in his left, but did not
get quite home, while Lane, in the
counter, caught him on the nob. ‘Kid
him,’ cried some of ‘Sullivan’s’ friends,
and he tried the feinting dodge, but Lane
was not to be had. A rally followed, in
which there were some pretty exchanges,
without much advantage on either side,
when Lane, from the state of the ground,
slipped and fell. Loud cheers for the
Yankee.
“Round two. ‘Sullivan’ came up
steady and waited for the attack. Lane
led off with his left, but was well stopped.
Some lively exchanges followed, left and
right on the nob, when Lane popped in
a body hit with his right, and, after a
short rally, again slipped down laughing.
“Round three. Good counter-hits with
the left, one of which caught Lane on
the mouth, and another dropped on
‘Sullivan’s’ ogle, which immediately
showed a mouse. A lively rally close to
the ropes, in which it was observed that
‘Sullivan’ hit open-handed. Lane closed,
and threw his man, falling himself with
his arm under his opponent’s head.
“Round four. On coming to the
scratch, the dials of both were painted,
and a tinge of blood was perceptible on
Lane’s lips, from a touch on his ivories.
‘Sullivan’ again stopped Lane’s first
effort with his left, and, in return, gave
gave him another smack on the nob.
Lane dropped his left on ‘Sullivan’s’
body. After an exchange of blows, ‘Sulli-
van’ hit short with his left, and tried
the uppercut, but missed. Lane, in get-
ting away, slipped down, but rose laugh-
ing.
“Round five. Counter-hits with the
left, and good exchanges, left and right.
A close, in which mutual fibbing took
place, and ‘Sullivan” showed that he was
quite awake to in- as well as out-fighting.
In the struggle for the fall, Lane got his
man down.
“Round six. Lane came up laughing,
and hit out with his left, but was stopped ;
he made a feint with his left, and suc-
ceeded in planting slightly with his right
on ‘Sullivan’s’ pimple, which he followed
up, after another cunning dodge, by a
visitation from his left. ‘Sullivan,’
nothing daunted, followed him up to
the corner, caught his left hand with his
right, and, with his left, gave him a
whack on the chops.
Lane broke away, and commenced a
fierce rally, hitting out with left and right.
Sullivan’ stopped both blows on the
points of his elbows, and in an instant
we observed from the swelling of the
right forearm that Lane had sustained
severe injury. He let go his left at the
body, but dropped his right to his side.
It was obvious he had lost the power of
using it; still he jobbed with his left,
which ‘Sullivan’ seized with his right. In
the close, Lane fell, ‘Sullivan’ upon him.
“Although the injury to Lane’s arm
was only visible now, the mischief was
done in the fall in the third round. Subse-
quent use of the arm increased the frac-
ture till further exertion became impos-
sible.
“Lane at once commenced fighting with
his left. He jobbed ‘Sullivan’ dreadfully
on the snout, from whence he drew lots
of claret. He repeated the dose in quick
succession three or four times. The hits
were terrific, and severe cuts on the brow
and cheek followed previous visits on the
nose. The Yankee exhibited a woeful
spectacle.
“ ‘Sullivan’s’ friends now called on him
loudly to go in and fight, as Lane had
but one arm. He responded to the call,
and followed Lane as he retreated, job-
bing, to the corner. ‘Sullivan’ attempted
to close, but Lane slipped down. It
now became the question with Lane’s
backers, from the state of his arm,
whether prudence and humanity should
not suggest the propriety of submitting
to the consequences of this melancholy
accident. Lane, however, resisted the sug-
gestion, said he could lick him with one
hand, and, on time being called, came
up to the scratch laughing.”
And so it went on for 19 rounds,
Lane doing wonders with his left. He
actually knocked ‘Sullivan’ down in
the 14th round with a smashing hit on
the nose. In the 16th, however, “‘Sulli-
van’ caught Lane a tremendous whack
on the left brow, cutting him severely,
and dropping him close to the corner.
“Lane came up with less vigor than in
the former rounds. Sullivan rushed in
to fight, received a smack from the left,
but returned with severity on the old
spot, and Lane was again down. ‘Sulli-
van,’ although dreadfully punished, being
still strong on his legs, the backers of
Lane gave in for him, amidst loud cheers
from the friends of the Yankee, who was
proclaimed the victor in 34 minutes.”
In the Roaring Days.
The “Bell’s Life” man concludes his
story with the laconic statement that
“very shortly after this battle ‘Sullivan’
returned to America.” The London police
had become inquisitive about his ante-
cedents, but he was too swift for them.
Beyond the Atlantic he met John Mor-
rissey, afterwards a Congressman, for
the championship of America. “Sulli-
van” is said to have had the better of
it until a free fight broke out; he there-
upon made himself scarce. When this
was discovered Morrissey was pro-
claimed the winner. History records that
while “Sullivan” was in his corner some-
body whispered to him that if he beat
Morrissey the latter’s supporters would
shoot him ; hence his sudden disappear-
ance.
Morrissey subsequently defeated John
C. Heenan, “the Benicia Boy,” largely
because Heenan damaged one of his
fists against a ring stake. Heenan sued
for a return match, was refused one,
and crossed the ocean to fight Tom
Sayers.
It was reserved for a digger named
Bob McLaren to whip Morrissey in
California. McLaren challenged the rowdy
who was to become a politician, and
overcame him after a tremendous con-
test. The ring was surrounded by men
armed with revolvers; most of them
were Morrissey men, but there were
sufficient McLaren supporters to prevent
them from making it a shooting match.
The winner and a brother migrated to
Ballarat, where Bob McLaren kept the
Glasgow Arms on the Main-road. The
brother could use his fists a bit, but was
better known as a singer under his con-
cert-hall name of Arthur Power. A
writer of the period declares that both
McLarens had tragic exits: “Poor Bob
died of a broken heart: a woman was
at the bottom of his trouble. Arthur
Power hanged himself in a cabin of the
old Cheviot, bound from Melbourne to
Sydney.”
The End of "Sullivan."
“Yankee Sullivan”? In 1856 he was
arrested in San Francisco by one of the
law-and-order committees who called
themselves the Vigilantes, and sentenced
to “transportation out of the United
States.” He and two companions were
styled “disturbers of the peace of the city,
leaders of an organised gang who have
invaded the sanctity of the ballot-box
and perfect pests to society.” Sullivan
begged the Vigilantes not to send him
back to Australia. Fearing that they
would, he severed an artery and bled to
death.


“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will And “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price Hd. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
Effective Coverage
of Wellington, the capital
city of New Zealand, is
certain through the
columns of
“The Evening Post”
which enters 19 out of
every 20 homes in the
city and urban areas.
FIRST IN SALES, IN-
FLUENCE, PRESTIGE
AND IN THE QUAN-
TITY OF LOCAL AND
NATIONAL ADVERTIS-
ING CARRIED.
The Evening Post
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
Clk Itlcrcury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars from,
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House,_ Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
Mail"
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings. Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Melbourne.
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to well over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects jor 1937 are even brighter.
let...
M The Barrier Miner "
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t afford to ignore itl
Further details can be had from
P A MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
’ Warwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
dt
The Centre of Tas-
mania’s Progress
and Prosperity
“THE EXAMINER” Is the only daily newspaper
published in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agri- A.
cultural, Commercial and Tourist Centre of Tas-
mania. “THE EXAMINER” has been published <UREAU <*.
in Launceston for 93 years, and is the News- circulations
paper read by Northern Tasmania to-day A A
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” and Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
alone. I hate seeing you go all dead like the rest,
Sandy. Growing a hard shell. Making your posi-
tion secure at the expense of somebody else.”
“Good God! It really looks like that to you?”
“You think about nothing but money these days.
The price of fish ; the cost of fuel... ‘Time to be
off again. Don’t let’s stay talking: make another
good haul before the cyclone-weather comes.’ ”
“Well, that’s my life, isn’t it? There’d soon be
a blister on the Kestrel if I hung around the port.”
“What’s the end of it all? You’re twenty-three ;
if your mind’s full of that sort of thing now... I
can see you growing hooks on your fingers —getting
hold of a few more boats, having a crowd of blacks
working for you. The White King of Luggertown,
the Keith Macready of the waterfront.”
The ghost of a smile twisted his lips. “That’s
an idea. No one’s ever tried to organise the bulls or
exploit them in bulk. But it’s no good casting me
for the part, Freda. Whatever ambition I have
doesn’t lie on the water.”
“Not on it: there’s no profit in that. By the
side of it, where there’s pickings from the salvage.”
Covert malice was in her voice. She wanted to
find some taunt that would hurt him, rouse him from
his complacency, bring the passion to his eyes. Yet
he remained cool and invulnerable. “Nothing pene-
trates him,” she was thinking, “nothing: he’s grown
a protective skin over himself.” Hunched up with
her hands around her knees, she sat staring at the
oily snag rising from the water, all her feelings
gathered in a hard knot. There was a smothering
closeness about the pewter sky, the moisture-laden
air. In the morning she would be back among the
hills, and when she came down again Besanck would
be gone.
She suddenly felt Neil’s arm around her shoulders,
heard him say placatingly “What do you want me to
do, Freda? Hunt up Leo and get him to come back?”
“It’s not my affair,” she said. “Why put it as if
it were a concession to me? If you don’t feel you’ve
let him down”
“Well, I don’t. He’s well able to take care of
himself. All his life his first thought has been his
own interest. Look after Number One and let every-
body else go to the devil. All his philosophy amounts
to nothing but that.”
“Yet you’ve only found it out now?”
“We’ve grown away from one another. I wasn’t
much more than a boy when we met first down in
the cane country: he attracted me because he was
different from the rest of the crowd. That way he
has of suggesting he’s experienced everything and
knows all about life. ‘There was a woman in Han-
kow once’ I was fool enough the be flattered
because he took a bit of notice of me. Sucked around
him, followed him up when he went off alone by the
river. He can’t forget that. Can’t help looking on me
as a youngster who ought to swallow everything he
says—hook, bait and sinker.”
“So that’s where the point of the harrow goes,
is it?”
Her dry voice, her body drawing away from
him, made him flush. “Wouldn’t it affect you the
same way? And it’s not only that. I’m still fond
of Leo, but I’ve seen through his bluff. His wonderful
experiences—mostly lies. And his ideas about life
all crackle and no pith. There’s a hollowness inside
him, and he knows it. He’s proud of being a spec-
tator at the show, but it’s because he hasn t guts tor
anything but looking on. Can’t adapt himself, can t
take a hand in the game... Think I’m hitting below
the belt, saying all this about him, Freda? Well, I’ve
never really opened up about him before, and I
wouldn’t to anyone but you. You’re dazzled by his
talk as I was, but that’s because you haven’t heard
much of it. It’s empty—stones rattling in a tin.”
She stood up, shaking his arm from her. Anger,
lightning-bright, shone from her eyes. “You’re the
son of your father, Sandy. I didn’t understand Peter
when he said that. I do now.”
“What d’you mean?”
“You use people for your own ends. Climb up
on their backs and then kick them away.”
“That’s not true. Not true about him or about
me.”
“How much do you know about either?”
“It’s not true,” he repeated. “You’ve taken for
gospel all Besanck had to say, Freda: you won’t
listen to me.”
She turned her head impatiently. “I’ve told you
Besanck didn’t attempt to explain anything. He’s too
proud. But you can’t pretend, Sandy, that this is
just an amiable agreement to part company. You
hold the thick end of the stick: you’ve told him it
was time to go. And he’s just got to crawl off and
find a hole for himself.”
She had moved away, but he was beside her,
his two hands on her shoulders, crushing them
savagely. “You say all this, Freda, because you’re in
love with him.”
“All right,” she said indifferently, “if that’s what
you want to believe... I’m in love with him —head-
over-ears. Scared stiff this will give him an excuse
to go off and leave me.”
“Now you’re poking fun at me,” he said with
inner relief. “I suppose I deserved it. Come over and
have tea on the boat. We never get a chance to talk.”
“No,” she said, “I’ve got to get back.”
“Please, Freda.”
“No.”
SHE flung him away and went up the rutty track
driven by a blind anger that put a hardness into
her eyes. It was not directed against Neil so much as
against herself. Why should she let herself be over-
whelmed by this rush of feeling because she had
come across Besanck at the butcher’s with his parcel
of muttonbones? He was in no need of sympathy.
There wasn’t any reason to believe he had been
treated badly. He would chuckle till his eyes watered
at the idea that anyone had got the better of him.
But she could not rid herself of a fear (the
Kestrel was left far behind now) of the stagnation that
would follow when he drifted over the skyline. There
was a challenge to her, to everyone, behind the
mockery of his eyes. His queer smile flickering like
a snake’s tongue, his lifted brows, his shadowy figure
floating about the waterfront, appearing suddenly as
on that night at the boat to carry her out of herself,
spirit her into a more exciting world. He kept the
surface of life fluid, prevented it from settling into a
scum.
The colored youngsters coming home from school,
swinging their leather bags, shouting insults to one
another across the rubbish-filled gullies, brought back
sharp reminders of her harum-scarum girlhood. How
often she had gone long distances out of her way to
accompany just such crowds of ragamuffins home!
The other girls had been shocked: suppose your
parents or one of the teachers saw you dawdling about
the lanes of Luggertown! But what other parts of
the town could compare with it? Smell of overblown
magnolias, of rotting fish-heads, of drying mud!
Visions of big, heavy-breasted women in colored
blouses suckling their babies on vine-hung verandahs.
The feeling of a dark, warm life flowing all around
you.
It was what you sought most of all, that warm,
dark current lapping around these tumbledown
houses, carrying you away on its tide, giving you a
sense of feather-lightness, of reckless independence,
of being free from the tyrannies of class and clothes,
free from the eyes of women like Anna watering
their lawns along the esplanade and knowing that in
an hour it would be time to ring the tea-bell. You
wanted to belong to these people, become one with
them, penetrate their lives’ rich strangeness. You
were nearer to them, really, than to the fat men on
the hotel balconies and the well-dressed shoppers
fluttering around the windows in Hunter-street.
Something in you, the feeling of being a bit of an
outsider, too, perhaps, drew you towards anyone who
was up against things, made you hostile to those who
had power.
(But he’s going away. He’ll take the first chance
of slipping off. That colored girl he talked about
couldn’t hold him here.)
She stopped at a store on the outskirts of the
town and stood looking in at the green bowls of
ginger, tinned and bottled goods, crackers in fly-
marked paper, fruit covered with mosquito-net. The
Chinaman in charge shuffled slowly to the door and
peered out from among the propped-up bundles of
sugarcane like a cod from its cavern. She said
abruptly: “Can you lend me a bag, John? I want to
get some stores.”
“You bling it back?”
“Ob, yes, HI bring it back.”
Her eyes moving restlessly over the dark shelves,
she sought out things that might give a scratch meal
the flavor of a feast. Tinned crab, asparagus, cum-
quats in syrup. The wine would have to wait till she
came to a hotel on the edge of the town, but at least
there were cigarettes. They seemed to have been
rolled in yellow parchment: she sniffed at them
dubiously.
“He’ll think I’m just bringing him these things
out of charity,” she was telling herself. “He’ll be icy,
keep me at a distance. I don’t care ; I’m proof against
anything. And it’s my spree as much as his.”
Shouldering her sugarbag, she trudged off in the
direction of the racecourse, where the spindly houses
trickled out into wasteland and goats cropped among
the burrs of vacant allotments. The young workmen
pelting home on their bicycles looked back at her
through the risen dust. Old Peter’s daughter, their
eyes said: going round for bottles, is it? What idea
has she got in her head now?
(To be continued next week.)


ill
li§lpilll»^
lll?i||r : ' ■ ' --
iiP ; "
.... ~ \„
'h I
*f
'>
r
■fcus^
js •
:is#i
>V
your back ache when you
Or© fired? Is there any puffiness
under your eyes —any stiffness, swelling or
rheumatic twinges in your joints? Do you
sleep badly at nights, and feel worn out
when you wake in the mornings? If your
answer is YES to any of these questions,
don’t delay any longer, look to your
Kidneys.
A great number of people have Kidney
Trouble in some form or other, but they
ignore it until they suddenly realise that it
is becoming serious, and then it often takes
weeks of constant treatment before the
Kidneys are normal again.
It is essential to recognise Kidney
Trouble in its early stages.
If you have any suspicion that your
Kidneys are becoming wqak and not
functioning as they should, begin taking
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills. They will quickly
strengthen weak kidneys and at the same
time tone up your entire system.
Don’t experiment with unknown lines;
get the genuine Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
which have brought relief to tens of thou-
sands of Australians during the past 30
years.
Gin Pills are perfectly safe for anyone
to take and can be absolutely relied upon
to correct any weakness or inflammation
of the Kidney or Bladder. They cannot
help but do you good.
Always remember
—-“When your
Kidneys let you
down, Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills will pick
you up again.”
SfoJheld&m
GIN NLIS
for BACKACHE, RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO, Joint
PAINS and all KIDNEY and BLADDER TROUBLES
nr
Cj^SHELDONjP
27 Pills 7/9
60 Pills 2/9
LEN ROGERS
praises
BoubleD”
£x'MacCj
ert
Lett Rogers
(o n e of A us-
tralia’s best
Cyclists ) is a
member of the
Australian team
to contest the
Wembley Six-
Day Race at
London. He is
a keen advo-
cate of Double
“D” Eucalyp-
tus, and writes
as follows:
The Sheldon Drug Co.
Pty., Ltd.,
131 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sirs,—Please allow me
to add my quota to all the
good things which have been
said about your famous
Double “D” Eucalyptus. I
always carry a supply with
me, and have found it of
great benefit in more ways
than one. Apart from being
an efficient massage oil, it
is the best bar against colds
resulting from sudden change of climate.
In packing my trunks for my forthcoming
trip to England as a member of the Austra-
lian team to contest the Wembley Six-Day
Race at London, your product will form an
important part of my luggage.
Yours faithfully,
C Signed) LEN ROGERS.
Leading Athletes Choose
Double“D
&ucalirittM ('xt 'iacl
for its STRENGTH and PURITY
Hubert Opperman, the brilliant Cyclist,
breaker of many records, and team-mate of
Len Rogers, also makes use of Double “D”
Eucalyptus in his training. Take a tip from
these noted Athletes—-keep your muscles
fit by rubbing them with Double “D”
Eucalyptus regularly. Double “D” is very
strong and penetrating, and will keep your
muscles free from stiffness and make them
strong and supple.
Double “D” is also invaluable in the pre-
vention and treatment of colds. It s the
purest and strongest Eucalyptus sold in
Australia. Refuse substitutes.
9d. Enormous Sales 1/3
The pure, strong Eucalyptus
with the sweet, fresh smell
\-jTt
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
PCS
\ k
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
[Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
A , \
erf
L ei
t>y »•• «* jxffV
2%
vO-.cS>’ A'
>% V* \^ e o> e ° < ,
**■
,\O e v^ e
..* v n:° v ;
••* A V c V’ v V
•*‘‘ ovs


Australian farmers
A*
ALL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
<r
Mfi. "
-•4-^
■;-X
4;
m.
A
W/A
a
W
*7
WARATAH ’ FENCING WIRE
Black or Galvanised
“WARATAH” STAR STEEL
FENCE' POSTS will not burn
“WARATAH” Hinged Joint Fence
for Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, etc.
“WARATAH” WIRE-NETTING .
Vts/S* • -y, v*/.; - .
I iSSHtH
i; *
m *
100 per cent. Australian, from the iron ore to the fence. Waratah
wire-netting protects sheep, pigs, poultry and pastures from the ravages
of rabbits, wild dogs, and other vermin. Rylands stand behind all
Waratah products. Every roll of netting and coil of wire bears their
identification disc. Preserve this—it is your protection. Rylands have
a suitable product for every fencing purpose, and, if you are in doubt
as to the right type of materials for specific uses, they invite you to
avail yourself of their technical service. Keep Australian workmen
employed. An assured home consumption is your best market. .Aus-
tralians consume 60 per cent, of the total primary production of the
Commonwealth. Four Australian workmen and their families lose
their livelihood for a week every time a mile of imported netting is
used. Specify Rylands Waratah wire-netting, and see that you get it.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DISTRIBUTORS AND STOREKEEPERS.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
B.H.P. STEEL
i
si
Si
The World’s Best
1
MADE BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.), LTD.,
I
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
And at 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Write for our Farmers *
Handbook
KI
BRAND
RYLANDS
STAND
BEHIND
THEIR
PRODUCTS
m
I
m
n
i
a
i
i
CAS
%
mn
i
I
i
t
m
*•#
HHI
li
'•ittiiii
m
m/7ii
fl/ b \ /
