

Fa]
“it takes TASM
to build a set lik
this... and
wait till you've
heard it .. Madam
'ii
■
1
I m
itig Model 43
note
A Ik
m
&
At any Tasma dealer’s showrooms you can see and hear the new
Tasma “435” De Luxe DUAL-WAVE RECEIVER—a Tasma
masterpiece which will give world-wide reception of the purest tone and
clarity, no matter in what location you live. Offered in the beautiful
“Homestead” Cabinet (as illustrated), this receiver sets an entirely new
standard of value and performance in dual-wave equipment. In
addition to the broadcast band, all overseas stations from 16 to 50
metres can now be easily tuned.
PRICE " (including all new features as listed) 28 Gns.
Prices slightly higher in West Australia.
these exclusive
iJaJrna
features
TASMA DEALERS
INVITE YOU TO
INSPECT THE
COMPLETE 1937
TASMA RANGE
Prices from
15 guineas to
56 guineas
Prices slightly higher in West
Australia.
A High Quality Set for Every Place
Purpose and Purse.
SUPER-SIZE SQ-INCII EDOELIT GLASS DIAL!
Bacli scale is add-etched into the glass, colour-filled
and floodlit. In addition to the calibrated short-wave
scale (on dual wave sets only) ALL THE 103
AUSTRALIAN STATIONS are indicated with hair-
line accuracy and unequalled brilliant visibility.
TWO SEPARATE AND DIFFERENTLY COLOURED
TUNING SCALES are fitted to Dual Wave Dials. The
colour of the lighting changes when you switch
from broadcast to short-wave, or vice versa. Only
ONE scale is visible at one time.
EXTRA TUNING RANGE is'now provided at each
end of the broadcast band —and the short-wave band
lias been extended to tune from 16 to 50 metres.
FEATHERLIGHT RAPID-MOMENTUM HIGH
SPEED TUNING CONTROL. The swiftest and most
accurate tuning equipment, ever evolved. The indi-
cator can be swung completely round the dial with
one light flick of finger and thumb—enabling in-
stantaneous change from one programme to another
without “fiddling" or fuss; yet so perfectly controlled
that even the most remote station can be tuned with
micrometer accuracy.
HERMETICALLY SEALED, DUST-PROOF AIR
TRIMMER CONDENSERS NEW IMPROVED
FEKRO-COIL—OPTIONAL AERIAL TAP and
VARIABLE SELECTIVITY ensure permanent
factory-perfect reproduction even in the most difficult
areas, and no matter how close the Tasma owner
may live to a powerful broadcasting station. These
vital features provide a sure safeguard against back-
ground hiss, “jittering;” etc., give EXTRA DAY-
LIGHT RANGE to the man in the country, and
ensure REAL HIGH FIDELITY RECEPTION of all
stations.
• SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH (battery and
vibrator sets only) which enables the dial light to
be extinguished when the station has been tuned in,
thus reducing the drain on accumulator.
• ELECTRIC EYE (for visual tuning; on electric sets
only) is incorporated IN the dial and can be easily
observed without taking up a position directly in
front of the set.
• EXTRA VOLUME! The new Tasma can be tuned
from the faintest whisper to full “dance hall’' volume
without the slightest suspicion of distortion or
whistle. The TONE is so true and flawless that the
REALISM of Tasma reproduction creates almost the
complete illusion that the artists are in the room
itself. AUTOMATIC VOLUME CONTROL is an
outstanding feature of the new Tasma.
• And—OF COURSE! —these sets embody the CON-
TINUOUSLY VARIABLE TONE CONTROL as
successfully used by Tasma for THREE YEARS past.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria:
HARTLEYS JPTY., LTD.,
270 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
JOHN HOLTAV, AY AND SONS
Ifi Armstrong Street, North,
Ballairat.
(Ballarat Distributors .)
Australia:
OLIVER J. MLSEX & CO
LTD.,
49 King William Street,,
lelaide.
Queensland :
G. J. GRICE. RTI).,
90 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
And Branches at Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns
and Mackay.
Queensland:
Darling- Downs:
ROSENSTEXGELS PTI
LTD.,
Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba.
Western Australia:
CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
»w Zealand:
NEW ZEALAND ELECTRIC
EQUIPMENT, LTD.,
Wakefield Chambers,
Wellington, N.Z.
Tasmania :
NOYES BROS. (MELB.)
PTY., LTD..
36 Argyle Street.
Hobart.
And 59 George Street,
Launceston.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH LIMITED, 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot.
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—N0. 2994.
Wednesday, June 30, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia,; for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


WILL LAWSON
SCHOOL OF WRITING
WILL LAWSON will read and advise personally upon novel
and short-story manuscripts, and will revise MSS. for
publication.
Mr. Lawson has made arrangements with twelve LONDON
and AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHING HOUSES to give favor-
able consideration to any MSS. RECOMMENDED BY HIM.
Complete courses in modern novel and short-story writing
to approved applicants.
Write for details to
WILL LAWSON,
Room 9, Fourth Floor, 17 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free
with terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
gdf
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HEBE AND MAID
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Mu Name
Mp Address
S.B. 337
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Fourth Competition Closes June 6, 1938.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work in book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for at
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must be
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will be
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
A GREAT WOMAN'S YOUTH.
Gertrude Bell has been dead nearly ten years, but
her memory survives as an Arab tradition. She was
a woman who would have impressed herself on
her surroundings in any walk of life, but her aptitude
for Arabic and adjacent languages, her insight into
the Oriental mind and her flair for politics, coupled
with patience for human frailties, made the seething
Arab States her natural habitat.
During the war she was as important to the
British cause in Mesopotamia as were Lawrence and
his co-workers on the other side of the Arabian Penin-
sula. At the end of her career no better official title
could be found for her than “Oriental Secretary to
the High Commissioner at Bagdad,” but as an influ-
ence she outshone High Commissioners in that region.
She was one of the greatest Englishwomen of her
time, and certainly the greatest the overseas British
civil service has employed.
In 1927 Gertrude Bell’s letters were published
in two volumes, at a price beyond the reach of the
average reader. They added a good deal to student
knowledge of the recent history of the Arab region,
were excellent in style and threw a good deal of light
on the character of this daughter of a North of
England ironmaster. But they did not so illuminate
the mainsprings of her career as do a new series of
Earlier Letters (Benn ; 155.), which have been edited
by her sister, Lady Richmond, and which cover the
period before Gertrude Bell’s twenty-fifth birthday.
In these letters she is revealed as a curious com-
bination of a normal girl, free by reason of her
father’s money to live a life of amusement, who
divides her time between the lighter gaieties and an
intense occupation with the more serious side of
existence. She elected to go to Oxford in a day when
women of her social surroundings looked on univer-
sities askance, and when the life was made supremely
uncomfortable for the girl undergraduate by the fact
that she must be chaperoned and segregated even at
lectures. She took first-class honors there, exhibiting
an amazing maturity. At 18 we find her writing:
Thorold Rogers is very amusing. He lectures on
the same sort of things he writes about He reverses
all the judgments of other historians by throwing the
100,000 manor rolls which he told us he had read at
their heads. Henry 111. was a great and wise monarch,
chiefly, I think, because corn was Id. a bushel cheaper
or dearer under him!
One wonders a little less at her when her asso-
ciates are conned over: Lady Ritchie, Joachim the
violinist, Freeman, Australia’s Gilbert Murray —
Murray, then 22, but already “the great Mr. Murray”
to his contemporaries. She “liked him very much ;
he was very simple and nice to talk to and interest-
ing withal.”
Leaving Oxford, already a good linguist, she
went with some relations in the diplomatic service to
Rumania, and there we meet her at 20 chatting easily
with Queen Marie and Valentine Chirol, of the
“Times,” sometimes dancing the night through, but
occasionally flitting off to make an expert analysis
of architectural styles. Sometimes she unburdens
herself on English events, as when she turns from a
description of the Rumanian Parliament, in which
the “howls and screams are almost as easy to under-
stand in Rumanian as in English,” to give her 20-
year-old views on the Parnell Commission:
The old scoundrel Pigott! . . . peace be to his
ashes!... .What apes the “Times” people have been.
Fancy building a Palace of Justice with Pigott for a
foundation-stone. I am very glad all this horror has
been disproved, not because I love Mr. Parnell, but
because I am so relieved to find that after all English
politics are not sunk so low The worst of it is
I am afraid it will give a bias to people’s judgment
on the whole Irish question which is obviously absurd.
I never could see myself that Mr. Parnell’s private
character had much bearing on the Union.
In 1892 she went to Persia. It was a wild
country in those days, but still fascinating. It put
its spell on her immediately, as it does on almost
every visitor. She learnt the easy language quickly,
and at 23 fell in love with Henry Cadogan, a grand-
son of the Earl of Cadogan. Her people did not
approve the match, and she herself seems to have
been doubtful about its wisdom. Nevertheless, she
was evidently deeply fond of him, and about the only
piece of bitterness in her correspondence seems to
be a letter in which she writes:
I am so foolishly hopeful, not because I see any good
way through our difficulties, but only because it is so
impossible to believe that one cannot have the one
big thing one wants more than life when one has had
all the little things one didn’t really care much about.
Henry Cadogan, like so many other British emis-
saries to Persia in that day, was carried off by an
epidemic in 1893. . From the date of his death, the
life of the real Gertrude Bell began. She saw most
of the world. She established international reputa-
tions as a scholar and as a climber of mountains.
But the first few months spent in Persia settled her
fate. Her learning and her interests centred more and
more round the Arabian-Persian area, and from 1917
onward she was a permanent part of Bagdad until
she' was taken to the sandy burial-ground of that
blazing city. It would be a mistake to imagine, how-
ever, that she lived a love-blighted life after the fashion
of the heroines of mid-Victorian novelists.
When the writer met her a year or two before
her death she was still the essence of vivacity and
courage, with a mind and gaiety that were both fresh
and young.
GHANAM.
Australian Horses.
Amathea, by Henry G. Lamond (Angus and
Robertson ; 4s. 6d.), the story of a horse, was first
published in The Bulletin as a serial and proved
popular. Besides having a stirring yarn to tell of the
blood mare Amathea, the writer brings to his work
a great knowledge of horses. Set in the Georgina
district, Queensland, the story embodies authentic
descriptions of bushmen at work and at play, and
brings in some exciting descriptions of up-country
picnic races; but it is most valuable for its pictures
of the horse mobs on western stations. Lamond
doesn’t exploit horses sentimentally. He sees them
with a bushman’s familiar eyes, and his descriptive
comments are precise. A few sentences culled from
different pages:
The man knew the stallion and mares would be
where he found them on the claypan, walking in a ring,
so that the earth broke up like fine flour, keeping the
flies off them.
The stallion burst through the mob, lowered his head
and swung it with a snakelike action.
The red flare of her funnelled nostrils....
The horses huddled miserably, tails to the driving
rain, with water running over their quarters and drib-
bling down their hocks.
She snapped her head down between her knees,
humped her back until the crupper stood taut as a
fiddle string.
Early in April the first tinge of winter came, with the
grass still carrying a streak of green; the brood literally
lolled in comfort and ease. They were sleek, shining,
strong and in great heart.
Horses have figured prominently in our literature,
but it is doubtful if they have anywhere been as well
observed as by Lamond. A kindred book from the
same pen, Horns and Hooves, should not be lost
sight of.
Irish Exiles.
About 18 years ago the present writer reviewed
on this page William Hay’s The Escape of Sir William
Means, and remarked of it and other works of his
that “such books as these —such sane, careful and
artistic books —are rare, and their rarity makes them
precious.” Hay’s latest novel, The Mystery of
Alfred Doubt, though not such a “three-volume” effort
as the story of the unfortunate baronet who had to
go through the mill of “the system” in Van Diemen’s
Land in Sir John Franklin’s time, is just as sanely,
carefully and artistically put together as its prede-
cessors.
If there be any moral to be deduced from the
strange happenings and mischances which befel Alfred
Doubt in Tasmania, and his no less remarkable rescue
[says the author in his last chapter], it is the rather
crude one that belief in the good, the beautiful and the
true in life will lead a man a long way towards the
actual discovery of these things.
The whole story is of the courageous fortitude
displayed by its hero throughout a series of vicissi-
tudes that might well have made him wonder whether
the game was worth playing to a finish. He sees it
out, and wins, and how close he came to its tragic
loss absorbs the reader’s interest in the sober yet
exciting narrative of Doubt’s precarious adventures.
An Irish member of the House of Commons in
the third decade of the nineteenth century, well
regarded as a cool and level-headed man whose only
aim was the betterment of his own people, “he was
wont to say he would as soon make an unreasonable
demand for his race as say a bad book was good
because it was written by a friend. Each was a
Judas. One betrayed his country, the other Art.”
But he cannot restrain the wilder members of his
party, and the movement which he led, though he was
not involved in its ruin, degenerated through their
thick-headedness into futile revolt and bloodshed, and
brought eight of his followers to trial for their lives
and ultimate transportation to Van Diemen’s Land.
The high-minded Doubt, though no suspicion of
complicity in rebellion is attached to him by anyone,
refuses to pardon himself for having so led his people
that they became involved in danger. He resigns his
Parliamentary seat and his leadership, and goes him-
self to Tasmania, with the ideas of becoming a settler
and a recluse and doing what he can for the men
whose misfortunes he regards in some altruistic
fashion as being his own responsibility.
So we come to old Van Diemen’s Land at the
time when the convict system was at its height, with
all the sideshows incidental to assignment of prison
labor, absconding, bushranging and semi-military
government. The social conditions are sketched with
that deftness and selectiveness which can be achieved
only by painstaking historical research, and —
without having it thrown in our faces —we realise the
fact that the convict settlement of a new country is
inevitably a sin and a sorrow. Doubt, to his mis-
fortune, becomes mixed up with his prisoner com-
patriots.
Prisoners are not the only background of this
fine novel; the whole pioneer society of the southern
island, which has always been so different from that
of the mainland, comes into view. A few soldier
officers, some wealthy and locally powerful land-
holders, one or two “emancipists” and bushrangers,
and a couple of women help to fill the pictures of
these times which Hay has drawn faithfully and well.
His characters live, and live consistently to completion
in all their earlier outlines. They are of their own
times essentially, but always comprehensible to us
of other times —and that is a test of the worth of
historical fiction.
The hero is never overdrawn, though we do not
cease to look at the picture through his eyes. Inevit-
ably, William Hay takes high rank as an exponent of
days that are gone but may yet be made to live again
by such as are capable of seeing clearly into the past
and incapable of distorting it for dramatic effect or
fine writing.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Comedy in China.
Madame Flowery Sentiment, Albert Gervais
(Hamish Hamilton, Ltd; 65.), translated from the
French by Campbell Dixon, is set in Szechuan, near
the border of Tibet. At one point the author wishes
to illustrate the less-informed-Chinese estimate of the
outer world. After explaining that the shooting of
brigands by Chinese soldiers would have had the
approval of all classes of the populace, he tells what
happened when a British gunboat fired on some, after
provocation:
Everybody agreed in condemning the ignominy. In-
flammatory articles began to appear in the newspapers.
Students paraded the town bearing banners explain-
ing to the Chinese authorities the attitude to be taken
up and the formidable indemnities to be exacted from
England: 50,000 dollars a head for the bandits killed,
the death penalty for all Europeans living in Szechuan,
and the abdication of the King of England. Failing
which a powerful fleet was to chastise the odious English
in their capital.
Madame Flowery Sentiment, written in the first
person, is the story of an illicit love affair between a
young French doctor and a Chinese girl. The lady,
through the death of her husband, is thrown on the
tender mercies of her mother-in-law. Being of coquet-
tish inclinations, spirited disposition and advanced
views, she prefers the life of a demimondaine —but
the proprieties must be observed. The book is really
a comedy of manners. Whether telling of his hero’s
relationships with Madame Flowery Sentiment, with
her friends or with incidental characters, the writer
gets a good deal of fun by emphasising the elaborate
Chinese code of social behavior while permitting the
reader to get glimpses of the very human designs at
play underneath. Dr. Jen, much to his inconvenience,
has a party in his “honor”—in his own home —
arranged for him by Mr. Yu, an influential Chinese
who wishes to impress his countrymen with his
familiarity with a Westerner. Policy, as Yu realises,
prevents the young Frenchman refusing. Mr. Yu is
leaving after making arrangements:
He begged me not to accompany him to the door
of the garden, as the most elementary rules of behavior
required me to do, and every three paces we paused to
make correct little bows, the hands joined at the height
of the face.
“Pu-kan-tan!” (“I am not really worthy of being
accompanied to the gate. You do me too much
honor! ”)
“Man-tso, man-tso!” (“I beg you to go carefully,
I am anxious to see you comfortably seated in your
chair.”)
The meetings of Madame Flowery Sentiment and
Dr. Jen, private as well as public, are likewise con-
ditioned by the grave observance of a rather charming
social ritual, which the reader, knowing their intimacy,
follows with some amusement. The differences
between the Chinese and Western codes are also
exploited. Madame’s code does not prevent her, in
o Continued on page 8 .)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— the Salt of Business.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Economical Housewives should
take advantage of these
GENUINE MANCHESTER SAVINGS
You’ll be needing new sheets and towels later on, so buy them now during our Great
Winter Sale and secure better quality at greater economy. Lovely cloths, purest wool
blankets, sheets and down quilts are all offering at sensationally low prices. Replenish
your linen cupboard NOW.
/
I
Wm.
/
%
mm
f \
«
IRISH LINEN Double Damask Cloth
For that perfectly appointed table choose from this low-priced line! These
are Irish Linen Double Damasks in floral or scroll designs.
Sizes, inches 70*72 70*90 70*108
Prices 24/6 3 % 37 / 6
Sale Prices ...... . . . . 16/11 21/- 25/1 1
Serviettes to match, half-dozen. Price ...... 15/-. Sale Price 11/6
9mm
/_
A
. .
All Wool White “Hordura” Blankets
Soft, but strongly made, these All Wool White * Hordura Blankets will give you
long and satisfactory Service. In standard weights and sizes.
For Single Bed. f Bed. Double Bed. Large D. Bed.
Sizes, inches 54x78 63x81 72x90 81x99
Prices, pair 32/6 39/6 51/6 63/-
Sale Prices, pair 27/6 34/6 45/- 55/-
/
3
m
STRIPED TURKISH BATH TOWELS
Here’s a large-sized soft quality Turkish Bath Towel in Red or Blue Stripe. Reliable
and hard-wearing quality. Size is 24 x4B inches. Price, each 2/11
Sale Price 2/3
••• '
1
*• ■•*4
“Palace 7 ’ Brand Linen Finish Sheets
•M
35
TV
m
&
/
*
mb
ms
/ *
Z
Down-Proof Sateen Covered Quilts
Light, soft and warm these Down Quilt's are excellent quality for so low
a price. They’re covered with floral down-proof sateen with one plain sateen
panel to tone. Filled with real down. In Rose, Blue, Green or Black.
Double Bed Size. Price '5/-. Sale Price 6 7/6
Single Bed Size. Price 65/-. Sale Price 58/6
“T
/
m
m
Jj
mm
mf
Heavyweight Turkish Bath Towels
This Towel has Red, Blue or Green Stripe Designs on Cream Grounds. It is a
heavyweight, absorbent quality and obtainable in large size, 27 x 50 inches.
Price, each 3/11. Sale Price 2/11
Manchester-Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


THE
GIRL
FROM
HADES
by
Lilia
Gormhuille
McKay
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY
HECTOR PEPP was a small and unimpressive
individual. He had a meek and hesitant
manner and a lamentable lack of ambition,
and the firm of Warne and Berryman, when
reluctantly dispensing with the services of some of
their oldest employees, had included Hector in the
reluctant dismissals with some enthusiasm.
“Been here thirty years, has he?” said young
Ralph Berryman, just admitted as junior partner.
“Well, it’s time we sent him off. Give young Harrison
his job and get a junior for the inner office.”
So Harrison took over the ledgers and time-
sheets, and Hector, with bitterness in his heart and
fifty-seven pounds in the bank, went out to look for
another job. That he soon gave up the search was
mainly due to Rosina, his wife.
“No,” she said decidedly, “it’s no use your walk-
ing about any longer wearing out shoe-leather. There
are no jobs to be had. But I’m not going to turn
out of my home without a struggle. Well take
lodgers.”
Their house at Bondi was a substantial red-brick
villa on which they had paid a good deposit in the
spacious days when depressions were merely the
vapid imaginings of the morbid-minded. Within a
month Rosina had managed to fill the four front
rooms and relegated herself and Hector to the two
small rooms and kitchen at the rear. If the lodgers
simplified existence financially they brought with
them concomitant disadvantages. Mrs. Chislehurst
was deaf, and depended on a perpetual wireless pro-
gramme for entertainment, Mr. and Mrs. Jeffs had
brought their pianola and a hundred rolls, Mrs. Per-
kins possessed a gramophone, and Mr. Ostler, dis-
mayed by these evidences of musical culture all round
him, had in worthy emulation decided to take lessons
on the saxophone. Their combined activities seriously
menaced the sanity of Hector Pepp.
“Well, it’s no use grumbling,” said Rosina tartly.
“You’re out of work and not likely to be in again
and I’m doing my best to keep things going. If you
know of a better idea let’s hear it.”
That was the trouble ; Hector had no counter-
suggestion to offer. Fortunately he was handy about
the house, but full-time domestic employment was
not the future he had envisioned for himself. He
had cherished a hope that he might this year realise
a lifelong ambition and join the Boomerang Bowling
Club. He had almost joined once, but Rosina coutr
selled caution before unnecessary extravagance,
remarking that one is never too old to play bowls.
Hector, assisting Rosina to damp-down the washing on
a breezy Monday evening, was obsessed by deep
dejection, when Rosina chanced to remark that
George was in town. Hector brightened immediately.
“Let’s go and see him,” he said. “What about
to-night?”
“You go by yourself,” said Rosina. “I’m tired.
George said he might be in late, but you know where
he keeps the spare key.”
GEORGE was Rosina’s cousin and Hector Pepp’s
envious conception of the complete man-about-
town. He could imagine no situation arising to which
George, with his good looks and breezy air, would not
be equal, and George’s devastating progress among
“the ladies” afforded his humble relative-by-marriage
unflagging entertainment. To-night, Hector decided
as he climbed the stairs to George’s flat on the fourth
floor of Riverdale House, he would tell George the
full story of his dismissal and the ruthlessness of young'
Ralph Berryman.
Hector always walked upstairs at Riverdale House
because on the second floor was Hades, supposed to
be the fastest night-club in the city, and merely to
pass along the second floor gave him an exhilarating
sense of adventure. There it was, barred by a huge
iron gate opening on a grille behind which an electric
fire, burning with terrific blue flames and presided
over by a gentleman in black, complete with horns,
pitchfork and proprietary air, gave a soul-gripping
indication of what patrons might expect withm.
Through an open door Hector caught a glimpse of
more demons and imps in scarlet bearing glasses on
trays.
George, of course, was out, but Hector sought
the secret spot, known to not more than twenty special
friends, in which George kept the visitors’ key. He
switched on the lights and looked round the flat
appreciatively: one room only, with alcove and
kitchenette, but a large, comfortable room, shaded
lamps, lots of books, good pictures and a huge Ches-
terfield across one end. Hector selected a cigar, seated
himself in George’s armchair, read the evening paper,
was pervaded by a sense of peace and opulence, and
went to sleep.
He was awakened by the sound of crying, and
sat up suddenly, startled. He rose and tiptoed to the
head of the staircase. Half-way down a man was
standing with a woman who, weeping copiously, was
repeating at intervals “What ever shall I do? Harold
will turn me out.”
“For heaven’s sake keep
quiet,” said the man. “It will be
all right. They won’t keep us
long.”
Then Hector caught sight of
a policeman taking notes in a small
book. Hades had been raided. He
turned and went quietly back. At
the door of the flat he paused,
listening to a murmur of sound
from the courtyard outside ; then,
stepping delicately, he went to the
passage window and looked out.
Below, a small group of people
stood gazing upwards to where,
from a third-storey window, some-
one had thrown out a wire ladder.
Several young men negotiated the
swaying rungs successfully; then,
amid subdued encouragement,
came a girl. Just then two police-
men joined the crowd below and
people began to shout to the girl
on the ladder “Go back! Go
back! It’s too late!”
The girl paused, looking in-
tently along the wall of the build-
ing. Then she stepped off the
ladder, placed her feet on a large
pipe that ran the width of the wall,
grasped a second pipe running
parallel above, and began to work
her way along the sheer concrete.
Hector had never seen such dar-
ing. He gasped: he could hear the
gasping of the crowd below.
All eyes were on the girl. The
pipes were big and strongly riveted,
but a momentary loss of nerve
meant death. Her objective was a
small open window just below
where Hector stood: she reached
it, clambered in and vanished.
Then Hector realised he was tremb-
ling violently, as from a dreadful
ordeal. He stood still, hearing
faintly the excited clamor of the
crowd below. Suddenly he felt a
clutch on his arm. It was the girl.
“Hide me! ” she said. “Quick!
Hide me!”
Hector felt she deserved it. He
hustled her into George’s room
and shut the door. She looked a
mere child, small and pale, with
enormous excited dark eyes and a
cloud of dusky hair. He had only
time to observe this when she whispered “Listen!
They re coming. Where can I go.
~ . ,
"THE modem service fiat is not designed to afford
generous cover to fugitives from the law. All his
life Hector was proud of his subsequent line of action,
He picked up the girl, rolled her as far back on the
Chesterfield as she would go, threw a colorful line
c f cushions in front of her, seized a book and a
cigar and propped himself against her feet with his
j egs fetched along the couch. There was a knock
door
.< Come in .. cal j ed Hector. “Just turn the key."
purposetul eyes wallced in » W e
are the police,” said one brusquely. “Have you seen
in evening dollu . s on this floor r
, .. . i „ _• o»
“Not hat one who walked along the pipe? asked
Hector with a lighted match in his hand. Good
heavens, what courage! I saw it, you know. I was
up at the window.
“You’re sure you saw nothing of her?”
“Not after she disappeared. I can tell you I’m
yet. Have a whisky? I feel I could do with
Qne myself »
“This vour flat?”
. ' ... f , . c
“My cousin s. I’m waiting for him. Sure you
won’t have a whisky?”
policeman seemed sure for himself and his
companion, and after a keen glance round they
sueilL *
wen stflir hissed Hector as the door opened
j
again. „ ~ ~ ..
“I see you have the phone sa.d the policeman.
“If you have anythmg to report you might ring the
East station. 4
“Right-oh, Officer, said Hector.
Amazing! He had never imagined he could be
nonchalant with a police officer, particularly in
so noncnaiain * • , tUD
such circumst . g P-
“Oh, you were wonderful! she said softly. It
was balm to Hector Pepp, after weeks of feeling an
w , , , thj 1 lckv ir i
encumberer of the earth, to have this plucky girl
P raisln B him '


“Quite wonderful,” she repeated. “You said just
the right thing and just enough. I shall never forget
your kindness. It’s very important that nobody should
know where I was to-night. I suppose I had better
wait here for a little while. I feel just a little shaky.
I hope you don’t mind.”
Mind! Hector was delighted. He got her a
glass of wine, and presently was telling her all about
the firm and the shabby way they had treated him,
and Rosina and the lodgers, and how he would never
now be able to get another job or join the Boomerang
Bowling Club, and lots more. She was deeply
interested.
“As for that odious firm,” she said, “I think they
must be a disgusting crowd.” Her dark eyes shone
with indignation, and Hector thought her small head
rose from the folds of her green cloak like some
lovely flower on a slender stem. “I shouldn’t have
gone to Hades,” she went on. “The friend I was
with was caught, but I managed to slip away. It’s
entirely due to you I’m safe here. Somebody’s coming
again.” She slipped once more under the cushions.
It was George this time.
“Hallo! Hallo! ”he said as he whirled in. “And
how’s old Hector? Glad to see you, old man.
Hallo !”
He blinked incredulously. Old Hector, of all
people! The girl looked at George, smiling adorably.
“I’ll forgive you for wondering who I am,” she
said, “and I’m not going to enlighten you. If I don’t
tell you my name you can say truthfully you don’t
know who I am. I’m just the girl from Hades.”
“Hades! ” said George.
They told George about the raid in a burst of
mutual glorification, during which George gazed with
deep approval at the girl.
“Don’t worry,” he said. “I’ll see you get away
safely and I’ll run you home in my car.”
But the girl said with quick decision “Thank
you, but I couldn’t dream of troubling you further.
I’ll have a taxi.”
The combined strategy of Hector and George
got her, disguised in Hector’s shabby short overcoat,
down the stairs, where a policeman still hovered, and
into the street.
“Well, that beats all,” said George, looking after
the departing taxi. “After the way the firm treated
you! Rosina was telling me about it. You don’t
mean to say you don’t know who she is?” he added,
seeing Hector’s astonished face. “She’s the Warne
heiress! ”
“No!” said Hector. His mind whirled to his
conversation with the girl. No, he had not mentioned
the name of the firm at all. George had hailed him
loudly as Hector Pepp, but his name would convey
nothing to Miss Warne.
“Yes,” George was saying, “she’s just back from
England. Back to marry young Berryman next
Wednesday. Hadn’t you heard? Gosh! you are
behind the times. Of course I’m sure. I passed
them on the stairs as I went out, kissing each other.
I know him and I guessed who she was. She didn’t
see me, but Berryman gave me a poisonous look as
I dashed by. Good reason for hef not wanting it to
get round she was at that show! Old Warne would
probably disinherit her and forbid the marriage.
You’d better not say anything about to-night to
Rosina either. She won’t be too keen on your coming
round again.”
HECTOR walked home meditating bitterly on the
way some people got everything. Take Ralph
Berryman —not only adding the Warne fortune to his
own considerable one, but getting, in addition, the
prettiest and nicest girl in the world.
Rosina it was who mentioned the raid to Hector
as they were having dinner next day, she having
heard the details on Mrs. Chislehurst’s wireless.
“You must have heard it, Hector,” she said. “It
says an unknown girl walked along a wall on a pipe.
You didn’t say anything about it.”
“George’s flat is pretty quiet,” Hector mumbled.
“It’s away from everybody.”
“I wish I was,” said Rosina bitterly. “I’m sick
of this life. All the lodgers fighting and backbiting,
and those frightful noises going on all the time.
There’s the telephone. It’ll be for one of them.
You’ll have to go.”
Hector went with lagging feet. It was ten minutes
before he returned.
“Rosina!” he shouted, thumping the table and
rattling the cups. “Tell them to go! Make them all
clear out! We’ll have the house to ourselves again.
I’ve got my job back!”
Rosina stared, for once speechless.
“Yes,” babbled Hector. “Young Harrison’s
muddled up the ledgers like I said he would. It was
Morgan, the accountant, who rang. He said Ralph
Berryman said he’d heard I was still out of work and
they’d better get me back. I start next Monday.
They’ve been fined over the time-sheets, and they say
I’ll be weeks getting them straight. I don’t care.
Twenty years on that job—it counts, all right. How
about the Boomerang now, Rosina?”
But Rosina, recovering, again counselled caution.
It was an expensive club. “I wonder how Mr. Berry-
man knew you were still out of a job,” she said.
“These things get round,” said Hector off-
handedly, but his heart sang with gratitude to the
wonderful girl who, he felt, had retrieved his fortunes.
“He’s marrying Miss Warne on Wednesday, you
know. We’ll have to go and see the wedding.”
L_J ECTOR enlivened the way to the church on
* * Wednesday afternoon by giving Rosina a descrip-
tion of Decima Warne, dark, pretty, vivacious (so he
had heard), friendly and entirely charming (so every-
body said). Wedged in a vast crowd of sightseers, he
pushed Rosina into a vantage point as the sounds of
the “Wedding March” floated from the church.
“Well,” suddenly said a tall woman directly in
front of him, “she’s not much to look at, is she?”
“You don’t need looks with half-a-million,” re-
joined her companion tersely.
“I thought you said she was very pretty,” said
Rosina’s voice in his ear. “And she’s not dark—she’s
very fair.”
But Hector was bereft of speech. For one bewil-
dered moment he thought he had come to the wrong
wedding. Then he saw Ralph Berryman, looking
oddly stern and set, and realised, from her undeniable
likeness to old Sylvester Warne, that the tall, angular,
bespectacled young woman on his arm was un-
doubtedly the Warne heiress.
“What’s the matter with you?” snapped Rosina.
“Don’t gape like that. Come along home.”
Hector went unprotestingly, scarcely hearing
Rosina’s voluble commentary. As his benumbed brain
cleared he decided George had been mistaken in the
man on the stairs that night. But a certain bewilder-
ment persisted, and when he looked up one after-
noon and found the junior partner, just returned from
his honeymoon tour, standing before the small window
Hector, with an odd feeling that something momentous
was about to happen, reached for a pile of time-sheets
and began nervously checking them. Ralph Berry-
man was gazing sombrely into the street. He turned
slowly to Hector.
“Pepp,” he said, speaking with great deliberation,
“I understand you’re keen on joining a bowling club.
The Boomerang, isn’t it? If so, I shall be pleased to
arrange it for you.”
Hector began to stammer his thanks, paused and
remained silent. For a long few seconds he and Ralph
Berryman looked penetratingly at each other. In that
time Hector knew that the same picture was before
them both —a girl’s lovely face, lighted with wide dark
eyes and framed in a cloud of soft hair. Then Ralph
Berryman was speaking again.
“Don’t thank me, Pepp,” he said. “It’s I who
have to thank you.” He walked quickly out.
Hector sat watching the receding back. A
variety of emotions swept over him, but one pre-
dominated. It was an intense sympathy with young
Ralph Berryman.
“I'll forgive you for won-
dering who I am,” she said,
I'll forgive you won-
"and I'm not going to enlighten
you. If I don’t tell you my
name you can say truthfully
you don’t know who I am. I’m
just the girl from Hades.”


A Bruiser with a Temper
THE
GROWLER
BY
CON DREW
THE hardest man to handle in the boxin’ game is
the bruiser who can’t keep a hold of his temper.
Them sort of birds should not be in the business.
They’re a flamin’ nuisance to themselves and a
trouble to the bloke that handles them. I proved that
when I took Growler Davis to Yingin to fight the local
heavyweight champ. Growler could fight all right.
He weighed thirteen stone, had nerves like a flatiron
and carried a knockout wallop. But he had a temper
as sour as a dozen vats of vinegar. When he was on
a grouch nothin’ you could do was right.
We lobbed in Yingin one evening about a week
before the fight and was met at the railway station by
the promoters of the scrap, who navigated us to our
hotel. There was a real slap-up feed at the pub and
Growler shoved it down like a sword-swallower. But
he kept growlin’ about there bein’ no fruit and
the way the pertaters was cooked. He wasn’t much
of a show-card to have tacked on to you, so as soon
after tea as I could I lumbered him up to his room.
After I had seen him set for the night I strolled
downstairs to the bar to have a drink. I’m indulgin’
in a quiet spot when someone touched me elbow, and
I wheeled to gaze in the dial of “Trigger” Turner,
who I hadn’t seen for nearly a year. Trigger had
been a well-known figure around Sydney, but he’d
got into trouble over some gents who thought they
could pick the little Jack of spades and had found it
advisable to give the town a break. He was as well
upholstered as ever and looked to be standin’ behind
some coin.
“Hell!” I says. “I ain’t seen you for donkeys’
years. Where have you been plantin’ yourself?”
“Here most of the time,” says Trigger. “It ain’t
much of a dump, but there’s only one copper on the
landscape, and that’s a big thing in its favor with
me.”
“It would be,” says I. “And what are you doin’
for a crust?”
“At present,” says Trigger, “I’m trainin’ Dan
Riley, the bloke that your man is goin’ to fight.”
“You?” says I, surprised. “They told me a bloke
named Murray was trainin’ him.”
‘‘l’m Murray,” says Trigger.
He took me by the elbow and piloted me over
to a quiet corner of the bar. “Like to make some
money?” he asks.
“That’s what I come here for,” says I.
“Well, you’ll take a big chance of goin’ home
disappointed,” says Trigger.
“As how?”
“Because the local hall won’t hold more than
about £5O, and that don’t leave much for the fighters.”
“Fifty pounds?” says I. “The promoters gave
me to understand it would hold a hundred.”
“That was to get you here,” says Trigger. “It’s
an old game of theirs. They got Bash Murphy here
last Easter, and he only got about a tenner for his
chop.”
“Oh, did they?” says I. “That don’t sound too
good.”
“And you wouldn’t make much by backin’
Growler,” says Trigger. “He’s a hot favorite already.”
“H’m,” says I. “What’s the scheme?”
Trigger looks round to see that no one is ear-
wigging, then he leans over and says: “There’s only
one thing that will get you out of it. Back my
bloke.”
At that I lets out a laugh. “Back Riley to beat
a seasoned fighter like Gi'owler?” I says. “You’re
mad.”
“Think so?”
“I’m sure. Why, Growler would knock your
bloke as stiff as a frozen snake in a couple of rounds.”
“Not if we fixed it so as he wouldn’t,” says
Trigger.
“As how?”
“Well, Growler could take the knock, couldn’t he? ’
“I get you,” says I. “Does your bloke know
enough to put up a decent show for two or three
rounds?”
“He does.”
“He ain’t got a putty jaw or nothin’?”
“He could stand a kick from a horse.”
“All right,” says I. “It’s a go.”
The upshot of it was that we arranged for
Growler to take the thump in the sixth round. To
give the crowd a run for their money Riley was to
be kept in the dark about the scrap not bein’ dinkum.
We reckoned he’d fight all the better for not bein’
let into the know. We arranged for Trigger and me
to pool twenty quid each and plonk the lot on Riley
at equal shares. Then we bid each other good night.
FOR a wonder Growler was in a good mood next
mornin’, and when I told him what we had
arranged he agreed to come in with the scheme. So
without any loss of time we started our trainin’ stunts.
We had five clear days to work in, and every after-
noon the locals turned up in force to see Growler
doin’ his work-outs. It goes without sayin’ that I
made him show to the best advantage. The idea, of
course, was to make Riley blow out in the bettin’.
,We was so successful that on the mornin’ of the
affray a friend of Trigger’s got our money on Riley
at two to one against. Everything was as sweet as
a lolly.
I’d sugared Growler up by promisin’ him a
generous chop of the rake-off, so when we arrived
at the hall he was in a fairly good humor. It didn’t
last long, though. As he was climbin’ through the
ropes one of Riley’s supporters yelled out “Good-
bye!” and Growler turned and glared at him. “I’ll
come down there and push your dial in if you try to
get funny with me,” he says to the bloke.
“Come on,” I says. “Don’t take any notice of
him.”
“I’ll take notice of him all right,” says Growler.
“If he tries to get funny with me I’ll knock his head
off.”
“Cripes, are you goin’ to forget your lines
already?” says I, catchin’ him by the arm. “Come
on over to your corner.”
He let me lumber him to his corner and he
dumped himself down on his seat. After a bit in
comes Riley. He’s a big lump of a chap with bulgin’
muscles, and he looked as if he could stand up to a
decent wallop. Of course I knew he wasn’t in
Growler’s class as a boxer. He lacked experience, for
one thing, and I’d got the tip from Trigger that he was
terrible slow. Still, he seemed the sort of gent, who
could put up a bit of a show.
When the referee came in I said to Growler:
“You know what you’ve got to do?”
“I know,” he grunts. “I keep on
deck for the first five rounds and go
overboard in the sixth. That ain’t hard
to remember.”
“Well, see that you do remember,”
says I. “And, whatever you do, don’t
hit out of your turn.”
Just then the referee called them
together. He was from the neighborin’
town, and was said to know a bit about
the business. After a few pointed
remarks concernin’ the rules of the
game he sent them in.
EVERYTHING went sweet in the first round.
Growler made a great show of forcin’ the pace,
but he pulled his punches whenever he hit Riley in a
vital spot. Riley was willin’, too, and the crowd sat
back to enjoy the fun.
Yes, the first round went off accordin’ to schedule,
and so did the second and third. But just before the
bell in the fourth Riley banged in a snifter left hook
which caught Growler fair on the jaw. It nearly
knocked Growler off his pins, and he came back to
his corner ragin’ like a tornado.
“See that?” he says, dumpin’ himself down on
his seat. “That’s what a man gets for bein’ a mug.”
“As how?” says I, pretendin’ not to understand.
“I don’t quite get you.”
“Of course you don’t!” snaps Growler. “You
don’t have to be in the ring and take the thumps. By
rights it ought to have been arranged for Riley to
pull his punches too.”
“Aw,” says I to soothe him, “we’d have arranged
it that way only we knew he couldn’t hit you with a
pound of rice. It was a fluke punch
he got on you, that’s all.”
“Just the same,” says Growler, “if
that mug bangs me agen I’ll do a little
bangin’ too.”
“Aw,” says I, “what’s the good ofc
bein’ unreasonable?”
“Unreasonable!” he snorts. “Is it
unreasonable for a man not to want to
be punched to pieces without returnin’
a wallop?”
“Now, listen,” says I, sponging him
down. “We’re neither of us here for
the good of our health. I suppose that’s
admitted, ain’t it?
“Now, ain’t it?” I says when he made no answer.
“I suppose so,” he admits.
“That’s better,” says I. “There’s big money
hangin’ to this, but if you do your block we’ll go back
to Sydney with practically nothin’. All I want you to
do is to waltz along quiet through the next round.
In the round after that you do your stuff. Is it a bet?”
“I suppose so,” says Growler, and the bell sent
them in for the fifth round.
Well, I must say that Growler kept his word in
the fifth. Riley was pretty lively, and Growler had
to keep his wits about him to save .himself from
takin’ a nasty thump or two, but he never showed
a sign of bad temper. They sailed through in fine
style and saddled up for the sixth as fresh as paint.
Half-way through the sixth it happened. The
men had been slammin’ away at each other near our
corner when suddenly, in tryin’ to avoid a punch,
Growler slipped. Like a flash Riley unlimbered his
starboard gun and walloped him on the chin. It was
a beautiful punch, and I knew there was goin’ to be
trouble.
THERE was. With eyes glarin’ like a torchlight
Growler went at Riley and let go a punch that
would have skittled an Ayrshire bull. Luckily Riley
was movin’ backwards at the time, otherwise he’d have
been knocked stone cold. Growler followed him up
and, closing in, belabored Riley with a fusillade of
wallops. It was amazin’ how he managed to weather
the storm, but he got himself clear. It was only for
a second, though. In a bound Growler was on him
again and was beltin’ him with everythin’ he had.
Trigger yelled out to Riley to smother up, but it
is doubtful whether Riley heard him.
“We’re gone to the pack,” I says to meself.
“It’s a case of shut the gate.”
Almost as I spoke Growler, who thought of
nothin’ else but knockin’ Riley out, left his chin un-
covered. Riley had a punch in motion. It was one
of them blind swings that a man sends off on its
journey when he’s about all-in, hopin’ that it will
land on something. It came to a stop on Growler’s
chin with a sound like a burstin’ bomb, and Growler
hit the floor.
I was so astounded at first I thought Growler
might have been kidding. He wasn’t. He was out,
sure enough, and it took me more than a minute
to bring him round. Even then he was so rocky
that I had to help him to his dressin’-room. After
a shower he looked a lot better, so I sent him back
to the pub and went to collect our share of the
gate-money. Outside me dressin’-room I bumped
into Trigger.
“Cripes, that was a whale of a punch that skittled
Growler!” says I. “I didn’t think that Riley had it
in him.”
“It wasn’t in him,” says Trigger. “It was in his
glove.' I thought that Growler might work himself
up for a knock-out, so durin’ the spell after the fifth
round I slid a small slab of concrete into the lining
of Riley’s right glove. I brought it with me in case
of accidents, and I’m flamin’ glad that I did.”


Charlie Skins a Mug
OVER TWENTY-ONE
BY Freenan
Sandom
must verriicht be, Sharlie,” said old Peter
\ ] Holzkopf. “Ein fishdrap in Shinaman Pay
y vill nod bay.”
C “I think so, too,” I said. “The bay is
high and dry at ordinary low tides, which means that
half the time the trap won’t be working. Again,
it’s partly blocked by Peter’s trap and mine on each
point. No good, Charlie.”
Charlie trickled smoke through his nostrils, and
regarded us with an indulgent smile.
“Mebbe you’re right, mebbe not,” he drawled.
“But I’m going on with it. Well, I’m off.”
Half-way down the verandah steps he paused,
took the pipe from between his teeth and pointed the
stem at us —very impressive.
“You blokes are only fishermen,” said Charlie..
“I’m looking ahead. Speculate to accumulate,
fellers! ”
His broad, bare back out of sight, Peter looked
at me. “Der Nabolium off vinance!” he said sarcas-
tically. “Schbegulade—dot’s vat der doo-ub mans
say ven I lose von guid already. ‘Schbegulade to
aggumulade,’ he say, oont I say ‘Like hell! Nefer
once more.’ ”
I rolled a cigarette thoughtfully. “There’s more
in this than you think, Peter: one of Charlie’s little
schemes is on foot. You wait and see!”
The nigger in the woodpile came to light three
weeks later. Charlie’s new trap had caught no fish
worth mentioning, as Peter and I had forecast. Plenty
of seaweed and a fair number of sandcrabs (worth
twopence each), but the takings in marketable fish
would not average ten shillings a week, I knew.
Returning from a trip to Barrierville, I showed
Peter an advertisement in the “Standard.” It read:
FOR SALE, fishtrap, good position, nearly new.
Also 18ft. motor-boat. Dirt-cheap: £BO the lot.
Apply Charlie Thompson.
“Donnerundblitzen! ” burst out Peter, throwing
the mooring-rope in a swift half-hitch over a pile to
free his hands. “Vy, der boad I vill not bay dwendy
punds for him, oont for der drap noddings. Der
gottverdamter mans iss ein robber blain oont simble,”
“He’s out to catch a mug,” said I. “Right enough
if the mug has money, and tackles this for a bit of
a change. But that’s not likely to be the case.”
It turned out to be as bad as it could be. Charlie
kept out of our way for the next few days. Return-
ing from town one morning, he had a passenger. I
watched them through the glass inspecting the new
trap, Charlie hoisting the two “boxes” out of the
water one by one, pointing and gesticulating to beat
the band.
I sauntered along. Charlie looked at me darkly,
but introduced the stranger. His name was Reg
Cummings, a skeleton of a man who would never
see sixty again. He was a drover, he said, but the
Barcoo rot had got him down ; he wanted sea air and
easy work to get his health back. I studied him
closely. An open, credulous face, but tight-lipped
and with a stubborn chin. He did not seem over-
friendly. I said nothing as to the value of the trap.
What was the use? I could imagine Charlie’s warn-
ing: “Them blokes owning the traps on the points
don’t want nobody here—after this themselves”
SEVERAL weeks went by. One night I sat on
the verandah smoking and dreaming. I felt a
little tired but content, for the barramundi were
coming in strong, and I had been to town every day
of late with good hauls. Reg Cummings came along
and slumped down on the steps in a despondent
attitude.
I watched him sympathetically.
“Hard luck, Reg,” I said after a while.
“But why didn’t you make inquiries before
tackling something you knew nothing about?”
“He told me there was a good living in
this,” he said bitterly, “and warned me to
keep clear of youse blokes because youse
wanted this possie yerself.”
An honest crowd way back west, I re-
flected. Here is a man with forty years of
knocking about behind him, and he buys on
the word of the seller only!
“Broke?” I asked.
“Stony,” said Reg. “I’ve taken about a quid’s
worth of fish since I started, and spent the money on
tucker and benzine. I’ve got to sell out, I s’pose.
What’s the boat worth, Bill?”
“Twenty —at the best. The trap’s worth nothing,
but you might sell the wire for removal —a fiver
or so.”
He rose heavily. “Oh, well, I’m the mug,” he
said resignedly. “I s’pose I’ll have to apply for the
invalid pension. I can’t work —not even relief work.”
I watched him go. It was no business of mine.
Still, it was such a rotten trick to play on an old and
sick man that something kept egging me on to inter-
fere. I sat for a while, arguing with myself, then rose
and went outside.
The beach between Charlie’s trap and mine lay
shimmering in the moonlight, the swish of a small
surf very good to listen to. Near Charlie’s jetty, under
a roof of corrugated-iron, a hurricane lantern was
moving about like a huge firefly. Presently I recog-
nised Charlie there. He was hard at work caulking
the seams of a new twenty-footer. She was nearly
completed, and looked a fine job. Whatever else
Charlie is, he is a neat and honest worker.
“Reg Cummings isn’t doing well,” I remarked
after a short discussion on weather, fish and the
merits of the boat.
“Growling, hey?”
“Not exactly growling. Did you know eighty
quid was all he had, Charlie?”
“What if I did? He’s over twenty-one. ain’t
he?”
“That’s so,” I admitted. “Still, this deal hums
a bit, don’t you think?”
“Hums” He rose and faced me squarely.
“Are you trying to meddle in this, Bill Flowers? You
better not! Business is business; 1 sold and he
bought. What the hell’s the use of crying over spilt
milk, hey?”
I’ve always reckoned that quarrelling was waste
of time, and, knowing Charlie, I was aware that a
big blow was brewing. Besides, he was right in
saying that this was no business of mine. So I poured
a little oil on the troubled waters. Then in the
resultant calm: “You pride yourself on being a keen
businessman, Charlie. Why not buy Cummings out
for, say, seventy quid? That would give you a fair
profit, besides the satisfaction of having done the
square thing. You could sell again to another mug
better able to stand the racket.”
“To you, mebbe,” he jeered. “You talk like a
mug near enough to be one.”
I had known in my heart it was no use talking.
Walking back to my own quarters I decided this was
business of mine after all, and I began to figure out
how to act. “The old man was over twenty-one,”
Charlie had said. Come to think, so was Charlie.
THIS happened on a Tuesday night. The following
Thursday I met Charlie in town. We had a drink
together.
“Donsky just told me that Cummings has been in
with eighty pounds of fish,” remarked Charlie, blow-
ing the froth off his beer. “Well, here’s luck!”
“Luck!” said I. “Well, that’s fine! The old
battler can do with a few quid.”
“Funny thing, though” He stopped and
seemed to ruminate, then continued with a malicious
grin. “You two know-alls reckoned I sold Cum-
mings a pup. Mebbe it wasn’t such a pup after all!”
“I never set myself up to be a know-all, Charlie.
You can never tell in the fishing game. Maybe there’s
a current driving fish-bait into Cummings’s trap, the
barramundi following the bait. Or perhaps there is
a natural channel which we missed. But I’m glad
for the old man’s sake, even if it means that Peter
and I get less fish in our traps.”
That, I saw, set Charlie thinking, and when in
the course of the next week or two I bumped into
him in town he had further reason to be thoughtful.
For each time he gave me news, gleaned from Don-
sky, of Cummings’s wonderful catches. He began
to reproach me for “running the possie down” in
the first place.
“Why,” said Charlie, “the old lubber gets as
much in that trap as the three of us altogether.”
I think he gradually came to believe that Peter
and I had persuaded him to sell against his better
judgment. So when one night he arrived at my
humpy with a definite proposal I was not surprised.
“No good, Charlie,” I told him. “Peter and I
have two traps to look after as it is. Anyway, Cum-
mings came to settle down, and now he’s making good
he won’t sell.”
“1 know, I know. But he might come at it at
a profit. I’d give him £l5O for the trap alone—only
I’ve put all my cash into my new boat and
engine.” His voice became strangely gentle. “If
you blokes won’t come in, what about lending me
the money, Bill, old man?”
“What security?”
“Security? There’s Cummings’s trap and my
own and my boat —damn it all, what more d’you
want?”
I shook my head. “A cyclone may blow them
all to kingdom come in a night. Peter and I never
speculate. Why don’t you try the moneylenders?
They’ll jump at it.”
“Yah! At twelve per cent. Come on, now, Bill!
You know the possie is worth the money.”
“You can never tell in the fishing game, Charlie,
as I said before. A storm might set up a sandbank
in front of your possie, or the current might change.
Nothing doing, boy!”
“Go to hell!” said Charlie, and flung away.
But he raised the wind, and swung the deal a
few days later. Only he had to pay £lBO for the
trap, as Cummings told Peter and me when he came
to say good-bye.
The old man was not the demonstrative sort, but
he shook hands heartily, and said some very nice
things in a broken way that made Peter shuffle about
on his stumpy legs as if he had stepped on a stone-
fish.
“Dot vas noddings, noddings at all,” he splut-
tered angrily. “To hell mit you! Ve lend you der
vish only, oont you bay us efry dime like der big
Dummkopf you iss.”
“What’s the lurk now, Reg?” I asked as we
walked down to the jetty to see him off. “Another
fishtrap?”
“No,” he said soberly. “No more fishtraps. I’m
taking over the refreshment-room over at Lone Bay.
I’ve money enough for that now, thanks to youse.
Don’t forget to come over and see me. There’s always
a spread waiting for youse, don’t forget.”
We watched him chug-chug outwards. “Oont
now,” said Peter, rubbing his work-gnarled hands
together gleefully, “ve vill see vat Sharlie', der Nabo-
lium off vinance, haf to say!”
PETER had to wait the best part of a week before
the expected entertainment materialised, but then
he received good measure.
Having told us in red-hot language that there
had not been a scale in Cummings’s trap since the
change of ownership, Charlie accused Reg Cummings
of having framed a crooked deal —probably in con-
junction with Donsky, the fish-dealer, he opined.
I pointed out that fish come and go—as he should
know himself. But Charlie would not hear of it.
“I’ve been rooked,” he wailed, “rooked good and
strong by that damn’ old swindler.”
“No use crying over spilt milk,” I soothed. “Busi-
ness is business, you know. You bought and he
sold.”
“Oont you,” said Peter, “iss ofer dwendy-vons,
Sharlie,”


all innocence, going through the doctor’s private
papers ; nor does it prevent her climbing a ladder and
peering through a window during the party in his
honor to see if there are ladies present. She also
knows how to still the tongue of gossip. Three
Chinese women of her acquaintance gain knowledge
of her relationship with the doctor. So she trades on
their curiosity by inviting them to his house while
he is away and persuading them to indulge in the
delights of a Western bath—all three together—at the
moment he returns home.
The novel is of light but firm construction, based
on an intimate knowledge of the Chinese. The style
is good and the story is told with that delicacy and
air of ironic detachment with which the faintly risque
is best carried off. Pathos is introduced at the end,
when, civil disturbances having enforced a parting,
Madame, with inscrutable countenance, bows herself
gravely out of the picture, and the young doctor is
left wondering if he really loved her. Gervais wrote
A Surgeon’s China. Of the present book the blurb
discreetly observes: “How much is true it would be
idle and impertinent to speculate.”
Powys's New Novel.
John Cowper Powys’s new romance, Maiden
Castle (Cassell; Bs. 6d.), is a story in many layers,
effacing one another, merging, peeling away. The
setting is modern Dorchester, “the most English town
in England,” but just under the surface we are aware
of eighteenth-century Dorchester where Mary Chan-
ning was burnt for witchcraft. Beneath that is Roman
Durnovaria ; beneath again, yet permeating all, is a
world so old that even its gods are nameless and
forgotten, the world of Mai-dun or Maiden Castle, a
mound of obscure Welsh origin, Mai-dun is a dark
fountain of supernatural influence.
The reader’s mind fills with slow horror. The
whole book is like a great oozing bog with a grave-
yard smell about it. Here and there is a silvery tus-
sock which looks firm or even a gay and natural
flower, like the portrait of the child Lovie, but it is
mostly black holes and scummy ponds, with a “ghost
wind” and a “ghost smell” blowing over them. The
atmosphere is continually fed by such phrases as “the
saliva-dew of destiny,” which have no exact meaning
and yet give off a curious effluvium.
The scene seems set for a black and titanic story,
but the story half-sunk in this bog is not titanic. It
is a rather flimsy tissue of illegitimacies. The “hero”
—the designation is Powys’s—is Dud No-man, who
is the very acme of negation. His virtues are virtues
of omission, his sins are non-existent, his end a loose
end. He is surrounded by queer people with queer
names: Wizzie Ravelston, the bareback rider;
Teucer Wye and his daughter Thuella, a painter of
clouds; Mr. Cask, the Communist; Dumbell, the
Fascist; Funky Urgan, the circus man. Some ol
them are ghosts, like Dud’s mother, “the woman from
Wales”; the “Spiritual Presence” of Mona, Dud’s wife,
ten years dead ; and that of Mary Channing. The
ghosts permeate the lives of the living in the same
way as the history of Dorchester seeps through the
present. But the overwhelming figure in the book
is Enoch Quirm, Dud’s father. Dud is simply a
decoy to trap the reader’s attention for him. It is
Quirm, the huge prophetical Welshman, who domi-
nates the book.
Mr. Quirm’s features were indeed nothing less than
tremendous. Brow, nose, mouth, chin, all were modelled
on a scale of abnormal massiveness that would have
been awe-inspiring if the man’s eyes had been different.
But Mr. Quirm’s eyes were dull, lifeless, colorless,
opaque. They were empty of every gleam of human
response. They neither softened nor warmed; they
neither lightened nor darkened —they were simply
there, as if someone had found a great antique mask
with empty eye-sockets, and had inserted a couple of
glass marbles into the holes The dominant expres-
sion of the man was of a half-vitalised corpse, a being
that “but usurped” his life, a semi-mortuus, an entity
only “half there.”
He is the prophet of Mai-dun, and bears on
his breast mystic pagan stigmata. Later he appears
to Dud “sodden with abominable suffering,” and as
if his consciousness “hangs suspended on some colos-
sal cross whose very enormity keeps it from being
seen.” Quirm sees himself as the living expression
of Welsh Hiraeth.
Desire grown beside itself. Desire driven against
custom, driven against habit, driven against the
cowardice of mankind That’s what Hiraeth is! And
that desire is the cosmic longing to return to the
Golden Age, the age of Mai-dun The power of
the Underworld that our old Bards worshipped,
though it was always defeated, is the power of the
Golden Age! Yes, to the Power our race adored when
they built Avebury and Maiden Castle and Stone-
henge and Caer Drwyn, when there were no wars,
no vivisection, no money, no ten-thousand-times accursed
nations. They twisted it all round later, the sly children
of gold and burning, turning the dew of darkness into
evil and Bran the Blessed into a demon.
In the book it is defeated again. Where the
grand climax should have been there is anti-climax —
Quirm, become an old man, babbling incoherently to
two frightened girls in a kitchen, and going away
down the dark passage on all fours.
We are left- with only Dud No-man again; and
our minds stirred, rather unpleasantly, by the book’s
new, strange mingling of good and evil—an inchoate
philosophy.
Hymn to the Earth.
Pellieter, by Felix Timmermans (Angus anci
Robertson; Bs. 6d.), translated from the Flemish
by C. B. Bodde, draws attention, by the contrast it
offers to the general run of novels, to the extent
to which fiction depends for its interest on record-
ing the course of someone’s troubles.
Pellieter is a personification of bucolic gaiety.
He has the outward appearance of a man, owns a
farm and lives in a house, but there his resemblance
to humanity ends. He is a creature to whom no
mishap occurs. The story of his activities forms what
is in effect a prose hymn in praise of earth’s bounty.
His exploits are followed through the four seasons,
and in each are appropriate to the time of year. In
summer, for instance, he shouts praises to the morn-
ing sun, rides round the country on a goat, wades
shoulder deep through corn and poppies, falls asleep
in the shade of a currant bush, eats strawberries out
of his hat, feasts with companions until the sweat'
runs down his face, swills ale, makes love to girls on
top of hay wagons and, when the gesture would be
picturesque, does a small amount of work on his
farm.
Threaded through the record of these rather ritual-
istic entei'prises is the story of his friendships and his
courting of Marieke ; but it fails to draw. Interest
in him wanes as realisation waxes that he is not
exposed to the chances of adversity. Endorsement
can readily be given to his appreciation of the good
things of earth, but the story content is too thin for
a full-length novel.
An Elizabethan Monk.
Brother Petroc’s Return, by S.M.C. (Chatto and
Windus; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), hypothe-
cates a miracle. It is the story of a young Benedic-
tine monk who was buried in a Cornish monastery in
1549 and restored to life in 1929. The author has no
difficulty in believing in miracles, and she has suffi-
cient historic sense, coupled with imaginative veracity,
to temporarily suspend disbelief should it exist in the
mind of the reader.
Petroc, a fine and simple country lad, died at the
time of Henry VIII.’s dissolution of the monasteries.
He was within two days of being ordained for the
priesthood. His brothers had gone out to resist Henry’s
soldiers and had been killed. The shock brings about
his death, and he is buried in the monastery by the
monks before they hurry into hiding on a near-by
island. They never return. The monastery falls into
ruins through the centuries ; then, in these later years,
is reoccupied and restored. Petroc’s body, in a state
of suspended animation, is discovered in a vault, and
is ultimately brought back to consciousness. Petroc,
with his memories of four hundred years ago, has
to face modernity. His strange history is kept secret
from the world.
This is no crude story of a man of a simpler
age gaping in wonder at the marvels of the twentieth
century. There is a rather terrifying experience with a
motor-cycle in a neighboring village, but that is all.
The story is a study in relative spiritual values, and
the Abbot, who knows that Petroc’s mind must be in
a condition of delicate balance, protects him from
unnecessary contacts with this age’s mechanical
achievements ; he has enough to contend with in the
changed religious life.
He belongs to pre-Lutheran times, to the Age of
Faith, the age of simple objectivity of outlook.
Modern introspective habits of mind, the soul the
centre of the universe, bewilder him. During a round
of visit's, on which he accompanies a brother who has
unwisely taken him out in the absence of the Abbot,
he meets a few lay-friends of the brotherhood, men
and women. Pseudo-mysticism, religious sentimen-
tality and psychoanalysis have affected the conversa-
tions he hears. He returns to the monastery badly
shaken. Nor is he happier with the brothers, for —
we are given to understand —the tint of the times has
penetrated to the most secluded religious precincts.
To-day there is a new Way to God and he cannot
find it.
The writer has a very lucid style. She makes the
character of Petroc, as well as his monastic surround-
ings, very vivid. His meetings with curious holiday-
makers who visit the sacristy, of which he has charge,
are well done. Whether the reader is “religious” or
not it is impossible not to appreciate the pathetic
case of this lonely soul. He dare not, for his reason’s
sake, draw the near yet far-away past about him for
comfort; he cannot live in to-day. He ages rapidly
under the strain. Happily his decline is softened by
two things. The ordination which he missed by two
days in his “former” life is arranged by a special
dispensation ; and the efforts he unthinkingly practises,
according to usages of the Age of Faith, on behalf
of a woman fallen into evil ways of living, prevail.
The Light is restored to him.
"Such Is Life."
All honor to Miles Franklin for her scrupulous
devotion to the text of Such Is Life (B. 26/5/’37).
If there had been many people so devoted among
the older generation of Australians there would prob-
ably have been several editions of the book in un-
abridged form by now. But though there has been
a good deal of lip-loyalty paid to Such Is Life the
heroic and persistent efforts of Miss Kate Baker failed
to find fresh publication of it in Australia when the
first small printing was exhausted. A good many
publishers nibbled at the idea of reissuing it, but for
some reason or other finally shied away. Perhaps
they felt that, although the book would always have
its readers, its selling would be slow. In all, I suppose
about 800 copies have been sold in the last 34 years.
A very much abridged edition of Joseph Furphy’s
other great book was published about 1922 as Rigby’s
Romance, but it had hardly a wider circulation. Miles
Franklin has probably studied the original, as pub-
lished in the “Barrier Truth,” and been shocked to
find how much was cut with the idea of making the
book attractive, not to an overseas audience, but to
an indigenous Australian one.
I have never thought that a book’s failure to
find a wide audience at any one period limited its life
or ultimate influence. Such Is Life had already estab-
lished itself, and could be trusted to find its own
readers. Apart from its general literary value it has,
to us in Australia, a particular social one. When 1
was approached by Jonathan Cape to edit an abridged
edition I was doubtful of the scheme. He asked me
to talk it over at length with Edward Garnett, who
admired the book but had certain definite ideas about
it. One was that the continual use of blank signs and
of (adj.) in parenthesis was a blemish, even from a
purely typographical point of view. Another was
a matter of length ; it would have to be brought
down to within 120,000 words. When I showed reluct-
ance about cutting, he cited the cases of Hudson’s
Purple Land and Doughty’s Arabia Deserta. Hud-
son’s Purple Land That England Lost, he said, had
been published many years ago and had fallen flat: it
seemed likely to be forgotten. Some time later he
took it up and abridged it drastically, since when it
had had a continuous sale ; Hudson himself had been
pleased with the result.
Any idea that the particular “Australian bias”
of Such Is Life came into the question is mistaken.
There has been no English critic more sympathetic
to the expression of Australian life and ideas than
Edward Garnett. He told me it was a bitter dis-
appointment to him that he had never been able to
get an English audience for Henry Lawson, though
he had written about him and had included two
volumes of his short stories in the Traveller’s Library.
But it was difficult to abridge Such Is Life within the
limits set me, as anyone who has followed the rami-
fications of the story will understand. It is extremely
involved: a clue may turn up in a chance phrase or
an apparently irrelevant paragraph. In the circum-
stances it was the parenthetical passages, the passages
Miss Baker particularly values (B. 9/6/’37) that had
to go.
Whether it is worth abridging a book like Such
Is Life to introduce it to a wider public is a matter
for the author or his executors. But since I was asked
to do it I carried out the task to the best of my
ability.
VANCE PALMER.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Gay Prelude : Christian Folkhard (Robert Hale ;
7s. 6d.). The story of an Englishman’s adventures in
Sydney. The humor —largely of the slapstick variety
-—doesn’t raise many laughs, and the local atmosphere
is not quite convincing.
If Love Were All: Kay Linden (Robert Hale;
3s. 6d.). Interruptions to the course of true love
between the boss’s son and a girl who works in dad’s
office. First she wouldn’t, then she couldn’t, then
she did. An actress adds to the complications.
Strange Fortune: Dorothy B. Upson (Mills and
Boon; 7s. 6d.). The family’s Cinderella, having
inherited a thousand pounds from her godmother,
sets up in business in London and lets her relations
see what a bright girl can do when she gets a chance.
She ends by selecting a most desirable husband from
a large string of admirers.
Ask No Questions: Lyn Dean (Melrose; 7s. 6d.).
The jury had called it death by accident, but there
were a few wiseheads in the locality who had their
own opinion about it. A detective on holiday didn’t
want to take the case up, but they interested him in
spite of himself. They were right. Clever of its kind.
The Trail of the Wendigo: J. Alan Rennie
(Frederick Muller; 7s. 6d.). A Canadian backwoods
story in which a murderer, two mates, a pretty girl
and a dog that is half-wolf have parts. Fair adven-
ture stuff, with some pleasing glimpses of the country.
The wendigo is the bunyip’s Canadian cousin.
Honeyball Farm: Ethel M. Dell (Hutchinson ;
7s. 6d.). An old favorite still going strong. Her
readers like a strong plot interest —and she sees they
get it. They also like a hero who is immaculate, a
villain who is an obvious bounder and a heroine any
man would fall for. They get these too. This, her
twenty-fifth, is up to standard.
The Burning Court: John Dickson Carr (Hamish
Hamilton; 7s. 6d.). A mystery yarn with a new
twist. They thought he died of gastro-enteritis, and
then someone suspected arsenic poisoning, the symp-
toms of which are similar, so they opened his coffin—
and it was empty. The supernatural world is investi-
gated before a solution is arrived at. Very creepy.
The Years Between: Joan Kennedy (Robert
Hale ; 3s. 6d.). Helen had a past. When she married
Frank she decided not to destroy his tender trust in
her; she would let sleeping dogs lie. But they were
not long married when the dogs woke up. More
than enough happens before they can be persuaded
to retire growling to their kennels. Ends with Helen
and Frank viewing the “pearl and rose” of a new
and a better dawn.
VERSE . . .
Poems, by Rex Warner (Boriswood, Ltd. ; 55.).
Begins with a sonnet. Consider what Wordsworth,
master of this form of verse, wrote on the subject:
Scorn not the Sonnet; Critic, you have frowned
Mindless of its just honors; with this key
Shakspeare unlock’d his heart; the melody
Of this small lute gave ease to Petrarch’s wound.
And so on. Rex Warner unlocks his heart with this
effort:
How sweet only to delight lambs and laugh by streams,
innocent in love wakening to the early thrush,
to be awed by mountains, and feel the stars friendly,
to be a farmer’s boy, to be far from battle.
The other outpourings are in much the same strain.


5872-4-7
ri
Ml
VT7 p
' * »,
o
a
7%
Q
*
I
lr.
£
STATE EXPRESS
XX?
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
a £
Ml
STATt
f
9 —6d. : 18 —IA : 27—1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
’V
m '
PZ}’#/ -4
m
m
? ,r
TTni
"»« > Wwv -
iil:Sii >:
■
mmmm .
wmgmmmXmlmMmm
■ Si'; V,-.:
' lr rf —
. '
■’..«• • •-' .. <•
': m
H SI
•- :• r~- V. .'
■
m
MM
m
Ml
m
IMn ! \
m Is
Ml
jNwi
a
■T\;,-
HI
H
HKaEfel?*” " t
si»Si Silslilllli
■
Hi
• **> H
■■■■i
■ :
m
ipiliMiwaß
H
; : -.v
■ I
■r'-'-rfi;
mmm
■ i
mm
W«m
8
........... Z.... «itei
IHWi
■
Wmm
, 1
* *
::.Vv
«? -»>T*
From this Small Beginning in 1851 Stocks now exceed 4% million gallons.


SEAWORTHY OR ANOTHER LARRAKIA?
“Labor regards the Inter-State Commission Bill as a political job and will not only, oppose the measure but cancel any appointment made.”
“Well, we’ve got her up, Joe, but will she stay up?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
INTER-STATE COMMISSION.
“My advisers propose to submit to you a bill for the
appointment of an Inter-State Commission. The establishment
of such a body is provided for by the Constitution, and the
Government believes that it will serve a valuable purpose in
dealing with large questions affecting the relations between
the Commonwealth and the States and between the States
themselves.” — Governor-General’s speech.
The bill has been introduced in the Senate. It pro-
poses to set up a commission of three members, who
are to hold office for seven years, at £2500 p.a. for
the chairman and £2OOO p.a. for each of the others.
No mention is made of a staff or of office accommo-
dation, but they, of course, will have to be provided,
as also will travelling expenses. One member of the
commission, not necessarily the chairman, must have
been a High Court' or Supreme Court Justice “or
~ a practising barrister or solicitor within the past five
years.” For the other two positions, anyone who is
free, white, 21 and of sound mind —or not actually
certified—will be eligible, though it is expected that
one or both will be reserved for elderly politicians
who have no further use for politics or whose con-
stituents have no further use for them.
As visioned by the fathers of Federation, an
Inter-State Commission was to have been an import-
ant part of the Constitutional machinery. In Section
101 of the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution
Act they wrote: “There shall be an Inter-State Com-
mission, with such powers of adjudication and admini-
stration as the Parliament deems necessary for the
execution and maintenance, within the Common-
wealth, of the provisions of this Constitution relating
to trade and commerce, and of all laws made there-
under.” It was one of their dreams that did not come
true, partly because “the provisions of this Constitu-
tion relating to trade and commerce” proved inade-
quate when put to the test and have never been
strengthened, though the need has been continually
felt.
All the same, an Inter-State Commission was
called into existence in August, 1913. Mr. A. B.
Piddington was named chairman, and he had with
him Mr. George Swinburne and Mr. Nicholas
Lockyer. The commission entered upon its duties
with considerable enthusiasm and produced 70 tariff-
investigation reports—a job since assigned to the Tariff
Board. Tariff-investigation reports were plain sailing,
but unfortunately the commission had to enter the un-
charted sea of trade-and-commerce powers. Old issues
of the Commonwealth Year-Book shortly describe
what followed:
In January, 1915, complaints were lodged with the
commission in respect to contravention of the pro-
visions of the Constitution relating to trade and com-
merce. In this connection, the case of the Common-
wealth v. the State of New South Wales and another
was heard before the commission, but on appeal to
the High Court against its decision it was held that the
commission had not been given judicial powers. It has
been announced that the Government proposes to intro-
duce legislation to' confer judicial powers on the Com-
missioner.
But no such legislation was ever introduced. The
commission presented a few more reports —reports on
“new industries which could with advantage be estab-
lished in the Commonwealth,” on trade in the South
Pacific and on “the causes of increased prices of
food, clothing, house rent, etc.” —and on one occasion
it acted as arbitrator in a dispute as to State Gov-
ernment railway charges for carriage of mails; but
after the delivery of the High Court judgment it had
no real authority. Its occupation as a check on “undue
and unreasonable” provincialism—and under Section
102 it was to have been the judge of “any preference
Dr discrimination” charged against any State railway
(or transport) department—was gone. Mr. Swinburne
resigned and the vacancy was not filled. The other
two gentlemen carried on for the rest of their seven-
year terms ; then the commission faded out.
Clothed with the powers which the Fathers
intended it to possess, and working under a really
effective instrument of government, an Inter-State
Commission could be very useful to the nation, pro-
vided at least two commissioners were able men.
But the Constitution remains weak where it should
be strong. Without root-and-branch amendment and
legislation framed in the same spirit, a new commis-
sion could do nothing more than the one whose
hands were palsied by the High Court judgment.
The only part of the Constitution that would become
fully operative with respect to it would be the part
(Section 102) which says that members of the Inter-
State Commission shall be appointed by the Governor-
General-in-Council, shall hold office for seven years,
and shall receive during their continuance in office the
salaries fixed at their appointment.
The people showed at the marketing referendum
that they were sick of being governed by boards and
commissions. There are abundant indications that
they are equally sick of the politicians’ habit of refer-
ring to commissions questions which those politicians
are paid to tackle and duties which they are paid
to discharge. Nowadays the very word “commission”
breeds suspicion. It is feebly “argued” that a resusci-
tated Inter-State Commission would be a compara-
tively inexpensive substitute for Petrol and Banking
and Grants Commissions, but the “argument” fails
because all such commissions are palpable excrescences,
inflicted on the public because Governments are too
lazy, timorous or incompetent (or all three) to do their
own work. There remains the fact that, as the leader
of the Opposition put it, “revival of the Inter-State
Commission was included in the Prime Minister’s 1934
policy speech,” and that “legislation to give effect to
it was withheld until Parliament was moribund and
the Government on the eve of its political demise.”
Mr. Curtin’s remarks on this “delayed action” were
strong, but not too strong. The thing exhibits all the
signs of an impudent attempt to prepare soft places
for doomed politicians to fall on.
Someone Has a Nightmare.
Reading a document —it may be called a manifesto —
issued by the International Peace Research Com-
mittee, of Melbourne, leads to the conclusion that
prawns, crayfish, pastry or whatever it is produces
the best nightmares must now be uncommonly cheap
and abundant.
Even so, it must have cost a tidy penny to pro-
duce such a nightmare as these Peace Researchers
have had. Setting out on the track of peace, they
have come, instead, on as extensive an embattled
mare’s nest as ever loomed up in the dominions of
Mirage.
They have outdone all other known war-tipsters.
Most of these prophets—professional and amateur —
are satisfied with one war and content to be vague
about dates. The Peace Researchers present the most
comprehensive collection of wars that ever, even in
forecast, enlivened the world.
The holocaust is due to break “early in 1939.”
And here is reckless Sydney sending out invitations
to all parts of the world—including some of the parts
inhabited by the plentiful belligerents-to-be— to for-
ward hither their dirt-track riders, pole-vaulters, boat-
pullers and what not, with this whole bunch of wars
attested by the Peace Researchers waiting as the
immediate aftermath, to blast the lot of them into
oblivion!
Will the Scoffers of Sydney demand that the
Peace Researchers of Melbourne should agree to the
imposition of a fine of £lOOO if their wars fail to
come off on the given date? Probably not. But
would the Peace Researchers, if this was put to them,
agree, or if they agreed would they pay? There is
solid cash backing behind the suggestion that they
would not condescend to consider such a proposal.
Yet, short of the gag, some such check on all
such war-alarm claptrap is urgently needed. War
alarmists are among the most blatant and misleading,
as they are among the most industrious, pests that
infest an earth deserving better of its inhabitants.
On these Peace Researchers’ own admissions,
The daily reiterated Russian declaration of an
immediate anticipated war of intervention was quite
patently not founded on fact. Twelve years have elapsed
and the war has not yet occurred.
Nor is world war any nearer now except in the
imaginations of such alarmists. If the peoples of
Europe were as eager for war as these alarmists
make out, Spain in the past few months has given
them plenty of opportunity. The truth is that the
general run of people, there and elsewhere, do not
want war at any price. They would spring to arms
readily enough if attacked ; what acts against people
who trade in war alarms is that there is nobody to
launch such attack.
Contrary to all the newspaper talk, the shrill
sensationalism of “special correspondents,” the yap-
ping of people who find this an easy way of getting
themselves publicity and the contributory scare-
mongering of all sorts of others, the real represen-
tative feeling of the world is against war, probably
more strongly so than ever before in history.
That is beyond the grasping of people such as
these Peace Researchers. They take this, that and
the other allegedly reliable sign and portent, and
declare: —
If war between England and Germany was inevitable
in 1914, conflict between England and U.S.A. in the near
future is equally inevitable.
The basis of this assumption is that the U.S.A.
has become Britain’s commercial rival. And that is
merely one of their tangle of wars. Early 1939 as
the date; this as part of the mess ahead:
Japan is preparing to carry through her forty-year-
old policy of subjecting China; England is pressing
Japan in that direction (and preparing the minds of
her own people) by a policy of excluding Japan from
the Empire markets; this action by Japan is absolutely
inevitable, and must lead to war with Russia and
U.S.A.
Germany, with a bigger population to-day in a
smaller territory than in 1914, and without colonies, is
preparing to attack Russia. Germany and Japan there-
fore are bound to act in concert. England, desirous of
having Russia defeated, and equally desirous of having
American might smashed, must definitely assist Ger-
many and Japan. France fights for her very existence,
and therefore must aid Russia and America.
The villain of the whole piece—it is the Peace
Researchers’ main implication—is England. To these
people, enjoying the peace and protection which Aus-
tralia’s membership of the British Commonwealth of
Nations affords and the freedom of speech still general
to that Commonwealth, there is apparently nothing
vile awaiting the world but that England is its prime
mover. “England has built Germany up to armed
power and has striven to isolate France.” To “cope
with America” England “is building the most power-
ful fleet of all time.” To “facilitate the destruction
of American shipping, mercantile and naval, Singa-
pore base has been built and six million gallons of
naval oil fuel has been stored at Darwin.” Palestine
“is being built by the English into a powerful mili-
tary base for the coming conflict.”
The fleet is to sit at Darwin from April to October
each year, and with the British naval might at Singapore
in the west, and Japan’s naval strength in the north,
an excellent triangle will be formed on the best-known
strategic lines, for the trapping and smashing of
America’s naval might at the Philippines and Guam.
The Peace Researchers sum up:
Examination of all the facts involved leads us to
believe that the conflict with America will in fact pre-
cede a European upheaval, and on this basis we are led
to believe that Japan is likely to be at war with America
possibly early in 1939. The subjection of China, the
attack on Russia and on France would then follow,
possibly in 1940.
It is, of course, all a ludicrous nightmare, but
it is a fair example of the claptrap being increasingly
belched into the world by self-appointed prophets of
disaster. What the world is suffering from is not the
danger of actual war but the danger that lies in the
continuance of all this war-talk. The Americans have
the best term for the complaint—the jitters.
The Larrakia Government.
Mr. Paterson, the Minister of the Interior, is about
to go to Darwin to reinforce with the majesty of
his presence the warning that his Government —the
Larrakia Government —is “determined to suppress
poaching in territorial waters.” The warning was
uttered by Mr. Paterson himself in the House of
Representatives. It was prefaced by the admission that
Mr. Paterson had pardoned and conferred citizen
rights on a poacher on Australian territory, a Chinese,
who entered the country illegally 14 years ago and
has since behaved himself (pardon and privileges were
granted on that ground); and that was preluded by
the announcement that Mr. Paterson had approved of
the cancellation of his expulsion of Mrs. Freer. But
Mr. Paterson and consistency are not even on nodding
terms.
At Darwin Mr. Paterson may find the good ship
Larrakia and a Japanese lugger. The Larrakia, which
is the kind of vessel admirals use for paddling about
in fairly calm harbors, on June. 10 arrested the lugger
and a mother-ship in Boucaut Bay, Arnhem Land —
took them out of a large fleet of luggers which made
a striking night-scene:
The hundreds of lights twinkling from a forest Of
masts resembled a corner of Sydney Harbor rather than
a bay on the deserted Arnhem Coast.
Unhappily, an engine went wrong and the bat-
teries ran flat. For two days nothing was heard from
the Larrakia; and the Administration had no other
vessel nor any naval seaplane, though Darwin houses
Australia’s only naval oil supply along the 3000 miles
of northern coast. In the circumstances officialdom
abandoned or suspended its old feud with the Flying
Doctor, and sent him, instead of the familiar
summons, an SOS. Dr Fenton found the Larrakia
and two attendant Japanese vessels at Goulburn
Island. One was a sampan; the mother-ship had
been released, and the sampan substituted, because
the. mother-ship was “too big to travel by w t .y of the
inshore channels.”
Another SOS was sent to the new Administrator,
who was on the Rankine, 800 miles away. He made
a breathless dash over what a friendly newspaper
describes as “500 miles of the worst road in Australia,”
and was then flown to Darwin. He. arrived there in
time to see the Larrakia limp proudly into port,
nine days after the “arrests,” with her prizes,
one of which had obligingly towed her part
of the way. The sampan was ordered to
clear out with both crews. The crew of the lugger
objected, being evidently of opinion that they had the
right to stay in Darwin till the legality of the con-
fiscation of their craft was decided ; but the objec-
tion was overruled.
It is four years since the Government’s attention
was first called to the need for a northern patrol, arid
nearly three years elapsed before the Larrakia was
placed in commission. Her first exploit was to sink in
Darwin harbor, and she has twice broken down at
sea. Her engineers have to be picked for their weight,
like jockeys, so that they may be able to move between
the cramped engines. Now that her performances
have made the Government supremely ridiculous, the
Department of the Interior has discovered what naval
experts knew from the beginning, that the equivalent
of an admiral’s pinnace is incapable of patrolling a
long coastline, which is visited for months on end by
tempestuous weather and —every second or third year
—by willy-willies in which she would not live for 10
minutes. The R.A.N. recommended a £20,000 vessel
which would be of real defensive use apart from its
suitability for patrol work. But a Ministry which
thinks nothing of spending £15,000 on politicians’ trips
to London baulked at the expense.
Poaching in northern waters has ceased to be a
matter of minor importance. It must be shown to
poachers that, where Australian authority is rightly
enforceable, it can and will be enforced. But it will
take more than a Larrakia and a Larrakia Government
to do it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
To the Pawnshop Again.
Returning from another expedition to London, the
second in 18 months, Premier Forgan Smith said to
an interviewer at Fremantle that “the advisability of
again borrowing money abroad” would have to be
seriously considered by the Loan Council. It may
charitably be supposed—if charitable supposition is
proper in such a case —that this Queensland Premiei
who is so ready to put the country further into pawn
to “foreign bondholders” (his deputy’s name for them
once) had not' learned the results of the N. S. Wales
Government’s “Water Board” loan and Mr. Bruce s
latest conversion operation. Resident Australians had.
True, precise and detailed information about the
N. S. Wales Government’s “Water Board” loan has
been withheld from them. A dark-brown silence has
settled on the subject since it was acknowledged that
the loan had been quoted at a discount. But the truth
about the conversion loan has been supplied. The
British public was asked for £12,360,900 and, evidently
because the “Water Board” loan had, with the weak
concurrence of Mr. Casey, then in London, been
allowed to come in before the conversion loan and
raise doubts as to whether another Australian loan-
drunk was not imminent, the conversion was a failure.
Interest amounting, with redemption, to £3 16s. 2d.
per cent, had to be offered, though Mr. Bruce had a
year ago placed a short-term issue of £16,557,000
at £2 18s. 6d. per cent. And the underwriters were
left with 53 per cent.
The “Water Board” loan brought in £2,000,000
of “new” money at 4 per cent., which means that
Australia will have to add £BO,OOO sterling to its
annual interest payments. Mr. Stevens asserted that
the interest was very little more than the current rate
on British local-government loans. In point of fact,
the Leeds Corporation a few days before the “Water
Board” debentures were unloaded asked for and
got £4,000,000 at 3i per cent., the issue price being
£lOl ; the yield, with redemption, was, approximately,
£3 Bs. 9d. per cent.
It is now admitted that sanction for the “Water
Board” loan was given at the last Loan Council meet-
ings. The fact was not broadcast. Had the public
been told about it, there would have been a chorus
of protests from the leaders of finance, commerce
and industry. The Loan Council has fallen down on
its job, and the people will pay the price.
Exit Pre-selection.
The U.A.P. pre-selection system, or whatever it is,
was badly worsted in the N. S. Wales Assembly elec-
torate of Vaucluse last year. Now the Assembly
electors of Woollahra, another U.A.P. stronghold,
have virtually kicked it into oblivion.
It was said during the short and noisy Woollahra
campaign, and not denied, that two-thirds of the
U.A.P. pre-selection votes were cast by women.
Women preponderate in most of the U.A.P. elec-
torates, Commonwealth and State, and with the
formation of “Younger Set branches the pro-
portion of female voters is apt to be greater
in these pre-selection ballots than at actual elections.
So the choosing of U.A.P. candidates has tended
to fall more and more into the dainty hands of
young ladies who are good dancers and tennis-players
and little mines of information about the pictures,
and of older ladies who are capital knitters and
bridge-players. And people are seriously asked to
believe that insignificant minorities largely com-
posed of such ladies are better qualified to make a
wise choice of members —hitherto it has often
amounted to that —than the general body of electors!
Under the handicap of this variety of pre-selec-
* tion, a Lincoln, restored to life and with his shingle hung
out 5 in Sydney or Melbourne, would have small
chance of getting a nomination. “How ghastly!” the
women would gasp when Honest Abe arrived at one
of the hen-and-chicken parties to urge his claims.
For he would come in ancient togs and a battered
stovepipe hat, perhaps fortified for the ordeal, not by
cocktails, but by a stiff nip of whisky, and begin his
speech with a funny story, which would be a rousing
success in a rabbiters’ camp but would horrify Mos-
man or Potts Point, though some of the girls might
giggle. And he would run his bony fingers through
his straggling locks, and the audience would notice
that some of the knuckles were broken and the nails
bitten to the quick. But why complete the painful
canvas? In a contest for a U.A.P. nomination between
Lincoln and young Mr. McCall, both starting from
scratch and unknown outside their immediate
acquaintance, it would be 10 to 1 on McCall.
It might be thought that, with women outnumber-
ing men in nearly all metropolitan electorates, the
woman member would become conspicuous. Nothing
of the kind ; when men and women stand for a con-
stituency the colonel’s lady and Judy O’Grady have
small use for their own sex. Three ladies were elected
for districts in which women were in the majority :
Mrs. Cowan in West Perth, Miss Preston Stanley in
Eastern Suburbs (Sydney), and Mrs. Longman in
Bulimba (Q.). Each of the three was more intelligent
and more attentive to her duties than the average
male member, and her Parliamentary manners were
irreproachable ; but all three were rejected after one
term.
Miss Holman may be regarded as an exception.
She has been M.L.A. for Forrest (W.A.) since 1925.
But Miss Holman was the daughter of the previous
member, who was secretary to the predominant local
trade-union. And in Forrest there are comparatively
few women, and fewer still have a say in the choice
of the Labor nominee. Miss Holman owes her con-
tinuance in Parliament to the chivalry of the male.
More in the Pay Envelope.
The Federal basic wage is up six shillings a week
in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, four shillings a
week in Adelaide, Perth and Hobart, and five shillings
a week in 30 towns. The average for the six capital
cities becomes £3 15s. a week (the Sydney rate is
£3 18s.); for the 30 towns, £3 15s. also.
Except in some special cases (those of pastoral
workers and seamen, for instance) half the increase
will take effect immediately and the other half in
October. If the whole increase were to become effec-
tive straightway it would represent —for the moment,
at any rate —“real” wages on a scale considerably
higher than before the depression —the Common-
wealth Statistician’s last quarterly figures showed real
wages, which are wages based on the cost of living, at
a higher-than-1929 mark.
The Australian wage-earner behaved admirably
during the depression,- showing his accustomed good
sense and good temper. He rejected alike Commu-
nism, Langism and Douglasism, nor has he yielded to
the lure of the new form of revolution called the stay-
in strike. If, henceforth, after he has paid for all the
things he has been accustomed to pay for, he has
five or six shillings more in his pocket, good luck to
him, and may things so fall out that he may get
a lot more!
But in these matters good wishes and pious
aspirations are no help. The buying power of wages
is largely governed by wages ; and once the dog starts
chasing his tail there is no stopping him. Five or six
shillings off living costs would be of greater advantage
to the man who has to sell his labor than five or six
shillings on wages if the increase is absorbed by
living costs.
“An able economist,” Mr. Reddaway, called as a
witness by the Court, contended that, unless money
wages were restored to the 1929 level, expectation
of increased business profits would cause superfluous
new enterprises to spring up and unwarranted busi-
ness extensions to take place. The high basic wage
of 1929 and former years didn’t prevent superfluous
theatres springing up all over the Commonwealth, or
stop the hundred-and-one crazy new projects that
politicians and company promoters launched. Share-
and “bond”-hawking was a first-class industry in the
gay nineteen-twenties.
After “holey” dollars and the like had gone out
of circulation, Australia started off with £1 sterling
representing £1 Australian. The first showdown came
with the slump, and eventually we acknowledged,
mainly because of inflated costs, that our pound was
worth only 16s. English. The fact that most of our
export industries, without the exchange “premium,”
could not compete with other countries’ industries and
pay Australian costs at the same time was a forcible
illustration of the overvaluation.
Mr. Reddaway is on the Melbourne University
staff. He is in his early twenties, and is fresh from
England. His “theories were accepted by the Court,”
which is something new in Arbitration Court prac-
tice, and he has since been pleased to give Australia
the benefit of his views on tariff matters, which is
very kind of him. One effect of the acceptance of his
theories is that the faint prospect of making the
Government railways pay disappears immediately. If
the general result is going to be the old story of
increased costs, increased prices and then increased
wages again, we shall have to depend on luck to save
us from drifting back to the tragic muddle from which
we so recently extricated ourselves.
Breaking Up the Cordon.
Last week Germany and Italy withdrew their war-
ships from the non-intervention cordon that had done
good work in helping to keep Spain’s civil war local-
ised to Spain. They had had enough of it, and with
good cause.
Ships of both countries on that job have been
singled out for attack by ruffians in the service of the
Spanish “Government” ever since the non-interven-
tion agreement was made. The conclusive provo-
cation was an attempt to torpedo the German cruiser
Leipzig. There was the customary Valencia lying
about it; the usual English papers, chiefly “Liberal,”
attempted in the usual way to turn it aside with
doubting innuendo and ridicule.
But the torpedoing happened. The British
Foreign Office, which is not to be taken in on matters
of this sort, was convinced that the evidence was
unshakable. Germany (Italy coinciding) declined to
have its “naval forces entrusted with an international
task exposed to further target-practice off Red Spain.”
Said the Prime Minister:
Remembering the loss of German lives [3o] when
the Deutschland was bombed, it must be admitted that
German indignation and resentment are only natural.
I must say that the action of the Germans in merely
withdrawing their ships from the patrol and declaring
the incident closed shows a degree of restraint which
ought to be recognised by us.
A joint naval demonstration had been proposed.
The British Government, which looks to the future,
very properly refused to take part in it.
Following outrage with mendacity in its charac-
teristic fashion, Valencia reported a menacing concen-
tration of Fascist warships in the Mediterranean and
movements of huge bodies of Italian troops towards
Malaga. English “Liberal” papers warned their public
—limited in Britain but very queerly enlarged to
include all Australia and Maoriland —to prepare for
Dreadful Deeds. British Ministers contributed some
warnings on their own account warnings very
unusual but entirely justified. Said the Foreign
Minister:
The reports of the movements of German warships
eastward into the Mediterranean should be received with
great reserve. Official information received by the
Admiralty does not confirm the reports, and the Inter-
national Board of Non-intervention has received no
information whatever to confirm the report of the
arrival of Italian troops in Malaga and other Spanish
ports. British ships, to which patrol duties in the
Malaga area have beeti assigned, made no report
tending to show that any such development had
occurred.
The First Lord of the Admiralty added:
There are in ' Spanish waters 18 British, 19 French,
11 German and eight Italian warships.
At this stage it looks odds on the Franco side
winning. The only hope for the Red side would seem
to lie in enlarging the war from a civil to a general
scrap that would make its cause the cause of some
of the outside nations. That is the most feasible
reason for the continued attacks on non-intervention
ships and the incessant emanations from Red and Pink
lie-factories.
The Bosh of Nosh.
Judging by reports in friendly newspapers, the Maori-
land Prime Minister made some very foolish remarks
in London on foreign policy. One observation attri-
buted to him was'that Canada might choose to say
it wouldn’t be dragged into any League war but
Maoriland was “not going to do anything that would
mean killing the League.” The truth is that, in every-
thing that relates to collective insecurity, the League
is dead already. It lies “self-slain on its own strange
altar.” It cut its throat with “sanctions,” but it would
have perished of its own selfish folly and dreaming
pedantry in any event.
But it was reserved for Mr. Nash, Mr. Savage’s
Minister of Finance, to give the prize exhibition of
sorry fustian. Mr. Nash, who went to London in
advance of the Coronation party to urge the claims
of Maoriland butter and mutton on a distracted
Europe, which had not previously had the benefit of
his advice, went along to a London meeting of the
League of Nations Union with a ready-made recipe
for establishing peace with honor and, if possible,
more M.L. mutton and butter. This was the recipe:
The League should force the withdrawal of foreign
troops and put Spain under a League mandate for a
year.
“The League should force.” It has no force
not even the shadow of an army, a navy or a flying
corps. Yet it would need a first-class fleet in being,
a substantial army with ample reserves, clouds of
machines with capable bombers and machine-gunners
and the means of keeping them all munitioned,
clothed, fed and paid to pul Spain “under a League
mandate for a year,” especially if military Powers
outside the League objected, as they very probably
would.
The Spaniards would certainly object. Indeed,
both factions might combine to resist what they would
certainly regard as a monstrous foreign invasion and a
felon blow to their pride and their self-governing rights,
among which is the right to go to the devil in their
own way. A truce to faction fighting in the presence
of a common danger would be nothing new in the
history of Spain.
And where would Mr. Nash get the men,
machines and money for this League invasion?
Maoriland could doubtless supply the mutton and the
butter, but it could do little more.
This Minister is reported to be coming home.
He has been away too long. Europe is doubtless in
need of something to laugh at, but Maoriland should
not have been dragged in to supply that sort of food.
Victorian Marketing Boards.
“Our experience is that marketing boards have erected
rings and ’ monopolies.”
Such is the assertion of the Vic. Grocers’ Association,
now seeking representation on State marketing boards
for retailers and co-operative wholesalers. There are
Government nominees on these boards ; nevertheless,
the Grocers’ Association declares that a limited mer-
chant element is dictating distribution policies, pro-
ducers’ representatives being satisfied to watch only
producers’ interests.
“Orderly” marketing can be justified only when it
does not inflict trading injustices on any section of the
community supporting home-consumption prices. In
nearly every instance, producers’ representatives
prepared to seek a fair spin for the consuming public
and recognition of the buying rights of the co-opera-
tive organisations recently formed by small traders
would win the day.
At present the co-operative buying bodies created
by one-shop traders are not given wholesale recog-
nition by the Sugar Board or the Dried Fruits Asso-
ciation, the latter being consistently backed by the
Dried Fruits Board. The Victorian Egg Board, for
its part, would like to reduce the size of the
standard egg from 2oz. to lioz., which means that
housewives who use eight eggs for a certain job would
in future require nine. A small infliction, perhaps,
but one which the grocers know the consuming public
would resent.
It seems reasonable that retailers and co-operative
wholesalers should be given representation. They are
in direct contact with the buying public, which, as the
producers’ representatives should know, is contribut-
ing fairly tolerantly towards the maintenance of a
decent standard of living for men on the land.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: It made me feel old to read
of “the mystery in Barrie’s life” and of
Londoners’ astonishment at learning that
he was “neither a widower nor a bache-
lor” ; and it will be 10 years before I
can qualify for my old-age pension.
There must be many Australian editors
who can remember receiving printed
copies of a letter signed by Hardy, Wells,
Shaw, Chesterton and other literary stars
of the first magnitude, asking them as a
favor not to make a feature of the
divorce proceedings that Barrie was
bringing. Barrie, the letter went on, was
feeling keenly the shipwreck of his matri-
monial venture and publication, in how-
ever remote a quarter, would add to his
distress. I wish I had preserved the copy
that came to my office; surely no other
writer has been the subject of so thought-
ful a tribute from his fellows. I always
understood that after the divorce Barrie
adopted Pauline Chase, the American
actress, who, I think, was the first Peter
Pan. What became of Pauline? There
is no mention of her in the yards of
obituary notices I have read.
* * * *
“Centre”: As a tidewaiter in S’Africa
and at the London Docks I’ve come
across some queer devices for dodging
the Customs. Cocaine worth over £2OO
was unearthed from a child’s doll that
was being taken ashore by a seven-year-
old; a bigger haul was found in the
crutches of a cripple, who disembarked
under the care of a uniformed nurse.
Diamonds valued at £5OOO were taken
from Southampton to New York in a
tobacco pouch, from which the owner
casually filled his pipe while his baggage
was being examined —and he got away
with it. Then there was the case of a
man whose top and bottom dental plates
carried cut diamonds in place of all back
teeth —it was only a warning cablegram
that queered his pitch. And I once had
the pleasure of tripping up a smug and
smiling gentleman in clerical garb who
carried a Bible in one hand as he left
the ship and waved a cheery farewell to
the other passengers. The Good Book
proved to have had the inside skilfully
cut out, and contained a packet of
cocaine.
* * $ *
“Kellick”: A letter, minus stamp, but
postmarked “Sydney,” had me guessing.
Investigation proved it to be from a
friend aboard the Moresby, standing by
Rabaul after the recent eruption. No
stamps being available, postage was free.
It reminded me that when H.M. ships
visit a foreign port for the first mail
home sailors are permitted to use stamps
of their own country, the letters being
sealed in bags and not sorted by the
authorities ashore. Sceptical wives have
taken a lot of convincing about that
“Sydney” postmark.
* $ $ $
“Once”; The bagman dropped his
swag at the corner of the house and
jauntily approached the door. So amazed
was he at the remarkable thinness of the
female who answered his knock that he
just stared. For a second they observed
each other, then suddenly she held forth:
“When were you born? June or De-
cember? June? I thought so ; you are
a child of the Bull! You are lazy, indo-
lent and a wanderer. Come back! You
like joyous times, you are a wife
deserter and you are susceptible to
disease.” She paused for a breath, then
let him have another blast: “There is
insanity in your family. You will always
carry a burden. .You have a yellow
streak and you have come to me for
food and clothes. Am I right?” “Some-
thing you’ve forgotten,” he shouted as
he bolted; “I don’t drink vinegar!”
“Fight? My oath he can fight. Why, his boss is a member of the League
of Nations Union."
“Dick Tafone”: Canberra is intensely
agitated over a matter of eggs. No, not
because of the pending Federal elections,
but on account of Mr. Lyons’s Pacific
Peace Pact and the improvement of Aus-
tralian trade relations with China.
Chinese residents want to import what
they consider to be proper eggs, only ob-
tainable in China, and the Australian
poultry industry is objecting, although it
cannot possibly produce that kind of
egg, at any rate for a long while. A
really good Chinese egg is at least 100
years old, and, whatever relics survive in
Australia from 1837, eggs are certainly
not among them —at least, not in com-
mercial quantities. Also, the Chinese egg
must be cased in brown mud. We can
supply that, but not the eggs. The reason-
able solution would be to require each
Tariff Board member to eat a Chinese
egg, or otherwise let them in free.
* # * *
“Sizzle”: Having at last had a sight of
our much-advertised “new” crown piece,
I’d nominate it as the dullest-looking coin
ever minted. It has one merit—the ex-
cellence of the head. But even that side
is spoilt as a piece of designing by the
same defect that makes the crown-side
so ugly—the lettering is twice too large.
Compare it with the finest, perhaps, of
all Australian coins—the Canberra florin
—and it is hard to believe the same de-
signer had a hand in both, unless he had
no say in the type-lettering on the five-
bob. A fancy for crowding has long
been a defect of Australian coin and
stamp designs; yet, curiously enough,
synchronising with the crown’s too-big
lettering, we have as simple and neat a
design for the latest stamps as our stamps
have ever had. (P.S. —Within a few
minutes of having written the foregoing
I saw in the Sydney “Sun” —24/6/’37 —
a reproduction of our still later George
VI. stamp. It cost me the price of four
pints to cool off.)
# * * *
“Binduli”: In the spacious days of
Westralian goldfields journalism a “They
Say” column was generally a feature of
the paper. I am not sure who introduced
it —possibly the late Hugh Mahon —but
whoever it was doubtless had in mind a
few words from one of Sheridan’s plays:
“They say! What do they say? Let
them say!” Although the column was
mainly devoted to social happenings,
items could be published there under the
specious covering of current gossip which
it would have been dangerous to present
as plain statements of alleged fact. In
one libel action a Supreme Court Judge
recognised the distinction. And it was
also possible to get in a tremendously
hard kick in two or three lines. I recall
one short-lived Kalgoorlie sheet which
condensed all its gall and bitterness
against a local M.L.A., of notoriously
thrifty, if not parsimonious, habits, into
four words at the end of the “They Say”
column. There it was stated, on the
authority of no one in particular but
merely as a rumor going round, “That
has shouted! ”
* *. * *
“C. Mac”: In all daily newspaper
offices that I’ve scribbled in the staff’s
best descriptive writer was invariably to
be found at the sub.’s desk, filling in
cables and telegrams. The process may
have wiped the breed out; at any rate,
the last two scraps —Abyssinia and now
Spain—have been most notable journal-
istically for the absence of even poor
descriptive writing and its replacement
by pseudo-political speculations. I can-
not recall in these scraps one piece of
pure description good enough to convey
to the reader a picture of what was hap-
pening. Either there has not been a bit
of real fighting in either worth crossing
the road to witness or newspaper ob-
servers have lost the art of getting such
things on paper. One or two, evi-
dently of the quaking breed of most of
the war-book authors, have poured out
accounts of their own feelings when their
precious skins seemed to them to be in
danger, but none of them has been cap-
able of effacing self —as a good descrip-
tive writer must—and giving what he
sees. Yet there should be a good public
in Australia for straight, honest, un-
biased, objective description of such
events as the defence and fall of Bilbao.
Apparently no paper had a C. E. W.
Bean on the spot to give it.
* $ * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A tram accident
on the Bondi line must have created a
new record in one respect —there was
an unprecedented rain of false teeth.
Eleven sets were found on the seats and
floors of the jolted cars. There were no
claimants for two of the sets, which had
to be sent to the Tramway Lost Property
Office.
* $ * . $
“Scouter”: About 10,000 Scouts from
the Australian States, Maoriland and the
world’s five corners are expected to
attend the century-and-a-half jamboree of
1938-39. None of them will be short
of spending-power, and naturally there
has been brisk competition between coun-
cils and shopping centres for the privilege
of supplying the Scout Army with a
camp site. Historic Parramatta Park
seemed to have the best chance; but
coming with a powerful run in the
straight Bradfield site (about one mile
west of Lindfield station, on Sydney
North Shore line) won on the post. This
will be the first world gathering of
Scouts in N. S. Wales.
H= * t- *
“Pons”: Pedantry with a modern
touch. In a broadcasting studio known to
me, any member of the staff who has busi-
ness with the manager is told, by notices
on the walls, not to “see” him, or “speak”
to him, or even to “interview” him, but
to “contact” him! And some nights ago,
as I sat at the hearth and the room was
filled with Lehmann’s voice, there was a
loud bang at the door, followed by the
entry of a band of hatchet-carrying fire-
men in Roman helmets. The Big Chief,
16-stone of him and all gold-plated, said
that he’d come “in response to a summons
to investigate the possible nature of the
outbreak.” The “investigation” showed
that wisps of smoke from a crack in my
chimney had oozed into the flat next
door, where a tenant had sounded
the tocsin. All danger past, the chief
clanked impressively downstairs. I took
it that he’d come to put out a fire.
* * * #
“Soapy S.”: The par. about Towns-
ville sportsmen coursing kangaroo-rats
with greyhounds, hares not being avail-
able, reminds me that there used to be
a hunt club in Perth whose members tore
about the countryside, whooping and
tally-hoing, in pursuit of the brush-
kangaroo, a timid animal prone to crouch
behind a tussock when winded. Some
of the reports furnished to the press
about point-to-point runs and the nego-
tiation of brooks and bulfinches were de-
lightful efforts. They were framed on
the English pattern, the style of Surtees’s
“Pomponius Ego,” rich in terms of the
hunting-field. The climax was probably
reached when some chronicler referred
to the wretched brush-’roo as Bold
Reynard! But I suppose they have real
foxes to hunt in Westralia nowadays
for those whose tastes incline that way.
* ❖ * *
“Engee” : Melbourne seems to be be-
coming color-conscious. The Port Mel-
bourne “boat train” is now painted blue,
and all the electric trains on the metro-
politan lines are being converted to
maroon and grey. A marked manifes-
tation of this brighter-color campaign
has also broken out in the fashionable
part of South Yarra, which, despite the
encroaching flats, still manages to pre-
serve an air of exclusiveness. Among
some of the old homes in the still dig-
nified streets, I came across a modernistic
block of flats painted chocolate and pink
with dark-green windows, a modern villa
glowing in a coat of bright orange with
royal-blue trimmings and an old home —
now probably a boarding-house—painted
a light pea-green all over, with yellow
window-sills, yellow gates with black
trimmings, and a red door!
* * * *
“Oran”: One meets schoolgirls every-
where now sporting pigtails and ringlets
again, though, for “safety first” reasons
alone, the day of the long-haired damsel
should have passed. I have seen a girl
who was farewelling friends in a car
thrown to the. ground as the car moved
because the end of her long pigtail had
been caught in the door when it was
slammed, and a youngster partly scalped
as she was lifted from a tram because
her long curls had wound themselves
round a button of a man’s cuff. And
when a party of schoolgirls was inspect-
ing a biscuit factory one of them was
completely scalped through her hair get-
ting into one of the machines. No, flow-
ing hair is not for these strenuous days.
SORRY TO GO.
“The Australian Minister for Defence left London
to-day, declaring that he wished his visit had been
longer.”— -“S. M. Herald” cable.
He’s had times that were radiant and racy,
Hobnobbing with royalty’s scions,
Along with the amiable Casey
And the eminent globe-trotter Lyons.
He’s savored the cheers and the shouting;
He’s basked in the glamor and glow
Of a glorious, gorgeous outing,
So there’s really no reason for doubting
He’s sorry to go.
He’d a front seat, be sure, at the Abbey,
With other exalted grandees;
For the Motherland never was shabby
To statesmen from over the seas.
He was dined, was our war-lord, and feted
In joints where the fork and the knife
As the deadliest weapons are rated.
So he’s had, it may fairly be stated,
The time of his life.
• .
Whenever Court dress was “de rigger”
He wore it, I’ll wager a fin,
And cut as romantic a figure
As both of his colleagues therein.
And the sword that went with it? Well,
harkee!
I’ll lay it was seldom it slid
Or slipped from the scabbard of Parkie,
As Lyons’s did.
In the glossy and shimmery garb he
Acquired from Belgravian blokes
I reckon he went to the Derby
And toted a prad at the Oaks.
Where Fleet-street distinctions are levelled
In pubs like the “Cock” and the “Cheese,”
And kidneys delightfully devilled,
Why shouldn’t our Archie have revelled
In dainties like these?
Come back to us, Parkie! We’re grieving
At your absence, it must be allowed.
We can’t but feel glad that you’re leaving
The city that did you so proud.
Come back! There await you no curses,
Quaint compound of treacle and starch,
For you rank among heaven-sent mercies
As a theme for satirical verses.
Come back to us, Arch.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sixenate”: Under Australian compen-
sation law damages have been awarded
for the benefit of a posthumous child
the first case of the kind I have heard of
here. The father was run down by a
lorry in Parramatta ; the child was born
two months later. In an action against
the driver and the owner of the lorry a
jury returned a verdict for £1240, with
some odd money for funeral and other
expenses. One-fourth was allotted speci-
fically as the child’s interest.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: Curious that whereas
among whites it’s usually men who elect
to be ornamented by tattooing, among
Island natives the ladies are the main
ones by whom the tattooist advertises his
work. The business starts on a girl when
she is a mere babe, and is continued at
various periods until she is married. By
that time a network of ornamentation
and family history covers every inch of
her body. Even the ears, eyes, nose and
mouth have their distinctive symbols.
The workmanship is so fine and exact
and the symmetry so perfect that it is
difficult to believe a crude thorn and a
hammer, with dye extracted from a tree,
used by an individual with the patience
of a Job, are responsible for it. The mere
male usually has only his name scratched
into the inside of his forearm ; a rough
piece of workmanship performed as a
spare-time job.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Fourteen is the age at
which responsibility for criminal acts
begins. This is English law and has been
adopted in most, if not all, parts of the
British Empire. A Perth schoolboy
helped himself to his father’s car in his
father’s absence, without permission or
authorisation, and went for a spin, which
ended in a collision with a utility truck
S l'uer from fniurL received It the
noues the SrX SutS ecci-
dent was due to the schoolboy's negli-
eent driving and despite a strenuous
rir The
Criminal Code gave him no alternative.
by his bo„e P s to the dty he
founded, but Australia can never honor
it too much. Phillip was a great man.
His experience of this country was a four
years’ nightmare, without rest and with-
out assistance, either from the Home
Government or his own officers. He never
once complained or gave up hope. This
country,” he wrote, “will yet be the
most valuable acquisition Great Britain
h as ever ma de.”
*
« Abi T onus”: Lost, one school! The
N.S.W. Education Department is anxious
t 0 ge t j n touch with anybody knowing the
whereabouts of the schoolhouse put up
near Webb's silvermine, out of Emma-
ville (N.S.W.). The mines have long since
closed down, and the school was appar-
entty forgotten after it followed suit.
Perhaps inhabitants ran short of chips,
or Pitt-street miners sold shares in it.
* * * *
“Turps”: In the edifying tippling lore
lately enlivening these pages I find no
expert comment on what seems to niv
one of the most curious facts about
alcohol —the influence of wholly non-
alcoholic circumstances on its effects.
With a few under the belt and all set
for a normal evening of it, a seasoned
drinker can be brought to a stage that
the rest of the night’s tippling could not
induce by unexpectedly meeting an old
friend, hearing a bit of extra good news,
or getting suddenly into hilarious com-
pany. On the other hand, it is possible
to drink heavily in some circumstances
without feeling any effects at all. In-
stance two men, neither a regular soak,
getting through a military water-bottle
(lqrt.) of pure issue rum each in the
course of a night, and literally cold sober
at dawn. It happened in 1916 on a night
of pelting sleet in the Somme bog. We
set out to find a small forward position,
“The old ’one died.”
got lost® There was just enough urgency
about the job-which was to reheve un-
other pair-to make J*j P au“’n?f3rt
we staggered and plunged ail mgn
SSVS ? f&ehtrui
c £ ur .hf^h s t z o :fJ b £pm; . %
yards
of S.R.D. in occasmnal swtgs, neat and
it mignt have been merely so
French beer for all the intoxicating effect
it had.
“Dipso”: I’m satisfied that the alco-
holic content has not so much to do with
an imbiber's defeat as lack of training
an nuuiu , u: n a n r
in the use of any Ocular knd ot
"Cyprus vSy,” which the inhabitants
dmnk by the bucket, and the missus,
three nights later, explained how I had
looked when I arrived home that even-
ing Similarly, a long-distance cham-
pion at handling pots will often feel all
“Seen any snow, folks?"
cockeyed after a small quantity of port.
A whisky soak wouldn’t stay the course
if he set out on a gin or rum crawl. It s
all a matter of what you are used to, as
the tight-rope walker explained.
* * * *
“Kauri”: Aren’t some people sus-
picious? A friend went for a cruise. A
dance was held one night, and he, with
the rest, had a jolly good time till well
after midnight, when he decided to retire
to his single-berth cabin. In the morn-
ing he was awakened by the steward try-
ing to enter with tea, the door having
been locked. When he scrambled out to
open it, the steward had gone. He was
wondering what the idea was when the
steward returned —with two cups of tea.
* * * *
“Morita”: It was a very complicated
sales agreement, the lawyers told us.
Daily more
whereases and
wherefores were
inserted and we
heard that the
wording of so-
and - so clause
should be altered
or reversed. At
any time both
parties reckoned
they could say
just what they
wanted, without
trimmings, in the
space of two
drinks. At last
a 1 1 concerned
gathered to hear
the final reading,
and afterwards
the legal array
beamed at each
other with the air
of a job well
done. One of
them then asked
if anyone could
recall any thing
that had been
overlooked. The
junior partner
cleared his throat
and commented,
“A full stop has been left out on page 23.
* * * *
“Kellick”: What must visitors to war-
ships think when they are forbidden to
take cameras aboard? Caution may be
necessary in the case of a new ship, but
if after (say) 10 years a foreign Power
could learn anything it didn’t already
know I’ll eat my hat. The most amusing
case of “cameras taboo was when
H.M.S. Danae was in Adelaide six
months ago. The vessel was 20 years old.
$ * * *
“Adelaide”: A vineyard in S.A. has
celebrated its centenary. One Hamilton
bought, in London, a section near Adel-
aide in June, 1837. The family tradition
is that he got the money by selling 50
acres on Long Island, New York ; waste
land then, but worth a fabulous sum to-
day. He brought vine-cuttings from
Europe, and was making wine by 1840.
Three Hamiltons, great-grandsons, carry
on the business, and they turned out (in-
cluding brandy) 800,000 gallons last
season. It is one of the few local vine-
yards on ground quite fiat, being near
the sea at Glenelg.
* * *
“Spare Corp”: Unquestionably some
harsh things happened during the war to
people who had become definitely Aus-
tralians but bore German names (B.
23/ 6/ ’37), and some of them fought none
the less finely in spite of it. One who
was howled down in a war-time N.S.W.
election was descended from a British
admiral, and his son served as an A.I.F.
medico —one of the best-known of them.
The hardest case. I knew personally was
of a man who enlisted in the New Guinea
Expeditionary Force and won his ser-
geant’s stripes. He was passed out of the
A.I.F. because of his Germanic origin.
He joined up once more as Smith or
something, quickly regained his stripes,
and then was discovered, court-martialled
and passed out again.
♦ * * *
“Dr. J.”: A Perth businessman, on
a trip outback, stopped to open a gate
and found himself unable to restart his
car. Two hours later another motorist
arrived and offered him a tow; to the
gratification of both parties the engine
ticked over merrily as soon as the car
gathered speed. At the next gate the
same thing occurred, and after a
wait of three hours the process was re-
peated. Twice bitten, the motorist be-
came shy, and the next five gates suf-
fered from the battering charge of a 40
h.p. car. He was about to adopt the
same method with the sixth when he
realised, just in time, that he was up
against the massive iron-frame gate of
the rabbit-proof fence. Not to be beaten
he turned his car around, reversed and
backed as close as possible to the ob-
struction. Then, slamming his car into
forward gear, he leaped out; opened the
gate, chased his car on foot, caught it
and resumed his journey. When he
reached his destination the local mechanic
found that the cause of a £3O repair bill
was only a loose battery terminal.
* * * *
“L 1 B.”: The Light Horse never had
sabres’ (B. 23/6/’37). Towards the
Palestine end of the campaign the Aus-
tralian Mounted Division was issued with
the long, slender cavalry epee, which
was new to Aussies. When the Com-
posite L.H. regiment was formed to cam-
paign against the Senussi in 1915 there
was a squadron-leader who had learned
his cavalry work as a middy. This chap
proceeded to sweat his command with
the old navy cutlass cuts and guards
until they were well fed up. After
several days of this in blazing heat,
during which the other squadrons
looked on more or less admiringly, an
order appeared pointing out that in-
structors from Cairo were coming to
teach us the correct drill for the new
weapon. The wrath of the Horse Marine
squadron when they found this consisted
of one thrust and a parry, instead of the
interminable chops and guards they had
been laboring at, can be imagined.
( Continued on page 50.)
SPANKING.
“Spanking is not an assault. *» «
Sydney divorce, case.
You may blacken the eye of a f °eman
Or deal him a punch on the poini,
You may* wallop o', nose that was Roma"
TjiVtattlr,-? give ’you fair warning-
And it“ odds you'll be fined for your fault
When you're facing the Beak m the morning,
But spanking is not an assault.
Some erring associate’s dial
With claret you think you may paint;
But you’ll find, if the case comes to trial,
The Law is emphatic you mayn t.
Hard stoush is a thing you should shun,
Before you indulge in it, halt.
But I’d have you remember, my son,
That spanking is not an assault.
Should the mate of your sorrows and joys
Do aught to annoy or displease,
Don’t lose your habitual poise,
Just stretch her atop of your knees.
Hard-held, it will baffle her skill
From that posture to wriggle or vault.
You can whale her as much as you will,
For spanking is not an assault.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m
A
W 1874
For real quality Tobacco...
and for your throat’s sake
smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
CIGARETTE
20/brltj
10 for 9 a
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies has acknowledged that
Stevens’s London issue of £2,000,000 of
4 per cents, “for the Water Board,”
which spoilt the market for the conver-
sion of the £12,360,000 of Commonwealth
3i per cents, that were N.S.W. 5| per
cents., was “approved by the Loan Coun-
cil.” He said “the Water Board loan was
considered on its merits, in accordance
with the policy of the Government.” But
the loan had no merits, and the Govern-
ment has no policy.
It was Lyons who suggested that the
bones of Governor Phillip should be dug
up, as Cobbett dug up those of Tom
Paine, and buried again in Australia. A
British Museum man’s comment, re-
ported by Sydney “D.T.,” was: “Only
a dead politician could conceive such
a ghoulish idea.” Dashed unfair. Joe
won’t be a political corpse till October.
Stevens’s zeal for reduction of Assem-
bly electorates will suffer a chilling frost
when he hears what has happened in
S.A., where the thing was done regard-
less of consequences. A Minister and
a private member are seeking “endorse-
ment” in Albert, and a Minister, a
private member and another gentleman
are after the nomination in Torrens ; and
both are now single electorates. It would
be an appalling thing if Stevens and
Spooner, those impassioned defenders of
pre-selection, had to scramble for the
same seat.
In an unfortunate moment, Main, the
N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture, was
asked to speak in Woollahra for the
U.A.P. candidate with the party brand.
Main came into the picture Wh)en the elec-
tors had been solemnly warned by Stevens,
Spooner, Snow and Granny “Herald”
that without pre-selection there could be
no organisation, no discipline, no party
system, no co-operation of earnest
patriots seeking naught but the public
good—nothing but chaos and blue ruin
Then honest Main opened his mouth.
He said: “In the Country party we don’t
have pre-selection.”
An achievement or a disaster in the
domain of aviation seems for the
moment to draw the human race to-
gether. This was felt when three Russian
airmen flew non-stop from Moscow to
Vancouver (Washington)—San Francisco
was their intended destination, but, after
64 hours, they had to come down in a
fog. It was reserved for Litvinoff to
drag in politics:
This comes at a time when aviation is
being used by certain peoples to destroy
cities and villages and kill men, women
and children in order to impose a regime
and an ideology foreign to them.
No mention, of course, of the Russian
machines and tanks that have been sent
to Spain, or of the efforts of Litvinoff
and his pals to get their regime and
ideology established by civil war wher-
ever there seemed a prospect.
When Gordon Wilkins said during the
Gwydir by-election that he had let the
Commercial Bank have his military pen-
sion—he left a leg in France —in reduc-
tion of an overdraft, W. M. Hughes, who
was once Attorney-General, pronounced
the transaction illegal on both sides. He
has since referred the matter to the
Crown Law authorities, who advise him
that it was illegal on neither side. Billy
ought to have the law altered to what
he thought it was.
N.S.W. Senator Hardy has discovered
since his party lost Gwydir that closer
settlement has become a “national prob-
lem,” also a problem calling for the
expenditure of millions of cubic feet of
hot air.
In a few days there is to be a confer-
ence in the Riverina on this problem. The
conference will be one of the largest ever
held in New South Wales.
It was held at Wagga. Mr. Stevens
spoke (for two hours), Mr. Hardy spoke,
other gentleman spoke, a pious resolu-
tion was adopted and the delegates dis-
persed. Some of them were heard to
make angry references to gags and
smoke-screens.
Surely the Riverina has had enough
of Mr. Hardy’s conferences. It had a
crowd of them a few years ago, all
designed, according to Mr. Hardy, to
give it the management of its own affairs,
closer settlement among them. When Mr.
Hardy was transferred to the Senate all
his enthusiasm for Riverina self-govern-
ment oozed out of him.
Thirty-six hours before polling began
in Woollahra (N.S.W.) Premier Stevens
shouted that, by opposing pre-selection,
Mason, K.C., had “put himself out of
the pale of the party”—though Robson,
the anti-pre-selectionist elected in Vau-
cluse last year, was straightway ad-
mitted. Stevens must have been the
sickest man in Sydney when counting
closed on Saturday night: Grant (winner
THE OLD COW’S DEAD.
of the bob-a-nob ballot), 6449 ; Mason,
6025; McDonald, 1566: majority against
pre-selection, 1142. It is a deathblow
to the bob-a-nob business, and if Stevens
doesn’t accept the inevitable he will fall
with it.
For Sale, a Priceless Collection of
MSS. of Leading Articles: “Sanctions,”
“Marketing Referendum,” “Vaucluse,”
“Gwydir,” “Guernica,” “Woollahra” and
“Pre-selection: A Vital Necessity.” Also
portraits of Haile Silassie and Largo
Caballero. Apply, “Granny,” Hunter-
street, Sydney.
Jos. Francis, M.H.R., is to be “chair-
man of the newly-constituted Public
Works Committee,” a post carrying fees.
It is totally unnecessary; but Francis
was left out of the Ministry when the.
Cockies were taken in, so something had
to be done for him.
Nowadays “S. M. Herald” news fre-
quently contradicts or weakens the force
of “S. M. Herald” arguments. In one of
its pre-Woollahra leaders, “Granny”
lauded pre-selection and denounced its
opponents as enemies of the U.A.P., the
party system, sound government and so
forth. In a news column it mentioned
with astonishment that tax collections for
the year to June, 1936, amounted to
£104,000,000—“£ 15 9s. lid. per head of
population and no less than 3s. 9d. in
every pound of national income.” But
isn’t that one of the results of pre-
selection? Pre-selection gives the coun-
try mob flatterers, marionettes and duds,
and the price of that sort of representa-
tion is high taxation.
Victorian Cocky leaders thought they
were very clever when they quitted their
U.A.P. allies after the general election
and took office on their own account,
with Labor support. Now they are not
feeling so clever. If they rUn a Senate
ticket they are certain to be beaten. If
they decide as an alternative on an early
State election, they will be beaten at that
too. The chances are that they will be
manoeuvred into sterile opposition, still
the smallest of the three parties and un-
able to associate with either of the larger
ones. In any case, their Government’s
days are numbered.
Two provocatively political churchmen
have been rebuked by other churchmen:
the Dean of Canterbury by his arch-
bishop for siding with the Reds in Spain,
and N.S.W. Bishop Burgmann by one of
his vicars for being president of the
Society for the Promotion of Peace and
Friendship with Soviet Russia. And now,
perhaps, the public will get some peace.
Cameron, M.H.R. for Barker (S.A.),
one of the few Ministerialists who never
had any use for the trade war with Japan,
asked little White, the Minister of
Customs, for a plain statement of the
results measured in Australian pounds.
The reply was that for 10 months to
April 30 imports from Japan were
valued at £5,297,700 in 1935-36 and at
£5,080,000 in 1936-37 ; exports to Japan
at £15,975,000 in 1935-36 and at
£8,218,000 in 1936-37. The clumsy trade-
diversion fellows struck at the Asian
country and hit their own.
The Blum Government has fallen as a
result of a financial dispute with the
Senate, and a Chautemps Government
has succeeded it. But Blum is in as
Deputy Premier, with most of his old
colleagues. He is necessary to France,
which has for two years been a prey to
factions. His foreign policy has been
aimed at keeping it out of trouble. In
short, a very able Jew, of the kind that
Australia has had good cause to value
and honor.
Understaffing at Australian universities
is making research almost impossible,
says Prof. F. Wood-Jones, who has
resigned the chair of anatomy at Mel-
bourne University for a similar post at
Manchester. At Melbourne University’s
medical school, the ratio of professors
to students is lower than in any other
university school of medicine in the
Empire.
Horrible misprint in a Commonwealth
Government Publicity Department cir-
cular :
And so also in 1934, when Dr. Page
and his three Country party colleagues be-
came associated with Mrs. Lyons in the
Government.
The circular is an instalment of a serial
recounting the Government’s perform-
ance, and every good serial needs a
heroine.
Melbourne Housing and Slum Aboli-
tion Board’s report is being awaited
eagerly by Vic. social-service circles, but
not at all eagerly by the State Govern-
ment. It fears criticism of its action in
filling Fishermen’s Bend houses with
workers able to pay economic rents when
needy families are still confined to slums.
A concern called General Air Trans-
port has a plan for carrying fish from
the N.S.W. South Coast to inland towns
like Bathurst, Orange, Dubbo and Wel-
lington, and bringing fruit, vegetables and
poultry as back-loading. The service
will be a boon to fish-starved town-
dwellers and farmers and fishermen who
are short of markets; but wait until the
Transport Strangulation Commission gets
down on it!
Consideration of the “farcical and in-
vidious proceedings threatened in Albert
and Torrens” has moved Adelaide
“Advertiser” to come out against pre-
selection. It reminds the Liberal and
Country League that Jack Price and
K. C. Wilson stood, with the party’s
blessing, for Boothby three years ago
(Wilson’s preferences put Price in again),
and recommends it to “review the whole
subject of pre-selection in the light of
the evidence which continues to accumu-
late against it.” Before long only the
“S. M. Herald” will be in favor of let-
ting bob-a-nob fragments dictate to the
general body of electors who their mem-
bers shall be.
Pearce and Bertie Johnston fell out
some time ago, and their war has amused
the Senate and Westralia, where they have
carried it into the newspapers. Johnston,
who has been Lab., Ind. Lab. and C.P.,
saw a chance of getting home on the old
gentleman who has boxed the compass
(Lab., Nat. Lab., Hughes Nat., anti-
Hughes Nat. and U.A.P.) in the
Inter-State Commission Bill debate, and
moved the adjournment thereof. “You
can’t do that,” Pearce protested; “we
want to go on.” He meant that he
wanted to go on. In committee, John-
ston moved an amendment disqualifying
from appointment to the commission
“any person who has attained the age of
65.” Pearce is rising 68. Licked again,
Johnston gathered up his papers and
disappeared towards the Hotel Canberra,
doubtless meditating fresh reprisals.
At least two organisations are collect-
ing in Australia for Spanish relief funds.
Those inclined to subscribe are recom-
mended to read a “Saturday Evening
Post” article in which an American who
volunteered to fight for “democracy and
social justice” relates his experiences. In
Barcelona he found four nurses.
These girls had come, with large en-
thusiasm and small information, the thou-
sands of miles from Sydney to aid the
cause. They had been interviewed, photo-
graphed, lionised and feted en route.
When they arrived in Barcelona they had
been given hotel rooms and forgotten.
For himself he was treated as a traitor
by “a little Italian fanatic whose word is
law with foreigners enlisting in the Com-
munist-controlled International Column,
which for so long had defended the
Spanish capital.” Evading the Italian, to
whom the war was “a war between the
world forces of Communism and Fas-
cism,” he did a bit of fighting in a “half-
equipped and poorly-trained” unit that
was really Spanish, but had to get out
of Spain.


2 " *'
'Ow DVOU SPELL OORANS OO.TANG,
// .
the RES ONE
MISS'NC ".
_ «. , *
Elephants two an a alf .
* W
6E1T68 CH6CK UP AGAIN ON THESE
•l „"
Uons, three. .
'"ThaTS the lot".
STOCKTAKING.
“June is not only the month in which Governments close their accounts, but the month in which zoos take stock.”


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
FREEDOM FROM REPAIRS
DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
Champions
-YOU CAN
DEPEND ON
£
&
IUuUUuUUUI
g| [
You are more likely to avoid engine repairs
if you install new Champions every year.
Champions allow less carbon to form. They
keep engine power steady, reducing strain
and wear. And they save fuel.
An Empire product
made in Windsor, Canada
RE-VITALIZE
YOUR CAR
WITH
Champions
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Australia owes more than an 0.8. E. to
Donald Mackay, about to hop off on his
fourth aeroplane expedition to fill in the
blanks on the map of Centralia and West-
ralia. At his own expense he has al-
ready mapped 560,000 square miles of
practically unknown country, and this
last trip will finish his job. Mackay com-
menced his exploring career by circling
Australia on a bicycle ; next trip he took
camels, and his third trip was into
Arnhem Land. His first aerial expedi-
tion was in 1930, when he found the vast
Lake Mackay, previously unknown,
which is, however, usless, except as a
guide to aviators. Mackay owns a pas-
toral property at Wallendbeen (N.S.W.),
but lives quietly amid suburban rural
beauty at Port Hacking. He is still a
young man at 66.
Colonel Robert Sydney Sands had his
hour of pride last week when 225 em-
ployees of his firm, plus visitors, had a
dinner to celebrate the co.’s 100th year
as printers in Sydney, in which time the
firm has never had an industrial dispute
with the unions. Sands, chairman of
directors, is of the fifth generation of
the founder, an engraver, and was edu-
SANDS, of 100 years of Time.
cated at The King’s School, Parramatta.
During the war he was comrfiandant of
the German concentration camps, and
rendered other service which brought him
the M.B.E. and the Volunteer Officers’
Decoration. Upon entering the second
100th year the firm’s name has been
changed to John Sands Pty., Ltd.
“Fighting” Charlie Cox, Senator for
N.S.W. since 1919, has announced his
retirement at the end of his present term.
Cox, who comes of the pioneer family
which landed here in 1800 and has sent
several members into the N.S.W. Legisla-
ture, has had a placid political career and
never achieved Ministerial preferment.
He took a contingent of Lancers to
London for the Queen’s Jubilee and was
there with a second when the Boer War
broke out, and he led them to South
Africa —the first overseas troops to land
there. He hopped off again in 1914 with
the 6th Light Horse, and saw the job
through with decorations.
Frank Albert, the Sydney music-seller,
left a memento of his visit to the Corona-
tion. He presented Algernon Talmage’s
70-square-feet painting of the “Founding
of Australia,” exhibited at the recent
Royal Academy, to the Tate Gallery in
London.
William Farrer, nephew of the William
Farrer whose experiments in wheat-
breeding increased the value of Aus-
tralia’s crops by millions, has offered to
bequeath £2OOO to augment the Farrer
scholarships on condition that the Com-
monwealth Government adds another
£2OOO. Otherwise he will put it in trust
until it reaches £4OOO.
Western N.S.W. bushmen will take off
their hats in memory of Dan McDonald,
old blade shearer, ex-president of the
Bourke and western branches of the
A.W.U. and “white man,” who passed
away in Sydney on June 19 at 89. Dan
was a mate of Donald Macdonell,
Arthur Andrews, Tommy White, Jack
Meehan and others of the bush brigade
who typified all that was best in the
Australian character.
Andrew Hanley, a Melbourne second-
hand bookseller, who died recently, based
the success of his business on the idea
that school-children were glad to discard
their textbooks on leaving school and
that parents of children enrolling were
anxious to equip them cheaply. His shop
at Balaclava, Prahran and finally Bourke-
street became the recognised place of
exchange. Hanley was in business for
nearly 50-years. Outside of business he
was a botanist, and a reserve of Austra-
lian trees and shrubs at Moreland is
mainly the result of his effort.
Prominent Launceston merchant
George Edward Harrap, passed on at
81, held the Launceston Artillery his main
interest, outside business, for 35 years,
until he retired as lieut.-col. before the
war. In the war period he was military
censor for Tasmania, and on several occa-
sions squired Governors of the Apple
Isle as A.D.C. He acted as Vice-Consul
for Norway, and at the Wembley Exhibi-
tion of 1924 was honorary Commis-
sioner for his State.
Country newspaperman Robert Villiers
Smythe has written his last column of
copy for the Dubbo (N.S.W.) “Liberal.”
“Villa” entered the Inky Way with Dave
Green, of Charters Towers “Northern
Miner” and Townsville “Bulletin,” and in
Queensland also edited papers at Cairns,
Croydon, Hughenden, Richmond and his
birthplace, Ravenswood. He bought the
Blue. Mountain “Echo,” Katoomba
(N.S.W.), about 20 years ago and there
became an alderman and twice Mayor.
He went to Dubbo eight years ago. Inside
a dour exterior he housed a warm heart
and was esteemed by country pressmen,
who made him their president some years
ago.
John Lane-Mullins, lawyer, Parliamen-
tarian, lay-churchman and patron of the
arts, was guest of a distinguished gather-
ing which celebrated his 80th birthday
last week at Sydney. John derived his
cultural interests from that great scholar
Prof. Badham, and has since become one
of the best authorities on the graphic arts
and music in Australia. He has taken his
place in public affairs as well, serving for
12 years as an alderman in the Sydney
City Council and for 17 years in the
Legislative Council, retiring from the
latter when it was reconstituted three
years ago. He is president of the Ex-
Libris Society and has the best collection
of book-plates in Australia.
Described as an “able economist” by
Federal Arbitration Court Judges, who
quoted him extensively in their basic-
wage decision last week, W. B. Redda-
way, the 24-year-old Englishman attached
to Melbourne University as a research
fellow in economics, was in the Bank of
England’s economics and statistics de-
partment for 18 months before he came
to Australia in March, 1936. He went
to Cambridge University from Oundle,
carried off a first-class pass in economics,
and won Cambridge’s £4O Adam Smith
essay prize with a study of the Russian
financial system, which was published in
book form. Later he returned to Russia
on bank business, and when Prof. Giblin,
Melbourne Professor of Economics,
The Young Economist.
wrote to J. M. Keynes, Reddaway’s
former tutor, regarding the vacant Vic.
research fellowship he was recom-
mended. Scholarship research is in the
Reddaway blood, as his father, a Cam-
bridge University lecturer, is now in
Poland producing a Polish history; his
elder brother is a director of studies at
Cambridge ; another .is an undergraduate
there ; a third is a schoolmaster ;
and his only sister is married to
an official in the, Nigerian
Colonial Service.
Prof. Frederic Wood-Jones
leaves the chair of anatomy at
Melbourne Uni. to take a similar
post in the University of Man-
chester, where he lectured in
the subject in 1909. London-
born and -educated, he started
his working career as medical
officer at the Keeling-Cocos
islands in 1904-06, out of which
came his marriage to a daugh-
ter of George Clunies-Ross,
“Governor” of the islands, and
his authoritative work, Corals
and Atolls. He was prof, of
anatomy at Adelaide University
for seven years, then went to
Hawaii for three, and returned
to Australia in 1930 to take up
the job he, has just resigned.
During the war he was a cap-
tain in the R.A.M.C. He has
written a shelf-ful of anthropological
books.
Latest Queensland official to be sent
abroad is C. E. Parkinson, engineer-in-
charge of water, sewerage and irrigation,
who goes to U.S.A. C.E. was formerly
in the Railways Dept., and was engaged
on the Kyogle-Brisbane link with the
south. Old-timers remember him better
as an inter-State Rugby forward.
Some July birthdays:
Granville Ryrie (“the old Brig.”), 72, and
Prof. Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 43, on Ist;
R. C. Bishop Byrne (Toowoomba), 67, on 2nd;
Theo Fink (Melb.), 82, on 3rd; former Speck
Premier McPhee, 59, Bishop Elsey (Kalgoorlie),
57, and Federal Assistant Minister Tom Bren-
nan, 68, on 4th; Prof. Thos. Parnell (Q.), 56,
on sth; Gov.-Gen. Lord Gowrie, 65, William
Irvine, sometime Premier and C.J. (Vic.), 79,
Judge Perdriau (N.S.W.), 57, and Tom Dun-
babin (Sydney “Sun” rep. in London), 54, on
6th; Percy Grainger, 55, on Bth; Justice Milner
Stephen (N.S.W.), 67, Vic. Attorney-General
A. L. Bussau, 53, and Harold Boyce (British
M. b. at Taree, N.S.W.), 42, on 9th; Prof.
H. A. Woodruff (Melb.), 60, on 10th; Brig.-
Gen. Lachlan C. Wilson (Q.), 66, and Dr.
W. G. K. Duncan (Director, Tutorial Classes,
Syd. Uni.), 34, on 11th; Brig.-Gen. Leane
(S.A. Police Com.), 59, and A. M. Eedy
(Mutual Life and Citizens’), 67, on 12th; Tom
Tunnecliffe, M.L.A. (Vic.), 68, and Lieut.-Col.
G. C. Somerville (sec. Royal Agric. Soc.,
N. 59, on 13th; Lloyd Dumas (Adel.
“Advertiser”), 47, on 16th; Prof. R. L. Dun-
babin (Tas.), 68, and author Dorothy Cottrell,
on 16th; J. A. Henderson (Aus. Metrop. Life
Assoc.), 64, on 17th; F. M. Forde, M.H.R.
(Capricornia), 47, Prof. Davies, Mus. Doc.
(Adel.), 70, bibliographer Percival Serle (Melb.),
66, Syd. Municipal Librarian C. H. Bertie, 62,
and May Holman, M.L.A. (W.A.), on 18th;
Vice-Admiral G. F. Hyde, 60, and Sam Bennett
(W.A. Government Statistician), 59, on 19th;
Prof. J. B. Brigden (Q.), 50, on 20th; knight
E. F. Mitchell, K.C. (Vic.), 82, Dr. Cunning-
ham (“Argus”), 78, on 21st; N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary Librarian J. J. Quinn, 58, on 24th;
Bishop Moyes (Armidale, N.S.W.), 53, knight
Gengoult Smith (former Lord Mayor of Melb.),
47, and T. M. Shakespeare (N.S.W. Country
Press Assoc.), 64, on 25th; W. R. Alexander
(Clerk of Parliaments, Vic.), 66, Justice Crisp
(Speck), 63, and S.A. Crown Solicitor Hannan,
50, on 27th; Randolph Bedford, M.L.A. (Q.),
69, Judge Foster (Vic.), 51, and J. V. Fair-
bairn, M.H.R. (Flinders), 40, on 28th; F. S.
Mance (pres. Aust. Museum Board), 65, on
30th; and surgeon Alexander MacCormick, 81,
on 31st.
“Jim” Smith, dead in Adelaide at 83,
was a nephew of Judge Wearing,
drowned in the Gothenberg wreck long
ago. Two sons, doctor and engineer, are
in N.S.W. His wife founded Girton,
one of Adelaide’s leading schools. Thirty
years as manager of National Bank
branches in S.A. and 20 on the Stock
Exchange represent the working side of
his life.
Huberman opens his Melbourne recitals
on July 10 after delighting Sydney and
Brisbane audiences ; he will play in all
Australian capitals. The crowning
memory of Huberman’s career is that
he played us a boy prodigy before
Brahms, who encouraged him. He
comes from Warsaw, and is an intellec-
HUBERMAN.
tual with a great interest in the creation
of a United States of Europe, upon
which he has written extensively. Three
years ago he founded the Palestine Sym-
phony Orchestra to absorb Jewish
refugee musicians. Toscanini was so im-
pressed that he conducted the first 12
concerts for nothing. Huberman’s accom-
panist, Jacob Gimpel, is also a Pole.


i
“I can tell
White
Horse
0
Judge by the aroma: White Horse has its own.
Judge by the softness: White Horse has grown old and gentle. Once
you have known this whisky you can say with assurance, “White
Horse, of course!
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices,
WHll A-3.1
“Equal to a fine liqueur
1 9


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Bacon”: I’ve often wondered who
started the queer notion that a swim-
ming pig always cuts its own throat with
its front hoofs. On our south-west W.A.
farm we had an ancient sow running
with her umpteenth litter of suckers.
With such a brood, food, and conse-
quently milk, took some getting. Across
300 yards of river was an orchard where
figs and mulberries strewed the ground
in profusion. The sow knew of this, and
every afternoon she would leave her
squalling brood, swim across, fill to the
brim and then back loaded with milk.
She had a dewlap like 20 overfed aider-
men, but we never found even a scratch
on it.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: The cuckoo that gets
home, on Mrs. and Mr. Crow at nesting
time (B. 9/6/’37) is the great channel-
bill ( Scythrops novce-hollandm) and not
the pallid cuckoo, a much smaller bird.
Generally ma channel-bill is content to
drop one egg into the incubating contrap-
tion of the Kellys, but occasionally she
pops in a second, and with this double
imposition the Kellys have their work
cut out providing for their spurious off-
spring, who shout their tucker-getters
deaf as they follow them heavily about.
A carrion diet does not seem to harm
the young cuckoos, although the channel-
bill subsists mainly on native fruits, such
as figs.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Pests of eastern Austra-
lian coastal scrubs provide many an argu-
ment between those exposed to them as
to their relative unpleasantness. Some
dread the firevine, though others don’t
seem to feel it. Many victims of
“Gympie” stings suffer for weeks, in spite
of such antidotes as the bark of the tree,
cunjevoi juice and raw potato, but I can
forget them by next morning. The. order
of venom of bulldog, jumper and green-
head ants will never be settled. It seems
to be a matter of individual susceptibility
to different poisons. But ticks are gener-
ally feared, and on the merely thorned
plants—lantana, cockspur, wait-a-bit and
suchlike—and grass seeds such as
farmer’s lice, opinion is unanimously un-
printable.
H: Hi sfc sf:
“Verri”: Add to the birds that have, to
undergo vocal training to fit them for
their career the common or barn-door
rooster. Nothing is more vocally ridicu-
lous than a young rooster’s first efforts at
crowing, and nobody realises it more
keenly than the bird himself, particularly
when several ancient hens stand about
casting derision on his attempts. Usually
the young bird steals away to have a
little quiet practice by himself, and when
I recently intruded on one so engaged,
after wondering what the weird noise was
in the tool-shed, he exhibited every symp-
tom of indignation and embarrassment.
* $ * *
“Naturala”: “W.’s” explanation of the
origin of “fairy rings” (B. 2/6/’37)
leaves much to be explained. Where are
those wild horses snowed in—underneath
the snow or just in a paddock? The
“fairy rings” of English and European
meadows are caused by a parasite of the
same type as that which causes the ring-
worm. Both are members of the vegetable
kingdom, and as they slowly spread they
maintain a definite ring, enclosing an
eaten-over area markedly different from
that outside.
* H= * *
“Jemel”: I was surprised to see the.
boss step calmly over the coiled wriggler
and pass on. Later I asked him about it.
“Oh,” he said, “there’s no danger. Those
snakes never touch me, so I never touch
them.”
* * * *
“Moe”: There’s a fortune awaiting the
chap who can devise a satisfactory
method of kiln-drying back-cut mountain
ash (E. regnans). Most of this timber is
quarter-sawn, and will kiln-dry splen-
didly, but the real beauty of the wood is
not revealed in quarter-sawn timber.
Back-cut ash displays an infinite variety
of graining— not one. foot of it is exactly
like another —and for panelling and in-
terior decoration it’s on its own. The
difficulty in seasoning it at present is that
it “checks” — i.e., develops small cracks
in the surface, either in the kilns or after
being dressed.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Near to my S.Q. house is
a giant fig-tree, 70ft. and more in stretch
of limbs, set in a grassy opening a chain
back from a cliff edge. The bush around
is full of birds ; the air pulses with their-
calls. I know a hundred nesting places,
but in that great tree no nest has been
built. Nor does any bird, once entering
its cool, shady depths, ever call. They
often visit it, magpies, kookaburras,
butcher-birds, doves, pigeons, honey-
eaters, fantails, a score more kinds, sit
awhile silently in its cathedral shade, and
fly away again to resume the urgent busi-
ness of living. I have spied upon them
with good glasses a hundred times, but
even that miracle of aerobatic energies
the black fantail allows no more than
an occasional flick of a tail to break the
silent, monastic atmosphere of medita-
tion. The youngsters call it the Birds’
Church.
* * * *
“Hayes Kop”: These references to the
badgers of the Old Country—l suppose
our Australian wombat is a distant rela-
tive —recall one of the most entrancing
stories about British fauna I ever read.
It was written by a Scottish naturalist,
who was so keen about his hobby that
he used to lie out in the woods at night
to study the habits of beasts and birds
seldom seen in daylight. And on one
memorable occasion he had the luck to
see something that probably no man has
ever seen before or since—a fight to the
death between a badger and an otter.
What started it, or which of the beasts
was trespassing on the other’s preserves,
was not clear, but the scrap was a pro-
longed and ding-dong one. Many would
suppose that the otter, a comparatively
sinuous animal, would have no chancs
against Brock, with his tremendous
strength, but the battle took place on the
banks of a brook, and eventually the
amphibian got his antagonist off terra
firma and held him under water until
he was drowned. I suppose badgers can
swim, but water is obviously not their
natural element.
“Hanko”: In most parts of Gippsland
(Vic.) wombats are known as badgers,
and there certainly is a resemblance be-
tween the animals. When whittling kind-
ling wood in that rugged country I heard
a Polish settler hint some sympathy for
himself: “Dese dam’ spadgers,” he said,
“dey vill haf me ruin yet, soon.” 1
agreed that sparrows were the devil,
whereupon my mate broke into a throaty
cackle. “He means wombats,” he said.
“Anyhow, you’re not in Noo South now ;
in Vic. spadgers are spriggies.”
“Bull-ant Bill”: It seems to me that
breeding females, as well as their young,
do not attract the sense of smell of dogs
(B. 2/6/’37). My bull-terrier Dillinger
is. as keen a ratter as ever lived, and has
inherited the full powers of the foxie side
of his ancestry in respect of scent and ob-
servation. For a fortnight we suffered
from a rat visitation in the pantry which
defied Dillinger and traps alike. Notic-
ing that the white-ants were showing signs
on the 3 x 2’s which support the floor
of Dillinger’s kennel above the ground, I
turned it over. Out bolted a female rat
which he instantly killed, and investiga-
tion showed a nest of eight young ones,
a week or more old. The whole family
had been within a few inches of the
"They Want to know if y've got a spare five-pin radio valve? The tribal set has gone bung.”
canine idiot’s ears and nose, the mother
for at least a fortnight, making ready for
the approaching domestic event.
* Jjs Hi Hi
“CDI”: I had thought the decree
against the shooting of plain turkeys a
harmless but fairly useless enactment
until a big wave of grasshoppers
arrived along Saville Creek (W.Q.) just
lately. They were followed by the big-
gest mobs of turkeys I’ve ever seen.
Riding along the creek during the heat
of the day I saw the birds, in places, rise
from the long grass hundreds at a time.
Since they weigh anything from 101 b.
to 301 b. each, it must take more than a
few ’hoppers daily to keep those big
chassis nourished.
sj< s}i H' Hi
“Bull-ant Bill”: An old-standing argu-
ment among the doggy-minded has been
settled by C. A. M. Reid, at whose Lone
Pine Sanctuary, near Brisbane, a captive
dingo bitch mated with an Alsatian dog
bred a litter of four pups. There was
considerable difficulty in inducing them
to mate, and Reid does not consider that
mating under wild conditions is at all
likely. No dog, Alsatians included, has
a ghost of a single-handed chance against
a male dingo in an all-in scrap. Their
rules are. different, and the dingo is
stronger, weight for weight, speedier and
more powerful in the jaw. Experienced
trappers declare that it takes at least two
of their specially-bred dingo-killers to
cope with a healthy full-grown dog
dingo, and even then the result is by no
means certain.
“Bufo”: That Alsatian (B. 9/6/’37)
which from a lorry retrieved a running
fox can hang a diminished tail in the
presence of a Laidley (Q.) cattle-dog
which recently settled a dingo bitch and
her eight pups. The lady had selected a
small cave as her nursery, and the cattle-
dog’s first five forcible entries each re-
sulted in a pup and a scrap with the en-
raged mother. The sixth time he fetched
out the lady herself and, with the aid of
two greyhounds, killed her. Three more
trips brought the total up to nine scalps,
which, at ss. a time in reward, made the
dog’s strenuous half-hour a profitable one
for his owner.
He He He He
“Puffinus”: Here in S.Q. one some-
times hears arguments about kooka-
burras. “Tell y’ they don’t get the blue
wing feathers till they’re full-grown.
Them all-brown chaps are only young-
sters —can’t even kick up the same row
as the old blokes. You listen an’ see if
I ain’t right.” Fact is, we have both
kinds, Daceio leachi and D. gigas.
Leachi has bright blue wing patches, with
tail to match in the gentlemen, but red
barred with blue as worn by their girl-
friends ; also a much more uproarious
method of expressing merriment and a
wider vocal range generally. He extends
from northern N.S.W. up to New Guinea
and the Territory. Gigas does not go
far north of Brisbane. It was Leach, of
the Australian Bird Book, who first
sorted them out some 40 or so years
ago, and after whom the northern species
was named.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Those ducks of
“Hanko’s” that appeared to be merely
standing still while a falcon passed (B.
2/6/’37) may have been flying back-
wards to keep the dust out of their eyes,
or the falcon, which was probably doing
something like 250 m.p.h., may have been
trying to .see which way the swift had
gone. That streak of lightning—a rare
visitor to W.A., but common enough in
Victoria —hails from the Himalayas and
beneath the Kegon waterfall in Japan,
and his almost inconceivable speed
moved Gould to the assertion that a
bird leaving Victoria can within an hour
be getting in good work for Speck agri-
culturists. According to the same
authority, he is short-headed by the crane
in the Altitude Stakes, but I can’t vouch
for him off a standing start —he’s sup-
posed never to alight or perch in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Moe”: A peculiarity of the grey bell-
magpie, familiarly known as the jay, is
that it keeps to one locality. I haven’t
sighted one in this particular spot in five
years, but less than 20 miles away there
are flocks of them, and the same place
has been a stamping ground of theirs
since I was a kid. They are the daddy
of all feathered weather prophets. When
you get an earful of the harsh “rain-
again-to-morrow,” trot out your oiler
and gumboots—you’ll soon be needing
’em.
ON SECOND THOUGHTS.
It’s only neighborly and right,
When towns are few and far,
On some pretext, however slight,
To slip across and see by night
Just how the neighbors are;
To yarn about the price of ewes,
And Les’s latest pup,
And give his wife the local news
While Isla washes up.
To live as neighbors is our fate —
There’s no one else about—
So if the next-door milking’s late
A fellow shouldn’t hesitate
To go and help them out;
While Les is milking for his life,
To yard the cows he needs
And empty buckets for his wife,
While Isla mixes feeds.
The trip to town’s a ten-mile spin—
Tor horses rather far—
It would, I feel, look rather thin
Unless 1 asked if they’d come in,
When passing in the car.
Les loves to see the weekly sales,
There’s shopping wives must do,
And, though some squeezing it entails
There’s room for Isla, too.
However, I’m inclined to feel
Help may be overdone,
For it’s by independent zeal
And putting shoulders to the wheel
A competence is won.
I hadn’t thought of it like that
Till just the other day—
The day I scarified the flat
And Isla went away.
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“Horseface”: These ink-spilling natur-
alists amuse me with their theories as to
the nature of the antidote used by
goannas after a box-on with Joe Blake.
I’ve had many encounters with all species
of cold-blooded crawlers. Goannas with
big red eyes, rolling like a dragon’s, are
my especial opponents, but I’ve also been
collectively assaulted by giant spiders
with bared teeth, blue-tongue serpents
carrying whiskers and striped crayfish.
When they fly at me in my supine posi-
tion, I promptly bite the whole team
and then follow them up to get their anti-
dote. I always track them back to the
pub.
* * * *
“Dive”: Before the rush starts for
cow-farm jobs, as a result of “W.P.T.’s”
par. (B. 16/6/ ’37), let the under-
nourished get their teeth into this. The
“keep” on my first ten-bob-a-week-and-
keep effort was breakfast at five-thirty,
followed by milking ; three hours’ pad-
dock work to develop an appetite for a
“cut” lunch eaten on the job at one-
thirty ; another three hours’ toil till the
evening milking, and back to the house
between eight and nine. Then, just in
case we felt peckish before breakfast-
time, we had a meal. There are farms
like those “W.P.T.” mentions ; the mob
I struck might have been chosen by
Providence to maintain the balance of
nature.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: In a lifetime of out-
back observation “Notaden” (B. 16/6/’37)
has never seen or heard of a lamb being
taken by an eagle from a flock. He
must have conducted his observations
from the far-flung wilds of some city
fastness. There are thousands of pas-
toralists willing to wager that the noble
bird does carry off young lambs, and
that it runs a close second to the fox in
the havoc it wreaks during the lambing
season. “Notaden’s” impassioned de-
fence of his feathered friend is on a par
with the diatribes of the cranks who
work themselves into a frenzy when they
hear of the harmless little rabbit being
tortured by those cruel steel traps.
* * * *
“Carapace”: Lately I read that a baby
turtle can’t be kept in captivity for longer
than a few days. That’s rot. I’ve en-
closed many nests, caught the little
codgers when they tried to get to the
sea and kept them in a dinghy about half-
filled with sea water. They thrive on
oysters, cleanings of fish and, a special
dainty, chopped-up reef eel. On such
diet I’ve kept them for six months or
more, in batches of fifty or more at a
time, and the mortality was next to nil.
“Wandi”: Wanted —enlightenment on
the reproduction process of that curious
underground fungus known as “black-
fellows’ bread” (Polyporus mylittce). A
fresh lump of the stuff resembles a body
of compressed sago, generally of a
rounded shape, about 6in. in diameter,
though lumps up to 71b. have been dug
up. The outside is tough and leathery,
the inside soft. Blacks used to travel
many miles to get it, several places
about Bathurst, Hamilton and the Liver-
pool Range (N.S.W.) being favorite
grounds. Because it is often found near
kurrajongs it was commonly held to be
drippings of their glutinous sap after
bushfires. Binghi
somehow knows
where to find it;
the white man finds
it only by accident.
* *
“Hayband”: Men-
tion of stockwhips
(B. 16/6/’37) re-
minds that machin-
ery has never been
adapted to their
manufacture. The
skilled whipmaker
of to-day works as
did his great-grand-
father —with strong
fingers. It is gener-
ally agreed that care-
fully-tanned ’roo-leather is best for stock-
whips. A half-century or so ago an
argument between rival whipmakers of
Melbourne and Sydney led to the plaiting
of a whip 108 ft. long. It was exhibited
at the Melbourne Leather Exhibition of
1934, and was in good order. That was
not surprising—it had been cracked but
twice!
* * $ #
“Laetitia”: If “Simon the Tanner” (B.
16/6/’37) has a trade secret that will
render dugong hide pliable he will have
a material for bootlaces which will out-
last the kangaroo-hide article threefold.
The dugong’s hide is up to four inches
thick, and its toughness can be gauged
from the fact that, when Binghi harpoons
one with his traditional weapon, the
wap, he has to hurl himself overboard
with the lunge. But let “S. the T.” attend
diligently, with all his tradesman’s lore,
to the curing, for decayed fish is as am-
brosia to cured dugong hide when it
suffers a relapse.
* * * *
“Bellwether”: The pig and the calf
were both poddies and had grown up
together. They were inseparable about
the homestead. The only time they quar-
relled was when the peach-tree fruited.
The peaches were never any good to eat,
because, even if they ripened, they were
worm-eaten. So the pig and the bull
calf got most of them. Bull-calf developed
such a taste for peaches that he’d draw
back and butt the tree, bringing down a
shower of peaches, but the pig would
have them half-eaten before the calf had
a bite. So the calf took to driving his
cobber out of the paddock before butting
the tree. Nevertheless the pig was always
back again in time to see the
peaches fall. Just another angle
of the truth that the reward
isn’t always to the worker!
“The missus reckons the sledgehammer's makin me muscles look too unsightly
“Kooragai”: In three months this year
the Narracan (Vic.) Council paid £275 for
1100 wombat scalps. The worst crime the
little animal can be accused of is that it
sometimes breaks through fences and
gets into cultivation paddocks. A few
years ago the P.P. Board was paying for
as many as 1500 wombat scalps a month
at Batlow (N.S.W.). Then the board
abolished the bonus, members conclud-
ing that the wombat was, after all, “a
doubtful nuisance.”
* * * *
“Bundeena”: Bees certainly have
curious inhibitions. I know one apiarist
who for years has worn a white coat
"I thought it best to get your opinion, sir. You're a married man!"
when inspecting the supers, the bees re-
maining docile and taking little notice
of his activities. Then one morning he
went down to the colonies clad in a
maroon-and-green blazer. As soon as
he lifted the first super a host of pro-
testing inmates commenced hostilities,
forcing him to a hasty retreat. Donning
the familiar white coat he returned 10
minutes later and inspected the same
hive. The bees took no notice of him.
$ * * *
“Stinger”: In this part of Queensland
ants live out on treeless downs appar-
ently miles from any pub or other mois-
ture. It was when we sank a 12ft. hole
on the downs that I think I lit on their
method of staving off thirst. There were
roots of Mitchell grass going down
strongly to 6ft., tapering a bit to 10ft.
and with flimsy tendrils still going strong
where we struck moisture. My theory
is that the water is drawn up by the
roots and the ants tap that supply much
as Flossie taps the beer-pipe behind the
bar counter.
* * * *
“Baldy”: 'Those Gippsland “tigers”
(B. 16/6/’37) aren’t altogether myths.
The latest of them inspired only a couple
of paragraphs before two vermin de-
structors poisoned him, using a roasted
calf, drugged a bit, as a bait. He was a
wild dog, 7ft. from tip to tip. They may
not be tigers, but I prefer a quiet fireside
all the same.
“Tockilly”: Ever noticed how the
furrows of an old cultivation will remain
for decades as a monument to the one
who ploughed them? On the old Jimna
goldfield (Q.), abandoned when Gympie
boomed, furrows preserve the memory of
one Whittingdon, who supplied the
diggers with the necessary vitamins,*
though his wife’s grave below the bellbird
scrub is now unmarked and unfindable
and of the two thousand-odd diggers no
sign remains. One of our camp-mates
says he saw in Scotland furrow marks,
still visible a century after the hand that
held the plough had gone.
* * * *
“Dingo”: My nomination for the most
suicidal sea-dweller is the jellyfish. Notice
the way they catch anything that looks
like a shoot on the beach and land them-
selves high and dry. Once ashore, they
are a fixture, as their motive power is
applicable solely to submarine condi-
tions. Again, anything which deliber-
ately swims into three inches of water
on an ebb-tide, sits down on the sand
and patiently waits for the rest of the
water to run out from it is tired of life.
Even if shoved off at the first stranding,
no self-respecting jellyfish would dream
of heading for deep water again.
* * * *
“Orniha”: Don’t know about foxes
and badgers sharing the same maternity
hospital (B. 16/6/’37), but I have found
a vixen with pups in the same warren as
kitten rabbits. Mum Brer, however, drew
the line at ferrets, for she killed my best
doe, and it was when digging for the
latter that I discovered the strange joint
household.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Of all the country I’ve
ridden over I give the belt to “debil-
debil” as the most dangerous over which
to give a horse its head. Broken-in
horses know its pitfalls and avoid it
whenever possible ; yet I’ve seen brum-
bies and scrub cattle race over it in their
stride. The greatest patch of “debil-
debil” I’ve seen was out from the
channels of the Diamantina (s.w. Q.). For
every mound there seemed to be a dozen
holes, and, being seasonable for the var-
mints, if there wasn’t one there were
two snakes peeping out of every hole—
and the nearest pub 60 miles away.
* * * *
“Naturalist”: For 25 years I’ve lived
on the edge of a large block of tropical
jungle in which such lofty hardwoods as
crow’s-ash, silver-ash, crow’s-foot-elm
and Burdekin plum occur numerously,
but though various trees on the outskirts
have been shattered by lightning never a
tree has been touched in the scrub itself.
Even the tall-growing bloodwoods and
stringybarks just within the jungle
borders appear always to escape, though
timbers of the same classes have at
various times been shattered just outside.
As for the attraction of certain timbers
for lightning, in a particularly fferce
thunderstorm on the Bananaland coast
some years back, out of 27 trees struck
within a radius of about 50 chains in
mainly ironbark country, nearly 20 were
bloodwoods.


* e
r *
K
• '•( ••
.v ;.«•.
OH?® CORDIALS
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families,
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 pm)
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed, Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver. Silver Ores.
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates.
Scrap Copper, Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Copper.
PRODUCERS OF ,
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Blue.stone).
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.—Graphine, Plastic, Babbit aid other
Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formulae or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS. —Linotype, Stereotype. Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formula or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRICtS!
mmm
m
i '
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. Benzine or
Kerosene per hour.
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Afar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1020 378,325 63,233 15 p.e. = 250,000 1,605,909
1927 373,377 63,091 15 „ . „ 262,500 1,653,755
Premiums on new shares, £187,500.. 1,841,255
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.c. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.e. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 . . 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2} „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420.000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 21 p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 .. 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1,702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 „ „ 192,000 1,667,961
The business of this big pastoral, pas-
toral-finance and merchandising organi-
sation, which is spread throughout the
Commonwealth, is strongest in N. S.
Wales, where the co. receives nearly half
the wool it handles, does most of its
livestock turnover, and is a large run-
owner as well. For the 20 years to the
close of accounts in 1929, divs. averaged
15.8 p.c. But the quick post-war de-
velopment of the business, followed by
the collapse of prices, increased risks and
reduced earnings. Of the £2,400,000 of
capital, £1,149,151, which brought with
it £761,113 of share premiums, was issued
during the half-dozen years to the end
of March, 1930. The lot, together with
over a million of borrowed funds, was
invested mainly in advances on stock and
station properties, etc. To protect these
advances, £420,000 was whisked away to
inner reserves at the close of accounts in
1933, and a further £20,000 of visible
reserves disappeared in the following
term. Meanwhile, the wool-selling
brokers made substantial cuts in their
selling charges. Still, as conditions be-
came more settled and prices for wool
and livestock strengthened, earnings re-
sponded, and this co.’s div., which had
dropped to 2\ p.c. for the two years to
the close of accounts in 1933, rose to 6
p.c. for the next two terms, followed by
? p.c. and then 8 p.c. last year.
In Sept., 1935, the co.’s main wool-
store, Pyrmont, Sydney, was destroyed
by fire, together with 25,525 bales of
wool. The loss (over £800,000) was cov-
ered by insurance, and new premises have
since been erected on the site. During
the last term, the co. handled 292,873
bales, or 65,359 fewer than in the previous
year, owing to the heavy carry-over in
1935. Actual wool receipts were only
5178 bales lighter at 301,598. For the
nine months to the end of March, the
Australian average for greasy was 16.55 d.
per pound as against 14.24 d. for the cor-
responding period of the previous season.
Sheep and cattle prices were up, too.
After providing for bad debts, etc., the
spring in gross earnings was £67,316:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1927.. 855,272 476,894 63,091 5,000 310,286
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5,000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5,000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2,500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2,500 114,9’76
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2,000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62,553 3,000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3,000 98,188
1936.. 658,195 62,552 5,000 174,917
1937.. 725,511 456,290 62,552 10,000 196,669
Including the tax bill (£44,995, up £9729),
exes, took £40,564 of the increase, and
an extra £5OOO was sent to the provident
fund, leaving the net result £21,752 better
at 8.2 p.c. on capital, compared with 7.2,
4, 8.1, 3.2, 2.6, 4.7, 9.5, 15.9, 16.3, 17.7,
18.9 and 21.8 p.c. back to 1925. A point
was added to the div., making it 8 p.c.
It is too early yet to say how the com-
ing season will pan out. Immediate
prospects are that satisfactory prices will
be obtained for a slightly lighter clip.
The market for the scrip has mostly
followed the wool market, and the. pound
shares, which rose from 30s. a year ago
to 395. 3d. early in 1937, were at 355. 3d.
last week-end. The return at 355. 3d. is
4.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 335. lid. in net tangibles.
Here, is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1933. 1930. 1937.
_ , £ £ £ £
Capital . . 2,399,892 2,400,000 2,400,000 2,400,000
Debentures 1,418,702 1,418,702 1,418,694 1,418,694
Sundry credi-
tors .. 1,309,596 633,687 536,887 621,921
Liquid assets 398,515 505,248 1,105,372 958,709
Advances . . 5,886,051 4,720,487 4,073,886 4,143,436
Pro perties
and stock 290,904 252,331 216,197 216,342
Premises,
etc. . . 649,158 625,245 615,402 812,416
Other assets 106,564 105,332 142,025 174,613
The year’s growth of £197,014 in the
book value of premises reflects the new
wool-store at Pyrmont. To meet the
outlay, add £69,550 to advances and
£32,588 to other assets, liquids were,
drawn upon for £146,663 and £85,034
was tacked on to the amount coming to
sundry creditors. When the books closed,
liquids exceeded the floating debt by
£336,788.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends N
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 205,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4,266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Harpers, which stands like the rock of
Gibraltar in the Australian drygoods
field, had a skilful politician for founder,
and has provided the country with two
able bankers: Robert Gibson and Alex.
Bell. After 44 years’ association with
the co., the last 18 of them as managing
director, Mr. Bell has stepped into the
chair at the head of the board table, ren-
dered vacant by the death of Charles
Newman, who succeeded Robert Gibson,
on his death, at the beginning of 1934.
The £430,000 of capital is in 150,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs., 240,000 ords. and
40,000 B (employees’) shares. The last
are entitled to three-fourths of the ord.
div., with a maximum of 6 p.c., but do
not share in surplus assets. The market,
which notes the steadiness of the div.
(8 p.c. for the last 20 years, sweetened
with a 2 p.c. bonus in 1929 and 1930),
the co.’s strong cash and trading position
and the quality of the control, has always
had a high opinion of the scrip. Still,
over the last 12 months, the price of the
pound ords. has dropped from 50s. to
40s. in the market, partly because of the
tendency of interest rates to harden, and
partly because investors are now less in-
clined to pay heavily for prospects
as they were a year ago. At 40s. the
return is 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
with prospects. Visibly the cover is
41s. sd. in net tangibles. At 28s. 9d. (325.
a year ago) the well-protected 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. yield 4.9 p.c. They are covered
by £4 11s. Bd. in net tangibles, and last
year’s profit was nearly four times their
annual requirements.
The year’s declared net earnings were
£3568 better at £40,835, which was
enough to pay the pref. and B share
divs., and then show 11.6 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 10.1, 12.2, 9.7, 8.8, 11.1,
11.3 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1930.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1932. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital . . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000£430,000
Sundry creditors 41,778 47,297 43,096 35,335
Freeholds .. 145,665 146,188 145,444 144,909
Plant, etc. .. 45,926 42,251 39,643 37,894
Stock.. .. 146,840 163,432 142,734 133,440
Sundry debtors 111,026 95,905 98,040 106,290
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 262,246 278,780 311,884 336,187
For a long time the management has
been unable to find employment in the
business for all the co.’s surplus earn-
ings, and cash and Government securi-
ties have been piling up. Last year
£24,250 was added to Government securi-
ties (£165,349), which are worth a lot
more than their book value; there was
little change in the cash holding
(£170,723). Debtors’ balances were up
£8250, and there isn’t a tied or supported
account on the books; stocks were re-
duced by £9294, and £7761 was snipped
off the amount coming to outsiders. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£540,582) was £31,020.
The co. is in a position to return two-
thirds of its capital and still trade within
its own resources. The declared aim in
building up cash reserves was to provide
for further extension of the business
when opportunity offered.
Westralian T., E. and A.
Dividends and To Ro- Re-
April, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 6981 15 p.c. = 7026 65,270
1928.. 7422 15 „ „ 7439 65,253
1929.. 8383 15 „ „ 7439 944 66,197
Written off investments, £2500.. 63,697
1930.. 8444 15 p.c. = 7439 1005 64,702
Written oft investments, £lOOO .. 63,702
1931.. 6816 10 p.c. = 4959 1857 65,559
Written off investments, £2000.. 63,559
1932.. 3983 6 p.c. = 2975 1008 64,567
Written off investments. £lOOO.. 63,567
1933.. 3991 6 p.c. = 2976 1015 64,582
Written off investments, £lOOO.. 63,582
1934.. 4485 6 p.c. = 2976 1509 65,091
AVritten off investments, £lOOO .. 64,091
1935.. 4572 6 p.c. = 2976 1696 65,687
Written off investments, £l5OO .. 64,187
1936.. 5069 6 p.c. = 2976 2093 66,280
Written off investments, £lOOO . . 65,280
To Provident Fund, £l5OO .. 63,780
Lumped with specific res., £2550.. 61,230
1937.. 4402 7 p.c. = 3471 931 62,161
Written off investments, £5OO .. 61,661
To Provident Fund, £5OO .. . . 61,161
Although complications now associated
with the administration of estates are driv-
ing more business into the expert care
of the trustee cos., these complications
have also added considerably to the cost
of handling the business, while corpus
and commission charges have remained
unaltered. Mainly because of this, the
Westralian T., E. and A. Co.’s net earn-
ings are still little more than half the
1930 figure, despite a steady increase in
the volume of trusts on the books and
the revival in real-estate and other values.
Consider these figures:
Gross Exes. of
April, Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1925.. £4,039,989 £25,548 £18,972 74.2 p c.
1927.. 5,133,894 31,760 23,438 73.7 „
1929.. 6,044,888 37,059 26,936 72.6 ,
1930.. 6,515,574 41,133 30,780 74.8
1931.. 6,861,482 36,845 30,029 81.4
1932.. 6,923,086 32,590 28,607 87.7
1933.. 7,181,905 30,975 26,984 87.1 ’,
1934.. 7,255,439 32,186 27,701 86 1
1935.. 7,337,162 32,986 28,414 86.1 ,”
1936.. 7,490,145 35,633. 30,564 85.7 ,
1937.. 7,677,701 37,018 32,616 88.1 „
During the last term £873,934 (up
£276,370) of new business was entrusted
to the co.’s care. Capital distributions
to beneficiaries totalled £686,378 (up
£242,797), leaving a net gain of £187,556
in the amount of trust funds on the
books at the end of April. Gross earn-
ings were. £1385 better, but exes, (up
£2052) took an extra £2 Bs. of each £lOO
of income; the new business has not yet
had time to contribute fully to the pool.
Too much notice therefore need not be
taken of the drop of £667 in the year’s
net earnings, which were 8.8 p.c. on
capital as against 10.2, 9.2, 9,8, 8, 13.7
and 17 p.c. back to 1930. The board
considered the outlook sufficiently en-
couraging to lift the div. from 6 p.c. to
7 p.c., and £5OO was written off the book
value of investments and £5OO was sent
to the staff provident fund. Also the
building renovation reserve (£2550 at the
previous balance) was lumped with the
provident fund and provision for taxa-
tion, etc., making the lot £6902, and leav-
ing visible free reserves at £61,161. So
capital (123,983 £1 shares paid to Bs.
each) and free reserves combined need
turn in only 3.1 net to cover a 7 p.c.
div., or 3.5 p.c. to meet an 8 p.c. dis-
tribution.
Assets consist of freeholds, £61,490 ;
equipment, £8074 ; public securities and
debentures, £10,495; book debts,
£38,414 ; cash, £5558. The amount com-
ing to sundry creditors was £2890.
At 14s. 6d. the scrip, covered by
17s. lid. in net tangibles, returns 3.8
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, or 4.4 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution.
National Reliance Trust
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes. .. .. .. 2,254
Capital profit, £3Ol .. .. 1,953
1931.. 1343 2£ p.c. = 1043 300 1,653
Capital loss, £sl9' .. .. .. 2,172
1932.. 2167 2ip.e. = 1252 915 1,257
Reserves.
Capital profit, £3736 .. .. 2,479
1933.. 1276 21,p.c. = 1252 24 2,503
Capital profit, £13,751 .. .. 16,254
1934.. 2789 5 p.c. = 2504 285 16,539
Capital iprofit, £2975 .. .. 19,514
1935.. 3319 5 p.c. = 2504 815 20,329
Capital profit, £4867 .. .. 25,196
1936.. 5158 6 p.c. = 3756 1402 26,598
Capital profit, £24,358 .. .. 50,956
Unexplained addition, £941 .. 51,897
1937.. 11,714 6 p.c. = 10,427 1287 53,184
A well-managed trust offers many ad-
vantages to the investor, especially for
long-term investment. It provides him.
with expert service, as well as a judicious
spread of risks, and relieves him of the
anxiety of managing to the best advan-
tage a small portfolio. The National
Reliance, formed at the end of 1929,
when the economic barometer was low
and falling fast, has given a good
account of itself. It is one of the Were
group of three allied trusts, which have
established a joint secretariat, one aim
being low overhead. The recently-
launched Jason Investment Trust (Aus.),
Ltd., also belongs to the same stable.
The Reliance’s income from investments
enabled it to pay 2\ p.c. divs. for each of
the first three, years, followed by 5,5,
6 and 6 p.c. for the last term, an aver-
age, of 4.2 p.c. A shareholder who took
up 100 of the original shares and exer-
cised his rights in all subsequent new
issues, including the one just made, would
now hold 500 shares, which cost £250
and are worth £337 on the market at
13s. 6d. each.
The management has taken full advan-
tage of the investment opportunities pro-
vided by a rising market. Over the last
two years, paid capital has grown from
£50,082 to £200,000, and the amount of
loan money used in the business has
increased from £42,395 to £175,964.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £50,082 £50,082 £100,164 £200,000
Loans, etc. . . 1,114 42,395 51,239 175,964
Sundry creditors 1,677 2,484 4,088 11,566
Investments . . 67,559 112,214 175,898 442,846
Sundry debtors 3,441 3,794 11,094 9,605
Cash . . . . 1,956 2,898 34 40
Last year’s net growth of £266,948 in the
book value of investments was financed
mainly from £99,836 of fresh share capi-
tal, £132,203 of additional loans, etc., and
a capital profit of £24,358 on sale of
securities, together with the year’s sur-
plus earnings. The co.’s net sterling assets
(amount not stated) have been taken into
account in sterling; in terms of Aus-
tralian currency, they were worth £3263
more than the amount at which they
appeared.
Originally funds were invested mostly
in Government securities ; now they are
represented largely by industrial equities,
or ord. shares, as the following table
shows:
r Shares
No. of Bonds Pref. Ord.
Investments, etc., p.c. p.c. p.c.
1931.. 35 92.7 2.1 5.2
1934.. 200 17.9 10.1 72.0
1936.. 319 2.3 8.6 89.1
1937.. 483 0.4 6.2 93.4
The investment changes have resulted in
a wider spread of risks, as well as sub-


FOR
WEATHER
WINTER
IN
m
m
PE
Plus
t
ETHYL
JES
Get
that
Spirit M
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
THE ONLY SUPER
GRADE PETROL
CONTAINING BENZOL
THE BENZOL MAKES
THE DIFFERENCE
CBB/12/SP
Ww# BENZOL (tinted Blue) IS
SOLD AT THE STANDARD GRADE PRICE
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
JULY ISSUE ON SALE NEXT SATURDAY.
THE GOLD QUESTION
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK
STOCK EXCHANGE REFORMS
SHARES WORTH WATCHING
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
_a_suke friend in uncertain times J
Si
£lOOO has grown to
£1864
Many a man takes out his A.M.P. policies
occasionally and sees with satisfaction how
they continue to grow in value.
“Is it possible,” said a certain member
recently, “is it possible that the A.M.P. policy for
£l,OOO that I took out in 1906 has grown to
£1,864? It is hard to believe.”
Yet it is true. A.M.P. bonuses, even through-
out the depression, kept building members’
policies up and up. This member’s policy was
taken out in 1906 when he was 20. He has paid
only £561 in premiums, yet if he were to die
to-morrow his widow would receive £l ,864. Won-
derful! Very wonderful!!
A certain old member whose A.M.P. policy
for £l,OOO was taken out when he was 25, in 1876,
finds that policy has grown to £3,225.
Have you enough A.M.P. policies, reader?
Ought you not to take out one or two more and
get the pleasure of watching them grow?
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an
experienced man to advise you. Do this at once,
for to-morrow may be too late—who knows?
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
stantial capital profit and better dividend
returns, etc. At the end of March the
market value of investments (£503,342)
exceeded their book value by £60,496. The
geographical spread of the portfolio was
65.9 p.c. Australia and Maoriland, 10.8
p.c. Britain, 14.8 p.c. U.S.A., 2.9 p.c.
Canada and 5.6 p.c. other countries.
Last year £12,836 (up £5345) was
gathered in dividends, etc., and £1302
(up £989) in underwriting commissions,
etc., making total income £14,138, which
was £6334 better than the previous year’s.
Exes. (£2424) were actually got back £222,
leaving the net result at £11,714 (up
£6556), or 6.7 p.c. on average capital
as against 8.2, 6.6, 5.6, 2.6, 4.3 and 3.2
p.c. back to the beginning. The div.
was kept at 6 p.c. The drop in last year’s
ratio of net earnings to capital is not sur-
prising considering the amount of new
money invested and the low returns ob-
tainable from most industrials. The
capital profit of £24,358 from the sale
of securities was sent direct to reserves,
thus helping to swell the volume of in-
vestments and returns therefrom.
To lighten the outside debt and pro-
vide employment for more permanent
capital, shareholders were offered 100,000
new 10s. shares at par, one for four,
after the close of accounts. When all
the money on this issue is in, paid capi-
tal will be £250,000. Still, the 6 p.c. div.
(it will then call for £15,000 p.a.) may
not be interfered with.
At 13s. 6d. the scrip returns 4.4 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis. Including the new
issue the net tangible cover is 12s. Id.
Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum
The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Co.,
Ltd., was registered in Papua on April
29. Nominal capital is £250,000 in ss.
shares, of which 400,000 are offered.
H. P. Cooper, Sydney sharebroker, has
underwritten 100,000 of them at not more
than 7} p.c., and the board reserves the
right to close the list when a total of
200,000 shares has been applied for. The
vendors (W. M. Marks and R. S. Haynes)
and their nominees take 100,000 paids but
no cash. These vendors’ shares are to be
issued in the proportion of one for every
four shares applied for, and will not be
allotted until the first well has reached a
depth of 1000 ft., or unless evidence of
petroleum is obtained at shallower depth.
The object is to take over and pros-
pect a potential oil-bearing area of about
48,000 acres near Cape Possession, in the
Gulf division of Papua, and about 86
miles nor’-west of Port Moresby. Gas
blows and mud volcanoes occur on the
holding, which has been favorably re-
ported upon as possible oil-bearing
ground by every competent geologist who
has examined it. It has been closed as an
oil reserve since the Anglo-Persian Co.
completed its survey on behalf of the
Imperial and Commonwealth Govern-
ments in 1920. The prospecting permit,
dated March 17, 1937, and now held by
W. M. Marks and R. S. Haynes, provides
that £5OOO be spent during the first six
months, and a like amount during the
next six. R. S. Haynes, who will direct
the co.’s operations, was the topographi-
cal surveyor to the Anglo-Persian party
which examined the area and reported
favorably upon it in 1920.
The geological work done shows four
structures suitable for the accumulation
of petroleum in commercial quantities.
H. T. Mayo, chief geologist to the Anglo-
Persian Co., considered the most impor-
tant of these to be the Jokea-Apinaipi
dome, the drilling of which has also been
recommended by Dr. Woolnough, Com-
monwealth geological adviser, and others.
If oil comes in here in commercial quanti-
ties, the Anglo-Persian people recommend
that the other three structures in the area
be then drilled.
All that can be said definitely at the
moment is that the area, situated within
the Tertiary oil belt, has been thoroughly
examined by very competent people and
favorably recommended. Drilling, and
drilling alone, will prove whether oil is
there and, if it is, in what quantity.
To date three other permits have been
issued—one to Oil Search, Ltd., and the
other two to offshoots of the Shell and
Vacuum cos. —covering ground in the
Western, Gulf and Delta divisions of
Papua. Also, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has set aside £250,000 to be ad-
vanced to approved organisations on a
£-for-£ basis to assist in drilling for oil.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging, N.L.
Formed in 1920 to take over, for
£90,000, a 22} million c.y. concession in
Siam from Malaya Tin Corp.—an addi-
tional 6 } million c.y. was subsequently
acquired—this co. reached the div. list in
1929, four years after the first 200,000-
c.y.-per-month dredge set in. Meanwhile,
a second dredge of similar capacity
started up at Takuapa, and a 13,000,000
c.y. property was bought at Ban Pru. To
finance the deal and instal an American
spud type dredge suitable for the stony
ground, £lOO,OOO of 12| p.c. six-year de-
bentures (since repaid) was issued. Then
came the slump in metal prices and out-
put restrictions, and, after 1930, divs.
dried up until the point at which the fol-
lowing table takes up the story:
, —Dividemlsf— N
Ex- Net Pei-
Dee., Revenue, penses.* Profit. Share. Amount.
1932.. 102,460 84,403 18,057 Nil Nil
1933.. 151,454 81,955 69,499 -/6 7,007
1934 f 97,288 60,159 • 37,129 3/- 41,377
(Written off concessions, £71,598.
1935.. 1 84,475 68,672 15,803 3/- 41,056
(Written off concessions, £lO,OOO.
1936.. 114,754 79,957 34,797 2/- 27,401
* Including depreciation, t Sterling-.
After allowing an extra £3381 for de-
preciation (£20,128), the spring in
last year’s net earnings was £18,994,
owing mainly to an increase of
260 tons t.o. in the co.’s quota and
lower average costs, consequent on the
greater yardage handled. The div., which
in the two preceding terms had called for


Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
A per bond than other buyers for N.Z Per-
petual Forests Bonds—R. F. COR MACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered by an Institution may be judged very simply by
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
grown consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of Trust and Agency
Funds now under its control is over £50,000,000. Arrangements exist for the
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abroad.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Brunton, Herbert It. Lysaght, 0.8. E.,
Lient.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair. M.L.C., E. R. Knox.
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Y. Douglass (Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
Call or write for explanatory booklet. p. Cureton, Manager.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
{lncorporated 29th April, 1937, under the provisions of the Companies’
Ordinances in force in the Territory of Papua, 1912-26 )
NOMINAL SHARE CAPITAL, £250,000
Divided into 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
It is proposed to deal with the Nominal Share Capital as
follows:
400,000 Shares of 5/- each are now offered for public sub-
scription, payable 2/6 per share on application and
2/6 per share on allotment —but the Directors
reserve the right to close the list when 200,000
shares have been applied for.
100,000 shares of 5/- each to be issued as fully paid to
the Vendors, Walter Moffitt Marks, Reginald See
Haynes, and those associated with them or their
nominees. Such Vendors’ shares not to be issued
until the first test well has reached a depth of
1000 feet or unless evidence of petroleum to the
satisfaction of the Directors shall have been
obtained at a shallower depth. Such shares ar©
only to be issued from time to time in the propor-
tion of one share to every four shares applied for.
Such shares, when issued, are to have equal rights
(pro rata) to the subscribing shares as to Divi-
dend, voting power, winding up and in all matters
relating to the Company and its assets.
500,006 shares to be held in reserve and to be dealt with
as the Directors shall determine.
1,000,000
The Directors will not proceed to allotment until 40,000
shares have been taken up.
100,000 shares of 5/- each have been underwritten by
Herbert P. Cooper, Member of Sydney Stock Exchange,
Broker for the Company.
DIRECTORS:
WALTER MOFFITT MARKS, Solicitor, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney.
The Hon. JOHN CHRISTIAN WATSON, Chairman N.R.M.A., Sydney.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES WILLIAM CLANAN MARR, K.C.V.0.,
D. 5.0., M.C., V.D., M.P., Company Director, Sydney.
WILLIAM H. TAYLOR, Solicitor, Bendigo, Victoria.
REGINALD S. HAYNES, Topographical Surveyor, Kirribilli Avenue,
Sydney (late Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Geological Staff).
BANKERS:
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, Head Office, Sydney, and Port
Moresby.
AUDITORS:
YARWOOD, VANE and CO., with G. MASON ALLARD, Chartered
Accountants (Aust.), Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
T. MARSHALL, MARKS, and JONES, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney.
SECRETARY (Sydney Office):
CHARLES ALFRED LE MAISTRE WALKER, C.8.E., F.C.A. (Aust.),
C. A. Le Maistre Walker, Son and Co.,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
1 1 5 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
W. BRIAN MOLLOY, Solicitor, Port Moresby, Papua.
SHIPPING AND FORWARDING AGENTS:
BURNS, PHILP and CO., LTD., Sydney and Port Moresby.
BROKER AND UNDERWRITER:
HERBERT P. COOPER, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Member of Sydney Stock Exchange.
FLOTATION MANAGER:
J. W. COLLINS, Room 512, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed with the object of acquiring the
exclusive rights, under Permit, to prospect for petroleum, and develop
by drilling and otherwise, an area of 48,000 acres situated in the Gulf
Division of Papua (British New Guinea), being about 86 miles north-
west of Port Moresby and 45 miles south-west of the Government Station
at Kerema, also the maps, charts, geological and topographical surveys,
reports and data relating to the said area which have been compiled by
and are now in the possession of Mr. R. S. Haynes, and also the monies
subscribed by certain interested subscribers to enable all preliminary
steps to be taken for obtaining all permits and otherwise, and necessary
cash Bond Deposits to be paid.
£29,501 more profit than was claimed,
was lowered from 3s. to 2s.
At Takuapa, recent dredging perform-
ances and other things compare as
follows:
TAKUAPA SECTION.
1934. 193f>. 19'36.
Cubic yards dug.. 2,080,000 2,722,000 3,800,000
Tin oxide, tons .. 677 5,917 829
Recovery per c.y., lb. 0.73 0.49 0.49
Value per 0.y., pence 10.29 6.67 6.34
Costs per c.y., pence* 3.69 3.03 2.53
Working profit per
c.y., pence .. 6.60 3.64 3.81
Av. price realised t.o. £l3l/13/3 £127/16/- £12.1/1/9
* Excluding depreciation.
In addition, the Ban Pru unit worked
five months at a small loss, recovering.77|
tons t.o. from 456,000 c.y. (average
0.381 b.), lifting the year’s gross turnover
to 4,256,000 c.y., yielding 905 f tons t.o.
Ore sales and sundry revenue realised
£114,180. The working profit was
£38,567. At Takuapa, where both
dredges have been fitted with new bucket
lines, No. 1 worked entirely in tailings.
The Ban Pru unit, which set in late the
previous term after four years’ idleness,
is recovering only about one-half of
bored values, owing largely to the hard
and clayey nature of the ground ; better
is now expected, following a thorough
overhaul of the plant. The co. has lost
the Ratrut quota, which it bought for a
number of years, the vendor having
started work again on its own account.
As for the current term, a lift in the
quota and a rise in the price of the metal
promise, a better showing at next balance.
Dredging reserves at Takuapa (17,496,000
c.y., averaging approx. 9oz. t. 0.) are equal
to little more than four years’ working at
present rate of treatment. Shareholders’
prospects depend largely on what can be
done with the Ban Pru area, where
11,695,000 c.y. of 13oz. dirt remains, and
the acquisition of further payable leases.
Options have been obtained over a 200-
acre block at the southern end of the
Takuapa property, and over 1200 acres
of tin-bearing ground in East Siam. Both
are to be scoutbored, and so is an allu-
vial gold area over which the co. has
secured an option on the Upper Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.).
At balance date concessions were
valued at £91,623 and dredge property at
£139,489. Cash and metal stocks totted
up to £58,179; outside indebtedness was
negligible. Of the co.’s quota of 475 tons
t.o. for the first half of the current term,
tons had been won at the end of
May. Dividends aggregating 2s. 3d. a
£1 share, valued at 275. 6d. in the market,
have been paid or announced.
If the report of mining engineer F.
Carter, now on his way to Maoriland to
check values and yardage, is favorable
enough, a £125,000 co. (10s. shares) may
be formed to work a 50,000,000 c.y.
alluvial gold proposition in the Moon-
light River valley, near Queenstown.
The area is under option to Morobe
Alluvials and New Morobe Gold, two
interlocking concerns which failed to find
what they were looking for in New
Guinea. Morobe Alluvials’ shareholders
are to receive one 10s. share paid to ss,
in the new float for each 10s. share held,
and those on New Morobe’s register are to
get 20 new 55.-paids for each £lO share
now held. Costs are expected to be low,
the deposit comprising a terrace above
the river channel, thus permitting gravi-
tational sluicing of the overburden, which
consists of a light, loose gravel, free
from clay, varying from 100 ft. to 180 ft.
in depth. On a monthly turnover of
108,860 c.y., and with costs at 2d. a
yard (a low figure) and a 2|gr. recov-
ery, annual net earnings of £34,430 are
looked for over 42 years, after deduct-
ing 74- p.c. M.L. gold tax. Including
three sluicing units, capital expenditure
is put at £45,000. Cash resources of the
joint option-holders are at present about
£13,500.
* * * *
About 366 acres have been pegged on
the new Bartle Frere field, on the slopes
of Bellenden Ker, about eight miles from
both Babinda and the old Goldsborough
field (N.Q.). The find was made by
Kraft and Wilkie, and several reefs and
floaters have been located. A trial crush-
ing of selected ore has averaged over
6oz. to the ton. The footwall is slate,
the lode a brown, sugary quartz, and
the hanging wall is sandstone. One reef,
outcropping in the gorge, is 12ft. wide,
and is said to have been traced for a
mile and a half. Kraft and Wilkie’s lode,
which is being tunnelled from the hill-
side, is cut through by the creek in the
same gorge. On the lower leases of the
field, the stone resembles that of the
Mount Peter district, near Edmonton.
Adequate water is available, and a five-
head battery is mooted. Transport is
a problem.
* * * *
Crushing 5441 tons ore for 91700 z. gold
by amalgamation and 180 oz. by cyanida-
tion, Gordon Gold, operating at Gordon
(Vic.), won £67,404 worth of the yellow
metal during the 12 months to May 22
last, and cleared £43,916 net, including
£1624 written back from main-shaft
account. Divs. of 4s. 9d. per shilling
share required £33,392 —capital is only
£7500 —and another Is. 6d. is to be sent
out on July 17. The co., formed in
April, 1935, is working a narrow but
rich quartz reef in slate which has been
followed down to 510 ft.; the. shaft is
being deepened. Most of last year’s
tonnage came from the 310 ft. and 410 ft.
levels. Thus far little development has
been done, but there is at least a year's
feed available for the mill, capacity 230
tons weekly. Costs, in the vicinity of
£3 per ton, are expected to be got back
to 465. At balance date the co., which
recently took over the neighboring Sum-
merhill mine, on which little work has
been done, held liquids totalling £12,082 ;
creditors figured for £4734. On ’Change
the Is. paids fetch 13s. 6d.
* * * *
Crosscutting at Triton, Cue (W.A.),
has disclosed the main ore-channel at
675 ft., the deepest level, where the stone
assays 9.ldwt. over a width of 17jft.
The value is 1.6 ’weights above the aver-
age of estimated ore reserves (217,000
tons) as at Sept. last. Further develop-
ment is necessary before estimating the
additional tonnage available, but the
make is wider than at the 550 ft. level,
and prospects that the ore-body will live
and maintain its values at depth are
encouraging. At a cost of £25,000 plant-
treatment capacity is being lifted from
6000 to 9000 tons per month, which is
expected to cut costs back 45., thus allow-
ing a lower grade of ore to be milled
profitably. Meanwhile, a programme of
shaft-sinking and development down to
1050 ft. is in hand in the hope of locat-
ing the principal Triton reefs at depth.
The co. reached production in Aug.,
1935, and for the year to Sept. 30 last
crushed 77,715 tons ore for an average
recovery of 6.94dwt. and a net profit
(£91,075) equal to Is. 10|d. per 10s.
share. A shilling a share was handed
out, and a further 6d. was dispatched
in March. Recoveries from the 50,000
tons or so crushed during the current
term have been a shade better than last
year’s average.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.L.L.: Look elsewhere; suggest Edwards
Dunlop contribs. at 255. 6d Winchester: A
straggler; see par., p. 21 T.E.M.: No infor-
mation. .. .C. 0.: Go. not so well established as
some listed concerns in the same field offering
similar yield... .H.A.K.: Try Melbourne adver-
tiser again; or ask secretary of co. if he can
find a buyer.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydnev,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt!
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street. Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* 4* * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plant?, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
4 1
ALUMIN OFERRIC ig one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence- Street,
Sydney.— Advt.


The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited—Continued
The Rights of this Permit have been obtained by Mr. Walter M.
Marks, in conjunction with Mr. R. S. Haynes (late of the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co.’s Geological Staff), who have prosecuted a vigorous campaign
since 1924 to have this portion of the area developed either by the
Commonwealth Government or by private enterprise. By an Amend-
ment of the Ordinances in 1936 these fields have now been made
available, and in January, 1937, Mr. Marks was advised by the Common-
wealth Government that the Papuan Petroleum Advisory Board was
prepared to recommend the issue of a Permit to him under the condi-
tions that he immediately deposited £lOOO by way of Surety and
undertook to spend £5OOO in the first six months and £5OOO in the
second six months following the issue of the Permit. This Permit,
dated 16th March, 1937, has now been issued.
A group of influential gentlemen in Australia and London are
associated with Messrs. Marks and Haynes in the venture, and will be
subscribers for shares. In the event of oil coming in in commercial
quantities, the Company will be reformed for the purpose of providing
the requisite Capital necessary for the further development of the area,
and which would comprise the refining and marketing of the oil products.
The venture at this stage is to provide funds necessary to carry out
the preliminary prospecting and drilling, which is very strongly advocated
by the most eminent geologists as mentioned herein.
No cash payment is being made to either Mr. Marks, Mr. Haynes,
or those associated with them for their rights, but on the flotation of
this Company they are to receive 100,000 fully paid up shares, but such
shares will not be issued to them or their nominees until the first test
well reaches a depth of 1 000 ft. or evidence of petroleum in commercial
quantities is apparent at a shallower depth and will only be issued in
proportion to the subscribing shares applied for.
GEOLOGICAL STRUCTURES.
Detailed geological mapping has proved four structures, suitable
for the natural storage of petroleum. In their order of importance they
are: Jokea-Apinaipi Dome, Oiapu Anticline, Lesi Anticline, and Apinaipi
Anticline.
A lengthy report on the Anglo-Persion Oil Company’s Geological
Survey of Papua and New Guinea dated 1920-29 can be inspected
at Canberra, F.C.T.
From these it will be seen that the detailed geological survey of
the gulf coast oil field was made by Messrs. H. T. Mayo, P. de Verteuil
and R. S. Haynes, Topographical Surveyor.
JOKEA-APINAIPI DOME.
The Jokea-Apinaipi Dome, on which the Company proposes to
concentrate its initial operations, contains all the necessary conditions
which must exist in a potential oil field.
Mr. Mayo, Chief Geologist of the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. in Papua,
in his report (1920), Vol. 1, Page 30, filed at Canberra, states, inter
alia:—
Prospects and Recommendations.
”... .The advantages of the Jokea-Apinaipi Dome are:—
1. Excellence of Geological Structure and
2. Relatively low initial horizon for a test-well.
... .A tentative location has been given, which is shown
on the map.”
SURFACE INDICATIONS OF PETROLEUM.
The surface indications of petroleum which occur in the area are
two gas-blows, situated almost at the crest of the Jokea-Apinaipi Dome.
The northerly one is more active, and the gas when coming to the surface
throws up mud which forms a cone around it; such a phenomenon is
called a “mud-volcano.” The other is situated 2700 feet distance to
the south-east. The presence of gas seepages and of “mud volcanoes,”
which are often present in oil-producing regions, is regarded as a favor-
able indication.
OIAPU ANTICLINE.
Mr. J. P. de Verteuil, Geologist, of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company,
Ltd., in his report (1920) filed at Canberra, Vol. 1, Page 23, on this
structure, among other things, states, inter alia:—
Prospects and Recommendations.
“. . . .The Oiapu anticline, as a possible reservoir of a commercially
payable oil, is well worth considering on its own merits. The
advantages of the area may be summed up thus:—
1. Favorable geological structure.
2. Extensive area open to the drill.
“In the event of an initial successful test, most of the lower
ground in the area bounded to the north-west by Wedge Hill, and
to the south-east by the north-west extremity of igneous exposures,
would come under the drill. ...”
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE AREA.
The first geologist to visit Papua was Mr. Gibbs-Maitland, who, in
1891, examined part of this area, and determined the age of the rocks
at Cape Possession as of Tertiary age.
The late Mr. J. E. Came, F.G.S., Assistant Government Geologist,
N.S.W., in his report, “Petroleum and Natural Gas in Papua, 1913,”
refers to the Cape Possession Beds, and states: —
“The possibilities of a valuable national asset in oil in Papua
are great, the local indications comparing favorably with those of
the nearest commercial oil fields in the Malay Archipelago, which
are geologically and structurally identical.
“Several oil horizons are worked in Dutch Indies, in fact, in
all oil fields, so it may reasonably be inferred that Papua will
be similarly favored.”
Dr. Arthur Wade, D.Sc., F.G.S., etc., the eminent Petroleum
Technologist, and now member of the Oil Advisory Committee at
Canberra, and Mr. Evan R. Stanley in 1913 visited the area and found
an escapement of petroleum gas in a timbered valley behind the village
of Jokea, and noted that the two sets of ranges formed a large anticline
denuded at the crest.
,n,,P r ' Wade fu rther states in his “Report on Petroleum in Papua,
“The relation between the New Guinea oil belt and the oil-
bearing territories in other parts of the East India Archipelago, i.e.,
Java, Sumatra, Borneo, etc., is a close one, geologically speaking.
All these areas are situated on one connected line of earth move-
ment. Personal examination of these other fields has shown me
that the beds are much the same, both in age and in nature, as those
hr Papua. Mr. Carne has gone into this side of the question pretty
fully, and gives an interesting map showing clearly that the East
India Archipelago forms one ‘Petroliferous Province.’ This is
supported by the fact that the nature of the oil obtained so far is
more comparable with Dutch East Indian Oil than with any other.”
Mr. Evan R. Stanley, Government Geologist of Papua, in 1912-13
made a geological examination of the area and prepared a sketch map.
He observed the escapement of petroleum gas, and determined the age
of the deposits as Plio-Miocene. He contends (in his report, “Geology
of New Guinea,” 1921, Page 8) :
That the Plio-Miocene deposits in Papua are of commercial
importance in that they are oil-bearing, that they extend into Dutch
New Guinea, and are traceable beyond doubt to the Java-Sumatra
Series, on the one hand, and Borneo or the Philippine Tertiary
deposits on the other. Both contain similar fossils and oil.”
W* G. Woolnough, D.Sc., F.G.S., Government Adviser to the
Commonwealth Government, on 6th April, 1937, states: —
“The formations developed in the area under the Permit are
of the same age and character as those which are present in some
of the world’s greatest oil fields, including some of those in Southern
California and the Dutch East Indies. While geological age and
character are factors of somewhat minor importance, this com-
parison is decidedly encouraging.
“The much more important factor of suitability of structure
has been proved to exist in this case, a fact which may be strongly
emphasised. This fact has been favorably commented on by the
Geologists of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company and by the Common-
wealth Geological Adviser and others, as per quotations appended.”
He further states in a letter dated Bth April, 1937, received from
the Prime Minister’s Department:—
“Provided drilling is carried out with the most up-to-date
plant obtainable, and under the direction of drillers who have
already had sufficient experience in the handling of such plant in
dealing with running mudstones, the chances of success are
excellent.”
As the drilling of the Jokea-Apinaipi Dome is strongly recom-
mended by the Commonwealth Geological Adviser, provided suitable
equipment and personnel are employed for the purpose, it is the intention
of the Directors to confer with the Minister and the Oil Advisory Com-
mittee at Canberra regarding the most suitable type of drilling plant
for the area.
Under the “Petroleum Oil Search Act, 1936,” applications for an
advance of £l for £l for drilling may be made, but must comply with
very definite conditions.
The Company’s operations will be under the direction of Mr. R. S.
Haynes, who was a member of the Anglo-Persian Oil Co.’s geological
staff, and of whom it was reported by Mr. H. T. Mayo, Chief Geologist
of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, in his report on Jokea-Apinaipi Dome
that In addition to being responsible for the contouring and topography
of the area, Mr. R. S. Haynes assisted materially in the geological work.’’
Drilling operations will be controlled by an experienced driller
who has served for some years with the Anglo-Persian Oil Co., supported
by competent and dependable assistants, who are available and prepared
to enter the Company’s service.
AGREEMENTS.
The only Agreements affecting the Company are as follows:
Agreement dated sixth day of April, 1937, between Walter
Moffitt Marks, of the first part; Reginald See Haynes, of the
second part; Alfred Ernest West, of the third part; and
Charles Le Maistre Walker, on behalf of the proposed Com-
pany, of the fourth part; and
Agreement dated eighth day of April, 1937, between Reginald
See Haynes, of the one part, and Charles Le Maistre Walker,
on behalf of the proposed Company, of the other part.
Copies of the above Agreements and of the Memorandum and
Articles of Association may be inspected at the office of the Solicitors to
the Company, T. Marshall, Marks, and Jones, Bth Floor, Culwulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BROKERAGE AND PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
A brokerage of 5 per cent, will be paid by the Company on all
shares allotted in response to applications received through members
of recognised Stock Exchanges, and to agents approved by the Directors.
Commission payable by the Company for the underwriting of any shares
will not exceed a further 2\ per cent., making in all a total commission
payable not exceeding per cent. It is estimated that the Preliminary
Expenses, exclusive of brokerage, will not exceed £2OOO.
Application will be made for listing the Company’s Shares on the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
APPLICATIONS.
Applications for shares should be made on the form accompanying
prospectus and will not be received after the 30th September, 19377
The Directors reserve the right to close the list at an earlier date at their
discretion, and give priority to, or reject as they may think fit, any
particular application or applications.
SYDNEY, 18th JUNE, 1937.
Copies of the Prospectus and Application Forms may be obtained
from the Secretary or the Company’s Broker.
STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of
New South Wales have not been fully complied with in this advertise-
ment, but are contained in the printed Prospectus, a copy of which has
been duly filed as required by that Act.
FLOTATION MANAGER:
J. W. COLLINS,
ROOM 512, 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


This advertisement is dated the 29th day of June, 1937, and a copy thereof has been filed with the
Registrar General for the State of New South Wales for registration 'as required by Section 31/1 of the
Companies Act, 1936. The Registrar General takes no responsibility for its contents.
GUINEA AIRWAYS LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of South Australia, 4th November, 1927).
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of issue of
80.000 7 PER CENT. CUMULATIVE PARTICIPATING PREFERENCE SHARES OF £1
EACH AT PAR.
AUTHORISED CAPITA!.: £300,000 in 300,000 Shares of £1 each, comprising:
80,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each .. .. .. ..’ ~ £BO 000
220,000 Shares of £1 each, of which 80,000 are Cumulative Participating Preference
S hares 220,000
£300,000
Capital at present issued:
80,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each .. . . . . .. ~ . . , , ~ ~ £BO,OOO
Now offered for Subscription:
80,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Participating Preference Shares of £1 each at par .. 80,000
Held in reserve:
140,000 Shares of £1 each .. . . .. ~ ~ ~ 140,000
£300,000
REGISTERED OFFICE: Brockman Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, South Australia,.
DIRECTORS: CHARLES VALENTINE TIGIIE WELLS, 206 Childers Straet North Adelaide, Chartered
Accountant (Aust.), Chairman; GEORGE JEFFREY, C.8.E., Kensington Road, Kensington Park,
Company Director; WILLIAM PERCIVAL ALLEN LAPTHORNE, 132 Grant Avenue, Toorak, Merchant;
ALFRED AUGUSTUS SCARFE, Pier Street, Glenelg, Pastoralist; LESLIE VICKERY WATERHOUSE,
Bertha Road, Neutral Bay, Sydney, Mining Engineer; HENRY MORRIS SMITH, 6 Elm Street, Millswood,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.) ; ARTHUR JUSTIN HANCOCK, 262 Orrong Road, Toorak, Victoria,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
SOLICITORS : Joyner, Phillips and Joyner, Currie Street, Adelaide.
BANKERS: The Bank of Adelaide.
AUDITORS: Nieill, Neill and Burgess, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CONSULTING ACCOUNTANTS TO THE ISSUE: Hancock and Woodward, Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 352 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE: A. E. H. Evans, Brookman Buildings, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS: W. lan Potter, 358 Collins S'treet, Melbourne; H. W. Ilodgetts & Co.,
1-3 Cowra Chambers, 23 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
OB.IECTS OF THE ISSUE: Guinea Airways, Limited, one of the leading commercial aviation
companies in the Southern Hemisphere with a record of nearly ten years’ successful operation on a
large scale, chiefly in New Guinea, is making a public issue of 80,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Participating
Preference Shares of £1 each to finance expansion of operations, particularly on the mainland of
Australia.
This outlay will be principally devoted to the purchase and operation of modern high-powered,
multi—engined aircraft, and the establishment of adequate ground organisation at selected points.
Operations in Australia have already been inaugurated between Adelaide and Darwin. Early extension
and development of other routes is now proposed.
PARTICULARS OF THE ISSUE: The whole of the issue of 80,000 Participating Preference Shares
of £1 each has been underwritten jointly by W. lan Potter, of Melbourne, and 1 H. W. Ilodgetts and Co.,
of Adelaide.
Up to 40,000 shares will be reserved in the first instance for application by and prior allotment
to the existing ordinary shareholders in Guinea Airways, Limited, or their nominees.
The balanoe of 40,000 shares, together with such proportion of shares (if any) as are not applied
for by existing shareholders or their nominees, will be available for application by and allotted to the
public generally.
BIGHTS ATTACHING TO PREFERENCE SHARES: The rights attaching to the new issue
shortly stated are a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7, per cent, per annum with equal partici-
pation pari passu with the ordinary shares in any dividend in excess of 7 per cent, per annum in any year.
On winding up, the preference shares are entitled in pi’iority to the fixed cumulative dividend
to the commencement of the winding up, together with repayment of capital, but without further
participation in any distribution of surplus assets.
VOTING RIGHTS: Every member of the Company has one vote for every share held and in respect
of which all calls have been paid.
CAPITAL SECURITY : The Certificate of Hancock and Woodward shows that -when the present
issue of Preference Capital has been fully Subscribed the net tangible assets of the Company will amount
to £209,158. This will he equivalent to approximately £2/12/3 per share of Preference Capital.
IN VESTMENT ATTRACTIONS: The main attractive features of this issue as.an investment are: —
(1) Investment at par in a sound 7 per cent, preference stock. (2) The right of participating with
Ordinary Shares in dividends over 7 per cent. (3) Substantial security for capital. (4) Investment
in a well-established Company that is engaged in a business with considerable possibility of expansion.
(5) Marketability of the shares.
PRIOR RIGHTS OF ALLOTMENT: Of the present issue, 40,000 shares have been primarily reserved
for allotment to shareholders of the Company as at the 25th day of June, 1937. A shareholder is
entitled as of the right to apply for in terms of prospectus and to have allotted to him one Preference
Share for every two shares in the Company of which he is the holder as ait that date, fractions being
disregarded. A shareholder may renounce his rights in favor of any other person.
Ordinary shareholders may also apply for additional shares, but have no prior right for allotment
of such additional shares.
APPLICATIONS BY THE PUBLIC: Of the total issue of 80,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Partici-
pating Preference Shares being offered, the balance of 40,000 Shares are offered for public subscription.
STATUTORY INFORMATION : In accordance with the Companies Act, 1936, for the Sltate of
New South Wales, the following information is embodied herein.
(a) There are no founders’ or management or deferred shares^
(b) The minimum amount which in the opinion of the directors must be raisied by the above
issue in order to provide the sums required to be provided in respect of each of the following
matters is as follows: (1) The purchase price of any property purchased or to be purchased
which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the issue, £51,500.
(2) Duties and spare parts, etc., £9OOO. (3) Commission payable by the Company to any
person in consideration of his agreeing to subscribe for or of his procuring or agreeing to
procure subscriptions for any shares in the Company; Underwriters’ commission, £5OOO. (4)
Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the Company in respect of any of the foregoing
matters; Deposit paid on plant included in item (1), £2890. (5) Working Capital, £11,610.
No amounts are to be provided in respect of the matter aforesaid otherwise than out of the
issue of the said shares.
(c) The amount payable on application is 10/- per share and on allotment 10/ per share. During
the two preceding years there has been no issue of shares to the public.
(d) During the two preceding years 5000 shares in the capital of the Company have been issued
as fully paid up to £1 otherwise than for cash, the consideration for such allotment being the
acquisition of 10,000 shares of £1 each from certain of the members of Holden’s Air Transport
Services, Limited, on the basis of one share in this Company for every two shares in such
Company. Save as aforesaid during such period no shares or debentures have been issueld or
agreed to be issued as fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash.
(e) Tire names and addresses of the Vendors of any property purchased or acquired by the Company
or proposed so to he purchased or acquired which is to be paid for wholly or partly out of
the proceeds of the issue offered for subscription by the Prospectus, or the purchase oir acquisition
of which has not been completed at the date of issue of the Prospectus, and the amount payable
in cash shares or debentures to the Vendor, and where there is more than one separate Vendor
oi- the Company is a sub-purchaser, the amounts so payable to each Vendor are as follows:
The Company proposes to apply £46,000 in cash out of the (proceeds of this issue in payment
to Brown and Dureau, Limited, of 422—428 Collins Street, Melbourne, exclusive agents for
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation of Burbank, California, U.S.A., for the purchase of aircraft
now on order and £5500 in cash to Norwood, Down and Co., Limited, of Hindley Street,
Adelaide, for the supply and erection of hangar and workshop accommodation at Parafield, S.A.
now on order.
(f) Except as to the cash payment set out in (e) no amount is payable in ; cash shares or debentures
for any such property as set out under (e) nor is any amount payable for goodwill.
(g) An underwriting commission of £5OOO at the rate of 1/3 per share is payable by the
Company in respect of the whole of the present issue of £BO,OOO. Except as aforesaid no
amount within two years preceding the date of the Prospectus has been paid or is payable
as commission for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe or procuring or agreeing to procure
subscriptions for any shares in or debentures of the Company.-
(h) During the two preceding years no amount has been paid or is intended to be paid to any
promotor.
(i) The material contracts (other than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business
carried in or intended to be carried on by the Company) entered into within two years of
the date of this Prospectus are: (a) Underwriting Agreement dated the 28th day of May, 1937,
between William lan Potter and Henry Warburton Ilodgetts, the younger (trading as H. W.
Hodgetts and Co.), of the one part and Guinea Airways, Limited, of the other part. ' (b)
Conditional agreement made between Guinea Airways, Limited, and Forwood, Down and Co.,
Limited, to Guinea Airways, Limited, dated respectively the 11th and 27th May, 1937,
and Ist June, 1937, and letters from Guinea Airways, Limited, to Forwood, Down and
Co., Limited, dated 31st May, 1937, and 3rd June, 1937, and specifications therein
referred to. (c) Three Contracts dated respectively 29th July, 1936, 19th May, 1937, and
31st May, 1937, for purchase of Lockheed Aircraft between Brown and Durleau, Limited, and
Guinea Airways, Limited. Copies of such contracts with a copy of the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company may be inspected a.t the registered office of the
Company, Brookman Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide, and at the offices of Messrs. Allen
Allen and Hemjsley, of A.P.A. Chambers, 53-63 Martin Place, Sydney, and at the office of
W. lan Potter, of 358 Collins Street, Melbourne, between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.
on all week days except Saturdays and on Saturdays between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon!
(j) Each member of tl(e Company is entitled to one vote for every share held. The rights iii
respect of capital and dividends attached to the several classes of shares are shown unier
the heading “Rights Attaching to Preference Shares” as above.
(lc) The Auditors to the Company report to the Directors of the Company under date the 17th
June, 1937, as follows:
Gentlemen, —We have acted as auditors of the Company since 1927, and we hereby report and
certify that the net profits of your business, after .sufficient provision for depreciation and taxation
for the three years ending the 28th day of February, 1937, have been as follows: Year ending 28th
February, 1935, £20,818. Year ending 29th February, 1936, £25,876. Year ending 28th February,
1937, £13,887. (On the last named date £5OOO was transferred from General Reserve to Book
Debts Reserve.)
Prior to this issue the capital of the Company comprised only one class of share, namely £1
fully paid up shares, and the rate of dividend paid in respeot of such shares was as follows:
For year ending 28th February, 1935, ait the rate of 20 per centum per annum. For year ending
29th February, 1936, at the rate of 20 per centum per annum. For year ending 28th February!
1937, at the rate of 12$ per centum per annum. As the books of account of the Company close
on the 28th February in each year, accounts have not been made up between 28th February 1937
and this date. —Yours faithfully, NEILL, NEILL & BURGESS, Chartered Accountants (Australia).
(l) The proceeds of the above issue or any part thereof are not to be applied directly or indirectly
in the purchase of any business.
(m) The Company has not established a place of business in New South Wales.
In accordance with Section 51 of the Companies Act, 1934, for the State of South Australia, the
following information is embodied herein:—
The full statutory requirements of the said the Companies Act, 1934, relating to the issue of
prospectuses have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, which is an abridgment of
a full prospectus dated the 18th day of June, 1937, a oopy whereof has been duly filed with the
Registrar of Companies for the State of South Australia. Copies of the full prospeatus and forms
of application for shares may be obtained at the registered office of the Company or from either
of the abovementioned Underwriting Brokers. Applications for shares will be received only on one
of the forms of application referred to and accompanj ing a full prospectus arid expressly endorsing
the same. The Directors may go to allotment when the whole of the said 80,000 shares offered
by the said Prospectus have been applied for.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
The Wage-increase Experiment
A few days after the new Federal
basic wage was announced by the Arbi-
tration Court in Melbourne, Roland
Wilson, the Commonwealth Statistician,
put out a summary of factory statistics
for the 1935-36 year. Judged by the
number of people employed, it was a
record 12 months, though one that will
most assuredly be beaten by the year
which closes to-day. Volume of employ-
ment and goods turned out was the great-
est yet recorded, and industrial well-
being was at a high level, yet there is
food for thought in the fact that money
figures all round were on a lower scale
than previous highest years.
During 1935-36 there was a rise of 2s.
a week in the Federal basic wage—from
a State-capital average of 665. to 68s. In
1936-37 the capital-city average lifted to
70s. —a total increase of 4s. in two years.
For 1937-38 a jump of from ss. to 6s.
comes into operation within the first four
months.
One of the great sources of strength
in this country’s recovery was the fact
that, though our currency was depreciated
by more than half in terms of gold and
20 p.c. in terms of sterling, our costs and
prices were kept down, so that at the
present time “all items of household ex-
penditure” are about 16 p.c. lower than
in 1929, treating our golden sovereigns
of 1929 as being worth the same as our
paper pounds of 1937. Compared with
the lowest prices of the depression, the
latest cost-of-living computation is up
only 7.8 pic. The result of these cir-
cumstances was that at the end of 1936
the wages ruling in the capital cities
would buy about 3 p.c. more than in
the glamorous and delusive days of
1929.
W. B. Reddaway, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, and formerly in the economics
branch of the Bank of England, gave evi-
dence at the basic-wage inquiry. The
Court acknowledged that his evidence was
more impressive than that usually de-
livered by economists, and it seems to
have largely influenced the judgment.
Mr. Reddaway made some points.
Absence of overseas borrowing, he said,
far from being a source of weakness to
this country, added greatly to our
strength. The new method of mak-
ing goods in the Commonwealth in-
stead of exchanging them for the
equivalent of public works wiped out the
danger of sudden dislocation of trade
and employment following a restriction
of loans. This is support for the oft-
expressed contention here that our fac-
tories did almost as much as any other
section to save our credit when slump
came.
■ That the 1929 currency par with ster-
ling was of historic interest only was an-
other opinion of this authority. His most
contentious effort was his summing-up
on the “prosperity” and wages situation:
The present position is that the real
income of the community is increasing
substantially. A part of this increase is
going to labor in the form of wages to
those previously unemployed, but if wage
rates are not increased the greater part
will be concentrated on profits and rents.
Business will be very profitable, and many
people will be anxious to start new enter-
prises or expand existing ones. This is
capable of producing a most unhealthy
boom if carried to excess. A rise in real
wages now would be extremely valuable
as a restraining influence both on the price
of existing capital assets and the excessive
construction of new ones.
The difficulty is to increase real wages
by lifting money wages. This paper
admits a frank distrust of high
figures of any kind, and doubts whether
all industry will be able, by increased
efficiency or otherwise, to meet money-
wages increases without passing most
of them on to the wage-earner him-
self. The burden will fall on the pros-
perous and struggling alike, and the mere
lifting of wages is no sure way of im-
proving the standard of living or of pre-
venting inflation of capital values.
In Britain money-wages are back to
pre-depression level, but the standard of
living has improved only 10 p.c. Britain
has not had that stability of price-levels
for food, clothing, etc., that has been
so obvious for years past in this coun-
try, and which has been a great factor
in the encouragement of legitimate in-
dustry. It is a fact that “prosperity”
based on rising figures is much more
conducive to speculation than good
profits won under stable conditions.
Britain’s export trade is far from
flourishing, and its rising costs are not
going to be a help. Though speculation
on the Stock Exchanges here as regards
old-established stocks has been promi-
nent, we have not had a fraction of the
new flotations that have accompanied the
Old Country’s return to higher figures.
The fact that money has been scarce may
have had something to do with our
caution here ; but even at the moment,
though some big floats have gone, off re-
cently, the average isn’t very high com-
pared with 1929 standards.
Higher costs in Australia would have
the tendency to expose our factories to
greater overseas competition and dis-
courage our exporters. That would lean
towards squeezing us into a position
where overseas borrowing might become
the “easy” way out. This country wants
neither overseas money nor a fool’s para-
dise of high figures. We have had both
before, and no person in his senses
should want them again.
The failure of Ward and Co., Mel-
bourne, following that of Keith Docker
in Sydney, has undoubtedly had a share
in keeping Commonwealth sharemarkets
depressed. Some investors considered
that Ward’s cleaning-up would bring a
dull period in particular stocks, and that
better buying prices would be seen later
on; however, the announcement that the
Ward firm’s unencumbered assets
amounted to only £2394 (against un-
secured liabilities of £79,862) has dissi-
pated that illusion. Many brokers, how-
ever, now must be getting “carried”
clients out of their holdings as quietly and
speedily as possible. Banks are demand-
ing more margin from brokers and in-
vestors. "A lot of Placer Development
scrip is held in this country; and it has
fallen heavily in the market lately—from
above £5 to around £4 Is. 6d. Increased
cover is being asked where Placer scrip
is held as security by banks; and there
are other stocks and shares in similar
condition. It is certainly a bad time, to
ask your broker for financial assistance.
❖ * * $
For once in a way it appears that
gambling on London ’Change earlier this
year was more of an orgy than similar
dealings in New York. After the Wall-
street crash of 1929, when almost every
Tom, Dick and Harry was caught with
stocks bought “on margin,” N’York
brokers demanded more cover when buy-
ing for clients, asking for 55 p.c. of the
purchase-money. Apparently some Lon-
don brokers were less conservative re-
cently (down to 20 p.c. margin was ac-
cepted) ; they got a lot of U.S.A. business
by being lax, but also got caught with
a lot of losses when the crash came. It
is a peculiar type of crash, certainly,
the causes coming from unexpected quar-
ters, but when gambling is rife market
crashes can always be expected, how-
ever sound other circumstances appear
to be.
❖ if< *|s sfc
Last week’s opinion here that the posi-
tion of some London jobbers and specu-
lators wasn’t healthy is confirmed by
correspondence just to hand. “There is
a large amount of wreckage to be cleared
away,” one authority asserts. “An appre-
ciable number of lame ducks were helped
over the last settlement day, and there
must be a large number of shares which
have yet to find a permanent home. The
position is not helped by the fact that
the full extent of the losses is not
known, and nervousness exists as to
where the next evidence of weakness will
become apparent.” Obviously a cloud
of doubt is hanging over the speculative,
side of almost every market at the
moment; and a large proportion of the
speculators who made markets such a
bull’s paradise a few months back are
tied up hand and foot themselves. This
section of the speculators being stifled
for the moment, their overbought hold-
ings are a wet blanket to other investors,
because every time a market begins to
look cheerful there is certain to be heavy
forced sales until the position clears.
# _ * * *
The spurt in Amalgamated Textiles
shares to around 7s. was short-lived, and
last week there were sales at 6s. 3d. That
figure was still considerably better than
the price offered a few weeks back.
Deferment of the div. at the last annual
meeting caused a slump in the scrip ;
but it was announced that if trade and
finance improved sufficiently a handout
would be considered at the appropriate
moment. Amalgamated has been a
straggler ever since its formation, and,


Mauri Bros. Ords.
At 68s. Mauri Bros, and Thom-
son ords. yielded £4 Bs. 2d. per
cent, last week, and seemed sound
buying. The co.’s trading position
and earning-power have been
stressed here from tirpe to time,
including a reference in last week’s
issue. The scrip has been up to
755. this year.
Bigger
Better
Income . .
Safety
fOg-SECURtry
TX/fONTH by month an increasing number of people
recognise the intrinsic worth of FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES for small investors. Every,
body desires safety and as large a return as possible from
an investment, and to-day these Certificates provide an
unequalled margin of security, potential capital appreciation,
plus attractive interest yield—all this for anyone who has
approx. £25 or more to invest. In one simple transaction,
investors’ money is spread over shares of the following
leading Australian Companies:—
Commercial Bank of Aust., Ltd.
The Adelaide S.S. Co., Ltd.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.
A’sian Paper and Pulp Co., Ltd.
Australian Glass Mftrs. Co., Ltd.
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd,
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
David Jones, Ltd.
Drug Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.
Electro. Zinc Co. of A/sia, Ltd.
General Industries, Ltd.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Kandos Cement Co., Ltd.
Sargents, Ltd.
W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
A world-famous institution— Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd. (Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney)—acts
as Custodian Trustees and distributes the Income twice*
yearly, on June 15 and December 15.
If you want to know more about this safe and
profitable method of investment, write for booklet
No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BONO STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028 V.Y., G.P.O.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
NORSEMAN DEVELOPMENTS NO LIABILITY
The requirements of the Companies Acts have not been fully complied with in this
abridged prospectus, which is accordingly not to be regarded as an invitation to the public
to subscribe for shares.
Nominal Capital—£l2s,ooo Divided into 1,000,000 shares
of 2/6 each
400,000 Shares ar" offered for subscription, payable 1/6 per share on applica-
tion, and the balance 1/ per share on or before the 13th day of Octo-
ber, 1937. Shareholders of Norseman Gold Mines No Liability to
have prior right of application on 250,000 of these shares.
100,000 Shares are to be allotted as fully paid to the Vendor Norseman Gold
Mines No Liability or its nominee or nominees in terms of the Pre-
liminary Agreement hereinafter referred to as consideration for the
transfer of the options and leases hereinafter set out. A condition of
issue of these shares is that they shall be held by Norseman Gold Mines
No Liability until its annual general meeting in January, 1938.
500,000 Shares are to be held in reserve.
1,000,000 Total.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS
Arthur William Brown. Mercer 168 St, Vincent street. Port Adelaide.
Gordon Cathcart Campbell. 8.A.. LL.B.. Solicitor. Albion House. Waymouth street.
Adelaide.
Hedley Mitchell, Company Director. 191 Wellington square. North Adelaide.
William Stuart Padman. Agent, 91 Grenfell street. Adelaide.
Adolph Ernest Paton. 8.E.. F.S.A.S.M.. A.Aust.I.M.M.. Metallurgist. Fimiston. Western
Australia.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE pro tem.
E. B. Cant. A.U.A. (Com.). Brookman Buildings. Grenfell street. Adelaide.
AUDITOR
R. P. Goode. F.A.X.S.
SOLICITOR
G. C. Campbell. 8.A.. LL.B.. Albion House. Waymouth street. Adelaide.
BANKER
Bank of New South Wales. King William street. Adelaide.
OBJECTS
The objects of the Company are as set out in the Memorandum of Association, and in
particular (a) lor the purposes of acquiring from the Vendor Company Norseman Gold Mines
No Liability all its right, title and interest in the undermentioned options over leases and
leases held by the Vendor Company, and with a view thereto to adopt and carry into effect
an Agreement bearing date the 14th day of June. 1937, made between Hedley Mitchell of
Wellington square. North Adelaide, Company Director of the first part, Norseman Gold Mines
no Liability of the second Dart, and Rex Birdsev Cant of Brookman Buildings. Grenfell street.
Adelaide, Accountant, of the third part, for and on behalf of the Company: (b) to prospect
for. acquire, develop, work and turn to account any mining leases or properties of any
descriptions or tenure or any options, licences or rights over or in respect of any such min-
ing leases or properties.
PARTICULARS OF OPTIONS
(1) Over Leases Nos. 1488 and 1489. known as Abbotshall. from Augustus Merrifleld Rich-
ardson.
(2) Over Lease No. 1427. known as Northern Star Extended, from Donald Arnold, sen and
jun.
(3) Over Lease No. 1371, known as Norseman Star, from Francis Joseph Hurley.
(-H Over Lease No. 1453. known as Pennesha'w. from Gilbert Windsor Baker.
(5) Over Lease No. 1498, known as Penneshaw North, from Beatrice Ann Hamdorl,
(6) Over Lease No. 1499. known as Penneshaw South, from Herbert Baker.
PARTICULARS OF LEASES
(1) No. 1494, known as Penneshaw South East.
(2) No. 1495, known as Penneshaw East.
(3) No, 1496, known as Penneshaw North East.
(4) No 1508. known as Penneshaw South Extended.
PROSPECTS
Now that the Norseman District is connected to the Goldfields Water Scheme, many
leases abandoned in the late nineties through lack of f*esh water and modern treatment
facilities become worthy of fresh investigation. To indicate the possibilities of the field it is
of interest to note that up to the end of 1936 gold to the value of £6,000.000 Australian was
won, and Mr. Paton’s report states that the field “Abounds in gold occurrences, and as a
field for potential mines is one of the best in the State.” In view of the present favorable
conditions the Vendor Company has investigated several nroperties in order to ascertain their
possibilities. Of these three have been selected as offering every indication of becoming
regular gold producers and are included in the properties mentioned above.
UNUSUAL ADVANTAGES
The proposed Company has some unique advantages not often available to a Gold Min-
ing Company in its early development stages, and these are set out below: —
The securing of three areas each containing several leases, all of which have been re-
cently sampled, and one of which is already producing payable ore.
Ore from development can be treated immediately it is won.
Supervision by the expert organisation of the Norseman Company at a nominal fee.
thus obviating the necessity of employing highly paid officers, housing. &c.
Apart from development equipment Capital expenditure on plant will not be necessary,
as should development warrant it consideration will be given to the extension of the No: se-
man treatment plant in order to handle the acquired tonnage.
REPORT
A full report on the three properties by Mr. A. E. Paton. B.E. F.S.A.S.M.. A.Aust.I.M.M.,
is contained in the Prospectus.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 200.000
shares.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES
Mr. Hedley Mitchell is to be paid for his services In securing the said options and form-
ing the Company £4,000. and the preliminary expenses, excluding brokerage of lVhd. per
share, are estimated not to exceed £5OO.
STOCK EXCHANGE AND LISTING
Application for listing of the shares of the Company will be made to the Stock Exchange
of Adelaide, and when thought fit elsewhere.
APPLICATIONS
Cepies of the full Prospectus with forms of application attached may be obtained at the
offices of the Secretary pro tem. or of any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Applications for Shares must be made on one of these forms and must be accompanied
by a remittance covering application moneys amounting to 1/6 per share, and may be lodged
with the Secretary pro tem. or through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
Shareholders o£ Norseman Gold Mines No Liability will be entitled to be allotted up to
250,000 shares in this issue in priority to any other applicants, and in case of over-subscrip-
tion of such 250,000 shares will be allotted in proportion to the number of shares in such
last-named Company of which they are the re~istered holders. * Such allotment shall not
disentitle them to participate in the allotment of the remaining 150.000 shares.
The books cf Norseman Gold Mines No Liability will close on the 7th day of July. 1937.
for the purposes of ascertaining the persons entitled hereunder.
The subscription list will be closed on the 23rd day of July. 1937, or Immediately the
Issue is fully subscribed. In the case of over-subscription, the Directors may make allot-
ment at their discretion. If the number of shares allotted be less than the number applied
for surplus application moneys will oe returned.
though 6s. Bd. a share has been struck
off capital, difficulty is still experienced
in paying a worth-while rate on the share-
register. There have been patches of
comparative prosperity, but lately high
wool prices and competition have made
the going hard.
* * * *
The wave of pessimism which knocked
prices of gold shares down a fortnight
ago seemed to have run its course by the
beginning of last week, and a moderate
recovery was noticeable in nearly all
Australian issues. Almost every leading
stock made headway, except Placer
Development, which still showed heavy
depreciation. Boulder Perseverance has
been at the best price for some time and
North Kalgurlis are better. Mt.
Morgans were on the rise when news
of heavy selling of all gold stocks
in Johannesburg quietened the demand
for gold scrip here again.
H* *i*
A curious sidelight on the panic which
beset world speculators (and some in-
vestors) when rumors about the price of
gold got around is the fact that the
yellow metal has not fluctuated more
than a shilling or two, yet lead and
spelter have fallen from near £35 a ton
in London to £2O-22, and all other com-
modities have slumped. In other words,
the effect has occurred, but the cause has
still to happen! It has been a most
extraordinary mix-up, and it has bluffed
the most hardened speculators. It will
probably turn out to have been a good
thing, too, because in the long run un-
fettered speculation is a curse on industry,
and it is often at the root of financial
instability.
* * *
In London last week representatives
of the “City” in the House of Commons
were asking the Prime Minister for what
amounted to “a royal commission to pre-
vent a slump”—such, apparently, is still
the faith of some people in royal com-
missions. However, it can truly be said
that on very few occasions has so much
public interest been shown in the dangers
attached to a boom. Some think that
the last depression should be “a slump
to end all slumps,” so bitter were its
lessons. A distrust of financial gambling
is growing, and it is an excellent thing,
too. Stock Exchange and market
gamblers are often parasites of a very
dangerous kind. Investors can take it
for granted that, if the recent severe
check to climbing commodity and share
prices has prevented a boom, they will
in the long run be more than compen-
sated for market losses by steadier and
more profitable trading conditions.
The average number of good Austra-
lians employed in our factories during
1935-36 was 492,771, up over 40,000
compared with the pre-depression peak
year 1926-27. Compared with the worst
period of the depression, factory employ-
ment was up 156,000 at June 30, 1936,
there being about three people then em-
ployed for every two four years earlier.
At present 500,000 people are in manu-
facturing jobs, averaging about £3 10s.
a week, including women and children
under 16 years of age. For every two
men employed there is one woman or
child.
* * * *
Shares in Drug Houses of Australia
have again weakened in the market, the
general upset in investment support hav-
ing added to the uncertainty following the
recognition of the fact that Boots might
enter the Australian chemist-shop and
wholesale drug trade. Last sale of
Drug Houses scrip was at 265. 6d., the
yield being 4.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
In the term to June 30, 1936, the operat-
ing cos. earned enough to pay 7 p.c. on
Drug Houses’ capital; £23,919 was
carried to reserves. The current term
opened well, and the co. should show
the best profit since its rather optimisti-
cally regarded inception in 1929; the 1936
div. was the best to that date, but the
interim paid in April was at the same
rate. Drug Houses, like United Provi-
sions, General Industries, Australian
Portland Cement Pty., and some others,
was one of the pre-depression mergers
that failed to click straightway as
regards the anticipated improved profit-
earning owing to the general collapse in
trade that shortly followed. Finances
have improved considerably in recent
years, the amounts owing to the operating
cos. on trading account having been
worked down as conditions have im-
proved, enabling the cos. in their turn
to pay off a large portion of their debt.
Aggregate outside liabilities dropped from
£1,015,807 in 1931 to £520,191 in 1936.
At 13s. per ord. share, buyers of scrip
in Australian Drug, a holding co. in
D.H.A., pay only for market value of
the interest in the 129,626 shares held,
after allowing for the par value of the
prefs. Premises and plant amount to
£229,365, at present earning a couple of
thousand a year after paying all exes,
and charges on the debt (£108,267). In
the 1936 term Aust. Drug paid 2\ p.c.
to ord. shareholders (it received 5\ p.c.
from D.H.A.); with 6 p.c. from D.H.A.
this year and improved rentals a 4 p.c.
distribution might be possible. Yield
on a 4 p.c. basis would be 6.1 p.c. at 13s.
The prefs. at 21s. 6d. return 5.4 p.c. on
their minimum div. basis. Pref. shares
are popular at the moment.
In Melbourne last week:
Barrier stocks were up towards the end of
the week, lifting with improved quotes for
lead and spelter. Mt. Lyell (copper) shares
also firmed, and Electrolytic Zinc was much
more cheerful.
Herald shares were firmer at 68s. 9d. Re-
acting to the new Federal award, Yarra Falls
rights dropped to 75., then recovered to 7s. sd.
B.H.P. weakened, then came up again to over
755. for the contribs., 81s. for the paids. The
market apparently took note of the full year’s
improved steel production figures (up 17.9 p.c.)
published on this page last week.
Myer ords. sold at 365. 9d. and the prefs. at
355. 6d., the best prices for a month or two.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets; Sydney
m
u
mm
mm
■ II
HI
limp
ill
* 111
&
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Doctor says many diseases are communi-
cated by handshakes.”
“Trans-mitt-ed” seems a more suitable
word.
*l* -I*
“Man struggles with dentist.” —News item.
The result was probably a draw.
“The three months’
training of Sydney
police recruits com-
prises study of police
duties.”
— “S. M, Herald.”
They’ll even be
giving soldiers mili-
tary training next.
•b ’b •b •b
“Members of a South
Brisbane football team
are all teetotallers.”
What, no full-
backs?
•J* •b -b •b
The piping times
of peace seem to
have become fuming
interludes.
* •b •b -i-
-“ Australia is not yet
fully settled.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Still, our politi-
cians haven’t fin-
ished with it yet.
“She claimed that her husband struck the
baby with a golf stick.” —Divorce report.
He was probably only trying to putt it
to sleep.
*b *!• *!*•
“My husband told me that he preferred red-
headed women.” —Divorce evidence.
Since he preferred their topknots red,
It might have helped had she but said —
To prove her love no idle whim —
That willingly she’d dye for him!
McM.
•b *b *b *b
Meteorological Pjugilismi.
“ ‘lt was no foul,’ declared Pete Sarron,
weatherweight champion of the world, when he
was disqualified in his match with Henry
Mizler. He was howled down by the crowd.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
A storm of criticism is always liable to
break over a weatherweight champion.
None of them reign very long, anyway.
Take the former Australian champion,
“Cyclone” Boreas. He was a real hurri-
cane hitter who blasted his way through
to the title, but when he got it he started
to drift, and got too fond of the draught
stuff. Then he had to defend his title
against “Snow” Bonebuster, the Fitzroy
Tornado, at Melbourne.
The, contest took place in an open-air
stadium. As the enormous challenger
climbed through the ropes and acknow-
ledged in his breezy manner the thun-
derous applause the champ, shivered. It
may have been the cold atmosphere, but
the fans thought he was windy.
They started off at lightning pace, and
soon the blustering “Cyclone” was blow-
ing hard. He made a few wild swings
that missed, as he only had a hazy idea
where his opponent was. Then from out
of the gloom a terrific uppercut caught
him on the chin, and he felt himself
being wafted along as if on a gentle
zephyr. He eventually came to under the
shower.
One of Melbourne’s famous pea-soup
fogs, which reduced visibility to 18in.,
had upset the calculations of the weather-
weight champ. g
“As a novelty, it was decided that the oldest,
woman present should be president for the June
meeting.” —Report on a women’s association.
The June meeting was abandoned,
•b •b
“Why do they call it the wedding breakfast?”
asks a correspondent.
Probably because it’s the first meal the
bridegroom has after he wakes up.
“b *i* 'l*
U.C.P.
“Whisperers are buzzing about this electo-
rate like f1ie5....1 understand my opponent is
known as a good cocktail mixer.”
— Candidate, N.S.W. by-election.
Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before
you as the selected candidate of the
U.C.P. (United Cocktail Party). I have
no desire to indulge in personalities, but
the imbecile opposing me wouldn’t know
a cocktail shaker from a concrete mixer.
Not until we have a cocktail shaker in
every home will we have a happy and
contented people. What did Gladstone
say in ’B2? I’m hanged if I know what
he said; but with a couple of my cock-
tails under his belt I know what he
would have said!
D. McM.
“ Alfie , spit out them tickets for the gentleman !”
“A review of Australian racing shows it is
particularly strong in three States.”
Especially the dreaming, waking and
walking states.
**• ‘l* *!* »J«
“Diamonds can be made by hand,” says a
jeweller.
And a hand can be made by diamonds.
►!*
“Correspondent to a Sydney daily suggests
that subways be built underground across busy
corners to lessen danger to pedestrians.”
In other words, it is proposed that
pedestrians should go underground
before, instead of after, the accident.
Me and Myself.
The conflict in medical testimony at a
Sydney inquiry about loss of memory
reminds me of my own experience re-
cently.
I had lost myself, but with difficulty
had retraced my steps to the last pub I
could remember being at. As I arrived,
Jones or one of him—cried “Ah, here
you are, Aitchem! ” That satisfied me ;
but on the way home I met an old cobber
who told me that I didn’t seem to be
myself. That got me worried; so I went
back to the pub.
The mob had gone, and the barmaid
gave me a queer look when I asked her
if she had seen me. “You want to catch
up to yourself! ” she said.
As that indicated that I hadn’t gone
long I set out to search for myself.
Knowing I would find myself in a pub
somewhere, I went on a protracted hunt,
without success.
My inquiries at home were even less
successful. “You ought to see yourself!”
my wife said angrily.
It was not until I woke and found
myself in bed that I was sure I was not
lost for good.
H. M.
“In parts of China, the tradesmen call on
their customers and recite what is owing in-
stead of sending an account.”
The popular pastime of burning bills
should have added attractions there.
•b 4* *b *b
He gave up women and wine and song —•
Joys that he cherished the most.
But he hasn’t given them up very long —
Just since he gave up the ghost!
O. W. W.
•b *b *b *b
Cranium Crafts.
“Skulls engraved with Australian aboriginal
designs may influence the trend of Paris
fashions next year.”
It’s getting rather difficult for a lady of
the old school like myself to keep up
with these fashion changes. I’ve just
spent a guinea on a permanent wave
when really I should have used the
money to square up my s.p. account.
Had I only known in time I could
have got a close haircut from the butcher
for nothing, and had a go at the en-
graving myself. We always were an ar-
tistic family, in a sedate Victorian way.
I cleaned up all the prizes at the
church bazaar three .years running for
hand-painted eggshells when I was a
girl, and I suppose I was the first young
matron in our set to apply poker work
to the cranium. I had to, really, in self-
defence. Mr. McWhoosh was rather a
handful at times.
With that background I should be well
to the fore when the new fashion comes
in. One might even make quite a nice
income as a skull engraver, but in any
case it appeals to me as a restful sort of
hobby when one gets overexcited by too
much knitting.
I think I shall go out to La Perouse
this week-end and see if I can get any
original designs from the aborigines
there. And I must find out what are
the correct tools to use, a mallet and a
cold chisel, or a wax stencil and sul-
phuric acid.
Aggie McWhoosh.
A Subjective Poet Backslides.
This yellow box containing
Two golf balls and six cigarette-butts
Represents the glory of your hair
And the burnt-out passion of my soul.
Beside it, upon my table,
I have composed a jam-tin lyric
Daubed with purple patches
And half-filled with very-dead prawns.
But I’m tired of making poems
Of bootlaces, bottle-tops and wishbones,
So I’m resorting to free verse
To let you know, my sweet,
That if you think I’m still mad about
you
Your brains need brushing.
For I’ve just met something
That makes you look
Like a Lapland dove that’s moulting.
P. O. M. C.
Some Little-known Facts About
Alaska.
II.-IST HISTORY.
Alaska was discovered in 1741 by Cap-
tain Vitus Bering, of the Russian Navy,
who had set out with the dual purpose of
finding out what sort of a sea it was that
was using his name and of exploring the
North-west Passage. As nobody in
Russia had ever heard of any instrument
except the blunt ones the coroners were
always mentioning, Bering was forced to
use Japanese-made ones to navigate by,
so that when he set a n.-w. course he ran
into Alaska, exactly s.-e. from where he
started.
When he came back and reported to
the Emperor, Paul VIII., that he had
found a land where flowers grew out of
the ice his royal master, impressed with
the possibilities of a country that could
produce a tipple apparently more potent
than vodka, ordered him to annex it.
Bering, however, had never annexed a
country before—in fact, he didn’t even
know what the word meant, being only
a graduate of a Russian university. As
he didn’t like to disclose his ignorance to
Paul he again set sail, hoping that the
Eskimos could tell him something about
it.
The next two years he spent sailing
furiously up and down several seas, from
pack-ice to the tropics, looking in vain
for Alaska. It was not until he was rum-
maging through the loughboy drawer in
his stateroom one day that he dis-
covered the printed instructions that had
come with the Japanese sextant and bin-
nacle—he had forgotten to wind them
up!
By the time he eventually reached
Alaska (he had to wait till the sun was
in eclipse on a cold windy day before
the sextant would work, and then he had
to aim seven longitudes to the right for
his calculations to get within 300 miles
of his objective) he found the place
settled and himself canonised. And to
this day St. Vitus is the patron saint
of all Russian explorers.
Meanwhile the matter of annexation
had been left in abeyance. In 1867 Pro-
fessor Shuffleoff, of the University of
Krkxlzsk, after years of research, had
almost stumbled on the meaning of the
word when he died. The then reigning
Tsar, casting about for some where-
withal to buy a diamond tiara that the
Tsarina’s chief maid-in-waiting was press-
ing him for, ordered that Alaska be sold,
under the impression that it was one of
his disused shooting-boxes.
America offered two million pounds
for it. Russia stuck out for more, so the
Yanks, admitting that they were prepared
to go higher, offered as much as 75 p.c.
of their original figure. As percentages
were anew one on the Russians they
snapped it up with the same keen busi-
ness acumen that still characterises their
management of Five-year Plans. So for
lj millions the U.S.A. bought a land
from which to date they’ve got back only
about 700 millions. It is still a standing
joke in Moscow the way Russia tricked
America into paying such a big sum for
a mass of snow and ice. Despite the
“Cronk News’s” four different theories
on the matter, it can be authoritatively
stated that failure to laugh at this joke
was the real reason behind the recent
mass execution of Soviet generals.
Modern Alaska was founded by
“Dangerous Dan” McGrew. This sturdy
Scotch-Irish-American miner had heard
that, as well as gold, the place contained
a great number of frozen wastes. The
idea of waste in any form shocked the
Caledonian part of McGrew’s soul, and
he hastened forthwith to Alaska. But
he had no luck with gold, and the wastes
he found he couldn’t prevent. Heart-
broken, he started on his way back.
Mr. McGrew came upon a lone pros-
pector, who asked him where he was
making for. Dan replied: “I’m goin’
’ome.” “Waal, pard, y’r headin’ in the
wrahng direction,” said the optimist;
“make for them thar hills.” And that’s
how it was that Dangerous Dan McGrew
reached Nome, made the Malamoote
saloon famous, and got himself into an
English poem, which was more than
Bering could do.
S. W. K.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Nearly three decades ago Fossil, owned
by James Scobie and ridden by his
nephew George, fell in the Windarra
Hurdle at Moonee Valley, but won the
Grand National at Flemington a week
later. On Saturday Pooley Bridge failed
to complete the Valley course. Will he
take the National? He no longer appears
a certainty.
After an amazingly brilliant win over
the battens at headquarters on June 5
Pooley Bridge made an indifferent show-
ing in the V.R.C. Birthday Handicap on
June 14. Last week he “schooled” badly at
Mentone, unseating Les Healey, through
running off at one of the obstacles. On
Saturday he was rather unruly at the
barrier —an unusual thing for him. In
the race he travelled generously enough
as far as the third hurdle. Taking off
too far, he stifled it, slid along the turf
on landing and unseated Healey. An-
other horse—Devonbrook —then collided
with Pooley Bridge, whose near stifle
was hurt, though not badly. If delivered
at the post on Saturday as fit as he ap-
peared to be at the week-end he may
return to correct jumping and win his
second successive National. On paper
he towers above the rest of the field. The
long galloping stretches at Flemington
and the marathon journey are all in
favor of the Ornamentation gelding. But
there is just that doubt about his nego-
tiation of the sticks.
The Windarra Hurdle was won from
end to end by Mystery Ship, a grey son
of Caravel, who started at 10 to 1.
Having only recently had his attention
turned to jumping, Mystery Ship was
not entered for the National, an omission
that his owner-trainer, T. J. Johnson,
may now deplore.
Dakwood (Windbag-Eaton Blue)
chased Mystery Ship in the most valiant
fashion, but failed by \\ lengths to over-
haul the grey. He must be seriously
reckoned with in the big event. H. and
M. Bourke, of Pakenham, who own
Dakwood, had their colors carried by
many notable steeplechasers. They won
£6OOO with Irish Rufus, £2OOO with
Brenda’s Son, £2OOO with Ancient Mari-
ner and £l5OO with Green Don.
In the second circuit of the Valiev
course Highland Fling stumbled after
landing over the hurdle which brought
down Pooley Bridge. A desperate effort
by George Dally to retain his seat proved
Unavailing. At the time Highland Fling
was making a nice forward move. It
did not promise absolute success, but
was encouraging from a National stand-
point.
In course discussions on the National
Hurdle the price of Pooley Bridge eased,
but he remained favorite. Next in
demand came Dakwood, followed by
Tapageur, whose Williamstown success
on June 12 has left an excellent impres-
sion. Bridge of Mar and Fulham were
in fair request.
Recovering the good form that he dis-
played last season as a juvenile Great
Feast (Great Star-Enough) inflicted a
last-stride defeat on Finch in the Chan-
dos Handicap. The dam of Great Feast
is by Burrabadeen (son of Bobadil) from
the granddam of Purser, as well as being
a sister to Abundance, with whom Frank
McGrath captured two Derbies and two
St. Legers for the late Bob Phillips.
Dick Bradfield sprang a surprise by
annexing the Burnewang Handicap with
Stoic for O. R. Fairbairn. Odds of 20
to 1 were obtainable about the Heroic
colt, who paid £9 10s. for ss. on the
tote. Stoic reached the judge a length
in advance of W. Tindall’s even-money
favorite, Sun Beau. Third was the
Sydney colt Rosante, who seems cer-
tain to pick up a race in Melbourne.
Valley punters were entirely astray in
the jumping events. Jupiter started a
7-to-2 favorite for the Windarra Hurdle
and ran last. Monkey Tricks was backed
down to 5 to 2 for the Travancore
Steeple and fell. Philax (12 to 1) took
the fences in his stride, and scored with
consummate ease from Character and
Santa Casa. The effort of Santa Casa
pleased his National admirers. Philax
isn’t an aspirant for crosscountry laurels
at Flemington.
Prince Sion, whose sire carried the
livery of the late Ned Moss as a gal-
loper, staged a well-deserved victory in
the Deep Creek Handicap, for which he
was a 5-to-l favorite. Demagogue and
Irvin, each of whom had a strong fol-
lowing, filled the minor places. The
M.L. stallion Desert Chief was an im-
pressive fifth.
Run in a thick fog, the Greenvale
Welter went to Bullalla (6 to 1) by a
length from old Dermid (33 to 1), who
pipped Intruder on the post. Humorist,
the 7-to-4 favorite, may have lost his
bearings in the murky atmosphere.
$ $ $
Incessant rain, difficulty of picking ’em
on a dead track —Randwick has had 15
inches this month —and the international
football next door kept thousands away
from the A.J.C. winter meeting. So the
experiment of selling “combination” —ss.
each way—tote tickets did not get a fair
chance. It was appreciated all the same,
and the club will get the benefit at future
meetings. Five-shilling “doubles” tickets
should be the next innovation.
It is unusual nowadays for owners and
trainers to tackle open company with
two-year-olds. A. Louison and “M. Lun-
dern” have substantial reason to be satis-
fied with their reversion to the former
practice. They pitted their chestnut geld-
ing Theolos against the best sprinters in
training in the June Plate. The half-
brother to Raleigh made hacks of the
older horses ; he got a run on the rails
and had the race in his keeping at the
home turn. Aureus was second, five
lengths away, and Rosmead third. Theolos
was backed from 15 to 1 to tens. Un-
fortunately he wasn’t nominated for the
Epsom.
In the Winter Nursery Brazandt
demonstrated his liking for soft going.
He hopped out smartly and, making light
of his 9st. 21b., won in a canter from
Sydney and Troy, after having been sup-
ported from 20 to 1 to 8 to 1. Brazandt
is a half-brother to Rembrandt, and
should develop into a topnotch sprinter.
There is plenty of him, and he is a proved
weight-carrier.
Something went wrong with Gay
Knight at Rosehill, and he had to be
pulled up. He was all right for the
Winter Plate, and showed heaps of pluck
in holding off a strong run by M ala’s
stable-mate, Golden Treasure. Fair Diana
was third; going and distance (13 fur-
longs) were too much for her. Cid was
in a sour mood: he refused to go past
the mile pole, and Oro finished last. Gay
Knight has improved and may be worth
considering in long races in the spring ;
and Golden Treasure has also come on.
Gay Knight started at 7 to 1.
Pancake (11 to 2), a son of John
Buchan-Yule Cake, had his first win
when he took the Novice from Rockne
and Kirrang. Finch rode an excellent
race, slipping his mount through on the
rails turning for home, where some of
the riders overdid matters by going too
wide. Pancake has been a bit of a dis-
appointment, but he can gallop.
Norman Crow, an A 1 bury bookmaker,
is having a run of luck with Cinzano. His
horse was backed from seven? to fours
for the A.J.C. Amateur Cup, and landed
the money. Ridden by a Culcairn pas-
toralist, S. Graham, the big son of
Tippler, who is held on lease from
Hunter White, came home gamely, but
was flat out to beat Scarlet King, who got
away from his rider when doing his pre-
liminary and galloped about seven fur-
longs. After Six was third. Cinzano has
now won five races in succession. |
Only six jumpers lined up for the
A.J.C. Hurdle. Neither the field nor the
race was worthy of the prize-money
(£650). Trechillo, owned by Gordon
Brown, a former trainer and driver of
trotters, took the lead when Bowthorne
fell three furlongs from home, and,
though he scrambled over the final ob-
stacle, he won by six lengths from Grey
Abbott, with Equable five away. Spear-
bine was last. Trechillo started at 7 to 2.
Hastate was made favorite for the
Exeter Handicap. He was not sighted
until the last furlong; then he finished
fourth. Dutiful and Buonarroti (6 to 1)
had a great battle over the last half-mile.
Buonarroti went kindly for Darby Munro,
and, though he was tiring, he beat the
country performer Blue Blood by a
length, with Dutiful half a length away.
The backing of the last-named was
a surprise, as he had not shown to ad-
vantage in heavy going at Rosehill.
* * * *
Evidently the Melbourne and Sydney
handicappers have a higher opinion of
Pamelus than the Brisbane man who
gave him 9st. 1 lib. in the Doomben New-
market (six furlongs) and 9st. 101 b. in
the Doomben Cup (10 furlongs), each
with a 7st. minimum. Though the Bull-
head stallion was beaten out of a place
in the Doomben Newmarket (he didn’t
run in the other race) he gets 9st. 91b. in
the Epsom, 9st. 51b. (with Allunga) in
the Caulfield Cup, 9st. 31b. (with Golden
Promise) in the Melbourne Cup and 9st.
71b. (with Valiant Chief) in the Cantala
Stakes, being on the top line in each case.
Subjoined is a list of horses that look
likely:
Caulfield Cup. —Mala (Bst. 111 b.),
Silver Standard (Bst. 71b.), Curator (Bst.
51b.), The Trump (7st. 101 b.), Ajax (7st.
101 b.), Diaphane, (7st. 91b.), Gay Knight
(7st. 81b.) and Damalis (7st. 61b.).
Melbourne Cup.—Allunga (9st. lib.),
Mala (Bst. 121 b.), Sarcherie (Bst. 91b.),
Silver Standard (Bst. 61b.), Egmont (Bst.
41b.), Mestoravon (Bst. 21b.), Manolive
(Bst. lib.), The Trump (7st. 91b.) and Ajax
(7st. 81b.).
Epsom.—Gold Rod (9st. 31b.), The
Chanter (Bst. 91b.), Siren (Bst. 31b.), Silver
Rose (Bst. lib.), Sal Volatile (7st. 121 b.),
Tuckiar (7st. 121 b.), Rodborough (7st.
81b.) and Black Laughter (7st. 71b).
Metropolitan.—Mala (Bst. 131 b.), Silver
Standard (Bst. 71b.), Egmont (Bst. 51b.),
Mestoravon (Bst. 31b.), Sir Ross (7st.
131 b.), Golden Treasure, (7st. 91b.), Gay
Knight (7st. 71b.) and Old Rowley (7st.
51b.).
Possible doubles: Mala and Ajax, the
two Cups ; Siren and Sir Ross, Epsom
and Metrop.
* * * *
Tapestry has been sent to Melbourne
for the G.N. meetings. He is about the
most travelled horse in Australia these
days, and thrives on change of air, scene,
feed, track and all the rest of it. So do
Gay Chou and Mohican. It is a wonder
that speculator horsy men don’t profit
by such examples. Long ago a thriving
trade was done in buying Melbourne and
Sydney horses that had failed to repro-
duce their track gallops in actual races
for the Westralian market. Many of
them improved wonderfully in the new
environment, and not a few were brought
back east to repeat and in some cases
improve on their Westralian successes.
Such were Paul Pry, Macadam, Dyed
Garments, Flintlock, Blue Spec, May
King and The Dimmer. Nowadays it
is rare for Victorian and N.S.W. failures
to be bought for Westralian racing. There
might be money in a revival of the old
practice.
* * * *
Back in Sydney from Brisbane, Mohi-
can showed in a division of the Flying
Handicap at Victoria Park on Wednes-
day that the change had not disagreed
with him. He was handicapped at the
luxurious weight of 7st. 111 b., and an
apprentice’s allowance brought it down
to 7st. 61b. The boy found it difficult to
restrain him from winning by 50 yards,
but managed to reduce the margin to
four lengths. And then Mohican wasn’t
favorite, Casicasado occupying that posi-
tion : 6 to 4 Casicasado, 7 to 4 Mohican.
There was a bit of money for Turbine,
although he had to hump 9st. 51b. over
six and a half furlongs of sodden ground
—-for aged stallions who race almost
every week and seldom win, Turbine and
his stable-mate Oro get terrific burdens.
{Continued on next page.)
Foofbrcswl
For their match with Australia at
Sydney C.G., the Springboks reverted to
traditional Afrikander methods, and they
prevailed. Most of the playing field was
a mud patch, and though the game com-
menced in sunshine it rained throughout
the second half. The visitors strength-
ened their forwards, plumping for the
heaviest; moved Craven from behind the
scrum to five-eighth and chose hard-
tackling centres. Australia was without
Hodgson—selected, but injured—and
couldn't get the ball from line-outs ; nor
could Bonis get it from the scrums.
Craven made no attempt to run with the
ball. So soon as he got it a short-kick
put it out, and the ’Boks methodically
drove down to the Australian line. If the
ball did get beyond Craven, the full-back,
Brand, did the kicking, never looking for
length, determined only to put it out. The
centres saw the ball occasionally, the
wingers hardly ever. The Australian
backs got it very seldom, and when they
did tried to run: there were four men
on the ’Bok side whose only job it was
to knock them down.
Once Richards did get away, just after
the second-half began. From a ruck
Bastard, one of the new forwards, had
hurled himself over for a try —3 -nil.
McShane whipped a pass to Richards,
who dashed round Craven, caught
slightly out of position, raced from just
outside his 25 through the mud, drew
Brand, then gave the ball to Towers. The
captain crossed close in and converted:
5-3. The ’Boks, unperturbed, started their
push again. It took them 20 minutes to
get to the line, then a scrum carried the
ball over, and Bergh dropped on it—6-5.
Ten minutes afterwards Brand kicked a
penalty goal to make it 9-5, and it fin-
ished that way.
The. crowd didn’t like the football. The
’Boks’ tactics were never spectacular,
though always solid and often effective.
Without the ball, the Australians could
do little but try to keep the visitors out,
and that they did meritoriously till over-
borne by sheer weight. With Stone back
as hooker and Hodgson in it may be a
different tale next time, especially if the
field is dry.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Springboks begin a
Queensland season of three matches with
a game against an Australian XV at
Brisbane on Saturday, following this up
with a mid-week match at Toowoomba
against the doughty Downsmen and then
returning to Brisbane for a smack at
Queensland on the Saturday. The 1921
Afrikanders did not go to Brisbane, the
local Rugby Union not having been
resurrected from its war-time slumbers.
* * * *
The Rugby Leaguers to leave next
month on a tour taking in Maoriland,
England and —it’s suggested—France
were chosen on Saturday after a rather
dreary N.S.W.-Queensland game in Bris-
bane—New South won again, 16-11. All
but six of the 28 tourists —four backs and
two forwards from Queensland —come
from N.S.W. The captain has still to be
chosen, but Prigg, the N.S.W. lock man,
has been recommended. There are two
full-backs, Whittle (Q.) and Ward
(N.S.W.), but Beaton, chosen as a centre,
may fill the position in the Tests. Mc-
Lean, a Union rep. the last few years,
got one of the wing possies.
* * * *
South Melbourne considerably im-
proved its position in the V.F.L. com-
petition by decisively beating St. Kilda,
14- to 8-12, on Saturday. Collingwood
overtook a third-quarter lead to down
Richmond, 14-9 to 12-8. Melbourne easily
beat Fitzroy, 11-23 to 7-8; Carlton,
15- defeated Essendon, 13-18; Gee-
long, 18-16, overwhelmed North Mel-
bourne, 4-15 ; and Hawthorn, 15-16, just
got home, against Footscray, 14-15. The
first four are still Melbourne, Colling-
wood, Geelong and St. Kilda, with Saints
now trailing Geelong in points.
'k
“Fitzcray”: According to the Victorian
Football Association the League has not
only ignored the mutual-assistance agree-
ment but has never ceased spragging the
Association wheel. One practice which
greatly annoys the Association is the sign-
ing-up of junior players. It is common
when an Association club asks a junior
to join to be told he has signed with a
League club. One of these clubs has
over 100 juniors on its list. Not five per
cent, will ever reach even second
eighteens.
{Continued on next page.)
Crawford and McGrath got through to
the last eight at Wimbledon. Bromwich
was beaten by Austin, also in the eight.
In the doubles Crawford and McGrath
were defeated early by Menzel and
Hecht.
* * * *
Australian polo-players and -ponies
must now be rated among the world’s
best, for three of the Ashton brothers and
Bob Skene beat Jaguars 9-7 for the
Champion Cup at Hurlingham. The
Jaguars—two Americans, the Indian
champion Hanut Singh, and an English-
man —were considered the best in Eng-
land and had splendidly trained ponies.
Skene hit five goals, J. H. Ashton the
other four.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Iramon Handicap: Palatinate;
next, Humorist.
G.N. Hurdle: Dakwood, 1 ;
Pooley Bridge, 2 ; Fulham, 3.
Winter Handicap: Regular
Bachelor ; next, Dermid.
Kensington Steeple: Cape
Lilock ; next, El Damaroyal.


SILVER EDGE' 1
BRAKE LINING
Y
TRADE MARK REGISTERED . TH E RAYBESTOS CO.
SAVE MONEY/
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper, in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Vic.
for YEARS of ACCUft Acv
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET”
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy.
TYkFuAUCE
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
lib. units clearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
P.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER &
BRO., LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield,
England.
Under the Whip
On favorites and outsiders, the latter
especially, the s.o. tote almost invariably
pays better prices than bookmakers have
offered. At the mid-week Caulfield
meeting, on a day disastrous to favorites,
dollar punters who backed First Edition
for the Welter Purse drew £39 Bs.
straightout and £7 10s. for a place. First
Edition was a skinner with most of the
ringmen, but some of them had him at
50 to 1, though others would not have
laid that price—there are bookmakers
who would not lay 50 to 1 against a
bull camel matched with a Phar Lap.
First Edition is a three-year-old colt by
Spearhead-The Amazon.
M«Q. and Rafferty
At Chicago on June 22 Louis knocked
out Braddock in eight rounds. Fifty
thousand people paid $700,000 to see
Braddock get a hiding, and Braddock
got $350,000 for taking it. He must be
accounted a very lucky champion. He
beat no one of any consequence but
Lewis, the negro, who is two stone
lighter, and Baer; and Baer, as seen in
the films, couldn’t fight his way out of
a paper bag. Baer’s only punch is a
right swing, and he has no idea of block-
ing or otherwise avoiding a straight left.
Nor is Louis of much importance,
judged on his fight films. As Schmel-
ing discovered, he drops his left after
jabbing with it, a fault of which no real
champion was ever guilty, and compared
with the coons Australia knew, Johnson,
Langford and McVea, he looks dull-
witted, and at times a bit scared. Brad-
dock had been out of the ring for a trifle
over two years. He ought to have been
warned by the experiences of Corbett,
Fitzsimmons and Jeffries ; and they were
champions.
Schmeling and Farr have now been
matched to meet in London ; and since
Farr is the champion of England and
Schmeling has beaten Louis, and was in
the ring ready to meet Braddock at the
time appointed for that worthy’s contest
with him in New York, they have a
better right to call their affair a bout
for the world’s championship than Brad-
dock and Louis had.
* * * *
Evidently the Leichhardt Stadium
people made no mistake when they
handed contracts to the three Filipinos
now in Sydney. The first to show his
paces was De Guzman, said to be feather-
weight champion of the Orient, who
met the Australian bantam and “fedder”
champion Mickey Miller in the Balmain-
road hall on Wednesday night, and beat
him after a splendid fight. Unleashing a
left that landed hard and often, De Guz-
man had the better of it in the four open-
ing rounds, although he took delivery of
solid rights to the body. Thenceforward
it was very level scrapping, considerable
punishment being given and received. De
Guzman gained his second wind in the
10th round, and at the end of the fif-
teenth had a clear, though not a great,
margin. The winner had to be carried
from the ring to his dressing-room; it
transpired that his right foot had been
hurt when Miller stood on it in the.
second round. The Filipino is a game
little chap ; and so is Miller.
Footferawß
“Fitzcray”: After 16 years the Austra-
lian National Football tourney is to be
held at Perth in August. Westralian foot-
ball is of so high a standard nowadays
that S.A. and Victoria are leaving no-
thing undone to ensure the selection of
the most powerful State teams available.
Whether this means that Victoria, for
one, will depart from the invariable prac-
tice of picking two or three men from
each club instead of the best available in
the competition remains to be seen. Club
interests are all-powerful in Melbourne.
**„ * *
“Rover”: There are some sensible folk
in Australian Rules football as played in
Sydney. Newtown and Sydney, which
were to have met on the cyclonic Satur-
day which marred the Springbok Rugby
game against N.S.W., decided that it was
no weather to ask a decent footballer
to make an ass of himself in. Though
the ground was 6in. deep in water one
man from each team went out on the
field, and kicked two goals and a behind
apiece before walking off again. The
field umpire was present, and the clubs
maintain that a draw would be the
proper verdict; but the rules committee
fined them £2 apiece, with deprivation of
competition points.
* * * *
“Mush”: According to the Spring-
boks’ skipper, Nel, the only match he has
ever played in under conditions even
approaching those of the game against
N.S.W. was that against Swansea during
the ’Bok tour of Britain in 1931-32.
Writer took a humble share in one be-
tween Queensland and M.L. in Welling-
ton in 1896. Not only was there inces-
“... .and, remember, no more HIGH-JUMPING.”
sant rain mixed with sleet driving before
a gale from the Antarctic, but the ground
had been newly cut out of a hillside. It
was just loose earth, with grass showing
through it. Even lightweights went in
well over their boot-tops in the red por-
ridge under foot, while heavies like the
elder Tom Pauling and “Offside” Mc-
Kenzie, with other All-Black giants, were
at times temporarily immobilised.
H»
“Stand Off”: N.S.W. Rugby Union
made a bad bloomer when it resolved not
to take out a rain insurance policy on the
opening match of the Springboks in Syd-
ney. In view of the huge cost of bring-
ing the Afrikanders to Australia every
match should be insured, for one good
mackerel payment would make up for
a bucketful of sprat premiums.
* * ❖ *
“Amateur Pro.”: The Rugby Union
continues to regain its old footing in
Queensland. The N.Q. secondary schools,
which had to turn to the League game
when the Union closed down during the
war, have decided to go back to the
amateur fold. Where these nurseries of
good football lead, the clubs are sure
to follow in due course.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Unbeaten in Maori-
land, the English Soccer amateurs play
their first Australian game on Saturday,
July 3, with the first Test on July 10 —
both at Sydney C.G., a game against
South Maitland at Maitland coming in
between. Brisbane will see the second
Test on July 17, and the third is down
for Newcastle on July 20. After that the
team plays at Melbourne against an Aus-
tralian XI and against a Victorian coun-
try side “somewhere in Victoria.”
Matches at Adelaide and Perth complete
the tour.
* * * *
“Centre”: After exhaustive trials,
N.S.W. selectors have picked the team
to meet the English amateur Soccer
players in Sydney on July 3 at S.C.G.
Six of the players come from Sydney
and five from the. Newcastle district. The
South Coast Association will be free to
look on from the sidelines—a comedown
for a body which not so long ago was
well in the State Soccer limelight.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The women’s golf
championship of N.S.W. at Sydney pro-
vided a nice point of law which will
probably have to go to St. Andra’s for
final decision. A player sent her drive
off into the rough. In case the ball was
unplayable she decided to play a pro-
visional ball. When she reached the first
ball she found it unplayable and returned
to play the provisional one, but her
caddie had picked this up. She drove
off another pill from the tee, resolved to
let the authorities worry out her penal-
ties. The match committee argued itself
blue in the face before deciding that she
had played five —the first drive, the pro-
visional shot, which made three strokes,
and another two for returning to the
tee to play again the provisional ball the
caddie had lifted. Other opinions were
that the lady incurred only three penalty
strokes, while yet another party was all
for seven. The rule which apparently
deals with the situation is nine, which
says that in stroke play the penalty is two
strokes for touching a ball before the
hole is played out. This would make the
player five down before going back to
the tee.
Queensland’s associate golf champion-
ship went for the second time to Miss
Janet Gardiner, who defeated the runner-
up, Mrs. Campbell, by the thumping
margin of 12 and 11. The loser, the first
country player to figure in a final of
the event, won only one hole of the 25
played. The winner put up an unusual
record by also taking the foursomes with
her mother for a partner.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Blackheath (N.S.W.)
golf club is to have its face lifted and to
take on existence in a new guise. The
club is being formed into a limited
liability co., and will be run by a manager,
J. Z. Huie, secretary for 15 years, retir-
ing from the job. The course has been
lengthened to 4400 yards, and par is now
69.
* * ifc *
“Hoylake”: The British open cham-
pionship begins on July 5 on Carnoustie.
Carnoustie is the longest championship
course in Britain, stretching to over 7000
yards, and it is the most up to date in
braid Scotland. It is a seaside sand-dune
course, and there is always a wind blow-
ing in from the North Sea which, even
in summer, is calculated to freeze the
bones of any but an East Coast Scot.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The British women’s
golf championship went to Titian-haired
Miss Anderson, better known during her
tour of Australia with the British
women’s team as “Ginger Jess.” Before
leaving this end of the world she won
the Maoriland championship, and has
also held the French title. Her opponent
in the final of the British event was
Doris Park, a daughter of the profes-
sional, Willie Park, junior, accounted the
deadliest putter the game has known.
“Hoylake”: Pam Barton
has been threatened with loss
of amateur status. She is
publishing a book on golf,
and has been informed by
the St. Andrews authorities
that if she receives any “re-
muneration” for it she will
be regarded as a professional.
This is something new. Not
long ago players writing
press matter on golf were
banned from championship
events, but in the past books
on golf have been written by
the hundred without any
notice being taken of the fact.
Miss Barton says the Ladies’
Golf Union and leading
authorities on the rules of
the game assured her she was on safe
ground, and naturally she desires neither
to lose her status nor the prospective
profits of authorship.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: A curious golf inci-
dent is reported from Kingston Heath
(Vic.) course. A low skimming drive saw
the ball impaled on the beak of a mag-
pie which was walking on the fairway.
The beak broke off, and poor maggie flew
off leaving half of it embedded in the
ball. The blow must have been of tre-
mendous force to send the bill through
the flinty ball-cover, and the wonder is
that the shock didn’t break the bird’s
neck.
* * * *
“Canny Lad”: Stewart, M.P., told a
golf club meeting recently that he was
prepared to enter into negotiations with
the club for the supply of second-hand
golf balls. One boundary of his property
at Dundas (N.S.W.) marches with a golf
fairway. Numerous balls are hit into the
Stewart domain, but, as it is protected by
a formidable barbed-wire fence, players
are content to suffer the loss. So every
week-end yields a harvest. Owners of
properties adjoining golf courses may
find a profitable suggestion in the tale.


YOUR OLD
ABOUT
COUNTRY RADIO
NO MORE Transporting
HEAVY ACCUMULATORS
cx/cpv FEW WEEKS
tr
no
ANont^ s -
U
OVB
Air Cell operated models
are already available under
the following well-known
brands:
BRITON S.T.C.
STERLING BEALE
TASMA KREISLER
ZENITH LEKMEK
GENALEX BREVILLE
WELDON SYMFONA
STROMBERG - CARLSON
ARISTOCRAT (E.S.M.)
- - - PARAMOUNT - - -
Times have changed. No longer is it necessary
for the man on the land to put up with the
cost and inconvenience of recharging heavy
accumulators for his radio. NOW he can
own an
AIR CELL OPERATED RADIO
Latest and most modern advance in the con-
struction of farm radio. Equipped with an
EVEREADY AIR CELL that gives more than
a year of trouble-free "life" with normal use-
it requires NO SERVICING!
EVEREADY AIR CELL
EVER READY CO. (AUSTRALIA) LTD., SYDNEY. s.e.a.3a.
Build Business and
Cut Transport Costs
IN the Commer range
there is a vehicle lor
every trade, for almost
every transport task. A
vehicle packed with more-
for-your-money features
today's biggest value in any
transport field.
COUNT ON
SB
BRITISH TRUCKS
V/. AUSTRALIA:
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.
900 Hay Street
Perth, W.A.
N.S.W.:
john McGrath ltd.
155 Elizabeth Street
Sydney, N.S.W.
VICTORIA:
OVERSEAS MOTORS PTY. LTD.
222 Exhibition Street
Melbourne, C.l. Vic,
S. AUSTRALIA:
WAYMOUTH MOTOR CO. LTD.
42 Way mouth Street
Adelaide, S./4.
TASMANIA:
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS
York Street
Launceston, Tas.
QUEENSLAND:
john McGrath ltd.
358 Wickham Street
Valley, Brisbane, Qld.
JR
World Exporters: IIOOTES Limit
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
e d ,
NC2A
Miscellaneous
“Bob Punter”: Though it failed to
convert me from a lifelong addiction to
the neddies, a night at Harold Park
(Sydney) dogs at least furnished some
good reasons why the dog sport is get-
ting so solidly dug in. Comparative
cheapness is one. To begin with, ordi-
nary, instead of double, tram fares.
Then grandstand—up behind the
judge’s box, with a perfect view of
the racing for 55.; feminine ac-
companist, half a crown. After that,
exceptionally keen racing: smallest
field, seven runners ; nearly all the rest,
10 runners. Except in the hurdles —
apparently as chancy here as with the
neddies —finishes were close, and the
sprinting of the tykes altogether was
lively to look at. I backed The
Hawk in Melbourne years ago, only to
lose my money when he weighed in |lb.
light—a saddle-cloth left hanging on the
fence—so it struck me as a big advan-
tage that there’s no weighing-in after the
dogs pass the post. I lost a £145 double
when a race was questionably taken
from High Cross at Randwick on a pro-
test ; hence the first-past-the-post of the
dogs seemed a further point in their
favor. The fairness of the dog starts
seemed a bit more to the good. I know
horse starters generally are fair, but I
have never been able to believe that
everybody is since since the day on a
N.S.W. North Coast course when I saw
the barrier fly up and all three runners
sit back simultaneously on their
haunches. At least, there’s none of that
with the tykes: if a dog gets away late,
he does it on his own account. And,
finally, he runs his own race. There are
jockeys who make me think that is the
greatest advantage of all.
* ijc *
The Australian girls got busy with the
bat against the North of England at
Littleborough, a match they won by 173
runs. The account of the scoring should
give our Test batsmen something to
ponder over. In Australia’s first knock
of 330 for three wickets, Miss Pritchard
—who scored 144, the first century of
the tour—and Miss George (87 n. 0.) put
on 191 j n 100 minutes in a fourth-wicket
p ar t n ership. A couple of days later
a g a j ns { Lancashire, the lasses notched
221 without loss—Miss Holmes and Miss
Antonio JO3 apiece—declared, and won
, on the first innings,
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: During Coronation
Week in England, one scribe made a
not-too-bad suggestion for something
different in cricket. This was that a
team picked from Dominion and colo-
njai players in England should be pitted
a g a inst the Old Country’s Number One
Eleven. The team he selected was a
strong one: Fairfax, Mudge, Hird (Aus-
tralia), Constantine, Martindale, Head-
]ey (W. 1.), Dempster and James (M.L.),
Morkel and Crisp (South Africa), and
Amah Singh, of Hind,
* * * *
"Aigburth”: Lord Tennyson’s team
for the Indian tour includes Hammond,
Voce, Hardstaff and, surprisingly, Percy
Chapman. “Chappie” played for Kent
last season and captained the team in
the matches he figured in, but averaged
only 19 for 18 innings. His Indian tour
will probably be in the nature of a swan
song. As the only amateur on the side
he will be skipper, for Tennyson does not
intend to play.^
££ * , £
Aigburth : In his book on cricket,
C- F. Root, of Worcester, one of the
pioneers of legitimate leg-theory which
did n °t rnaim batsmen, puts up a plea
.the underhand bowler, and pio-
phesies a big success tor the fust man
who returns to the exploitation of the
deceiving and deadly lob. There is much
truth in his theory. Good slow bowling
the ordinary kind is anathema to
many batsmen of undoubted class, and
the return of a first-class “lobster” with
his lofty flight and disconcerting both-
ways spin would provide a headache for
more than one champion of to-day. Up
to 30 or 40 years ago good lobbers were
not scarce in first-class English cricket,
and some of them, like Simpson-Hay-
ward among the amateurs and Hum-
phreys, here with Stoddart’s 1894-95
team, were very successful. Humphreys
headed the bowling for that tour, taking
79 wickets at 11.78 runs apiece, though
he did not play in Tests.
* * * *
“Shell”: A challenge for the world’s
sculling title has been issued by Evans
Paddon’s backers to Bob Pearce, who
suggests a £5OO side-wager and £4OO ex-
penses. The Paddons are willing if the
match is rowed on the Richmond. That
condition may stick in Pearce’s gizzard,
# # °
«C -1 .. 'ru D , . .
Spike : The Empire Games, which
open in Sydney on February 5, will draw
a record crowd of athletes, men and
women. England, Scotland, Wales, South
Africa, Ceylon, India, M.L., Trinidad,
British Guiana, Northern Ireland, Malta,
Rhodesia and Jamaica will be represented,
Canada seems to be hanging in the wind.
for nothing definite comes from there to
date. It is to be hoped that the visitors
will be pleased with their accommoda-
tion in the dog and fowl pavilion at the.
Showground and give a good account of
us when they return,
* * * *
“Spike” : The Japanese have issued the
first official bulletin dealing with their
programme for the 1940 Olympic Games
at Tokio. The principal stadium will be
a * Meiji Shrine park, and the arena
* s sea t 100,000 ; special grounds for
games and equestrian exhibitions
? nc l S.y mnas i urns f° r indoor events will
° e .ut . se 1° the stadium, as well as
a swimmin g pool. A queer item is the
statement that a canal will have to be
dug for rowing, there being no natural
water convenient.
* * * *
“Bung”: “Puck” runs late with his
hope that ice-hockey visitors from over-
seas will not introduce the rough stuff
for which English newspapers have been
castigating them (B. 23/6/’37). It is here
already. Of a match in Sydney between
St. George and Western Suburbs teams
Sydney “D.T,” says that two men were
sent off the ice “after a melee in which
five men fought with their fists while
spreadeagled on the ice.”


SHADOW
SHOWS
“Green Light.”
YOUNG SURGEON .... Errol Flynn
CRIPPLED CLERGYMAN,
Sir Cedric Hardwicke
NURSE Margaret Lindsay
BACTERIOLOGIST .... Walter Abel
SOCIETY GIRL Anita Louise
Title is a reference to the signal that
stops traffic. Young surgeon’s career is
halted by his determination to take the
blame for an older colleague’s fatal error
in an operation. To complicate matters
he falls in love with the victim’s daugh-
ter, who regards him as responsible for
the death of her mother. Young sur-
geon goes otf to a fever-infected region
to help bacteriologist find a prophylactic
against spotted fever, discovers a possible
serum, inoculates himself with the disease
to prove the serum’s efficacy, and pulls
through. Nurse, who adores him, loses
him to society girl. Crippled old cathe-
dral dean is confidant of and adviser to
all parties.
The material provides plenty of ele-
ments for effective drama, and these are
Hugh Herbert in "Here’s That Man
Again,” at Sydney State.
cleverly used. The suspense during the
long struggle with fever, with the
physician-patient taking an impersonal
professional interest in symptoms and
treatment, is well worked up. Flynn’s
portrayal of the young doctor is an ex-
cellent piece of characterisation ; Hard-
wicke’s dean is one of those uncannily
wise clerics one finds so often in novels
and plays, but more convincing than most
of them. Miss Lindsay and Abel are at
home in their roles, but Miss Louise
never rises above the level of a sweet-
looking clothes-peg. Excellence of the
direction is nowhere more apparent than
in the management of the tempo of
action —never dragging, never a split
second too fast. A very well-finished
production. At the State Theatre,
Sydney.
“That Man’s Here Again.”
ELEVATOR BOY Tom Brown
HOUSEMAID Mary Maguire
ECCENTRIC TENANT, Hugh Herbert
Title has nothing to do with the story,
which was penned by I. A. R. Wylie in a
sentimental vein. It is a pleasant little
comedy in which the elevator boy and
his sweetie are befriended by a tenant' of
the Park-avenue apartment house in
which they work. Hugh Herbert is at
his best in this characterisation—a re-
markably astute and quick-witted adven-
turer who is, or pretends to be, perpetu-
ally sozzled and who reels off philosophic
remarks which he claims originated with
Confucius. This eccentric scores heavily
off the villain of the piece, a tycoon who
is leading a double life. The Queensland
girl has a part that enables her to win the
last possible ounce of sympathy, and
Brown for once is an average good-
hearted, sensible youngster. At Sydney
State.
“The Accusing Finger.”
DEPUTY DISTRICT
ATTORNEY Paul Kelly
SLEUTH Kent Taylor
YOUNG CONVICT, Robert Cummings
OLD SENATOR Harry Carey
Propaganda against capital punish-
ment. The, rising young D.D.A., who
claims to have sent 10 men to the chair,
is himself convicted of murder, on strong
circumstantial evidence, and lies in gaol
under sentence of death. There he meets
and talks with some of the men he was
instrumental in convicting, and revises
his views as to the efficacy of the electric
chair as a means of redressing social
wrongs. The State Legislature at this time
is debating a bill for abolition of the
death penalty. The measure has passed
the lower House, but is having a rocky
time in the Senate. With concurrence
of the Governor the ex-D.D.A. is allowed
to address the Senate, and though his in-
trusion is resented his arguments carry
weight, and the bill becomes law. In the
meantime, of course, the energetic young
sleuth has unearthed evidence that clears
the D.D.A. The, story is capably presented,
dramatic situations are well handled, and
interest never flags. Marsha Hunt appears
in the cast, but is obviously only thrown
in because there has to be a goil in every
fillum. At Sydney Civic.
“Tainted Money.”
KIDNAPPERS .. Cesar Romero, Bruce
Cabot, Warren Hymer
and Edward Brophy
YOUNG MOTHER .. Rochelle Hudson
A millionaire’s child having been kid-
napped and restored, for ransom paid in
“unmarked five-, ten- and twenty-dollar
bills,” the four kidnappers repair to a
long-disused house in the country to cut
up the boodle. They find that a young
married couple, complete with babe, and
dog, have taken refuge there in a storm.
Matters so fall out that the identity of
the crooks is revealed to the innocent
intruders, wherefore the bad men dare
not let them go. To make matters worse,
after the kidnappers have used the young
husband as a cat’s-paw to circulate some
of the. tainted money, holding his wife
and child as hostages, it transpires that
the G-men have pulled a swift one on
the malefactors. The money the kid-
nappers were paid is as good as the Gov-
ernment printing presses ever turned out,
but the numbers, though they seem to
be well mixed, make each and every bill
identifiable by a child of six. If the
serial letter is L, M, N, O or P, and the
last numeral is 5, 7 or 9, the bill is of
special manufacture.
The affair is well acted. The villains
are not overdrawn, their actions and re-
actions are logical. The element of sus-
pense is used effectively, not overdone.
Interest is cleverly kept alive.
A woodpecker tapping on a tree sends
the guilty men into a panic. Later the
dog escapes, carrying a package of the,
money, and has to be chased and shot.
In the last stages, when the gang has
broken up, Hymer conceives the bright
idea of getting some clean money by pop-
ping a twenty-dollar bill in a church-
collection plate and taking fifteen dollars
change. One by one the gangsters are
shot down. Constructed and directed
with considerably more intelligence than
is usual in this type of film. At Sydney
Capitol.
“When Love Is Young.”
ASPIRING SINGER .. Virginia Bruce
PRESS AGENT Kent Taylor
Concerns a flapper who leaves Little
Gloopville to stun the Big City with her
Voice. But the maestros who talk with
their arms tell her gently but firmly that
Nature didn’t intend her larynx to be
tortured that way. With sad mien she
stumbles forth, miraculously to meet the
one man who can hoist her up Broad-
way’s ladder—a livewire press agent. He
discovers that, though she is a washout as
a singer, she can croon soulfully. He
sools the beauticians on to her, and lo!
she becomes a “hot'-rhythm” star over-
night. Then she visits the old home town
to show off and get a mushy eyeful of
the callow boy-friend she left behind ;
finds him even more callow and insuffer-
ably conceited, and switches her thoughts
back to her inky booster. Anyone who
can’t guess the rest deserves to be made
to see if.
Virginia Bruce abandons menacing
beauty roles to croon and cling—the
change is to the bad. Kent Taylor does
his best to infuse life into the sad story.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Come Closer, Folks.”
HIGH-PRESSURE PEDLAR,
James Dunn
BUSINESS EXECUTIVE, Marion Marsh
THE OTHER WOMAN, Wynne Gibson
Several twists of originality plus some
neat comedy make this fair average en-
tertainment. It also marks an improve-
ment in the acting of James Dunn.
The humorous-faced Mr. Dunn is a
high-pressure street-corner salesman who
unloads brum watches on a gullible
public. When he comes to a small town
and plies his trade outside an emporium
the severe-looking young woman who is
running it for her father prosecutes him.
Conducting his own defence, he talks his
way out. Impressed by his manner (he
even sells some of the watches to Judge
and jury), the young woman gives him
a job as salesman, and the rest of the
opus is devoted to their joint efforts to
triumph over the rival store. This in-
volves the emergence of the young
woman from flannel undies, lisle stock-
ings and a bun to sheers, knicks and
fluffiness—a change rather too sudden to
be convincing. There’s a good original
Errol Flynn in “Green Light,” at
Sydney State.
touch in the replacing of salesgirls during
a sale by a lot of street-corner magsmen.
Things go with a swing, and even when
the spieler’s former girl vindictively
throws a file into the works it fails to
stop James’s onward march to matri-
mony.
The two principals act spiritedly, and
Herman Bing as a Yiddish junk merchant
gives the King’s English some curry. At
Sydney Lyric.
“Sunset Range.”
COW-PUNCHING
MISOGYNIST ... Hoot Gibson
RANCH OWNER Mary Brian
Story of this Western is a rehash of
a thousand such films, with the excep-
tion that the bad men hail from the city
and are chasing a hundred “grand,”,
booty of a stick-up, which has been
secreted in a trunk belonging to a girl
ranch owner. The usual bunch of hat-
twirlers on the ranch are all ready to
die for her —all except one woman-hater,
and she soon changes that.
Hoot’s honest dial is an asset, and he
rides hard, but if he took the billiard
Sir Cedric Hardwicke in “Green Light.”
ball from beneath his tongue he’d speaic
better. Mary Brian is the female. At
Sydney Lyric.
“The March of Time.”
In th,e latest issue (at the Sydney
Embassy) the working-girl problem in
New York is given an airing, with strong
propaganda in the revelations of pitfalls
set for thousands of girls after getting
into the hands of unscrupulous agents
and failing to land jobs.
Kamal Ataturk is shown doing his
dictator job in Turkey comfortably
dressed in a rather shabby coat and
open-necked shirt. The Westernisation of
his once-backward people and his strong-
arm methods in education, industrialisa-
tion and defence are also dwelt upon.
A roam through Britain’s “Black
Areas” is a tragic reminder that many
thousands of Welsh miners haven’t done
a day’s work for 13 years. Efforts
to divert them to other industries,
notably rearmament, are shown.
“Seventh Heaven.”
CHICOT James Stewart
DIANNE Simone Simon
PADRE Jean Hersholt
CAB-DRIVER Gregory Ratoff
ASTROLOGER J. E. Bromberg
NANA Gale Sonnegard
A very nice screen version of the well-
known stage play. Stewart presents a
new sort of Chicot (that “very remark-
able fellow”), but keeps the characterisa-
tion logical and understandable. Mdlle.
Simon has at last a part that suits her, and
the rest of the casting is commendable.
There is enough humorous by-play to
leaven the sentimental passages, and these
are never allowed to become sloppy. A
fairy-tale with theological trimmings, but
cleverly told, and presented in this in-
stance so that it leaves no nasty taste
in the mouth. The resources of Twentieth
Century Fox have never been used to
better advantage. Previewed at the Fox
Theatrette, Sydney.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Huber man Recitals.
Bronislaw Huberman’s fiddle had
plenty of exercise in Sydney last week.
At his second recital the red-letter items
were the Bach Chaconne, played with-
out any attempt to soften the asperities
of that remarkable unaccompanied com-
position, and the Cesar Franck sonata, so
well done that the violinist and his


Instant Ignition
Greater rower
Output
m
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
1/3/37
THE NEW MONTHLY
All Australia will be reading it!
1
l„ this Issue
* * *
T1 Engla» d c R B ,adish
Beoeat Henri / M“ s ”M‘"h
Robert BrasUlach
S^f^tterto"
I ike to Get
Englishmen Women
Away b RorM F° rbeS
Buffalo'- * B^ Ha,ne
Gar<l
Grow Old-and D« ot
Cattcc* 1 S{ John
Clarence o • '
- OoetaandGottet-
Comic Opcr
LancaS ter
Queer L° nd °p etg r
Samarkand
Journey to * er flennng
On Ear t KP«« n
The BUck Tents of
Aiabia Carl R Rasxvan
Bred in
The G^«‘ b UUw”d
- SBjs® , * lSU
IGEST
OF
y/ORLD
pR\CE
FROM JULY Ist
ON SALE AT ALL BOOKSTALLS
accompanist, Jacob Gimpel, were recalled
again and again. Two evenings later
Huberman played the Brahms D Major
Concerto with an orchestra conducted by
Dr. Edgar Bainton. The soloist’s strong,
virile tone easily dominated the rich
background, the orchestra seemed in-
spired to surpass itself. The famous
Heerman cadenza was given new grace
and eloquence by Huberman’s bow. On
Saturday night a feast of Beethoven (G
Major Sonata) and Mozart (E Flat Major
Sonata, K. 481) was garnished with Lalo’s
“ Symphonie Espagnole, ” Huberman
demonstrating once again that he is
master of all styles and moods. Never
in this commentator’s experience has
Beethoven sounded nobler, Mozart more
graceful or the Castilian rhythms more
intoxicating.
4 4* 4* 4*
Tito Schipa in Melbourne.
The names of the composers which
appear on Tito Schipa’s programmes at
Melbourne Town Hall are Giordani, Fal-
conieri, Perez-Friere, Alvarez, Wolf-
Ferrari and others that are comparatively
unfamiliar even to highbrow audiences,
and he brings a vocal instrument to bear
on them that seems capable of fulfilling
any demand he cares to make on it. The
flexibility of his upper register is unparal-
leled in this commentator’s experience,
and Schipa can follow the complicated
line of a melody by Handel or' Schu-
mann with the same, accuracy wherewith
he flings himself at a piece of operatic
declamation.
Hordernians Play “Gondoliers.”
That the Hordernian Musical Society
(Sydney) is plucky there can be no doubt.
With very iimited stage space most of
the original business of “The Gondo-
liers” was attempted, though there wasn’t
room to dance the gavotte. Musically
the showing was good, but a bigger male
chorus would have been helpful. Stan
Buddie as Don Alhambra scored chief
acting honors; Sid Denman (Marco),
Marie Wilson (Duchess), Madge Clark
(Casilda), Gwen Gillard, Jean Allen and
Gladys Fitzsimmons showed stage and
vocal ability worth encouraging. Con-
ductor Arnold Mote kept a firm rein on
orchestra and singers.
4 4 4 4
The McKie Concerts.
Organist William McKie’s series of
free concerts at Melb. Town Hall, with
local celebrities in the role of solo
players, have been remarkably successful,
but he would be well advised to cast his
programmes within the limits of the
luncheon hour. While Gertrude Healy
(violin) and Elsie Fraser (pianoforte)
were wending their way through the
Kreutzer Sonata their hearers were
watching the hands of the clock
approaching 1 p.m., and they were
thinking not of the fullness or otherwise
of the music but of the hollow sound
their excuses would make in the ears of
their employers. It should be an easy
matter for McKie to restrict the riches
of his programmes and extend the num-
ber of his concerts, the popularity of
which is undoubted. No free concerts
have been better attended in Melbourne.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
A Lambert Show.
At David Jones’s George-street store,
Sydney, is a show of paintings and
pencil-drawings by the late George Lam-
bert. It is representative of almost all
phases of Lambert’s many-sided talent,
and a few of the exhibits have that almost
magical quality which sometimes came
from this painter’s brush—“ Cornish
Coast Scene” and a hunting scene, for
instance.
In point of technical excellence there
is nothing better in the show than a still-
life in which a cauliflower is the principal
subject. There are some war pictures
and two big portraits—“ Kitty Powell,”
with romantic background of cliffs and
sea, and the unfinished “Portrait of a
Girl,” in which the background for some
fantastic reason is rows of dried fish. The
fabric painting in the Powell portrait is
too striking and too clever, attracting
more attention than the face ; the un-
finished study is in every way more har-
monious.
Lambert’s skill with the pencil has
become an Australian art tradition.
Beautiful examples of his facility in this
medium are “The Broken Hand,” with
George himself as the victim, surrounded
by a solicitous group, and the portraits
of Ernest Watt and L. V. Dowling. A
much-reproduced canvas, mother caress-
ing nude child, illustrates Lambert’s skill
in composition.
4 4 4 4
Miriam Moxham’s Work.
In a dozen Miriam Moxham flower
studies color and composition can-
not be faulted. The painting is suave
and graceful, neither too broad nor too
finicky. A little error in perspective
mars “Brass and Lacquer,” but that the
artist is mistress of the art of still-life
painting is demonstrated in such well-
done canvasses as “Bottles,” “The Doll,”
“Berries” and a fruit piece lent by Frank
Mahony. There is some nice figure-
drawing in “The Road from the Sea”
and in the decorative water-color “Cats.”
In landscapes this painter has a pen-
chant for depicting grass and tree foli-
age in the palest of greens, but the result
makes pretty pictures, and in “Sunlit
Path” the effect is that the values are
as correct as the coloring is beautiful.
“Harvey” is the best of the portraits. To
be seen at the Grosvenor Galleries,
Sydney.
4 4 4 4*
Kodiak Show of American Photography.
At Kodak, Ltd.’s, Sydney showrooms
is a well-selected exhibition of profes-
sional portraiture and commercial photo-
graphy, the work of a wide range of
studios in the U.S.A. The technical
standard of the portraits is uniformly
high, but it cannot be said that these
professionals can teach anything to such
Australian amateurs as Dr. Smith and
Harold Cazneux. But it wouldn’t be an
American show without something new,
and this is provided in a nude study of
a dancer. The young lady seems to have
been coated with black boot polish, and
glistens like a bronze statuette. In land-
scape photography there are one or two
infra-red effects that look very striking
—a coastal scene in particular—and there
is an interesting exposition of a three-
color process used for commercial re-
production.
•J*
Old Etchings at Macquarie Galleries.
Pride of place in this excellent show
belongs to a series of 17 Rembrandt etch-
ings, a collection belonging to Lionel
Lindsay. All the impressions are beauti-
fully clear and rich, and the group con-
tains prints from such important plates
as “Christ Driving the Money Changers
from the Temple,” “The Supper at
Emmaus,” “Abraham’s Sacrifice” and
“Christ and the Woman of Samaria.”
Claude Gellee is represented by a fine
print from his most famous plate, the
Bouvier, and a shipwreck; Jacques
Callot by four prints, including “Old
Paris,” and Van Dyck by the strongly-
drawn “Jan de Wael.” Whistler,
J. M. W. Turner, Differ, Sandby, D. Y.
Cameron and Augustus John figure in
the show, which also includes four etch-
ings by Lionel Lindsay, not at all shame-
faced in such fine company.
Australian Aboriginal Songs, collected
and translated by Dr. H. O. Lethbridge,
accompaniments by Arthur S. Loam
(Allan and Co.; 3s. 6d.), is an interest-
ing contribution to the study of primi-
tive music. In style these chants come
between the sentimental suavity of
Hawaiian melodies and the rough bar-
barism of the rhythms picked up
in New Guinea by Frank Hurley
and issued by Paling’s some years
ago. The tonality is quite unlike
that of Polynesian music, and, it must
be confessed, tends to dreariness and
monotony. Even such a fierce outburst
as “A Warrego Lament,” with its fortis-
simo refrain “Curse the Whites!” is
more despairing than inspiring. The
Corroboree song “Bingo Bingo” has an
interesting rhythm, and, given the ad-
vantage of a less restricted scale than
the abos. know, might be made the basis
of quite an effective composition.


yp
mmm
iiiii' 1
was
i
STAY AT
SYDNEY'S
Finest HOTEL
When you visit Sydney—stay at the
Wentworth. At the Wentworth you
will get everything you desire; a
homely atmosphere, perfect service
and convenience to business and
social centres.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 (10 lines)
C.D. MACIURCAN MNS. DIRECTOR
J. Si LEVY, Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E.; .Tames Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
8 Bottles of Cough Remedy
for Cost of One.
Cough remedies, if bought ready-mixed,
cost a lot of money, but the following
recipe gives you eight bottles for the cost
of one. To sweetened water add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated
HEENZO, thus making a supply equal
to about £l’s worth of the best remedies
money can buy for banishing coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, whooping cough,
and influenza. HEENZO is delightful
to take, and wonderfully good for both
adults and children.
For Sale.
SEALYHAM PUPS, male and female;
champion pedigree. Write NORTHOVER,
Bulletin Office, or week-ends ’phone Sydney
FL2006.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lady Wakehurst had a busy time last
week. There were Queen’s Club parties,
C.W.A. gatherings and polo parties, but
the one that will longest be remembered
was the vice-regal visit to Hammondville.
With the Governor Lady Wakehurst
went out to visit the little settlement
near Liverpool that does Canon Ham-
mond so much credit. In memory of
their morning among the tenants of this
cheerful-in-spite-of-adversity community
each planted a Christmas bush. The
Hammondville youngsters gave a tumul-
tuous welcome to the visitors, and the
grown-ups who make their homes in the
95 cottages joined in. Babies were ad-
mired and autographs given.
Sydney was so busy on Saturday she
almost bustled the rainclouds from over
her head. But not quite. A rainbow or
two came out, gaily attired, and then
scuttled for shelter, giving Kyeemagh
and Randwick a reproachful look, as
though to say they had been lured out
under false pretences. Lord Wakehurst
and his lady went out to see the poloists
strive for the Dudley Cup, but even their
presence could make of Kyeemagh no-
thing but a soggy, rain-drenched spot.
The Vychans snatched the Cup from
Scone-Thornwaites. At the end of the
play Lady Wakehurst, in a long coat of
deep blue and a toque of velvet in a
lighter shade, presented the awards.
Among the onlookers Mary Hordern
caught the gaze with her amber tailor-
ings. Other Horderns viewing the play
were Mr. and Mrs. Tony, Tony junior,
and small daughter Edwina. Mrs. Alan
Potter’s hat was a reminder of blue sky.
Ginette Scamps, Diana Downs, the two
Crookston girls, Mrs. Wallace Horsley,
Faith Macarthur Onslow, Joyce Beazley
and Mrs. Horton Browne were others
at the finals.
The smartest thing at Randwick (bar
Brazandt) was the snugly-fitting, slightly-
flared-from-the-waist topcoat. Some-
times its crisp line was emphasised with
bands of Persian lamb or dyed ermine.
Tam berets, red umbrellas and colored
suede shoes, many of these last of the
laced variety, were present in confusing
profusion. Mrs. W. Parsons broke
away from the lapel parade of violets
and white hyacinths and flaunted orchids
in her brown fur cravat. Philippa
Stephen stepped out smart and trig in
green suede shoes and a frieze cloth suit
of grass green. Barbara Knox’s frock
of chrysanthemum brown showed an
outbreak of fringe.
Sadie Budge contrasted royal blue and
grey. With her were sister Mrs. Cribb,
whose cravat was daffodil yellow, and
Mrs. W. Reilly, who caped her green
coat in mink. Persian lamb and many
violets were notes in Mrs. Ambrose Gaff-
ney’s outfit. Mrs. F. Salenger’s toque
was winged back and front. One of the
smartest of the brown-clad was Mrs.
George Osborne. Noni Hay was there;
so were Mrs. Wickham Hurd and Mrs.
Obe Hertz, from Rabaul, who, fortu-
nately, was in Sydney during the earth-
quake. A visor cap of royal blue topped
Mrs. C. Thompson’s fair head. One of
the prettiest seen was Dulcie McWhan-
nell, her blonde coloring nicely empha-
sised by a suit of horizon blue.
No wealth of other diversions could
keep the music-minded from Huberman’s
recital on Saturday. In spite of the night,
women floated in on long and sweeping
frocks, and coats were velvet rather than
fur. Of course, the Town Hall is well
warmed these nights, but, even if it hadn’t
been, enthusiasm would have kept the
hands and toes tingling. Commissioner
Cleary’s wife wore the frock of cycla-
men satin in which she had welcomed
the Governor’s wife to Thursday’s con-
cert. The Kelso Kings again were among
the faithful. Hazel’s velvets gleamed
rose-red. Black velvet in frock and coat
was worn by Mrs. Gimpel. The Francis
Andersons, the Crawford Robertson
couple, Mrs. George Earp and Mrs.
David Maughan are constant listeners.
Gabriele d’Annunzio’s “La Figlia Di
Iorio” brought color and tragedy to the
stage of the Conservatorium on Satur-
day. In the first scene the frocks of
deep blue worn by the two sisters, the
fresh green in which they dressed the be-
trothed of their brother Aligi that she
might look as the spring, and the jarring
scarlet of Mila’s robe almost explained
the characters without a word spoken.
But there were words, a spate of them
in liquid and fiery Italian. If your under-
standing faltered, the programme helped
you out. It was most comprehensive; the
foreword gave a synopsis of the work,
and further on each scene was dealt with
in detail. The whole was under the direc-
tion of Cavalier Baccarini, and was ac-
claimed by a crowded house, including
president of the Dante Alighieri Society
Bertie Kelly and Mrs. Kelly. The play
was presented under the banner of the
Dante Alighieri.
Marjorie Quinn went off in the Mon-
terey with a sheaf of poems and short
stories under her arm. She and hei
mother go to England by way of the
U.S.A., where they have friends both
in Los Angeles and New York, made
during father’s term of office as N. S.
Wales Deputy Trade Commissioner.
Before her departure the Sydney writ-
ing woman was the guest of the Society
of Women Writers and the Fellowship
of Australian Writers. The F.A.W. party
was a big one; in spite of a pouring
wet night 70 or more members turned
up. Pat Lawler, from Maoriland, was
a guest, and two ex-Maorilanders were
among the speech-makers—Dora Moore
and Will Lawson, both poets. The guest,
very graceful in turquoise satin, received
many commendations and a prize-speci-
men snakeskin bag with the blush of
modesty, and made one of the best
speeches in reply this Letter has heard.
Among her letters of introduction are
several from her father’s old friend,
Hubert Murray.
There were 63 hostesses and they
made a party in themselves at the Polo
Tea. Lady Wakehurst was the guest of
honor. About five o’clock polo intrepids
streamed in, bringing a breath of the
sharp cold of Kyeemagh with them. By
that time every available inch of footage
was occupied. The party was a success.
Elizabeth Bay House (which Mrs.
Rodney Dangar and some others are
trying to preserve for the nation) was at
its brightest for the occasion. Log fires
and poinsettia were a warm glow in the
reception-rooms, and in the dining-room
the buffet table was set with standards
of red berries flanked by red candles in
silver holders.
While frocks were sombre in hue to
suit the, day, furs were there as rich a cargo
as any golden fleece. Lady Wakehurst’s
long coat was of soft, supple fur in
tawny tones. Her frock, smart of line,
was of black cire satin, and her swathed
toque was of the same. Red carnations
and her smile brightened the whole.
Silver fox collared Mrs. Hugh Poate’s
smart coat; Mrs. Alan Potter’s cape was
of dyed ermine. Snugly caped in fur,
too, was Mrs. Arthur Elworthy, of
Maoriland. She was with the Julius lady.
Mrs. Lennox .Bode, Belinda Street and
Mary Hordern were noted. Mary Hor-
dern’s beret was unusual, and combined
green and orange. The Poynter girls,
Katharine Burdekin and Sue White were
in the melee ; so were Mrs. Bertie Kelly
and Barbara Knox.
Gwen Selva has already given the first
of a series of her recitals at the Forum
Club. This soprano excels in costume
presentations—suiting the period of her
frocks and headdress to the period of the
composer whose works she is perform-
ing. Her Spanish interpretations are par-
ticularly good. Gwen can write verse,
too. A song cycle, the words written
by her, has been sung abroad. Peter
Pan photograph.
After promising well, the opening day
of the Dudley Cup play turned sulky,
then petulant, then dissolved in tears.
A wind like ice blew across Kyeemagh.
Clothes were sensible and sturdy, and
even then mgs were called into play to
make an outer layer of the cocoon from
which the eyes and noses of women on-
lookers emerged. Hot socks were popu-
lar, and ankles were encased in heather-
mixture stockings or the brighter-hued
tennis socks. Mrs. Frank Crane’s outfit
of yellow and green put a bright gleam
into the afternoon. June Osborne was
one of the rug-encased. The Poynter
girls, Mrs. Paul, Margaret Allen, Diana
Downes and her mother from Cobbitty,
Gay Curtis and Mrs. Pat Levy were
among the day’s intrepids.
“The golden cup of Suva” is what
the, natives call one of the lilies painted
by Miriam Moxham. The Roseville artist
learned its correct name, Solandra, from
Public Librarian Ifould, who is so enthu-
siastic about her work that he opened her
show last week. There’s a light and cheer-
fulness about these paintings that endear
them to women. The Lenci doll, the
essence of daintiness and sophistication,
was murmured over by the permanent-
waved sex throughout the afternoon. All
the Moxham family turned up, and,
although they were pleasant, one felt a
bit conscious about smiling in reply, for
they are all keenly interested in dentistry.
Julian Ashton was there, and young
artists by the dozen. As the midwinter
day slipped into night the affair turned
into a cosy little sherry party.
This afternoon (Wednesday) at five
o’clock persons concerned with the prac-
tice or enjoyment of the art of the theatre
will gather at the Australia to inaugu-
rate the N.S.W. branch of the British
Drama League. The movement in Syd-
ney has been given impetus by Rosemary
Benjamin, a visitor from London, and
Elsie Dumolo, who has recently re-
turned from England and Europe,
brimming with the latest theatre de-
velopments. Alexander Gordon’s lady
is president, and John Gould chairman
of the council, and the energetic Evelyn
Tildesley has taken on the work of
organising secretary. The affiliation fee
of one guinea from the whole of the
Commonwealth seems almost a bargain-
basement offer, and for this the B.D.L.
in London sends 40 books to form the
nucleus of a dramatic library, as well as
all the advice and information contained
in its immense store. Individual mem-
bers can join the local branch for as
little as five shillings.
The Wool Ball was both smart and
topical. A prize, offered for the most
beautiful wool dress brought forth
frocks of soft and supple weave,
some of them run with a gold or
silver thread. Of such were Mrs. Toby
Browne’s and Mrs. Nell Gunning’s, the
predominating tone in each being Parma
violet. Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, the
president, suggested Russia in her white
furs and soft white wool dress. Little
pleated frills formed the train of Mrs.
Alexis Albert’s forget-me-not blue sec-
tion of fleece. It was given first prize by
the judges, Philip Street’s wife, Mrs.
Fielding Jones and Mrs. Alan McGregor.
Mrs. Gavin Cobcroft came second. Her
choice was green wool georgette. It had
puffed sleeves, worked, like the hem,
with a design in silver and amethyst.
Romano’s wore a frieze of rams’
heads for the celebration. A Niagara of
snowy fleece fell from the ceiling, and
lambs popped up at intervals in all the
decorations. The ladies dressed in wool
did not do a freeze, either physically or
in dancing lure. The Peter Pan Kinder-
garten will benefit quite a bit from this
dance, for so many were there that
those on the right-hand side of the room
and those on the left danced alternately.
Hermione Llewellyn came along in
purplish angora, her earrings ornamental
and silver. Others in sheep’s clothing
included Mrs. Alan Copeland and Mrs.
Wallace. Sawyer. Joyce Beazley, Nedra
Ryrie, and Amber Jacobs sold red and
white carnations, and thereby dredged up
a catch of silver. Mrs. Sam Hordern
came in silver fox and wine velvet.
Una Gibson, who was one of the
harpists in the Con. orchestra before she
went to London to study at the Royal
College of Music, has just written home
to her family telling of a most successful
concert she arranged during the Corona-
tion celebrations. The powers at this
continent’s headquarters in the Strand
were infected with her enthusiasm, and
gave her the hall free. The performers
consisted entirely of Australian students,
and, in addition to Una herself, Harold
Lobb, Diana Herring, Nancy Osborne,
Winifred McDonnell, the three Macleans
and Osric Fyfe, Norman Menzies,
Dorothy White and Merle Miller sang
and played before an audience that was
as much English as Australian. Una is
an old Rosebank student.
Hilda Scorfield, who arrived in Sydney
last week to visit artist brother Ted, has
had a more varied experience, of life than
even he could get into a page. In the
early war days she went off to France as
a V.A.D., and served in many capacities.
After the war, she was requisitioned for
service at St. Dunstan’s; and after two
years’ experience at this institution went
on as matron to Pengbourn College for
naval cadets. Then the work of the
Barnado Homes claimed her for three
years in England, after which the Bar-
nado heads sent her to Maoriland. Eng-
land and home duties then claimed her.
This trip is purely a holiday one.
Ashfield Town Hall will fasten a green
rosette in its lapel on July 7, for that is
the date of St. Patrick’s (Strathfield)
College Ball. Expenses have been kept
at a low temperature by a round of
florin bridge and musicales arranged by
the women members of the committee.


H
UTUWAI will pilot you through the
(HERBAL REMEDY) 1 °
storms of sickness to the haven of
RADIANT HEALTH
■
mm
v : v
Thanks to Hutuwai Remedy... a Master
Mariner gains health after 20 years' suf-
fering from RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS
Dear Sirs, Sydney, 6th Nov., 1936.
I have much pleasure in advising that I AM DEFINITELY CURED OF RHEUMATOID
ARTHRITIS after 20 years intense suffering. This cure is only attributable to your Hutuwai
Remedy. I was seriously affected in both feet and almost in despair of ever being right
again. All other so-called remedies failed to give even the slightest relief.
Hutuwai is truly a DIVINE, HEAVEN-SENT REMEDY, and probably the only DEFINITE
CURE for all forms of Rheumatic troubles
of no matter how long-standing.
Yours very gratefully,
H. MATTHEWS (Master Mariner).
Hutuwai raises child from death-
bed . . . she now plays games !
Dear Sirs, Brooklyn, Hawkesbury River, N.S.W., 3rd Oet., 1936.
My little child has for over two years been an absolute invalid, suffering from ACUTE
RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS. She was an inmate of the Children’s Hospital for 14 months
and during this time showed no improvement. Purely by accident I learned of this marvellous
medicine, Hutuwai.
1 child has had 4 bottles of medicine; and anybody seeing the child now, knowing how
bad she had been (it was impossible for hen - to move herself at all), they are absolutely
astounded; and. the first question asked 1 is, “What are you doing to her?” and when told
she is taking this marvellous Herbal medicine, they never fail to take the name and to recom-
mend it to their friends who have suffered the same; and in each care these people have called
back to thank us for having recommended it.
I should have mentioned that we have waited up at night on several occasions expecting
her to die; but after taking four bottles of this medicine WE CONSIDER HER CURED ; and
she daily shows us how marvellously well she is by her happy laughter and playing all her
usual games with the other children. Anybody can call here at this address and see the child
for themselves,
I really think that it is a Christian act to send this testimonial, which you are free to
use in any way you wish.
Both myself and my husband are everlastingly grateful.
Yours sincerely,
MARY PETHYBRIDGE.
R. PETHYBRIDGE.
The above facts are ATTESTED BY:—
J. W. GRAY, J.P.
M.H., Nurse.
E. E. McCARTHY, Postmaster, Brooklyn.
E. COCKSEDGE, 142 Ramsay Road,
Haberfield, N.S.W.
M. J. HOLAHAN, Croydon, N.S.W.
E. A. KIRKPATRICK, Brooklyn.
i
k
am
»
m
mt
$ SCIENTISTS have dis-
covered that Herbal Plant
Juices and Human Blood
are closely alike and, when
eaten by human beings,
Plant Juices change easily
into valuable Hormones
which enrich the blood.
Hutuwai Herbal Remedy
is made from the juice of
plants, and enriches your
blood.
HUTUWAI MUST
DO YOU GOOD
SUCCEEDING where all
others have failed,
HUTUWAI
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
the only Genuine Maori
Herbal Remedy, is hailed
by thousands of Austra-
lians as the sensational
discovery of the century.
HUTUWAI is giving re-
markable relief and restor-
ing health.
THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO DIE
—Now I can walk for miles with pleasure"-—thanks to HUTUWAI |
Dear Sirs,— NARRABEEN, N.S.W., 12th March, 1937.
It gives me great pleasure to advise you of the marvellous effects of your Hutuwai Herbal Remedy.
I was stricken down with acute RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS over two years ago, and was so bad
that I was unable to move or do the least little thing for myself. I even had to get my husband to
dress and undress me for months. I had treatment at the hospitals and nothing could be done to ease
my intense suffering. I was so weak and ill that my neighbors and friends thought I was going to die.
I could not bear even a sheet on me because of the excruciating pain.
One day I heard over the radio about the wonderful recovery of Mary Pethybridge, of Brooklyn,
and decided to try Hutuwai as a last resort, although I had previously tried scores of other things
without any result. It is with feelings of deep gratitude that I now write you to tell of the unbelievable
improvement in my health as a result of your Hutuwai treatment. I have had 18 bottles and it has
made a new woman of me.
I have lost all my irritability and bad temper, can eat and sleep splendidly. I had been a martyr
to INSOMNIA and NERVES'—and I can do all my own housework and walk for miles with pleasure.
After having been bed-ridden for such a long time I cannot praise your Hutuwai too highly for the way
it has restored my health and usual good spirits. I can even go into Sydney for the day" without any
assistance whatever. If anyone cares to call or write to me at the above address I shall be delighted
to verify these facts.
Very gratefully yours, (Mrs.) ROSE HYMAN.
\ *•'
ms
HUTUWAI
(Pronounce Hoo-Too-Wy)
Gives
Genuine
Relief
BECAUSE IT’S
HERBAL
Pleasant to
the taste and
Safe for
everyone to take
Numerous reports from grateful Australians provide striking and definite proof of the health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai
Herbal Remedy for RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM, NEURITIS, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA, KIDNEY
TROUBLE, BLOOD PRESSURE, NERVES, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION AND SKIN DISORDERS.
That Hutuwai has achieved amazingly remarkable results is amply demonstrated by the genuine relief obtained by every-
one who takes Hutuwai.
Where sickness has already taken control of the body, Hutuwai will restore Radiant Health to sufferers who have even
given up hope. Hutuwai, if taken in time, will prevent illness arising.
Hutuwai, being a Herb, is exceedingly rich in precious organic minerals and vitamins as required by the blood and
nerves every day. These natural live minerals are often lacking in our daily diet. These vitally important life elements
found in Hutuwai are readily assimilated by the blood and nerves. Hutuwai cleanses the system of acids and poisons,
and acts as a wonderful nerve tonic. Hutuwai corrects the cause of many ailments, naturally. The powerful natural
medicinal qualities of Hutuwai explain why Hutuwai Herbal Remedy is achieving such amazing results daily.
jUMljjj;]
if
SB
■
1
i
lii:
. THE BEST TONIC ON THE MARKET
LARGE BOTTLE
4 6
Including Valuable
DIET CHART FREE
Also in 3/- Size.
Sold and recommended by all branches of Washington H.
Soul, Pattinson & Co., Ltd.; Anthony Hordern and Sons,
Ltd.; David Jones, Ltd.; Farmers, Ltd.; Grace Bros., Ltd.;
Mark Foy’s, Ltd.; all branches of Hallam, Ltd.; Mears
Pharmacy, Bondi Junction; and all Leading Chemists and
Stores. If UNOBTAINABLE LOCALLY 3/- and 4/6 PER
BOTTLE, DIRECT FROM HUTUWAI DISTRIBUTING
CO., DEPT. 81, 210 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY—Telephone,
82145; or 485 BOURItE ST., MELBOURNE, Cl—Telephone
MU4155. Post Free within N.S.W. and Victoria. Postage
1/- per bottle elsewhere in Australia.
POST FREE IN N.S.W. AND VIC.
USE THIS COUPON
Hutuwai Distributing Co.,
Dept. 81, 210 George Street, Sydney;
or 480 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Please send, me bottles of
Hutuwai. I enclose Postal Notes for
NAME
ADDRESS


BRAN DAL ERA
IV-
%
PENS
a
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRANDAUEH ft CO.. Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
\ v
m
7
\
p
WAKE UP ! !
~r BARTZ
Nature’s Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary
relief, but BARTZ, the
IMPROVED MINERAL
SPRING TONIC SALTS, is
Nature’s own remedy for
excessive fat, headaches,
rheumatic pains, sleepless-
ness, giddiness, high blood
pressure, constipation, liver,
kidnev, bladder troubles, uric acid, indigestion, skin
complaints, etc. Obtainable all Chemists and Stores,
1/- and 2/-. Cheaper and better. Send 2d. stamp
for liberal sample to Box 1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Knape—Maiden Name Deliar or Deller.
If any brother and/or sister, or their children,
of ELIZABETH KNAPE (whose maiden name
was Dellar or Deller) (Widow of Richard James
Knape), formerly of Bendigo and Williamstown,
will communicate with THE EQUITY TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, they may hear something to their ad-
vantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 575 of 1937.
BETWEEN ERNESTINE MAGGIE JOY
HARMER Petitioner
And HAROLD HARMER Respondent.
TO HAROLD HARMER late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ERNESTINE
MAGGIE JOY HARMER has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the 23rd day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-seven and in the event of you not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
• DATED this 25th day of June, a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
SULLIVAN BROTHERS, Solicitors, 16 Bar-
rack Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 898 of 1937.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN MICHAEL JOHN JOSEPH
O’CONNOR Petitioner
And ALICE MAUDE O’CONNOR Re-
spondent.
TO ALICE MAUDE O’CONNOR.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MICHAEL
JOHN JOSEPH O’CONNOR has commenced
a suit against you in this Honorable Court
on the ground of desertion without any just
cause or excuse for a period of three years and
upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Eleventh day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven and in
the event of your not doing so in the limited
time or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of
ch •
DATED this Fourteenth day of June, 1937.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. A. H. HARMS,
Clerk in Divorce.
ALLAN E. CUPIT, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt
Street,’ Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Pay Party Ball committee gave
special attention to keeping its guests
warm inside and out on the night of the
dance. Dozens of radiators were hired
to take the habitual chill out' of Earl’s
Court, and when supper came on hot
dishes provided badly-needed calories.
In addition to the bottle department there
was a fruit-juice bar where several mem-
bers of the Vitamin family, concocted in
beautiful colors, were ladled out of punch
bowls. The majority of guests came
along about 10 p.m., for there were
dinner parties beforehand.
The Darren Baillieus were there, Mrs.
Baillieu wearing a simply-cut floral frock
under a long green coat. With her blue
lace gown Linda Byron Moore sported
a Bacchante headdress of glossy grapes.
Mrs. E. G. Farquharson threw silver
foxes over the sort of dance frock
which she finds so useful in India.
Of mauve organza, it had fish-fin
shoulders and trails of velvet flowers
drifting down the front panel. Ann
Turnbull’s black gown went with a giddy
little coat of spinning-top stripes. Pamela
Browning’s inclination also ran along the
same lines, but her stripes travelled
diagonally and met with a bang at the
seams. When Valerie Downes removed
her apple-green velvet cloak she slipped
alluring white foxes over the shoulders
of a white chiffon frock. Jule Kiddle
draped her shell-pink gown and her
tall, slim self with a long cape of wine-
shaded georgette. Pen Stead wore black
and a burgundy coat collared in ermine.
The Keith Hally couple were a busy pair
with their portable drink stall, a push-
tray in whose company they did a fair
mileage round and round the dance
floor.
Commencement Ball is ranked as the
University’s No. 1 social fixture of the
year, and the Women Students’ Ball
comes next in importance. The feminine
element following the path of learning
finds it an excellent method of returning
hospitality. The lads come by invitation,
and it’s generally a very cheery affair. This
year’s Women Students’ dance was held
at Caulfield Town Hall among elabo-
rate Japanese decorations, bridges and
pagodas, arbors of wistaria and cherry
blossom, with lucky dips hidden in mauve
and pink settings. A ballet of girl
students wearing kimonos and swishing
fans performed a Japanese dance (un-
authentic, but nobody minded). June
Philippson and Olga Lovick breathed
apologies to the Empire of Nippon as
they received applause for their respec-
tive tap dance and song about “Japanese
Sandman,” for which they wore kimonos
and many chrysanthemums. Eugenie La
Gerche, who is an arts student, and Pat
Stewart, who’s pursuing commerce, were
secretaries, and Eugenie trained the
ballet. President of the C.M.U.W. Rachel
Farrar was in midnight-blue, and trea-
surer Helen Balfour rustled pale green
over apricot'. Shirley Duncan wore a
frock of parchment moire, and her fair
page-boy hair was an exception among a
multitude of curls and rolls. Molly
Shackleton chose pink satin, Lynette
Walker black and lily-of-the-valley, and
Barbara Burton attached languorous
slipper orchids to her green-shot taffeta
frock. Not that she herself is languorous.
She’s a B.A. and next month is leaving
for Italy and language study as a prelude
to Oxford.
Sessions on the same date of afternoon
and evening bridge filled Mrs. Harry
Emmerton’s Raveloe with femininity and
a muffled buzz of conversation. A tree
trunk blazed in the big open fireplace in
the. ballroom, and there were other fires
and radiators in various rooms, but only
hardy Spartans played without their
coats. Early fruit blossom had been
found by some magic at the turn of the
season in the week containing the short-
est day of the year. Some of its hope-
fully budding pink and white branches
were used in the billiard-room for the
attachment of fairy lights. There was
appeal to all tastes and inclinations
among the gifts disposed of to help the
cause of the day. Mrs. Joseph Levi’s
donation was a bridge table complete
with all furnishings of cloth, cards,
scorers, etc. Among those, who worked
on the committee were Mrs. Arthur Old-
ham, Mrs. Louis Smith, Mrs. Clive Eadie,
Mrs. P. F. O’Collins, Mrs. Vivian Tanner
and Vivienne, Lynette Walkley and Mar-
garet Leitch. Included in the hundred or
so who booked tables were Mrs. Evelyn
Snodgrass, Mrs. Ernest Poolman, Mrs.
Victor Little and Mrs. Colin Mackay.
The Isaacs lady brought a four in the
afternoon. She is chairman of the
charity for which the function was held
—the Kindergarten Union’s first holiday
home at Forest Hill, opened recently by
Lady Gowrie.
At the five-o’clock tea party given by
the International Club for Tito Schipa
only special guests of honor were trusted
to manipulate Chinese cups of China tea
in the reception-room, where valuable
articles comprising the Chinese Exhibi-
tion were on view. Schipa commenced
his address with “Well, it is me to speak.”
On its conclusion he refused litchi nuts,
but succumbed to Chinese orange-peel
and ginger, which were handed round in
a wooden bowl by Mrs. King Mouey,
resplendent in her national dress. Schipa
has few fads about food except that he
doesn’t eat meat, his ban including
rabbit but not poultry. He is sociable
and affable, likes dancing and is fond
of sport, particularly riding, golf and
tennis, but only in between concert
seasons. Neither racquet nor clubs are
included in the luggage he brought to
Australia. He is married and the father
of two daughters.
Among those who met Schipa were
Rita Miller, who renewed a previous
acquaintance in Toulon, and Signor Bar-
tolini, with his wife and attractive niece,
Catherine Neylon. Catherine wore a
black coat with lambskin collar and sprig
of daphne and a tiny black hat with an
eyeveil. Belle Craig arrived wtih a glow
in her cheeks from skating at the Glaci-
arium. Mrs. Cecil Appleton wore a
nutmeg-brown suit and a green cravat
blouse. Countess Filippini was in a
brickdust woollen suit and little hat made
of feathers.
In the Broothorn portrait is Phyllis
Mein, elder daughter of the W. Pulteney
Meins, of Binbinette, St. Kilda-road, who
has recently become engaged to Maurice,
son of the late A. M. Nicholas and of
Mrs. Nicholas, of Burnham Beeches,
Sherbrooke. Both Miss Mein and her
fiance are very keen about sport; they
play a lot of golf and tennis, and squash
also, for Burnham Beeches has its own
squash racquets court. The marriage
will take place in March.
Last week the ancient arts of China
came to the wintry city of Melbourne,
making a different world across the
threshold of the International Club. The
waffs were draped with beautiful em-
broideries, and through lampshades of
painted silk or parchment mounted in
copper the warmth of orange lights was
diffused between ceiling and blue Chinese
carpets. Within several showcases were
the treasures of a civilisation which
revered the crafts of painters, sculptors
and embroiderers long before the cave-
men of the British Isles had discovered
that bronze axes were better weapons
than those made from stone,
Pieces from valuable collections were
lent by Mrs. Harry Emmerton, Mrs.
F. D. Brockhoff and Norman Davies.
Mrs. Emmerton’s possessions included a
Buddha’s cape, a royal cloak and head-
dress, and an embroidered chair-back, its
roughly-torn corners telling the tale of
the day it was looted from the Pekin
Palace. Hers also were the exquisite
jade plaque, transparent as glass in front
of a strong light, and “thumb embroid-
eries” (a method of neddlework in which
the thumb is of more importance than
the other fingers) which unfold romances
in pictures. A modern piece was a work-
table of inlaid lacquer, Eastern in its
ivory embroidery tools, but Western in
the darning bag hidden beneath. Among
Mrs. Brockhoff’s possessions were chairs
and tables of teak and a goddess of love,
a remote dignitary who for over 500 years
has lived in the selfsame shrine. Mrs.
T. a’Beckett sent some bronzes, Mrs.
Percy Phillips a turquoise jewel-box,
Mrs. W. M. Gray the model of a wedding
group and Nora Wilkinson a Ming wine
beaker. Among curio trifles was a little-
man-garden-ornament ; his framework
of wire and twigs is supposed to be
hidden by creepers. Mrs. A. C. Pratt lent
a pair of brass fans carried by the Em-
peror’s retainers in a royal procession 200
years ago. Since Alec Pratt in Hong
Kong has been sending down so many
Chinese pieces to his parents they have
made up their minds to push their faith-
ful little car out into the fog and turn
their garage into a Chinese room.
Peggy Fraser, daughter of the Colin
Fraser couple, of Whernside, Toorak,
shared with Monica Grantham the ticket
secretaries’ responsibilities at the Pay
Party Ball, held on Friday at Earl’s
Court. The Renown Free Kindergarten
is the beneficiary. Miss Fraser’s portrait
by Spencer Shier.
The Russian Ballet’s two weeks’ season
is all too short for people who want to
have a last look at their favorite dancers
and ballets. Noticed in the week’s audi-
ences were Mrs. J. G. Whitaker, whose
jet-black hair, cut in a fringe and worn
almost straight, is a distinct change from
the plastic rolls of the season. Wearing
oyster net, with coin-spot embroideries,
she accompanied fur-coated Mrs. Jerry
Noall. The Ross Grey Smiths were
there, she in a gorgeous mink coat. A
visitor from Deniliquin was Marjorie
Macaw. Mrs. Tom Mackay accompanied
Peggy Gibson, who is well known for her
prowess as a walker in all weathers, up
and down the river and through the
Botanical Gardens. Among others were
Dr. and Mrs. Hubert Blaubaum, Jean
Balfour, the Ringland Andersons (in a
box) and Mary Stephen, wearing black
velvet and an uncommon pendant to
match her amethyst earrings.
Melbourne went to see “Bees On the
Boat Deck” with rugs over its arms. On
some nights it was so cold that clusters
of frozen people round the steam-heaters
blocked the traffic and caused some hard
feelings to emanate from those on the
outer edges towards the more fortunate
inner layer which had its knees tightly
wedged among the pipes. On one even-
ing Mrs. Lennox Spiers was seen with
her fur coat hiding all but the hem of
her evening gown. Mrs. R. R. Thomas
came with Marion, whose dusty-pink
gown was covered with a broad-tail coat.
Yet another warmly-coated spectator was
Mrs. Tom Slaney, whose daughter
Beverley made a study in black and white
—black velvet gown and long white
bunny coat. Mrs. M. L. Shepherd cov-
ered a black coat with yet another layer
of warmth in a cape of skunk. Rose-
mary Lyon’s brick-dust frock went with
red foxes. Among others present were
Mrs. R. D. Elliott, Janet Hitchman,
Diana Lang (in a long green velvet coat),
Clive Hamer and Aubrey Gibson, who
was with a party of men.
Something new to Melbourne is the
father and son exhibition which opened
yesterday (29th) at the Athenreum. The
father is Miles Evergood (originally
Blashki), born and educated in Aus-
tralia, who wandered abroad over 20
years ago and became a painter of note.
The son is Philip Evergood, a successful
American painter, whose pictures came
to Melbourne straight from his one-man
exhibition at the Denver Art Museum.
Philip married an American dancer,
Julia Cross, who last year made her
debut at the Metropolitan Opera House
in New York. A few years ago Miles
married for the second time, taking to
wife an American girl who gave up a
successful career as rug designer to be-
come an artist’s helpmate. She herself
paints, but only a little, for her hands
are full with looking after her home at
Black Rock, acting as chauffeur to her
husband and general factotum to his
pictures.
As Lordello is already filled with
antiques and oh jets d’art, Dr. Deborah
Buffer Murphy deliberately kept away
from art shops and sales of collections
while she was abroad. In theory her trip
was a holiday, in practice it turned out
to be business, for things were happen-
ing in the metal market. Dr. Murphy
is well known for her business brain, her
grasp of company law and the pluck and
intuition which have made her a success-
ful investor. She also knows more of
her own country than most Australian
women, and must by now have achieved
some sort of record for passenger mile-
age by ’plane. In London she introduced
her husband to several members of his
step-family—her married daughter Verna,
Joan, who has been studying languages,
and John, of the Bth Hussars, stationed
in Egypt. John is at present in Italy, and
Joan has gone to Rome to join him, for
these two love to do their travelling to-
gether. Dr. Murphy did not visit the
Continent on the way home, but she
had a quick look at some of the more
accessible parts of Abyssinia. One of her
most pleasant recollections of the last
few months was a motoring trip with
her husband through the beauty spots
of England, Scotland and Ireland.


Patents.
A LOCAL ANAESTHETIC AND
PROCESS OF MAKING IT.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
7973/32 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVED PROCESS OF HEAT
TREATING HYDROCARBON OILS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
13623/28 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
SADDLER-MADE
-
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
"STAYS-ON
FITTINGS.
A “Stays-on” Rug
(as illus.), made of
s-uper bleached
flax canvas and lined with fleecy wool,
is the best rug made, It lasts for six
or more seasons, making it the
CHEAPEST IN THE LONS RUN.
No. A “Stays-on” Rug, sft. 6in. 42/-,
sft. 9in. 43/6, 6ft. 44/6.
Post, 2/9 per rug.
Write for Horse Rug List.
Samples of canvas and linings sent
on request.
WALTHERj, STEVENSON itd
L S9S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Order Now —
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, F.C.A. (Aust.), in one handy and com-
prehensive volume.
This volume will represent the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1 /-
The book will be available shortly, and should be
ordered now from the publishers
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Beautiful old
Newstead House, now in the possession
of the Brisbane City Council as part of
a park, has sheltered the romances of
many a fine Australian lad and lass.
When the Harrises had it in the 1880’s,
young Dick Casey, partner of Donald
Wallace, who later owned and raced
Carbine, took his bride from it to their
fine new house at Normanby station.
Their son, also Dick, inherited from both
sides the good looks and charm of
manner which helped him to become
Australia’s Federal Treasurer to-day. An-
other Harris daughter was Mrs. Lumley
Hill (by second marriage ; the first was
Condamine Taylor), of whose three
daughters those in the E. J. Watt and
Cecil Whittingham clans make Austra-
lian social history, while Mrs. Cavaye’s
husband makes naval history of the
future as a lieut.-commander.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Queensland’s Minister
for Agriculture has been telling orchard-
ists that the prospects of controlling the
flying-fox pest are not at all hopeful.
A C.S. and I.R. investigation in 1929-30
estimated their numbers at many mil-
lions, scattered along 2000 miles of
N.S.W. and Queensland coast. Byfield, in
C.Q., is the largest known centre, with
a population estimated at over 250,000
in 10 acres of rain forest. Inaccessibility
of camps and long flight-range compli-
cate the problem. Flame-throwers and
systematic shooting have been tried, and
failed ; traps are useless and poison not
practicable.
* * * *
“Candidate”: Official pinpricks have a
long reach. At an aboriginal mission in
the Gulf of Carpentaria, where the news
of King George V.’s death arrived nearly
two months after the event and strangers
are seen once in a blue moon, a woman
devoting herself in that isolation to help-
ing Black Brother has been unable to
exercise the franchise for 12 years. Yet
conscientious officials down south, after
each election, still persist in requesting
her “reason in writing” for not voting.
She would be justified in demanding a
local polling-booth on future occasions,
at which, incidentally, her husband could
act as presiding officer and draw the
usual fees.
“Dick Tafone”: In Robert Hobbs
Taylor, of Cleveland, dead at 88, Bris-
bane lost its oldest continuous resident.
Born in 1849 on the sailing-ship Chasely,
in which his parents were on their way
from England to Sydney, he came to
Brisbane in the following year, when
Queen-street was still a bullock track.
The family lived at first in a cottage in
Edward-street, opposite to where the
A.M.P. building now stands, and later
removed to Cleveland. School and teach-
ing at the Normal School were followed
by a job, and eventually a partnership, in
Alfred Shaw and Co.’s warehouse. A
walk through Brisbane with R. H. Taylor
was a liberal education in the history
of early Brisbane and its inhabitants.
:!• * *
“Travel Stain”: A blacksmith, travel-
ling out west in Queensland, got bogged
about 60 miles from nowhere, and the
only thing to be done was to camp. He
"I'll have to take a tram, sir."
“ Weel, dinna forget tae bring back the ticket. Were verra short o’
scribblin' paper."
got his anvil and gear out, and soon
afterwards a horseman drew up with a
cast shoe. That was fixed, and similar
business turned out so good that the
camp became permanent. Then another
wanderer drew up, pitched his camp and
called it a store. And that is the story
of the township’s birth as they tell it in
Allora.
* * * *
“Pack Saddle”: John Forsythe, who
in the great days of the Golden Gate
operated one of the biggest crushing
plants on the Croydon (N.Q.) goldfield,
is still following the gleam, and not with-
out success. The other day he flew from
Cape York to Croydon to negotiate for
a large-sized rock-crusher for the Coen
field. He is getting payable low-grade
ore from the mullock dump of the Great
Northern that was abandoned in 1910.
"Australia JaneV Budget
Ray Moni and Gurney Sale and Mar-
garet Henry and Glenville Massey pro-
vided the two star weddings of the week.
The pre-teas for both brides-elect per-
sisted almost up to the moment of the
knot-tyings, and there were big bachelor
dinners for the ’grooms. St. John’s
Cathedral was the setting for both cere-
monies on the same day, one in the
afternoon and the other in the evening.
Mrs. Forgan Smith made a quick dash
to Mackay, attended the wedding of her
niece Nancy Brooks to K. McCarthy,
and dashed back to Brisbane again to
get on with her welfare activities. Now
she is off to Melbourne to meet her
Premier husband.
Dulcie Jensen was given a cheery pre-
tea at Rowe’s Cafe by the G.irl Guide
captains of Kangaroo Point, East Bris-
bane, before embarking on a matri-
monial career. Marjorie Lamb acted as
hostess, and there was a horseshoe of
jonquils for guest of honor and violets
and white hyacinth for her mother, Mrs.
V. Jensen.
The Dramatic Group of the State Ser-
vice Institute presented another batch of
four one-act plays at All Saints’ Hall,
and excellent producing and acting were
the keynotes of the evening. There’s a
lot of talent buried away among the files
and red-tape of the service, and the
Dramatic Group seems good at digging
out the best of it. Producers Andrew
Hirst, Bill Cuppaidge and Jack O’Hal-
loran deserve a word of praise, and
Moya Glassey (she is well known in
Repertory circles) and Effie Maxwell
share the stage honors.
G. Marchant’s magnificent gift of the
building and cheque for £l5OO has made
a Brisbane home for burnt-out Diggers
an immediate possibility ; now the Mayor
of Cairns, Alderman W. A. Collins, has
given the R.S.S.I.L.A. a block of land
valued at £lOOO on which homes for
aged Diggers can be erected.
The Post Office Ball, proceeds from
which go to the Bush Children’s Health
Scheme, had some novel decorations, and
(here was a telephone service through
there was a telephone service mrougn
which members of one alcove party
could ring another alcove and nvife
friends over. . .
unable to be present, but is wi e i
the honors.
At St. John’s College at-home Arch-
deacon Stevenson and his wife received
and quite a covey of profs, and their
wives were among the guests. Norman
Caldwell, an old collegian, came down
from Nambour for the dance and to
escort fiancee Margaret Patterson, whose
diamond ring is quite new.
Thirty-five old friends collaborated in
arranging a welcome-home party for
Mrs. R. Sanderson Taylor at Finney’s.
Guest of honor arrived with her sister,
Mrs. Spencer Browne, and was welcomed
by Mrs. Firmin McKinnon with an
early-Victorian posy and by Mrs. M. L.
Reading with a shoulder spray of car-
nations and Geraldton wax flower. Mrs.
Jack Mowbray made the presentation—
some lovely china —on behalf of the
party.
Queensland Medical Students’ annual
ball, held in the City Hall, drew a packed
house. Prof. H. J. Wilkinson (he is the
anatomy man) and his very decorative
wife entertained a big party.
Every now and again the Art Coterie
of Brisbane Women’s Club saves up
enough to buy a picture by an Australian
(preferably a Queensland) artist. It
wants another one now, which is why
members arranged the cheery dance and
bridge party in the clubrooms. Mrs.
Shand Findlay was the convener and,
with president Gwen Hughes and coterie
sec. Mrs. J. R. Rees, greeted the guests.
Pottery vases, the work of Mona Elliott,
were the delightful bridge prizes.
The new clubrooms
of the Young Australia
League in Desmond
Chambers were christ-
ened with a farewell
party to the Cairns
tourists, who leave
Brisbane on July 3.
President Mrs. Euston
Moore, vice - president
Marga Harrold and
secretary Marie Dick
received. The party
was arranged by the
Boomerang Club of
the Y.A.L.
When Lorna Hooper,
of Toowoomba,
marries Andrew Mac-
farlane at St. John’s
Cathedral on July 31,
Betty Annand, of Too-
woomba, and Veridah
Bedwell, of Brisbane,
will be her bridesmaids.
Lorna is the daughter
of the late F. G. and of
Mrs. Hooper, and
Andrew’s parents are
the J. P. Macfarlanes,
of Ascot.
Before sailing for India in August to
marry Captain C. H. Kappe, Dulcie
Jensen will have had enough tea poured
in her honor to float the liner in which
she sails. She’s got a lot of friends, and
they all are anxious to entertain for her.
Gladys Barlow couldn’t find time for
all the pre-teas suggested before her wed-
ding to Alan Philp, of Vincentia, Bollon,
on July 8, so all the would-be hostesses
solved the problem by arranging one
huge co-operative affair, which is to
happen on July 5.


8 kT
s
r 5)
To be physically fit in the true sense means
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life’s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A teaspoon-
ful threfe times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
14 Life is not to be alive,
but to be physically fit /*
RQBOLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
COUPON
s« ee .
Ke" 1
479
•fttnv
ltd
fol
idtnP*
V'7
flcU
\o« e
Viu' 1
en c
53
Adir'”
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.B.E.j
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—•
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
VV'3"
|1
f!!* tf&iiili SilrX
m m
| §t 11
!s
i
asst
m
WM
m
• T f iffi//, • : . /’T;.’’
Hit
w~-
m
■'-4-il ; ' : ' ; "'' *
Mi
IJMfcfcl®
# 14 <&>
K&,
EwM
-
g^f-i
(tfCaUuno
Wl' (|lh»vl*«j
.’.. I'.i
&
: y:.m
■w
wz
m
~7Asl flame Ss
OD c Caiiiim’s
7A* aa/sfy y*~ tffybg?*
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mori & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son -- - Fremantle
Melbourne and Bnsbane Mactar ,ane Bros. & Co. -- - - Hobart
Gibbs, Bright & Co. An “ lal
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Streamers and balloons decked the
Embassy for the dental students’ dance.
G. D. Henderson (president of the Col-
lege of Dental Science) and his other
half, she in black velvet and spray of
gold roses, were guests of honor. Mrs.
G. McGregor, from Nairobi, Kenya
Colony, had copious pleatings on her
shell-pink chiffons, and Mrs. E. Blanck-
ensee attached a sequinned belt to her
sea-green cloques. Mrs. C. O. Tebbutt,
Mrs. H. Rowledge and Molly Wright
favored black. A Paisley pattern in
bronze adorned Mrs. J. McMillan’s oat-
meal satin. Lissom Gwynne Jones chose
turquoise-blue taffeta and there were em-
bossed chenille designs on Pat Flower’s
leaf-green ninon. Mrs. John Hicks,
dental graduate, was girt in filmy blue
georgette.
Mary Main’s bride-elect parties com-
menced with tea at Muriel Lee Steere’s
Mount-street home, followed by a lun-
cheon at the Esplanade, with Mrs. Alec
Lawson as hostess. Mollie Manning,
garbed in black wool crepe and green
trimmings, arranged bridge and mah
jongg at her home in Peppermint Grove,
and Margaret Draper dispensed after-
noon-tea. At the cocktail hour Mrs. Tom
Argyle received the bride-to-be and other
guests at her delightful new home in
Peppermint Grove.
The be-feted one became Mrs. Tom de
Pledge at St. Mary’s, West Perth. Orange-
blossom encircled the neckline of her
deep-cream satins and matched the halo
topping her filmy tulle veil. A girdle of
seed pearls adorned the slender waistline.
In the bride’s wake came matron of
honor Mrs. Alec Lawson and ’maid Sheila
Clement, their ice-blue velvets fashioned
on empire lines, buttoning from neck to
hemline and draping into small trains.
At the Esplanade Mrs. Percy Wickham
welcomed friends to drink congratulatory
cocktails.
The S. G. Royces gaily decorated the
Myola Hall, Claremont, for daughter
Pat’s coming-of-age dance. Black georg-
ette and lace adorned Mrs. Royce, and
the bud’s lacquered satins were grape
shade. Relatives motored from Pin-
jarra and Bunbury for the festivities.
Pat is a granddaughter of Edward
McLarty, one of the south-west pioneers.
Broadcast House, new quarters of the
A.8.C., was officially declared open by
W. J. Cleary, chairman, who shared
honors with manager C. J. A. Moses
and J. B. Clark, 8.8. C. visitor, at a civic
reception.
To the ranks of the newly-engaged
have been added Mollie, daughter of the
R. W. Lloyds, of West Perth, and the
E. E. Virtues’ lawyer son John. In
Beverley new recruits are Doreen
McKellar and Frank Broun, son of Mrs.
M. C. Broun and the late F. T. Broun.
Bright weather favored teams of the
W.A. Women’s Association for the
march past the Acting-Governor’s lady
on the Esplanade. Their colorful uni-
forms looked very trim as they stepped
out to the smart beat of two Y.A.L.
drummers. The winning team, Wiluna,
deputed Hilda Clapp to receive the
Fallows Cup.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Pharmaceutical students of the Uni.
danced in the Refectory Hall, which was
bright with marigolds and Iceland pop-
pies. The official party included
Chemistry Professor A. Killen Macbeth,
Dr. W. Ternent Cooke and E. F. Lip-
sham.
The Commerce Students’ Association’s
Ball had the same venue, the hall gar-
nished with poinsettias and red heath.
Marjorie Stevens and Peggy Dawe did
the decorations, and the supper tables
were made charming with Lorraine Lee
roses and pink sweet-peas.
The Sporting Car Club sponsored a
bright dance at the Ramsgate Hotel,
Henley Beach. Guests were received by
the patron of the club, Dr. G. Howard,
and Mrs. Howard, who was gowned in
black chiffon with pink flowers on the
corsage.
The marriage of Joy, only daughter of
the Alec Hughes couple, to William, son
of the Ross Gordons, of Millicent, took
place at St. John’s, with a reception after-
wards at Urrbrae, lent for the occasion
by Prof, and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson.
The bride was gowned in ice-blue satin,
with veil of tulle in the same shade. The
satin was patterned in gold leaf. Brides-
maid Margaret Cowling was in peach-
pink lame figured in silver.
The Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion’s Ball at the Palais Royal gave a
helping hand to T. E. Malone, candidate
for election to the presidency of the Liars’
Club. Attorney-General Jeffries brought
his wife, gowned in white cloque, worn
beneath a mink fur coat. Mrs. Malone
chose sapphire-blue lace. About 600
attended.
Wives of members of the Adelaide divi-
sion of the Institution of Engineers gave
an afternoon party at the. Piccadilly,
when the guests of honor were the Chap-
man lady, Mrs. C. B. Anderson and Mrs.
W. F. H. Wheadon. During afternoon-
tea Mrs. j. W. Murrell made a speech in
which she explained that the gathering
wished to show its appreciation of
honors that had been bestowed upon the
husbands of the guests.
From London comes news of the en-
gagement of Shirley, elder daughter of
the R. Burns Cumings, of Torrensville,
to Keith, only son of the W. A. Gardners,
of Hawthorn, Vic. The wedding is to
take place on July 7 at All Souls’
Church, London. Another romance that
budded in England is the engagement of
Ngaroma, second daughter of Mrs.
A. W. Rutherford, of Unley Park, and
the late A. W. Rutherford, of M.L., to
Rendel, elder son of Mrs. Evan Kyffin
Thomas, of North Adelaide, and the late
E. K. Thomas. Mrs. Rutherford’s eldest
daughter, Hope, married John Bonython,
grandson of Langdon, founder of the
“Advertiser,” and Rendel Thomas is a
grandson of the founder of the
“Register,” now merged with the “Adver-
tiser.” Another engagement to be fol-
lowed by a prompt marriage is that of
Marjorie, daughter of the H. M. Days,
of Toorak, Vic., to Colin, son of Mrs.
Jack Crawford, of Walkerville-terrace,
Gilberton, and the late Mr. Crawford.
The wedding is to take place in London.
TASMANIA.
The Hobart Symphony Orchestra's
concert at the Town Hall had a castanet
accompaniment from the chattering teeth
of performers and audience. Dr.
Arundel Orchard was moved to heart-
felt words on the subject of the un-
warmed hall at the close of the concert.
Those who had the forethought to go in
overcoats and furs, with rugs for the
knees and rubber hot-water bags for the
feet, enjoyed an excellent programme.
The Huddart Parker Co. lent its ship
Zealandia to the Sanatorium Committee
for a party. A ballroom and bridge-
room were improvised, sitting-out
corners were cosily fixed up and decora-
tions were superb. Mary Caulfield, A.
Hurst and G. Heath were the chief
movers in organising the affair, which
was enjoyed by about 600 guests.
Midlanders carried on their festivities
after the show and called it a week. In-
cluded in the parties was a dance at
Powell’s Hall, preceded by a buffet dinner-
given by the C. F. Chesters at Camelford,
where “Wallis Blue” cocktails figured in
the wine list. Mrs. Chester was in a
deep-blue velvet frock cut plainly with
train. The Midland Hunt Club met at
Mona Vale at the end of the week and
had a fine run.
Margaret Katherine, elder daughter of
the Wilfred Hutchins couple, Lower
Sandy Bay, and Gerald Michael Webb
(Vic.) were married at St. Mary’s
Cathedral. The bride wore an angora
suit in soft blue, with touches of mauve.
A hat to match and spray of mauve
orchids completed the picture. Her sister
Barbara chose wool in a Chinese-blue
shade. The reception at Hadley’s after-
wards was a gay affair, and about 250
guests enjoyed the fun.
Kier Murdoch is being feted before her
marriage to Anthony Brunskill, of Kurra-
jong, Wagga. Dora Grant, who is to be
chief bridesmaid, gave a big party at the
Queen Mary Club the. other afternoon,
and there have been many other dinners
and cocktail parties.
M. W. Woods, Rhodes scholar at
Magdalen, Oxford, sends news of his
success to his father, W. A. Woods,
former Speaker of the Tas. House of
Assembly. He has gained a Doctorate of
Philosophy, and has been appointed to
the staff of Imperial Chemical Industries
in England.
Lotte Lehmann left behind her in
Tassie, as well as pleasant memories of
a golden voice, generous donations to the
Tailwaggers’ Club and the Free Kinder-
garten.


, S:
The Choice of 2 V-8 Engines
enables you to select the correct truck power
to do your job with greatest economy. Reports
from owners prove that ton-mile haulage cost
is lower with V-8 trucks. These extracts are
typical: "With average loading up to 5 tons
over 32,000 miles my V-8 Truck has given me
15 m.p.g. maintenance costs nil." "Have
done 98,000 miles with capacity loads over poor
roads, engine never touched." "Working
over worst roads in the State with 3 to 4 ton
loading my V-8 Truck gives me 16* m.p.g."
Prove for yourself the lower ton-mile cost of V-8
Trucks—ask your local Ford Dealer to arrange
an 'on-the-job' test under your own operating
conditions with your own loads. Easy terms.
V-8 TRUCK FEATURES:
FULL TORQUE TUBE DRIVE AND
RADIUS RODS • BRAKING AREA OF
470| SQ. INS. • 41 BALL AND ROLLER
BEARINGS • NEEDLE ROLLER BEAR-
INGS IN UNIVERSAL JOINTS • FULL
FLOATING REAR AXLE WITH STRADDLE
MOUNTED PINION AND 4 DIFFEREN-
TIAL GEARS • GREATER COOLING
EFFICIENCY • CENTRIFORCE TRUCK
CLUTCH • HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMIS-
SION • IMPROVED OIL BATH AIR
CLEANER • IMPROVED DISTRIBUTOR
CLEANER • IMPROVED DISTRIBUTOR •
DUAL DOWN DRAUGHT CARBURETTOR
L
J
The 1937
FORD V 8 TRUCKS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA) F181.24C
The Long White Colud
The Would-be Nose-leaders.
Following Prime. Minister Savage’s Im-
perial Conference exposition of Maori-
land Labor’s plans for solving world
problems, Minister of Labor Armstrong
took the floor at Geneva’s international
convention to inform textile delegates
they were, “hopeless” if they voted against
the 40-hour week, which had “increased
New Zealand’s income by 20 per cent.,
amounting to £14,000,000 a year.’ Like
Mr. Savage, Mr. Armstrong sketched
only part of the Maoriland story.
With working hours so summarily re-
duced and wage-rates so rapidly in-
creased, Maoriland’s national income has
been redistributed ; the increase has been
due to the upward trend of prices on
overseas produce, markets. The Labor
introductions have increased costs, both
public and private, and, combined with
Labor’s increased social service expendi-
ture, have pushed up taxation.
While the bulk of the population is
undoubtedly better off at present, it will
be awkward if overseas prices decline.
Waikato dairying centres, through farm-
labor problems and still rising produc-
tion costs, are said to be swinging to-
wards mixed farming by buying more
sheep. In good and bad times, mainten-
ance of dairy produce exports has been
a Maoriland standby.
And with 3700 more State employees
—exclusive of the additional thousands
on Public Works jobs—than in 1935-36
and nearly the, whole huge public service
on a 40-hour week, any decline in taxa-
tion revenue, which must automatically
follow a fall in returns for produce sent
overseas, will thoroughly test the better-
days philosophy of the Maoriland poli-
ticians so keen to lead the world by its
old and cautious nose.
“Xo”: There are some surprising
road-traps for motorists on this side of
the Tasman. Cars using a Dunedin
water-front highway never knew when
Sammy the Sea Lion would next flop
across their paths until a driver bowled
Samuel over. Then two cars using roads
in the Rotorua district collided with a
stag and a hind. These usually timid
animals are beguiled from the bush by
headlights, and appear on the road so
suddenly that startled drivers haven’t
much time to prove that they can think.
The deer have certainly changed their
habits since that time I lugged a heavy
rifle miles round some steep ranges back
of Morrinsville without even seeing a
distant stag to bang at.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: One fact I’ve chased in vain
through yards of “special correspondent”
newspaper stories from Rabaul; did the
sulphur fumes yellow the skins of the
white residents exposed to them? Some
time ago a couple of Maorilanders —
F. W. Vosseler was one —were on the
active Mt. Ngauruhoe when one crater
“shot” occurred which shook the whole
mountain and threw high into the air a
plume of sulphur-smoke. Mr. Vosseler
and his mate wasted no time getting off
the slopes of the mountain; but, in-
stead of being as pale as they felt they
should be, both of them found their faces
and hands were as yellow as Spanish
gold.
* * * *
“Waitot”: One result of the present
Maoriland policy of paying research
scientists less than traffic cops (B.
23 /6/ ’37) is an increasing drift of quali-
fied research workers to more hospitable
private employers. Recent examples are
the resignation of the Wheat Research
Institute’s chief chemist and the depar-
ture to Australia of a veterinary bacterio-
logist who had just finished a world tour
for the Department of Agriculture. Mr.
Savage was to “keep the Dominion’s bril-
liant sons from migrating to other coun-
tries” !
H* -J*
“Korero”: There’s a chance that the
Maoriland harbor nearest to the Aus-
tralian coast will some day be at Jack-
son’s Bay in the far south of that por-
tion of Westland still being pioneered
(B. 23/6/’37). Minister of Public
Works Semple is having timber resources
behind the bay investigated, and says the
harbor will be built “if the area shows
promise of a decent return to the
nation.” It is a historical curiosity that
this part of South Westland, still largely
unexplored, was probably the first bit of
Maoriland seen by European eyes. Down
Lake McKerrow way, south again from
Jackson’s Bay, are the remains of an
old, high-pooped teak ship with well-
grown Maoriland trees poking high into
the air through planks now nearly rotted
away. The ship is believed to have been
an old Dutchman, and history-minded
men who have inspected her remains say
she went ashore there years before Tas-
man’s time. The first moderns to ex-
plore Jackson’s Bay, incidentally, did so
in the ’sixties in a ship they built them-
selves.
* * * *
“Ticker”: Besides restocking streams
with trout (B. 23/6/’37) and replenish-
ing suitable brakes with pheasants,
Maoriland acclimatisation societies pro-
tect fish and game-birds from natural
enemies like shags, hawks, weasels and
stoats. The Auckland society alone has
paid out £6BOO in the last 15 years for
weasel and stoat tails, hawks’ feet and
so on. To relieve this regular drain on
its finances, the society is now inquiring
into the possibilities of an English
market for stoat- and weasel-skins.
* * * *
“Kakapo”: Another of Maoriland’s
celebrated £5O notes was paid out as 10s.
to an Auckland tobacconist. When the
owner discovered his mistake he was
afraid that his tale would sound thin, so
he offered the tobacconist a 255. bottle
of liquor for 10s. The tobacconist rose
to the bait, and back came the £5O to its
rightful and agitated owner.
* * * *
“Mak”: Besides the conservatorium
of music and of the spoken arts promised
by its national broadcasting culture-chief
(B. 23/6/’37), Maoriland is still waiting
to hear more about the “groups of list-
eners” to have been “organised to
provide the National Broadcasting Ser-
vice with a guide to public taste.”
Admittedly, Prof. Shelley voiced this
intention early in the year when he
was a very new radio director. Pos-
sibly he has received so many letters
from listeners in no need of organised
encouragement to offer him good Maori-
land opinions that he is heartily sick of
his own suggestion and determined to
forget it.
* * * *
“D.N.”: People from across the Tas-
man are invariably a trifle indignant
when stung for tuppence to stamp letters
that most of them have been sending for
a penny as long as they can remember;
but they don’t always have to leave home
to develop a grouch against the Aus-
tralian Post Office. A Dunedin man paid
£7 17s. 6d. to send by air mail three
Coronation issues of English weeklies.
A philatelist son to whom they were
addressed was looking forward to col-
lecting the two £2 stamps, the three £1
stamps and the 155., 10s. and 2s. 6d.
stamps his considerate parent had licked
in London. He was disappointed. The
package was delivered, but without the
£2 stamps, while the £1 stamps had been
ruined by whoever tried to remove them.
There was a memorandum on the pack-
age stating that the mutilation had oc-
curred before it reached Maoriland. It
was in a sealed bag as far as Australia.
* * * *
“M.”: Australians thoroughly fami-
liar with their own Yackandandahs,
Konongwootongs, Mooroopnas and
other beauties frequently comment on
Maoriland’s tongue - twisting place-
names. Airminded people who cross the
Tasman determined to do their future
travelling by air will have to watch their
Maori pronunciations or spell out their
telephone bookings. Just as Australian
National Airways has chosen abo. names
for units of its inter-State fleet, so Union
Airways on this side has favored Maori
—and apt Maori —for distinguishing its
airliners. All its machines are named
after native birds. The three new Lock-
heed Electras for the Auckland-Welling-
ton run have been christened Kotare
(kingfisher), Kuaka (godwit) and
Kereru (wood pigeon); the three ’planes
operating the inter-island main trunk air
service are Kotuku (white heron), Karoro
(seagull) and Korimako (bellbird). And
there are still plenty of Maori bird-names
beginning with a “k” for future addi-
tions to the fleet —kiwi and kea are a
couple of obvious ones, just as obviously
avoided because the former doesn’t fly
and the latter might prejudice South
Island sheepmen against air travel.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Even the inauguration of the
Auckland-Wellington air service (B.
23/6/’37) does not allow Maorilanders
to fly from Auckland to Christchurch or
Dunedin in the same day. While the
north-bound ’plane from Wellington
connects with that day’s machine from
Dunedin to Palmerston North, the south-
bound North Island one reaches Palmer-
ston too late for through passengers to
the South Island to catch the Palmerston
North-Dunedin ’plane. Aucklanders are
pressing for alteration of the timetable
of the daily Auckland-Wellington ser-
vice. They claim that an 8.15 a.m. (in-
stead of a noon) departure from their
’drome would not only allow through
passengers to make the inter-island ’plane
at Palmerston North, but would also
give northerners flying south to transact
business in Wellington nearly four extra
hours in the capital on the day of arrival.
Airliners fly the Sydney-Melbourne route
in the mornings, and this allows Hobart-
and Adelaide-bound passengers to make
their respective same-day connections at
Essendon. There seems no good reason
why Maorilanders shouldn’t benefit by
a similar timetable arrangement.
* * * *
“Kakapo”: Geophysicists will shortly
commence the most intensive survey in
Maoriland history, designed to discover
what geological structure underlies the
Vast alluvial deposits—probably 2000 ft.
deep—of the Canterbury plains. Whether
the structure is a continuation from the
Southern Alps or is connected with the
volcanic rock of Banks Peninsula is a
long-standing problem they hope to
solve. The third possibility, that of a
shelf of rock of independent formation,
specially interests oil-seekers.


HOTSPOTS' FRO* HISTORV
No.b.THE REAL REASON WHY BLUCHER
WAS LATE AT WATERLOO"'
&
r 4Jj
% #»' v«'// y
VAvVA
GcS<
LEADS
APPOINTMENT
Uxi-K
Av It
0 1*216 •
« <£
faUlty I pllM
BEEF
Kf
am
HE WAS LISTENING TO "
Audioscopic Reproduction
EXCLUSIVE TO
PHILIPS
Your local Philip*
Accredited Retailer
will be pleased to
demonstrate.
=AkmOH^
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
YOU
HEAR
EVERY
NOTE
IF ITS
AN
“ Amplion Dynamic Speakers
bring to thousands of homes
throughout the Common*
wealth, a perfection of tonal
quality unsurpassed by any
other type of Speaker.”
“A multitude of types are
available, to suit all classes
of Receivers.”
“Demand an Amplion in your,
new Radio, and enjoy the best
possible reproduction.”
M Fitted in all quality Re*
ceivers.”
“ Publication forwarded on
request.”
AMPLION (A/SIA) PTY. LTD.
66 Clarence Street, Sydney.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Philips Maxiwatt Amplifier.
The public-address amplifier exhibited
on the Philips stall at the recent amateur
radio exhibition in Sydney employs the
“Maxiwatt” principle. Though 60 watts
output is obtainable, the amplifier is very
much smaller than the old 200-watt
amplifier giving the same output; it
weighed 3301 b., the new Maxiwatt
weighs only 601 b.
The new amplifier is equipped with
small amplifying valves; the more cum-
bersome predecessor had large transmit-
ting valves, expensive both to operate
and to replace. Previously amplifiers
were generally rated according to the
maximum input that could be handled by
the amplifying valves under normal con-
ditions, and it was generally understood
that a 50-watt amplifier would give much
less than an output of 50 watts. Practice
called for a large transmitting valve with
200 watts anode dissipation and a large
Fig. 1. —The Maxiwatt amplifier circuit.
rectifier of similar type. Now, two small
amplifying valves with 32 watts anode
dissipation are used with small rectifiers.
Philips engineers did not approve of the
accepted Class-A or Class-B principles as
fulfilling all quality requirements, and
so a combination of Class-A and Class-
B quality was worked upon. Thus the
Maxiwatt system was evolved, where the
anode dissipation of the valves is reduced
to almost one-fifth of the former value,
though maintaining the same output. It
will be apparent that an amplifier of this
calibre is useful for many purposes.
The Circuit.
This is shown in Fig. 1. The pre-
amplifier is a type E 499 followed by a
8409 driver. Anode voltage is supplied
to these stages from a 506 rectifier ; the
negative grid bias is obtained from the
voltage drop across the terminals of re-
sistances in the anode circuits. The 506
also provides a constant value of nega-
tive bias for the power valves. In the
final stage, two valves of the new type
4641 are used (Fig. 2). This type is
adapted for high anode voltages, and has
a special base. Anode voltage is taken
from the two half-wave 4646 rectifiers.
The amplifier can be used for gramo-
phone reproduction, speech or radio, and
as a rule both the input stages will be
used. If the input voltage is higher than
that supplied by a pickup, as with radio
reproduction, the E 499 stage can be
switched out. Most modern microphones
may be used with a special pre-amplifier ;
for cases where such an amplifier is neces-
sary, the Maxiwatt amplifier is provided
with tappings for the filament and anode
voltages of the pre-amplifier.
If the 506 rectifier were to become
defective during operation, the. negative
grid bias would fail and anode current
would rise, resulting in a breakdown of
both power valves.
To avoid this, a
relay is fitted, as
shown in the circuit
diagram. This re-
lay functions as
soon as the 506
ceases to supply
current, and
switches off the
power supply to the
' 4646 rectifiers.
Overloading of the
output valves by
excessive anode dis-
sipation is thus
forestalled. Addi-
tionally, a fuse guards against any
damage that might be incurred by a
defect in one of the power valves.
Fig. 3 shows the amplifier itself.
Dimensions are 18iin. by lljrin. by
ll|in. From left to
right the valves are
E 499 and 8409, 506,
the two 32-watt
464 l’s and the 4646
rectifiers. On the
right behind the
valves are the ter-
minals for the two
mains transformers,
one feeding the 506
rectifier and the
other feeding the
4646’5. The trans-
formers are adapt-
able for use on all
A.C. voltages be-
tween 100 and 260
volts, very useful
where mobility is
concerned. The lower part of the ampli-
fier carries a circular aperture with plug
sockets for the input connection (pickup,
etc.). Next to these is the earthing terminal.
Fig. 2. —The new Philips 32-watt 4641
valves, adapted for high anode voltages,
with special base.
For radio reproduction the first modu-
lating valve can be disconnected by
means of movable strips between contacts,
and at adjacent terminals the filament or
anode voltage of the input stages can
be tapped for a pre-amplifier. By means
of an adjoining row of five terminals, the
output transformer, containing five
secondary windings, can be adapted to
the loudspeakers used. In series con-
nection of all windings an output volt-
age of 100 is obtained with full load. By
parallel connection of all windings the
transformer will deliver about 20 volts.
Alternative connections will give 40, 60
and 80 volts.
At the front of the amplifier (not
shown) there is a milliammeter with a
Fig. 3. —Rear view of the Maxiwatt amplifier.
mark at 25ma. The power valves are
adjusted to this reading by means of two
corresponding potentiometers. The meter
is switched from one, valve to the other
as required. On the lower right-hand side
is a manually-operated tone filter with
four positions. In the first the filter is
switched off and all audible frequencies
up to 14,000 cycles are reproduced. Posi-
tion two gives all frequencies above 5500
cycles, position three above. 4700 cycles
and position four cuts off frequencies
above 3500 cycles. Any desired tone
character can thus be adjusted.
The amplifier is so constructed that the
section behind the. valve contains all
accessories supplying voltages; coupling
components are under the valves. Those
interested can obtain full information,
with comparison curves of the Maxi-
watt principle against Class-A and Class-
B systems, from the transmitting depart-
ment of Philips Lamps (A’sia), Ltd.,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
D. B. K.
Effect of Aerials on
Television.
Since television got into stride in Eng-
land some seemingly unimportant points
about dipole aerials on receivers have
been revealed as vitally important in-
reception of the picture.
If a dipole aerial is used on a super-
regenerative receiver (or superhet) for
experimental five-metre communication
the method of erecting the aerial and
connecting it to the receiver is not of
very great importance. It provides, or
should do, a good source of resonant
signal pickup. It is different with tele-
vision. An English magazine states that
with dipole aerial feeders there should be
no joints in the total length of the feeders
from the aerial to receiver. Poor con-
nection by means of roughly-twisted
joints can cause reflections, giving a
double image on the screen. Again, it
is not good practice to make a dipole
aerial of wire alone on a wooden sup-
port. Thick metal rods should be used
for the aerial, otherwise it is quite likely
that the sharp tuning of the thin wire
dipole may tend to cut the wide side-
band range of the vision transmission,
with loss of definition.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Sach”: At the Coronation review in
Centennial Park, Sydney, a loudspeaker
announced that signal lights would in-
form R.A.A.F. ’planes when to take their
place in the saluting proceedings. The
first light failed to clear the trees, the
second was of doubtful color and with
the third came an announcement that the
’planes would now fly over for the salute.
The ’planes came part of the way,
then circled out to sea. After a
while, “They could not have seen
our signals,” said the loudspeakers.
The occupants of those R.A.A.F. ’planes
must have been thought-readers. They
came back from the sea with a grand
sweep, dipping in salute. A short-wave
system between ground and ’planes
would have saved the delay, and would
have been more impressive. Verey lights
are prehistoric. Men are trained for
radio signalling; why not encourage
them?
* * *
“Pre-Amp”: In the laboratory of the
National Physical Society in England a
microphone amplifier has been perfected
for detecting the presence of destructive
insects in timber. It is so sensitive that
the different kinds of insects or larvae
can be distinguished by the differences in
the sounds, although the burrowers may
be deep in the timber.
* * * *
“V.E.”: From “QST,” April, 1930, in
an article, “Radio Control of Airport
Lights”:
Suppose two landing-fields are located
10 miles apart and a ’plane coming into
one field desires to light the field he is
approaching. The pilot turns the selector
switch for the field he wants after consult-
ing his orders for the frequency that this
field has been allotted. The field lights up
in a few seconds.
Is any such link-up with radio part of
the much-advertised scheme for instal-
ling airport beacons in Australia?
* * * *
A new station is W6XKG on 11.56
metres (25,950 kc.). Location is Los
Angeles, and operation is 24 hours a
day. The programmes of KGFJ are re-
layed through this station with 100 watts
power, and reports are regularly received
from all parts of the world. Listeners
with receivers taking in the amateur 10-
metre, band should look just above for
W6XKG.
Heard on Short Waves.
Since using the Ideal Battery T.R.F.
AU-waver at Camooweal (Q.), with short-
wave results as described (B. 28/4/’37),
the writer has been travelling the Far
North with, as companion, a Sterling
dual-wave five-valve battery supprhet
equipped with Sirufer variable permea-
bility I.F.Ts. This receiver has had a
good testing on s.w. and b.c. Nineteen


..w*
****
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve
metres is especially good in daytime, and
the 20-metre amateur ’phones roar in
from everywhere. Already numbers of
Americans are identifiable by their
accent, which varies in different parts of
the U.S.A. Some Australian amateurs
are excellent, especially VK2HF. For
the first few days, Daventry was outshin-
ing Berlin, but recently the Nazis have
won easily ; DJQ being excellent from
7.50 a.m. right through. DJB and GSO
do very well, but Moscow on 19.95
The DX den of Homer Bohlender, a U.S.A. short-wave
listener of Brookville, Ohio. Most Australian 20-metre
amateur ’phones have been logged at this listening-post.
metres was discovered in an English ses-
sion which lasted until 12.15 p.m. Short
talks were given, with male and female
speakers alternately. There was a poli-
tical talk on Poland and one on “non-
intervention,” with news, sport, etc. Rifle-
shooting seems to stand high among
Soviet sports, and two recent world’s
records in this field were claimed. This
is a daily broadcast, and at 12.15 p.m. a
session opens in French through RNE on
25 metres. This station could not be
raised until about 1 p.m. The English
session is on 31.25 metres also, but this
was inaudible.
Morning reception is excellent in the
25-metre band, RNE and OLR being
best. Thirty-one metres is not as good
as expected, and here GSB, 2RO,
W2XAF and CTIAA are best. Nineteen
metres is good and reaches its peak
around 8 a.m. Night reception on 31
metres is very pleasing, but 19
metres is then patchy and erratic until
around 10 p.m. After 11 p.m. on
18./6/’37, 10 stations were logged in the
vicinity of 19 metres, including DJR and
DJL. No luck has been had yet with
49 metres at any time (a distinct con-
trast to winter conditions a few years
ago). The Great Gold Cup at 11.30 p.m.
from GSO on this date was 100 p.c., but
8.8. C. race descriptions never equal
those from our A.B.C. and other Aus-
tralian stations.
Paris is good for afternoon reception,
and the session after 4 p.m. from TPA3
often presents some excellent music. One
day there was an abundance of Verdi,
and very nice, too.
GSB and GSD were expected to be a
lot better up here than they are. All the
25- and 31-metre stations seem to be at
less strength than might have been ex-
pected from past experience elsewhere.
Improvement is noted during the last few
hours, and, as no alterations have been
made to aerial or earth, possibly weather
conditions are responsible.
This Sterling five-valver shows up well
on b.c. At Camooweal 2FC, 2BL and
4QG were very poor stations, but they
are quite good ones further north. There
are other similar station variations. A
Manila (P. 1.) station on 25.33 metres
gives American and Philippine news at
9 p.m. One night, a Clipper was re-
ported overdue. She turned up eventu-
ally.
NORTHERNER.
Amateur Chatter.
A 20-metre ’phone station asked a W
to stand by for another, testing the R.F.
portion of a new rig, minus modulation.
The W expected a keyed carrier, and,
finding none, reported so. He was told
that the other station “is not on C.W. ;
his carrier is running, that’s all.” When
is a carrier not C.W.? It is easy to get
the habit of referring to “ ’phone or
C.W.” The correct “ ’phone or key”
would be just as
easy.
This writer has
no axe to grind in
the “C.W.-’phone”
c o n t r o versy:
VK2NO will often
be heard vocally
on varying bands.
But if attention is
directed to the
wrong kind of
operation in both
spheres of activity,
conditions may be
ultimately bettered
for all. There are
’phone stations in
action which can-
not read the slow-
est Morse. Of
what use will such operators be when
faced with a sudden emergency call?
Although nothing has been announced
officially, it is known that there is a pos-
sibility of a general increase in power
rating for Australian amateurs, and also
the introduction of a special exam, for
those who desire high-power permits. In
future reasons written on a form as to
why one should be permitted QRO will
not be sufficient. It will be necessary
to prove that the licensee is a fit and
proper subject for the privilege.
During July the Mackay Expedition in
Centralia will be active with radio, and,
apart from the regular commercial work,
communication on the 7mc. band will be
effected. The expedition’s experimental
callsign is VKSNO, and the operator is
Eric Ferguson, ex-VK2BP. The VKSNO
transmitter has 6L6G Tritet and p.-p.
802’s with suppressor modulation. Power
is from a small petrol engine and 600-volt
generator.
Somebody had a leg pulled during an
unofficial conversation with a senior R.L
by taking seriously a remark that per-
haps the reason for a possible 16 w.p.m.
test for high-power permits is that “those
who can work Morse faster will get
through their transmission quicker and
then go to bed earlier.” It is unlikely
that such an unfair test will be enforced.
Those responsible, even if they are “ex-
operators,” realise the importance of
progress in radio-telephony. A test in-
sisting upon the regulation 12 w.p.m. as
proof of ability would be more to the
point. There can be no argument about
that, for the license, theoretically and
practically, implies this degree of pro-
ficiency, though many amateurs virtually
“throw their keys away” after getting
on the air. On the other hand, the
authorities might consider a special tech-
nical exam, for those interested solely
in higher-power permits for ’phone
operation primarily. Something appears
necessary when one considers the “mon-
key chatter” on the DX bands arising
from badly-adjusted ’phone transmitters
now working at 25 watts. Even as a
telegraphy signal must be monitored for
clean working, so should ’phone be
monitored for precaution against foul
overmodulation and consequent interfer-
ence to BCLs and other amateurs. The
rumor about an increase from 25 to
50 watts appears to be well founded.
That in itself would be, in these over-
crowded days, quite a concession.
VK2NO.
New High-frequency Valve.
The Westinghouse Co. announces an
ultra-short-wave triode with a plate dis-
sipation of 160 watts at six metres. The
valve is illustrated, and it will be seen
that it is of sturdy design. It is known
as the WL46I, and is described as the
“modern power tube for therapy, radio
and other high-frequency purposes.”
Bases, stem presses and lead-in wires
are eliminated, and the grid, filament and
plate are supported by short, heavy rods
terminating in rugged metal thimbles.
Clamping the circuit directly to these
terminals provides a very low impedance
path to the electrodes, and this construc-
tion, with lower inter-electrode capaci-
ties, is claimed to give “five megacycle
performance at 50 megacycles, and useful
output up to 150 megacycles.” Filament
rating is five volts at 11.5 amperes, D.C.
plate, voltage 2000, A.C. plate voltage
2500, plate current 250 ma., plate dissi-
pation 160 watts, and plate power output
460 watts. It seems to be the kind of
thing ultra-short-wave engineers have
prayed for.
Perhaps someday Australian radiomen
may be lucky enough to have access to
such productions. So far, this and many
other very interesting and useful valves
can only be dreamed of.
D. B. K.
The Question Box.
The three-valve receiver described B. 10/3/’37
gives excellent results here in Bundaberg (Q).
using types 78, 77 and 43 valves. It is operated
from the 240 -volt D.C. supply, with heaters in
series with a 15-watt lamp. It drives a dynamic
speaker, and volume is sufficient even on the
amateur 20 m. ‘phone band. I wish to build up
the same circuit using Philips CF2, CF I and
CL2, and have submitted the sketched arrange-
ment for critcism ? —558.
Everything is in order in your circuit diagram,
and the proposed receiver should give results
equal to if not better than those from the
original, owing to the high gain valves. It may
be necessary to include an R.F. choke and
filter in the plate of the CFI, also decoupling
in the plate feed. Include a 20,000-ohm resistor
in series with the 100,000-ohm, and by-pass the
junction of the two by a lmfd. condenser.
* * # *
Enclosed is a sketch of my five-valve bat-
tery superhet layout. Could any of the valves
be replaced with more recent types with advan-
tage ? —555.
The PM22A could be replaced by the newer
IK4. A four-pin socket will be needed in
place of the five-pin.
(1) Enclosed is a circuit of a two-valve
Reinartz receiver, using PM\HL and PM22A
valves. Results are excellent on broadcast, but
l can get nothing on short waves. Coils are
on valve bases and interchangeable. What’s
wrong? (2) How much over two volts can a
two-volt valve stand without danger? —ss7.
(1) Try the two-meg. grid leak across the
.OOOlmfd. grid condenser. Remove the
.OOlmfd. condenser now across the audio trans-
former primary and connect a .00025mfd. con-
denser from the plate terminal of the trans-
former to earth. Make sure the reaction coil
is coupled closely enough to the grid coil in
each instance, and that it also has enough turns.
There is no reason otherwise why the receiver
should not oscillate smoothly on short waves,
but some valve bases are just moulded mud.
(2) Depends on the valve type. .06 filaments
are delicate and should not be overloaded more
than 2 p.c. Valves with heavier filament cur-
rent capacity are not so risky, but it is wise
to stick to two volts, no more nor less. 2.5
volts would be the end of most valves.
* * * *
(1) A valve-tester is under construction, using
the overall emission method of testing with a
milliammeter in the cathode or H.T. sockets, and
switches used for various valves. Do you
consider this satisfactory ? (2) Will 2.5 volts
from transformer secondary be suitable for fila-
ments of two-volt battery valves? —556.
(1) Yes. (2) Yes, but include a variable re-
sistor to set to two volts.
* * * *
(1) Name of an up-to-date book (not too
technical) on wireless construction, and where
obtainable ? (2) l have a Carter genemotor for
a Lister 50-volt D.C. lighting plant; output
250 volts. Is this suitable for an all-electric
set ? —552.
(1) The Book of Practical Radio, by John
Scott-Taggart (Angus and Robertson, Sydney).
(2) No. It is applicable to a battery type re-
ceiver for plate voltage supply.
* * * *
Short-wave reception of my 101 DE Band-
master is not quite as good as was that of my
previous model —a 541 DD. There is surging,
and noise level is higher. What can I do to
improve reception? —ss3.
it is possible, but unlikely, that the receiver
circuits need repeaking. Assuming the re-
ceiver to be in order, the most important point
is the aerial. A transposed feeder doublet
with aerial tuner would help. The A.G.E. Co.
would advise you on the type of aerial, and
a good tuner was described in B. 9/9/’36.
* * * *
My Eddystone short- and long-wave set re-
ceives the usual Europeans well here in Fiji,
but occasionally there is a form of distortion,
with fading that no amount of tuning will clear
up. How can this be remedied? —554.
The remedy for selective fading under average
reception conditions does not exist, but pos-
sibly your signal pick-up could be improved.
An aerial tuning unit, as described in B.
9/9/’36, would be well worth trying. Price’s
Radio Service, Angel-place, Sydney, could
supply.
* * * *
I have an old-fashioned crystal set, with a
large cylindrical coil and two sliders. This
serves me very nicely for bedside reception on
the local station. Other stations can be heard,
but it is impossible to separate them. Can
anything be done to improve selectivity? —ssl.
The type of crystal receiver you are using
is shown diagrammatically in Fig. 1, and a
more selective arrangement in Fig. 2. The
aerial is loosely coupled and the secondary is
tapped, and tuned by a variable condenser.
Both coils can be wound on the same former,
about four inches long and two inches diameter.
Use 40 turns of 28 enamelled wire for the
aerial coil and 90 turns for the secondary.
Tap the primary (aerial coil) at the 4th, Bth,
Fig. 2
16th, 24th and 32nd turns, and the secondary
at the 15th and 45th turns. About ¼in. spacing
between the coils will do, but, if better selec-
tivity still is needed, the aerial coil should be
on a separate former, with provision for varia-
tion of the coupling. A good aerial and earth
must be used.


HITS
LYS
Is
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
''T •
v
s&. *
mm
m.
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
ObTainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and A sents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
'S " WI R
WIRE NET TING.
ETC.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Sydney Sheep Show.
“Bungaree”: W. T. and G. W. Merri-
man divided the bulk of the superfine-
merino ribbons between them. Two
younger studs, Eshcol and Bereen, ex-
hibited sheep which were unbeaten in
their classes. Some of the ewes in this
section were truer to type and showed
more improvement than in any previous
year.
The fine-wool section brought to light
some excellent sheep. T. Starr and Son’s
champion ram had a beautifully-textured
fleece of 70’s quality, very even, and
packed densely on to a frame that, for
size, few rams in any section could rival.
The distribution of awards in this sec-
tion testified to the general high stan-
dard of exhibits.
Medium-wool classes were smaller
than usual, but competition was keen
and resulted in some interesting decisions.
Dalkeith’s big ram which was last year’s
grand champion was on this occasion
named reserve champion in its class.
The Raby ram which took the cham-
pionship is a beautifully proportioned,
plain-bodied animal with a good head
and horns and is particularly good behind.
A good-stapled fleece is, packed densely
on him, but it shows signs of flush feed-
ing and was somewhat lacking in style.
W. T. Merriman’s ewe which took the
medium-wool championship and even-
tually the grand championship is a big,
roomy, plain-bodied ewe with quality
written all over her. Her wool is on
the fine side of medium, of great length,
very even, and she is particularly well
covered underneath.
The strong-wool section comprised a
number of genuine strong-wool sheep,
and some which were apparently too un-
even in covering to be accepted in any
other section. Several entries gave the
impression of breeding for size alone. One
sheep had a long, dense 64’s staple on
shoulders and ribs, while on top of the
back it was a very rough 60’s, so open
and so much shorter that it was hard
to reconcile its presence at a show.
Nevertheless, the section provided some
beautiful sheep, including a Bundemar
ram which took the championship and
also grand champ, of the show. He is
a splendid specimen, and, although lack-
ing the size of last year’s grand cham-
pion, is full of quality. Conformation
and covering are excellent, underline
particularly good, and he has a fine mas-
culine head, open face and good horns.
His fleece is the truest to type seen on
the Showground for many years ; it is
very dense, even, and of excellent tex-
ture.
A feature that speaks highly for the
reputation of Bundemar stud' is that
almost every year all or most of its
show entries are also entered in the sale
catalogues. When a stud can attain such
a fine show record with its sale sheep, it
says a lot for the sheep it has at home.
The novice classes received poor sup-
port, which is rather a pity, as these are
in a sense the feeders of the open classes
of the future. There was great uneven-
ness in many of the entries. Bereen sheep
cleaned up the fine-wool section, most of
the medium and all the championships.
Eshcol stud dominated every class and
section of the small-graziers’ section.
Competition here was again disappoint-
ing, and the disparity in type gave classes
a ragged look. This section (for owners
of not more than 3000 sheep) is of doubt-
ful value, except that it gives men with
small flocks the opportunity of seeing
their sheep alongside the topnotchers.
The Stonehaven Cup, which is the most
coveted distinction of the show, was won
by Bundemar with a striking and beauti-
fully-balanced team of two rams and
three ewes —all strong-wools. G. H.
Bowhay gained reserve with a fine uni-
form team.
A general survey of the merinos shows
a greater tendency towards plain-bodied
sheep than last year, which is to be com-
mended. Some years ago, fine-woolled
sheep were expected to be wrinkly and
lacking in scale, while strong wools were
big-framed, plain-bodied and rather open
in the wool. To-day, these points arc
“ Please, sir, can I leave the other twenty cows an give ’em a double
milkin' to-morrow mornin'?"
almost entirely reversed, except in the
latter respect, and on the whole there,
are more body wrinkles on the stronger-
woolled sheep, which have gained con-
siderably in density, while the fine-wools
are nearly as plain-bodied as they could
be got; in frame they can hold then-
own with any type.
Interest in Corriedales was reflected
by increased entries and keen competition.
The breed showed less irregularity and
tail this year than previously, and some
very fine animals were paraded. C. E.
and H. F. Prell, well-known for their
work in pasture improvement, took both
ram and ewe championships, but all the
special prizes and trophies went to J. F.
Guthrie. The growing popularity of
Corriedales has been further .enhanced
by favorable markets. Mutton and lamb
prices have been consistently good, and
demand for wool of the bulky Corrie-
dale type has been excellent.
Polwarths were represented after an
absence of one year, but competition was
practically nil, one exhibitor having a
walkover. While the Polwarth breeders
are highly enthusiastic, this breed has
never achieved wide popularity. Most
sheepmen are inclined to regard the Pol-
warths as neither one thing nor the other.
Lincoln were conspicuous by their
absence. Romney Marsh entries were
few, and competition was largely a duel
between W. R. Glasson and F. Carr, the
latter winning all four championships.
Local sheep were too good for the
Maoriland Romneys competing against
them.
Border Leicesters showed increased en-
tries on last year, and local sheep faced
competition with B.Ls. from Victoria
and M.L. The leggy type is disappear-
ing, and the prize-winning sheep were a
really good lot. Awards were widely
distributed, but W. A. O’Neill, of Cowra,
secured most of the championships.
The rapidly increasing popularity of
Ryelands was made evident. Last year
E. M. Perdriau’s Parafield stud alone
represented the breed, but this year five
competitors entered the ring. By again
taking all the honors Parafield set a seal
on previous performances, including the
championships against the strongest
fields in Melbourne last year. The ram
awarded the championship is only 94-
months old, a perfectly-shaped animal,
which has been raised on the bottle —its
mother died at lambing.
Dorset Horns were .well represented,
and some very fine exhibits came from
S.A., where they have, been bred on
natural pasture in 13-inch rainfall coun-
try, Dorset Horn classes were evener than
for some time, with a pleasing lack of tail.
Southdown entries continue to show
a steady increase, and judging ran into
the second day of the show. The popu-
larity of this breed as a fat-lamb pro-
ducer is firmly established. T. V. and
R. L. Brunskill’s champion ram, Sandring-
ham (imp.), set a high standard. Apart
from the champion ram’s own merits,
the success of his male and female pro-
geny in their respective classes stamps
the sire as the outstanding leader of
Southdowns in Australia.
Maize for Sheep.
“Aerogenes”: Re “Ghanam” on maize
for sheep (B. 9/6/’37). Any animal on
maize alone may manage to maintain
itself for a while, but not indefinitely.
The lack of bulky food and fibre upsets
the digestive system.
Lucerne alone is a better ration, to
my mind, as the excessive protein it con-
tains can be broken down at a pincn
and made to take the place of carbo-
hydrates. A mixture of the two, on
about a pound-for-pound ratio, seems to
be as good a feed as any that can be
stored and handled economically.
I don’t think “Ghanam” will reduce
the bulk of maize by grinding it, nor do
I think it feasible to mix'maize and dry
lucerne and compress them to form a
“concentrated drought fodder.” My ex-
perience is that one bag of whole maize
makes about two of finely-ground meal.
A bag of whole maize is quite heavy
enough to handle, and gives the best
return in transport for expenditure on
bags.
Maize doesn’t hold well in a mixture
with lucerne, even with short chaff. A
mixture would have to be wetted to
get it compressed to a cake, with an in-
crease in useless weight, plus the ex-
pense of the process.
English farmers are beginning to make
hay in a machine which takes the green-
stuff, chaffs it and dries it with hot air,
all in one operation.
Another development is to recover
the moisture from the hot air and to
reduce that to a syrup, which contains
sundry volatile and very valuable foods
driven off by the drying. This process
prevents waste and loss associated with
the usual haymaking methods, especially
in wet districts. It could surely be .modi-
fied to incorporate maize, minerals, etc.,
with green lucerne and turn out some-
thing like those hard but efficient dog
biscuits —everything necessary in a dry
lump.
The Henry Fattening Scheme.
Mrs. Brice . Henry, Tully (N.Q.): I
notice that some M.O.L. commentators
are inclined to believe that practical
cattlemen knew before it started that my
husband’s scheme for coastal fattening
of beef cattle'would fail, since the coun-
try and climate were unsuitable. Agisters
are supposed to have learnt this from
experience.
In reply to an inquiry which I made
of the veteran breeder E. E. D. White,
of Bluff Downs, Mr. White confirms that
in 1931 he had 2300 cattle on our Tullv
country for five months on natural
grasses. The cattle did well and were
taken back to Bluff Downs over the
Range. They bred on the coast and
returned 150 stronger than they arrived.
Mr. White was so pleased with the result
that he gave Mr. Henry a valuable Per-
cheron stallion as a bonus on his agist-
ment payment.
It will be noted that this job was done
on natural grasses, and it seems to me
that on the pedigree grasses which Mr.
Henry now advocates using results would
be considerably improved. A great deal
of success lies in the cattle themselves.
The first step in fattening young beef
for export is to get the type of beef
which will fatten. The “stuffing” is a
secondary matter. It is all rubbish to
say that beef will not do well in our
latitude, but it would be fair to say
that some types of so-called cattle would
not fatten quickly on the Tully or any-
where else.
The pioneer always has a hard row
to hoe, but my husband has great faith
in his project. He has an experimental
plot of 2000 acres under Panicum muti-
cum and molasses grass. His recent ship-
ment to London topped the Smithfield
market. He himself does not mind criti-
cism, because he feels that results will
answer the critics ; but I think it would
{Continued on page 44.)


Age 40!
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About 40 life’s
fight begins. Danger symptoms show —weak, dizzy,
depressed spells; backaches, rheumatism (often affect-
ing heart); attacks from kidney germs, acids and
poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
This important fact vitally affects every grown man and woman.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle - age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men of
health; while Kidney and
Bladder breakdown afflicts
about 65 men and women in
every 100 —though many never
know why they ail! Seventy-
five per cent, of poison wastes
and uric acid deposits are filtered
by the kidneys in too concen-
trated a form. The overbur-
dened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, forc-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians, are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
"Unless I can end these pains and get. hack my strength
I feel I cant go on."
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills—producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling nea
m
iiipllii
<v>
m
m
*
$8
»8
m
m
m
m
mm
-
fH
11111
888
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FU L ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
m
Diaqram shoiuinq.TMPes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crystals
df
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and limp—weaken you and spoil lite. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney-l'ailure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In Quick time
sufferers who have failed to get benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
Weary Bodies Revive —YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness.
Feel your step gain new youthful elasticity;
hear your friends remark at the vast improve-
ment in your spirits and your bearing.
HARRISON’S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sirs,— My daughter has suffered a lot from 1
swollen feet. She tried many other remedies, but
obtained no benefit until taking Harrison's Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them—they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKellar.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN !
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s Pills have made a new man of
me, arid I feel not a day older than f>o. I have never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson/’’
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks —thanks to Harrison’s
Pills I am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know. —(Signed) J. Tayeor.”
Future will be so Interesting
LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
(Guarani e
l&M
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison's
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails —it is frcel
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Bladder and Acid Ills With
. . ■


YOU'LL ENJOY YOUR GAME
MUCH BETTER
gdf
ffzA
and you’ll certainly look
much better in an Abbey
Golf Shoe.
Looks are a big factor
in this game of Golf;
if you look your best it
certainly helps you to
play your best.
Of course the comfort
of this shoe is the same
as in any Abbey—Perfect.
An Abbey Model made
in Brown Pebble Grain Calf,
Built to stand hard wear, featuring a strong, ridged,
rubber slip-proof sole.
Stocked in full and half sizes.
3098
with moccasin front.
Price .... 30/-
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
gd
*3
<S,W!!n
10,000,000 sheets of
j galvanized iron are
subjected every
} year to this rigid
| inspection.
LYSAGHT
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
CAREFULLY
trained men
carry out the critical
inspection which is
given to every
sheet of Red Orb Galvanized
Iron. Only after a searching
examination can the Red Orb
brand be placed on a sheet, and
once branded it bears Lysaght's
guarantee your assurance of
a perfect, flawless sheet.
FREE— a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of
useful information for ironworkers, store-
keepers. and the man on the land. Write for
your copy to John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd..
Box 196 D.. G.P.0., Sydney.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
■ ' ' ' - : :
■■ ; . ■
TRAVEL
■:■ ■ . ...
■' ..... ... ■ '.'
t
I
*ll7*
t>i] CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA tai AORANCI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
T/uf^-alleizrfL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
be a good thing for the North if others
followed his lead.
The 1801 b. Cow.
“Silky Bag”: The complaint of Mel-
bourne University’s Professor Wadham
that Australian dairying was inefficient
: stirred up a large-sized hornet’s nest.
J The professor’s generalisation was a
bit wide, but certainly no claim for
general efficiency can be made when the
production of an average dairy cow is
1801 b. butterfat, compared with the fairly
easily secured grade herd figures of
3001 b. and 3501 b. a cow.
The 1801 b. cow, if her milk tests 4.5 p.c.
butterfat, makes the miserable amount of
14.61 b. of milk a day, for 273 days. There
are as many below that standard as
above it, and they cannot all be house
cows and suchlike stock.
The problem is serious, because ex-
tension of overseas and local markets
depends on our ability to lower the price
of butter, and we have.no hope of doing
it with 1801 b. cows.
The chief reasons for poor production
I are overstocking and underfeeding in
winter, lack of supplementary stored
fodders and decent all-the-year-round pas-
tures, non-use of rugs, poor milking and
a disregard of the principles of good
breeding.
Para Grass.
“Hortus”: For drying out coastal
swampy areas, I’ll back Para grass against
anything.
It is easy to establish; once started, it
holds its own with any other grass, and
it roots freely at the nodes.
P.g. is a strong grower—a bit coarse,
but providing plenty of green, succulent
feed. It has been known to yield 30 tons
to the acre.
Frost cuts it, so that it is most suitable
for warmer spots, but runners will thrive
even in deep water. Plant them 3ft. apart.
Is This the Record?
“Are”: “Hortus’s” litter of 14 pigs
that went 5831 b. total weight at eight
weeks (B. 9/6/’37) is no record.
On 5/4/’37 a litter of 12 Wessex
Saddleback pigs from R. A. Turpin’s
Queensland-bred sow Pensilva Ace 3rd,
boar Long Park Champion (imp.),
weighed 6 b. at eight weeks, averaging
521 b. per pig. The final weighing was
checked on Turpin’s Pensilva stud pig
farm, Lowood (Q.), by L. A. Downey, of
the Agricultural Department.
Some Soil Factors.
“Curlew”: We are in n.-e. Victorian
27in. rainfall, mountainous granite coun-
try which, on weathering, gives a third-
class soil, rich in potash, but poor in
phosphates and nitrogenous elements.
Perennial native grasses form the basis
of the pastures and give a fresh pick
with every fall of rain.
Since super, has been used clovers —
sub., cluster, hop and minima—are
spreading and doing well. Perennial rye
gets a footing and does well under cer-
tain conditions. My stackyard is such
a place. Only small quantities of hay
are made each year, but there is a certain
amount of waste straw chaff and other
vegetable matter scattered about. This
is added to by animal droppings when
stock have the run of the yard.
This has happened for about 30 years
now. Occasionally the stackyard is
barred from stock. At any time of the
year, be the rain much or none at all,
the grasses, etc., of the stackyard are
easily six times ahead of those outside
the fence—denser, more variety and
more vigorous growth.
The rainfall is the same to a drop ;
the soil the same except for the decayed
vegetable matter it contains; and any
extraneous fertiliser is equally applied to
both.
It is common for my neighbors to
complain of a dry spell, and then I point
to the stackyard. The difference is due
principally to the humus content of the
soil, which retains the surplus moisture.
But that is not the whole story. The
humus is obvious ; what is not so ap-
parent is the work done by worms ex-
cavating, aerating, draining and deposit-
ing fresh fine soil (castings) on the sur-
face, gradually increasing its depth.
Ten tons per acre per year is one esti-
mate. But additional to the earthworm is
the bacterial life of the soil. As soil
fertility increases, so do the bacteria;
and as bacteria increase, so does soil fer-
tility. With humus bacteria are starved
and scanty.
The wonderful fertility of England
after centuries of cultivation is largely
due to management; feeding the soil
not merely with a few pounds of phos-
phates or nitrogen annually, but with
considerable quantities of humus—green
manures, stock droppings or farmyard
manure.
When are we going to learn a little
from the British? Visitors speak of their
English farms as “fat soils.” Many of
ours get leaner every year.
Hints for the Farm.
“Dimon”: Bolts stored a long while
in the shed are often useless when wanted
through the nuts becoming rusted. To
prevent the rusting, dip the threaded ends
in melted tallow, beeswax or vaseline.
“E.W.S.”: A better cure for lampas
than “Breaker’s” (B. 19/5/’37) is to pull
the. horse’s tongue to one side of the
mouth and paint the diseased spot with
iodine on a piece of wadding. I have
found this sure and apparently almost
painless.
“B-Gar”: When riding a horse with
a girth gall is unavoidable, add both a
breastplate and a crupper to the saddle
equipment. The girths can then be left
slack enough not to come into contact
with the gall. With quiet prads there is
no risk unless John Gilpin tactics are
used.
“Karaway”: To make a sheepskin mat,
peg out the skin, after washing, and cover
the fleshy side thinly with baking soda.
When the skin is dry, rub it over and trim
the edges. Though not tanned, the skin
will keep soft and white.
“Dimon”: To keep a weak cow on her
feet till she is strong enough to stand
and feed, harness her in the shafts of a
cart. Sink the wheels a few inches in
the ground and prop the shafts securely.
Release her at night. A bag trough
rigged in front enables her to feed com-
fortably on chalf or hay. Useful when
a cow has been pulled out of a bog.
“Beesknees”: Re “Bovis” on three-
day sickness (B. 9/6/’37). While this
complaint was prevalent among cattle in
north-western N.S.W. many humans
(men, women and children) also became
ill, the symptoms being exactly the same
as those shown by the stock. Some of
the human victims were not near cattle
previously to becoming ill, nor had they
drunk milk from cows that had been, or
might have been, infected. Doesn’t this
indicate that the three-day sickness germ,
like many other germs, is just “in the
air”?
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Best fertiliser for pumpkins ? —6013.
lj-cwt. to 2cwt. sulphate of ammonia, 3cwt.
to 4cwt. superphosphate and Ucwt. sulphate of
potash. Use at the rate of scwt. to Bcwt. per
acre.
* * * *
Please give titles, publishers and prices of
any books of general information, with specific
reference to Queensland conditions, on (1) dairy-
farming, (2) pig-raising, (3) animal nutrition, (4)
pasture improvement, (5) cultivation of fodder
crops, (6) fodder conservation, (7) farm-irriga-
tion methods ? —5950.
(1) Australian Dairyman’s Handbook, by
R. S. Maynard. (2) Queensland Agricultural
Department publishes literature covering all
phases of pig-raising, and also provides a cor-
respondence course for interested farmers. (3)
Feeds and Feeding, by Henry and Morrison.
(4) Information obtainable from Queensland
Agricultural Department. Grasses and Fodder
Plants of N. S. Wales, by E. Breakwell, is
sound. (5) and (6) The New South Wales
Farmer’s Handbook. A Queensland Farmer’s
Handbook is now being prepared. (7) Irrigation
Principles and Practice, by Israilson.
* * * *
(1) Is cottonseed meal suitable food for
pigs ? (2) What is the digestible percentage of
the proteins in the meal ? (3) What is the feed-
ing value of arrowroot tops for cows? I am
chaffing it with green corn and saccaline.
(4) What is the feeding value of arrowroot
bulbs for pigs? (5) Would the bulbs be more
suitable boiled? (6) Can a balanced ration be
prepared by boiling cracked corn and adding
linseed oil meal or cottonseed meal? What
proportions ? —5899.
(1) No. (2) Digestible proteins in cotton-
seed meal amount to 33 p.c. of the digestible
nutrients. (3) Arrowroot has a high starch
value, but N.S.W. Agricultural Department has
no information on feeding arrowroot tops to
cattle. (4) The same applies to feeding pigs
with arrowroot bulbs. (5) This, also, is not
known to the department. (6) Maize and lin-
seed meal alone make an unsatisfactory ration
for young pigs; for older pigs it is fair. The
unbalanced nature of the ration can be over-
come by feeding milk and allowing access to
pasture. It is not wise to feed more than
about 6 p.c. of linseed in the ration. On that
basis the following is a fair ration: Maize
1001 b., linseed meal 201 b., milk 3001 b., fed at
the rate of 6-1-lb. per day. In addition, green
feed should be available as hand feed’ or as
pasture.


BIG STEPS
IN
AHEAD
m
WITH SAFETY
COMPLETELY
CJv£W
1937
HUDSONS aad TERRAFLANES
AO
Qff\C\W-
oo\-^°
The completely new 1937 Hudsons and Terraplanes
step ahead in power ... 122 developed horsepower
for Hudson Eight, 101 for Hudson Six, 96 and 101
for Terraplane! They have far more power per
pound of car weight than any other automobile.
They step ahead in performance, too ... as well as
in endurance and economy! You know the great
record made by the Terraplane that won the Nairobi-
Rand Road Race! And the 40 official records that
Hudson and Terraplane broke in a terrific “torture
test’’ on the Utah Salt Flats, U.S.A. . . . under the official
supervision of the American Automobile Association.
Take a trial drive in a 1937 Hudson or Terraplane
. . . experience the driving ease of these famous
performers! Try the new luxury of Hudson’s
Selective Automatic Change (an optional extra). No
need to pull a gear lever or push a clutch pedal
when driving. The front floor is clear! (Standard
gear lever available.)
IDhmg
CARS
BUILT BY
117 in. to 129 in. Wheelbase ... 9*B to 122 Developed Horsepower
HUDSON
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England 1
136 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McINTOSH MOTORS PTY. LIMITED
Desmond Chambers
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
VICTORIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE, C.I.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE
[Also 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
914 Hay Street, PERTH
TASMANIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
HOBART LAUNCESTON
R.M.C.2.F.P.
AUTHORISED DEALERS AT ALL MAIN COUNTRY
CENTRES


kort Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written I
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Rvan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Will. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S'. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Experienced orchard and dairy hand, N.Q.,
requires employment. Refs. —6171.
Exp., well-informed journalist desires engage-
ment as leader-writer or political correspondent.
Refs—62ol.
Boy, 16 years, doing wool course at Sydney
Tech., wants job in shed and station any-
where in N.S.W. or just over border during
six months’ vacation. Refs. —6220.
To buy stamps and stamp collections. —6172.
Information Sought.
(1) Date of the 1938 Empire Games? (2)
Dates of each sport, swimming, running, jump-
ing, etc. ? (3) Where in Sydney will each sport
be held?—6ol%.
(1) February sto 12 inclusive. (2) February 5,
opening ceremony, track and field athletics and
swimming; Feb. 7, boxing and wrestling; Feb.
8, cycling; Feb. 9, diving, rowing, swimming;
Feb. 10, track and field athletics, boxing and
wrestling; Feb. 11, swimming; Feb. 12, track
and field athletics and cycling. (3) Opening
ceremony and track and field athletics, Sydney
Sports Ground; swimming and diving, North
Sydney pool; rowing, Nepean River; boxing
and wrestling, Rushcutter Bay Stadium; cycling
venue is not yet decided upon.
* * * *
(1) When did M. A. Noble first play Test
cricket for Australia ? (2) Who was dropped
out of the team for him? (3) What were
Noble’s efforts in that match ? (4) Noble’s
age? (5) In what Test did Noble put up great
stonewalling ? —5917.
(1) In the 48th Test, Melbourne, January 1
to 5, 1898. (2) J. J. Lyons. (3) Seventeen runs;
1 for 31 and 6 for 49. (4) Sixty-four on January
28 last. (5) At Manchester (Eng.), July 17,
1899, Noble batted 3hr. smin. for 60 not out in
the first innings and shr. 20min. for 89 in the
second innings.
* * * *
What is the “pari-mutuel” system of betting?
—-6159.
The system, which originated in France in
1866, was conducted by private agencies on
what is now known as the totalisator principle,
the total amount of money bet on a race
being divided among backers of the winning
horse, less agent’s commission.
* Jfc sfe
(1) Record attendance at a football match in
England? (2) Record gate money? —6l66.
(1) At the Association international between
Scotland and England at Hampden Park on
April 1, 1933, the attendance was recorded as"
136,259. (2) At the Cup final between Bolton
Wanderers and West Ham at Wembley Stadium,
April 28, 1923, the gate receipts were £27,776.
* * * *
(1) Distance at which thunder may be heard?
(2) Distance at which lightning is visible? —
6175.
(1) Usually not more than 10 miles. (2) Sheet
lightning is sometimes seen when a thunder-
storm is as much as 250 miles distant, and is
the reflection of far-off zigzag lightning from
the clouds and the sky above the clouds.
* * * *
Particulars of the disaffection in the Con-
naught Rangers and of that force’s disband-
ment ? —5984.
The Ist Battalion, Connaught Rangers (for-
merly 88th), was on duty in India in 1920 when
a detachment of troops, newly arrived from Ire-
land and encamped separately, refused to
parade and to obey orders. Their arms were
handed in, and the ringleaders were dealt with
by court-martial. During the next two years
the regiment gave meritorious service in India.
In 1922, on the recommendation of the Geddes
Committee on National Expenditure, the army
was reduced by 33,000, and among eight regi-
ments disbanded was the Connaught Rangers.
Over a period of 129 years the Rangers had
given gallant services in many areas, including
Spain, the Crimea, Gallipoli and France. Their
colors were received by King George in St.
George’s' Hall at an impressive ceremony, and
laid up with the colors of other disbanded regi-
ments at Windsor Castle. A full account is
contained in the History of the Connaught
Rangers, by Lieut.-Col. H. F. N. Jourdain.
* ❖ % 4:
Words of the inscription on the tomb of the
Unknown Warrior? —5724.
It runs: “Beneath this stone lies the body
of a British warrior, unknown by name or rank,
brought here on Armistice Day, 11th November,
1920, in the presence of his Majesty King
George V., his Ministers of State, the chiefs of
his forces and a vast concourse of the nation.
Thus are commemorated the many multitudes
who during the Great War of 1914-1918 gave
the most that man can give, life itself, for God,
for King and country, for loved ones, home and
Empire, for the sacred cause of justice and the
freedom of the world. They buried him among
the kings because he had done good toward
God and toward His house.” The words
“In Christ shall he be made alive” are below,
and other short inscriptions surround the letter-
ing. The slab of black basalt bearing these words
was laid in position November, 1921, replacing
the earlier and shorter inscription which was
placed upon the tomb of the unknown soldier
at the time of the reinterment in the nave of
Westminster Abbey a year earlier.
* * * *
Origin of expressions (1) “wheels within
wheels,” (2) “tilting at windmills,” (3) “nigger
in the woodpile," (4) “begging the question” ?
—6144.
(1) Generally understood to have its origin
in the two passages of Ezekiel i, 16, “their
appearance and their work was as it were a wheel
in the middle of a wheel,” and x, 10, “as
if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel,”
though the mechanism of clocks may have had
some bearing on the sense in which the expres-
sion is used to-day. (2) Don Quixote, when
Quixote rides with his lance at windmills under
the impression that they are malevolent giants.
(3) An Americanism arising from the penchant
of the negro for thefts from backyards. (4)
From the Latin phrase petitio principii.
* *
(1) Particulars of pearling and pearlshelling
in Australia? (2) Findings of the royal commis-
sion on pearlshelling with regard to the “White
Australia” policy? —62os.
(1) The pearl oyster is found from Cape York
to Shark Bay, over 2000 miles. In 1934-35 the
industry engaged 230 boats, employed 2599
men, obtained 2107 tons of pearlshell valued at
£201,243 and obtained pearls estimated to the
value of £9439, the bulk of shell being con-
signed to U.S.A. and the United Kingdom; re-
spective values, £127,219 and £84,644. Trochus
shell to the value of £46,591 was exported to
Japan. (2) It was determined that the employ-
ment of Asiatic labor should be restricted and
ultimately cease, and proposed that after De-
cember 31, 1913, permits to import Asiatics
for the pearling fleet should no longer be issued.
The disorganisation of the industry by the war
necessitated an extension of the time to June
30, 1918, after which permits to introduce
Asiatic labor were to be granted only where the
diver and tender of the boat were Europeans.
(2) The royal commission, appointed March,
1912, presented its first report in 1916, recom-
mending that it was not advisable or profitable
to transfer the industry from Asiatics to Euro-
peans, and that although the labor employed is
almost entirely Asiatic it is not detrimental to
the “White Australia” policy to continue thus.
* * * *
I give in writing, duly witnessed, all my
property and possessions to my children, stating
that I cancel my will made six months ago. In
case of my death, say, in six months’ time, if
there are no debts, can the original gif t be inter-
fered with, and is there any claim possible for
anything in lieu of probate or anything of that
sort ? —6087.
The gift itself could not be interfered with,
but having been made within the three years
immediately prior to the death of the donor it
would be subject to probate duty.
* * * *
If a girl of 20 got married, falsely stating
that she was of age, could her parents have the
marriage annulled? —6093.
The N.S.W. Marriage Act provides for a
sworn declaration to be made by the parties to a
proposed marriage that they are 21 years of
age, and any person making a false declaration
to that effect is guilty of perjury. The parents,
if they thought fit, could initiate a prosecution.
It is specifically provided that the omission to
make such a declaration does not invalidate the
marriage, so proceedings for annulment on that
ground could not succeed.
* * * *
Some years ago a husband was granted
a divorce from his wife, and an order was made
that the husband pay alimony of £2OO per
year. Since then the wife has inherited an
annuity of £lOOO from her father’s estate. Can
the husband take proceedings to deprive his ex-
wife of alimony, and,, if so, would she have any
chance of winning if she defended the case? —
6109.
The husband could apply to the Court by
which the divorce was granted asking for can-
cellation of the order or a reduction in the
amount. Alimony is granted having “regard to
the wife’s fortune (if any)” and “the ability
of the husband to pay.” If the Court thought
the wife was now sufficiently well provided for
it might cancel the order.
* * ■* *
(1) How can copyright of a manuscript be
obtained for both Commonwealth and world,
and the cost ? (2) Scale of charges for illus-
trating a publication? —6l3l.
(1) Fee for registration of copyright in an
original literary, dramatic or musical work is
ss. Application for registration should be made
on form obtainable from the Trade Marks Sub-
Office, Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, and a
copy of the work must be lodged. Registration
of copyright in the Commonwealth operates
throughout the British Empire. For forms and
information as to registration in foreign
countries it would be necessary to write to the
Copyright Office in the country concerned.
To obtain copyright for a published work in
the U.S.A. it is necessary to register, print and
publish the work in that country. (2) No scale.
Payment for illustrations is a matter for ar-
rangement between author and illustrator.
* * * *
What are the award wages and hours for
driver of four-ton lorry hauling logs at country
sawmill and doing general mechanical work?
—6046.
If the employee is mainly engaged in carting
work, his employment is covered by the Carters,
etc. (Country), Award, which provides for
£4 14s. 6d. per week for a driver of a four-
ton lorry up to the first pay period in May,
1937, and £4 16s. per week thereafter. There
is also a Federal award in operation in the saw-
milling industry, and if the employer is a re-
spondent to that award or a member of an
organisation which is a respondent that award
will apply to the employee concerned. If such
is the case, inquiries should be addressed to the
Deputy Industrial Registrar, Commonwealth
Court of Conciliation and Arbitration, Court-
house, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
* * * *
Is there an award for female domestic ser-
vants in N. S. Wales ? —6032.
Domestic servants in private residences are
not covered by the provisions of an award.
There are awards for those employed in estab-
lishments such as hotels and boarding-houses.
* * * *
I earn £5 Kk. a week in a permanent posi-
tion and have been offered a 12 months’ en-
gagement for similar work at £8 per week at
Buenos Ayres, fares for wife and self paid
both ways. What are the conditions there,
climate, cost of living, etc. ? Conditions of
being allowed to travel there ? Would I be
better off there than in Sydney? —6ll4.
You would have to produce your contract of
employment to the Argentine Consular autho-
rity, together with a medical certificate of good
health of self and wife, also a good-conduct
certificate issued by the police. Climate of
Buenos Ayres is similar to that of Sydney, and
the cost of living is about the same. Further
particulars are obtainable from C. Zalapa, 72
Pitt-street, in charge of the Argentine Consulate.
* * * *
Directions for tanning a kangaroo skin ?
6130.
If the skin is dried, soak it in cold water for
24 hours, then proceed as with a fresh skin by
scraping off all pieces of flesh and fat and
roughly trimming the edges. Then spread the
skin out flat, fur side down, and sprinkle well
with a mixture of four parts crushed alum and
one part saltpetre well pulverised. Fold over
skin to skin, roll up and set aside in a cool
place for seven days, then tack out on a board
or old table. Make a solution of equal parts of
alum and saltpetre with as little water as is
necessary to keep the mixture fluid, and paint
on to the skin. When nearly dry, rub with a
piece of pumice. Paint and rub for four days.
If the skin is hard, paint well with a solution
of half-cup of common salt to one cup of
water, again fasten to board and work carefully
but firmly with a blunt chisel-shaped piece of
wood; be careful not to cut or damage the pelt.
Hang up to dry and when nearly dry work
well with the hands; brush out the fur.
* * * *
In blasting operations what is the method
of “bulling” a hole, and why is it done ?
6077.
The object of “bulling” a hole is to enlarge
the bottom sufficiently to take the main charge.
This is done by firing a small charge or a
succession of charges of increasing strength, so
that a chamber may be formed of sufficient size
to carry the quantity of explosive necessary to
dislodge the rock it is required to remove. Suf-
ficient time should be allowed after each
“bulling” operation, and before loading the
main charge, to allow the hole to cool off.
* * * *
(1) How many cub. ft. of hydrogen would
be required to lift a list, man clear of the
ground? (2) Gas pressure in envelope? (3)
Would rubber be suitable for envelope? (4)
Is balloon silk procurable in Australia; if so,
where? (5) Manufacturers of hydrogen gas?
(6) How sold, and cost? —6150.
(1) Assuming a purity of 97 p.c., about
2560 cub. ft., but this does not allow for the
envelope, etc. (2) Atmospheric pressure (14.71 b.
per sq. in.). (3) Envelopes are now usually
made of cotton fabric impregnated with india-
rubber and often doped with aluminium powder
in cellulose nitrate to improve their gas-holding
properties. (4) Try the Aero Club of N.S.W.,
Royal Mascot Aerodrome, Sydney. (5) Obtain-
able from most oxy-acetylene welders or from
Commonwealth Oxygen and Acetylene, Ltd.,
Wortley-street, Balmain, N.S.W. (6) Sold in
cylinders containing 100 cub. ft. at 18001 b. pres-
sure per sq. in., equivalent to about 12,000
cub. ft. at atmospheric pressure. Price £l.
* * * *
/ have designed an improved hydraulic ejector
and purpose making a full-size model. Pres-
sure will not exceed 40 lb. per sq. in. What
material is best? —6177.
Bronze or mild steel, the former being more
easily worked, the latter stronger and cheaper.
* * * =i:
Any cure for neuritis? If so, what is the
latest effective treatment? —6105.
There is no one cure for neuritis, as its
causes are numerous and the factor responsible
must be found before treatment is likely to be
effective. In general, removal of septic foci
in the teeth, throat, urinary tract or bowel,
followed by injections with suitable vaccines
and accompanied by massage, diathermy or
violet-ray treatment, is helpful. Internally,
drugs of the aspirin class often help. Every-
thing depends upon a correct diagnosis of the
cause of the neuritis.
* * * *
(1) What is neurasthenia ? (2) What is
neuritis? (3) Is neuritis allied in any way to
neurasthenia, and can neurasthenia be the cause,
wholly or partly, of neuritis ? —6062.
(1) Neurasthenia is an alternative term for
nervous prostration, or depression due to the
exhaustion of nerve energy. It is the name for
a group of symptoms resulting from some func-
tional disorder of the nervous system, with
severe depression of the vital forces. It is
usually due to prolonged and excessive ex-
penditure of energy, and is marked by ten-
dency to fatigue, lack of energy, pain in the
back, loss of memory, insomnia, constipation
and loss of appetite. (2) Neuritis means “in-
flammation of a nerve.” The condition is
attended by pain and tenderness over the nerve
or nerves affected, disturbance of sensation,
anaesthesia, paralysis, wasting and disappearance
of the reflexes. (3) The two conditions may co-
exist, and either may be a contributory factor
in the production of the other, but both fre-
quently arise independently.
* * * *
Recipe for potash soft soap for horticultural
purposes ? —6192.
Can’t be satisfactorily made at home. You
might break down a good quality of household
soap by shredding it and adding a little gly-
cerine, and then a solution of caustic potash
in water. For spraying purposes, you will get
good results from using kerosene-soap emul-
sion.
Brief Answers.
J.H.M.: A newspaper is not bound to accept
all advertisements tendered to it, but may exer-
cise a discretion. You cannot compel the in-
sertion .... F.0.J.: Commonwealth Where
the net value of the estate, after deducting all
debts, exceeds £2OOO, the duty is 1 p.c., with
an additional 1-5 p.c. for every £lOOO, or part
thereof, in excess of £2OOO up to 15 p.c.
Where the estate passes to a widow, children
or grandchildren these rates are subject to a
rebate of one-third. State (N.S.W.) —Where the
final balance of the estate exceeds £lOOO, 2}
p.c. for every £lOOO, or part thereof, by which
the balance of the estate exceeds £lOOO. Half
rates of duty are allowed on all property pass-
ing to a widow and/or children under 21
years in estates the net value of which does
not exceed £5000.... W.S.: Inquiries about
crocodile and buffalo skins should be addressed
to Johnson and Sons, 203 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. Know of no market for the teeth
and oil of crocodiles, nor for the oil of the
dugong. Shark-liver oil, if free from stearin
and extracted from perfectly fresh livers, is
bought by the James Hardie Trading Co., 378
Kent-street, Sydney 1.D.: Yes; they do not
recognise B in the matter. If A desires to leave
the hospital she should express her desire to
the doctor and the matron W.D.M.: A
Light Horse regiment consists of regimental
headquarters, headquarters squadron and three
squadrons. The peace establishment is 27
officers and 401 other ranks. The commanding
officer is a lieutenant-colonel, and the ranks
of the other officers are majors, captains and
lieutenants... .L.F.W.: A copy of a pamphlet
dealing with enlistment in the militia forces
has been posted. Every member of the Royal
Australian Engineers (Militia) who is a war-
rant officer or non-commissioned officer of or
above the rank or appointment of sergeant or
lance-sergeant may present himself for the ex-
amination for first appointment to commis-
sioned rank. As you are a qualified engineer
it is suggested that you communicate with the
Commanding Officer, 2nd Divisional Engineers,
Engineer Depot, Park-road, Paddington,
Sydney... .D. A.: There is no difference be-
tween the basis of buying sheep at Fleming-
ton and Cannon Hill. In each case the buyer
purchases at per head. He makes his estimate
of the weight, to bring his bid to a per-lb.
basis, exclusive of the skin and fat value.
The value of fat is based on the ruling price
of tallow, and is fixed by the abattoir autho-
rity L.C.: Fashion Agency, Culwulla Cham-
bers, Castlereagh-street, Sydney W.S.:
Watch advertisements in daily papers
J.A.M.: (1) Write H.M. General Register
House, Edinburgh. (2) Five shillings should
cover c05t....J.8.: (1) The Bulletin Reciter,
obtainable at bookstalls. (2) From a city book-
stall. .. .S.H.W.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) None,
if patient is cured.... J.D.W.: The Clifton Sus-
pension Bridge over the Avon at Bristol (Eng.)
was designed by Brunei and completed in 1860.
It has a span of 702 ft.; absence of a firm foun-
dation made construction difficult. The bridge
was never in any other position J.J.F.: The
final result of many acute infective processes
in the lungs is fibrosis, the changing of
normal lung tissue into a fibrous mass. Many
long-continued lung diseases finish up in this
way, chronic bronchitis, stone-cutters’ disease
and tuberculosis among them. Many cured
cases of pulmonary tuberculosis end in fibrosis,
but a fibrotic lung is not necessarily tuber-
culous... .W.L.K.: Quite genuine. Address
Stammerers’ Club of N.S.W., 120 Phillip-street,
Sydney. You may also write to D. L. Dobson,
105 Pitt-street, Sydney. The two institutions
are not connected... .J.P.K.: It has a certain
value in catarrhal gastritis, but its worth in
catarrh of the nasal passages is not yet estab-
lished... .W.P.: (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) Such
cysts are commonly removed, quite painlessly,
under local anaesthesia T.E.: (1) Avoid
alcohol. Eat as much fish and passionfruit as
you like. (2) Doses of colchicum, either in the
form of the tincture or the pill (which must be
prescribed by your doctor), and saline aperients.
... .C.S.A.: There is no “hair tonic” which re-
stores the natural color of the hair, the tint
of which may be altered only by the use of
dyes. Possibly you have in mind some prescrip-
tion for the curing of dandruff J.D.L.: (1)
Not many new books on the subject. Best is
Alcoholism in General Practice, by A E
Carver, Thomas Hunt and Sir William Will-
cox (11s.). It can be easily understood by the
average intelligent reader. Obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (2) There are
no books on the subject. (3) Healthy Eyes with-
out Glasses and Health without Drugs, by Dr.
R; A. Richardson (18s. 6d.), and Improvement
of Sight by Natural Methods, by C. S. Price
(Bs. 3d.), both obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .R.H.A.: (1) Yes, per
medium of the Agricultural Bank and the Rural
Assistance Board. (2) Maximum amount ad-
vanced £1800; rate of interest for developmental
purposes 4 p.c., repayable in 25 years; for re-
lease of existing mortgage 5 p.c., repayable in
20 years. (3) Yes, moderately so. (4) See
Department of Agriculture and Stock, Bris-
t*P e ’ f- or details regarding the most suit-
able districts and crops that really pay....
L.R.L.: Write R.A.A.F., Richmond (N.S.w!),
for publications, “The Royal Australian Air
Force as a Career” and “Conditions of Entry
to Commissioned Rank in the R.A.A.F.”
D.A.P.; The blisters may subside if you hold
a hot laundry iron a short distance above
them until they are affected by its heat: watch
the result carefully. If this does not act, paint
each blister with methylated spirit applied with
a, small brush. Otherwise you will have to
scrape them off and restore the surface with oil
and polish. Veneered furniture is difficult to
manage... .T.A.: It is the nature of such
materials to crack, especially in hot climates.
You cannot close the cracks which have ap-
peared, but you may prevent further cracking
by rubbing occasionally with a little olive or
odorless castor oil and polishing with a soft
cloth. When the cracks become too bad dress
the chairs in loose covers FID • Scorch-
ing is more than marking; it is definite burn-
ing of the outer surface of the wool. All you
can do is to brush it well to remove the brown
appearance and to raise the nap a little to take
the place of the destroyed parts; probably im-
possible to restore the surface completely
(Many others mailed.)


WRITING
FOR
RADIO
A New Course Prepared
and Conducted by
Bernard Cronin.
The outstanding opportunity for
aspiring writers is in the writing of radio
plays and the preparation of “talks” over
the air.
The enthusiastic attitude of the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission is
responsible for this, and, because the
technique of Radio plays is new and, in
a sense, revolutionary, the opportunities
for the beginner with constructive imagi-
nation and powers of application are very
great. Established writers, able to adjust
themselves to new modes and conditions,
have some advantage over the beginner,
but the advantage is not by any means as
great as in other forms of writing. Old
and young, experienced and inexperi-
enced, start very nearly from scratch.
Bernard Cronin has marched step by
step with the new technique in Writing
for Radio, and his experience, actual and
progressive, is embodied in this new
course. Every problem arising out of the
conditions peculiar to radio is discussed
from the standpoint of practical experi-
ence and illustrated by Bernard Cronin
plays which have been widely broadcasted.
The description of Bernard Cronin’s
Story-Writing Course as a “Masterpiece
of Practicality” may be applied with equal
truth to the Bernard Cronin Course of
Writing for Radio.
Write or call for prospectus.
Bernard Cronin
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
BREWERS CORDIAL
MANUFACTURERS
For Sale
1 Twin Cabinet Spray-type Pasteuriser
with 2 extra trucks, capacity I 04 dozen
quarts per hour.
1 1 2 Head Rotary Beer Bottling Machine,
capacity 60/80 dozen quarts per hour.
I Power Crown Sealing Machine.
1 24-hole Spray Rinser.
All the above are in excellent condition,
and the makers are the Progressive
Engineering Co., Ltd., Sydney.
1 Hand-operated Labelling Machine,
brand 0.8. K., German make. Agents,
Alf. Lawrence & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
3 West-type Beer Cooling Cylinders in
good order. Sizes 50, 35 and 20
Hogsheads.
1 Johnson Yeast Press.
1 50 Hogshead Copper (open). Makers,
Pentifex and Wood, London.
2 Pulp Washers.
1 6 Hogshead Copper.
2 30 Hogshead Coppers, vertical sides
and flat bottoms.
3 Kauri Pine Fermenting Tuns, in good
order, sizes 4, 20 and 30 Hogsheads.
1 40 Hogshead Kauri Pine Fermenting
Tun (new).
1 Thornley Brass-lined Wort Pump.
2 Pern. Cameron Pumps, 6x6 inch
st'eam, 3in. suction, 22 _ in. delivery.
1 Pern. Cameron Pump, 10 x 10 inch
steam, 3in. suction, 22in. delivery.
1 Colchester Pump, BxB inch steam,
3in. suction, delivery.
(The above 4 pumps are in good order.)
I Air Compressor (Railway-type) in
good order.
For Further Particulars and Prices,
communicate with
THE NORTHERN BREWERIES
(QUEENSLAND) PTY., LTD.,
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you-*-now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
VAT 69
LIQUEUR SCUTCH WHISKY
“Vat 69” has the mellowness of age and the unvarying
character of a true Scotch Whisky, for it is blended and
matured in Scotland by William Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith
famous distillers since 1863.
Discriminating hosts serve “Vat 69”.
“Vat 69” in Dump Bottles, Half Bottles, and Flasks. 37
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Q’land Distributors: Australian Estates Co., Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
B.B.: Pitched at too high a key for our taste.
... .Orwell: Good topic, but you make little of
it... .S.L.R.: Promise in each, though they miss.
... .A.W.: “O many times” so many times be-
comes monotonous... .G.L.H.: Not our meat.
L.A.S.: Don’t care for “Bone Chips in the
Stew”... .S.S.G.: Afraid you’ll have to learn
that there is more in poetry than merely sound-
ing words M.A.C.: Has some swing, but
that is about all R.W.G.: A long way
off our track D.D.: Room for one
verse:—
Yus, me boys, ’tis many a year
Since I started to be a swaggie,
Just me an’ Blue, me ole dog true,
’Oo was big an’ bony an’ shaggy.
. ...G.A.C.: Not ill-done, but a trifle too rol-
licking for our taste A.E.W.: It ripples
along without saying anything of consequence.
... .H.M.W.: A bunch of trivialities... .M.M.:
Doesn’t approach publication standard....
R.S.: The metre’s all right; everything else is
all wrong H.R.: “In this poem I have en-
deavored to overcome technical difficulties which
ruined my earlier efforts.” You haven’t had
much luck... .W.D.F.: Just misses... .D.H.
(Ireland): The Coronation’s now dead news
hereabouts V.L.8.: Still don’t like it
E.1.W.: Bellowdrammer... .E.G.W.: Almost
made the grade; a bit too sombre... .J.D.:
You don’t make a story of it A.W.-E.:
Can’t house your two old men G.H.-C.:
Nor your convict footballers E.R.1.: Ghost
stories must be very good; yours is hackneyed.
. ...H.P.: Lawson made a real story out of a
geranium P.L.W.: The Religious Editor was
the only one to show any interest in the girl
who ran away with the half-caste and “took
no clothes only her nightie” J.T.S.:
“Really, it is astounding what silly stories are
written nowadays and actually get published.”
You should have tried to improve on them.
. ...M.W.: Nothing in it... .L.G.M.: Fairly
good of its kind, but rather off our beat..,..
G.M.: Your spelling is shocking... .T.McC.:
Those cardsharping Robin Hoods don’t exist.
. ...D.L.M.: Not as bad as you suggest, but
still not up T.S.G.: You may place it else-
where... .S.E.H.: No cheque for that effort.
A.J.H.: Too long for a par., and you don’t
make it into a story... .Serene: Another
for the flappers... .M. 8.: Very dull mystery.
F.W.D.: Can’t raise your bid A. 8.:
Close H.J.D.: Disposed 0f....N.R.: Not
taken with the glamor R.8.R.: Those re-
porters would fit better in an American film.
H.C.: An idea there, but you let it slip.
E.T.: Can’t place it S.McK.: Just
didn’t make the grade H.M.C.: Skimped.
C.A.H.: Interesting, but off our beat. Try
it on some daily’s magazine section....
R.P.J.: Nothing new in that one W.J.O’N.:
It was never suggested that radium was not a
wonderful discovery and a boon to countless
sufferers; only that in some cases the surgeon’s
knife has succeeded where it has failed....
L. 8.: Whatever your forte may be, it isn’t
verse F.C.: Hardly enough in it E.R.R.:
You rhyme well enough, but your reflections
are woefully commonplace... .E.V.8.: It didn’t
get past C.W.P.: Poem about the farmer
who boiled a fowl in arsenic and regaled some
bushrangers with it firmly rejected... .M.J.W.:
Why libel the harmless and engaging koala?
F.McC.: “The Boy from Booleroo” is on
his way home. Nor is there any market here
for “original Scottish verses in the vernacular.”
A.D.B.: “Sailors of the Sky” blov/n out of
their course... .M.L.L.: Among the also-rans.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. 8.: Very realistic —branches on the timber-
cutter instead of arms, and he looks as if he’s
growing out of the ground... .P.T.: Gag hir-
sute, drawing awful —but you’re improving
R.K.L.: What’s that she’s brushing her tqeth
with —a scrubbing brush on the end of a flitch
of 3 x 2? S.T.A.: If a ’plane of that shape
ever rises from the ground it will be the
result of an explosion M.R.P.: We go cold
on beach-flapper gags this shivery weather, and
colder still when the subject of them has house-
maid’s knees.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Lazarus’s Wraith”: There are some
kind hearts left in Australia, in spite of
the souring effect of the defeat of our
tennis stars and the income-tax blight.
Witness an advertisement in a Sydney
newspaper offering a car which sells, new,
round £450, in “perfect condition,” for
“£lB, £l2 deposit, 10s. a week.” Who
wouldn’t see his country first with offers
like that going?
hs * * *
“Sally”: I once did a bit of mild
smuggling, but it is an offence I shall
never repeat. I received an SOS from a
friend who wanted to land without
charge half a dozen frocks. Why no one
intercepted the two short, excessively stoui
females who waddled along the lengthy
Woolloomooloo wharf, one of them
trailing a long red velvet sash from be-
neath a heavy coat at noon on a mid-
summer day, will always remain one of
my life mysteries. But it ended my par-
ticipation in this form of lawbreaking ;
it was days before I heard the doorbell
ring without a spinal chill.
* * * *
Interesting comment on the Golden
Mile ore position by North Kalgurli’s
chairman at the last annual meeting:
The discoveries of good average-grade ore
in the Union Jack lodes and high-grade ore at
the south end of the mine, both in calc-schist,
are of considerable importance for the future
of the Kalgoorlie field. In the early days all
the high-grade deposits were in quartz-dolerite
greenstone, and when calc-schist was encoun-
tered it was considered to be the end of all
things Most of the deposits in quartz-
dolerite, except at the south-west end of the
field, are nearing their end, so if it can be
proved, as in the case of this co., that their
place has been taken by lodes in calc-schist it
will mean a new lease of life for the goldfield.
* * * ❖
“Dungeness”: With the prospective
development of Groote Eylandt and
Karumba as Empire flying-boat bases,
Australia’s Far North is undergoing
strange changes. Groote already has a
mission station and an abo. reserve, and
at Karumba, 300 miles south-east, at
the entrance to the Norman River, there
is a small fishing settlement which sends
its catch to Cloncurry and Mt. Isa by
air. Now they are to be transformed
into miniature but highly-organised indus-
trial centres, with wireless meteorologi-
cal stations, extensive fuel tankage and
stores, repair shops, launches and lighters
for serving the great liners which will
drop out of the skies from far places
every week with passengers and cargo.
* * * *
“Cazan” (N.Q.): As one who has
driven “winders” on many fields, I
should like to tell you how much I en-
joyed Gavin Casey’s tale “Whistles at
Noon.” Old Bill Hardy is of a type now
passing. Mr. Casey deserves the thanks
of many old enginemen ; he certainly has
mine. The Bulletin, too. I have read
it on engine platforms, in mines and in
the trenches on Gallipoli and in France.
Jfc iji V
Adelaide lost one of its best detec-
tives through the death of Wylie
Nation, at 60. A youngster when
he went to the Boer War with
the Bushmen under Rowell, he joined
the police force on his return. In
Egypt and at Scotland Yard he did good
work on “special investigations” during
the war. His biggest job, perhaps, was
in 1921, when he obtained a murder con-
viction on the strength of some bones
and a tooth which he found in campfire
ashes on a far-north camel trail.
* * * *
Padre T. Fielden Taylor, dead at Wel-
lington (M.L.), never fully recovered
from injuries received during the Great
War, in which he was a chaplain (C. of
E.) in Egypt, Gallipoli and France.
He was a front-line padre. In 1919
he was appointed to the charge
of St. Peter’s Mission in Welling-
ton’s poorer quarter, and his practical
and selfless work for men and boys con-
tinued unremittingly to the time of his
death. The padre was a lawyer’s clerk
in London before he turned missionary.
t\i ;J: ;{; H*
“D.L.”: Canberra’s decision that all
Australian export butter must carry the
national brand of an identified map of
Australia should please R. D. Elliott.
According to the ex-Senator, English
housewives regarded with suspicion
butter offered them in wrappers wearing
a picture of a kangaroo. To them it
looked too much like an outsize in rats.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.D.”: Two anti-Fascist Italians,
the brothers Roselli, were found
dead in France; and, of course,
it was delicately suggested that Mus-
solini had had them murdered. Ac-
cording to “S. M. Herald,” “Musso-
lini’s Anglophobia grows.” It may be
so; but the chairman of the British
Legion can scarcely be cited as a wit-
ness. At the end of March that old sol-
dier and other members of a British
Legion delegation visited Rome and sug-
gested that a return visit of Italian ex-
servicemen would help towards “a
renewal of the traditional friendship.”
Replying in English, Mussolini said that
as an “old comrade in arms” he was
“delighted to welcome the British
veterans, and reciprocated the desire for
a better understanding between their
nations.” That sort of par. (it appeared
in the “Times”) never intrudes into
“Herald” cablegrams.


Do people ask You
where you buy
Yfcur Seels?
Distinction and individuality in your clothes, even if
they do not actually provoke such a question, stamp
you as being a man of excellent taste.
Pike Brothers introduce a new fashion in exclusive
Men’s Half Hose with “PLAIDS,” which feature
new and smart tartan effects. There is a fine selec-
tion of special designs and a size for every man.
Made from pure wool, this Half Hose provides
adequate warmth.
Price 4/6 per pair.
&
m
E2>
IXI
ST
NJ
O
THE MAORI IN PUGILISM
This, the 23rd article, brings the Old Fighters series to a conclusion, but there will be a separate article in which the decline of
the Australian Ring and the possibility of restoring its glories will be discussed. Then Old Cricketers will receive attention.
There have been many good Maori
footballers, some pretty good Maori
wrestlers and one sterling Maori boxer
—Harry Laing.
Laing was far superior to the more
celebrated Slade, but far less lucky. Slade
became a protege of Jem Mace, who
took him to the U.S.A. and, after a more
,
or less profitable exhibition tour, got
him a match with John L. Sullivan,
This Maori a half-caste really—was the
first pug from these countries to fight
for a world championship.
Slade was no mean wrestler—he had
made a very creditable showing opposed
to “Professor” Miller—but as a boxer
he lacked speed. Before he caught Jem
Mace’s eye, he had had a few private
fights in Maoriland, one of his oppo-
nents being an amateur named Hos-
sack, afterwards known in some of the
Australian States, especially Westralia, as
a racing-club handicapper. “Slade?”
Hossack said long afterwards when asked
his opinion of the Maori. “He was as
slow as treacle.”
But Mace saw possibilities in him, and
so much respect was felt for Mace’s judg-
ment, as well as his coaching capabili-
ties, that Americans flocked to see him
and his mealticket do their stuff on the
boards. A contemporary account of
r+u S cc h lvan 11 to °k place
a little over 55 years ago—says: “New
York never turned out a bigger crowd;
there were 15,000 or 16,000 present, and
no one paid less than a dollar, while the
large majority paid two dollars or over.”
J F
Vast Masses of Meat.
There had been doubts about Sulli-
van’s condition, based on reports that he
u , . . , , , ,
had trained on beer and crabs ; but he
never stripped better. The muscles stood
out all over him in clean and well-
defined furrows ; his skin was as clear as
a woman’s, and he had got down to
1931 b. Slade weighed 2201 b., and looked
flabby and full—as fat as a pig. Very
uneasy, too, as he gazed at the immense
crowd. Sullivan sat in his corner, his
head thrust forward, and glowered at
the Maori with an expression that the
f write f ° f the r fh ort J\f e resurrected
erc f ab ruta •
. he men s hands weie forced into
8 °, Ves S ° small as t 0 of
ordinary boxing gloves. These mittens
were fi rm iy tied on their wrists and they
stood up. Not only was Slade bigger
than Sullivan, but “he moved more
quickly on his feet.” Hossack’s memory
of the Maori may be compared here.
What a gift John L. would have been
for Peter Jackson or Slavin had he met
either when he was eight years older,
bloated, thirsty and slow, but still nomi-
nally champion of the world!
aUIISVaBI OS runener.
Slade landed the first blow—a punch
on the nose which made the champion
blink “for a minute.” Then Sullivan’s
chin went forward, his lips closed, his
brows contracted, and in he went,
biff! bang! Slade’s fists were not idle,
but Sullivan’s rained down on face and
neck like a bewildering succession of
blows from a trip-hammer,
Slade was forced to his knees. With
a m ighty effort, he got to his feet again,
ut was knocked over on his side,
. , , ,- k tinned ox As h ’
Lflivan drew back his right
and leHtaa flv awin cauaht the
da?ed Maori blhind the e’ar knockine
? , u Mdori benma edr ’ Knocking
him through the ropes. Everybody yelled
“Slade is killed.”
He might have been, but he wasn't.
The men fought on a 20-feet platform,
e i eva i et * to a to , f rom
the floor, and there were huge gaps
between ; he when sl | de w £ s
punche d through them, he fell on his
back with a thud that resounded through
the building. He scrambled up con-
fusedly, staggered round to a point where
steps led to the stage, and climbed to
the roped enclosure (no helping him back,
as was to happen long afterwards when
Dempsey was slugged out of a New York
ring by Firpo). He had no sooner got
there when Sullivan edged towards him,
the right poised for a blow that would
finish it.
Slade twice retreated round the plat-
form. Then he suddenly made a stand
and got in a body blow. A moment
later the champion swung the right again.
The Maori instinctively turned his head
away from it, but Sullivan staggered him
with a left swing on the face. Slade
reeled away, and John L. banged him on
the side of the head again and again.
Slade sank to the floor. He rose again,
and as he retreated to his corner the
gong sounded the conclusion of the
round. It took the united efforts of the
referee and the timekeeper to prevent
Sullivan from following him there and
continuing the massacre.
Exit SBade.
When Slade got up in front of the
champion again, the spectators were
moved to pity. One eye was shut tight;
the other was bloodshot and blood
trickled from his nose and mouth. The
whole lower part of his face, where
Sullivan had given him the left-hander,
was of a dead bluish color. The cham-
pion sprang on the battered Maori as a
cat does on a rat, and fought him to
the floor again and again. At length the
SLADE .
half-caste fell against the ropes and held
up his hand supplicatingly. The police
jumped in and stopped the fight. It was
high time.
Slade never fought again, nor did he
ever return to Maoriland. He settled in
Utah, where, according to tradition, he
followed an old Utah custom. Possibly
he lived to reflect that he had endured
more harrowing experiences than his brief
but crowded encounter with the Boston
Strong Boy.
Harry Laing.
Harry Laing, though three stone lighter
than Slade, would assuredly have given
Sullivan a much harder fight. Austra-
lians first heard of him in 1888, when
Slavin crossed the Tasman to meet the
Maoriland champion, as Laing had be-
come. The fight took place on Wanganui
racecourse, and it was remarked that at
the ringside there were several huge
Maoris regrettably deficient in front
teeth. They had all fought Laing, and
he had set the same mark on them ; and
they were all barracking for the Aus-
tralian.
It was also said that Laing shouldn’t
have been in the ring, as he had influ-
enza. Be that as it may, he gave as
good as he got for a few rounds. Then
strength and weight and probably
superior condition prevailed. To the
boisterous delight of Laing’s toothless
compatriots, Slavin stopped him in the
sixth round.
Forfy-tfhree Rounds.
Five years later a stronger and more
scientific Laing was in Sydney looking
for fight—and in those days no stranger
went short of that commodity, although
he was never taken on trust. A very
tough opponent was picked for the Maori
in Owen Sullivan.
Sullivan had come from Broken Hill
with the reputation of having had two
hair-raising scraps with Joe Goddard ;
one was a draw and in the other he was
knocked out in 11 rounds. And he had
knocked out Jim Hall in 11 rounds —Jim
Hall, whom Larry Foley reckoned the
greatest of all middleweights when he
was thoroughly trained and had his mind
on the job ; Jim Hall, who afterwards
stopped Slavin and Pritchard, the cham-
pion of England.
But Sullivan met his master in Laing.
The Maori stripped at 12st. 71b., and
proved to have a good punch in each fist
and to be fast on his feet. But his style
was voted curious, for, six years before
Jeffries “introduced” it to protect his
massive body against Fitzsimmons’s rib-
benders and solar-plexus punch, Laing
introduced the “Jeffries” crouch. It was
of doubtful advantage to him, and he
certainly did not require it against Sulli-
van. Swift two-fisted punching and foot-
work soon reduced that pug to a groggy
condition. He was down several times
before the end of the twelfth round. It
then looked as if the Maori could finish
him off in a round or two ; but whether
he wanted to try himself over a long jour-
ney or whether he thought it was no use
taking risks when he could box his way
to a decision, Laing thenceforward con-
tented himself with boxing.
It was a very long journey. The forty-
third round had been entered upon when
George Seale, who was the third man,
decided that Sullivan had had as much
as any pug could be reasonably asked to
take.
Sullivan was no back number. Two
years later he was in Johannesburg fight-
ing Goddard again and Jack Burke, the
Irish Lad. He knocked Burke out of
time in a few rounds.
Laing Beats Goddard.
Laing’s advent was hailed with delight
by Joe Goddard, who had returned from
the U.S.A. with some glory and no small
pile of dollars. They were matched for
£l5O a side at Melbourne on January 1,
1894, and, though it was depression-time,
the affair created almost as much interest
as Goddard’s meeting with Jackson had
done three years before. The hall was
packed, and masses of “sports” who had
been unable to get in (chiefly because
they had no tin) stood outside, their
numbers being added to every minute as
the neighborhood rang with the excited
shouts of the paying patrons.
For it was a very exciting fight. Laing
had been taken in hand by Larry Foley
and, knowing this, Goddard, who had the
greatest respect for Foley, began cau-
tiously instead of in his usual whirlwind
style. Caution did not avail him, and he
reverted to his old methods—now and
then with great effect. Laing, however,
had learned a great deal from Foley. He
fought a cool, heady fight and never let
Goddard bustle him or get home with
one of the sledgehammer blows which
had made temporary wrecks of Dooley
and Choyinski. “Block his punches, make
him keep moving all the time and he’ll
beat himself,” Foley had said ; and so it
worked out. In the twelfth round, God-
dard was down and incapable of rising.
It was only his second defeat.
“Blast you, Foley,” said Goddard,
when he saw Larry again. “Teach me
as you taught Laing and I’ll make my
fortune and yours, too. Come to America
with me and you can have half my share
of every purse.” But he went back to
America alone.
Laing decided to follow him, but got
only as far as Maoriland. Then death
closed the chapter. Boarding a train with
a party of friends —one was Tim Heg-
arty, the Australian featherweight—he
somehow fell out and was run over. The
unfortunate, fellow was so frightfully in-
jured that he died on the spot. Not four
months had elapsed since his fight with
Goddard.
Ruenalf.
At the beginning of the present cen-
tury, another Maori, who called himself
Ruenalf after a badly-named racehorse,
beat a few Australian middleweights and


KEEPING FIT AT
SEVENTY
After Being Crippled
by Rheumatism
This old man’s life had been made miserable
by rheumatism, but since he tried Kruschen
Salts several years ago he has been perfectly
free. His daughter and her husband have
profited by his experience. Read how the whole
family keep themselves clear of rheumatism:
“My husband and I have only taken Kruschen
Salts for a few months, just for those nasty
rheumatic twinges one gets out here. But my
father has taken them for quite a few years
and would not be without them for the world.
Before taking them he was absolutely crippled
with rheumatism and tried everything he was
told, without any benefit at all. I can safely
say Kruschen Salts made a new man of him.
He is nearly 70 years old.” —(Mrs.) F.G.
Kruschen Salts are a blend of six mineral
salts, each of which has a direct or indirect
action in the treatment of rheumatic complaints.
A single bottle of Kruschen will convince you
that rheumatism simply cannot exist in the
system that gets its “little daily dose.”
Breathe your
cold away
with
2* ra*M mm«
INHALANT\
Vnpex soothes, cleanses
and protects the nose and
throat ... to give instant
relief, to clear the head
and stimulate the whole
respiratory system. . . and
soon your cold is gone.
The earlier you use Vapex
the sooner your cold dis-
appears. Simply put a drop
of Vapex on your hand-
kerchief and breathe the
vapour. It is a powerful,
safe and sure germicide..,
pleasant and refreshing.
Of all Chemists
MADE IN ENGLAND BY
THOMAS KERFOOT & CO. LTD.
and sold throughout the tvorld
tro
CO W 111
i
:'<*ts
-5-i
S£
C**
<3
to GEORGE VI
One hundred and twenty years ago, when George TII. was
King, before even the name Australia was recognised,
the Bank of New South Wales commenced to serve the
people of this continent.
Through this long period of continually changing con-
ditions, this Bank has always been a stabilising influence,
constantly extending its services to meet the expanding
needs of the rapidly growing nation.
The wealth of experience this Bank has gained in its
120 years’ service to the people of Australia is available
to everyone who desires advice on any financial problem.
There is no problem too small or too large for the
consideration of the trained officers of the Bank of New
South Wales.
■m/
ESTABLISHED 1817
The First Bank
in Australia
light-heavyweights and challenged for the
heavyweight championship. He was a
polished gymnasium boxer and a clever
showman —he toured the smalls with his
own tent, as Jimmy Sharman does nowa-
days. One of the boxers he beat was
old “Starlight.” But in a match billed
for the heavyweight championship he
was whipped in a few rounds by Billy
McCall, who wasn’t much of a cham-
pion, and after that Ruenalf faded off the
pugilistic map.
Old Fighters.
“E.D.”: Jem Mace must have been a
great fighter, but he wasn’t much of a
bookmaker, though he put on the bag
now and then in Victoria. He went to
a coursing match, and horrified his clerk
LAING.
by offering 6 to 4 one dog and—-after a
brief interval—6 to 4 the other. While
eager punters milled round them, the
clerk stopped pencilling and remonstrated
with his principal. “I know what I’m
doing,” said the Norwich gipsy. “Haven’t
I seen the hare get away half a dozen
times?”
Said Larry Foley: “They used to tell
a yarn about me training two bishops to
spar. It isn’t quite true; but couldn’t
Archbishop Vaughan use ’em? I went
down to the wharf to see the Archbishop,
when he was going away; and says he
‘My blessing on you, Lawrence. It’s
one champion seeing another off.’ ”
“B. File”: Jack Burke, the Irish Lad,
was- notorious for the number of draws
he fought. During one of these en-
counters a pressman with sharp ears
heard him say to the other pug: “Three-
fourths of the gate or out you go in the
next round!” The decision was a draw.
“John L. Sullivan has come back from
Australia with wrath and side-whiskers,”
wrote the San Francisco “Examiner” at
the end of 1891. “ ‘Of all the loafers on
this earth,’ he said, ‘the Australians take
the bun!’ His great hand fell on the
marble desk as he accentuated his re-
marks, and the thump made the building
quiver. Mr. Sullivan again consigned
Australia to eternal torment, and charac-
terised the Australians as a ‘ set of
bums.’ ”
“0.T.”: Bill Sparkes (B. 14/4/’37) had
a brother, Tom, who was also a good
fighter. Tom fought “Bungaree” a 60-
round draw at Botany in 1846. When
his pugilistic days were over, he turned
to cockfighting, and for many years
arranged mains on George’s River. Tom
was an adept at adjusting spurs—a deli-
cate operation, for the slightest turn of
the steel pricks from the proper direction
will result in injury to the bird. The
mains, held every month or so, took the
ostensible form of steamer picnics, and
many hundreds of pounds were won and
lost on each of them. Tom died at Can-
terbury, Sydney, in 1899. He saw a good
main fought, went home, turned in, and
never left his bed again. Three weeks
later, feeling death approaching, he dis-
carded his nightshirt for a clean white
shirt —the simple custom of the men of
his old Australian family in their last
hours. The old fellow once gave evidence
at Sydney in a Supreme Court case con-
cerning the title to land near the family
home. He was asked how long he had
known the site. “Well, I can’t say
exactly,” he replied, “but I’ve eaten 60
Christmas puddin’s since I first saw it.”
“R.K.”: I remember George Seale
when he ran the Sydney Amateur
Gymnastic Club in Castlereagh-street,
Sydney. One night a distinguished
English ex-amateur champion was
brought in by some of the “heads.” He
explained to George that the English style
consisted in keeping the head well back
so as to be out of danger. He argued
that it was better than our idea of lean-
ing forward ; and insisted on putting on
the gloves to prove it. George, who was
schooling me at the time, quietly took
his position ; with a lightning left and
right in the “bread-basket” he doubled
the Englishman up like a jack-knife, and
then as quietly went on with his tuition.
Seale had the most remarkable stand
and block of all the boxers I ever saw or
heard of. He would stand about half-
southpaw, apparently about to lead with
the right. When the other man led at
him with his left, George would catch it
in his right glove, and turn it over his
left shoulder; then pivot slightly to the
right, and bring his right in, with the
whole weight of his body behind it.
Another time he would shoot a straight
left in as he was pivoting. In either case,
it was impossible for a man to hit him,
as the push to the left turned him away
from George. Only a man with a won-
derfully quick eye and hand could do
it; but I never saw George miss.
APPRECIATION.
By “O.P.”
I have worked on Australian news-
papers whose controllers flattered them-
selves that their sheets were “just like
the ‘Times.’ ” I wish these gentlemen
would take a good look at the Coro-
nation number of the “Times” and then
try to make their imitations really
resemble the original.
The old Thunderer has its faults. It
is often prejudiced, and it is often wrong ;
but in the setting out of news and the
reporting of British events it certainly
knows its job.
Its Coronation issue occupied 32
pages. The page is seven columns wide;
the columns are 2\ inches wide and 22|
inches long. Nine pages and a bit were
given to Coronation pictures, probably
the finest set of illustrations ever pro-
duced on newsprint in a daily news-
paper. The Coronation ceremonies and
the scenes in London were reported fully.
Because the “Times” shares with The
Bulletin the clearest and most readable
fount of type in the world, and because
it has in its composing-room an
artist in make-up, every heading stands
out clearly and is properly propor-
tioned. Sub-headings smaller than Aus-
tralian morning papers use to call
attention to burglaries and the delin-
quencies of constables are so placed as
to make it easy to follow separate events
without difficulty.
A full page was found to recount the
doings in provincial England. Another
for overseas celebrations. Space was
even available to record that Sydney’s
fireworks display was “the most spec-
tacular ever staged in Sydney.”
But the event which added 3,000,000
to the population of London in its day
did not crowd out ordinary news. Sport
was covered by a normal full page and
a quarter. Obituaries filled the custom-
ary couple of columns. The leaders
had the usual three and a half columns,
and there were the conventional Coro-
nation verses.
The crossword puzzle was not for-
gotten. Quarter of a column was de-
voted to the discovery of a new letter
of Vespucci’s, proving beyond doubt that
he saw the American mainland before
Columbus. The escape of a coyote from
New York Zoo was described at length.
Letters were in their usual place ; there
was a long one from Lord Strickland, a
former N. S. Wales Governor, on Crown
lands, and a contributor noted the ap-
pearance of a kestrel in Hyde Park. A
descriptive article on Shanghai (column
and a half), the Spanish war, Mr. Scully’s
success in Gwydir, the bus strike, the
affairs of the Dionne quintuplets, com-
pany meetings and a business page were
all packed in. This largely through cap-
able sub-editing and proper display.
In short, an admirable issue, worthy of
the great newspaper that put it forth.
By comparison—no, there shall be no
comparisons.


“Eatanswili”: Barrie was a reporter on
a provincial paper at the time of the Zulu
War, and it provided him with an excel-
lent story in one of his earliest books.
The literary staff, about three in all.
returning from tea shortly before pub-
lication time, found the foreman printer,
who could do a bit of sub-editing at need,
desperately Wrestling with a cable from
Durban. The message recorded that the
Zulus had “taken umbrage” at some-
thing or other —I forget what. The fore-
man had a map of Natal and adjoining
territories spread out before him, and
was trying to ascertain where Umbrage
was!
Jj: *{'
“Uramao”: When Philip Snowden
was in Maoriland in 1914 he met a con-
genial spirit in Downie Stewart, whom
he regarded as “the ablest and best-
informed man in the Dominion.” Though
poles apart in political thought, Snow-
den and. Stewart (M.L. Minister of
Finance) chummed up and swapped
yarns. One of Stewart’s is enshrined in
Snowden’s autobiography: A Scotch
debt collector called at a house in Scotch-
byterian Dupedin and asked to see the
husband of the handsome woman who
answered the knock. She directed him
to the back of the house, where she said
he was working. On returning the Scot
said the only person there was a China-
man. “That’s my husband,” was the
answer. The debt collector expressed
astonishment that such a good-looking
woman should be married to a China-
man. “But you should see my sister,”
was the reply. “She’s better-looking than
me, and she’s married to a Scotchman.”
* *
“Tab.”: Newspaper errors (B.
16/6/’37) can be a result of misdirected
zeal on the part of the man who writes
the captions. One such at present adorns
the notice-board of a Melbourne club.
Cut from Melbourne “Herald,” it is a
three-column drawing of a soon-to-be-
completed Foundling Home. Admirably
economical in his choice of phrase, the
captionist labelled it “A Tribute to the
Enthusiasm of Youth.”
$ •i’
“Sniff”: Handkerchiefs (B. 2/6/’37)
seem to have been as rare in the Royal
Navy as in some sections of Britain’s
land forces. A war-time letter of Rupert
Brooke's:
I had to make an inventory the other day
of all the battalion’s kit, to compare with what
they should have. I soon found that questions
about some of the articles on the lists were
purely academic. “How many handkerchiefs
have you?” The first two men were prompted
to say “none.” The third was called Cassidy.
“How many phwat, sir?” “Handkerchiefs.”
(A hoarse whisper to the petty officer) “Phwat
does he mane?” Petty officer (in a stage-
whisper): “Ter blow yer nose with, yer blanky
fool.” Cassidy: “None, sorr!”
* * * *
“Joseph”: Scrap steel was certainly
held of little account (B. 16/6/’37) in
out-of-the-way places not many years
years ago. I was once at an auction
sale in north Gippsland when a nine-
head stamper battery in good condition
was put up for sale. Bidding started at
£1 and, after a series of five-bob rises,
stopped at £5. The possessor cleaned
from the plates gold which sold for £69.
No doubt the plant is still rusting away
in the hills, like many others between
Bdirnsdale and Omeo.
“Oxmead”: There seems to me some-
thing repugnant and ghoulish in the pro-
posal to disinter the remains of Governor
Phillip from their resting-place at Bath-
ampton, Somerset, and transfer them to
Sydney in honor of this sesquicentenary
racket. Surely a remembrance of the
four lines on Shakspeare’s tomb should
be a safeguard against this sort of dese-
cration, however well-intentioned. “It
has been gathered,” a London cable men-
tions, “that descendants of Governor
Phillip have approved the idea.” But
did Phillip leave any descendants? If
he did, it seems an extraordinary thing
that the locality of the church where he
was buried should have faded altogether
out of public memory after his death
and been rediscovered only when a great
many years had elapsed. The tomb and
monument, of course, date from that
rediscovery.
* * * *
“Doric”: “There is only one accepted
Australian type of domestic architec-
ture,” said the Perth Town Planning
Commissioner the other day, “and that
is named after Greenway, the convict-
architect, whose work combines sim-
plicity with strength and symmetry.”
True enough, no doubt, but when
the T.P.C. went on to relate that
Greenway was sentenced to death in
England for some crime not known, the
penalty being subsequently commuted to
transportation, he showed himself out of
touch with historical records. The crime
“As far as I can see, there doesn't seem to be much Wrong with you!”
for which Greenway was sentenced was
“concealing effects at his bankruptcy,”
and 14 years’ transportation, not death,
was his portion. In Sydney he soon
secured a ticket-of-leave from Mac-
quarie, and a pardon a few years later.
It was no more than his due; later he
performed much valuable work as civil
architect, but in the end he quarrelled
with his vice-regal patron and retired
into comparative obscurity. He died in
1837, aged 60, and was buried at Mait-
land.
* * * *
“Emptor”: I am not defending “to
purchase” as a justifiable synonym for
the verb “to buy” (B. 23/6/’37), but it
has a distinct secondary meaning of its
own, as every lawyer knows, viz., “to
acquire by any means other than descent
or inheritance.” This refers, of course,
mostly to real estate, but Shakspeare may
have had the technical significance in mind
when he wrote “Your accent is some-
thing finer than you can purchase in
so removed a dwelling,” and Kipling cer-
tainly had it in mind when he wrote of
British colonies and dependencies:
And some we got by purchase
And some we got by trade.
As a noun, of course, “purchase” is in-
dispensable, there being no such word as
a “buy,” though quite a number of people
use it. I suggest that they are just as
culpable as those who employ “purchase”
as a verb when “buy” is available.
* * * %-
“Chicken”: “Jamwood” (B. 9/6/’37)
would be hard put to it to find a beret
underground at Broken Hill, where the
companies are now providing hard hats
for the miners. Before that, a skull-cap
was the popular fashion in head protec-
tors.
“Twenty-seven”: Another gentleman
who favors the beret is the iceman. It
is looked upon almost as uniform by
members of the chilly profession, some-
what resembling the slaughterman’s cap.
Bricklayers and wharfies are others I
have seen looking quite modish in the
Basque headgear.
% % sj: H*
“Vulagi”: After several years in
Papua putting in requisitions for rice, tea,
sugar, tobacco, kerosene and soap for
issue according to scale to native con-
stables and prisoners, I was visited by an
auditor from London, who swooped
down on my ration-issue books. In due
course I was solemnly called upon by
H.Q. to explain shortages to the tune of
Is. lOd. for rice, Is. 2d. for soap and
Is. Bd. for kerosene, the other items not
being questioned. My explanation was
that my storeroom was a native bure,
with thatched roof and walls, teeming
with rats and mice. The reply was that
rats and mice do not eat soap or drink
kerosene, and I was called upon to pay
into his Majesty’s Colonial Revenue the
sum of 2s. lOd. My comeback to that
was a chunk of soap well and truly
gnawed by rodents and studded with other
evidence of their presence. This reduced
my indebtedness to the King to Is. Bd.
for the kerosene, and for a final kick I
put in a requisition for a rat-proof store.
This was approved and erected at a cost
of £7O, so the Imperial Government was
£69 18s. 4d. out on the deal.
* * * *
“A. de R.”: A writer in a Sydney
paper mentions that tomato juice has
never caught on in Australia. He might
also have included rye whisky, coca cola,
mint juleps, grapefruit, shad roe, pretzels
and chicken ala Maryland. We wel-
comed America’s coffee and hamburgers,
but what is the matter with the above
that they don’t appeal to our taste? The
tomato juice plus a dash of Worcester-
shire sauce should appeal very strongly
to those with a next-morning head, and
the salty pretzels, although hard enough
to have disastrous effects on one’s bridge-
work, might well be a favorite with
businesslike publicans.
“Ex-Roundsman”: The news-editor of
the “Sydney Gazette” in 1836 seldom
lacked for vivid local items. On March
15, “We observed the stocks full of
drunkards yesterday morning, male and
female —in fact, an overstock.” On
April 16, “Captain Croft, of the Ben-
coolen, on arriving in port, to his no
small astonishment found that a most
awful deficiency had taken place in the
bottled ale, spirits and liquors had dis-
appeared, and the cherry brandy had
been played the devil with.... the crew
being always drunk, the captain gave 10
of them into custody.” A few days later
he sympathised with a singer, “grossly
insulted by a set of noisy know-nothings
who had perched themselves in the gal-
lery.” He was keen on civic manage-
ment, protesting that “The constables
are asleep as usual, goats in dozens are
permitted to roam the streets.” Also on
health: “Unless colonial crayfish are
properly bled before boiling, the flesh
will cover the person of the eater with
spots the size of a shilling.” This is the
only time I’ve heard the drunk’s pet bird
accused of that!
* * * *
“U.S.A.”: The Duke of Windsor is
certainly not the first member of a reign-
ing European family to marry an Ameri-
can (B. 9/6/’37). Lizzie Patterson, of
Baltimore, was led to the altar by
Jerome Bonaparte, later King of
Westphalia, and Mrs. Leeds (Mollie
Stewart, of Cleveland, Ohio) married
Prince Christopher of Greece, brother
of Constantine and uncle of the
present George of Greece. This Mrs.
Leeds was the mother of the young man
who became husband of Princess Xenia
of Greece and owner of that Long Island
estate which the Duke of Windsor is re-
ported to be buying. Also, the lady who
later became Countess Waldersee was
previously the wife of one of the
Schleswig-Holstein princes (minor Ger-
man royalties), and she started life as
daughter of David Lee, of New York.
The Duke of Oporto, uncle of the late
ex-King Manoel, also married an
American.
* * * *
“Isaacs”: Moneylenders by occupa-
tion are not the only persons who prey
upon civil servants ; I have known men
high up in Government departments who
were always ready to accommodate
junior officers with small loans at ruin-
ously high rates of in-
terest. One of these, in
my c.s. days, used to
advance up to a tenner
for six months, repay-
able at the rate of
12s. 6d. p.w. He. thus
got back £l6 ss. As
he was a paying officer
he never lost a bean
over his transactions.
* * *
“Mish Bish”: Touch-
ing this Coronation oil
(B. 9/ 6 / ’37), the King
is consecrated to his
peculiar status with a
special sort of unguent
called chrism. It is
exactly the same
chrism as a bishop re-
ceives on his elevation,
and the old idea was
that it turned the sov-
ereign into a sort of
priest, who, as the suc-
cessor of a saint
(Edward the Con-
fessor), derived there-
from the miraculous
power of touching for
the King’s evil. In pre-
Reformation days,
however, one of the
Popes contended that
royal should be dis-
tinguished from episcopal unction by
the use of an inferior oil, and a heated
controversy followed as to the exact
effect upon the King of the anointing.
Augustine called the rite of regal unction
a sacrament, but Cranmer, at the coro-
nation of Edward VI., preached a ser-
mon in which he said that the anoint-
ing had no effect, save to be useful in
instructing kings in their duty. And
that is probably the dinkum oil about
the matter in modern Anglican belief.
* * * *
“Shanghai”: I once had an escape very
like that of “James W.’s” launch hand
(B. 9/ 6 / ’37). Gathering large clamshells
over a reef in the Gilbert Islands 1
chucked the boat anchor overboard and
followed it, one of the flukes having
caught in my trousers pocket. I found
bottom in four fathoms, and owe my
life to the pants having been made in
Japan.
*i* :;j V
“Ellenvale”: My bottle-o tells me that
the tipple connoisseurs of his set have
invented a new cocktail which is abso-
lutely the last word in effectiveness. It
is composed of metho. and eau de
Cologne in equal parts, with a dash ol
ginger ale, and, although a trifle more
costly than the traditional metho.-and-
boot-polish mixture, the extra kick and
pleasant “bouquet” make up for that.
My informant guarantees that two small
glasses ol: the potion are enough to put
the rhost'hardened pinkie addict to sleep.
“Salmon Gums”: The turn of the
tide! A Cue (W.A.) prospector, up
against it for food and funds, shot a
sheep without first obtaining permission
from the station manager. On the Tues-
day he was fined £l5, on the Thursday
he struck the reef he had been looking
for, and before Friday night a syndicate
had been formed to take over from him
what is likely to prove a continuation of
the Big Bell lode.
WILL YOUR HONOR PLEASE MAKE
A NOTE OF THAT?
De die in diem I sit, resigned
(Meaning day to day continuously),
While trials to their endings wearily wind.
If a Judge of greater or less degree
You envy, watch the blue look on me
As counsel jump up, distrusting me flat,
With “Object!” (to the question, procedure
or plea),
“Will your Honor please make a note of that?
“Object! Object!” How I tire of the grind
That is mine to hunt and examine the flea
Of unimportance ’ that lurks in the mind
Of the advocate, full as a tick can be
Of party bias and fear that he
And his bluff may fail. Hear him whip the cat
As I murmur “Admitted” or “Disagree”:
“I object! Your Honor will please note that?”
Not once in a bunch of Sundays you’ll find
That it ever matters a tinker’s d
If this sprat of contention’s received or de-
clined ;
But Justice and Judges must naturally
Be blind and imagine skies fall in the sea
If a mousebite’s short, or the wing of a gnat,
Or if cries go unheard from Bigwig, K.C.:
“I object to that course; will your Honor
note that?”
Rhadamanthus, when with my brothers you see
Me waiting on the asbestos mat,
Force of habit may prompt it, so human are
we:
“I object to all this; will your Honor note
that?”
S.A.
BILL O'COSTS.


I
Eulogises Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
as a Remedy for Lumbago and Sciatica
Brigadier Walter S. Solomon, of the Salvation Army Territorial
Headquarters Staff, Sydney, is widely known and highly respected,
not only for his Army work in Australia but also as a Padre in
France during the Great War, where he served for well over three
years. With his characteristic desire to assist others at all times, he
has sent the following letter relating his experiences with Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills while suffering from Lumbago and
Sciatica:—
The Salvation Army,
1 40 Elizabeth Street,
Dear Sirs, Sydney.
I understand that you are the agents for Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills.
I want to tell you of my unbounded confidence in them.
About seven years ago I was asked to try them, as this was the only
medicine my friend had in the house, and as it was late on Saturday night
and no other remedy was available. I tried them. I was suffering from
Lumbago and Sciatica, to which I have been a sufferer for the last 24 years.
The next day I was much better, and after a few days lost all my pain.
Whenever I get a backache I fly to these pills, and every time I get relief
in 24 hours, and in a few days am quite free from pain.
I never travel now without a bottle in my bag.
1 hey are worth their weight in gold, and when you realise what
wonderful pain removers they are I marvel at the cost being only 1/3 a bottle.
I am voluntarily sending you this testimonial, and you are at liberty to
use it in whatever way you like. If it will help some other sufferer to get the
relief that 1 have got I shall be very happy.
Yours truly,
(Signed) WALTER S. SOLOMON.
The old idea that rheumatic conditions are caused by Uric Acid is being discredited,
and the opinion is now held they are caused by failure of Nature’s chemical processes,
particularly in the small intestines and the liver, which causes toxins (poisons) and
dangerous by-products to enter the blood stream. These toxins affect the muscles, nerves,
and joints, and movement becomes painful.
In other words, medical authorities are coming to the conclusion that the way to combat
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica and such rheumatic conditions is to keep all the organs of
digestion and elimination in a state of healthy, vigorous functioning. Regular free bowel
movements and an active liver are necessary to relieve the strain on the kidneys.
The use of
DrMORSES
I
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
PILLS
has proved of great benefit in thousands of such cases. If you suffer from a rheumatic
condition, which is often indicated by Lumbago and Sciatica, a course of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills is recommended, combined with an outward application of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment.
FATHER,
MOTHER
AND CHILDREN
ALL NEED MIRPIL
Father! Does your face feel
razor-dragged after shaving? Do
your hands get chafed and rough
through gardening and golfing?
Mother! Do you feel all on edge
owing to sore hands after the
washing-up and other household
duties?
Does the children’s skin get
chapped and dry through exposure
to the elements on their schoolward
way and at play?
Do you know that Mirpil is speci-
ally suited for such cases?
Mirpil Skin Balm is a scientifically
prepared lotion for Rough, Chapped
and Chafed Skins, Red Hands, Chil-
blains, Sunburn, Windburn, as a
base for powder, and after Shaving.
On sale all chemists and stores or
from The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
makers of Dr. Morse s Indian Root
Pills, 23 Lang Street, Sydney, and
6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pai
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack o i
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be cause
by worms, of which these are genera
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach an i
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dea
Shot” Worm Pellets will be foum
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comsto
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.V
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONj
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
*V *, &
&
<?°
'p;vi#'!Z&p
s'
0^
1
:V^V 4
s^
& 6
*<
>" i\o
*4k§
?'* v^i
>"' C°> - «
,£S
0°
&6>
<\V
*
/
:^ s
# s '
• ‘ vO vV<
vcc^s
v o
C


WORLD
m
DISTILLERIES in ’
ENGLAND■CANADA
AMERICA AUSTRALIA
DISTILLERY
L.
m
?
:
mm
I
1 |i; | m
fpjj 3§§l •; $»?
m
m
wmmm
l V . n
#
KS»3
sss
sefK
m
K
\Y>eV
ol**
\
*ls
c^ e
v\V
vlS'
N
QO U
0*
>-. :.
S»«
\
A
m
x
mt
w
a |C°
U Pr«'
j
v&
V**
a
W E Have pleasure in announcing that,
from July Ist, there will be a notable
reduction throughout Australia in the
price of Cilbeys Gin. ... It is due in a
great measure to the efficiency of our
splendid new Australian Distillery that
the famous Cilbey s now costs no more
than ordinary Gins of less renown.
. . . Owing to its distinctive flavour it
takes less Cilbey s Gin than any other
to make more and better cocktails.
LTD
THE LARGEST WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS IN THE WORLD.
n
<
-
l
/
