

*
o
a
SX&i
&
v'Vn
P
The man on the land
Will save £lO
in 3 pears bp using
VESTA
RECHARGEABLE
BATTERIES
LET US WORK IT OUT FOR YOU
COST OVER THREE YEARS, WITH A S-VALVE 2-VOLT BATTERY-OPERATED RADIO SET, 0.65 amp.
drain, USING SET 4-5 HOURS PER DAY = (SAY) 5000 HOURS in 3 years.
Using VESTA Rechargeable
COST OF NEW VESTA 2-VOLT
RECHARGEABLE Accumulator «i
Guaranteed 3 years minimum life ... *
Recharging this 2-volt 110 A.H. accumu-
lator over 3 YEARS at 1/6 for each
recharge, every S weeks—or at most
11 times a year Z
£4~
Cell
10 9
9 6
0 3
Using NON-Rechargeable Cell
Cost of NON-rechargeable cells based on
advertised minimum life (each) 1000
hours 5 NON-rechargeable cells in 3
Years for 5000 hours same set use.
Five at £2/16/3 14 1 3
£l4 1 3
SAVING OVER TEN POUNDS
USE VESTA RECHARGEABLE BATTERIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
made BY VESTA BATTERY CO. (AUST.), LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, PERTH, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, DUNEDIN.
The Bulletin
VoL 58.—-No. 2986.
“A Potent Adjunct to Defence”
Wednesday, May 5, 1937.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Cm!
■ HIkIW
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System oj Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name •
My Address
S.B. 437
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.'
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and the
Prize will be awarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
The trustees will publish the successful work ip book form,
and in serial form any they may deem worthy. If published as a
serial the winner will be paid for at serial rates in addition to the
prize-money. Any others used as serials will also be paid for a!
serial rates.
Any bona fide Australian resident or any person born in
Australia, New Zealand or British South Pacific islands will be
eligible to enter for the competition works which must be the
original work of the entrants, and previously unpublished, either
wholly or in part, in book or serial form. Manuscripts must he
submitted under a nom de plume, and the true name and address
of the author must accompany each entry in a sealed envelope,
which will not be opened until the judges have made their decision
The trustees reserve the right to withhold the Prize if no work
submitted is, in the opinion of the judges, worthy of an award.
If this should occur in any year, the amount of the Prize will he
added to the following year’s Prize.
The Red Page
AN AMERICAN EXPERIMENT.
There has been for some time now in America
an alliance between literary experiment and melo-
drama. This is perhaps an unconscious assertion that
experimentation is a red-blooded affair, not an
academic exercise. Or perhaps it is an equally uncon-
scious effort to reimburse literature in terms of violence
for the dispersion of strength inevitable in the use of
a new and difficult medium—strength lying, of course,
in the rapport that a book makes with its readers.
Eugene O’Neill is the classic example ; Clifford Odets
follows in his footsteps; Sherwood Anderson and
Ernest Hemingway use a suppressed and truncated
violence, and William Faulkner is in the tradition.
Faulkner’s Absalom, Absalom! (Chatto and
Windus; Angus and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.) is a story
of the South at the time of the Civil War and after-
wards. Sutpen, the demon-hero, is the bold, bad man
of melodrama with all the trappings of such, including
“two pistols... .with the butts worn smooth as pick-
handles and which he used with the precision of
knitting-needles.” The story of his “doomed house”
is long and intricate and comes to the reader slowly,
drop by drop. We learn obscurely of Sutpen’s first
marriage, of how he divorced his wife without legal
process when he discovered that she had black blood ;
of his unacknowledged son, Charles Bon, who came
to court Judith, the daughter of his second marriage ;
of how Judith’s brother Henry, who loved Charles,
shot him down to prevent the incestuous union ; of
the desperate working-out of the tragedy till all were
destroyed, hopelessly, helplessly and without issue
except for one half-imbecile half-caste boy who lived
to carry on the Sutpen curse the curse of mixed
blood. Behind the story there is a great panorama of
the South in all its traditional romantic panoply,
gradually overwhelmed by the African Shadow.
For many readers the interest of the book will
be not in the story, but in the manner of its narration.
Both style and method are curious. The prose is
highly individual with a certain orchestral beauty,
but it is modernist music, making use of dissonance
as impartially as of harmony. The sentences are
long, rich and winding, enveloping and gradually
overwhelming their subject-matter, sucking out the
meaning with the technique of a tropical parasite:
Her voice would not cease, it would just vanish.
There would be the dim coffin-smelling gloom sweet
and over sweet with the twice-bloomed wistaria against
the outer wall by the savage quiet September sun
impacted distilled and hyperdistilled, into which came
now and then the loud cloudy flutter of the sparrows
like a flat limber stick whipped by an idle boy, and the
rank smell of female old flesh long embattled in virginity
while the wan haggard face watched him above the
faint triangle of lace at wrists and throat from the
too tall chair in which she resembled a crucified child;
and the voice not ceasing but vanishing into and then
out of the long intervals like a stream, a trickle running
from patch to patch of dry sand, and the ghost mused
with shadowy "docility as if it were the voice which he
haunted where a fortunate one would have had a house.
The prose is only the outer vestment of the
method. The whole—nearly 400 closely packed pages
—is told indirectly and in a series of conversations
or narrations that merge imperceptibly into one
another. Events are told by hearsay, half-told,
surmised ; the same incidents are retold from different
angles of prejudice, never simply stated, always filtered
from mind to mind, colored by anger and hatred or
musty with too long remembering and too much
brooding. It is out of this device of involving his
story in his characters and presenting it always
indirectly and incompletely that Faulkner gives it its
mysterious and menacing quality. Every moment in
the story is a monstrous growth seen through the
distorting glass of hatred long remembered. Such a
garb of horror is put on incidents that the incidents
themselves are dwarfed.
A method so tortuous and difficult naturally
raises the question: Is the story worth it? Has it
sufficient stature to bear the weight of the book’s
technique? The answer must inevitably be a matter
of opinion. But that Absalom, Absalom! is a work
of genuine imagination and subtlety and literary
interest is beyond dispute.
Short Stories by Maurois.
Whatever Andre Maurois does he does well,
whether it is a full-length biography of a British states-
man or a delicate parody of Proust. He is a French-
man and, in his way, a purist'. He keeps the rules of
whatever form he chooses and proves that he can get
original results within them —original, that is, without
experimentation. His Ricochets, translated by
Hamish Miles (Cassell; 6s.), labelled “Miniature Tales
of Human Life,” are essays in the short short-story.
There are 25 of them pressed into the 163 small pages
of the slender volume. They are a shower of sparks,
each one shining and complete, a rain of colored stars
from the soaring rocket of the author’s wit.
To write any short story is a discipline, to achieve
one in two or three pages is a discipline within a
discipline. The form imposes the strictest economy of
words and method. It rations the stories to one point
a piece and limits very rigorously the field of possible
themes. Maurois accepts these limitations and moves
within them with ease and assurance. His tales explore
every variety within the form’s range. They take for
their subject-matter the chinks in life, its aberrations,
as in “Switch-back Railway” or “Black Masks” ; they
deal with compressed symbols of life that allow the
reader to view a wide landscape through a narrow
lanceolate window, as in the first story, “Morality,
Public and Private,” or in the best of all, “The Ants” ;
or they lay bare a character with a single twist of the
scalpel, as in “Poor Mama.” Others, such as “The
Cuckoo Clock” and “The House,” deal with the inex-
plicable. Last of all there are those, most character-
istic, each like a single perfect thread pulled out of
life’s pattern—neat litle sketches of infidelity, such as
the name piece and “Poor Henrietta” ; curiosities in
self-deception like “Honor” or “Kate.”
In the last group Maurois is true to his nation in
his cheerful acceptance of human nature as it is, yet
with neat French thrift drawing at the. same time a
dividend of amusement from it. He mocks without
seeking to change. The light he plays on the tales
varies from genial cynicism to a delicate tenderness —
even flattening twice to sentimentality. There is one,
“The Brown Cloak,” which, under an image, portrays
the gentleness and goodness of a man who has died,
describing, as it were, a miracle by a miracle, and there
are others that handle a child’s experience or a ghost
story with infinite delicacy. Always there is under-
standing.
To recount any of the stories would be vain, for
the author has already brought them to the maximum
compression. To detach extracts illustrative, of the
prose style or any other quality would be equally vain,
so closely are they knit, so much is each one a seam-
less whole. They are true stories—not anecdotes. They
are complete with characterisation and atmosphere,
while an anecdote remains the record of an incident,
entirely objective.
A French Rural Comedy.
In Clochemerle, by Gabriel Chevallier, translated
by Jocelyn Godefroi (Martin Seeker and Warburg;
8s. 6d.), a book that is at present enjoying a wide
vogue in Britain and France, a men’s lavatory is erected
by Barthelemy Piechut, Mayor of Clochemerle, a small
town among the vine-clad slopes of Beaujolais. It is
publicly unveiled to the accompaniment of the senten-
tious speeches of visiting politicians, references to
“Liberty, Equality and Fraternity” and the loud cheers
of the simple townsfolk, who feel that the cause of
progress has been advanced.
Clochemerle is a farce whose humor is in the
Rabelaisian tradition. Also it is a novel, not of de-
velopment, but of exposition. The story of how
Barthelemy Piechut’s zeal in the public interest—or
perhaps more truly his peasant cunning—led to his
becoming a Senator would make rather lean picking.
But the tale depends for its success less on its dramatic
movement than on its garnishings.
A pleasing picture of the ancient town and its
countryside is built up and its yearly celebration of
the wine harvest —a lineal descendant of the Greek
festival of Bacchus, apparently—is described with fine
freedom. The private lives of all persons introduced
are gone into at considerable length, their idiosyn-
crasies made known and the town’s perennial scandals,
public and private, duly aired. ,We learn how Corporal
Claudius Brodequin in a carefree hour added to his
heritage, to the happiness of little Rose Bivaque and
to the number of his father’s household; why
Barthelemy Piechut, under circumstances agreeable to
both, abandoned his wife’s bed; why the cure of
Clochemerle and the cure of a neighboring town
granted each other absolution at regular intervals,
resorting for the purpose, when the weather was bad,
to ap exchange of telegrams; how Ernest Tarfardel's
renowned success in controversy was due, not as he
fondly imagined, to his learned and forceful argu-
ments, but to his bad breath ; how the wives of the
town benefited from the inspirational beauty of Judith
Toumignon, wife of an innkeeper ; of how valiant the
innkeeper was in defence of his wife’s good name ;
how she lost her lover to her rival Adele Torbayon,
who lived on the opposite side of the road ; and of
the strange and amusing circumstance that darkened
the life of a certain clerk in the Government.
Clochemerle is the sort of book that challenges
conventional taste, but while it is ribald, irreverent
and sometimes even gross it is also broadly human
and understanding. There is gentleness behind its
satire, nothing of which it tells is improbable and
neither its characters nor life in general are a penny
the worse for the author’s handling of them. It has
greater literary value and is more humorous, accord-
ing to present-day ideas, than many of its classic
antecedents.
The American Comedy-Drama.
American Scene, by Harry J. Greenwall (Ivor
Nicholson and Watson ; 7s. 6d.), is as lively as a
newsreel. There are long shots and close-ups of
everything—gangsters, politics, “strip-tease,” mag-
nates, Presidents, plain Americans, hoboes, Holly-
wood and a negro who has convinced a lot of people
that he is God —together with a stream of anecdote
and shrewd interpretative comment.
Greenwell is speaking of the “New York Times”
bulletin —news spelt out on the wall in letters of
running light: —
One night Larry Fay, who had a high rating as
a public enemy, dropped into the Great White Way
to watch the sign, and remarked a bit wistfully that
for a well-known character like himself his name wasn’t
as prominently displayed as he would like, nor as often.
Four nights later it did appear again, but he never saw
it. The flash told of his death; bumped off in his own
night club.
He is talking of the big floods that coincided
with President Roosevelt’s inauguration: —
Still the stories poured into the White House. Seven-
teen people had lost their lives in West Virginia. In
Maryland the damage was so bad that no complete
report was available. The negro population had been
singing spirituals, usually: “River, Stay Away from Ma
Door.”
Speaking of how hard times spread professional
vagrancy in the United States, he lets off some
statistics: —
In the late spring of 1936 it was estimated that there
were no fewer than half a million men, women and
children making up an army of what they call transients,
wandering the country and rapidly becoming a social
menace.
Apropos of the casual way Americans tour
Europe, he tells this of what happened when a mother
and daughter returned home: —
The neighbors asked: “Well, Momma, no doubt you
went to Florence?” And Momma replied: “Well, now,
I don’t rightly know. You see, Sadie always bought
the tickets.”
Greenwall is a British journalist who has had
unusual opportunities for observation. His personal
notes on the four Presidents, Harding, Hoover,
Coolidge and Roosevelt, are revealing, and his descrip-
tion of the human side of the American boom, crash
and panic is a moving piece of writing. American
Scene is well worth reading.
Flagellants of New Mexico.
The genesis of Perilous Sanctuary, by D. J. Hall
(Harrap; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.), is fairiy
clear. Hall, a traveller and writer of travel books,
deeply sensitive to landscape, fell under the spell of
the New Mexican desert, that strange, beautiful and
implacable country that Willa Cather describes in
Death Comes for the Archbishop. His imagination
was also stirred by stories of the forbidden rites,
hysterical and sadistic, of a brotherhood of flagellants
that persists in New Mexico. In these two things he
felt he had the dramatic impetus for a novel, but he
lacked a story, a plot. He manufactured a plot, pains-
takingly, outside the radius of his inspiration. He then
strung the three elements of his book together—the
scene, which is beautifully and lovingly portrayed ; the
plot, a workmanlike contraption but artificial; and the
grim story of the penitents, which he ruins by an
attempt at rationalisation. The elements never
amalgamate.
Hall exhibits two traits of the romantics—his
preference for the far scene and his belief that men
can change the essentials of their characters. Perilous
Sanctuary tells the story of Hick Bowles, a fugitive
from justice, lost in the desert. He is found at the
point of death by Don Santiago Ramos, and nursed
back to life at his estancia. Don Santiago quickly
discovers Bowles’s secret, and out of contempt for
American law rather than from any generous nature
offers him sanctuary. Bowles finds himself practically
a prisoner on the. estancia. Easter is approaching, and
there is a secret in the village that he must not learn
on pain of death. By chance he witnesses a midnight
procession of the penitents and their self-inflicted tor-
tures. Don Santiago explains it to him —and to the
reader —in a long historical oration. A watch is set on
Bowles by the brotherhood. If he tries to escape he
is to be killed. Don Santiago, weary of his guesi,
arranges an opportunity for his flight. Bowles escapes
the trap because Catalina, a girl in the house, loves
and helps him. Catalina’s husband, Jose, is the good
man chosen by the flagellants to mimic the Crucifixion
o Continued, on page 8.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—the Salt of Business.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.’
JjCrruj tfccrf~ uHM
~ *' a - AjeMtiae,
"N
Anthony Horderns
The latest farming implements save hours of time, and time means
money. Make your day easier by equipping yourself with up-to-date
farming machinery. Anthony Horderns’ have everything you require.
x. m
I
>rtl/f rt
■AM. -X' \
S •
\V
\>-- v
*» >- 'Os.
RAN SOME'S “VICTORY" ONE-HORSE PLOUGH
Bsl. —Especially designed for farmers needing a simple light plough,
taking only a minimum draught. All parts, except a wheel and handle
grips, are made entirely of high quality wrought steel to obtain the very
maximum of strength from a minimum of weight. Weight, 75)b.
Price £5/5/-
£s's'-
rM
v jL/ 5)
fX W
f V
t \ %
;A:X , . __J,
r *1
,1 i—
■k-sll
■O-'X.
PLANET Jr. HOE AND CULTIVATOR
Bs2.—Steel wheel that does not clog; frame that is longer and higher than others;
steel standards that are so attached as to both brace the cultivator and withstand
strain; levers that operate quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment includes
four 3xB cultivator steels, one 4xB cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel,
all especially hardened. Will give long service. Price £5/12/6
6
{
■s
Si
P%
■/y/n/KU i’
■ H,
-JS
'A
n
PLANET Jr. HAND HOE AND CULTIVATOR
—For the home or market gardener. 6in. and hoes are the best weed-
killers known; the cultivator teeth go through cultivation; ploughs are used for
opening and closing furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the double-wheel hoe,
the gardener can straddle the row until the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both
sides at one time. Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair 4£in. hoes, four steel cultivator
teeth, pair of ploughs, two three-tooth and two five-tooth rakes, pair of leaf-lifters.
Price ..'/ . 85/-
/.-/
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd., SYDNEY
854.
Co.
C.X.B. CHAFF CUTTER
-E. H. Bentall and
Rising mouth, 7fin.
£lO'lo/-
wide, cuts two lengths, Tin. and jin. Weight,
2cwt. Capacity, scwt. per hour.
Price £lO/10/-
• The C.P.L.
CHAFF
CUTTER
£7/2/6
855. 7-2: - inch
mouth, cuts *in.
and 2 in. With
three legs.
Price ... £7/2/6
• C.D.V. CHAFF CUTTER
856.—E. H. Bentall and #3*l Ky||r/
Co. C.D.V. rising mouth,
8 4 in. wide, cuts two lengths, 4 in. and jin.
wide. Weight, 3cwt. Capacity, 6cwt. per
hour. Price £l5/15/-
THE “BEATRICE”
GRINDING MILL
77/6
An Ideal Machine for the Poultry
Farmer
B 5 7.—This mill will grind or granulate small
dry bones, broken oyster shells, grit, old
crockery, glass, charcoal and all kinds of
grain. Price 77/6
6 Agriculture —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery
City and Suburbs only.


Brief Study of Temperament
Holiday
By-harold Porter
“7" OWARDS the end of every year he
/ would begin to suffer from insomnia,
v > and his indigestion would trouble
him more than ever.
He would wander aimlessly and irritably
round the flat, glaring at the Benda masks, the Brang-
wyn etchings and the Van Gogh reproductions, which
all seemed suddenly stale and silly ; he would look
distastefully at the plaster copy of Bonaparte’s death-
mask ; he would try to write something, but the stale
smell of cigarette-smoke would annoy him ; he would
stare disconsolately out at the hot asphalt and the
flaccid plane-leaves.
“The city sickens me,” he would say peevishly.
“It’s too noisy, too hot. Dust everywhere. It’s
horrible. There’s grit on my desk . . . and that girl
never dusts the tables.”
“Now,” his wife would say brusquely, looking
up from her writing, “you need a holiday. Why not
go to Gippsland—stay with your people for a month
or two?”
He would pick up a withered petal from the floor
and sigh. “That’s not a bad idea.”
“Good. I’ll get you off instantly. You write to
them. No—send a telegram. You can go to-morrow.
I’ll book your seat.”
“You’ll come too, Anne?”
“No. No, I don’t think so. I don’t need a holiday.
I’m the placid type. I don’t get nervy. But a person
of your type—sensitive, creative, intense. Relaxation’s
good for you—for your mind, for your work. You’ll
come back refreshed. Besides, I’ve those articles for
the F.S.U., and meetings—lots of important work.
I may join you later. But you go, you temperamental
creature.”
“I will, I will.”
He liked being thought “temperamental.”
And she would book a seat on the afternoon
train, buy razor-blades, rapidly pack his cases, see
that he had cigarettes and his ticket, kiss him briskly
like a fond, competent mother, and—there he would
be on his way to the country.
SOON the suburbs would be passed and he would,
as though he had not travelled that way for
decades, peer delightedly at the revolving landscape.
Telegraph-poles. Paddocks. Farmhouses surrounded
by orchards, windmills and passion-fruit vines. Barns.
A clump of pines. A frightened horse was it the
same horse that the train terrified every year? Some
sheep. Cows. Paddocks. Nude, fantastic gums.
Paddocks. At intervals the train would stop at small
country stations: gravelled platforms, geranium
shrubs, milk-cans, gawky youths. And peace, like
an invisible mist, would be lying beatifically upon
the land.
He could visualise to the minutest detail his
parents’ home. The old apple-trees leaning their
loaded arms on crutchlike supports; the intense color
of the beetroot-stems ; the ink-blue plums falling one
at a time—plop, plop—among the cabbages, juicily,
with rich fatalism—plop. There would be the fuchsia-
bushes outside the drily-rustling Venetian blinds, the
oleographs of Swiss scenery hanging in the same place
as when he was a boy, the olive-green wallpaper, the
quiet, brown linoleum.
He could imagine himself sinking into the horse-
hair armchair with the Dore-illustrated Bible which
still contained the pansies and maidenhair fern his
mother had pressed in the ’eighties. There would be
dishes of wrinkled cream, butter yellow as a daffodil,
hot scones, the soothing night-chant of swamp-frogs,
the sunset ribaldry of the kookaburra. There would
be the matriarchal processions of plush-garbed cows
dragging mottled udders through the dewy grass.
There, permeating all, would be freshness and sweet-
ness and the murmur of the natural, languid surging
of the sap of life. He would think “How on earth
do we live in cities, cramped, unhealthy, nerve-
racked — a decadent existence! I’ll stay for more
than a month. I’ll stay for six months —maybe a
year. It would be nice to live in the country for
ever.”
AND so, half-smiling, half-awake, in a drowsy
trance, he would arrive. Mother . . . quaint,
old-fashioned clothes, blandly happy and shining.
Father . . . giant, imperturbable, wearing his gold
watch-chain.
Father’s rumbling voice and crushing handshake.
And the annual “You look a bit run-down, my
boy. You do need a holiday.”
Then there would be the black, bumpy car-
journey with Father pontifical at the wheel. Lights.
Gates. A dog barking. Home. Before the kitchen
door was opened he always knew what to expect:
the smell of lemons, of scrubbed tables, of the lamp.
There would be everything in the places they had
occupied year after year: the sewing-basket on the
dresser, the brown jug on the mantelpiece, the vinegar
demijohn, the little bunch of parsley in the same
chipped blue cup everything spotless and placid
under the eternal ticking of the brown-faced clock,
everything unaltered.
The same conversation: “Yes, dear, I read the
articles ; they were lovely.”
“Your father is going to cultivate the paddock
across the creek —aren’t you, Dad?”
“It’s a pity Anne couldn’t come. She works too
hard.”
“You shouldn’t have brought me those lace
handkerchiefs ; I haven’t used the ones you gave me
last year.”
“You really should have at least one child,
dear.”
“Next year we expect to have electric light.
They’ve been asking for an extension of the line in
this direction.”
They had been asking for years. All this had
been going on for years, like a dream, a familiar
dream, soothing, passive, developing placidly and
languorously to the indistinct murmur of growing
crops, breathing animals and softly-stirring wings.
Next, there would be his bedroom, unchanged...
In a few days his wife would receive a letter:
“....and sleep, ‘blessed thing,’ all night. You
can’t imagine, my never-sleepless Anne, the delight of
waking not disgruntled and half-ill, but clear-eyed,
fresh as a youngster, with the scent of cabbage-roses
and dried lucerne in one’s nostrils, magpies trilling
like inspired soprani, dapper roosters blithely crow-
ing. The general impression I get is of broadness, of
curves —the atmosphere’s static. There’s an ineffable
feeling of comfort, agelessness and security emanating
from everything fruit eyeing you warmly from
among the leaves, pumpkins lolling about, animals
lazily traipsing here and there;
ti’s all very untidy, but ex-
tremely charming... .Send me
up a couple of notebooks....
I bathe in the old tub just as I
used to when a boy—great
fun .... Mother sends her love.
She’s sitting here darning, so
serene and wise — almost, I
feel, omniscient and I have
decided to prolong my stay —
about three months at the
least.
Anne, having read, would
smile, fold the pages firmly,
tear them into pieces, drop the
pieces unsentimentally into her
waste basket and stride off to
another meeting.
ONE day, after being in the
country for a fortnight, he
would overeat. There would
be the pain piercing his body.
He would lie awake at night.
The clock would strike —one
o’clock . . two o’clock .. .
There would be roosters crow-
ing, near, far, faint, harsh—•
hundreds of roosters, it would
seem, yodelling to one another
across the paddocks. Dogs.
Frogs malevolently grumbling.
The v/indmill creak-creak-
creaking. The clock ticking,
ticking, ticking, ticking—strik-
ing . • * three o’clock...
His wife would receive
another letter:
“ .... And not a moment’s
sleep—the windmill, the infer-
nal roosters, a possum on the
roof, God knows what! The
whole countryside is depress-
ing to a degree — grass-seeds in
all my socks, cow-droppings in
the most unlikely places,
crows squawking all day in
the gums, and flies every-
where. Maddening! I can’t
understand why Father
doesn’t have the men
tidy the place up; I’m continually tripping over
pumpkin-vines. It’s the same if I walk in the pad-
docks—flies, flies And I don’t know why they
won’t get a porcelain bath; it’s certainly not that
they can’t afford to ; the tub is so damned small—silly.
Still, Mother always was stubborn. She sends her
love. She talks of you constantly—too constantly
and feel that I’ve really had an excellent holiday. I
don’t think it fair to leave you alone so long
catching to-morrow’s train if humanly possible ”
Anne, having read, would smile, fold the pages
firmly, tear them into pieces, drop the pieces unsenti-
mentally into her waste-basket and stride off to
another meeting.
"T'HE next morning he would be at the little country
* station. Mother... (“You’d think they were
paupers. Ridiculous old-fashioned get-up. And she
could use a little face-powder.”) Father... (“Pom-
pous old goat—he’s dying to get back to his blasted
pigs.”)
As last year, as the year before, as the year before
that: “Yes, 1 clo wish I could have stayed longer than
a fortnight, Mother. But the writing—and Anne all
by herself... You understand.”
“I understand, dear. Perhaps you’ll both come
for a longer holiday later in the year.”
“Perhaps, Mother. Per-haps. I’m so disap-
pointed”—
And then the train would move ; he would sigh
with relief. Well, one couldn’t help being tempera-
mental. He would eye gloomily the huge bunch of
flowers, the parcels of vegetables, fruit and pickles
his mother had insisted on giving him.
However, shortly, his eyes meantime averted
from the wheeling landscape, he would fall into a
reverie, affectionately thinking of the theatres, the
fascinating crowds, the life, the music, books and
intellectual friends he was approaching. “Anne and
I must have a night out dinner at the ‘Latin’...
And the new show at the King’s after. I must get
some new books”...
Absent-mindedly he would be eating a peach,
another peach, some sandwiches, a slab of fruit-cake,
another slab. He would dream and plan. Suddenly—
an agonising pain. Indigestion. Angrily he would
throw the rest of the foftd through the window.
The fragrance of his flowers and parcels would
recall to him the solitude he had left; minute by
minute retreating from him, it would seem more and
more pleasant; minute by minute he would begin to
feel more and more like a condemned man in an
insanely galloping tumbril. To execution! T°
execution! To the city—to the dusty flat, the noise,
the gabbling acquaintances, the bills, the never-ending
expense. He would stare bitterly at the huddled-
together suburban houses, the filthy backyards, the
rusty iron roofs, the chimneys, chimneys, chimneys.
“God,” he would say to himself, “what a life 1
live! What a life! For two pins I’d throw mysell
off the train.”


Last Chapters of a Fine Serial
LEGEND for SANDERSON
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapter XII.
1.
44 remember me, do you? I think I
« gng last met you when you were a little
| shaver of three or four, being taken out
I I I or t a fishing trip by your father. Curly-
Ul-jOT haired ; chunky, floppy hat that wouldn’t
stay on in the wind. I was just back
from Sydney—boarding-school and a bit of mugging
about in a warehouse... That doesn’t give you a
clue, though: too far for you to think back, eh?
Im a cousin of yours. Macready—Keith Macready.”
Big, blonde, slightly panting from his swim across
the baths, he drew his towel across the back of his
neck and beamed down on Neil as if announcing a
happy surprise. They were standing on the edge of
the pool, stripped and gleaming, their bodies contrast-
ing in color, in tone ; one white, softly fattish, the
other brown as weathered oak.
Macready screwed up his eyes, which were pale
and short-sighted without their glasses. “Someone
pointed you out to me the other day in the street.
At first I couldn’t believe it. Young Neil Neil
Sanderson! Hadn’t the ghost of an idea you were
within a thousand miles of here: no one had men-
tioned your name before. Determined to lie low,
were you?”
Amiability oozed out of him, surrounded him
like a thick, impenetrable air. Neil felt his body
stiffen, his features turn to wood. “I’ve been some-
thing like four years in the north—two in the town
here. Till lately I’ve been fishing.”
“So they told me. Rather poor sort of a game,
isn’t it? At least for a man who doesn’t know the
ropes.”
“It suited me well enough. For the time.”
“And now you’ve gone into partnership with old
Jensen?”
“Has that got about already?”
“Why, you weren’t keeping it a secret, were
you?”
“Oh, no! We’ve both committed ourselves.
Opened up an office in town.”
They had wandered over to the benches where
their clothes hung. Mildness was in the air of the
short winter afternoon, even now that the sun had
dropped and the sky taken on a lilac bloom, yet all
but a handful of youngsters had left the water,
youngsters whose skinny bodies showed their ribs as
they scrambled up to dive off the palisades.
Macready sat down on the bench and examined
the sole of his foot, which had been cut by a shell.
“It gave me no end of a shock to hear you were
knocking about the waterfront. I made up my mind
to look you up right away, see if I could do anything
for you. Family feeling, you know. If a man doesn’t
stick to his own connections... And we haven't
been a particularly fruitful breed. I thought a great
deal of your mother. Quite an exceptional woman—
musical, fond of books —that sort of thing— out of
her element in this place as it was then. She took
a fancy to me, somehow, got me to take her out
riding. Treated me as a man, although I was only a
youngster at the time. Made me feel a foot taller
every time she spoke to me.”
Simple and exuberant, he let a stream of talk
bubble from him as he peeled off his bathers, scrubbed
his body dry, slipped his head into his shirt. There
was none of the legendary Macready stiffness about
him: he looked unpretentious as any wharf-lumper,
standing there on the oblong of wet towel, his hairy
legs wide apart, his thick figure curving out at the
middle. The breakwater of hostility in Neil’s mind
began to crumble. Why had he conceived such a
dislike for this cousin of his? Had he allowed a false
image of Keith to be created from things Freda said,
from the gossip of the waterfront, from jealousies
slumbering deeply in himself? It annoyed him that
his voice was crabbed and unfriendly, his spirit unable
to respond easily to the advances made to him. He
had really nothing against Keith.
But hadn’t he? Was it likely, with all the talk
that went on in the town (a stiffness was coming back
to his spine), that the Macreadys had never heard of
his presence till now? And what about the treatment
old Peter had received from the Northern Timber
Mills? “I went in with Jensen to help him out of a
hole,” he said deliberately. “He’d been having a
rough spin. The big timber people had a lien over
him —they were going to sell him up.”
“That so? Well, I suppose they had to keep
him up to the mark. You must know old Peter by
now. Trades on his reputation. Lets things drift.
To-morrow’s just another name for to-day.”
“That might be as good a way of going through
life as any other.”
Macready’s eyes twinkled. “It might be. You
don’t think so, though. Come, now. Own up that
you believe old Peter wants a bit of stiffening.”
“Anyway, he’s out of their clutches now,” said
Neil shortly.
“Well, good luck to the old boy. He’ll pick up
all right now he’s got someone behind him with a
business head and a bit of backbone. Great trades-
man, old Peter. Learnt his craft before they took to
blowing houses together in a couple of weeks with
timber still dripping from the sap —he built the one
I’m living in now, and that’s forty years ago... I
say, you’re not doing anything this evening. What
about running out home with me and having a bit
of dinner? My car’s just outside.”
Neil hesitated, two parts of his mind at variance.
He was attracted by the overflowing vitality of his
cousin: he resented the attraction. That bluff hearti-
ness that came so easily to a man of affairs! Wasn’t
something being put over him?
“Afraid I can’t to-night, thanks,” he said. “Fixed
up already.”
“Well, we'll drop in at the Capricorn for a spot.
You're not going to tell me you haven’t time for that.
Won’t take halt an hour. And there’s lots of things
1 want to talk over.”
'“THE big blue car, sounding an imperious horn,
' whirled them into the main street, past the lighted
fa?ade of Cayley’s, down a narrow byway where the
town’s best club stood modestly behind its screen of
crotons and acalyphas. Inflated by the boom of
Keith’s voice (“We’ll have to stick together, old boy,
now we’ve found one another!”) Neil floated up the
gravelled path. An uneasiness spread through him as
he passed in through the padded door, joined the little
knot of men drinking at the bar of polished maple.
He had a sense of having crossed a frontier, of having
been received into another world. There was such
an overwhelming rumble of Keith’s voice: “Meet a
cousin of mine, you fellows. Sanderson. Neil San-
derson—one of the original crowd. Born here, and
couldn’t help drifting back like the rest of them.
Thinking of going into business in the town here.”
They welcomed him as if he had just landed by
the morning’s boat. There were men he knew by
sight—Gimblett of Berry and Mason’s, Duggan the
sugar-king, the heads of various banks, refineries,
insurance companies. They asked him a few discreet
questions but hardly listened to his replies. He was
Macready’s cousin: that was enough to admit him
into the freemasonry of their circle.
Was it a joke, Neil wondered, or was he coming
back to his own? The smell of mud and salt-stiffened
dungarees floated away from him, the breath of his
working days. A big man with gooseberry eyes was
explaining the possibilities of the north to him. You
bought into something and worked to create a boom
in it, then sold out on the rise. The general talk was
of deals in sugar, timber, tobacco ; profits were calcu-
lated in thousands.
“Better keep your hands in your pockets,” an
inner voice warned Neil. “If they see the calluses on
your palms”
He toyed with the thought (the drinks were
circulating freely now) that one day he might feel
more at home here than in the Crown and Anchor.
But, once you entered this world, wasn’t it a matter
of honor to stay in it and defend it to the last? You
swallowed its assumptions, body, beak and bones:
you adopted a keener class-consciousness than that of
the workers. Developed a pot like Keith’s, kept it
comfortably lined with whisky, grew hot about the
collar when anything threatened your interests, which
were the interests of the country.
“Yet, after all”— —- he thought vaguely.
Insensibly he was being infected by the glow of
successful living in the air around him. These were
the men who were running the town, controlling the
development of the country beyond: they had thick
necks, hearty voices, unreflective eyes that were keen
as hawks’. In a few years, if he let one side of him-
self have a free run, he could be one of them.
They were doing something new, Keith insisted
as they sat together at a corner table, something no
other people had done —making a tropical country a
real home for white men. But that meant the
encouragement of capital. “Until now it’s been
frightened away. Wages a bit too high, you know,
men too restless in the traces. All this talk about
a new deal. Ideas breed like flies in the north here.
Foreign element’s a bit stronger than’s good for our
health —red underneath, most of those fellows. And
they want the comforts of life right away, instead
of starting from scratch, like some of us did.”
Neil felt a sudden heat. “Starting from scratch,
eh? Ever tried it?”
“Well, no ; it wasn’t necessary. The old man
did, though.”
“Did he? What brought him here in the begin-
ning?”
“Engineer. Helped your father to build that
first road over the range. Great combination while
it lasted. Your old man had the enterprise, mine the
Scotch caution. When your father went down with
fever his sister came up to nurse him. Only
of a girl, but full of beans. Before she’d been there
six weeks my father had married her. And here you
and I are forty-five years after.”
He laughed complacently, brought the conversa-
tion round to things personal and sentimental. There
weren’t many memorials of those days, worse luck.
Only a faded photograph he had at home, enlarged
from a small print—a young woman sitting with her
horse reined-up against a mountain cutting and two
men standing beside her, one holding up a scrub-
turkey.
A confidential frankness came to his manner as
they sipped their fourth whisky. “You know, Neil,
I may as well own up—never got on with your father.
Not in those last years, anyway. Had to cut adrift
from him altogether in the end: couldn’t stomach
the way he was carrying on boozing, kicking up
rows, making a muck of things financially. A man
has to look after his own reputation. And in a small
town like this... Perhaps I was a bit stiff in the neck.
The old boy mightn’t have carried on so outrageously
if there’d been someone to keep him socially in touch
with decent people. But that woman he took up
with. Know her?”
“A little.”
“Worst load of mischief he could have struck.
Attractive. Morals of a rabbit. Encouraged him to
booze so that she could twist him round her little
finger. She got Cayley’s out of him, worse luck ;
then she saw to it that he finished himself off.”
Neil pushed his glass away ; it fell with a crash.
He stood up, flushed to the ears. “Who put that
lie about?”
Macready stared at him uncertainly. “A lie?
You think it’s a lie?”
“I don’t think: I know. It’s a dirty bit of
slander. There were plenty of rotten spots in the


old man’s life, but that Clune woman wasn’t one of
them. She’s worth more... She stuck to him when
no one else did. It almost makes me believe there
must have been something in him after all. There are
lots of fellows about ... all the old man’s greediness
without his guts.”
It was the sense of sudden, new vision that made
him violent, incoherent. What if he had been living
in a fantasy during the last two years, feeding on false
emotions? The conflict with his father hadn’t he
chosen the wrong ground for it? Fastened on his
alliance with Laura Clune and ignored whatever in
him was really corrupt?
Macready was looking at him as if he thought
him drunk.
“Sorry, old boy,” he said tolerantly. “Didn’t
mean to tread on your corns. As a matter of fact
I don’t think I’ve ever met the woman. Just took all
they said as gospel.”
They went out to the car again, a slight stiffness
between them, each in his own way trying to cover up
the outbreak. Lights were beginning to prick the
violet dusk: a stream of bicycles poured out from
the centre of the town. Macready stood with one
foot on the running-board, bulky in his motoring-coat
that fell away from the convexity of his front.
“And this partnership of yours,” he asked
blandly. “Satisfied with its prospects?”
“Fairly well. We haven’t too much capital to
work on. It’s going to be a. struggle for a while.”
“Well, keep a tight control over old Peter. It’s a
struggle for us all these times, but no need to worry
too much. Certain to be a good deal of building
going on, whatever happens: town can’t help grow-
ing ... I’m fairly well dug in. I may be able to put a
contract or two in your way.”
Neil drew in upon himself. “Thanks, but most
of these things are a matter of public tender.”
“Or of private favor.”
“I’m not going to depend too much on that.”
A tolerant smile spread over Macready’s face.
“My dear fellow, don’t be so damned touchy. You
can push independence a little too far. There’s got
to be a good deal of give-and-take in business. You
scratch my back No, not quite that, but—well,
reciprocity. A man finds as he goes along that he’s
liable to get left if he tries to play a lone hand. You’ll
fall to it, all right, in a little while. Got the family
drive, if I’m any judge.”
He chuckled, dug Neil playfully in the ribs, then
whirled away as if plunging into the brilliant glare
of his own headlights. Neil followed in the darkness
of the tree-bordered footpath, a vague heat spreading
through him. He had always needed an image to
embody what he was fighting against. Suppose, now
that his father’s image was fading . . . this soft, bulky
figure, still living, still powerful... Defeat! Life
was only beginning.
11.
f~\ VOICE he knew pulled him up with a jerk as
f \ he went up the path to the Jensens’ house.
(_ I Disconcerted, he stood outside in the dusk
where the vine-screened light made a chequered
pattern on the grass, listening to the muffled clatter
of talk and laughter, fighting the weakness that came
over him. He had promised to call around on Peter
to talk over their first contract, the building of a
guest-house near a lake in the ranges: he hadn’t
expected to find Freda there. And now this drum-
ming in his ears, this plucking at the nerves around
his heart.
“I don’t want to meet her. Not now —not with
the old people looking on. That talk with old Peter
can wait.”
He found himself going in through the lattice
door.
She was kneeling on a chair under the lamp, her
body sprawled across the table her eyes on a chess
problem Peter was working out on the board. There
was a childishness in her attitude, in the quick way
she looked up and slipped to the floor, catching hold
of an end of the cloth. “Here’s Sandy,” her glance
said ; “he’ll help you while I finish clearing the table.”
She put her finger to her lips, made a gesture that
directed Neil’s eyes to Peter’s bent head, as if warning
him against disturbing a sitting bird.
He was staggered by her casualness and poise.
No recognition that it was months since they - had
met! No acknowledgment that anything had
happened since! Standing with her hip against the
table and a fold of white cloth under her chin, she
let her bright look flicker about him, about Peter,
as if disengaging herself from them both.
Darkness flowed over his mind. He had a
depressed sense of life trickling along meaninglessly,
a succession of events, none of them holding any
significance. Could it be that he had been a victim
of fantasy all along, that she had never gone off with
Besanck? No, he had plenty of corroboration for
that —from Myra, from the Cleves woman, from little
bits of gossip he had pieced together. He sat down
and concentrated his attention on the board, keeping
his eyes away from Freda, registering every movement
she made.
Hardly conscious he had stirred, he was opening
the door for her to pass out with the tray.
“Come out to the front after-
wards,” she whispered. “I want to
talk. I’m going away.”
“Going away? Where?”
She flashed a crooked smile
over her shoulder. “Does it
matter? That’s not the im-
portant thing.”
He was back at the table again, sitting opposite
Peter, talking jerkily, in the intervals between the old
man’s deliberate moves, about the unexpected meeting
with Macready. A look of interest slowly kindled in
Peter’s blue eyes. His attention began to wander
from the chessmen: he pushed the board away from
him, took off his glasses and wiped them, a quiet
chuckle rumbling up from his stomach. So the old
ship was likely to start this time with a good trade
wind behind her, eh? And the prospect of plenty
cargo, too.
He pursued the image like a boy teasing a sick
rat, prodding it into life again when it dropped
exhausted, and shaking meanwhile with his own
humor. What a joke to have Macready giving his
support to the firm! The last time he had been at
the office of the Northern Timber Mills they had
told him he was drunk and shown him the door. And
for once he had given free run to his tongue and let
them have all the curses he knew. “Not that I’ve
got anything against Keit’. Whatever they say about
him, he knows how to look after his friends. Yes,
when he has his belly full he’s ready to give away
what’s over... Looks like we’re set for an easy
voyage this time, Neil.”
A sudden clearness came to Neil’s head, a release
of will. “No, we’re not, Peter. I’d rather smash up
on the rocks again than take any help from Macready
after what’s happened. So would you.”
Peter flushed, moved uneasily in his chair. “Per-
haps I would. I was yoost making up my mind...
You’re the skipper now, Neil: you set the course.”
“We’re not going to quarrel about that, Peter.
And perhaps it won’t be such a rough voyage after
all.”
LJ E sat back, listening for a step on the gravel
' * walk, his body rigid as wood, all the feeling
gone out of him. When he went outside Freda was
standing at the gate, her figure a blur in the dim
light, a spot of vague whiteness. Walking over to'
the esplanade he repeated the question that had been
echoing in his mind for an hour. “You’re going
away? Where?”
“To Sydney,” she told him. “At least that will
do for a starting-point. I haven’t any definite plans.”
“You’ve not got a transfer, then?”
“No ; they wouldn’t give me one. I applied till
I was sick of it. Though it wasn’t just another school
I really wanted.”
“Then you’ve chucked up your job?”
“Yes, I’ve chucked it. I had to get away.”
“Why?”
She turned impatient eyes on him. “Haven’t I
gone into that often? I wasn’t cut out for a teacher.
Not the country sort, anyway: all that’s worst in me
comes out when I have to live in the public eye.
And I loathed the people I was boarding with. Prob-
ably the feeling was returned with interest. I can
be an unpleasant little beast when my dander’s
roused.”
There was a jerkiness in her voice, but it only
made the sheath of hardness tighten round him. He
said, voicing the conviction that had flashed upon him
with her first words, gathering force all the time he
was talking to Peter, “You’re going off with Besanck.”
“No,” she said definitely.
“What? This move wasn’t
made with him in mind?”
“I don't know where he is or
whether I’m ever likely to see him
again. Honestly, 1 don’t really
care.”
A cloud lifted from his mind,
hovered about, failed to disperse.
“Then that’s all over?”
“As far as there was anything
in it. There wasn’t much.”
He said with sudden rough-
ness: “You’re able to take these
things damned lightly.”
“You think so?” she said.
“What do you expect me to do,
Sandy? Make a tragedy out of
what was only an impulse of the
moment? ... No, I won’t pretend.
I was dazzled by Besanck for a
while. Thought I couldn’t live
without him.”
“Till you found out what you
blamed me for finding.”
She made no reply to his
thrust. They were sitting on the
edge of the breakwater, gazing
down at the oily beach over which
the tide was beginning to move with
a prolonged rustle. In Neil’s mind
there was savage resentment as he
glanced covertly at the girl’s be-
mused face. She had no right to
look so serene and unaffected.
“You were ready to flay me
because I’d come to a point where
I couldn’t get on with him,” he
prodded her.
Still unruffled, she said
quietly: “Don’t rub it in, Sandy.
“Don’t rub it in, Sandy. I thought you were growing like your father— ready to
sacrifice anything for [?] chance of playing your own hand.”


“There’s only one thing left for you to do now, Laura —set up a monument to Sanderson.”
It wasn’t just because you couldn’t get on with
him that 1 was mad with you. I thought you
were growing like your father—ready to sacrifice any-
thing or anybody for the chance of playing your
own hand.”
“You still think that,” he insisted.
She hesitated, looking round at him soberly. “I
don’t know. What’s my opinion worth to you, any-
way? Often you’ve seemed to be—looking one way
and moving another. But you’ve been more than
decent to Peter ; set him on his feet again. I ought
to be grateful.”
“Don’t be,” he said harshly. “That’s his affair
and mine. And I’m going to get at least as much
out of it as I give... You're ready to be charitable
to me now because of your feeling against Besanck.”
“No, I’m not!” she said with sudden heat. “I
haven’t any feeling against Besanck.”
“In spite of all that’s happened?”
“If I made a fool of myself about him it was my
own fault. He didn’t play up to any of my senti-
mental ideas about him. And in the end he helped
me to pull myself together.”
“How?”
“By mocking at the things I believe in—forcing
me to find out how much I believe in them. There’s
something in his sort of mockery—it’s tonic. If you
can stand up to his barrage... He’s a deserter: he’s
running away from the life he belongs to ; but at least
he doesn’t bluff himself. Or let anyone else do it
while they’re with him.”
She was silent awhile, flicking pebbles down into
the sand: then, throwing them away in a handful,
burst out violently: “That habit of feeding upon
sentiment, never letting yourself grow up. I’ve always
been full of myself and my own feelings. Dramatised
myself, watching myself in the glass. Freda, her
lather’s pet. Freda the tomboy. Freda the horror
of the old women along the esplanade. And up there
at Guthrie’s . . . self-conscious every minute of the
day. I’m going to get away from it all, threw myself
into life. No more playing around, no more posturing.
There are movements I could give myself to com-
pletely, without counting the cost. You won’t believe
it, Sandy, but at bottom I’m really more interested in
the outside world than in myself. I wouldn’t want
to go on living if I couldn’t look forward to an up-
heaval that’ll change the whole face of the country
before long. Make everything over, give us all some-
thing decent to work for. That’s the bedrock truth.
Perhaps it’ll end by my going shrill and leather-faced
organising white workers or selling pamphlets at Sun-
day meetings. I don’t care.”
\\J HAT she was saying hardly penetrated the surface
of his mind. He was watching her face in the
half-light, the movement of her lips. She’s been more
hurt than she admits, he was thinking: she’s trying
to cover up, like all women do. The sense of his
own hurt made him deaf and blind to what was
moving her. Only the overtones of her voice had
any meaning for him. She’s been hurt...
Suddenly a wave of feeling swept over him and
he put his arm around her. “Freda! ”
She disengaged herself quietly, slipping from the
breakwater into the sand. “No, don’t, Sandy.
Neither of us wants that.”
But something had been roused in him. Without
a word he crushed her to him again, pressed his lips
on her face and neck. Fiercely she struggled away
from him. “Don’t!... You’re hating me underneath.
You think I’ve let you down. And you haven’t tried
to understand what I’m getting at. But just because
we’re here together and I’m going away”
“I’ve been in love with you since that first night,”
he said passionately ; “all these years I’ve been here
there’s been no one but you.”
You re hating me. Yet you can’t help saying
that.”
“It’s true. But you’ve always treated me . . .
someone to be taken for granted. Sandy! The name
I’ve always loathed. It was one of the things—didn’t
you use it deliberately to keep me at a distance? All
those days we were together—holding yourself back
all the time. You never let me know you.”
She turned her head away. “What was there to
make me believe you wanted that?”
“I loved you,” he repeated. “I never had a
chance to show it.”
“There’s time enough for that. After all . . .
you’re the only man I care two straws about, Neil.”
“But you’re going away.” His voice seemed to
echo from an abyss.
Suddenly turning, she fixed her eyes on him,
proof for the time being against his feeling and her
own. “Let’s be quite honest with one another, Neil
You don’t want me to stay now.”
Assurances rose to his lips but dried up before
they were uttered. Something in the steady glance
made his eyes turn in upon himself and see beyond
the passion of the moment. The wave that had been
carrying him along on its crest broke with a crash,
leaving him still and dazed on the sand.
It was true: he didn’t want her to stay now.
Deep down within him there was a sense of injury
he would have to conquer before they came together
again. You couldn’t make yourself over in a day.
There were ugly things that rankled in the mind,
waiting a chance to rear their heads, not to be crushed
without effort.
And he had another battle before him that would
take all his will and power. His mind, even now,
was shot with thoughts of it. Just as hers was prob-
ably vibrating with this new urge to scrap the past,
to make a new movement towards reality.
He looked at her as she stood with her back
propped against the breakwater, feet crossed in front
of her, head slightly averted. A sudden conviction
that their future lay together surged up in him. He
loved her: he believed in her utterly: he didn’t want
her to stay.
///.
THERE was a lethargic, Saturday-afternoon look
about the port as Besanck came tramping in
from the outskirts, dusty, footsore, humping his
belongings in a shapeless swag that was fastened
over his shoulder with a towel. Life had flowed away
from the town: it had the look of a broken fragment
of coral bleaching in the sun. Closed shops and
banks, emptied streets, taxis gathered like dead beetles
under the fig-trees. It seemed as if everything was
waiting for an incoming tide or the reviving breath
of the four-o’clock breeze that filtered in through a
gap in the southern headlands.
But from Anzac Park at the far end of the
esplanade sounded the faint clash of hockey-sticks, and
down at the wharves there was a drone of donkey-
engines slinging the last cargo aboard a squat coastal
boat from which flew the Blue Peter. A flash of
interest shot through Besanck’s eyes as he watched the
smoke rise from the single funnel. He stopped by the
post-office steps and dropped his swag, squatting on
the cool stone. It was of no use to him, that boat;
it was bound southwards: but since he had made up
his mind to go back he felt an urge to keep moving,
and the sight of people crowding up the gangway
excited him like the smell of the sea itself.
“No hurry,” he told himself. “To-morrow is
also a day. It is sufficient that the matter is settled.”
He wanted to talk to someone, to joke about
the new spring of life that had welled up in him, to
relieve himself by comic extravagance from the
thought that he was making a surrender. Liquidation
of the ci-devant! “From now on I renounce the role
of onlooker. Climb down from this seat among the
gods, accept the ignominy of being a member of the
human race. It has come to me in a vision that life
is only to be understood by those who take part in it,
that even at the back of chaos there may be meaning
and design.”
But who would take his talk as anything but the
babble of a mad foreigner? Neil Sanderson? A
twinge of uneasiness passed through him. There had
been a stimulus in opening out to Neil once, in
watching the way ideas had power to sting him like
mosquitoes. Those days had passed, though. He
thought of the sober, sun-darkened face, the eyes
that always seemed to be peering ahead for signs of
birds above the shoal. Suppose he were to go to
him and say “You win in the end, Neil. Yes, you
win. Your drive, your belief in to-morrow. They
have infected me even while I laughed. I carry with
me part of your youth, your appetite for living.”
It would be true enough: just as true as to say
that the decision to go back home had been made
when he was experimenting with the wireless in that
half-empty hotel in the hills, picking up broadcasts
from Siberia in his own tongue. Those accounts of
engineering feats on the Don, on the Dnieper, had
been a warm wind blowing on the creative spark in
him. But the impulse to throw himself fully into
life again was not a sudden urge of the moment.
No; he had watched it gather force: he had been
curiously conscious of it as a '•paralysed man of the
quickening in a dead limb.
He sat thinking of the Kestrel, of the girl who
had left him abruptly just when his interest in her
had been fully roused.
From the wharves a big blue car came honking
with a uniformed chauffeur at the wheel and stopped
before a block of offices where typewriters still chirred
faintly like crickets buried in the ground. Across to
Besanck floated the voice of a small boy, high-pitched
yet stiff with manly authority: “No, you stay there,
Katie: I’ll go in and find him. He promised he’d be
ready by half-past three. He’s got to come.”
Important in his Boy Scout uniform, he sprang
out and marched up the steps while the woman leant
back and fanned herself with a folded newspaper.
Besanck recognised the maize-colored hair, the
indolent movements, the well-moulded features that
were peppered with tiny freckles. The Cleves woman
—Katie Cleves. One of the people who never met
him without showing an inclination to spar, as if the
sight of him raised the tempo of her pulses. Rivalry,
was it, or a feeling that he had been unresponsive
to the woman in her? With a smile he took up his
swag and moved over to the car.
“A new role for you, this,” he began lightly,
looking at the small, doll-like girl beside her. “Quite
domestic, eh? I had always thought of you as by
nature an amazon.”
She was too surprised to retort. She could only
stare at his sun-flushed face, his tumbled hair, the
reddish dust that soiled his shirt-collar. “You?
Where have you come from now? A little late, aren’t
you?”
He raised his eyebrows. “Late? Yes, perhaps
you are right. The rainbow they used to call me,
those fellows at the waterfront. I delay to come out
till the storm’s over... But how is it you have
guessed what I was going to tell? I have been up
in the hills. Working so that I might earn enough
for my last adventure.”
She only half-understood him. “You don’t seem
very interested in the boat.”
“Only in the fact that it is a boat. Not other-
wise. Why should I be?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” she said drily. “I suppose
I’m out of things lately. It’s so hard to keep track
of you people... I’ve just been down seeing Freda
off.”
“Freda?”
“You didn’t know she was going, then?”
<Continued on pose 50.)


in terrible make-believe. While he is preparing himself
for his ordeal, Bowles and Catalina become lovers,
and plan to flee together. At the last, Jose, on the
way to his Calvary, intervenes to save Bowles —and
the lovers are shamed. Catalina knows that she cannot
go. Bowles escapes through the cordon drawn round
him, but goes knowingly and willingly to his death in
the desert.
All through the book the author seems to be in
two minds on some essential points. We are asked
now to be repelled, now exalted. Hick Bowles is
essentially hard-boiled when we first meet him. His
uninspiring dossier is laid before us and our sym-
pathies are alienated as of set purpose. But love and
perhaps some mystic quality in the air change him.
He departs in a vague nimbus of nobility. Jose also
at first appears quite commonplace, a morose and
jealous husband, but he becomes, without warning,
the incarnation of all goodness. This makes for uncer-
tainty in the story, but at least it begins and ends in
beauty. This is a memorable picture to close any
book:
On the third day at sunset he came to an Indian cart-
trail in the sand. He followed it a little way, then turned
once more into the untrodden waste. He was entirely
without fear, and, though the strength in his body hourly
seeped away, he was more clear in* the head, more
certain of his purpose, than he had ever been. Climbing
a low sandhill he looked over the timeless panorama
of soft gold and gentle green, of lavender distance
sinking to sleep in the mantle of night; of a million
nights of untouchableness since the earth’s beginning.
If, indeed, there had been a beginning, for here there
seemed no beginning and no end, only a sense of ever-
lasting solitude and peace from man’s endeavor. A
faint wind stirred the rabbit-brush, and, as it fanned
him, he put his hand into his shirt. With a last gesture
of release he swept out his arm, sending his revolver
back in a short feeble arc towards the trail that he had
left. Then he moved forward, down into the lengthening
shadow of the sandhill. It was like a game, this
keeping continually within a charmed circle.
Two Writers in Exile.
“English novelists have been travellers. They
have returned with extraordinary gratitude to their
own country to find its life richer for them in the
stuff of tales than all their observations and inventions
have been able to discover elsewhere.” Thus Gilbert
Cannam in his study of Samuel Butler. Butler,
despite a fairly long residence in Canterbury during
his young days, never became a Maorilander. Raising
sheep on his run in a virgin land may be a good way
of making money ; the majestic grandeur of the
Southern Alps might suggest a perfect locale in which
to people his mysterious Erewhonians; the fugues
of Handel would lose none of their glory though
reverberating round the walls of a rude hamlet ; yet
his heart was not in “Mesopotamia.” It was far away
in that northern world of art, music, literature. He
was fired of watching the battles from afar. He
longed to plant his standard on the stormy fields of
Darwinism. A writer, a musician, a painter, he would
“take on” the scientists and carry war into their own
camps, and he returned to his heart’s abiding-place.
It was the same with Katherine Mansfield. She
might voluntarily exile herself from the land of her
birth, but her spirit returned daily, lovingly and
affectionately. Up the “Terrace” at Wellington she
trudged with her beloved ’cello for the music practice.
At Karori she steadied herself against a fierce, fitful
gust of wind. Over at the Sounds, across the Straits
at Picton, at night little lights smiled through the
darkness. Soft breezes stirred, shivered through the
trees. To these she turned when staying in uncom-
fortable lodgings in London, and later in that lonely
sickroom in France. It was out of her feeling for
her own land that she wrought abiding art.
ARTHUR O’HALLORAN.
Words Australians Use.
Our early settlers had to find names for animals
and plants, and these, of course, have been included
in most standard dictionaries. Sometimes the abori-
ginal name, or something approaching it, was adopted
—as kangaroo, wallaby, wombat. In a few cases an
Old World name with an explanatory adjective was
given, but there is a tendency to drop these in favor
of the aboriginal name. The animal once known as
the native bear is now usually called a koala, and
kookaburra is used in preference to laughing-jackass.
Fitting names from overseas were given to some
Australian birds —for instance, parrot and parrakeet—
but our magpie was badly named. The pleasant-
sounding word rosella is a happy corruption of “rose-
hiller”—the name first given to one of the parrot
group common around Rose Hill (N.S.W.). The
word emu is of Portuguese origin, and was in use in
England long before" there was any settlement in
Australia.
To the word cockatoo we can make no claim at
all. It is a corruption of the Malay name of one of
this family of birds, and was evidently known in
England in the early seventeenth century, for it sup-
plied Beaumont and Fletcher with a mild joke for
their play “The Little French Lawyer.” According
to the Oxford English Dictionary, the earliest-known
use of the word in the literal sense is in a book by
Thomas Herbert, containing an account of his travels
in Africa and Asia.
Bandicoot is not Australian. It was formed from
a word belonging to an Indian vernacular. The
Oxford English Dictionary gives the first record of
it as occurring in a book by an English writer pub-
lished in 1789. The word apparently reached Aus-
tralia very early, for it was used in Collins’s Account
of Hew South Wales, printed in 1802.
Wattle in England means a twig or a flexible
rod. The original sense is something woven together,
and hence it came to mean a hurdle made from twigs.
Morris, in his Austral-English, says that early settlers
used the limbs of acacias for constructing the parti-
tions and outer walls of houses by forming a
“wattling” which was daubed with plaster or clay.
This seems, a rather unsatisfactory explanation of
how the name came to be applied to our acacias.
Credit of having coined the words larrikin and
barrack belongs to us: the first was formed from an
Irish policeman’s broad pronunciation of the word
larking ; the other is derived from the aboriginal
borak, meaning banter.
To shout, meaning to stand treat, is of Aus-
tralian origin, and is freely used in this sense in
U.S.A. —one of the few words Americans have
accepted in return for the many they have giyen us.
There are two schools of opinion regarding the
beginning of the word ringer ; one contends that the
ringer was the man who could run rings around his
fellows ; another that the man shearing the greatest
number of sheep for the day won the privilege of
ringing the knock-off bell. A quite modern use of
ringer is as an abbreviation of ringtail, meaning a
coward.
The word nugget seemingly came into being in
Australia in the ’fifties. It owes its origin to “nug,”
at one time used in an English dialect and meaning
a lump or block. The date of the first record of
nugget that Professor Morris could find was 1852,
and even then the word appeared within quotation
marks. It was used without any apology by John
Ruskin a few years later and by James Russell Lowell
in 1870.
A word that has been given a different meaning
in Australia from that obtaining in England is creek.
To Clough writing the lines
Far back through creeks and inlets making
Comes silent flooding in the main,
the creek was something in the nature of a small
harbor. What we in Australia call a creek the Eng-
lishman would call a stream or a brook ; the first
word is rare here ; the second is almost forgotten.
Why have we allowed to fall into disuse these two
words —euphonious and with all sorts of pleasant
associations?
GERALD BYRNE.
Reviewed Briefly.
FICTION . . .
Six Marriages: by Florence A. Kilpatrick
(Harrap; 7s. 6d.). Another exploitation of the theme
of how to be happy though married. The cases of
six couples each with a problem in the family cup-
board are inquired into. Capably enough done, but
commonplace.
Fish Out of Water, by Dorthy Lambert (Collins);
7s. 6d.). One of a vicar's numerous daughters, she
was practically pushed into matrimony and chose a
man chiefly because he resembled a film star.
The tale deals with their life in India, their incom-
patibility, an illicit love affair and a solution in
accordance with the proprieties. Good of its kind.
Lest doubt exist, the title-page carries the label, “A
Romance.”
Cairo Card, by C. S. George (Robert Hale ; 7s.
6d.). Love and roguery in the Orient. The happiness
of Dorothy and Jimmy is involved with the exploits
of Hassan, a likeable knave, the son of an English
police officer and an Arab woman, who begins his
career by blackmailing his headmaster into giving
him a scholarship and crowns it by swindling an
American millionaire in a most deserving way.
Hassan fades from the scene just before the final
curtain, leaving the lovers spooning in the spotlight.
Has its moments of humor.
I Keep My Heart, by Barbara Hedworth (Rober t
Hale ; 7s. 6d.). One disaster breeds another. Having
been let down by a lover, Christina decides to marry
for money, but it turns out, after marriage, that Greg
wasn’t rich at all —he was only a solicitor’s clerk
having a spree on the strength of a legacy. Follow
some ups and downs before they decide that they
love each other, and that all has been for the best.
An average stock-pattern story.
The Chronicles of Shark Gotch, by Albert
Richard Wetjen (The World’s Work; 7s. 6d.). Adven-
ture in the South Seas. “By dint of quick, straight
shooting and unshakable calmness, Shark Gotch won
for himself a name with which in after years Kanaka
mothers frightened their children.” Men who were
not on the square with Shark either died promptly
or were given reason to remember him as long as
they lived. He-man stuff; there is only one white
girl in the book, and she is hustled off to a convent
for education and safety.
The Trappings Are Gorgeous, by Hilda Danvers
Dearden (Robert Hale ; 7s. 6d.). While on location
in Monte Carlo Nick Karlinn, film star, gets tired
of publicity. He vanishes, but the joys of obscurity
are not for him. He meets the lovely Jansycka, ex-
Princess of Ebronia, and with her sets out to rescue
her beloved country from the dictator who is in pos-
session. Their splendid and successful adventures
inspire the studio directors to film a story to pattern.
Away with gangster films and sex stuff. “The woricl
needs uplift, and, if you come down to it, there’s
money in it.” Plenty of excitement, and at the end
Jansycka’s red-gold curls nestling on Neck’s manly
shoulders.
Passport to Happiness, by Evelyn Winch (Col-
lins ; 7s. 6d.). A thriller with a romantic interest, and
the lovers in a tight clinch on the last page. The
heroine, a poor girl, gets a chance to travel as a
rich woman’s secretary, and takes it. The Egyptian
setting gives the author a chance to work in some
pen-pictures of life along the Nile which are interest-
ing and look like the result of first-hand observation.
The Savage Days, by Philip Toynbee (Hamish
Hamilton; 7s. 6d.). A novel purporting to be an
autobiographical account of a university graduate s
dabblings in love and revolutionary Communism.
Very fair on the literary side, but in the matter o£
social outlook a trifle immature. The author is an
Oxford undergraduate, and, as the blurb points out,
is still looking forward to his twenty-first birthday.
He has talent—and time.
The Primrose Path : by Barbara Goolden (Chap-
man and Hall ; 7s. 6d.). Hermon Shand, who has
hitherto led a most ordered existence, experiments
with the delights of dalliance. Three ladies variously
contribute to his education in such matters before he
is rescued through being sent to Ceylon by his firm.
“In blissful separation from the three....he would
feed his vanity on carefully-selected scraps of recol-
lection.” A featherweight.
Royals Free: by Elinor Mordaunt (Michael
Joseph ; 7s. 6d.). A tall ship, a roving life, the. Isles
of Spice, casual love in many a port, grey seas and
wind in the rigging—then the war and stern duty in
command of a trawler in the North Sea. The story
from childhood to early manhood of the illegitimate
son of a sea captain who, against' the wishes of his
clerical make-believe papa, turned instinctively to his
true father’s calling. Doesn’t grade as literature, but
ranks high in the order of “rattling good yams.”
Give Her Orchids: by Hermina Black (Robert
Hale ; 7s. 6d.). He was the proprietor and she the
lovely head mannequin of a famous dress-shop. He.
asked her out to dinner and gave her orchids —but she
wasn’t that sort of girl. In the end he decides that
the sort of girl she. is is the sort he wants. The middle
part is filled up with an account of her disastrous
flutter on the films and the benign machinations of
his 80-year-old great-aunt. The presence of a second
lover who occasionally looks like a winner lends a
sporting interest to the. tale.
Brother: by Karlton Kelm (Harrap; 7s. 6d.).
American setting. Tells how three spinster sisters, one
a cripple, another slightly eccentric as the result of
a disastrous love affair, and the eldest, who has sacri-
ficed her own claims to life in the family interests,
conspire to prevent their only brother from marrying.
Good in conception, but unnatural in detail. Has a
lot of that forced brightness of style that makes dreary
reading.
TRAVEL . . .
New Zealand from Within, Donald Cowie
(Routledge), is the work of an Englishman who has
lived in Fernland for eight years. He touches on
every aspect of the Dominion’s life in a chatty and
generally non-committal way and evolves only one
prophecy, as to the result of the Labor regime:
New Zealand will enter a period of rising prices
and rising costs. So long as the reserves of the Reserve
Bank remain she will have a great time, because there
will be no lack of internal money to finance the inflation.
But once the reserves are depleted the Government’s
only way will be to create artificial money. Costs will
now rise to heights, until, overburdened by top-hamper,
the precious house of cards will slither down.
But, as Vogel and I. O. Useph Ward demonstrated,
it is possible to keep up quite a long financial jag on
loan money from London. And, anyway, no English-
man can ever expect to understand Maoriland.
Curry and Rice, by E. T. Brown (The Fortune
Press ; 55.). Inapt title to a book of Indian travel
sketches and impressions by the Australian who wrote
This Russian Business. Not so snappy as J. H. Curie,
but a mile ahead of some others of the type that have
been coming out lately.
Dawdling through Britain ; A. W. Pearse (Ship-
ping Newspapers, Ltd. ; 35.), is a cheerful little volume.
The author is editor of the “Pastoral Review” and
a well-known Sydney identity. The matter is some-
what disjointed and inconsequent, but if you want to
know what the Royal Albion Hotel at the North
Foreland charges for bed and breakfast you will find
it here.
MUSIC . . .
Purcell: J. A. Wes trap (Dent’s Master Musician
series; 4s. 6d.). Though Purcell was a contemporary
of Pepys and Evelyn, organist at Westminster Abbey
and a big gun among the musicians at the Courts of
Charles 11., James 11. and William 111., very little is
known of his private life. Mr. Westrap cleans up
one long-established error, proving that the composer
was the son of Thomas Purcell, one of the “gentle-
men of the Chapel Royal,” and not of Henry,
Thomas’s brother. For the rest, the biography is con-
cerned with its subject’s musical background, with the
occasions of his numerous compositions for theatre,
church and concert performance. What is new and
important is a critical analysis of Purcell’s principal
works, with many examples and comparisons, inter-
esting because it shows the Englishman as a very
accomplished practitioner of the contrapuntal Italian-
ate style which Bach and Handel (born 10 years later
than Purcell) carried to its uttermost artistic limits.
,
“A.C.M.”: Donald Gunn, once regarded as the
most typical Australian in the Queensland Parliament,
has just published Links with the Past (John Mills,
Brisbane), an interesting compilation of the history of
settlement in the valleys of the Condamine, Severn,
Moonie and Balonne, rivers in Forgan Smith’s domain.
It is packed with information of the kind for which
the research worker in Australian history, particularly
its pastoral development, is always on the lookout.
For instance, the popular idea is that the Leslies were
the pioneer squatters of Queensland, and that they
were the first men to make use of Allan Cunning-
ham’s great find and depasture herds on the Darling
Downs. Gunn is able to prove that Thomas Cramp-
ton was several years ahead of the Leslies. He was
occupying the pasture lands of the western Darling
Downs certainly in 1837 and probably in 1831.
The Leslies, who did not arrive till 1840, were the
first to secure proper titles, but that does not deprive
Crampton of the credit of “smelling out” the Darling
Downs and levying first toll on its pastures.


seet\
1
\VvaV
U
veats
J -r^eV
X
\
V
a
.a
SCU
HI!
®1
&-N
/
\
m
m
M
*
* Ur//
m
m
i
'V:
II
lit;??; i
. *
SSfl
ll:**: /<
: : .Vv**>ooow.-'v: ; : ; : ;
&
*
' J ’HE last time Johnnie Walker saw this cask of whisky
A it was the "new make” and was about to be stored
away to begin the long natural process of maturing.
Now, after a number of years, the whisky has "grown
up” and is being sent to Kilmarnock to be blended
with other matured "single” whiskies. So well have
the natural qualities of these whiskies developed in the
wood that the Blender is able to achieve that perfect
"roundness” which makes Johnnie Walker such an
agreeable drink. It is worth remembering this when
you are ordering whisky, and always safer to ask for
Johnnie Walker by name.
JOHNNIE WANKER
BORN 18 20 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER AND SONS. LIMITED, LONDON. KILMARNOCK. SYDNEY.
J.W.74.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
111w%4i Ilf
11 il Hi )w|lli fl p
M 111 I! 1 / 7 \I II i 11111
II
fH&t
m'ftm m m.-mmm t i
Tri.nnf i
i H HlMi
HIiJ-Ml v
r§ iv
im
H|p
* M.
fffg m f&
i UIL 7\ 1111
w
1 I
ii
11
IB I lIH* *
iJiKi
*Bl
i mm m
■ ■
m
mi
mmm
a i
Mi
m
1 §£r~'v<s
mg
mmmmm
i m
x * .....7- * ‘ '
■~>88Fy:: m
m
wmmgmm
m
M
pi§§iif^
m
tm&M
.* -*j
.4fe> •
mm
■H
'■
n
HH
. *
mm
■ ■
!
an
k
■
gSSI
HI
Ha
.
• ■ •
iilllllilll
■
•iwISl
nan
rsmm
V'*'
Hi
HI
< ■
Hn
m
%
3$P
1
,
m
-
■:••■■••:
a
§s
m
m
' ' . :' ' ' • , "
. ...it
HH
mm
;'r .
■■■■■■l
' :
■■
■
sw
HI m
mm
mm
HH
M
mHHw!
■ ,
eMSS
K
| i I
BHi
.. I ■
1 S
f «* *»
ilSlli
:
■
sms
it:
m
!.• S 3
l^Slf
XJ
Xi
, ™
k~**k
1
H
■■Bill
WBSlim';
mmm
t
mSBm
wm
——
& , %
i : J: y* .'
: .: . .. : : .. '
■■HflUMBiBl
1
■SsSff#
m
mbum
#
ISS
Ml
mxmi
»
■ I
■
| ;
; II
,
,': ;i . ; '^
US
• *
■
: : H 1
BMHHMMBaai HH
Further Interior View of One of the Numerous Storage Cellars .
,4 ffctt c Miw cfwt£ meUmmeU andimu[ud


“THE BOARD INSISTED.”
“Sorry about that American aeroplane contract; but, you know, we refer all these matters to boards. YOU wouldn’t
upset a board’s decision, would you?”


The Bulletin
.
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE George A/ree/, Sydney; Box
Victoria: Newspaper House? 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Buddings, 91
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lamb ton
London: / Hanstreet. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
YZwnihs^s™Exchange mlist 6 bJ n addedto Country
and inter-State cheques.)
6 A lss ß Td.?^3 R motVhsl 2 BT° nthS ' £l ’
CommonwLlT S New n zlaLd* P pJpua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
"POTENT ADJUNCT TO DEFENCE."
“The Governments of Australia should support the
League of Nations Union financially.” —Robert Garran, the
Australian high priest of the sect.
“The Governments of Australia,” infertile of imagi-
nation though they may be, will probably think of
other ways of wasting the money. Last year these
multiple Governments made a rake-off of £104,500,000
on a production value of £380,500,000, and taxation
per head stands at £l5 9s. lid. The people, for their
part, have given no indication that they want the
burden increased for the benefit of any fancy Union,
much less one to which they are more reluctant than
ever to contribute direct.
The reason advanced in support of the appeal
for Governments’ aid is that the L.N.U. is “a very
potent adjunct to defence.”
If the potency of this “adjunct to defence” lies
in a probability of every male member of the L.N.U.
lifting up a gun for his country at a pinch, surely as
much might be said for the Ratcatchers’ Union. Yet
members of this equally deserving organisation do not
appear in the role of potential warriors seeking an
advance payment on their prospective patriotism. -
It is hard to see how else the claim to potency as
an “adjunct to defence” might lie. Even if the ghost
of W. S. Gilbert is an active member of the L.N.U.,
it would hardly be contended that that potency is
invested in it through the “League of Nations.” For,
with all due respect for the dictum which bids
Christian souls speak friendly of the dead, it' must be
asked by what miracle has potency been made to
flow from the mummy of a paper idol whose name
has passed into the language as a synonym for futility.
Far from ever having had any potency as an
“adjunct to defence,” the League has been to the
British people merely an unaccomplished form of
attempted suicide. In the worship of this paper idol —
to the upkeep and protracted funeral expenses of
which Australia has paid, and goes on paying, £60,000
a year—the British people, orated at by our mendi-
cant Union and other loudspeakers, was deceived. It
believed of the League the very thing that is now
claimed for the Union —that it was a “potent adjunct
to defence.” So much faith was put in that false
value of the League that defences were allowed to
degenerate to such an extent that now more than
£1,000,000,000 has to be voted to bridge what Sir
Samuel Hoare has called “the measure of our past
neglect.”
The British watchword —and, of course, the Aus-
tralian, since we have had no foreign policy for
years—became “The League’s at Geneva, all’s right
with the Empire.” Fortunately, the opportunity
occurred for testing the League in a minor key. But
for that —Italy’s colonising adventure in defiance of
the League —the Great Peace Experiment might have
led directly on to the disintegration of the British
Empire. In the test the League turned out to be a
clumsy and impossible piece of political machinery.
After having ground and clanked for months, the most
it was competent to produce was an inefficient scheme
for ultimately starving the women and children of its
defiant member. Having thus demonstrated itself
the most futile “adjunct to defence” ever conceived, it
shuffled off the stage discredited in the eyes of every-
body save its L.N.U. devotees.
When the worship of the League was at its loudest
it was insistently proclaimed and widely accepted that
if the League failed the world would rush itself into
war. Nothing could have been farther from the truth.
On the contrary, while the League, as it was consti-
tuted, remained —with America, Germany and Japan
determinedly keeping out of it, and Italy its outlaw —•
it was a positive menace to world peace. Daily there
is added evidence that world peace is more secure
to-day and more likely to remain secure than ever it
was when the Great Peace Experiment was functioning.
There is no more potent means of ensuring that
happy state than a solidly defended British Empire,
and, with reliance on the League scotched in time, this
is at last under way. Since the passing of the League
—and almost certainly a consequence—an understand-
ing which might yet shape into an alliance for peace
has been established between Britain and America.
While the League stood in the way Britain, Germany,
France and Italy could never have combined as they
are now combining to ensure that a country’s civil
war is localised to that country and does not spread
out and end the world peace.
If the League of Nations can be sufficiently
revived to do the abdication act from its arrogant job
of judging and policing the world, there is plenty of
work in a minor role, for it to do. In drug control
and like matters which do not impinge upon national
policies it can be a useful international organisation,
like that which governs postal affairs. But it would
have to drop the ridiculous pretension that it is a
“potent adjunct to defence.” In that it always was a
dud.
Overdone Divinity.
Because a King of England preferred an offering of
Cupid to a position that had throughout his lifetime
been invested with a false semblance of divinity, his
brother a week hence will go into Royal Westminster
as central figure in that spectacular ritualistic perform-
ance the Coronation.
The performance is an impressive pageantry,
with one ordinary human being out of a nation’s
millions enacting in their behalf the part of an excep-
tional symbol. The symbol is necessary: it is the
intangible core of the whole governmental system
of what is now called the British Commonwealth of
Nations. And whether the authors of the Statute of
Westminster have done their work well or ill,
it is singularly right that this Commonwealth should
be knit by a Statute of Westminster. Setting for
the Coronation —the fixing of the symbol—West-
minster is the very repository of the tradition out of
which this Commonwealth has grown.
That tradition is the main element of next
Wednesday’s ceremony. It is certain that behind the
powerful opposition to Edward which grew and burst
overnight the feeling that he had insulted that tradi-
tion was the most powerful force. It might be doubted
that to him it was in any great degree sacred ; no
ordinary man is made a divinity for 45 years without
suffering in the process. But, whatever the prevailing
fashion of modernism, to the great bulk of those who
admiringly watched the divinity-building until the
whole false structure suddenly collapsed, tradition is
a religious undercurrent to existence. Not only
Englishmen ; it holds for the great bulk of those here
and elsewhere by whom the British Commonwealth
is developed and held together.
It is not a bad thing for all concerned to have
a thought just now for the fact that the divinity
business had been badly—in the case of Edward, dis-
astrously-overdone. It is worth keeping in mind that
at the Coronation George VI. will be, and maybe
he will feel, an ordinary human being. To the same
end it may do no harm to turn the tradition over a
bit and glance at some of the more curious stuff of
which it has been made.
Edward VIII. was not the first English king to
prove all too human. Nor does the cabled news that
at the Coronation duchesses will be allowed an extra
inch of space —19 inches in which to spread them-
selves, instead of the previous 18 inches—represent
the first time such a humanising note has intruded.
Throughout the history of the coronations an air of
majesty predominates, but the human element is
always there for balance. •
Not a semi-detached American ladv but an
actual Queen of England once knocked ifnavailingly
at the Abbey to gain admission to her king’s coro-
nation. Queen Caroline tried two doors and was
turned back at each—an event which, happening now,*
would make the flapper press swell up and burst.
Meanwhile, George IV., having sweltered inside, was
“found stript of all his robes,” cooling himself in the
chapel of St. Edward.
Far back beyond their day Westminster was the
reputed site of King Canute’s commanding the tide
not to rise—a divine aspiration with a purely human
ending. Then there was the grand old business of
the King’s Champion, who in full armor rode indoors
and challenged any who might doubt the King’s right
to the throne. It was only human of one Champion to
carefully train his charger to back out of the presence
after his part was done, and not unhorsy of the horse
to insist, on the Coronation Day, on backing into the
presence. Since then the noblest of animals has been
banned from inside Westminster, but the role of the
Champion in a much-watered version remains.
At the coronation of Richard I. Jews were
ordered to keep away, being suspected of malign influ-
ence. Ordinary human curiosity got the better of
some of them, and they paid as the victims of a
terrible massacre. It is well in the human side of the
tradition that, when a sum equalling what would to-day
be quarter of a million was needed for Westminster
rebuilding, Moses, a Jew of Hereford, and Locoricia,
widow of a Jew of Oxford, between them contributed
more than two-thirds of the money.
The flapper press has handily discovered a plot
by American gangsters to steal the Crown jewels.
All the coronation jewels and treasures were
once stolen in a body by the very human means of
digging a hole through the wall into the part of
Westminster where they were housed. Almost all
of them were recovered, with promiscuous hangings
to close the chapter.
Duchesses spreading out to their full 19 inches
of space in the Abbey next week may get a normally
human thrill from recalling that once a foul murder
was committed in the choir there ; and archbishops
may find the human touch through remembering a
time when prototypes of theirs quarrelled rudely over
the matter of precedence, his Grace of York going
so far as to “set his buttocks” right in the lap of
his Grace of Canterbury.
It is the strength of the tradition that it not only
prevails against all such matters as these, and many
more, but assimilates them and rolls on none the
worse. Probably posterity will find much more added to
the tradition after this coming Coronation than, on
the ribald human side, an extra inch of space for
duchesses, and, on the romantic side, a Crown Lost
for Love. But the tradition will, as now, retain a
grandeur above the ordinary, and posterity may have
the sense to hold it at its worth.
Just now more attention to the ordinary human
aspects are not out of place. We have lost one king
largely through apprentice divinity-making by well-
meaning sentimentalists and sickening timeservers.
The symbol into which that human being who
is the King is translated is too vitally necessary
to the knitting together of the British Commonwealth
of Nations to be jeopardised in that way again. King
George VI. and this Commonwealth will be more
comfortable while he is left to stand, where he with-
out doubt wants to stand, nearer to the common earth.
More Government Caravans.
The Sydney Government’s “policy” in all transport
matters, including, as the Auditor-General drily notes,
personal expenditure on “entertainment, travelling
expenses and the like,” is “Leave it to the Commis-
sioner.” At the instance of a Commissioner who was
engulfed last month, the suburb of Kogarah, already
the scene of riotous public expenditure, is presently to
have “a fleet of modern double-decked trolley-buses.”
They will be a vast improvement on the steam trams
which were put on the Kogarah roads in grand-
father’s time, and, with the deadly conservatism
inseparable from Government ownership, are still
there, although the shrieking anachronisms have for
many years been losing £5OO to £lOOO a month. All the
same, it is by no means certain that trolley-buses
will suit Kogarah, a far-flung place with a municipal
population of 30,000 or so, and it is doubtful whether
they will pay.
The Department of Road Transport has had
trolley-buses plying from the Town Hall to Potts
Point for two or three years. They are smooth-
running and comfortable enough, but the financial
results have not been published. The Westralian
engineer who is Commissioner of Railways, Tram-
ways, Ferries and Electricity Supply has been far more
candid about his trolley-bus service from East Perth
to West Leederville, via the city. In 1935 earnings
were £6831 and working expenses £5925; with
interest and depreciation allowance added, there was
a deficiency of £1385. In 1936 earnings were £7026
and working expenses, interest and depreciation
£8194; deficiency, £ll6B. The Commissioner pleads
that “the debit for depreciation (£1500) is propor-
tionately higher than would be the case with a larger
number of buses, for which one spare would meet
requirements” ; but even if this is allowed the figures
do not warrant any exultation on the part of financial
reformers over the announcement that “proposals are
in hand for the extension of the West Leederville
trolley-bus line and for the conversion of the Clare-
mont route from trams to trolley-buses.”
The trams to be scrapped are of course Govern-
ment-owned. A bygone Labor Government bought
the system. When accused of having given the com-
pany about twice as much as it was worth, the
Premier proudly produced a letter from the managing
director congratulating the Government on the
bargain it had got!
It would have been a good thing for Australia
if at one of the multitudinous Premiers’ Conferences
held during the boom years it had been decided,
in a precise and copper-bound resolution, to lock up
no more public money in any mode of transport
while transport developments remained uncertain.
Every Government railway and every Government
tramway built since the war has been a losing pro-
position. Awful N.S.W. examples have been the West-
mead-Rogan’s Hill railway, completed in 1923 at a
cost of £126,293, £16,893 a mile, and “dismantled”
in 1932 after £200,000 had gone west in annual losses,
and the Balmoral extension of the North Sydney
tramway, on which expenditure—lumped together—
has been known to exceed earnings by £55,000 in a
single year. Annual losses on Government railways
and tramways have been cruel burdens on the tax-
payers (on railways alone they amounted to
£55,000,000 in ten years), and problems of govern-
ment have been complicated by the existence of large
bodies of Government employees with vested interests
in uneconomic jobs ; traffic problems also by the con-
tinuance of obsolete caravans like the jolting trams
which cumber the Sydney streets.
Trolley-buses have certain advantages, among
them being that the fuel and much of the construction
work are Australian; but it would be ridiculous to
say that they represent the last word in street trans-
port. The petrol-bus is swifter and more mobile;
and even the petrol-bus may be superseded by some
vehicle burning cheaper fuel. Then the pushbike
revival cannot be ignored altogether. As in the
’nineties, a great many young people now provide
their own street transport, and if some mechanical
genius can fit a very small but serviceable internal-
combustion engine to a bicycle or a tricycle their
numbers will increase enormously.
It is decidedly no time to be gambling with the
public funds on new Government transport schemes,
in the process adding to the too-vast hordes of
Government employees. Where trams or trains have
to be scrapped or transport-starved neighborhoods
accommodated, it would be far better to invite tenders
for private bus services, schedules and charges speci-
fied. At the worst, the community would then get
some revenue out of a business which now produces
nothing but trouble in various forms and large
quantities.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
His Proper Place.
Mr Bruce’s term as High Commissioner in London
is about to expire. Since October, 1933, he has demon-
strated that a High Commissioner need not be a
cipher nor Australia House a tomb for politicians
who fail to realise that they are dead. His manage-
ment of the loan conversions has been a triumph which
only a man in whom the City had complete confidence
could have achieved. His handling, as chairman of the
council, of the quarrelling set of representatives who
call themselves the League of Nations has won for
him international celebrity.
There has been a constant flow of conjecture from
London as to Mr. Bruce’s future. It was suggested
that he would enter the House of Commons and go
straight into the Cabinet. He has even been named
in a London newspaper as a future Prime Minister.
Later messages report that, although “his position
among Dominion representatives is unique,”
because of contact with Ministers and the Imperial
Defence Committee, “it is now fairly certain that
he will accept a further term as High Commissioner
if Mr. Lyons offers it.” Mr. Lyons will offer it
without a doubt.
If Mr. Bruce has dismissed from his mind the
idea of a career in British politics, his proper place
is in Australia. He is the only man in sight who
looks capable of leading the U.A.P. and its allies
out of the mire of discredit into which their antics
and disregard of public opinion have flung them. But
the likelihood of Mr. Lyons and Mr. Parkhill asking
him to return to Australian politics is negligible.
Rabbits dislike having a lion around the warren.
Mr. Curtin Scores.
U.A.P. newspapers made fun of the Federal A.L.P.
executive meetings in Sydney, and affect to believe
that Mr. Curtin came out of the long-drawn-out
proceedings with his prestige damaged. Actually, he
did an exceedingly difficult job rather well.
The immediate business for which he was sum-
moned to Sydney was the hearing of appeals against
State Labor executive expulsions—of Mr. Garden,
M.H.R., for “disruptive tactics” and of four Labot
Assemblymen (Messrs. Lazzarini, Heffron, Davidson
and Horsington) and a number of Sydney Labor
Councillors and unjon secretaries for having attended
a conference, at which Communists were present, in
defiance of “the rules.” Other matters cropped up,
and the delegates from four States separated into
groups: Queensland and Victoria for the expelled
gentlemen; Tasmania and, of course, N. S. Wales
against them.
Mr. Curtin held the balance of power. He list-
ened patiently to all that the appellants and the
factionists had to say, and then strove to effect a
settlement that would give everybody concerned the
feeling that he had won but had nothing to crow
about.
The decisions began with a repudiation of Com-
munism, expressed in stronger terms than any anti-
Labor organisation has employed.
Then Mr. Garden’s appeal was upheld, but he
was “censured,” and it was left to the concern which
had expelled him to decide whether he should be
permitted to seek the nomination for Cook at another
ballot—one was held while he was under expulsion.
Messrs. Heffron, Horsington, Davidson and most
of their associates were pardoned, but were told that
“this executive strongly disapproves of sectional meet-
ings to deal with alterations to A.L.P. rules,” and
that they would have to disband an incipient organ-
isation they had formed. Mr. Lazzarini was also
pardoned conditionally on his apologising to all and
sundry for a speech on a no-confidence motion, a
speech described by a Victorian delegate as “con-
temptible.” Apologise he did, most abjectly.
So far from leaving the conference deprived of
power, Mr. Curtin had his powers increased. He
secured a majority for a motion “that no State execu-
tive shall instruct members of the Federal Parlia-
mentary party to vote in any particular way in regard
to Federal legislation.” That was done by Queens-
land delegates and their partners in the Q.C.E. when
the Labor members from their State were ordered
to vote for the Marketing Referendum Bill after the
whole party had decided to oppose it. These Queens-
land delegates had been doing some expelling (of Bris-
bane Labor aldermen) on their own account; and
before dispersing the Federal A.L.P. executive
appointed a committee of three “to hear appeals” in
these cases “with power to act.” A striking commen-
tary on the U.A.P. newspaper assurance that the
Queensland delegates would dominate the conference.
No doubt if the expulsions had been cancelled
in other years—say, when Mr. Lang, now in the
sixties, was 55—there would have been another party
split straightway. For the moment, at any rate, Mr.
Lang and his friends—also, for the most part, grown
elderly—have no stomach for a fight with a leader who
has very plainly profited by the experience of Mr.
Scullin, and who has divined that the electors are
weary alike of Labor wrangling and U.A.P. exploita-
tion of it and very conscious of the need, not only
for a strong Government but for a strong Opposition.
Scully for Gwydir.
Surveyed from a Romain Rolland height, above the
battle, the Gwydir (N.S.W.) by-election helps to
explain the striking vote of no-confidence in present-
day parties and politicians registered at the March
referendum. It was sprung upon the electorate at
an inconvenient season, a few months before the
general election, because the Government whose
proposals for constitutional “reform” were so crush-
ingly defeated had promised to make the Country-
parly member Administrator of the Northern Terri-
tory, a post for which he had no qualifications
superior to those of thousands of other Australians,
and for which he would in other days have been
held to have disqualified himself. For he wrote a
pamphlet putting the case for a group of N.T. people
who were after a million-pound Government loan.
In the circumstances Gwydir, which has been
Labor as often as not, would be a good thing for a
not-so-old Laborite of a pre-Lang vintage. The present
Labor candidate, Mr. Scully, is personally popular,
and is credited with having been against Mr. Lang
when the, party leadership was put to the vote ten
years ago. But as a State Assemblyman in the
tumultuous Parliament of 1930-32 he voted for all
Mr. Lang’s measures, and, according to Mr. Lang’s
newspaper, he declared at Coonabarabran last week
that they were all for the good of the people.
The conscientious elector sighs and turns to the
Country-party nominees. There are three, all worthy
fellows, no doubt. But they represent a party which
seems to have forgotten its old fine aspirations—new
States, for instance —in its desire to gather its
section under the plum-tree and shake the tree.
And it has recently exhibited a quite astonishing
impudence. It was mainly responsible for the
March referendum, and when the electors refused
to swallow its story that there would be a
collapse of prices and general chaos in the dried-
fruits and dairying industries —there has been neither
—unless they voted inter-State Freetrade out of the
Constitution, some of its leaders said that it was
because the majority were a lot of fools who couldn’t
understand the question.
Perhaps this insulting belief accounts for the low
quality of the “arguments” addressed to the people of
Gwydir, who rejected the marketing schemes by
nearly 2 to 1. These “arguments” have been reduced
to a sentence by Senator Hardy, who was to have
led the Riverina into local self-government—“the
Country party has given the producers thirty millions.”
Before he left for the Coronation Mr. Bruxner tried
his hand on a list of what his Government had “given”
the electors of Gwydir. He had to leave it incom-
plete, but the figures he published came to £1,308,504,
with the Maryvale-Sandy Hollow railway (estimated
loss, £90,000 a year) and “the great Namoi and
Gwydir water schemes” blessings to come. Mr. Stevens
took up the running as to “the great Namoi and
Gwydir water schemes,” promptly engaged two con-
sulting engineers and hurried with the glad news to the
very uncertain Gwydir subdivision of Narrabri, it
being thoughtfully mentioned at the same time that
“the initial work, which has been approved by the
Government, provides for the expenditure of
£2,000,000.”
Mr. Curtin has not descended to that sort of
electioneering. Even the Sydney “Herald” admits
that his speeches, “compounded of earnestness and
idealism, have been models of political decorum.” And
fresh from a conference at which he struck shrewd
blows at the Lang Inner Group, Mr. Scullin’s suc-
cessor swears that the Labor candidate, if elected,
“will stand entirely and exclusively on the Federal
Labor platform: no State Labor executive may influ-
ence or direct his attitude.”
Since a choice must be made, it looks as if
the interests of the country would be best served
by the election of Mr. Scully, with a majority small
enough to be capable of being overturned at the
general election if success is abused, but suffi-
cient to warn the coalition that opposition to what
Lang did six years ago will not be accepted for ever as
justifying U.A.P. inertia, U.C.P. impudence and vulgar
political bribery—at which both partners professed to
be horrified when the other side practised it.
Longer than the Railways.
Within the past year there has been an enormous
development of Australian air routes. In Queensland
they now are longer than the railways; all Queens-
land’s key towns have been linked up. Even the
Northern Territory is connected by three services
with routes over 3000 miles long. Another key route
will be opened with the advent of the Imperial Air-
ways flying-boats; soon Maoriland will be joined by
a service, and there will be direct and regular con-
nection between New Guinea and the mainland and
between the Commonwealth, via Rabaul, and Hong
Kong. And, subject to something or other, “the
Commonwealth Government has consented to the
establishment of a Dutch air service between Java
and Australia,” a subject on which much more will
be said when the full facts are revealed.
Yet the basic organisation remains primitive.
Apart from the defects revealed in smash after smash
and too-familiar to everyone but Government, there
is still no satisfactory plan for training pilots. The
aero clubs and private concerns do their best; but
it still costs about £6O for a young fellow to take his
ordinary pilot’s certificate, and after that he must
rub along as best he can to qualify for his commercial
license. Hence mail pilots are largely men trained
in the R.A.A.F. who have seen wider opportunities
in civil life.
The Civil Aviation Department has set its face
against civil flying schools. It sees no need for them,
and feels that if they were allowed to recruit promis-
ing material the R.A.A.F. might go short of suitable
cadets.
Yet the greatest asset which the R.A.A.F. could
have would be a few thousand young, fit Australians
licensed as commercial pilots.
In New Guinea all goods carried from the coast
to the goldfields are borne by ’plane. On the main-
land commercial flying is on the brink of the freight-
carrying age. Development wili receive a severe check
if many more pilots are not put into training. Ait-
colleges, which might be attached to existing technical
colleges, are needed in every State.
"Spare Me —— Days!"
Scene, State Agricultural Bank, Brisbane. Down-
stage, a costly cedar counter, bearing a hand press-
bell. Doors, R. and L. upstage. Enter common or
garden taxpayer. Presses bell.
Minutes elapse. Door L. opens, young man walks
smartly across to R.
C. or G. Taxpayer: “Would you mind”
Door R. closes. More minutes pass. C.O.G.T.
presses bell again. Still more minutes. Door R.
opens, another young man walks smartly across to L.
C.0.G.T.: “Would you mind”
Door L. closes. More minutes pass. C.O.G.T.
presses bell again. Further minutes. Door L. opens.
Clerkly person reappears, making for door R.
C.0.G.T.: “Would you mind”
Clerkly person pauses, walks smartly to counter,
removes bell and disappears with it into door R.
Taxpayer departs, quoting W. T. Goodge:
“ well, spare me days
The Government’s ways
Is screamin’ funny.”
Hysterical—But Not with Joy.
Daily papers last week had another sort of hysterics.
From whooping with joy they turned to howling with
rage. In Northern Spain the anti-Government forces,
confounding cables of the past few weeks, were
having the better of the fighting.
Evidently the fighting—as in all Spanish civil
wars —had been savage. In the advance towards
Bilbao, Guernica was destroyed—according to pro-
Government accounts, by “4000 bombs and 800 aerial
torpedoes.” Report from the advancing side was
that the destruction was wrought by occupants, “a
Marxist mob,” before the place was evacuated, and
journalists were invited to make an inspection.
Further report was that the bombing ’planes were
German. This Germany officially denied, but
Sydney “Sun” had no doubts about the rights of the
matter. A week earlier it had given out, on -the
authority of its “special representative,” that Franco
was “ready to flee to Italy,” so badly was his war
shaping. Now it saw in imagination “drowning ship-
loads of escaping Basque women and children,” and
declared the British nation “called upon to act the
policeman in a world full of gun-fighting crooks”:
Were the w0r1d....t0 leave the remainder of the
Basque people to be massacred by the German rascals
with the bloodthirsty scoundrel who is leading the
insurgents against Bilbao, one would begin to despair
of human nature.
The “S. M. Herald,” which on April 20, when
Italy and Germany offered to withdraw their nationals
from Spain if France and Russia would do likewise,
interpreted that offer as a sign that the “Fascist
Powers were losing heart,” now came out with an
article on “atrocities.” “Atrocities” are what the other
side does; the side you are backing “heroically
defends” or “courageously attacks.” A week earlier
Granny had had a cut at the British Navy. “Is it,”
asked the pugnacious old lady, “only above-water
attack that the Royal Navy will resent?”
The Royal Navy ignored her. After years
of dangerous pandering to bellicose pacifists, all
disarmament cranks, the British Government has
returned to the sane Old-English foreign policy of
non-intervention in the quarrels of other countries.
While press hysterics are being aired, British
ships and ships alleged to be British are taking
the risk of running the blockade to Bilbao. They
have done this against the specific warning of the
Foreign Office, which has real information, as distinct
from newspaper imaginings. The Foreign Office
was ridiculed for indicating the danger; but it has
been proved right. It was admitted a week ago that
bombs had “damaged” two British ships in Bilbao,
and that “a fire which broke out on one vessel caused
casualties.” That was all the Australian public was
permitted to learn.
No Melbourne Man Need Apply.
The Dunstan Ministry told Victoria in February of
its intention to pay “due regard to rural interests”
in filling vacancies on its welter of boards and com-
missions. Without a murmur Victoria saw Mr. C.
Phayer, a dairyman of Longwarry, take a part-time
seat on the Melbourne Harbor Trust at £250 a year ;
Mr. James L. Harty, a Warrnambool solicitor, fill
a £9OO-a-year berth on the Licenses Reduction
Board ; and Mr. A. Fairley, managing director of the
Shepparton Fruit Preserving Co., become a State
Electricity Commissioner for seven years at a part-
time remuneration of an annual £250.
Then a few days ago Mr. Dunstan’s substitute,
Mr. Old, announced the replacement of Transport
Board chairman P. D. Phillips, at three days’ notice,
by Mr. A. J. Fraser, g.m. of the Great Southern
Co-op Co. The appointment is worth £1250 p.a.
Country interests were already well represented on
this board, and Mr. Phillips was a candidate for
reappointment. But he is a Melbourne man, and
at a time when Melbourne is without a Minister and,
with 55 p.c. of the electoral population, elects only
28 of the 65 Assemblymen, that seems to be sufficient
disqualification.
Strangely enough, a Government so zealous of
country interests shows slight regard to the import-
ance of keeping an efficient and contented staff in its
Agricultural Department. Over the period in which
it has handed out plums, it has lost nine leading agri-
cultural officers because it didn’t pay them enough:
two dairy technologists, a cereal research officer, a
tobacco expert, a field research assistant, a science field
officer, a pasture research man, an entomologist whose
work on green-peach aphis is estimated to have saved
growers thousands of pounds, and the manager of
the State experimental farm and acting-manager of
the Rutherglen viticultural station.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: The Cockney is a humorous
character, even when he turns crook.
Witness the complaint of Lord Lever-
hulme —son of the amiable old soap-
boiler who visited Australia on several
occasions anfl always said the same thing
—that “a man sent £3 in response to
advertisements offering Coronation seats
for 30s. each and received two camp-
stools." It is an interesting and perfectly
legal variant on another old Coronation
take-down advertised as “Send Two Shil-
lings and You will Receive a Portrait of
Your King.” The portrait was imprinted
on a penny stamp. But the smartest
thing done in this line was worked
through the medium of an unsuspecting
rag (“largest circulation in the Empire”)
call “News of the World.” The adver-
tisement ran something like this:
Safe and Certain Garden-pest Destroyer.
Guaranteed Harmless to Children and
Pets. You can Leave it about Anywhere.
Price 55., post free; 2s. 6d. by postal note;
2s. 6d. C.O.D.
A multitude of mugs came at it and
received by return mail two tiny wooden
blocks with printed instructions on the
wrapping. The instructions were: (1)
“Catch garden pest. (2) Place on block
marked A. (3) Squash with block marked
B.” Nobody ever troubled to call for
the C.O.D.
* * * *
“Magpie”: Social ethics in Colling-
wood (Vic.). A gentleman who had
attended the funeral celebrations of a
friend at the latter’s house was charged
in the police court with stealing a
copper boiler therefrom. Accused pleaded
guilty, but said it was always understood
in Collingwood that property could be
taken in such circumstances. He had
appropriated a dog and its kennel, as
well as the boiler, with the best of inten-
tions, and altogether some 200 others
were there “taking things,” including the
contents of the penny-in-the-slot gas
meter. He got only “the rising,” too.
* =l= * *
“Attache”: What’s all this fuss about
Spain’s new Consul and the papers he
wants to take over? When the “archives”
of a Scandinavian country’s Consular
offices were handed over to me a few
years ago —it was a purely honorary job
—I found they consisted of a single moth-
eaten flag and a packet of miscellaneous
books and documents, mostly in a lan-
guage which I couldn’t pretend to under-
stand. The country’s local financial
transactions were recorded in a penny
notebook. I made neat parcels of the
“archives,” solemnly affixed the Con-
sular seal and proudly handed them over
to my successor some two years later.
* =l= * *
“Tuart”: In a County Court case in
Melbourne, a shipping clerk said that a
man travelling first-class from Melbourne
to London would need to spend about
£2O sterling in shipboard tips.
Table waiter £5, head waiter 30s. to 405.,
wine steward 20s. to 255., bedroom steward
£5, bathroom steward 205., lounge stewards
(four) 20s. to 255. each, deck stewards 40s.
Make it £25 Australian. Time of voyage
five weeks —four weeks if you go overland
from Marseilles. First-class passage-
money is £79 to £lO4. My opinion is that
any man who distributes £25 in tips on
a four or five weeks’ voyage, irrespective
of whether the service is good, bad or in-
different, willing or unwilling, cheerful
or surly, is a hog or a mug, and in either
case a menace to passengers who can’t
afford to chuck their money about.
* $ *
“D.A.”: No existing European king-
dom can boast a coronation ceremony
rivalling England’s. Indeed, several, in-
cluding Italy, Belgium and Denmark, do
“Pssst, can't you see it's the captain? Stand to attention , man!”
not observe such a rite at all. Among
the monarchies that have disappeared
since the Great War, Austria-Hungary
and Russia had lavish and colorful
coronations, but the German celebration
was a homely affair, as was the Spanish.
Portugal had none. Charles X. was the
last French sovereign to have a corona-
tion. Louis Philippe abandoned the
custom, and Napoleon 111. did not
revive it.
* * * *
“Makalu”: In the matter of artists’
blunders, few articles are drawn so in-
accurately as a mountaineer’s ice-axe.
Cartoonists seem to have a stubborn idea
that this implement is a small pick,
mounted on an extremely slender handle,
which the operator uses to fit into small
cracks and haul himself up. Actually,
one blade is a pick ; the other is a small
adze. Both are used for step-cutting, the
pick on ice and the adze in soft snow.
The handle is oval in shape, is spiked,
and is a valuable aid to balance on
steep slopes.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Dr. Goebbels,
chief ballyhoo expert for Hitlerland,
made a good choice in selecting the pic-
turesque Count Felix Luckner to com-
mand the sea-raid on international public
opinion. Many Australians and Maori-
landers will welcome him as a former
mate in camps or ships, and for a natural
chivalry shown by the fact that not one
life was lost from the 17 Allied merchant
vessels which he sank with the See Adler.
Curiously, no prominence has been given
in any of the eulogistic accounts of his
sea-exploits to his surrender of a well-
manned and -armed launch to a police
officer with a few Fijian constables. The
dashing sea-devil mistook a tarpaulin-
wrapped boom for a naval gun. In
reality it had provided shelter for a
cow, and was hastily lashed up when the
little coast steamer was sent off to in-
vestigate.
_** * *
“Mirabeau”: Havelock Ellis, school-
master in N.S.W. in the ’seventies and
later to become world-famous as a writer
on all sorts of subjects, from the psy-
chology of sex to folk songs, wasn’t
nearly as much impressed with Bilbao
as “El V” (B. 28/4/’37). In his The
Soul of Spain, published nearly 30 years
ago, he found little to admire there, de-
scribing it as “an overgrown mountain
village with neither splendid signs of
antiquity nor attractive signs of mod-
ernity.” The Basques, he concludes,
were curiously lacking in civic pride or
they would have made an attractive city
out of their highland home. Nevertheless
he gives the mountaineers a pat on the
back as “an honest, serious and indus-
trious people.”
* * * *
“Sissitter”: The pedants with whom I
quaff my morning tankard are seriously
divided on the subject of Gwydir, not
about politics but over the pronunciation
of the word. One school advocates
rhyming it with “wider”; a second
favors the “merry widder” touch. 1
think the latter is right, but, as a Welsh-
man, l insist on the prolongation and
stressing of the final “ir.” After all, it’s
none too easy to pronounce a word whose
letters seem to have been selected from
the alphabet at random.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Cabled that some wild
elephants in Rhodesia came on some
pots of Kaffir beer, mopped it up and
got riotously blotto as a result. Their
luck was better than mine. I have drunk
a good many pots of ’Twala but never
acquired the slightest exhilaration from
the cockroach-flavored fluid. I have
heard of a special brew made only for
chiefs and the like at great indabas, but
it never came my way. My respect for
the African elephant has diminished. He
has the reputation of being a gentleman,
but evidently can’t take his liquor like
one.
* * * *
“Shep”: According to a Sydney police
officer, the. country districts were never
so well represented, even in the year the
Railways handed out free passes, as in
this year’s Anzac Day march and later
celebrations. His conclusion was arrived
at after he had interrupted the revels
of a big crowd of Diggers in a resort
where they shouldn’t have been. There
was no protest when the men were asked
to give their names and addresses as
they passed out. Glancing over the list
the cop noted that about the only town
in N.S.W. that no one came from was
Sydney. “I suppose,” he drily com-
mented, “the Sydney Digs, are all at
Sunday school or out surfing.”
“Bob Punter”: Bulletin comment on
the snailish times at a Sydney mid-week
race meeting recalls the pleasant course
at Alexandria, Egypt, popular among
Diggers in 1915 and maybe later. On
my visit there the course officials—out-
size Gyppos —were clad in clean editions
of their traditional raiment, and were
thus easy to watch from the grassy bank
outside the paddock’s low enclosure. At
the right moment we leapt the pickets,
30 “disasters” or so to the good. The ned-
dies were each separately led to the start-
ing post and held there by Arab atten-
dants till the starter sent them gallop-
ing—or, at any rate, moving at the
famed Arab steed’s top pace. The track
enclosure was planted with luxurious fig-
trees, so big that all the track could not
be seen even from the top tier of the
stand, and times were so slow that
Diggers declared the jockeys stopped and
had a feed of figs on the way round.
Still, some of them were fast enough to
beat the ones we backed, and after the
third or fourth we went through into the
Leger, to do in the rest of the roll there
on the crown-and-anchor boards, behind
which a whole colony of Diggers bel-
lowed out a bedlam that made the Rand-
wick ring sound like a meeting of curates.
“P.Q.”: Lady Florence Dixie, credited
with being the inventor or pioneer of
short skirts in late-Victorian England (B.
28/4/’37), has been dead over 30 years.
She was a daughter
of the seventh Mar-
quess of Queens-
berry, and in those
days the family
could generally be
relied on for front-
page news. It was
her dad who once
rose up in a theatre
box to denounce
some passages that
offended him in a
perfectly innocuous
play of Tennyson’s,
and whose action
was later the in-
direct means of put-
ting Oscar Wilde in-
side Reading gaol.
Australia had some
acquaintance with at
least one of the clan.
Lady Florence’s
brother, Lord Percy
Douglas, who was
presently to become
the ninth Marquess.
He knocked about
the W.A. goldfields
in the early ’nineties,
without much luck
as a mine-floater. It
was Lord Percy
who, some years
later, applied to a
London magistrate
for permission to
carry a revolver to
shoot furiously
speeding motorists—
I fancy this was about the first time the
term “road hogs” was used. He didn’t
get it.
*.* * *
“Macann”: This, from last week's
cables, seemed to stir an echo:
Fifteen bombers, described as German
machines, to-night dropped bombs round
the British foodships moored in Bilbao
harbor but none was hit.
Then I recalled the formula—that almost
invariable addendum to the London
“Chronicle’s” 1916-17 reports of the great
number of German ’planes brought
down, “None of our ’planes is missing.”
There might have been as many as five
or six of our ’planes shot down even
in the small area within my crowd’s
view, but that made no difference to
the “Cronk.” With us in time “None
of our ’planes is missing” became an
ironic commentary on any toppling
Allied ’plane.
$ * * *
“No Pedant”: Junta or junto (B.
28/4/’37)? According to Fowler’s Dic-
tionary of Modern English Usage, junta
“is the Spanish form, which is used in
English also. Junto is a corruption more
used in English than -ta.” In Spanish
junta designates “a legislative or other
distinguished assembly entrusted with the
passing of laws or the deciding of policy;
a grand council of state”—it appeared
twice in the cables dealing with General
Franco’s activities the other day—but in
English junta (or junto) has acquired
such sinister meanings as “a body of men
united for some secret intrigue; a self-
appointed or self-elected political com-
mittee ; a clique, cabal or faction.”
HUMBLE PIE.
‘Trr. Lazzarini, M.L.A., having- withdrawn and
apologised for statements made in Parliament to the
effect that Mr. Lang was a wrecker, that his word
was not worth a click of the fingers, and that the
greatest service lie could render tlie Labor movement
would be to efface himself therefrom, was readmitted
in the party hv the Federal A.L.P. executive.”
’1 is true I bellowed, till the veriest dullard
Could get the venom of it and the tang,
In English frank aiid flowing, plain and colored,
Precisely what I thought of Mr. Lang.
Still, had I sensed my words were suicidal,
1 doubt if I’d have been so indiscreet.
A fellow’s tongue is ofttimes hard to bridle
When he is on his feet.
I scorn to stray in dialectic mazes;
I’m prone to speak my mind with vicious
vim;
In straight-flung epithets and pungent phrases
I registered the view I’ve formed of him.
Withal he always had my vote. My withers
Remain unwrung through all this bray and
buzz.
\'ou shouldn’t judge a bloke by what he
blithers,
Only by what he does.
Words, what are words? Just unsubstantial
vapors
That melt like snow or fade away like dew.
Though mine were quoted in a hundred papers
And scheduled for all time in “Hansard,”
too,
Yet, when all’s said and done, they’re soon for-
gotten,
Mere unregarded sticks and casual stones
That make no party ties look frail or rotten
And break no blanky bones.
However wild and willing, rough and raucous,
They slip from souls on temporary edge,
They shouldn’t get a hothead barred from
Caucus
Or signify a weak’ning from the pledge.
'Twere hard if gibes that any tongue might
utter
In some extreme of petulance should rob
A sturdy comrade of his bread and butter
Or part him from his job.
I know I stigmatised him as a rotter,
Put him in biting terms upon the grill.
Withdraw? Apologise? Well, if I’ve gotter,
To save my skin, you bet your boots I will.
From a full heart they came, my hot expres-
sions,
But at the best of you judicial birds
I’ll make a dinner of my indiscretions—
Brothers, I eat my words!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hanko”: I didn’t notice rum being
bartered to any extent on the other side
(B. 21/4/’37), but a furphy once went
the rounds in our outfit that non-drinkers
could take chocolate in lieu of S.R.D.
issue, and the rumor was so persistent
that eventually a lifelong teetotaller
bearded our fiery quarter-bloke about it.
We heard the q.m.’s bellow away down
the lines: “Chocolate! CHOCOLATE!
And would you like a piece of
angel-cake for an emergency ration?”
* * *
“Groper”: Is there any other State
possessed of such a legal monstrosity as
this? In Westralia stolen goods
sold by the thief to a licensed second-
hand dealer cannot be recovered by
the rightful owner until he has compen-
sated the said dealer to the full amount
paid to the thief. Refusal or inability to
pay means that the owner remains
legally deprived of his lawful property.
* * * *
“Exon”: Blockade-running or engaged
in any other activity the Joneses (B.
28/4/’37) were always a gregarious as
well as a übiquitous clan. I recall one
essentially Welsh College at Oxford, Jesus
—I don’t think there was anything ap-
proximating to it at Cambridge for fer-
vent nationality. Even the dons, when
they weren’t Joneses, were generally
Morgans, Evanses, Williamses, Davieses
or Prices; among the undergrads, the
foremost Cambrian patronymic always
predominated. It used to be a stock tra-
dition in the neighboring colleges that if
you went into the Jesus quadrangle and
yelled “Jones” a score of windows would
fly up and a score of heads poke out
inquiringly. Most jokes of this kind were
worn threadbare at Oxford ; I sometimes
find myself wondering if this one has out-
lived its ancient vogue.
“Poor lot of horses you have here — there's not one of them can stick a long gallop out!”
“Centurion”: The Germans, most prac-
tical of soldiers, have been quick to draw
conclusions from the fighting in Spain.
At the latest grand review by Hitler, a
feature was the return of horses to the
job of gun traction, even the ponderous
six-inchers being so hauled instead of by
tractors. It was explained that in Spain
the wet season practically wiped out the
tractor, mechanised units being com-
pletely immobilised by the mud. The
Italians learned the same lesson in Abys-
sinia, and Britain should have learned it
in France. It will be many a long dav
before, the horse ceases to play an im-
portant part in war. Australia especially,
where reliance will have to be placed on
mounted troops, should take heed accord-
ingly.
* *
“Bromley”: George Lansbury, the
veteran English Labor leader and peace-
crusader who furnished Norman Lind-
“Here, you can take the wheel now, Smith.”
say with material for a full-page drawing
in last week’s Bulletin, put in 18 months
in these parts when he was a young man
in the early ’eighties. What brought him
here, unless it was a love of adventure,
has never been quite explained, but his
experiences are supposed to have been
limited to pick-and-shovel labor in Syd-
ney and Brisbane, proficiency for which
had probably been inherited from his
father, who was a railway sub-contractor
—George is said to have had a hand in
the early making of the Brisbane Cricket
Ground. It wasn’t until 1910 that he
arrived in Parliament as Labor M.P. for
a London constituency. The concluding
two lines in Who’s Who about Lans-
bury could hardly be beaten for concise-
ness. They run: “Member of Church
of England ; teetotaller ; non-smoker ;
twice in prison.”
“Brix”: My experience of the flitting
landlady (B. 28/4/’37) was at a Welling-
ton (M.L.) boarding-house run by a
sporty old dame who accommodated a
dozen or so civil servants. She was
usually hovering round at breakfast-time,
but one Monday morning was not on
deck. We were just draining our coffee-
cups when she breezed in with a suitcase.
“Well, good-bye, folks,” said she briskly.
“You won't see me here again. A new
landlord is coming in to-day.” As wc
knew the house, and contents were a
legacy from her late husband, we sur-
mised she had sold out. “Sold out! ” she
snorted. “I’d never have sold this place.
I lost it last night at poker!”
# * * H=
“Gee”: It might interest “C. Mac”
(B. 21/4/’37) to know that, although
portable broadcasting outfits have not
yet invaded Melbourne restaurants, that
city’s Tramways Board recently installed
them in some all-night conveyances. The
driver announces each stop from his post
at the controls, and his voice is broad-
cast through the car for the benefit of
passengers—and the particular benefit of
dozing drunks. The pubs haven’t fol-
lowed suit yet; but a fruit-vendor who
patrols some of the northern suburbs has
an amplifier of monstrous strength fitted
to the roof of his chariot. You can hear
his cries two or three streets away.
*.* * *
“Captain Pintle” : “Mako” (B. 7/4/’37)
makes the landsman's error of confusing
surf rollers with waves Quite a smal
wave will make a high roller once it
trips on a shal owing bottom, and piles
up and up until it topples—as anyone
can see for himself at any bathing beach.
If it comes to surf rollers, the Rockall in
a North Atlantic gale makes the Manukau
Bar, at its worst, look like a duckpond.
The biggest surf rollers in history oc-
curred in 1883 after the Krakatoa erup-
tion. They washed a good-sized Dutch
East Indies Government steamer more
than two miles inland. Reverting to
Manukau, Captain Slocum crossed it
several times in his little single-handed
cralt, in conditions which the locals re-
garded as impossible, in order to demon-
strate his sea-anchor and oilbag system.
Which should, by the way, be better
understood by Australia’s lifesaver surf-
boat men.
“Ex-Hobo”: “Ar Gee’s” statement
that professional train-jumpers frequently
surrender to the police for the. sake of
regular meals in the lockup (B. 7/4/’37)
cuts no ice with me. 1 can assure him
that whenever I have been with the
fraternity on a train that was searched
by the police, there has been a wild
scatter of non-paying passengers. As for
the quality of the tucker supplied at
police stations, I’ve been “in” eight times,
on stretches varying from 12 hours to
14 days, and the menu mostly consisted
of bread and jam and bread and saus-
ages, with an occasional potato thrown
in. I can recall only one bright excep-
tion —Home Hill in N.Q. The reason
why the train-jumper is often run in
is not that he wants to be —simply that
he is too heavily handicapped, running
with a swag on his back, to have much
chance of escape.
“Shamuseen”: A recent week’s catch of
train-jumpers at Glenapp (S.Q.) included
a Chinaman. He is the sole instance
I can recall of a Celestial in this environ-
ment.
* * * *
“Sextant”: “Topping Lift’s” reference
to Henry the Navigator in the same
breath as Columbus and the early
Phoenician and Scandinavian explorers
(B. 21/4/’37) reminds me that that
princely person never navigated any-
thing. Like the First Lord in “Pinafore,”
he stuck to his desk and never went to
sea, though he was assiduous in dispatch-
ing other people on dangerous voyages
and then hogging the credit for their
discoveries.
“Siz”: Those people so fearful at the
mere sight of a bulldog (B. 28/4/’37)
were simply f.a.q. victims of press propa-
ganda. Though mostly the bulldog is
one of the friendliest and gentlest of
dogs, no picture of one has ever yet
appeared in a newspaper without a cap-
tion written to suggest singular ferocity.
Like the stuff in the cables loaded against
certain nations, this persistent scare-rub-
bish has the effect of conditioning people’s
minds: in both instances the propaganda
works upon the common instinct of fear.
At the same time “Towser,” who brought
this matter up, will back a loser if he
infers from his observation of one dog
that the breed can’t fight. It isn’t irony
that has the bulldog as symbol of British
doggedness, tenacity and ability in a
scrap, and that he was specifically bred
for bull-baiting—which licks most risky
canine occupations hollow—should ab-
solve him from any implication that he’s
a cur. He does not usually look for
fight; having some brains in his dome,
he prefers peace, and will stand an un-
limited amount of bickering from dogs
smaller than himself. In the four years
I’ve known one he has disdained all
offers of stoush, except that of a cattle-
dog which carried offer into attack. The
cattle-dog was dead in something less
than five minutes —the only instance 1
have ever seen of one dog killing another
outright in a fight.
WHICH?
“According to a well-known. English cricket writer,
Alien’s men lost the Test rubber because they found
Australian wickets too hard for them.
They started bravely with ball and bat,
Two up in the opening clashes;
But luck was against them after that
And they lost their grip of the Ashes.
Those champions failed who oft had starred
As dashing century-makers.
Yet it might be queried in this regard.
Was it the wickets they found too hard !
Or was it the wicket-takers?
From start to finish they played the game;
No bodyline (absit omen !)
Within the range of their tactics came.
We never had worthier foemen.
But, when bent and broken and in the ditch
They found their record-breakers,
Which were the causes? Tell me which!
Was it the wickets that queered their pitch
Or was it the wicket-takers?
Here’s luck to the lads who did their best!
There was never a happier season.
But, when they crashed in the final Test,
What would you say was the reason?
When Melbourne’s cheering crowds cut loose
And swarmed o’er the playing acres,
From the Merri soil could one deduce
For the losers’ showing a fair excuse?
Now, was it the wicket that cooked their goose
Or was it the wicket-takers?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Civ
20/flrl6
9 a
10/
or
J.854
They *re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
ilirV :
' ' :
GENERATION
POLITICAL POINTS
Before he left Sydney last week Pre-
mier vStevens gave two consulting engi-
neers retainers “for an intensive investi-
gation of the comprehensive water
schemes” (initial cost, £2,000,000) he has
so happily thought of for the Gwydir
and adjacent electorates. Then he hur-
ried up to Gwydir to tell the voters how
high-minded the coalition is and what a
degraded lot its opponents are.
The “United Australia Review” on the
Gwydir, etc., waterworks:
The provisional title of this project is
Narcoonget, a word coined from Narrabri,
Walgett and Coonamble.
It meant Coonabarabran, no doubt.
Seeing that Narrabri, Walgett and Coona-
barabran will be important polling places
on Saturday, wouldn’t Votecanget be
more appropriate?
Scully at Coonabarabran (“Labor
Daily” report):
They’re trying to decry me for having
supported the Lang Government. I
challenge anybody to point to an Act
passed by that Government inimical to the
interest of all the people. I was proud to
cast my vote for those Acts.
His party vows that Scully will win, and
he may; but every word of that utter-
ance will cost him scores of votes.
Gold shipments included, value of ex-
ports to the U.S.A. for nine months of
the financial year exceeded value of im-
ports from the U.S.A. by £2,409,000 ster-
ling. At the beginning of the nine
months the Government in which Gul-
lett was a shining light started a trade
war with the U.S.A. on the ground that
it was “a bad-customer country.”
Amazing as it seems, the international
sugar conference has arrived at an agree-
ment for control of exports. A con-
trolling body is to be set up, and it is
to have power—how the power is to be
exercised is not stated —to enforce a
general 5 p.c. reduction of quotas in the
one free market, the British. John Bull
made the agreement possible by under-
taking to increase his purchases and con-
tinue the existing preferences for five
years.
A most disturbing message from
London: —
Mr. Lyons arrived accompanied by one
secretary and one suitcase. Probably no
Dominion Prime Minister has ever arrived
with less impedimenta.
Heavens, what happened to the other
two secretaries and the typist and all the
rest of the—er —“impedimenta”?
At Sydney last week the State Indus-
trial Commission fixed the basic weekly
wage for men at £3 1 Is. 6d., a rise of
Is. 6d., and for women at £1 18s. 6d.,
a rise of 6d. At Melbourne the follow-
ing day, in a County Court case in
which a hotel manager sued for the
cost of a first-class passage and travel-
ling expenses from Melbourne to Lon-
don, £Bl was allowed by the Judge for
“gratuities to ship’s stewards, entertain-
ment and casual refreshments” in respect
of the plaintiff and his wife. Commu-
nists depressed hy the Spanish war news
must have felt like giving the Russian
equivalent of three hearty British cheers.
Tasmanian Laborites are. not all of the
opinion that five-year Parliaments,
shrewdly secured by the Ogilvie Govern-
ment before it went to the country, will
be an unmixed blessing. At the State
Labor conference objectors lodged a
resolution “requesting the Government
to repeal the measure and legislate to
prevent any action of this kind being
made law unless carried by referendum.”
It was rejected, but it must have made
some of the majority delegates uneasy,
for the preventive legislation sought is
actually law in Labor-ruled Queensland.
The standard rate of income tax, again
raised to ss. in the £ in Britain, has been
at that figure or thereabouts since 1916.
It was raised to 6s. for four years
(1918-22), and for five years (1925-30) it
was down to 45.; 1931 sent it up again.
When Lloyd George went Limehousing
income tax was Is. in the £ ; when it
went up to Is. 2d. in 1909 the old
nobility and the new plutocracy thought
the bottom had fallen out of Britain. It
remained at Is. 2d. till 1914.
On small and even lower-middle-class
incomes John Bull’s five-bob-in-the-
pound tax is not as harsh as it looks.
The last Daily Mail Year-Book prints
tables showing that when the standard
rate was 4s. 9d. a married man with three
children paid only £3 3s. 4d. on £5OO of
earned income, and the same if his in-
come was £4OO from investments. The
head of a Sydney family of five on £lO a
week of earned income pays £l9 Is. 4d. in
Spooner’s “special” tax alone, and there
OLD BILL GWYDIR: “Greeks, by thunder, and they’re bringing gifts!"
are “ordinary” State tax and Common-
wealth tax as well.
Under-represented in the State Parlia-
ment for many years, and without a
representative in the Ministry since
April, 1935, Melbourne is beginning to
feel that it is regarded as a disqualifica-
tion for any office to be a Melbourne
man. P. D. Phillips’s good work as
chairman of the Transport Board went
for nothing when his time had expired;
the position has been given to a butter-
factory man from Foster.
Brisbane Lord Mayor Jones’s leading
article of faith is that “posterity should
pay.” He had not been 24 hours re-
elected before deciding to call an emer-
gency meeting of the old council to ap-
prove a fresh loan—two were announced
during the election campaign. Aider-
men may come and aldermen may go,
but borrowing must not be interrupted.
Since Brisbane municipality includes
a score of Assembly electorates it
comprises nearly one-third of the
State Parliament, so the victory at
the council elections may have re-
lieved Forgan Smith of a headache.
Last year the rate assessments numbered
3 04,000-odd, and assessments are more
numerous than ratepayers, some of whom
own more than one property. The rolls
at the elections contained more than
206,000 names.
There is no better-informed depart-
ment anywhere than the British Foreign
Office. Red and Pink rags had the effront-
ery to assert that it was all wrong when it
advised British tramp steamers to keep
out of the port of Bilbao. In a merry
chorus they declared there was not the
slightest danger, and quoted the head
of “the Basque Government” to prove it.
A day or two afterwards bombers “dam-
aged two British food ships during an air
raid on Bilbao” ; in one case “the result-
ing fire caused casualties.” This sequel
to a crazy journalistic stunt was dismissed
in a five-line par.
It is strange how Adelaide Labor has
turned against G. E. (“Gunner”) Yates.
Going after another party nomination for
his old Federal seat, Yates finished a
rather poor fourth in a field of four. Yet
he won Adelaide at seven elections, and
was only twice beaten —in 1919, by a
majority of 349, and in 1931. Yates is
now expected to see what the State Par-
liament has to offer him, if anything.
The royal - commission business
plumbed the depths of fatuousness in
Sydney when a copper who has figured
in two (2) of these inquiries was
examined, cross-examined and re-
examined as to whether he had asked a
girl to go out with him. He denied it,
and the young woman denied it, though
she said another copper (also called) had
asked her to go to the pictures. And the
cost has been reckoned at £2 a minute!
Premier Stevens may be called as a
witness at the second of the police-and-
s.p. inquiries held under royal commis-
sion. The first lasted between eight and
nine months, and the second is in its
third month. For the cost of both, when
finished, the Government could have
retired all the policemen concerned on
£i a week for life, and that without be-
coming defendant to a score of actions
for wrongful dismissal.
The West'ralian Government should
have been interested in the case in which
the P. and O. sued the managing director
of Amalgamated Collieries at Collie for
a statement of accounts, alleging secret
commissions on a considerable scale, and
succeeded on the main issues. The Gov-
ernment gets most of the coal it uses
from Amalgamated Collieries, and it is
easily the principal buyer; of 319,622
tons burnt on the railways last year,
11,920 tons came from Newcastle
(N.S.W.), average price ex store being
335. 9d., and 307,702 tons—inferior, of
course —from Collie, at 12s. 10.4 d. at the
pit’s mouth. Average price of the Collie
article went to 18s. sd. in 1927 and 1928,
when the Australian pound was equal to
the pound sterling. Some people must
have done wonderfully well in those
years.
At Kilkivan (Q.), 150 miles from Bris-
bane, there is a small mercury show,
claimed by the State’s Minister for Mines
to be the only one of its kind in the
Empire. If Mr. Foley is not talking
through his hat, the Forgan Smiths have in
it a source of revenue which, at present
prices and world-demand, should enable
them to wipe out the unemployed-relief
tax and to lend money to the Common-
wealth instead of howling for it. But
cynics recall that the State was to ride
to prosperity on the crest of a wave of
Roma oil until some unknown miscreant
dropped a drawbar down the bore and
lost it all.
Sydney’s “Labor Daily,” which con-
trives to discover more about what is
going on in the U.A.P. than the. U.A.P.
press, reports that Goldfinch, the M.L.A.
for Gordon, finds the job uncongenial
and may retire. Goldfinch feels like a
bird in a gilded cage.
Queensland’s Minister “for” Transport,
returning from a pleasant trip south,
gleefully announces prospective winter-
tourist bookings at a minimum of
£lOO,OOO. Every north-bound vessel-
vessel, not train —is booked up until
August. Meanwhile, his department
continues to drive commercial tourist
motor traffic off the splendid scenic roads
which his colleague Mr. Bruce builds,
thereby anchoring the visitors to railway
towns.
Queensland’s Government is about to
make a “winter relief distribution,” esti-
mated to cost £40,000 to £50,000. Male
relief-workers or receivers of sustenance
are to get 17s. 6d. each, wives 12s. 6d.
and children ss. There must be more
unemployed than union percentages in
trade-union reports suggest —certainly
more than there ought to be after all the
millions raised by loans and collected by
special taxation and spent on “works.”
The widow of a Maoriland missionary
who was murdered by Abyssinians
arrived in Sydney the other day on her
melancholy journey home, and was inter-
viewed by two newspapers. “Sun”:
“I was 24 miles from Addis Ababa
during the massacres following the attempt
upon the life of General Graziani, but I
feel that I cannot speak about them,” she
remarked. “That is not my job.”
“Herald”:
She was on the outskirts of Addis Ababa
during the recent massacre which followed
the attempt on the life of Marshal Graziani.
“It was wholesale slaughter,” she said.
“Natives were shot on sight without any
questions being asked.”
Still, the sanctionist newspapers conde-
scended to admit that the poor lady’s
husband and a Canadian helper were
slaughtered by the ferocious savages in
whose behalf Australia was urged to
go to war—though, of course, they didn’t
put it that way.
[Any election matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


If M- s Toilsody
WILL LOOK UMOER HER
BED SHE WILL. FIND
PRESENT FROM HER LCWIRG,
FPsMIUV.
MOTHER’S DAY COMES ROUND AGAIN.


INSTANT IGNITION
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYHOX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
THE NORTH SHORE GAS COMPANY, LIMITED.
SALE OF 50,000 SHARES
OF £1 EACH.
In accordance with Section 13 of the Gas and Electricity Act, 1935, the Directors will offer for sale,
BY PUBLIC AUCTION, ON
MONDAY, MAY 24th, 1937,
10 O’CLOCK A.M.,
through their Auctioneers,
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED,
AT THE ROOMS, 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
50,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH, IN LOTS
OF NOT MORE THAN 100 SHARES, and upon the Terms and Conditions a copy of which
may he had upon application to the Auctioneers, members of the Stock Exchange, or The
North Shore Gas Company, Limited.
THE ATTENTION of Investors, Trustees, and others is directed to the sale of the above
Shares, affording an opportunity of securing an investment in one of the soundest Companies
in the Commonwealth with a wide field for expansion.
NOTE DATE AND PLACE OF SALE:
MONDAY, MAY 24, 1937,
IN THE ROOMS, 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED, AUCTIONEERS. (354)
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
PERSONAL ITEMS
Geoffrey Dennis, whose book on
Edward, Coronation Commentary, has
been withdrawn after a libel threat by
Edward’s solicitors, is booked to visit
Maoriland shortly to represent the
League of Nations at the New Education
Fellowship Conference, and to deliver a
series of lectures. An author of many
books, he was a Devonshire lad, born in
poverty, but was “helped” to Oxford, and
took first-class honors there in history
with an M.A. degree, afterwards be-
coming a university coach. In the war
he rose to a captaincy, and when it was
over became one of the original officers
of the League of Nations at Geneva. He
is there still. His books include Sale by
Auction, The End of the World, and
Harvest in Poland.
Martin Griffin, president of the N.S.W.
Local Government Association, was
elected Mayor of Bathurst in his first
term as an alderman, and has remained
MARTIN GRIFFIN, Local Govern-
ment Leader.
in the chair for the past seven years. He
is in his second year as chief spokesman
for the aldermen and shire councillors
of N.S.W. and represents the country
councils on the Fire Board. Chief credit
is due to him that the oldest inland town
in Australia —Bathurst was founded in the
year of Waterloo —no longer pumps its
water from the Macquarie, but gets it
by gravitation from the hills at Win-
burndale, 12 miles away. Born on a
farm outside Bathurst in 1885, Griffin
has been in the clerical division of the
railway service for 30 years. His hobby
is the beautification of Bathurst, and his
council recently built a begonia house, in
the old gaol yard which was first known
as Dailey Reserve and now is Machattie
Park. The band rotunda there is on the
site of the gallows, at which, in the bad
old days, the people assembled to view
he public executions.
Count Felix von Luckner, the dashing
commander of the German raider See
Adler, which caused havoc to Allied ships
in the Pacific, but no loss of life, before
she was wrecked at Mopelia, has sailed
in a motor yacht from the North Sea
with provisions for six months on a jour-
ney which will take in Australia and
Maoriland. His mission is propaganda
for Nazi ideals. When the See Adler
went on the reef Von Luckner seized a
French schooner and sailed south, but
was captured in the Fijis and interned at
Auckland. From there he escaped and
seized the scow Moa, only to be recap-
tured.
Baritone Paul Robeson, whose singing
of “Ole Man River” has carried his name
across every wireless in the world, has
announced his intention of coming Aus-
traliawards late this year, badly press-
agented in advance by some remarks on
the color question. Robeson is 39 ; was
born at Princeton, but educated at
Columbia (U.S.); graduating in law he
was admitted to the N.Y. Bar, but at 24
went on the stage and remained there. He
has been equally successful in New York
and London, and has sung negro
spirituals in nearly every capital in
Europe. His favorite parts are Brutus
Jones in “The Emperor Jones” and Jim
Harris in “All God’s Chillun Got Wings.”
Recently he. made an appearance in an
experimental production of “Othello.”
Victorian Country-party Cabinet did
not reappoint P. D. Phillips as chairman
of the Transport Board, but put in A. J.
Fraser, who for the past seven years has
been g.m. of the Great Southern Co-op.
Co., a country trading concern control-
ling a butter factory and general stores.
Fraser served with the A.I.F. for three
years, and won a Military Cross. His
interests were chiefly with the dairying
industry, representing the Australian Pro-
ducers and Farmers’ Federation in
London and being associated with the
Dairy Produce Export Board. His new
job is worth £1250 p.a. Fraser’s col-
leagues are J. Jeffrey and W. Kendell,
who were members of the last board,
and who are both on £BOO.
“Ek Dum”: Donald Cameron, M.H.R.
for Lilley (Q.), who will retire at the
end of the year, is a Central Queens-
lander —his father pioneered Kensington
Downs there. From his earliest days
Donald displayed a taste for soldiering.
When no other way offered of getting
into the Boxer mix-up, he joined the
Yankee infantry. The Chinese shindy
was barely over when the Boer row
broke out and found him well in it. He
was mentioned in dispatches several
times. One of the first to push his way
into the Great War, he commanded
the sth L.H. on Gallipoli, was twice
wounded, and to this day carries a Turk-
ish bullet about with him. He married
a Queensland Jardine girl, relative of the
pioneers of Cape York and of England’s
former cricket captain.
“El V.” on a career:
The career of George Lansbury shows the
queer twists Fate gives to human lives. “Dear
old George,” as his friends call him, is a 78-
year-old who began life as the delicate son
of a railway contractor in Oxford. A board-
school education and a roving disposition were
all the capital he had from Nature. At 25
he brought his family to Brisbane and got a
job in Fortitude Valley, but, among other things,
the rush of labor available in Brisbane soon
sent him back to England. After a further 25
years of battling he went into the Commons in
1910, and he celebrated his 70th birthday by
getting into a Ramsay MacDonald Ministry.
Between his Australian and front-bench days
he twice found himself under lock and key as
an agitator. He has been a poor-law commis-
sioner, editor of the “Daily Herald” and leader
of the British Labor party. In the jubilee year,
1887, he was virtually starving' In 1937 he was
received and treated with respect by Hitler as
an archangel of world peace, and now plans to
visit Roosevelt.
Appointed assistant to Johannes
Andersen at the famous Turnbull library
in Wellington (M.L.) less than two years
ago, C. R. H. Taylor now sits in the
chair of his chief, the scholarly Dane who
became a Maorilander at the age of three
and took charge of the Turnbull when it
was handed over to the State 20 years
ago. Andersen, an authority on Maori
lore and music, retired last month at
64, and will now devote himself to verse
and Maori legend. His young successor
graduated through the Christchurch
Lands Office to the Agricultural library
at Wellington, and on being appointed
as assistant at the Turnbull received a
fellowship grant from Carnegie funds
and took a trip to study library methods
in the U.S., England and Europe. He
had scarcely returned when Andersen
retired.
New Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church in Victoria, Rev. F. W. Rolland,
is the third of his line to occupy the posi-
tion, his father and his grandfather, Rev.
Dr. A. J. Campbell, having presided in
that office before him. Principal of Gee-
long College since 1920, he commenced
his ministry at Oodnadatta, in the Centre,
in 1905 ; from there he ministered at
Noorat (Vic.) and Broome (W.A.). Five
years away with the A.I.F. followed, and
on his return he was appointed to his
educational job. Australian-born, at
Geelong, his chief concern was whether
he would know the dialects of the
Scotchbyterian Assembly. When in-
ducted he said that, if he lapsed into
ordinary English, he hoped they would
know what he meant. The Presbyterian
Church will celebrate its centenary in
Victoria this year.
“Uramao”: George Elliot, supplanted
by the Savage Government as director on
the Bank of N.Z. by the Miners’ Union
champion of the West Coast, John Dow-
gray, leaves Maoriland for Sydney in May
on the first leg of an extensive tour
abroad. He, has large financial interests
beyond M.L., which will involve travel-
ling the East and South Africa. He has
been associated with many of M.L.’s
most successful enterprises.
Bishop W. H. Johnson, of Ballarat
(Vic.), got headlines in the Melbourne
dailies with a synod speech in which he
declared that industrial relations and
economic and financial matters could no
longer be regarded as outside the sphere
of religion. He says the late King
George V. told him at the Lambeth
conference in 1930 that “a great oppor-
Bishop W. H. JOHNSON.
tunity lay before the Church if it would
identify itself with the social life of the
people.” So Victoria, too, has a political-
economy bishop, and he’s the first Aus-
tralian - born Australian University
graduate to occupy the see of Ballarat.
Exit R. J. Mulvey, one of the old
school of Queensland Labor men. In
Dave Bowman’s day of leadership he was
secretary of the Queensland Eight Hours
Committee. He held that job for 17
years, and then had 12 years as Trades
and Labor Council secretary. This year
he celebrated his jubilee as an active
Labor man.
RAMON MAS, Consul-Elect for Spain.
“El V.” on some modern Drakes:
Almost all the naval heads mixed up with
the Bilbao business have been in Australian
waters. Rear-Admiral Pipon, who commands
at Gibraltar, was in charge of a cruiser with
the Atlantic squadron in 1924. Geoffrey Blake,
on the Hood as vice-admiral in command of
the battle-cruiser squadron, was in command
of Maoriland’s fleet 1929 : 32. He was gunnery
officer on Jellicoe’s flagship, H.M.S. Iron Duke,
throughout the war. Caslon, who commands
H.M.S. Blanche, which is standing by the
Hood, is ati imperturbable scion of the great
type-founding family; he was flag-lieutenant to
the Admiral during the Hood’s visit to Aus-
tralian waters. There is a close link between
the Hood and Australian stations. Two of the
big ship’s commanders have served here—Gool-
den, who became captain of H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne, and Lane-Poole, the present C.-in-C.
of the R.A.N.
About five years ago The Bulletin
asked: “What has become of Jack Allen,
who once drove a flock of geese from
one town to another for a wager?” The
question was shown to Jack, who said:
“That is quite true. I can drive anything
but a woman.” Allen, an old King Coun-
try (M.L.) character, was 86 at his death,
and only last year accepted a challenge
to walk barefooted to the top of Mt.
Egmont. He never wore a hat and rarely
wore boots, but went about, winter or
summer, in shirt and trousers. He was a
crack shot with the rifle. He had no rela-
tives in Maoriland, and is said to have
hailed from Australia.
“J.M.H.”: Australia’s most remark-
able philanthropist is probably William
Cann, of Port' Melbourne, a 74-year-old
veteran of the Afghan, Zulu and Boer
Wars, who daily dispenses hot potato
chips and pancakes to local school-
children, though himself living on a pen-
sion and what he picks up doing odd jobs
of upholstery. Three years ago a Port
Melbourne charitable institution decided
to reduce expenses by cutting out the
penny dinners it had been supplying to
hard-up youngsters. Cann stepped into
the breach, and ran a free cafeteria in a
corner of his little upholstery workshop
in Lalor-street, with an equipment con-
sisting of a frying-pan, an egg-slice and
a gas ring. Every week-day, between 12
and 1, the place is crowded.


t
1
r L
U 2
$
c
ill
tv
n
tv
SmMi
sv
P]
| g| ! '
gjgg '': : -'\|'-'' ; "l : :|:l|'V"'l| ; \-:-r||--'::-'>:v^ ;;
.
Wmss&
mm
m
1111
sm
■
■:. u
*\
>
m
m
■
.
rx
&
x
(?X
n
jj
4*7/
j i
Li
5.C.7
Write direct to Stromberg-Carlson
( A’sia ) Ltd., 124 Bourke Road,
Alexandria, Sydney, for huge 20-
page art catalogue, which is free.
Hear these new Stromberg-
Carlsons for yourself . . .
your local dealer will
arrange it.
THE HEW 1937
inJUtTE! RADIO
IVT EW color thoughts and a host of other new features
1 bring these new and exciting colored Stromberg-
Carlsons into your home. It is now almost the accepted
thing that the complete home must have more than one
radio, a Concert Grand for the lounge or dining room, and
a mantel model for entertainment wherever you happen to
be; in the kitchen, on the verandah, in the kiddies’ room,
and in other places where you spend countless hours, there
you will find these new Stromberg-Carlsons invaluable.
Available in many brilliant colors, these Australian and
world-wide receivers will become famous for their beauty,
tone, fidelity of reproduction and wide range. Of typical
Stromberg-Carlson quality, they will confirm in homes,
throughout the length and breadth of Australia, that there
is nothing finer than a Stromberg-Carlson.
AUTHORISED
DEALERS EVERYWHERE


BLACK [?] WHITE WHISKY "PLURRY GOOD!"
“Hanko”: A Sunday evening. Old
Sam was dozing in his chair, Mrs. Sam
was knitting, I was reading and young
Joe. was bouncing a ping-pong ball on
the table. The clacking ball just about
had my goat when it dived down the
chimney of the lamp. There was a blind-
ing flare, a hissing report—and darkness.
Old Sam scraped a match: “Wha-wha-
what was that?” he stuttered. By the
light of the flickering match the lamp
glass was a blob of indigo, and a wisp
of blue smoke spiralled above it. Sam
leaned forward to investigate. Came
another flash, a bang and the lamp glass
shattered to pieces over the room. Sam
gasped in terror; his wife sobbed ; my
heart thudded like an air-compressor, and
young Joe set up a dismal howl. “Are
you hurt, son?” Mrs. S. quavered.
“Where’s me bub-bub-ball?” he bleated,
“I wanner play with it.” Don’t let any-
one kid you nothing ever happens in
the bush.
* * * *
“Selina Snifkins”: I suspect that Mr.
Paterson, M.H.R., had a hand in the
banning of American quail. From time
immemorial classic writers have alluded
to the unrestrained wantonness of the
female quail—l will not sully my type-
writer with particulars—and our own
Shakspeare. has joined in the chorus.
Suffice it to say the abandoned creature
flits from one husband to another, with
short intervals to lay some eggs which
she leaves the deceived male to hatch
in each instance. The. effect of such
conduct on the morals of our feathered
community needs no stressing.
* * * *
“Billy See”: I met him one midnight
on the. road between W.A.’s Boulder
Block and Boulder City, a thoroughfare
at that time innocent of lights. He was
staggering under the weight of a big
boulder. Taking a rest, he sat on it.
“It’s all right, mate,” he explained, “I’m
only taking home a bit of telluride.” By
the light of a match he displayed silvery
veins half an inch wide. “Couldn’t break
it up without spilling some, so I decided
to have the lot.” He had managed it by
placing his treasure in a truck which he
had filled up with fine dirt, then labelled
the lot as mullock. As such it had
been tipped over the mullock dump,
whence he had had no difficulty in re-
moving it. Rested sufficiently, he
shouldered his goldmine and walked out
of my life. Police court sequel and such-
like? Nothing doing. In those, days
the Golden Mile used to lose anything
up to half a million quid a year. Tip-
ping a “parcel” of rich stuff over the
dump was only one of the tricks played.
$ * # *
“Quareef”: I nominate udder of goat
for the Rapid-healing Stakes. On our
far-west N.S.W. run I saw a black
goat suspended by the udder on the horns
of another, the milk-bag being penetrated
to a depth of four or five inches. After
disentanglement, black goat strolled
quietly off with blood-tinged milk pour-
ing from an udder-rent fully l|in. long.
To drain the lacerated half of her milk-
bag I merely upended it and the fluid
cataracted out. In order to prevent milk-
pressure interfering with the process of
healing I allowed her kid to remain with
her for three days. Then I again penned
up the kid. Next morning, the perfectly
healed udder yielded its full quota of
rich, uncontaminated milk.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: We needed another
cutter, but the boss, himself an old axe-
man with a pronounced preference for
the old school, was hard to please. His
test was simple. “I want a man who's
been at the game some, time,” he’d say.
“That’s me,” the applicant would assure
him. “H’m. Well” —indicating a heap
of wood near the saw —“what sorta
wood’s that?” The applicants were
unanimous, “Banksia.” As the sixth man
walked away the sawyer scratched his
head. “Dam’ if I know what the old
man’s up to,” he said. “That’s banshee
all right.” And that’s how the man who
got the job pronounced it.
$ $ $ $
“Bray Rock”: Too right about the
relative smallness of Dr. Fischer’s
10491 b. shark (B. 21/4/’37). In 1919
David Stead, on behalf of the Australian
Museum, went to Port Stephens (N.S.W.)
to investigate reports of a giant shark
which had been swallowing lobster pots
whole, and had frightened the hard-bitten
local fishing fleet into staying at anchor.
After careful inquiry from reliable eye-
witnesses he, a trained scientific observer,
concluded that the creature was a true
“If you get stuck down at the crossin ', mister, ring Ironbark three and I'll give y' a tow.”
shark, at least 115 ft. long and fully 20ft.
across the head. It had remained on the
grounds for nearly a fortnight, and had
been seen at close hand —too close for
comfort in some cases—by dozens of ex-
perienced fishermen, well used to out-
size sharks and to whales. It was an en-
tirely new beast to them. Stead’s report
is on official record. He considered it a
rare deepwater species, which had strayed
outside its usual habitat.
# * *. *
“Capricornius”: I’d like to see those
Mt. Mulligan (N.Q.) goat's “planting”
their offspring so carefully as to trick
dingoes (B. 31/3/’37). Warrigal tracks
mainly by scent, and scent is the goat’s
second name, male or female. I guess
the patriarchal billies have more to do
with the preservation of the kids. As a
fighter and butter the average billy has
the ram licked any time. I've seen a
couple stand off a whole pack of dogs,
most of which were of half-dingo breed,
and on a Kellerberrin (W.A.) farm I
knew one patriarch who for over 10
years guarded the flocks. The warrigals
got him in the end. though there were
ample signs that he had died fighting to
the last.
* * He *
“Demeter”: Recent mention of lon-
gevity in horses brings to mind the list
compiled by the National Horse Associa-
tion of England. Pride of place is given
to Old Billy, who was unquestionably
drawing rations at 62. Next comes an
Australian, Parramatta, who died in 1874
aged 53. A Welsh pony died in harness
at the age of 52. A Crimean veteran,
one of Sir Garnet’s pack ponies, reached
49. A Scottish pony is now training hard
to eclipse these records. He is a fine
hearty youngster of 48.
* * * *
“Finn”: The Australian wild cherry
(Exocarpus) —one of our most graceful
trees —is never grown in public parks
and gardens. It is said that its seed or
nut will not grow independently, but only
as a parasite on a gum-tree root. Then
how account for a wild cherry-tree
appearing in the middle of a long-cleared
paddock? Beside the Doncaster-War-
randyte road (Vic.) young wild cherry-
trees may be seen growing up under the
parent tree as naturally as oak seedlings.
I doubt that they rest on a network of
accommodating gum roots. Has any
bush botanist ever really tracked young
Exocarpus to its nursery?
*{c *1- ’«-
“Plankton”: “Creel” (B. 14/4/’37)
credits pa percelles as the only male fish
which carries the family eggs in his
mouth. The giant salmon catfish of N.Q.
estuaries and the American gaff-topsail
catfish both protect the eggs in this
manner, as do certain exotic cichlids. In
one species of the latter the female has
taken on the job. Touching on fishes’
family affairs, the most remarkable nest
built by any fish is constructed by the
grotesque marbled angler. Attached to
floating seaweed, it is formed of silklike
threads produced from a secretion of the
female’s kidney.
•A- * * *
“Notaden”: “Reef spawn” or “whale
spawn” or dead coral polyps either (B.
14/4/’37) isn’t any of these things, but
a tiny kind of algae known to naturalists
as Trichoclesmium, which occurs in vast
quantities in tropical seas. When alive
its pigment is red ; after death this fades
out, leaving a green-blue tinge. When
alive it is said to give the sea a smell
like damp hay; when dead, as any
northern beachcomber knows, it gives
the beaches a smell like hell. Some of
the whalebone whales use it as a food,
and it is credited on good authority with
being the reason why the Red Sea got
its name. In certain lights it looks hor-
ribly like a sandbank, and many a man-
ner in poorly charted Barrier waters has
had a heartshock from it.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Yampi Sound isn’t the
only remarkable iron ore deposit in West-
ralia. In the Weld Range, Murchison
district, is the aboriginals’ Wilgie Mia,
150 to 200 feet in width, rising in places
to 400 feet above the surrounding coun-
try and forming a ridge three miles long.
Estimated ore above level of country is
h'ematite°so pure ,hmgm« meTalhc E
can be uncovered which at first sfeht
might be mistaken for cast-iron. The
deposit also contained, and possibly still
contains, thousands of tons of pure red
oxide, the wilgie of the abo. Mining this
throughout the ages (it was once traded
all over the western portion of the con-
tinent), the abos., with no other tools than
digging sticks, managed to excavate an
almost incredible opencut, with branch-
ing tunnels, some of them so deep that
stagings were rigged and artificial light
employed. Wonderfully rich as this
deposit is, it is at the present valueless,
being over 200 miles from the nearest
port, Geraldton ; and there is no known
coal deposit of economic value within
payable distance.
* * #
“Old-timer”: “Monument Monty” was
a nomad of the North with one of the
queerest hobbies entertained by men
noted for them. His beat extended from
Dubbo (N.S.W.) north to the Gulf, and
at every one of his camps, if material
was available, he erected a small cairn
of stones. On each cairn was a flat stone
bearing a chiselled motto. Monty was
illiterate. He would wheel the flat stone
on his old wheelbarrow to a station, per-
suade someone to print a motto on it,
then chisel out the words. But he always
wheeled the printed stone to another sta-
tion to have the words checked over
before carving began. He didn’t trust
the joking proclivities of the average
station-hand.
jfc #
“Abi Tonus”: I’d shudder to think
how many patients I must have started
on real jags if “Mornie” (B. 14/4/*37)
were right about the “weirdest and wild-
est results” to be obtained from “a few
drops of spirits of salts in a pannikin of
water.” Spirits of salts, muriatic acid
or hydrochloric acid—whichever you like
to call it —is a constituent of normal
stomach secretion, and for those whose
stomachs supply them with lesser quan-
tity than normal, or none at all, the acid
is given by mouth. Quite often a drachm
(or 60 drops) of the dilute acid is pre-
scribed, to be taken in a tumbler of
water three times daily. Dilute hydro-
chloric acid consists of approximately
10 p.c. by weight of the strong
acid, which, of course, must be compara-
tively free of impurities, the most
common being arsenic and lead. Offici-
ally, five parts of arsenic and ten parts
of lead per million are the limits. Such
dilute acid is a general digestive tonic,
and even commercial acids should not
contain the additions in sufficient quan-
tity to give rise to a bender. At the most
it would result in an attack of gastritis,
• •
“Bibbler”: I’m sceptical of the alleged
potency of some of these patent drink
recipes lately discussed. Take that one
about boot polish, for instance. A good
vermifuging would be the maximum con-
vivial effect it could produce. All boot
polish contains is a carbon-base organic
pigment, various waxes and turpentine,
none of which helps to raise the centre
of gravity.
* * * *
“ M ewt”: Employees of the Vic. State
Rivers and Water Su , Commission
ei Wd in desnagging the La,robe River
at Wa . rra f! ™ ,h , » f-' 0 " wi . nch
crane landed a hollow log sQft. long and
3ft. in circumference. The log was the
home of a whopping trout that flapped
out of the log just too late to regain the
water. Five pounds in weight, he made
a meal for 10 men. Probably the only
trout on record to be caught with a
steam winch.
THE HILL ROAD.
We used to look on the hill road.
In the days when we both were young,
And wonder whither the long road went
Alter its leagues on the plain were spent,
When it rose through the bush to the farthest
crest
Of a high blue hill in the dreaming west,
Like a banner in distance hung.
And those who travelled the hill road
Took our envying hearts in thrall,
For they would go where the grey road wound,
And ride carefree on enchanted ground,
And they would learn the wonderful song
The folks of the hill road sang, day long,
In the shade of the green trees tall.
When dark came over the hill road,
And lights shone amid the trees,
We were wont to picture a robber band
Come down to ravish the lonely land;
And under the dimness of starry skies
We heard from afar strange shouts and cries
Borne faint on the cold night breeze.
Ah, well, we travelled the hill road
While we and our hearts were young;
We found in the cloud of murky grey
A Hock of sheep on a weary way,
A mob of cattle with tossing horns,
And the songs we heard in the dewy morns
Were by sun-tanned drovers sung.
And I never look on the hill road,
In the glimmering west set high,
But the dreams of our childhood come to me,
Though to-night in the dusk I can onlv sec
A road that lifts from the darkened trees
To meet the stars, a gold swarm of bees,
On the weald of the windy sky.
N.S.W.
LYNDO.


“Naturalist”: There was no thought in
her mind about weaning when “Saga’s”
magpie (B. 3/3/’37) dropped pebbles into
the gaping mouths of her cadging off-
spring—she was merely fed up with their
incessant squawking. When pestered for
food during a period of scarcity most
birds of the shrike family will pack the
first stowable thing into their babies, re-
gardless of the consequence. I once saw
a black-throated butcher-bird stuff its
cadging youngsters so full of purloined
overripe watermelon that the youthful
carollers could scarcely squeak. Yet the
old girl, hungry though she must have
been, never even helped herself to a
mouthful. Undoubtedly whole broods of
young birds are killed off by this prac-
tice in times of severe food scarcity.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The reason why Torres
Strait islanders did not build their own
seagoing canoes, as had their forebears
on the Fly River who colonised the
islands (B. 21 /4/’37), was that there were
no suitable trees. Some of the hulls
measured 70 feet, hollowed from a single
log, and with topstrakes sewn on with
sinnet. For centuries an elaborate system
of order and delivery, through hereditary
canoe agents, operated through Murray,
Darnley, Yorke, Stephens and Warrior
islands with the Fly River shipbuilders.
The last canoe came to Murray Island
about 1908, and was nearly the death of
my old and sophisticated friend Tsspear,
canoe agent on Darnley Island. Instead
of sending it on, after the customary
period of use, the old rascal stuck to it.
A week after expiry of the three-month
“You can have this coat, but it badly needs repairing .”
" I'll Wait, mum.”
period, a large crocodile arrived off the
reef and chased him to the beach. That
is what the Fly sorcerers do to dishonest
agents. Tsspear took to bed, while the
canoe was taken across to Murray. He
was never the same cheeky old scoundrel
again.
“No. 1”: Another argument in favor
of the swag is that it is the hardest type
of carryall to lose on the road. A man
accustomed to its weight across his back
can’t walk off and leave it, and I’ve never
heard of one being pinched. In lost
property sales umbrellas and suitcases
are as numerous as politicians at a free
dinner, but the only swag I ever saw at
one belonged to a man who difed on a
train.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Next to having strong
enough tackle, the most important thing
in deep-sea fishing is the shape of the
sinker. Nothing
makes a better
mould for one than
a section of dry
bamboo. Easily split
olf the cooled lead,
it leaves a long
cylindrical shape
which, besides get-
ting to the bottom
quickly, offers the
minimum resistance
to the pull through
the water, and has
no corners to snag
on the reef. A flat-
fish piece of lead
tends to frighten fish
away by its motion ;
also, in ratio to the
square of its sur-
face, it tends to rise
and “swim” at any
increase in the
speed of the drift.
Anglers with flat and
similar shaped
sinkers often get no-
thing, while those
with bamboo-
moulded sinkers
hook freely v simply
because the bamboo-moulded hold their
bait to the bottom. In the tide rips of
the nor’-west coast of Groperland we
use sash weights, the long cylindrical
shape again.
s{: :J: :J:
“Wang”: Dad was giving Dave the
“rounds of the kitchen” for some neglect.
Dave’s excuse was that ,he had forgotten
all about it. “Forgotten!” yelled Dad.
“Spare me days, yer wanter go in fer
some of that there mem’ry trainin’ they
advertise about. Jest as well fer us all 1
ain’t got a mem’ry like you or we’d be
well up th’ pole.” A few days later Dad
went along to a clearing sale at Ryan’s
place, a couple of miles up the creek. He
came back that night with a plough in
the back of the wagonette. “Didn’t want
it particler,” said Dad as he sat down
to tea ; “but it wus goin’ cheap, so I
bought it.” Presently Young Bill, who
had been outside examining the purchase,
came rushing in. “Hi, Dad,” he cried,
“that there plough y’ bought t'-day!”
“Well, what about it?” said Dad. “Ain’t
it a bargain at two quid?” “Dunno,”
replied Bill, “it might be. But it’s the one
yer lent Ryan 12 munce ago, an’ he’fergot
t’ send it back.”
“K.Mc”: Egbert, the newly-captured
emu chick, in seeking a way out of the
fowl-run wore a beaten pad around the
inside of the fence. His development,
both in frame and appetite, was so rapid
“Here We go gathering knuts in May...."
that eventually he ate a hole in his
popularity and we opened the gate. But
the perverse nature of the fowl tribe was
deeply inherent in Egbert, and three of
us had to chase hard to hunt him out.
Then did he take his freedom? Not
Egbert. He wore another pad—this time
on the outside of the fowlyard, trying to
get back in !
sjc *•>'• sj>
“Bufo”: The poisonous effect of sting-
ray wounds (B. 14/4/’37) is caused by
the slimy coating of
the bony “sting,” which
serves to lubricate it in
its sheath or groove
and to aid in securing
easy extrusion when it
is brought into action.
In some species the
sting is composed of a
central bony spike with
a number of loosely
attached barbs. When
the sting is withdrawn,
after the quick stab
effected by erecting it
and sharply curving
the body and tail,
these are left behind
and act as foreign
bodies to prevent heal-
ing of the wound. The
creature certainly does
not spend its spare time
in vindictively poison-
ing its weapon for the
detriment of humanity,
as “Bundeena” pre-
sumes. It is too busy
getting its living, and doesn’t care a curse
for humanity anyhow, unless one of them
happens to step on it.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Surprising that ringed
gidya has been overlooked in the listing
of ornate Australian woods. Years ago
every dandy among stockmen had a
handle of highly-polished gidya for his
whip. I still use for a pen-handle a
specimen of shaped and polished ringed
gidya given me at Charlotte Plains
station 20 years ago.
* * *
“Kali”: “Takapu’s” Ocean Islanders
(B. 24/2/’37) who sink their teeth into
the octopus to administer the coup de
grace go to a lot of unnecessary bother.
Malays also think nothing of tackling
the fearsome-looking beasties, anything
up to 16ft. from tip to tip being taken
on without hesitation. Ahmat doesn’t
worry about the clinging tentacles; he
simply works one hand around behind
the body, secures a good grip and gives
a sudden heave. The body is neatly
pulled inside out and the octopus is im-
mediately powerless.
“Nomad”: Talking of fast germina-
tion in plants reminds me of my experi-
ence with lettuce seed in the tropics. Re-
quiring a salad for dinner, I sowed the
seed immediately after lunch, and walked
a hundred yards back to the bungalow
for a watering-can, but a sharp shower
saved me the trouble. When it was over
I took a knife, intending to cut the let-
tuces before they ran to seed, but a
sudden attack of sleeping-sickness delayed
me for two hours. I returned to the
garden in despair, which changed to joy
on beholding the beautifully-hearted
plants. They had grown from self-sown
seeds off plants from those seeds I had
sown after lunch!
* s': * *
“Questo”: Tell “Curate’s Egg” (B.
21/4/’37) that fish are frequently found
in boredrains where the water is scarcely
below boiling point. They are not sur-
face fish, but belong to the sub-artesian
channels. Generally scaleless, their flesh
is soft and flabby and they are always
blind.
* * * *
“Dope”: The Canberra conference of
aboriginal'experts has asked the Govern-
ment to do something to stop supplies
of opium dross going to the abos. The
dross comes from Chinese who manage
to obtain supplies of the drug in spite of
all precautions by the Customs. It is
suggested that certified opium addicts
among the Chinese should be permitted
to buy certain quantities under super-
vision on condition that at each buy
they return the dross from the previous
lot. It would be mighty difficult to work
this except for Chinamen concentrated in
the towns. Years ago Queensland faced
the same problem, but solved it by deal-
ing out red-hot punishment to Chinese
who consorted with abos.
* :jc *
“4U2”: “Walkabout’s” shearers (B.
10/3/’37) who have to roll their gaspers
the night before because they are kept
so busy juggling with eight tons of
woollies and walking about a mile a day
cut no ice with Jack and me. Flat out.
we pick 150 cases of apples each, lift
and carry them as much as 20 yards to
the truck. At the stage we lift ’em off the
truck, carry ’em into the shed, 10 yards,
top and then stack ’em six deep. Since
they weigh 401 b. full and we handle them
three times, we reckon we carry nine
tons a day. Being blanky packhorses
and not mathematicians, we can’t work
out how far we walk, but we have plenty
of time to roll a cigarette or put our
teeth into a juicy Delicious apple or two.
THE DEADEND SHOW.
It’s Show day down at Deadend Flat,
The dawn is just awaking,
But all the countryside is up, .
A noble effort making
To join the crowd that wends its ways
To Deadend Flat this day of days.
The showground in the blaze of noon
Is full of vim and brightness,
With folks in fashion’s latest frocks
And shoes inclined to tightness.
There’s Johnson’s mare and Flopkins’ sow,
And Wilson’s calf and Watkins’ cow;
There’s Uncle John, who’s won a prize
With his grey pony Gipsy,
And Cousin Bill from Wyalong
(Who’s just a little tipsy),
And Aunt Louise complaining hard
The prize jam tarts were made with lard.
Here you may try your luck at darts,
Or view the bearded lady,
Or have your fortune told within
A green tent, dim and shady.
Few the delights you cannot know
For sixpence at our Deadend Show.
When day is done, with one accord
We liven the pavilion
With dancing, singing, cakes and ale,
And peanuts by the million —
Till dawn arrives to mention that
It’s milking time at Deadend Flat.
N.S.W.
MING.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold, Gold Ores, Gold Concentrates, Silver, Silver Ores
Silver Concentrates, Gold and Silver Bullion, Blister Copper, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates
Scrap Copper. Cyanide Slags, and of all materials containing Gold, Silver or Conner ’
PRODUCERS OF ’
Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate (Bluestonei
BEARING AND ANTIFRICTION METALS.— Graphine, Plastic, Babbit and other
• Bearing and Antifriction Metals to Standard Formula? or Buyers’ own specifications.
PRINTERS’ METALS.— Linotype, Stereotype. Monotype and other Printers’ Metals
to Standard Formula? or Buyers’ own specifications.
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the Company’s
offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEJIBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or Port , Kembla
Office. The Company will effect prompt realisation on your account at current London prices
plus exchange, and will settle in full within seven days of receipt at the refinery. Port Kembla.
QUALITY OF SERVICE.
The quality of service rendered' by an Institution may be judged very simply by
the growth of its business. That of Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) has
grown consistently for over fifty years, and the amount of Trust and Agency
Funds now under its control is over £50.000,000. Arrangements exist for the
economical administration of assets in other States of the Commonwealth and abroad.
Directors:
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Walter T. Bninton. Herbert R. Lysaght. 0.8 E
Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. .T. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox.
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Y r . Douglass (.Managing Director).
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, AGENT, RECEIVER, ETC.
Call or write for explanatory booklet. P. Cureton, Manager.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- an<l 8/- per clay; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din. ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.nu).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
“PUMPMOBIL”
(PORTABLE)
PUMPING PLANTS.
REDUCTION IN PRtCLS!
W|P;;£.
‘ | •> 'VI
* J ;
. 1 ■ , '' '•!
Xjtx
■
m
:w
Extensively used by Prospectors and
Mining Companies throughout Australasia
and South Sea Islands.
Weight, complete.. 1201 b.
Capacity .. .. 12,000 gallons per hour
Consumption . .. 4-gallon Benzine or
Kerosene per hour
All Heads from 10 to 100 feet.
NELSON & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
12 Spring Street. Sydney.
Country and Interstate Agents Wanted.
OTHER CORDL
The [?]
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Oil or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Contingcn- to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. cies, etc. Funds.
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 )
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 j '■ > °’ ‘
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
’15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
‘25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’28.. 8,872,654 4,383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,081
’29.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008,756 471,472 t,,„,
Provision for taxation, £237,635 \ * s ’ ’
’31.. 9,470,449 5,610,200 1,222,207 685,149 j , 577 , r 8
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
’32.. 9,144,507 5,540,825 1,380,037 30,236 2,193,469
’33.. 9,322,373 5,383,344 1,347,987 61,150 2,529,892
’34.. 9,714,268 5,353,985 1,017,985 51,044 3,291,254
’35.10,179,608 5,565,654 1,135,176 29,172 3,449,606
’36.10,747,661 5,445,849 1,203,947 119,285 ) , ft7 o ,- Rn
From conting. res., £lOO,OOO .. j ’
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1905.. 6,123 124 19,069
1910.. 105,438 4,189 51,639 49,610
1915.. 313,303 15,760 94,016 203,527
1920.. 705,525 67,380 217.869 420,270
1925.. 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 ) - q7 iq .
Written off, £IO,SII ) ‘
1930.. 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 )
Written off, £64,047 \ 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 j
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 1
To n’t’ey fund, etc., £164,477 ) 635,405
Provifion for taxation, £10,635 j
1932. 2,103,758 796,026 536,082 ) 7RS iso
Written off, £3461 .. .. J 168,189
1933. 800,834 552,582 ) Slfl iQ .,
Written off, £7359 .. .. ) sru.iaj
1934. . 2,310,472 853,034 533,936 ) o^o-i
Written off, £5651 .. .. f JU ’ J
1935. 964,512 582,550 ) oftn 00-,o 0 -,
Written off, £4280 .. .. S ’
1936. . 2,679,507 1,095.085 641,792 ) OJI
Written off, £1558 .. .. ( ’
This sound, progressive and good bonus-
paying institution is Australia’s biggest
and oldest life office. It proved a haven
of refuge for many of its policy-holders
during the slump (loans on policies now
total £16,202,829), and its contracts'pro-
vide attractive investments for the future,
offering capital security long before it is
paid for. Moreover, on participating
policies capital appreciation is certain by
the annual addition of bonuses to the
original sum assured, even though the
price of Stock Exchange and other
securities may fall.
With the economic barometer still
rising, the society’s latest accounts dis-
close heartening progress, based on a
solid financial structure and satisfactory
margins in all those things upon which
the progress and prosperity of a life
office depend. Combining the figures of
the two departments the amount of new
business (£27,979,420, up £3,955,920) put
on the books was a record. The growth
in total income (£13,427,168) was
£786,793, of which £573,997 was in re-
spect of net premiums, etc. (£8,922,149),
and £212,796 interest, rents, etc.
(£4,505,019). After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., and'taking £lOO,OOO
from the contingency reserve to write
down the book value of premises,
£5,019,652 was added to the Assurance
funds, raising them to £103,186,255. In
addition policy-holders had the protec-
tion and assistance of £2,170,466 ear-
marked for contingencies, a surplus tax
reserve of £lOO,OOO, and a fidelity guaran-
tee fund of £5257, making total funds
belonging to policy-holders £105,461,978,
up £4,922,353, equal to 36.6 p.c. of the
year’s total income.
After paying £28,600 in interim
bonuses, the amount remaining to be
distributed among policy-holders—there
are no shareholders —was £3,148,444,
making total bonus distributions since
inception of the society £65,940,482 in
the. Ordinary and £3,416,906 in the Indus-
trial department:
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920.. £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931.. 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1932.. 2,470,310 259,751 2,730,061
1933.. 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934.. 2,674,409 285.312 2,962,721
1935.. 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936.. 2,837,79 S 310,646 3,148,444
Last year’s distribution amounted to
42.8 p.c. of net premiums on participat-
ing policies in the Ordinary branch, as
against 44.4 p.c. and 47 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. The slip is due to con-
tinued growth of premium income and
the fall in interest rates ; not since
the end of last century has the rate
realised been so low. Last year’s effec-
tive rate on mean funds was £4 9s. 3d.
p.c., compared with £4 9s. Id. p.c. for
the previous term and £5 18s. 4d. for
1930. Since the office assumes that its
funds will turn in only 3 p.c., there is
still a healthy margin for bonuses there.
The rate of bonuses, which are. still hand-
some, is the same as for the previous
year, ranging on whole-of-life policies
(age 40 at entry) from 425. p.c. to 745.
p.c. for those 30 years in force, and on
endowment assurances maturing at age
60 from 345. p.c. to 625. p.c. In the.
Industrial section, bonuses were at the
same uniform rate of 355. 6d. p.c.
In the Ordinary department, where an
extra £3,136,099 of new business
(£21,876,024) was put on the books, com-
missions, expenses of management and
taxes absorbed respectively 6.17 p.c., 7.85
p.c. and 3.62 p.c. (total 17.64 p.c.) of the
year’s net premiums. Corresponding
figures for the previous term were 5.74
p.c., 8.13 p.c. and 3.90 p.c. (total 17,77
p.c.). The loading for future expenses
and profits allowed by the actuary was
18.6 p.c. of annual premium income. The
mortality experience was 52 p.c. of that
expected from the tables used in the
valuation.
In the Industrial section £6,103,396
(up £819,821) of new business was put on
the books. Including taxes, exes, took
30.03 p.c. of the net premiums, or 22.44
p.c. of total income, compared with
30.05 p.c. and 22.30 p.c. respectively for
1935.
The society’s investment portfolio
totals £106,802,584, of which 57.5 p.c. is
invested in public securities, up £3,208,729
last year:
1935. p.c. 1936. p.c.
Public securities. £58,231,599 57.2 £61,440,328 57.5
Mortgages . . 23,075,022 22.7 24,838,104 23.3
Loans on policies 16,181,560 15.9 16,299,207 15.3
Premises.. .. 1,886,779 1.8 1,950,732 1.8
Other assets .. 2,494,085 2.4 2,274,213 2.1
An extra £1,763,082 was put out in mort-
gages, which used to account for over
43 p.c. of the balance-sheet total early in
this century; £117,647 net was added to
loans on policies, and £63,953 to prem-
ises, which are worth a lot more than
their book value.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 BB9 827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928.. 128,637 10 p.c. = 115,000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 .. 145,410 10 ~,, 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930 .. 138,108 9 „ „ 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931 .. 91,813 7 „ „ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932 .. 66,776 4 „„ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
1933 .. 53,727 4 p.c. = 50,000 3,727 1,044,298
1934 . . 54,497 4 „ ~ 50,000 4,497 1,048,795
Transferred to inner reserves, £25,000.. 1,023,795
1935 .. 55,201 4 p.c. = 50,000 5,201 1,028,996
1936 .. 57,973 4 „ ~ 50,000 7,973 1,036,969
1937 .. 61,337 41 „ „ 56,250 5,087 1,042,056
Whether last month’s rumors that gave
birth to the gold scare and the sharp fall
in prices was inspired or idle, they had
the desired effect of immediately dis-
couraging growth of speculation the
world over before the position got out of
hand. The markets received a severe
hammering, because, speaking generally,
the future of commodities and securities
had been heavily over-discounted.
Whether all the weakness has yet been
shaken out of the position it is difficult
to say. Movements in metal prices sug-
gest that the worst of the trouble is over.
With the outlook for most commodities
still promising, the question arises
whether further forays by speculators are
likely to seriously disturb the position
again. Such a thing is possible, but it
seems unlikely at an early date. A
powerful factor promises to be the
psychological reaction of speculators and
others to the declarations and warnings
of financial authorities and the press.
As for Australia generally, the imme-
diate outlook has gained rather than lost
in inherent strength, thanks to good
seasonal conditions over most of the
continent and the profitable level of ex-
port prices, especially for wool and
wheat. For the same reasons there has
been a marked improvement in the bank-
ing position—a substantial rise in de-
posits and replenishment of cash re-
sources, with a consequent easier lending
position—just at a time when such a
state of affairs is most to be desired.
The growth of £352,146 in the Adel-
aide’s deposits—the co. does nine-tenths
of its business in its home State—is due
to the lift in export income:
1929. 1932. 1936. 1937.
Notes . . £6,713 £6,603 £6,576 £6,574
Bills, etc. 633,075 514,913 156,084 307,992
Deposits 6,177,592 6,031,331 6,713,968 7,066,114
Liquid
assets 2,857,214 3,417,291 3,175,087. 3,720,695
Advances 5,949,107 5,108,010 5,060,001 5,631,010
Premises,
etc. . . 347,434 343,117 353,511 352,382
The. drop of £28,991 in advances can be
ascribed to the same cause, and is there-
fore seasonal. As the cheques for wool,
wheat and other produce were received
they were, used to pay off overdrafts
and/or swell deposited and liquid re-
sources. Liquids (up £545,508) amounted
to 50.4 p.c. of the liabilities to the public
when the books closed as against 46.1
p.c. at the previous balance and 41.9 p.c.
in 1929. Advances dropped to 79.7 p.c.
of deposits, compared with 84.3 p.c. in
1936 and 96.3 p.c. in 1929. Also, the
bank was holding only £3 4s. sd. of the
public’s money for every pound of its
own. It is all very flattering so far as
strength is concerned, but not so flatter-
ing in respect of earning power.
Still, on top of the bigger turnover in
the exchange market, trade, locally con-
tinued to improve, interest rates strength-
ened and the call for contingencies was
not so loud, thanks to the rise in prices,
especially wheat. The. board wrote net
earnings £3364 better than the previous
year's at 4.9 p.c. on capital as against
4.6, 4.4, 4.3, 4.2, 5.3, 7.3 and 11 p.c.
back to 1930. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) last year’s
net result was only 2.6 p.c. The div.
was lifted half a point, making 4\ p.c.
for the year, the final being at the rate of
5 p.c. p.a. ; a steady 10 p.c. was paid for
the decade to the close of accounts in
1929.
The market, which continues to dis-
count its benefits, prices the £lO shares
paid to £5 —the other £5 is a reserve
liability callable only in the event of
liquidation—at £7 Is. 6d. The return at
this figure is 3.5 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div.
basis, or 4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the cover is £9 3s. 4d. in net tan-
gibles.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931. . 4,413 5,, „ 4262 151 ) 12 354
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO \ ’
From inner reserves, £57,000
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. L gg
Loss.
1932.. 71,284 Nil J
Deficit.
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B . . .. • • 176,956
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit.
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 166,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
* Eight months.
f Excluding capital reserve, £166,167 at Dec. 31, ’36.
The cotton bounty, discontinued half-way
through ’32, provided the profits claimed
in ’3O and ’3l, and more besides, and
greatly reduced the loss in ’32. Revalua-
tion of stocks accounted for most of the
big slip in ’33, while aggressive com-
petition, which means price-cutting, left
the balance still on the wrong side of
the ledger in ’34. The weakest points
in the co.’s armor were the hosiery and
knitting plants, the comparative efficiency
of which affects manufacturing costs and
other things, and overhead. Following
an overhaul of the organisation in ’35, a
profit of £5878 showed up, mainly owing
to savings in overhead and to a tem-
porary reduction of debenture interest.
Plant was a matter requiring both time
and money, and the outside debt, includ-
ing the overdraft, was substantial; so the
board decided to place the working
assets in good condition by purchasing
new plant to the fullest extent possible
in the circumstances, which meant
paying for additions, etc., out of earn-
ings. To facilitate payment, interest
on the £520,500 of debentures—they are
the funded trade debts of the old Bond
co., and used to carry 7 p.c. p.a., re-
duced to £5 Bs. 6d. by the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act —was lowered to
2 p.c., 2\ p.c. and 3 p.c. for the three
years to the end of 1937. The temporary
saving of £45,800 is to be paid out of
surplus earnings as soon as practicable.
Only £5600 worth of new plant was
installed in ’35. Last year substantial
additions were made —estimated, early in
the term, to cost £20,000 —but earnings
received little benefit therefrom, because
the major item, a new full-fashioned
hosiery plant, didn’t arrive till near the
close of accounts, and is now in course
of erection. Still, trading conditions im-
proved, the co. advertised more, and, de-
spite keen competition, gross earnings
(£112,780) sprang £9681. Including
interest on debentures (£13,446, up
£2602) exes. (£101,221) took £4OOO of
the increase, leaving the net result £5681
better at £11,559. The contingent lia-
bility in respect of deferred interest on
debentures amounted to £35,155, of
which £3900 is to be paid on May 1, re-
ducing the amount still to come for 1935
to 2.65 p.c. Before deducting debenture
interest, last year’s trading profit was


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Carpet Manufacturers Limited
- , _ i _ ± J 3 IN 1 , 1 (VC \
(Registered under tlie Companies Act of New South Wales and Incorporated on the 80th day of December. 1936.)
NOMINAL CAPITAL: £300,000, in shares of £1 each of which:— _
142,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are offered for public subscription and are payable 2/- per on application,
per share on allotment, and the balance in Calls of not more than 4/- per share at intervals of not less than one
month. (No interest will be allowed on Calls paid in advance.) .. •• •• •• •• •• •• ••.••••.•• •• •• t ps’rno
7,500 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are to be issued and allotted as fully paid to the Promoter and/or his Nominees .. .. £<,ooo
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each are to be held in reserve and are for future issue, m terms of the Aiticles ot Associa-
tion of the Company '.
£150,000
300,000
£300,000
DIRECTORS: _ .
SIR CLIFTON LOVE, KT. (Chairman), Chairman, Clifford Love & Co., Ltd., 75-77 Clarence Street, Sydney
— /-r~v 1 /"t 1 2 \ nv. ninm nti TTti Ito rl \T Oil Olirl W 1 TO Notti nfT I’ A . IJI (1 l\ 1(‘ l',V
REGINALD ARTHUR MARKS (Deputy Chairman), Chairman, United Nail and Wire Netting Co., Ltd., McEioj Stieet,.Wateiloo.
J. FIELDING, Chairman, J. Fielding and Co., Ltd., 9 Buckingham Street and 100 Chalmers Stieet, Sydney.
TRESCO G. ROWE, A.C.I.S. (Eng.), (Managing Director, pro tem.), 10 O Connell Street, Sydney.
Three seats on the Board are being reserved for appointments to represent overseas capital.
BANKERS: THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Principal Office, George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS: SEPTIMUS G. ROWE & CO., “Rickard House,” 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS: DAVID FELL & CO., Chartered AccountantsMAust.), 350 George Street, Sydney.
LONDON " ~
TECHNICAL
SECRETARY
Sydney.
BROKERS:
CLARENCE DEGENHARDT & CO.,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company has been formed (inter alia) primarily to provide an
undertaking for the manufacture of carpets and allied products in Australia
and for the objects set forth in the Memorandum of Association of the
Company.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Manufacture of Carpets in Australia.
The Board, after a thorough analytical survey of available markets
and manufacturing costs, is convinced that the manufacture of carpets
in Australia is a sound commercial proposition, the main considerations
being, briefly, as follows:
(1) With ultra-modern equipment procurable, equal to the best and
more up-to-date than that installed in many overseas manufactur-
ing undertakings, a given amount of machinery will produce
carpets of quality and quantity equal to the best overseas
manufacture. >
(2) The present satisfactory Australian wholesale prices, which,
moreover, are hardening, due to improved conditions overseas,
will permit competitive manufacture in Australia.
(3) Tariff Item 118 (a) on imports, viz., 15% British Preference,
30% General ad valorem; Primage, 10%.
The present cost of landing carpets from overseas ranges from
02% to 100% on invoice prices.
WOOL : The Company mil have the advantage of being able to obtain
most of its wool requirements in Australia.
COTTON YARNS can be secured from local spinners at moderate
prices.
JUTE YARNS are obtainable from Dundee, but an old established
Company in Melbourne has commenced production in this class of yarn,
and other companies in Sydney also claim to be in a position to supply
jute carpet yarns at moderate prices.
Carpet Industries are Profitable. —Detailed figures of four repre-
sentative Carpet Manufacturing Companies in England show average
profits from 9.6% to 34J% for the past 12 to 14 years, which includes
“depression” period.
DEMAND FOR CARPETS.
The manufacture of carpets is one of the many important textile
industries now about to be established in Australia.
THE DEMAND FOR CARPETS AND CARPETING IN AUSTRALIA
IS A LARGE AND CONSISTENT ONE, REPRESENTED BY AN ANNUAL
AVERAGE IMPORT VALUE OF NEARLY £A1,364,310.
YARNS.
Woollen Carpet Yarns are procurable from a local mill, of the quality
required for the purpose of producing Axminster Carpeting.
A letter has been received from Messrs. John Vicars & Co., Limited,
Victoria Road, Marrickville, New South Wales, dated 19th February,
1937, reading as follows:
“We wish to acknowledge your enquiry through our agent, Mr. R. W.
Ross, in regard to yarns suitable for making Carpets and the counts and
types which you specify. We also wish to confirm our conversation of
Wednesday last with Mr, Rowe, when we discussed this matter.
“We are in a position to supply your needs in spun and dyed yarns,
wound on cheeses or cones, as you desire. We have the plant and spinning
capacity available to give you considerably more yarn than you anticipate
requiring, and would appreciate the opportunity of doing this business.
We may say that we shall be happy to give you any assistance we can in
sampling Or other ways.”
The Directors’ intention of linking up with the abovementioned well-
known Company for the obtaining of its supplies of dyed woollen yarns is
of material assistance to the Company. By this arrangement, a consider-
able saving will be effected in capital outlay by not having to fully equip
several departments in the Mill. Further, less working capital will be
required. The great experience of such a well-known Company as
Messrs. John Vicars & Co., Limited, in dyed woollen yarns is made avail-
able to this Company, and it will enable the management to confine its
energy and the capital of the Company to the actual manufacture of
carpets, which is the profitable side of this industry.
APPROPRIATION OF CAPITAL.
Unit “A” £65,000
Unit “B” £142,500
PRODUCTION AND REVENUE
Unit “A”—When working one shift per day
Unit “A”—-When working two shifts per day
Unit “B”—When working one shift per day
Unit “B” —When working two' shifts per day
£62,000
£llB,OOO
£140,000
£267*000
A. W. HARVEY,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
ESTIMATE OF PROFITS (AFTER ALLOWANCE FOR
TAXATION).
When operating Unit “A” one shift —available for dividends
and general reserves • •••• £6,181
When operating Unit “A” two shifts- —available for dividends
and general reserves ■' £8,202
When operating Unit “B” one shift —available for dividends
and general reserves .•••••• £16,134
When operating Unit “B” two shifts—-available for dividends
and general reserves £24,678
THE ABOVE CONSERVATIVELY BASED ESTIMATES, WHICH, IN
THE OPINION OF THE DIRECTORS HAVE BEEN CAREFULLY
COMPILED, INDICATE THAT, WITH THE MINIMUM CAPITAL SUB-
SCRIPTION UPON WHICH THE BOARD WILL PROCEED TO ALLOT-
SHARES BEING SUBSCRIBED AND UNIT “B” OPERATED ONLY
ONE SHIFT THE NET PROFITS SHOULD BE 10.75%, AND WORKING
TWO SHIFTS (UNIT “B”), 16.45% PER ANNUM.
COMMENCEMENT OF MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS.
From definite cabled information received from London on the 23rd
March, 1937, deliveries of carpet machinery can be given within four to
five months from date of placing - of order. It can therefore be anticipated
that the Company will be in production from nine to twelve months
from the date of allotment.
ASSOCIATION WITH OVERSEAS CARPET MANUFACTURING
INTERESTS.
The Board of Directors consider that beneficial advantages to the
Company are to be gained by an association with a leading overseas carpet
manufacturing undertaking - , preferably with one whose products are well -
known on this market, and they are proceeding with negotiations already
opened up with that objective. The, decision of the Directors regarding
the importance of such a link-up is determined by the many advantages
of having available for rise, as ancl when required, all the latest designs,
technical and manufacturing data in carpet manufacture, and frequent
interchange of technical anti production staffs.
PARTICIPATION OF OVERSEAS CAPITAL.
The policy of the Board of Directors, in regard to the , present and
future issues, is the participation of overseas capital, preferably in
association with overseas carpet manufacturing interests, find on a basis
of an investment, as far as practicable, of equal amounts of overseas and
Australian capital, negotiations are proceeding.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING.
The Memorandum and* Articles of Association of the Company have
been drawn, up in accordance with Stock Exchange requirements, and
application will be made in due course to list (he shares on the Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane Stock Exchanges.
BROKERAGE.
The Company will pay a cash brokerage not exceeding 6d. per shave
on all shares applied for and allotted on applications identified as coming
through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange. An over-ndmg
commission of 3d. per shave will also be paid to the Company’s Brokers
on all shares allotted.
. ■ .. ALLOTMENT OF SHARES.
The minimum subscription upon which the Company may proceed
to allotment is firm application for 65,000 Ordinary shares of £1 each,
which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is ample to provide sor
purchase of land, erection of buildings, installation of an economic unit
of manufacturing plant and working capital as set out for Unit “A."
GENERAL.
The Company will have the advantage of a reliable and growing
local market for its products at profitable prices, and, being one of the
first in the field, should be assured of a good hold on the local trade from
the beginning of its operations.
Under its proposed direction and management steady expansion on
sound lines may be confidently anticipated to the benefit of its shareholders.
Dated at Sydney the third day of May, 1937.
ADDITIONAL STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO
THIS ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
(a) The requirements of Section 137, Companies Act, 1936, are not
fully complied with in this advertisement, but are contained in the full
prospectus; (b) copies of the full prospectus and forms of application
may be obtained at the Company’s office as above stated, or from the
Brokers; (c) applications for shares will be received only on one of the
forms of application referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of
the prospectus,. ■
£25,005. For the current year debenture
interest at 3 p.c. will call for £15,615, and
in 1938 for £28,337, or 5.45 p.c., and
there will be the arrears calling for re-
duction. Much is expected of the new
full-fashioned plant; still, appearances
are that the 5.45 p.c. to debenture-holders
is none too secure, and that under favor-
able trading conditions. It is difficult to
say what the future holds for those on
the share-register.
The fully-paid pound shares, unrepre-
sented by net tangibles in the sheet, have
a speculative interest at 3s. 6d. The £lOO
debentures, which fell to £2B 10s. two
years ago, now fetch £5O, at which figure
the return is 6 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div.
basis, or 10.9 p.c. on a 5.4 p.c. distribu-
tion, plus arrears when paid. The cover
is £B9 in net tangibles.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the
financial structure:
1 no I IQQQ -iook IQQtf
Paid capital.. £85,840 £86,442 £92,306 £97,806
Debentures .. 544,033 529,747 522,669 523,103
Mortgage . . 111,676 109,786 101,797 97,784
Overdraft .. 89,393 122,099 97,408 88,189
Sundry creditors 50,012 30,312 14,337 10,731-
Freehold . . 322,295 320,920 320,981 321,551
Plant.. .. 231,148 212,754 190,009 194,940
Stocks . . 278,411 226,034 205,517 223,229
Book debts . . 223,254 128,602 99,409 79,438
Cash, etc. . . 7,947 10,426 12,238 9,649
Last year’s net addition to the book value
of plant was £4931. Debtors’ balances
were down £19,971 ; stocks were up
£17,712, owing to purchases under letter
of credit (£19,712) just before the close
of accounts. The mortgage was reduced
by £4013, while £9219 net was snipped
off the overdraft and £3606 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded the floating debt (over-
draft and sundry creditors) by £213,396.
Total outside liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £407,491, an improve-
ment of £11,556 over the twelvemonth.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd.
This is a well-planned and carefully-
considered addition to Australia’s sec-
ondary industries. It is, of course, sub-
ject to all the risks inherent in the estab-
lishment of a new venture, but the board
—it includes names that inspire con-
fidence in other spheres of manufacture
—appears to be going the right way
about things. The idea is to put up a
factory at Mascot, near Sydney (N.S.W.),
for the manufacture of high-grade
Axminster carpets, and an unnamed
overseas maker, whose carpets are said
to be well known on the Australian
market, is being invited to come in.
Such an association would have obvious
advantages so far as design and other
technical aspects of manufacture are
concerned. As for yarns, the intention
is to buy the dyed and spun article from
John Vicars and Co., of Marrickville
(N.S.W.), thus eliminating much risk in
this direction, as well as reducing capital
outlay.
The £300,000 of nominal capital is in
£1 shares, of which 142,500 are offered.
The promoter’s consideration (7500
paids, plus £950 cash) is moderate ; the
balance of 150,000 shares remains in
pickle. Minimum amount on which the
co. may go to allotment is firm appli-
cation for 65,000 shares, which will be
enough to pay for fixed assets and pro-
vide adequate working capital for the
first economical unit of equipment.
Undercapitalisation, one of the most
fruitful sources of failure in new ven-
tures, is thus avoided.
Estimated capital outlay is as follows:
Unit A. Unit B.
Land .. £2,500 £2,500
Buildings . . .. . . 9,000 21,000
Plant (installed) .. . . 21,000 48,000
Prelim, exes. . . . . ~ 9,290 13,410
Working capital . . 23,210 57,550
Total £65,000 £142,500
Most of the money will be represented
by plant and working capital, which are
the chief earning assets in a manufac-
turing business.
Estimated revenue and expenditure,
etc., are as follows:
r- Unit A v —Unit B ,
One Two One Two
Shift. Shifts. Shift. Shifts.
Revenue .. £62,000 £llB,OOO £140,000 £267,000
Exes.:—
General .. 50,821 98,241 112,872 217,103
Sinking funds 1,973 4,115 3.879 8,002
Taxation .. 2,025 3,442 5,115 9,217
Development
account .. 1,000 4,000 2,000 8,000
Total exes. £55,819 £109,798 £123,866 £242,322
Net profit.. £6,181 ; £8,202 £16,134 £24,678
On a paid capital of £72,500 (unit A)
the estimated profit is 8.5 p.c. working
one shift, and 11.3 p.c. working two
shifts. With a paid capital of £150,000
(unit B) the co. is expected, to net
10.7 p.c. operating one shift, and 16.4
p.c. when working two shifts.
The present cost of landing carpets in
Australia from overseas is from 62 p.c.
to 100 p.c. on invoice prices. This and
he fact that the co. will have the most
modern equipment available should
mean much so far as its ability to com-
pete successfully with the imported
article is concerned. Local competition
is almost negligible, and the co.’s output
will be small compared with imports,
which averaged £ A 1,364,310 over the last
decade. Much will depend upon the
quality of the article turned out; expert
operatives are to be imported from Eng-
land. Production is expected to begin
not later than twelve months from date
of allotment. W. F. Roberts will be the
co.’s technical consultant and mill super-
intendent.
On the board are Clifton Love (chair-
man), R. A. Marks, James Fielding and
Tresco G. Rowe (managing, pro tern).
Three seats are being reserved for ap-
pointments to represent overseas capital.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
The million £1 6 p.c. cum. prefs. offered
at par by this co. last week were under-
written by J. B. Were and Son, who took
400,000 firm, 100,000 were made avail-
able to the public, and the other 500,000
were reserved for prior application by
those on the holding cos.’ registers. The
underwriting commission was 9d. per
share in respect of 500,000 shares plus
any not applied for through the holding
cos. The 100,000 offered direct to the
public were heavily oversubscribed within
two hours, and the rights of shareholders
in the holding cos. sold at Is. 9d., which
makes it more difficult to understand the
direct offer to the public at par.
Of this new pref. capital, approximately
£600,000 is to be used to establish a paper-
pulp plant in Gippsland (Vic.), where the
co. has obtained 50-year timber rights
from the Government in the upper valleys
of the Latrobe, Thomson and Bunyip
rivers, and £400,000 for further additions
to and replacement of equipment at the
co.’s existing kraft and paper-board mills
at Melbourne, Fairfield and Bradford
(Vic.) and Botany (N.S.W.). To finance
extensions to the.se mills the co. recently
issued 400,000 16s. ords. at a premium of
ss. each, making issued capital £1,600,000
(2,000,000 ords. of 16s. each), of which
£120,833 (capital) is still to come. When
all the money is in, paid capital will be
£2,600,000. The prefs. will then have a
net tangible backing of approximately
£2 18s. per share, and their annual div.
requirements (£60,000) were more than
three times covered by declared net earn-
ings for the 12 months to June 30, 1936.
The £194,040 of profit claimed for the
year was 13.8 p.c. on capital, and 103
p.c. was paid in divs.
The operating co.’s ord. capital is all
owned by two holding cos., Australasian
Paper and Pulp 78 p.c. and Cumberland
Board Mills 22 p.c. The holding cos.
recently put out more of their own paper
in order to take up the issue of 400,000
ords. by the operating co., already re-
ferred to. When all the money on the
holding cos.’ new issues is in, A. P. and
P.’s paid capital will be £1,455,101,
and Cumberland’s £447,639, together
£2,902,740, on which an all-round 8 p.c.
will call for £232,219. To hand the
holding cos. this amount and pay its
own pref. div., the operating co.
will need to net 11.2 p.c. on its
£2,600,000 of capital. It may be a couple
of years before all the fresh capital is
fully employed; meanwhile, new equip-
ment can be expected to reduce costs,
which should be further lowered as turn-
over expands.
The terms of the operating co.’s pref.
issue disappointed the market, which
shortened its bid for A. P. and P.’s pound
{Continued on next page.)


A S LIKE FRIEND IN UNCERTAIN TIMES
¥
I
Tot up your
A.M.P. Bonuses
and see how
they've grown
I
T is a pleasant occupation for an A.M.P.
member occasionally to tot up his bonuses, and
to see how they have added to his estate.
Three old members were comparing notes in
a solicitor’s office recently. They were all enthusi-
astic holders of many A.M.P. policies. Mr. R.
took out his first policy, for £l,OOO, when he was
25. He showed that it had grown to £3,225. Mr.
B. took out his first policy when he was 22. It was
for £5OO, and has grown to £1,577. Mr. C. also
took out his first when he was 25. It was for
£1,500, and has grown to £4,768. A wonderful
return for an investment of £8 a quarter. Tot up
your bonuses and see how good they are.
When you have done this totting, consider well
whether you should invest in more A.M.P. Policies,
if not on your own life, then on your sons’ and
daughters’. There is no better investment in the
world. No other investment has shown such a
consistently good return. Send to your nearest
A.M.P. office for an experienced adviser to talk this
question over with you. You will find him helpful
and you can trust him with your confidences.
Get in touch to-day. Even to-morrow may be
too late—who knows?
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
C. A. ELLIOTT. F.1.A.. A. W. SNEDDON. F.1.A.,
Actuary, General Manager,
C. M. MARTIN.
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
If you have ores for sale write:—
NORMAN HILL & CO., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
luyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
res, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
Public Notice.
CQRESTRY BONDS. —Those wishing to sell
* N.Z. Perpetual Forests Ltd. Investments
will get highest prices by communication with
G.P.O. BOX 1765 (Melbourne).
Wm
>?»% iA
»**%*■•
«**„* *
* * ■« *
V*S"V
kv
oft
ttV Xo
Spirit
S OP^R
Pl**?
COR
SUPER
Plus
ETHYL
COLOURED RED
BE PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVEN'T GOT!
Plus BENZOL (Tinted Blue) IS SOLD
AT THE STANDARP grade price
ords. from 395. to 345., and for Cumber-
land’s pound ords. from 345. 9d. to 325.
6d. over the last couple of months. At the.
lower prices the returns are 4.7 p.c. and
4.9 p.c. respectively on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Incidentally, A.P.M.’s operations will
be in no way competitive with those of
Associated Paper and Pulp, Ltd., which
is putting up a plant in Tasmania to turn
out fine-writing and printing papers.
At Coen, Cape York Peninsula (N.Q.),
a five-head mill is being erected to treat
the. mullock dumps at the old Great
Northern mine. The mill was trans-
ferred from the Batavia diggings by John
Forsythe, one of the Batavia pioneers,
who estimates that it will take nearly four
years to treat the 20,000 tons of stone in
the dumps, estimated to average 4|dwt..
Forsythe will also try the Great Northern,
which yielded 49,5920 z. from 23,196 tons
between 1893 and 1916. Down 480 ft., the
mine is full of water.
$ $ £ ' *
At Forsayth (N.Q.) a new lode, pros-
pecting up to to the ton, has been
located in the vicinity of Mount Jack.
Several leases have been pegged, but the
gold is very fine, and may need smelting
to obtain best results.
* * * #
A new mercury lode has been located
at Landsborough (Q.). Plant has been
installed by a local syndicate, and the first
hundredweight of ore treated yielded
421 b. of good quality mercury. The first
mercurial ore in Queensland was located
at Kilkivan by a shepherd in 1872, and
the deposit is still being worked.
* * * *
After two months on the mine, C. A.
Whitfield, chairman of North Kalgurli,
is returning to London convinced that the
old tale that payable values don’t live in
calc schist on the. Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile is all bunkum. Although old assay
plans show that many bores entering calc
schist were marked discontinued, pros-
pecting on the North Kalgurli group has
proved that gold-carrying lodes originat-
ing and remaining in calc schist contain
values equal to those of ore-bodies in
quartz dolerite, and in some cases are
even more payable. There seems to be
little doubt that where quartz dolerite
lodes contact with the calc schist values
are generally poor. That lodes in calc
schist are payable opens up possibilities
for mines on the eastern side of the
Golden Mile which bottomed in calc
schist.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) is meeting with
encouraging developments—better values,
more defined lode and good standing
walls —below the 200 ft. level. On the
200 ft. level the. lode has been proved for
a length of 320 ft., with evidence of
further extension, and it has been inter-
sected by a cross from a winze on the
280 ft. level, where, the width is 14ft. with
no walls showing. A bulk sample of 30
tons returned an average of B.o9dwt.
Owing to the hardness of this ore, addi-
tional grinding and crushing sections are
to be added to the mill, and are ex-
pected to be ready for the feed by the
end of July.
Hi H: Hi *
Wiluna has no difficulty in treating
50,000 tons a month, but returns are not
so good as they were. March revenue
was £88,135, and the working profit
£30,695. Most promising exposures of
the month were the opening-up of ore
averaging 14dwt. over 16ft. at the 870 ft.
sub-level on No. 2 West lode, and the
intersection by a diamond drill of 7ft.
of 3dwt. and sft. of Bdwt. rock at a
depth of 1750 ft. or thereabouts. Never-
theless the mine is definitely poorer in
the present bottom workings.
* * *
“O.B.”: London - controlled Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, floated by Gold Ex-
ploration, Ltd., is probably the luckiest
of the new concerns searching for yellow
metal along the Golden Mile. Its holdings
include the Iron Duke and portions of
the Oroya and Australia groups, all old
and supposed at one time to be worked-
out properties. Recent developments on
the. Iron Duke have been impressive, and
so have some in the Oroya. The co. has
a treatment plant in operation, and is
earning good profits. So far its possibili-
ties seem to have been overlooked by the
market.
:? * * *
Bayley’s old mine, now one of De
Bernales’s Commonwealth Mining and
Finance group at Coolgardie, is coming
along. Driving on a new lode at the
800 ft. and 1000 ft. levels has exposed pay-
able values over fair widths, and pros-
pecting at depth in Bayley’s South, an-
other of the group, has produced en-
couraging results. A considerable ton-
nage of ore is said to be visible in the
workings of the two properties, and a
treatment plant is talked of.
* * * *
Towards the end of last year Paringa
(W.A.) took an option over North Kal-
gurli Central, its next-door neighbor,
and, after doing some boring, decided
not to continue business here. North
Kalgurli Central carried on, and claims
to have diamond-drilled 2ft. of 34dwt.
ore and another 2ft. of lOdwt. rock. But,
as often emphasised on this page, de-
velopment work needs to be carried out
before the real value of a borehole in-
tersection can be determined.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, which cost gamblers a
lot of money last year, struggles on.
Receipts are now said to exceed expen-
diture, but liabilities, heavy for a co.
with prospects like the Shenton, await
liquidation. The market has lost hopes
of a div.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) is whooping about its
recent performances. Since production
began in Sept, last 10,772 tons has,
according to official figures, been crushed
for 321 loz. of bullion (fine-gold content
not stated). Costs are said to have
been reduced from 325. in November to
245. 4d. in March. Loans from the State
Government and some of the directors
total in the vicinity of £lO,OOO.
* * *
“Finantimo” (London): A year ago
dynamite glycerine was quoted at £7O
a ton ; recently the figure rose as high
as £l4O. Then sellers held off for higher
and buyers for lower prices. Quotes
now range from £125 to £l3O a ton.
There is no shortage of supply to meet
the increase in demand, for which re-
armament is not the chief cause. Demand
is due mainly to industrial requirements
for making cellulose wrapping-paper.
Ammonium nitrate has risen between £3
and £4, reaching £l7 a ton. Chile and
other countries are also turning to am-
monium nitrate as a blasting constituent
in place of dynamite. Several tons of
ammonium nitrate go to make the equi-
valent of one ton of glycerine in the
manufacture of explosives.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * # *
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and 'plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money ! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our 1935 General
Catalogue.—Advt.


1M
m
ill
ill
fill!!
11l
HIM
■HI
111
5
wf*
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“ METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
The Magic Set.
“But for the racing news radio would not
be as popular as it is. The average man wants
an instrument which is able to tell him that his
horse has won.”— “D.T.”
Oh, tell me where,
If you would deign,
This instrument
I can obtain.
My wireless, with
No magic graced,
Can only say
Mine ran unplaced!
H. M.
•I* 4* 'l* 4-
“Bankrupt said that formerly he dined at the
best restaurants in the world. For five years,
however, he had been in difficulties.”
Once dinner at the Ritz ; now writs
at the dinner.
4* 4* HE* *l*
“What is the Parliamentary machine?” asks
a woman correspondent.
A gas-engine.
4* *l* 4* 4"
“He was sitting in a William-street cafe,
pouring over the evening paper.”
—“New Idea.”
What manners some people have!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A foundry in a small Lancashire town has
been converted into a dance palais.”
It won’t sound much different to neigh-
boring residents.
4* 4* *l* 4*
“The man was attired in golfing trousers of
a distinctive pattern. It was evident that he
had been running.”—' “Sun.”
You could tell that by his loud
pants.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The wise man chooses brains as well as
beauty, of course.”— Woman’s paper.
But is it wise to risk a charge of
bigamy?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Maidenly Education.
“Because she got low marks for public
speaking a 16-year-old Oklahoma girl fired six
shots at her teacher; all missed.”
That sort of thing makes me wonder
what the education of girls has degen-
erated into these days. That poor child
was obviously in much more need of
target practice than public speaking.
At the young ladies’ seminary which I
attended we were instructed that public
speaking was unwomanly, and that if
you had any public statement to make
the correct thing was to hire a lawyer
to appear for you. But we certainly
were taught to shoot, mostly with the
bow and arrow. Only the prefects were
allowed to have muzzle-loaders.
No teacher was game to give, me low
marks too often. I’ve often flushed a
covey of them in the woods on holidays,
and winged five out of six on the run
with my bow, and every one of them
through the bustle.
One of my best bits of archery was
three inners and a magpie at the ex-
pense of the knitting mistress. I pinned
tier to the fowlhouse through the crino-
line with three successive arrows, and
got the magpie, which was hers also,
with the fourth.
1 was pretty good with the shanghai,
too, but we kept them for the tradesmen,
it was considered frightfully bad form
to use an arrow on any outsider lower
than the. vicar.
Aggie McWhoosh.
»£• »|«
“In Russia politicians are executed quite fre-
quently.”—“s. M. Herald.”
They must be tough to stand it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A Spanish peasant girl named Amalia
Baranda claims that she has not eaten or
taken anything to drink for over 15 years.
Doctors who say they have examined her
assert that her digestive organs are quite normal,
though slightly withered.”—Sydney “D.T.”
Now bring on your war cables!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Words lose much of their meaning in cold
print,” says a writer.
An income-tax final notice is an excep-
tion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Taxpayers who think they have paid
all they can are to be allowed to go on
thinking.
4« •!* 4‘ 4»
“It is quite an art for a magistrate .to deter-
mine the most suitable penalties.”— “Telegraph.”
A fine art.
“Most walnuts bought to-day are nearly all
shell, and have very little kernel,” complains
a housewife.
In fact, they’re not all they’re cracked
up to be.
4 4 4 4
“Eighteen-year-old racehorse wins his first
race.” —News item.
Doubtless after hearing that punters
had decided to follow it no longer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In 20 years’ time men will wear shorts and
tennis shirts all the year round,” says a writer.
The thought leaves us cold.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The people of Brisbane have the choice of
going backward or going forward.”
— Queensland’s Acting-Premier Pease.
The “sideways-wriggle” and the “duck”
are movements strictly reserved for the
politicians.
“ 'Ere, missus, this ain't in the regulations !”
“Many people go to a manicurist before
attending a bridge party,” says a writer.
That’s one way to make sure of hav-
ing decent hands.
•b *b *b «b
The Useless Sex.
“ ‘And as for these flappers .’ He shook
his head again. ‘They want too much, earn
too much, spend too much on themselves,
keep boys out of jobs, can’t cook a decent
steak or even make a cup of tea sometimes,
and haven’t much time for men without cars.’ ”
—“S’; M. Herald.”
And that’s praising them! They’re
selfish, idle, wasteful. Their uselessness
is in inverse ratio to their self-esteem ;
they think the world was created
specially for them. They’re artificial
from their enamelled toenails to their
sham-fringed and dyed hair.
1 could fill a column in enlarging on
the utter worthlessness of these inane
dolls, but I haven’t time. I’ve got to
rush off now to meet one.
H. M.
4* •!• 4* 4*
“When a company or. a man gets into debt
the question is what is it or he going to do
about it?” — “S.M.H.”
Or who?
*> *b "b
“In bankruptcy a man said that his partner
walked out one day, when the place had been
showing a loss, and told him he could have
‘the whole place on his own.’ ”
Giving him the office, so to speak.
4* *b *b *b
“Betting is, a vice,” complains a reformer.
It certainly seems to grip many-people.
Social Note.
“Miss ’s cheeks were of a delicate melon-
pink.”
Her eyebrows, of a pale mangei-
wurzel brown, enhanced her pumpkin-
grey eyes shaded with cabbage-leaf
green; her hair (parsnip blonde) was
drawn back from her turnip-white brow,
and her nails matched her vegetable-
marrow-hued gown. She was a peach.
Dougal.
4* 4 *!• *l*
“Watch the average woman’s face brighten
when a man proposes to her.”
— Woman’s paper.
Particularly when she strikes a good
match.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hedgehogs suffer from the same common
cold that affects human beings.”
With the additional drawback of not
being able to indulge in either the whisky
or rum cure.
4 4 4 4
Hints for Husbands.
VII. — Cleaning.
Among wives it is axiomatic that
“cleaning through” the house should be
performed weekly; a certain day is set
aside for it, and only acts of God,
sudden deaths and bargain specials can
alter this otherwise inviolable routine.
The natural query of husbands will be,
of course, that if the whole of the clean-
ing can be done in one day, how on earth
do wives fill in the rest of the week?
Judging by my friend Wobbleconk the
question will take some answering.
Wobbleconk has a large family—l 4, to
be precise. Recently he sent them all
away for a holiday to some unsung hero-
relative in the country. I dropped in to
see how the batching life suited him, and
found him boiling up the copper. I
thought he intended doing the washing,
but he was just making a cup of tea —he
had burned the bottom out of the kettle,
and every saucepan in the house was
dirty. The unmade bed had the deepest
hiphole 1 ve seen. Obviously he proposed
turning the mattress on the morning the
family was due to return.
Wobbleconk volunteered the conclu-
sion that women moaned too much
about what they had to do. Look at
him ! Did he rush around shooting up
his blood pressure worrying about the
mats not having been shaken or the top
of the piano not dusted? He could
manage the place—and well, too —even
in his spare time after work. What did
the woman do with herself all day! Pot-
tering about, he supposed, futilely shift-
ing something or other about and wear-
ing the nap off the carpet with the eternal
vacuum-cleaning.
After all, let us be fair. There is much
to be said for Wobbleconk’s viewpoint.
this bed-making, for instance. He
hadn’t' made it once nor changed the
sheets in three weeks, yet he slept in it
with his wonted degree of somnolence.
Had his wife been home it would have
been made every day. Would he have
slept any better? No! Moreover, think
of the wear and tear on sheets, blankets,
mattress, bedstead, ticking, time and
temper that Wobbleconk had saved!
Were it left to husbands, household ac-
cessories would last almost indefinitely.
If I appear to digress slightly, it is but
to emphasise to husbands the necessity
of cleaning as little as possible. Having
determined on this, see that what you
do is done thoroughly. If, for instance,
you have been taking the mower to pieces
in the lounge-room don’t, having re-
assembled it, leave the surplus parts on
the carpet for everyone to trip over. And
don’t be slovenly and sweep the dried
mud and grass clippings into a heap in
the corner. Just lift the edge of the
carpet and brush it all under. This dis-
poses of it quickly, cleanly and, if the
carpet is not shifted —and why should it
be until you move? —finally.
The question whether a room should
be swept or dusted first has long been a
vexed one. Should the dusting be done
first, the subsequent sweeping will raise
a dust that will vitiate your earlier
efforts. Conversely, if it be swept first,
the dust afterwards disturbed will settle
back on the floor. This doesn’t make
sense, and the vicious circle may be
squared by doing neither sweeping nor
dusting. Q.E.D.
Uncarpeted rooms such as the kitchen,
laundry, etc., are cleaned by washing
them. The development of housemaid’s
knee would be undignified for any hus-
band ; “mopping out” is a messy pro-
cess ; the easiest —and therefore best —
method is to drop a few handfuls of
soda (if no washing soda is available
baking soda should do) into a bucket of
boiling water and swill it over the floor.
Holes should be. drilled through the floor-
boards—if lino is on the floor through
it also—to allow water to get away. This
job should be done only when a hurri-
cane is blowing. All that is then neces-
sary to dry it off is to open all doors
and windows in the house.
Regarding the polishing of linos, a
spot of subtlety is worth many horse-
power of elbow grease. Just trip one of
the kids as he tears through the kitchen.
When he comes down wallop warn the
wife of the danger of the children crack-
ing their necks on the highly-polished
surface. The protective maternal instinct
is a sure winner, and your polishing
troubles will be. over. S W K


TO INVEST MONEY
through ordinary channels is extremely difficult
to-day for people of moderate means. The yield
is either too small on first-class securities or too
high to be safe on others.
Here, however, is an investment combining safety —“ "
with an attractive yield.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
are issued by the
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
who act as Custodian Trustees for investors and
collect and distribute the income from 20 of
Australia’s leading Securities. Sums of approx.
£25 and upwards may be invested, giving an
interest yield of approx.
• 4i°/
2 / c
Explanatory booklet obtainable from any Stockbroker, or write to
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
Directors:
Victor U Watson, Esq. (Chairman), formerly Manager, The Trustees,
Executors and Ageiu-v Co., Ltd., Melbourne Norman L. Cowper, Esq.,
Solicitor, Messrs. Allen, Allen, & ITcinsley, Sydney; John, A. L. Uim,
fjsq., F.C.A. (Aust.), Chartered Accountant (Aust.) Palmer Kent,
Esq.’, Retired Chief Inspector, The Bank of Australasia.
8-14 BOND STREET. SYDNEY.
B.H. Prop. Again.
Broken Hill Prop, still
one of the most undervalued
trials on the market.
looks
indus-
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Employment—Financial Policy
in every country trade and industry
govern the employment problem, irre-
spective of what palliatives were used
at various times during the worst of the
depression to save distressed people from
actual starvation. There is no greater
absorber of labor than private enter-
prise ; it has been such enterprise in the
Commonwealth that has done nine-
tenths of the good work in reducing un-
employment from around 30 p.c. in 1933
to near 10 p.c. now.
Employment and social welfare being
the chief problems confronting every
democracy and dictatorship in the world
to-day, these questions will continue
to overshadow international political
and monetary policy, and to influence or
discourage changes from the present
order of things. Therefore any deliberate
action in the U.S.A. or elsewhere to
check rising prices or to slow down the
influx of gold would have the aim of
preserving industrial well-being, which
means the maintenance of trade. What-
ever is the immediate effect of fears that
Roosevelt may put a higher value on the
dollar, it can hardly be that this wielder
of colossal power aims at creating a
trade depression inside or outside the
United States. His intention is to avoid
a boom, which would inevitably beget a
slump.
Solitary action by the U.S.A. is un-
likely. Still, the market pendulum is
swinging backward now. Speculators in
metals, other commodities and shares
may get it in the neck ; countries relying
principally on primary production may
have a season or two of disconcerting,
erratic prices ; but in the long run it can
be taken for granted that any planned
action by national Governments will aim
at bringing producers and consumers
into more fruitful contact. As was
stressed time and again when, commodi-
ties were booming early this year, un-
stable, soaring prices are almost as dis-
couraging to trade as unstable, slumping
prices. The curse of booming prices is
that they set high standards of costs
that cripple industry and stifle employ-
ment when they dip, as they invariably
seem to do.
There is periodically a time in the
affairs of men when their psychological
system reacts, caution taking the place
of confidence, and vice versa. Specu-
lators who have been bulling the markets
with profit for a couple of years now
will find that the very successful rumor
circulated about Roosevelt’s gold-buying
policy has put them out of business for
the time being. There may be signifi-
cance, in the fact that the rumor came
along about the same time as the British
banks’ action in putting the screw on
“carried” speculators. The effect was
salutary.
Buying and selling tendencies often
come in waves. We may now be. in for
a period of selling by speculators, and
prices may swing to an unduly low
point; but there is no doubt that Roose-
velt has punters guessing—and an excel-
lent thing, too. Prices governed by com-
mercial demand, and not by gamblers,
are less liable to violent fluctuations.
Reports from overseas last week
showed that several financial authorities
were strong in their opinion that share-
market jitters had got beyond the bounds
of commonsense, and were directing
attention to the fact that trade conditions
in Britain and the U.S.A. had lifted to
new high levels of prosperity. Some
also stressed the view that the present
situation is a “technical” one arising out
of fears of political action, and is not
due to slowness of trade. That metals
had previously gone too high should be
more of a lesson than a disaster. The fol-
lowing table of share-price movements
in the Commonwealth over the past 18
weeks shows how investment support has
waxed and waned here:
Dec. 16, Mch. 16, Apr. 29,
1936. 1937. 1937.
Bank of N.S.W. £35/15/- £37/17/6 £3B/10/-
Natiohal Bank .. £7/10/- £B/-/- £7/17/6
G'borough, Mort 36/- 39/6 39/-
Winchcombe .. 36/- 36/6 36/6
Adelaide Steam.. 31/6 32/6 32/6
Q’land Insurance 61/ 60/9 60/-
A. Gas “A” .. £7/8/6 £7/3/- £7/6/-
Carlton Brewery 63/6 64/- 63/6
C.-Perkins .. 24/6 26/- 26/9
Tooth .. .. 55/- 57/- 58/3
Ass. News .. 24/6 24/3 23/7
Aus. Glass .. 90/9 93/6 90/-
Aus. Paper .. 36/- 39/- 35/-
Aus. Cement .. 29/ — 31/6 31/6
B. Prop. .. 83/- 91/3 81/3
Burns Philp .. 75/- 80/- 73/-
Electro. Zinc .. 49/6 66/6 57/6
Fairymead .. 39/- 39/3 37/6
G. J. Coles .. £4/10/6 £5/6/- £5/5/-
Mauri Bros. .. 72/- 75/- 74/-
W. H. Soul .. 86/6 84/6 85/-
Yarra Falls .. 40/6 43/ 42/-
North B.H. .. 71/6 89/3 70/9
B.H. South .. 44/6 58/- 46/9
Mt. Lyell •• 38/9 52/6 45/3
Commodities—
Wool, lb. .. 17.5 d. 18.4 d. 20d.
Wheat, bushel .. ss. 3d. ss. sd. ss. 2d.
Lead, ton .. £25/10/7 £33/-/- £24/17/6
Spelter, ton .. £lB/1/- £33/5/11 £24/10/-
El. copper, ton £5O/13/- £72*/8/ll £63/-/-
The commodity prices at the foot of the
table in some cases are approximate ;
metal quotes in the first two columns
are London averages for December and
March respectively. The share prices
are notable for firmness in most bank,
pastoral, shipping, insurance, brewery,
gas and what are generally regarded as
trustee shares, and pronounced weakness
in manufacturing issues and (of course)
base-metal mines. Though the latter
always, carry a speculative risk, and can-
not be bought with complete peace of
mind, some of our first-class manufactur-
ing industries should- be worth buying
into now. It is mainly speculators'
shares that are being dumped on the
market.
& # * *
Emperor shares dropped to 16s. Bd. in
Melbourne last week, the lowest quote
for some time. Lolomas also, hit 20s. on
Thursday. North Kalgurlis slipped back
to 19s. 3d., which is about the figure
averaged before recent developments at
the mine were announced. In Adelaide,
Lake View and Stars at 235. 7d. touched
the lowest point for years. The market
has more cause to be uneasy about gold
shares than about industrials, because
rising costs would not be accompanied
by a higher price for gold. Still,
the pessimistic side can be exaggerated.
To start with, the present setback
in world commodity prices may have
the effect of checking the upward ten-
dency of costs, which was encouraged by
war rumors. Also it seems unlikely that
British trade could stand an overvalued
currency or a lower price for gold. The
Commonwealth price for the yellow metal
is based on the sterling price. Assuming
that a mine has been proved to contain
a large body of auriferous ore, its profits
are likely to suffer in the event of the
gold price and mining costs showing a
converging tendency, especially if its
margin of profits over costs is already
low and it depends principally on a large
throughput in order to pay divs. In
other words, it was the high gold price
and low mining costs that fostered low-
grade mining ; a reversal of the factors
would, act to stifle, it. However, as we
have suggested before, there is more hope
in the outlook than some sharemarket
quotes would suggest.
* * # *
E. G. Theodore, who has had a
lengthy stay in Fiji on the Emperor
property, leaves Australia again early
this month —for Borneo. He is a director
of Borneo Gold Explorations, N.L.,
which has, under license, “large areas in
Dutch West Borneo, and as the result
of some pit-sinking it has been decided to
scout-drill an extensive area.” Mr.
Theodore’s advice is wanted on the ques-
tion of organisation and equipment. The
co. is not officially listed in Melbourne,
but its shares are, selling at £23 each.
* * * *
The Australian sharemarkets remained
weak qnd hesitant last week, with fitful
rallies in some stocks, but generally the
idea was to “wait and see.” Broken Hill
Prop.’s wide fluctuations created substan-
tial interest and turnover in Melbourne,
but at below 90s. towards the end of the
week Australian Glass was inactive.
Higher-yielding second-line stocks in
many cases showed stronger prices than
before the scare started, indicating the
unusual nature, of this market setback,
which in the case of a number of issues
has been the sharpest since the 1929-30
decline. G. J. Coles ords. did not hold
all of their recent recovery, sales at
£5 ss. being recorded, after £5 10s. had
been seen a few days before, and below
£5 a few days before that. That erratic
behavior here shows what a force specu-
lation still is in market “tone.”
# # * *
Australian Cement shares rose to
31s. 6d. in Melbourne on Tuesday of last
week, showing a present yield of £6 7s.
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Kandos 16s.
scrip at 245. gave £6 13s. 4d. p.c.
Kandos shares remain far and away the
better buy; besides the bigger immediate
return, they represent an 114 p.c. greater
asset value in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., which is the common denominator
from which Kandos and Australian
cement draw their income.
* * * *
Shares not generally very active with-
stood the recent general market setback
better than active counters. Gordon and
Gotch, Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Berlei,
Adelaide Steam and some other good-
quality, well-held sfocks have shown
little or no recession ; but concerns of
wide turnover, such as British Tobacco;
Broken Hill Prop.; Kandos Cement,
brewery cos. and David Jones, to name
only a few, have reflected the general
trend to a greater or lesser degree.
Market leaders are nearly always more
susceptible to “tone” of prevailing sup-
port than concerns which are less fre-
quently bought into. There is generally
.greater, speculative dealing in - notably
active stocks.
Castlemaine-Perkins has been very
solidly supported, despite general market
ups and downs. On the day of last
week’s sharpest crash the shares lifted
to 265. in Brisbane ; the Sydney market
was even firmer, and a day later there
were sales at 265. 9d.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop.’s ilk P- c - interim
was received with disappointment by the
sharemarket. There were sales down to
795. in Melbourne for the fully-paids,
with as low as 70s. for the contnbs.
Yield at 825., cum div., is £3 Is. 10d.
p.c. Australian Glass at 90s. returns
£3 6s. Bd. p.c. Props., whether through
new issues or increased divs., seem likely
to show the greater return later on.
Last week there was every indication
that the new loan would be a success.
The return offered (£3 19s. Id. per cent.,
including redemption) was above the
overall rate obtainable from Consols,
and more particularly was it higher than
the yield available from issues of terms
similar to the present float. The March
quarterly banking averages were all in
its favor.
Some authorities foresee a hardening
in Commonwealth bond values over the
next twelve months. Certainly the heavy
fall in some ordinary-share prices over
the last few weeks and the dip in com-
modities suggest that investors may
choose to play canny for some time now.
Building activity has been checked
already (suppliers of materials have done
a good deal towards cutting their own
throats here), and the deferred buying
force of the slump years must have spent
itself by this as regards many items of
household equipment. Investment equi-
ties may therefore lose popularity in
favor of fixed-interest securities. Taking
the long view, however, the opinion is
still held here that sound ordinary shares,
keenly bought, will turn out best in the
long run. The only major bugbear is
the taxation question, and even politi-
cians must pause before they consider
loading industry with further burdens.
* >:= * *
Half-yearly production figures of Mt.
Lyell indicated that about 2s. 6d. per
share had been earned to the end of
March, assuming that investment income
kept at the same level as last year. Elec-
trolytic copper averaged £55 15s. lid.
(stg.) during the period, up £l5 a ton
over mean price for the preceding full
twelve months. Average price for elec-
trolytic during April has been around
£65 (ste.).
* * *
News from tne wool market is reassur-
ing. Higher prices were averaged for
April, in spite of the general drift in most
markets. London quotations were firm,
and reports from Japan indicated a
keener demand from that direction.
Consumption of gas and electricity in
Sydney during the first quarter of 1937
was above that for the last three months
of 1936. After the festive season at
the end of each year there is usually a
dropping-off in fuel sales.
Registrations of new motor-cars in
N. S. Wales during this year to date beat
any corresponding figures of the past
eight years.
* * * *
Carlton Brewery shares had lifted to
645. on the Monday before The Bulle-
tin’s recommendation at 62s 6d. was
published (last Wednesday). In Tues-
day’s market debacle they were down
to 625. 6d. again, but firmed to 635. 6d.
on Wednesday.
% t- ♦ *
Turnover in N. S. Wales real estate
for January, February and March of
this year was higher than for the first
three months of 1936, though compared
with previous years the rate of increase
has slowed down. One should not expee>
progressive increases to be sustained in-
definitely, and the fact that turnover has
been more than maintained in a some-
what uncertain period is encouraging.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
General Motors-Holden’s, Lid., disclosed
a profit of £746,670 for the year to Dec. -U.
and declared an ordinary div. of 40 P-t-
During 24 years of the slump period losses o
£869 109 were shown. Profits tor the lates
year were up £73,600 on the 1935 showing.
Heavier turnover in some industrial stocks
was evident, but prices were generally ,
B.H. Proil contribs. fluctuated widely,
Australian Glass ords. sold below Cs.
poppies" have been marked down most.


LIMITED
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the DIRECTORS’ REPORT presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING
held Wednesday, 28th April, 1937, at
the Offices of the Society,
No. 316 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Record Year for New Business and Income
Large Increase in Funds
Payments to Policyholders During 1936,
Over £1,750,000
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
New Business—excluding Term Assurances for Guaranteed Income
Policies 20,396, Policies Assuring . £12,820,389 3 8
Addition to Life Assurance Fund (total now £1 4,807,690 1 6 3) 1,006,619 14 8
Total Income for the Year 3,146,250 7 2
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies issued during the year 80,215
Assuring (excluding term assurances for Guaranteed Income Policies
and Accident and Sickness Benefits) .. .. £15,042,421 6 8
Total Income for the year, 1936 . . 4,076,990 13 6
Interest Income . . . . . . 826,827 13 4
Total Funds as at 31st December, 1936.. 19,546,583 17 9
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the
Policyholders only. .
CONTINGENCY RESERVES OF £550,428 19 9
INTEREST EARNED, ALL DEPARTMENTS . . £4/10/- per Cent.
TOTAL PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS SINCE INCEPTION . . . £25,110,206
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
assuring
aims to render exceptional service to the
public.
PURELY MUTUAL—NO SHAREHOLDERS.
PIONEERS OF GROUP ASSURANCE.
Directorate and Chief Executive Officers:
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Chairman; The
Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Deputy Chairman;
General Sir HARRY CHAUVEL, G.C.M.G., K.C.8.;
G. DALZIEL KELLY, LL.B.; ALEX. COOCH, J.P.
General Manager: CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.I.S.
Secretary: A. H. JOHNS, A.I.A.
Joint Actuaries : D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A.;
F. C. McPHAIL, A.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D., B.S.
NEW SOUTH WALES: 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Directors: Sir SYDNEY SNOW, K.8.E., Chairman;
Sir KELSO KING, K. 8.; ALLEN C. LEWIS; Sir GRAHAM
WADDELL, K.8.E.; JOHN ANDERSON, Manager;
A, MAITLAND GLEDDEN, M.D. (Brux.), F.R.C.S.
(Edin.), M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L.R.C.P. (Lond.), Consulting
Medical Officer.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 45 King William Street, Adelaide.
Directors: Brig.-General G. H. DEAN, C.8.E., V.D.,
Chairman; C. T. C. de CRESPIGNY, F.R.C.P., Medical
Director; A. J. CROSS, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 289 and 291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Directors: JOHN E. TRUDE, Chairman; Dr. S. F.
McDONALD, M.R.C.P., Medical Director; F. H. IRONSIDE,
A.C.1.5., Manager.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Directors: H. B. JACKSON, K.C., Chairman; CHARLES
DIAMOND; J. J. POYNTON; D. M. McWHAE, M.R.C.P.,
Medical Director; J. A. EDWARDS, Manager.
TASMANIA: Elizabeth and MacQuarie Streets, Hobart;
91 Cameron Street, Launceston.
Director: Sir JOHN C McPHEE, K.C.M.G.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Because of midday rain the attendance
at Ascot (Melbourne) races suffered.
Unlucky for the V.T. and R.A., which
distributed £2050 in prizemoney—£900
more than was raced for at Canterbury
Park on the same afternoon. Two events
were each worth £5OO, as against the
Canterbury maximum of £2OO.
Accidents were numerous at Ascot.
In the Wimbourne Trial Hurdle four
horses fell. Johnson, Bracken and Dum-
mett, the respective riders of Drakpho,
Maladder and Lord Willonyx, each sus-
tained a broken collarbone, while Dum-
mett —a particularly unfortunate jockey
—suffered head injuries. Cox, an appren-
tice, fractured his left leg when Rambler
stumbled and unseated him after pass-
ing the post in a division of the Montrose
Handicap.
Maladder broke his neck and was de-
stroyed as the result of his fall in the
Trial Hurdle. Davollies (David-Queen
of the Follies), whom F. W. Hoysted had
been getting into shape for the Nationals,
came down in the same race and pierced
a shoulder vein, from which blood gushed
shockingly. However, the club vet. said
it was not a serious injury.
David Quex, who went out a slightly
better favorite than Davollies for the
Trial Hurdle, missed a place, but looked
all over a winner when he blundered at
the second-last flight. This horse had a
similar experience at his last Ascot
outing. The race on Saturday resulted
in King Siris (8 to 1) getting up in time
to beat Tangoio by a head, with Davan-
thus a moderate third. Davanthus,
Davollies and David Quex are all by
that great stayer David, who promises
to take high rank as a sire of jumpers.
Less than a month ago D. S. McCor-
mick won at Caulfield with Lord Jeving-
ton, who paid £l7 14s. for each ss. staked
on the tote. McCormick did Melbourne
bookmakers a still better turn at Ascot
by capturing the first division of the En-
courage Handicap with Route March,
who was quoted at 100 to 1 and re-
turned a div. of £24 12s. Strangely
enough, both Lord Jevington and Route
March belong to H. S. Docker, owner of
that gallant grey hurdler Sarokos.
Route March finished with an electrical
rush to pip Dick Bradfield’s Gaybrooke
on the post. Gaybrooke (4 to 1) was in
half-a-point less demand than the favor-
ite, Silver Planet, who led but faded into
third place. March Along, the sire of
Route March, was imported from Eng-
land by the late John Brown, but did
not prove a stud success.
Elliot had a rocking-chair ride on
Conwardil in the second division of the
Encourage Handicap. His mount shot
past Pother (5 to 2) at the straight en-
trance and scored, running away, from
Tongio King (2 to 1) and Premiership
(12 to 1). T. J. Confoy, whose colors
are carried by Conwardil, must have
made a good haul, as the little gelding
shortened from 14 to 1 to half those
odds.
Spray, owned by T. C. Manifold, of
the V.R.C. committee, started a hot favor-
ite for the second division of the juvenile
event, but she had one of her hind legs
badly stripped through being galloped on
at the start and finished almost last.
Carloca, a 6-to-l shot, took charge at the
half-mile and won comfortably from
Teutonic and Petra. Carloca is by Cale-
don from the dam of Speltho, Riddle
and Wilaire —all winners.
Tindall makes few unsuccessful bet-
ting plunges, but he misfired with Madero
(Drake-Miss Milligan) in the first divi-
sion of the Montrose Handicap for two-
year-olds. Backed from “eights” down
to 3 to 1, Madero had every chance, but
was palpably beaten a long way from
home. , -
Chu-Chin-Chow, recently bought by
W. R. Kemball at' the dispersal sale of
Sol Green’s racing string, cleared out
from the field and scored by two lengths
from Son of Aurous. Latter came from
second-last to suffer an unlucky defeat.
Chu-Chin-Chow is by Verbius from Chili-
Bom-Bom, an imported mare related to
La Carabine and running back to the
ancestress of Heroic and Magpie.
J. M. Niall, of the V.R.C. committee,
saw his brilliant mare Studio start a
warm favorite for the Imperial Handi-
cap, in which she made a head-heat with
Kanuri, owned by the Pakenham sports-
men, H. and M. Bourke. Third place
went to Marion Melton, who is very
consistent. The M.L. mare Namakia
ran fourth, and looks to have entered
Winning Street.
Regular Bachelor did not share in the
Granville Handicap prizemoney, but
revealed improvement on his late Caul-
field effort. Success rested with the 11-
to-4 favorite, Black Mac, who has ad-
vanced by leaps and bounds in reputa-
tion as a middle-distance galloper. Steel
Spear and Mutable followed him home.
$ $
Mares once more! They won three
races in succession at Canterbury Park.
Victory in the principal event, the
Canterbury Handicap, went to a mare
who has been a model of consistency
this season —El Senorita. Topweight at
9st. 71b., reduced to 9st. 21b. by an ap-
prentice’s allowance, she was favorite
at 7 to 2.
It was another sterling performance on
El Senorita’s part, for she had to pace
the field up to Fernclove. A smart gal-
loper when he. hits the front, Fernclove
set up a long lead. Young Walsh had to
pull the whip on the mare in the straight;
responding gamely, she passed Fernclove
and held off Grand Warbler, who had
got boxed up along the back. Fernclove
was third, followed by Frassadale, Rose
Gem and Verberry, who had dwelt at
the barrier. The time, lmin. 53isec., beat
the track record for nine furlongs.
Verberry must be accounted unlucky,
and Brown Baroness would have won the
first division of the. Park Stakes had she
got away with the rest. Left many
lengths, she finished fourth. A late com-
mission for Chaos, who races in the
colors of A.J.C. committeeman Pat
Osborne, brought her price from twelves
to fives, and the money was landed:
Chaos finished in good style to beat Brae-
dene and Laurel G. Glabrio dis-
appointed, as did Warwick Lad and
Kaiwaka.
The second division of the Park Stakes
proved a soft snap for Cliquot (7 to 4;
5 to 2 was laid). Darby Munro indulged
Silver Strand and Spasm with the lead
until the turn for home was in view;
then he cleared out on Cliquot, who beat
Asilvan and Toreador in the end. High
Jinks, a street-corner tip, refused to
gallop.
Warwick Lad and Kaiwaka are mem-
bers of Jamieson’s team. That trainer,
however, got even on Bertha B. in the
Novice Handicap, for which her price
was 7 to 1. She ran her race in patches,
but hung on sufficiently well to defeat
two “roughies,” Munition and Musician,
at the finish. The favorite, Maid of
Peru, was fourth. Bertha B. is by Wotan’s
sire, Siegfried, out of Gay Salute.
If Time was always a trustworthy
guide, Brazandt, winner of the first divi-
sion of the Juvenile Handicap—at twos—
would have been beaten had he met
Careerbra (3 to 1) or Publicity (10 to 9
on), winners of the second and third divi-
sions. Brazandt ran five furlongs in lmin.
2fsec.; Careerbra and Publicity sped over
the journey half a second faster. How-
ever, none of Brazandt’s opponents could
make him gallop at his top. The half-
brother to Rembrandt is no slouch as a
sprinter. Careerbra, who had scored at
Menangle, is trained by Jack Hunter,
who had Tom Pinch. Frank McGrath
prepares Publicity for Dr. Quinlan, of
Perth, who is doing well with the son of
Heroic-Ridicule, an Absurd mare.
In a division of the Flying Welter at
Moorefield Aureus had been obliged to
race on the outside. Bartle saw that the
former Victorian had to cover no extra
ground in the Flying Welter at Canter-
bury, and, taking charge in the first fur-
long, Aureus easily held off Bulldozer and
Hazak in the straight. He was second-
favorite at 4 to 1. King Moab put in a
whirlwind finish to run fourth. Shackle-
ton was next, and Beaupre and Bull Ant
were handy. It was Bull Ant’s first race
after a spell.
* * *
“D.E.”: Big wagers are rarely made
in Sydney nowadays, but I heard a
punter ask for a substantial one at the
last Randwick meeting. “I’ll have two
thousand to five hundred Barak,” he
said to the man behind the bag. “No,
you won’t,” quoth the “leviathan”;
“but you can have seven hundred to
two hundred.” Grumbling a little, the
punter took it. Barak came in nearly
last. He is a stallion rising seven, and
apparently too gallant nowadays to pass
a representative of the other sex.
* * * *
Old Topical won a race at Victoria
Park (Sydney) on Wednesday—a mile
welter. He had been galloping pretty
well, but punters were, shy of him, ques-
tioning his soundness, and Russell, the
owner-trainer, himself disappointed, had
nominated him for a hurdle race. Topi-
cal, the best stayer Windbag has sired,
won the Australian Cup in 1933, was
second in the Metrop. and dead-heated
for third in the Melbourne Cup (Hall
Mark’s) the same year. William Kelso
had him then. Kelso has always thought
the little horse rather unlucky in the
Cup—he was blocked at a critical
moment.
❖ ❖ * ❖
Victoria Park, one of Sydney’s former
pony-racing “clubs,” had the chilled-steel
audacity to announce a £750 programme
for its next Saturday meeting, June 5.
This seems like challenging the Govern-
ment to abolish proprietary racing, as
was done in Melbourne; but, though an
ex-bookmaker is a Minister, the Gov-
ernment is not interested in racing ex-
cept as a means of extorting double, fares
on its trams and trains and crippling taxes
—9 p.c. on a tote ticket and Is. on the
A.J.C.’s charges (3s. altogether) to pass
through the outer ground and Leger
turnstiles at Randwick. The only pony
course permitted in Melbourne when
proprietary racing was reformed out of
existence is Ascot. It is nothing out of
the way for Ascot to give £2OOO at a
Saturday meeting.
•j* *s* H* *s»
Old Lough Neagh put another w.f.a.
race on his honorable list when he won
the Q.T.C. King’s Plate at Ascot, Bris-
bane. He had only Brown Force, Spear
Prince, Un Brave and Serenus to beat,
and the Ring gambled a bit against him,
taking 7 to 4. Spear Prince had quite
spirited backing at 7 to 2. He couldn't
get a place. Brownfelt (6 to 4), by Spear-
felt-Serevale, outstayed five opponents in
the Leger. Neglected by tote punters,
who voted his defeat of Manresa in the
Quality Handicap at Doomben a fluke,
Jocular (14 to 1) beat everything but King
Merlin (8 to 1) in the Stradbroke Handi-
cap, Manresa being third. King Merlin
is a three-year-old by Legionnaire-Real
Emblem, and was ridden by Morgan. He
ran the “six” in exactly “twelve” to the
furlong.
Pamelus was scratched for the Strad-
broke Handicap. He had 9st. 131 b., and
there was a seven-stone minimum ; in the
Doncaster, with a 6st. 71b. minimuni, two
furlongs more to travel and at least a 40
p.c. better field to meet, Pamelus had
9st. 71b. He would have got at least 31b.
more could the handicapper have done
his work over again after Pamelus’s fine
performances at Flemington. It looked
like picking up money at Ascot, but
Dukes must have other views for his
horse.
* * r *
Philip Russell, of Carngham (Vic.), has
seen his last race. Member of the V.R.G
committee for 28 years, Russell owned
many good horses, among them Idolator
(Australian Cup, 1896), Harriet Graham
(Australian Cup, 1917, and second in
the Sydney Cup the same year), Bcrrie-
dale, Newberry and Maid of the Mist.
He bred Maid of the Mist, and the
mare’s defeats of Eurythmic and Cloud
at w.f.a. were his most treasured mem-
ories of a long and honorable associa-
tion with the turf.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The first of the English
classics, the Two Thousand Guineas, run
at Newmarket, was won by a French-
owned and French-bred horse, Le Ksar.
Goya 11., another French entry, but
trained in England, was second, so
Waterloo was avenged in a measure.
Midday Sun was third. Le Ksar
went out at 20’s, so there was no moan-
ing in the ring. In 1932 M. St.
Alary, owner of the winner, won the
Thousand Guineas with Kandy. Since Le
Ksar comes of staying stock, those
who are backing him into the ground for
the Derby may not be as sorry as most
backers of the Tv/o Thousand winners
are apt to be after the Epsom event.
Worth noting in this connection that
Gladiateur, the first Frenchman to win
the Two Thousand—that was in 1865 —
went on to take the. Derby and Leger.
Ksar, sire of the Two Thousand winner,
is half-brother to Kenilworth, who sired
those good horses Kennaquhair and
Wolaroi, among others.
Footbrawi
Geelong, always a hard V.F.L. team to
beat on its own ground, downed Carlton
8-12 to 6-13 when Melbourne League
footballers played the second series of
the season on Saturday. Melbourne
scored 25-20 to Essendon’s 13-7 ; Colling-
wood won again, piling up 20-20 to South
Melbourne’s 11-19; Richmond, 17-15,
proved too hot for Footscray, 12-11 ; St.
Kilda, 15-22, beat Hawthorn, 14-15 ; and
North Melbourne won against Fitzroy,
10*7 to 9-11. About 110,000 people sau
the six big games.
‘‘Bash”: There was a sensation at a
Sandringham (Vic.) football club when
a delegate moving that a netted race be
provided for protection of umpires from
spectators was told that a similar
motion had previously been rejected. As
the delegate pointed out, there was not
another established football ground about
Melbourne which did not provide this
protection for umpires. Even in that
perverted form of coursing known as
“plumpton,” “escapes” are provided for
the hares if they manage to outstay the
dogs long enough. Surely a Victorian
football umpire deserves as much con-
sideration as a hare.
* * * *
St. George, which bottomed the list
for years, is making a strong bid for Syd-
ney’s Rugby Union premiership. It is
now in the lead with Drummoyne as a
result of licking that team 13-3 on Satur-
day. Each side was without two regulars,
bogging in at Brisbane. University and
Manly played a draw, 20-20. Both North
Shore teams were, downed—Gordon by
Western Suburbs (19-14), and Northern
Suburbs by Randwick (13-12) ; and Par-
ramatta, lacking Cerutti’s leadership,
found Eastern Suburbs too strong —18-5.
Seven thousand people saw an exciting
Union Rugby game at Brisbane. N. S.
Wales had things all its own way in the
first half, scoring 14 to nil, but on re-
suming Queensland got all over the
visitors, who were saved by the bell:
17-17. Full-back Walker contributed one
of Queensland’s tries. His dash and
opportunism revived memories of Frauen-
felder, who played “full” for the League.
* * * *
Sunderland won “t’ Coop”—its first in
half a century as a club—by beating
Preston North End, 3 to 1. The King
and Queen were among the 93,000 who
witnessed the game at Wembley.
{Continued on next page.)
In Davis Cup matches Quist, McGrath
and Crawford (reserved for doubles)
beat the Mexicans without losing a set,
and the Americans accounted for the
Japanese almost as easily. Maoriland
and South Africa also go into the second
round, at the expense of China and Hol-
land respectively.
He H< H 1
C. of E. Grammar School (“Shore”)
made a clean sweep of this year’s Head-
of-the-River racing on the Nepean.
Coached by the school’s head, L. C. Rob-
son, Shore’s Eight rowed from No. 1
position, on the Penrith bank and gave
a classy exhibition to beat Scots by
quarter of a length ; Sydney Grammar a
length away third, and only quarter of
a length to St. Joseph’s. J. B. Burrell,
another of the school’s masters, coached
both Shore’s successful fours. The
Second Four had the easiest win of the
day—three lengths from St. Joseph’s, halt
a length to High. Shore’s First Four
had only 3ft. the better of Scots, with
St. Joseph’s two lengths back.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Welter: Palatinate ; next, Ban-
quet.
Nonga Handicap: Diaphane;
next, Master Motley.
FOR RANDWICK ON SATURDAY.
Flying Handicap: Mark Antony ;
next. Black Laughter.
Novice Handicap: Dutiful.
James Barnes Plate: Verberry;
next, Plutus.
Welter: Punjab; next, Royal
Step.


c/>
tn
un
*
m
S
*
HUM
2>
o /
b**,
for YEARS of ACC URj\ Cy
An accurate tyre gauge is a real asset. A gauge
you can rely on for years is worth far more
than one that is unreliable after a few
months’ use. Pay an extra shilling or
two for a Kismet “CADET”
and enjoy those extra
years of accuracy.
Calibrated 0-501 b. in
Üb. units clearly
marked. In neat
leather wallet.
Factory Represenlalir*:
JOHN ARNOLD,
I'.O. Box 71,
Melbourne, Australia.
Mannjaolurpri>:
WILLI A M TURNER k
BRO., LTI).,
F.vrp Works, Sheffield,
England.
Australia*s Leading Financial Journal.
May Issue Now on Sale.
GOLD—DOLLARS—STERLING
OUTLOOK FOR COMMODITY PRICES
AUSTRALIAN PROSPECTS
PRICE 21- PER COPY , OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published bv The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. T.td.. 252 Oorge Street, Sydney, and all States.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Some of the American boxers anc
managers who come this way won’t have
it that Carroll is a champion ; but they
all speak highly of Henneberry and
Micky Miller. At Fitzroy (Vic.) on Fri-
day Miller stopped the dangerous
“Snowy” Clarke, of Westralia, in the
eleventh round. They were fighting for
the featherweight championship, and
Miller, who came in at Bst. 131 b., proved
too strong and durable for the 4-'-lb.
lighter lad. Country-born and a family
man, Miller looked half-starved when
he made his early appearances in Syd-
ney rings. He seems thoroughly well,
nourished now.
❖ ❖ Hf *
“S.L.”: Since glovefighting was intro-
duced Britain has never had a world’s
heavyweight champion, but it seems to
have a good chance of gaining the title
at last with Tommy Farr. He is a rough-
looking Welsh miner, built for heavy
weather, and his main offensive weapon
is a clean straight left. Judging by the
Louis-Baer fight picture American heavy-
weight class is poor. Louis doesn’t de-
serve to be named in the same breath
with the black heavyweights that Aus-
tralia knew 20 to 30 years ago, and it
took Braddock all his time to get a de-
cision over Baer, who never learned,
anything about boxing except to swing]
his right occasionally. Half a dozen,
fellows had taken the measure of Brad-
dock before he wrested the dingy and
dented crown from Baer. In his pictures
he looks an old man. With the experi-
ence to be gained by fairly frequent short
bouts, Farr should be capable of out-
pointing the old gentleman, at least.
“8.J.J.”: Kanowna (W.A.) wasn’t the
first Australian town to do honor to a
pug. Ten years before that mayoral re-
ception to Bill Doherty and the Duggans
(B. 28/4/’37) half the population of
my native place turned out to greet Jack
Burke (or Mendelovitch), the Irish Lad.
In fancy, I can still see the procession
marching up King William-street pre-
ceded by a brass band. King William-
street? Yes; it was the then Holy City
of Adelaide.
Footbrawl
The Springboks and the English Soccer
players are to appear on the Sydney C.G.
after all. Harry Sunderland, the secretary
of the Q.R.L., recognised the folly of
denying the use of it to the Union and the
Soccer folk, and his representations, for-
tified by protests from other quarters
against a greedy monopoly of the only
two city football grounds, prevailed. So
the League, is to have the C.G. on June
5 and June 12 for N.S.W. v. Queensland ;
the Union on June 19 for N.S.W. v.
the Afrikanders, on June 26 for the
latter’s match against Australia, and on
July 17 for Australia v. the Afrikanders
again ; the Soccer people on July 3 for
N.S.W. v. the Englishmen and on July
10 for their first Test match.
Harry Sunderland has for years been
the guiding spirit in Queensland League
football. He had the sense to see, what
Sydney Leaguers ignored, that gates at
the inter-State matches at the Cricket
Ground, with the Springboks playing on
the same days at the Showground, would
scarcely pay expenses ; and the Sydney
League cannot afford to antagonise the
northern body. Here’s hoping that the
precedent will stand, and that the old
enmity between League and Union---
mostly on the League side—will vanish.
“Stand Off”: Queensland ana N.S.W.
Union teams meet in Sydney on May 12
and 15, the matches serving as trials for
the selection of the sides to tackle the
Springboks. Queensland made revolu-
tionary changes in its side to meet N.S.W.


Out with EXCESS CARBON/
i
m
»
- it makes engines noisg
The best way to keep excess carbon
out oi your engine is to install new
Champion Sparking Plugs once every
year. They give full powerful sparks.
They ignite and bum the full charge of
fuel every time. They recfuce carbon
formation to it? minimum.
Champion
Sparking
Plugs
Obtainable at all leading automotive supply dealers
MADE IN WINDSOR . CANADA • • -AN EMPIRE BROPUCT ■
"silver edce"
BRAKE LINING
/
BRAKE TROUBLES
The majority of brake troubles are due either to poor brakt
lining or mal-adjustment.
Unless your brakes are adjusted so that the work is distributed equally
on all wheels then the wear is certain to be rapid and the braking poor.
If your brake material is poor in quality then aM the effort and
expense of careful adjustment is wasted, for unless the lining
is consistent throughout then the wear cannot be uniform
and the brakes are soon out of correct adjustment.
Use only “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LINING-
the quality lining.
RAYBESTOS-BEBAOO, LTD.,
LONDON, ENTti.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD,
0.P.0. Box 71, Melbourne, Vie
in Brisbane, and about time —new blood
was badly needed. The shock of the
selection was the omission of Bonis, for
eight years hooker for the State and
Australia. Bonis may see the Australian
side again against the ’Boks. He is not
only a big, hefty fellow with a liking
for mixing it, but is the best hooker
Australia has had for a long time. Pos-
session of the ball will mean everything
to Australia against the visitors, and if
no new star turns up the veteran may get
another chance.
“Bowen B.”: Queensland has always
been foremost in introducing new ideas to
football —for example, the notion of
numbering the players, now universal in
all codes of football. The Brisbane,-Too-
woomba match at the Downs capital
was marked by another excellent innova-
tion: a bright red line five yards inside
the white touchline to mark the distance
for lineouts and scrums taken in lieu
thereof. It worked capitally, saving time
and making the referee’s job a bit easier.
* * * *
“Drayton”: The steady growth of the
Rugby Union game on the Darling
Downs after years of stagnation is
marked by the return of the Christian
Brothers club to the amateur code. When
the Union went into smoke during the
war years and after, the schools of Too-
woomba played League perforce. When
the Union came back all save Brothers
returned to the fold.
Jj: ij: * *
“Member”: “Five-eighth” (B. 28/4/’37)
contended that, if the Rugby Union staged
Springbok matches on Sydney Show-
ground, deadheads with R.A.S. tickets
would swarm into the picture. The
League has had international matches
on the Showground, and to label R.A.S.
members as deadheads might equally
apply to brother-members next door at
S.C.G. “Five-eighth” might play the
game himself and notify the proper
authorities of these gale-crashers.
A' A- -k 'i*
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne’s annual match
between the Association and League has
been fixed for Coronation Day. It will
be played on Richmond ground, and
players will receive £2 each. A League
ump. will take one half of the match
and an Association expert the other. Re-
ceipts will be divided 50-50. It was pro-
posed unavailingly to try 16 players a
side. There are many in favor of cut-
ting down the teams in Rules football,
and the change will probably be seen in
a year or two.
% * * X
“Fitzcray”: The V.F.L. is vexed with
the Association for insisting on a cash
payment for any of its players pinched
by the League. It is claimed that the
Ass. is infringing the Coulter law, which
forbids the paying of money for such a
purpose. The Ass. retorts that the law
was made by the League for the League
only.
“Everton”: At time of writing Man-
chester City was home and dried for the
English League championship, there
being only one match to go and the club
having an unassailable lead on points.
The club has been in existence 45 years,
and this is the first time it has headed
the First League tables. In the play for
the Cup it has done much better, win-
ning the pot from Bolton Wanderers, an-
other Lancashire side, in 1903-04. Once
more in 1934-35 City won, this time
from Portsmouth. In addition the club
has been runner-up. twice, once to Bolton
Wanderers in 1926-27 and to Everton in
1933-34.
Nineteenth Hole
“Woogaroo”: Von Nida defeated
Hagen in a 36-holes golf match for £5O
a side in Brisbane. The match was
played on two courses, Indooroopilly and
Gailes, and the Bananalander won 1 up.
As Von Nida has also beaten Sarazen
for a wager, he can claim the unusual
distinction of having downed two of the
World’s best when the money was up.
“Sandy Gallop”: Hagen, no mean
judge, rates Von Nida as Australia’s best
golfer, amateur or professional. He has
been urging that the lad be sent to
this year’s British open, holding that, win
or lose, the experience will help to raise
the Queenslander to the front rank of
the world’s golfers. Von N. is certainly
full of promise, but he has one handi-
cap —cold, bleak weather curls him up
like a greyhound waiting in the slips.
“Old Q.”: Von Nida has had an inter-
esting career. He began his upward
march in Queensland by winning the cad-
dies’ championship several years in succes-
sion. Leaving the caddies he collared the
Queensland amateur title at 18, and after
a spell because of a broken wrist did not
show up again until 1935, when he won
both the open and close State titles. Lasc
year he took the open again and then
wisely transferred to Sydney, where he
won the professional championship.
Only 9st., he is the longest hitter in Aus-
tralia.
“ Coin' t' be a pro. after this. It's the last time I’LL fight for fun."
“Hoylake”: The Ryder Cup match
between professionals is played alternately
in the U.S.A. and Britain. Each side has
yet to win a match in the other’s country.
Among the American selections, which
will not be completed until after the
U.S.A. open championship, are Densmore
Shute and Sarazen, both known on this
side, and Hagen, who is to be skipper. He
will probably not play, but will steer
the other members of the team through
their trouble.
* * ■ * *
“Southport”: Henry Cotton once more
proved himself one of the world’s best
stroke-makers in a trade tourney for
£lOOO in prizes at Moor Park, Hereford-
shire. He won with a card of 279 after
he, Perry, Lacey and Cox had come out
of the third round with 211 each. Mahon,
an Irish player, was only a stroke worse,
and, like Cotton, had one round of 68.
The next four players handed in cards of
284 and under ; that shows how good
the form was. Cotton’s score is a record
for a major British tourney under cham-
pionship conditions.
* * '!•
“Divot Digger”: The armament fever
has had one unexpected effect; steel-
shafted golf clubs are to be dearer. No
good returning to hickory either ; disas-
trous American floods have played Old
Harry with the hickory supplies and,
what is even worse, with the persimmon
wood universally used in America for
club heads.
“Hamilton”: The Queensland golf
championships begin in Brisbane with the
amateur foursomes on May 17. The
open title will be played for on May
18 and 19, and the amateur champion-
ship on May 20-21-22. Six purse events
for professionals will take up five days,
the last being that at Gailes on May 23.
Prize-money for these totals £125.
❖ He :J: %
“Cash Amateur”: The people manag-
ing the 150th anniversary spree in N.S.W.
are reconsidering their original deter-
mination that only amateurs should be
allowed to compete —as far as golfers are
concerned anyway. The professional
golfers have now submitted a scheme
which may result in a visit from at least
two front-rank British professionals. It
provides for the raising of £3OOO for the
purpose by the Golf Council and pro-
fessionals working together. Part of this
would go to payment of the visitors’
expenses and the balance to prizes. The
professionals hope to sell 10,000 tickets
at 10s. each to cover 10 days of golf, the
cost to the public being Is. a day. The
idea would work well with an enclosed
course.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Australian tennis
ranking list puts Quist in top place, with
McGrath second. Few will dispute the
rating even though McGrath won the
Australian singles title, and fewer still will
question the relegation of Crawford to
third place, where he is bracketed with
Bromwich. Nancy Wynne heads the
women, with Thelma Coyne second and
Mrs. Westacott third.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The A.L.T.A.
has just recovered from a fit brought on
by discovering that Quist used an “open
order” won at tennis to buy a shaving-
brush. It says this is simply not done
by the Simon Pure amateur, only such
articles as are capable of being “in-
scribed” being permitted to open-order
holders. One would think that even a
shaving-brush could be “inscribed” —on
the handle.
“Top Spin”: Something really defi-
nite is to hand about overseas visits.
Von Cramm has promised to come on
to Australia after playing in America and
Japan, and is due to arrive about the
first week in September. A perfect
stylist and a thorough sportsman, the
German should be a success here. No-
thing is said of an offsider for him.
The British women’s team will arrive
from the U.S.A. on December 12, and
will show in the Australian champion-
ships at Adelaide in January. There
will be a match against Victoria in Mel-
bourne, and five games with Australia
will be played, two at Sydney and one
each at Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: The claims of Queens-
land, Westralia and Tasmania for an
Australian championship tennis meeting
have been hushed. These States have
notified the A.L.T.A. that, for financial
reasons, they are backing out. As a
sweetener, the A.L.T.A. will each year
send a couple of ranked players to com-
pete in State championships. The Aus-
tralian championships will be held this
year at Adelaide in January.
* * * *
“Green Point”: South Africa has com-
pleted its team for the Davis Cup —
Farquharson, Kirby, Fannin and Eedes.
Farquharsen is an old-stager in the tour-
ney, and Kirby was here for the Mel-
bourne centenary championships. Fan-
nin, 21 years old, is an all-rounder, and
was undefeated in the recent encounters
with the formidable Yugoslavs. Eedes is
another pup, only 20 ; he is tall, with a
cannon-ball service.
s s* -I- -I- H 1
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Not only golf
(B. 21/4/’37) has been taken in hand by
the German Reich, but tennis has also
engaged attention. All tennis-players of
every grade must submit to a public
examination in Nazi ethics. Those fail-
ing to pass will not be allowed to show
on any public court or take part in any
tourney.
Miscellaneous
“Five Ways”: The Queensland C.A. is
to spend £3BOO of its share of the Eng-
lish swag on ground improvements, and
the money will be laid out by a band of
special trustees. Most of the brass will
be spent on the Brisbane C.G., but coun-
try clubs will get a sniff of it. Too-
woomba, where the next English team is
already scheduled to play, is to have its
ground thoroughly fettled up.
“Aigburth”: The limit in fatuity seems
to have been reached by English cricket
scribes in the discovery of one Thomas
Moult, of London “Daily Mail,” that the
defeat of Allen and his men in the Tests
was due to the peculiar quality of Aus-
tralian wickets. The seer bases his con-
clusions on the examination of a chunk
of Merri Creek soil from the Melbourne
ground, in which he seems to have dis-
covered some magical property. His
conclusions would have been better worth


%
?%
A
W
Interest 3|% p.a. Price of Issue £99/5/-.
Average yield £3/19/1%. Repayable in 1948.
CLOSES NOT LATER THAN
MAY 7, 1937
Investment in this Loan is a safe and profitable
means of providing for the future. Open to
all classes of investors (with a minimum sub-
scription of £10), it offers that security,
Australia itself, which makes it what is known
as “gilt-edged.” Issuing at £ 99/5/-, and
paying 3f% per annum interest, it provides
an average return of £3/19/1% per annum
for 1 1 years.
Subscriptions may be paid in full when the
application is lodged, or, alternatively, 10%
may then be paid and the balance by instal-
ments up to 3rd August, 1937.
APPLICATIONS MAY BE MADE AT ANY
BANK, SAVINGS BANK, MONEY ORDER
POST OFFICE, OR TO ANY MEMBER
OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE.
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£7,500,000
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
ROBERT G. MENZIES,
Acting Treasurer.
An experienced farmer writes; "I have used tractors
since 1923. Some of them cost £2OO more than my
English Fordson but I can honestly say the Fordson
is the best I have ever used. Operation is very
economical ... starting is excellent and I have not had a
moment’s trouble in the 12 months since I took delivery.”
Important Fordson features include :
COUNTERBALANCED CRANKSHAFT .... HEAVY-DUTY TRANS-
MISSION .... GOVERNOR CONTROL .... SPECIAL AIR CLEANING
SYSTEM .... CRANKCASE VENTILATION .... “HOT-SPOT”
VAPORISER . . CLUTCH PULLEY . . BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER . . . REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF (optional at extra cost)
Ask your local Fordson Dealer to explain the easy purchase terms avail-
mi able under the special Fordson finance plan.
The /# /
csufUMt
Fordson
Tractor
ASK YOUR FORDSON DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
L I D., Corner Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina &. Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD. City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Melb.
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Ptv. Ltd. (Incorporated in Victoria) F166.18T
THE LOWEST-PRICED TRACTOR PER HORSE-POWER
mmm
i
iii
m
S!IlO*J
l!! 'r
Ira
m
1\
FROM the huge annealing fur-
naces in Lysaght's Mills, the
iron emerges fitted for whatever
may be demanded of it. It is this
care at vital stages of its produc-
tion which ensures the absolute
reliability of Lysaght's Special
Tankmaking Iron, which is giving
unrivalled service and satisfaction
to users throughout Australia. This
iron is sold under a special guar-
antee, particulars of which can be
obtained from the manufacturers.
FREE—a copy ol Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
In the annealing
furnaces under
rigid pyrometric
control, the grain
structure of the
metal is changed.
LYSAGHT
'BSP
AUSTRALIA
TANK MAKING
LYSAGHT'S
SPECIAL
TANKMAKING
IRON
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
LT2
listening to if he had been supplied with
hunks of the wickets at Brisbane, Sydney
and Adelaide, all composed of soil from
widely separated areas. Writer s experi-
ence of Merri soil it was used for
down the playing pitches at Brisbane
Cricket Ground years ago was t a in
dry weather it made a perfect ba mg
surface, but after rain—a thunderstorm
was quite enough-seemed to be com-
posed of a mixture of hot bitumen and
birdlime. Even then some of the Eng-
lish wickets can rival it in this respect,
notably the notorious marl pitches at
Trent Bridge
‘ # *
", „ o :
Blade : Thus eatly in the ay . -
selector Keary has chosen 16 oarsmen
from whom the eight-oar crew to repre-
sent Australia at the Empire Games in
Sydney will be picked. Three are from
S.A.—one is Gregory, the victorious
stroke in the King’s Cup tussle—three
from Victoria, four each from West-
ralia and N.S.W., and one each from
Tasmania and Queensland.
“Shinty”: Fourteen players and a
manageress will make up the British
wom en’s hockey team for Australia. The
gj r j s (three, are Scots) are to reach Syd-
ney early in July, and will play a couple
Q £ ma t c h es against N.S.W. and Queens-
j an( j before the. All-Australia tourna
ment> w hj c h runs from July 19 to August
, • R r j s h ane
„
. Spike : A quaint means of identify-
mg pedestrians was tried when the Syd
ney City Houses baseballers ran then
100-yard championship. Eight new club;
had entered competitors, many of whom
were unknown to the officials. Each
heat-winner was branded with a rubbei
s t am p anc j others were added when he
won the quarter-final and semi-final. Onl>
three-stamp artists could thus toe the
holes in the final. Something of the sort
would have been handy to prevent ring-
ins in the old days. But the brand;
would have had to be of red-hot iron,
and some of the shrewdies would have
been covered with them.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
’Phone (three lines): 87361.
K. HA UiNSEEY MOSS. Chairman.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
SYDNEY
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant;
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
SHADOW
SHOWS
“The Plough and the Stars.”
REBEL COMMANDER, Preston Foster
HIS WIFE Barbara Stanwyck
REBEL GENERAL .... Moroni Olsen
In this screen version of Sean O’Casey’s
play types have been faithfully drawn and
Irish patriotism and sentiment are effec-
tively exploited. Most of the action, as
far as the actual T 6 uprising is concerned,
is centred in the seizure of the Dublin
post office. Machine-gunning of the
building by English troops is vividly real-
istic. There is a skilful blending of
humor and tragedy, the latter predomi-
nating, as is natural with such a theme.
Direction is by John Ford, who steered
“The Informer” to an Academy award.
The role of Nora Clitheroe is scarcely
a test for any dramatic ability Miss
Cyril Ritchard and Gracie Fields in “The
Show Goes On,” at Sydney Lyceum.
Stanwyck may possess. She has little to
do but make tearful pleadings with her
rebel huband to forsake what he con-
ceives to be his duty. Preston Foster re-
peats his “Informer” success with a quiet
but impressive performance free of
mock heroics. Moroni Olsen as the rebel
general who, shot through both legs, faces
a firing squad while sitting in his chair
is a dignified and admirable figure.
Character parts are mostly in the hands
of the Abbey Theatre players. Chief of
these is that of Fluther, the diminutive
but pugnacious slum dweller who whips
off his coat at the slightest provocation,
and even has to be restrained —as he
shrewdly knows he will be—from tearing
into a burly Black-and-Tan armed with
rifle and bayonet. He is brilliantly played
by Barry Fitzgerald. Denis O’Dea,
Eileen Crowe, F. J. McCormick and
Arthur Shields are other capable players
from this organisation. Bonita Granville,
relieved from juvenile villainy for the
nonce, is a pathetic Mollser, consumptive
daughter of a widow. At Sydney Capitol.
“Midnight Court.”
CROOK LAWYER John Litel
HIS EX-WIFE Ann Dvorak
Gangster melodrama of the type that
Hollywood cuts to machine lengths. The
theatricalities of American courtroom
scenes, which, if faithfully portrayed,
explain the contempt in which justice
is apparently held in Gahd’s Own
Country, are played up to the limit. Story
is weaker than in most films of this genre.
This time the racketeer has herds of
youths purloining cars, with a big staff
doing a lightning-change act on their
shapes, colors, engine numbers, etc. The
police know this, but are powerless to
prevent it. Why? Well, the big fellow
has retained as his counsel a former dis-
trict-attorney whom he had ruined, after-
wards picking him out of the gutter to
put him on his feet again. By his brilliant
advocacy the lawyer gets the bad lad
and his “pulse” men out of everything
from arson to murder, and by virtue of
this he rises in record time from the beer-
and-week-ol d-stubble class to the realms
of Moet and seven telephones. But his
ex-wife, who now uses her 60 w.p.m.
shorthand prowess to take down the
Judge’s 200 w.p.m. homilies in the Night
Court, leads him again into paths of
rectitude. This by the stunt, worked in
the last 17 racketeering-court films, of
having shyster lawyer turn dog on his
former associates, his subsequent eleva-
tion to authority, with remarriage as his
reward or penance, whichever you like.
John Litel gives quite an intelligent
portrait of a hackneyed character ; Ann
Dvorak is just fair. William Davidson,
Joseph Crehan and Stanley Fields give
good character support. At Sydney
Capitol.
“The Show Goes On.”
LANCASHIRE MILL GIRL,
„ Grade Fields
COMPOSER OF SENTIMENTAL
, Owen Nares
ACCOMPANIST .... Cyril Ritchard
The allotment of flapper roles to Miss
Fields is a touching reminder of the Brit-
ish public’s fidelity to old favorites, but
to Australian audiences her past stage
career is irrelevant. However, unlike so
many of the ladies Elstree has introduced
to the screen, the; jovial Gracie can act,
and in this film she gets the last ounce of
humor out of the part of a mill-hand, a
gawky lass, half-shy, half-daring, utterly
independent, who climbs slowly and with
many detours and excursions in blind
alleys to stardom. The method of earlier
Fields films, in which the singer is always
a dominating figure, is abandoned. When
she sings the sugary ballads composed by
her patron and benefactor it is as an
adjunct to the performing seals, and the
music-hall audience drifts out to the bar.
There’s a lot of sound comedy in this
opus, and the Lancashire idiom, which
has a flavor all its own, is well to the fore.
At Sydney Lyceum.
“The Secret of Stamboul.”
HEROIC YOUNG
ENGLISHMAN .... James Mason
RUSSIAN GIRL ... . Valerie Hobson
MASTER-PLOTTER ~ Frank Vosper
SILLY ASS Peter Haddon
The Englishman is sent to manage a
tobacco factory in Stamboul. Beautiful
Russian girl is set to spy on him by
the master-plotter, the terrible Eunuch
of Stamboul, who works for the un-
pleasant Prince Ali. Ali, who has a
grudge against the Englishman, is accu-
mulating an army and munitions where-
with to overthrow the republic and get
himself installed as sultan. Practically
single-handed the Englishman unearths
evidences of the plot, rescues an English
girl abducted by Ali, captures the Eunuch
and procures the defeat and arrest of all
the plotters.
Action-is brisk, but the acting is not
quite up to the standard necessary to give
an air of plausibility to such fantastic
happenings. At Sydney Lyceum.
“Head Over Heels.”
SONGANDANCE GIRL,
_ . „ Jessie Matthews
RADIO ENGINEER .. Robert Fleming
SWOLLEN-HEADED ACTOR,
Louis Borell
GLAMOROUS FILM VAMP,
Whitney Bourne
There’s one spot of originality in this
Gaumont-British musical fantasia—the
hero occupies the sound-control room in
a broadcasting station, and, though pre-
sumably a Frenchman, since the scene
is Paris, is an utter dub at the art of
courtship. Not so his actor friend, who
sweeps the cabaret girl off her feet, and
some bitter experiences are required to
make her realise that a heart of gold is
preferable to a face of brass. There’s
just about enough plot to keep Miss
Matthews’s songs and dances tied to-
gether, but her numbers are so charm-
ing and so appropriate that audiences
have nothing to complain of. “Looking
Round Corners for You” and “There’s
That Look in Your Eyes Again” are wit-
tily worded and prettily scored, miles
above the Hollywood standard for this
sort of thing, and some advertising patter
verses are really funny.
Miss Matthews continues to improve
as a screen actress and as a singer (her
dancing always has been admirable). In
this film she has to carry almost the
whole burden, the support being not at
all impressive, and she excels herself. In
justice to the rest of the cast they have
thankless roles. Direction, in the hands
of Sonnie Hale, is competent and clever,
and the orchestral accompaniments are
splendid. At Sydney Embassy.
“The Man in the Mirror.”
DOWNTRODDEN
STOCKBROKER .... E. E. Horton
HIS WIFE Genevieve Tobin
Out of the beaten track is this Elstree
comedy at Sydney Embassy. Dilke, of
Partington and Dilke, sharebrokers,
though technically an equal partner, is
thoroughly under the thumb of Parting-
ton ; also under the thumbs of his wife
and his wife’s mother. He is an inveter-
ately cautious man, who thinks so long
before he does anything that he never
does anything. But evidently he was
not always thus, for embedded under
years of inhibition is a sanguine, impetu-
ous, daring nature. Looking at himself
in the mirror after a day of humiliations
Dilke catches a glimpse of his other self.
Comes a crash of thunder and a flash
of lightning, and his other self walks
out of the mirror, waves him out of the
way as a feeble nonentity and takes his
place in the world. The original Dilke
leads a fugitive existence, hiding round
corners and in cupboards while the new
Dilke, browbeats his partner, executes
a Napoleonic business coup and makes
himself master in his own house. A
spurious Bogus of Bokhara, visiting
London, plays a big part in the ensuing
comedy, which has in it streaks of
naughtiness of a sort more prevalent on
the stage than on the screen. The psy-
chology of the business isn’t consistent for
Jessie Matthews in “Head Over Heels,"
at Sydney Embassy.
two seconds together, but there’s plenty
of fun, and Horton revels in a dual role
that enables him to exhibit his whole
box of tricks.
“Mama Steps Out.”
GOOFY MAMA Alice Brady
CHIEF SUFFERER .... Guy Kibbee
DAUGHTER Betty Furness
Once in a blue moon M.-G.-M. makes
a poor film. This one happened when
the moon was indigo. A crude farce,
it features a batty American mama whe
drags her reluctant perfume-manufactur-
ing husband and her daughter to Yurrup
to imbibe culture. There’s a lot of side-
play with a callow crooner who spurns
the attentions of equally callow daughter.
The rest is horseplay by a trio of the
Riviera’s alleged intelligentsia, until
Poppa, exasperated, boots them out. Had
he done so an hour earlier the audience
would have been saved jaw-aches due to
incessant yawning.
Guy Kibbee gives his usual version of
the long-suffering husband of the ultra-
Edward Everett Horton in “The Man in
the Mirror," at Sydney Embassy.
hysterical wife, overplayed by Alice
Brady. Betty Furness looks pretty, but
acts pretty awfully. At Sydney Civic.
“Under Cover of Night.**
SLEUTH Edmund Lowe
PRESIDENT’S GRAND-
DAUGHTER Florence Rice
CRAZED PROFESSOR, Henry Daniell
HIS WIFE Sara Haden
A skilfully-constructed and ably-
presented thriller, differing from most
of its type in that the culprit is disclosed
early in the piece, after which interest
lies in the detective’s method of tracking
him down.
Setting is a university campus. The
principal, elderly and gentle, making a
speech on his retirement, announces that
he will name his successor the following
week. Among the professors who hope
to land the job jealousy is rampant. Most
favored for the position is the young pro-
fessor of science, whose new theory on
light, all set out in a little black book,
is really the work of his wife. This
book’s disappearance and his wife’s
threat to expose him when she discovers
he is unfaithful start' him on an orgy of
cold-blooded killing.
Edmund Lowe, with his snappy speech,
keen look and smartly-waxed moustache,
is every inch a screen sleuth. Florence
Rice as the unwitting cause of the book’s
vanishing does her little bit efficiently.
Flenry Daniell as the crazed but calculat-
ing killer is excellent, and Sara Fladen
gives splendid support'. Nat Pendleton
is a boneheaded cop. At Sydney Civic.
“The Great Barrier.’*
TOUGH LAD Richard Arlen
NICE GOIL Antoinette Cellier
BAD GOIL Lilli Palmer
This opus at Melb. Athenaeum con-
tains fine mountain and pine-forest
scenery, Indians with feathers and canoe-
ing down swift streams. The plot is poor
and the acting is of horse-opera vintage.
The building of the Canadian Pacific
Railway should provide better stories.
Flero, cardsharper by profession, gets
thrown into a labor camp to serve a 30
days’ sentence for “lighten.” In gallop-
ing-cowboy style he saves a little train
puffing over a narrow-gauge railway from
disaster in a swamp. Then he leads an
expedition over steep mountains to find
a “lost trail” which, irrespective of
grade, seems to be necessary in the build-
ing of the C.P.R. When the trail is
found hero lights a beacon. He has
been without tucker for five days, and
how he gets back to civilisation in good
nick is not explained, though it doesn't
matter much. The nice daughter of a
bohunk foreman is waiting for him. Miss
Palmer flourishes at the Rat Trap Saloon.


fd
£l6/10/-
(COMPLETE)
Is built for roping and
is fitted with leather
breast collar. Is
double-rigged with one
cord cincha and one
leather cincha. The leather is a nice
dark brown, neatly basket stamped,
and the bastos are woolly sheepskin
lined.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with Order.
WE STAND ALONE FOR
COWBOY SADDLES
Cowboy Bridles, Breastplates, Bits, Spurs,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, Belts, Cuffs, etc.
Write for Saddlery Catalogue.
WALTHER «> STEVENSON ltd.
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor tne original.
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
VVingcllo House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
E. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Two Kinds
of Deposits
—may be made with This Bank
CURRENT ACCOUNT DEPOSITS
These are paid into a cheque-drawing account
which places at your disposal all essential banking
services to facilitate your personal and business
transactions.
You may pay money into your Current Account
at any time and withdraw it as you wish. Your
funds are safely kept and an account of your
deposits and withdrawals is supplied to you as
required.
A cheque-drawing account enables you to make
any payments by cheque, thus eliminating the
risks of handling large sums in cash.
INTEREST REARING DEPOSITS
These may be lodged for periods of three, six,
twelve or twenty-four months. They provide a
safe and simple way of obtaining interest on the
money you do not require for immediate needs.
These deposits enable you to accumulate a reserve
for future needs.
They may be lodged in small or large amounts at
any time.
ESTABLISHED 1819
Nearly 800 branches throughout Australia, New
Zealand, the Pacific Islands and London
STAGE SHOWS.
“Merrie England.”
This, the latest of the interminable line
of J. C. Williamson revivals, opened
happily at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on
Saturday, when a crowded house gave
its approval to a well-staged show.
Edward German’s familiar airs and a
story hung on the rivalry of Raleigh and
Essex and the jealousy of Queen Eliza-
beth give principals and chorus plenty
to get through in the two acts, but there
were few first-night hesitations to worry
producer Dick Shortland.
Leo Darnton as Raleigh struts a
worthy pair of pins, and so does Gregory
Stroud as Essex. With Clifford Cowley
as Walter Wilkins, the Shakspearean
player, and Richard Watson as Long
Tom, the forester, they form as good a
combination of comic-opera male prin-
cipals as could be wished for.
Strella Wilson, in fine voice, is the
Bessie Throgmorton loved by Raleigh;
the arrogant Elizabeth, who herself has
a soft spot for Sir Walter, is played by
Evelyn Hall. Helen Langton is the May
Queen who wants Long Tom, and Eileen
Kelly plays the woodland Jill whom
Long Tom favors.
It takes the Merrie Englanders 25
songs, choruses and dances to straighten
out love tangles and restore Jill, Raleigh
and Bessie to the favor of Elizabeth.
“Love Is Meant to Make Us Glad,” sung
by Raleigh, Wilkins, Long Tom, the May
Queen and Kate (Diana Belmont); “O
Peaceful England,” by Elizabeth and
chorus; “In England, Merrie England,”
by Bessie, Jill, Long Tom and Big Ben
(Frank Bermingham); and “It Is the
Merry Month of May,” by Bessie and
Raleigh, indicate the English flavor of
the production. The music is delightful.
v -I* T- -1-
“Katja.”
This musical comedy, yet another
example of the reviving energy of the
Firm, appeared on Saturday at Sydney
Royal. Except for a couple of tuneful
airs, Jean Gilbert’s music is undistin-
guished, but Gladys Moncrieff makes
the most of such opportunities as it
offers.
Early the piece drags, but once the
comedy team swings into action the
tempo accelerates. Cecil Kellaway as
the ambassador, Don Nicol as his secre-
tary and Lois Green as the former’s
daughter and the latter’s fiancee are the
fun-makers, each doing a first-class job.
Arthur Clarke makes a debonair Prince
Karl, using his voice with good judg-
ment. Eric Bush and Isabel Cue give
solid support. Sydney Wheeler limns a
neat character sketch.
Dressing is lavish, settings are eye-
catching, and the choruses are given with
zest. Andrew Maccunn waves the baton.
Production is in Frederick Blackman’s*
hands.
•j. .j. .j. »j.
“Caesar’s Wife” in Adelaide.
Adelaide Repertory’s latest, “Caesar's
Wife,” packed the big Tivoli Theatre, for
two nights; but it is hardly up to the
true Somerset Maugham standard. Given
a diplomatist (Alex. Foster), middle-aged,
with a young wife (Iris Hart) desperately
in love with a man of her own age, one
cannot accept his throwing the pair to-
gether constantly to conquer their weak-
ness ; nor yet the girl, though thoroughly
resolved to be good, holding forth to her
husband about how terribly in love she
is. In fact, there is about 10 minutes
too much of mere talk. Half-way
through, the husband seems to have only
two courses—either to shoot himself or
to let her go and accept a woman friend
who has always loved him. Yet the
usually cynical Maugham has been, con-
tent with an old-fashioned so-called
“happy” ending, of reconciliation between
the ill-mated pair. The highlight of the
action was a scene between two women,
the husband's sister, dominating yet
human, and his faithful woman friend,
played respectively by Thelma Seaman
and Mimi Mattin.
CURRENT ARTBURSTS.
Vic. Water-color Contrasts.
Four Vic. artists have an exhibition of
water-colors at the Melbourne Athenaeum.
Apart from a common ability to draw
there are contrasts in their work that
make the joint show interesting.
John Loxton’s misty treatment of dis-
tant backgrounds and effective use of
near shadows to convey impressions of
distance characterise most of his exhibits,
which, taken right through, are the out-
standing ones in the show. “A Forest
Remnant” is a typical example. A
gaunt, half-burnt skeleton of a tree stands
gloomily in the foreground, but to the
back of it are green clearings in darker
patches of bush, a blue lake and realistic
hills. ‘To the Fishing Grounds” is a
sea effect in grey-blue, with a couple of
rowboat's and netting stakes to convey
the correct perspective.. His bush spring
scenes are not so good, a disturbing
yellowy-green too often transfixing the
eye at the expense of the rest of the
well-painted scenes.
The most faithful drawing is that of
William Hunter, and some of his color
work is as good as any in the show. But
in works like “The Camp” there is an
unsympathetic hardness not so apparent
in better jobs like “Stubble Paddock,
Doncaster.” In this, stubble lines run
in converging yellow-browns to the green
boundary, with hills away beyond; the
hills are harsher than Loxton’s and the
clouds not so convincing. Hunter’s “Old
Salt” is excellently done, a ship’s hulk of
desolate blue drawn up on slips provid-
ing the title. “The Smithy,” showing an
old forge with all a smith’s deserted para-
phernalia and a rotting roof, is done in
darker purples and browns.
Douglas Miller’s contributions vary
between decorative landscapes in almost
pastel tones to the better “Towards the
Hills” type; in this picture a stretch of
paddock and a clump of shadowed pines
lead away to the mountains beyond.
Unhappier subjects are. the monotonous
glimpses of utilitarian objects such as
the “Sand Pit,” “Old River Workings,”
“Fishermen’s Bend,” “Quarry” and
“Stone Crusher,” which speak volumes
for the artist’s grim determination to find
beauty in unexpected places.
Boats and waterside scenes are the
specialty of Nicholas Suhr, but his boats
are not as well painted as they are
drawn. “Cremorne,” a simple glimpse
of shadowy harbor seen through the. top
branches of a lovely gum, is his best—
and a good best. “Sunny Slopes,
Waverley,” in which a hill slopes up to
a distant house from a foreground fence
and a couple of bushes, is another attrac-
tive bit of work.
4. 4. 4.
S.A. Society of Arts.
The autumn show of the S.A. Society
of Arts is smaller than usual, the hang-
ing committee having been severe.
What’s on view is sound rather than im-
pressive, and the Art Gallery of Adel-
aide has made no purchase. McNally,
now an Adelaide resident and journalist,
has a large “Anzac Day March,” soldiers
and nurses, trees and flags all indicated
in impressionist manner; as also is a
“Centenary Celebration,” by night, of
Ragless. Whinnen’s green, rolling Adel-
aide hills and Ragless’s yellow ditto from
the Flinders Range are sound as ever.
So is the veteran (and still underrated)
Howie ; and Bone’s careful gum-trees are
bringing him to the front. Giles has
been to Sydney to vary his favorite sea
effects. Other exhibits are a fine silver-
and-enamel cross by George Reynolds,
Ethleen Palmer’s colored cuts of birds
and some curiously “modern” work by
Dorrit Black. The society’s autumn
prizes go to (1) still-life, Ivor Hele,
gladiolus and quince, with accessories ;
(2) etching, the. versatile George Whinnen.
4* 4* 4* 4.
Enid Cambridge’s Show.
This exhibition is at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, and comprises 25 oils
and eight water-colors. Miss Cambridge
is an impressionist of the modern school
that aims to suggest a subject rather than
make a catalogue of its facets. Much of
her work looks like mere sketch-book
color notes, and subjects in many in-
stances seem to be chosen for anything
but their conventional pictorial qualities
—“Flowering Plums,” for instance, where
a Cyclone fence and gate occupy the
foreground. But the work is sincere,
and there is some, beautiful coloring in
such studies as “River at Glen Innes,” a
very faithful study of light on water, and
in “Storm Cloud,” which is quite Turner-
esque. In “Weigelia,” a very graceful
flower study, “Oat Stooks” and “Bare
Willows” color and form combine to
produce pleasing patterns despite the
artist’s stern determination to stick to
the truth. The works mentioned are all
in oils. The water-colors, much slighter
in intent, are not very notable, but they
serve to emphasise, that the painter's
draughtsmanship is excellent.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Roy de Maistre’s Paintings.
In aid of charity a loan collection of
Roy de Maistre’s work is being exhibited
in the rooms of the Industrial Art
Society, Sydney. Mr. Le Maistre has
lived outside Australia for many years
and the canvases on view are almost all
over 10 years old. He has been mostly a
follower of the school best represented
in this country by Roland Wakelin, re-
cording the elements rather than Ihe
details of things seen, though in such in-
teriors as “Lay Figure” (1926) he ex-
hibits an Orpenesque vein. His main
claim to distinction lies in his masterly
use of color and in the fine sense for the
decorative that informs most of his
designs. Some of his work is a little
suggestive, of the Meld rum school.


Ouh. (£aJz&i.£au/>
WE COULD
m
HAVE
FED THE
MULTITUDE
. . . with our daily bread consumption!
40,000 loaves a year over 100 a day —my, what a
lot I White bread, brown bread Vienna loaves raisin
loaves, all are there Of course the Victoria Palace is
the largest and most modern hotel in Australia Last
year, we served more than a million meals Tariffs are
reasonable too—4/- to 7/6 Single room 8/- to 167-
Double room j
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE. C 1 (Next lown Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
ROMANOFF CAVIAR
and RED KETA CAVIAR.
The favourite hors d’oeuvres.
Sold by Leading Stores and Served at all
Fashionable Resorts.
Repv.: F. W. L. Beckmann, 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
Corns Sentenced to Death,
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel a'.er A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Short Story
c Writing
tyree Lance
I Journalism
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S* School oE Journalism
140 Elisabeth Street, Sydney
THE AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
252 George Street
(Near Bridge Street)
Latest works by the best Australian Artists
on view and for sale.
A Special Exhibition of Oil Paintings, Water-
colors, Pen Drawings and Etchings by
Norman Lindsay opens on Friday, May 14.
admission free
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Royal Empire Society extended a
well-manicured hand of welcome to the
State’s new Governor and Lady Wake-
hurst midway through last week. The
ballroom of the Australia was crowded,
and every woman wore the best from
her jewel-box, every man his decoration,
fof the occasion. The Hugh Denisons
made a pleasant host and hostess. Her
frock of magnolia velvet had a long
train, and there was a discreet glint of
diamonds at the shoulder line. Lady
Wakehurst’s frock of pale-blue lace was
made with a full skirt and had a short
coat of the lace. Pearls were her orna-
ments. In the vice-regal group came the
Geoffrey Whiskards, the lady’s brocades
deep-blue, and silver. Little silver tassels
finished off her shoulder drapes.
Mayoress Parkes wrapped her black
chiffons in a sable velvet cloak.
The Philip Streets were there, her
frock and cape, of hyacinth-blue satin.
Marjorie Hambridge swung a long ivory
velvet cape, and the velvet of Mrs.
Garnet Halloran’s ground-length coat
burned emerald. Moth-grey were the
chiffons worn by the Francis Anderson
lady. Black and silver patterned satin
made Mrs. Mark Foy’s trained frock.
Mrs. John Waugh glittered in silver lame
and lace. Knight Kelso King and his
lady were in this throng; daughters
Olive and Hazel were at the Bertie Kellys’
eighteenth-century frolic.
When you stepped across the doorway
of the Bertie Kelly home in Darling
Point last Wednesday, you stepped back
into the eighteenth century, where ladies
were hooped and powdered and patched
and the manners of the gentlemen were
as smooth as the. satin that made their
frogged, full-skirted and brightly-hued
coats. A special laurel wreath should
crown Mrs. Kelly for the sparkling ease
with which the party flowed. Pergolese’s
opera “II Maestro di Musica” was the
reason of all this dressing up, which has
kept the. costumiers busy for weeks past.
The atmosphere of 200 years ago was as
closely as possible reproduced in all the
surroundings of the dress rehearsal. The
guests’ costumes could be French, Irish,
English, Italian, German. Period was
the one thing that mattered. Candle-
light and growing standards of flowers
helped the picture. The stage was at
the end of the reception-room, and
opened on to a verandah.
Deep sky-blue were the moires in Mrs.
Kelly’s frock. This had immense hoops
and a long square train that fell from
the shoulders. It was copied from one
worn by a daughter of Louis XV. as
portrayed by Nattier. Bertie himself,
who conducted the opera, was very brave
in velvet and satin, with cuffs and jabot
of Mechlin. Mrs. Sep. Levy was a
striking little figure in hooped cerise
satins. The Hugh Poates were a hand-
some. pair. Her frock was lilac, hooped
and panniered. She was a Venetian,
and her little three-cornered hat was tied
under her chin. Ruby Adams went as a
copy of a lady by Longhi. Old rose
taffeta and ivory Valenciennes were used
in profusion on her spreading frock that
had its lace flounces caught with blue
true-lover’s knots. Puff sleeves of the
lace mounted on tulle and a fascinating
little cap of the lace bordered with pink
rosebuds were finishing touches. Mrs.
C. L. Jones was all in white—-like a
figure in white porcelain.
Warwick Fairfax came as somebody
royal, or almost so, judging by the deep-
blue ribbon across his chest. Consul-
General for the Netherlands Elink
Schuurman came as a rose-red velvet
shepherd. His wife was a shepherdess,
and they gave a dinner party beforehand.
Mrs. Eric Sheller, her hooped black
velvets enriched with black and gold lace,
got a Camille-like effect (without the
cough) from the white flowers in her
frock and her hair. An Irish Court
costume that might have been worn by
a knight of St. Patrick to Dublin Castle
adorned Gag. Beaton. Supper was an
amazing affair, from the champagne
cocktails to the cream moulds, their
tops modelled as the heads and shoulders
of eighteenth-century ladies.
After their strenuous day along the
banks of the Nepean cheering their favor-
ite crews in the fours and the eights,
the lads and lasses rounded off their day
with a salvo of jazz. There were dances
all around the city, and most of the
revellers were just under or just begin-
ning twenties. The council of the G.P.S.
Old Boys’ Unions held its dance in
David Jones’s ballroom ; Sydney Gram-
mar stalwarts gathered in the Blaxland
Galleries. St. Joseph’s College kept the
electrics burning late. Here the Parents
and Friends’ Association were the hosts
and the crews and all who had been active
in the day’s racing were the guests of
honor.
Here’s a Mosman girl who has found
the study of languages not only pleasur-
able but profitable. She is Dorothy
Tremlett, a graduate of Sydney Univer-
sity. Dorothy has specialised in French
and German. For three years she was
on the staff of the French Consulate, and
from there went as librarian to the
French Alliance. Now she has made an-
other move, and has become secretary to
the editor of the “Medical Journal of
Australia,” where her German as well as
her French will be called into use. Por-
trait from Raymond Sawyer.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst were guests
at the Institute of Journalists’ lunch one
day last.week, and after the lunch they
had, together or separately, a word with
each of those present. Lord Wakehurst
has practically pledged himself not to
plunge his pen in gore while he is with
us. One writer suggested G.H. as the
setting for a detective thriller. This
Letter once had the idea of a murder
mystery in Windsor Castle, to be un-
ravelled entirely by Queen Victoria —a
respectable background is always such
an asset. Lady Wakehurst smiled above
dark furs and an armful of flowers. Sec-
retary Hermione Llewellyn’s frock of
crayon pink had silver fox to keep it
company. The Governor’s voice is light-
weight, but even the farthest away heard
when he said “Australians are the kindest
people in the world.”
Of the societies that work for the bene-
fit of soldiers’ children, this Letter has
an especially warm regard for the Legacy
Club. Perhaps that is because of its
name. No child who is looked upon as
part of a legacy can possibly regard
himself as an object of charity. Anyway,
the Legacy Club was cheerfully renewing
its financial tissues in the Town Hall
midway through last week. The G.-G.
came along to give a hand. He was
piped into the beflagged and palm-decked
hall by a dashing Highlander, and later
smiled on the 10 little white-clad debs,
who had been waiting his arrival before
they could step into the giddy whirl. The
committee had great expectations of 2000
dancers, and was not disappointed. What
with revolving and twirling couples, and
little tables set under the galleries where
other couples paused to take a breather,
the night was a crowded one. Over the
stage glowed the torch above the laurel
wreath, the Legacy emblem.
The president, A. E. Church, and Mrs.
Church received the official group, which
included Mayor Howie, Mayoress Parkes,
the Brigadier Hardies, the Ministerial
Dunninghams. New frocks all around
seemed to have been woman’s slogan for
the night. Lady Poynter’s satins were
Pekin blue; hand-made French lace
formed a cape that fell in a long point
almost the length of the satin train. Her
pendant had been designed by Sir
Edward Poynter, and was an opal in an
exquisite old Florentine setting. The
very fine chain was set here and there
with black pearls. Margaret Hamilton
Lewis’s dark head carried a coronet of
red roses. Her frock was of magnolia
satin. Captain Nobbs was among the
dancers. Mrs. Theophilus dancing with
Patrick Bellew caught the gaze. Her
long and full frock was all blue and
gold stripes, and her fair hair was bound
with pearls. A brown moire stiff with
embossed golden ears of wheat made
one of the handsomest dresses. The
wearer was Miss Baines Hall. The wife
of Moore Cosgrave, Canada’s Trade
Commissioner, dressed her good looks in
chalk-white cloque, and wore as a brooch
in its flat collar a whole cargo of rhine-
stones and topaz. Black and gold frocked
Mrs. Roy Hendy. The Frederick
McMasters, and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax
were among the glimpsed.
Alice Gould, a popular director of the
Sydney Players’ Club and a clever ama-
teur actress and designer of stage cos-
tume, is off to Europe. In England she
will make a study of the latest Little
Theatre activities, and will revisit the
Central School of Drama that has its
headquarters in the Albert Hall buildings.
Howard Harris photograph.
Neville Smith’s tea party to Lotte
Lehmann was a happy, informal affair,
and judging by the dimples that came
and went under Lotte’s magnolia-pink
toque the singer enjoyed it as much as
the two young men who sat one on each
side of her. The host, instead of sitting
beside the principal guest and thus mono-
polising one side of her, sat opposite.
This is an idea worth remembering for
the next tea party. Mrs. E. J. Tait was
all big eyes, black furs and violets. The
Erik Langkers, Mrs. Bainton, Violet
Roche, the singer’s husband and accom-
panist, Mrs. T. S. Gurr and a group of
the host’s American friends made up
the pleasant group.
From the entrance to the Savoy, which
was neatly balanced by the spreading
blue hoops of Mrs. Mick Dalton and
the equally full white satin of Mrs.
Charlie Lloyd Jones, all was sparkle for
the Pergolese opera “II Maestro di
Musica.” The two ladies, like swans in
full sail, were selling programmes. In-
side the doors, ladies rustling a similar
yardage of satins, laces and brocades
ushered the company to their seats. Blue
was an extremely popular shade for these
eighteenth-century costumes. Wigs of
the period were worn or heads slightly
powdered. Mrs. Fiaschi, above her neat
little bodice and spreading skirts, wore
ringlets. A slim daughter was in white
moire. Mrs. Ferrari Passmore was
handsome in blue with touches of gold.
Mrs. Kelly’s frock, enriched with real
lace, gleamed lake-blue in the theatre
lights.
Mr. Kelly, who conducted the orches-
tra, wore a suit of dark-green velvet, the
coat full-skirted, braided and showing
the glint of a jewel here and there. The
entire orchestra was dressed to period,
and the stage setting and costumes were
authentic. The music was gay, the story
sprightly, and all the performers, with
the exception of the scarlet-coated ser-
vant who was Belgium’s Consul-General
Segaert, were Sydneyites. Good singing
and a sense of fun were shown by Lam-
berto (Ernest Gibb), Lauretta (Ruth
Scott) and Colagianni (Fraser Coss).
After the performance Mr. and Mrs.
Kelly gave a supper party in the Blue
Bird, the cafe under the neighboring
Empire Society’s rooms. Soon this burned
with color, and ran with the lightheaded
merriment that always accompanies
period dressing. The champagne, too,
was very good.
Tea and a satisfying gaze at the Turner
landscape which is the pride of her own
room at Government House were prof-
fered by Lady Wakehurst to Sydney
newspaperwomen last Friday. There are
books everywhere, and in secretary Her-
mione Llewllyn’s room are two parrots.
Upstairs along one of the long halls the
two small ones of the family were scam-
pering. Government House sounded and
looked like home. The whole was one of
the happiest round-the-fire corroborees
this Letter had tucked into its week.
Around a slim tree on the lawn there
was an orchestra in Austria’s national
costume. Over the gate flew the Aus-
trian flag. At the doorway each guest
was decked with a tiny replica, and in the
reception-room, rich with flower and foli-
age, Austria’s Consul Parker and Mrs.
Parker received a seemingly endless
stream of guests. Lord Wakehurst was
represented by Blake Pelly and Arch-
bishop Kelly by Monsignor Hayden.
Archbishop Mowll came with Mrs.
Mowll, and the Papal Delegate, Dr.
Panico, was another who made his bow.
All the Consuls were there. There were
at least two sets of earrings that could
not go unnoted —a pair of jade in an
old Chinese setting worn by the wife of
China’s C.-G. Pao, and emeralds flash-
ing at Mrs. T. H. Kelly’s ears.
Mrs. Parker’s frock of deep burgundy
had two foxes outlining the hem of its
tunic. The heads gazed at you where, the
tunic opened in front.
This party from start to finish went
as merrily as a Strauss waltz. The cock-
tails were numerous and varied ; a favor-
ite was the “white blush,” which seemed
to go particularly well with the open air.
The lawns, with their spreading vistas
of rock gardens complete with abo. carv-
ings, drew the guests out of doors, and
daughter Rosemary, enjoying her first
grown-up party, acted willingly as a
guide for those who wished to explore.


Famous V.C. praises
H
N
the Wonderful Money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
COUGHS—COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS and ’FLU
Mr. G. J. (“Snowy”) HOWELL, V.C., M.M., is
one of over 15,000 citizens who have written
letters expressing gratitude for the benefits they
have derived from using HEENZO, the famous
money-saving family cough and influenza remedy.
Read Mr. Howell’s eulogy of HEENZO: —
"I first learnt the value of Heenzo, as a cough remedy,
when my relatives sent me a supply overseas during
the war .
"Ever since, I have been glad to recommend Heenzo to
my friends, and it is equally popular with all members of
our household . The excellence and economy of Heenzo as
a cough and influenza remedy make if an absolute boon to
all families ."
Yours faithfully,
G. J. ("Snowy"! Howell, V.C., M.M.
HEENZO COSTS 21-and SAVES £’s
Wise folk save money by making their own family
cough and influenza remedy with HEENZO. A
bottle of HEENZO costs two shillings, and, when
added to sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-
sized bottles of the best ready-mixed remedies for
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza and
whooping cough. Order HEENZO to-day from
your nearest chemist or store.
wmmm
W
Mr. G. J. ("Snowy") HOWELL, Y.C., M.M.
HEENZO SHOULD BE USED IN EVERY HOME
When you are feeling run down or nervy, and in need of a good TONIC, take
MEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


M a W
+ H e
Your Home
whi^-.Y
c Y 0 H 15
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
SYDNEY.'PHONE BW 1361
CD. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J, S. JLli VV, .Manager.
The World’s Smallest Effective
Hearing-Aid —No Cords, No Batteries.
30£::.t„„ Vibraphone
Write for Booklet.
B.NATHAN 37 Austral Bldgs.
113 Collins Street, Melbourne
f
Bartz Salts of the Earth
Drugs are only a temporary relief, but BARTZ,
the IMPROVED MINERAL SPRING TONIC
SALTS, is Nature’s own remedy for excessive
fat, headaches, rheumatic pains, sleeplessness,
giddiness, high blood pressure, constipation, etc.
Obtainable all Chemists and Stores, price
1/- and 2/-, or direct post free. Cheaper and
better. Sole distributors,
British Colonial & Eastern Chemicals, Ltd.,
65-69 York Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8VV6661.
Your best
protection
against
infection
HUDSONS
EUMENTHOL" «
JUJUBES
Universally
used for
almost 50
years . . .
6d. & 1/6 tin
Stomach
Distress
and
Acidity
NEW TREATMENT ENDS CAUSE.
Stomach distress, acidity and constipation
•re at last being successfully overcome by a
new method that is simple, natural and
scientific. Specialists now say _ that acid
stomach does not result from just indigestion,
for this, too, is only a condition arising from
a real cause. Stomach acidity is actually due
to self-poisoning—i.e.—a clogged colon. That
is why “stomach medicines” fail to give
lasting relief. As a result of inactivity of
the colon (large intestine), all the food
refuse is not passed out of the body. Instead,
it encrusts on the colon walls and there fer-
ments and putrefies. Virulent poisons and
acids seep into the bloodstream and are then
carried throughout the body, making the
whole system acid.
These fermenting, irritating poisons in the
colon develop gas and acids which penetrate
to the stomach and inflame its delicate lin-
ing. Food instead of being digested
“sours,” causing indigestion, bloating, belch-
ing, soreness and burning, sickness, heart-
burn, acidity, ulcers and constipation.
To get rid of stomach acidity for good, you
must first cleanse away the fermenting, acid-
developing waste from the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements cannot do this—the walls
of the colon become too weak and sluggish.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘COLOSEPTIC’ every morning. This cleanses
the stomach and colon of all irritating waste,
tones up the colon walls, giving them back
their full normal action. It corrects all acid
conditions in the stomach and bowels,
soothes inflamed, irritated tissues and re-
stores the body’s alkaline reserve. ‘COLO-
SEPTIC’ also activates the action of ihe
kidneys, pores of the skin and the lungs
other vital organs which eliminate acids and
poisons from the system. , ,
•COLOSEPTIC’—the better internal c eanser
—builds a new kind of stomach health, t
checks self-poisoning, thus enabling your
food to nourish you and add firm flesh and
muscle. At all chemists. Individual size,
2/9; economy size, 5/6. FREE SAMPLE—-
Send 3d. stamps for postage, a liberal Fr
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate boo<
will be sent you—COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
So far there is little excitement in Mel-
bourne over the Coronation festivities to
be held here. Not all employees know
for certain what extent of holiday they
will be getting, and the news that Sydney
is spreading itself for a spectacular and
expensive programme has as yet started
no fire of rivalry. There will be lights
and music in moderation, and some
street decoration, but not all firms are
taking part. The Town Hall at present
looks its very worst, with a giant inscrip-
tion on the Swanston-street side and a
slab of whitewash under one block of
windows. (This alarmed some folk, who
thought the whole building was to be
painted white.) As the grant to make up
the face of the civic fastness runs into
several hundreds it should look well
enough when its scheme of decoration is
completed. Because Lady Huntingfield is
away there will be no G.H. ball. Instead
the Governor will receive friends and
chosen officials at dinner. As the Lord
Mayor is also absent his deputy, William
Brunton, will hold a reception at which
his hostess will be Cr. Wales’s daughter,
Mrs. Lem Callaway. This affair will be
formal, with no dancing, but with music,
talking and supper. The largest com-
memoration of Coronation Week will
probably be on Sunday, 16th, when
massed bands will perform at Melbourne
Cricket Ground.
After searching analysis by the Pre-
mier’s Department and a final decision
that it is fit and proper, the University
revue “Rhodes to Glory” wears the
official gilt edge of a Coronation func-
tion. It will commence a five nights’
season at the King’s on Tuesday, 11th.
The farce is no below-the-belt kick at
Rhodes scholars ; its tilt is rather at the
w'ay they are selected. Story opens in a
maternity hospital with a doctors’ and
nurses’ ballet and notification of the birth
of the prodigy. Then come the prep,
school and a scene on the river on boat-
race day (topical, for the show runs hi
boatrace week). Scene 4 takes place at
a masked ball; 5, with much satire, at a
broadcasting station ; 6 deals with the
Rhodes selection committee at work and
play, and the last lap shows the departure
for distant lands of the chosen candidate.
As rehearsals progress Schneevoigt and
the Symphony Orchestra come to under-
stand one another with greater ease. The
musicians find the Finnish conductor a
painstaking and thorough leader, tireless
in the trouble he takes to get the inter-
pretation he requires. At one tender
passage in rehearsal Schneevoigt shut his
eyes and begged every man in the orches-
tra to imagine he had a most beautiful
young girl in his arms. At the conclu-
sion of the theme he turned pity-
ingly to one of the ’cellists and spoke
with quiet hopelessness: “You do not
know what I mean ; the woman you have-
in your arms she is one hundred years
old.”
At the opening of the Victorian Artists’
Society’s autumn exhibition, a controver-
sial speech by R. G. Menzies brought
forth a reply from president James
Quinn. Facing a wall given over for the
first time to modernist invitees, Mr. Men-
zies eulogised the conventional and
praised the scheme, which he claims as
his own “baby,” for an Australian Royal
Academy. Quinn put forward a few
arguments against academic influences.
Among the guests were Dr. and Mrs.
Plowman, of Frankston, Dr. and Mrs.
Douglas Thomas, Professor Copland and
his wife, tall and slim in dusty-pink, and
the Bob Hamiltons, Mrs. Hamilton in a
gold coat and a gown which in some
lights was as green velvet and in others
seemed a-glitter with raindrops. Mrs.
C Wahlers had the fronds of a turquoise-
green osprey whispering about her ears.
Mrs. Jim Buchanan’s hair was rolled
into the curvilinear halo so fashionable
at the moment. Titian-headed Winkie
Murray, whose portrait was exhibited by
James Quinn, was wrapped about the
shoulders with silver foxes.
One of the ticket secretaries for the
Legacy Club Ball, to be held on Boat-
race Eve (May 13) at the Palais, is Mrs.
Rex Hall, shown here in an Austin Mur-
cott photograph. Captain Hall, away in
London with the Coronation contingent,
has been interested in Legacy since its
inception, and is a past-president of the
club. His wife has also helped the move-
ment by working each year on the ball
committee and by acting as hon. medi-
cal officer (she practises as Dr. Margaret
Anderson) to the Legacy Girls’ Club.
Captain and Mrs. Hall have one son,
aged 12.
In this, the first year of its inception,
there are 16 young women and eight
young men enrolled for the two years’
course for the diploma of physical edu-
cation. The lads do their drills and gym-
nasium exercises at the Y.M.C.A.; the
girls at the Y.W.C.A. with instructresses
Nell Rawlins and Meg Johnson, both
trained in England. Swimming classes
are at the Olympic pool or the baths, and
lectures at the University, where the stu-
dents are members of sports clubs and
have set hours for games. In addition
they take it in turns to visit the schools
(the girls go to P.L.C. and Lauriston) to
watch conducted drills. Dr. Fritz Duras
gives the lectures and, as he is becoming
accustomed to his new environment, is
undertaking the organising. Mrs. Duras
learnt the rudiments of English at school
in Germany, but the doctor, who now
speaks fluently, with a particularly good
accent, says he knew no word of Eng-
lish when he went to Birmingham nine
months ago.
Dr. Duras is short, with well-made
shoulders and perfect white teeth. The
one weakness in his make-up is the joy
of his life, daughter Eva, aged three and
already an expert on skis. She had her
first pair, one foot in length, at one
and a half, when she gathered roses in
her cheeks tumbling about the Black
Forest.
Many people interested in ballet and
the arts generally were, give the oppor-
tunity of meeting Edward Espinosa at
Eunice Weston’s party in his honor at
Scott’s. In spite of all manner of inter-
esting things to eat, from fried oysters to
dominoes of caviare, accompanied by the
usual drinks, the maitre de ballet took
only a small glass of fruit juice, for his
drinking limit is one gin before meals.
Espinosa jokes about his age (he is obvi-
ously proud that his 65 years have not
slowed up his agile toes), and tells against
himself the rumor that preceded him to
Australia about “the old man accom-
panied by his doctor.” Tommy Atkinson,
of the horn-rimmed spectacles and tact-
ful manner with children, is known as
“Espinosa’s M.D.,” but the initials stand
for musical director, not doctor of
medicine.
Espinosa was in Melbourne only four
days {he expects to return during Corona-
tion Week to conduct examinations for
the British Ballet organisation), but that
time was sufficient for him to start pre-
liminary negotiations for the forming of
an Australian Ballet, the ultimate func-
tion of which will be to employ Austra-
lian dancers, scenic painters and musi-
cians. The. birth of such a ballet would
give great encouragement to young
dancers and their teachers.
Espinosa believes that Art should be
spelt with four letters—W-O-R-K, and
that many reactionary essays in art in
various fields are merely “bluff,” per-
petrated by people who have failed
in th'eir original objects. He begs to be
excused from discussing Diaghileff, but
has interesting things to say of every
other celebrity of ballet for the past 50
years. He believes that Isadora Duncan,
who was in his ballet in the early ’nine-
ties, was sincere in her work, and after
she broke away did no harm and no
small amount of good. He considers
Pavlova was a sublime artist, but as a
technician, except at practice and re-
hearsals, was inferior to Karsavina. When
Espinosa became a dancer, the world lost
a first-class comedian. He has charm and
a subtle wit, but it is not so much the
things he says as his enjoyment of the
situation he creates that gets him across
to pupils or audience.
Preliminary arrangements are being
made for a benefit concert for dramatic
soprano Hinemoa Rosieur, who hopes to
sail abroad in July. Miss Rosieur, whose
portrait is below, has completed on
scholarships the three years’ course at
the Albert-street Conservatorium. In
the first year she won the Mary Campbell
scholarship, and in the second and third
her success in the Melba scholarships
entitled her to maintenance as well as
tuition. Since leaving home she has re-
turned twice to her own country, Maori-
land, on broadcasting tours.
This promising young singer has been
studying French, German and Italian for
several years, and has little fear of being
unable to make herself understood when
she visits Europe. Golf, swimming and
deep-sea fishing are her favorite sports.
As a child living at Maunganui she
learnt to row a boat and to catch sharks
with the best of the men. Her most
famous effort was when, at the age of
12, she landed a six-foot mako shark.
Ski-ing enthusiasts are already plan-
ning their winter holidays. Some prefer
the adventurous Alps, where good ski-
runs compensate for log-cabinish accom-
modation. Others like to make sure of
hot' baths, comfortable chairs and the
opportunity for all-night parties, and are
willing to take their chance about heavy
snowfalls at Buffalo. Secretary Jock
MacGrath, who is already putting forth
propaganda for the Buffalo Alpine Club
and the Chamois Club, gives as part of
his sales talk the information that lights
at the Chalet are now on all night (they
used to go out at midnight), that the
ginger-wine is as warming as ever it was,
and that the services of his club can be
obtained for the packing of skiers'
“laundry baskets.” As added attractions
Jock mentions the possibility of meeting
famous people like Wilfrid Schuchard
and Rod Cherry. Rod is an excellent
skier with a peculiar snow appetite. For
dinner he always orders the same meal —
a plate of thick and a plate of clear
soup with nothing to follow.
Maffra and surrounding districts have
been busy with Margaret Prytz’s pre-
wedding festivities. Her marriage to Paul
Whitehead, of the Urana - clan, takes
place in Melbourne next Monday. Among
the parties which were daily occurrences
before Margaret and her mother packed
up and came to town for a few days’
last-minute shopping was a cocktail-sip-
ping arranged by the Alan McLeans. It
happened after golf and was followed by
everybody going on to the pictures.
Bridesmaids Sheilah Robertson and
Dorothy Cooper were also party-makers,
and the golf associates gathered for tea
to hand their departing member a scarlet
leather bag, the kind that is the envy of
all sportswomen, for, slung over the
shoulder, it carries pencil, card, hankie,
powder compact and any other odds and
ends that are liable to make bulges of
skirt pockets. After a honeymoon in
Fiji the young couple will make their
home at their new property 30 miles
from Corowa (N.S.W.).
Mrs. Gerald Ormiston and Mrs.
Vernon Pett are going off for three weeks’
picnic racing at Dubbo and Wellington
(N.S.W.). They will stay at Narromine in
the big rambling homestead belonging to
Mrs. Pett’s father, T. M. Scott. Mrs.
Pett, like all her sisters and brothers, is
a fine sport. She plays A-grade tennis for
South Yarra and seems to be able to
walk on to the links after an absence of
months and defeat all the men of her
acquaintance. And she has no objection
to riding wild horses. In between the
picnic race meetings there are dances
which won’t end up until the cows out-
side are mooing to be milked.
Among Australians to be presented in
London this month is Betty Rosenstamm,
who was well known in Perth and has
many friends in Melbourne, where she
went to school at Lauriston.


$ :
bis quick removing wr
is just another reagqn
Black & White
are s& much better!
smm
mm
•y SR
m
m
&
w
♦
1
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
9 for 6<t —lB for i/~|
CORK TfPPSO OR PLAIN
.r V
• • ••8
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT —THE FINEST MONEY CAN BUY
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“North-road”: Mandated New Guinea
has achieved one distinction —it is the
only place which issued a coin bearing
the portrait and monogram of Edward
VIII. The piece of cash is a penny.
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin is a place of
straight streets, good visibility and flat
surfaces without hills. Nowhere has the
pedestrian more chance to dodge the
flying motor-car or more space to dodge
in. But Darwin is taking no chances.
Its new motor regulations should give it
a reputation for having the slowest cars
in the world. The speed limit has been
fixed at 25 m.p.h. under penalty of £lO.
The Administrator has omitted an order
to have an abo. run in front with a red
flag. Darwin’s Administration has had
sad experiences with red flags.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: If the Mr. Nakashiba
who is at Darwin for the Japanese South
Seas Pearling and Fishing Co. is Peter
Nakashiba, he is no Japanese at all.
Peter, a well-known identity of Thursday
Island and Darwin, is a Cairns-born white
boy who was adopted when a few days
old by a Japanese family, and learned to
speak Japanese and Malay before Eng-
lish. He was brilliant at school, and left
with the senior certificate, meanwhile
adding French and Russian to his lan-
guages. He managed a store in Thursday
Island before going to Darwin, and often
acted as interpreter in Tower-of-Babel
cases before the local Courts.
* H= $
“Gain”: One of our teachers has re-
cently been trying to instil into his
Papuan pupils along the uncontrolled
border some knowledge of their rulers,
and the other day hauled up his prize
pupil for exhibition before the visiting
kiap, who proceeded to put him through
his paces. After eliciting from the proud
scholar the fact that Canberra was a
“beeg, beeg fella place belong Guv-
ment,” he asked whether the student
savvied the name of the Minister from
whom all the blessings of the Territory
flow. The native brain was empty about
Mr. Pearce ; but when the Prime Min-
ister was mentioned there was a spate of
eloquence: “Oh, yes, me savvy that
master altogether good fella. ’lm ’ee
beeg fella —got beeg fella ’oUse, plenty
kaikai. ’lm ’ee lapoon [old] fella, got
plenty grass [hair] along coconut belong
him.” Then: “No got grass along
face —other fella got that,” added the
pupil pensively, evidently having heard
of Mr. Casey’s moustache. “This two-
fella go along seeip [ship].” So the fame
of the Lyons-Casey journeyings to Lon-
don has reached the wilds.
"** * *
“X.T.”: Canberra has again been
beaten at the post. An Australian
fishery investigation ship is being built,
and at some time in the future will be
commissioned. Meanwhile, Japanese
fishing companies are operating off the
North Westralian coast and carting off
hundreds of tons of sea-harvest to a
Malayan depot. Also, factory trawlers
are being built in Nippon to make ex-
perimental hauls off the eastern Aus-
tralian coast to try out the possibilities
of the sardine, pilchard and tuna trade.
■V- # * =?
“Atrax”: If I did own Queensland’s
remarkable railways, as some of their
posters allege, I’d exchange them for
others which consider the comfort and
convenience of the travelling public on
“Don' mind helpin' y ’ just this once, Ma, seein' as it's Mother's Day."
the ordinary unadvertised sort of train.
Luxury expresses for visiting political
notabilities and tourists are all very well,
but anyone who wishes; to see the real
article, should take the night train from
Brisbane to Warwick. Towards mid-
night, most of the second-class carriages
are taken off at Toowoomba and the
disgruntled occupants packed in any-
where, together with whatever new pas-
sengers join there. It affords a fine
tribute to the good temper of Australian
tax-fodder, this senseless and totally un-
necessary inconvenience and discomfort.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
Yesterday jostled the skirts of to-day in
the antique exhibition arranged by Mrs.
Bedford Elwell and Thomas Percy in
aid of League of Nations Union funds.
No fewer than three families, all claiming
kinship with Lord Nelson, came along
with relics of Nelson and the Victory—
a miniature, with a lock of Nelson’s hair
at the back ; a brooch that belonged to
Lady Nelson, with a red curled lock of
the great seaman’s hair in the centre ;
a tiny pistol, once the property of Cap-
tain Chas. Adair, killed on the Victory,
with a new stock formed of Victory oak ;
and old silver that graced Nelson’s table.
A letter from Byron, written from Venice
in 1819—and a vile hand the poet wrote,
too!—a note from Florence Nightin-
gale to her “dear goddaughter,” labori-
ously written in pencil, and Florence’s
heavy old Bible were much pored over.
Over 10,000 people turned out for the
military tattoo. A guard of 9th-49th Bat-
talion men held aloft a flag bearing the
names of battlefields in which the original
regiments took part. It was a good show,
with a leaven of comedy to lighten the
serious business of war. A Light Car
squadron performed some marvellous
evolutions, ending in one of the cars
standing on its head.
Rain spoiled the first day of the Dalby
picnic races, but the house party at Jim-
bour didn’t care. In the party were
Sheila Watson, Fifi Billington, Laura
Chaffey, of Sydney, Bill Wilson and Eric
Ariell, of Pittsworth.
The Uni. students went gay last
(Commem.) week. The procession was
not so long as had been intended, for
the censor got busy and wiped out
five floats on which the students
had spent a lot of time and thought.
The marketing referendum provided the
key for a good topical skit.
Mary Porter, librarian of the Red
Cross Link, is off to England with her
parents, H. A. and Dr. Adela Porter,
so the Link members got together and
gave a farewell lea for her. It was an
orange party —orange chrysanthemums,
orange icing on the cakes and orange
drinks. Clarice White, the president,
handed over a bouquet of roses.
Mrs. G. E. Rowe, who celebrated
her high-up-the-scale birthday last week,
can still lift a tuneful soprano. She is
a member of the Coronation Choir which
is to perform at the Exhibition on Coro-
nation Night. She saw Edward VII.
crowned, she and her husband being in-
vited guests with seats in the Abbey.
Mrs. F. W. Robinson, who sailed for
England, was entertained by Rita Hum-
fress, who set the tables in the lounge
of Netherway. Lady medicoes, artists’
wives, dancers and musicians were
among the guests.
The reception after the wedding ol :
Pat Gardiner and Robert Donald King
Scott was at the Royal Queensland Golf
clubhouse at Hamilton. The wedding
was at St. John’s Cathedral, and the
bridesmaids, sister Janet Gardiner —she
and her mother are two of Brisbane’s
best women golfers—Elizabeth Bell and
Mollie Nettlefold, of Hobart, struck an
original note by carrying bouquets of
tinted feathers instead of flowers. The
bride and her ’maids
were in pink, the
latter in a slightly
deeper shade, and
they wore bandeaux
of rose Du Barry
velvet set with
feathers. The bride-
groom is the son of
Dr. and Mrs. Robert
King Scott, of Mel-
bourne.
The Dramatic
Club, in conjunction
with the Public Ser-
vice Institute, staged
four one-act plays
in the Repertory
rooms. Young Bill Cuppaidge pro-
duced “Shanghai,” and Effie Maxwell,
a strikingly pretty girl, brought down
the house with her characterisation of
Flora, the hard-boiled waitress at a
cheap eating-house. Tom McMinn, who
produced “The Purple Bedroom,” a
ghost play by Eden Phillpotts, scored with
his work in “On Dartmoor,” a Neil
Grant play, produced by Jack Walsh.
Tom was Bill Syme, and Phyllis Smith
and Gladys Jackson were the two girls.
“The Stoker” (Harold Brighouse) was
produced by Andrew Hirst, who also
played the title role.


Personal and Missing Friends.
BALFOUR BLAIR, formerly employed in
sheep-farming, who left New Zealand for Aus-
tralia in 1925 at the age of 23, and whose
whereabouts are unknown to relatives, or anyone
with information as to the said Balfour Blair,
is requested to communicate with STEWART
& ANDERSONS, Solicitors, 167 St. Vincent
Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
BLINDING HEADACHES
MADE HER HELPLESS
•Forced to Lie Down For
Hours at a Time.
The severity of this woman's headaches can
be easily imagined from her statement that she
seemed to lose her sight, and all power in her
hands. Other sufferers from headaches will be
interested to read her letter:
“Until last summer I was subject to terrible
headaches. While they lasted 1 seemed to lose
my sight and all power in my hands, and was
forced to lie down for hours at a time. My
aunt (who has taken Kruschen Salts for 12
years with beneficial results) suggested my
trying them. I did so, and I’ve not had any
return of those terrible headaches for months,
in fact I feel quite cured. I shall always take
Kruschen regularly in future.” —(Mrs.) M.W.
Headaches can nearly always be traced to a
disordered stomach and to the unsuspected re-
tention in the system of stagnating waste
material which poisons the blood. Remove
these poisons—prevent them forming again—
and you’ll never have to worry any more.
And that is just how Kruschen Salts bring
swift and lasting relief from headaches.
THE
IIMITCn INSURANCE
U 111 I Ell COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE § HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The "United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. DAWSON, T. C. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
df
The
flying
Scotsman
Non-stop run.
“LONDON to EDINBURGH,”
393 miles in 7] hours.
London & North Eastern Railway
FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Descriptive booklets and full informa-
tion supplied on application to
BURNS, FHILF & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
BRANDAIERS
PENS
:
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAOKR * CO.. Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
The best
SAFEGUARD
against
COLDS,FLU,
WHOOPIHC
COUCH and
CATARRH!
V
Each year these ailments take their
toll of adults and children, and unless
care is taken to fortify the system,
bodily resistance becomes less, with
the result that more serious diseases
obtain a foothold. It is truly said
that a well-nourished body is the best
protection against illness, and the cer-
tain way to secure this is a course of
Roboleine at intervals throughout the
year. Roboleine is the best protective
and strengthening food, rich in natural
vitamins. A teaspoonful three times
a day supplies the body with that
extra nourishment which tones up
the system and increases resistance to
epidemic diseases.
Roboleine is made in England
RDBOLEINE
The best protective and
health restoring food
Sttee*
co
Ken}
479
tot
Ltd
mV 3
Sen
lose
Mon
en c
fjainc
zia<i' tsJ
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1871 of 1936.
BETWEEN HILDA JANE SHERRIFF Peti-
tioner
And CLARENCE ALEXANDER
SHERRIFF Respondent.
TO CLARENCE ALEXANDER SHERRIFF
formerly of 8 Mitchell Street Dubbo in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA JANE
SHERRIFF has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twenty-
| eighth day of July One thousand nine hundred
| and thirty-seven and in the event of you not
| doing so within the time limited or obtaining
I further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein has been forwarded to you under cover
of envelope addressed to your mother Mrs.
Sherriff at her last known address.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of April, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
i J. E. SLEEMAN, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
j 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa .
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
=r ■==
J==l *r-
Mwm^.xi
- Jsg=
%
52=
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Scores of sou’-westers came to the city
for the knot-tying of John Fitzhardinge
and Gwen, youngest of Colonel and Mrs.
Brazier’s quartet of daughters. The
bride’s deep cream French charmeuse
undulated from a bepearled roll collar
and finished with a long shimmering
train attached to the waist; pearls were
clustered on the coronet which anchored
the floating yards of tulle veil. Phyllis
Brazier and Peggy Watson-Williams
attended in downy cream chiffons with
finely-shirred cape sleeves and Empire
bodices ; trails of autumn leaves girdled
their waists and bound their braids, and
their harmonising cactus dahlias were
hung with bronze satin ribbons.
Valued heirlooms were worn by guest-
at-the-ceremony Mary Somerset. Her
lovely coat, its green cashmere founda-
tion hardly visible through the heavy
gold-and-silver embroideries, was the gift
of Omar Pasha, Turkish commander in
the Crimean War, to Lord Raglan, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the British Army.
From him it passed to Mary’s great-great-
uncle. Lord Charles Somerset, and from
thence to its present owner. From an-
other forebear came the real Maltese
Cross on her neck. Three inches long
and a finger’s-breadth in thickness, its
fluted wrought gold had turquoise stud-
ding, the solid gold rings from which it
hung interlaced. This was made for the
daughter of a Commander-in-Chief of
Gibraltar, who, after her death in child-
hood, passed it to that branch of the
family from which Mary is descended.
Wives of the members of the Buda-
pest Quartet shared the lionising with
the players at the A.B.C.’s cocktail party
given in their honor at the Adelphi. Mrs.
Conrad Charlton, with satin facings on
her black wool-de-Chine ensemble, stood
next her manager husband, with Kitty
Gillies’s white-vested black two-piecer
alongside. Mrs. Kroyt, a newcomer to
Australia, who left her Russian home 17
years ago and studied law in Berlin until
she married, relieved her black taffeta
tunic frock with diamente clips. Mrs.
Roisman, who was in black crepes and
silver-fox furs, has command of her
native Hungarian tongue, plus French,
German, Russian, Czechoslovakian, a
touch of Italian and rapidly-improving
English. Mrs. Schneider, whose pink-
figured navy-blue silk was the only break
from black in the box seats, studied lan-
guages at the Munich University and
acted as interpreter in Paris and Ham-
burg.
Esme Oakley’s forthcoming marriage
started a long round of parties. Molly
Manning (a long list of friends makes
her a frequent hostess) girded her limbs
with russet floral georgettes and set up
bridge tables at her home; Barbara
Messer’s tennis court was utilised for a
sporting shivoo ; Mrs. Ken McGibbon
and Anne Burt joined forces with a
luncheon at the June Elizabeth, with
guests going on to a handkerchief-tea
at Mrs. Alec Fleming’s. Fiance Keith
Robertson divided the honors with her
at Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bateman’s
dinner party (which, incidentally, marked
the anniversary of the Batemans’ wed-
ding), but Esme was alone in her glory
at the Adelphi tea given by Mrs. Stan
Murphy and Mary Padbury.
The Shakspeare Club celebrated the
Bard’s birthday with a season of
“Twelfth Night” at the Rep. Theatre.
Producer Mick Eustace had his cast
working well together in simple settings
and appropriate dressing. Sylvia George
as Viola and June East as Olivia com-
bined good locks and ability in their
pleasing characterisations, and Mrs. H.
Webster fitted comfortably into the part
of Maria. Phil Jackson, Keith Wood,
Glen Lilley and Fred Burke took the
principal male parts.
Dorothy Dyson’s curd-white satins
were aglow with pearls when she kept her
tryst with Selby Norton at St. Andrew’s
kirk. Over her head hung a misty cloud
of Honiton lace, the same delicate fabric
edging her long train. ’Maids Thora Mc-
Kay and Mona Strongman appliqued tea-
roses on their fluffy green nets which
frothed over lettuce taffeta foundations.
Little Jose Dyson scattered flower petals
in a frock exactly matching those of the
attendants.
The big moment in the pre-nuptial
parties for Cedric Evans and Jane Shann
was the party at Government House
given by acting-Governor James Mitchell
and his lady, to whom the ’groom-to-be
acted as aide-de-camp for many moons.
Formality and servants were dispensed
with, and supper was a cheery affair, with
the lads doing most of the work. Next
milady’s caped beige georgette was Jane’s
luminous black velvet. The Terence
Anketells were in the gathering, and
Mrs. Shann and Mrs. Evans, prospective
’maids Betty Shann and Margaret Drum-
mond and Cedric’s supporters Captains
Gordon Oldham and George Tonge.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Mrs. Kenneth Sawers, of Toorak, was
the first hostess to avail herself of the
new ballroom at the South Australian, the
occasion being the debut of her daughter
Betty and her niece Pauline Muirhead.
Betty’s white tulle frock had a very fujl
skirt, the sleeveless bodice having narrow
shoulder straps. Pauline’s two-tier skirt
of white net was edged with white bebe
ribbon, and her bodice had short puffed
sleeves. Other recent debs, who danced
were Katherine Bonython, in pale-blue
net veiling taffeta, Mary Hughes, in her
coming-out frock of white and silver
brocade, and Mary Hodgetts, gowned in
white taffeta spotted in gold.
A cocktail party was given by the
Bruce lady to welcome back son Ken-
neth and daughter Helen from London,
where they have been living for the
past 18 months. The Bruce home at
Medindie was a blaze of flowers. Guests
numbered about 250, and a large marquee
on the tennis court took the overflow.
The hostess’s white and silver brocaded
tunic went with a black skirt. Helen’s
black georgette, the sleeves long and very
full, was finished with a Peter Pan collar.
Elder sister Gwen chose a frock of gold-
crinkled' satin on princess lines, and
youngest sister Pauline, still a schoolgirl,
made her first public appearance in
hyacinth-blue georgette.
The Corinthian Club held its first
soiree of the season at the Apollo, where
pink cactus dahlias decorated. The
original idea of the. club was dancing
and music in equal measure, but as there
were 10 items on the entertainment pro-
gramme not much time was left for
pirouetting.
A successful “American afternoon”
bazaar, at which Kuitpo farm products
were, sold, was held at Mount Cooper,
Plympton, the home of Mrs. W. K.
Penny, in aid of the Glenelg branch of
the Kuitpo Helpers’ Association. Side-
lines were a tennis tournament and a
bridge party.
There was a cheery cocktail party at
Mount Osmond Country Club when the
annual Captain’s v. Vice-Captain’s match
was played. H. W. Pittman (captain) and
J. F. Williams (vice-captain) were the
hosts. There was a record entry for the
match.
TASMANIA.
Lady Clark was a passenger in the
Orford as far as Melbourne, where she
is making a short visit. The James
Murrays were passengers to England in
the same ship.
After giving a most successful perform-
ance of Noel Coward’s “Marquise” in
Launceston, the Players came south and
repeated it at Hobart Theatre Royal in
aid of the Mothercraft Home. It was
very well done, with Mrs. Phil Fysh
charmingly capricious as the Marquise
and T.. J. Marsden and F. Fry support-
ing her well. Other characters were
efficiently played by B. Hall, F. Marriott,
P. O. Fysh, J. Gunn and N. Gee.
Dora and Mabel Shoobridge went off
to England in the Orford. Farewell par-
ties of all sorts and sizes sped them.
Mabel Shoobridge has been the hon. sec.
of the Returned Army Sisters’ Associa-
tion for years, and the president of the
R.S.S.I.L.A. and Mrs. Hinman were
among those to give her a send-off.
Mrs. Hale (Eng.), who has been spend-
ing the last 12 months with her sister,
Mrs. Eric Jones, at Glenorchy, left for
home in the Orford. Mrs. Jones fare-
welled her at a party at the Queen Mary
Club.
Mary Balfe will leave a gap in Hobait
theatrical circles when she sails for
Durban to marry John Fletcher. She
will stay with relatives in N. S. Wales
for a few weeks before starting for
Africa. The newly-weds will travel ex-
tensively before settling in England about
two years hence.


The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge;
guaranteed
FOR TWO YEARS*
FREE SETTING
Selected steel, black handle 12/fi
Extra quality stee!, xylo. handle ..W 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit £ and f blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG &. AITK.EN, 654 Georg'e St., Sydney
Things Are Looking Up
During 1936 Broken Hill’s population increased
by 1640 to weir over 28,000. The number of
men employed along the line of lode rose 742
to 4295 and the wages paid by the mines alone
soared from approximately £27,000 to £30,000
weekly.
And prospects for .1937 are even brighter.
LET...
"The Barrier Miner" .
carry your message to this rich market—you
just can’t afford to ignore it!
Further details can be had from
P. A. MESSENGER, A. G. PIKE,
Warwick Bldg., Newspaper House,
Sydney. Melbourne.
NEWS, LTD., North Terrace, Adelaide.
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. . . .
listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West ...
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
W (pre-war strencth)
THE PERFECT
WHISKY .....
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
THE PERFECT
WHISKY .....
Over seventy years' ex-
perience has produced this
exceptional whisky. Bottled
under strict Government
supervision, at pre-war
strength, it is unique in
flavour and unvarying in
quality.
Canadian Club is on sale
throughout the World, at
the same price as standard
Scotch brands.
Write for a free attractive
Cocktail Recipe Book, to
the Agents.
w ••**■-225
By Appointment
Agents: John Woods & Co. Ltd., 388 Sussex St., Sydney
Distilled by Hiram Walker & Sons Ltd., Walkerville, Ontario,
Canada. Since 1858.
The Long White Cloud
Hunting Policy Points
Some policy points, still wanted by
Maoriland Opposition - leader Adam
Hamilton, could be culled from . the
Auckland comments of London Univer-
sity Professor N. Hall, now in tempor-
ary control of the economic and intel-
ligence department of the Bank of N. S.
Wales. He said:
You can carry shorter hours and higher
wages if you become more efficient at the
same time. People must work harder,
and costs should not rise out of propor-
tion.
Actually, there is quite a difference be-
tween Maoriland’s proud liberalism of
the past and its present feckless provision
for one section at the expense of an-
other. Probably because Labor reforms
have been plastered on Maoriland too
thickly and too quickly, they are not
encouraging efficiency, and costs are
rising too steeply. Auckland Harbor
Board chairman C. G. Macindoe be-
lieves Maoriland’s main ports are the
worst-manned in the world as far as water-
side labor is concerned. The men are
the world’s highest-paid waterside workers
and they do less for their money.
Further, the Savage Government’s plan
to augment the fruit industry’s market
returns by £40,000 hasn’t made growers
happy, because they “feel the most effi-
cient growers will not necessarily
benefit.”
Just as Labor is coolly taking advan-
tage of such pre-Labor innovations
as sales-tax revenue and native land de-
velopment schemes, the Adam Hamilton
Opposition, if it wants to make a real
fight of it next election, will have to
swallow any ultra-reactionary ideas it
might secretly cherish and graft an “effi-
ciency” policy on to its more modest
adoption of certain Labor principles
now in force.
“Korero”: Another difference in the
Australian and Maoriland motor regis-
tration systems (B. 24/4/’37) is that
Maorilanders pay a compulsory 17s.
third-party insurance premium when they
re-register their cars every year. The
premium originally fixed was £l, but
after several years the claim ratio com-
pared so favorably with the under-
writing companies’ income that a 3s. re-
duction was made. Then in the three
years ending in 1936 claims so increased
that they were £lOO,OOO greater than the
premium return for 1936 alone. Partici-
pating companies had actually decided
to increase the rate to £1 ss. when Minis-
ter of Transport Semple introduced his
successful road-safety campaign—and
every registered motor vehicle still carries
third-party cover for only 17s. a year.
* * * *
“Inanga”: Minister of Industries and
Commerce Sullivan says Maoriland’s In-
dustrial Efficiency Act was introduced
not in the interests of national defence,
but merely to improve social conditions.
This “improving” is supposed to come
through the “elimination of waste and
destructive competition” in industry. The
Efficiency Act could be used by Labor
to push State tentacles into industrial
alleys from which private competitors
could be banished. With production costs
“ Now, don't forget, chief—three cloves, a pinch of salt, and simmer for
two hours.”
rising steadily (B. 24/4/’37), Maoriland
industry doesn’t need to be kept on its
toes by Government servants. The
measure is an overlapping one which
Labor might well have forgotten until it
saw if Maoriland could stomach the rest
of its social legislation.
$ -!• *s*
“Waitot”: Health authorities on this
side of the Tasman are still fighting to
improve the health of the Maori people.
Marked increases in native population
figures have not lessened the necessity to
lower a Maori deathrate. now standing at
approximately 16 per 1000. Better food,
clothing and housing are the sermon sub-
jects preached in native villages by field
health inspectors. These men have to
understand the Maori as well as know
the health end of the job ; many natives
in isolated pahs have no instinct for
bodily comfort, and have to be told that
this slackness makes them subject to
chest troubles and skin infections. The
same “don’t care” attitude is largely re-
sponsible for the Maori maternal mor-
tality rate, which is two and a half times
greater than that of the whites.
* * * *
“Ticker”: Dunedin’s new post office
stands only a few feet from where the
first Scots landed nearly 100 years ago,
and its construction materials are them-
selves an illustration of Maoriland de-
velopment. Stone from Putaruru, marble
from Whangarei in the far north, granite
from the Bluff in the extreme south and
native timbers from both islands have
gone into the £350,000 building. To-day
Dunedin is the southern terminal of
Maoriland’s main-trunk air-mail service,
and yet as late as 1855 the usual method
of communication between Dunedin and
Auckland was by way of Sydney. Typi-
cal of the canny city it graces, the new
p.o. is fireproof and earthquake-proof.
Otago has rarely felt a tremor.
:!: * * *
“D.N.”: Between 1858 and 1901 the
South Island contained more Maori-
landers than the North Island (B.
24/4/’37). Native wars which swept the
North Island in 1860 turned settlers
southward, and for many subsequent
years the large land blocks reserved for
North Island Maoris prevented the
spread of northern whites. During these
years the South Island escaped major
troubles with the natives, and settlement
proceeded rapidly. The discovery of
gold in Otago in 1861 and in Westland
three years later brought thousands more
South Island settlers. One. reason why
the North overtook the South in 1901
was that early South Island provincial
Governments sold land to settlers in
larger single blocks than was generally
the case in the North ; later arrivals from
overseas had to leave, the South Island
to find good squatting areas.
* % * *
“Kohi”: For overseas anglers visiting
Maoriland the prohibited Roto-airi lake
in the North Island thermal region (B.
24/4/’37) could be a real trap—especi-
ally if, from the shore, they saw author-
ised Maoris enjoying good sport on their
tribal preserve. The enthusiastic angler
of any nationality reads all he can about
the fishing lakes and streams of the coun-
try he intends visiting, and, as far as one
can learn from tourist propaganda,
year-books and fishing yarns relating to
the sport in Maoriland, no mention is
made of isolated local prohibitions. On
the contrary, it is stressed that consider-
able riparian land beside good fishing
waters is public and that, almost with-
out exception, “access to private land is
freely given to licensed anglers.” And
in nearly every publicity instance over-
seas readers are informed that the “sell-
ing of letting of the right to fish is for-
bidden by law.” A layman interpreta-
tion of the Roto-airi native reserve posi-
tion could be that the. water was specifi-
cally “let” to native fishermen.
* * * *
“Fiona”: Talking of seventh children,
how many families can boast a seventh
son and a seventh daughter? One M.L.
family of several decades ago accom-
plished this, and did it in two straight
runs. The birth of a son after seven
girls was hailed with delight, which was
tempered when six more sons followed.
This remarkable family all grew up, and
in the order of their births still consti-
tute a M.L. record.
*' * * *
“M.”: Auckland’s Mental Hospital,
from which 12 inmates recently escaped
in one month, follows an English
example by leaving its patrons un-
guarded. One young Maorilander dis-
covered this a year or two ago when
tramping through different English coun-
ties in search of casual labor. He had
gone to England as a meat-boat steward,
and, as he had deserted a perfectly good
job, he didn’t find any of Dad’s cash
waiting his pleasure in London. So he
picked hops in Kent and apples some-
where else, and was nearly broke again
when he came across a gang of men
clearing weeds from a field adjoining the
lane. He asked for the foreman, and no
one took the slightest notice of him ; he
asked for a job, and they simply went
on hoeing ; he passed a few comments,
and still they continued working. A
little further along the lane he observed
a notice telling the world it was passing
the “ Asylum.” To-day the same
young man is one of those respectable
citizens who clamber to their feet in
different Maoriland courts and say “If
it please, y’Onor.”


POSSIBLE RADIOTRON
VALVE COMBINATIONS
FOR USE
WITH AIR-CELLS.
Con-
1st
2nd
2nd
TotalFil.
Valves.
R.F.
verter.
I.F.
I.F.
Del.
Audio.
Power.
Cur. (amp.).
4
—
1C6
1C4
—
1 K.6
—
ID4
0.60
4 .. .,
—
1C6
1C4
—
1 K6
, '
IF4
0.48
4 .
—
1C6
1A4
—
1 K.6
—
1F4
0.42
4 ....
—
1C6
IA4
—
IB5
_
1F4
0.36
5 ....
IC4
1C6
IC4
—
1 K.6
—
IF4
0.60
5 ....
IA4
1C6
IA4
—
IK6
_
IF4
0.48
5
IA4
1C6
IA4
—
1B5
—
IF4
0.42
5
—
1C6
1A4
—
1B5
30
19
0.56
5
—
1C6
1 A4
—
1B5
1K4
19
0.62
6 ....
IA4
IC6
IA4
IA4
1K6
—
1F4
0.54
6 ....
IA4
IC6
IA4
IA4
ILL 5 .
—
1F4
0.48
6 ....
—
IC6
IA4
IA4
183
30
19
0.62
6 ....
—
1C6
IA4
—
IB5
30
304-30
0.42
6 ....
—
IC6
IA4
—
IK6
30
304-30
0.48
6
—
IC6
1A4
—
1 K.6
IK4
304-30
0.54
6 ....
—
IC6
1C4
—
IK6
1K4
304-30
0.60
7 ....
—
1C6
IA4
1A4
1B5
30
304-30
0.48
7 ....
1A4
1C6
1A4
—
1 85
30
304-30
0.48
7 ....
—
IC6
IA4
IA4
IK6
30
304-30
0.54
7 ....
—
1C6
IA4
1A4
1K6
IK4
304-30
0.60
7 ....
1A4
IC6
1A4
—
1K6
‘ 30
304-30
0.54
7
IA4
1C6
IA4
—
IK6
IK4
304-30
0.60
8 . .
IA4
1C6
JA4
IA4
IB5
30
304-30
0.54
8
1A4
1C6
1A4
IA4
IK6
30
304-30
0.60
DON’T HESITATE
WHEN PLANNING YOUR
ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA
TO USE THE
PERTH’S
LEADING WEEKLY,
the Journal with the Home
Circulation and State-w>de
Coverage.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
V/ingello House. Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
168 Collins Street.
PRECISION ACCURACY - COST
-salient features on which is founded the success of
CALSTAN TEST EQUIPMENT .... and the reason for its
selection by the Radio Editor of “The Bulletin” for the
EVERYMAN’S DID MULTIMETER
Complete Kit of Parts,
£4/1/6
Assembled' Ready
for Use,
£4/11/6
STAND TT
Amateur Radio Exhibition.
SLADE'S PRECISION
TEST EQUIPMENT,
Lang Street,
CROYDON.
UJ5381
as described in this issue.
w - . " SBS3 a
’ % r " *?■
SJ. C>SSCJ« f ip
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Kadiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal—
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to liadiokes } Ltd., Sydney, jor free illustrated
literature NO W 7
NOW OPEN.
The 1937 Amateur Radio
and Short-wave
Exhibition.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
Only four days left to see the
latest in short-wave radio!
Exhibition Hours:
May s—l 2 noon to 10.30 p.m.
May 6—6 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
May 7—l 2 noon to 10.30 p.m.
May B—lo a.m. to 9 p.m.
COME ALONG!
IT’S WORTH SEEING!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Everyman's D.C. Multimeter.
One of the most useful gadgets in the
radio workshop, whether it be that of
constructor or serviceman, is a D.C.
multimeter. A reliable and not too-expen-
sive instrument is the latest model port-
able designed from a kit by Slade Pre-
cision Instruments, Croydon (N.S.W.), of
which a circuit diagram is given. It is a
combination volt-ohm-milliammeter, with
four ranges of milliamps. and four of
volts, and it measures resistances up to
100,000 ohms. No expensive components
are necessary. A special switch is used to
change the ranges, making the meter in
turn a voltmeter, ohmmeter or mil-
liammeter. The switch is naturally the
heart of the instrument, as it gets the
most use, and care has been taken to
ensure that it gives smooth and non-fail-
ing contact. The 0-lma. meter is a
Calstan type F5Ol, fitted with a multi-
scale range. The kit of parts works out
quite cheaply for the constructor, and it
is better to get it from the maker than
to try substituting parts, such as meter
shunts. The 10, 50 and 250 ma. shunts
are accurately made to suit the 0-to-l
meter, and the resistances for the 10, 50,
250 and 1250 volt ranges are chosen
carefully with a high degree of accuracy.
The series resistor R 5 is wired in with
a 400-ohm potentiometer and the 41-
volt battery. This potentiometer is the
“ohms adjustment,” and takes care of the
drop in voltage as the battery gets old .
with constant usage. The construction
will be found quite, simple, and every-
thing fits nicely on to a small bakelite
panel. It should be built in to some
form of carrying case with a handle and
a partition to stow the test leads, of red
and black flexible insulated wire at least
3ft. in length, fitted with good insulated
test prods on one end and two banana
plugs to fit the various sockets.
In operation the selector switch is first
set to the particular range. The test-prod
leads are inserted with the negative (black
wire) in the socket marked “common
minus,” and the positive (red lead) in
the socket marked “ma. plus.” With
the leads in these, sockets the switch
is rotated to the 1, 10 or 50 ma. posi-
tions as needed alternatively. For read-
ing D.C. voltages, the red lead is trans-
ferred to the socket marked “volts plus’
and the selector switch set over to the
required voltage position.
Always make a point of starting with
lhe switch on a hi s h mi,liam P- or voltage
reading where the current or voltage to
be measured !« unknown and likely to be
on the high srde tor the particular range
Th ' s Wlll aV( Z d P oss ? ble accidental
™ eter overload. For reading resistance,
tbe P roc * ' are u over in he
sockets marked ohms For accuracy
read mg, first touch the two prods to-
S ether ““ £ short the leads out, and
the " * d J ust j, he 400-ohm potentiometer
until the needle of the meter advances to
, , f , , Th nhrnm( , tpr k
t
Ihen ready to test any resistance up to
, 0 f 100,000 ohms,
The manufacturer, Slade Precision In-
struments, of Croydon, N.S.W., offers
the Everyman’s D.C. Multimeter at the
price of £4 Is. 6d. for the complete kit
of parts and instructions for assembly,
or at £4 11s. 6d. for the job made up
ready for use, with the same type meter,
complete in the carrying case. Either
way, it is good value,
D. B. K.
Valves for Air-Cells.
The A.W. Valve Co. draws attention
to the suitability of the “120 milliamp.”
series of Radiotrons for use with receivers
in which the filament current is not
severely limited, and outlines the use of
other Radiotron types for Air-Cell
application. An eight-valve receiver
, using Radiotron valves throughout draws
a filament current as low as 0.54 ampere.
Smaller but still highly efficient sets
can be designed—a four-valve set draw-
ing 0.36 ampere and a five-valve set
drawing only 0.42 ampere are examples.
In addition to Radiotrons 185, IC6,
IK4, IK6, 19 and 30, there are two
lesser-known types available in limited
quantities. Type IA4 is an R.F. pen-
tode and type IF4 a power pentode.
The IA4 is similar to the familiar 34
except that it is fitted in a smaller bulb,
has a short grid-base and is slightly
more sensitive. The IF4 is generally
similar to the ID4, except that the fila-
ment current is only 0.12 ampere and
the plate current for the same output is
about 33 p.c. higher.
Television Ghosts.
The echo effect in short-wave recep-
tion is well known, and can be explained
as arising from reception of a signal
from a distant point in two directions
around the curvature of the earth, or the
arrival of waves from different reflecting
mediums putting the signal out of phase.
A ghost effect has also been noticed in
television in England at a range of 50
miles or more (beyond the intended
“optical” range). It is attributed to a
mirroring medium in the upper atmo-
sphere. Another form of “ghosting” has
been noticed in Alexandra Palace tele-
vision at closer ranges, a preliminary an-
nouncement in lettering remaining faintly
outlined on the screen for some seconds
after the “fading in” of the following
picture item. This is apparently due to
the Emitron television camera, which is
the modern version of the Iconoscope
developed by Zworykin. The Emitron
camera is a form of cathode ray tube
containing a mosaic of minute photo-
cells. As the human eye will retain an
image., particularly after looking at a
bright object, the Emitron camera ex-
hibits a visual “memory.”
D. B. K.
Double-spacing Condensers.
In double-spacing an ordinary receiv-
ing type tuning condenser to reduce its
effective capacity and increase its work-
ing potential it is usually unwise to dis-
pense entirely with the superfluous plates,
since the thickness of these has been
allowed for in the maker’s original de-
sign. In place of the plates, washers cut
from them should be used at regular
intervals along the spindles so that the
assembly, when finished, will have the
same overall dimensions as formerly.
A good plan is to place the thin washers
next to the remaining plates instead of
between the pairs of standard washers.
If this is done, slight irregularities in the
washers cut from the unwanted plates
will not interfere with the movement of
the rotor. Similarly, if an extra plate
remains after “doubling,” either it should
be cut down to washers or inserted
in the assembly’ whole. The former
course is the better.
A double-spaced condenser, as far as
voltage capacity is concerned, is only
as good as its closest plates. In other
words, even spacing of the plates should
be aimed at, or else half the object of
spacing—higher working voltage—will
be lost. If, when completed, the rotor
plates appear to be correct in relation
to the stator at the centre but out at
the two ends, relationship of washers and
plate-thicknesses is not correct. Usually
such troubles of alignment can be cor-
rected with plate-thickness washers.
R. H. A.
Shaft Standardisation.
some Austrahan-macie components,
such as midget condensers and volume
controls, feature shafts on which a por-
tion is flattened in key-way fashion to
ensure better grip of the control knob.
This idea is fine, and represents an im-
provement over “all-round” spindles.
Unfortunately it would seem that makers
are not bothering about standardising the
position at which the flat portion occurs.
It may seem unimportant in days of
plain knobs, but the amateur still prefers
pointer-type controls or their equivalent,
and these are still much used.
With flattened spindles there is only
one way in which a knob can be fitted ;
also, the pointer is usually 180 degrees
around from the flat. To obtain the
same effect with two or three pointers
it is often necessary to mount their
respective components at widely different
angles. This is not always possible or
convenient; therefore a little standardi-
sation by makers would save bother later.
R.H.A.
Radio Comment.
“Insulator”: As home - constructors
know, a remarkable amount of obso-
lescent gear from the junk store can be
rejuvenated and put to good use. For
instance, variable condensers rebuilt with
good R.F. insulation instead of moulded
mud may be good enough for trans-
mitters. Some of the early variables had
excellent rotor bearings; with a little
engineering, they can be employed for
short-wave regenerative receivers. But
insulation needs watching in second-
hand components. Where possible the
old “compo.” should be replaced with
material such as mycalex or ceramic.
Valve sockets, particularly, should be
treated warily. It is only in the last two
years that valve sockets have acquired
trouble-free contacts and immunity from
R.F. leakage. It pays when designing
a short-wave receiver to spend 2s. on
ceramic or isolantite type sockets with
their unfailing contact springs. Nine-


7
"National Melodies" over 2CH at 9.20
p.m. (Fridays); 2SM at 3.30 p.m.
(Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays).
Valves can make or mar your set. To be
sure of clear reception, fit your receiver
with Radiotrons; universally acclaimed
the most reliable valves in the world.
RADIOTRON
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ||| ELECTRIC
LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Brisbane
Adelaide Hobart
Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) Ltd.
47 York Street, Sydney
167-169 Queen Street, Melbourne
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Ltd.)
tenths of amateur short-wave receiver
trouble comes from indifferent or bad
valve sockets.
* * $ *
“D.8.K.”: Each year there, is an im-
pressive and entertaining Anzac military
tattoo at Sydney Showground, in which
the three fighting services are well repre-
sented. No display of wireless com-
munication is ever included. The authori-
ties seem to consider that it would not
be spectacular enough, but such demon-
stations are given overseas. The
R.A.A.F., particularly, could stage an
interesting demonstration of a flight per-
forming evolutions overhead, with in-
structions given by radio-telephone from
below. The voice of the instructor could
be reproduced through the P.A. system.
Again, a flight of aeroplanes fitted with
radio - telephone inter - communication
could take verbal instructions from the
leader, and these instructions could be
picked up below and amplified so that
spectators could hear the commands and
see the subsequent manoeuvres. Some-
thing of the kind is done annually at the
R.A.F. pageant at Hendon, London. The
army uses to-day a highly effective radio-
telephone transmitter-receiver designed
for mobile conditions. A number of
military cars so fitted could stage an
interesting demonstration at the annual
tattoo, the cars taking verbal (amplified)
instructions from a fixed control station
and action messages being transmitted.
It would give spectators an idea of the
speedy nature of R/T communication for
certain military purposes.
Amateur Chatter.
Directivity in transmission and recep-
tion is of the utmost value, but when an
amateur desires to apply such benefits to
even 20 metres he is faced with a knotty
constructional problem. Diamond arrays,
ior instance, are excellent for commer-
cial services working in fixed directions
or tor owners of broad acres, but they
are out of all proportion to the space
available in a suburban back garden.
Anything that will “squirt’ a signal in a
desired direction with a gain of even
2db. is attractive, but it mustn’t be cum-
bersome. An article in “Radio” (U.S.A.)
for April is worthy of attention. W6BCX
comes to light with a clever bi-direc-
tional arrangement. It is not overlarge
even for 20 metres, and is a snip for 10.
If the Reinartz rotary will get results
on 10, this new affair should be even
more effective. It is worth a trial any-
how.
Next year will see the first important
Radio Convention in Sydney, under the
auspices of the I.R.E. Marconi will be
present, and it is likely that the W.I.A.
will be invited to send delegates. The
year should be an inspiring one for Aus-
tralian radio amateurs, and, in view of
the momentous happenings, it is regret-
table that there are still licensees who
show antipathy to the institute, which
after all is an essential regulating organi-
sation. Amateur radio men should
understand clearly that the W.I.A. works
in the interest of all, not merely for a
few individuals. The time may come
when it may be an advantage if mem-
bership is the justification for one’s pres-
ence on the air. As radio advances and
its conditions change, some reason for
inclusion in amateur ranks other than
the mere urge to work DX is likely to
become imperatively necessary. That is
happening overseas, and may well occur
here. „
VK2CE, well-known on 20-metre
’phone in Sydney, records an interesting
experience with a popular metal-type
valve. Two were in use as modulators,
and, despite all circuit precautions, splat-
tering and internal trouble persisted. De-
basing the valves, VK2CE discovered less
than l-32nd of an inch between leads
from the glass pinch and the metal base.
Arc-ing had occurred and the leads were
almost burnt through. The valves had
never been operated over the makers’
rating. There is a lot to be said for the
glass-type valve where receiving types are
aplied to transmission. The particular
type referred to is now available in the
glass series.
Ten metres is attracting more stations
a healthy sign. Although the band
may at first seem disappointing to the
new arrival, it is worth sticking at. DX
and inter-State contacts are possible at
present, and, as was the case with 20
metres several years ago, one never
knows from where signals will next
appear.
VK2NO.
Heard on Short Waves.
From 1.10 p.m. in a recent week,
DJQ, DJB, DJD and GSF were at nice
strength, and the news in English from
DJB and TPA4 at 1.30 p.m. was 100
p.c. copyable. The same conditions pre-
vailed from GSF a little later. After 2
p.m. or so TPA4 was the only one on the
air and improved until closing at 3 p.m.
It is reported that GSD is to be taken
off the second part of Transmission 2
and replaced by GSG and GSO. As
GSD is the best morning station, that is
a pity, but it will provide some knob-
twirling to see how O and F compare.
Not much can be expected from GSG
at that hour.
Hundreds of amateurs have been re-
ceived lately, with plenty of Americans
at nice speaker strength, but the perform-
ance that pleased me most was to get a
VK7 in contact with OA4AI, both being
heard nicely. The VK7s come in quite
well here (Camooweal, Q.), and that is
the second Peruvian I have heard. I
also heard an amateur in Santiago, Chile.
These 20-metre amateurs are fairly hard
to separate, but from what I read in
Amateur Chatter and from what I
hear from the hams themselves I am not
the only one to find these crowded con-
ditions.
From 3.5 p.m., when Berlin opens on
five stations, with Daventry opening
on three at 4 p.m., all coming in excel-
lently, even the most fastidious should be
satisfied. In the mornings, from seven
o’clock onwards, Daventry, Berlin, Rome,
Paris, Praha and Moscow (four times a
week in English) can be heard.
At night there is a wealth to pick from,
including RNE on Wednesdays from 9
to 10 with an English session. These
Russian stations’ talks are short and to
the point, and cover a variety of sub-
jects. Of course, both news and views
have to be taken with a liberal helping
of salt. The morning of 15/4/’37 brought
references to the. sixth anniversary of the
Spanish Republic. ’Phone and telegram
messages from Spain to Moscow were
quoted, also an extract from the speech
of the Spanish Communist leader.
On 14/4/’37 at 4 p.m. Daventry broad-
cast “Savoy Band’s Memories” for three-
quarters of an hour—splendid entertain-
ment. Many familiar names were heard
at the microphone—Billy Mayo, Carroll
Gibbons, A 1 Collins and Howard Jacobs
(who played “The Waters of Minne-
tonka”). Rudy Vallee sang from U.S.A.
and Debroy Somers was heard. The
main features of the years were given
from the time the band came into exis-
tence in 1912 until the present day.
PCJ at 7.45 p.m. gave a retrospect of 10
years ago, mentioning the rebroadcast by
2BL of those days. Letters had been re-
ceived from thousands of people, and a
few were mentioned, among them Don
B. Knock, of The Bulletin.
On 13/4/’37 evacuation of refugees
from Spain was described from Daventry
by a chaplain in a British cruiser. News
in English came at frequent' intervals
during the day and night from foreign
stations. Since I have used The Bulle-
tin's Ideal T.R.F. all-waver ;the broad-
cast band hasn’t taken up much of my
time. It is yet hard to educate people
generally to short waves, but they are
beginning to learn.
On 16/4/’37 1 heard the information
that Daventry is to use four frequencies
in the second part of Transmission 4
from 19/4/’37.
On 17/4/’37 GSF was strong enough
to enable me to hear Prime Minister
Baldwin’s speech. DJL was fair and
DJB good.
NORTHERNER.
Trade Review.
(. Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Ultimate Battery All-wave Superhet.
The Ultimate 1937 battery all-wave
superhet is a k seven-valve model with a
combination of two-volt valves of types
slightly different from those of the 1936
model. Technical improvements include
an improved type of edgelit tuning dial,
a better and more compact design of
wave-change switch, a lOin. Roia
speaker, improved R.F. coil design and
mounting and inclusion of dial-light
switch on chassis.
The dial has been widened. The log-
ging hand is included as a smaller
auxiliary pointer in a. sub-dial of its own.
The calibrations on the main indicator
are arranged to take up 180 degrees of
space, and volume- and tone-control
color graduations extend horizontally in-
stead of vertically. As the wave-change
switch is operated, an illuminated pointer
appears directly over the indicated range.
The exceptionally smooth motion of the
Ultimate tuning dial is retained, and the
portion of the cabinet carrying the con-
trols is slightly set back. The valves
are: R.F. amplifier, type 15; frequency
changer, IC6; I.F. amplifier, type 15;
second detector and A.V.C., 31 and IA4 ;
driver, type 30; and Class-B twin output
valve, type 19. The speaker is a permag.
dynamic with a new type of heat-
treated steel magnet.
With the controls is included one for
battery economy, an advantage with re-
ceivers designed for country use. When
the receiver is used at ordinary room
volume the switch is placed in the left-
hand position ; if extra high volume and
sensitivity are wanted, it is thrown to
the right. When this switch is over to
the left it provides a considerable saving
in B-battery current. An innovation is
the inclusion of a dial-light switch at the
rear of the chassis to conserve the A
battery.
Battery consumption was found to be
remarkably low for the size of receiver.
When tuned to a powerful local station
with the economiser switch in the high-
volume position, the total B-battery
drain did not exceed 14ma. on peaks, and
with the increased bias introduced by
in econor ? iser this dropped to around
was in close proximity
to 2BL s transmitter. Including the three
lamps used for the edge-lighting of the
dial, the A-battery drain was found to be
I - ampeies at two volts. While this is
not by any means a heavy drain, it means
that this receiver is designed for accu-
mulator power on the filaments, and that
it cannot be used with the Air-Cell.
The performance of this 1937 model
has all the brilliance of its predecessor,
plus advantages given by the improve-
ments outlined. Range is from 16 to
128 metres on the short waves, and the
whole broadcast range of Australian and
.M L. stations is taken in. The Ultimate
is obtainable in Sydney from George
Brown and Co., 267 Clarence-street,
Sydney.
For the Bookshelf.
Radio (U.S.A.), which is noted for
introducing unconventional technical
applications (and the ideas always work
well), describes in the April issue a 45-
watt exciter-transmitter for three-band
operation. This ingenious arrangement
(by W6BCX) uses two 6A6s and two
6L6-Gs and gives 45 watts output on 40,
20 and 10 metres. It uses only one crystal
and three single winding coils to cover
all bands. Furthermore it calls for no
neutralisation, shielding or coupling ad-
justments. There are only three variable
tuning condensers and four inexpensive
receiving-type valves. It is a typical
“Radio” job and a good suggestion for
Australian experimenters. Aerial sys-
tems are discussed in several articles, a
most interesting device being a particu-
larly simple bi-directional beam. The
U.H.F. reader will revel in a mobile
crystal-controlled 10-metre outfit de-
scribed by an American police radioman.
‘ Radio” is on the bookstalls and is worth
2s. of anybody’s money.
The Question Box.
Queries must be written legibly, and
name and complete address, including
State, must be included. A nom de
plume is insufficient.
(1) It is rather difficult to apply sets, particu-
larly of old design, to use the Eveready Air-
Cell, where the current consumption is above
the stated limit . My set consumes 0.8 amperes.
Could the Air-Cells be used in parallel to over-
come this ? (2) If one gives an output of 0.65
amperes, should not two connected in parallel
give an output of 1.3 amperes ? In their litera-
ture the Air-Cell people have never mentioned
this possibility, but I cannot see anything
against it. —535.
(1) and (2) Consultation with the Ever-Ready
Co. brings the information that there is no
objection to using Air-Cells in parallel, provided
they are used within their rating. In a previous
statement to the effect that the cells should
not be used in parallel the manufacturer was
studying the consumer’s pocket. Two in parallel
would naturally give twice the capacity.
='= * * *
(1) Enclosed is the circuit diagram of a re-
ceiver under construction. Mullard valve types
are specified, these being PMIHL, PM2A and
PM22A. What valves of Kenrad or Philips
make could be used instead of Mullards ? (2)
I have on hand a 34 valve. Would this be
superior to the triode as detector ? (3) Is the
American publication “Radio” still available
in Australia? If so, where, and what are the
subscription rates? (4) Names and addresses
of firms in Sydney where new radio com-
ponents can be bought ? —536.
(1) Types 30, 31 and 33 in Kenrad, or 8217,
8217 and C243N in Philips. (2) With the 34
as detector, screen-grid regeneration can be
employed, and this is generally superior to the
triode with the usual “throttle” condenser in
that there is less detuning effect on short waves.
(3) Yes; on the bookstalls. Swain’s, Pitt-street,
Sydney, can supply. Subscriptions may be
booked through The Bulletin office at 16s. 6d.
per year. (4) Price’s Radio Service, Angel-
place, or John Martin, Ltd., Clarence-street.


100% Australian-made
~~ from Australian Material
PROOF
Wire j Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in every
Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
r
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney
, WIRE NETTING.
ETC.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Shearing, Forty Years After.
“Walgett”: Ln 1897 and previous
years I had charge of a shearing-shed.
In 1937 1 returned to the same shed to
see shearing through, and made com-
parisons.
In 1897 shearing was done with the
blades. In 1937 it is done with machines.
In 1897 each shearer was an individual,
owing just such allegiance to the
Shearers’ Union as he pleased. To-day
he is as mechanised as the handpiece
with which he rips off the wool. In 1897
sheep cut 71b. In 1937 they cut 12jlb.
These are actual yields for all grown
sheep put through-the shed. In 1897
shearers were paid £1 per .100. In 1937
they get 305., with special allowances
for rams and studs. )
In 1897 wool was worth round lOd.
per pound. In 1937 the same clip brought
18d. per pound. Costs have risen propor-
tionately. Fencing, stockmen, supplies
all cost twice as much as 40 years ago.
But since the proportion of wages paid
and cost of improvements to products
are less with the woolgrower than most
others, financially he is better off.
Shearers, too, make more money and are
better housed, better looked after—by
law. . ' • . - -- - • ’ '
There are other aspects. Under con-
tract shearing men take less interest in
their work, and : owners less interest in
their men. Result is more damaged wool
and sheep.
A fair journeyman shearer of 1937 is
harder on his sheep than was the learner
of 1897. The amount of skin, especially
lambs’ skin, now taken off with the wool,
the number of sheep injured by being
knelt on and the bruises left by machines
must be seen to be believed. As the only
way in which these bruises can be seen
is by killing and skinning the sheep, this
phase usually escapes notice.
After rough handling some, sheep take
days, even weeks, to recover. Also, the
skin being left bare of covering, sheep,
and especially lambs, are subject to tor-
ment by flies and mosquitoes, as well as
being more seriously affected by sudden
climatic changes.
With hand shears enough, wool is left
on to form some protection; The machine
leaves nothing—in too many places not
even skin.
Does the present technique pay?
Sheep Here and in England.
“Sheepo”: In view of the compari-
sons made by J. M. Coleman, a N.S.W.
sheep-and-wool expert, between English
breeds of mutton sheep and Australian
(B. 14/4/’37), it is interesting to note
that a S. Australian breeder of Dorset
Horns has shipped some rams and ewes
of his breeding to England. He intends
to compete at British shows.
This is the first attempt made by an
Australian breeder to exhibit sheep at
shows in a country from which the breed
originated. ;
If, as Coleman says, the Australian
types are ahead of the parent stock, theie
might be a good opening for our D.H.
breeders. England might not be. in the
market, but there’s plenty of demand
for sires by fat-lamb breeders in Maori-
land and S. America..
Australian Romneys are good in com-
parison with the breed in England, and
I once heard an English breeder say
that the Maoriland Romney Marsh sheep
were the best in the world.
Feed and Condition.
“Bogaduck”: Here’s an illustration of
how much feed and condition have to
do with wool production.
, A man on Eyre Peninsula (S.A.)
bought a big area of ironstone rubble
(country, once cleared for wheat but re-
verted to scrub. It had a good clay sub-
soil,, and rainfall averaged 20 inches.
Rolling and burning got rid of the
scrub, and he set to work to establish
pasture.
He did not make the error of trying
to economise with super. The pasture
"Just like a man! Always taking the titbits!”
which resulted was surprising. When he
started to stock, however, lack of funds
forced him to pick up the cheapest lines
of sheep at the sale's, with the result that
his flock consisted mainly of other
people’s culls. - .
But they had top-dressed clover and
rye-grass to feed on ; better tucker than
many of them had seen in their lives.
They soon ceased to look like culls.;
They cut'heavy fleeces when shearing
time came around and the clip fetched
a rattling good price. V,: ;
It would be folly to state that breed-
ing is of no account. It is vitajly im-
portant. The achievement'means only
that you may get bigger .returns from
culls on good pasture than from prize-
winners grazing on phosphate-starved
grass. ---
Crutching.
“Bungaree”: Although the definitions
of crutching set out in the Federal Pas-
toral Award seem simple, in practice they
can be differently interpreted.
Most woolgrowers know how far they
want their sheep crutched, but their ideas
may not tally with award clauses, and
naturally they are against paying a higher
rate than they consider fair. Quite as
naturally crutchers object to doing more
than they will be paid for.
For instance, in Clause 1 wether crutch-
ing is defined as
shearing above the hocks on those parts
of the legs which face each other and on
the inner half of the backs of the legs, with
one blow on the end of the tail if required.
Although most people would admit that
there is only one end to a sheep’s tail—
the ultimate tip—some insist that the
junction of the tail to the body is also
an end and demand that the entire tail
and a margin around and above be shorn.
The definition of full crutching is
shearing above the hocks between the legs,
the inside and back parts of the legs, the
tail giving two blows around and above
the’ tail, and, in addition, when required,
removing wool which has been struck by
blowfly.
By comparing the two clauses it should
be obvious that in the first case one blow
on the tip of the tail is all that is called
for, and this need not extend to the body
wool on either side or above.
The extent of wigging is also subject
to varied interpretations. Some graziers
want the entire face cleaned; others prefer
a half-moon round each eye. The-only
solution, since words lend themselves so
readily to misinterpretation, is to have
sample crutchings approved by the Court
that fixes the award rate's, to conform'to
'its definition of each clause. It would
be impossible for all parties concerned to
view the actual sheep, but accurate photo-
graphs should be a. satisfactory guide.
Is There a Rabbit Plague? *
“Gundy”: “El V.” (B:. 31 73/ 37) says
that' “great hopes are. centred in the
rabbit-plague virus imported from
Europe.” I would like to add'“also some
: fears.”-, y • . ’ ' '• . <
- In' these days there is no need to get
hysterical about the rabbit plague. Bunny
has done a lot of damage, but the posi-
tion is nothing like as bad as it was 20
years ago. The worldwide depletion of
various furred creatures has so enhanced
the value of pelts that many rabbiters
now work throughout the year.
The means used are varied, and their
effectiveness mostly depends on the skill
and industry of the hunter. Results
would probably place, them in this order:
Digging out, poisoning, trapping, cyanid-
ing burrows, ferretting. For large-scale
operations the thistle-root and strychnine
bait, as described in the M.O.L. page
some time ago, is more effectual than
any other, and gives bunny a mercifully
sudden end.
As to the drastic virus which it is now
proposed to release, I can recall when
another importation, the European fox,
was heralded as a solution of the rabbit
problem. The foxes have thriven amaz-
ingly, but they do not appear to have
done much towards wiping out the other
pest.
Stripping Strawberry.
“Silky Bag”: “Bahb Dwyer” tells us
(B. 24/3/’37), on U.S.A. advice, that it
usually doesn’t pay to strip the milking
cow.
Surely there must be a limit to this.
Some cows regularly give one-quarter to
one-third of their milk as strippings, and
animals which hang on to their milk are
the ones that his expert advocates turn-
ing out partly milked.
Work done at Missouri University by
Turner has established that the internal
pressure of milk acting on and compress-
ing the secreting cells in the udder is the
sole factor in the stoppage of milk secre-
tion.
A heavy milker on full flush com-
mences to lower her rate of secretion at
8 to 10 hours, and by 13 to 15 hours
often has completely stopped, purely
because of the milk pressure.
That is the only sort of cow that
would benefit by three eight-hour milk-
ings a day. Pressure of milk often limits
her production ; obviously, if strippings
were left in, she would reach the point
of cessation of secretion much earlier
than if milked right out.
Any cow which comes daily into the
- bails with any pressure in her udder
must suffer lowered production if turned
out unstripped, especially
as most cows have one
14- or 16-hour period and
one, 8- or 10-hour period
every day between milk-
ings. The average cow,
even when well stripped
beforehand, is probably
not secreting at all at the
16th hour of lactation.
and from 10 hours onwards her rate has
been getting decidedly slower.
Poor yielders, of course, would con-
form to the argument of “Bahb Dwyer,”
because pressure would not be important
in their cases. Even 20 per cent, of
stripping-milk left in may not have any
mechanical pressure effect in slowing
secretion down, and this is the only point
that matters.
Hoven Treatment.
“Agamemnon”: Hoven is usually easy
to deal with if taken early.
It may be caused not only by cattle or
sheep gorging on succulent crops, but by
potatoes or other roots, fed under inten-
sive systems, becoming lodged in the
gullet. .
Treatment is 'either by direct puncture
of the stomach or by mouth. In extreme
emergency puncture is to be preferred.
It should be : made on the left flank,
midway between the last rib and the point
off the hip and 3in. below the spine. The
best instrument for the purpose is the
trochar and cannula, but a knife is effec-
tive.- A clean funnel will greatly ex-
pedite the escape of gas. The puncture


INTERNATIONAL
an
HL
■
TZ
sSssSSf
•mum
INTERNATIONAL trucks hold the highest
reputation in the truck world'because,
like all truly great productions of human
skill, they are superior in every detail.
In the engine, transmission units, steering
assembly, frame, springs, brakes—-in every
part and feature Internationals are dis-
tinguished by, outright quality of material
and finish . . w Internationals are the most
profitable trucks for all truck users to own
. . . It will pay YOU .to buy an International.
The International line provides a truck of
the individual type, style, power and capacity
required by anyone engaged in any kind of
truck work anywhere. Write to us for par-
ticulars. We will be glad to help select the
best truck for your haulage job.
The comprehensive International range
includes the following models :
Utilities and 1-ton vans, 113 and
125-in. wheelbases. ' !
20-cwt., 136-in. wheelbase.
30-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelba.ses.
35-cwt., 133 and 157-in. wheelbases.
2-ton, 160-in. wheelbase.
3-ton, 155 and 185-in, wheelbases.
4-ton, 156, 170 and 185-in. wheelbases.
5-ton, 190-in. wheelbase.
Also Six-wheelers from 3 to 10-ton capaci-
ties in various wheelbases.'
m
■
fin
n
n
m
A
•V--.-X'X
mi
CHASSIS PRICES
FROM
(plus tax)
)
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
C 276
Abundant power,
stamina and capac-
ity make these In-
ternationals the
greatest trucks
available
today.
The ironclad strength in
heavy-duty Internationals
will give you the mastery
of all rough-tough jobs.
INTERNATIONAL
must be, made in the direction of the
right elbow, so that the skin wound will
be some distance from the stomach
wound to decrease chances of peritonitis.
Equal parts of Stockholm tar and castor
oil make a good healing and fly-repel-
lent dressing
If the case is not so acute medicinal
treatment is preferable. Either two table-
spoons of baking soda and one of ginger
in a pint of water or one tablespoon of
turpentine and a pint of raw linseed oil
is *mod If neither of those can be
given try a kerosene drench.
Always keep the beast quiet and
withhold water for some hours.
______
D .
Portable Pig-pens.
“Sandy”: A useful sty for wet
country can be made by building a slide
with the flooring spaced to allow drop-
pings to pass through and an iron shed
with a door on top. Fix a chain for a
drawbar. A shed 6ft. x 6ft. x sft. will
house four pigs up to bacon stage. Build
a run of pignetting with lengths of 3in. x
lin. at top and bottom fastened to iron
stakes and provide cleats on the shed on
which to fasten the yard.
When the sty and yard become foul
and muddy the pigs are shut in the
horses are yoked and the sty is snigged to
clean ground a few yards away. The
yard is then lifted and fastened to the
shed, and the stakes driven in.
. This scheme is useful for small pig-
geries and the sty is very popular with
dairy inspectors. It is a variation of a
Chiltern Hills (Eng.) method.
_ ~ .
A * aste or r ire.
“Zedo”: Attacking weeds in isolated
patches with flame-throwers is well worth
trying in Australia. In Maoriland a port-
able plant is used for keeping the sides
of water channels clear, and it is claimed
that it does as much work in an hour as
a man can do with a chopper in a couple
of days.
The plant, carried on the back, uses
fuel oil, which in Australia sells retail
at about l\d. per gallon. If isolated
clumps of St. John’s wort and skeleton
weed were treated to a blast when young
there would be less trouble about their
spread. There also seem to be possi-
bilities in larger-scale plants cleaning out
watercourse sides lightly infested with
burr.
Straining-posts.
“Bert”: “Curlew’s” recent tips on
straining-posts don’t quite cover the sub-
ject. . *
The stay —the vital item —should be
9ft. long. It should not be set in a niche,
but in a mortise. The niche can let the
stay slip Out sideways; the mortise
doesn’t. By all means butt the end of
the stay against a flat stone, but be sure
to put another stone beneath the end of
the stay; then the tip of the stay won’t
somersault the butt-stone and escape.
To make, a perfect job, sink the hole
for the butt a good 1 Sin. deep and put
another stone on each side of the butt-
end.
The mortised hole in the post should
be just comfortably below the second
wire. The tip of the stay should origi-
nally lean against the strainer 2in. above
the mortise, equal to the depth of the
latter. It should then be driven down,
which will force the post slightly out of
the vertical, to which the wire strainer
will restore it.
Sugar Bananas Pay.
“Zedo”: Sydney shops are displaying
the Queensland sugar banana which
seemed to have died out of the southern
market. It is the tastiest of bananas, but
growers favor the bigger types, which are
not so fastidious about ground and
locality and are more robust in stem.
Some enterprising person will one day
specialise in the s.b. and, with judicious
advertising, find himself making a small
o Continued on page 44.)


Write for a
Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
•'ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
r/V G^
\ 2
YjSV.
77=7
A HAPPY HOLIDAY
COMPLETE WITH
ABBEY SHOES.
Perhaps you are
taking a holiday,
then to enjoy it to
the full be sure to
■ vear Abbey Shoes.
Even if you are not
taking a holiday, still
wear Abbey Shoes
and be amply repaid
by the comfort and
satisfaction you will receive from them.
You can wear this model for practically
any occasion—you’ll find you look
smarter and feel better in Abbey Shoes.
Stocked in Black and Brown Calf in full
and half sizes.
Price, 25/-
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
t
From the famous vats of Sanderson & Son Ltd., Leith,
Scotland distillers of fine whisky since 1863, “Vat 69”
possesses the rare character of an old Scotch Liqueur
Whisky—mellowed with age and unvarying in flavour.
The discriminating host expects the request . . . “Vat 69”
Please! »
“Vat 69” in the original Dump Bottle. Half Bottles and
Flasks.
m
mmm
H %
Wiism
.
Distributors: John Woods and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Sub Agents: Pitt, Son & Badgery, Ltd., 4 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
xlleiz/TL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
fortune —the same sort of fortune that
awaits whoever can graft the flavor of
the rough-leaf pineapple on to the big
smooth-leaf.
Sugar bananas like rich, warm, alluvial
flats and plenty of water, rather than the
hillsides which serve the bigger varieties.
They need, because of their slender stems,
better windbreaks than other kinds and
more tender handling and careful
ripening.
A good plan is to put in rows of
sugars inside rows of sturdier breeds, but
a permanent ring of trees is best for them.
Buying Grass Seed.
“Ghanam”: In quality and germinating
capacity grass seed, particularly prairie
grass and tuberosa, varies about as much
as standards of feminine beauty and
needs to be carefully bred according to
methods as rigid as those for stud stock
production.
The Phalaris tuberosa industry has its
own Pure Seeds Association in New Eng-
land (N.S.W.). Prairie is harder to handle ;
its seed is subject to smut, which seriously
affects germination. That can be. dealt
with by sowing with mercury dust
(ceresan) at the rate of 3oz. per 201 b. of
seed. Chemical and seed should be
shaken together thoroughly in a closed
tin the day before sowing.
By far the safest way is to buy seed on
sample and send specimens to the near-
est Agricultural Department. Give the
name of the supplier or, if the seed is in
stock, its brands, origin, the quantity
which is to be used and the time it has
been in store, together with information
as to rainfall and the nature of the soil.
With such data, departments are able to
advise both as to qualities and as to the
best fertilising and treatment methods.
Manganese Deficiency in S.A.
“Yeoman”: A crop is limited or con-
trolled by the minimum or deficiency of
any one of about a dozen essential sub-
stances that constitute plant food. Even
oversupply of all the other constituents
will not make up for the inadequate
supply of any one necessary constituent.
About 10 years ago the Waite Agri-
cultural Institute (S.A.) investigated a
disease affecting barley crops on certain
south-east soils. Tests on plots of the
suspected soils disclosed deficiency in
manganese. A small addition of the sub-
stance promoted a normal, vigorous
growth; on the untreated plots the
barley grew a few inches and then
withered away.
The lower portion of Yorke Peninsula
was also found to be deficient in man-
ganese. Results of experiments carried
out at Corny Point (Y-P-) over a period
of five years for the purpose of deter-
mining the optimum dressing of man-
ganese sulphate for barley production
are now available.
All the plots were dressed each year
with lewt. of super, as a basis routine,
and planted with 501 b. of Pryor barley
to the acre. Barley was valued at 2s.
6d. per bushel, manganese sulphate
at £l6 per ton. Bushel-yields and
economic returns are subjoined:
No Man- 141 b. 281 b. 421 b.
ganese Mang. Mang. Mang-
Sulphate. Sulph. Sulph. Sulph.
Year. Bus. Lb. Bus. Lb. Bus. Lb. Bus. Lb.
1931 23 1 33 12 36 40
1932 10 44 18 44 21 24 22 48
1933 18 24 24 7 25 44 27 29
1934 15 23 26 44 32 7 31 7
1935 20 44 25 53 28 3 29 41
Mean
(4 years) ..16 21 24 0 26 45 27 44
Value ....£2/1/1 £3/-/- £3/7/3 £3/9/8
Value, less
cost of
manganese £2/1/1 £2/18/- £3/3/3 £3/3/8
With barley at 2s. 6d., 281 b. of man-
ganese sulphate, costing 45., increased
the monetary return by £1 6s. 2d. per
acre. But barley is now worth 3s. 9d.
on the farm, making the gain £1 19s. 3d.
per acre, less the small cost of the man-
ganese. It is a striking example of the
valuable work done by the staff of the
Waite Institute.
Manganese deficiency does not occur
uniformly throughout paddocks in lower
Yorke Peninsula, but in irregular
patches. Hence, where no manganese
sulphate is applied some patches will die
out while others vary from poor to fair.
With the application of manganese the
irregularity disappears and the crop be-
comes substantially uniform.
Selecting Maize Seed.
“Hortus”: A seed-maize shortage may
be experienced in some parts, South
Queensland especially. There’s nothing
as good as locally-grown seed.
You can select your seed in the field
or in the barn, but be careful about it.
Don’t go necessarily for the largest ears
straightway; they may have had soil-
advantage or more room than the other
plants. Go for a large ear in com-
parison with the size of stalk. And
don’t pick a plant not upright.
Some choose two or more ears per
stalk. If the first ear is up to normal
size, this is sensible ; otherwise you are
only asking for more and more ears
per stalk. Result—smaller ears. By all
means, pick plants with two good even-
sized ears.
Watch the position of the ear on the
stalk ; it’s hereditary. If too high from
the ground, look out for lodging
what’s the good of making the harvest-
ing difficult? If too low to the ground,
you are risking weed-overgrowth and
also slow drying-out in showery weather.
Don’t always reject ears on suckering
stalks. Never worry about the sucker-
ing if the ears are good.
Where autumn or winter is wet, pick
ears that turn down at maturity. Erect
ears in these districts often spell ruin
to the crop. Check over again in the
barn. Pick out ears which, when dry,
are heavy in proportion to their size.
You may have to reject some good-
looking cobs.
Go for a cylindrical (not a tapering)
shape ; straight rows and regular grain ;
moderate-sized core, not leaving much
space between grains, either at the tip
next to the cob or at the dent end of
the grain. You need ears with grain
tight on the cob; uniformity in size,
shape, appearance and character of dent.
A maize plant depends on its neigh-
bors for flower-fertilisation ; so unifor-
mity at flowering-time is essential. Late-
flowering plants miss out in a crop,
with barren stalks as a result. Try to
get color uniform too ; grain of mixed
color fetches a lower market price.
Hints for the Farm.
“Silky Bag”: Crushing oats pays for
cattle aind pigs, but not for horses, with
which it gains only 4 p.c. or 5 p.c. advan-
tage. This does not cover the cost of
crushing. From 25 p.c. to 30 p.c. is the
gain with cattle.
“Bluey”: To toughen and make dur-
able stringybark sheets intended for build-
ing, first adze off the rough outside coat
while the bark is on the tree. When
stripped, allow the sheet to curl up, pack
bark scraps from the adzing inside the
roll, light it, and, when the sheet is hot,
flatten out sap side downwards and leave
weighted for a few days.
“Sandy”: When cutting off the lid to
make a kerosene-tin bucket leave a “V”
piece on the tin just above the handle
points. Bend the “V” piece back to the
sides and punch the hole for the handles
through it as well as the main tin. This
prevents the hole tearing.
“Khamo”: Few pig-raisers take the
trouble to feed Dennis necessary char-
coal. A little, finely ground, added to
coarse food is a sound help to his
digestion.
“Waranbini”: If you have no other
way of preserving eggs for home use,
try black brother’s method. He dips
them in melted fat, and buries them in
sand to keep the coating on in hot
weather. When he has no fat, he uses a
batter of mud.
“Gumblegubbin”: Acres of headlands
along the banks of gullies are wasted on
most farms ; tons of pumpkins could be
grown on them. Pumpkin vines run
and thrive as well over grass, bushes and
rubbish as on ploughed ground. All they
need to start them is a cleared patch
where the seeds are sown.
“Lam”: A gallon of soda silicate to
four gallons of water spread on 300
square feet of farm concrete floor in
three applications at intervals of a few
hours will toughen the concrete and help
make it proof against water and lactic
acids. Apply the mixture with a spray
or fine-rosed watering-can when the
cement is nearly dry. In repairing old,
worn floors, first scrub with soap and
hot water, then coat with three parts
clean sand and one of concrete. While
the film is still slightly moist but firm
dose with the spray.


r-:-
Manual Testing of Oats
for OATMEAL STOUT
m
25T
m
rm
Wi
m
H#
ffl
W‘
T
Mf
TrS^-r^^-
i
r-r-r*
2fi
1
=®?/ 5
«*■
33
£S?I
SB
rWIW\
rrW'
rX
*I'IW/
358550 VJ/SIMA
w
£/ ZAftftV
5%=
SSWjf
Rw\\VvVA\.\|^
mi
WiW
N\
W
■— / / H'.iH -
&'’/m\ ins
is
to
%
lU\
»9
Hi
nil
ViAl! M; f
WVAa
“Mil
*****
lu
WN
a
55Mn
VH
?C
»
►ill wm m
fe Mil
ii
>gMp
8
w
UIH
U\
//
ss« >
m
,K THE
ORiGiNA
m
%
\ TOOH£VjSJ-rt;-. &
m
m
$Y
AU
The wholesome glory of the sun-
ripened Oats is concentrated into
each health-bringing glass of
OATMEAL STOUT.
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL
STOUT
Here’s To’ee
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


[Commercial Art,
If*m this fascinating well-paid \
profession at home from 16 noted
artists, for beautifully illustrated
literature FREE write to Dept.- Tj
Traininsliisfihite
[•4Swanston St Melbourne S
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK f LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. lajxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq.. O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Y al“able nC) H&
free 1 -* Datc
in Interesting Courses.
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL
fi Dailey St., Sydney. OF JOURNALISM
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, requires position
in city or near suburbs. —5567.
Youth (19), N.S.W., tall, good appearance,
knowledge typewriting, ticket-writing and
photography, high-school education, wants em-
ployment of any sort. —5537.
To buy Early History of Rockhampton, by
Byrd.—5550.
Tasmanian girl (23), well educated, musical,
desires position as companion.—5563.
German words of “Patiently Smiling” and
“You Are My Heart’s Delight” from “The
Land of Laughter,” by Franz Lehar. —5560.
Words of parody of Kipling’s “If,” applied
to auction bridge.—5523.
To buy book on geophysics and seismology.
—5509.
Information Sought.
Is there any university in Australia that does
not require a language (other than English ) as
a compulsory subject for matriculation? Tas-
mania at one time had a science-language alter-
native, but this has since been cut out. —4919.
Every Australian university requires a lan-
guage other than English as a compulsory sub-
ject for matriculation.
* * * *
(1) What is the order of venomousness of
snakes in Australia ? (2) Is the black snake
a venomous snake, and will its bite cause death
if treatment is not given? (3), There is an im-
pression prevalent that places where there is
one bone on the leg or arm cannot be liga-
tured. If so, why is the application of such
ligatures taught in first-aid practice? —5503.
(1) Death adder, tiger-snake, brown snake,
copperhead, black snake. (2) The black snake
is highly venomous; a bite from it, if not
treated, might cause death. (3) An effective
ligature can be placed on the arm or leg, but
should be above the elbow or knee, where there
is only one bone.
K= * * *
I wish to go sleeper-cutting. What is the
best district in N.S.W., and how do I get
authority ? —5268.
To cut sleepers for the N.S.W. Railways you
must get an identity card from the Superin-
tendent of Stores, Railway Department, or from
his inspectors. Without this, cutting could not
be obtained on State forests or Crown lands.
Card obtained, you should apply to the Dis-
trict Forester at Dubbo or Narrabri, to see
whether a vacancy exists for a cutter on Crown
areas in their districts. If it is desired to
operate in the forests on the coast, application
should be made to the District Foresters at
West Kempsey, Taree and Moruya. Depots
are situated in each of the districts referred to,
but very few, if any, vacancies exist for cutters.
Is a stated sum payable under the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Act for total loss of
sight in one eye by accident ? If so, what
amount ? —5406.
Yes, £375.
* * * K<
(1) Where is the best piace to take up the
study of veterinary surgery? (2) Length of
course? (3) Probable cost? (4) My idea is to
specialise in racehorses. Would there be an
opening, or is the profession already over-
crowded ? —5427.
(1) The only place in Australia recognised
under the Veterinary Surgeons Act of N.S.W.
is the Veterinary School in the University of
Sydney. (2) Five years. (3) Approximate cost
of fees and books £200. (4) The profession is
not overcrowded, and veterinary surgeons who
have specialised in racehorse practice all appear
to be doing well.
* * * *
(1) I am a working youth (19) studying
mining at the Technical College, Newcastle,
and would like to take, later, a Bachelor of
Engineering degree at the University of Sydney.
What is the matriculation standard of Sydney
University? (2) Cost of course ( exclusive of
board and lodging) and number of years in
University before I could pass, allowing that
I went through each year without failures? —
5418.
(1) A candidate for matriculation in the
Faculty of Engineering must pass an examina-
tion in English, mathematics (higher standard),
another language and at least one other subject
taken from the list set out in the University
calendar. (2) The fees for the degree of
Bachelor of Engineering in mining and metal-
lurgy are £219 4s. for tuition only. The
course is of four years’ duration. Suggest you
look up the regulations regarding the award
of the Peter Nichol Russell Scholarship and
the regulations governing the recognition of
classes at the Technical College.
* * * *
What is the composition of air? —5525.
It is a mixture of several elements and com-
pounds which, apart from carbon dioxide and
water, are remarkably constant in their relative
proportions. The average composition of dry
air, free from carbon-dioxide, is: Nitrogen
78.111, oxygen 20.955, argon 0.933, neon 0.0015,
helium 0.0005, hydrogen 0.0001, krypton
0.000005 and xenon 0.0000006 per cent. The
amount of carbon dioxide in air is about 0.03
per cent., but in industrial towns it is higher.
,The moisture content is extremely variable, a
representative figure being about 1 per cent.
In addition, there are other gases such as
ozone, oxides of nitrogen formed by lightning
discharges, ammonia due to the decomposition
of organic matter. Also air always contains
solid matter in the form of very fine suspended
particles.
* * jh *
“John o’ London’s” magazine says that a
century can never begin on a Sunday, Wednes-
day or Friday. Is that correct ? —5499.
No. The year 2000 will commence on a Wed-
nesday and the year 2400 on a Friday.
* * * *
(1) Where and when was Christopher
Columbus born ? (2) Where and when did
he die? (3) Where was he buried?— ss32.
(1) Probably at Genoa in 1446-51, the exact
date of his birth being uncertain. (2) At Valla-
dolid, Spain, in 1506. (3) His remains were
transferred to the Carthusian monastery of Santa
Maria de las Ceuvas, Seville. Exhumed in 1542,
the body was conveyed with that of his son
Diego oversea to Hispaniola and interred in
the cathedral of San Domingo. In 1795-96, on
the cession of that island to the French, the
relics were re-exhumed and transferred to the
cathedral of Havana, whence, after the Spanish-
American War of 1898 and the loss of Cuba,
they were removed to Seville Cathedral, where
they remain.
* 4= * *
How to estimate the yield of a well, in gal-
lons per hour? —5539.
Note the level of water in well and then
pump out enough water to lower the level by,
say, 4ft. Ascertain the time taken for the
water to return to its former level. Then the
cross-sectional area of well in sq. ft., multiplied
by the difference between the two levels in feet,
multiplied by 375 and divided by the time taken
to regain its former level in mins., gives the
yield in gallons per hour.
* * *
Any rough-and-ready method of estimating
the approximate yield of a stream? —5518.
The rough average yield may be estimated
as follows: Select a part of the stream where
the channel is fairly uniform and free from
eddies. Take the breadth and average depth
in feet in several places. Drop in a chip of
wood and find the time it takes to travel, say,
30ft. Several observations should be made.
The average surface velocity in feet per second
will thus be obtained. Four-fifths of this will
give the mean velocity, which, multiplied by the
sectional area in sq. ft., will give the yield in
cub. ft. per second. To convert to gallons per
second, multiply by 6.25.
* * * *
To whom should I apply to obtain a copy of
a will proved in Vic. about a year ago, and
what is the fee? —5517.
Apply to Master-in-Equity, Law Courts, Wil-
liam-street, Melbourne. Search fee of ss. and
copying fee of 6d. per folio of 72 words are
payable.
* * # *
How did the expression "Who will bell the
cat?” arise? —5513.
From the old fable in which the mice held
a meeting to discuss in what manner they could
best prevent the cat from stealing on them un-
awares and killing them; they adopted en-
thusiastically a suggestion that a bell should be
hung around the cat’s neck, but gave up the
idea when a mouse arose to ask “Who will bell
the cat?”
% ifc # ❖
Value of the Van Diemen’s Land fourpenny
stamp, blue, imperforate, good condition, used?
—5533.
Depends upon the watermark and shade.
According to Gibbons’s Catalogue, the prices
are: Watermark large star, deep blue 555., blue
70s. No watermark, deep blue or blue £5,
pale blue £7. Watermark double-lined “4,”
blue 10s. pale blue Bs. 6d., bright blue 9s. 6d.,
very deep blue £2, cobalt blue 225. 6d. Good
copies may be purchased in Australia at about
one-third these figures. To identify the water-
mark, place stamp, back up, on a black en-
amelled surface and, if necessary, place a few
drops of benzine on the back of the stamp.
The watermark, if any, will then be clearly
visible.
Sfc # *
(1) Estimated population of Australia at De-
cember 31, 1936? (2) Estimated population of
Sydney and suburbs at September 30, 1936 ?
(3) Estimated population of N.S.W. at Decem-
ber 31, 1936? (4) At what censuses did the
population of Melbourne exceed that of
Sydney? (5) Date of last two censuses? —5531.
(1) 3,446,198 males, 3,360,554 females;
6,806,752 persons. (2) 1,257,500. (3) 1,355,493
males, 1,326,243 females; 2,681,736 persons.
(4) At the censuses of 1861, 1871, 1881, 1891
and 1901. (5) April 4, 1921, and June 30, 1933.
* * * *
(1) Were many Victorian 20a. postage
stamps issued dated 1884? (2) Their value?
(3) Value of ss. Victorian stamp dated 1889 ?
(4) Possible buyers of same, preferably in
M.L. ?— 5504.
(1) Large numbers were issued, but they
mostly bore fiscal cancellations; only those
bearing postal cancellations are of any value.
(2) The Gibbons Catalogue lists these stamps:
Violet on yellow paper, 60s. to 705.; red-orange
to orange-yellow on yellow paper, 55.; orange
on white paper, 10s. (3) Blue and rose-red,
from 15s. to 20s. Certain ss. fiscals were also
used postally, but most of them are very
common. Good copies of both ss. and 20s.
can be bought at about one-third of these
prices. (4) Try Wilcox, Smith and Cos., 14
Manse-street, Dunedin, M.L.
* * * *
(1) Can wireless telephony be used to con-
nect one telephone system to another similar
system ? (2) Are any small wireless telephony
transmitters manufactured, and is a license
necessary for their operation ? —-5395.
(1) Yes, as, for example, the Anglo-Australian
Wireless Telephone Circuit, which enables any
telephone subscriber in Australia to speak
from his home to any telephone subscriber in
England or Europe. (2) Amalgamated Wireless
(A/asia), Ltd., manufactures small “pedal”
transmitters which obtain their power from a
dynamo driven by a stationary bicycle. These
are used in the N.T. by mission stations and
cattle stations to communicate with the base
stations at Wave Hill, Brunette Downs and
Camooweal. They are of great use in case
of sickness or accident. A Government license
is necessary for their operation.
* * * *
Amount raised by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment in 1935-36 from following taxes: (1)
Land, (2) estate duty, (3) income, (4) war-
time profits, (5) entertainments, (6) sales and
(7) f10ur?— 5572.
(1) £1,326,991. (2) £1,472,860. (3) £8,775,562.
(4) £20,956; collections are in respect of arrears,
as the Act is now inoperative. (5) £l3; repre-
sents arrears—Act is now inoperative. (6)
£9,432,483. (7) £1,150,724.
* * * *
Nationality of overseas shipping which entered
Australian ports for the year 1935-36? —5575.
Australian 314,439 tons, United Kingdom
3,334,332 tons, Canadian 95,889 tons, New
Zealand 322,296 tons, other British 276,162
tons, Danish 54,689 tons, Dutch 150,012 tons,
French 102,031 tons, German 126,500 tons,
Italian 39,465 tons, Japanese 464,311 tons, Nor-
wegian 462,884 tons, Swedish 134,502 tons,
United States 233,047 tons, others 127,117 tons.
* * * *
What is the position regarding the taxation
of annuities in Victoria? —5579.
Under the Income Tax Assessment Act, 1936,
all annuities, whether purchased, devised by
will or granted by deed, are taxable in full as
income from property, but of an annuity which
has been purchased there is excluded that part
which represents the purchase price to the ex-
tent to which that price has not been allowed or
is not allowable as a deduction in assessments
for income tax under the 1936 Act or any
previous laws of Victoria.
* * * *
Translation of the following Latin phrases:
(1) “Tacitae tnagis et occultae inimicitiae
timendae sunt quam indictae et opertae” ? (2)
“Parvus pumilio, licet in monte constiterit;
colossus magnitudinem suam servabit, etiam si
steterit in puteo” ? —5591.
(1) “Enmities unspoken and hidden are more
to be feared than those outspoken and open.”
(2) “A dwarf is small if he stands on a moun-
tain ; a colossus keeps his height if he stands in
a well.”
* * * *
While there are about 100 convictions annu-
ally for drunkenness per 10,000 inhabitants in
N. S. Wales, the figure for Victoria is only
about 40 per 10,000 inhabitants. Why the big
difference ? —5600.
In Victoria offenders are generally discharged
on a first appearance, and no conviction is
recorded ; similarly those arrested on Saturday
and detained till Monday.
* * * *
Number of full-blood and half-caste abo-
rigines living in supervised camps in each of
the Australian States? —5566.
N.S.W., full-bloods 523, half-castes 3693;
Victoria, 25 and 154; Q’land, 5676 and 1967;
South Australia, 83 and 645; Western Aus-
tralia, 1730 and 761; Northern Territory, 3102
and 374; Federal Capital Territory, 57 half-
castes; Tasmania, 188 half-castes.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning authoress
L. M. Montgomery ?— 5565.
Born in 1874 at Clifton, Prince Edward
Island, the daughter of Scottish parents, she
was educated at Prince of Wales College and
Dalhousie College. Until her marriage she
lived on a Prince Edward Island farm, where
she taught in school and wrote for periodical
publications. Her first book was Anne of Green
Gables, which originally appeared in serial
form, and was published in 1909. In 1911 she
married the Rev. Ewan Macdonald, a Presby-
terian clergyman, and moved to Ontario; she
has two sons. She is a member of the Order
of the British Empire. Address: 210 a River-
side-drive, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
* * * *
I have for many years been suffering from
deafness caused by catarrh. Are mechanical
aids to hearing worth investing in ? If so,
make recommended, and price? —s3l2.
Cannot recommend any specific make likely
to suit all cases, but such aids are worth
while. There should first be an examination
by an ear-specialist to determine the amount
of response to (a) pure tones of speech, (b)
to amplified speech, (c) to articulation tests.
Do not buy any apparatus before undergoing
such tests. Elliott Bros. (Sydney) or Allen and
Hanbury (Sydney) will give you an approximate
idea of prices. ,
; i : * * *
Recipe for ginger beer, also where can recipes
be bought? —s36l.
Take 3oz. bruised root ginger, six large
lemons, six breakfast cups sugar, quarter-cake
compressed yeast, four gallons boiling water.
Slice the lemons into a large earthenware
vessel, removing seeds. Add ginger, sugar and
boiling water. When the mixture has cooled
to lukewarmness, add the yeast diffused in a
little extra water. Cover the vessel with a
piece of cheesecloth and let stand 24 hours.
Then strain and bottle. Cork securely, but
not so securely as to cause breaking of the
bottles before the corks would fly off: keep in
a cool place. There are many other recipes
with slight variations. Most cookery books
contain a selection of good recipes for soft
drinks. For books on beverages, write to the
N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., Castlereagh and Market
streets, Sydney.
Brief Answers.
L.M.M.: The age factor may present some
difficulty, but the method is worth a trial. Write
to the superintendent of the N.S.W. Institute
for the Deaf, Dumb and Blind, Sydney, who
will put you on the track of people doing
similar work in Queensland... .E.L.H.: (1)
and (2) In the particular case the best course
would probably be removal of the tonsils and
adenoids by operation. Do not know of any
physician who confines himself exclusively to
treatment without operation. Children’s hospi-
tals in either Adelaide or Melbourne will advise
you G.M.M.: The War of the Nations is
of no commercial value; Britain’s Austral
Empire if in perfect condition should be worth
about 10s N.Z.: Have never heard of the
“lrish-American Gaelic scholar” you mention.
Name of the publishing house is not in any
U.S.A. list available in Sydney... .R. 5.8.:
Address secretary, Royal Australian Ornitholo-
gists’ Union, care Royal Australian Zoological
Society, 28 Martin-place, Sydney... J.8.R.: (1)
Send samples of English holly berries to some
of the leading florists in Sydney or Melbourne.
(2) William’s pears require another variety to
pollinate them. Suggest planting Winter Nelis
or Packham’s Triumph, as the blossoming
period of these two varieties is similar to that
of William. Also you might bud or graft some
of the branches of your trees with these varie-
ties, as it would be some years before a young
tree would be of any benefit... .A.D.: (1)
At Sydney Technical College. (2) One session
of six months would be sufficient for this pur-
pose. The session begins February 1 each year.
Classes are held daily, Monday to Friday in-
clusive. Fee for country students is five guineas
for the session C.C.: The Independent
Theatre, 112 King Street, Sydney K.C.M.:
Cannot undertake a research into the nation-
ality of members of the British House of Com-
mons... .H.L.F.: Munbura or Munburra is
not in any available fists of aboriginal words.
It may, however, be identical with either Mun-
gurra, “gum-trees,” or Munmurra, “moon-
blind blackfellow”... .H.M.S.: Your best plan
would be to get in touch direct with the hon.
sec. of the society, J. K. Stewart, C.8.E., Inch-
mahome, Longniddry, East Lothian, Scotland,
or with the Highland Society of N. S. Wales
(hon. sec., George Morice), Scottish House, 19
Bridge-street, Sydney... .G.F.: Australian
Associated Press, Ludgate House, 107 Fleet-
street, London, E.C.4 F. 8.: Gertrude Law-
rence, the actress, was born in London....
S.T.C.: Full fists are published in The Authors
and Artists’ Handbook, obtainable from
Richard Geraint, Box 2455 MM, G.P.0., Sydney
(price, 35.)... .H.W.M.: Quinbalup is a W.A.
abo. place-name meaning “a happy place.”
... .H.E.S.J.: The competition promoted by
Hodder and Stoughton which was open to
teachers closed on December 30, 1936....
B.B.: Try Mitchell Library, Sydney E.H.:
Details too long to print here. Suggest you
consult Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s The Story of
Anzac, Vol. 1....E.5.: Send a press print to
the Social Editor F.S.: Yes, always pre-
pared to consider fiction of that length....
J.A.: Tf the income is wholly subject to the
deduction of wages tax at the source, a return
will not be necessary. If wages tax is not
deducted a return should be furnished on which
an assessment will be raised for special income
tax. The taxpayer should notify the depart-
ment accordingly R.L.8.: Write N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, Sydney, for pamphlet,
“Rabbit Destruction” G.A.C.: The official
badge of the A.I.F. was inscribed “Australian
Military Forces” and not “Australian Imperial
Force”... .S.H.: Take it to an expert such
as S. Holden, 86 Hunter-street, Sydney....
S.L.H.: Consult An Introduction to Practical
Geography, by Simmons and Richardson (Mac-
Millan). In this book, Chapter X is devoted
to sundials, and the subject is dealt with fully
and simply. A series of articles on “Sundials
and Their Construction” commenced in the
“Scientific American” in the February, 1934,
number... .H.M.M.: About 10 per cent
A.K.: Probably impossible to remove, as the
tannins and dyes used in leather are very obsti-
nate. Wash, with the addition of ammonia
in the water, and bleach in the sun (on the
grass if possible). As the garments dry, sprinkle
with clean water and dry again, repeating several
times. .. .J.D.: Stickiness is usually caused by
hasty oiling when the coat is being made and
is difficult to remedy. Sponge well with warm
soapy water; when dry, wipe over with a cloth
dipped in methylated spirit. Let dry thoroughly,
then sprinkle with common talcum powder,
rub over lightly with a cloth and hang in a
cool, airy place T. 8.: The Graham motto,
“Noubliez,” means “Do not forget”; that of
the Maclarens, “Ab origine fidus,” means
“Faithful from the first” A.M.D.: The first
seagoing steamer to cross the ocean propelled
wholly by steam-power was constructed by an
American shipbuilder; the original drawings
are on file in the archives of the Historical
Society of Chicago. The vessel was 175 ft. in
length, and was named the Royal William
J.H.G.: Write Workers’ Educational Associa-
tion, Education Building, Bridge-street, Sydney.
W.M.: Get in touch with banks and in-
surance offices E.E.8.: Cannot trace inquiry.
J.W.O’D.: No W.PJ.: The caul is
known to doctors as the “amnion,” a mem-
brane which frequently envelops the child’s head
and body at birth. Its alleged power to pro-
tect human beings from drowning, etc., is, of
course, mere superstition J.G.D.: Such
symptoms commonly follow the bite of poison-
ous spiders or insects. No treatment is neces-
sary, as the pain will disappear in time
F.J.M.: Rear-Admiral Byrd’s Little America:
Aerial Exploration in the Antarctic and the
Flight to the South Pole deals solely with the
1929 expedition, and was published in 1930.
His second book, Discovery: The Story of the
Second Byrd Antarctic Expedition, is fully illus-
trated, with maps, and the Australian price
is 24s W. 1.: A book that will prob-
ably cover your needs is Molesworth’s Pocket
Book of Engineering Formulae (10s.); any book-
seller should be able to supply... .R.O’M.: The
“Mac” or “Me” and the “O” prefixing
tish and Irish names mean alike “son of” and
signify descent from some progenitor of that
name....'(Many others mailed.)


j£s~SEP*kßfc§2‘
P & O
HOMEWARD SEASON
1938
It is with pleasure that the P. & O. Company announce the Homeward Programme
for 1938. Included in the sailings for London during the Season next year, it will
be noticed that there are three new "Strath'' Steamers, viz.: "Strathmore,"
"Stratheden," "Strathallan," which, together with the "Strathnaver" and
"Strathaird," also other P. & O. Royal Mail Liners, will offer unsurpassed
accommodation for First and Second Saloon and Tourist Class Passengers.
1938 SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
FARES FROM £39 PLUS EXCHANGE
Principal Agents:
Macdonald. Hamilton & Co.
247 George Street, Sydney
Branch Booking Office:
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co.
25 Martin Place, Sydney
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ply Ltd.
5 O'Connell Street, Sydney
V & o
ROYAL MAIL LINERS
D
oes YOUR
smile
radiate
charm ?
F. C. Calvert & Co., Ltd., England.
Life can be all smiles to the
woman with perfect teeth
if she cleans them with Powder.
Why powder ? Because all denti-
frices contain some powder, that’s
what does the cleaning. But Calvert’s
is ALL POWDER, that’s why it
cleans teeth better and more quickly.
CALVERT’S
carbolic TOOTH POWDER
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
8.8. R.: They don’t appeal to us... .R.E.L.:
There’s some human interest in it, but the
craftsmanship is very weak P.O’S.: It opened
promisingly, but you dragged it out too long.
....S.J.C.: Too much of it; too little m it.
E.G.: Below the mark J.S.W.: Quite
snappy of its kind, but we can’t find a corner
for it D.R.H.: Came close, but too senti-
mentai and too 10ng... .S.V.J.: Polished, it
might get through W.A.M.McN.: The re-
ligious editor refused to be converted....
J. So much, as advice to wives: Not
long after the wedding he compared his wife
with Jean Harlow. She knew then it was the
beginning of the end”... .J.S.-W.: Thin; and
it’s not new....J.N.: Not up....J.8.: Slight.
L.A.L.: The last sentence deserves quoting
for its simplicity: “Then without hurry or
fuss, but with the hurt, bewildered a
boy wrongly punished, he shot himself”....
K. : Light weight... .A.C.D.: Nothing in
that brevity... .M.Y.: Charming, but not for
us G.E.M.: That one misses, but it’s the
type of thing we want... .L.T.: Can’t you see
that’s off our beat? ... .A.H.: Close; you
should place it elsewhere 8.W.K.: Senti-
mental dog yarns are four a penny... .J.E.8.:
All right, give us gloom if you must, but shy
off light, bright subjects like suicide.. . .J. 5.8.:
Bellowdrama... .W.M.S.: Nothing in it....
M.D.: No place for that sort of thing....
S.C.: The long arm again... .F.H.S.: Might
make a Society par D.R. (South Africa):
Too thin for us 1.M.G.: You didn’t send
the finish of the yarn; but it could make no
difference —it’s too sugary... .Z.V.W.: Lacks
life F.S.: Can’t pay for the funeral
R.W.: Your “sallow-laced Chinese” can’t doss
here C.J.T.: We don’t doubt it’s original,
but it’s not up G.C.C.: Considered, and
found wanting in almost every quality required
in verse contributions... .T.H.G.: Never heard
of a prospector finding ample compensation in
the beauties of Nature for his inability to strike
gold W.McK.: You may have “crisped it
up a bit,” but it’s still on the doughy side.
It might go better to music... .E.P.: “Will you
be kind enough to publish the enclosed verses?”
No.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.8.L.: Gag first saw the light in the
’eighties.. . .G.F.: A frozen-looking couple and
a sapless jest... .W.M.M.: Well-planned lay-
out spoiled by rough and jagged linework....
W.S.: Another echo of the bullfighting car-
toon of months ag0....K i R.: Wash drawings
look to have been out in the rain all night....
D.K.: Your patriotism is unquestionable; not
so your art L.J.: You might become an
artist, but it’s all ahead of you... .S.C.P.: The
railway sleepers might pass, but the tramps
beside the track are awful T.H.: Take
more time over your work and pay more atten-
tion to details... .C.E.: Jests have the flavor
of American magazines... .J.D.: The deformed
Asiatic was promptly deported from 252
George-street W.A.: Your threat to continue
submitting drawings until one is accepted filled
us with alarm F.T.: Dialogue between
parson and bullocky has appeared too often in
print R.L.: Keep on. You are getting
nearer the mark... .E.D.: Subjects more suit-
able for magazine covers... .A.W.H.: We sus-
pect that the chap with the moustache is Casey,
but cannot tell Lyons from Parkhill... .O.B.:
Useless to try crayon on a highly-glazed sur-
face W.W.: Might suit a schoolgirls’
weekly J.G.: Dry brush work looks prom-
ising; the wheezes are musty with age....
L.D.N.: Niggardly linework and figures out of
proportion H.T.: The lady’s arms arc
sprouting from the middle of her back....
G.F.: A visit to the Zoo should enlighten you
about the build of a hippo A.C.8.: Yes;
lessons are needed; list of reliable Sydney art
schools posted P.H.: The couple are as
full of life as a pair of tombstones... .S.N.:
But why is the gent, in night attire perched
on top of the flagpole? ... . R. 8.: Jokes dreary ;
drawings depressing... .E.H.J.: You have yet
to master the first elements of art.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Rambut Mirah”: Hervey Allen,
author of Anthony Adverse, was in order
when he told how the schooner Areo-
statica, head pointed for the bank of the
Rio Pongo and all sail off her, was canted
away from danger when Anthony swung
the wheel over. “Ass. Engineer” (B.
7/4/’37) is out of soundings when he
claims that the vessel had no steering
way. She was drifting with the tide,
and any seaman knows that a ship will
answer helm without assistance from
sails or engines if there is a good swish
of tide about. More than once I have
canted an 8000-ton steamer in the strong
tideway of Sourabaya Roads when she
was lying moored to two anchors —
simply by putting the wheel hard over.
There certainly wasn’t steerage way on
the ship, but she answered without it.
* * * *
“Binduli”: Octogenarian prospectors
are rarely encountered, the occupation
being hardly conducive to longevity, but
Westralia has been doing honor to the
memory of one who stuck to the game
till he was hard on 90, if not a trifle past
it.- This was Phil Saunders, over whose
grave in the Kalgoorlie cemetery a
memorial stone was dedicated by the
local bishop after some feeling tributes
to his life and work. Saunders, like so
many W.A. goldfields pioneers, began
his gold-seeking in Queensland, drifted
thence to the Northern Territory, and
arrived at Cossack in ’B2. He was the
first to find gold on the Ashburton, but
it was his discovery at Hall’s Creek
(Kimberley) that awakened the colony to
its auriferous possibilities and blazed the
track for the Bayleys and Fords and
Hannans. “Once a miner, always a
miner,” and up to a few years ago the
veteran was still pottering about the
North Coolgardie field, knapping quartz
and panning off prospects. He died in
the Kalgoorlie hospital, six years ago,
aged 93. What a record of a gold-
seeker’s life his would have made, had
it only been preserved!
*l* H?
“Kwakprak”: Some curious facts con-
cerning the direct relationship between
mental and physical conditions and par-
ticular dietaries are coming to light as
the outcome of special inquiries at large
schools, extending over 20 years and
more. At Christ’s Hospital School
(London), for example, when butter was
replaced by vegetable margarine, the
number of broken bones sustained in the
playing fields increased to a marked ex-
tent, as did the. prevalence of rheu-
matism and rheumatic pains. When
butter was resumed, the proportion fell
rapidly to normal. When the sugar
ration was increased, catarrh, minor
septic conditions, boils and colds in-
creased with it, to return to normal when
it was decreased —displeasing news to Mr.
Forgan Smith, who wants to make the
world more sugar-minded. Rickets, chil-
blains and dental decay also show a very
definite connection with the presence or
absence of certain dietary constituents.


»
bu CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA W AORANG I "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. LTD.
INC.
N*Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
No. 16 of a series of articles on the old Australian boxers.
Towards the end of last year a Bulle-
tin man entered the Balmain (Sydney)
hospital to be patched up. He found an
acquaintance there, a former champion
boxer, who, as the remote result of re-
peated hammerings received 40 to 50
years ago, had lost his sight. Blindness
had not clouded the veteran’s sunny dis-
position ; he was the institution’s merri-
est as well as its oldest inhabitant. His
one grievance seemed to be that, under
doctor’s orders, he had taken brandy. He
questioned whether he could have for-
given the resident if tobacco had been
prescribed also, for he prided himself
on having been a non-smoker and non-
drinker all his life.
Five operations the old fighting man
underwent with unimpaired cheerfulness.
It is pleasant to record that they were
successful, and that he returned to the
waterfront —he has been a boatbuilder
and fisherman for many years —able to
see without glasses and still capable, if
provoked, of pushing a cheeky foreigner
off the jetty into shallow water. This he
did before he became a hospital case
when the alien mentioned that he was
restrained from giving him a hiding only
by respect for age.
He is an 18-stoner now, but he was a
legitimate lightweight when he beat
Baxter, the champion of England, and
had his three famous fights with George
Dawson —“Gentleman George.” It is
upwards of 45 years since The Bulletin
wrote of him that “Burge has probably
taken more punishment in his career than
any six of the modern fighters put to-
gether.” Burge? Yes, the merry old
soul of Balmain hospital was Ironbark
Jim Burge, known to our fathers and
grandfathers as the man who couldn’t be
knocked out —whose heart and body
alike were impervious to punishment.
Australia has had no sturdier specimen
of home-grown manhood.
Jim Burge’s greatest moment in the
ring was when he lowered Baxter's
colors, for Baxter’s skill was renowned;
English lightweight form in those days
was good. The victory brought solid
material rewards as well as glory, for
there was £6OO in the house. The fight
took place on Jan. 25, 1890; the sub-
joined account was written for The
Bulletin by James Edmond, afterwards
its editor.
Baxters Downfall.
“The glove fight at Foley's Hall be-
tween Baxter, lightweight champion of
England, and Burge, lightweight cham-
pion of Australia, created a good deal of
stir in scientific and literary circles.
There was a large attendance, consisting
of all sorts, from great men, such as pro-
fessional pugilists and horse-trainers,
down to members of Parliament, Minis-
ters, ex-Ministers and other riff-raff.
“Burge is known as ‘lronbark’ and the
‘lron Man’ and so forth, because he is
so infernally hard. He is a compact,
nuggety fellow, 38 years of age. and pos-
sessed of a wife and seven children. He
has great strength, his body, chest and
arms being covered with rolls of muscle
hard as adamant. Elis face looks as if
it had been tomahawked by a shingle-
splitter out of an ironbark stump, and by
the size of his neck we should say he
takes a 25in. collar. He can’t box, being
slow and awkward, but it takes a hurri-
cane fighter to beat him, because he will
receive any amount of punishment and
keep on pegging away till he wears his
man down. He has fought many good
men. They generally begin to belt at
his head, and, finding they can make no
impression in that quarter, they change
their tactics and whizz their scientific
rights and terrible lefts into his ribs ; but
the Iron Man bulges along and generally
comes out ahead.
“Such being the Sydney representative,
there was great excitement to see the
Englishman, and when Baxter entered
the ring a regular gust of surprise went
round the room. This England’s cham-
pion lightweight? A smooth, white,
delicate-skinned youth with thin arms
SITTING ON THE SAFETY VALVE.
A BULLETIN cartoon, published in 1893, when it was proposed to prohibit glove-fighting in N. S. Wales.
Burge and Dawson were then in the U.S.A. Edmund Barton, the figure in the drawing, was keen on the
measure ; George Reid was against it. There was no actual prohibition, but fears of prosecutions, com-
bined with the effects of the depression, virtually settled the Game for years.
and showing no muscle at all. He was
much less like a professional boxer than
he was like an angel.
“While the crowd marvelled and won-
dered whether he expected to have any
chance with Burge, a bookmaker got up
and roared, ‘Here’s six to four on
Baxter.’ It looked as if it should have
been 600 to 4 the other way, and the
talent began to take the odds freely ; a
lot of racing men were there, and they
were so used to taking 6 to 4 about one
horse's chance in a big field that it
looked quite a gift to get 6 to 4 about
one man's chance in a two-man fight.
“As soon as they commenced Baxter
showed great cleverness, while the other
man was simply grotesque in his clumsy
slowness. Burge had a death-or-glory
look on his mug, while the Englishman
seemed absolutely at his ease. It was
evidently a match between a very scien-
tific man without much strength and a
very strong man without much science.
“Burge used to rush in and clout the
air wildly, while Baxter moved about
with the greatest calmness, now and
again sending in a vicious stab or upper-
cut, but never trying to force matters.
Although a lot of spectators were of
opinion that he couldn’t fight any more
than a chicken, he showed wonderful
neatness.
“As matters went on, the crowd out-
side began to get demonstrative. The
admission was £1 a head, which, of
course, kept out the Black-Red push, the.
Liver push and the Surry Hills talent,
and these youths, moved to frenzy by the
shouting and clapping inside, made a
determined rush at the door. For a few
seconds it seemed a certainty that they
would force their way in, but the cry
was ‘Foley to the front,’ and the stal-
wart Larry, armed with a chair, stood
in the doorway like brave Horatius at
the gate. He hit out right and left and
soon pacified them, and the door was
at length closed.
“After this diversion, the outside crew
turned their attention to the roof, and
how they got up there heaven knows,
but in a few minutes the roof was laden
with human beings, and fierce larrikin
faces in hundreds glared down through
the long row of skylights. By-and-bye
one of them broke a pane, and sent a
lot of heavy window glass crashing down
among the audience, and then an alarm
was raised that the roof was giving way.
Baxter was very nervous and thought
the roof was coming in on him ; how-
ever, Mr. Foley’s architecture stood the
strain and the fight proceeded.
“About the eighteenth round, Baxter
started to do some hitting. He went in
for a good give-and-take rally ; and then
there arose loud cheers for the English
ash and counter-cheers for the Austra-
lian ironbark. When the round was* over,
the Ironbark man, though slightly dazed
and showing for the first time traces of
weariness, was not scratched, bruised or
marked in any way, whije his opponent
had his lip up about four sizes, one eye
damaged and a wrist hurt. Even then
he. could have stayed the fight out and
made a draw by husbanding his strength,
and Jack Thompson told his seconds as
much ; but they said he would fight in
his own way, and he started in again to
try to rally his opponent out.
“That was just what Burge wanted.
There are some racehorses that are said
to look lonely without a cart, and Burge
is a pug who feels lonely and out of
sorts in a ring unless someone is belting
him about the head. As soon as Baxter
started to slam him, Burge began to feel
happy, and hammered away with great
effect. His iron frame showed no signs
of fatigue, while his clever and plucky
opponent was evidently weakening.
“A couple of spanking blows on the
side of the head made Baxter groggy,
and in the 22nd round he was so obvi-
ously a beaten man that it was no use
keeping him in the ring any longer, and
his seconds threw up the sponge.
“The bookmaker who was laying the
odds on Baxter is believed to have been
executing a commission for Baxters
backers, who were English. Anyhow,
the colonials won the fight, and the
money, and the championship, and they
proved that the iron bark is a better tree
than the ash anyway you take it. So,
with a buzz of talk and asseverations
that there were plenty of men in Sydney
who could put their fists clean through
Baxter, the crowd rolled out into the
daylight and another championship was
gathered to the Australian collection.
"One to Win!"
George Dawson, though a native of
N. S. Wales, learnt to box in Queens-
land. In 1885, at the age of 18, he won
the amateur featherweight championship
of that colony and, turning professional,
he beat a few fellows in short order,


A welcome break /'
” : #sr"'r'
MMi
•wW^i'*r“
ii
w»*
?•:§ © jsp-i-
-tit moUmvti&t;
Q
il
WMII
5 * ~T• *!*; — 5 jfftTif; jri
if#
Is
X;
: h
-
kb
m
mt
W.'A r!
m
r ;f: ; ! r
m
&f-
-wm
:■:.£
/rW/^fk
fi)
m
Li
$-1
aita*
r.-.*. 1 -.
«!
SSS&3
I ••«' i'll
Sit^ji
fe'i!=
■Assfe;
fe*?-
Bi\
iw:
tyr'fft--
wm
m
S’
mm
7SSJ72
m
Distributors for the House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. - - - - - Adelaide
Lionel Samson & Son - - - Fremantle
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. • * - - Hobart
iiiMMiimisiiiißum
W*t*>*t£/* w*w*&*W*&*w*w*w*\y * ?*»«
K7>® 2-'Cs'©c^js'-C^.t'V<J--S •*».>* j-'?.-rj
-
£3
NKING FLOURISHED
d
in GREECE.
In the temples ol early Oreece, history
records the first stages in the evolut-
ion of hanking as we know it today.
Priests not only made regular and
substantial charges for safeguarding
valuables, but they lent the funds of
the temples out at interest.
A modern banking institution such as
the Rural Bank offers a financial ser-
vice to the community whi ch is beyond
the farthest dreams of the priest-
bankers of the Greek temples. Not
only does it advance money to home-
builders and settlers but it supplies a
Cheque Account service for the gen-
eral public and at the same time
provides an investment facility through
its interest-bearing Fixed Deposits.
You may open a Che tjue Account at
any branch of the Rural Bank or
deposit your money in a Fixed Deposit
Account on which you will be paid full
current banking rates of interest.
The Greek temple illustrated above has been
an inspiration in designing many bank
buildings.
ILuJumlßxuiJl
OF * NEW •tsfllUTH • WALES
Head Office .... Martin Place Sydney
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
among them Mick McCarthy, who had
some reputation in Melbourne. Coming
to Sydney towards the end of the
’eighties, Dawson challenged Burge to a
fight to a finish. They fought, but hadn’t
finished when the referee;, decided to finish
it for them. He declared it a draw after
39 three-minute rounds.
A return match was arranged. It
took place about three months after
Burge’s defeat of Baxter. A description
of the second affair will suffice for both ;
one was very like the other.
“The Burge-Dawson fight at Foley s
for the lightweight championship, £2OO
and the gate ended in a draw after 50
rounds of stubborn fighting. Dawson, a
pleasing boxer, is 61b. heavier and nearly
20 years younger than his doughty foe.
Ironbark Jim’s left arm, held out with
the rigidity of a semaphore when he
fought Baxter, was on this occasion care-
fully held down for the protection of his
ribs. Burge was fighting for his own
money, and at the start weight of coin
made Dawson favorite at 6 to 4 on, in
some cases with a draw thrown in.
“No man had occasion to take 10
seconds on the floor, and the voice of
the referee (Major Macdonald) was
never heard. As the hours rolled on
Burge’s legs, seemingly his only vulner-
able point, showed signs of giving way,
the left being especially feeble. His left
eye had the shutters up long before the
regular hour of closing. His face, usually
immobile as that of a heathen god, was
somewhat distorted, while the ribs under
his left arm were liberally endorsed with
Dawson’s autograph. As for Dawson,
his right hand was gone and his left eye
was in mourning.
“No one was sorry when the affair
terminated. The, audience—large and
enthusiastic—was very orderly, although
several legislators and suburban aider-
men were present, and the generally ex-
pressed opinion was that no more stub-
born or more straightforward or better-
conducted fight has been seen in Sydney.”
The men fought for the third time in
December, 1890. On that occasion The
Bulletin was not' at all complimentary.
Because of the intrusion of pushes, public
opinion had begun to harden against
boxing, and before and after the event
The Bulletin’s “Referee”-—title of the
sporting column in those days—pro-
nounced it a bad match.
“If the Burge-Dawson affair does not
put an end to the Sydney boxing boom,
it is to be hoped that the Iron Man will
not again be pitted against a strong, de-
termined and scientific boxer. The Syd-
ney Amateur Athletic Club is ostensibly
run only in the interests of athleticism,
and it should not allow mere butchering
in its ring when so many scientific men
are at hand.”
“The. gory disfigurement of Burge’s
frontispiece resolved the fight into a
sickening spectacle. Not that Burge was
knocked out; notwithstanding his partial
blindness, Dawson would not have been
able to knock him out. Blind or not
blind, it is hard to say how many times
Burge might have gone down, taken his
time, and then stood up for more.
Towards the end, Dawson had used his
right hand up and was weakening fast.”
The police interposed in the 31st
round, and the referee gave the fight to
Dawson. This The Bulletin described
as “manifestly unfair to Burge. It was
not a fight to be decided on points ; it
was a fight to a finish or until the referee
considered one of the men not in a fit'
condition to go on. He did not consider
Burge beaten or he would not have
awaited police interference, and the con-
test should without a doubt have been
declared a draw.”
Not only was Burge thus deprived of
his lightweight championship, but he had
to face another referee—a magistrate.
He and Dawson were prosecuted on a
charge of prizefighting. The magistrate
happened to be “Sydney’s only sporting
stipendiary.” Case dismissed.
Burge's Subsequent Battles.
Burge proved to The Bulletin writer
in the next few years that the. punish-
ment he had received had not slowed
him up or affected him in any other way.
In 1891 he had two tremendous mills
with Torpedo Billy Murphy, sometime
featherweight champion of the world,
beating Murphy in 30 rounds at Broken
Hill and losing the second in 29 rounds
at Sydney. It was declared “no fight”—
a wild effort of humor on the part of
the Sydney Amateur Athletic Club,
though Burge saw nothing funny in it.
In 1892, Burge beat Young Sandy Ross
in Sydney (Ross was disqualified in
the second round for using the La
Blanche blow) and Jack Hall in Mel-
bourne—in five rounds. Jack Hall was
a very clever English-born lightweight,
of whom Foley had a very high opinion,
but he hadn’t looked after himself as
Burge had done. That year Burge went
to the U.S.A., and a note dated April
15, 1893, said: “Ironbark Jim Burge has
won another fight in the States. The
cable tells us that Lewis’s hands were
both badly broken. Burge’s old tactics:
he holds up his head for a fellow to
smash his hands on and, that being done,
just finishes him off. Over 50 rounds
were fought in what is described as one
of the most determined battles ever
seen.”
The following year found old Iron-
bark back in Australia, fighting Dummy
Maee and Friday O’Neill, the best of
the Victorian lightweights, in Melbourne.
Neither could put him on the floor,
although both tried hard enough. In 1895
he was in Johannesburg, engaged in that
tremendous 35-round draw with Jimmy
Murphy.
Back in Sydney at the beginning of
1896, it was recorded that “Burge, the
heaven-born fist-breaker, has been out of
sorts lately—feels he wants to be knocked
endways with art axe or a charge of
dynamite for refreshment. Burge never
enjoyed his breakfast so much as after
four hours of incessant slugging and bat-
tery. When working in a quarry, he was
hurled by an explosion against the solid
rock. He afterwards said it did him
good—promoted circulation and made
him feel alive all over.”
But he was now getting too old for
pugilism, and by 1898 the scribes were
relating Burge anecdotes as of one who
had left the ring. One is worth reprint-
ing :
“It was after his second battle with
Ironbark Burge that' a well-known clever
boxer swore a deep and awful oath that
he would never go into the ring with
Burge again. Bad times and much per-
suasion at last prevailed. The clever one
made it hot from the start, with the usual
result: he knocked himself out. ‘How
are you getting on with him, Jack?’
asked a friend of the scienced man when
he came back to his corner. ‘How am I
getting on with him?’ he said in a voice
full of savage self-contempt. ‘Here I
am again fighting this cove, and I
haven’t got an axe.’ ”
Dawson in the U.S.A.
The title he —or the referee —had
wrested from Burge, Dawson lost to
Tommy Williams, a Victorian lightweight,
in 1891. Williams was a rusher, and his
hurricane tactics overwhelmed the much
cleverer man in the fourth round ; but
he would not sign for a return match.
In 1892 Dawson went to the U.S.A.,
where that same year he beat three of
the best lightweights in the country:
Billy Gallagher (42 rounds), Danny
Needham (29 rounds) and Doc. O’Connell
(20 rounds). The O’Connell match was
for a $3OOO purse.
Dawson’s victories impressed the
Americans so much that they matched
him with Tommy Ryan at New Orleans
for a $6OOO purse. Dawson was a light-
weight, Ryan a welterweight ; but the
latter failed to put in an appearance. He,
however, agreed to meet the Australian
in a no-decision bout at Chicago, and
they boxed six rounds.
That visit' to Chicago was a fortunate
thing for Dawson. A big local club
wanted a boxing instructor, and offered
the equivalent of £lO a week. Dawson
applied for the position, got it and forth-
with retired from the ring— at 26. He
did not lose his interest in Australian
boxers visiting the U.S.A., and did what
he could to induce “Griffo” to go
straight.
A man of sterling character and like-
able ways, Dawson has done very weil
for himself in America and made troops
of friends. He revisited Sydney a few
years ago to renew old friendships, but
found nearly all his contemporaries gone,
except Jim Burge.


"THE AGE"
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age’’ is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate, information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world's happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required, in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE" FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must be
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that The
Evening Post' brings
immediate response.
"The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply to
any accredited advertising agency.
the mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
“The Mercury” carries regularly a far
greater total volume of advertising than
any other newspaper published in Tas-
mania. It is thus, judged by the use made
of its columns, the most popular as well
as the most powerful of the newspapers of
Tasmania. Profit by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and place “The
Mercury” first when advertising in Tas-
mania is under consideration.
“The Mercury” is the only Tasmanian
newspaper which gives A.B.C. certificates
of circulation. These certificates show
that- during the 18 months ended Sept. 30,
1936, “The Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1882, and that it had reached
20,471 daily.
Full particulars jrofn
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MKRCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
DO NOT
let your customers
change to something
different. Keep in
touch with them over
the week-end and let
them read of your
excellent products in
“The Mail”
ADELAIDE, S.A.
On SUNDAY
That is the day your cus-
tomers have most time to
ponder over the good things
of life.
RATES from:
P. A. MESSENGER. Warwick Build-
ings. Hamilton street, Sydney.
A. G. PIKE, Newspaper House,
Collins street. Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Friday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in “The
Examiner’’ (Eest. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the, experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
* “THE EXTMINER’S” ADVERTISE-
MENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
N. SCOTT, 9 Bligh St., Sydney.
A
«*«*/w*
•audit
-BUREAU OP-
CIRCULATIONS.
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can stive you eom-
ulete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth.
Western Australia.
“No,” he said, suddenly grown serious. “I
thought she was still —where is it?--somewhere up
there in the jungle.”
Katie’s eyes flashed: for once she had caught
him on the wrong foot. This chance encounter had
given her all she wanted to know, all she had been
unable to find out as she hung about Freda on the
boat-deck, asking her about her plans, fishing
expertly for confidences. A satisfied smile hovered
about her mouth. “There’s still time for you to
make a dramatic appearance. It would create a stir:
she’s got all her family and friends around her. Or
would you rather keep in the background?”
Macready’s voice, coming down the stairs with a
paternal boom, cut across her words. She drew her-,
self together, let her eyes flutter uneasily from the
door to the untidy figure with the swag, then back
again. Besanck felt she wanted to disown him. Too
preoccupied even for resentful irony, he drifted off
down the street.
“A dramatic appearance?” he was thinking, “or
just the entry of a comic figure? There are times when
one is not willing to risk being taken for a clown.”
HE had heard nothing of Freda since the afternoon
three months. before when she had left him so
suddenly, taking the train back 'to the port from a
wayside station. The memory of that unexpected
break piqued him still. It-was as, if all her inner
rebellion at his theories of life, his pose of detach-
ment, had come to a Head as they sat by the side
of the road, body-tired, knapsacks at foot, passing
timber-lorries spraying them with dust.
He remembered her long silence, the droop of
her shoulder, the way she had sprung up decisively,
energy and will flowing through her from some secret
source. “Oh, well, if you get a kick, Leo, out of
parading your dead spots... You do get a kick, I
suppose. I’ll leave you to it: I’m going back to
life.”
He had, he felt, taken her too lightly. There had
seemed nothing unusual about her in the beginning,
nothing in her infatuation for him to turn his head.
These girls who were out for experience, who played
with rebellion... Yet she had left him, as no other
woman had done, unsatisfied, quickened, curious about
the impulses that moved her, out of conceit with him-
self. And now he was going back to life too : wouldn’t
it be a gracious gesture to let her know?
Hesitatingly he stood on the kerb outside Court-
ney’s, looking down at the wharf. The four-o’clock
breeze had begun to come in through the gap, stirring
the crotons, raising little eddies of dust. Crowds, of
people were thronging back from the outgoing boat,
which was edging away quietly, streamers falling in
decorative stripes over its hull.
Besanck suddenly caught sight of a figure he
knew, a little apart from the rest, moving with long
strides in the direction of the post office. The braced
shoulders, the bare curly head, something purposeful
yet withdrawn in the straight-ahead gaze, carried him
out of himself, made him feel a heaving deck under
his feet, a breath of salt in his nostrils. A wave of
genuine affection flooded him. He had an impulse
to leap across the street, to thump the turned back
heartily, and let all the doubts in his mind be swept
away by an outflow of high spirits. “Why, Neil!
How lucky it is I caught sight of you. You are the
one man in this God-forgotten town I wanted to see.”
He stood still, listening sceptically to the sound
of his own voice, watching his own gesture, till the
chance was lost to him. Liquidation... Liquidation
of the.. . He shouldered his swag and moved off
to find a lodging for the night.
Chapter XXIII.
epESaaajND so it’s all come right,” Laura Clune
|gna j was saying to Corcoran. “Things do
Ws l come-right in the . end, Jimmy. You’ve
Swg J 3 | only got to go straight ahead, being just
ErJjS j! yourself and not taking too much notice
of what people say. I’ve thought some-
times there was a hoodoo over me because I opened
up this place in May, but that’s just the Irish in me.
From now on I won’t trouble my head about any
of these superstitions. He’s off somewhere up in the
hills this week, but when he comes back I’ll get him
to stop at Cayley’s and make it a home for him.
There’s nothing I wouldn’t do to help him along. Of
course the Macreadys tried to make up to him, like
I knew they would, but he’s not taken in by that sort
of patronage: he’s just as independent as his father
was and believes in going his own way.”
“Except when he is going yours,” said Corcoran.
“I don’t pretend I’ve got much influence over
him,” she said. “I’m quite satisfied if he takes me
for what. I am—just a woman who likes to make
life easy for those around her. But I think he realises
what I saved him from. She was quite an attractive
little mouse, and I.was sorry when she left; but these
colored girls, poor things, always go to pieces in their
twenties, especially if they begin to have children
early and 101 l about. After he got better she seemed
to lose her hold on him. He looks quite different
now, as if I’d given him something to live for.
‘You’ve . been jolly good to me, Laura,’ he kept
telling me when he was lying helpless up there on
the balcony. You’ll laugh at me, Jimmy, but it nearly
made me break down. That’s just what Chris used
to say.”
She leant her elbows on the bar, bemused, trans-
figured, thinking how good life was, how mysteriously
just in its movement, in spite of the way people mis-
understood you, in spite of the look in old Cerutti’s
face when he put away the stethoscope.
Corcoran was tilting the few remaining drops in
his glass from one side to the other and watching
her with his amused, beady stare. He had been away
for some time in the south, looking for a better job :
he had come back unsuccessful and embittered.
People had no use, he was telling himself, for anyone
with a bite in him. They listened to the bleat of
woolly old wethers like Weston, assuring them' that
they were living in dangerous times, that fences were
being broken down on every side,' that a careful
watch must be kept on the dingoes if the world was
to be made a safe place for sheep.
“There’s only one thing left for you to do now,
Laura,” he said.
She half-awoke from her dream. “What’s that,
Jimmy?”
“Set up a monument to Sanderson.”
“I thought I had,” she said. “Isn’t Cayley’s just
that?”
“No,” he told her soberly. “You want something
no one can mistake. Something without any com-
mercial associations. A statue. A figure in bronze
out there in the main street among the crotons.
Sanderson the pioneer! One foot a little advanced,
right arm pointing over the town towards the ranges
—an inspiration for all the youngsters growing up.
The curse of this country is that it doesn’t remember
its heroes. No instinct to set up memorials. No
record of the men who’ve put society before self,
devoted their lives to the public good. You believed
in Sanderson, Laura. This is the only real way of
keeping his memory alive. Get some of the old pots
of the council interested: tell them you’ll provide
the money.”
She flushed, turned the suggestion aside. She
didn’t like the flecks in Jimmy’s eyes, the slight sour-
ness that had come into his smile since he returned.
“You fling these notions out, Jimmy. I never know
how much they mean to you.”
YET when she was lying awake that night, thinking
of Neil, of the boy who had died in his first year,
of what old Cerutti had said about the danger of
hurrying upstairs, the idea came back to her with a
glow of something newly-created, as if it had just been
born in her own mind.
Why shouldn’t she preserve for other people, for
herself, an image that was gradually fading, losing its
outlines, vanishing into the surrounding air?
Life was wonderful, and yet how tragically it
slipped away from you! You lost hold of the things
in it that had moved you, the things that had made
you want to give yourself to the last breath. The
look in a man’s eyes from among the pillows as you
came in at the door, his laugh scattering your secret
fears, the sense of him as a great tree growing beside
you, battling with powerful winds, always on the
point of being uprooted, holding out somehow till the
last.
There was no way of showing people how
strangely rich your days had been. The man who
had given them meaning had died and was forgotten
by everyone. Even your own memory played you
false. You let it be overlaid by day-to-day happen-
ings: or if you remembered things it was often what
was merely humiliating, trivial, absurd.
She had power to adjust the balance. She could
devote the rest of her days... The Sanderson she
believed- in, the tough, heroic figure of her earlier
visions, of his own old-timer stories, should survive.
Her tribute to life, her recompense for thwarted
impulses toward motherhood.
It was with an up-rush of blind creative feeling
that she thought of the statue rising out of the crotons,
lifting up a bronze arm, dominating the town.
[The End.]


<
HOSPITAL
>
as
r-;
B?
'/*>■«
Nature has decreed an inflexible rule
that the bowels must operate every day.
They are the main channel which Nature has
appointed to carry away what is unnecessary,
and it is impossible to tell how large an amount
of sickness has been caused by constipation or costiveness; in
other words, by not keeping the bowels regular—it is the main
road to most illnesses; it is the cause of unnatural irritation to
the mucous or lining membrane of the bowels. Having lost their
natural strength they object to doing what is required of them.
Hence the bowels become inflamed, and unless you find a speedy
relief a thousand other complaints are ever ready to drag you
through a miserable and wretched life. Such medicine must be
given as will cleanse the stomach and bowels, and thus help to
restore their natural activity. To accomplish this there is no
compound so valuable as Dr. Morses INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are purely vegetable and do not gripe.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are also an excellent
medicine for Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion, Rheumatism,
and Skin Blemishes due to irregularity of the bowels.
Do. Morse’s
i
u
I
*
n
They Make You Feel Brighter
Do you examine
your child for
WORMS ?
Unfortunately, many mothers whose
children are afflicted with worms fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for the
outbursts of temper, restlessness and
peevishness, and until some more serious
symptoms appear nothing is done to
alleviate the distress. The symptoms of
this disease are somewhat variable, but
generally they are so characteristic that
no mother need have any doubt. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
the general conduct of the child is such
as to cause the slightest suspicion a care-
ful watch will give ample proof.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
or uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
and biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with this
is a sensation of itching at the nostrils,
producing a disposition to pick the
nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often dis-
ordered, sometimes relaxed, as in
dysentery. The appetite is exceedingly
variable, in some cases natural, in
others deficient, craving or depraved,
one condition not infrequently alternat-
ing with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue
furred, with disagreeable taste and a
copious flow of saliva; swelling of the
upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during sleep
are other characteristic symptoms.
NOW PACKED
IN TINS
4°c
COH
2A
PER TIN
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of Stomach and
Thread worms which infest the intestines.
They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to
the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are pre-
! pared in the form of a confection, or lolly,
'have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
[on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney, and 6
Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/- per
box (six boxes 11/6), post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin,
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fd
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /-.)
X
o
•> e
** e
v -<v v \<>'o^< v ,iP'
k<^/ C 4 i>
&*&?&&%€' *** -° -" -
» *%
■ \\ o
c ,Y\C' V
Sn %
o<
\0
&
p 4*
«<&
5, c^ e
#
vS S
€.’V C V V V
tS*
o« 6 ‘


fd
m
111
I
mii
:
If You Do Catch
Cold or
’FLU
If you do happen to catch a cold or
’flu whilst taking Bidpmak, the attack
will be much milder than usual, and
Bidomak will build you up quickly
afterwards, and guard against a
relapse.
Bidomak is the most wonderful restora-
tive known to science, and everyone
should take it during convalescence.
It’s amazing how quickly it brings you
back to full health and strength.
AMAZING CASES!
(Original letters on our file )
GASTRIC 'FLU
War at ah, 29th January, 1936.
The Douglas Drug Co.
Dear Sirs, —A few months ago 1 had
gastric ’flu, which pulled my weight down
and left me suffering from loss of appetite
and weakness.
I grew tired of trying other tonics, which
had no effect, so taking my friend’s advice,
and as a last resource, I tried “Bidomak.’’
I have only taken one bottle and it is
hard to realise the difference that one has
made in me. I am beginning to put on
weight, and to eat the meals set before me.
The signs of weakness J had have completely
left me, thanks to “Bidomak.”
/ cannot speak too highly of your won-
derful tonic, and I am sure all “Bidomak”
users will agree with me.
M iss C. C.
Drummoyne, 25th July, 1935.
Dear Sir, —I can confidently recommend
your “Bidomak” to anyone suffering from
weakness and nervous debility, or in a run-
down condition of health after ’flu.
Its effects, even after the first few doses,
are really magical.
The many friends to whom I have recom-
mended it are equally enthusiastic about it,
and / consider that in placing so splendid a
tonic on the market at so reasonable a price,
you are conferring a benefit on the public
that they will need to try but once to
appreciate.
Wishing it the success it deserves.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Mrs. A. Q.
AND
HOW TO
STOP THEM !
Run Down, Nervy
Men, Women and
Children
Should take Bidomak regu-
larly. It reinvigorates,
charges the whole body
with living vital force. It
changes depression, irrita-
bility, chronic tiredness to
bright, happy, bubbling
health.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY!
Your Money Back
Guarantee
If you do not benefit by
taking Bidomak we will
refund your money within
14 days of purchase on
return of the nearly empty
Bidomak bottle to the
Douglas Drug Co.
Important Statement by Discoverer of BIDOMAK
Colds and influenza are caused by germs and no completely
successful treatment for them has been discovered. A perfectly
healthy body, however, will not let cold or ’flu germs take hold.
It kills them off by dissolving them in the blood-stream, and
throws them out of the system.
Colds More Prevalent
in Winter
During winter, however, bodily resistance is
lowered for three main reasons.
(1) There is less sunlight.
(2) We spend more time indoors.
(3) And expose ourselves in the course ot
our daily life to many considerable varia-
tions of temperature.
The difference between a warm room and
cold outdoors relaxes the membranes of the
nose and throat and leaves them more suscep-
tible to attack by bacteria.
Need for a Tonic
It is therefore absolutely necessary to take a
good tonic through the late autumn and winter
months, so that the resistance to infection is
well built up and the system rendered com-
paratively immune to attack by infection.
C 5 K 3
ALL \
CHEMISTS
AND
STORES
J 4.
* **/ *
a
u
3«&kiWv>
ws.
No Tonic So Good As
BIDOMAK
Bidomak is an ideal tonic for such a purpose because it provides all
the valuable health-guarding mineral foods in a pleasant, easily-
assimilable liquid form, and thus it feeds the system with ferrum,
calcium, potash, sodium, phosphates, glycerophosphates and sucrose.
Remarkable Twin Benefits
Bidomak cleans the body of waste products by increasing the supply
of oxygen in the blood-stream.
Then it stimulates every cell of nerves, stomach, liver and kidneys.
It makes it easier to digest your regular food, and to take advantage
of the health-giving vitamins which this contains.
You Feel WONDERFUL
No other preparation provides so many protective foods in such a
pleasant form. No other preparation does you good so quickly, or
guards you so well from illness. Bidomak makes you well and keeps
you well. Take it yourself and give it to your family regularly all
through the winter. You’ll all feel better for it.
bidomak
66 The Tonic of the Century
ilfl
iißij
