

Give a
KOu
'
■lk:
v
&
4T4
■
m
«
'
:VV,v-
-* V
/
'
v
o?si
•/'■ w
kf' ■
. Mw®i
W' r ~
II
m
I
Kodak if
Sspi
iu
1
<
Ilf '* 1
k ' Ifl *
L ' ' #• •'
PWS
VLOPAF
8S
fJLM
'••■' ■ .. j
. ■ ■ !»»
A Kodak is more than a gift — it’s
a happy promise of a thousand
delightful snapshots .
A Kodak gift is remembered when
other gifts are forgotten.
There’s a wide range of models
embodying novelty, beauty and
distinction—Kodaks you’ll be proud
to give and proud to receive.
GIVE KODAKS THIS CHRISTMAS
SIX-20 KODAKS
from 68/6
The aristocrats of Christmas gifts.
SIX-20 KODAK JUNIORS
from 39/9
World’s finest camera values!
All-moulded folding-style Kodaks from 12/6.
JUNIORS
from 14/6
With modernistic
all-metal fronts.
BABY BROWNIE, 6 -
Modern all-moulded style.
Of all Kodak Dealers and KODAK (A/asia) PTY., Ltd., 379 George Street, Sydney; ‘252 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l (also entrance from Howie Place); 250 -252 Queen Street Brisbane; 57 Rundle Street, Aaetaiae ;
jj Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 93 Brisbane Street, Launceston; 662 Hay Street, Perth (also .
Ruthven Street , Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; FIB
... ji r A TT D i O <1 „ /I -l / 7» 1 n't! rl • hf) P'J’l'W/'P.Q
UWI/i u/n-v iwiyv fv'j -* f-vww / •
ireef, Kociehampton; ri inders Street, Townsviile. Also stocked by KODAK NEW
ZE'ALAND, ' ltd., 162 Queen Street. Auckland; 40 Princes Street, Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo
Sireel. Christchurch.
ASK FOR
CHRISTMAS FOLDER.
The Bulletin
Christmas Number.
VoL 58.—N0. 3016.
Wednesday, December 1, 1937
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S 64-PAGE ILLUSTRATED
CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
A CHRISTMAS FANTASY.
It was mid-afternoon at the Australian Authors
and Characters’ Christmas Picnic.
Side by side on a fallen log Danny Delacy, father
and grandfather of all that swagger, and Dad Rudd,
whose selection days have passed into legend, were
swapping pioneering yarns, the one of the Upper
Murrumbidgee, the other of later <lays on the Darling
Downs. Danny’s Johanna, who was more interested
in subsequent developments than in crude beginnings,
had foregathered with a crowd of Murrumbidgee
identities, and was having a rare talk about who
married whom —and how it came about.
Mum Rudd had seen Dave going off with one
of those high-heeled, feather-boa’d girls from Edward
Dyson’s Spats’s Fact’ry, and with the same expression
she wore when the poddies got into the corn patch
had bustled off to investigate the matter.
Under a spreading black wood Quartermaster
Hyde and daughters Fanny and Maud were seated
with the Richard Mahony couple. Richard was
doing his best to appear genial, but was really in one
of his difficult moods —the Quartermaster’s bluff style
grated a little —but some measure of alleviation prom-
ised ; he fancied he saw in Fanny Hyde a reserved
and kindred spirit. Mary Mahony had, of course,
adjusted herself to the company and the occasion
without difficulty.
A shout of “Wil’ Rabba-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-y!” had
just rung out, and Ginger Mick, grinning, passed by,
followed by the Sentimental Bloke and Doreen and
the Straw Hat Coot and Rose of Spadger’s-lane ; the
couples arm-in-arm and the males dipping their lids
to right and left, oblivious of the cool stares of the
toffs.
The picnic—to forestall expectation of some
major and exciting event —was, both for the partici-
pant and the onlooker, a purely spectacular and social
occasion, a matter of meeting* and recognising old
acquaintances—still playing their parts —and of watch-
ing the pageant of the printed page.
A colorful throng filled the bush valley, for they
came in the costumes of their times, from the four
corners of the continent and all sections of society.
Scarlet tunics, “broad arrows” and blue-tailed coats
from Pageant and The Term of His Natural Life
rubbed shoulders with khaki blouses from Flesh in
Armour and sac suits from A Murder in Sydney.
Silk hats from the novels of John Dailey glistened
among the cabbage-trees of the Victorian romantics.
Crinolines from The Montforts and A House Is Built
floated past the leg-of-mutton sleeves and multiple petti-
coats of the Captain Piper of Piper’s Hill period. Bustles
were worn with the same modish air as the latest
style in Jungfrau, Intimate Strangers or She Dresses
for Dinner.
The assembling of this company had been worth
seeing. Some, swagmen, drovers, axemen, from out-
lying parts —and numerous short stories —had arrived
the previous evening, camping overnight on the spot.
A crowd of Henry Lawson characters —Dave Regan,
Marshall, Black Bonnet, the Drover’s Wife, the Hero
of Redclay and An Old Mate of Your Father’s —had
come in Jimmy Nowlett’s bullock-dray, with Old Joe
Swallow to fiddle for them as they bumped along.
Joe Wilson and his wife had come in a double buggy
from Lahey’s Creek —and had brought Henry with
them. The Swayne Family, as befitted their moder-
nity, had come by aeroplane, piloted in a beeline and
brought to a perfect three-point landing by Vance
Palmer. Digby Swayne had immediately given his
views on foreign affairs to a reporter, and Palmer had
betaken himself to a quiet spot on the hillside from
where he could get a view of the proceedings as a
whole.
The Mazeres had poured out of their country
below the Australian Alps in a most imposing caval-
cade, the youngsters, male and female, on the finest
bloodstock in the land, the oldsters in a six-in-hand
drag driven by Brent of Bin Bin—with a lady from
the Monaro beside him on the boxseat unobtrusively
making sure he knew the way.
Springcarts, sulkies and buckboards had come
rattling in —some of the poorer settlers, like those in
Barbara Baynton’s Bush Studies, arriving in nothing
more pretentious than a horse-drawn sled. Lieu-
tenant Maurice Frere, Rufus Dawes, Sarah Purfroy
and company had crossed to the mainland in a phan-
tom Malabar, and had completed the journey in
motor-cars, wedged between characters from modern
books. They had arrived just before half a dozen
Cobb and Co. coaches, loaded with alluvial miners
from the pages of Lawson and Boldrewood’s Gold
Field Memories, had bowled into sight, finishing their
journey to a chorus from The Songs They Used
to Sing.
The poets had come in a group, led by Hugh
McCrae, piping, with> vine leaves in his hair. The
balladists had arrived with Fair Girls and Grey
Horses, and the landscape writers in two batches ; the
first—including Jack MacLaren and C. E. W. Bean —
in E. J. Brady’s King’s Caravan ; the second, led by
lon Idriess, on one of Lasseter’s camels. The essayists
had sprung from nowhere —in cloaks of motley.
Notable figures in the gathering were Tom Col-
lins, hand-in-hand —though still dodging Mrs. Beau-
desart—wvith little Mary O’Halloran, restored to life
and sweetness and never again to be lost in the bush;
Dame Mary Gilmore, sometimes at the wurlies talk-
ing of the Lost Tribes, and, again, walking with a
trusting group of Earnest Beginners; Christopher
Brennan glooming on a crag ; Bernard O’Dowd relish-
ing with Gilbert Murray—who had decided to look
in on his native land—a conversation rich with classi-
cal allusions ; Shaw Neilson, oblivious to all about
him in the contemplation of a scrap of beauty dis-
covered in a cranny; Henry Handel Richardson,
regarded with an awe that stilled even expressions
of gratitude ; Katharine Susannah Prichard —followed
at a little distance by Coonardoo —engaging sympa-
thetic hearers in a story of a world made better; Nettie
Palmer, obviously hoping this junketing would yield
some small permanent gain to literature, and literary
historian H. M. Green, who saw in the gathering an
unprecedented opportunity for the collection of data.
Miles Franklin was also there, but no one could find
her —she preferred picnicking incognita. Helen Simp-
son was inspecting the assemblage from the viewpoint
of Paternoster Row. J. H. M. Abbott was a colorful
figure in the uniform of an officer of Macquarie’s
regiment.
The crowd was thickest where shady gums fol-
lowed the winding of the creek, but there were groups,
couples and individuals scattered about the hillsides.
Some of the groups were from books gathered accord-
ing to their kind. The Haxby’s Circus crowd, having
lately been in North Queensland, had pooled their
baskets with the canecutters of Burnt Sugar and Sugar
Heaven ; the Geoffrey Hamlyn crowd had clubbed in
with the official and squatting element from Robbery
Under Arms. The people from All-About —together
with the Little Black Princess and some other dark
friends of Mrs. Ameas Gunn —had built themselves
wurlies and were engaged in their tribal occupations,
as far as the proximity of so many white folk per-
mitted. Malays, policeman and pearlers from
Reimann’s Nor’-west of West had joined the jarrah-
getters of Working Bullocks and their womenfolk on
the principle of mateship in the face of eastern num-
bers. Round a clump of scrub the Seven Little Aus-
tralians were playing hide-and-seek with the children
of Bark House Days, and Bunyip Bluegum was wait-
ing to make a party for them with his Magic Puddin’.
Other groups were writers animatedly discussing
the principles of their craft —much more entertaining
than the solitary drudgery of practising them. The
couples were mainly minor characters following up
love affairs unfinished when the books which they
were in had ended. The individuals were characters
looking for their authors —some of them with homi-
cidal intent.
There had been difficult moments in this matter
of authors and characters meeting, particularly in
those cases where the authors were disposed to treat
their subject-matter satirically. Richard Lome had
given Dailey a very cold stare—though Mary Lome
had smiled graciously enough. The M. Barnard Elder-
shaw pair had been obliged to present a united and
unflinching front on meeting some of the characters
from The Glasshouse. Kylie Tennant had had to
show some of the people from Tiburon that she was
prepared to use a firm hand if necessary, and Brian
Penton had been the object of a doubtful glance from
Derek Cabell’s solitary eye. And among the crowd
who must remain anonymous here —-but who formed
the greater part of the gathering—authors were the
subject of a certain amount of criticism. A male
voice: “She may know women, but take jt from me,
my boy, she’s had no experience of men.” A female
voice: “Do you think for one minute that in circum-
stances like that I’d”— —
A temporary difficulty of another kind had arisen
in the matter of. the people from Redheap. Were
they, in view of their having been banned, to be
received into the best circles? They settled it them-
selves by declining to lose their identity in any circle;
after all, they were distinguished in being Australians
who had to be bootlegged into their own country.
Their creator, Norman Lindsay, had withdrawn to
a hillside on the opposite side of the valley to Palmer,
where, forgetting literature for the moment, he was
making a sketch of the picnic. He was getting some
unusual effects ; curly horns sprouting under the rims
of top-hats, trousers absent to reveal hairy legs end-
ing in hooves. From force of habit he was drawing
some figures sans everything —the most important and
least shapely members of the company, and lovers
strolling with arms entwined. He was also working
in a sprinkle of capering nymphs and fauns.
Beer was free and the supply unlimited. This—
among a certain section —led to incidents that a tact-
ful press omitted in its subsequent report of the pro-
ceedings. Dyson’s little Benno became pot-valiant
on a couple of shandies, and the upshot was a brawl
between his following and the push from Louis Stone’s
Jonah. A number of penurious young artists from
A Curate in Bohemia took advantage of the oppor-
tunity to become blindly, gloriously, profoundly and
recumbently blotto ; and Awful Example—whom you
may remember as a minor but well suggested char-
acter in one of Lawson’s stories —insisted on climbing,
very unsteadily, on to the bar and reciting, amid
ironic cheers from those in the vicinity, “When your
pants begin to go.”
The sun was going down and the shadows of the
hills were creeping out across the valley ...
The Arrangements Committee, from experience
of previous occasions, had thought it best during the
day to leave the picnickers to their own amusements
—with the exceptions of one or two official fixtures.
The idea of having The Fizzer and his overlanding
packhorses arrive with Christmas mail at midday had
been theirs ; and a sporting programme during the
morning had been their notion. It had been well
attended and the winners popular. The color line
had never been thinner than when Cheon, Mrs. Gunn’s
jovial Chinese cook, had trundled home a winner
in the egg-and-spoon race. The three-legged race had
gone to Dick and Jim Marston ; Dave Rudd had liter-
ally romped home in the sack race, and his respected
and energetic parent had captured the greasy pig
amid the wildest hilarity and applause.
An afternoon event that had stilled discussion,
stifled laughter and brought the entire company
scrambling for vantage points on the hillsides had
been the Champion of Champions Gold Plate. On
no other course in Australia had such a field ever
started. In the line-up were Banjo Paterson on Rio
Grande ; Adam Lindsay Gordon on The Mare that
Never Wore Shoes ; The Man from Snowy River on
Alpine Bred; Boldrewood’s Warrigal, mounted on
Gordon’s Bolingbroke ; Lamond on Amathea; Salt
Bush Bill on Pardon, the Son of Reprieve ; Starlight
on Rainbow ; the Sick Stockrider —now in the pink-
on Acrobat; Clancy on Something Unknown, off the
Mitchell grass; and an imported mare, Britomarte,
ridden by Sergeant Leigh. The course was three miles
—an epic distance for fabulous horses. They battled
it out shoulder to shoulder and thundered up the
straight a tight-packed field, while the “stands” made
the skies rock.
Contrary to what is usual, the Authors ana
Characters’ Christmas picnic did not end with dis-
persal at sundown; there was to be a dinner, lasting
until midnight, in a vast marquee through whose walls
the lights were already beginning to glow. It was to
be a strictly formal function, and under the com-
plete control of the Arrangements Committee. They
had to decide the question of precedence, just as they
had had, in the first place, to decide the terms of
eligibility for invitation to the picnic. Both duties,
though interesting, were onerous. Year by year the
committee made mistakes, but as the years went on
it corrected them, and in the long run its judgment
was reasonably sound.
The Arrangements Committee —as may have been
guessed by now —was composed not of authors or
characters but of readers. They were the hosts. This
was only just, for, as a pundit has remarked, “The
artist is not an isolated phenomenon but a social pro-
duct,” meaning, in simple words, that readers create
literature equally with writers.
There was a murmuring in the dark as of a crowd
waiting, a crowd increasing with figures from the
pages of literature as yet on the way. Then Cheon,
who had been helping with the cooking, appeared in
the opening of the marquee. With portentous gravity
that threatened at any moment to break into fat
chuckles—he began to beat resounding notes on a
suspended buggy tyre.


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Always.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.’
ANTHONY HORDERNS
A
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
r
N
r
m* s
A beautiful Dolly’s Dressing Table in
lacquered woodwork with two drawers
and swinging bevelled mirror. Height
overall is 15 inches, width 1 inches.
Mirror is 8 inches x 6 inches.
At Anthony Horderns’ 21/-
Just like mother’s.
Aluminium Pot Stand
with real Whistling
Kettle, 3 Saucepans
and Frying Pan.
Stands 23in. high,
and each article ran
be used by the bud-
ding young cook.
At Anthony
Horderns’ : .15/11
\
:
yM
Hi
Put one up in your yard for the kiddies. They
will have lots of fun in it and it will keep them
near home. Complete with poles. Size, 5 ft.
x 4ft. At Anthony Horderns’ . 14/6
Without poles. At Anthony Horderns’ . . 12/6
Freight paid on Tent, but not on poles.
Here is a toy to delight any small boy
and it is very strongly built, British Tiger
Tank with strong clockwork, realistic
movement. At Anthony Horderns’, 9/6.
All Steel Waggon in two sizes.
One will give him endless fun.
Sizes, inches, 1x x 2-|,
with sin. wheels.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 8/11
Size, 2 xl 11 x 4 inches, with
7in. wheels. Price .... 13/11
Toys—Second Floor. Free Delivery City
and Suburbs only.
fAiCKfy'v
fAOUSff X
M
Quoits
Always a firm favourite with little boys
and girls. Mickey Mouse Ring Quoits.
Board measures x 11 \ inches.
They’ll like to try their skill with these.
At Anthony Horderns’ 3/6
.
SSSVJ
Sturdy English Clockwork Motor Car to delight
and amuse the small boy. Length 15 inches, and
its height is 5 inches. At Anthony Horderns’ . . 6/6
Same car, fitted with electric headlamps. Price, 7/6.
Battery 9d. extra.
The popular No. 3
C y c lo p s Scooter.
Length 44in., height
35in., and fitted with
1 1 in. roller bearing disc
wheels, brake, front
mudguards and rubber
footboard mat.
At Anthony Horderns’,
26/3.
This will prove popular with the small
girl. Stronglite Aluminium Tea Set, con-
taining 6 full size cups, saucers and plates,
tea pot, sugar, and cream, with spoons.
A handsome set.
At Anthony Horderns’ ......... 16/6
■ . .
•:
M,
This will keep them amused for hours at
a time. High-speed Transportation Jig
Saw Puzzles. Contains eight beautiful
models of the world’s locomotives.
At Anthony Horderns’ 5/9
V
V
A novel game
and one that
will keep them
amused for
hours. The
“Big Shot” Game, America’s latest craze.
It’s full of interesting hazards.
At Anthony Horderns’ . . 16/6
An inexpensive, strongly made Toy to
keep him amused for hours. Sturdy, All
Steel Barrow with rubber tyred disc
wheel. Lengths overall, ins.: 36-|
At Anthony Horderns’ ..... 7/3 10/-


A Long Short Story -and a Good One
SHORT-SHIFT SATURDAY
By
Gavin S. Casey
ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN MILLS.
IT was Saturday morning, s’o there was only half
a shift to do, but the bad taste of underground
was in my mouth, and four hours of it seemed
a lot too much. There was sunshine on the
verandah boards, but it was early, and there was a
nip in the air. After the short shift there would
be a long week-end to live above ground, in clean
clothes. It was hard to get out of bed, but it was
good to climb into soft white underclothes and a
good silk shirt that would only be taken off for four
hours out of the next fifty-six.
Annie was in the kitchen, cold and busy and not
too agreeable; and young Bill was out early and
up to tricks, as usual. Annie had sleep in her eyes.
Her hair was just bunched up, out of the way. She
was moving about with short steps, in a sort of trot,
with her shoulders bent like an old woman who has
run about a kitchen getting early breakfasts all her
life. She didn’t say anything when I came in—just
gave me a look and went on with her work —but
she went off at young Bill.
“Put it down!” she said. “Put it back, you young
wretch. You know you’re not to touch the knives.”
Young Bill put the bread-knife back on the table.
But he gave me a grin and a look as much as to
say “You know, dad.” Annie saw it, but she never
said anything. She usually puts herself in the wrong
by trying to translate looks and smiles and winks and
talking about them instead of taking no notice. She
was too cold that morning and too busy, I suppose.
I hadn’t felt hungry with the bad flavor of dirt
in my mouth, but the kitchen was full of the strong
smell of frying bacon. It cut through the dust and
made my mouth water. When Annie dropped the
eggs in the hot fat it spluttered like a string of
crackers. She put out the butter and cut some good
thick slices of bread. I was ready for it, and it was
good just standing as near the fire as I could without
getting in her way and watching the hot food come
out.
The food didn’t taste as good as it had smelled
and looked, but it was good and hot, and there was
plenty of it. I ate bacon and eggs, and young Bill went
slow with his porridge,
while Annie poured
tea and fussed about.
“What time’ll you be
home!” she asked.
She made a chal-
lenge of it, like she
always does. She has
the hot dinner on
Saturdays, and I’m
generally late. She
never asks me to come
home early, always tightening her lips and sort of
shooting the question through them. Perhaps she
used to ask one time. But now she gets my back up
the way she puts it.
“Oh, about the usual,” I said, knowing that was
the answer she didn’t like.
“You and your usual!” she said. “Three o’clock,
I suppose, and smelling like a brewery.”
She turned her back and made a great noise with
the pans. But her neck was red and angry. “I’ll have
to spend the afternoon keeping things hot while you
make a beast of yourself,” she said.
She’d said it all before. She has a bit to com-
plain about, I suppose, and I feel sorry for her some-
times when I’m On my own. But when she’s there,
talking the way she does, and looking as spiteful as
a snake, I can’t ever feel anything but the hair brist-
ling on the back of my neck. I want to hurt her, and
I’m pretty good at it.
“Skip the dinner if that’s how you feel,” I said,
knowing she’d rather cut her throat. “I’ll be home
in time for tea, anyway.”
“C’n we go down town after tea, dad?” said
young Bill. “C’n we go down th’ street?”
That was one for her, because she takes him
whether I go or not. He always does like me to come
in spite of all her efforts to make him satisfied with-
out me.
“Yes, son, we’ll go to town,” I said.
“If your: father’s capable,” said Annie.
That was a hard thing to say to the boy. What
we know, we know about each other, but I wouldn’t
ever say a thing about her that young Bill might hear
and understand. Her coming out with it like that
made me feel hot all over. My skin felt tight, as if
all the muscles under it were aching to smash her.
1 couldn’t say anything, or, anyway, I wouldn’t, until
young Bill had finished his breakfast and was out
in the yard. I just sat there looking at the little bits
“You and your usual,” she said. “Three o’clock, I suppose, and smelling like a brewery .”
of grease and yellow-stained bacon-rind on my plate,
xolling a cigarette and waiting. .
But by the time young Bill was gone there didn t
seem to be any way to start on the matter. Annie
had nothing more to say. She went on with the
kitchen jobs, working hard and moving fast, her lips
tight. She’s the kind that makes you made by always
being right, and by working hard and doing her job,
whatever other people do. She looked foolish, I
thought, scuttling about the room, carefully not taking
any notice of me. She was irritating, and she was
wrong saying a thing like that directly to young Bill.
But I didn’t want to hit her or hurt her any more.
I wanted to get away, to leave her to her job and
come back when I felt like it. I wanted to get out
with other men—cobbers who took you as they found
you and didn’t want you to alter your way of living
to suit them.
I went through to the bedroom and rolled up a
big, clean towel, to use after my shower at the end
of the shift. I always take a clean towel on Satur-
days, and when I come up the shaft and put on the
clean clothes for the week-end I feel a new man.
“You’ll miss the tram,” Annie called out from
the kitchen, so I came out, though I knew there was
plenty of time to walk to the corner.
Young Bill was playing about in the yard. He
was racing up and down the fence in the track the
dog had worn, and Digger was chasing after him,
barking. They were both happy, and they looked
healthy. Young Bill’s legs were a good brown with
the sun, and he had plenty of room to run and play in
the big yard. He was growing. Up here on the ’fields
he had plenty of sunshine and plenty of good food,
as well as room to stretch his legs. It was good for
him.
But Annie wanted the coast. There was nothing
on the ’fields for a woman. Brown ground and dust-
storms. No beaches, no hills. Early breakfasts one
week, lonely nights the next. Nowhere to go. She
had been glad enough to come, to regular paydays
and a house of her own again ; but for all that it
didn’t suit her. She wanted to get back where the
earth was green, where people lived steady lives. Per-
haps she didn’t want to more than I did, for all that
she thought and talked about it more, and was always
complaining about the drink.
There wasn’t a cloud outside, and though it
was early most of the chimneys in the street were
smoking. There were plenty of men crunching over
the gravel to catch the tram, and there were chaps
going off on their bikes to work. It was warm enough
now, and would be hot later on, but always the same
temperature underground and always the same gloom.
All right for those who are brought up to it, I suppose,
though many of them don’t care for it much.
Tom was coming out of his front gate, and we
fell in together. “G’day,” he said. “How’s tricks?”
“All right,” I said. “Looks like a good week-
end.”
“Good for the first match,” said Tom. “They’ll
get a big crowd to-morrow.”
Bui neither of us was much interested in the
football. We walked on without saying anything, and
the tram was still three blocks away when we reached
the corner. There were a few men at each street,
and wisps of smoke from their pipes and cigarettes
hung a long while in the still air. They all had towels,
a lot of them clean towels to dry themselves for the
week-end. There was plenty of talk. But I was
thinking about Tom and me and the way we had come
to the ’fields and the luck we had had since we
arrived.
THE tram was a big one, with two large trailers,
and it did not stop, just slowing down for us
to swing aboard. We got in the first dummy, and
the tram bowled on, making a lot of noise on the
worn, broken rails. It slowed at every corner to
take a few more men aboard, and there was talk
that broke through the clatter of wheels and steel in
disconnected bits. “.... so I says to him, ‘money up
or shut up,’ an’ he shut up, just like th’ bloody squib
he is ” “... .reckon th’ whisky’s old Dick’s trouble.
If he’d stick t’ beer like th’ rest of u 5....” “....
thought I might as well be broke as th’ way I was,
so I doubled up on Scrivener fer th’ fifth. Y’ know
what he paid. Then fer th’ last old Johnson’s boy
says....” “....I c’n shift more dirt in a day than
him, an’ I got a fiver ” “... .ain’t made over wages
since we was shifted. Y’ never saw sich ground....'”


It was man’s talk. Boasts about work, and drink
and women, things that happened here where the
talkers were. It was the talk of men who had plenty
to do and plenty to amuse them, who didnt have
to speak and think about happenings and matters a
long way off. “....she ain’t got cause to put on
airs. One night out at th’ Miner’s Arms anc *
I went out t’ th’ back an’ what d y think we
seen?....” “... .ought t’ go on th’ back line. Ought
t’ go out o’ th’ team, y’ mean. Why, it s blokes like
him ”
It had seemed good talk to Tom and me when we
first arrived from the coast. Exciting talk suited to
a busy, optimistic man’s town. But the novelty d
worn off. We just sat there thinking our own thoughts.
We came to the goldfields the cheapest way, of
course. Both of us out of work for over a year, and
both married men, too. Real mugs, as well; Tom
with nothing behind him but a gasworks job ever
since he left school, and me with eight years at the
warehouse. We started off walking and cadging lifts
and odd jobs, but we soon found the best way to
get anywhere was to take a ride without asking
on a goods. When we tumbled to that we got to
the ’fields in three easy stages.
Most of the people along the line didn’t like us.
They didn’t go much on any of the chaps who were
pushing in towards the ’fields without any kitty. There
were plenty on the way, and no doubt it seemed to
the people in the towns that they ought to have stayed
at the unemployment camps or on relief at the
coast. A nuisance, we were. We knew it, but we
didn’t worry. We got just as hungry as the people
in the houses, and we filled our bellies. It didn’t
take Tom and me long to learn how to go about it.
You can get a hand in most towns, and where you
can't there are still ways. We learned a lot.
We learned more when we got to the ’fields.
We lived a month in an old boiler behind a foundry,
and then Tom had a bit of luck, and soon he worked
me in on the Extended. There were plenty of others
as good as us who kept on living in old boilers and
rusty tanks until the cops got sick of the sight of
them, and moved them on. Not that the cops were
any harder than they had to be. But you’ve got to
eat, even when you live in a tank. Chaps used to
make things out of wire and pester people to buy
them. People got sick of it. The chaps got sick of
it, too. You get lazy—anyone gets lazy—with little
to do, and that little no damn’ good. It was just
luck Tom and I got a break. We’d get tired of tramp-
ing around the mines listening to well-fed jokers say
“No.” We’d have been shifted on soon, but Tom
found someone he knew in a staff job on the Ex-
tended. That’s the way to do it —find someone you
know! And it didn’t take him long to work me in.
Those were the best times for a long while when
we had both just found jobs. Then we brought our
wives and youngsters up. Young Bill was just a baby
then, and Annie was different. I suppose I’ve changed,
too. She was eager to come, and I was eager for her.
It’ felt good to be able to look after the pair of them
again. I was in good nick, had hardly had a drink
for months and was working hard. Annie used to
look after herself in those days, and still looked like
a young girl. She had no nice clothes, but it didn’t
need nice clothes to make her look good. But early
breakfasts and duststorms, and I suppose me drink-
ing, have changed her. We don’t have many good
times now. Not even as many as we used to have
at the coast when I was out of work and we were
broke.
“We’re set,” I told her when she arrived. “I’m
on good money, better than I got at the warehouse,
and they all say this is a good town when you get
used to it.”
But it hasn’t been too good for us. Annie never
has got used to it, and, though 1 get a lot of fun
one way and another, I doubt if it’s good for me
either. We don’t jog along too well.
With Tom it’s different. He drinks, and he and
Clara have their rows. But Clara’s different. She
gets her trouble over and done with. Doesn’t chew
on it, and make the most of it, and stretch it out
like Annie does. Perhaps that’s only how it looks
to me. Perhaps Tom could tell different. They look
all right.
Tom was quiet in his seat in the tram, and I
wondered what he was thinking about. But Tom and
I know each other well enough not to have to talk.
I looked through the window at the big, putty-
colored dumps with the poppet-legs and smoke-stacks
poking out between. A nest of them so big that it
made you dog-tired to walk around them looking for
work. Underground like a honeycomb. Places that
never see daylight. Bad places to work. And the
week-end out of them would be just like all other
week-ends on the goldfields! Roam around and
drink!
“Well, it’s only a short one,” said Tom cheer-
fully as we tramped between the dumps.
“Long enough,” said I.
“They ought to cut it out,” said Tom. “Waste
of time.”
I wasn’t interested in the job. Not that day.
I wanted to get away from it, that was all. We
were tramping along a foot-track that wound between
the dumps to the Extended change-room, and there
were plenty of men, a lot of them going in the same
direction. Since the boots had first started treading
the path they had worn it down a couple of feet in
places. I wondered what fraction of an inch mine
had taken off it in the five years, and how deep it
would be trodden before I was finished with it.
Through the gaps in the dumps you could see
workings everywhere. Big stacks and smart painted
corrugated-iron, side by side with old rusty buildings
and ancient condensers with their pipes twisted every-
where. There were mine-houses, too. Good, large,
well-built, places, where members of the staffs lived.
Nice homes but dumped right in the middle of all
the swirling dust that any wind peeled off the great
loose piles around. Most of them had high iron
fences, in-the hope of keeping a bit of it out. They
got it just the same. Underground it was just like a
honeycomb. They said that if the barriers between
leases were down you could walk over a mile from
mine to mine. And there were plenty of other places
where you’d only have to shift a few feet of earth
to get through. Forty years of work for several
thousand men, it all was. And they are still digging
j t ou t
I was in a bad mood that day. I’d 'had a bad
week, and though there hadn’t been so much said
the trouble with Annie in the morning seemed more
serious than usual. That’s how it seemed in my
mind, but I wasn’t so filled up with hatred of Annie
that I couldn’t regret the way things had gone and
wonder why it had happened. I could remember
when things were different, when we used to have
a lot of fun together. It was the mines and the
goldfields that were to blame. Perhaps it’s all right
tor those who have been brought up to it, but it’s
a rotten, unnatural life for a man, and the ’fields
are no place for a woman who has known anything
e l se
We were getting the money, but I was spending
it, too. I must say that Annie always looked after
what I gave her. What was the good of the money
when you couldn’t do any good with it? It would
be better at the coast with half the pay. I wanted
to get out of the place, but five vears were tying me
there. I didn’t know how to go about it.
IT’S hard to be gloomy in a change-room. The one
1 on the Extended is as big as a barn, with forms
around the wall and racks for clothes above them
and the hot showers next door. When Tom and I got
there it was full of familiar faces, and bodies'with
hardly any clothes on, and steam from a leaky pipe,
and noise.
As we got our pants on we roamed out into the
sunshine to wait for the whistle. Tom and I were
among the last, and at the door we ran into old Mace,
Mace was leaning against the wall taking his
breath in strangled gasps. He’d found it heavy going
uphill through the dumps from the tram. He wasn’t
white, because the best he could do through his skin
was putty color. “’Day,” he said. “Th’ boy. Left
his clo’es. On the booze. Missus sent me for ’em.”
Feeling as I was, 1
sort of jumped back from
old Mace. Like you would
from a leper. But, of
course, there was nothing
that infectious about him.
He was just the result of
thirty years underground.
A nice, cheerful sight for
a chap that can taste the
Twelve-hundred-foot Level
on his tongue every morn-
ing and can’t shake off
winter colds! With five
years underground behind
me, and feeling the way I
was, old Mace made my
stomach turn.
“Heavy goin’, heavy
goin’ up th’ dumps,” said
old Mace. “I thought it
was one o’ me good days,
too.”
Even five years back,
when I’d come to the
Extended, he’d been a big
man, the old fellow. Six
feet of him, but not just
tall; arms as thick as your
thigh ; hair all over him,
and a neck like a lump
of a tree. I’d been his
bogger when I started,
and he was the chap to
show you how to load
trucks and unload them,
too. He used to get sick
of the machine and take
a bit of exercise now and
again. Never knew there
was anything wrong with
him. When he went up
to the Health Laboratory
for the usual examination
and they gave him his
“First Ticket” he laughed
like hell.
“B i n underground
thirty years,” he said.
“Bin examined ten times
in th’ last ten years, an’
now them fellers reckon
there’s a spot on me lung!
Git out o’ th’ mines be
damned! I’ll still be
handlin’ 'the old Holman
on the Extended when
that doctor bloke’s dead
of overstuffin’ hisself.”
But it got him. Fast.
The very next examina-
tion they wiped him out
for good. No more work
on the mines! Out on a pension or a lump sum.
He blustered a bit, but he didn’t laugh. He dis-
appeared out of the Extended. His boy Dick started
bogging on the Twelve a few weeks later.
After that I didn’t see Mace often. Just some-
times I’d spot him down at the pub. Moving a bit
slower, looking a bit more sallow, dropping a pound
or two of weight. With a breath like a bad rise--
what I can taste on my tongue of a morning, only
worse. A bit short of wind.
But now he was done for. He wouldn’t see
Christmas. When they talk about a man being all
skin and bone they just mean thin. They ought to
see someone in the last stages of miner’s complaint,
Old Mace was pretty near transparent in places. You
couldn't help noticing the backs of his hands. They
still had black hair on them, but they were so
bleached underneath that you could see the white
flesh through the fur. His fingers were thin, deli-
cate, with brittle-looking nails. His eyes were bright.
Too bright. And his breath hooked up in his throat
and whistled and wheezed. When he moved about,
getting the parcel of clothes his boy had left m the
change-room, he put each foot on tne floor as if it
hurt, and he automatically held on to things. You
could smell his breath. Death in it. Something eating
him U P inside. The air he took in seeped through
decay and bad flesh betoie it got out again. We
didn’t stay to yarn to him.
“Dirty times, them early days,” said Tom. “No
ventilation worth having. No regulations and inspec-
tions. No anything but dust when Mace did his first
twenty years down below. We’re luckier. Poor old
cow! ”
Tom didn’t sound quite natural. I reckoned he
was trying to convince himself, as well as me, that
nothing like old Mace could possibly happen nowa-
days. I’d shoot myself, I thought, if it happened to
me. I thought it the way you think things, not the
way you talk them. I thought of Annie and young
Bill, and of myself like that. 1 thought more how
I’d feel than how they would but I felt bad again.
“The mines!” I said. “They’re better, but still
not so good.
Better than being out of woik, said Tom.
It was warm enough and lively outside. The
surface men had started at seven-thirty, and they
were all over the place. The men waiting to go under-
ground sat and lay about like lords and watched
them. There were some fitters up the poppet-legs
measuring around the cracker, and the sailor gang
was on the side of a mullock heap rigging gear for
a winch and scoops to shift it. There were chips
flying in the carpenter’s shop, and in the fitting shop
the compressed air was whistling between thuds as the
blacksmith’s big hammer dropped. Stackers were
throwing five-foot bush wood off a line ot trucks near
the boilers, and the winder was pulling half a mile
of cable on to the drums after dropping the first
cageful of men to the bottom. A couple of surface
laborers were rolling tins of carbide into the store.
The men waiting to go down looked funny.
Lordly, leisurely attitudes, and rags and tatters;
mostly with felt hats with the brims cut off. You
don’t need hat-brims to keep the sun out of your
eyes down below; but if you go hatless your hair
gets a lot dirtier than it has to. All wearing flannels
instead of singlets. Flannels are compulsory under-
ground. A lot with nothing on top. Some with
old dungaree coats. One or two, going down to the
bottom where the water’s bad, with oilers on, and


boils on their hands from the brackish wet. Tom
and I went across to the carbide bin and filled our
lamps.
When we got back to the shaft there was a bunch
for our level squatting together smoking, and we
went across. Lofty Tower and Sim Cherry, his mate,
and a couple of pipe-fitters who were only putting in
a few days there. Also a contracting party that was
just about through with the dirty, risky work of put-
ting up a rise, not so far from the face where Tom
and I were. Herb Sutton and Joe Webb and Don
Bell. A decent crowd.
Coming over, we could see them together in
characteristic attitudes. Lofty on the flat of his
back, with his hands behind his head, chewing his
pipe and stretching pretty near from the shaft to the
roasters. Sim prowling about, as restless as the big
chap was lazy. The rest on their heels, with their
backs against whatever was handy, and the hooks of
their lamps stuck in their pockets, except for Don,
who was standing up with his feet apart and his
thumbs in his belt. They looked good and familiar
and friendly as we walked over.
“G’day,” I sang out when I was close enough.
They said hullo, and I gravitated towards Don.
“Well,” I said, “you’ve nearly finished pullin’ the
ground out on top of you. S’pose you’ll be after
some easy stuff next time. A possie where there’s
a bit of fresh air.”
But Don didn’t say anything. He just looked
at me. And when the rest of the bunch suddenly
shut up altogether I realised that they hadn’t been
talking as loud and funny as usual. I realised I’d
said something I shouldn’t have to Don. It startled
me, and I noticed tight skin around Don’s mouth.
“I’ll git plenty fresh air, Bill,” he said. “I’ve got
me ticket.”
I ’D sent in another little punch to follow the big one
' that Don had already got. I looked at him straight,
but I couldn’t find the words to say anything that
wouldn’t make it worse.
“Yair,” said Lofty from the flat of his back.
“Right out o’ the big black holes fer Don. Th’
hardest work he’ll do in a day after this’ll be a bit
o’ street-corner bookmakin’. Surface fer good!
Lucky cow!”
Of course no one thought Lofty really reckoned
Don was lucky. They knew how they’d feel. But
the long bloke rolled it off his tongue easy, making
it light for me, and trying to kid Don it wasn’t so
serious.
“The best thing that ever happened to y’,” barked
Sim Cherry. “Tickets don’t mean nothin’. Ben
Jason went out with th’ first bunch twelve years ago.
Still drawin’ half-pay. Will fer twenty more years.”
“It ain’t like it used t’ be. Them quacks send
y’ out in time nowadays.”
“Y’ll git fat, loafin’. That’s all that’ll happen t’
you, Don.”
“Take a lump sum, boy, an’ git hold of a slice
o’ ground down in th’ hills.”
“Remember old Jack Walters? Seen him at the
coast last time I was on holidays, an’ he reckons
gettin’ his ticket was th’ best thing ever happened
t’ him.”
But they talked fast and nervous, and didn’t kid
anyone.
“It’ll be fast,” said Don. “Never got a ‘First
Ticket.’ Clean sheet last
time, an’ wiped off this
time.”
“If y’ drop yer
bundle, Don,” pleaded
Sim miserably. “Y’
know it’s droppin’ yer
bundle does th’ damage,
y’ve seen it yerself.”
The platman was
roaring for us, wanting
to know if we thought
we were at the Ritz and
he was the liftboy. The
talk stopped suddenly,
like it started, and we
went across and piled in,
half a dozen of us, chest
to chest, and shoulder to
shoulder. The cage
dropped away and went
down with a slither; air
whizzed between us and
the wet walls of the
shaft. The lights on the
plats dived up past us,
and at one or two of the
levels someone let out a
cheerful roar. It doesn’t
take long to drop twelve
hundred feet, but in the
little time it does take
you can. think more than
you can say in a week.
No one said anything.
It was the first time in
the five years that I’d
ridden down with a
cageful and not heard a
word.
Don was a chap I
liked. A man I never
knew very well out of the shaft, but one I had a feel-
ing for. He was the kind that can stop you from feeling
sorry for yourself on your bad days and make even
mines look funny. He could always crack a joke
when the ground started to talk, or even when it
stopped, which is worse. But he’d struck something
he couldn’t crack a joke about now. A short, thick
fellow, well-fleshed. Very strong, he was; and in
spite of underground he had plenty of color. It used
to be a treat to see him go cherry-red with joy over
something he’d heard or told. It was good to watch
It’s hard to be gloomy in a change-room.
him throw his Holman about when he was setting it
up, with the muscles in his big arms playing hide-
and-seek. It was horrible to think of the meat fading
away from him, his broad hands turning into trans-
parent claws like those of old Mace. Don, with
feverish, bright eyes, moving carefully, as weak as
a baby, and with the stench of death in his breath.
The idea nearly made me sick. Physically sick.
At the Twelve the cage stopped. It bounced on
the end of its rope for a moment, and we all piled
out on to the plat. There was fresh steel there, heaped
beside the water-tank. Electric light, yellow and hope-
less-looking, shining down on the truckrails and the
mouth of the ore-chute to the bin. Mining regulations
and bell signals stuck up, but ancient and dirty. Logs
and bags, where we sat at crib-time and while we
were waiting for the cage. Black mouths of tunnels
on both sides of the shaft, with air-pipes lost in the
gloom. All in solid rock, the kind you’ve got to go
down a thousand feet to find. A place to work where
they can’t have the roof half skylights, and where
they can’t do much more for ventilation than see
you get enough clean air to make it only possible,
instead of probable, that the dust will get you.
We always have a smoke on the plat before we
go in. That day, nobody wanted to. But we couldn’t
skip it, or Don would know why. We rolled our
makings, lit them and stood about waiting for some-
one to start talking about something.
“Somethin’ t’ show y’ down our way,” said
Lofty to one of the pipe-fitters. “Bad leak.”
“Them pipes was only put in a couple of weeks
ago,” said the fitter.
“Can’t help it. They leak,” said Lofty.
“Well, we’ll have a look at ’em Monday,” said
the fitter.
“What’s wrong with to-day?” asked Lofty.
“What th’ hell! ” said the fitter. “What’s it matter
to you, anyway? We’re takin’ it easy this mornin’.”
“Matter t’ me!” said Lofty. “It matters a hell
of a lot t’ me. I ain’t loafin’ fer wages like you
blokes. I’m on contract, see? Air means money t’
me, see?”
“Bull! ” said the fitter. “Them new pipes can’t
be leakin’ that bad you’re short o’ pressure at th’
drill. They’re on’y new. Don’t be dopey.”
Lofty was only kidding them along. He’d found
something to talk about. But the pipe-fitter didn’t
savvy. He started to get sore.
“We’re in hard ground,” said Lofty. “We need
all th’ air. Them pipes must’ve been fitted lousy,
anyway.”
“Lousy!” yelled the fitter. “I’ll bet th’ bloody
leak wouldn’t blow up a toy balloon. You talk about
air, y’ flamin’ flamingo! Th’ on’y place you’d ever
git enough air’d be if you was sent on top fer good.”
It wasn’t anything, really; but six pairs of eyes
flickered to Don, and the fitter suddenly swallowed
his Adam’s apple and shut up. It was no good. There
wasn’t anything to talk about.
WITHOUT saying anything, Herb Sutton set off
along the rails with a truck, and we all followed
him, bar the fitters, who went the other way. We
went off into the dark, with our lamps cutting little
holes in it, without saying anything more. I saw
Don looking up at the rock, and perhaps he was
wondering why some of it couldn’t have fallen on
him some time during the last twelve months. It
made me feel bad, the way
he looked at the stone
when we were going
through the big stope.
The big stope is a hole in
the rock so big you could
chuck three or four two-
storey hotels in it. But
in parts it’s low, and the
ground’s so bad there’s
half a forest in use hold-
ing it up. Don and his
mates turned off to reach
their job, and Tom and I
went on the few yards to
our face alone.
“Poor bloody Don!”
said Tom.
I didn’t say any-
thing.
“She’s a cow of a
game,” said Tom. “Did
you ever see anythin’ like
poor old Mace? Hor-
rible ! ”
“I remember him be-
fore,” I said.
“He dropped his
bundle,” said Tom. “No
doubt about it, Sim was
right. If they drop their
bundles they’re gone a
million. They don’t all
go that way. For some
blokes th’ ticket’s just
second-class to an easy
living.”
“For some of ’em it’s
a ticket to hell,” I said.
Tom looked oueer
and sober in the vague
light against the big rocks.
“I reckon you’re right,” he said after a while.
Then we got on with the job without saying any
more, and we worked extra-hard all that morning,
and left it as late as we could to go out to the plat.
It was a bad half-shift. I kept thinking of the
way I’d seen Don look at the stone in the big stope.
I kept thinking of him working in a rise. In a rise
you’re driving straight up. Awkward, dangerous
work. You’re on a flimsy platform, with the machine
trying to tear your wrists off, and whenever you
start a hole bits of ground flake away and fall on
you. You’ve got to keep an eye on it, and be out
from under at times when the bits weigh a couple of
tons or so. It was bad ground where Don was, and
he wouldn’t be in a careful mood. I hadn’t liked his
look. He might be worse than careless.
I got myself into a nervy state. I thought about
Don coming down fifty feet, with truck-loads of
black jagged rock on top of him. If he went out that
way he’d make a joke of it, if he had a breath left
when they dug him clear. It was only the dust he
couldn’t laugh at. Perhaps he was thinking as I was.
Perhaps it would be good if he was.
I cursed the mines, in my mind, and the silent
stone that surrounded Tom and Don and myself and
all the rest of us. A treacherous mass that blunted
steel and resisted all your efforts to overcome its
solidness. Until one day it gave a grunt and a mouth
opened in it and grinned at you, before the lot of
it came down and snuffed you out. Or it played a
waiting game. Let you tear it about with fracteur
and cart it and haul it and crush it. But left its
poison, the poison you couldn’t see, and could only
taste in your mouth in the mornings, in the still air.
I got back to Don. I didn’t know anything about
him away from the mine. I didn’t know if he was
married, who else he had besides himself. I didn’t
know much about how he thought, though I’d always
liked him. Cheery, that’s how we all thought of him.
But that was only his main characteristic, not the
whole of him. And he wasn’t cheery now. He’d
dropped his bundle. He was frightened and miser-
able. And he was putting in his last day underground
working bad dirt in a rise! I couldn’t stop imagining
things happening to Don. I worked with an ear
cocked for shouts.
Tom may have fell that way, too. We didn’t
talk about it, but he toiled furiously. Usually you
don’t go too hard on a half-shift. He looked more
serious than usual. He was thinking about it, along
some line or other, anyway.
By the time the watch said we were through our
flannels were wet. My forehead was wet, too. We
looked at each other and we each knew that the other
felt curious and afraid. We finished up, and went out
to the plat without saying anything more than a few
words. Very matter-of-fact, we were. But once we
got moving we walked fast along the drive.
Everyone was at the plat except Don and his
mates. They weren’t saying much. Just sitting
smoking. When we came out of the gloom, from the
direction from which Don would come, they were all
staring hard. They looked disappointed that it was
us. We knew how they felt and how they had been
thinking. We sat down, too, and made smokes for
ourselves.
Then Don and his mates came out, and we all
started to talk. We laughed a lot. Some of the things
we said weren’t very sensible. When they weren’t we
laughed at each other. Don looked surprised, but
after a while seemed to work out something in his
mind, and looked grateful and pretty miserable.
T' HE shower was good. The change-room was full
* of men, and all the six sprays in the shower-room
were kept busy. We had a lot of fun, the chief joke
being to turn on the hot-water tap harder, until steam
hissed through some of the holes in the sprays, and
anyone underneath jumped for safety. It was a trick
that had been worked plenty of times, but never lost
its point, in the roomful of naked men, all jumping
and sloshing about, and claiming bits of soap, and
slipping on other bits on the wet floor. I waited
until most of them had finished so I could really
enjoy it.
And I did enjoy it. I got the temperature just
right, and used plenty of soap. I lathered until I
looked like a snow man, and then washed it all off
and lathered again. The last time I got under I
turned on a bit of extra hot for luck, and it made
my skin red all over. Then I rubbed with the good
clean towel. I put on the soft clean singlet and
underpants, and they felt good, and when I had got
into the shirt and a pair of lightweight grey pants, and
had brushed my hair, I felt better than I had all day,
or all the week, for that matter. I thought about Don
a bit, but I couldn’t do without my week-end wash,
even to feel sorry for him.
Tom got impatient waiting, like he always does.
“What the hell are you up to?” he said a couple of
times. “You’ll rub yourself away.”
But he waited all the same, like the good sort he
is, and we went down to the pub together.
There were plenty of men still going down the
tracks between the dumps, all clean and spruce and
ready for the week-end. There were still a few going
up to the mines for the short afternoon shift from
twelve to four o’clock, but most of them were on the
job, and had gone down in the cages that brought us
up. We day-shift chaps were all through for the
week, and it was good. Some of us were moving
along leisurely, making the most of nothing to do,
and others were scooting away from the mines as if
they didn’t intend to miss a moment of their free
time. There were young fellows who weren’t worry-
ing about the future, or miner’s complaint, or the
price of gold, as long as they could spend the night
with some girl or other, and there were old blokes
who had given over worrying about anything. There’d
be trots and whippet racing, and pictures in the even-
ing, as well as just walking about the town, but just
at present most of us were making for one place.
The pub.
In the night time there’s enough on on Saturdays
on the ’fields, and they have the football in winter
on Sunday afternoons. But Saturday afternoon’s a
bit on the dull side. There are plenty of people in
the street, but it’s no good roosting in the gutter like
a shag on a rock. Everyone oozes in and out of the
pubs. And therd’s nothing like getting an early start
as soon as you knock off. Anyway, you need a couple
of good big ones to wash the taste of underground
out ot your mouth.


Fury and beer had equal grips on him.
There’s only one pub within walking distance of
the mines, and there’s more money in it than there
is in most of the leases. It doesn’t have a saloon
bar, because it doesn’t need one. It only has to cater
for pot-size thirsts, and at change of shift the barmen
have to move fast to manage it. When Tom and I
arrived they were sweating. There were parcels of
“blueys,” rolled in towels, all over the place, and men
five-deep at the counter. There was plenty of noise,
since no one on the ’fields seems to be able to talk
as if they weren’t yelling down a shaft. We had to
wait a while, but then we got in, and put ourselves
outside a couple in good style. A pair of twelve-
ounce pots tasted all right after the hard half-shift,
but insufficient. When we emptied the second, Tom
looked at me and I looked at him.
“I think we’ll just have another one,” said Tom.
“Just one more and then we’ll go home.”
“Only one, then,” I said. “We’ll only have one
more, so we’ll make it a sixpence in.”
“Don’t worry about the zac,” said Tom.
We were just kidding ourselves along, anyway.
I knew that if it didn’t stop at two it wouldn’t stop
at four or five or six, either. I knew a couple should
be enough, and that it would be better for us to get
off home. But if you drink a lot regularly you only
need a taste and you really want a lot. You want it
badly, in a way that makes dinner seem not worth
worrying about. The other things you were looking
forward to doing don’t seem worth worrying about
until you’ve had a few more. In a pub, drinking beer,
you don’t have any problems, and it’s about the only
time you don’t. A pub is hard to leave. Fellows who
have big beanos every now and again, and not very
much in between, don’t know what it’s like when
you get used to the steady drinking on the ’fields.
You never get very drunk and you never get very
sober when you’re not working. Your inside gets a
good lining and you don’t suffer much from after
effects. When you do, it’s easy to fix. A hair of the
dog that bit you. But you finish up having the
whole dog and a few others of the same breed. That’s
the trouble.
Anyway, the beer was good and we were thirsty.
The minutes didn’t seem so very valuable, with the
whole week-end ahead, so we started on a short
course of steady drinking, hanging on to our possies
at the bar and letting the mob push about and roar
for drinks behind us.
Sam O’Connor and Winch, who worked with
Tom and me when we were at the Six, closed in next
to me. Someone tossed down a couple of bob, and
the four of us had a round together. I was getting
enough in me to make me feel good. Enough to
make me bright and normal, not drunk. But we went
around the four of us and started to do it again, and
my belt got tight, and I started to feel warm. The
mob around the bar was thinning down, with chaps
grabbing their bundles and going off home. I wouldn’t
have minded getting away, too, but it was a long way
to travel in the tram and I was late, anyway. I
thought another one or two wouldn’t do any harm,
and that I might as well be hung for a sheep as a
lamb.
“What’re you jokers doing to-night?” asked
Winch. “Like to come to a party?”
“What sort of a party?” asked Tom.
“She’ll be a good ’un,” promised O’Connor.
“Over at Syd’s place. We got an eighteen, and plenty
o’ bottles coming over.”
“Some good sorts,” said Winch. “Y’ don’t even
have to bring that along yourself. Three from th’
show, and Millie and her cobber from the Metropole.”
“Nice work,” said Tom. “We better be in it,
Bill.”
I was thinking hard about the party and I wanted
to go, but I wasn’t game. I’ve never had anything to
do with women since Annie and I got married, and
I didn’t know what might happen if I started. I’d
bought a lot of drinks from Millie’s bar, and there’s
something about her, and they say she doesn’t talk.
She’d never looked at me as if she didn’t like me, and
Annie’d done a lot of that lately. I reckoned Millie
and I would get along fine at Winch’s party, and, if it
was easy, so much the better. You lose your en-
thusiasm for high fences when you grow up. I’d
have liked to get Millie out on her own better than
at a party, but I’d never do that. I was frightened
of the party, too, and what might happen to me and
Annie and young Bill if I went. It almost sobered
me up, wanting to go to the party and being so
frightened of it. “Aw, beer and women don’t go
well together,” I said. “I like ’em one at a time.”
“One all th’ time,” said Winch.
That didn’t come well from him, standing there,
like he does, with his hat pulled over his eyes and
his shirt and pants fitting on his lean body easily,
without any bulges, like they always do. It’s one
most of the time with him, too. Only the other one.
I might be frightened of it and he might know, but
I felt contempt for his sort. Perhaps I felt a bit
jealous, too, but I couldn’t think of anything to say,
and I wasn’t going to stand it from him, so I took
a crack at his face.
All I did was hit the air, he got out of the way
so quickly. 1 went after him, but Tom got my arms.
Tom didn’t know what it was all about. He hadn’t
worked it out yet, and couldn’t see any insult. Winch
was back against the wall with an empty pot in each
hand. “Let me go, Tom,” I said.
“Let him go,” said Winch, waving his hands,
“and I’ll put one of these pots through his fat head.”
But Tom wouldn’t let go. The barman came
over and hung on, too, though why they picked me
instead of Winch I don’t know. The chaps in the bar
were all yelling out advice, and they all reckoned
that if Winch was a man he’d put the pots down
and have a fair go. O’Connor was looking sick and
sorry for himself, and ashamed to have been with
Winch. But Winch said he’d put the pots down on
the nose of anyone who tried to take them away from
him. Then, when things got calmer, he threw them
both on the floor and walked out, and after a while
Tom and the barman let me go.
They didn’t know what started the argument, but
they all reckoned I was right. I hadn’t picked up
any pots to start fighting with. We had a couple
more drinks, but they didn’t taste good. I was glad
they hadn’t let me get at Winch. You can’t settle
that sort of argument by punching people on the nose.
And Winch was right that I was frightened of women,
and that I drank too much. I dare say he was right
to grab something hard and heavy to keep off a bigger
chap like me, though the mob wouldn’t think so.
Only I still felt contempt for him. And for myself,
too.
I FELT sorry for myself all the way home in the
1 tram. Tom had a hunch that his luck was in, and
went off to the two-up school, but I didn’t want to
go along. 1 don’t gamble much. There must be
something in what Winch said about it being one
thing all the time for me: beer. I was a bit drunk,
then, going home in the tram. Not doing or saying
anything silly or feeling out of control, but just sweat-
ing with a tight belt and a little bit fuzzy and very
sorry for myself.
It was no good, I thought. I should have said yes
when Winch first suggested the party and there would
have been no trouble, and I’d most likely have got to
know Millie properly and had a good time. What
might have happened wouldn’t matter. Perhaps it
would be better for Annie and me if there was some-
thing like that to make a quick break of it. We were
just wearing each other out. I was a bloody fool,
drinking and thinking too much. It would have been
better if I’d gone to the two-up with Tom. I didn’t
want to go home. It was after two o’clock and every-
one else had gone off somewhere. There was nowhere
else to go but home. It wasn’t like going home down
at the coast of a Saturday afternoon to stretch out
and rest and read on the lawn, or go on the river.
There was nothing to do here. The week-end I’d
been looking forward to had started and I knew I
was just going home to loaf about until I got thirsty
again and then go out. There was no fun in it. There
was no fun in anything.
The only thing to do would be to have it out
with Annie. Like I’d had it out with Winch (and
with just about as much satisfaction, I thought). What
was wrong with me was that I didn’t have any guts.
Big size and a bad temper, that was all I had. If I’d
had any guts I wouldn’t have quarrelled with Winch.
I’d have gone to his party and had a hell of a good
time, and if Annie had ever found out I’d have told
her to wipe the sour look off her face if she wanted
me to stay home with her. She’d perhaps have
respected me more than she did a drunk. If she split
with me, who’d care?
Then I thought about the young chap—young
Bill —and my ideas changed. You couldn’t do any-
thing wrong to a kid like young Bill, I decided, and
however low I got I couldn’t help remembering that.
I could never have gone to Winch’s party with young
Bill home. I pretty nearly persuaded myself that it
was because I’d thought of young Bill that I’d turned
it down, not because I was frightened of it. I was
drunker than I thought, and I sat on my own, never
even noticing who got on and off when the tram
stopped, and just feeling sorry for myself, until it
reached my street. Then I went along to the house
and I was ready for trouble, because I thought I wasn’t
being treated properly.
The dinner was ready and hot, as it always is,
and Annie put it out on a clean cloth. It was a good
roast, with vegetable and gravy, and I could tell how
good it must be, though I couldn’t taste the best of its
flavor through all the beer I’d had. Annie didn’t say
a word. She’d had her dinner and she just moved
about, serving up mine, like a restaurant waitress. I
didn’t say anything, either, for a long while, but I
got wild eating and considering how she treated me.
That sort of a greeting was different to the one I’d
have had from the girls at Winch’s party, 1 thought.
I was glad that young Bill had finished his dinner and
was out in the yard somewhere, playing.
“Spuds are hard,” I said, after a while.
“They won’t stay soft if they have to be kept,”
said Annie.
I knew that, of course. I knew it was my own
fault, but I was in the mood to look for trouble.
(Continued on page 64.)


HUNTINE EHYMES
We are ever chasing, brother, some evasive thing or other ,
Though it's oftentimes impossible to snare,
Like the pots of gold for spending at the rainbow's distant ending
Or the legendary castles in the air.
We shall never cease pursuing something that we're vaguely viewing
As a gateway to more easy, breezy times,
And of all the long stern chases that try out a fellow's paces,
Nothing that I know displaces
Hunting rhymes.
Some, adept at public speaking, keep industriously seeking
For the prizes Won by service to the State;
Others find a lure more whirling and adventurous in pearling,
Or assiduously chase the nimble 'weight.
Some rely on picking winners for their tiddleys and their dinners,
Or by “laying dead 'uns" gather in the dimes;
Harder Work than picking horses (fast or stiff) upon the courses
Is the calling which enforces
Hunting rhymes.
Some go fruitlessly careering after objects disappearing,
Will o' wisps that cut inexplicably loose;
Others—in the graphic diction of a venerable fiction —
Vainly chase the undomesticated goose.
Some our deserts vast go girdling, or the seas where Waves are curdling,
Or engage in Polar sprints or mountain climbs.
Wheresoe'er a lawless mob is there are chases Waiting bobbies
And my less exciting job is
Chasing rhymes.
Hunting words! The same old story! Visions of dog's-eared thesauri
And the Cradus ad Parnassum rise to stir,
Certified by school tradition matchless aids to composition
Of the elegiac or hexame-ter.
Once again I'm lost in Wonder over Homer's surge and thunder,
And I glimpse young bards 'neath Old-World elms and limes
Muses passionately wooing, phrases rich and apt pursuing,
Even doing as I'm doing,
Chasing rhymes.
Oh, We're all in some sort hunters, from the bookies and the punters
To the chaps who chase the 'roo o'er plain and range;
From the Zanes who've time and money for the tugs o' war with tunny
To the bulls and bears upon the Stock Exchange.
But I cannot help persuasions upon numerous occasions,
What a penalty 'twould be for all his crimes
If a jingler on a journal were condemned in realms infernal
To continue his eternal
Hunt for rhymes.
Should you see a Worn and Worried pressman with a furrowed forehead
And some other indications of distress,
One who's obviously giving all his energies to sieving
His grey matter for a living, more or less,
Don't assume he's penning leaders that will thrill a thousand readers
With the rare sensation of carillon chimes;
It's a likelier explanation he's a bard of humble station
At his usual occupation,
Hunting rhymes.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


By a Housing Student
CAVES
BY
LES
ROBINSON
ILLUSTRATED
BY ARIA.
I LEARNT to smoke in a cave. We boys knew of
one in a near-by gully where we were well out
of sight and safe from interruption. There we
experimented, not only with mild and almost
strawlike tobacco, but with substitutes such as the
friable, mosslike cores of old bottle-brush cones and
“plug tobacco” made of dock leaves, tightly rolled
and bound with string. We also smoked sticks of
cinnamon, cigarettes or cigarillos made of brown
paper, and the thin spirals of bark that dangle from
and litter the ground under gum-trees.
We puffed furtively and with a guilty feeling at
our corncob, clay and diminutive sixpenny pipes,
knowing as we did that we were disobeying a parental
edict and would get a thrashing if we were caught.
In that cave, too, all kinds of plots were hatched,
devilry and games planned. As well as our pipes
we secreted there catapults, the penny dreadfuls we
weren’t supposed to read, snares for birds and things
we had found, all of which were classed as rubbish
in the home circle, and, if left lying around in it,
would have mysteriously disappeared.
Thus was born in me, perhaps —unless, of course,
it could be traced to troglodyte ancestry—an incurable
penchant for caves. Though I cannot claim to have
experienced as yet lengthy residence in any of them,
I have used caves for dwelling purposes often since
those far-off days, and it is not at all unlikely that I
shall end by living permanently in one. Nor will it
surprise my friends, relatives or enemies either, let
me tell you, if I do. Some of them, in fact, go so
far as to optimistically predict that a cave exactly
suited to my requirements has already been specially
fashioned by Nature somewhere and is only waiting
for me to find and occupy it. The only way I could
possibly surprise them would be to end up in a
house or villa replete with all modern cons. But
my endeavors to win sweeps and lotteries have so
far been a failure, and, though I put two shillings
on a horse occasionally, my income is not augmented
by that or, indeed, any other way sufficiently to raise
my domiciliary hopes above ground or cave level.
It may therefore be surmised, without fear of con-
tradiction or a protest being lodged, that my career
is trending, with great velocity, cavewards rather than
towards marble halls, brick, fibro-cement, weather-
board or even galvanised-iron ones. But that there
is a cave anywhere exactly suited, from a residential
standpoint, to my requirements, I take leave, having
examined a good many, to doubt.
1 KNOW where all the habitable caves, or those that
* might conceivably be made so, are for miles round.
In case, because of non-payment (so often inevitable)
of rent, or some such accident as it collapsing upon
me, being burnt down, struck by lightning, washed
away in a tidal wave, or inextricably overwhelmed
by flood waters, I should suddenly find myself with-
out a home, I have made it my business to find out.
Being most methodical, I have them all indexed, too,
as, for instance:
North, 30deg. west, from front window, distant
1 \ miles. Small cave. Little more than a tunnel.
Advantages (if any) imperceptible. Disadvantages:
Entrance through waterfall, except in hot and dry
weather. Would require umbrella and oilskin, at other
times, for going in and out, also something to deaden
rheumatic twinges. Drips would not miss bunk.
North, 55 deg. east, from verandah, distant two miles.
Large cave. Advantages (if any) imperceptible. Disad-
vantages: Inspector of Nuisances living nearby. Would
pass daily close enough to look in on way to and from
work. Drips would not miss bunk.
South, 260 deg. west, from kitchen window, distant
three miles. Fair-sized cave. Advantages (if any): Un-
obstructed view of Pacific Ocean. Disadvantages: Sheer
drop into same from slippery rock at entrance. Only
means of access narrow goat-track. No wood obtain-
able anywhere near. Seepage only and brackish available
for drinking. Drips would not miss bunk.
South, 60deg. east, from back gate, distant four
miles. Best cave in district. Advantages (if any):
Drips would miss bunk. Disadvantages: Interior can be
seen through telescope from president of district advance-
ment league’s verandah. Frequented by local poets,
two-up players, reformers, Boy Scouts and others in
search of seclusion.
But not one of them is ideal from a residential
standpoint. Most, indeed, as indicated in the index,
have some positively infuriating defect that
would be expensive to remove or minimise,
even supposing the Government, council or
private owner of the land upon which the
cavern js situated would allow the work to be
carried out and you, as intending occupant,
had the materials, tools, aptitude, time and
energy or the
capital needed
in lieu of them
to set about it.
Take the
cost alone of
mosquito-proof-
ing, of exclud-
in g draughts,
the early morn-
ing sun, quarry-
men, geologists,
dogs, hoodlums, millipedes, cen-
tipedes, hornets, snakes, lizards,
frogs, cockroaches, triantelopes,
rats, mice, bats, rabbits, bandi-
coots, wallabies, possums and other fauna, for never
yet have I known a cave, no matter how unoccupied
it was or seemed to be before you moved in, that
remained so for very long afterwards.
Who on a cave-dwelling income could afford such
improvements?
'"■THERE never seem in any cave I have yet encoun-,
* tered to be four level places just where wanted
for the tins containing kerosene in which y ou stand
the legs of the bunk, meatsafe and larder. There
doesn’t ever seem to be room either for your bunk,
bookshelf, lamp-bracket, chest of drawers, washstand,
dressing-table, gramophone, clock, egg-boiler, boot-
and hat-rack, barometer, cooking utensils, stove,
butter-cooler, pot plants, hip-bath and you, as well, at
the same time. Another remarkable thing about
caves is how drips, instead of falling straight off the
outer edges where they won’t be a nuisance, nearly
all slide inside and wait before relinquishing their
hold on ceilings until they are exactly over the spots
where occupants are trying to light fires, have spread
bedding or stowed food, clothes, matches, tobacco,
firewood and anything else they are trying to keep
dry.
More than ordinarily annoying, too, is a cave
that, though you weren’t aware of the disadvantages,
possibly because, when you decided to occupy it, the
sea was calm and the tide a long way out, you dis-
cover later, when darkness and the ruggedness of
your surroundings foil all attempts at finding another,
is somewhat too oceanic. Nothing takes the gilt off
any gingerbread you may happen to have with you
faster or more effectually than spray from breaking
waves that sound so close you expect them momen-
tarily to leap upon and souse you, or to be awakened
instead by a meandering rivulet propelled just suffi-
ciently to reach and slide beneath the blankets. To
tell you the truth, I dislike more than any other kind
those damp seaside caves, shared, as they quite often
are, with molluscs, water-rats, huge mosquitoes and
crabs. You cannot, when you have extinguished the
light, if at all imaginative, escape the feeling either,
especially on hot, still nights, that some slithy and
amphibious creature of a kind unknown to you may
emerge from some hidden recess or climb in out of
the sea and roam about in search of prey.
"THE cave that came nearer to the ideal one than
* any other I have seen was occupied by a stone-
mason. Shallow and in many respects unsatisfactory
originally, he had enlarged it, walled it in where
necessary to eliminate draughts, built a chimney that
didn’t smoke, removed inequalities from the floor,
lowered same where roof obtruded and cut cup-
boards, safes, tanks, bookshelves, seats, etc., out of
the solid rock. A flight of stone steps cut in the cliff
face led to a perfectly-fitting door that could be
padlocked against intruders, and there was sufficient
thickness of rock to enable him if he felt disposed
to keep on enlarging his domicile for years.
How it would have suited me in thunderstorms!
All intending cavedwellers should take lessons
in stone-cutting.
It is very, very aggravating, though, plunging
you as it does into that worst of quandaries where
to go and what to do next when you have found a
cave with fewer disadvantages than most and have
settled down to lengthy residence therein, to receive,
as I did once, a blue and curt communique in an
O.H.M.S. envelope commencing: “Dear Sir, — Re your
unauthorised occupancy of Crown lands,” followed
not long afterwards by a ranger on horseback to see
whether the notice to quit had been, or seemed likely
to be, obeyed.
The Silver Tree .
I sought in the deep pools of time
An image of that inward peace
That my rough days had cast in rhyme,
And though my form was twisted, scarred,
I found a silver tree, Narcissus,
To be my sign when days are hard.
My tree, like willow boughs unrolled
In meteors of streaming green
To rend the skies of blue or gold,
. Sees calm within the pool she grieves,
In imaged smoothness gleaming there,
The constellation of her leaves,
And knows that, though to outward sight
She rushes like a waterfall
Of wild green foam and yellow light,
The pool ignores her headlong flight,
And shows her fabled weeping as
Green tears of pure delight.
Like that calm shade, my silver tree,
Whose outward shape is gaunt and swift,
In pools of time lies cool and free,
A silence in my hate’s wild riot,
And in the blackest fury of love
A silver core of passionate quiet.
MAORILAND.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Coleoptera”: The American lady
tennis-players on their recent trip to
Brisbane noticed the mosquitoes which the
health authorities claim to have stamped
out. years ago. Miss Bundy, making a
vicious swipe at the pests, is reported as
remarking “Durn these little flies.”
Either the newspaperman didn’t catch
her aright or our American cousins have
altered their speech for the better in
recent years. I was once talking in a
Sydney drawing-room with a hostess of
considerable social tonnage when a visit -
ing Yankee naval officer was ushered in.
Polite conversation immediately centred
in the new arrival ; but it was
brought to a sudden and painful halt
when the American chattily observed:
“Powerful lot of bugs about to-day, Mrs.
So-and-So.” It might be mentioned that
anything that flies, save a bird, is a bug
to a Yank, or was in the days of which
I write.
* * * *
“Dee Why”: When Governor Mat-
thew Nathan ruled in Queensland he
helped organise a committee to index
and explain the origin of all State place-
names. The work eased up after his
departure, but is now being taken up
again. Pioneers who can explain the
titles given to certain towns or locali-
ties are fast passing on, taking a mass
of interesting unwritten historical infor-
mation with them. It is time other States
devoted a little attention to the same
study. The origin of many names
—Terry Hi Hi (N.S.W.), for instance —
will need a lot of explaining 100 years
hence. a
“El Verdugo”: When my favorite
evening journal devoted half a column
to an account of the death of the em-
balmer of Lenin, a Mr. Vorobiev, I was
inclined to think that it was overindulging
its conviction that Australians are fever-
ishly interested in the doings of Moscow.
A quotation from the Russian Govern-
ment organ “Pravda,” which it repro-
duced, however, alone made its obituary
worth while:
In this heavy loss we are consoled by
the conviction that Professor V’s pupils
will carry on the work he has begun.
Judging by the lengths of firing-squad
lists, it certainly does look as if there is
scope in Russia for young talent in the
embalming profession, though if mar-
shals, ministers and ambassadors con-
tinue to be popped off at the present rate
the supply of raw material may become
restricted.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The twilight that falls
inevitably on great dynasties was never
better exemplified than in the case of
the Brookes, the white rajahs of Sara-
wak. The first rajah was a retired
Indian Army officer who
made himself the ruler of a
country as big as England
and had to struggle against
head-hunting Dyaks, slave-
running Malay sultans and
British Government officials.
His successor brought his
work to fulfilment, and
Vyner Brooke, the last rajah,
found the State run by cap-
able civil servants. His de-
scendants have had nothing
to do but struggle for
position in London society,
and the Sarawak civil list
gives them plenty of money with which
to do it. One English princess of the
Bornean house slapped her royal parents
in the face by espousing Mohammedan-
ism, and to make it more significant per-
formed the deed while flying in an aero-
plane over Paris. Another made a hit
by marrying the leader of a jazz band
in a London cafe. Now a third,
Valerie Brooke, the Princess Baba, has
married a wrestler.
% 'Jr- $
“Gamma”: With topees, open-necked
shirts and shorts, the R.A.A.F. is intro-
ducing a uniform more in keeping with
summer conditions. It is an idea which
would be welcome in other Government
services. Shirt-sleeved arms of the law
and of the post would relish the change
from tight-buttoned contraptions, and
clerks would find relief, too. Perhaps
authorities are handicapped by the
female of the species who demands
equality with men, and would want to
cast aside if at all possible part of her
summer attire.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: To-day I offered congratu-
lations to Jones on his first son. Three
daughters, from 14 down, took some kick
out of the occasion. Jones is 44, returned
soldier, hard-working solicitor. “Poor
little devil,” he said. “His luck’s out,
being born now. I don’t mean cannon-
fodder. Peace is worse. We three million
“You sunbake much more mine tinkit your next piccaninny be all same
my color!”
Australian breadwinners have to cough up
105 million pounds yearly in Government
taxes, with rates, dog-tax, ear-tax and
u i%*i aa \ ■ Jitirsn i rinn’t
such little oddments in addition. 1 don
mind paying them for him and his
mother and sisters and my share ot
what relief workers and loafers and pen-
sioners don’t have to pay. But when he
gets to the taxable age there will be
half a million fewer breadwinners and
half a million more pensioners and
many millions more taxes, even if there’s
no war meanwhile. Another spot?
That’s a bit more for Canberra.”
“Nip over an ask th' cocky fr a sprig o’ mint”
“241”: Some doubt about the “Kath-
leen Mavourneens” seems to have arisen
in N.S.W. There are now 90 habituals
at Parramatta. The system actually is as
old as the ticket-of-leave, with the issue
of tickets much earlier. Sometimes the
offender doesn’t even serve the sentence
for the crime that has brought him be-
fore the Court, but is released at once
on license. Any further offence, then,
means that he goes in on the “it-may-be-
for-years-or-it-may-be-for-ever” basis;
subsequent release may be given on the
recommendations of the chaplains, gaol
governor and medical superintendent,
Naturally, when the man they have guar-
anteed comes back again they are more
chary about issuing a fresh certificate,
and the boarder becomes really perma-
nen *-
„* _ , *, . »
Silver City : Parramatta s ambition
to be promoted to city status when
Sydney celebrates its 150th birthday
should be easily gratified. But it is a
barren honor once the recipient gets used
to the sound of it. The term city usea
only to be applied where towns became
possessed of cathedrals connected with a
bishop s see. To-day it is within the
province of any Australian State Gov-
ernment so do dub a town. Queensland
has no fewer than 12 cities, ranging from
Rockhampton, in the 30,000 class as re-
gards population, down to Warwick,
which runs to only some 8000 inhabi-
t a nts.
* * * *
“Avian”: The new Douglas DC3 for
the Sydney-Brisbane run is fitted with a
“de-icer.” It’s not in winter only that
ice is met; it has formed on wings and
struts of ’planes over Sydney in De-
cember. An overload of ice on her
wings brought down the big Imperial
Airways’ flying boat Capricornicus last
March and is the suspected cause of
several bad smashes in the U.S.A.
* * * *
“Pons”: Boys between seven and
seventy are finding interest in the model
loco, on view at Wynyard station, Syd-
ney. She is an “eighth-scale” model,
built by the apprentices at the Railway
Institute workshops, eight and a half
feet long and weighing 9cwt., an exact
copy of the “C 36” engines (there are 75
of them in the service), which can make
an average of 35 m.p.h. over the tough
Blue Mountain grades. A buyer would
have little change left out of £5OO.
.1= '* * *
“Timothy”: An amusing argument is
going on in the outer suburbs of Adel-
aide. The Government ordered down
many advertising boards which were
said, especially on the Hills roads, to
obscure the landscape. These being
largely concerned with Penfold’s wines,
Penfold Hyland put up (inside the ad-
vertising radius allowed) some Biblical
texts. Texts have been allowed else-
usua ly about the Wages of Sin
but Hylands were Ifrom the Ep.stle to
Timothy, pressing the virtue of wine tor
health /vLn the Government ruled
nst a|| t and , he Penfold board s
nQW display merely the Australian flag
and tbe word “Liberty! ”
* * * . * .
“Triplane”: Other Australian airmen
still on deck who were flying during Mol-
lison’s time (B. 10/11/ ’37) are Ronnie
Adair, Hudson Fysh and Jerry Pentland.
Pentland, whose tally of Fritz Pl an es
shot down was second only to Cobby s
(also still going strong), is now flying
instructor with the Queensland Aero
Club.
* * * *
“D.A.”: “The greatest leader since
Lincoln, despite his crooked political
enemies,” is how a recently-returned
Sydney newspaperman describes U.S.A.’s
President Roosevelt. I wonder. Just
as jimmy Scullin (he gets credit for
the emergency tariff) and Joe Lyons
happened to be in power here when
rad ical changes had to be made in the
order of affairs to save us from the
dutches of depresh., so Roosevelt hap-
pens to be t he “big-shot” during
America’s trouble. Things have had to
b e done in a large way, but Roosevelt’s
wa y c f doing them doesn’t cause optim-
ism to bubble in this corner of the Paci-
tic. Hoover, who spent some years in
Australia, just before his eclipse said:
« Y ou catft squan der your way back to
p roS p er ity.” Roosevelt has failed to
ma j ce a |j ar out G f Hoover, and in failing
he has earned the hostility of many em-
pioyers an( j conservative papers. Another
£inco ln? Here’s tipping (hat U.S.A. citi-
z wiU one fine £ on to Roose .
vdt as heavily as N y s> wfiesers dropped
„ . T • '
on 1o Lan ® m 19321
" . * . * *
“Centurion’ : Old friends find it hard
1° recognise the British Army nowadays,
Following on the mechanisation of the
whole of the cavalry save the Guards
regiments and the First Royals and
Greys, the linked-battalion system is to
go. Evolved when Indian service in the
face of a possible Russian threat was the
chief concern of the War Office, the
old numbered infantry regiments were
converted into twin battalions, the regi-
ments being known by territorial titles.
The idea was that one battalion should
always be at home to supply its twin
abroad with fresh drafts. The changes
almost provoked a mutiny. Regiments
whose story was practically Britain’s
military history raged at being hitched
up with others with a long base-wallah
record. Interesting to see how the change
works and how battalions will now like
relinquishing the county titles they once
despised.
* * * *
“James W.”: Other Synodal disputes
(B. 27/10/’37) wax with equal enthusi-
asm but far less bitterness. At one such
in Brisbane an earnest and elderly vicar
deplored an alleged tendency among the
clergy to neglect children in the slum
areas. Sundry remarks about pots call-
ing kettles black, and others about eyes,
motes and beams, brought the old boy
to his feet. “I feel myself personally
responsible,” he roared, “for every ille-
gitimate child born within the boundaries
of my parish!” The chairman nearly
shattered his gavel restoring order.
THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS.
“Red Rose. Please repay money c/o Bondi P.O.
Need it. White Rose.” — “S.M. Herald’’ agony advt.
“The red rose whispers of passion,
And the white rose breathes of love;
O the red rose is a falcon,
And the white rose is a dove.”
A pleasant poetic fancy,
And that was the way, you know,
John Boyle O’Reilly phrased it;
But it isn’t always so.
No passion this red rose whispers,
It’s dumb, remote and aloof;
And the white rose breathes no love-tale,
All that it wants is oof.
No coquetry marks the message,
No hint at amorous hours
Conveyed by that subtle method,
The lingua Franca of flowers.
And I cannot help surmising,
Though I may be quite mistook,
That the white rose is a pigeon,
And the red rose is a rook.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Protest”: The ceremony of dipping
the front wheel of Opperman’s cycle in
the ocean at the end of his recent record
ride smells of a Yankee origin. A flood
of cheap American literature of the “I
saw Vanzetti die” type, assisted by thou-
sands of feet of Hollywood screen sob-
stuff, accounts for a subtle change,
yearly becoming more noticeable, which
is threatening to thrust upon Australia
habits foreign to the breed. It is but one
short step to the day when “Tubby”
Stevens, welcoming “Joe” Lyons at Cen-
tral station, will greet him with an
embrace and a peck on each cheek,
while Billjim looks on approvingly. May
the day be a thousand years and more in
coming!
“Daljean”: That
“lost” violin con-
certo of Schumann
(B. 17/11/ ’37) was
a poor advertisement
for the intelligence
of the “spirits.”
Elisabeth Joachim,
the last surviving
daughter of Joseph
Joachim, points out
that there was no
mystery in the
matter at all. The
manuscript, which
had been in her
father’s possession
for about 50 years,
was given after his
death by his heirs
(“half a dozen of
us”) to the Prussian
State Library in Ber-
lin. This fact was
well known to many
people besides the
Joachim heirs, in-
cluding Schumann’s
daughters. More-
over, some years ago
one movement of
the concerto was
played at Zwickau,
Schumann’s birth-
place, “which again
gave a certain
amount of publicity
to the fact that the
concerto existed.”
Miss Joachim
added: “Strange that
the spirits should
have to take such a
roundabout way to
reveal what was not concealed.”
* * * *
“Trans.”: “Air-conditioning has made
it possible to sleep under blankets in the
Red Sea and through the tropics” is the
statement attributed recently to the
Orient S.N. Co.’s chairman. It is truly
astonishing. I first passed through that
heat-sink at the end of the northern
winter, before the real heat was sup-
posed to start. Three engine-room ratings
had on that occasion to be kept alive in
a special hospital rigged on the after
bridge. On another trip in a liner 10
women flopped to the deck in a faint in
as many minutes, though mob hysteria
might have had something to do with
that. Once, too, we gave sea burial to
an elderly Scottish lady from the
Hebrides. She was found to be wearing
all the clothing suitable to the frigid
north.
* * * *
“J 2”: Among the floats for the N. S.
Wales 150th celebration procession will
be one depicting the discovery of coal
—presumably Bass’s show of 1797, when
he discovered Coalcliff. How would it
be to step up a bit and show the work-
ing of the first mines in King’s Town,
as Newcastle was first named? A float
representing one of Macquarie’s visits
would be colorful. He had a fine barge,
rowed from his vessel with a picked crew,
and a band playing beside him to give
the stroke. Or we might have him giving
the once-over to the “exiles” on the
breakwater, ordering them to spell-oh
while he “shouted” them a glass of grog.
Or after tea, when aborigines made cor-
roboree for him. There was another
picturesque character at the time of the
opening of the mines. He, too, had a
barge, and rowed about the harbor and
the Hunter River with a triangle rigged
for’ard and a stout party with a cat-o’-
nine-tails doing his job with alacrity and
good will. Alongside those tableaux
Bass’s divertissement would not be nearly
so illuminating.
* * * *
“Den” i The engagement of the 'Mar-
quis of Clydesdale, the noted airman and
amateur boxer, and Lady Elizabeth
Percy, sister of the Duke of Northum-
berland, has been referred to by gossip-
writers as the union of houses that for
centuries were at feud, the Marquis’s
father, the Duke of Hamilton, being the
heir male of the ancient house of Douglas
—the Percys’ hereditary foe. Actually
the ducal house of Northumberland can
boast little of the old Percy blood. The
family assumed the name by Act of Par-
liament in 1750, having previously been
the more homely Smithsons. The last
true Percy, a Lady Elizabeth, married
the sixth Duke of Somerset in 1682. In
1740 his son’s heiress, also Elizabeth, be-
came the wife of Sir Hugh Smithson,
Bart., who some years later was created
first Duke of Northumberland.
# * * *
“Sailor Once”: Trincomalee (the old
naval spelling of Trincomali), once
“ That's LOVERLY, Bert. Now a little to the left."
Britain’s naval depot in East Indian
waters, promises to regain some of its
aforetime strategic importance. In the
’nineties the harbor, about two-thirds the
way up Ceylon’s eastern coastline, was
the R.N.’s only “clearing-house and
repair-shop” of size between Malta and
Hong Kong. It was a sort of Garden
Island on a larger scale for H.M. ships
in the Indian Ocean, and British troops
were quartered in the town. Its import-
ance declined when the East Indian (and
China) squadron was depleted as condi-
tions elsewhere became more menacing
and Japan was Britain’s ally. Now Trin-
comalee is again to have its place in the
naval sun, this time as a likely supple-
mentary base to Singapore.
* * * *
“Schnorrer”: Cabled that the Balfour
Forest in Palestine has been damaged by
Arabs. Jews the world over have in
recent years been collecting for a fund
to plant trees in Palestine, and one of
the accepted recognitions of a child’s
birthday is the dedication of a tree or
group of trees. The Monash Forest is
a distinctly Australian contribution to a
policy of tree-growing which is rapidly
binding the soil and restoring the old
fertile conditions. That is at least one
argument favoring the Jewish occupa-
tion. The Arabs merely made the coun-
try a desert by destroying the trees with-
out replacement; the Jews already have
made it a place of increasing fertility
and established all sorts of industries.
Among other things, Palestine sends
oranges all over Europe.
“Fisher”: If “Fong Tsz” (B.
17/11/’37) refers to Republican Rome,
his estimate of its population as 400,000
or so is probably accurate enough, but
Imperial Rome far exceeded this census,
Exact as was the imperial accounting for
taxable heads, no computation of the
slave population has survived, since they
were as unimportant to the Roman Ad-
ministration as cats are with us. But,
working on such bases as residential
areas, known densities of suburban popu-
lation, capacity of water-reticulation sys-
tern and citizen rolls, it is generally
agreed that the population of Rome
touched the million mark at its peak,
w'hich gives us a city slightly under the
present population of Sydney, cramped
up into an area equal only to a large
suburb owing to ancient notions of
defence. Flats, slums and residential
were more crowded in those times, while
the average population of a rich home
was swollen by an abnormal number of
servants.
* * * *
“Tuart”: In former days the worst
newspaper prophets used to be employed
in the horseracing department. Nowa-
days they are engaged in dishing up
foreign “news.” Since the League began
to reveal itself as the chattering nuisance
it is, these worthies have obliged us with
prophecies of triumphs for the Abys-
sinians, the Red Spaniards and the
Chinese. One genius mobilised 750,000
Abyssinian fighting men, exclusive of the
brigade of Amazons whom the press photo-
graphers collected from the Addis Ababa
joy-joints ; and some of his colleagues
“learned from a thoroughly reliable
source” that the war would last five
years and end for certain in another
Adowa. Equally positive were the pro-
phets of doom for “Franco’s mercen-
aries,” especially after the Madrid Gov-
ernment stole the Ils ne passeront pas of
the heroes of Verdun and applied it to
their own defence of a mildly beleaguered
city in which cinema shows have been
running all the time, and after the Red
International Brigade had been meta-
morphosed into “the greatest fighting
force the world has ever seen.” And
only four or five weeks ago press
experts had the Japanese baffled and
reduced to extremity by the armies of
General and Madame Chiang Kai-shek.
The Communist Eighth Route Army had
“cut off from their base 50,000
Japanese, striking north of Taiyuan”;
round Shanghai a Doomed Battalion held
up the invaders and Suicide Snipers fired
into masses t>f Japs until their bolts were
red-hot. And so it went on until it had
to be admitted all of a sudden that the
warriors to whom the newspaper seers
had awarded the victory in advance had
lost Shansi and Shanghai and “proposed
to establish a new administrative centre
1350 miles up the Yangtse.” If I ever
start a war I’ll arrange to get the
war correspondents to announce “on un-
impeachable authority” that the enemy
will sew me up in about 48 hours. Then
I’ll know I shall win.
Jj: * afc %
“C.Q.”: Mention of Melbourne
methods of opium smuggling (B.
13/10/’37) recalls an old dodge used for
a long time in Sydney by a veteran Asian
packet. After the mailbags had been
sent ashore the fourth officer would sud-
denly rush on deck with an expression
of horror on his face and shout to the
Customs men that one of the bags had
been forgotten. Then he would dive
below, and emerge presently, followed by
a sailor bearing the missing mailbag,
They would hurry ashore, rush past the
sympathetic excisemen, hail a cab and
go off towards the G.P.O. at a hand-
gallop. The equipage, of course, never
reached the post office. It worked splen-
didly until it was repeated once too
often.
* * * *
“Exdig”: The British Royal Commis-
sion on Awards for War Inventions has
just published its final report; altogether
1834 applications were received and
rewards totalling a million and a half
paid. The largest award wasn’t men-
tioned. Dr. Chain Weizmann, placed
in charge of the chemistry branch
of the Ministry for Munitions, did such
work that Balfour asked him to name
his own reward. He asked nothing for
himself, but Palestine for the Jews ; and
the Balfour Declaration was the result,
Lieutenant Paravane got £25,000 for an
invention which probably saved Britain
from starvation. The “paravane” was a
sort of torpedo so constructed that, har-
nessed with ropes from the bows of
vessels, one on each side, it struck out-
ward, pushing away mines caught on the
rope. They could then be exploded by
rifle fire.
“Centurion”: No
doubt about Colonel
French’s “colonial-
in i n d e d n e s s”
(B. 10 /11/’37). He
served in Canada
for some time, and
there raised and
trained the North-
west Mounted Police.
As Commandant of
the Queensland
forces and later in
a similar job in
N.S.W. he was as
popular with the
forces as he was effi-
cient. French was a
stickler for discipline,
and the troops sent
from Queensland in
the early part of the
Boer War earned
high commendation
from the Imperial
command for their
steadiness on parade
and in the field. It
should be said in
justice to a splendid
lot of men that
most of the senior
n.c.os. of the early
regiments, composed
largely of trainees
from the militia
M. 1., were ex-
Imperial soldiers of
21 years’ service.
* * *
“Ring Four”: Mention of workers’-
compensation cases recalls the achieve-
ment of Big Jimmy.. Placing his finger
on the edge of a truck he belted off the
top joint with a “pitcher.” Then he
looked at the gory stump and swore hor-
ribly. “That’ll only take me to Perth,
’n’ I want to go to Singapore,” he said.
He had another crack at the second joint.
* « * *
“Greenhide”: Hollywood has started
a new industry, turning out comedies and
dramas, a la frangaise, with all female
performers in the nude or semi-nude.
A flaw in the law places no check what-
ever on what may be shown in a private
home or invitation session, and the en-
trancing stuff is finding a ready market.
The miniature-film craze is sweeping the
States at the moment, and these films are
rented out at prices ranging from £1
to £5.
* * * *
“Geebung”: The train was packed,
and at the first stop for refreshments the
rush of passengers overwhelmed the
waitresses. Bill fought his way to the
front and had managed to get coffee
and a sandwich. All he needed was
sugar, but it was out of'reach, and ap-
peals were fruitless. There was nothing
for it but to squeeze through on the flank
and get it himself. When he got back, just
before the guard’s whistle blew, the coffee
and bite had disappeared. “ ’Strewth,”
howled Bill as we streaked for the train,
“some blighters would pinch the Lord’s
Supper! ”
LOVE LETTERS.
In a casket, long hidden, I lound them,
Billets-doux in a copperplate hand,
A faded silk ribbon around them,
As maidenly fingers had bound them —
Old letters once lovingly scanned.
Yes; I pried in the pages .. . Emotion
Was revealed of tumultuous force;
'For the writer proclaimed a devotion
“As vast in its flood as the ocean,
As fixed as the stars in their course!”
It was great-grandad’s “fist," and tradition
Suggests the success of his suit;
For he realised “life’s great ambition,”
And our family tale makes admission
That the union bore multiple fruit.
Just a record of wooing, long ended,
From the era of bustles and gamps ...
But I (from those lovers descended)
Hope their bliss with no worry was
blended —-
Since I got fifteen pounds for the stamps!
MAORILAND.
C.H.W.


They’re Smooth
and they do not
affect your throat
i '
k
k
)
10 for 9*
20 for 16
D 382
&
CRAVENA
S,ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
IH
i
■ill
T I O N
“Exit”: Suicide in style seems to be
the rage in Vienna. A few weeks past
a previously wealthy restaurant-keeper
who had gone on the
rocks sent to his friends
burial-cards sympathis-
ing with them in their
loss before he took
himself from this world.
Now, after spending his
fortune in one final
fling, a one-time mil-
lionaire, also of Aus-
tria, has hurried him-
self off with a golden
bullet made from the
remnants of his wealth.
He * *
“Den”: Cabled that
the chef in one of New
York’s largest homes
had for 14 years been
accepted as a man, the
fact that she was in
reality a woman not
being discovered until
after her death re-
cently. She had refused
medical attention,
though it was found
that her illness could
easily have been cured.
There have been many
similar cases. Perhaps
the most interesting was
that of one De Lon-
guerue, purser of
L’Esperance, one of the
ships of D’Entrecas-
teaux’s expedition
which visited Tasmania
in 1791. De Lon-
guerue was found to
be a woman when mor-
tally stricken on the
return voyage. None
had suspected her true
sex, though one officer remarked that De
Longuerue’s face resembled a woman’s
far more than a man’s. The purser chal-
lenged him to a duel, and proved deft
enough with a sword to wound him
severely.
# * * *
“Eros”: London thinks that it owns
the world’s worst collection of statues,
but it at least found room for some
good ones. St. Helier, capital of the
island of Jersey, has a few such monu-
ments —all bad. The statue of George
11. in Royal Square is undoubtedly the
one from which Epstein drew his earliest
inspiration. Jerseyites avow that it was
once the figurehead of a vessel wrecked
on the island’s rocky coast somewhere in
the eighteenth centui-y. The islanders
saw in the piece of salvage, which re-
sembled George 11., a chance of express-
ing their loyalty at no great expense to
themselves. The ship’s figurehead was
accordingly given a place in front of the
States House, and there it remains nearly
two centuries later.
* * $ ¥
“Qwert Yuiop”: That South African
herb (B. 17 /11/’37) which causes mania
when smoked, is one of the widespread
Cannabis group of plants from which
hashish and bhang come. One species,
apparently Cannabis sativa, is causing
serious trouble in some U.S.A. southern
States, where of late years it has been
spreading as a weed. Under the name of
“flum” and a dozen other slang titles it is
being smoked in cigarettes by thrill-
seeking young adults of both sexes and
all social grades. Its effects, as expressed
in murders, sex-crimes and other
violence, are becoming so alarming that
the subject is receiving serious attention
from the New Deal Government. In addi-
tion to its. immediate effect it is a habit-
“For two pins I'd sock you on the nose.”
former of the worst kind. A close rela-
tive is that Indian hemp on which
nerve-stormed Malays work up to the
mental stage required for amuck.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Curious that
not a single specimen of all the hun-
dreds of thousands of yew longbows
used by English soldiery through several
history-making centuries survives to-day.
The United Services museum in White-
hall has a navy-issue bow from Henry
VIII.’s flagship Mary Rose, but barge
adaptations of military weapons are never
the same thing, for reasons of stowage,
tactics and range. Plenty of arrows sur-
vive ; from them it looks as if the mili-
tary bow was a six-footer, effective range
about 250 yards. That dour and efficient
warrior, William MacGregor of New
Guinea, told me that in his famous action
with the Tugiri raiding party arrow
casualties commenced among his force
at over 450 yards. In Bligh’s action with
the Torres Strait islands navy the arrows
outranged his muskets so much that he
had to use his guns.
* * * *
“Ring Four”: The story I’ve always
heard about the Menzies goldfield (B.
4/11 /’37) was that J. J. Brown, a New
Guinea prospector, discovered it. In
the “Kalgoorlie Miner” some years back
there was an account of Brown’s return
to Menzies about 20 years after its foun-
dation, when he was given a public recep-
tion. He died about three years ago in
Kalgoorlie Hospital.
* * *
“Old Unionist”: N.S.W. trades-union
returns show that the once-mighty
A.W.U. has now dropped to ninth place
in numerical strength. The State
branch of the Australian Railways Union
with 17,428 members is strongest, with
the Federated Ironworkers next; the
A.W.U. takes place below the Meat
Industry Employees (8189 members) with
7661 ticket-holders. It built up reputation
and assets in the days of its strength, but
a number of other organisations now
have greater funds, Coal and Shale being
highest with £45,478 ; the Printing Trades
is most affluent per member at £5 14s. 9d.
a head.
* * * *
“Garda”: A friend of mine took a job
as salesman for a Sydney, firm. He was
doing quite well when the manager called
him into his office. “Buggins,” he said,
“I’m not altogether pleased with your
work. Your sales seem to be all right,
but you want to show a bit more pep.
Liven up and make your presence felt.
We hardly know you are in the place.”
My friend pondered on this, and in a
burst of inspiration had steel tips put on
the heels of his shoes instead of the
rubber he usually wore. He stamped
about the office for a fortnight; then the
manager sent for him again. “Glad to
see you took my tip, young man. You’ve
improved 100 p.c. We’re hearing much
more of you now.”
* * * *
“Cairngorm”: It was Miss McPherson
(my aunt) who wrote the music for
“Waltzing Matilda” (B. 3/11/’37).
* 1 * * *
“Sailor Once”: The incident upon
which the film “Farewell Again” (B.
24/11/’37) depends actually happened
only a few years ago. Then a troopship
conveying men to England after service
in the West Indies (not India) and Ber-
muda was ordered to proceed to Pales-
tine with only a few hours’ respite at
Southampton. The War Office ran
special trains from all parts of the U.K.
to enable relatives to spend the brief
time available in Southampton.
* * * *
“Shellback”: The reason “Cracker-
hash’s” son (B. 10/11 / ’37) has to learn
engineering is so that, in the event of
any delay through machinery defects, he
will know enough about it not to worry
the innards out of the chief engineer en-
deavoring to hurry matters up. Training
in sail certainly toughens a boy, but
surely “Crackerhash” would not expect
“ Darling , has anyone ever told you how beautiful you are ?”
his kid to go back on the old diet of salt
horse, dandyfunk, slumgullion, lobscouse
and wet pants that he had to put up with
in sail. Besides, it’s pretty lonely around
the Horn these days.
“T.G.T.”: The Bully’s mentioned a
string of old properties still in the hands
of the original families, but none older
than Woolmers, Longford, Tas. It yvas
taken up in 1810, and the present Tom
Archer is the fifth.
“Marsh”: Old Tasmanian estates? The
Murdochs hold Craigow, Cambridge,
given to Dr. Murdoch in 1822, and the
Shoobridge family in the Derwent Valley
still control their Bushy Park hop orchard
and pastoral properly. Part of this land
changed hands recently at £lO7 per acre.
“GOIN A BIT TOO FUR.”
This sort of man you must have met
And vainly tried to sway his mind
(Such as it is, the concrete kind,
Well mixed and permanently set),
Or find what makes him stick —demur;,
His formula is all you get: “That’s goin a
bit too fur.”
I try cajolery and tact
In township ways or common hall,
When matters for some action call,
In hope that some distorted fact
Or biased view may come to light.
Dull wits and stubbornness react. He’s spoken
and sits tight.
With him the issue matters not,
Far-reaching, narrow, small or great,
The village pump, affairs of state.
He’s always found upon the spot
When new ideas get the spur;
But one defect will taint the lot: they’re
“goin’ a bit too fur.”
I yearn to put the wrong things right;
To make this world a better place
Wherein our striving human race
May see the day beyond the night;
When those brave souls who upward climb
Achieve the goal within their sight, the good
thing in our time.
And yet the lion in the path
Is often just this human clod,
Outflung, as by an outraged god,
In some upheaval’s aftermath;
Whom reason, creed nor impulse stir.
Obstruction’s sword flames not in wrath;
change goes “a bit too fur.”
“Going a bit too far,” ah me!
The mind that stays a mental chasm,
Bankrupt of all enthusiasm,
Holds us in thrall. Should such things be?
The bounds of knowledge, the light of a
star,
Must stand convicted, bond or free, of going
a bit too far.
S.A.
BILL O'C.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST
“Curate’s Egg”: The parrot I had
bought from an old, hard-swearing, mud-
ticket captain of the Torres Strait pearling
fleet was so boisterously profane that a
clerical friend suggested that reformation
might come from association with his
own parrot, a genteel fowl. The parson’s
bird was given to long periods of praying,
so we had great hopes of regeneration.
The fowls were shut together in a
darkened room, from which alternate
bursts of prayer and obscenity issued,
then silence reigned, and finally the door
was opened. My bird, whose sex was
previously deemed uncompromisingly
masculine, was lolling on the floor call-
ing in throaty accents: “How about a
kiss, dearie!” The parson’s bird, seated
on the arm of a chair, called with alac-
rity from aloft: “What the crimson
Hades do yer reckon I’ve been praying
15 years for?”
“Gryllus”: A big
goanna has haunted
the scrub edge all
this week, and to-day,
sunning himself on a
log, offered a perfect
shot. I got the rifle —
but, after all, what’s
the evidence against
him? He does steal
eggs from the fowl-
run sometimes, and
eat chickens, too.
He’s an enemy of ail
birds and small ani-
mals, even up to
possums, and his an-
nual toll is heavy.
Few nests are safe
from him. But
his forebears have
been doing it for un-
counted generations,
and Australia yet re-
mains richer in varied
and interesting bird life than an\
country in the world. For the de-
fence, he kills in any summer week
more snakes, hatched and otherwise,
than the glorified kookaburra does
in a lifetime. He is death on rats and
mice, man’s most destructive and dan-
gerous parasites. Also on rabbits. He
eats decaying carcasses which would
otherwise breed myriads of blowflies.
And he looks Aussie, too —that long,
serious face and pointed nose need only
a drooping moustache and a hat. Ver-
dict : acquittal.
* * * *
“Notaden”: It looks as if the curra-
wong is a doomed Australian fowl on
account of his silly habit of carrying
prickly-pear fruit about and dropping it
anywhere. I mean Strepera graculina,
the pied bell-magpie, who is liable to
be mixed up by bush-naturalists with the
white-winged chough and the sooty bell-
magpie under the common name of
black-magpie. His call identifies him,
for he names himself in it. He’s a
queerly epicurean bird in the street-boy’s
definition-sense of “a bloke wot’ll eat any-
think.” One flock in a S.Q. coastal dis-
trict, observed closely over three months,
began on berries and fruit, changed over
to insects, wired into a shoal of fish
driven ashore by sharks, and then
haunted the local slaughter-house, pick-
ing meat from bones and skins just as
crows do. S.G. is a much more simple-
minded chap than a crow, though, and
if pests boards get after him for his
prickly-pear eccentricities he won’t last
long in any numbers.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Surprising the amount
of annoyance one small bird, even when
actuated by the most honorable motives,
can cause when really put to it. Our
council has been split by the activities
of a nesting magpie which attacks any
passer-by near its nest. The councillor
on whose property the nest is built reso-
lutely refused to let anyone enter thereon
for the purpose of dealing with the
aggressor. One recent Sunday, however,
while the halderman arid his missus were
on the way to church, Maggie swooped
down and took a hunk out of the back
of his neck. Bumble made a wild sweep
at the bird with his walking-stick, but
only succeeded in catching his wife a
beaut, that laid her low on the footpath.
Result was a domestic argument that may
go on for years, and a new enemy of the
magpie species who won’t be satisfied
until the whole group is exterminated.
He H* * %
“8.N.G.”: Constable Kumu, A.N.C.,
was a whale for the white man’s medi-
cine, and threatened to become a hypo-
“My motto is ‘Eat more fruit.'"
chondriac. He hobbled up and said he
was “plenty sick.” His sole hurt was
an abrasion that had just broken the skin
on one leg. I had a “go of fever,” and,
out of patience with the persistent in-
valid, I gave a firm application of cotton-
wool previously soaked in carbolic oil.
Kumu sprang high into the air, let out
an agonised yell and streaked off. That
night I was awakened by an apologetic
Kumu bearing in tow another “polisi-
man”: —an ignorant recruit not long from
his native village. Kumu explained: “Leg
belong him no good, taubada.” It was
the eager, expectant look on Kumu’s dial
that told me what was expected of me.
Out came the carbolic oil again; the
recruit gave a mighty yell and fled into
the outer darkness. Constable Kumu
was convulsed with laughter, and shrieked
his mirth into the night air. I can pic-
ture him to-day sitting around some re-
mote village campfire recounting for the
edification of his descendants the doings
of that evening. The Papuan for the
most part is a kid just like that.
X * * *
“Nor'-wesf’: Full-grown whales fre-
quently carry patches of barnacles the
size of a man’s body, and, while they cer-
tainly endeavor to scratch these off on
any handy reef, they’ll also do it on the
keel of an anchored boat, especially at
night. It doesn’t do the keel of the boat
any good, either. Voyaging down the
W.A. coast we came on a fishing lugger
that had been put to such use. Its crew
were hopeful of getting it beached, where
they reckoned plenty of caulking cotton
and some whitelead might fix things up.
In the meantime they were thankful for
the loan of a couple of kerosene-tins—to
assist the pump in getting out the water
which had the boat nearly gunwales
awash. Many a small boat has been “lost
without trace” on the Australian coast
just through this uneasy itchiness of ceta-
£eans '
'** * *
“Hanko”: When it comes to crossing
roads at oblique angles our babblers will
give the jaybirds and jay-walkers ten on ;
the little brown busybodies seem to do
nothing else but incline to and fro along
highways, taking time off only to hold
animated confabs between the wheel-ruts,
They stream at the last moment from
beneath the bumper-bars of cars, escape
by their tail feathers from hurtling
motor-bikes, and, covered in dust and
confusion by the roadside, there gather
breath to hurl invective after the
speedsters and the strength to once again
jig sideways over the road. Don’t know
how the babblers would get on in city
traffic, but they seem to thrive on narrow
escapes in the mulga.
* * * *
“Old-tirrter”: Panic can do strange
things to an ordinarily game man, as wit-
ness Big Bill, a tough westerner. The whole
district was fighting a big fire, and one of
the most indefatigable was Bill. He did
three men’s work, was ever foremost in
the danger spots, and took appalling
risks. One morning, as he rode up a
hill to get a line on the fire, a change of
wind brought a wall of flame leaping
towards him. He wheeled the horse,
galloped it madly to a house about a
mile away, hitched it to the fence, rushed
inside and got under the bed. There
were a woman and two children there.
She saved the house by throwing water
over the walls, but Bill’s horse was burnt
to death at the fence. Bill was never
seen in the district afterwards. Coward
at heart? Say, have you ever fought a
fire for days on end, and then had it
flare up suddenly under your nose, just
when your nerves were vibrant to break-
ing point?
* * * *
“Notaden”: Every amateur beach-
comber knows the beautiful white shell
of the paper nautilus, and many of them
have wondered why there never is any
“fish” in it when picked up on the sand.
There never has been a shellfish in it. It
really is the nursery of a small species
of cuttlefish, constructed by the female
to hold her eggs until they hatch and
begin independent life in open water.
Two of her tentacles are specially modi-
fied for secreting the material and
moulding it to shape. Marine biologists
consider that a new shell is built for each
year’s brood, the female, once her family
duties are over for the year, living free,
as the male always does. Picked up at
sea in a scoop net, the lady will promptly
clear out of the shell, and if put in a
bucket of water will give a remarkable
display of beautiful color-changes. It
seems cruel to admit it, but she is a
wonderful snapper bait,
* „ * * * J .
Western : Water isn t easy to find in
the semi-desert bush, but the best bet is
digging for it. Follow the creek beds,
no matter how dry ; where one junctions
with another, there is a likely place. The
swirl of the meeting streams will have
dug the bed deeper, and beneath the sand
may be moisture. Another chance is
where a big tree grows. Such compara-
tively vigorous growth indicates moister
conditions underground, and even if no
actual water comes to light the deep
roots, broken into short lengths, will re-
P ay sucking. As a last resource in tools,
dig with a stick. Look for a dry sapling
or something similar ; such wood will be
almost iron-hard and will break with a
knife-edge and point. A long-pointed
stick worked down through the sand is a
good tester ; if the point comes up moist,
dig!
* * * *
“Bundeena”: An odd fellow, catholic
in his housing habits, is the hermit crab,
w ho usually protects his tender rear by
backing into a shell that he drags be-
hind him. But in Darwin I have seen
hermits with their rears encased in old
cartridge cases. And on Lameroo beach
I picked up one whose rear-guard was a
medicine phial. But happy is the hermit
that entices an anemone to build itself
around him. The home becomes a per-
manent one, free from danger. Few fish
touch the anemone, the thousands of
stinging cells on the waving tentacles
being a discouragement. The anemone
also accommodatingly increases the room
as the hermit grows. These queer part-
ners also have satellites. An almost
microscopic crab lives on the back of the
hermit, crawling down for his share
whenever a kill has been made, while,
further back and inhabiting the rear por-
tions of the shell, there may be a two-
inch marine worm that remains in the
one position until the prospects of a meal
also tempt him to come out for his chop.
All live in apparent harmony.
* * * * .
“Kali”: A sunfish recently harpooned
off the Queensland coast got in the head-
lines as a “monster” of the species be-
cause it turned the scales at one ton.
Actually, it was only in the kindergarten
class compared with one that pitted his
bulk against that of a small coastal
steamer some years ago. Although it lost
in the encounter it managed to stop the
vessel, and in dry dock two blades of the
propeller were found to be missing and
the huge body of the fish still impaled
on the shaft. From measurements taken
it was estimated to weigh three tons.
Curiously, the youngsters of the sunfish
are ridiculously small when hatched,
being about pinhead size. They grow
quickly, and as a protection against pre-
datory enemies sprout a covering of sharp
spikes which drop off when the fish
assume enough bulk. A harmless, in-
dolent sunlover, this chap spends most
of his time basking on the surface, and
is a frequent visitor to inshore waters.
TUSSOCK LANDS.
These are the lonely tussock reaches where never
a bright ploughshare has thrust,
Lured by the gleam of a golden harvest richly
breaking the earth’s brown crust;
Mile on mile rolls a flood of silver-blonde tides
curbed by the wind’s slim hand;
Lacquered shallows that dip and ripple drown
with magic the hollowed land.
Trees loom out of the silken torrent —phantom
ships on a phantom sea;
Gaunt old derelict gums, storm beaten, rough
bark loosened and whipping free;
Young gums crowded with beryl canvas, white
masts tapering slim and bold,
Wattle argosies daily spreading glamorous,
silken sails of gold.
White box flirting its cambric awnings, spilling
a spice on the wind’s warm wings ;
Brown old barges of banksias, drifting into the
limbo of bygone things;
Through the tangle of creatring cordage parrots
flicker like flames of jade;
And blackbirds mourn in exquisite sadness
over the havoc the last gale made!
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“By gum, mister, I ’ad a job gettin 'er into position."
“Old-timer”: The grasshoppers had
come down from the north-west and
were gobbling up Mac’s pasture. He
tried poisoned bran, arsenic-treacle
spray and a flame-thrower, and though
he slaughtered millions, still more came.
Then Mac confided his troubles to an
agricultural expert, who advised him to
try a poisonous mixture in fine powder
form which was to be blown over the
plague. Two days later the expert re-
ceived an urgent ’phone call asking him
to go out to Mac’s place at once. “That
powder, she’s great stuff,” Mac cried,
leading him to a box in the yard ; “can
I get some more?” The puzzled expert
w’atched Mac lift the box and retrieve
from it an emaciated adult grasshopper.
“Look at him,” exulted Mac ; “there’s
your powder for you. Another few
pounds of it and this blanker’ll eat no
more grass, I’ll bet.” Slowly and
thoughtfully the expert departed.
* * M= *
“Dickie Beech”: Yesterday I had to
deal with a shark-bite case. It occurred
in less than 2in. of water, and the site
of injury was the nose. The victim was
my fox-terrier. The shark, a grey nurse,
was 18ft. —no, I mean, inches, long. Its
several rows of small but sharp teeth
made a distinctly sanguinary mess of
Peter’s nose. He discovered it, tide-left,
in a pool, and greatly enjoyed the chase
Capture was a different matter. He ran
the quarry on to a shallow patch and
grabbed it by the tail, but didn’t realise
how suddenly flexible sharks can be. I
did, because I once asked a crack pigeon-
shot to put a charge into the nose of an
eight-footer, just brought alongside. From
a range of less than sft. he blew off its
tail, which was effective for the imme-
diate purpose but rotten shooting. How-
ever, Peter’s experience will help to larn
him to obey orders in future.
* * H= *
“Cudgerie”: I learned a little of the
playful ways of the hawksbill turtle when
ex-police tracker Long Tommy and I
harpooned one out from the mouth of
the Annan River (N.Q.). We were en-
deavoring to ship the apparently almost-
lifeless creature over the half-submerged
gun’l without swamping the dinghy when
Hawksbill’s mouth suddenly gripped the
top edge of the boat between the row-
lock pegs and the stern. There was a
crunching of timber, and a piece about
2ft. long by 6in. wide was torn com-
pletely away. The damage so weakened
the framework of the boat that repairs
were regarded as impracticable.
* * * * '
“Nordbo”: I’ve never seen a man
move quicker than Sven the Swede one
day we were fishing in the Barron River
(near Cairns, N.Q.). He was standing
"There ’e goes again—butterfly mad!”
in the nose of the boat working a cast-
net. A crocodile slid from the bank just
ahead and disappeared in a deepish hole.
A moment later the boat struck a sub-
merged snag, and Sven pitched forward
into the water. He was back in the boat
before I could get to my feet. Judge the
speed of his emergence from the fact that
—as we discovered presently—matches
and tobacco in his trousers pocket were
bone-dry.
•fc *!•
“Hoostha”: I, for one, am certain that
the camel knows the real name of Allah.
Only the possession of such a secret
could give the brute its supreme con-
tempt for mere man. Out ’roo-chasing
across W.A.’s northern deserts, we had
a lady named Dulcie to help pull the
cart. Dulcie had the pride and con-
tumacy of ten devils. Always she re-
garded us with a glance of contempt,
and every time anyone went to her head
to fix her headstall or give her a lead
she had a big mouthful of saliva wait-
ing. Nor was she particular where she
landed it, though undoubtedly she pre-
ferred the face. Neither punishment nor
kindness could check her of the practice.
One day Old Tom, having just received
a charge full in the ear, was admonish-
ing her with a hobble-strap when a
motor salesman happened along. “You
ought to be reported to the S.P.C.A. All
the poor beast needs is a little kindness.”
Murmuring soothing words, he ap-
proached to stroke Dulcie’s nose. It
took most of our water and half a tin
of his spare petrol to restore his suit to
a business-getting aspect. His opinion
of a hobble-strap as a means of protest
changed—a sapling would have fitted
more ’to his idea. For once Dulcie got
neither. Was she grateful? Busy accu-
mulating another “shot,” she regarded
us with a contempt that would have
made a Potts Point dowager’s freeze look
like a honeyed smile.
* * # *
“Gryllus”: Now that the fruit is ripe
on the big Moreton Bay fig, the flying-
foxes squeal and scramble of nights
among its chain-wide dome of leaves and
branches. Twice I have found the scat-
tered fragments of leathery wings and
furry skin, evidence of some fierce and
hungry natural enemy. Yesterday even-
ing the mystery was revealed. The usual
medley of complaining squeals and
chatter was broken by frightened
screeches and the sound of wings beat-
ing against the ground. In the circle
of light from an electric torch appeared
the bulky form of a Powerful Owl, giant
among his kind, holding down a flying-
fox in the grip of its great claws and
rending it apart. The light didn’t dis-
turb the hunter in the least. He lifted a
savage face and blood-stained beak,
blinked, glared for a brief space and re-
sumed his living meai. May he briqg his
friends and relatives, and all with good
appetites!
* * * *
“Harry N.”: When a chap got a job in
our district a couple of months prior to
the annual sports-meeting and entered for
all the foot-running events, he gave his
previous performances as nil. He cleaned
up the programme, and the books, who
squealed as only books can squeal, where-
upon the committee decided that the
pedestrian must sign a declaration that
he had never previously won a race. This
he readily agreed to do, and the declara-
tion was witnessed by a J.P. The reluc-
tant books paid out, the ped. departed,
and then a harassed committee had time
to really read the statement. It asserted
that “I , hereby declare that I
have never previously won a race con-
ducted under V.R.C. rules.”
TO ONE IN ENGLAND.
When the leaves of my English trees were
thinning
And nights grew chill with the autumn’s end,
I said, “It is time I was beginning
That letter I promised you, English friend,
Six toil-filled months-and more ago:
When, last December, while wheat turned yellow
And the smoke of bush-fires dimmed each
day,
I fancied you—good friend and fellow —
Up to your ankles in Yuletide snow,
And greetings sent to your clime so mellow
Four thousand long sea-leagues away.
Yet wrote you nothing—though May was over,
And heath burned red on the westward plains,
And the first sharp frosts had purpled the clover,
And life swung free as the bridle reins
From the heedless hands of one who rides
When sunshine’s sweet, and the birds are merry,
And the bronzewing quits, with a whirr of
wings,
Sparse-fruited boughs of native cherry
On the red-soil slopes; and the riversides
Are brave with brightening bush and berry
Where brown-haired April stays and sings.
1 rode along by the dunes this morning
Girth-deep in the heath-flowers white and
red;
The dulled waves soughed with a sound of
warning
Round islet and inlet, and overhead
The sky’s clear face grew grey with guile,
And a cold breeze keened in the needles pliant
Of each low-bowed casuarina-tree:
And the Five Pines stood out, defiant,
On the clean-cut crest of the Fourteen Mile
That stands and frowns like a watchful giant
Across the wind-hazed miles of sea.
So frowned those heights that we both remem-
ber—
Grey, shell-scarred slopes of a stranger shore:
Where, long years since, on that day in De-
cember,
We left the mates we shall see no more.
Alone in an age-old land they lie,
While we live on, and our heads grow hoary:
And who was it gained most —we, or they
Who hold in sleep the greatest glory
Our name knows, under an alien sky,
On those bleak heights of immortal story
Where, out past Imbros, dies the day?
Next month—when the wild swamp-iris whitens
With breeze-blown pennons each green
lagoon,
And the yellow-bannered mimosa brightens
The knolls heat-mantled in haze at noon—
From range and coastline, week by week,
I muster sheep in each creek-fed clearing,
Till warm November’s long days begin
The noise and dust and moil of shearing,
And oats are harvested. Then we speak
Of debts and prices—and how we’re nearing
The wool-sales, when the cheques come in.
So, wrapped in this leisurely life, in my land
1 scarce remember the mates who died:
And you—in your far-off old grey island
Ringed round by those “restless fields of
tide”
And lashed now by September’s gales—
Do ghosts from memoried scenes of battle
Drift in with the murk of the North Sea
rains
And foul your dreams, while thunder’s rattle
Rolls ominous over autumnal vales
Where white-woolled sheep and contented
cattle
Thread your tree-bordered Suffolk lanes?
Our paths we follow, a world asunder,
Who shared some pleasure and knew some
pain;
And I, who write to you, pause and wonder
“Shall ever we two clasp hands again?”
Our swords seem turned to ploughshares—
true:
But while the portents of war are growing
On lands but lately in slaughter steeped,
And hate still urges on the sowing
Of seed whose garnering there we knew,
What harvest, reddest of Time’s bestowing,
May from the dragons’ teeth be reaped?
Yet over these dim shores, grave, unaltered,
The winds of an unstained sea still blow;
And out from the old coast-road, where faltered
The feet of the chain-gangs long ago,
Serene and lonely swings the tide;
And only a transient shade flees under
The steel-winged omen that speeds on
high
And the poised eagles watch with wonder
The clamorous gulls wheel far and wide,
What time the mail-’plane’s quivering thunder
Comes, grows, fades, passes down the sky,
TASMANIA.
ERIC MOORE.


HITS
LYS
ft
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
jO ■
m
n
■ m;
mmmm
SStatoM (isa, ,-- MiimM
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Brothers & Co., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
“Notaden”: Up to this morning I con-
fess to some scepticism concerriing the
deliberate use of ants by certain biids
for keeping themselves free of vermin.
Mr. Crack (short for Cracticus), the
black-and-white butcher-bird who fre-
quently breakfasts with us on the veran-
dah, partook of his usual hearty meal
and paid for it with a musical number
from the hickory clump. Then he flew
down to a nest of small black ants,
picked up something, and thrust it under
a wing. Good binoculars at 40 feet left
no doubt as to what he was doing. The
ants, a particularly strong-smelling kind
who have been troubling our pantry of
late, were picked up with the extreme tip
of his beak, squeezed and rubbed into
the down wherever he could reach. Five
of them appeared to do the job, where-
upon Mr. Crack shook himself, lilted a
few round notes, and departed on the
business of the day.
“Walkabout”: The art of shepherding
seems to have passed away with blade-
shearing. Few shepherds I know can be de-
pended upon to allow
the jumbucks to remain
from daylight until
dark on the pastures.
The longer sheep can
be forced to stay
camped in the shade
and the earlier they
can be yarded seem to
be outstanding features
of present-day shep-
herding. Chinese and
gins— not working in
pairs, though were
out on their own in
the art, and if the
ladies were a bit slower
off the mark in the
mornings than the
Chinks they lost no-
thing in the respect of
their charges looking
full on yarding for the
night. But whereas the
gins couldn’t count
and had to “suppose
allabout there,” John
invariably made sure
of the tally. With the
aid of a dog a Chinese
shepherd would count
either on to or off the
midday camp, and then
again when yarding. If
sheep were short John
knew when they’d wan-
dered, morning ox-
afternoon. Perhaps
the Sydney prelate who
recently advocated a
more numerous Chinese community
visualised the restoration of this vanish-
ing art.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Tell “Smore ’ (B.
10/11/’37) that experienced bushmen
never camp under trees because of the
danger of falling limbs —not through fear
of ants. Unless you spread your swag
on top of a nest, the only ants likely
to worry you after nightfall are the sugar-
and meat-ants, and the hiking habits of
these chaps—they’ll crawl over you until
they make certain you’re not suitable
for ant tucker—-are much worse than
their bites. Nearly all the other ant
tribes keep respectable hours, and even
if a carelessly-placed tin of jam or sugar
may induce them to work overtime now
and then they seldom annoy the sleeper.
❖ * * *
“Kali”: Another of the hard-headed
fraternity (B. 10/11/’37) is the dongal,
a deep-green monster which grows to a
weight of 2501 b. and who is often seen
around coral reefs, feeding in a couple of
feet of water with a yard of rear hoisted
above the surface. He has a cut-away
square head that is solid three-inch bone,
and with this battering-ram he breaks
coral growths to feed on crabs and eels
sheltering inside. The dongal goes
through soft coral with the greatest of
ease, but for solid stuff he has evolved
his own technique, obtaining added im-
petus by coming in on the crest of a
huge breaker and smashing into the
coral. Then he gets busy with his pile-
driving act, breaking lumps and snap-
ping up the foodstuff as it attempts to
escape.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: Fowls certainly do suffer
as a result of inbreeding (B. 10/11/’37).
Once saw some on the Howicks, east of
Cape Melville (N.Q.), the descendants of
those which had been released years
before by Jap luggermen. The birds,
light and spindly, were swift in flight,
and on terra firma could outpace any
scrub turkey. They nested in the coarse
grass on the islands, drank salt water
and apparently lived on grass-seeds, in-
sects, small crabs and shellfish. The eggs
And wot's more, ladies and gents, I stood four-square agin flat-buildin in this districk."
were small and so rank in flavor as to be
unpalatable. Their flesh was even worse,
and the aroma of it cooking in an
enclosed camp-oven was enough to put
a man off poultry for life.
jjc ijc H 1
“Minore”: Was making for Nyngan
(N.S.W.) when just on dusk a pair of
waving arms pulled me up. An abo.,
his ancient, battered car loaded with
camping gear, missus and kids, was in
distress. Could he get a tow into Giril-
ambone? His car had broken down
and his missus was crook. We towed
him in and left him there. In Nyngan
the following day we ran across a friend
who had just arrived with an ancient car
in tow. We compared notes, and decided
to amuse ourselves with a little sleuth-
ing. Jacky, we found, had been towed
all the way from Central Queensland,
and his car had no engine.
“Nor’-west”: Who says the abo. isn’t
inventive and adaptable? Cruising
around the head of Exmouth Gulf, nor’-
west Westralia, we struck Giralia Land-
ing, which sees one of the State’s
long rabbit-proof fences ending at the
sea. Kept always in good repair, this
fence terminates well out beyond low-
water mark. From somewhere the
local abos. had secured a long length
of wire-netting, and this, staked out from
the Government fence so as to form a
big V, made a very efficient fish-trap.
Every ebb tide brought a harvest, plenty
of variety, but mainly mullet, big fel-
lows 2in. and 3in. across the back and
with iin. of juicy fat lining their ribs.
The boss of the tribe, big intelligent
Dugong Bob, was the designer.
* * * *
“Condamine”: Was ringbarking in the
Chinchilla (Q.) district when I noticed
what appeared to be a fine spray of
water issuing from the foliage of a small
belah oak-tree. As I approached
to get a closer view it abruptly ceased.
After a few moments’ interval the foun-
tain resumed operations, ejecting suffi-
cient moisture to dampen the soil for
a radius of several yards. Any explana-
tion of the phenomenon?
“C.V.S.”: Is there a higher-pitched
note in nature than the sharp “chip” of
a small bat? When traffic dies down it
may often be heard in suburban gardens,
and for those who can hear it it pro-
vides one of the main sounds in the music
of a bush night; but the human ear is
often incapable of recording the short
shrill note.
“Padflogger”: While much interested in
“Nugget” Michael’s adventure in greas-
ing his frying-pan with a plug of dyna-
mite (B. 3/11/ ’37), I say serve him right
for being such a rotten cook. Very early
on the track I that bacon should
fry in its own fat, and at the end of
the operation leave sufficient dripping to
cook the hen-fruit —if any! Chops will
do the same for themselves, placed in a
dry pan over a gentle fire. A little drop
of water will start the sausages cooking,
their contents generally being at least one-
quarter fat. The only two track comes'
tibles that really need dripping are steak
and ham, and steak can be grilled
provided there is a wire fence handy.
The reason so many bushies are for ever
chasing after “something for the indiges-
tion” is because of the almost universal
practice of dumping a great lump of
grease into the frypan before starting to
cook even the fattiest of comestibles.
* * * *
“Kaiti”: When a dispute recently
came before a M.L. Arbitration Court the
authorities looked questioningly at the
industrial occupation of “snow-raker.”
Visions of modernised crossing-sweepers
rose before them, but were dispelled
when it was explained that snow-raking,
a calling piactised only on sheep-stations
where snowdrifts occur, involved trailing
missing sheep, locating them under the
imprisoning snow and releasing them.
Steam rising from the snow usually indi-
cates the position of the woollies, and the
rakers rescue them and tramp paths in
the snow to lead them safely out.
* * if *
“Swiller”: With summer on the way,
waterbags will have the dust washed off
them and filled with Adam’s ale. Try
standing the water overnight in a clean
dish or bucket into
which a handful of oat-
meal —or crushed oats,
wheat, bran, etc., at a
pinch—has been placed
for each couple of
quarts of water. If hot
water is used, so much
the better. Then strain
the residue out as you
pour the water in the
bag. It was always
plain water for me,
with its weakening
effect when woodcut-
ting, until an old-
timer put me wise. As
he said: “When th’
sweat rolls outa y.’, it
leaves th’ witamins
be’ind outa th’ mash.”
* * *
“Barney”: I watched
a frisky swallow having
a game with a cat. The
swallow didn’t have a
nest within sight; the
cat was having a quiet
snooze. After a pre-
liminary sweep the bird
turned on one wing,
threw a handspring,
dived at the cat and
swung past it. Pussy
pricked one ear and half-cocked one eye.
The swallow reckoned that the best joke
he’d had since his bare-bellied fledge-
hood, and he repeated it several
times. . Then Tom got to his feet,
stretched himself lazily, rippled a claw or
two and yawned. As the swallow came
again on one of its graceful swings a
feline whirlwind shot out one paw that
smashed the bird, and, without turning
a hair or blinking an eye, it transferred
the body from its hooked claws to its
teeth and slouched off casually without
turning its head.
'•* 'l' H*
“Gravelsnatcher”: The breed of Irish
navvy that made history in the early
Westralian goldfields days has passed on,
but what of their descendants? I first
heard of them from a sceptical old uncle
when I confided my intention of aban-
doning office work and going bush.
“H’m,” he said, and surveyed my puny
muscles. “Well, good luck, but don’t run
foul of any of those Irish navvies.
They’ll eat you.” Six months later I
was curing blisters on a road gang and
listening to old-timers revile the ganger.
“Him a ganger! Hell! If ’e’d struck
some o’ them big buck Irish navvies on
the fields ’e’d be goin’ yet. Later I struck
a chap on the Kurrawang woodline. A
magnificent specimen, strong as Hercules
and proud of it, when he swung Kelly
you couldn’t see the sun for chips, and
he’d top off his load with logs that the
rest of us found hard to place on the
bottom. High-handing them above his
head, he’d gaze around at his audience.
“Gr-r-reatly admoired,” he’d exult. “But
sildom seen.” And up she’d go. Seasoned
hands gave him 10 years at the most, but
he was going strong when I left.


Bully Hayes Backs a Lady
THE SHANG HAI LADY
had tried desperately to reach one of the cabins below.
The cross-passage at the foot of the stairs was flooded
and impassable. Axes must be used in cutting a
space through the hull.
Oku, one of the kanakas, dropped down the
flooded stairs in an effort to feel his way to the nearest
cabin. He returned shaking his head.
“Door bin all shut!” he announced. “Too much
yakka to break in door under water. Tryum out-
side ”
There was nothing else to do. For an hour they
struck at the guano-whitened hull where an uptilted
porthole indicated a big cabin or stateroom. From
its angle on the reef Hayes judged that the interior
would be practically dry. Why Olsen had not thought
of it he could not understand. But the mate pointed
out that the vessel had recently shifted, raising the port
window well above tide level and submerging the
starboard side completely.
Smashing through the last remaining plank, the
buccaneer was able to squeeze through the opening.
It was a roomy cabin, and had evidently belonged
to Olsen. The mats and bunk were fouled with reef
slime and §and; knuckles of coral had blown down
from the gaping seams in the deck. A few metal
ornaments were scattered about the floor, a broken
oil-lamp from an overhead gambit, a heap of mud-
blackened bedclothes, part of a banjo and navigator’s
chart. That was all.
“Starvation alley!” Hayes growled, sitting cross-
legged in the axe-widened gap. “Her timbers are
worth nothing ; her copper won’t pay for stripping!”
“Cargo?” the mate queried.
“Rice,” Hayes snapped ; “stinking in five fathoms
of bilge and muck. It looks as if my twenty skinners
have gone for nix!”
One of the kanakas crawled under a slush-filled
bunk and drew out a small mango-wood box.
“No good!” he said, tossing it to the expectant
Hayes. “No heavy. Him bin empty long time.”
The box was locked. A few taps with the axe
opened it, revealing a raffle of water-soaked papers
and envelopes, a rusty pen and a corked bottle of
ink. The buccaneer eyed the papers undecidedly. For
a moment it seemed as though he would cast them
away. The mate interposed.
“Dry ’em in the sun,” he advised. “They belonged
to Olsen. They might tell us something.”
D ACK on the brig the papers were placed on the
' deck a few oyster-shells spread on top to prevent
them blowing overboard. The sun struck down over
the deserted strait as the crew of the brig mooned
about the afterhouse. Hayes bent over the drying
papers, a scowl on his brow. Then he beckoned to his
Chinese cook in the galley. “Come here, Jim, and
read this darned letter!”
It was in the centre of the heap and was written
in Chinese. Tt bore the well-known chop of Hop
Sing, one of the wealthiest traders on the island. Hop
had stores in Townsville, Brisbane and Sydney. Only
a year before he had bought the season’s catch of shell
for eight thousand pounds. His store at the corner of
the Parade was the best on the island. He bought
pearls and lent money at usurious rates to lugger-
owners and traders. A giant of a man with the
bulging belt of a high-caste mandarin, he was rarely
seen out of doors. Only once had the buccaneer met
him, and the impact of the Chinaman’s personality
had stayed with him long afterwards.
Hayes bent over the letter in the cook’s hand.
“What do you make of it, Jim? What’s Hop Sing
goi to say to a man like Olsen?”
“Him say welly dam lot, sah!” the cook re-
sponded as he studied the water-stained letter in his
hand. “Listen!”
Jim Ling translated the Chinese characters into
fluent pidgin while Hayes scowled attentively:
Honored One, Please fix attention on this
girl, Sue Sellars. I find she is engaged at Van
Mayer’s wine-garden, Batavia. Offer her twelve
pounds a month to go to one of my houses at
Sourabaya as maid. Then thirty pounds. Do
not hurry her. Your last offer may be fifty.
When you find her full of refusal and hard of
heart use tact and force to get her to the
Shanghai Girl.
At sea if she uses threats and continues
menacing you must make precaution to save
.my honor. In the last extreme 1 do not advise
killing her. Yet her life is not so sacred as my
honor. For bringing her to Sourabaya I will
pay a hundred pounds. There must be care.
She has been known to kill men. Hop Sing.
Hayes almost tore the letter from Jim Ling’s
greasy fingers. “Stand away!” he bellowed. “I’m
going ashore to see the yellowest mongrel this side
of Botany Bay!”
f~\ UTSIDE the shop of Mr. Hop Sing Hayes hesitated
only an instant. A lemon-faced Cantonese boy
at the counter viewed his entry with cold indifference
which vanished at the first blast of the buccaneer’s
voice. “Your master! Tell him the man who sank
the slave-junk off Mindano last year wants to see him.
Tell him quick, you squinting, egg-faced little pup!”
The pup did the telling in panic haste. It was
unusual for customers to abuse him within hearing of
his master. Something was wrong.
No man south of the Line had ever quickened
the stately, mandarin-like gait of Hop Sing. He
appeared in all the glory of his sixteen-button jacket,
decorated with the Order of the Moon and the Pea-
cock. From the heavy portiere which gave privacy
to his inner den he took in all there was of Hayes,
from his heavy sea-boots to his snarling mouth and
eyes. Not once did his almond eyes shift from Hayes
as he spoke.
“I know you!” he intoned in the voice of one
addressing an intruding fish-hawker. “Get out of
my shop!”
The buccaneer sat on the low counter, lit a
manila and then beckoned the perfumed Chinaman
with a crooked forefinger.
“Come closer, Sing,” he invited. “I’m going to
enjoy the smell of your peacock braid and buttons.
THE Shanghai Girl was a hopeless wreck on
Monday Reef. Monsoon and cyclone had piled
sand and mud about her gaping port windows
The swarming sea-hawks had cast a leprous
whiteness over her deck and afterhouse. Bully Hayes
had bought the wreck for twenty pounds. And with
the cash in his pocket her late owner and skipper,
“Squid” Olsen, had vanished on an island-bound
tramp.
Hayes and other shipmasters had noted Olsen’s
fanatical devotion to the storm-blighted timbers of
the Shanghai Girl. He had been seen by the shelters
on the banks clambering in and out the gaping timbers
and hatches, crazed and dispirited, unable, through
lack of funds, to hire a diver to assist in salving the
few doubtful articles of value left intact within the
hull.
The Leonora was anchored a quarter of a mile
off the pier at Thursday Island. The mate, Emery,
lamented the fact that Hayes had thrown twenty
hard-won sovereigns into the mud. The money would
have bought them a new dinghy or helped replenish
their empty storeroom. Not one of the brig’s crew
had tasted decent grub for weeks.
The mate’s glance went across the surf-whitened
reef where the carcass of the Shanghai Girl sprawled
like a murdered slave. It was almost dark. From
where he stood on the brig’s poop he was certain that
something was moving about the wreck. Leaning
across the rail, he called to Hayes below. “Some-
body poking about the wreck, Skipper! After copper,
maybe. Thursday’s full of lubbers ready to steal the
oil from a nigger’s hair! ”
The buccaneer appeared with a pair of night-
glasses in his hand. From the brig’s waist he scanned
the wreck until he made out the shapes of two coolies
scaling the afterhouse of the derelict schooner.
“It’s copper they’re after,” he agreed. Then,
turning to the angry mate on the poop: “Get into the
dinghy! We’ll try grinding their skulls on the reef
if we catch up with ’em.”
Half-way between the Leonora and the wreck
their movements were visible to the lynx-eyed
exploiters of drowned schooners. The sudden sound
of oars told Emery that the strippers had made off
in the darkness.
“No wonder Squid Olsen sat among the crabs
for weeks with a gun across his knees!” Hayes com-
mented from the stern of the dinghy. “Seems to me
he was guarding something more valuable than old
copper or frying-pans!”
The fact that Chinese coolies were secretly visiting
the wreck egged Hayes on to his work of salvage.
The following morning, accompanied by the mate and
a couple of kanakas, they pulled towards the Shanghai
Girl. The tide was low, exposing the deck and stair-
way leading to a thwartship corridor. A short survey
of the wave-battered deck made it clear that Olsen


BY ALBERT DORRINGTON
ILLUSTRATED BY G. K. TOWNSHEND.
Come here, you poor, fat silkworm. When a man
asks me to get out of his shop I generally throw him
out first and then kick him back again.”
Hop Sing hesitated a moment, came nearer and
looked into the white man’s face.
“You cheap bully!” he whispered. “I have seen
thieves like you yoked and covered with flies behind
our yamens. I have seen your face and eyes in a
basket outside an execution yard. Thou!”
Without effort the white man’s fingers closed on
the Chinaman’s embroidered sleeve, stayed there in a
grip of steel. He spoke quietly. “Some day, Hop,
the mob outside a foreign gaol will see both our heads.
Mine high up on the top spike, yours in the ditch
among the pariahs and the pigs!”
A wan leer touched Sing’s lips. He made no
effort to withdraw from the other’s grip but waited
with the frozen austerity of one who never cries out.
“Hop!” The buccaneer slammed the letter on
the counter, pinning it down with a murderous thumb.
“Read!”
The Chinaman’s eyes slanted over the sand-
scoured scrawl. A glance was enough. Then he
breathed sharply and was silent.
Hayes braced his big shoulders. “I hate to say
it, Hop, but for sheer dirt this letter of yours blankets
everything. You had the brass to commission that
poisonous old opium-runner Olsen to shanghai an
Australian girl!”
Again the icy silence.
“As far as I can judge, Hop, Olsen carried out
your instructions to the letter. He found Miss Sellars
no easy victim. And, rather than give her a chance
to appeal for Consular or police help, he quietly got
rid of her—shot, drowned or beat her to death in her
cabin!”
Hop Sing straightened as though someone had
struck him with a bamboo. His eyes blazed as he
indicated the letter on the counter. “I did not write
that letter! The chop is a forgery. There are dozens
in my office that any of my servants might use.”
From a drawer under the counter he took several
cube-shaped wooden blocks that bore his signature.
He tapped one gently with his jewelled forefinger.
“It would be easy for anyone to stamp my signature
without my knowledge. A woodcarver could make
a dozen by using one for a model. The letter is not
mine! ”
Tossing the blocks back into the drawer, he turned
his elephantine shoulders on Hayes with a shrug.
“Go to the police with your forged letter,” he
challenged. “They know you for what you are —a
pirate, a robber of junks, who regards Chinese traders
as pigeons to be plucked.”
l_J AYES left the shop as a tiger leaves an untouched
* * kill, a sense of defeat in his walk, all the devilry
gone from his eyes.
At the pier he saw a seven-hundred-ton rust-rimed
steamer making fast to the big iron cleat. A few
passengers trailed down the gangway, to be met by the
usual bevy of hotel and boarding-house touts. He
was about to step into the brig’s dinghy. A sudden
murmur from the crowd of beachcombers loafing near
the pier-rail halted him. A girl of eighteen came down
the gangway. She carried a cheap leather travelling-
bag. Her clothes were smart but showed signs of
wear and tear. Sue Sellars! There was no mistaking
the firm little chin, the dimpled hands that used to
scoop up the odd shillings and pennies of drunken
sailors and bushmen at the gaming-table she pre-
sided over.
He gained the deck of the pier the moment she
passed the steps. There was no need for him to call
out to her. Only a blind girl would have missed
seeing him among the gangs of slouching loafers and
trepang-fishers. “Captain Hayes!”
She hung still for a moment among the pushing,
shouting wharfingers and touts. Then she allowed
the leather bag to slip from her grasp and allowed him
to speak.
“After to-day, Miss Sellars, I’ll name my ship
the Lovely Sue!” he declared. “I didn’t know you
were back in these latitudes.”
She regarded him in puzzled wonderment, the
berserk width of him, the brine-blazed skin and shout-
ing voice, reminiscent of typhoons and breaking seas.
There was a shadow of mistrust in her young eyes.
“All I need is a glass of fresh water, Captain
Hayes,” she said at last. “Something out of a filter.
The drinking-water on that old packet I’ve just left
tasted like warm suds.”
With a show of weariness she seated herself on
the pier steps. He had seen lost children sitting just
as she sat, her small hands clasped over her knee, a
look in her eyes that was terribly close to tears. He
swore fiercely under his breath. It was going to be
a pleasure to murder the man who was making Sue
cry. He felt what was coming, and he wanted to
strangle Hop Sing without delay.
Then, nimble-footed as a schoolboy, he dashed
off to the pierhead, where Jimmy Clark, the Customs
agent, kept a filter of ice-cold water. In a few
minutes he was back on the steps where Sue was
fanning herself with a palm-leaf.
She drank the water gratefully, wiped her lips
with a strip of lawn, then favored him with an oddly
wistful smile.
‘ ‘ FV AD took the circus on the grand tour,” she told
him at last. “He’d heard there was money in
Singapore and Calcutta. Cooper and Bailey had
cleaned up ten thousand on their last visit. But Dad
overlooked the fact that he wasn’t Cooper. We’d only
one lion and a tiger that looked as if it swallowed
the last of the hymn-books.
“In Bangkok they know what
tigers are. They offered it sticks of
candy and said our lion hadn’t any
nails on its feet. Anyway, Dad never
ought to have risked
the grand tour.
There’s a strand up
India way about a
thousand miles long.
Dad stranded good
and hard all the
way. He stranded so
hard at Rangoon
that the wheels fell
off the monkey-
wagon.”
“And you?”
She smiled up at
him as she finished
the last of the water.
“A rajah sent
me a lot of hand-
painted correspond-
ence and high flap.
He wanted to shed
the light of his pres-
ence where I lived,
to sit near me. He
was sixty. I told
him our gorilla-
house was full. I
left Dad in Rangoon
and did the steward-
ess act to Batavia. I took a job in Van Mayer’s wine-
garden and helped push the stuff over the tables to the
young rubber-planters. I made two pounds a month,
reckoned in guilders, and sent it all to Dad to help
him tide over. Now” She paused to open a
leather purse that revealed one rupee and her lucky
penny. “And that’s how.”
“But this darned abduction?” Hayes broke in
sternly. “How did that jellyfish Olsen get hold of
you?”
The twitch of bitter aloes was in Sue’s lips again.
Her small fists clenched. “Olsen sent a messenger to
me at Mayer’s saying that a package of silk had been
consigned to me aboard his schooner Shanghai Girl.
Would I please come round and sign and then take
it away?
“Silk! I didn’t lose a minute going aboard to
finger it. You’ve just called Olsen a jellyfish. Believe
me, Skipper, he was several. He was so fat he didn’t
know whether it was me or the door that kicked his
shins when he tried to lock me in the cabin. He
woke up when I hit him in the blue of the eye with
my big doorkey.
“Anyhow, he didn’t relish me for a sparring
partner or the row I made over the missing silk. I
didn’t mind being shanghaied so much, or told I’d be
drugged and walloped if I didn’t stop screaming. It
was the bluff about the silk riled me.
“And then,” she went on with her bitter little
smile, “after that fish-owl Olsen had slammed me
(Continued on page 21.)
“Some day, Hop, the mob will see both our heads.
Mine high up on the top spike, yours in the ditch
among the pariahs and the pigs.”


r;
- s
1
i
:
1
IMi
w


ON THE SUNSET TRACK.


YassJ Street, CUNNING.
My son, “Dudley Smith,’’ was eight months old
when this photo, was taken. He has been fed on
Arnott’s Miik Arrowroot Biscuits. He took the
prize at the Baby Show here, winning the class for
babies under six months old, and he was only four
months old at the time.
(Signed) Mrs. A. T. Smith.
mm
*
' : Y
■
Ah
A FIRST PRIZE WINNER,
GUNNING BABY SHOW.
mm
:
a am
: p
\1 V I N C
P I
■■ «L..
ft
vS’
.. . .
m
Wm®
mwma
K.- J±£ j
sms
SB •
&
■
m
mmmm
i i
mM
SI Hi ' M
ISSIi
lihlil
mill
h-Ah’-h;-; ;•
• .
t: •
, l I 1
y.t - tfii-fht **tfy** ti / .h ‘ / t w, * i 1 %
v > ■
u m mm,, WWI H, fflwMgfflimiimMmsim
Always ask yow


into a luxurious little stateroom, I was told about Mr.
Hop Sing’s princely residence at Sourabaya, his
retinues of servants, the silver and gold dinner-services,
the lawns and gardens and the peacocks. I just
screamed through the cabin keyhole for them not to
tell me any more. What did a poor Sydney girl
want? Why had they used force when they’d only
to mention the gardens and the gold dinner-service?
“And that blowfly Olsen with his blubbery hands
believed me!” Sue laughed in her pearl-grey strip
of lawn until her shoulders rocked.
The buccaneer frowned. Here she was turning
to comedy an affair that would have tested the nerve
of the most hardened portside woman.
“How did you break from Olsen?” he demanded.
“And where?”
“He put in at Darwin for stores. I walked ashore
and laid doggo. Old Judge Simmons at the Residency
would have gaoled Olsen if I’d opened out, but I
preferred to have the matter settled with Hop Sing
in person. I waited days and days for something
better than an old Malay prahu to bring me here.”
A silence, and then Hayes came to the point.
“We’d better go in to Sing,” he announced. “And
we’ll make him squawk like a guinea-hen!”
She regarded him thoughtfully. “You’ve been
at him already,” she accused. “Threatening and
storming in the same old way. And about me?”
Hayes flushed to his hair-roots under her search-
ing glance. “I came across Hop’s letter of instructions
to Olsen in that darned
wreck over there! ” He
indicated the bir d-
haunted hull on the
distant reef. “Cost me
a pretty penny to buy
her from Olsen. I felt
sure there had been
dirty work.”
.He waved the
water-soiled document
in Sue’s face. “Olsen
carried out Hop’s
orders. Now that
you’re here to verify
the facts we’ve got
Hop on the hoof. We’ll
share him like a juicy
orange. Chinks were
always my favorite
fruit.”
Sue shook her
head prettily. “We’d
be accused of working
together,” she warned.
“Suppose, for instance,
we blew a cheque for
a couple of thousand
quid out of him and
then started for the
bank at the corner of
the Parade. What’s to
stop him slamming a
cop on our heels and
charging us with black-
mail? What have we
to show we’d given him
anything for his
money?”
Hayes shuffled his feet uneasily, was silent.
“And then,” Sue went on with her winning smile,
“my poor little grievance wouldn’t be worth the price
of a stuffed canary.”
Hayes felt as one being held off boarding a rich
prize. Never again would the chance to plunder Hop
present itself. They had him now if only Sue would
come into line. It explained Olsen’s desperate efforts
to recover the mango-wood box.
Sue stood up on the pier steps and stared at the
few wind-slanted palms that skirted the Parade.
“I’d rather face Hop alone,” she declared at last.
“You see”—she paused, while the blood rose like dark
wine in her young face —“I’ve got a sweetheart in
Sydney. We’re to be married at the end of the year.”
“A damned billiard-marker or confidence man!”
he exploded wrathfully,.-, “Some sticky-haired kid
who’ll live on you for the rest of his days!”
She sighed pleasantly as she ascended the pier
steps. Halting a moment, she stared almost sharply
at the frowning Hayes. “I’m going to Hop now, and
I’m not faking any, chances. When I’m through with
him he’ll lay off white for the rest of his days.”
“You can’t go into that yellow joint alone! ” he
protested.
She laughed at him. “When Igo into a Chink’s
parlor, Hayes, I take a cop with me. That noble,
stalwart friend of man you can see standing by that
pub verandah over there will do. The law, Bully, is
the friend of persecuted females.”
He glared at her. “What are you going to tell
the cop?”
“That there’s been trouble between me and Mr.
Sing. I’m anxious to have the matter explained to
my satisfaction. I’ll ask the cop to wait in the store
while I inflict my presence on Mr. Sing in his private
fly-trap. I’m not trusting myself alone with eighteen
stone of Chinese sticking-plaster.”
The buccaneer choked back a word, clenched
his fists impotently as Sue concluded. “The presence
of the cop will stop Mr. Sing coming the double after
I get his cheque. Now watch me!”
ITH jaw outthrust he followed her as she stepped
* airily down the pier towards the Parade. Going
to get married, was she? He’d teach her the lesson
of her life before she reached Sydney with the China-
man’s wad! Maybe he’d let her keep a little—just a
little!
He stood rigid against the pier rail as she
approached the lonely policeman outside the Sheller’s
Arms. The huge sun-blistered limb of the law unbent
as if by magic the moment she spoke. He seemed
to expand as she explained her mission. His ordinary
man-killing attitude disappeared before her pleading
gestures. The mantle of his protection fell on her
as he escorted her into Hop Sing’s big store.
“Well, I’m kafoozled and damned! ” Hayes
choked, wiping his hot face. “The nerve of a razor.
“After to-day, Miss Sellars, I’ll
name my ship the Lovely Sue."
And that red-necked, fly-bitten cop thinks she’s just
walked out of a convent!”
Hayes counted the passing minutes as he waited
in the shade of the Customs shed at the head of the
pier. He had a view of the Chinaman’s store and
windows behind which glowed the pearls and riches
of Torres and New Guinea. The doors had closed
on Sue and her policeman. It seemed hours before
anything happened. Gangs of half-caste loafers,
Manilamen, Japs and the pilings .of Malayan ports
slunk past the store. And then, suddenly, the shadow
of the policeman fell across the footwalk. Sue
appeared almost instantly, leather purse in hand.
Now for it! Like a well-trimmed little schooner
Sue was heading for the bank at the corner of the
Parade. There was no mistaking the result of her
interview with Hop. His cheque was in her purse.
She was going to cash it for a fistful of notes!
His blood seemed to sob through his veins as
he sped across the road. The sound of his rushing
feet caused her to turn in the doorway, of the bank.
Mechanically the policeman’s body covered her entry
as a battleship covers the movements of a small
enemy-harassed cruiser. At a nod from the watchful
policeman a stiff-shouldered, bull-necked man in a
soiled jersey crossed the road and entered the bank.
The doors slammed on him. That was all.
More minutes dragged while the policeman held
th". door of the bank against invaders. To rush him
would mean a rough-and-tumble that would land
Bully in the local lockup. Bracing himself against
a verandah-post, he held himself in check. But neither
Sue nor the man in the soiled jersey came out. In
his mental preoccupations he had not noticed a second
door leading on to a side-street.
The cunning little jade! He was suddenly halted
in his furious desire to run her to her hiding-place in
the Chinese quarter of the town by a frenzied shout
of warning from the pier. He caught the name of
his brig on a dozen lips.
Hurtling across the Parade, his heart gave a
twisting leap at what he saw. A smoke-fouled steam
tug had crashed into the Leonora’s bows. Aboard
the brig deckhands scampered to and fro. The mate
was bellowing orders, cursing the blind steering of
the tug’s helmsman. From where he stood Hayes
was sure the brig had been holed. Black rage welled
in him. His Leopora! The matchless craft which
had made his name a terror from the Gilberts to the
Barrier Reef!
In a flash Sue and her affairs melted from his
mind. Gaining the dinghy at the foot of the steps,
he pulled with maniac strokes to the brig’s side. In
the tug’s stern the man in the soiled
jersey was proclaiming his innocence of
attempts to ram the brig, while Emery
hurled oaths and threats from the brig’s
rail.
The man in the
soiled jersey shouted to
Hayes the moment the
dinghy came along-
side.
“No harm done,
Skipper!” he called.
“A can of paint will
cover the damage,” he
added, indicating a few
scratches on the brig’s
starboard side. “I jest
came tp ask if you’re
ready to take some
stores aboard.”
“Stores?” The
buccaneer regarded him
in fierce amaze. “I’ve
no darned credit in this
blasted hole! I went
ashore to help that
little girl you saw in
the bank. I’ll be drawn
and quartered if ever
I stand up for a woman
again!”
The tugmaster’s
surprise was dramatic.
“Why, she’s ordered
and paid for a hundred
pounds’ worth of ship’s
stores through the
bank. That’s what she’s
done for you, Skipper!
But first of all she said
I was to give the brig
a friendly bump before
delivering the stores,
jest to inform the cock-
roaches that some beer
was on the way!”
“Shut your blamed
head and bring the
stuff aboard! ” Hayes
growled. “Man, we’re
famishing! ”
Stepping up the gangway, he halted
to draw breath.
“Guess I’ll never understand women! ” he mut-
tered, “or myself either! All she cost me was a glass
of water. I’m game to bet that all she left Hop was
his pigtail to wipe his eyes with! ”
The Power and the Glory...
The old gods are dead, why must you loiter,
Hearkening for a step that never falls ?
The old shrines are void, and in their places
Only the silence of the crumbling walls.
See the horizon, where the sky is holding
All day’s splendor now in one gold core.
Is there no incense from other altars folding,
Dusky in the shadow, something known before?
Chords of olden melody hinted in a new ;
Hoof beats to a pipe’s tune surely sounding through
The. sweet, tautened harp-string that thrums to
diapason
To meet the unimaginable harmony ahead.
Is there not a face there, stooping through the dark-
ness ?
Aphrodite, Mary, or a name unsaid!
N.S.W.
MARRY LISLE.


SON OF DJARO
More Station-Abo. Sketches by
MARY and ELIZABETH DURACK
THE old man sat back from the fire and tapped
out a rhythm on his two little sticks. It was
a warm night by the river. The moon had
not risen yet, and the sky, through the firelit
branches of cedars and coolabahs/ was velvet-black
between the blazing pin-points of the stars.
Below the camp the narrow river lay still as
glass. Sometimes a restless fish caused a momentary
stir, but the occasional answering grunt of a croco-
dile from among the dipping fingers of the palms
was lost in the sound of the plaintive, wild song of
the women and the stamping of the dancers’ feet.
Charlie had taken off his shirt and rolled his old
dungaree trousers to the knees. His chest was closely
scarred, and every rib stood out boldly under his
skin. The firelight, playing on his dark limbs, re-
vealed them as long and sinewy, the limbs of an
old man who had been strong in his day.
Despite the liberal and fre-
quent application of goanna fat,
Charlie’s hair and close-clipped
beard had long since turned a
scrubby grey. His eyes had lost
the deep darkness of youth, but
the sight was still good and keen.
They held an expression of half-
amused, half-melancholy bewilder-
ment, as though he saw life as a
mingling of humor and saddess and
a certain elusive mystery. To-
night they were a little apprehen-
sive, too, as they gazed abstract-
edly into the fire.
His mind was not on the corroboree. He was
wondering what would be the outcome of it all. Per-
haps the rain would be forbidden to fall at the
appointed time. The rivers would dry up. Or per-
haps some terrible sickness would descend upon them.
It was difficult for Charlie in that he himself was
not without sin among them. Only by dint of
much ingenuity had he managed to reconcile his own
marriage with the decrees of the law-
givers. It had been, he admitted, a
“little bit wrong.” As belonging to
the “skin” class Jungalla, Nungalla
was his sister according to the com-
plicated tribal reckoning, but he had
managed to justify his deed on the
grounds that he had been visited in
a dream by the spirit of his totem
animal, the little goanna. The spirit
told him that in the case of his mar-
riage with Argylla, as the whites called
her, he was exempt from strict obser-
vation of the law.
He looked across the fire to
where a young lubra, clad scantily in a sarong and
a string of glass beads, was seated with her back to
the dancers, watching them over her shoulder.
Much as he would have liked to do so, it was
impossible for him to dream another convenient visi-
tation on the part of his little goanna, for of the six
single boys, in the community it so happened that
Norah was either the tribal mother, mother-in-law or
daughter of each of them. If she had been just the
“skin sister” as Argylla had been to him he might
have dreamt the situation to a satisfactory conclusion,
selecting for Norah the boy he considered most suit-
able for her husband, but in the circumstances it
was unthinkable.
Had Norah been one of many it is doubtful
whether she would have caused much heartburning
in the camp. She was
singularly unattractive with
her heavy features and
spindle legs and splay
feet, but in the eyes of at
least half a dozen young
men she was “passing
fair.” There was nobody
else.
In the old days a
difficulty such as this
would have been easily
overcome. The men
would have gone off in
the walkabout season and
selected each a wife of his
complementary “s kin”
from some bush camp in
the vicinity. But things
were different now. The
tribes had dwindled and
broken up, and there were
few bush encampments to
be found this side of the
Territory.
Nor was this marriage question the greatest of
Charlie’s difficulties. There was this matter of young
Jacko and Nubbudah’s small son. They had got the
idea that, because their skin was lighter by a few
degrees than that of their fellows, they were only
half black.
'T HIS extraordinary lightness of color that had
appeared here and there among the dark people
these two generations past was something very diffi-
cult to explain away. The charcoal theory, that of
blaming the mother for having neglected to lavish
sufficient coloring on the body of the new-born, was
wearing a little thin. But Charlie and his generation
clung to it desperately, supplementing
it with the suggestion that the mother
had been thinking too much of the white
people, or had looked at them unduly
long.
In this he received the unanimous
support of Polly, who insisted that her
two paler-complexioned offspring were
full brother and sister to her other three,
of whose undiluted black blood there
could be no shadow of doubt. Polly was
indignant when the mission laid claim
upon her Daffodil, but she consoled her-
self that Jacko was left to her, Jacko
who was going to prove to them all that
he was as genuine a son of Mireo as the
darkest of his brothers.
Jacko had never displayed any desire for the
white man’s company in preference to that of his
own people, and when he was considered old enough
he took a wife, one Nelly, who belonged to the right
marriage “skin.” It was a proper “straight” match,
and Polly and old Charlie were very pleased.
Nelly was a good-looking, amazonian type of
varied experience who ruled over the kitchen quarters
even as Nubbudah ruled in the house. She had
regarded Jacko from the first with sceptical good
humor. Nelly was never a great talker. She listened
and sniffed and coughed, and quite frequently she
spat, and into each of these actions managed to impart
a maximum of superiority and slightly contemptuous
amusement. One side of her face invariably swelled
over a lump of tobacco which she had a habit of
throwing around her mouth with her tongue to the
accompaniment of a loud sucking noise. No one
knew what Nelly really thought about anything, except
that she had a rather poor opinion of the combined
intelligence of her associates.
In the walkabout season, when the station com-
munity went off on a protracted bush holiday, Nelly
and Jacko accompanied the rest. Jacko went back to
the forgetful, wild ways of his mother’s people, just
as the others did, but when he and his companions,
stripped for action, were setting off together to spear
kangaroo, Nelly’s shoulders always heaved in a sup-
pressed spasm of laughter.
Charlie thought the boy was dancing dispiritedly
to-night, though his light flesh was slashed with bars
and symbols of white mundic, and his wrists and
ankles were encircled with rustling branches.
Nelly was chanting among the other lubras and
beating her thighs to the rhythm of the dance. When
the firelight caught her
features Charlie saw that her
full lips expanded from time
to time in a smile of secret
mockery.
The dancers gave a last
exultant shout, turned in line
and ran out of the firelit circle. The dance was over.
The cleared space where the earth had been beaten
to a powder under the excited feet was littered with
feathers and broken leaves that had been shaken from
the performers as they stamped. The risen dust lin-
gered in the still, warm air. Its odor, that of the dry
earth, was distinctive from the mingled scents of fat
and sweat and roasting kangaroo. Presently the
dancers returned again and threw themselves down
around the fire.
Charlie looked from one to another of them and
sighed again for the “good old times” he remem-
bered. The carefree band that sang so lustily at night
in the camp by the river and raised the red dust on
the bank in time of the corroboree was drifting now.
Fewer and fewer children were reared in the camp
as time went on, and very small was the generation
growing up to take the place of the old people, who
remembered the time when the native tribes held
undisputed right from coast to coast.'
THEY were good old days, as Charlie remembered
them —the days when Pumpkin had been “King
of Argyle.”
The native station community had been a
small one at that time. There were only the young-
sters, Boxer and Ulysses, and old Annie, who helped
with the work about the house, and Pumpkin and
his young wife Violet.
It was Pumpkin who had handed down to Charlie
the tradition of kingship. Boxer and Ulysses, Pump-
kin had said, were more the smart, “flash” type of
fellow who didn’t stick at things “quiet and steady”
like his own and Charlie’s kind.
“By-an’-bye,” Pumpkin had prophesied, “there’ll
be a big mob campin’ in round the house here, and
they want somebody gonna keep an eye on things—
see they don’t get fightin’ an’ outa hand. I’m gettin’
an old man now. Gotta die some day.”
Charlie leant back against his tree dreaming of
Pumpkin and the good days that were gone.
Jacko had pushed aside his last drawing and
fallen asleep on his arms, and Nelly was dozing at
his side, her head pillowed on the flank of a lean,
spotted dog. Even Fred and young Friday and
Dodger were slumbering peacefully.
He rose, stretched his legs and went down to the
river to get a pannikin of water. It was bright moon-
light now, and a little way along the bank, half hidden
in the shadows, a blackfellow sat with a fishing-line in
his hand.
Charlie dropped his pannikin and stood rigid
with fright. He must have forgotten and used the
name of the old king instead of the usual “ole-man-
where-’im-bin-die.” It was his own fault. He had
called up the dead out of his sleeping.
Charlie had seen Pumpkin sitting by the river
like that years and years ago, telling him how the
blacks caught fish in
Queensland, and how be-
hind the times they were
in the West. Th a t
bearded old figure with
the hat pulled over its
eyes—how well Charlie
remembered it!
“Ole man! ”
he whispered.
“Ole man!”


In that in-
stant a fish pulled
sharply at the
end of the line.
The ghostly
fisherman pulled
it in and landed
it skilfully on the
rocks. “B
catfish! ” -
The ejacula-
tion did not sound in the least spiritual. The
fisherman looked up and vouchsafed a friendly
nod in the direction of the terrified old man. Charlie s
stiffened limbs relaxed. With exaggerated casualness
he picked up his pannikin, filled it and took a few
steps towards the visitor.
“G’ night, Boxer,” he said. “Which way you
come from dis time?”
Boxer pointed with his chin northwards across
the river. “Me an’ Jimmy Deacon got a copper show.
Richest thing we struck yet!” He dived into his
pocket and produced a piece of stone. “Just strike
a match a minute, ole man . . . Now, look here” —
CHARLIE always prided himself on being the first
to wake in the camp. He usually took it upon
himself to rouse the community at daybreak. To-
day, however, Boxer was before him, bestirring the
boys from their swags.
A less easygoing old man than Charlie might
have resented, this, but Charlie understood Boxer. He
knew that this sudden enthusiasm for station work
would be shortlived. It would be surprising indeed it
it lasted longer than a few days.
Charlie had always been on speaking terms with
Boxer. There was no rivalry between them as existed
between Boxer and his other contemporaries, Ulysses
and Nubbudah’s father, Jimmy Deacon. Charlie had
never indulged in such white-man pursuits as prospect-
ing with which the other three old-timers delighted
to occupy themselves. He had none of Boxer’s
worldly shrewdness, though he was wise in his quiet
old way.
Boxer’s attitude towards Charlie had always been
one of amused tolerance. He was, in Boxer’s terms,
“a good, harmless ole blackfellow.”
The two old-timers wandered off together to the
yard, where the latest batch of colts awaited the day’s
handling. Things were beginning to stir. Polly and
Norah, enveloped in clouds of dust, had let the goats
out of the yard and were taking them along the river.
Norah had only lately been given the job of
shepherdess. She had always been more or less inter-
ested in the goats. There was something about them
that appealed very strongly to her, and nothing de-
lighted her more than to get into the midst of them
when Polly had succeeded in herd-
ing them for the night. Here she
would mount the largest of the
billygoats, grasp him firmly by his
curling horns and ride him trium-
phantly through the goatly throng.
The more strenuously her steed
protested the greater was her joy.
After her “play about” she
would ascend to the house, never
remembering to wash away the
dust and the odor of the goatyard,
and proceed to assist Nubbudah in
her household tasks. When re-
peated admonitions had proved of only very tem-
porary avail, Norah was finally dismissed from ser-
vice at the house and instructed to assist Polly with
the herd.
Midge and Nelly were already at their milking
in the cowyara. What their methods lacked in system
they made up in excitement and amusement. Bucket
in hand, milk splashing over on all sides, they cor-
nered one cow after another against the rails. If she
was troublesome, Midge held her down by the hind
legs while Nelly milked. The cows seemed to enjoy
it, too.
Boxer watched them critically for a minute or
two, offered a few words of advice (which were
cheerfully disregarded), and walked off.
They were drafting colts in the yard, those that
had already received a week’s careful handling, and
those yet to be broken. They stood in the yard, grey,
chestnut, white and bay, nervously snuffing the air
and tossing rebellious heads.
Jacko, in the thick of the drafting yard, was not
in the best of moods that morning. He found his
companions more than ever stupid and slow.
“Come on, you blackfellows! ” he kept urging
impatiently.
' He was increasingly aware that his “boss” de-
pended more upon him than on the others. He was
smarter and grasped things more quickly.
A track driven by a half-caste had pulled up
early that morning across the river, and Nelly had
been urging him to get through the work as quickly
as possible so he could go over and “have a yarn.”
She never lost an opportunity of encouraging Jacko
to cultivate the company of his
own kind, and hoped that they
would succeed at last in inspiring
the easygoing Jacko to demand
what she considered “his rights.”
Boxer chose an inopportune
moment to tender his ready
advice.
“You’re goin’ about dis all
wrong,” he said. “You don’t
wanna handle ’em too quiet. You wanna keep makin’
a noise, get ’em used to it.”
The upshot of the argument was that Boxer left
in a huff. Without waiting to say “good-bye” to
anyone, he saddled up his mule and his fourteen packs
and whistled to Jimmy Deacon.
Jimmy would have liked to stay longer with his
family, but duty called. He and Boxer made off back
in the direction of their fabulous copper show.
""T OWARDS evening Jacko returned from across
1 the river, prepared to hold out against the world.
“You don’t get nothin’ if you won’t fight for it,”
his friend the truck-driver had said. “You go home
now and tell ’em if they don’t treat you like a white
man you’ll clear out!”
Jacko had long ago made up his mind that any
suggestion of this sort must necessarily be met with
a storm of opposition and protest, but he had been
schooled up to the answers he must give, and with
Nelly at his back was determined to go through
with it.
As he approached the
homestead he began to
have misgivings. They
had been a jolly crowd all
together down in the
camp. He would feel
strange and nervous,
thrust suddenly into the
companionship of white
people on their own foot-
ing.
By the time he
reached the
house he was
almost hoping
that he would be
persuaded against
the step, but he
confronted the
boss boldly, and
poured forth a
torrent of what he had been told were his “griev-
ances.”
He was surprised, and perhaps a little dis-
appointed, when his claims were not disputed, when
he was told that he could be a white man if he liked
and get a white man’s wages and not live in the camp
any more. He had not expected it would be as easy
as this, and now that there was no going back on
it he thought that perhaps it would be a lonely,
rather uncomfortable existence being white.
His decision did not even arouse much comment
in the camp, for another event had occurred to over-
shadow it.
Norah had gone off, as usual, looking for some
missing goats, and night had come on and she had
not returned. There would have been nothing par-
ticularly ' disturbing in that but for the fact that
Duncan had set off late that afternoon on the pretext
of spearing crocodiles, and he too had not come back.
It had never occurred to anyone before to link
vp Norah’s expeditions down the river, after wander-
ing portions of the herd, with Duncan’s newly-
acquired enthusiasm for spearing fish. There could
only be one explanation for all this, and one that
shocked and scandalised every right-thinking native
in the camp. Norah had eloped with her tribal son-
in-law !
DAYLIGHT and four of the boys were due to
set out next day on a droving expedition down
the road. In the intervals of packing up, they
stood around in little groups, discussing the
situation. They rather enjoyed it, if the truth were
known, but they spoke in lowered voices as though
profoundly shaken by the affair.
It would have behoved Daylight in the old days
to have tracked down the delinquents, encircled them
with bewitched bones and energeti-
cally sung them dead. In the event
of the magic powers failing to have
the desired effect he would have
been expected, as official medicine-
man, to act as deputy-executioner
for the evil spirits, and to have
killed the runaways with his spears.
Daylight professed regret at his
inability to carry out this painful
task with the promptness he would
have wished. He feared that press-
ing station matters would force him to delay his tribal
duties until the walkabout time.
Charlie, too, nodded regretfully. When the walk-
about time came he must assist Daylight in the pro-
cess of “singing dead.”
In the meantime they had both to content them-
selves with prophesying the terrible things that would
now befall the tribal territory of Mireo. They must
make the most of the water
while it lasted, for it would cer-
tainly never be permitted to rain
again. They must enjoy their beef
while it was there to eat, for soon
all the cattle would be dead.
Secretly both Daylight and
Charlie were sure that when the
walkabout time came Norah and
Duncan would be far out of reach
of the most potent of evil charms
and the most conscientious of
witch-doctors.
“ ’Nother good station man gone," Daylight
said.
~T' HE drovers, having delivered their cattle at the
township, one hundred miles away, set off for
home again feeling exceedingly pleased with them-
selves.
It had been an exciting trip. The cattle had
rushed twice on the way down, but they had arrived
at their destination with their mob still complete.
Every boy felt personally responsible for this achieve-
ment, just as, had they delivered a few dozen bullocks
short, each boy would have been cheerfully con-
vinced that it was someone else’s fault rather than his
own.
At the river crossing, half-way between the town-
ship and home, the head drover dispatched three of
the boys to collect some stores from the station that
stood a mile or two away. This was Argyle s sister-
station, Ivanhoe. Some of the natives brought up at
the former station have since drifted down to become
part of the other. Boxer distributed his attention
between both stations in the process of his prospect-
ing expeditions, and called in, when he felt so dis-
posed, to exchange reminiscences with his old asso-
ciate Ulysses.
They were a less con-
ventional community at
Ivanhoe than at Argyle.
Anything in the nature of
a novelty delighted them.
Rachael, a new mem-
ber of the camp, had been
a novelty, and as such, the
three boys found, had been
accepted unreservedly into
their midst. It would
never have happened like
this at Argyle, where she
would have been put on
probation for a while and
her qualities carefully
weighed. The Ivanhoe house
staff, to whom work was
a necessary evil, was de-
lighted to find that Rachael
understood housework and
laundry, and was only
too pleased to be placed
immediately at the head of these activities. Nub-
budah. Argylla and Nelly, on the other hand, would
have strongly resented her interference, and scorned
the inference that anyone other than a white “missus’
could show them how things ought to be done.
(i Continued on page 59.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ams.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE TRAFFIC IN FURPHIES.
“Such rumors are wholly hysterical and absurd, and
symbolise the sort of mischief that may be unloosed.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Not the “Sun’s” own finding, but the cabled com-
ment of one of the parties to the latest peace-estab-
lishment move in Europe, exasperated at the usual
outbreak of guesswork. It could stand as a perfect
summing-up on the whole traffic in furphies, except
that “hysterical and absurd” is too mild.
It poorly describes, for example, the class of
furphy of which the “Sun” itself produced a char-
acteristic example on November 1. In this class
circumstantial evidence of a kind so palpably absurd
that it would be booted out of the poorest court of
law on sight is accepted as conclusive proof, and
what is thus “conclusively proved” is served up as
fact without a blush. Thus the “Sun” came out on
that date with the double-column scare-headline: -
MUSSOLINI’S SON SANK BRITISH STEAMER.
The “Sun’s” cable service then stated that Bruno
Mussolini piloted the seaplane which sank the Jean
Weems. Authority for this fiction served up as fact
was “the Barcelona intelligence service.” “Evidence”
in support was the “Daily Herald” word for it that the
“skull and crossbones” was painted on the machine,
and that this was “Bruno Mussolini’s identification
mark.” Then there was “a survivor” who testified
that the ’plane “came from the direction of Majorca,”
and then—final, irrefutable proof—-the Manchester
“Guardian” to the effect that there are more than
100 aeroplanes at Majorca, and all aerodromes there
are under Italian control.
Case proved ; fact established ; and up go the
“Sun’s” headlines.
The matter is not referred to again until Novem-
ber 11, when cables again feature Bruno Mussolini,
this time returning to Italy because “he wants the
thrill of aerial bombing,” but “superior officers, acting
on orders from Rome, will not allow him to run the
risk of becoming a prisoner.”
Exit —temporarily, no doubt —Bruno Mussolini
from the wonderful spotlight of the furphy.
From “S. M. Herald” of November 6:
(1) Packing-cases labelled “merchandise” found in a
mule van bound for La Linea, Spain, which was stopped
by British police at' Gibraltar, contained rifles and
ammunition for Franco. They are alleged to have been
landed from a German steamer.
(2) A French destroyer which was escorting the
French steamer Imerethie (3713 tons) fired several times
at a submarine 20 miles from the coast.
(3) Largo Caballero was arrested as he was leaving
Valencia for Barcelona.
From “S. M. Herald” of November 8:
(1) The firearms confiscated from the mule van bound
for La Linea turned out to be harpoon guns for life-
saving.
(2) Paris officially denied the Valencia report that
the French destroyer escorting the Imerethie fired several
times at a submarine.
(3) Largo Caballero was not arrested.
TJie range of “facts” and denials merely over the
last couple of months include: —•
Sabotage aboard H.M.S. Rodney (“completely
without foundation”).
Torpedo attack on H.M.S. Basilisk (“it may have
been a porpoise”).
Seizure by Germany of Alboran Island (authority,
Madame Tabouis, of the “CEuvre” ; officially denied
by Berlin).
A London journal’s assertion without the
slightest foundation, of course —that Hitler would
“bargain his colonial demands against a free hand
in Central Europe.” (“This outrageous calumny” was
part of the newspaper contribution towards the Halifax
peace mission, which contribution Mr. Chamberlain
has felt impelled to stigmatise as “irresponsible and
highly inaccurate.”).
The Italian steamer Boccaccio, which sank when
“the cargo of bombs she was taking to Spain” ex-
ploded. (Categorically denied by the company’s
lawyers that there were bombs or any other explosives
aboard, and, of course, no further “news” about
bombs, though the crew was rescued.)
This list could be extended considerably without
going beyond the past two months. It does not. for
example, include the mass of furphy and denial touch-
ing on what should be the purely private life of the
Duke of Windsor, or the decent apology made by the
South African Government for similar press specu-
lation on Mussolini’s home life. Nor does it include
matters which are never denied, and probably do not
need to be, since the simplest minds might be expected
to recognise them as palpable invention.
To give one example, the alleged meeting of the
Italian Ambassador and the Japanese Commander-in-
Chief in Shanghai, at which it was mutually agreed
that “Italy would fight hand-in-hand with Japan for
the sake of the anti-Comintern front,” and the
Japanese General declared that the “real enemy was
not China, but something greater hiding behind her.”
As if, to put the matter to the simplest test, any jour-
nalist would be admitted to such a meeting, if it was
ever held, or as if such statements would thus casually
be given out, if they were ever made. Yet the “S. M.
Herald” swallowed this piffle, heading it, in its double-
column scare type: “ ‘Coming Great War.’ Italy and
Japan Hand in Hand.”
Perhaps, after all, this endless traffic in furphies
merits no worse description than “hysterical and
absurd.” It is none the less vicious in its effects on
that account. If it goes on —and there is no sign of
its abating ; on the contrary, there has lately been a
rash of defence for cable services—it may well lead
to a realisation of a prophecy by the English president
of the National Union of Journalists:
If we do not clean up from within we shall have it
done for us. In other words, we are sure to get restric-
tive legislation, and it will be an astonishing reflection
on the newspaper tendencies of the age if we get
legislative encroachment on the liberty of the press
because of the failure of a few folk to observe the
decencies of life. The responsibility of the press is to
work for peace, not war; our efforts should be
directed toward promoting international understanding.
At any rate, furphy traffickers should have their
hands full explaining away their contributions towards
peace on earth and goodwill among men in the coming
Christmas season.
Case for a Select Committee.
A useful power which has fallen into desuetude at
Canberra is the power to appoint select committees
to inquire into questions of public importance without
cost to the public and report while Parliament is in
session. It is a sin of commission which minor and
superfluous legislatures are careful not to commit-
even those with Administrations as addicted as Can-
berra’s to solving problems by referring them to
expensive royal commissions with no intention of
taking their advice —and it contributes to the popular
indifference of which Commonwealth members com-
plain. People would think more of their two Houses
if they showed more interest in things which come
home to men’s businesses and bosoms. A national
Parliament can’t afford to appear aloof; but aloof-
ness is exactly the impression which the institution at
Canberra conveys.
An obvious case for inquiry by a Parliamentary
select committee came to light in Sydney last week.
It originated in what was known as “the wireless
case,” in which the right of the Commonwealth Par-
liament to make laws with respect to wireless was
challenged on appeal to the High Court against a
fine of £1 imposed on a married woman for having
been found with an unlicensed receiving set. The thing
gave the Commonwealth authorities considerable
trouble, and for a time had some effect on public
policy ; for what would be the use of spending large
sums on national stations if it were ruled that fees
could not be constitutionally charged? A.B.C. would,
in that case, be liable for the return of all money paid
for licenses since its inception. However, after exhaus-
tive argument, the High Court found that the power
to make laws with respect to wireless was included,
though not expressly stated, in Subsection V. of
Section 51 of the Constitution (“Postal, telegraphic,
telephonic and other like services); and the appellant
was ordered to pay the costs.
The Commonwealth’s costs amounted to £164.
They were not paid, and after two years the woman’s
estate was sequestrated. Examined by the Registrar
in Bankruptcy, she gave extraordinary evidence. She
said that she was a naval stoker’s wife, wholly depen-
dent on his earnings, and that the summons for having
an unlicensed set had been served, and the fine im-
posed, in her absence. She was told that the sum-
mons had been taken by her landlord, one Morgan,
to Mr. T. F. Williams, a solicitor. At the solicitor’s
request she went to see him at his office. During
that visit she asked him if she had anything to pay,
and he said “No.”
Williams and Morgan came one night and put a
paper on the table. Morgan said “Sign it; there is
nothing in it: he just wants to go to the High Court.”
Witness signed. She read the paper, but hadn’t “the
education to know what it was.” She was told the
only thing she had to worry about if the appeal was
dismissed was the £1 fine and the Bs. costs. She had
never had any account from Williams, nor had she been
asked to pay costs.
Her husband gave evidence to the effect that he
had heard of the proposed appeal to the High Court
while in Fremantle on a cruise, and on returning to
Sydney had called on the solicitor.
Williams said there would be no costs —whichever
way the case went we would not have to pay for any-
thing. I told him that if the costs were going to fall
on us we could not fight it but must let it drop.
The husband asserted that he had been promised
“something out of it if the case were won.”
The hearing was concluded without the solicitor
being called. A select committee could, and should,
call him.
Many, if not most, of the Commonwealth mem-
bers visit Sydney at week-ends. One week-end would
suffice for the examination of the solicitor and all
other pertinent witnesses, and for the production of
all the relative papers. The unpaid bill matters little ,
but Parliament cannot afford to have the Constitution
sniped at by persons in the situation of this unfortu-
nate woman. It should sternly discourage speculative
actions conceived in the Bardell v. Pickwick spirit
(“Wot a werry honorable thing it was of Dodson ana
Fogg to take up the case on spec, and charge nothing
at all for costs unless they got ’em out of Mr. Pick-
vick! ”), and aimed at riddling the instrument of gov-
ernment from which it derives all its powers.
A select committee could have all the evidence
down and its report ready within a fortnight If the
report established that the solicitor was guiltless of
any speculative intent, having been under the im-
pression that his client was a lady of means, with an
intelligent, if mistaken, view of her rights under the
Constitution, and able from her savings as a stoker s
wife to stand the racket of a High Court case, it would
commend itself to people who value the traditions of
the N. S. Wales Bar. And it would be a warning to
philanthropic practitioners to beware of litigious
stokers’ wives.
The Duke Hits Back.
Heinemanns, the publishers, and a certain Geoffrey
Dennis, one of those smart young writing men who
abound in present-day England, have had to apologise
and pay heavy damages for libels on the Duke of
Windsor.
Baiting the Duke became a fashionable pastime
during the abdication period, and Mr. Dennis, who
had written part of a book, dished up all the slander-
ous talk in a spicy chapter. Author and publisher
pleaded at the trial that this was done to discredit it;
but the plea availed them nothing.
Some of the “reports, rumors and suggestions”
were mentioned by Sir William Jowitt, K.C., who
appeared for the Duke. The worst was that “the lady
who is now the plaintiff’s wife occupied before mar-
riage the position of his mistress.” Another was that
“throughout his reign King Edward was giving way to
drink.” It was further insinuated that his late Majesty
had neglected his work, failed to sign important papers
and abandoned a State engagement so that he might
meet the then Mrs. Simpson ; also that “the proposed
marriage was not the real cause of the abdication”—
it was “used by Ministers as a mere excuse to get rid
of a monarch who had shown himself unsuitable in
other respects.” All this contemptible gossip was
denied by counsel, and was disowned by the defen-
dants, who offered humble apologies.
In consideration of these apologies and of the
payment of substantial damages, which are to be
distributed among charities in which the Duke is
interested, the action was withdrawn. But permission
for withdrawal was given “reluctantly and hesitat-
ingly,” and Lord Chief Justice Hewart suggested in
stinging sentences that a criminal prosecution might
follow: —*
In my opinion, it is remarkable that any man
should have permitted himself to write, and any pub-
lisher to publish, the foul, cruel libels which are the
subject-matter of this action. There is not, evert in
the pleadings, any attempt to allege that the libels
were true in substance or in fact. Publication of a
libel may be a crime, because it is calculated to
provoke a breach of the peace. These particular libels,
a jury might think, appear almost to invite a thoroughly
efficient horsewhipping.
After this, the persecution of the Duke may cease.
It has been carried to such lengths that even before
the events of last week there was a decided revulsion
of feeling in his favor. His crowning humiliation
came on Armistice Day, when, having arranged to
attend a service in St. George’s church, Paris, he read
in the newspapers that the incumbent “would rather
he did not attend” —“if the Duke comes to my church
I will not speak to him.” An hour before the service
the reverend gentleman informed the Duke’s equerry
that he “had not authorised the statements attributed
to him” and wanted “to take this opportunity of
publicly apologising,” but the Duke did not attend.
By an extraordinary coincidence, while the Lord
Chief Justice was denouncing the “foul, cruel libels”
repeated in young Mr. Dennis’s volume the news-
papers were publishing advance notices of a book,
King George VI., by Mr. Hector Bolitho, formerly
of Maoriland and Australia. Like Mr. Dennis, Mr.
Bolitho wrote a book on the ex-sovereign, beginning
it while he was still on the throne and adding an abdi-
cation chapter. The first part of Edward VIII., His
Life and Reign, was written in a conventionally loyal
strain, but the abdication chapter was nasty.
Mr. Bolitho alleged that “in the last year of his
life a private grief made King George V. an unhappy
and a disappointed man,” the “private grief” being
the heir apparent’s “friendship for Mrs. Simpson.”
His father/.... called on the Archbishop of Canter-
bury to help in trying to persuade Edward from his
error, but the Prince rejected the advice of both of
them Upon his father’s death Edward apparently
suffered no self-reproach. He went to Fort Belvedere
and stayed away from his mother in hours when his
place was beside her.
At a later date,
His will within remained firm enough to withstand
the touching appeal of his mother’s visit.
It was also asserted by the once-obsequious Mr.
Bolitho that “King Edward became increasingly stub-
born,” “curiously parsimonious” (to the extent of
dismissing old servants and “occupying a servant’s
room at Balmoral”), “bitterly resentful of all interfer-
ence, fantastically vain and wrapped in his own stub-
bornness.” “Some people murmured” that he was off
his head.
The King’s health and reason are said to have
shown the strain of his unhappy state. He blundered
on, falsely loyal to a poor ideal....a man of promise
who came to disaster through the slow disintegration of
his character.
And this is the gentleman who has been chosen to
write an apparently-authorised biography of the
present King! There must be something wrong with
the Buckingham Palace intelligence service.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Little Brighter.
The Nine-Power Conference at Brussels, heralded by
Mr. Anthony Eden as the hope of the world, petered
out as uselessly as the Geneva palavers to which Mr.
Eden has contributed so much chin-music.
The representative of the U.S.A., whose President,
according to Sydney’s “Daily Telegraph,” had
declared for “positive action” against Japan, was
interrupted while the funeral obsequies were in pro-
gress and invited to visit London. He refused most em-
phatically,' explaining that he had to hurry back to
America to attend to private business. It was the
only emphatic thing said at Brussels.
All the same, the general situation is brighter.
Sidetracking Mr. Eden, the Prime Minister sent Lord
Halifax to Germany, where he engaged in frank con-
versations with the leaders of that country. There
seems at least a fair chance that they will lead to
a steady improvement in the relations between the
two nations, neither of which wants to go to war
with the other, though alleged Britons who were
defeatists 20 years ago are bellicose now. At
the same time a party of Italian war veterans arrived
in London, returning a visit paid to Rome by mem-
bers of the British Legion earlier in the year. A blind
Italian soldier made an eloquent plea for the main-
tenance of the old friendship, and Mr. Duff Cooper,
the Minister for War, replied, in effect, that it was
unthinkable that Britain and Italy could drift into
enmity.
In Spain, though fighting has been resumed, there
was a significant lull, during which both factions were
sounded as to the possibility of ending the war. There
has also been some cessation of hostilities in China,
where a patient and long-suffering people has paid
dearly for Chiang Kai-shek’s alliance with the Com-
munists and his “non-aggression pact” with their
masters in Moscow.
In France the Government has discovered a
Royalist plot and is making the most of it. Republi-
can France has never been without Royalist plotters,
but they are never dangerous except when things are
going badly. For English-speaking people, who are
constantly urged to back the shifty manoeuvres of
Paris politicians with their manhood and their money,
the affair of the Hooded Men is a warning that those
politicians have made a mess of things at home and
abroad, and that only if France were invaded would
the French fight as a united nation.
France has become a house divided against itself.
So has Red Russia. For many years a threat to the
peace of mankind because of its world-revolution
policy, Red Russia has become a danger to it for a
totally different reason. Not because it is strong
though the Reds and Pinks who demand another
Russian alliance keep on bragging of its strength and
publishing obvious Russian propaganda—but because
it is weak ; and crowded and confined military nations
know it.
No Occasion for Party Wrangling.
N. S. Wales is showing a healthy interest in the local-
government elections, to be held next Saturday. People
seem to be realising that local government has a
future, whereas the only thing to be done with their
State Parliament is to sweep it away. And signs are
not wanting that local-government electors are revolt-
ing against the transfer of sordid party wrangles to
their useful domain.
There is certainly no occasion for bringing the
Sydney City Council under party domination again.
There are eight Labor aldermen, and there will be
a Labor majority if these seats are held and three
others are gained. The Labor ticket is recommended
to the ratepayers by Mr. Lang’s Inner Group. Mr.
Lang’s Inner Group is not recommended to anyone by
the “Worker,” which points out in the mildest para-
graph of an article in which the history of Mr. Lang
and his associates is traced, that “the Inner Group is
the champion election loser and Labor Government
wrecker in the world.”.
The main task ahead of the City Council is to
restore its finances, which have been so dis-
organised by Labor resumptions and by the
exemption of Government and other properties
from rating (rated at in the £, the owners
would Ijave to pay £189,800) that it went £60,000
to the bad last year—the sixth consecutive deficit
year. There can be no more resumptions nor any
more Bunnerongs, so, at best, Labor control can be
only a hindrance.
The Shabbiness of State Politics.
The Sydney Government sold the State Monier Pipe
Works to a concern in which former employees are
interested, and which wound up its first year with a
loss. Seeking a diversion from the latest revolt against
his leadership, Mr. Lang worked himself up into one
of his wild rages and alleged that the thing had
been practically given away “to the members of the
Inner Group of the U.A.P. for the pecuniary- benefit
of those members’’ and that “this transaction
embraces every crime in the criminal calender—mis-
appropriation, thievery, corruption.”
On the admitted facts, the sale had very clumsy
features. For example, two brothers figured in it,
and when the question of stores and stocks was raised
one brother was found “representing the Government”
and the other “representing the purchasing company”
■—the words are those of a Government auditor. All
the same, if Mr. Lang had made his accusations in
public in the words in which they were delivered
under cover of Parliamentary privilege he would be
sure to hear a Judge advise the jury that exemplary
damages are the proper consequence of the foul libel
of an unjustified charge. The same thing would
happen if he repeated on an unsheltered platform his
assertions, made in another tumult of rage, that the
Justice Minister’s firm “prepared an affidavit that
was a deliberate lie, and used it to obtain probate,”
and that a dentist got a knighthood for sending the
hat round to raise travelling expenses for the Premier’s
wife.
There is only one Lang, and the public wouldn't
be bothered with him if there were no unnecessary
State Parliament from which he could throw mud.
But State politics have an increasingly shabby appear-
ance.
Queensland’s one House has gone into recess
after a short session in which the only noteworthy
business done was the passing of the inevitable Loan
Bill, and of a measure designed to permit the Labor-
controlled Brisbane City Council to increase aider-
men’s salaries to £4OO a year. No session of any
State Parliament is ever without a Loan Bill, and as
a result the State debts, which amounted to
£348,500,000 in 1915, have increased by £515,000,000
in 22 years. The Westralian and Tasmanian Parlia-
ments have very largely become mere instruments for
the authorising of loans and the distribution of Com-
monwealth grants. For this work the Westralian
members, Councillors and Assemblymen alike, get
£6OO a year, having applied portion of the easy money
to the “restoration” of salaries. Tasmanian and South
Australian members have done likewise, although they
don’t get so much.
The Victorian politicians are continuing their
dreary imitation of the quarrel between Commons
and Lords in Asquith’s time. Councillors are willing
to send Assemblymen to the country if the gentle-
men can’t agree, and to send them again if the dis-
agreement persists; but they won’t go themselves.
Much the same position has arisen in Tasmania, where
the Uppah House insists on regarding itself as a copy
of the House of Lords. The Tas. Assembly has
extended its term to five years. The S.A. Assembly
has done the same, and the S.A. Council has been
graciously pleased to sanction a proposal that it should
be elected for 10 years.
Ten years! If an overgoverned and overtaxed
people asserts itself and makes proper use of the
referendum, which State politicians hate and dread,
not one of these superfluous State Parliaments will last
10 years.
Mr. McKerihan Visits Russia.
A successful member of the Join-the-Public-Service-
and-See-the-World Club, Mr. McKerihan, president of
the N. S. Wales Rural Bank, has been playing Marco
Polo in Europe. He returned to give Sydney’s Legacy
Club a glowing account of the progress of Russia, of
which, in a few breathless days, he was able to make
a conspectus without, of course, knowing the
language.
The Russians confided to Mr. McKerihan that
they had the biggest standing army and the biggest
air force in the world. Also “exceptionally large gold
reserves and an industrial output seven times what it
was under the Czars.”
And Mr. McKerihan found that
the general opinion in Europe was that Stalin was a
more moderate dictator than either Hitler or Musso-
lini.
It is certainly an achievement for an Australian to
gauge the general opinion of a continent with
550,000,000 people on a flying visit.
All the same, it would be better if civil servants
kept their opinions about the comparative merits of
foreign Governments to themselves.
Their concern should be entirely with Australia,
whose dictators are so moderate that they have never
yet shot a marshal, an archbishop, an ambassador or
even a bank president.
Must Australia Always Wait?
For over three years the Commonwealth Government
has been on the verge of “doing something”
about trans-Pacific shipping. After the Imperial
Conference it seemed definite that two 26,000-ton
liners flying the British flag would operate under sub-
sidy from the British, Canadian, Maoriland and Aus-
tralian Governments. Mr. Lyons now announces a
hitch in the plans, but frees his Government from
blame.
The effect of the completion of the agreement at
this stage could only hamper Britain in its talks with
U.S.A. on trade.
So that, for the present, at any rate, the control
of trans-Pacific shipping by subsidised U.S.A. lines
will continue.
Meanwhile, the carrying trade in other parts of
the Pacific is fast falling into Japanese hands. British
and Australian concerns are hard put to it to hold
their own.
It is much the same in the domain of aerial
transport. In the proposed U.S.A.-Maoriland service
Clippers are to be used. And the Dutch, whose
ships carry cargo and passengers from British
as well as Dutch possessions to Australia, and
vice versa, are competing with Imperial Air-
ways on the London-Java route, which brings
them within a few hundred miles of the Aus-
tralian coast. They are using U.S.A.-designed Doug-
lasses, which have a cruising speed 70 m.p.h. faster
than the machines which link Australia to Singa-
pore and Europe, and can carry twice the number of
passengers. The Hollanders are pressing their scheme
for the extension of the line to Australia. Should
they succeed they would link with Guinea Airways,
which are using fast U.S.A. (Lockheed) machines on
their Darwin-Adelaide route, and make the official
Australian-European airmail service look comic.
Even the new British flying-boats carry no more
passengers, and are slower than the machines on the
K.L.M. run. Heaven only knows when we shall see
these flying-boats in Australia.
It seems about time that Mr. Lyons began to
realise that, while British interests in trade agree-
ments which concern us are important, our interests
are more important to us. If Britain does not want
the Pacific routes for its shipping and aircraft, Aus-
tralia should put in a claim to them on its own
account. It is capable of building ships and ’planes,
as well as manning them.
Where Australians are Not
Australians.
In area (523,000 sq. miles), the Northern Territory is
more than one-sixth of Australia. The inhabitants
pay Australian taxes, and are subject to Australian
laws; but, unlike the people of the Gulf country and
North Westralia, they have only the shadow of Parlia-
mentary representation.
Under an Act of 1922, the N.T. has a member
in the House of Representatives; but until a few
months ago he had no vote. All Territorians were
disfranchised in respect of national finance and laws,
even those made by ordinance to deal with Territory
matters specially. Their member is now allowed to
vote for disallowance of ordinances. But their elec-
tion is held a week later than that for the other mem-
bers, and counting of votes takes a couple of months,
so that for almost the whole of the first session of
Parliament their man can’t take his seat.
Though the member does his best, this sort of
representation is of little use to Territorians. They
would be better off if they were given a Legislative
Council of their own. New Guinea and Papua have
Councils, controlled by officials, but meeting openly
to pass local legislation.
It is a problem which the Government might well
tackle in the next Parliament when it deals with the
Payne report on the Territory, now being printed.
An Old Man Passes.
“El V.” goes to the funeral:
Few characters meant more to the old bush than the
hawkers. Their wagons brought a touch of color and excite-
ment to hundreds of women and lonely selectors, whose lives
were mostly concerned with sheep, drought, fencing, bush-
fires and flies. Santa Claus received no warmer welcome than
the lumbering tilted wagons which swayed in, covered with
dust, and camped by the too-often-empty billabong.
Hawkers on regular routes were the Admirable Crichtons
of the bush. They pulled the obstinate tooth; they advised
the nervous husband on imminent obstetric duties; they
passed on the news of the countryside. They were full of
lore about the chances of the nags which were to run at
Eromanga or the ’Dangie in three or six months’ time. They
knew who was dead and who was born.
They stayed awhile, and when they left new galatea, mole-
skins and elastic-sides were in evidence. There was more
turkey-red about the children—many were dressed in that
bright color so that they were easier to pick out against the
grey of the bush should they become lost. Supplies of nigger-
head and painkiller had been replenished. The sick horse had
his head up, and the mushroom hat had a new flyveil, which
sometimes descended over the person of the wearer till it
covered her in gauze to her knees. And the first night out the
hawker counted his currency—cheques on Brisbane banks,
shinplasters written on brown paper to some pub or head
station (“Please give Bill Brown five quid for me. [Signed]
James Hairylegs, his mark”).
It was characteristic of the hawkers that, though they
made money and retired and educated their progeny, they
moved inland rather than towards the comforts of the cities.
Sam Nicker, sturdy, jovial, competent to preach a sermon,
cure barcoo rot or curse a bullock team, ended his days at
Ryan’s Well, Central Australia. His son Ben is perhaps the
best exponent of the Arunta language, the inevitable guide
of Centralian expeditions west of the O.T. line.
Sam was known over thousands of square miles. But
the greatest of all was John Ramsay Bennet, just dead.
Bennet was the son of a Scotchman, an engineer. The
father spoke half a dozen languages. He guided the machinery
of the first steamboat to journey direct from Spain to U.S.A.,
had the care of the engines of the steam yacht which Queen
Victoria gave to the Khedive three-quarters of a century ago,
and died at 92, an engineer lieutenant-commander in the
Queensland navy.
J.R., his son, well educated, was a pioneer telegraph
official, but more than half a century ago he founded Bennet
Brothers on the run from Bathurst to Bourke, and soon was
Australia’s biggest hawker. His vans pushed out as far
as Hughenden. In 1898 he began to work the north
exclusively, leaving Cloncurry for the Territory every April, and
coming home in November. His round covered 1800 miles
of bush, through the wild gullies of the Barkly Jump-
down. His two wagons each had 17 horses, his three drays
seven horses to a dray. His bells were heard on every creek
bank through the Gulf country. His stock was worth usually
£lO,OOO, and outbackers got little out of their pastime of
trying to catch Bennet by demanding something that he hadn’t
got—guns, medicine, leather, jewellery, silks, boots, harness,
tobacco. His men were a happy family, some with him for a
generation. To the blacks he was a benefactor.
He accumulated property—stations and hotels and a dairy
farm in Central Queensland. But he continued to live in
Cloncurry, even when age had driven him from the roads
and a new era of motor transport had relegated his business
to the shades. Eventually the old man who had gone north
in a dray came south to Brisbane, where he had been at
school, in an A.I.M. aeroplane -to die.
He was 78 years old. In his lifetime he had seen
almost the whole of western Queensland pass from wild,
black-ridden bush, without comforts and almost without wagon
tracks, to settled country, served with aerial services, schools,
doctors and railways.


INSTANT IGNITION
Price 5/- each.
Made in Australia under
Bosch Expert Supervision
PYROX
LICENCE BOSCH
SPARK PLUGS
2/3fa
C. E. KITCHING PTY. LTD.
15*
m
I!
•w
A ustralias Leading
Specialists in Travel Goods
Gents' Zipp Dressing
Sets, as illustrated,
70/-
Others from 32 / 6
319 George Street, Sydney.
(Near Wynyard Station.)
Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD any person or persons having know-
ledge of the late ELIZABETH MARY (or
ANN) LAMB, formerly Smith, nee Copeland,
who died on the 14th January, 1919, or
LILIAN CROFT, nee Smith, a daughter of
Elizabeth Mary (or Ann) Lamb, kindly com-
municate with PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COM-
PANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney?
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
GEORGE FERRIER, husband of the late
May Ferrier, at one time of Queen’s Parade,
Clifton Hill, please communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
WILL any Solicitor, Banker or other person
having possession or knowledge of a Will of
HENRY ROSS, formerly of Coree Park, Finley,
New South Wales, but late of No. 15 Cochrane
Avenue, Camberwell, Victoria, Grazier, de-
ceased, PLEASE COMMUNICATE with
GAVAN DUFFY & KING, Solicitors, of No,
125 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Points
Hunter, of Maranoa, who was one of
the honoraries, resigned at the week-end.
It was taken for granted that he would
be left out of the reconstructed Minis-
try, though there was no good reason
why he should have been. McEwen
(Indi) goes in as one of the Cocky Min-
isters, and he very nearly became
deputy-leader of his party.
Minister McLachlan refers fo the
defeat of Pearce as “one of the greatest
calamities which have befallen Australia
in recent times.” It may be so, but the
nation is bearing it with fortitude. Even
if McLachlan had been struck down by
a heartless electorate it would have en-
deavored to survive.
Denied “positive action” against
Japan, Sydney’s “D.T.” is demanding an
inquiry into the affair of the Mungana
pipe works. No, the Monier pipe works.
Victorian taxation of Imperial pen-
sions; which is driving Sir Charles
Belcher away from his native State, is
the result of an “amendment” carried
since Dunstan became Premier. The
Commonwealth and British Govern-
ments have for years had an arrange-
ment which protects pensioners and
others with interests in both countries
against double taxation. State Govern-
ments (Dunstan’s is not the only offender)
refuse to recognise it. This is one more
reason for abolishing State Govern-
ments.
The Governor of Alabama, Mr. Dixie
Gray, appointed his Mrs. Dixie Gray to
the U.S. Senate, and Mrs. Dixie Gray is
reported to have delivered an impas-
sioned speech—her first—against a
Federal anti-lynching bill.
She warned her brother-Senators that
Federal intervention against lynching
would destroy State sovereignty.
Roosevelt can’t afford to offend the
Old South, so the right of the Old South
to roast its nigger in the sacred name of
State sovereignty will be preserved.
For the year to June 30, 1936, Austra-
lian imports from the Netherlands East
Indies were valued at £4,928,000 sterling,
and Australian exports to those Dutch
possessions at £1,281,200. For the cor-
responding period of 1936-37 imports
were valued at £6,176,300 and exports
at £1,113,900. In the meantime, Canberra
sent a Trade Commissioner, complete
with staff, to the N.E.I. The Dutch must
split their sides when they read the
figures.
The Returned Soldiers, who had their
Federal congress at Hobart this year,
carried a motion recommending Can-
berra to “encourage the manufacture of
power alcohol from surplus primary pro-
ducts,” specifically sugar. A Queens-
land delegate mentioned that his State has
8500 sugar-growers, who are 90 p.c.
British-Australian, and that no Italians
are employed in the mills, of which there
are 33. Nowadays alien penetration has
ceased to worry the industry that is “the
plaything of politics.” What is troubling
it is the effect on southern opinion of
the spread of Communism among the
caneworkers.
Perhaps the solution of the problem
of a fair price all round which baffles
Australian politicians who meddle in the
milk trade is to be found in municipal
control. Wellington (M.L.) has had it
for many years. During the week in
which Dairy Farmers, Sydney, raised the
price of bottled milk to Bd. a quart the
Wellington City Council fixed summer
prices for milk and cream. Bottled milk
is to be 6d. a quart (the price last
summer was s|d.) and cream sd. a
quarter-pint, lOd. a half-pint and Is. Bd.
a pint, cream in bulk being Is. 44d. a
pint. The Dairy Farmers price is 7d. a
quarter-pint.
Melbourne’s Milk Board has reported
to Hogan, the Minister for Agriculture,
that sixpence a quart for loose milk and
“at least 6Jd.” for the bottled article
would be fair retail prices. Boards and
commissions have a lofty contempt for
the fact that there are no farthings in
circulation. If prices of necessaries are
going to be fixed in farthings there will
have to be a farthing issue.
N.S.W. Deputy Premier Bruxner, who
went to the U.S.A. to see the Coronation,
has become criticial of concrete roads.
This is interesting, considering that pro-
vincial Governments like Bruxner’s have
spent scores of borrowed millions on
concrete roads, many of them parallel
with their own bankrupt railways, as a
“John Bull and Uncle Sam are negotiating a trade agreement.”
Together: “Better see what’s he’s got before I decide to swap bags.”
preliminary to setting up boards, em-
powered to impose almost every sort of
punishment, short of assault and battery,
to prevent private road-carriers using
them. Some of the concrete roads cost
£20,000 a mile. The claim has been
made that a Perth stretch cost £26,000
a mile, but Perth’s proud eminence has
been questioned.
Sydney “Sun” asserted that Watkins,
Scully, Lazzarini, James and Ward,
Ms.H.R., had absented themselves from
a meeting of the Beasley group. Beasley
replied the report was “a downright lie”
—“no such meeting was held or even
proposed.” The “Sun” printed his denial
and repeated that its report was “accu-
rate.” Beasley came back with statutory
declarations made by himself and other
Labor members denying that the meet-
ing had had any existence, except in
the “Sun’s” imagination. It would be
dreadful if this procedure became
fashionable in respect of foreign news.
Ogilvie is the first provincial Premier
to realise that six-o’clock bar closing is
a crazy institution in a State which is
after tourists; and 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
will now be the rule in Tasmania. The
bill just struggled through the Uppah
House, but it is through ; so the Speck
moves ahead of Victoria and N.S.W.
For years it was supposed that candi-
dates for the House of Representatives
were bound by a £lOO limit on per-
sonal expenses, though there is no limit
for party organisations, which spend
heaps more than £lOO per candidate.
Dr. Hornabrook (Henty) and Joe Hamlet
(Warringah), who stood as Independents
in October, refused to sign printed
declarations that they had kept within
the limit, and thereby nominally ren-
dered themselves liable to a £5O penalty.
But it transpires that the penalty can’t
be enforced, the Act being defective on
that point and inexplicit as to what con-
stitutes expenses. Lots of Australian Acts
are defective. Slipshod legislation is the
rule rather than the exception. It is a
case of too many cooks spoiling the
legislative broth.
It is suggested in Dublin that George
Gavan Duffy may be named President
under the new Free State Constitution. A
commentator calls him “a brother of the
Charles Gavan Duffy who was Chief
Justice of the Australian High Court,”
but he is a half-brother really—an off-
spring of the third marriage of the
Charles Gavan Duffy who was Premier
and Speaker in Victoria. The father
(born 1816) was an associate of
O’Connell, and knew men who had been
friends of Grattan and Emmett; the
Dublin son signed the Peace Treaty of
1921 with Griffith and Collins. He signed
as Seorsa Ghabhain Ui Dhubhthaigh.
Where are those “valuable investments”
to which Stevens referred when he pro-
tested that the crool Casey had put him
on a starvation diet of loans (£12,000,000
a year)? He hasn’t indicated the where-
abouts of any. Jackett, M.L.A., has,
however, mentioned that £230,000 was
lavished on silos at Newcastle, “and m
two years they haven’t held a bushel of
wheat.” He added bitterly that
“£2,500,000 is being spent on the Sandy
Hollow-Maryvale railway,” which will
be hopelessly insolvent from birth, “to
boost up the £230,000 silos.”
The world moves, and even Mr. Casey
feels occasionally that, he ought to get
out of his rut. Stirred by some such im-
pulse he admitted the other day that
Australia is not interesting the overseas
investor sufficiently, and that “it is the
multiplicity of taxes which upsets him.”
I hope that in the next 12 months it
will be possible for all the Governments to
get together and remove the taxation diffi-
culties which beset the overseas investor.
It is always possible for all the Gov-
ernments to get together ; the difficulty
is to keep them apart when a confer-
ence is suggested. Action is another
matter. Mr. Casey will never get it
until he applies pressure.
If words could kill there would have
been a wholesale slaughter of Leg. Coun-
cillors in Melbourne one day last week.
That morning the “Age” had told 18 of
them off properly—charged them with
being stupid, arrogant, obdurate, artful,
insulting, bumptious, impertinent, insig-
nificant, dictatorial, petty, obstinate, mis-
guided, small-minded and grotesque.
Found them guilty also of
Effrontery, spiteful levity, oily outward
pretence, contemptuous disregard of proper
procedure, cynical abuse of special
privileges, flouting tradition, grossly ex-
ceeding their rights, flagrantly insulting the
Assembly, presumption, impudent asser-
tion, a “clever” trick, floundering into a
bog, arrant political humbug, descending
to any artful device to score their petty
points, perpetration of a gross political
fraud, being led by amateurs and holding
out an “olive branch” that is a bully’s
waddy.
And the “bully’s-waday” brotherhood
didn’t turn a hair.
Brisbane City Council’s idea of a salary
for its Chief Engineer of Works, Water
Supply and Sewerage (“Works” includes
electricity) is £B5O p.a. Townsville pays
£9OO, plus car-allowance, to the engineer-
manager of its electricity department,
which sells about one-tenth of the
number of units sold by Brisbane
Council.
“Accepting as reliable the Manchester
‘Guardian’s’ report of Germany’s de-
mands, as outlined to Lord Halifax,” “S.
M. Herald” made it the text of a leader.
Two days later it had to print a German
account of the “Guardian’s” account
which nearly scorched the paper—“a
masterpiece of lying reporting” was about
the mildest expression. “Granny” was so
startled that she introduced the latest
emanation from the disordered brain of
a Red Frenchwoman —it purported to
convey the substance of a letter from
Hitler to Mussolini—with the words
“Madame Tabouis alleges.”
A Western complication:
Had Carroll, the Westralian Senator, lived,
he would have had to go up for re-election
last month, and he no doubt would have been
defeated With Pearce and Lynch, though, like
them, he would have been entitled to sit until
the end of June. Marwick, his nominated suc-
cessor, was defeated, and now a dispute has
arisen as to whether Marwick should disappear
straightway or carry on with Pearce and Lynch.
In the terms of one section of the Constitution
(15) he was chosen “to hold the place till the
expiration of” Carroll’s “tefm or until the elec-
tion of a successor, whichever first happens”—
and the election happened first —and it was
further provided that “a successor shall... .hold
the place from the date of his election till the
expiration of the term.” That seemed clear
enough, but Section 7 provides that “Senators
shall be chosen for a term of six years,” and
it is argued that if Marwick has to step down
immediately for Cunningham, the first Senator
elected, Cunningham would, in effect, be elected
for six years and seven months. The difficulty
may call for special legislation.


th#
ar&
-w
ec*c>i
[) of Me
ite
-kinds
Hapsta'W**”
'"SerSi.’
isZ
/Jib
Capstan
g “p% C ! A L
Capstan
NitV
IUM
Capstan
ft/LL
ST&
tNO™
««"*
71 n.7


HOW WOULD YOU LIKE
TO DO OUR LAUNDRY,
MRS. HOUSEWIFE?
Over one and a quarter million articles go
through the washing each year You'd hardly
believe it l But the Victoria Palace is the biggest,
most modern hotel in Australia Last year we
turned a quarter of a million mattresses I Tariffs
are moderate too—4/- to 7/6 Single room;
8/- to 16/■ Double room
201-229 LIT. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C.l (Next Town Hall)
VICTORIA PALACE
Don’t Speculate —
INVEST!
m
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
Annual YIELD over 5f p.c.
CUSTODIAN TRUSTEES:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 (it’s free) to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
Telephone: 85294. 8-14 Bond Street, Sydney. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All_ usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEM
The Tasmanian R.S.S.I.L.A. has
awarded its medal of merit to R. L.
Parker, for “honorary, unselfish service
rendered to the League and the depen-
dants of those who fell in the Great
War.” Parker, a Launceston lawyer, has
been president of the Northern Law
Society and an associate commissioner of
the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commis-
sion.
A. B. (“Andy”) Carrodus, president of
the Queensland Game Fishing Associa-
tion, has been instrumental in forming
an Australian Game Fishing Association
to control the sport. For 20 years he has
been actively associated with the Anaa-
teur Fishermen’s Association of Queens-
land, and has held office as president.
A Northern Zane Grey.
A Yorkshireman, he came to Australia
as a boy and built up a business in Kin-
garoy and other towns. He is a keen
bowler and has represented in many
inter-State games.
Dame Eadith Walker, of Yaralla, Con-
cord (N.S.W.), left £265,000. Most
of her employees benefited, and two
cousins got respectively £25,000 and
£20,000. “Banjo” Paterson’s \fyife, a
daughter of a cousin, W. H. Walker, of
Tenterfield (N.S.W.), came in for £lO,OOO,
and her unmarried sisters were also re-
membered. There were substantial
legacies to members of the Cox and legal
Stephen clans.
G. G. Jobbins succeeds F. W. Clements
as chairman of the Victorian Electricity
Commission and occupies the chair in
which John Monash sat until his death.
Jobbins transferred to the Commission
when it took over the Melbourne Electric
Supply Co. For a time he managed Mel-
bourne and Geelong electric supply de-
partments and Geelong Tramways.
Latterly he has been in charge of electric
supply for the whole State, and for three
years has been president of the Victorian
Electrical Association.
Athol McCawley, son of the Tom Mc-
Cawley, Queensland Chief Justice, who
died suddenly in his early forties, be-
comes associate to James Blair, C.J. His
father was private secretary to the present
Chief Justice when Blair was appointed
Queensland Attorney-General 33 years
ago.
Cecil Wakeley, now visiting Australia,
is senior surgeon to King’s College,
London, and Hunterian Professor at the
Royal College of Surgeons. He is bring-
ing instruments once owned by Lord
Lister to present to the new Australian
Royal College of Surgeons and has come
to conduct the first examination for the
fellowship of that college.
M. C. Longfield, a Queenslander
attached to the Victorian Electricity
Commission, has achieved distinction by
being asked to deliver papers before
the U.S.A. Bureau of Standards Confer-
ence and the American Institute of
Engineers.
“El V.” on a nobleman:
Rarely has Australia been visited by so blue-
blooded an emissary as Earl de la Warr, scion
of the ancient Sackville Wests, who is coming
for the 150 th anniversary celebrations.
Though only the 9th earl, his oldest barony
dates back to 1209. There are only two British
peers whose titled roots are set more deeply
in history, though the title was in abeyance
for a time in the Middle Ages and the present
peer is descended from a mere parvenu branch
of Wests ennobled in 1342. One collateral an-
cestor received the surrender of John of France
at Poictiers, and the family still bears a token
of that event on its arms. Another was Gover-
nor of Virginia before the Mayflower sailed,
and still another governed New York in George
t.’s day. Another shared Nell Gwynne’s favor
with Charles. The mother of the present peer
was a daughter of Australia’s old friend, Lord
Brassey, Governor of Victoria from 1895 to
1900. The visitor is 37, has held several
ministerial offices and has been a Lord-in-Wait-
ing to King George V.
K. C. Wilson, the new S.A. Senator,
carries on a legal tradition. His father,
too, was a lawyer, and his grandfather
a Supreme Court registrar. At the
declaration of the Senate poll, he struck
a genial note by mentioning that his op-
ponents had assured him that they had
no personal objection to himself, how-
ever much they disliked his ideas. Inci-
dentally, he has Lavington and Langdon
Bonython as father- and grandfather-in-
law.
H. C. Trumble, originally a Melbourne
graduate, continues collecting honors as
an instructor at the Waite Agricultural
Institute, Adelaide. It is controlled by
the University, which last year gave him
the M.Sc. (Agric.), and is now confer-
ring a doctorate on him.
Dead in Brisbane at 83, A. M. Kirk-
land, who hid a kind heart behind a
dour Scottish exterior. Kirkland came
to Queensland in ’B3, joined D. L. Brown
and co. and presently launched out on,
his own account. He was president of
the Warehousemen’s Association for a
time, served on the Ambulance Board
for many years and gave long service as
an elder of the kirk.
“E.V.” remembers:
The meeting between Herr Hitler and Lord
Halifax should have interested the photographers.
Hitler is below middle height, and Halifax
climbs into the clouds and has the lean, un-
watered look of a desert guni. I once saw him
walking down Whitehall with Allenby, while
L. S. Amery, at that time Dominions Secretary,
who was stumping along between them, seemed
like Tom Thumb. Cabinet Minister at 40 and
Viceroy of India at 45, he got a peerage as
Baron Irwin before he succeeded to the Halifax
title.
“A. 8.”: A councillor of Amaroo Shire,
(N.S.W.) for over 21 years, and presi-
dent for more than half that time, G. H.
Bowhay has to give up the job because
of ill-health. As president of the N.S.W.
Shires Association he did much good
work, his chief equipment a shrewd
common sense. Proprietor of Buckmbah,
he made his stud sheep famous through-
out Australia. But he is not the type to
get ahead in politics. When his nomina-
tion to the Upper House was under
consideration last year he disagreed with
a certain suggestion —“These things on
my vest are buttons,” he said, ‘ not legs
to help me crawl on my stomach.”
T. N. Henty, a grand-nephew of
Edward Henty, has just died in Laun-
ceston at 67. Son of Thomas, M.L.C.,
T.N. was born at Pakenham (Vic.),
entered the old firm of James Henty and
Co., but came to Launceston 42 years
ago and had for long been in business
on his own account there. He had been
chairman of the northern branch of the
Tasmanian Merchants’ Association and
was a patron of everything musical
around the city.
Hugh Dalton, formerly chairman of
the British Labor party, who is coming
to Australia, is a son of the Dalton who
was tutor to King George V. and his
brother, the Duke of Clarence, and visited
Australia with them in the Bacchante in
1882 ; afterwards he became the King’s
chaplain and a canon of Hugh
was educated at Eton and King’s Col-
lege, Cambridge, won a research scholar-
ship at London University, took his
D.Sc. degree, went to the Bar, served in
the war, became Ernest Cassel lecturer
in Commerce at London University, was
on the Statutory Commission on Cam-
bridge University, and was for a time
Under-Secretary to the Foreign Office. He
has been M.P. since 1924 ; his wife was
elected the same year. He now sits for
Bishop Auckland, the seat which she
previously held.
Frederick Bridgman gave so much of
his earlier career to the affairs of the
Adelaide Steamship Co. that it is only in
recent years that he has been able to
take golf seriously. His first trophy win
in competition play was celebrated the
other day by a dinner given by his
friends at which the original of Frith’s
FREDERICK BRIDGMAN Shipping
Man and Golfer .
drawing was presented to him. Bridg-
man has been g.m. of the Adelaide co.
since 1926, and is a director of John
Brown and the Abermain-Seaham Col-
liery cos.
Dead last week in Dubbo A. K.
Trethowan, another Creswick (Vic.)
native—the birthplace of Norman Lind-
say and many other prominent Austra-
lians. He started in his father’s auction-
eering business, but left to become a
grazier and wheatgrower in the Riverina,
gradually taking over a number of
A.K. TRETHOWAN.
properties. The Farmers and Graziers’
Co-op. Co., of which he has been
managing director for 20 years, was his
own baby. Trethowan tried to enter
politics, once for the N.S.W. Assembly
and once for the Senate, getting in
eventually as a N.S.W. M.L.C. and in
his later years wielded a big influence in
the Country party. Last year he was
knighted.
S. G. McFarlane, official secretary at
Australia House, is to take the place of
H. C. Brown, who retires from the Com-
monwealth Auditor-Generalship after
holding the job for a couple of years.
McFarlane is 52, joined the Common-
wealth Treasury in 1903, was accountant
to the G.P.O. in three States successively
and financial inspector to the Defence
Department for three war years. He
later became Assistant-Secretary to the
Treasury, and secretary to the Loan
Council and the National Debt Commis-
sion.
“Nagheer” meets an old hand:
I’ve just been talking with Edward Armitage,
who saw the Burke and Wills expedition leave
Melbourne in 1860 on its disastrous journey,
and who helped capture Queensland’s only real
bushranger, the “Wild Scotsman.” Armitage
built the first loco. Maryborough ever pro-
duced, still working as a stationary engine at
Hyne and Co.’s sawmill. A few dozen railway
bridges on the main north line, and the Fraser
Island timber railway, interest him as memories
of past achievement, and his plain, unassum-
ing, even apologetic, statement of how he had
to lay out Long Peter with a waddy instead of
his fists would constitute an Australian epic.
Long Peter was a 6ft. abo. who, with a few
friends, attempted some 70 years ago to delay
young Armitage’s 260-mile weekly mail ride to
Gladstone. Ninety now, Armitage is still
going strong.
India has lost its leading scientist and
one of the world’s greatest botanists in
Jagadis Chandra Bose. Bose took high
honors at Cambridge, and at
27 became professor of
physics at the Presidency
College, Calcutta. His first
research work dealt with
electricity, but later studies
were to prove the identical
physical nature of animal
and vegetable life. He
showed the identity of the reactions
of plant and animal life to poisons and
shock and produced a number of drugs,
some of which are used in standard medi-
cal practice. He founded the Bose
Research Institute and was the first
Indian physicist to be elected an F.R.S.


" You’re right . . .
.. . can tell
White Horse
I;
4*:
HgjSg
a
White Horse has its own distinctive fragrance: you could
judge the whisky by its aroma alone. But you have your palate to
tell you as well: mellow smoothness such as this is a pleasure to
remember, a joy to find again.
A magnificent foundation for long, cool , summer drinks
Screw-cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices
2548 A.


Xo>
\w
\e6®
\W e
f tWe
eats
2,b
tvv
st#v
xn e
SiS*
d e
e\°V
Aev
vu e
\ess
fWc
dv^' vl^
etd
W
W»
toa 16
e^\
a\S a
\e&®
a\
\tfv
Y?vt e
\\ets
tta ve
tta©
tot?
o*
(acttt
\v\W M
uvs
Aatto^
atvtt
attttt
iso
atv
\W e
itvg
xVtvg
ttvte
<\o^
f%c
dcas
kVtv?.
Wt° a
Weattt
\j t ea
vast
tttv©
\esSi
tW e
nee
p\°
Wow?
&ea
frotw
teVeV
Wa
atvs
\es®
tn e
M
\es
v^tt e
tat e
att
Wtvs
&eP a
tat* 1
to^t
l\vat
Wtttt®
Af
atv
cos
vW e
r\ca^
dist^
A^ c
Witt eS
at*
Svc
rOY®
iac
fact
uotv
vWettt
tvica
Sott
mvtvtv
tVve
\vas e
CO
lit
OtVS
et?
\acc
esst
OSS
dvatvc 6
Was
♦Wat
vftt e
Wc?
atv
WaW
e et
iotv
i®
tof
W»
ot
frotvt
ltv
<ote
Yes®
tW®
ivv
s*
\e®»
BEAM WIRELESS SERVICE
BEAM PICTUREGRAM SERVICE
OVERSEAS RADIO TELEPHONE SERVICE
PACIFIC ISLANDS WIRELESS SERVICE
COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
MARINE WIRELESS SERVICE
AIRCRAFT RADIO SERVICE
RADIO.ELECTRIC WORKS
BROADCASTING
radiola receivers
VALVE MANUFACTURE
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL
WIRELESS ORGANISATION
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LT
I


Of an Inventive Genius
RUMPELMAYER'S
BY J.B. BLAIR.
DRAWING BY UNK WHITE.
IT’S an oft-stated fact, but none the less true, that
the world’s greatest inventors are not the Edisons
and Marconis whose praises all the world sings,
but the humble unknown geniuses whom no one
has ever heard of —the chap, for instance, who
invented toothpicks or the fellow who first, long ages
ago, hit upon the idea of a flat-bottomed beer-mug.
Such a one was my old school pal Eddie Rumpel-
mayer. We nicknamed him Eddie after Thomas
Alva, though with the scales of fortune tipped the
other way T.A. might well have been nicknamed
Rumpy. For Rumpelmayer was a born inventor;
indeed, his mother used to relate how at the age of
three months he evolved from a rubber dummy an
effective flycatcher which would doubtless have
wrought great havoc among the flies of the house
had he been allowed to persevere with it.
The incident was symbolic of what was to happen
to all his brainwaves throughout his life —something
always occurred to bring his efforts to naught just as
he was about to reap the reward of his endeavors.
Well, a chap like that deserves a break some-
times, and it certainly seemed as if his luck had turned
when he ran into me in Pitt-street a few days after
that color-blind artist I’d made a genius of left me in
the lurch.
“If it isn’t Eddie!” I hailed him. “Come in and
have one.”
We went into the Exchange.
“How are the old brainwaves?” I asked when
we’d got the first one down.
“They still come occasionally,” he admitted. “In
fact I’ve got one just finished that’ll make me a
fortune.”
“What is it? A silent radio or a scheme for
making banknotes out of newspaper?”
“Neither,” he answered seriously. “The radio’s
the nearer guess of the two. I’ll tell you what I’ll do.
I’ll show it to you.”
He took me to his room in Darlinghurst.
“A bit untidy, I’m afraid,” he apologised as he
cleared from one end of the table the remains of a
meal, a pile of books, a cage containing some guinea-
pigs, a small retort, a few bottles of chemicals and
half-a-dozen gramophone records.
“Here, hold this.” He handed me one of the
records. I looked at it. “Colonel Bogey March,”
played by the Coldstream Guards Band.
Rumpelmayer unearthed a portable gramophone
from among the debris in a corner of the room and
placed it on the table. He wound it up, took the
record from me and set the instrument going.
“What’s the idea?” I began.
“Wait.”
I stood quietly by till the ■ piece was finished. “I
don’t see,” I said. .“You’re not going to tell me you
invented that machine. It’s an ordinary H.M.V. So’s
the record.”
“You wait a moment.” He gave the handle a
few more turns, put the needle on the record again
and stood back, waiting for my applause.
This time I didn’t know the piece. Anyhow, we
didn’t seem to be getting anywhere.
“Look here, Eddie,” I protested, “you brought
me here to see your invention, not to give me a
gramophone recital.”
“There’s the invention!” he crowed.
I stared. Then I had a sudden suspicion.
“Hey,” I said, “did you turn that record?”
He grinned like a kid that’s asked you a riddle
and is pleased you’re on the scent. “No.”
“Honest?”
He stopped the
machine a moment and
showed me. It was still
“Colonel Bogey” all
right. I was properly
puzzled. Then I thought
I saw daylight.
“I get it,” I said.
“You’ve got two tunes
on the same side of
the record.”
“It’s an ordinary
record,” he answered.
“Yes, but you’ve put another tune on it. That’s
your big idea, isn’t it?”
“Not exactly. But don’t you recognise the tune?”
“No.”
“You’ve heard it hundreds of times. Every band
plays it. You can hardly go to the talkies without
hearing it. Turn the wireless on for half an hour
and you’ve an even chance of hitting it.”
“I still don’t know it.”
“But you heard it only a few minutes ago—the
first tune I played.”
“Oh, that was ‘Colonel Bogey,’ but”
“So is this.”
Well, music has never been my strong point,
but this was too much for me.
“Cut it out,” I said. “No more jokes. What are
you driving at?”
“No joke about it. That was ‘Colonel Bogey’—
played backwards. If you take the morning paper
and read it backwards it’s still the morning paper,
isn’t it?”
“Yes, but”
“Well, this is still ‘Colonel Bogey.’ See this
gadget? That’s what does the trick. Plays the record
in reverse, from the centre outwards. Rumpelmayer’s
Reverser I call it. It’s going to make my fortune.”
A LITTLE further demonstration convinced me
that Eddie was telling the truth. He had stumbled
on a discovery that ordinary straightforward inventors
like Edison and Marconi would never have dreamed
of. Sheer genius it was ; here was Eddie, by means
of a simple gadget costing only a few shillings, doub-
ling at one fell swoop the musical assets of the world.
“By love,” I said, “you’re on a fortune all right
if you go the right way about it!”
“I’m not making any mistakes this time,” he
told me. “I’ve been foolish before and lost good
opportunities, but I know better now. I’m going to
patent it and make my fortune.”
“How?”
“By. selling it. Luckily I’ve got a bit of capital
at present; enough to start manufacturing in a small
way. I’ll soon build it up.”
I looked at him in amazement. The poor chap’s
simplicity was almost incredible. “So you’re going
to make a fortune that way? What do you intend to
charge for the gadget?”
“Well, I can make the things for two bob. With
a big output such as I’m reckoning on I should be
able to halve that. I thought of asking ten shillings
for them. That’s a fair price to the consumer and
gives me a clear nine shillings on each Reverser.”
He was positively beaming at the prospect.
I shook my head sadly.
“What’s up?” he asked. “D’you think it’s too
much? After all, it’ll be a darn handy thing to have
about the house.”
“Look here,” I said. “You might be an Edison,
but if you’ve any ambition to be a Rockefeller as
well you’d better put yourself in my hands right
away.”
“Why? What”
“Ten bob! ” I murmured in disgust. “Why don’t
you give it away with a pound of tea?”
“Well, I did think of getting one of the coupon
companies to take it up,” he replied, taking me
seriously. “Then I thought it’d be better to take the
profit myself,”
“So you decided to give it away for the purely
nominal price of ten bob?”
“Give it away!”
“Now, listen. How many
records do you think the average
gramophone-owner would have?”
“Oh, I should say about fifty
or sixty.”
“It’s probably on the low side,
but we’ll take it. Say sixty. Some
of them’ll be cheap things at half-
a dollar or four bob, and some’ll
be dearer. A few celebrity records
may have' cost him twelve-and-six
or fifteen shillings. We’ll keep it
low. Say five shillings on the aver-
age. Right. Sixty times five bob
is fifteen pounds. That’s what your
customers’ records have cost them.
Now you’re going to come along
and with one wave of your magic
wand”
“Wait a bit. It’s a reverser,”
he chipped in. “Rumpelmayer’s
Reverser.”
“Right-oh, then. With one wave of your
reverser you’re going to double their records for them,
give ’em another fifteen quids’ worth. And you’re
going to do it for ten bob. That’s not business! It
isn’t even philanthropy. It’s just plain stupidity!”
“Well, if you put it that way p’raps it is rather
cheap. Perhaps a pound?”
“Perhaps nothing! We’re not out to keep our-
selves off the dole. We’re out for big money.”
Already a cut-and-dried scheme had matured in the
old brainbox.
“What do you suggest?” asked Rumpy meekly,
swallowing the “we” without a protest. “What’ll we
sell at?”
“We won’t sell at all.”
“Then what” ——
“You intended to sell the public a gadget that
would extract new tunes from all their old records?”
“Yes.” ./
“Well, we’re going to stick to the gadget and
just sell the new tunes. Get me?”
“No.”.
“Take that backwards version of ‘Colonel Bogey.'
Can’t we play that, record it on a master record and
stamp off hundreds of copies?”
“Why, yes—so we can! ”
“Well, we’ll do it and we’ll sell them. Our costs’ll
be below anyone else’s because we won’t have to pay
royalties, and our records will be absolutely exclusive.
There’ll be no overlapping with other companies’
products.”
He began to see it, but was a bit dubious. “Will
it be honest?”
“Of course it will. It’s your idea. Honest!
Why, we’ll be public benefactors! Who knows what
treasures are locked away in that heap of records?” I
pointed dramatically to the shelf. “Rumpelmayer’s
Reverser will reveal them to the world. Why, it’ll
be a pleasure to make a fortune that way!”
t
J T didn’t take us long to get the plan under way.
1 Luck was with us. We found a little record factory
that was on its last legs. The proprietor was glad to
take a few hundred and stand from under. We got
to work at once. There was no need for the workmen
to know anything about it. We made the master
records ourselves, and they were only concerned with
the copies. The recording we did at my old home
at 26 Polly-street, which was styled our city office and
audition-rooms.
Our first record was the “General Par March.”
It created quite a furore and sold like hot cakes. One
of the military regiments immediately adopted it as
its regimental march. It was, of course, the back-
wards version of our old friend “Colonel Bogey.”
“General Par” put BAKTA records on the map
right away, but almost immediately a problem cropped
up. Ffom the fan-mail of the radio stations came
a query. What was the name of the composer?
“Gee, we’re shot!” moaned Eddie.
I was a bit worried myself for a moment. I
hadn’t thought of that.
“We’ll have to tell ’em something,” I said. “Let’s
see. One of those Russians, wasn’t it?”
He stared. “You know darn well” he began.
“Of course I know ; but it’s got to be one of
them. You know more about music than I do. Give
us a name that sounds likely.”
“Well, there’s so many of them I don’t know
which is” v
“That’ll do,” I interrupted. “Vitchisvitch.”
“But there’s no such composer.”
“Oh, yes, there is. He’s just been born, and he
wrote the ‘General Par March.’ He’s an unknown
Russian genius, and he’s going to write a whole host
of other pieces. He’s very shy and retiring; lives
entirely for Art and shrinks from contact with the
world. He’d sooner shoot himself than face a
reporter, and he leaves all his business entirely in
our hands.”
“Gee, that’s decent of him,” said Rumpy.
So the story went forth to the world, and
Vitchisvitch, Rumpy and I got down to business in
real earnest. We were soon putting on extra men at
the factory to cope with the work. Vitchisvitch’s
versatility was amazing. Pianoforte, violin or ’cello,
symphony orchestra or military band —it was all the
same to him; he produced the opus with the same
unflurried calm.
For my part, I’d never had such an easy sales
job in my life. To start with we concentrated on the


radio stations, and when they made the records suffi-
ciently well known to the public we unloosed them
on the gramophone-shops. Soon everyone was talking
Vitchisvitch.
“There is a subtle something about ‘The Dissolute
Bachelor,’ ” said the announcer on 2AZ in introducing
that piece to his listeners, “that makes me so bold as
to predict that it will be the waltz hit of the decade.
I’ll go further than that! This piece will capture the
dancing world as no waltz has done since ‘The Merry
Widow.’ ”
He was right, as indeed he should have been,
“The Dissolute Bachelor” being nothing more or less
than “The Merry Widow” in reverse.
Similarly, “Rustle of Spring” under the magic
influence of Eddie’s Reverser became “Autumn Winds”
and “The Moonlight Sonata” emerged as “Dawn
Serenade.”
The naming of the records was my job, and I
got quite a kick out of it at first, but when Rumpy
started putting such things as “Capriccio, Op. 76, B
Minor,” and “Rhapsodie, Op. 119, E Flat Major,”
over me 1 was stumped.
“What’s the idea?” I asked. “Can’t you reverse
something with names in plain English instead of
shorthand?”
“Oh, that’s just their number,” he told me. “The
composer didn’t trouble to name them.”
“Like his nerve leaving it all to Vitchisvitch,” I
retorted. “What’ll I call them?”
“Doesn’t matter much. Call ’em what you like.”
So they went forth as “The Moujik’s Lament”
and “Massacre in A Flat” and inside a week were
among our best-sellers.
<«~THIS one ought to be good,” I said one day,
' picking up an old record labelled “Unfinished
Symphony.”
Rumpy laughed so much I nearly threw the record
at him.
“You big chump,” he spluttered, “how on earth
can we play it backwards when it hasn’t got an end?
There’d be nowhere to start from.”
“That’s tough,” I said. “I s’pose that cuts out ‘The
Lost Chord’ and ‘The Broken Melody’ too.”
But Eddie had gone off into a deep trance.
Presently he emerged with a sigh.
“Sorry, old chap, but I thought you
Were trying to kill the beast.”
“It’s no good,” he said. “I’ve just been trying to
think up a way of doing songs backwards same as
we do instrumental records, but it can’t be done.”
“Why not?”
“Well, you can’t speak words backwards. They
don’t make sense.”
“Does that matter?”
“Of course it does. It’s no good singing words
people don’t understand.”
“Are you sure about that?” I asked. “That
Italian opera singer you’ve got there.” I pointed to
the shelves. “Can people understand him?”
“Well, some can.”
“Not everyone, though.”
“Er—no.”
“And those that can’t understand the words—do
they still enjoy the music?”
“Of course.”
“That’s what I thought. We’ll go ahead with the
songs right now. Can you understand Russian?”
“No.” , _
“Neither can one person in a thousand. Our
songs’ll all be sung in Russian. Vitchisvitch and his
friends’ll sing them.”
We started right away by reversing those fine old
ballads “Silver Threads Among the Gold” and “Love’s
Old, Sweet Song.” The former was rendered by the
young Russian tenor Arfa Quaveroff under its new
title of “My Blondie’s Gone All Platinum,” and the
latter, disguised as “He Loved Me and Left Me,” was
sung by another unknown genius, the sweet young
soprano Ima Crotchetova.
These two songs were on the two sides of the one
record, and their release brought an immediate flood
of inquiries for other records by the same artists.
“I can’t speak a word of Russian,” one fan wrote
to Station 2AZ, “but I feel I can understand every
line of those two songs. How true it is that Art
needs no language.”
BY this time rival record manufacturers, jealous
of the success of BAKTA records, had been mak-
ing inquiries and were beginning to spread statements'
that there was no such composer as Vitchisvitch.
We repeated our first story and added that Vitchy’s
family had been deadly enemies of the- Soviet and
that even now the poor chap’s life was by no means
safe. This gave further point to his dodging of pub-
licity. We had no need to say more. Vitchy’s fans
took up the cudgels on his behalf, and the papers
were for a while full of letters condemning as heresy
any criticism of such a genius.
Meanwhile we kept on turning nocturnes into
preludes and fugues into sonatas as fast as we could
place the output, as well as turning out scores of
songs by our team of Russian songbirds. Presently
another problem cropped up.
“I a Russian am, and my ten friends also,”
wrote a listener to 2AZ. “In Moscow born,
and living in Australia ten year, and pretty
good too. But this Arfa Quaveroff we hear
him sing ‘The Dumb Waiter’ [late “The Blind
Boy”], and we write to tell he sing not the
Russian at all. Any language whatever but not
the Russian.”
“What’ll I tell him?” asked the station manager
when he ’phoned me. “1 know Vitchisvitch is a Rus-
sian, but so are these fellows. Why can’t they under-
stand him?”
“Quick! Give me that atlas!” I yelled to Rum-
pelmayer. A few seconds later I was able to explain
to 2AZ, and through it to the world, that Vitchis-
vitch was a native of Russian Turkestan and his
songs were of course written in the Uzbeg dialect.
Peace with honor again!
It wasn’t long before we began to get stuck for
songs. There were still thousands of pieces untouched,
of course, but somehow our new releases didn’t seem
to click as the earlier ones had done.
“It’s something really exotic we want,” Eddie
murmured as we browsed among the records in a
George-street shop.
“If you’re looking for something exotic,” said a
salesman who had overheard the remark, “I can
recommend these. They’re a batch of new recordings
from a Hungarian firm.”
We allowed him to play two or three for us,
then looked over the titles and bought a dozen. As
we left the shop Rumpy found it hard to contain his
enthusiasm.
“I’ll stake my reputation on these,” he chortled.
“Especially those vocal ones. Hungarian songs ren-
dered backwards ought to be Russian enough for
anyone. Let’s get on to them right away.”
We put the Reverser into action, and soon had
the whole batch finished.
“I like that one best,” I remarked as we tested
the last of our new BAKTA masterpieces.
“Sorry, old man,” answered Rumpy, “but your
taste is rotten. That’s the only erne in the whole batch
we’ll have to scrap. It’s lousy.”
He snapped it across his knee and threw the
pieces in a corner. I don’t mind admitting I was
a bit annoyed —more by his tone than his action.
In every batch there would be one or two failures,
and lately it always seemed to be the ones I liked best
that were condemned.
“What’s wrong with it?” I asked.
“Oh, I can’t explain it. Musical appreciation can’t
be explained. Either you’ve got it or you haven’t.”
“And I haven’t?”
“It hurts me to say it, but you haven’t.”
I didn’t say any more just then, but a little later,
after Eddie had left the office to attend a meeting of
the Geosogical Allotropists or one of the many scien-
tific bodies to which he paid annual subscriptions I
sneaked back to the music-shop again to see if I
could get a few more of that batch of records.
“You and your friend took most of them,” said
the salesman, “but there are four left.”
“Right! Wrap ’em up.”
Back at Polly-street, I reversed the four records
and passed them to the factory with the rest. I was
determined to show Eddie that for all his high-hat
notions about music he wasn’t the only member of
the partnership who could judge the selling value of
a record. When the jobs were finished I carefully
sorted out my four specials and kept them out of his
way. Unknown to him, I sent them away to a Mel-
bourne shop, not placing any in Sydney at all.
“This’ll teach him,” I thought. “When the repeat
orders start pouring in I’ll tell him.”
<<'"THEY’RE selling like hot cakes,” gloated Eddie
1 a week later as we opened our morning mail
and counted up the repeat orders.
“Yes,” I agreed. “We’re in the money now all
right.”
I slit open the next envelope, and suddenly a
horrible sinking feeling came over me.
“Gee! Listen to this,” I breathed.
Dear Sirs, —
We would point out that the two records,
“The Banjo of Batoum” and “Caspian String
Quartet — Serenade,” recently released by you
are identical with our own records No. 57128,
“Piccaninnies’ Picnic,” and No. 58392, “Four
Melody Makers—Minuet.” We must ask you
to withdraw these records immediately, and
we are taking steps to sue you for this flagrant
breach of copyright.
Yours faithfully,
/ , His Boss’s Voice Gramophone Co.
Eddie was speechless.
He took the letter from me
and gazed at it in amaze-
ment. I picked up an-
other letter. Then came
shock No. 2. This, letter
was from Mecca Records,
Ltd., and accused us of
stealing two of their
records.
“What do you make of
it?” I asked Rumpy.
“I can’t believe it,”
he muttered. “It’s impos-
sible.”
BUT it wasn’t impos-
sible. It was only too
true. As you’ve probably
guessed, some low hound
in Hungary had hit upon
the same scheme as
Rumpy and had reversed
a whole lot of records.
We’d got hold of some of
these and reversed them back to their original form.
Of course, it meant the end of everything. H.B.V.
and Mecca weren’t the only ones after us. That
dozen records was certainly an assorted lot. Every
gramophone company in Sydney had its solicitors
on our trail.
It was no use fighting. We had to pay up and
look as pleasant as we could. By the time they
finished with us we were cleaned out to our last,
penny, and, of course, every radio station and music-
shop in Sydney had been put wise to us.
“Anyhow, we’ve still got the Reverser,” said
Eddie. “We can patent it and sell it like I said at
first.”
So off we went round to a patent attorney.
“Bad luck,” said that gentleman. “It’s a great
idea you’ve got there, Mr. Rumpelmayer, but some-
one else got in ahead of you. Some Hungarian in-
ventor took out world patents for it only three months
ago.”
Regretfully we shut the door of our Polly-street
premises for the last time. As we went out the post-
man came along with the afternoon delivery. He
handed me a letter with a Melbourne postmark. I
felt pretty sick at the sight of it. I had been scared
stiff that something like this would happen, and I
rather funked facing Rumpy with an action for dam-
ages for the four specials I had made. I opened the
letter. It was from the Melbourne shop.
“We are returning the records,” I read ;
“... .must be some mistake in the labels. On
playing the records we find that one is the
standard version of ‘God Save the King’ and
the others are the first three lessons of Bel-
man’s ‘How to Speak French’ course ”
“Another summons?” asked Eddie.
“No,” I answered. “Just a confirmation of judg-
ment.”


The UNION BANK of AUSTRALIA LIMITED
m
&
mm
m
m
.
i
11
■
I
mm
y i
*#-f!
m
m
■ ■
■ ' ■ ■ : ■
■
m
i
MS
in
1
an
m
: :
: :
u m
mm
<
H
i TT“~«
—
-y -'-nfe, SJWffiWfl
’
i n
WPHS
■.■ ' ,
a
■ : _ * ■
§§«&.
cf,
in 9
' - : -vx
■
' ~
■
. .'■'■■■
m*
Si * ‘ '
SMW
I Hi
■
m
: ■—J *■ ■
s®&~ ■'
.
«S 89
• *— -- . ’''«■* iiimi ~(», m
;. -,. . , gniSpMMMitt' - ■ *>™ W -» '-3sL'*4
i ' - .
I
m
■f
:;ff >y : y :i "m-
-m
m ***** r i i
'
yyyy:
. <V
m
' 3s * f ~ * mmmm -illl ■ *-'*- iSI
V ■
BHK .... r*«,,..,. -. .4 ,
3fAA ;: « ; '‘ : ''/ ■ |!^ 9 y^H'C
. Wm?'
' —-• «-<'■"■
■ ■ ' ■..----■ ■■■ ■■..■
1: i
pROM the raising of the cattle on the Station
to their ultimate disposal, whether in the
markets of Australia or overseas, the Union Bank
has for over one hundred years been identified
with the Beef Cattle Industry.
Similarly it has been closely associated with the
development of every phase of primary and
secondary production in Australia and New Zealand
and, from its long experience, it has evolved a
Banking service fully equipped to meet the needs
of all sections of the community.
Whether you are engaged in industry or need
banking facilities for your personal transactions,
the Bank’s staff at any of its Branches will be
pleased to explain to you how its organisation is
designed to fulfil your requirements.
UNION BANK
OF A U
STR.AL i A L I M
Established 1837 < -= SS 3
IT E D
BRANCHES
(Incorporated in England 1880.)
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
AND
NEW
ZEALAND
LONDON OFFICE: 71 CORNHILL, E.C.3.


ADAMS’ (TATT£RSALL*S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms tor Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.in.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M4COI.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands ?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors-.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Consider the charm of Tasmania ■— the "air-
conditioned" State. There you will find relaxa-
tion and interest in new scenery mountain,
lake and valley. Historic buildings, too in
fact, an attraction for every holiday adventure.
Illustrated literature, details of liner sailings,
fares and accommodation, on request.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU
MELBOURNE ... The Block, Collins Street
SYDNEY .... 4 Martin Place, opp. G.P.O.
NEWCASTLE 24 Hunter Street
ADELAIDE - - - - 12 Pirie Street
PERTH - - - A.M.P. Bldg., William Street
BRISBANE 196 Adelaide Street
HOBART ... Macquarie and Murray Streets
KT
s&MHAPIIJ
1 FOR A* f n r/#
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’27. .424,353 121 p.c.=304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 .. 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 121 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 12* „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 12* „ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 12* „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept.,’29. .465,492 12* „ „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
Mar., ’3O. .445,837 12j „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Sept.,’3o. .350,727 12* „„ 365,625 1,450,590
Mar., ’3l. .384,097 12J „ „ 365,625 18,472 1,469,062
Sept.,’3l. .373,812 12} „ „ 365,625 8,187 1,477,249
Mar., ’32. .370,509 124 „ 365,625 4,884 1,482,133
Sept.,’32. .370,291 124 „ „ 365,625 4,666 1,486,799
Mar., ’33. .422,123 12* „ „ 365,625 56,498 1,543,297
Sept., ’33. .468,112 12* „ „ 365,625 102,487 1,645,784
Mar., ’34. .495,389 12* „ „ 365,625 129,764 1,775,548
Transferred to reserves, £883,000 .. 2,658,548
Assets written up, £3,957,564 .. 6,616,112
Sept., ’34. .444,782 124 p.c.=365,625 79,157 6,695,269
Reserves capitalised, £5,850,000 .. 845,269
Reserves disappear, £57,564 .. 787,705
Mar., ’35.-487,167 6} p.c.=365,625 121,542 909,247
Sept.,’3s. .443,067 74t „„ 511,875 840,439
Mar., ’36. .494,913 64 „„ 365,625 129,288 969,727
Sept., ’36. .489,420 6J ~ „ 365,625 123,795 1,093,522
Mar., ’37..546,916 7 ~ ~ 438,750 118,166 1,201,688
Sept.,’37. .509,895 7 ~,.438,750 71,145 1,272,833
* Exclusive of replacement and depreciation fund.
{lncludes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus issue.
In the past, Father Christmas has been
more than kind to shareholders in this
big industrial concern, as the following
compressed history of the capital account
shows:
Cash-paid capital .. . . £2,425,000
Bonus scrip . . .. .. 13,175,000
Total .. .. .. £15,600,000
Capital returned . . . . 3,900,000
Leaving . . . . . . £11,700,000
The last gift (£5,850,000, one for one)
was in November, 1934, since when the
outlook has continued to improve, and
the div. has been lifted from p.c. to
7 p.c. The market, with one eye on the
past and the other on the future, prices
the fully-paid £2O shares at £46 12s. 6d.
as against £49 in Aug. and £43 15s.
a year ago. The return at £46 12s. 6d. is
3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. Each lift of
1 p.c. in the div. would increase the
yield by 0.43 p.c.
Earnings are derived from milling and
refining in Australia, growing and mill-
ing in Fiji, refining in Maoriland, and
from a big wad of investments
(£3,240,445 at Sept. 30) outside the busi-
ness. The bulk of the co.’s Australian
earnings arises out of commissions under
contract with the Government for refin-
ing, selling and financing all but a frac-
tion (refined by the Millaquin Co.) of
the entire Australian crop. Last year’s
Australian crop was a record:
, Tons (94 n.t.)
Average,
1926-28. 1934. 1935. 1936.
Aust. consumption 344,000 317,000 337,000 359,000
Export . . . . 143,000 325,000 310,000 423,000
Total . . . . 487,000 642,000 647,000 782,000
The 1937 crop is expected to exceed its
immediate predecessor by about 20,000
tons. The demand for Australian fines
continues to increase, but there has been
a slight falling off in the Dominion. In
Fiji the crop is a little lighter, but the
mills there have been kept going at capa-
city. World prices for sugar have
strengthened a bit, thanks to the Inter-
national Agreement, but the gains here
have been partly offset by increased
freight rates to the U.K., where the duty
on Empire-grown sugar is £3 12s. a ton
less than on the foreign-grown article.
Still, the co. picked up more on the
swings than it lost on the roundabouts.
Declared net earnings for the 12 months
to Sept. 30 were £72,478 better at
£1,056,811, or 9 p.c. on capital as against
8.4 p.c. for the previous term. That was
after adding £312,859 net to the replace-
ment and depreciation fund (£3,667,972),
which is mainly provision in‘excess of
current requirements for these purposes,
and £80,545 to suspense accounts
(£2,418,223), which are largely, provision
for contingencies that may or may not
occur.
As for the co.’s pineapple venture in
Fiji, a factory is to be built near the
Lautoka sugarmill, orders have been
placed for the canning and tinmaking
plant, and a small pack is expected in
May next, and a larger one at the end
of 1938. Markets appear to be assured
in the U.K. and Canada. The co. has
also decided to manufacture fibre-board
from megass in Australia on a much
larger scale, and a factory capable of
supplying the Commonwealth’s total re-
quirements in this line for some time to
come is being erected.
Here is a picture of the co.’s strength
from another angle:
1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £5,850,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 795,697 862,954 1,764,910
Suspense accounts 2,337,375 2,337,678 2,418,223
Depreciation funds 3,029,038 3,355,113 3,667,972
Employees’ funds 46,780 38,745 53,947
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,075,358 10,283,539 10,102,067
Ocean steamers,
etc 142,118 142,118 142,118
Distillery .. 177,200 184,045 206.226
Office premises, etc. 56,011 57,029 220,397
Stocks, etc. .. 2,460,676 3,529,465 5,607,260
Book debts .. 3,805,873 3,090,541 1,134,416
Investments, cash,
etc 2,432,549 2,466,899 4,005,152
Movements in last year’s figures were
mainly connected with financing Aus-
tralia’s record sugar crop. Including sus-
pense accounts as liabilities, the year’s
spring in the more or less liquid surplus
(£6,409,748) was £562^,220.
*
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Sent., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
' £ £ £ £
1927. . 246,359 11) p.c. =145,034 53,583 1,340,063
, 1928.. 261,516 111 „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13) „ ~177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18) „ ~241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 7J ~,,103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 24 „ „ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
1933.. 96,687 24 „ ~ 38,750 47,400 1,409,430
1934.. 38,972 24 „ „ 38,750 32,480 1,377,172
1935.. 127,751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
1936.. 263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,553,130
1937.. 420,404 15 „ „ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
It was the rise in the price of copper
that put the spring (£156,446) in last
year’s profit, the second-best yet. In
London electrolytic averaged £6O Bs. 3d.
(= £A7S 10s. 4d.) as against £4O 14s. Bd.
(= £ASO 18s. 4d.) for the previous term.
The figure advanced from £44 at the be-
ginning of the term to £BO ss. on March
11, but had dropped to £54 when the
books closed, and the retreat has con-
tinued. The other outstanding feature of
the year’s operations was treatment of a
record tonnage of low-grade ore from
opencuts on the West Lyell mine—about
75 p.c. of all ore mined (850,238 tons,
up 179,804 tons) was won in this way.
Gross earnings were £1,032,108 (up
£257,399) from copper, railway traffic,
interest, etc., and £71,611 (up £1124)
from dividends. The divs. came from the
following investments:
Shares Fully
Company— Paid to £l.
Com’wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals;
301.924 7 p.c. iprefs. ) sos-iai
596,257 ords. J ” ”
Cuming Smith and Mt. Lyell Farmers’
Fertilisers .. . . .. .. 450.000
Australian Fertilizers .. .. .. 93,750
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers .. 27,150
Metal Manufactures ;
49,204 7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. 1 „„„ , 0 „
213,219 ords. j ”
Commonwealth Fertilisers paid no ord.
div., and it is difficult to say when it
will. Metal Manufactures, in which
Lyell increased its holding by 65,606
ords. during the year, is the bright one
of the group ; it paid an all-round 10
p.c. last term. Including the charge for
prospecting, development and deprecia-
tion (£76,472, shown as written off in
the introductory table), exes. (£759,867)
were up £101,962. Allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, the net result
(£343,932, up £156,733) was 22.1 p.c. on
the £1,550,000 of capital—l7.s p.c. from
mining, etc., and 4.6 p.c. from * n y est "
ments —compared with 12, 4.2, 0.4 and 3.1
p.c. for the four preceding terms. The
div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to 15 p.c.,
and 10 p.c. is to be sent out on Dec. 20.
Treatment and recovery figures com-
pare as follows:
1928. 1931. 1936. 1937.
Ore treated (tons) 127,425 283,262 665,422 841,427
Assay copper, p.c. 5.88 3.50 2.06 l.b/
Blister produced
(tons) . . . . 7,126 10,115 12,083 12,883
Contents: — _ _ . „ .
Copper (tons).. 7,060 10,033 12,(07 12,792
Silver (oz.) .. 121,456 155,976 100,888 91,651
Gold (oz.) . . 2,360 3,834 7,015 6,430
The low cost of mechanised opencut
mining and improvements to plant, etc.,
have enabled increasing quantities of
lower-grade ore to be treated, thus
greatly lengthening the life of the mine.
The recovery of copper was approxi-
mately 89.3 p.c. as against 92.1 p.c. for
the previous term ; portion of the copper
minerals in ore from opencuts is oxidised
and not recoverable by flotation.
The all-in average net cost of pro-
ducing and realising a ton of copper was
£47 12s. as against £42 14s. 10d., £43
Is. lOd. and £53 for the three preceding
years. Last year’s rise was due mainly
to shorter hours and higher wages during
the last half of the term, and partly to
the drop in the grade of ore. The new
wage agreement provides for payment of
an extra 3s. per week when the London
price of electrolytic is £56 a ton or more.
For this and other reasons the co. might
be able to get costs back a bit during
the current term.
Ore reserves are calculated as follows:
,—Average Assay— >,
Cop- Sil-
Ore, per, ver, Gold,
Tons. P.c. Oz. Oz.
Novth Lyell . . . . 222,000 4.00 1.00 0.015
Lyell Comstock .. 501,000 2.50 0.20 0.025
Royal Tharsis . . 2.250,000 2.00 0.10 0.020
West Lyell—
No. 1 ore-body .. 5,000,000 1.50 0.10 0.015
No. 2 ore-body . . 1,500,000 1.25 0.10 0.010
Crown Lyell.. ’ .. 221,000 2.00 0.25 0.015
Lyell Tharsis . . 200,000 1.50 0.25 0.015
Total—l 937 . . 9,894,000 1.69 0.13 0.016
1936 . . 8,825,000 1.90 0.14 0.016
1935 . . 7,593,000 2.05 0.17 0.020
Last year’s growth of 1,069,000 tons in
the quantity of ore measured up and
the drop in average grade are due to
inclusion of a lot of material previously
regarded as overburden. At West Lyell
the area for opencutting has a length of
3500 ft.; width varies from 100 ft. to
1000 ft., and the stuff is being scraped up
with electric shovels and hoists on the
American hell-for-leather principle.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances. When the books closed, the
more or less liquid surplus was £510,191
(up £33,986). Cash amounted to
£125,610 (up £78,069).
The market for the co.’s shares has
followed the price of copper, as the fol-
lowing table shows:
Share Share
Prices. Electro- Prices. Electro-
z A \ lytic. , A ■, lytic.
H. L. £* H. L. £*
Dec. . . 40/- 36/9 . 50.7 June. . 45/6 40/- 62.3
Jan. .. 44/9 39/6 56.6 | July.. 43/9 42/- 63.5
Feb. .. 57/- 42/4 64.5 | Aug... 46/- 43/3 64.1
Mar... 54/6 49/- 77.0 |Sept. . 44/- 41/- 59.6
April.. 52/- 45/- 67.5 1 Oct. .. 41/10 37/- 51.4
May .. 49/3 45/3 64.6 | Nov.f. 31/9 31/7 43.0
H, highest. L, lowest. * Average London price
of electrolytic, f Nov. 26, 1937.
At 31s. 6d. the return would be 6.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div., which would call for
£155,000. Electrolytic at £43 in London
is worth £AS3 15s. With costs at, say,
£46 155., there would be a profit margin
of £7 a ton, or £91,000 on an output of
13,000 tons, which, together with last
year’s return from investments, would
make total profit £162,000-odd. Every
rise of £1 in the London price of elec-
trolytic would increase the ratio of
profit to capital by a shade over 1 p.c.
At the end of September world stocks
of refined copper were estimated at
345,000 tons, equal to about two months’
supply at the then rate of consumption.
World production has been running
ahead of world consumption since May.
Meanwhile, producers in the Copper
Association have curtailed outputs
slightly. The high prices reached early
this year were largely the result of specu-
lative buying. At the moment, hopes
are that, when the American tangle
shakes itself out and manufacturers
reduce their stocks, both demand and
price will strengthen a little.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 36.354 12* p.c.=18,375 17,979 85,754
1928.. 40.408 15 ~,, 22,425 17,983103,737
1929.. 41.050 15 ~,, 22,425 18,625 122,362
Written off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 23.024 15 p.c.=22,425 599 108,961
Written off investments, £5OOO .. 103,961
1931.. 16.180 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39.684 15 ~,, 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32.496 . 15 ~,, 27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46.153 15 ~,, 27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £lB,OOO .. 128,924
1935. . 49,425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48.269 15 „ ~30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear. £lOOO . . . . 165,618
1937.-52,980 18J p.c.=37,968 15,012 180,630
Reserves to be capitalised 1 , £29,214 . . 151,416
The board’s Christmas-box to share-
holders is a 3| p.c. cash bonus, which,
with the 15 p.c. div., makes 18| p.c. for
the year, further sweetened with a one-
for-seven gift-scrip issue. Only once in
the last decade has the co. paid less than
15 p.c. (that was in ’3l, when 10 p.c.
was distributed), and over half the capital
is bonus scrip, which makes dividends
worth more than double the declared
rate on old holdings. Yet the co. is able
to sell its products ' (cardboard boxes,
cartons and corrugated-fibre containers) as
cheaply as, if not cheaper than, its com-
petitors.
It is all due partly to the board's
30-odd-year-old policy of keeping, plant,
the chief earning asset, abreast of every
modern development; substantial allow-
ances have been made for depreciation,
enabling much equipment to be paid for
out of earnings, and then the said equip-
ment is written down from the same
source. A similar policy has been fol-
lowed by C.S.R., B. H. Prop., British
Tobacco and other prosperous industrial
undertakings ; and both shareholders and
the public are now reaping the benefits.
Also, more than half Fielding’s own
funds (capital and reserves combined) arc
invested in well-selected shareholdings
(they include a subsidiary in Melbourne,
which set up in 1923, and a factory in
Tas., which began about 10 years later),
and in a number of well-let city free-
holds in Sydney, snapped up when the
market for real estate was at its lowest
or thereabouts. The “Wild Cat” would
not be surprised if returns from these
investments now account for half, or
more, of the total profit.
During the last term, the co. enhanced
the appearance of its containers and their
advertising value to clients by direct
color printing. There was a sharp spring in
turnover, so, despite a lift in raw-material
costs and wages, declared net earnings
were £4711 better at £52,980. That was
after allowing for taxation and striking
off £18,570 for depreciation. The
£52,980 was 26.1 p.c. on capital, com-
pared with 24.1, 24.7, 25.6 and 18 p.c.
for the four preceding years.
Finances are snug, and most of the
assets are worth a lot more than their
book value:
1919. 1930. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £40,000' £149,500 £200,000 £202,500
Creditors . . 51,982 17,531 26,076 38,513*
Freeholds .. 31,324 42,046 146,000 138,096
Plant, etc. . . 21,230 33,606 26,061 26,061
Stocks . . 42,416 26,434 25,364 37,047
Book debts, cash
and investm’ts 19,778 185,119 202,769 235,625
* Including- provision for taxation.
The year’s growth of £12,437 in the credi-
tors item includes something for taxation.
Stocks were up £11,683, and £32,856 was
added to the omnibus item, which in-
cludes a nice wad of cash. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£234,159) was £32,102.
Judged by experience in the U.S.A.
and in England, which over the last five
(Continued on page 36.)


THE BIG BELL MINES LTD
AUSTRALIA'S LATEST LARGE
SCALE GOLD PRODUCER
SELECTED
“RUWOLT
EQUIPMENT
FOR ALL IMPORTANT STATIONS
IN THEIR NEW PLANT
--r* • j
Ufc
m*
*
»<•
j
m
%
m
m
■ ; ■
Big Bell’s 36in. x 24m. Jaw Crushers and Bft. x 6ft Ball M ills.
The Fabricated Steel Headframe, Crusher and Mill
Buildings and Conveyor Galleries, as well as Live
Roll Grizzleys, Screens, Sample Plant Equipment and
Conveyor Equipment, were also Manufactured and
Supplied by—
CHARLES RUWOLT
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
RICHMOND, VICTORIA
CABLES AND TELEGRAMS
RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.
CODES—
BROOMHALLS AND BENTLEYS.


He added to his
A.M.P. POLICIES as he
added to his years
JOHN CONKLIN BRYANT’S record of membership in the
A.M.P. Society is typical of tens of thousands. He has
built up his Estate as he added years to his life. The record
can be told simply in pictures:—
Mr. John Conklin Bryant
became a member of the
A.M.P. in 1895 at 20 years of
age, when he took out his
first policy for £5OO. That
policy has grown, with
bonuses, to £1,183.
2*
At 31 years of age, a son
arrived, and Mr. Bryant took
out a policy for £3OO that
has grown tp £561.
At 44 (in 1919 just after
the War) things were going
well with Mr. Bryant, and he
added a £l,OOO policy that
has now grown to £1,533.
In 1901, at 26 years of age,
Mr. Bryant married, and very
wisely added an A.M.P. policy
for £5OO. That policy has
grown to £1,084. It also has
more than doubled.
Vv
s
Mr. Bryant now regrets
that he waited . till 40 to take
out his fourth policy; it was
for £5OO and has grown to
£794.
s
Things continued to go well
and, when he was 52, in 1928,
Mr. Bryant added a policy
for £2,000 that has grown to
£2,481.
To day Mr. Bryant has that feeling of security that comes with the
backing of A.M.P. policies. If he were to die to-morrow his policies
for £4,800 would yield £7,638, plus bonus for 1937, and so long as he
continues to live bonuses will continue to grow.
It is open to any citizen in good health to become a member of
the A.M.P. and to build up an estate that will give him comfort and
peace of mind, and that will give his family security against the ’‘slings
and arrows of outrageous fortune.” Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send an experienced adviser to talk the matter over with you, or write
for a copy of “Investing in happiness.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire,
c. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A.,
Actuary. General Manager.
C. M. MARTIN,
Secretary and Chief Inspector.
D. E. WALKER,
Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
Public Notice.
CORESTRY BONDS. —I pay up to £5 more
* per bond than other buyers for N.Z. Per-
petual Forests Bonds.—R. F. CORMACK, 440
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
If you have ores for sale write: —
NORMAN HILL & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Buyers: Gold ores and concentrates, Silver Lead
ores, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Tin ores,
etc., etc.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbowne.
PATENTS. —Hitve you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* sjs * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and CoUison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.,Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for yolur free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1458 of 1936.
BETWEEN OLIVE ROSA STORIE Petitioner
And JAMES STORIE Respondent.
TO JAMES STORIE late of Picton in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said OLIVE ROSA
STORIE has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Seventeenth
day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-eight and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your _ absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 23rd day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
S. ELLITT, Esq., Solicitor for the Petitioner,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1572.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
faith offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,_ this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
years has increased its cardboard pro-
duction by over 2000 tons per day,
three-quarters of which is used for fibro
and corrugated containers, the future of
the industry in Australia appears to be
full of promise. Although the use of
fibre-box containers here is steadily
growing, there is still a very wide field
in which they could be, but are
not yet, used. Much will depend
upon the price at which Australian
Paper Manufacturers’ new mills can
turn out the board, made partly from
waste materials gathered from city
streets, and upon whether the Federal
Government will protect the industry
against the dumping of wood shooks
from overseas.
These shooks are really waste timber,
mostly from Canadian mills, cut to sizes
for assembly into cases, and come into
the country under a by-law for refund
of duty when re-exported. Soft timber
is imported in large sizes for box-making
at a very low tariff. Under this head
some £300,000 to £400,000 goes out of
Australia annually. Fibre containers are
a better substitute, so a national future
lies ahead.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
shares at 91s. as against 82s. a year ago
and 775. 12 months before that. After
exercising the rights to the bonus issue,
the return at 91s. is 4.7 p.c. on an 18j
p.c. div. basis. After another 2000 shares
have been issued to the staff and the
bonus scrip handed out, paid capital will
be £233,714, on which 18J p.c. will call
for £43,821, or £9159 less profit than was
claimed last year. Visibly the net tan-
gible cover is 325. lid.
Mt. Isa (Q.)
The co. (paid capital £1,944,202) was
formed in 1924 to work one of the
largest low-grade silver-lead-zinc de-
posits in the world at Isa (N.Q.). The
first unit of the 2000-ton-a-day mill
began in May, 1931, and the heavy ex-
penditure on prospecting, development,
etc. (£1,196,000), was capitalised. Car-
bonates only were treated until October,
1935, when the plant was converted to
an all-sulphide basis, and production of
zinc concentrates began. These con-
centrates, together with the lead bullion
from the smelters, are railed 600-odd
miles to the coast for shipment to
Britain. With zinc at £2O a ton, ocean
freight alone takes approximately 40 p.c.
of the value of the metal in the zinc con-
centrates. Power is supplied by steam
turbines, and fuel is drawn from the Gov-
ernment coke ovens at Bowen and the
coalmines at Collinsville, both near
Townsville. Average number of names
on the payroll for the year to June 30
last was 1231.
Early estimates got badly askew, and
the co. has had to lean heavily upon
its friends to finance its programme.
Until the last term, it had been unable to
earn a profit—slump sent metal prices
toppling just as production began. Here
is a summary of the p. and 1. figures:
Income. Exes. Loss. Deficit.
1933.. £1,000,584 £1,201,557 £200,973 £238,791
1934.. 789,514 955,829 166,315 405,106
1935.. 991,886 1,000,081 5,195 413,301
1936.. 1,244,833 1,250,375' 5,542 418,843
Profit.
1937.. 1,819,478 1,749,169 70,309 348,534
The spring of £574,645 in last year’s
income from the sale of metal, etc., was
due mainly to the rise in the price of
lead and zinc and better assay value of
ore treated. In terms of Australian cur-
rency, the London average for lead for
the year to June 30 last was £2B 18s. 4d.
(up £8 125., lOd.) and for zinc £25 2s. 7d.
(up £6 2s. 9d.). Exes., bumped up by
two lifts in the wage rate, took £498,169
of the increase, leaving a profit of
£70,309, the first thing of its kind. No
provision has been made for depreciation
or amortisation.
The quantity of ore raised and treated
over the last four years, and the assay
value of the feed, compare as follows:
Ore produced: 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Carbonates, tons 373,793 278,761 12,245 12,709
Sulphides, tons. 117,090 273,423 616,259 579,744
Total.. . . 490,883 552,184 628,504 592,453
Ore milled, tons . . 490,977 546,760 618,390 578.019
Assay: Lead .. 10.1 p.c, 9.4 p.c. 7.Bip.c. 8.3 p.c.
Zinc .. 11.1 p.c. 9.9 p.c.
Silver .. 4.90 z. 5.90 z. 6.20 z. 6.80 z.
The drop in the tonnage treated last year
was due to the harder nature of ore from
the lower horizons. In addition to the
ore milled, 13,324 tons of carbonate lead
ore was sent direct to the smelter as sili-
ceous flux. Production of lead concen-
trates totalled 94,690 (up 9509) tons, as-
saying 39.4 p.c. lead and 30.60 z. silver,
representing a recovery of 73.9 p.c. of
the silver and 77.6 p.c. of the lead in
the ore milled. Production of zinc con-
centrates aggregated 52,204 (up 5365)
tons, assaying 52.1 p.c. zinc, 3.20 z. silver
and 2.3 p.c. lead. Total metal produced
was 37,084 (up 2753) tons lead bullion,
3,206,441 (up 472,333) oz. silver and
274 tons copper. The better assay value
of the ore is again reflected here.
Costs per ton of ore treated compare
as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Mining and develop- s. d. s. d. s. d.
ment . . . . 9 5.82 10 5.90 13 9.49
Milling . . . . 4 4.37 4 2.82 4 10.02
Smelting . . . . 5 2.80 4 5.03 5 11.22
Administration . . 1 8.36 1 8.62 2 2.26
Rail. etc. .. 1 9.27 1 8.85 2 9.48
Total .. .. 22 6.62 22 7.22 29 6.47
The rise of 6s. 11.25 d. per ton in last
year’s aggregate costs was largely on ac-
count of the wage increase already re-
ferred to ; other factors were repairs to
the smelter and a rise in the price of
coke. Since the close of accounts the
separation and recovery of metals have
been improved by regrinding of middling
products.
When the books closed, the debenture
debt totalled £2,818,391, and there was
£1,154,932 coming to sundry creditors.
More or less liquids totalled £913,915.
At the moment the outlook for share-
holders is far from bright. Last week-
end the London spot price of lead was
£l5 15s. and zinc £l4 15s. 7d. London
prices the fully-paid pound shares at
Bs. 9d. or thereabouts.
L. C. Amery, ex-Dominions Secretary
and now on the boards of two or three
Australian goldrhining and finance cos.,
tried to make the best of things at
Gold Exploration’s annual meeting.
The co., formed late in 1934, has not
been able to push its business of ex-
ploring and developing mines to the
profit-earning stage. Nor, indeed, has it
been free from the disappointments to
which this kind of activity is liable.
Bendigo is a case in point. However,
the co. has made headway elsewhere in
Australia. Payment by Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie of a maiden div. after less
than three years’ operations constituted
a good start for substantial investment.
Exploration results at Central Norseman
warrant its equipment as a major pro-
ducer. A pointer to the co.’s investment
in Western Mining Corp. is the profit
now being yielded by Cox’s Find. The
board also looks forward to good returns
from the Victoria Gold Dredging Co.
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Central Norse-
man and Cox’s Find are earning good
profits, and are well ahead of the mill.
* * * *
Great Boulder Mining and Finance,
controlled by the De Bernales group, has
extended the option to its shareholders
to apply for one new ss. share at 6s. 6d.
for every five shares held until the end
of 1938. The co. holds a number of
mines on the eastern and northern West-
ralian goldfields, and has substantial share
interests in Yellowdine and Halley’s
Comet. At last balance, nearly 12 months
ago, cash amounted to £225,216, and in-
vestments were valued at £523,899. An-
other item, “investments in and advances
to subsidiary cos.,” totalled £384,376.
* * * *
Wiluna (W.A.) is still looking and
hoping for a turn-up at depth. Latest
horizontal boring at the 1800 ft. level
on the main (east) lode at 1000 ft., 1100 ft.
and 1200 ft. south disclosed wide but
poor-grade makes of ore. The highest
assay was 4.4dwt., and the lowest 2.4dwt.
Last month’s working surplus was
£A16,621. This came from the treatment
of 51,691 tons.
* * * *
Lady Shenton and First Hit, operat-
ing side by side at Menzies (W.A.),
have each issued statements covering
portion of their current financial years.
Lady Shenton treated 2717 tons for the
four months to October 31 for £16,631.
Working costs and development absorbed
£14,515, and capital expenditure mopped
up £669. First Hit collected £17,351,
and paid out £8344 for labor, develop-
ment, etc., and £971 in capital expendi-
ture. Payment of another div. in the
not-far-distant future is talked of.


ANNOUNCING A SUPERIOR SCOTCH WHISKY
HERE IS AN ILLUSTRATION
(ACTUAL SIZE) OF THE HANDSOME
HANDY BOTTLE. AT RIGHT,
FRONT VIEW. BELOW, SIDE VIEW.
.
S!
:
m
mm
o': :
llil 1
B—
wmmm
■
hi
■
■
II
I AWARDED 7k
,50 MEDALS f
4
■ 4,
t
m i
Perth '
50GoIb
onb
AP
50 GoXJn
<nu>
]h:m
e dimbUR cH
Danish
POINTMENT
MELBOURME INTERNATIONAI-
&
UNEDIN
LONDON
PAMS
BNJSStus
COOKERY
FOOD
OD
1901
IBBC
(H>
& 7k
1900
1887
1890
1888
1889
1838
1888
1888
1888
1889 1889
1889
White Label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
0F RARE AG£
<JohnDewar&SoDst-
DISTILLERS
lonOon PERTH TrrTY
House Hapnarlet. S.W.I. jL-Ul LAIVi'-
NET CONTENTS IPINT, 6FL.OZS.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
ottled UNDER THE SUPERVISION of the commonwealth CUSTOMS
... Now available throughout Australia
Dewars “White Label”, so famous abroad, may now be obtained from any
hotel or bottle store. Here is a superlative Scotch Whisky .... a whisky
that is both pleasing and beneficial .... for remember that good whisky
is good for you. But it must be good whisky. Ask for “White Label”,
and you will enjoy whisky at its very finest ... . you will begin to
understand why “White Label” is so highly regarded in other Countries.
DEWARS
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH


A GOOD TIME WAS


BY NEARLY ALL.


&&&& ££v/V.?fe v v'WK**..
ftteiw
x£uXil2/M#'riV.■ <-r v ;vO ' ■•. .-• i .
ssBuJnu4nML'Gf^*W;WI'tt ■"/•/• jt.'. i */;* ., s* •• *
\
m
tVtP^v
......
MW
/
irf^
m
WM
c* •. -.
&&•••
■ a
V / • c..
: /-■
«
b'J
''.a
BY
m
o
blue
fSS
m
: v
r
II
ilfiOUGH
mmm
&
MM •;'
*4r?
DE
surZ
-i;
• * , i
I
V WSSvmJmrL tmWm
ftmwm, fyw mm,
a
■
*
m
I
f*f
Si#
new
Every visitor to
South Wales wants to
see its far-famed scenic
attractionsand its prolific
rural areas,
Six thousand miles of standard-
gauge railways honeycomb the
State, and fast, modern trains
afford the safest and most
comfortable means of seeing its
great natural resources.
EXCURSION FARES TO NUMEROUS HOLIDAY RESORTS EVERY WEEK-END.
Railway Officers at Sydney Station and at Challis house (opp. G.P.0.),
Martin Place, Sydney, will gladly assist inquirers to plan their train
travel in New South Wales conveniently and inexpensively.
hsk for illustrated booklets as above describing delightful one-day trips,
GO BY TRAIN—IT’S SAFER AND CHEAPER.
W. H. NEWMAN,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (96)


"Look at His Neat Rig and His Gamecock Eyes”
OPPY
BY STEVE BENNETT
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
1 OOK where he wants everybody to look—at his
neat rig and his gamecock eyes —instead of at
I his cork-soled boot, and you wouldn’t feel like
sobbin’ over him. Don’t he look as though he’s
headin’ somewhere? And I’ll bet no one will stop
him. That cripple bloke is findin’ himself, if I’m any
judge—and I ought to be, after havin’ met ’Oppy
Rumble.”
Scotty poked the point of his pocket-knife deep
into the bowl of his old cherrywood and nodded in
the direction of the youth making his way towards
the pub door, his aggressively uneven gait defying the
attempt of the crowd in the bar to smudge him into
itself.
“ ’Oppy Rumble walked worse than that feller.
He went along like an old tramp steamer in a beam
sea with the cargo shifted to leeward. He came
aboard the Valdivia —a natty little Liverpool barque—
in Newcastle. One bloke who joined us was a shoe-
maker. Another was an out-o’-work counter-jumper.
If it hadn’t been for three good sailors shanghaied
the mornin’ we sailed—they were so drunk it took ’em
twenty-four hours to wake up I reckon I’d have
hoisted the police flag and got ashore out of it.
“When the shoemaker came aboard I was mooch-
in’ round the deck. He says, very polite, ‘Where is the
forecastle, please?’ ‘Strike me dead, mate,’ says I,
‘the fo’c’sle has been for’ard ever since I joined this
lousy ship!’ So away he goes—when I pointed to
show him which was for’ard with a seven-pound
flour-bag tied at the neck holdin’ all his belongin’s
for the voyage to Callao!
“And then came the last straw. I didn’t get a
good squint at him till he hit the deck and started
for’ard. He had a decent sea-bag, certainly, and he
knew where the fo’c’sle was ; but of all the queer-
lookin’ things that ever did find their way into a
ship’s fo’c’sle this was the queerest.
“He was a weed —a proper, goddam weed —about
twenty. He was five foot three when he stretched
himself on his long leg, and no more than five foot
when he stood on both heels —boots and all. He was
as narrer as a rat across the shoulders, but he shoved
his chest forward like a pouter-pigeon, and held his
head so high that his nose seemed to be pokin’ into
the air smellin’ for somethin’. Away he went for’ard,
his whole skinny frame liftin’ up an’ down, up an’
down, up an’ down, and his feet goin’ hoppitty-hop,
hoppity-hop like a broken-down cab-horse on a
cobbled road.
“You can guess how I felt. We were all only
poor slaves, certainly; but in those ships we had a
little professional pride, and it broke my heart to see
the merchant service cornin’ to this. I was real
melancholy when the skipper came aboard half an
hour later.
“ ‘Any of the new men come aboard, Brough?’
he asks.
“ ‘Two men, sir,’ says I, ‘and —’Oppy.’
“The old man tried to cheer me up a bit. ‘We’ll
have some good sailors in the mornin’,’ he said ; ‘and
now tell Rumble to come aft. I want to see him.’
“ ‘Rumble?’ says I.
“ ‘ ’Oppy,’ says the old man with a bit of a grin.
So along I goes to find the new men tryin’ to make
themselves believe they were quite comfortable. The
old hands were pumpin’ them, and the loudest voice
of the bunch was cornin’ from his nibs.
“ ‘ ’Oppy,’ says I, ‘the Old Man wants to see you
aft —at the other end of the ship.’ And you should
have seen his face go red. But I wasn’t worryin’
about his feelin’s. He was hurtin’ mine, buttin’ into
the fo’c’sle of a decent ship and pretendin’ to be a
sailor and gettin’ four pound ten a month for
pretendin’.
“As soon as he turned his back one of the old
hands spluttered ‘Say, Scotty, get a squizz at that
little scarecrow’s Liz.’ And he pointed to a photo
’Oppy had hung at the head of his bunk. It was a
picture of an ordinary-lookin’ sort of lass round
chops and fuzzy hair —such as you see cornin’ out of
any factory when the whistle blows ; but the flash
frame must have cost him a few bob, and I had just
turned it over and was readin’ ‘From your lovin’
Elizabeth’ when into the fo’c’sle hops the little feller
himself, swearin’ like an old Nova-Scotiaman.
“ ‘Steward! ’ he was shoutin’, ‘Steward! Who
the hell wants to be a blasted steward!’
“He grabbed his Liz out of my hands, collected
all his gear and went aft.
“You see, the Old Man had signed him as able
seaman, but when he got him into the cabin, kiddin’
him he was to be a steward, he started in to call
him ‘Boy !’
“Well, it was a fight all the voyage to Callao
between that miserable loppy-legged squib and the rest
of the crowd. What with ‘ ’Oppy!’ for’ard and ‘Boy!’
aft, and the build of the little runt himself, he had
a pretty tough battle. But he faced } up to it, which
was more than we could say for the shoemaker.
“\WE had rotten weather most of the ninety-seven
“ “ days to Callao, and the crowd done enough
growlin’ and cursin’ to fire the cargo in the hold if
the hatches hadn’t been well battened down. I don’t
know which had the worse effect, the weather or the
language ; and I don’t know what' the shoemaker
expected from the sea, but it all made him more and
more miserable. Maybe he left a decent home, and
the seafarin’ business, with the crook grub and the
fo’c’sle society, was too much for him. He fell from
the fore upper-topsail yard one night, and as there,
was no chance in the world of gettin’ a boat out that
was the end of him. We were all a bit sorry about
it, naturally.
“Next mornin’, just as all hands got started settin’
sail again, along come ’Oppy in his white apron, wet
to the skin. He butted in between me and another
of the old hands, pushin’ us apart to get a good hold
on the topsail halyards. And when the bloke at the
head of the rope struck up ‘Blow the Man Down’ —
damn me if ’Oppy didn’t try to sing that chorus like
a man! I don’t know how they got on for grub in
the cabin nor why the old man didn’t drag him back
from under our feet, but I do know that everywhere
the crowd moved that mornin’—haulin’ out sheets,
chanteyin’ up yards, hoistin’ headsails, mannin’ the
braces that goddam cabin-boy hoppitty-hopped
amongst us, jokin’ and gigglin’ like a kid at a Sunday-
school picnic.
“The counter-jumper feller wasn’t laughin’ much
that mornin’. He must have been a bit upset about
the other first-voyager, thinkin’ it might be his turn
next, I reckon. Him and ’Oppy came alongside me
when we were all standin’ up to the weather braces,
and I suppose he thought ’Oppy should be as senti-
mental as himself.
“ ‘Terrible sad about poor Lionel last night,’ says
the downhearted bloke.
“ ‘Cobbler’s luck! ’ answers ’Oppy, quite cheery.
‘But the poor cow would never have made a sailor,
anyhow. No guts! You shift back a bit!’ And he
was actually elbowin’ the other feller along to get a
better hold for himself.
“Well, from the time that shoemaker went over
the side ’Oppy’s nose went so high in the air that
before we’d fetched Callao he had kicked the toes of
his good foot against every ringbolt in the main deck ;
and the day he climbed to the royal yard and stowed
the sail—singlehanded because no one would foller
a cabin-boy aloft —the Old Man began to call him
‘Steward,’ quite respectful. Every time things were
lively—which was most of the time —’Oppy deserted
his cosy job to bear a hand ; and as he did use what
little weight he had we didn’t so much as miss the
rivet-an’-sprig bloke.
“We worked the coal out in Callao, anchored
well off-shore, and were kept aboard till we had
worked ballast in,for the voyage back to Newcastle.
Then the Old Man gave the crowd twenty-four hours’
liberty and a gold quid each to spend ; and to see
them fussin’ round cuttin’ one another’s hair and
divin’ into deck-buckets of soapsuds you’d have
thought he’d given ’em the Bank of England!
T T was Saturday evenin’ about six o’clock when we
* hit the wharf all togged up in our go-ashore suits
like a bunch of civilised tourists. About eight of us
headed for the nearest saloon to change the gold, and
as we lined up for drinks it was ’Oppy who slapped
his hand down on the counter like a gunshot.
“ ‘l’m shoutin’, boys!’ he says. ‘Call ’em out!’
Boys, mind you, from this whippersnapper!—and the
saloonkeeper had to stretch his neck to see where the
big voice was cornin’ from.
“Anyhow we let ’Oppy change his quid all
drinkin’ whisky ; and then we all changed ours —still
drinkin’ whisky. By that time the saloonkeeper was
gettin’ anxious. We were startin’ to forget our tourist
manners. Then two of Dutchy Madsen’s shanghaied
pigeons and myself, not wantin’ to lose our self-respect
too soon, cut adrift from the rest and nosed further
up the town.
“We had just got nicely spread across the counter
in a sort of grocery store, buyin’ fancy biscuits, choco-
lates and other stuff they forgot to put on the Val-
divia’s scale of provisions, and teachin’ the store-
keeper a bit of English, when in trots the cabin-boy,
like a lame spaniel sniffin’ round for an owner. His
coat was flyin’ open and his cap was sittin’ on the
back of his skull, with the peak beatin’ his nose to the
zenith by about thirty degrees.
“Now, I reckoned ’Oppy was drunk —he
certainly looked queer—and, anyhow, drunk or sober,
we didn’t want the little microbe towin’ after us all
night. So I told him to get to hell and play marbles
or somethin’ like that. Then I turned to collect the
change the storekeeper had passed me. But ’Oppy
grabbed my wrist, shoutin’ orders to the bloke behind
the counter.
“ ‘Take that rubbish back! ’he bawled. ‘Do you
think we’re a bunch of helpless stiffs? That money’s
crook! ’
“Of course the Spaniard couldn’t understand
’Oppy’s words, but he waved his arms and jabbered
away in some sort of argument while ’Oppy was
showin’ us that most of the coins were brummies. I
felt like crackin’ ’Oppy himself for just tryin’ to show
how smart he was, but when the storekeeper took
his tin stuff back and gave us good silver, well—we
started in to.tell that Dago more about himself than
he’d ever guessed!
“It was only natural he should blame ’Oppy, the
same as we did, for causin’ all the bother; and he
leaned over the counter with his ugly mug so close
to ’Oppy’s that I reckon he meant to bite his nose
because it looked so invitin’. But ’Oppy was wide
awake, and if ever you saw a vicious little monkey
hangin’ on to the bars of his cage by all fours you
had a picture of our cabin-boy in that shop. He
grabbed the Spaniard by the shoulders, got purchase
(Continued on page 43.)


THESE PICTURES TELL THE STORY
OF THE MODERN MASONRY UNIT . . .
Although only introduced little more than a year ago, "Agee” Glass Bricks are
now to be seen in modern offices, factories, hospitals, hotels, shops and homes all
over Australia. No other present-day building material has ever made such instant
and universal appeal to the aesthetic and practical senses. The photographs amply
illustrate the beauty of glass brick construction, while the brief facts below explain
their value in contributing to better living and working conditions.
"Agee” Glass Bricks are not transparent,
but they transmit as much as 78% of
daylight —soft, diffused light entirely free
from glare. Heat and moisture cannot pass
through them, and they deaden sound to
a remarkable degree. Maintenance is
negligible, as glass bricks require no paint-
ing, plastering, or papering on either
interior or exterior surfaces.
(Right) A view in The Cafe Navarette, Melbourne.
"Agee" Glass Bricks form a striking background to I
the orchestra, enhancing the very modern atmos- &HF
phere of the Cafe.
*****
'TI
■
' m®*
m
m Hi
mm
Uv*
m u
.12
m m '
mm.
tMJh:.
• - -laHl
X- »i
■
t
»*|P!
i ftot s
ft
i .
V &
m
f wi s
mm i
?■■■■ w- v-.
-r a
wMmMsm
(Above) Interior of the Amalgamated Drug and Cosmetic factory
at Pyrmont, Sydney. Over 8,500 "Agee" Glass Bricks were used
to beautify and light this up-to-date factory. Architect: H. O.
Woodhouse, Esq. Builders: Messrs. Hutcherson Brothers.
(Left) "Agee" Glass Bricks in one of
the executive offices of the Holeproof
Hosiery Company's modern office
building, at Sydney Road, Brunswick,
Victoria. Architects: Messrs. Sale and
Keage. Builder: C. H. Lindsay, Esq.
(Right) Vestibule in "His Majesty's
Hotel," Brisbane. This attractive enr
trance in "Agee" Glass Bricks floods
the bar interior with soft, diffused
daylight, and, in the evenings, reflects
the cheerful glow of lights within.
Architect: L. L. Powell, Esq.
(Above) Offices of the Crown Crystal Glass Pty. Ltd., Waterloo, Sydney. Improved working;
efficiency and the comfort of employees is secured by the abundance of soft, diffused, glareless
daylight transmitted through "Agee" Glass Bricks.
(Above) Charming interior of a Sydney home. "Agee" Glass Bricks here provide glarefree
light and give an effect of "bringing the outdoors inside." They portray the charming simplicity
of ultra-modern home-design. Architect: J. L. Brown, Esq.
★ Write for FREE Brochure "WALLS OF LIGHT" to
AUSTRALIAN WINDOW CLASS PTY. LTD.
. .. , _ _ * NCORPORATIO IN VICTOKIA . v
EUSTON ROAD ALEXANDRIA N.S.W. TELEPHONE L 3333 (8 LINES)


with his feet against the counter well off the floor,
and hauled that feller across till his head was hangin’
on our side. Then ’Oppy danced back and right-
hooked him and left-hooked him till I thought he’d
kill the big mutt. We had a dig at him ourselves as
we bustled ’Oppy out into the street.
“Now, the coppers in Callao carry brass-headed
batons chained to their wrists, so we moved pretty
lively till we’d rounded a few corners. We sighted a
tram headin’ our way and jumped aboard. We left
’Oppy behind, screechin’ his farewell from the middle
of the road —and I’m glad none of it ever happened!
“The tram took us to the city of Lima. I don’t
remember everything we saw that night, but it’s sur-
prisin’ what you could get out of a quid there in those
days. There was some drinkin’, some dancin’ and
singin’, and some of the loveliest black eyes!
“We got back to Callao next evenin’ about five
o’clock, broke and dead sober. We’d had our twenty-
four hours’ liberty, and it was enough for the time
bein’. We wanted to get aboard again. So we just
lounged about the waterfront, swappin’ yarns with
others of the crowd. They had all finished up in
the calaboose, so their pockets were empty. The
police in those west-coast ports are like that!
“ ’Oppy, they said, was still in at four o’clock. He
had started to paint the town red—singlehanded when
the others wouldn’t help—but had run into a bit of
a squall round about midnight, and his skull wasn’t
as hard as the brass on those cops’ batons.
“Anyhow, just as the two ’prentice boys were
bringin’ the boats in to pick us up ’Oppy hove in
sight away along the road —and the middle of the
road at that, don’t forget—swingin’ his arms like a
blue-nose mate. No double-breasted coat, no cap,
his weedy shoulders and his little puffed-out chest
bobbin’ up and down and his short leg beltin’ the
road as though he wanted to poke holes in it so
Callao wouldn’t forget him. He was roarin’ at the
top of his voice ‘Blow the Man Down.’
“Now a topsail-halyard chantey aboard a wind-
jammer when the crew is hoistin’ a yard is very fine.
Ashore no decent sailor sings it unless he’s drunk
enough to forget himself. Of course ’Oppy was drunk,
but that didn’t give him the right to be singin’ a
chantey. He told us afterwards that he had been
kicked out of the calaboose with an African thirst
and a few bob stowed in his sock which the cops
missed! Anyhow, he made a proper show of us all,
bowlin’ along the road right up to where we stood,
bellowin’ his chantey and claimin’ to be one .of us,
the low-down little blighter!
“When we tried to get him quietly into the boat
damn me if he didn’t land one of his left hooks on me.
I didn’t want him climbin’ over me like he did that
storekeeper, so I grabbed him by the snout and
tweaked it till some of the others picked him up
like a squirmin’ cat and chucked him into the boat.
A couple of the lads sat on him, and every time he
opened his mouth —which was pretty often—someone
kicked him in the ribs.
“THE Old Man was hangin’ over the rail at the
*• poop steps as we climbed aboard to see how
many were missin’ and how many were drunk. He
didn’t look too fresh himself, and I reckon he was
very surprised to see all Tiis crew there looking so
trim and shipshape ; but you should have seen him
when we were hoistin’ the first boat with his precious
steward layin’ in the bottom of it!
“ ‘Who’s that?’ he
asks, pretty snappy,
cornin’ down to the
davits as the boat came
level with the rail and
we started to drag
’Oppy out. But the
sound of his voice
roused ’Oppy and he
didn’t need any more
draggin’! He scrambled
down to the deck in
a jiffy and poked his
cheeky nose at the
skipper like a cock-
sparrer facin’ up to a
big rooster.
“ ‘Boy,’ says the
skipper, very severe,
‘what the devil do yon
mean by cornin’ aboard
in this disgraceful
fashion? Every sailor
in the ship perfectly
sober, but the miser-
able cabin-boy drunk! ’
“I don’t know
what else he was goin’
to say, but ’Oppy fairly
took the Old Man’s
breath.
“‘Drunk be
damned! ’ he shouted.
‘Who’s drunk? And
who the hell are you
callin’ Boy? 1 signed
as A.B. in this ship,
and am an A. 8.! I came to sea to do a seaman’s
work,’ he yelled louder and louder, swingin’ his arms
till he had me guessin’ which it was goin’ to be—a left
book or a ri S ht - ‘I didn’t come to sea to run after you
with . your lousy § rub and wash your greasy dishes like
a crmgxn’ slushy, and I’m not doin’ any more of it, for
s™ u "j ln y° ne else1 ’ And he had the same look in
£“ £aCe as when he was hookln 111111 shm >' store -
'“lnstead kickjn , ra( )he scuppers
, he Old Man just said, very quiet, Take him and his
gear for’ard.' Which we did; and he stayed for’ard,
too, like a wart on the end of all our noses, for the
voyage back o Newcastle. ■
The first thing he did was to hang that photo
of his Liz at the head of his bunk again Then I
told him abou t alb the far-prettier girls hed missed
W , ith , , US ’ bUt f ll he
™ as ats , ]Ol7 gir1 ’ laddl ® laddie, mind you,
Jo me!—and she s pretty enough for me. And after
off e ° f $
« Well> he made a damn’ good attempt to do the
work of an able seam and f what with the lessons
we gave h j m in t he fo’c’sle—which would be hard for
him to forget!—and the things he taught himself—
which was most everything—he was a pretty fair sailor
by the time we reached Newcastle again. He had to
stand up to a crack or two on the voyage, because
we used to forget he was lame ; and he made two or
three of that crowd forget it rather sudden, too—the
counter-jumper, for one—by tryin’ out his left and
ri S bt hooks on them. Those hooks of his were im-
provl t ? Wltb his seamanship.
. - 1 lu , m P ed Y**'™ ■” Newcastle and went
m steam for a while. But just for a while. I hated
steamers . , loved the loft co , d h old wind-
j ammers . So I sailed with a cargo of wheat from
williamstown and drifted to God knows where' I
St Australia for years
“ I FOUND myself in Cape Town, on the rocks;
* ™ ust have be f” about eight years after sailin'
Wl ‘ h lhat wheal ' , Id worke , tbe country a d.ttle
and been on the bum a lot. Id tramped donkeys
m jj es j n t 0 Qtpc Town with the intention of lookin’
for a ship
“And .1 got one. A four-mast6d barque, the
Jeannette, in ballast and ready for sea, bound for
Melbourne. She wanted one able seaman and a
steward. I was taken aboard a few minutes before
the anchor came up ; and the mate was so pleased
at the sight of me—l had no money, so I had to go
aboard sober—that I thought he was goin’ to actually
shake hands with me - He told me I could take the
wheel.leavin the bay.
“ We got under wa Y> me at the wheel as proud as
f hough 1 owned the blasted shi P’ and the P ilot standin ’
by adm “‘m the way I was handlin’ her, when up the
companionway right in front of me comes a bare-
bea( j e( j bloke in his shirt-sleeves. His hair was nicely
oded and p ar j ed> and b is big waxed mo was turned
up jj ke a CoU pi e 0 f shark-hooks. I looked down into
the binnacle quick, not wantin’to take too much notice
Q f a fl asb steward but thinkin’ how that pretty head
of his would stand up to a thumpin’ green sea when
it caught him on the main deck. As he stepped out
of the companionway, though, my ears fairly flapped,
I heard that old hoppitty-hop I hadn’t heard for years,
and there he was, with a cup of tea in his hand, headin’
for the pilot! He stopped sudden and looked hard
at me.
‘“Brough!' says he.
i^***™* 8 ° ddamed ’’ sayS >' ‘ l£
„ v ”, L P dd w , hal , „„„
d eck' He floundered un me and 1 thought
he was in - t 0 faU 0 P my g „ eck to ’ r ■ Bu “ S he *
didn't. He stood on his long leg to his full five foot
three> and j stopped a left hook to the jaw that swung
the j ea nnette two points off her course and set the
pilot gu i pin > with the hiccups!
“ ‘lf you don’t want to strike trouble aboard this
shi burgoo-eatin’ sonofabitch,’ says ’Oppy,
wil call m c Captain !’
“ Was 1 flabbergasted? But I remember the idea
flasKin’through my mind as I was gettin’my balance
again tha ; this htt e blighter must have been hookin’
bl . s ™ ay through life pretty well since I had given him
his hrst bit of sea trainin’, and I said ‘Ay, ay, sir!’ so
fltnck an’ lively that he seemed satisfied for the time
bein ’ H v.;l ho * ted down the companionway and up
comes a kid of sixteen with another cup of tea for
lie P 1 Captain Rumble beams all over him and
n f ® llnni ” at werd
Q f the mate with some combinadonVoffinev lalmiaol
, ’ so ae combinations of fancy language
that made me feel llke a k,d from a kindergarten,
about the way he was trimmin’ the yards
was Uke that a Mhe way to Melbourne I
. , 1 , y , ennnune. i
never in my hfe sailed with such a swanky swaggerin'
bull J' ln , taskmaster as Captain Rumble. He had every
mothe rs son aboard on the jump the whole voyage,
and 1 ne T er be ? rd SO many ingenious names invented
* n a sb 'P s f° c sle for any one man. The only bloke
who ever got a decent word from the gammy-legged
hard case was the kid he called Steward,
He drove his ship, runnin the eastin down, try-
in to make a record; and day after day he damn
near drowned his crew before he’d shorten sail. He
|ost more canvas than any skjpper j evM heard of _
and he was the luckiest man I ever met to fetch
Melbourne with his four sticks still standin’.
“The mate was a decent sort. He told me at the
wheel one evenin’ that the skipper was in a hurry
because his missus was cornin’ over from Sydney to
Melbourne to meet him.
“ ‘God’s truth! ’ says I, ‘ls his Liz still hangin’
in that flash frame?’
You bet she is, says the mate, laughin’ a bit;
‘and her fat, curly-headed kid in another.’ And I
was just startin ’ to tell him a little yarn about ’°PP y
and his Liz when the skipper bounced up from below.
“ ‘Don’t stand there cacklin’ like a blasted old
hen,’ says Captain Rumble ; ‘get your royals set! ’
“I cleared out in Melbourne without givin’ him
a chance to introduce me to his Liz, and I’ll guarantee
he’s hopped and hooked his way into the command
of an ocean liner since then.”
“ Oppy danced
back and right-
hooked him and left-
hooked him till I thought
he’d kill the big mutt.”


A Fine Old Lady
Maku-the Belle
of New Zealand
By
Evelyn Jalconer
MAKU squatted
on the door-
step, her huge
bulk taking
up nearly three-
quarters of the en-
trance. The sun
poured on her brown,
wrinkled face, reveal-
ing the faint blue
tattoo - marks round
mouth and chin and
traces of the good looks
she had once pos-
sessed. She was always
to be found in town
if anything was brewing, and to-day the Native Land
Court opened. The law office, situated half-way down
the long, one-sided main street, which followed the
river, was an excellent possie.
She searched a capacious pocket in her shapeless
skirt, produced a stumpy old pipe and filled it from
a worn tobacco-pouch. Tradition had it that Maku
had been a beauty in her youth when she had married
a pakeha Government official, Henry Bishop. Her
liquid dark eyes, still luxuriant cropped hair, strong
white teeth and well-defined features testified to it.
She delighted in telling the story of the great occasion
when she had attended a Government House ball
with her husband in Wellington and a visiting English
earl had complimented her.
“I,” she said proudly, “te belle o’ New Zealand.
Te English lord he say so.”
Her husband had long since gone ; but Maku still
referred to him as if he were present. “Mr. Bishop he
say” prefaced many of her own observations. After
an absence of some eight or ten years Maku had
reappeared in her old home town and had drifted
back to a near-by pah.
As the years passed she gradually discarded
European dress for the native costume —loose blouse
and wide petticoat, handkerchief covering the head
and tied carelessly at the throat, and an old shawl
pulled round the shoulders. She took to the pipe,
and, as often as not, was to be seen puffing placidly
on some doorstep for hours on end, bare feet pro-
truding from beneath her skirts. Deighton and Green’s
was a favorite spot.
“ ’Morning, Maku. You’re out early.” George
Deighton, senior partner in the firm, hurried up. Born
in the district forty-five years before, he knew and
was known by every native in the countryside. The
Maoris accepted him almost as one of themselves,
and his practice mainly comprised dealings in native
affairs.
“Tenakoe, Deighton,” replied Maku. “I sit here,
watch the Maori people come in. I te poor old woman
—no money, nothing.” Then,
ingratiatingly, she caught at
his coat as he passed. “You
get some money for me this
time, eh, Deighton?”
“Now, Maku, you know
there isn’t anything due to
you until next month. I
can’t get more money for you
yet. What do you do with
your rents? You owe money
all round the place.”
“Te shopkeeper he rob
me,” protested the old
woman. “Take all te money
from poor Maku.”
Deighton laughed.
“You’re an old spendthrift,
Maku.”
As he made a movement
to go she pulled at his coat
again. “You never get te
letter about me from Eng-
Ngarara: Noisome worm.
Kuri: Dog.
Kai: Food.
land, Mr. Deighton. It never come yet?”
He shook his head. “What letter, Maku? How
long have you been pestering me about it? Harped
on it for years now. No, it’s never come.”
“All right; but it come one day.”
By eleven o’clock every native from round the
district who could possibly get away had come to
town. Maku was enjoying herself. She watched the
arrivals, greeted her friends, talked excitedly and
listened to the gossip, the while she shrewdly appraised
appearances of prosperity or poverty in them all.
A half-caste youngish woman, good-looking in a
bold way and known to all as Louey, joined the group.
Her appearance immediately arrested attention
tight-fitting tussore costume, flimsy blouse threaded
with yellow ribbon, panama hat with a jaunty feather,
shiny patent shoes and light cotton stockings. In a
high, affected voice she hailed Maku.
The old woman eyed the younger, taking in
every detail of her dress, but, as she approached,
feigned not to see the extended hand —then deliberately
spat.
Louey Toko came from a tribe inferior in rank
to that of Maku’s ancestors. Pride of tribe flamed
strongly in the old woman, and previous familiarity
from one of such low caste as Louey still rankled.
But Louey was quite unconcerned. She shook
hands all round and again turned to Maku. “How’s
te belle?” she laughed.
Anger shot into Maku’s eyes, but again she
affected deafness and, puffing at the pipe, gazed into
the distance.
Annoyed at the rebuff, Louey gave vent to spite.
“You’re a silly old woman, Maku. Te pakehas laugh
at you. They say ‘Old Maku —she t’inks she’s te
belle of New Zealand. Silly old Maori —no money
even. Can’t pay te bills! ’ ”
The effect was instantaneous. Maku was on her
feet. “You,” she cried, brandishing her stick,
“mongrel kuri! ” She spat with contempt. “Go ’way.
Ino talk with low-class Maori.” Fierce and threaten-
ing she looked, dark eyes flashing fire.
Louey, deciding for discretion rather than valor,
hurled her final shot. “You got te great opinion of
yourself—old fool!” and minced off on high heels.
Maku stood for a few minutes watching her
enemy’s departure. “I show her one day t’at
ngarara.” Slowly she nodded to the group as she
sat down. “I show you all.”
When George Deighton returned from
the court an hour later she was still there —
alone. Some-
thing in the
old woman’s
droop made
him pause.
“What’s the
matter, Maku?
Why ar e n’t
you up at the
court?”
She looked
up, anger still
gleaming in
her face.
“That Louey
Toko! She
say to me ‘How te belle?’” Maku’s voice savagely
mimicked. “She laugh. Tell me te pakeha say I te
mad woman —old fool. I teach her, Deighton. I poor
old woman now, but I a lady still.”
Sympathetically the lawyer patted her shoulder.
“Take no notice. She isn’t worth it. Only teasing
you,” he mollified. “The whites know you and
respect you. Cheer up, Maku.”
The old woman rose. “You my friend, Deighton.
I not forget. Now I go up to te court and get te
kai too.” Maku was hungry, and kai was tempting.
I T was only a few weeks later that Messrs. Deighton
* and Green were apprised of the surprising fact of
Maku’s £5OOO inheritance from the estate of Henry
Bishop.
“So that explains the letter she’s always asking
about,” said Deighton to his partner. “This Bishop
must have told her he would send money.”
A message was sent out to the pah asking Maku
to call.
“What for you want me?” she asked apprehen-
sively on arrival. “I pay all te bill—owe nothing.”
“No good trying to pull the wool over my eyes
like that, Maku,” answered Deighton with smiling
derision. “You owe money all round the place. But
it’s not the bills I want to talk about. This is im-
portant. When did you come back here, Maku?”
“Oh, long time now. Twenty, thirty year or
more.”
“Why did you come back? What made you
leave Bishop?” he persisted. “You married him,
didn’t you?”
“ Course I marry him! ” Maku was indignant.
“I te beautiful Maori girl. Henry Bishop he mad
about me. He come here on te land survey—come up
te river to te big pah. He see me. I like te pakeha.
He like me. My father he no like though. I sing—l
dance. Bishop he teach me to speak te English. He
say he marry me. We clear out one night and we
marry English way—not Maori fashion.”
Deighton watched the strong brown old fingers
filling the stumpy briar.
“And what happened then?”
“What happen? Deighton, I have te good time —
very happy. We go to Wellington. I dress like te
pakeha.” She pinched her waist, threw back her
shoulders. “We have te fine house —like pakeha way.
All te people t’ey nice to me. T’ey say to Bishop ‘You
have te lovely wahine.’ We go to te play and te dance,
and one time to te Governor’s house, where I te belle.
Te English lord he tell me ‘Maku, you te belle of all
New Zealand.’ ” Proudly she threw back her head.
“And then?”
“Well, te long time pass”. . . Maku hesitated.
Her old eyes were turned backwards down the far-
distant past. Slowly she continued. “Te kiddie he
die. I very sick—get tired te pakeha life. No good.”
She shook her head. “All te time dress up, sit up—
too much te show. Pakeha work all te time—work,
work. No sit in sun and talk. I begin to think of my
people—Maori way. Te Maori he love te sun —have
te few potatoes and te pig—work only for plenty food.
He dance and laugh. Pakeha he pull long face.
“Bishop he get wild with me,” she went on,
“ ’cause I get tired wearing te tight corset and te tight
shoe. He like me dress up all te time —go out all te
time. No good.”
o Continued on page 70.)


MAINTAINING
QUALITY!
m
I
NEARLY thirty years ago BRYANT & MAY PTY. LTD.
established their match factory in Richmond and, with the
many years of experience of the Parent Company in England
as a solid foundation, commenced manufacturing safety matches.
The article at once met favor with the Australian public, and
through the years the business has shown steady increase. As
experience has accumulated, so has the quality of the article
produced improved, until to-day matches produced by Bryant
8C May Pty. Ltd. are more than comparable with matches
manufactured anywhere in the world. And this name has been
built on one foundation: that of QUALITY. Each working
day Bryant 8C May Pty. Ltd. produce a million and a quarter
boxes of matches, and, as far as it is humanly possible, they
see that each box is perfect.
FIRE
PROM
O'*
<*•
cp'c.ClA.L S
-: 0
DON’T JUST ASK FOR MATCHES
INSIST ON
BRYANT 8 MAY’S


SUNDRY
SHOWS
English and U.S.A. Films.
The breezy lady who does the flicks
for London “Observer” has recorded hav-
ing received from a London theatre an
invitation to a short season of English
pictures which, it was added, simply
had to be put on to comply with the
quota. It was implied that they were
being put on in a heap to have done
with them, leaving the theatre free for
U.S.A. talkies in the better season.
That from an English-owned theatre
in London. The lady cheerfully ad-
mitted that there were English pictures
which made her feel that way, too.
Present film-taster has no Anglo-
phobia in his make-up—rather the other
way about —but he has to admit that in
film comedies at least Hollywood mostly
begins where English producers leave off.
There are exceptions, of course ; and
English pictures have their compensa-
tions, chief among them voices that don’t
set a film-taster praying for earflaps.
Usually charming scenes, too, help them
to be easy on the eyes. But generally
speaking it is this showman’s experience
that in the main business of comedies —
which, after all, is to be comedies
—the English efforts still fall so far
short of the Hollywooden standard
as to be barely fit for comparison.
Where the Yanks excel is in
eliminating padding. Their best
comedies keep moving all the time.
The action is never halted for the
sake of working off something
that has nothing to do with it.
English producers, on the
other hand, can’t refrain from
holding up the action to get in
something they think good.
Probably it is good, too ; but
the effect of this directing on
the picture as a whole is disas-
trous. It leaves an impres-
sion of a string of patches.
Current examples in point
are the American comedy
“Breakfast for Two” at
Sydney State and the Eng-
lish. effort “Take a Chance,”
which has just had a
short run at Sydney Mayfair.
The strength of the English
film is Claude Hulbert. His
face is always an agreeable
sight, and it’s on view most
of the time. But the padding
that goes with it! It leaves you
with a mental picture of the
directors running up dead-end
streets and doubling back, only
to run up others even more dead-
ended.
It takes them, for instance,
about a furlong of film to get you
to a racecourse. The assumption
appears to be that nobody among
those who will see the film can be
expected to know what a racecourse
or a race crowd looks like.
In that sort of paddirig English
directors still go on doing things that
would have made a film seem out of date
10 years ago.
The Americans —as in their character-
istic “Breakfast for Two”—have just
about mastered the art of film sub-
editing. Every foot of film counts.
There is continuity of action through-
out ; and the result is comedy represent-
ing what really amounts, to a new form
of entertainment.
ou Can 9 1 Have Everything.”
Moral of this croon and hoof at Syd-
ney Plaza is that in U.S.A. you can have
everything if only you’re able to croon
a bit.
How, in such films, strong men of
Gahd’s Own Country sit entranced when
someone—sex immaterial—starts croon-
ing is always an interesting spectacle.
Evidently hard-headed businessmen,
hard-boiled youths, hard-hearted gang-
sters, hard-hitting pugs, hard-spotting
“playboys,” hard-toiling woikers are
equally susceptible to this remunerative
method of moaning. Let someone set
up a croon and they’ll go into a trance
at once, and sit transfixed, misty-eyed
and open-mouthed, registering the
ethereal expression of dying ducks.
In love-making it’s infallible. If you
can make noises like a drowning wur-
litzer the girl’s as good as yours. As
for your chance if the girl-friend is simi-
larly equipped, it’s nix. You’re a gonner
from the first moan. For in crooning
above all other things the female of the
species is more deadly than the male.
In this film the overpowering vocal
love-philtre is freely exchanged between
Don Ameche, who’s a successful writer
of Broadway leg shows, and Alice Faye,
who’s come to N’Yark from the country
with a play of her own tucked under-
neath her arm.
N’Yark isn’t kind to Alice. When first
seen she’s a very well-fed face register-
ing starvation in the rain outside a res-
taurant window wherein a chef is
juggling irresistible spaghetti. It’s too
FILM STARS OF 1937.
much for Alice, and, succumbing to the
to go in and eat, though there
“ n 1 a dime in her P urse ’ she meets Don ’
blotto - " .
After that it s only a matter of time
before the y croon at each other ’ and the
outc . ome > of course, is a foregone con-
clL^! on -,
Tbere s nothing in the film quite up
*° th * or,8 ‘ nallt L f ,‘ he chmax
f lay Alice brough to town, in which the
lovers embrace at the North Pole and
freeze to death ; still, as yet another film
of stage musicomedy rehearsing and pro-
duction it’s not at all bad of its kind. It
runs throughout on a strong note of
comedy, for one thing; this chiefly pro-
vided by the Ritz Brothers, a sort of
better-tempered variant of the Marx
Brothers. The Ritz trio can do things
other than wisecracking; especially, they
can dance.
“Find the Witness”
This support at Sydney Plaza is an
f.a.q. light mixture of comedy, heart-
throbs and moider.
The moidered person’s a tempera-
mental theatrical star in a state of semi-
divorce from her Modini, who at the
time the deed is done is doing a Houdini-
ish “miracle turn” in a coffin at the
bottom of the bay off the end of the pier.
While the mystery is being worked out
lurv dawns between temperamental star’s
secretary and young an’ handsome
reporter.
Most notable thing about it is its
general statement that sleuthing is better
left to the police than underaken by
newspapers. Otherwise, it’s just a fillum.
“Danger—Love at Work.”
Ann Sothern and Jack Haley.
Ingredients of this comedy at Sydney
Capitol are a family of eccentrics repre-
sented, among others, by Ann Sothern
(in a modified Cookie Allen role), Mary
Boland, John Carradine, Walter Catlett
and Etienne Girardot, a writer of “How
to Be Successful” books (E. E. Horton),
a quaint butler (E. E. Clive) and a be-
wildered young lawyer (Jack Haley).
Director and the various talented
character actors have worked indus-
triously to get laughs, but it is Miss
Sothern who collects them. She alone
wears this particular sort of cap and
bells with some degree of spontaneity and
inconsequential abandon.
Haley gives a competent performance
of a straight part, but is, as in almost
all his recent films, miscast. Nature in-
tended him for Eddie Cantor roles, and
his air of wide-eyed, slightly imbecilic
innocence is thrown away when, as
always of late, he is expected to exhibit
a normal degree of sophistication.
“It Can’t Last Forever,” at Sydney
Lyric, opens with Ralph Bellamy and
Robert Montgomery, as partners in a
theatrical agency, running a publicity
stunt in which Bellamy is a “Master
Mind,” foretells the future and solves
crime mysteries. This is just a build-
up for a love affair between Bellamy and
Betty Furness—she a hard-boiled re=-
porter, out to unmask the impostor.
Neither better nor worse than the other
Bellamy love affairs.
“Love Is on the Air,” at Sydney
Capitol, when a red-hot newsman ex-
poses a bunch of gangsters, but in so
doing treads on the tail of a city big
shot and is put on the kids’ hour. Then
a cheild fan turns up with a cloo, the
bad men are all shot up and everyone
gets just what the doctor ordered.
“The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Ronald Colman, Madeleine Carroll.
Anthony Hope’s best-seller of, it
seems, about half a century ago doesn’t
make such exciting material for filming,
to judge by the current version at Sydney
Regent.
In this representation it works out as
a great to-do about very little. Suspense
holds pretty well for a while—about up
to the point where, the King having
been drugged on his coronation eve, his
place is taken by his double, an Eng-
lish cousin who, on a fishing trip to
this European kingdom, acciden-
tally encounters the King and is
invited in for an evening’s drinking.
Result of this is King hors, de com-
bat (drugged, as a matter of fact)
and double —going through with
the coronation marvellously well,
considering the short time for
rehearsing—meeting as part of
the ceremony the King’s bride-
to-be, and of course falling in
love with her.
The King having been mean-
while kidnapped by those who
drugged him, the plot thickens.
Indeed, it thickens too much.
It becomes soupy, and all
filmdom’s machinery can be
heard creaking in the
attempt to clear it all out and
make it seem like a straight-
forward romantic story.
The ending, which shows
how, after all the trouble the
lovers have been put to, love
must be sacrificed for the
larger matter of politics,
contributes nothing towards
making the film a possible suc-
> cess. The politics don’t seem
worth the sacrifice.
Between times there has been
the fairly impressive spectacle of
the coronation; an intriguing
meeting with a veiled lady in a hut
in the woods; a trap there, escape
and flight; some rather confused
sword- and pistol-fighting in the half-
dark corridors of a moated castle, arid
several pretty realistic killings, including
a crunchingly horrible sound effect when
a kneeling man has his skull crushed in
with an iron bar.
Realism of that kind seems gruesomely
out of place in such a romantic surround.
Most of the film is, in its way, agree-
able enough ; just f.a.q. light entertain-
ment, and no great honor to anybody in
particular responsible for it.
C. Aubrey Smith is about the best of
it, making the solid part of King’s head
caretaker seem authentic and real. Ronald
Colman gives a semblance of reality to
a long and rather incredible part;
Madeleine Carroll does a little worse with
her part even than it deserves. Douglas
Fairbanks, jnr., is all right if you happen
to like Douglas Fairbanks, jnr.
Matinee Drama.
Planet Productions had Sydney Royal
for matinee performances last week of
“Day Must Break,” a very promising
three-act drama by a local lad, Alexander
Connell.
Set in Ancient Roman times, its main
business is the turning traitor of a would-
be Caesar and his mental collapse under
the strain. A matter of love between his
daughter and the warrior leader of the
garrison helps it along.
There’s novelty in the plot—when the
traitor, beginning to crack up, gives his
daughter instructions to pass on to her
lover which cancel out his arrangements
Film Stars of 1937.
A striking large reproduction on
fine art paper of Frith’s group of
Film Stars of 1937 will be sent free
on application, enclosing the Ser-
vice coupon from next week’s
Bulletin. The reproduction is
twice as large as that on this page—
nearly full Bulletin- page size.
Address application (enclosing
Service coupon from B. 8/12 /’ 37)
to The Bulletin, Box 2521BB,
G.P.O., Sydney.


TRIPLE
ECONOMY
for EVERY Rusiness
n
OMMER
% BRIT I S H TRUCKS
TiiTANY great firms . . . leaders of widely
’■* ■" varying industries .. - names known
throughout the country... all choose Commers.
Why? Because Commer gives THREE-FOLD
ECONOMY in LONG LIFE, RELIABILITY and
LOW UPKEEP. Commer's excellence is tra-
ditional and unequalled. Its mechanical per-
fection guarantees continuous service without
fuss or failure saves men's time gets more
work done reduces maintenance charges.
Commer have been building commercial
vehicles and nothing else for over thirty
years. At today's prices they are the finest
possible value.
DISTRIBUTORS
TASMANIA:
D. L. Hollis Motors
York Street, Launceston
VICTORIA:
Overseas Motors Pty. Ltd.
2 22 Exhibition St., lAelb., C.l.
N.S.W.:
John McGrath Ltd.
155 Elizabeth St., Sydney
W. AUSTRALIA:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd.
900 Hay Street, Perth
S. AUSTRALIA:
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd.
42 Waymouth Street, Adelaide
QUEENSLAND:
John McGrath Ltd.
358 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane
World Exporters:
I
HooteS 70
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, London
Australian and N.Z. Representative
C. E. BLAYNEY
Kembla Building,
Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NC. 5
Christmas comes but
Vi
/>
A
*
once a year
I) So make no mistake
give SWAN pens and
FYNE-POYNT
PENCILS
Hr*
olo uT
also
bl» c ' 5
gtija"’
ess
fiRB
00l^ 0
wts
col°
also
bio
S^e
di es
Si» aTI
ESS
v£ Kl '
lB
»!*•
blO 1 -
g^a"'
of iL
vl s
al°°
;
v»v
010^ 5 ’
also
bU> c *
perso
ytfT
P O
yS E
W
16°
VI!
/ffi
<0
There’s no denying that a
Swan Pen (or a Fyne-Poynt
Pencil) makes one of the
finest gifts possible—a present
which really IS appreciated by everyone!
There is either the Visofil (the ‘Big-fill’) or
the Leverless (the ‘Quick-fill’) — both are
thoroughly up-to-the-minute, and both
guaranteed for a lifetime. And, of
course, nibs can be changed after presenta-
tion to suit any style of writing.
The VISOFIL & LEVERLESS
CtttMtPmf
PRICES TO SUIT EVERYONE. The VISOFIL Swan, with clip
and mount of rolled gold, 32/6. Ladies’ Size, without clip, 27/6.
LEVERLESS Swans from 21/-. Other Swans from 15/-. Blackbirds
from ill-. Fyne-Poynt Pencils from 7/6. All available in black or
colours. Made throughout in England.
Swan Ink is Best for ALL Pens
Mabie, Todd & Co. (Australia), Pty., Ltd., 6, Primrose Buildings,
255 A, George Street, Sydney.
A. 6.37
OF ALL GOOD
STATIONERS AND
JEWELLERS.
with the enemy. The ending, which leaves
the mentally afflicted plotter acclaimed by
the mob, while the hero resignedly de-
tides to throw in the sponge and become
a peasant, is weak, as is also the comic
business, which makes Aileen Bntton s
an impossible part. B. N. Lewin and
James Raglan effectively mterpre e le
respective parts of plotter and Roman
soldier-lover
At the first matinee all spoke too low
for the size of the hall.
Sydney Art Shows.
The Painter-Etchers and Graphic Art
Society showed at the Education Depart-
ment's gallery a collection mostly of
etchings and pen-or pencil-drawings, but-
tressed with some very nice work by dis-
Wuished Englishmen
Among meLbers’ offerings the pen-
drawings of Cedric Emmanuel, the etch-
ings and monotypes of Syd Long, Alan
D. Baker’s pencil-drawing “Sulky Child”
and N. H. Baker’s pencil-drawing “Alan”
(which goes to the Gallery) stick in the
memory. Douglas Pratt’s trees in pencil,
Erik Langker’s etchings, heads by J. S.
Watkins and Dattilo-Rubbo and R.
Russom’s drawings (including a fine head
G f Henry Lawson) are part of the usual
backbone of this show. Dashing etchings
0 £ sa ni n g ships by Geoffrey C. Ingle-
tQn are some thing new.
,
At David Jones s Saflery is the best
show B. E. Minns ever had ; a memorial
show, and a very worthy memorial of
one of the most versatile artists Aus-
tta“a ha ? P roduccd - K 1 , , , .
Minns s facility in black-and-white and
asil ls wc ' ' now ' n , 0 Bulletin readers,
He was equally at home depicting abos.
<w bush scenes reproducing the past
>" portraits and big historical figure com-
positions, or painting the Sydney water-
side His water-colors often had a magi-
daintiness, as exemplified in Shrimp-
on the French Coast and The
Picnic in the current show,
Thea Proctor’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries covers her usual gamut—
flowers, figure studies and a few prints.
All very dainty, fresh and graceful; just
the thing for the breakfast-room. But
one wishes she would overcome her
early-Victorian predilection for ‘ mauves.
. Harold Byrne, best known as an
etcher, fills the Industrial Arts gallery
with several excellent etchings, some
pencil-drawings (mostly student stuff,
these) and some oils. The paintings have
elements of originality. Highlight of the
show is a group of aquatints of the
Russian Ballet.
Lance Solomon, showing at Rubery
Bennett’s galleries, paints the Aus-
tralian bush, mountain and beach very
pleasantly and with great facility.
In his interpretation of the tone of
bushland scenes he seems to find more
pearl-grey than do most other painters,
but there is a good deal of it and
Solomon’s insistence that it is there in-
vests his pictures with individual grace.
He has an eye for effective composi-
tion, as evidenced in his biggest offering
“Bushland,” and in almost posterish ex-
periments in much fuller color, such as
“Light and Shade,” “Blue Pool” and
“Beach, South Bulli.” In such sketches
as “The Open Gate” and “Harbor Fore-
shore” there is clever treatment of little
details to produce a mass effect.
First-class draughtsmanship is exhibited
in every canvas.
South Australian Artist.
Rex Wood’s show at the Society of
Arts Gallery in Adelaide is (with luck)
to take him to Europe for further study.
It displays versatility and the exploring
touch proper to youth. In landscape he
can look up at the paternal church on
its peak or look down into a basin from
a hillside in the most modern manner.
One or two sound portraits. Lino-cuts
with power. Weird black-and-white illus-
trations to poetry by Patricia Hackett. A
cleanly amputated arm holding up a shell
which makes spectators wonder and query
—this being presumably its intention.


f
dsf
IVE a Globite Case ... for
travel, school, business,
sport or ordinary everyday
use. Globites are smart,
light and strong . . . sold
at local stores. All sizes.
* GLOBITE
CASE
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL S TREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.YV. DIRECTORS:
F E Brvant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; W. H. Mackay; J. Beresford Grant,
Colin A. Sinclair. Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
ROUND ABOUT
An Apostle of the Hard-boiled.
It would seem that another form needs adding
to the Muses’ caucus: one of a hard-boiled guy
in hornrims, with a ten-cent cigar stuck in his
phiz, a coat in big checks—red and green for prefer-
ence—and a soft hat crushed sideways on his
cranium; hair short-clipped—no long-haired simp
affected by the moon, this chap—and he might be
carrying a malacca.
Our reason for suggesting this belated addition
to the Nine is that only a genuine hard-
boiled he-Muse of disillusionment such as that
could have inspired Mr. Samuel Hoffenstein, whose
Poems in Praise of Practically Nothing bid fair, in
Mr. Hoffenstein’s native U.S.A., to lower even the
records long held by Miss Wilcox.
On Mr. Hoffenstein’s native heath Poems in
Praise of, etc., have been through 19 (nineteen) print-
ings, and now Messrs. Angus and Robertson feel that
Australians should not be denied such a boon any
A new Muse added to the famous caucus.
longer. Hence this tome barging in here and forcing
us to form these new ideas of what a Muse looks
like. Come, Mr. Hoffenstein —or may we say Sam,
or Sammy? —come, Sammy, let everybody see what
sort of guy this Muse of yours really is:
I cavort and I dine as I please;
I pay court to the vine and to beauty;
I blow (when I’m flush ) like a breeze
From acquisitive cutie to cutie.
You begin to get the idea? Oh, he’s hard-boiled,
all right. Listen to him:
/ tug (as they say ) at the leash ;
I sniff at the roses of piffle;
I’m finished for good with hasheesh,
The lute and the lyrical sniffle.
Hard-boiled? Listen to this for a statement:
There’s nothing sweeter than a bride
If you’re not standing by her side.
And, no, he’s not just wisecracking, not Sammy’s
Muse! He’s been through it. They’ve had him on —
and look what they’ve done to him (via Sammy):
You meet a girl and you surrender;
Though God knows why, you’re kind and tender ;
You’re husband, lover, sister, brother,
Companion, banker, father, mother;
You try your best to be worthy of her;
You make mistakes, but she knows you love her;
You’re hers completely, and you show it :
And what thanks do you get? The gate —1 know it!
No wonder he’s developed a heart like a salted
almond! The “fair” sex —that’s what’s behind it all,
“For those who can afford a tree.”
as usual. Lissen, Sammy —Mr. Hoffenstein’s Muse
speaking lissen, Sammy ; they’ve done y’ wrong,
huh! Give ’em the woiks:
A woman, like the touted Sphinx,
Sits, and God knows what she thinks;
Hard-boiled men, who never fall,
Say she doesn’t think at all.
No, no, Sammy —Mr. Hoffenstein’s Muse speak-
ing—no, no, Sammy! The
woiks! Let ’em have a
brahdside! They’ll take
that saht of thing as a
cahmpliment. Y’ know
what they’re like? Tell
the woild:
Your little hands,
Your little feet,
Your little mouth —
Oh, God, how sweet!
Your little nose,
Your little ears,
Your eyes, that shed
Such little tears!
Your little voice,
So soft and kind;
Your little soul,
Your little mind !
Waal, yairs, a bit better, Sammy. They
gave you the gate, huh? Right, turn the
rattle-gun on ’em again and give ’em the
woiks properly:
Darling, mistress of my heart,
In grey or sunny weather,
None but a better man shall part
What God has joined together.
Well, there you are now ; you see how it is with
Sammy. He’s been through it. They’ve given him
curry. Of course the ladies will assert that
he’s just like the rest of the hobnailed sex
—he can’t take it. No thought among them
—as Mr. Hoffenstein and Mr. Hoffenstein’s
Muse know well —for the twist they can
put in a fellow’s whole outlook. Take Mr.
Hoffenstein. Rock it into them he can ;
but how differently Mr Hoffenstein would
have been singing about other things as
well —roses and lilacs, say—if he’d'never
been given the gate! As it is, he strolls
out into the garden, and what thoughts
assail him there?:
The rose is so improvident
It never saves a single scent,
Without which fault, you must agree,
The rose would smell like you or me.
You can hear Mr. Hoffenstein’s Muse fairly whis-
pering it at the top of his voice—Yeah! B.O.! Which
brings us, by natural association of ideas and the
help of Mr. Hoffenstein’s Muse, to a contemplation
“From acquisitive cutie to cutie.”
of Mr. Hoffenstein in a place where poets, for reasons
too delicate for us to explore, are rarely enough dis-
covered —that is to say, in his tub:
You take a bath, and sit there bathing
In water cold, in water scathing;
You scrub till you’re sans an epidermis,
And feel like a regular Paining Hermes.
You do not waste a single minute;
The tub shows how you worked while in it;
You dry, and do some honest rooting
For such remarkable abluting.
Well, a day goes by, or ten, or thirty,
And what thanks do you get ? You’re just as dirty !
Enjoying such thoughts, Mr. Hoffenstein does the
next thing expected of him —he gets dressed. And
does this cheer his cup of bitterness ; does this help
him any to forget being given the gate. No, sir!
You buy yourself a new suit of clothes;
The care you give it, God only knows;
The material, of course, is the very best yet:
You get it pressed and pressed and pressed yet;
You keep it free from specks so tiny —
And what thanks do you get ? The pants get shiny.
Dressed, he passes out through the front garden,
and there’s his cigar-chewing Muse waiting to point
the malacca at that bush in the corner. At once Mr.
Hoffenstein is inspired:
The miner wears a hobnailed boot;
His clothes and face are black as soot;
He is a most fantastic sight
Among the lilacs fresh and bright.
And then, looking about him as he goes, Mr.
Hoffenstein sings:
In the merry month of Spring —
Streams awake and robins sing;
Grass grows green and sap begins
To tickle trees about the shins;
Flowers bestar the lively fields,
And every cow her quota yields;
The air is soft and so are you ;
The sky, and all who think, are blue ...
Now isn’t this a silly thing
For any adult man to sing,
Who might, with hefty he-men, range
The pastures of the Stock Exchange ?
No doubt a cry right from the heart, Mr. Hoffen-
stein !
Still, we notice you own the copyright of your
poems, so you can’t be doing too badly. At the same
time, even our limited experience tells us you couldn’t
“I sniff at the roses of piffle.”
have gone and got as hard-boiled as all that sticking
your money in the bank. No, sir. It takes good-bye
to a whole swag of jink before a guy’s in a position
to sing with authority:
Oh, the first kiss is sweet —
Like a bud, like a wafer;
But the last, I repeat,
But the last kiss is safer.
They run away with it, all right—those acquisi-
tive cuties! And what do they- care that at the
season when even In Memoriam poets are wont to
get' skittish and shock the “S. M. Herald” with their
levity you, Mr. Hoffenstein, have to sing thus?:
The year is at the spring, and so
Things begin to spring and grow;
Trees afford a shade, e.g.,
For those who can afford a tree.
No wonder —quite apart from having been given
the gate and all —such fanciful thoughts as these occur
to you as you pass along:
There are strange creatures in the zoo,
Like emu, zebra, auk and gnu,
But stranger creatures have I seen
Riding in a limousine.
There, despised females, that’s what happens
when you give the gate ; when you, in your wanton-
ness, hurt the heart of a Hoffenstein. No wonder
he knocks about with a guy like this Muse of his,
both of them, no doubt, savagely chewing up ten-
inch Havanas and spitting them on the pavements.
So that when they chance on the sort of sight that
proverbially makes your flittersome pulses frolic they
have to react to it like this:
Soldiers have to fight and swear
To win the stripes they proudly wear;
While zebras, most unfit for war,
Have stripes enough to fill a corps.
Babies, on the other hand, observe Mr. Hoffen-
stein and Mr. Hoffenstein’s Muse:
Babies haven’t any hair;
Old men’s heads are just as bare.
Between the cradle and the grave
Lies a haircut and a shave.
And from hereabouts, naturally enough, Mr.
Hoffenstein and Mr. Hoffenstein's Muse get them to
a contemplation of the Beyond. And are they
Where poets are rarely discovered.
cheered? Do they hold out any hope for such miser-
able sinners as ourselves? On the contrary:
Of course, you say, “A lot I care —
My heart is weak, I won’t be there;
When that time comes, I’ll be about
As dead as love the third week out.”
Blind oaf, enjoy your vain delight —
They’ll resurrect you just for spite;
They’ll haul you from your dreamless bed
To drop a comet on your head!
A merry Christmas, Mr. Hoffenstein.


mmmamim
Jkl
■
* .» .:
•■ .... .'■.'■ .......
|ife £Sl!fe i
~r-v.
22*i
i
*
*
■MWa
WWM»
***
3
;It?SIM
The Main Entrance, Melbourne Head Office.
Growing with the country and adapting
itself to changing conditions to ensure
the best possible service to its existing
and prospective customers, the Bank
of Australasia has opened numerous
Branches throughout Australia and New
Zealand, and also provided business and
travel facilities with accredited agents
and correspondents throughout the world.
Paid-up Capital .. £4,500,000
Reserve Fund £2,475,000
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Currency Reserve ...... £2,000,000
(Used in the business of the Bank)
Reserve liability of proprie-
tors under the charter . . £4,500,000
£13,475,000
COURT OF DIRECTORS.
DONALD FORSYTH ANDERSON, Esq.
Hon. GEOFFREY COKAYNE GIBBS.
JOHN FRANCIS' GREY GILLIAT, Esq.
EDMUND GODWARD, Esq.
KENNETH GOSCHEN, Esq.
CHARLES GIPPS HAMILTON. Esq.
FREDERICK V. C. LIVINGSTONE-LEARMONTH, Esq.,
D.S.O.
Right Hon. the Earl of MIDLETON, K.P., P.C.
HORACE PEEL, Esq.
Sir JOHN SANDERSON, K.B.E.
ARTHUR WHITWORTH, Esq.
/835
INCORPORATED in England
by Royal Charter in 1835.
(The liability of the members
is limited.)
London Head Office: 4 Threadneedle
Street, E.C.2.
West End Branch: 17 Northumberland
Avenue, W.C.2.
Current Accounts may be opened, enabling payments to be made by
cheque, affording the greatest safety and convenience in all business
and personal transactions.
Fixed Deposits. Interest is allowed on Fixed Deposits, which are
accepted for any amount —however small —for periods of 3 to 24
months.
Advances are made promptly against approved securities.
Bills are discounted or collected.
Wool, Butter, Produce and Other Bills on London and elsewhere are
purchased on the best terms.
Documents and Other Valuables accepted for safe custody free of
charge to customers.
Commercial Credits established and funds transferred by mail or
cable to or from any part of the world.
Drafts, Letters of Credit, Travellers’ Cheques and Circular Notes are
issued negotiable wherever you go.
Travellers’ Cheques are also available in Italian Tourist Lire at
special concession rates to travellers visiting Italy or Italian
Possessions.
THE BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA
The oldest Bank now trading in Australia as originally constituted.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Dunloe (Great Star-Sweet Echo) gave
Melbourne bookmakers their solitary
turn-up at Moonee Valley. Occasion
was the V.R.C. Benevolent Fund meet-
ing, which, despite scorching weather
and Henley Regatta opposition, received
good patronage. Members had to pay
at the gates like ordinary fellas, and
some manfully incurred the additional
expense.
Dunloe, formerly leased by W. J.
O’Connor, a Melbourne publicaij, now is
raced by the St. Albans studmasters Guy
Raymond and H. B. Ranken, who bred
her. She remains in the stable of Jack
James, at one time the leading trotting
reinsman in Victoria. Never previously
had the mare given indication of stamina,
and in a field of seven she started at tens.
Only Pooley Bridge, having his first out-
ing for the season, was at a longer quote.
Conscious of the risk they were tak-
ing with an unsound horse, punters
backed Sir Simper down to 9 to 4. Red
Manfred and Art were at fours, and
Iva at fives. Boongarry, who continues
to trick his trainer, commanded support
at 8 to 1. After leading past the stand
Boongarry surrendered control to
Dunloe. He mustered fresh energy
towards the end and cut Art out of
fourth position. Red Manfred gave a
wretched display.
Iva looked like overhauling Dunloe at
the bend, but she died on her run. Mild
excitement was imparted to the finish by
Sir Simper coming from nearly last at
the half-mile to reach the judge two
lengths behind Dunloe, with Iva If
lengths farther away. Dunloe, ridden out,
ran the 1 \ miles in 2min. 3sec., and cut a
second off the course record, established
by Diaphane in May. The Australasian
record is 2min. 2|sec.
Expressions of pity arose as Sir
Simper returned to scale on three legs.
He probably broke down a considerable
distance from home and must have re-
markable fortitude. Sir Simper has been
a lame duck ever since he won the
Toorak Handicap and ran third in the
Caulfield Cup of 1934. His recent train-
ing has consisted mainly of swimming
exercise.
Archie Crofts, patron of football and
other sports in the South Melbourne dis-
trict, paid llOOgns. for Heroic Chief as
a yearling in the hope that the Heroic
colt might prove as brilliant on the turf
as his elder brother, Valiant Chief. In
the galloping ranks Heroic Chief was a
washout, but he is making good over the
battens.
In a Maiden Hurdle at Ascot on
November 3 Heroic Chief scored by half
a furlong. This accounted for the gelding
being at 11 to 8 on for the Appeal
Hurdle on Saturday. Cutler endeavored
to restrain him at the Valley, but his
mount disliked being checked and nearly
“sold out” at each of the first three
hurdles. After that Cutler gave Heroic
Chief freer rein and he won, easing up,
by four lengths from that gay deceiver
Tiger, with Highardo, an A.R.C. Birth-
day Cup winner, third. Highardo has
just entered the ranks of timber-toppers,
and ought to make good in the new role.
Heroic Chief, however, is a real “find.”
Sol Green has a promising colt in
Brethren (Verbius-Filial), who van-
quished the 5-to-2 favorite, Gay Dell,
by half a head in the Juvenile Handicap
after a ding-dong tussle over the last
three furlongs. They ran the five fur-
longs in lmin. lsec. and took a quarter
of a second off the course record, put up
by Valiant Chief on April 1, 1935. Del-
will, by Perinthus, sire of Larissa, was
an impressive third at 20 to 1. Green
got eights about Brethren, who firmed
to 9 to 2. Roy Shaw trains the colt.
Harold Cohen fluked a Caulfield Cup
in 1936 with Northwind, but his turf
luck since then has been in inverse ratio.
“ Hi—go easy with them spurs, Maggie!”
The Egotist, another Windbag, was
backed down to 5 to 2 for the Benefit
Plate, but he couldn’t really extend that
smart mare Finch, who followed up her
Ascot victory by making light of the 41b.
rehandicap. Finch was at fours. Ogwell,
next in request to the other placed
horses, would have been closer than
third if too much use had not been made
of him at the outset.
Royal Quex (Lord Quex-Lilock) had
been raised 71b. for a win at Ascot, but
this did not prevent W. R. Kemball’s
fine colt from being supported down to
twos for the Benefit Purse. Bailey took
no risks of the good thing coming un-
done. He shook Lord Quex along all the
way and drew the whip as the straight
was entered. Nearing the post he slowed
down. Minor prizes went to Gay Bro-
cade (eights) and Komachi (14 to 1).
Yilderim, a Night Raid mare belonging
to the owner of Sir Simper, headed the
unplaced division and ought to win a
small race soon.
Riddle was expected to follow the
example of other Ascot winners, Finch
and Royal Quex ; but the Baralong geld-
ing failed his 5-to-2 backers in the High-
weight Handicap, which old Sarokos
(threes) won practically all the way.
Namakia, trained by Fryer, cut Riddle
out of second money. She is on the way
to striking her best M.L. form.
Unfortunately the last has been seen
of Valiant Chief on a racecourse. The
knee injury sustained at Moonee Valley
in the early spring of 1936 will not per-
mit of this magnificent galloper being
given the solid work that a heavily-
fleshed thoroughbred needs. Hoysted
patched up Valiant Chief for a sprint
victory, but the chestnut couldn’t stand
the strain of a normal preparation.
* * * *
William Kelso’s honest little chestnut
mare Misnomer has won many races for
his stable. First out in the Flying Handi-
cap at Canterbury, she was first home,
giving nothing else a chance. Heritor
and Moonray—who will be better for the
race —earned place money for their
owners. Misnomer, who was this Page’s
fancy, was backed from twelves to sixes.
Hamurah did not do nearly as well as
at Warwick Farm. Delmestor was another
to disappoint; but she missed the jump.
C. D. B. Wright, a Rose Bay man,
gave only 25 guineas for Masterpiece.
He bought the nag for hurdle racing, and
Masterpiece has won over ’urdles and is
useful on the flat. There was no fluke
about his win in the Canterbury Handi-
cap, for which his party got sixes. Going
out of the straight he ran wide, but he
was in charge six furlongs from home
and won in a canter from Brown Betty
and Country Party (evens). Masterpiece
has scored three times at Canterbury.
Horses for courses!
Royal Prince (5 to 4 on) led through-
out in the first division of the Two-year-
old. The Cork, who is raced by his
breeder, Hunter White, was second from
go to stop, and Napoleon third. Vintage,
raced by Mrs. Hunter White, shaped
pretty well. It was Royal Prince’s third
success in three starts. The second divi-
sion for fillies went to Some Vixen (3 to
1). Ridden by Jack O’Sullivan, she
is trained by his dad for L. Carroll, who
has her on lease from P. J- McGirr.
Like Royal Prince she led all the way.
Areas, who races in Bob Walder’s
colors, was a poor second, and the favor-
ite, June, was third.
Cliquot got his tongue over the bit in
the Flying. Saddled up again in a division
of the Highweight, he ran a dead heat
with Stalin, but was lucky. They started
at 9 to 2 and 2 to 1 respectively. Stalin
began slowly, had to race on the outside
of his field, and lost lengths at the top of
the straight through being forced wide.
Cliquot got a nice run on the rails all
the way. Night of Love, turned out in
excellent trim by Jim Pike, galloped
like a squib. Turning for home with a
good lead, she missed a place. Gipsy
Chief was fourth. He looks an early
winner over a longer distance.
Panaster, a stablemate of Sarcherie,
made the second division of the High-
weight memorable for the bookmakers.
Quoted at 33 to 1, though few laid him
at any price, he beat two well-backed
ones, Esteemed and Diatter, who tried
to win all the way. Belgravia finished
fast in fourth place after striking lots of
trouble. Panaster is a nice-looking three-
year-old by Pantheon-Poetaster, and 33
to 1 will not go begging about him if
shrewdly “placed” at the summer meet-
ings.
Randwick trainer Jack Noud landed a
double with Holbein and Forestage.
Holbein went out at threes for the Park
Stakes and outstayed Levant and Lady
Cav. Young Neale rode Holbein. Darby
Munro was given the mount on Forest-
age (3 to 1) in the Campsie Handicap,
and Forestage won easily from Heracles
and Minnesota. Maurice, the favorite,
wouldn’t or couldn’t gallop.
* * * *
The Sydney Government, which a
month or two ago was going to stamp
out s.p. betting on Queensland lines, is
now going to abolish proprietary racing.
It is also going to reduce racecourse
admission charges. Its original notion
was that the paddock tariff should be
cut to 12s. 6d. at Randwick and 10s. at
other courses (it is now 14s. 4d. at
Randwick, 14s. 2d. at Warwick Farm
and Rosehill, and 14s. elsewhere), and
the Leger tariff to 3s. (it is now 4s. at
Randwick, 4s. lid. at Warwick Farm
and Rosehill and 4s. 6d. elsewhere). The
Government is still in favor of three-
bob for the Leger, but thinks that 12s.
at Randwick and'lls. 6d. at other courses
would be fair paddock charges. But if
12s. is fair at Randwick, Bs. would be
dear at most of the proprietary courses.
The Government has done so much back-
ing and filling on the subject of racing
reform that people won’t take it seriously
till a bill has been slammed on the Statute
Book.
* * * *
R. S. Turner, one of the A.J.C. stipen-
diary stewards, has attended his last in-
quiry. He had been ailing for months,
but stuck to his job when he ought to
have been in bed—stipendiary stewards,
for all the bricks thrown at them, are
like that.
Ins and Outs
As often happens in benefit matches
both Grimmett and Richardson did well
in their testimonial game at Adelaide.
Grimmett took three for 39, Bradman
(17) among them, and Richardson batted
brightly for 42, including a six. Brad-
man’s crowd totalled 184 (Brown 42,
Fingleton 32 ; Sievers four for 27); for
Richardson’s eleven Badcock made 102.
* * * *
The Westralians made a capital bid
for a win against a N.S.W. second
eleven in Sydney. Their first innings
yielded 236 (Alexander 105, Buttsworth
4 1 , Wilberforce 27), and they got rid of
the Welshmen for 208 (Barnes 99 n. 0.,
Beattie 41 ; Zimbulis, four for 63). Next
time the visitors made 210 (Lovelock 8L
n. 0., Alexander 48 ; Cheetham four for
16). N.S.W. lost seven for 168 (Barnes
127 n. 0.). Barnes has a good chance of
making the team for England.
(Continued on page 52.)
FOR EPSOM.
Tanti Handicap: Plymouth Hoe ,
next, Great Feast or Somerset.
Epsom Cup: Lilirene; next,
Lady Kooringal or Somerset.
Manumbar Handicap: Beau-
stone ; next, Fort Belvedere.
Parkdale Welter: Cry Havoc;
next, Palatinate.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Camden Handicap: Misnomer ;
next, Goorka.
December Handicap: Country
Party; next, Bourbon.
Farm Novice: Nightingale ; next,
Rebel Chief.


COWLES <&, DUNN
’Phone: M 3388.
SHOOTING .
CV\> :!•>
r•i M *
fi/rh >
/* .„'‘W
•«u>£
tyfNCff £5T£&
HIGH GRADE
FIREARMS, AMMUNITION AND
FISHING TACKLE
71 King Street,
Sydney
The Commonwealth Government having prohibited the importation
of American Firearms, the only Arms suitable for all Australian
conditions, WINCHESTER World Standard Rifles, will
shortly be unprocurable. Do not miss this opportunity of obtaining
the Rifle you want, the Rifle of supreme accuracy, and, above all,
the Rifle that is SAFE to shoot. Stocks are rapidly diminishing and
cannot be replenished. ORDER NOW.
Telegraphic Address:
“CODUN,”
SYDNEY.
FISHING.
'mmMUMurt
r
MODEL 67.
.22-cal. Single-shot, bolt-action, 27in.
barrel, elevating rear sight. Adapted
for short, long and long-rifle regular and Super-speed
cartridges. Price 55/-
Carriage Paid.
"WINCHESTER
WORLD STANDARD RIFLES
have special proof steel barrels for the use of
Super-speed Cartridges, and are scientifically
proportioned, drilled and rifled to ensure maxi-
mum accuracy and balance. Full-size Walnut
Stock with Shot Gun type Butt greatly adds to
appearance and ease in handling.
MODEL 69.
.22-cal. Bolt-action Repeater, 25in. round tapered
barrel; two magazines, one for short, other for long
and long-rifle, with sporting rear sight. Price .. 95/-
Wlth adjustable peep sight. Price 957-
Carriage Paid.
lV J
r
MODEL 69.
As above, equipped with Lyman No. 422 expert
four-power telescopic sight and sporting rear sight.
Price £7/15/-
Carriage Paid.
LYMAN
No. 422 EXPERT
TELESCOPIC SIGHT,
Four Power.
’Scope complete . . 55/-
’Scope fitted .... 60/-
.22 HORNET
[Mi SUPER WSPEED
(46 Grain Staynless Hollow Point
Bullet. Super Speed
Muzzle velocity 2625 F.S.
Price, per 100 25/-
Freight Extra.
NEW MODEL 70.
sai
CALIBRES:
.23 HORNET
.220 SWIFT
STANDARD GRADE.
Bolt-action Six-shot Higli-power Repeating Rifle. 20in. round tapered barrel,
Lyman gold bead front sight on integral ramp base with quick detachable
cover, Lyman No. 57W receiver rear sight, lightning-fast speed lock, one-piece
walnut pistol-grip stock, weight nbov+ " T ”- Price £2l
Carriage Paid.
MODEL 62.
,22-cal. Slide-action, Hammer-repeating
Rifle, 23in. round barrel, for short, long
and long-rifle. Price
Carriage Paid.
£5/10/-
MODEL 63.
The “Speed King” .22-cal. Automatic,
23in. Round Barrel; for Long-rifle Super-
speed Cartridges only. Price £lO/10/-
Carriage paid.
MODEL 65.
Lever-action 8-shot Repeating Rifle
in calibres .25/20 and .32. 22in.
round tapered batrel, Lyman gold bead ramp base front
sight, Rocky Mountain adjustable rear sight, Pistol-grip
stock. Price £ll/11/-
Carriage Paid.
.220 Winchester Super Speed Swift 46-grain
Hollow-point Bullet. Muzzle velocity 4140 F.S.
Price per 100 557-
Freight Extra.
Iver Johnson “Hercules” 12 Gauge Double-
barrel Hammerless Gun, 26in. or 30in.
barrels, left fiill choke, right modified, proof-tested. Weight
of 30in. about 81b., 26in. about 71b. With plain extractor.
Price £B/15/-
With automatic ejector. Price £9/15/-
Carriage Paid.
MODEL 21.
Winchester Double-barrel Hammerless Shot Gun, 12 gauge standard
grade 30in. proof-steel barrels chambered for 2Jin. cartridges; left full
choke, right modified. Walnut pistol-grip stock, automatic safety, with
double triggers. Price •_ .• •• • • v
As above, with single trigger selective ejection. Price
rw riage Paid.
Iver Johnson “Champion” Single-barrel
Shot Gun. 12 gauge, 30in. barrel, full
choke, chambered for 2fin. cartridges.
Price 55/-
As above, 410 G, 26in. barrel, chambered for Sin. cartridge.
Weight about 61b, Price 557-
Carriage Paid.
£22/10/-
£37/10/-
New Winchester Model 37, Steel Bilt Single Barrel Shot
Gun, 12 gauge, 30in. barrel, full choke, chambered for
2?in. cartridges. Price 657-
Carriage Paid.
mm*
ns
C AND D “SPORTSMAN” FLY REEL.
With rustless steel line guide. 3gin.
Weight 6foz. In Silver, Grey or Black.
Price SO/-
WINCHESTER
m
#
Stock nearly ex-
hausted and can’t
be replenished.
Short, per 1000,
27/6
Long, per 1000,
33/3
Long-rifle, 1000,
38/-
Freight Extra.
HARDY BROS/
WORLD RENOWNED
TROUT TACKLE, RODS,
REELS, LINES, LANDING
NETS, CASTS, ETC.,
ALWAYS IN STOCK.
“BARRIER” MULTIPLYING BIG GAME FISH REEL.
—Ratio 2 to 1. Specially designed for fishing above
rod, for which harness attachment and support lugs are
fitted. With the exception of gear wheels, ball races
and check mechanism, this reel is made from rustless
metals, viz., monel metal, phosphor bronze, and stainless
steel. Line capacity 700yds. to 750yds. 39-cord cutty
hunk line. Weight lUlb. Price £27/10/-
WM. SOUTHAM CELEBRATED TROUT RODS.
The “MONTY” three-piece with extra top, 9£ft., weight
6ioz. Price £8
The “TALBINGO” three-piece with extra top, 94ft.,
weight 6Joz., stiff action. Price £8
The “No. 2 PLY” three-piece, with extra top, 94ft.,
weight 640 z. Price £B/5/-
The “GEM” two-piece, 9ft., Aveight 60z.; 94ft., Aveight 640 z.
Price £6/15/-
FISHING CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
TROUT AND GENERAL TACKLE, ALSO
SEPARATE GAME FISH TACKLE.
When Avriting state which required. Please mention “The Bulletin.”
“ATALANTA” BIG GAME FISH ROD.
The “ATALANTA” is a one-piece rod with detachable.
chromium-plated metal butt, and is constructed of three
strips of specially-treated treble-built split cane to
ensure maximum strength, and three strips of carefully
selected guaranteed second growth hickory to give
flexibility and life.
Dimensions are: Tip, sft. 6in.; Butt, 214 in., for fishing
with reel above rod; Butt, 19*in., for fishing with reel
below rod. Price £lB/18/-
Used and higlilv recommended by Mr. Zane Grey, in
whose opinion it is the strongest, most beautifully
finished, springiest, and most enduring of all the rods
he has used.


Vr^-
Canadian Pacific make a
fetish of service and com-
fort on their Trains and
Steamers. That’s why so
many people travel this
way to and from Europe.
GuuuSumQicific
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc, in Canada
A
&
s
:Vx:V::
Hill
mu i
mi in
until
mini
Hill ill
null
MiiillU
' — irTTi
*%**$.<<
%
fee
S8
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
0*
SAFETY DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
■TUU UAN
L. DEPEND ON
Champions
SAFETY experts say that the
car that can dart out of the
way of another is able to
avoid many accidents.. This
calls for quick acceleration.
Keep your car alert. Install
new Champions every year.
An Empire product-
made in Windsor, Canada
Ins and Outs
N.S.W. prevailed over M.L. by eight
wickets, Fingleton 61 and Chipperfield
67, both n. 0., carrying on after McCabe
and Cheetham had gone early. Fingle-
ton had had a poor trot this year, and
it was time he got among the runs. An-
other who will need to brush up is
Brown.
Though they lost all three of their
Australian engagements, the Maori-
landers played attractive cricket. They
numbered in their ranks at least two
bowlers and two or three batsmen fit to
play in any company—no extravagant
estimate of Vivian, Cowie and Wallace,
Maloney and Vivian again. Their field-
ing was first-class, and the way they went
for the bowling —Australia’s two “ter-
rors,” Fleetwood-Smith in Melbourne
and O’Reilly in Sydney were soundly
pasted—warmed the hearts of the few
cricket enthusiasts who went to see them.
All-Black skipper Lowry retold an old
tale when he politely referred to the
neglect of M.L. cricket by the Australian
bosses. The latter not only refuse to
send decent teams over, but prevent
private enterprise from collecting an Aus-
tralian side for a tour whenever that is
suggested. Regular visits to M.L., with
the wickets there so similar in type to
many of those in England, would be
valuable to our batsmen.
* * *
“Five Ways”: A Sydney newspaper-
man has suggested that it might be pos-
sible to send teams to M.L. every two
or three years instead of every 10
years, if some of the Sheffield matches
were “whittled down.” Queenslanders
see in this a move to cut Queensland out
of the Sheffield ring. Someone else sug-
gests that M.L. be admitted to the Shield
contest under different conditions from
those prevailing at present, M.L. to play
the winner in Australia one year, the vic-
torious State next year to cross the
Tasman and fight out a final in M.L.
Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton”: Twenty-one-year-old E.
Anderson won the Queensland profes-
sional golf championship from V. O
Walker, runner-up in the Australian
open, by four up and two to play.
Anderson has proved himself a deadly
putter, and in spite of the modern craze
for long hitting it is on the greens that
the match is won or lost.
* * * *
From John H. Titchen:
The par. by “Divot Digger” (B. 17/11/’37)
concerning the recent professional assistants’
championship is hardly fair in its reference to
Eric Cremin. There was no “demur to his
playing in the tourney” that I am aware of—
certainly not on the part of his fellow-assist-
ants. The modest young man hesitated to
enter for the minor event, which, as professional
champion, he should on form have won easily.
He entered on my advice, and the outcome
vindicated his action, providing extra kudos for
young Jackson, the winner. Cremin’s defeat,
by his cheerful acceptance of it, hasn’t done
him any harm either.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Several Australian
professional golfers are casting a hungry
eye on the Philippine open champion-
ship, played on January 7-9. It is a 72-
holes event, played at a country-club
"It’s the last time im gonna Warn you to break clean.”
course near Manila, and cash prizes run
from £5OO for first to £25 for sixth. The
course is 6590 yards, with a 72 par.
Organisers hope to attract a big entry
from the U.S.A. and Australia, and though
not many Australian professionals can
afford the costly trip there are sure to
be one or two aspirants from this side.
Racquet and Bawl
“Milton”: At Brisbane Mrs. Westa-
cott and Miss Hardcastle beat Misses
Bundy and Workman, three rubbers to
two. On the first day each of the Queens-
landers defeated an American girl, but in
the first doubles the U.S.A. was on top.
The second day saw Mrs. Westacott again
victorious, but Miss Hardcastle lost to
Miss Bundy. The surprise of the meeting
was the defeat of Miss Hardcastle, who,
after beating Nancy Wynne, Thelma
Coyne- and Joan Hartigan in a row in
the Queensland championships in May,
had not lost a match since.
* * * *
“T.”: Beware of press laudation,
ladies! Last week Granny “Herald’
came out with an effusive column in
praise of Nancy Wynne —“a player of
great potentialities, a match for the best
overseas women players,” and so on.
“Formerly temperamental on the courts,
she has now “overcome her outbursts ;
true, “she bounces her racquet when
shots have not done all that she hoped
they would do,” but that “is a normal
reaction, and no doubt a relaxation.”
Nevertheless, the young woman needs
tl .. .. J ° t
nnr, P^aboufh a buTS£ some one “
not talk about it, but if some; one is
appointed manager of next years team
who she feels is against her before the
tour begins, it will not augur well for
her mental outlook for her games
abroad.” After all that blah (and there
was a lot more) I was quite prepared
foi; what happened at Rushcutter Bay at
the week-end, and for “Granny’s”
description of it. According to the old
girl, Miss Wynne “gave one of her worst
exhibitions. Words could not describe
how bad she was overhead.” And she
was beaten by Miss Workman.
But on the second day the Victorian
girl was too strong for Miss D. Bundy,
and, with Miss Coyne, overcame the
American girls in doubles. Miss Coyne
won both her single matches.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Norman Brookes has evi-
dently been doing some scouting abroad.
He told a Melbourne tennis meeting that
next year would probably see Austin,
Hare and Anita Lizana playing here.
Since Mrs. Fearnley-Whittingstall faded
from the scene, Anita is the acknow-
ledged court beauty. At that she travels
on her face —her chief charm. Mrs.
F.-W.’s attraction lay largely in her legs.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: The clans have gathered in
Brisbane for the Australian athletic cham-
pionships to be decided on December
4 and 11. Lack of cash prevents some of
states sending large teams, but every
State wi q be represented. Competitors
w jq be on their toes, for the outstanding
successes pick themselves for the Empire
Games team.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Not often a runner
stays out of the game for three years
and then comes back successfully. An
exception is J. Woods, of Sydneys
Western Suburbs club who won the
N.S.W. marathon, 26 miles 386 yards, m
2hr. 58min. 32sec. Woods was a noted
lone-distance runner before retiring. Not
three months ago, he decided to re-enter
and try for the Empire Games
1 u „„ u ]C Tp( . pnt
team. He is only 28, and on his recent
lowing has a strong claim for selection.
* „ .
Spike : The Dunn Shield, which re-
wards the champion N.S.W. athletic club,
was won this year by University with 127
points, St. Geoige, with lOOj, ei . n S
second and Western Suburbs third with
90|. Uni. was with-
out its star jumper
Metcalfe, but scored
so consistently that
the issue was never
in doubt.
* =H *
“Splash”: If times
are any criterion,
our swimmers will
have to go all out
when they meet the
Englishmen in the
Empire Games. The
star turn of the
English wet bobs is
Norman Wainwright,
holder of five
records from 150
yards to a mile.
Comparisons are
wearisome, but it
may be said Wain-
wright is credited
with 4min.
54 2-ssec.
for the
440, and
lOmin. 26
2-ssec. for
the 'BBO.
Australian
figures for the 440
are smin. 0 l-ssec.,
and for the 880
lOmin. 34 2-ssec.
* * *
“Stand Off”:
Some of the English
Soccer clubs are ask-
ing their players to
submit to the gland treatment in the hope
that this will liven up their play. The
idea might be extended in the football
world. The people running the Soccer
game in Australia might with advantage
undergo a gland course to ginger up their
record as tour promoters. The N.S.W.
Rugby Union would also be none the
worse for treatment.
“Splash”: Victorian swimmers are talk-
ing of asking the Australian Swimming
Union to withdraw from the Australian
Olympic Federation. They consider the
A.S.U. should pick the swimmers for
Olympiads instead of the Federation —in
other words, that the tail should wag the
dog. Carried to its logical conclusion,
that would mean that every branch of
sport would pick its own pets for the
Olympic teams, leaving the Federation
with nothing to do but to put the shutters
up.
# * * *
“Hotham”: The decision of the Vic-
torian F.A. to tear up its agreement with
A DOWNY BIRD.
“It was alleged that he had been a starting-
price bookmaker’s ‘cockatoo.’ ’’—ltem from N.S.W.
Parliamentary inquiry.
A man might well be ridiculed
Who spoke of an Australian bird
Of whom authorities like Gould
Had absolutely never heard;
Yet you could search, beyond a doubt,
Our aviarists’ pages through
And never find a line about
The s.p. bookie’s cockatoo.
Concerning many a screeching fowl
That may be trained to talk and swear
But sings no better than an owl
You’ll read abundant details there.
Parrot, macaw and parrakeet
We know, a noisy, blatant crew.
It’s far more difficult to meet
The s.p. bookie’s cockatoo.
He wears no raiment bright and gay,
Like that which marks the feathered crowd
From whom he gets his sobriquet;
He’s never flashy, never loud.
As one whose creed is “Mum’s the word,”
He ever shrinks from public view;
Aye, he’s a shy and furtive bird,
The s.p. bookie’s cockatoo.
His lurk’s a humble one, maybe,
To mooch around the betting-shops
And signal the propinquity
Of any blokes who might be cops.
’Tis rumored he can even tell,
Devoid of any other clue,
A plainclothes peeler by the smell,
The s.p. bookie’s cockatoo.
A sentry, wary, sharp and keen,
Perdu, withal, not perched on high,
He vigilantly eyes the scene
And gives the tip when danger’s nigh;
Keeps cave! against narks and spies
As schoolboys did (and doubtless do)
For mates whose occupation lies
In some forbidden enterprise,
The s.p. bookie’s cockatoo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


KEEPING FIT AT
SEVENTY
After Being Crippled
by Rheumatism
This old man’s life had been made miserable
by rheumatism, but since he tried Kruschen
Salts several years ago he has been perfectly
free. His daughter and her husband have
profited by his experience. Read how the whole
family keep themselves clear of rheumatism:
“My husband and I have only taken
Kruschen Salts for a few months, just for those
nasty rheumatic twinges one gets out here.
But my father has taken them for quite a
few years and would not be without them for
the world. Before taking them he was abso-
lutely crippled with rheumatism, and tried
everything he was told, without any benefit at
all. I can safely say Kruschen Salts made a
new man of him. He is nearly 70 years old.”
—(Mrs.) F.G.
Kruschen Salts are a blend of six mineral
salts, each of which has a direct or indirect
action in the treatment of rheumatic complaints.
A single bottle of Kruschen will convince you
that rheumatism simply cannot exist in the
system that gets its “little daily dose.”
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PRO BATE .nd
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. Y. PERKINS, General Manager.
your money goes further in a GENERAL MOTORS’ car
I WAS ON THE VERGE OF
PAYING OUT NEARLY
£450
ittona'i
FOR A NEW CAR
mm®
mwm
"Take a look at the Master de Luxe Chevrolet," said a friend. "And then ask yourself
why you should pay £5O more for a car which, overseas, sells for LESS than the Master de Luxe.'
Independent Front Wheel Springing
Chevrolet Master gives you independent Front Wheel Springing
instead of cheaper, old-type springing which some higher-priced
cars still obstinately retain.
More Efficient Overhead Valve Engine
Master Chevrolet gives you the 10% more efficient Over-head Valve
engine ... the type which holds every record on sea, land and air.
Perfected Hydraulic Brakes
II" instead of 10" brake drums! Doubly articulated brake shoes,
ensuring full control between shoes and drums, even wear, better
braking with lighter pedal pressure.
Stonger Extra-Braced All Steel Body
Master Chevrolet gives you the finest, most expensive all-steel body
made—the Holden's Unisteel Body. Note the steel bows which
brace the roof and the whole construction. You won't find these in
other competitive motor bodies.
Luxury Interior
Soft leather Relax-o-form Seats . . . Multi-Adjustable Front Seat. ..
No-Draught Ventilation in both front and rear . . . Dual Electric
Windscreen Wipers . . . Two two-way Sun Visors . . . Armrests in
front and rear . . . Rear Foot Rest . . . Pockets in all doors,
etc., etc.
1937 “Air Chief” CAR RADIO specially designed
Chevrolet has controls to match the instrument panel. Two
models are available. The two-unit set with separate re-
ceiver and 8-inch dynamic speaker, and the Single Unit Set
which capacity houses both receiver and speaker. The “Air
Chief” with six valves, gives performance equal to the best .
radio. A demonstration will be gladly given. r*
Buy on the Convenient Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
Take the Free Five Mile Drive that’s saving
hundreds from paying £5O too much for cars
Will you spare half an hour of your time to
save yourself £5O? Then come and see the
Master de Luxe Chevrolet. Try to find one
feature missing which other higher-priced cars
can offer you. You will discover that the shoe
is on the other foot . . . that Master Chevrolet
offers you features and engineering that over-
shadow many cars for which you are asked up
to £5O more. You'll find that the Master offers
you Independent Front Wheel Springing in
place of old-type front leaf-springs which some
competitors still retain on their cheaper models,
although they include Independent Springing
on their more expensive cars. You'll find
that Master Chevrolet gives you a more acces-
sible, more efficient Overhead Valve engine
design . . . bigger and better Hydraulic Brakes
. . ; the finest body in Australia—the Holden
Unisteel "Turret" Top, with Multi-Adjustable
Front Seat, Relax-o-form Seat Springing, No-
Draught Ventilation, etc. These are facts you
can prove for yourself. When can you arrange
a visit to the Chevrolet Showroom? To-day?
Now?
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LIMITED
Bay on the Convenient Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
24|
M.P.G.
Master Chevrolet gives
economy . . . 24J m.p.g. in
by a leading oil Company . ,
maintenance costs because
accessible engine, low priced
you utmost
a recent test
. . and lower
of its more
spare parts.
High
Re-sale
Value
You have only to scan the Used Car
Columns to see the high re-sale value
Chevrolet commands. No other car com*
petes with Chevrolet in re-saleability.
MASTER CHEVROLET
Consult your local Authorised
Chevrolet Dealer
t u. vFL may spell the senior body’s
finish ’ The agreement aimed at prevent-
ing the purchase of Association players
hv League clubs. It provided that
changes of the kind could not take place
without the Association’s permission, and
this nut an end to most of the poaching.
With the agreement cancelled, the richer
League wolf will have an open go at
Association baa-lambs. For a long time
observers have tipped that the League
must eventually swallow the Association
itself and the meal looks to be imminent.
liseu, an * * #
« *„. Thn Rll(T u v Teague Kan-
Gate . The Pu §by Tcagu
garoos were beaten by Huddersfield, 1 ,
b , y t Swin L° n ’ JJ ■ ?' ? J Vn Yn a
slather, by Warrington o-o ail m a
row- and in the bitterness of his
cmil * nnnr old Harrv Sunderland is
LnLrSL,.ht e rin; cables ' Theweak-
ln o g £ Sl .he Bh ,eam B
j" f'-, "S f rno7£kdv
tremendously-and that is not likely
now-the tour Will tea poor one finan-
ctally. There is not an y
the remainder of the English programme.
* * * *
“Brute”: A lot of rubbish is being
talked of flat life destroying the sanctity
of the home. Personally I am of the
opinion that the feminine craze for in-
truding on games long sacred to men is
having even a worse effect. Golf, tennis
and, in a lesser degree, cricket have
made serious inroads on old-fashioned
domesticity. Now bowls is rearing its
insidious head. Not content with
attempting to play the part of female
Drakes on their home greens, the little
ducks —this is a joke—are invading the
inter-State sphere. Fifty ladies from
Adelaide are coming to Sydney in Feb-
ruary to play bowls. Adelaide will be a
city of deserted husbands and children
weeping for their Rachels.
* * * *
N.S.W. rowing men distinguished
themselves at Henley-on-the-Yarra. The
Sydney Police eight captured the Grand
Challenge Cup. In a heat the Albert
Park (Vic.) crew ran them to half a
length, but the constables didn’t appear
troubled, and in the final they led all
the way, Richmond and Mercantile fol-
lowing. Turner (N.S.W.) took the Chal-
lenge Sculls by 12 lengths from Brady
(Vic.), though Cecil Pearce, the Aus-
tralian title-holder, finished between
them. Pearce was disqualified for miss-
ing the course.
Afterwards the crews for the Empire
Games were announced. The South Aus-
tralian Gregory will stroke three West-
ralians (Le Souef, Yewers and Paramor),
and four from N.S.W. (Thomas,
Bromley, Dixon and Gould) in the eights.
For the fours Fraser (W.A.) is stroke,
with Elder (Vic.), Fisher (N.S.W.) and
Freeth (W.A.) behind him.


Your Ho»n e
e ‘y
SYO M 6
You’ll enjoy a stay at the Went-
worth. Whether your trip be busi-
ness or social, the Wentworth is
ideal. Close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is yet noted
for its restful comfort, its service
and cuisine. Wire or write for
reservations.
WENTWORTH
HOTEL
'PHONE 8W1361 CIO lines)
C.D. MACLURCAN MNG. DIRECTOR
J. S. liEVY, Manager.
START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT
with a holiday in
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
A wealth of holiday resorts
await the visitor.
Air-conditioned cars, accelerated schedules and
low fares are features of the service by
THE
TRANS -AUSTRALIAN
RAILWAY
Any Tourist Bureau or Railway Booking Office
will gladly supply details.
SADDLERY GIFTS FOR
CHILDREN GIVE LASTING
PLEASURE .
THE
"KEMP
JUNIOR"
CHILD’S SADDLE,
£6/17/6
(MOUNTED)
It is made of best
quality kip leather on
a best “Fouright”
tree. The seat has
no seams and the panel has leather
points down sides.
N.S.W. Freight Paid for Cash with
Order.
WALTHER fc STEVENSON ZZZ:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Of Drought, of Fire, and of
RESTORATION
By JAMES HACKSTON
WHY we had ever made our home on the Red
Range-road God only knows. Sixteen miserly
acres, it glared hard and white in the summer
sun, hurting our eyes and burning the soles
of our bare feet. In the winter it was a relentless
bog of cold clay.
In this place, as the years frowned by, I knelt
on the bare boards beside my bed and gave thanks
for the blessings we received. But there was not much
in our little world to be thankful for. It was hard
sometimes to have to wait for food, and once, when
I went hungry for one whole day and the next, my
boyish faith was near shaken ; but “our” German
woman drove up in her wagonette and brought bread
and mutton, and I saw written in the wrinkles of
her face the goodness of the world.
I am pleased now that I asked blessings for her,
too, for that was all she received from us unless
can be counted the gratitude of my memory.
But there were occasions when fortune smiled,
when my father brought tinned herrings and beer
from the town. Then we would all be happy. He
would pour some of the beer into a basin and I’d
dip my chin into it like a young foal and drink, and
he’d say “You little boozer!” and my mother would
laugh until the tears ran down her cheeks. On such
days joy came to our solitary home, and he’d tell
her that things would soon be all right again.
Our fitful bursts of food and famine varied
according to whether he worked for wages or on his
own wild schemes to fortune. The time came, how-
ever, when all these things had to come to an end
and he was compelled to leave us and return to the
city to find work.
I remember him standing beside his yellow tin
trunk saying good-bye. We were all gathered round,
and there were
more of us than
when we had first
moved to our
pipeclay farm. I heard
him say “I’ll have five shil-
lings over when I get
there.” There were tears
in my mother’s eyes, and
his eyelashes hung wet too.
He walked away, and we
stood and watched him go down the road. When he
had gone some distance we ran out and waved to him
until he disappeared. Then my mother went inside
and threw herself down on the bed and wept. It was
a long time before I saw him again.
And so we stayed on behind with the hard years,
and as I grew the bush about me opened to my eyes ;
I began to see the color of things, there came the
urge to draw colored pictures, and with it a longing
for a box of pastels.
The nearing Christmas became one of great
moment to me, even though it had never meant much
to us before. The things I had asked for had never
come, and I remember asking if it was because I had
no stocking to hang up that I received no presents.
But hope burned brightly. On Christmas Eve I knelt
beside my bed and, before saying my prayers, asked
Santa Claus, as a special request, to bring me a box
of pastels.
On the Christmas morning of that year Santa
Claus died.
That night, long after my mother and the children
were asleep, I crept out of bed again and there in
the listening silence raised my hands and asked the
Great Father for my pastels.
Despair tore my heart when the next morning
awoke me to the bitter realisation that He, too, had
failed me. Faith poured from me like water from a
broken vase. My prayers had ended.
nr HE unfolding years ushered me into the troubles
1 of my family. I became the young head of it. I
learned where we owed money, why we owed it, and
how much. I came to understand the look in store-
keepers’ eyes. Before the dawn I went round possum
snares, barefooting the winter paddocks. I picked
fruit for fruit, did
odd jobs for
honey, canvassed
from door to
door in the town
for the woo d-
carters for what
they would give
me , sold hares’
scalps, trapped
rabbits for their
skins and for the
pot.
It was a hard
period for us all,
a period of striv-
ing and strain-
ing; but I grew
into a hard young
heathen. One
day my mother asked me why 1 had cease
saying my prayers. I eluded the question an
told her that I had to go up the paddock for some
wood, and as I walked among the trees I thought
of the question she had asked me and laughed.
The lean times came when we received no letters
from my father. I dreaded the journeys to the little
post office. My mother used to walk a little way
along the road to meet me, haunting me from the
distance with her searching eyes. I found it hard to
tell her when there was no letter; and when I d
say “No letter” she would wring her hands and
say “What ever shall I do?”
Sometimes of an evening when I was doing my
homework my mind dwelt in the other room, where
I could hear her softly weeping. And when one of
the children came to me saying “What’s Mother cry-
ing for?” I would look stern and say “She’s got a
headache,” and then bend low down over my book
to hide the moisture in my own eyes.
nr HEN came the drought. The road grew hotter and
the pools of soft white dust became nests of fire.
Solitary clouds hung high in the sky. The bush
trembled in the heat, listless and dry. Birds, breath-
less, sheltered in the trees with outspread wings.
Teamsters went by with red-rimmed eyes and with
lines down their faces where the perspiration had
made little channels in the dust that had sprayed them.
The carpet of the earth had worn away and the earth
showed through.
Tanks of water became precious. Men called
for drinks, and cattle with hunted eyes passed south
to the river.
The small dam in the paddock opposite our
place was the first to go, and it was not long before our
precious iron tank had dripped its last. We were
waterless, and the nearest dam was two miles away.
My two kerosene-tins slopped and jangled backwards
and forwards as the weeks burned by. The water
became muddier and less fit for drinking. We scooped
the tadpoles out of it, boiled it and strained it. I
strove to fill our iron tank. I was four rungs to the
good before the tadpoles flopped helplessly in the
dam’s last thin, slimy-green pool.
Red iron tanks of water began to drag along the
road which snaked its way north from the river, and
we watched them go by with envious eyes. Our
supply sank lower and lower from “There’s two rungs
in the tank yet” to “There’s only one left now,” and


sdf
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
York Minster.
don to Edinburgh, 393
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
an
m
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, Theatres.
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Priee £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
I
’ «V*° 4 VtsP'-V
u \T^ ot C *^toV *f u e\ Vtv c ttov»
* e ni' * fS*
b^ oV at **>» c
es >Vt *
’oJvvO" *■
tl?* *
s
PW
pig?
if
SI
*t
: h
*£»
tnP s
O*
&#*Z
bW*
t '' Ctl >i tc
Q»
$ v
fop
#
#
«
s
1
♦1
$
m
-
ytSS^ 3^
ClOl/30/SP
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
W. Jno. Baker Standard Razor, ivory
handle, full-hollow ground blade, fin.
wide, 19/6.
I
Lady’s Scissor Case, made of fine fancy
leather, containing 7 pairs of nickel-
plated scissors and pen knife. 62/6
complete.
Flower Gatherer,
cuts and holds
the flower, 13/6
per pair.
POST FREE FOR
CASH WITH
ORDER.
Folding Shaving Outfit, made of fine
leather. Size when folded, x s£.
50/- complete.
W. Jno. BAKER
Ltd. 3 I SYDNEY. eet ’
Allegro Gillette-type Blade Sharpener,
black enamelled, 25/
then to “There’s no more” as I tapped
the tank with the spanner and listened
to its hollow boom.
I went out on to the road and
begged water from the passing carters.
A bucketful, half-a-bucketful, a billyfui,
just a drop. It was hard for them to give
it away. They had come miles for it.
Then my mother came to me, “We
have no water.”
I looked at her. “I’ll take the tins
to the river. I can carry them back half-
full.”
“How far is it to the river?” she
asked.
“About nine miles —or ten,” I re-
plied.
“Twenty,” she sighed, and moved
away.
I went after her. “I can go to the
river, all right. I’ll start to-night, and
I’ll be back by”
I didn’t finish the sentence. Some-
one was calling loudly from the road-
way. We both ran to the front door.
A man with a red beard was waving to
us. “Come quick! Bring your buckets
—the tank’s burst!”
I grabbed my tins and raced to the
road. Backwards and forwards I ran.
I never spoke to the man, nor did he
speak. I filled the bucket, the tub, the
billy, the kettle, the washbasin and the
two tins. My mother rushed excitedly
about, bringing up anything that would
hold the precious water. There was no
time to pour it into the tank. More than
half of it was lost, but the horse was
satisfied and the man put his head under
it. My mother went out and sympathised
with him. I stood with him on the
road.
“From where I come from to the
river is twenty miles —forty both ways
—an’ it’s ten miles from the river to
here. Now I’ve got to go back, get my
tank mended, an’ start again. Sixty
miles for a blasted tank of water.” He
gave me a parting look. “Well, good
luck to you, boy. Don’t waste it.”
“Good-bye,” I said, “and thank you
very much.”
“Christ!” he said, “don’t thank
me.”
Then he turned round and looked
hard at me. “Funny thing the tank
burstin’ right here in front of your place,
wasn’t it? Fifty yards either way from
here an’ it would have all been lost.”
'T'HE days that followed, although the
1 water was rationed, were happy
days ; but the respite was not for long.
The coach-driver brought us the first
news. “There’s a big fire burning left
of the ranges. Burnin’ south—travelling
too.”
A man galloped up to our door
some hours later. “A drink, missus! ”
He gulped it. “The fire’s burnin’ on a
forty-mile front.”
Through the late afternoon the air
hung heavy with smoke, and the smell
of fire quickened our nostrils. When
night came down a long line of wicked
red fringed the horizon. Men went
driving and galloping to the north. A
voice hung on the air: “Unless a change
comes” and was gone.
We clustered on the road, gazing
north, the smaller children dancing
with glee as each fresh spring of
('Continued on page 71.)


From Prefs. to Ords.
Pref. shares as yet haven’t been
marked down much in the reced-
ing market. If export values re-
main low interest rates may
lengthen later on, and pref. shares
will very likely weaken. It may
pay now to swap from prefs. to
sound ords. at present depressed
and showing a good yield.
MANLY
AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER BEAUTY SPOT
AND HOLIDAY RESORT.
14 Glorious Beaches adorn Manly’s coastline.
MANLY HAS THE LARGEST ENCLOSED
FREE BATHING POOL IN AUSTRALIA.
Entertainment
Unlimited!
SURFING
FISHING
BOATING
HIKING
GOLF .
TENNIS
BOWLS
“THE POOL,” A WONDERFUL LAKE OF CRYSTAL-CLEAR WATER
OVER 1050 FEET IN LENGTH, is equipped with the latest aquatic novelties,
and is FLOODLIT AT NIGHT, BOTH OVER AND UNDER THE WATER,
WITH 3,000,000 CANDLEPOWER LAMPS! A splendid dressing Pavilion
(with up-to-date Tea Rooms and Cafe) is situated at the end of the “Pool.”
A service of fast saloon steamers to and from the city 7 miles each way of
harbour scenery unsurpassed in any part of the world.
SEASON TICKETS COST, PER DAY: Gents’, 4:Jd. ; Ladies’, 3fd.; Children’s, lid.
WEEKLY TICKETS: 7 days’ travelling—all day—any day: GENTS", 4/-; LADIES’, 3/-.
DAILY FARE: ADULTS, Od. ; CHILDREN UP TO 14 YEARS, Id. (5 years and under, FREE.)
There is Joy, Life, and Health at Manly—Why Not Live There?
For accommodation, write Manly Publicity and Tourist Bureau, Passenger Wharf, Manly.
Free Service. Telephone: YU3770.
The Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Company, Limited,
No. 2 Jetty, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. Telephones: 83221—83783.
SPRING FAIR
Begins MARCH 6,1938
Comprising General Samples,
Textiles, Office Equipment, Furni-
ture, Sports Goods, Photographic,
Engineering and Building Fairs.
Shop all Europe in one centre. Over
8000 exhibitors from 25 countries, in-
cluding Great Britain, assemble at
Leipzig for your convenience. Join
the 280,000 trade buyers who visit
Leipzig Fair twice a year.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski
Trading Marks') and Letters of Introduction
available of LARS G. BRUNDAHL. Commis-
sioner in Australia for the Leipzig Trade Fair,
Cliallis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P, Sydney.
C. N. KEPPEL, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, G.P.O. Box 20245, Melbourne.
H. C. ITTERSHAGEN, Shenton Park, W.A.
Summer in Germany is the
Perfection of the Beautiful.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
At the End of a Jag
Overspeculation brings its own pun-
ishment, and in a world which seemed to
be due, commercially, for a run of com-
parative prosperity, speculators are now
taking a terrific hiding.
Eighteen months ago the people of
most countries began to feel that depres-
sion was really being left behind, and
that jobs would soon be available for
most of those capable of filling them ;
six months later there was talk of hun-
dreds of millions sterling being spent on
armaments, and share- and commodity-
markets went mad ; in April this year,
after the lid had been practically lifted
off everything by the speculative upward
burst in prices, a rumor from the U.S.A.
that speculators’ activity was to be coun-
tered by gold-price manipulation put the
lid back with a bang, and frightened the
insides out of the seekers after unearned
increment.
Let there be no mistake about it —the
mad-headed upward surge in prices early
this year was wrong almost to the point
of immorality. Britain was going to
prepare for war, and fantastic millions
were to be spent on war materials;
therefore the idea became, let us make
as much money as we can by buying,
holding and selling war materials! In
the House of Commons Labor members
demanded to know whether the Govern-
ment was going to allow mines and
factories in British territory to charge ex-
tortionate prices for their products in
such a time of need. (Usually the mines
and factories weren’t responsible ; it was
price-boosters.) The Government, in its
reply, was almost tranquil. Within a
few months there was hardly a bull in
the metals market that didn’t feel more
like a bullock, and just now the War
Department of any country can buy
metals at roughly half the price of
March this year.
That speculators during the first
quarter of 1937 were on a wild bender
was never doubted here. Though some
there were who asserted that it was “a
terrible thing to be afraid of prosperity,”
the unhealthy elements of the boom were
deplored on this page in February and
early March, and investors were warned.
“Recent lifts in some world commodity
prices are more boisterous than strong,”
was the expressed opinion when quotes
were at the top. “There are some who
will go so far as to say the position is
dangerous.” No “fear of prosperity”
prompted the utterance ; it was a recog-
nition that such prices were not neces-
sary to restore prosperity—that they
were really out of balance with other
factors, and therefore doomed to re-
adjustment.
Now rubber, cotton and copra have
all fallen heavily. Wool is weaker (its
movements both up and down have been
less spectacular), and wheat has receded.
What, then, of the future? The
stability of costs and prices so conducive
to industrial well-being isn’t attractive to
speculators. It follows that gamblers are
likely to get short consideration in the
plans of Governments and their econoniic
advisers whose paramount aim is more
and still more employment.
If the opinion here that in 1936
“things were' shaping nicely on trade
developments alone” was right, then the
only question to be considered is whether
developments since have done serious and.
lasting damage.
The fortunate thing is that the boom
lasted no longer than six or nine months.
The higher costs and capital values it
established during that time will be the
more easily adjusted. Money is still
cheap’ and the cost of living, though
higher in most countries, may prove a
’manageable item in Britain and Aus-
tralia, if not in the U.S.A> and Fraiice.
Gold production is still going on at a
high rate, and less of it ,is - flowing. to
New York, where appetite for'the mental
is already jaded. Higher costs in
America may make the diversion more ,
marked. Production costs should now ;
be almost universally lower, giving a ;
renewed fillip to low-grade goldmining, :
and thus increasing the spending-power :
of producing countries.
The economic position of the United
States remains a problem. How far that
country’s difficulties will affect Austra-
lians not interested in the sharemarkets
is a question to which the answer isn’t
obvious. With a little of the gas out of
costs and prices in the Commonwealth,
and speculation curbed, we may see a
fair stretch ahead of us with employ-
ment somewhere near present levels. If
that comes to pass, and figures represent-
ing income and outgo keep compara-
tively stable, investors who bought in-
dustrial shares for income may have
little to worry about.
Gordon and Gotch’s half-yearly profit
of £52,254 (to Sept. 30) eclipses by £lOO
or so the previous record showing (for
the corresponding half of 1929), and
compares with £45,230 disclosed in the
March, 1937, half, and £41,970 in the
Sept., 1936, period. Latest result is equal
to 19.3 p.c. p.a. on ord. capital. The
ord. scrip may weaken in sympathy with
the present sick sharemarket, but it is
still regarded here as a very solid invest-
ment.
* * * *
From a market viewpoint, there are
likely to be uncertain times ahead for a
month or two. Following our reaching
the depths of depression, when almost
every investment was hit badly, there
were successive booms in
, (1) Preference shares and insurance and
• public-utility . scrip;
(2) Consols;’
(3) Gold shares;
(4) Industrial shares, retailers’ scrip, etc.;
(5) Base-metal shares
It can hardly be said that bank or pas-
toral co. scrip has yet had a boom. The
great demand for pref. shares, gas scrip
and Consols faded as interest rates length-
ened ; gold scrip collapsed in nine cases
out of ten because the mines were little
or no good; base-metal shares have
flopped because, firstly, they went too
high anyway, and, secondly, by reason
of the slump in metals. Industrial shares
are still regarded here as the best kind of
investments in the long run, but where
the future has been anticipated too con-
fidently (bringing yields down to 3 p.c.
or so), these,loo, may be in for a sharp
marking-down. There is likely to be at
least a temporary recession in almost
every ord. share that has had, as yet,
little or x no. setback in the market. The
higher the yield and the sounder the pros-
pects, the sooner should prices for such
stocks beat the jittery market.
*** > *
Barrier mining stocks were steadier at
weaker rates last week. Norths around
50s. and Souths somewhere near 355.
was the usual thing/ Zinc ords. at 995.
looked attractive for a long hold.
* * * *
The higher. quotes for lead and zinc
during 1936-37 permitted Mt. Isa (Q.)
to show its first profit—£7o,3o9. for the
12 months to June 30. That figure
doesn’t make allowance for depreciation.
Output of silver, lead and zinc was up
all round, though tonnage was slightly
r lower. Operations at the moment prob-
ably show a loss ; lead and zinc are both
down heavily.
* * * *
Shares in Oil Search, Ltd., which have
kept between 7s. and Bs. for months
now, were around 7s. 3d. last week.
Developments on which the sharemarket
is waiting are probable in the first half
of the new year.
* * * *
While Kandos Cement 165.-paids have
been receding in Sydney (from over 265.
down to 235. 3d.), now yielding 6.9 p.c.,
Australian Cement (Melb.) £1 shares have
firmed from 31s. 6d. to 325. 6d., return-
ing 6.1 p.c. Both cos. draw their income
from a common . source (each has
1,000,000 shares in Australian Portland
Cement Pty.), and Kandos has the
greater proportionate interest per share
(about 11| p.c. more scrip in the pty.
for each £1 of its capital). Valued on the
basis of these shareholdings, with Aust.
Cement scrip at 325. 6d. Kandos shares
should be around 295. Even valued on
their similar (10 p.c.) present div. basis,
to be in line with Aust. Cement, Kandos
scrip is worth 265. 3d.
The new rotary kiln of Australian
Portland Cement Pty. at Geelong (Vic.)
is expected to start operating this month.
Increased capacity and lower costs are
indicated. The Kandos co. will partici-
pate equally with Australian Cement in
any resulting benefits.
* * * *
The affairs of Mt. Lyell are dealt with
elsewhere in this issue. Net costs, as
shown in the accounts, rose by £4 18s.
per ton of electrolytic produced. Depre-
ciation and taxation charges were up
£3 10s. These items offset increased
revenue to the tune of more than
£lOO,OOO. The jump in exes, was greater
than anticipated here and by the market.
* * * *
Associated Pulp ords. were sold down
sharply last week in Melbourne ; after
a drop of Is. 6d. they could be got at
par. Commercial production was first
looked for early in 1938 ; marketing is
now expected to start about June. Nearly
20 months have elapsed since flotation,
and investors at present have an oppor-
tunity of buying in on the same basis
as original shareholders.
* * * *
Ords. in Davies, Coop, weavers of
denims and dungarees and makers of
men’s clothing, have firmed to 225. 6d.,
the best price for some months. The
scrip was recommended here a good
while back when around par.
In Nov., 1936, when North Broken
Hill scrip was at 625., Souths were at
405., a difference of 225. On March 16
this year Norths were at 89s. 3d., Souths
31s. lower ; on April 29, Norths 70s. 9d.,
Souths 245. lower ; July 29, Norths 765.,
Souths 28s. 3d. lower; Oct. 7, Norths
615., Souths 225. lower; Oct. 21, Norths
58s. 3d., Souths 18s. 6d. lower ; Oct. 28,
Norths 575. 3d., Souths 16s. 3d. lower;
Nov. 11, Norths 525., Souths 12s. 9d.
lower. Making full allowance for the
fact that as Norths and Souths fall in
the market the difference should be main-
tained only in proportion, and not a fixed
sum, it is apparent that the difference
between North and South quotations
became too small, assuming that quotes
early this year were fair. On Nov. 26
the position was more reasonable —
Norths 50s. 3d., Souths 15s. 3d. lower.
But Souths still seem unduly favored.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer ords. slumped to 31s. on Friday,
G. J. Coles to 795. 3d., B.H.P. rights to 275.
and Aust. Glass to 85s.
Emperors were dull around 125.; Lolomas
were a trifle higher at 17s. Wellington
Alluvials dropped to 4s. 6d.
Among div.-paying goldmines, Mt. Morgans
were a little firmer at 11s. 6d., but Lance-
fields slipped to 6s. 4d. Dealings in Golden
Plateau were restricted, and quotes were lower.
Normanby Tin scrip slipped down to 2s.
Latest clean-up averaged 1.31 b. Briseis was
weaker. Following the slump in wolfram, King
Island Scheelite contribs, were in poor de-
mand.
Montana Western Extended shares were
traded in extensively around ss. 6d.


SOS AT BUNYIP GULLY.


HERE'S
TO'EE
'O
o a
V'-. ■’
*
■ ■
BSggi
.
i
V s
PI LSJEN^R
SC «vicfc


Give him Shoes
for Christmas
What better gift could any man receive
than a pair of smart Shoes. It’s a gift
that will last long, look well, and
always be extremely useful, especially
if they are ABBEY SHOES.
4298. Smartly-cut Oxford
Shoe, made in Continental
style with blind eyelets.
Stocked in high-grade Black
or Brown Calf, in full and
half sizes. . Price .... 29/6
4298.
“// it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.'
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
''ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
m
m
■m
0F
MEN LIKE SENSIBLE
THINGS. I THINK I’LL
GET HIM A
*
VALET
SAFETY RAZOR
IS
i i
ma
il
SglsSs
■pH
immm
EVERY MAN NEEDS A "VALET.- The "Valet" Auto Strop, the
original self-stropping razor, is still the simplest and best. Stropped
in 10 seconds. Cleaned in 10 seconds. Nothing to take to pieces.
Nothing to unscrew. A perfect edge for every shave and weeks of
perfect shaving from every blade.
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Rachael had made her entry on a truck,
not untidy and bedraggled out of : the
wilderness like an ordinary gin. The at-
tractive brown . curves of her chubby
toddler were concealed beneath neat blue
rompers that buttoned on to his little
shirt at least three parts of the way
round, the rest being modestly secured
with a safety-pin. He could hardly have
passed for a “properly black” picca-
ninny, but Rachael had never had to
bother about giving some laborious
magical explanation for his dash of white
blood. Rachael and her half-caste husr
band had been “properly married” in a
church, with a wedding-cake and every-
thing.
The difference, as she explained it to
an awed and interested gathering, was
that when you were “properly married”
your possible transgressions from the
straight and narrow way of matrimonial
convention were punished in the next
life. If you were just “married” in
the casual station
way, your trans-
gressions were
punished in this.
Your boy saw to
that, or your lubra,
if she was at all
handy with her
nulla-nulla.
Rachael enter-
tained her com-
pany by singing
hymns and telling
stories and explain-
ing the mysterious
writing under the
pictures in news-
papers and maga-
zines.
CD ACHAEL had been at the station for
over a month when the Argyle drovers*
Daylight, Grasshopper and Sergeant,
rode into the homestead. Things were
getting rather dull in the camp, as the
boys had been away in the bush muster-
ing for the past three weeks. The visitors
stayed a little longer than was strictly
necessary. When they had put the stores
together they leant over the railings,
smoking and exchanging pleasantries with
a fluttering group of Ivanhoe damsels
who leaned across the fence from the
other side.
It was a merry gathering. Marie, the
siren of the camp, concentrated upon
Grasshopper, a lively young stockman
married by the unsympathetic decrees of
tribal law to the venerable Polly of
Argyle.
Sergeant singled out Joondree, who
had been married to him years before,
until Alec came into the Argyle camp
and stole her away. She explained now
that she had-never wanted to run away
with Alec, and had since deserted him
for young Peter of Ivanhoe. Peter,
though an improvement on Alec, was,
Joondree confessed, inclined to sulk.
Sergeant, on the whole, was the best
husband she had ever had.
Rachael found she had a good deal in
common with Daylight, because he had
“knocked about” such a lot and was a
friendly, talkative person.
There were a few tears shed when the
boys took their departure, and three dis-
consolate black maidens sat under the
shade of the big tank near the garden and
contrasted the difficult qualities in their
own husbands with the superior virtues
of the other boys.
“My word, Sergeant been a good hus-
band,” Joondree lamented. “Never get
sulky like young Peter.”
Marie, having successfully alienated
the affections of Monday from her sister
Daisy, had begun to lose interest in him.
She expounded the superlative attrac-
tions of Grasshopper.
“Daylight’s a nice chap, too,” Rachael
observed. “Sometimes I think I’d like a
blaekfellow husband. Half-castes get
too many ideas.”
It was, of course, Rachael who
thought of the idea of writing to the
Argyle boys. In some of the stories she
had read girls were in the habit of writ-
ing impassioned little missives known as
“love letters.” She explained this to her
companions.
'T' HE letters were written from dicta-
-1 tion, with only slight grammatical
modifications of the scribe.
The first ran:
From Marie to Grasshopper.
Grasshopper, my heart is sore for
you. 1 have got fall in love with
you. All day I have been thinking
about you, and I want you will
come back not long time. What
about next walkabout seesin you
come to our camp for your holy-
day ? Love from Marie to Grass-
hopper.
The other two letters endorsed these
same sentiments, except that Rachael’s
to Daylight was in slightly more ortho-
dox style.
Folded and addressed, but not en-
closed in any form of envelope, the letters
were dispatched to Argyle by the first
truck going up the road.
There was a bagman on top of the
load into whose charge the letters were
entrusted. When he had struck camp
on the opposite side of the river from
the homestead he took the letters from
his pocket and read them through with
leisurely enjoyment.
~F HE sun was just going down behind
* the ranges, and Polly was lumbering
home in the wake of her goats.
Ruby, mounted and clad in dungaree
trousers and a jumper of many colors,
had brought her cows down for their
evening drink at the river crossing.
Polly hailed her from the bank.
“Bagman,” she observed. “Looks
like ’im callin’ me an’ you.”
She and Ruby approached the camp
together.
“I’ve got some letters ’ere for your
boys,” the bagman announced.
Polly chuckled throatily. Ruby went
off into a peal of abandoned laughter.
“This is dinkum,” the bagman pro-
tested, carefully explaining the source of
the letters and for whom they were
intended.
Polly eyed the folded papers suspi-
ciously.
“You read ’em,” she said.
Fate had’ played right into the bag-
man’s hands.
That night the jealous indignation of
Polly, Ruby and Midge vented itself on
the heads of their three more or less in-
nocent boys. Polly was in no way re-
! strained by the very precarious hold she
i knew herself to exercise over the juvenile
Grasshopper. For all her years, Polly
revelled in an opportunity of displaying
her strength and skill with that age-old
protective weapon of her feminine an-
cestors.
Having successfully dealt with Grass-
hopper she turned her attention to her
daughter’s husband Sergeant. Midge
found it difficult in any circumstances, to
rouse herself from her habitual easy-
going way, and her efforts had fallen far
short of her warlike old mother’s ideas
of propriety.
[More, station-abo. sketches next week.)


e
PENS—PENCILS—SETS
Ideal and acceptable Christmas Gifts.
sdf
A wide range of styles and
prices is provided, enabling
the purchaser to exactly
meet his individual pref-
erences as to appearance,
size, writing performance
and price.
Every CONKLIN is a good,
dependable writing instru-
ment, carefully made in
every detail of the best
materials obtainable, assur-
ing a long life of perfect
service.
CONKLIN NOZAC
VISIBLE INK PENS—the
World’s finest precision
writing instrument, in which
modern design harmonises
with streamline styling—
the pen that “Winds like a
watch.” Pens 22/6, 30/-,
40/-; Pencils to Match
17/6, 25/.-. Complete Sets
40/-, 55/-, 65/-.
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
guaranteed Free Service
for ever —in all Modern
Colour Combinations. Pens
30/-, 40/-; Pencils to
Match 25/-. Complete
Sets 55.'-, -65/-.
CONKLIN CRESCENT
PENS are dependable writ*
ing instruments, made of
the best' materials available.
Six different colours. The
pens are priced at 15/-;
Pencils to match 7/6; and
Complete Sets in Presenta-
tion Case 22/6.
From all good stores everywhere.
No Flies
in the f
Soup!
Or
Anywhere
else
IF YOU USE
For Fleas on Dogs, Lice on Poultry, Thrips on Roses, Flie3
in the Rooms; IN FACT, for killing all Insects, use
1.N.5.E.C.T.1.8.A.N.E
“Let Atlas carry the burden.”
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£18,000,000.
F ire—Accident —Marine
WOOL (Sheep’s back to store)
CROP Insurance
Combined Hail & Fire Policies
Applications invited for Agencies where
not represented.
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(ENGLAND).
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand,
“Atlas” Buildings, 40G Collins St., Melbourne.
Head Office for New South Wales:
“Atlas” Buildings, 8 Spring Sireet, Sydney.
GUY 11. HEATH, Manager.
Of a Beaten Pugilist
THROUGH!
BY
J.A. CHRISTOMAR.
AS the gong sounded Johnny turned to his
corner and slumped into the seat swung in by
his seconds.
Another fight he’d lose. Three out of
four now, and the other he’d got on a foul. It wasn’t
so good, not so good at all. Another couple and he’d
be finished. ♦
Seemed as though he’d be looking round for
something else now. Mightn’t be so easy either.
When a bloke took to the fight game at all regular
it didn’t give him much chance to learn anything
else. Not that he’d wanted to really. He’d been able
to do pretty well for a while. It’d been fun, too,
building up.
If he could only stay another couple of rounds
he might be able to put up a bit of a show over the
last two. Give the crowd a thrill. He might land a
few more matches if he could slug a bit at the finish.
Eight-rounders anyway.
He’d have to keep his mind on it if he was going
to see it out. Wasn’t so fast off the ropes as he used
to be. Funny that, how age got you. Just a gradual
slowing-up. Though he wasn’t old, and he’d taken
good care of himself. Felt fitter now than he’d ever
felt, and he still had the strength. Bet he never had
a better punch than he carried now, only he couldn’t
put it over.
There were a lot of things he’d have to watch
this fight. It meant a lot. Funny that, Johnny Naylor
battling to put up a show so’s he’d get an eight-
rounder. Finding it hard, too! Suppose he was doing
things back
to front.
Fighting his
“eights” on
the way
down, instead
of going up.
He’d gone
through ’em
quickly then.
Just two against a couple of old-timers —like
he was now —on the down, and then he was
fighting “tens.” It’d been a quick rise. Of
course, Joe was to thank for that the way
he’d matched him. And he had the speed
those days.
He’d been at the top then —with Maggie,
too.
Remember she used to keep all the cut-
ting about him those days, and she’d been
pretty keen to string along with him. They’d
had some good times. Maggie was all right
now, too, only she just couldn’t see things his
way.
There was the bell again.
MORGAN came in anxiously. A right
jerked Johnny’s head back, then the left
was at him again, stinging him, forcing through
his guard. He fell in on Morgan, holding
him in a clinch, resting his weight on him,
using all his craft to hold the youngster’s gloves
quiet, but it was no use. Morgan jerked away
quickly, then was in again, both arms moving,
leaving a red weal on the stretch of white skin above
Johnny’s belt. Johnny back-moved, stabbing out his
left, keeping it there poking at Morgan’s head. If he
could keep him at range! He bounced away off the
ropes as the other came in, and was round him, keep-
ing the left held out.
Maggie didn’t come to his fights now. Perhaps
it would be better if she did? She’d see he was
through then. If only she could understand it was
over. That Johnny Naylor wasn’t a champion any
more, that they’d have to cut things down. He’d tried
to tell her two years ago. That would have been
the time. He was holding then. They could have got
a nice little place, built it up. There’d have been some-
thing for him to do, something to interest himself in
working on the farm. Maggie could’ve run a few
fowls, looked after the home, their home.
He could still do it if only she’d try. Of course,
it’d be different for a while. Not so much life as in
a city; no friends dropping into the flat at any old
time, no parties. And a woman liked those sort of
things. But she’d get used to it. There’d be other
things to take their place. Perhaps even a kid.
He’d have to be careful. One of those lefts of
Morgan’s might finish it. That wouldn’t be too good,
to come so far and then go down. He’d open up a
bit in the next. Then go into it in the ninth. It’d
make those fools who’d been yelling at him sit up,
too. Show ’em something. Didn t think he had it.
If only he had the speed, he wouldn’t have to wait.
Wait. That’s all he was doing all the time. Wait-
ing for something. Waiting for Maggie to under-
stand. They couldn’t go on like this. The money
wouldn’t last long if he couldn’t get fights, and then
he’d have to look around. Finish up like Tod Jones,
perhaps. Just doing nothing. Sparring partner to a
lot of mugs, perhaps. Getting knocked about just
because you were getting old, just because you didn’t
have the speed ; getting that dull look, just hanging
about waiting for some youngster to bang at you to
harden himself up. Knowing nobody. Just a hanger-
on. “Johnny Naylor. Supposed to have been pretty
good himself one time. Must have made some dough,
too. God knows what he done with it! ”
T OHNNY lay back, pulling the air into his lungs,
letting his handlers work on him, feeling the press
of their hands on his stomach. This next one was
the eighth. He’d limber up. If he pleased the crowd
he’d get some more fights. If he could only keep
going for a while, Maggie might see things his way,
come away with him. Then it’d be all right. He still
had enough to set them up on a little place. They’d
do all right.
He couldn’t just be a sparring partner. He’d
never stand it. But there was only that. Or joining
up with some show. That was worse. Just slugging ;
travelling up and down, throwing your weight into it,
clouting mugs, leading ’em on, then smashing em
down five or six times a day for tucker and a few
bob to send back to Maggie.
He’d get through this, then he’d have another
yarn to Maggie. He opened his mouth to take the
wet rubber guard. Joe was standing just outside the
ring, leaning his shoulders through on the bottom
rope, but he wasn’t saying anything. He knew, too.
Well, he’d give Joe a bit of a kick, too. Show him a
bit of the old Johnny.
He was up at the bell, but Morgan met him
before he reached the centre. Johnny caught the left
on his glove and tapped Morgan on the cheek with
his own left. Morgan was keen on making it a
knockout. Johnny’d keep foxing for a while, let
Morgan tire himself for the first couple of minutes,
then see if he couldn’t land a couple. He warded off
a low-driving right, took the left on his elbow, then he
was in the middle of it. Gloves were smashing into
his ribs. The patch just above the belt smarted like a
scald.
Johnny held his gloves out ahead, dragged his
elbows down to keep out those battering fists. The
right crashed through again. He’d claim that glove,
hold Morgan till he’d had a breather. Johnny didn’t
see the start of that left. It swung across his arm,
travelling like light. It flashed before him, then he
felt it smashing on his jaw, driving his head back,
driving his teeth into his guard.


“MACSON”
Double-Acting
PISTON
PUMP
Whatever the work you have to do, we have a pump suitable for the job.
The “Macson” pump, illustrated above, is designed for pressure pump-
ing, for high elevations or long distances—a splendid pump for irrigation
work or general water supply. Pipe sizes 1 4 to 3 inches.
Other power pumps made by us are the “Rotex,” a Rotary Force
Pump for rapid pumping of any grit-free liquid; Super-Rapid Centrifugal
Pumps, in sizes from f to 5 inches, for a big volume of water at low
pressure; the “Triton’ Single-Acting Plunger Pump, a 1-inch pump
designed for use where only a small unit is needed.
The “Acme” 2-inch pump, illustrated at the right, is a splendid hand
pump for all-round use on the land. The Ajax, 1 4 inch, is similar
in appearance and action. Both pumps are powerful, with a good
capacity, easy to operate and low-priced.
Semi-Rotary hand pumps, drum-pumping and fire-fighting outfits,
hydraulic rams and spray pumps are all stocked in a wide range.
Our catalogues illustrate all these pumps and many others. We can
send you either our special pump catalogue or our No. 37 general
catalogue, issued this year, with over 350 pages devoted to tools, pumps,
machinery, general supplies, etc. Send now for your copy.
For Every Water Supply
PUMPS
from
C
Proprietary limited
51 BATHURST STREET,
SYDNEY
546 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
And at
Adelaide—Perth.
“ACME’’
Low-Down Lift and Force
Double-Acting
HAND PUMP
'■ ' >
Dimly he heard the roar of the crowd. He
couldn’t have been down long. He heard Morgan s
long-drawn sigh like a whistle, heard the shrill shout
from Morgan’s corner. Then Joe was bending over
him, giving him a hand, with his: “Stiff luck, Johnny.
T OHNNY lay on the table being rubbed down.
•J Well, that was that.
Joe Thompson came over. “Too good, eh,
Johnny?”
“Yes, I’m slowing up.”
“You know what it means, Johnny. Time you
got out.”
“I know.”
“No good sticking at
it. Not you, Johnny,
going down.”
“I know.”
“What about that
little farm? Get away.
Live for yourself, not
training all the time.”
“I know. It’s Maggie ;
she don’t want to go. But
she might after this. I’ll
put it to her again to-
night. She thinks it’d be
lonely.”
“Have to, Johnny.
They won’t give us many
more now.”
“Orright, Joe. See
you and collect in the
morning.”
TOE was right. He’d
have to make Maggie
understand. She would,
too, if he put it to her
that way. She was all
right, only she was a
woman. He took himself
up in the lift, got
out his key. The light
shone dimly through the wavy frosted glass of the
door, he could hear a soft hum of music from the
wireless. Maggie must still be up. She wouldn’t
know how he’d come out. They didn’t broadcast
Johnny Naylor’s fights any more, only the main
scrap.
In the hall he heard the noise of voices from the
living-room. Wonder who was there; not so good him
coming home with patches on his face.
He heard Maggie calling him, brightly, excited.
“That you, Johnny? Come on in. Steve Barclay’s
here. Got something to tell you.”
Wonder what Barclay wanted. Hadn’t seen him
around lately. Johnny walked to the door. Barclay
and his wife were there. Maggie’s face was shining.
Johnny said: “Hullo, Jean. Hullo, Steve. How’s
things?”
“Whom do you seek ?”
Maggie leant over and switched off the wireless,
moved along to make room for Johnny on the sofa.
“Go on, Steve, tell him.”
“It’s only that we’re going on the road again,
Johnny. Got a couple of good boys. Wondered if
you’d like to come along. Nobody about your
weight.”
“And, Johnny, Steve says I can come, too.”
Maggie was smiling up at him, holding him by the
arm. “He’s got a new turnout. There’s room for us.
Jean’s going, too. She says it’s beautiful. Three cars ;
they used to belong to a circus, and beds and tables,
. everything. Steve’s got a wireless. And Jean says
there’d be room to put the gramophone in ours. The
rest of the boys have the other. Jimmy Hanlon’s
one, and Teddy Blake. They’d be about the best lot
Steve’s taken. And it’d be just like a holiday, Johnny.
And you’ve said yourself what you needed was a rest.
They’re going north. Take in the shows. It’d be
great fun, wouldn’t it, Johnny?”
Johnny smiled down at her eager little face. “I
suppose it would.”
“I knew you’d come, darling. I told Steve. Just
a minute, I’ll get a drink to celebrate. You’ll have
gin, won’t you,
Jean? And what
about you, Steve?
And you’ll have a
beer, I know,
Johnny. Oh, and,
Joh n n y,” she
turned at the door,
“we won’t bother
about storing the
furniture. Jean
says Mabel Tur-
ner’s looking for
a flat. We could
let her have this
one while we’re
away, and then
there won’t be any
bother.”
“Glad you’re coming, Johnny,” said
Steve. “Ought to do well about now.
Reckon I can let you have between two
and three quid and tucker.”
“When are we leaving?” asked Johnny.
“Monday. Oh, and I forgot to ask.
How did you come out to-night? That
must’ve been a nasty belt you got there.”
“He was a bit too fast. Got me in the eighth.
Slowing up. Must be getting old, I reckon.” He smiled.
The BuLLETiN-Cinesound Short Story Competi-
tion closes on January 31, 1938. Prizes are £3O, £l5
and £5, with £5 for the best brief story. Cinesound
offers £lOO for a story suitable for the screen. Stories
are wanted, not scenarios. They must not exceed
6500 words; 1500 words is the limit for “Briefs.”
Stories must be original and hitherto unpublished.
Those considered to have a chance will be paid for
and published as they come to hand.


AMAZING BRITISH MEDICAL DISCOVERY
wipes out many Chronic Illnesses—
by attacking the Germs which cause them
TREATMENT AND IMMUNITY WITHOUT PAINFUL AND EXPENSIVE VACCINATION
'HE world owes an undying debt of
gratitude to Louis Pasteur for the
discovery of the preventive treatment of
many bacterial diseases his researches
were the starting point in the evolution
of "LANTIGEN,” the amazing new
immunisation treatment.
“LANTIGEN” provides a PROVED im-
munisation treatment that is within the
reach of all; and dramatic results have
followed its use in the treatment of Colds,
Influenza, Asthma, Bronchial Asthma,
Bronchitis, Chronic Bronchitis, Catarrh,
Sinus and Antrum trouble, Septum
trouble, Rheumatism, Arthritis, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuritis, Gout, Spondylitis, Boils,
Carbuncles, Pimples, Acne, Septic Sores,
Hay Fever, Whooping Cough and Eczema.
There is no need to accept these com-
plaints as necessary and inevitable evils.
Not only is it possible to-day by the use
of “LANTIGEN” to procure immediate
relief from pain and discomfort, but there-
after “LANTIGEN” provides an immu-
nity from a return of the disorders for
varying periods up to two years, if it is
used as directed. Reports from users
everywhere in many cases chronic
sufferers from diseases
provide evidence of
LASTING RELIEF from
“LANTIGEN,” after many
other treatments have
been tried for years with-
out success.
“LANTIGEN” is safe—
contains no drugs, and
may be given in approved
doses to children or
adults. It is the most
con v e n ient, medically
sound and effective treat-
ment ever developed.
“LANTIGEN” SUPER-
SEDES VACCINATION
BY INJECTION, and
offers antigens which can
be taken through the
mouth (a few drops in
water at bedtime) which
ipl
. ..w: v
£ §
ii
Louis Pasteur,
will provide every benefit which painful
vaccination by injection can give. Antigens
are the agents which incite the human
system to create anti-
bodies. These anti-bodies
fight and destroy the bac-
terial bodies which cause
disease.
NOT A PATENT
MEDICINE.
•‘LANTIGEN’* is not a
Patent Medicine, and is
devoid of drugs alto-
gether. “LANTIGEN is a
bacteriological product
which contains the De-
toxified Antigens of such
dissolved micro-organisms
which are peculiar to the
particular disease re-
quiring treatment. It is
held in suspension in a
colloidal state in physio-
logical saline and contains as a preserva-
tive 0.5 per cent. Creosol. In appearance
it is a clear, crystalline liquid, and it is
without a doubt the pleasantest and most
convenient form of treatment which has
ever been developed.
MOST EFFECTIVE
TREATMENT.
No matter what else has failed "LANTI-
GEN” will make you well—providing
immunity, which previously could only be
obtained through the painful, expensive
and often inconvenient vaccination by in-
jection. Remember, "LANTIGEN” actu-
ally treats the deep, underlying cause of
many serious disorders, and therefore is
the only series of treatments that is last-
ingly effective.
Here is the principle upon which "LANTI-
- operates:
Catarrh and Bronchitis
Bronchial Asthma, Antrum, Sinus
and Respiratory Tract Disorders
7 'antigen "g"
If you suffer from Catarrh, Chronic Bronchitis, Sinus or Antrum
trouble and Asthma, which are caused by germs, there is only
one way to free yourself from them. When you become subject
to them your very body becomes the breeding ground for literally
billions of germs. Gradually the infection spreads into the nasal
and bronchial passages and these tracts become inflamed and
poisoned by mucous, which is carried to other parts of the body.
LANTIGEN actually provides an antidote to each one of the
bronchial organisms. It is t'he only completely effective treatment
for Catarrh and Bronchitis. When you use it you lose the suscepti-
bility to colds, dull headaches vanish, hearing returns, aching
joints are eased, and you feel well again. Finally, all the
symptoms clear away, never to return, if you carry out the
instructions given.
The course of LANTIGEN “B” comprises two bottles, for the
average case, each priced at £l/1/-. These bottles may be
purchased separately, but both are necessary to effect complete
clearance of the complaint. The whole course can be taken in
three months.
“Now free of Colds and Catarrh”
Roseville, 8/9/’37.
Dear Sirs, —I am very glad to tell you that it is elevien months since I had a
cold. 1 attribute this to the use of LANTIGEN, as supplied by you, because
previous to taking it I had been subject to a continuous succession of heavy colds
allied with tonsilitis. These have completely ceased.
My wife, who had been a Catarrhal subject since childhood, is now entirely free
from Catarrh after a course of LANTIGEN “B.” If it would help you to publish
this letter in your advertising, please do so, using my initials only.— (Sgd.) D.J.
Rheumatism & Arthritis
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago
Jantigen "Q"
Bacterial research has proved that Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteo
Arthritis, Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago, Spondylitis and the joint
and muscle pains classed as Rheumatism have the same origin and
are due entirely to the damaging effect's of toxins elaborated by
particular types of germs. These particular germs have been
artificially cultured, and, by using a patented process for dissolv-
ing these germs, a powerful and efficacious LANTIGEN has been
procured. Even the worst cases of Rheumatism and Arthritis,
with their allied complaints, will respond to treatment with
LANTIGEN, which is the only efficacious treatment available,
except under special medical supervision. It strikes at the root of
the troubles from which no ordinary lotion or salts or other
mixtures can provide permanent relief. LANTIGEN treats first
and then immunises. It is different from any other treatment for
Rheumatism or Arthritis available, and it has been successful even
in cases where hope had been entirely given up by the sufferers
concerned. The course takes approximately five months. Full
course comprises four bottles for the average case at £l/1/- each.
These bottles may be purchased separately.
“ Pain of Arthritis Banished ”
Peakhurst, 27/9/’37.
It is with great pleasure that I am able to express my appreciation of the
benefits derived from your preparation, LANTIGEN.
For nearly five years Rheumatoid Arthritis had me in its grip, and though
treatment from doctors certainly kept it in check, LANTIGEN definitely removed
all pain.
I completed the course about three months ago, and apart from being free
of Arthritis, my general health has improved wonderfully.
In order that other sufferers may benefit from LANTIGEN, you can use
this letter to spread the good word., —(Sgd.) (Mrs.) D.C.C.
MOUTH—STOMACH —SYSTEM
This is the way by which prac-
tically all diseases which
“LANTIGEN” was created to
treat are contracted by the
human being. It is also the
course by which the tissues of
the body are being daily re-
plenished. Consequently, it is
the most natural Way to get to
the root of the various diseases.
“LANTIGEN,” taken through
the mouth, is absorbed through
the villi (in the stomach) — : see
illustration No. I—into the
blood-stream, where the anti-
bodies thus formed provide an
immediate
active re-r
sponse, which
quells the
acute stages
of the dis-
order being
treated. (See
ill u strations
Nos. 2 and 3.)
At the same
time they
create a
powerful de-
fens i v e
m e c h a nism
which com-
1. —These are the
villi —small sucker-
like protuberances
in the upper in-
testine which
absorb “LANTI-
GEN” from the
gastric fluids and
carry it into all
bats the bacteria which cause
disease, and thus, in addition
to breaking the acute stages,
provide immunity from a re-
currence of the complaint.
SEPARATE AND DISTINCT
PRODUCTS.
As each human disease is
caused by various types of
micro-organisms and as each
germ is only susceptible to
attack by special anti-bodies, it
has been necessary to prepare
six types
of “LANTI-
GEN.” Each
particular
type, six of
which are de-
scribed at 1 left,
i s specially
planned t o
attack the
particular dis-
eases for
which it has
£B3 03
2. —This slide shows
bacterial organisms
free, living and
Vigorous.
been prepared. LANTIGEN
is, therefore, not a cure all,
but a series of separate and
distinct treatments for certain
specified diseases. Sold under
the name "LANTIGEN, and
for purposes of identification
labelled A, B, C, D, E
and F.
GREAT AUTHORITY PROVES
“LANTIGEN’S” VALUE.
The idea of oral vaccination is
not new, except in Australia.
It has been established in
Europe for more than 12 years,
and researches by the most
eminent authorities prove with-
out a shadow of doubt that it
is possible to completely elimin-
ate the diseases which “LAN-
TIGEN” has been created to
attack, and to drive them from
our daily lives. One of the
foremost authorities in England,
on the subject of the rheumatic
group of diseases, writes as
follows: “In my experience, the
oral antigens have been mostly
employed for cases of catarrhal
infections, rheumatic conditions
and catarrhal enterocolitis;
clinical response has been quite
definitely marked.”
This considered and profes-
sional statement marks the
dawn of a quick release for
sufferers from chrome and
bacterially-carried diseases.
IMMEDIATE BENEFIT.
You may have tried to obtain a
cure, but ordinary measures
can only alleviate the diseases
which we
have men-
tioned here;
they cannot
cure them,
and it is
necessary to
use the pallia-
tive measures
all the time
to get even a
small measure
of relief.
On the other
hand, “LAN-
TIGEN” gives
you immedi-
ate benefit
and finally
clears the
3. —T hi s picture
shows the effect of
“LANTIGEN.” It
incites the creation
of >a n 1 i-bodies
which attack the
germs, gather them
in masses (see
illustration) and
finally destroy them
by oxidation or
burning up in
special parts of the
body. That is why
the effects of
“LANTIGEN” are
permanent.
complaints by attacking the
germs which caused them and
taking them right out of the
system.
Contains ISo Drugs, and is Effective
but Harmless
" Jk T> Colds and
fenl'&Jl A Influenza
Safe, pleasant and certain.
For Boils, Car-
"D"£s * s:£
Clears up Boils, Carbuncles, Pimples,
Acne, without leaving a mark, and pre-
vents their return.
/antigen £ r y fever
Brings definite relief at once, and
quickly clears away the complaint.
mm "F" F c",r’ pin9
Stops attacks quickly or prevents them
if used before or in the early stages
of infection.
DO THIS TO-DAY
PRICE
Go to your chemist and
ask for details of the
“LANTIGEN” treatment.
Don’t postpone the matter
until your complaint
grows worse. Act NOW.
£ll
PER BOTTLE
"LANTIGEN" is prepared under the strict
supervision of a fully qualified medical
bacteriologist.
Obtainable from all leading CHEMISTS.
If your chemist has not supplies, write direct to-day to your nearest
distributor. N.S.W.: Edinburgh Laboratories, Grace Building, 77
York Street (G.P.O. Box 373355), Sydney. Victoria: Edinburgh
Laboratories Pty., Ltd., 364 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne (G.P.O.
Box 1241 L). Queensland: Edinburgh Laboratories, A.M.P.
Buildings, Queen and Edward Streets (G.P.O. Box 1983 X), Brisbane.
South Australia: Wholesale. Distributors—F. H. Faulding & Co.,
Ltd., James Place, Adelaide ; A. M. Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Currie
Street, Adelaide. West Australian Agents: K. S. Andrus and Co.,
Ltd., 144 William Street (G.P.O. Box K 794), Perth. Nev? Zealand
Agents: Q-Tol Fluenzol Laboratories, Thorndon Quay, Wellington.
(Please mention “The Bulletin.”)


For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD- King St„ Sydney
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Youns; Streets, Sydney
i I
m
m
imp
Hiili
” I
111
M
IP
lIS
mi
®r -
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Fed Up.
“Eight of the 12 peacocks that ornamented
the grounds of the League of Nations Secre-
tariat died.” — “Herald.”
These birds, fed up with disputations
Connected with the League of Nations,
Decided they were mugs to tackle
A place so full of human cackle!
Me.
i- *I« *l*
“The father, a naval man, decided to have the
baby christened on a battleship.”
— Woman’s paper.
Seems a more suitable setting for a
wedding anniversary.
•2* •;<
“A band composed of 45 saxophone players
has been formed in Amexica.”
Provided there are no microphones in
front of it, it should sound quite well
from here.
4-
“A mountaineer claims to have climbed over
30,000 feet in one week.”
Some of our confirmed talkie late-
comers will sneer at that as a record.
•h A? 4*
“Though he has thousands of acquaintances,
he has few friends. As with most modest and
retiring people, he likes to be in his own little
circle of special fiends.” — “Telegraph.”
The devil he does!
*2* *2* *2*
“It’s a great strain to a nervous artist when
he knows that a large audience is listening
to him,” says a writer.
How about when he knows they’re
not?
'l* *2* *2*
Strange that a coat which will last a
bear, seal, fox or rabbit a lifetime won’t
last a woman a couple of seasons.
“Now, no more of those leather jackets, Arthur!"
“The warehouse was broken into and several
hundred tins of biscuits were stolen. The hatter
is in the hands of the police.” — “Telegraph.”
They were probably straw biscuits,
then.
»r
“Bootmaker needs repairs.”— Advt.
I knew a chap like that. He was very
down-at-heel because the tacksation
bunch had booted him for nearly all he
had. He was almost on his uppers and
seemed to have no sole, so I shooed him
off to thp country. But a waxy blonde
nailed him, and they were laced in a
few weeks. She polished off the rest of
his coin.
Customs, Inhabitants and Industries
of Our Great Outback.
It has often been a matter of specula-
tion as to why so many politicians who
have been heartlessly discarded by their
constituents have become successful bee-
farmers. It is not, as some suppose, that
the drones, being naturally drawn to their
master by ties of common interest, sool
the working bees on to hopping into it
and increasing their output and so gain
his affection.
According to Professor von Bock-
swiller in his Beegesselschaft die Schwun-
gimwon, the drone bees are jealous of
their reputation and fiercely resentful of
any rivalry in their chosen domain. Actu-
ally, the secret of the ex-politicians’ suc-
cess lies in their ability to handle the
insects fearlesly, secure in the knowledge
that even the strongest sting will glance
blunted from their hides.
For the bee pastoralist who has ordi-
narily vulnerable skin, however, special
precautions must be taken when handling
his swarms. The regulation dress adopted
by most apiarists is a velvet coat and
pants, off the smooth surface of which
the bees, unable to obtain a grip, will
slide; a ten-gallon hat over which fine-
mesh galvanised wire netting is drawn
and which is secured around the coat
collar by an elastic band; eight pairs of
thick woollen socks (experiments having
proved that a bee’s sting can penetrate
only seven pairs) and a pair of old
boxing gloves.
It must not be supposed that any old
color will do for this strange ensemble.
Research has proved that bees take
violent dislikes to certain colors. For
instance, Fascist Italian bees (see later)
will immediately see red on seeing red,
and even pink will move them to nasti-
ness. The combination of colors found
most suitable for scaring the insects away
while the hives are being robbed is one
of blue, green and orange, the bees mis-
taking it for the brilliant plumage of the
bee-eater. The difficulty of procuring
orange socks or green boxing gloves
would deter anyone but a confirmed
apiarist.
Mosquito-net veils used to be worn,
but it was found that these yielded under
the charge of infuriated bees, who were
able to get their stings in through the
flimsy material. Now they merely bounce
off the wire netting.
Probably the most difficult of all the
bee-keeper’s jobs is the sorting out of
his bees whilst wearing boxing gloves,
as anyone who has tried to pick up a
thrippeny-bit when he has them on will
appreciate.
So long as all goes well the apiarist
is on a good cop. All he has to do is to
lead his bees to the best pollen-producing
trees and flowers on his bee run, show
them how to get back to their own place
(were this not done they might wander
to someone else’s hives) and wait around
until there is sufficient honey in the
combs to fill a kerosene-tin.
Although the robbing of the hives con-
stitutes in itself little difficulty, the pre-
liminary work leading up to it requires
much assiduous practice. As it is mani-
festly impossible to get the honey out
with hundreds of sullen insects flying
protestingly about they have to be
smoked out.
To enable him to puff a sufficient
volume of smoke into the hives to put
them to flight the bee-farmer uses a
calabash pipe with a bowl large enough
to take half a pound of tobacco. To get
this working in chimney-like order at
quick notice is no job for the tyro. Many
visitors, watching a honey-snatcher sit-
ting on the nape of his neck by the hour
in the sun, his pipe belching forth dense
clouds of aromatic smoke, mistakenly
think he is just having a loaf. Actually
he is keeping in form for what is a vital
part of his work.
Bees which have been confined to
hives too close to the ground often
suffer from vertigo when they go on their
predatory excursions into tall trees. It
becomes second nature for the bee pas-
toralist to listen for the dis-
tressing sound of a bee zoom-
ing down out of control, to
crash with a dull thud. Strangely
enough, these crashes rarely
prove fatal, and a strong whiff
of sal volatile, a bottle of which
the ’keeper invariably carries
with him for this purpose,
quickly has the bee right again.
It is usual for him, where ver-
tigo is prevalent, to throw a loop
over the branches and hold
them down while the insects
feed.
Where young and inexperi-
enced bees form the bulk of his
swarm, the farmer must see
that the wax-gatherers and
honey-gatherers don’t mix up
the products of their respective labors
on returning to the hive. Honey that is
liberally shot through with lumps of
beeswax will naturally bring a lower
price than pure honey.
In the early days there was only one
type of bee here —the “black” or English
bee introduced by Captain Wallace 120
years ago. It went bush, and is now
known as the bush bee. Later, Italian
bees were introduced, these being distin-
guished by their operatic hum. After
Musso. marched on Rome bees were de-
clared Fascist, like everything else, and
the introduction of these in recent years
has led to a conflict of ideologies among
the colonies. Now we have the hard-
doing, democratic Aussie bush bee, the
pre-war Italian monarchical bee and the
Fascist variety. To prevent any all-in
yikes between them, they are always
segregated on farms.
Except for ants, bee-eaters, rats, mice,
wasps, hornets, swallows, sparrows,
lizards, toads, spiders, moths, cuckoos
and a few dozen other birds, bees have
no enemies. They are, however, subject
to nervous dyspepsia and warts, the latter
having to be burnt off their hocks with
oxalic acid. § w. K.
Suspense.
Dennis stirred, sighed and half-opened
his eyes. How long had he lain thus en-
compassed in these yielding arms? It
seemed ages, and yet His eyes
closed as he abandoned himself to this
ecstasy. A straying hair caressed his
cheek.
At the sound of the opening door he
leaped to his feet. Maria, his wife, and
a strange man, with a notebook and
pencil in hand, stood in the doorway.
“What does this mean?” Denis burst
out.
“It means this,” retorted Maria with
spirit, “that I’m sick and tired of brush-
ing horsehair off your good clothes, so
I asked Mr. Cohen to come and give
me a quote for that battered old arm-
chair you’re always lolling about on.”
DOUGAL.
Responsibility.
What our dailies call a “crisis” was de-
veloping in the affairs of the office boys’
union. They were out to demand recog-
nition of their responsibilities.
“We gotter tell this capertilistic octer-
puss, or whatever they calls it, where ter
get orf,” said “Warts” Mulligan. “ ’Ow
many knows wot we do for the bosses?
“Only yesterdee a termater blonde
rushes in an’ ses, Ms ole Snufflebuster in?’
“ ‘No,’ I ses, bein’ a wakeup, ‘ ’e ain't
in.’
“ ‘Y’ dirty little liar,’ she yells, an’
’auls orf an’ lands fair on me conk.
“I’m just pickin’ meself up an’ th’
tab’s thumpin’ on ole Snuff’s door when
in bowls ’is missus! That’s when I
swings me nous inter topgear.
“ ‘Mrs. Snufflebuster,’ I ses, ‘that
sheilah’s the biggest pest in Sydney,
always worryin’ poor Mr. Snufflebuster
fer donashuns fer somethink.’
“The ole girl comes at it ’ook, line
an’ sinker, an’ aims the flash dame out
on ’er ear.
“Next day ole Snuff pulls me up an’
ses, ‘Warts, y’ worth yer weight in gold ;
’ere’s somethin’ for yer.’
“When I opens me mit, wot d’ y’
think I finds —a lousy treybit!”
When the groans had subsided,
“Stumpy” had the floor.
“Wotter ’bout me!” he said. “I’m
cufled up th’ other day with a snifter
cowboy yarn, when old Boofer comes
out an’ ses, ‘Go round t’ th’ florist’s an’
’ave a nice box of flowers sent up to
Miss So-’n’-so’s.’
“ ‘Blime,’ I ses, ‘y’ slippin’ ain’t yer,
mister? That’s th’ skirt wot told yer orf
proper larst week! ’
“ ‘ ’Oly smoke! ’ ’e ses, ‘so it is! ’
“ ‘Yes,’ I ses, ‘yer thinkin’ of that
ash blonde.’
“ ‘Boy,’ ’e yells, ‘yer a wonder! Attend
t’ that matter an’ I’ll see that ye’re ’and-
somely rewarded.’
“Next day I gets me ’andsome reward.
Th’ cow shouted me a meat pie!”
Giving their raspberry war cry the
meeting adjourned, partly as a mark of
sympathy, but chiefly because “Stinker’s”
cigarettes had cut out.
D. McM.


“You can keep ’em without keeping on cooking
’em,” I said. “Just keep ’em warm.”
"Perhaps I could if I sat over them, watching
them, for two hours.” said Annie. “But I think I do
enough as it is.’
“You don’t, i said. “Why the hell don’t you
smile occasionally?”
“You don’t give me much to smile about,” she
said.
It was true, come to that. But I wasn’t in the
mood to admit it. Things hadn’t been going right
with me, and I was half-drunk and I wanted to take
it out on her. If I’d been sober I’d have known she
hadn’t had the taste of underground in her mouth
that morning, or seen old Mace wheezing his life out
in the change-room, or had Don on her mind all
through a bad half-shift in bad ground, or made a
fool of herself in a row with.a rat like Winch. I felt
bad afterwards about what I said.
“I could give you plenty to smile about,” I said.
“I could go out to-night to a meet that’d give you
something to laugh at if I wanted to. It’s only
because I promised young Bill to go down the street
that I’m not.”
She got the drift of it and she looked startled.
She’d never heard me talk that way before, even when
drunk, and for a minute she looked sick and dizzy.
She looked bad in her old kitchen clothes, with her
hair untidy and her worn face with a helpless, terrified
look. Scoring so well wasn’t such a good feeling as
I’d thought it would be. I felt angry with her and
myself, too. I grabbed the paper and went out on to
the back verandah.
“Riots in Paris.” That was the first heading I
saw. What the hell did riots in Paris matter to a
man who’d just said a thing like that to his wife for
the first time? Nothing in the paper mattered to
me. The local news was all rubbish, and seventy-eight
deaths in an oil-well explosion in Texas didn’t mean
a thing to me alongside what was happening to Annie
and myself and young Bill there in our own house.
I was feeling more sober after the good feed, but
I wasn’t feeling good. I dropped the paper on the
verandah and sat there on the deck-chair watching
young Bill playing. He was building a little goldmine
in the corner with tobacco-tins for vats and poppets
made with his meccano set, and dumps and little roads
all over the place, I got interested. “You need some
sheds, Bill,” I said. “You need a change-room and a
fitting shop and a store.”
After a while I went down and showed him
where they all went on the Extended, and soon we
had a rough little model of the mine, and young Bill
was pleased. “Make us underground, too, dad,” he
said. “Make us underground, too.”
“We’d have to get some ants and train them to
dig it for us, Bill,” I said. “We’re not small enough.”
He didn’t understand and I started to explain all
about underground. I showed him how we could
push a stick into the ground and it would make a
little shaft the right size for our mine, but that we
couldn’t get down it to dig out the levels and make
the stopes and winzes and rises. It was too little.
“I’ll get the shovel, then, dad,” said young Bill, ,
“and y’ can dig it out big.”
That made me laugh, and
then I had to explain why. I
got on my heels and started to
draw it on the tin fence with the
end of a burnt stick. 1 had the
shaft there and I was making a
She didn’t say anything, but the laugh said a good deal.
drive. The face I was working on got too far away
and I leaned over to reach it with the stick. I shifted
my foot, nearly on top of young Bill’s poppet-legs,
and he let out a yell. Trying to dodge his things I
got off balance and fell over on my side.
Annie was on the back verandah and she laughed.
She didn’t say anything about my falling over, but
the laugh said a good deal. Then, when I was getting
up, she said: “I’d think you’d teach him about some-
thing other than mines. I hope he won’t be satisfied
with mines.”
That was just what I needed to make me get over
feeling sorry for her. I knew she was wrong on both
counts. I hadn’t fallen over because I was drunk,
and God knew if there was anyone not satisfied with
mines it was me. She’d put it that way that there
was no answer, as she often does, but I was right. I
was just playing with the nipper and we were both
enjoying it. But there wouldn’t be any fun in it any
more. I went back to the deck-chair on the verandah
and young Bill was disappointed for a while, but soon
got over it and went on with the game on his own,
I sat in the sunlight watching him and feeling
pretty miserable. He was building himself a mine,
but most likely when he grew up the only part he’d
be able to take in that sort of thing would be on the
end of a shovel. All his mother’s big ideas, and mine,
too, wouldn’t keep him off the handle of a banjo if
that was what he was suited for. It made me shiver
to think of some of the things that might happen to
young Bill. A man thinks a lot about his nippers, but
if Don, for instance, had any he wouldn’t be thinking
clear and right about them that day.
Don had slipped out of my mind, but he came
back. I didn’t know now what I’d do if I was in
his position. Not many men’s minds are strong
enough to come out of a hole like that. Those that
ought to shoot themselves aren’t game, and those
who shouldn’t think too fast and muddled, and go and
do it. But I wasn’t just thinking about myself and
what I’d do. 1 suddenly felt concerned about Don.
I sweated like I had in the mine that morning when
he was somewhere else underground, feeling bad and
working a rise in dangerous ground. It hadn’t been
right to wash and drink and almost forget about
him like I had. He’d come up the shaft feeling bad
four hours ago, and I didn’t know now where he
was. What were my troubles compared with his?
I had a lot of sympathy for Don. More than I had
for Annie, though I can see when I’m thinking clear
that I’m not right there. It was just that Don and I
were frightened of the same thing.
Sitting there in the sun, with no one about except
the boy playing in the yard and Annie away back
inside the house, I worked out most of what was
wrong with me. And I knew how to fix it, too. I
knew how to start and how to keep going, and I
worked out some pretty big moves for the future. The
first thing for me to do would be to get up and go
under the cold shower and stay there until I shivered.
That’d do me good, and when I came out I’d have to
do my best to grin like I used to five years ago. If
I couldn’t quite manage it I’d have to keep on making
the effort and using cold showers instead of beer,
and
But I never even made the first move. It was
hot in the sun and my limbs wouldn’t stir themselves.
It would be better to think the whole thing out more
thoroughly here where it was comfortable and lazy.
I was thinking about what I could do when I got back
some of the kick I’d had before we left the coast, when
I went to sleep and forgot about the lot of it.
YOU reach a half-dead state sleeping in the sun.
The easiest way to get comfortable again seems
to be to stay and go back to sleep. You hate every
moment of time, creeping back to being wideawake,
but you can’t turn back. You dislike anyone who
tries to speak to you.
I heard Annie saying she wanted some wood
chopped, and I saw young Bill standing in front of
me with the axe. I didn’t like either of them as they
stood there trying to get me properly awake. But
they were there, and my mouth was dry and all the
rest of me wet. I took the axe, blinking in the strong
light, and went down to the woodheap with young
Bill.
“You carry it up,” I said to young Bill. The
axe seemed to weigh a ton, and my clean, fresh clothes
were crumpled and wet and dirty. I was thirsty.
I couldn’t remember anything pleasant from before
I’d gone to sleep, and the free time I’d looked forward
to wasn’t turning out well. I might as well be down
below, bogging out Tom’s dirt, I thought. It s always
the way, the things you look forward to go wrong.
“Your tea’s ready,” said Annie.
But I didn’t feel like food. I got more clean
clothes and went to the bathroom and had the shower
I should have had two or three hours before. The
water was fresh and good, and when I came out I felt
better. The effect of the drink I’d had was gone
and I was ready for a meal.
Annie looked sour, but I didn’t care about Annie.
I’d got over being angry with her and I didn’t feel
sorry any more over what I’d said. I looked at her
bustling about, and felt sorry for her, but not in a
personal way. She wasn’t having too good a time, but
neither was I. Neither was Don Bell nor old Mace.
No one was having too good a time. My young
Bill was there, and he was all right. But God knew
what’d happen to him later on. It wouldn’t be any
worse than the things that were happening to most
people, anyway. It was a silly way to think, perhaps,
but that was how I felt. It didn’t make me get cheer-
ful, but I felt less sick of myself. I didn’t want to
hurt Annie any more, but I wasn’t worrying about the
hurts she had, either. I felt superior, as if I knew
something that not many people did. They said “It’ll
be all the same in a hundred years’ time,” but they
didn’t mean it. 1 did. I didn’t worry to say anything,
but I wasn’t stopping quiet through being surly. Annie
didn’t understand. She thought I was sulking, but I
didn’t care. Then Tom and Clara came in, and I
had to get back into the game again.
“We’re going down th’ street,” said Tom. “We
just dropped in to see what you were doing.”
“We’re going down town, too,” I said.
“Well, we’ll all go in together,” said Tom, “and you
and I can have a couple while they look at th’ shops.”
The women were in a clatter of talk before we got
started, and to look at Annie you’d never have thought
there was anything between her and me or anything
on her mind at all. She wasn’t worrying, she wasn’t
hurt so badly after all, I thought. Then I remembered.
I hoped no one could see anything wrong with me,
and I thought perhaps Annie wasn’t as pleased as
she looked. The kids were getting together, too, Tom’s
two and my one. Tom and I lit up cigarettes and
went into the front room and talked the way we
always do.
“We’ll have a quieter time than if we’d gone to
Winch’s party,” said Tom.
“Yes,” I said.
“Won’t do any harm,” said Tom. “A bit o’
peace after Don Bell’s trouble this morning and then
you an’ Winch nearly getting stuck into each other
at the pub.”
“I made a fool of myself,” I said.
“Not a bit of it!” said Tom. “You was right. I
seen what he was gettin’ at and I wouldn’t let a squib
like him put that over me. You was right.”
It was no use going into it with Tom. If I’d said
I should have gone to Winch’s party he’d have
reckoned I was mad after having done what I did.
He’d have reckoned it was O.K. to have gone or to
have done what I did, but he’d have thought it silly
to have been doubtful about it.
“How’d you go at the two-up?” I asked.
“Aw, I got a spin,” said Tom. “They only owe me
a couple of quid since Christmas now. I was holdin’
a score but I dropped most of it.”
“Much of a mob?” I said.
“Hell of a crowd,” said Tom. “You’d have
thought it was payday.”
“I should have come out,” I said.
“What’d you do?” asked Tom.
“Just hung about the house,” I said. “Went to
sleep on the back verandah.”
“What a life!” said Tom. “I dunno how y’ can
put in the time doing nothing.”
We went on talking that way about nothing very
important for a long time. It was easy talk, just like
a rest, thinking enough to stop you thinking about
anything else, but not enough to overwork your head.
We could hear the women outside, and Clara was
laughing a lot, like she always does. Annie’s voice
sounded lively and interested, and I thought that
perhaps it was easy talk for her, too. Different to
what passes between us two most of the time. The
kids were making a row, wanting to be off down the
street, and after a while young Bill came into the
front room looking blue. “They ain’t going down
town, dad,” he said. “They reckon it’s too late. I
told ’em you promised me we’d go down town.”
The women followed him in. “It’s half-past
eight,” said Annie.
“We might as well all stop here now,” said Clara.
“We’d just have to go down and come almost straight
back.”
“I’m easy,” said Tom.
“I want to go down the street,” said young Bill.
Young Bill was looking at me, and I remembered
what I had promised that morning. Annie was look-
ing at me, too, and I remembered what she’d said.
Clara was watching us both as if she knew something
was wrong. I got obstinate.
“It’s ridiculous,” said Annie. “We don’t have to
go to town just because we intended to. W.e’re more
comfortable here.”
“I promised the kid we’d go,” I said. “We’ll
have to go in for a while.”
“Oh, well, it doesn’t matter,” said Clara. “We
can go in for an hour. It won’t do us any harm.”
Annie opened her mouth to say something and I
was ready to tell her I was “capable” and young Bill
o Continued on page 66.)


ST E F
• w'
~x
1
m S=
m#«IP
\
£X
i
S.W'IK
|&J£
/
•gsjSt
VfVMV^
ivA'iv
• ; -W /
W*®
to
Sgfct
x-:;*
i«
\ .
?iV
Storekeepers not already stocking
Penguin Ice Cream should write to
the N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co.,
Ltd., 25 Harbour Street, Sydney.
w
ICE CREAM
N.S.W.FRESH FOOD L ICE CO LTD.
The N.S.W. Fresh Food & Ice
Company Ltd. guarantees the
purity and excellence of this pro-
duct. The proud reputation of
this famous firm is your safeguard
. . . and your password to better
ice cream.
\J
&•}■ Aliylv'
x_
I
Ice Cream Yes! . . . but new Ice Cream!
representing three quarters of a century of
perience and research.
For over seventy-six years the N.S.W. Fresh Food
& Ice Company has set a standard of quality; there is a
wealth of goodwill behind the name.
Hence the superior quality of the NEW Fresh Food Penguin
Ice Cream. It had to be good and it is good;.and good
for you, too.
A pure, rich, wholesome confection that
wiii give a new thrill to summertime .


Wmm''
8 ft®
ifliii
Ilftlltll
: ;
m
mm
f■ m
•SSiSSsS
k %
i m
iißlie
m
m
i
@g
%
MU
I
m
m
m
&
11111111
m
i
bw iaa.24
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY MADAME ALICE DELYSIA
9 for 6d. — 18 for I/-
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
ALSO BLACK and white fine cut —the finest money can buy
and I were going whether they came or not. I’d
forgotten about Tom and Clara being visitors. I was
ready to walk out and start feeling sorry for myself
again, I suppose. But Annie changed her mind and
shut her mouth again, and after Tom had grumbled a
bit we all got ready and went.
”T' HERE’S plenty of fun in town on Saturday nights
* for those that want it. Talkies, of course, and
dances for the kids. The place is bright and crowded
and there are long lines of motor-cars parked outside
the shows and plenty of other cars scooting about.
There aren’t many places for the drivers to go, but
they use a lot of petrol and from the footpath they
look to be having a good time. The louts hang about
on the corners as they do in any town, but on the
’fields there seem to be more of them and they seem
cheekier. They look undersized to me, but perhaps
they’ll grow to be as big as the chaps I went to
school with.
We walked along the street, the bunch of us, and
I was thinking that there were a lot like us. There
seemed to be plenty of fun for the youngsters and
for the heads with their motors, but not much for
the married men like Tom and me. The single chaps
about our age were all having a good time, but they
were only drinking. There were plenty of married
I wanted to say something nice to Annie, only l didn’t know how to go about it.
men with their wives and children wandering about
like us, looking in the shop windows and wondering
what to do next. Every now and again a couple of
the parties would come together. The women would
all chatter, and the men always seemed to stand in
the background without much to say unless they could
get away for a pot. The women’d go on and on
about their children and their illnesses and the prices
of things and their troubles, and the men —and the kids,
too —would stand about and look a bit silly. But
perhaps the women weren’t having such a gay time,
either, in spite of all their talk.
Our crowd wandered about, and Tom and I were
better off than most because we were together. The
women went on ahead talking nineteen to the dozen
and the kids were with us. But we handed the nippers
over for half an hour and slipped into the Metropole
and had four good pots each. Annie didn’t approve,
but Clara didn’t seem to care much.
“Well, we’ll go straight on up the street and back
on the other side and we’ll expect you to meet us
before we get back,” said Annie.
“Oh, we’ll meet them somewhere,” said Clara.
“It’s not such a big town as that.”
It was good in the Metropole, and we sucked the
fresh beer into us and enjoyed it. It was half-time at
the pictures and there was a big, noisy mob in the
bar. There were a lot of chaps among them who’d
been there since after tea and were arguing or singing
or just emptying pots and looking dopey. There were
a lot of good, expensive clothes on big blokes with
hard, broken hands, and there were some lads, just
old enough to get served by the look of them, putting
on a silly show. Millie wasn’t behind the bar, of
course, and it set me thinking of Winch’s party and
what might be going on there. Tom’s mind went the
same way. “Wonder what’s happenin’ to Millie now,”
he said. “How does this compare with Winch’s party?”
“Suits me all right,” I said.
“A man’s a fool,” said Tom.
Most likely he was criticising his own thoughts. It
seemed to me he’d hit the nail on the head. A man
was a fool, I thought, and the question was, was he
a bigger fool for going flat out for a good time like
Winch, or for hanging on to the good things that
were crumbling up, like I was? Winch or Tom or
myself or any of us might get what was coming to
us to-morrow. Anyone underground might poke the
point of a drill into a live charge or be under bad
ground at the wrong moment. Or he may get it the
worst way of all, like Don Bell had. I reckoned Winch
would fall to pieces
if he ever found
himself in Don’s
position. But it gave
me a knock to re-
member that Don
was “cracking up,”
too. I didn’t know
much about Don
out of the shaft, but
I knew he was dif-
ferent to Winch.
My kind, I’d always
thought. It would
have been better if
it had been Winch
who had got his
“ticket” and been
left with a wheezy
lung to leak some of
the cocksureness out
of him.
But there was Don rattled sick and desperate and
myself chewing the sock and thinking and thinking and
getting into dirty, uncivil moods, while Winch was
probably having a hell of a good time. I wished
I’d gone after Winch at lunch-time and smashed him
up, queered his pitch for a while, anyway, and given
him something to think about while his face got back
to normal. I should have done it, I thought. But
the trouble with me was I never did anything, I just
thought about it. I wondered where Don was and if
he hsd any real cobbers out of the shaft that would
stick around and kid him along until he got used to
the idea of being a crock. I wondered if he had a
wife and what she was like. I got a bit of a shock
when I realised that inside me I reckoned Annie would
be all right in a case like that, even if we weren’t
running so well together now when things were good.
I wished I had known Don better so that I could have
picked him up after the half-shift and gone off with
him and kept an eye on him. A merry bloke like Don
was sure to have plenty of cobbers, but perhaps they
wouldn’t know ; he wouldn’t tell them.
We finished our fourth drink and I was still
thirsty. I didn’t want to go outside because bars are
the most cheerful places I know. “Have another?
I said to Tom.
“Hell, no!” said Tom. “Keep out of trouble.
We’re with the women.”
He was right, too, so we went out and picked our
families up a few doors down looking at some hats, and
I got a nasty look from Annie for being away so
long. Clara wasn’t worrying. She’s not the worry-
ing kind. “Now you’ll have to buy us some,” she
said cheerfully. “You’ve had your drink, so now
you’ve got to buy us all a spider at Smith’s.”
“0.K.,” said Tom. “I’m easy, only we’ll walk
about a bit first so Bill and I can have one, too, with-
out spoiling our beer.”
We went up the street again and it was a bit
quieter. The crowd was back in the pictures and lots
of families who had been in the street with young
kids had gone off home. There were still plenty
about, though, flappers trotting along in dance frocks,
louts on the corners and a few drunks, none of them
too bad. I hung on to young Bill’s fist and wondered
what he’d think of his dad if he knew as much about
him as I did.
SINCE things came good during the years when
the rest of the country was in a bad way, the
main street has turned into a funny place. It’s patchy.
In between new, modern, well-lit shop fronts there are
poky little old places. Some of the old ramshackles
have had new paint and paper and are respectable,
though different. Nowadays every second shop seems
to be a ladies’ hairdresser and every third one a
restaurant. The drapers’ displays are big and flash,
and there are plenty of frock shops. The street is
wide. The place was planned in the first place for
20,000 people. It’s a well-lit street and a fairly inter-
esting one until you’ve walked up and down it so
often that you’re sick of the sight of it.
That’s how I was, and Tom was pretty bored, too,
though the women were all right, yapping as usual
and enjoying the things in the windows. I got thirsty
again. I hadn’t stopped being thirsty, but it came
on me harder than ever and I didn’t want to go back
and sit in Smith’s and drink silly colored muck with
ice-cream floating in it with the family. I’d have
to do it, I supposed, but, anyway, it would be over
before long and there’d be plenty of time for a couple
more drinks before the pubs shut at eleven.
We were wandering along talking about nothing,
and when we were getting near the Ballarat I saw
there was some sort of trouble going on inside. There
was a lot of noise. A copper on the other side of the
street stopped walking opposite the pub and stood
there waiting for something to happen. It sounded
big, and he took a look up and down the road to see
if there were any other policemen in sight. There
weren’t any, but he didn’t go away. He must have
known the town, because he just waited where he was
to see what would happen and if the trouble would


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX ; OWEN E. FRIEND ;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD ST., E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS: THE BANK OF ENGLAND,
WESTMINSTER BANK, LTD., BARCLAY’S
BANK, LTD., NATIONAL PROVINCIAL BANK,
LTD.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES: THROUGH-
OUT NEW SOUTH WALES, VICTORIA, SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, QUEENSLAND, AND AT CANBERRA,
F.C.T.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT” ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE,
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
SYDNEY AND LONDON.
TRANSACTED
blow out before he got mixed up in it. Then the
swing doors of the bar bulged out and someone inside
shot a bloke into the gutter.
The chap reeled over the footpath and wrapped
his arms around a verandah-post to keep himself up.
His shirt was half-off and there was blood on his face
and hands. He was a stocky build with big arms,
and fury and beer had equal grips on him. He didn’t
look pretty with the dirt and sawdust off the bar
floor and blood, and but for the beer, which wouldn’t
let him stand properly, he would have looked damned
dangerous. He was roaring defiantly when he shot
through the door, and he kept on roaring as he hung
on to the post.
It was Don Bell!
“Who says a ticket makes any difference t’ me?”
he yelled. “Good as ever I was! Lotta bloody rot.
Who says I ain’t? Come out ’ere an’ I’ll bloody well
kill ’im.”
“Beast!” said Annie. She turned around to go
back, away from the pub, and even Clara didn’t look
too pleased with Don Bell. Only Tom looked at me
and I looked at Tom, and each of us could see the
kick the other got out of seeing poor old Don skiting
drunk and ready to defy the whole world and a dirty
lung into the bargain. Tom and I can’t get under
each other’s skin with words, but Tom tumbles to
things so quick it surprises me sometimes.
“What’s he goin’ to do now, dad?” yelped young
Bill, fairly jumping with excitement. “Are th’ men
goin’ to come out an’ hit ’im, dad?”
“Come here, Billy,” said Annie.
I wanted to hop in and help Don, and I whispered
it to Tom. But he saicj no, and he was right. The
copper was comifig across the road and Don was
heaving himself back towards the pub to kill someone.
Don was swearing and skiting, but he wasn’t going
to be much trouble for the John.
“He’ll be right,” said Tom. “Cooler’s th’ best
place for him.”
It was, too. Waking up in jail with a head too
big for the cell never killed anyone yet. It takes your
mind off other things. It would put Don right. I
wondered if it had just happened or if some of his
cobbers had filled him with beer and set him on the
warpath for the good of his soul. It was something
I’ll always remember as a good sight, seeing Don
get chucked out of the Ballarat and carted off to the
boob with blood and dirt all over him. It made me
laugh, though not like you laugh at a joke.
“What fun men get out of making such pigs of
themselves I can’t understand,” said Annie.
That was just it, I thought. She couldn’t under-
stand. But I felt good and happy, and I didn’t hear
much of what was said as we all walked down to
Smith’s.
CT MITH’S is large and white, with plenty of fans,
and the things they sell there generally fascinate
young Bill so much you can’t get a word out of him
until he’s finished eating and drinking. But that night
he was excited with what he’d seen, or nearly seen.
“What’d they done to th’ man, daddy?” he asked.
“Why was he so wild?”
“Aw, it was just some chaps’d been slinging off
at him,” I said.
“What was he goin’ to do to them?” said young
Bill, his eyes goggling. “What was he all wobbly for?”
“Here! ” said Annie. “Drink up your ginger beer
or mummie will have it.”
Young Bill grabbed his glass, but he wasn’t going
to be put off that way. “What was the policeman
goin’ to do?” he asked. “Why couldn’t we stay an’
watch?”
“Because the man was being very silly and not
at all nice,” said Annie.
“Wasn’t he nice? He was funny,” said young
Bill.
“What a place for a child! ” said Annie.
But I didn’t think it was worse than any other
place. Young Bill would work things out for himself
wherever he was. He would think a man’s way, not
like a woman. I felt sorry for Annie, thinking how she
couldn’t help but lose trying to keep young Bill think-
ing the way she did. “The man’d been in trouble,
Bill,” I said. “He worried so much it made him go
out and get a bit drunk and silly.”
Annie gave me a nasty look. “It doesn’t take
much worry to make a man get drunk in this town,”
she said.
A few hours earlier I’d have taken that badly, but
now I didn’t feel bad against anyone. I just, laughed.
Then Tom paid for the drinks out of the fiver
he’d won at the two-up and we all went out. There
was nothing to do and it was late. Later than the
time the kids usually go to bed. We got out of the
bright street, heading for home, and before long Tom
had his younger kid in his arms. Young Bill stopped
chattering and began to “wobble” like poor old Don
had, so I picked him up, too, and he was asleep as
soon as his legs stopped moving. There was a high
sky full of stars, like there almost always is on the
’fiejds.
There wasn’t much said. Perhaps we were
all a bit tired, like the kids. I’d got back all the
punch that had been oozing out of me. My good,
clean, soft week-end clothes felt fine and I hadn’t
any thirst. It was good tramping along, weary, but
not too weary, with young Bill solid and warm in
my arms. We left Tom and Clara at their gate and
had only a few houses to go to our own place. It
looked warm and cosy. The dark had rubbed out its
drab colors and you didn’t notice how bare the yard
was in the night time.
Annie went in and switched the lights on, and
after I’d put young Bill in his bunk and she’d un-
dressed him without waking him and we were both
in the kitchen, I wanted to say something nice to
Annie. Only I didn’t know how to go about it.
I wanted to tell someone all that had been in
my mind, but she was busy opening windows,
putting out the milk jug, winding the clock. “How’d
it be if we all went to the football to-morrow?” I
said.
“It’d be nice for Billy,” said Annie.
But she didn’t think we’d really go. She reckoned
I’d get down town and have a few pots in the morning
and then want more in the afternoon. I wondered if
she’d really like to go. She doesn’t like football much,
but I guessed she’d rather go there than stop home.
Anyway, she thought she’d be stopping home. It
was no use using words on her.
We got undressed and tumbled into bed. Through
the window I could see plenty of clear sky and 1 lay
thinking. Annie switched out the light and snuggled
under the blankets, getting off to sleep as quickly as
possible like she always does. I lay there apd wanted
to tell her all about everything. But it was too big a
job. It’d take the night, or half of it. The words
were not in me. It was so long since I’d talked to her
about what I thought that I couldn’t start now.
I remembered when we were first married living
at the coast. We’d often talked half the night and
let each other know things you could never find words
for in the daytime. In those days we’d say what was
in us and know each other better in the morning. I
couldn’t locate the time when either of us had started
to change, but we were a long way from it now. She
looked after me and she looked after young Bill, and
we were both fond of the kid. I was fond of her, too,
in a way, but it was different. It wasn't like the
old times.
I wanted the old times back but I couldn’t
get them. I wanted to touch her, to make some sort
of contact with her that might help the words to
come. But there was so much time between now and
the last time I’d spoken that I knew I could never fill
it in. I’d grown new ways of thinking, and so had she.
[The End.]


THE NEW 1937 MODEL
GEM
RAZOR.
I /a Jtnpujai^sss^'
• igraia&L.
COMPLETE..
DELUXE BAKE LITE CASE
, . . . WJTH 2 BLADES
What do you pay for a razor?
No matter what price, It cannot give you a better
shave than the GEM, popular all over the world.
Just test it . . . fee! how easily it glides through the
toughest whiskers.
For I/- you can buy this British made GEM razor,
complete with 2 Genuine GEM Double Life Blades
(made of 50 percent Thicker Surgical Steel and
guaranteed 100 percent perfect) in handsome De
Luxe Bakelite Case.
Quantities are limited—take advantage of this offer
now.
On sale at all Stores, Chemists and Tobacconists.
GEM for Per fed: Shaves
PRESENT
THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS
"SIPIIRHir OIF
PROGRESS"
USTRALIA’S first completely air-conditioned
streamlined steam train for the Melbourne-
Albury section of the Sydney Express service. Con-
structed of Corten steel at the Newport Railway
Workshops, Victoria, and painted royal blue with
two longitudinal parallel bands of gold, this train
establishes a new apex of railway performance in
Australia. In its grace of outline, decorative beauty
and air-conditioned efficiency, the “Spirit of
Progress” is the last word in train construction in
the Southern Hemisphere.
THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS FOR SAFE;FAST & DEPENDABLE SERVICE
An Amazing Experience
TIBBITT and the UNIVERSE
BY H.C. MSKAY.
"illustrated BY BARNES
about four in the morning a
metallic cracking, followed by a distant
i J explosion, sounded over the suburb.
“John! John, what ever was that?” cried
Mrs. Tibbitt.
“Nothin’. Prob’ly the milkman,” grumbled
Tibbitt, turning over in bed. “For heaven’s sake,
woman, go to sleep.”
He woke later to find he had overslept. “Ten
to eight!” he growled, sighting his bedside clock.
“Holy mackerel —I’ll be late for the office again!”
He sprang from bed, had a scrambled wash and
dashed to the kitchen. “Cup o’ tea and toast,” he
muttered. “No time for anything else, anyway.”
But he found the electric toaster dead, and when
he lit the gas stove it flickered out with a feeble plop.
“Damn it all,” he shouted, “what’s wrong with
everything! ” He gazed round ; his jaw dropped.
The kitchen was all different, somehow. But there
was no time for puzzling it out. He cut and spread
some bread and butter, wolfed it, grabbed hat and
case and dashed out. “Mus’ get the eight-thirty!”
He didn’t get it. Half-way to the station he saw
Cripps running, and put on a sprint to catch up.
Both ran for a while without seeming to get much
further. Finally they stopped, panting.
“Think we can make the eight-thirty?” gasped
Tibbitt.
“No hope, unless it’s late. It’s eight-
thirty now. Queer thing, though—l
haven’t heard any trains this morning,”
replied Cripps. “Something’s wrong. All
the lighting and ’phone wires are down.’
But there was no time for gabbling
about that. They hurried on. It seemed a
long time before they reached the station.
Here they found a milling crowd and
got broken explanations: “No trains —-
all derailed —rails gone wrong” . . •
“ ’Phones dead —stationmaster says”. . .
Tibbitt had no time to listen. He
hailed Hartner, passing in his car, and
got a lift. Then he sat, fuming and
monosyllabic, beside Hartner, trying to
think up some feasible excuse to offer his boss. Mr.
Shaylord never listened to stories of delayed trains.
Suddenly Tibbitt became aware that Hartner had
pulled up and was staring perplexedly around.
“What in the name of heaven” Hartner
shouted. “Look, Tibbitt, we left Roseville twenty
minutes ago. I’ve been doing thirty-five to forty,
and we haven’t struck Chatswood yet!”
Both gazed in amazement at the landscape. It
had become bare, with scattered trees, shrubs and
plants dotted over it. One house only, a long rambling
one, was in sight. There was a solitary telephone-
pole beside the car. No others could be seen. The
wires were down.
“Something’s happened to the world!” exclaimed
Hartner.
Tibbitt’s rage boiled up again. Nice yarn to tell
the boss. A chap’d get fired straight away. “Drive
on!” he growled. “Get me into the city somehow!”
“Can’t —I’m out of petrol.”
Tibbitt wasted no more time over him. He
jumped from the car and made off at a lope for the
top of the next rise. When he got there he groaned
in dismay. Only one house —a queer, incredibly long
building—in sight, and a tree here and there, on a
plain stretching to the horizon!
Another pedestrian was coming towards him
along the road. Tibbitt recognised him as Ogilvie,
a no-account chap who had a science degree or some
such bosh. Ogilvie dabbled in astronomy. You'd
see him in his backyard stargazing when he should be
snailing or making a table-top out of used matches or
learning Business Success by a correspondence course.
Ogilvie hailed him with a grin. “Hullo, Tib., old
sport. How do you like this new expansion of space?”
“Talk sense!” growled Tibbitt. “Where’s Chats-
wood? What’s wrong with everything? I’ve got
to get to the office, I tell you!
“You won’t,” replied Ogilvie. “Dammit, man,
can’t you see what’s happened? Space has opened
out! So far the extension only applies to inanimate
objects. Everything’s extended longways ; at least,
all materials running north-and-south. which happens
to be the direction of the change. The ’phone and
lighting wires have thinned and given way, the gas-
mains have burst. The North Shore suburbs are
now twenty times as distant from the city. The
earth has become a long north-and-south ellipse”
“Oh, dry up!” shouted Tibbitt. “I suppose this
is one of you darned scientists’ practical jokes!
Businessmen won’t stand for this sort of tommyrot!”
Ogilvie doubled up with silent mirth.
“My boss, Mr. Shaylord—Shaylord, of Shaylord,
Wilshire and Gaynor, merchant importers ; six ’phone
lines” fumed Tibbitt importantly. “Wait till he
hears about it! I wouldn’t be in your shoes, my lad—
not for ten years’ wages.”
This only increased Ogilvie’s childish glee. The
fellow was impossible. Tibbitt left him and continued
down the road. He reached Chatswood—or rather
the first Chatswood shops on Pacific Highway—half
an hour later. They were incredibly lengthened and
spaced out. All was confusion. People ran about
like ants. Many buildings had collapsed as they
extended. Tibbitt now noticed the queer' distortion
of everything, owing to one-direction expansion. It
was just like looking through the wrong end of a tele-
scope, except for this distortion, which turned trees into
giant hedges and telephone-poles into high, thin fences.
The extension had evidently only been beginning
as Tibbitt left home that morning, otherwise he would
not have had that ride in Hartner’s car. He discovered


WHEN YOU BUY A
LUCAS
“KING t° h f e ROAD”
BATTERY
YOU CANNOT
BUY BETTER
The ideal Xmas Gift
for him!
Give your menfolk shirts of
TRICOLINE . . . then listen
to their exclamations of
delight.
Such a gift will bring joy
to any man’s heart . . . and
become a treasured item of
his wardrobe.
ALL TRICOLINE SHIRTS
are Becken Shrunk, and will
not fade. Moreover, they
wear like whipcord — yet
feel like silk.
Leading Mercers or Men’s
Outfitters will show you a
large range of Tricoline i
Shirts.
ill
X
m
SHIRTS FOR MEN
TRICO LINE
Produced in England ... A Wemco Fabric
Brisbane - • • Walter C. Williams, Ryan House, Charlotte Street '
Melbourne - - - - K. Mather, Pawson House, Flinders Lane
Perth Marshall Flower, 757a Hay Street
Sydney ..... Keogh & Co., Grace Building, york Street
this when he found a ’bus halted in the road and
demanded a lift.
“Lift? You silly mug,” growled the driver, “get
an eyeful of the thing.”
The ’bus was now about sixty feet long; it had
collapsed in the middle ; the wheels were elliptical
and could not roll, even if the elongated engine was
capable of moving them.
"TO Tibbitt the rest of the day was a nightmare.
1 Haunted by the wrath of his boss he struggled on,
and got to Milson’s Point about sunset. Here he
found the cause of the weird noise during the night.
The Harbor Bridge was down. It lay in sections in
the shallow sheet of water dividing the North Shore
from the city. Tibbitt could just make out the city in
the twilight, a blur of unlit distorted buildings miles
away on the horizon.
He learned that most of the steamers and ferries
had sunk, but that people had poled across on rafts
hastily knocked together, and brought back a
proclamation, issued by the Government, explaining
what happened. It was handwritten, all presses being
unworkable.
Tibbitt’s heart sank as he read it. The first part
was all confusing big-word stuff by an astronomer,
but he was able to gather that scientists had already
known, from observations of distant star-clouds, that
outer space was expanding in every direction. Just
now the solar system in its journey through space had
evidently run into a “pocket” of local warping where
space expanded more quickly, in one direction only.
For some reason warm-blooded living creatures had
not shared in this warping ; possibly they would do
so later. The astronomer predicted, however, that the
distortion of lifeless objects would soon be evened up
by extension of the other dimensions —breadth and
thickness. This would leave human beings midgets in
a giant world.
The Government advised all citizens to stand firm,
beware of panic, and to form local committees to
restore order, aid the injured and feed and shelter the
homeless. Further instructions would be issued later.
Tibbitt got some queer food to eat, attenuated
stuff full of air-bubbles, in a queue outside a collapsed
barn that had once been a ham-and-beef shop, and a
shakedown with a crowd in another tunnel-like barn. *
It was here that he learnt the real significance of the
change. He asked his nearest bedfellow when things
would be straightened out enough for him to resume
his job.
“Why, you lunatic,” said the other, who happened
to be a draughtsman, “your job’s gone for good. You
were with a firm of importers. Japan’s now a hundred
thousand miles off, I reckon ; and Europe—that’s like
another planet. We’re back to a new start. Back
to village life. Each village will have to be self-
contained. They’ll gradually link up, and so form new
nations. Lord knows how they’ll shape. For all. we
know, Milson’s Point in the future may go to war
with Mosman over some boundary or rich patch of
market-gardens—when there’s enough population to
waste and some fool of a dictator gets the upper
hand!”
Tibbitt could not sleep after that. No importing!
No business! No job! The infernal injustice of it!
He had worked his way up in the firm from office-
boy ; it had taken twenty years. And now his career
was ruined —ruined by some confounded Einstein stuff
that he had thought was only a mathematical joke.
He consoled himself with a scrap of comfort—
that idea of dictators. His boss, Mr. Shaylord, would
surely become a dictator. If only he, Tibbitt, could
find him in this new confusion and attach himself,
become indispensable! Obviously he would get a
good job. Perhaps even a rise on the scrappy salary
he got now. He fell into a pleasant doze at the
thought of it.
But morning came, and with it more trouble. As
the astronomer had predicted, the other dimensions
suddenly evened up. With a roar all inanimate objects
swelled sideways and surged upwards. Grass towered
up like a forest. In this new monstrous world the
human race became mere futile pigmies.
Worse followed. Insects and other cold-blooded
creatures shared the enlargement. Giant ants, titanic
spiders, incredible beetles roamed the new grass
jungles and asphalt plains, preying on the human
midgets that ran bewilderedly around in search of
safety. Then came terrific earthquakes, and eruptions
of thousands of new volcanoes, as the earth’s crust
adjusted itself to the lessened tension a natural
sequence of the enlargement of the globe.
Through all this reign of terror Tibbitt fought,
starved, strove, and continued to exist. Like others
of his class and kind, forced to self-reliance, he
developed a new identity and a new spirit. He even
became a leader of his local group in their battle
against insect monsters. He achieved undying fame
by his conquest of a huge carnivorous spider—stupe-
fying the beast with fly-spray and impaling it on a
toothpick wielded as a spear.
Then suddenly, with a shock that momentarily
deprived them of consciousness, human beings
acquired the dimensions already attained by cold-
blooded creatures and lifeless objects.
The effect, of course, was to restore the world
as it was before all this dimensional upheaval. The
globe had enlarged, but now every-
thing had enlarged to scale.
Still, it was not the same
human community. Cities lay in
ruins, roads were overgrown, trans-
port was at a standstill. Human-
ity everywhere was forced to re-
build civilisation to make a fresh,
start. And very, very solemnly,
recalling stress and triumphs of
their kin in the Insect and Vol-
cano terror, the Tibbitts of the
world swore that the New
World of the future would
be reared and conserved
upon the basis of Human
Equality, as never in his-
tory before.
TEN years
later Mr.
Tibbitt, a grey-
ing and more
harassed Ti b-
bitt, woke in his
suburban home.
“Ten to eight!”
he growled,
sighting his bed-
side clock.
“Holy mackerel
—l’ll be late for
the office
again!”
He sprang
from bed, had a
scrambled wash,
wolfed some
bread and
butter, grabbed
hat and case
and dashed out
He overtook Cripps. “Think we can make the eight-
thirty?”
“Not unless it’s late,” gasped Cripps.
It was. They changed for a ferry at Milson’s
Point because the new Harbor Bridge was not com-
pleted. A liner blocked the ferry, making further
delay.
Tibbitt ran all the way to the office, but his luck
was out. It was one of the boss’s unexpected early
appearances. “Step in here, Tibbitt,” he said a
voice of ice. Tibbitt followed him.
“Tibbitt,” said Mr. Shaylord, “you are late again.
No, don’t explain! I’ve heard that story of the delayed
train once too often. Your work has been very
unsatisfactory this past year. I would dismiss you
immediately but for your long association with the
firm. Because of that I shall extend you a little con-
sideration. Your salary will be reduced one-third.
You will forfeit all bonuses or future rises. You
will either accept that ruling or be fired. What do
you say?”
Tibbitt stared at the man. “Give me a giant
toothpick and some insect-spray,” he reflected, “and
I’d wipe him out like that other bloated spider he now
resembles.” But that was in another world and ten
years ago.
“I accept, Mr. Shaylord,” he said aloud and very
humbly. “And, Mr. Shaylord”
“Yes, yes—what is it?”
“I deeply appreciate your consideration,” mumbled
Tibbitt slavishly, seeking to press his employer’s hand.
“Thank you for your kindness.”


CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
INCOME.
1916 . . £254,825
1926 ... 981,704
1936 . . 1,270,649
CLAIMS PAID.
1916 . £58,647
1926 .. 136,711
1936 .... 428,241
ASSURANCES IN FORCE.
1916 . . £4,160,598
1926 . . 14,425,201
1936 . 21,955,545
ASSETS.
1916 . £986,986
1926 . 4,033,122
1936 . . 8,859,399
PURELY MUTUAL. ENTIRELY AUSTRALIAN
The Office Which Pays the Big Bonuses.
o. j. McDermott.
DIRECTORS:
G. E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
W. BENNETT.
M. J. O’NEILL.
OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: City Mutual Building, Hunter and Bligh
Streets, Sydney.
VICTORIA: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne;
C. A. Ralph, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 313-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. M. Hannan,
Manager^
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Trustee Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide;
B. J. Dolin, Acting Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA: St. George’s Terrace, Perth; A. Wansbrough,
Manager.
TASMANIA: E., S. and A. Bank Chambers, Patterson Street,
Launceston; R. McNair, Manager.
J. A. Thomscm, Assistant General Manager.
J. G. Taylor, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5., General Secretary.
WILLIAM BENNETT, Memaging Director.
G. F. Diamond, A.1.A., Actuary.
She paused.
“Then one time he get te letter go back to Eng-
land. He say he must go, but he come back soon.
He go, and I wait—wait —wait. T’at te bad time.
T'en I get te word from him t’at he come back in a
year or two and to go home —he send money t’ere.”
“So I come back to te pah. But Bishop he never
come from England yet —never come,” she said sadly ;
“and te money I never see so far. But one day it
come —he not tell te lie.”
“Poor old girl! ” thought Deighton ; “so that was
it all right.” “And you were right, Maku,” he said
aloud. “The English letter with the money has come
at last.”
The pipe dropped from Maku’s mouth. “It come?
It come, you say?” she shouted excitedly.
“Yes, just this week. Henry Bishop has be-
queathed you five thousand pounds, Maku. He died
last August.”
“Die? Bishop —he’s dead?” Aghast, incredu-
lous, the old woman stared bleakly at the lawyer.
Then slow tears drowned her old eyes streamed
down the brown, furrowed cheeks. “He never come
back—never come back!” she wailed.
“But, Maku, he didn’t forget you. You have
the money. Think what you can do with five thousand
pounds. No more ‘blueys.’ You will be comfortable
for the rest of your days.”
“Ah, but 1 te old woman now, Deighton. I know
te money come some time, but Bishop he say he come
back too. Long time I wait and wait. Now he never
come.” She remained silent for some minutes, the
cropped head bowed over the black stick clasped in
the two hands, while Deighton watched her, visualising
the young woman who had loved this pakeha and
remained faithful to his memory through long years
pf unbroken silence.
“But I show them yet.” The sudden belligerent
note startled the lawyer. Sharply she questioned:
“When I have t’is money?”
“You can’t expect it right away, Maku. I’ll have
to prove your claim. Probably be able to draw some
in advance, though.”
“That good.” Brooding, the old woman sat silent,
head averted. Then: “Deighton, you always been
good friend to me. You do me favor now? You say
nothing about te money or Bishop. I tell no person.”
“Of course, if you wish it. But why, Maku? I
thought you would want to tell the world.”
“Oh, they know later. Igo home now. Thank
you, Deighton—you my very good friend.”
Maku reached for her pipe, found it on. the floor.
The lawyer shook the brown hand, and, somewhat
mystified, listened to the tap-tapping of her stick and
the slow padding of bare feet as she left his office.
I T was six months later when the Land Court sat
1 again. As the Maoris surged in and out of his
office Deighton wondered, as he had often done during
the last month or two, what had become of Maku.
After obtaining an advance of £250 she had vanished.
No one had seen her. Nobody appeared to know of
the legacy. He missed old fat Maku and her pipe
from the doorstep.
The morning’s bustle was at its height, the town
crowded. Deighton went rushing to an appointment,
but half-way down the street he stopped. He could
scarcely believe his eyes.
“Why, Maku,” exclaimed the lawyer, “I didn’t
know you! Good God, how did you do it?”
Glossy musquash coat wrapped her round, dark-
green dress peeping from below. Nigger-brown felt
covered the cropped hair, and long greenstone drops
swung from the pierced ears. Stockings of silk, shoes
of crocodile. In the old brown hand was the familiar
black stick, but also clutched were leather gloves and
a beautiful crocodile purse.
Deighton could have shouted his joy in her —so
stately in her dignity. It crossed his mind that he
had never before realised her height. She wore the
clothes with an air that amazed him.
“Old Maku!” His mind flew to the squatting
bulky figure on the doorstep. “God, she must have
been beautiful!” he thought. There was an Indian
contour about the straight features and high cheek-
bones, accentuated by the faint tattoo, which even
the network of wrinkles failed to disguise.
“You busy man, Deighton. I call later.” White
teeth flashed in a smile and the eyes twinkled, but she
dismissed him like a queen. Even the voice, soft and
sibilant, had a new quality. Over her shoulder she
called defiantly “I show t’em!”
“Splendid!” cried Deighton delightedly. “Go to
it, Maku, and come back and see me.”
Slowly Maku paraded the town unhurried,
dignified. The sensation she caused was balm to her
soul. News flew that the old woman had come into
a fortune, and the Maoris flocked round, admiring,
gaping, questioning. Into the shops she stalked,
haughtily demanding. Banknotes carelessly squashed
in the beautiful bag brought prompt attention. It was
Maku’s day. Presents were thrust with heedless
generosity into outstretched brown. hands, but no
explanations were made or queries answered. Maku
had come into her own.
From the post office Louey Toko emerged as
Maku approached. She had heard the news. With
a voice sweet as honey she came forward. But Maku,
the great lady, waved her off. “Low class,” she said;
“I no mix with you.”
This was the climax to her satisfaction. Louey
had seen and was conquered for all time. Old fool,
eh?”
But it was five o’clock before Maku kept her
promise to call at Deighton s office. The whole day
had been spent impressing pakeha and Maori.
“You look wonderful,” welcomed the solicitor.
“You’re the belle of the district this minute. Needn’t
worry about the laurels of your young days.
Pleasure lighted the old face. “You like? I
pay much money, but I get te best. I show tem
t’ey not call me ‘poor old fool again. She laughed
with the delight of a child.
“I go Wellington when 1 get te money and I ask
for te best shops—only te best. I tell what I want—
te dress, coat, hat —everything! I spend and spend-
have te great time. Then I come back.”
She sat erect. “This Land Court day they all see
me—Maoris, pakeha. I show t’em all I speak te true.”
“You certainly have, Maku.”
“But I tired now.” She slumped a little in the
chair, loosened the fur coat and took off the hat.
“That better,” she sighed with relief. “Louey Toko
she have te good look. But, ach! ” she cried suddenly,
“I no like all te show.”
She leaned forward, and the crocodile shoes went
skimming across the room, and Maku dived into the
depths of the polished skin purse to bring forth the
cherished old pipe. “T’is te way for me—much better
way. All my people—all te pakeha—know I te wife
of Bishop and he never forget me. I ‘te belle.’ I speak
te true. Now I go back to Maori way. Pakeha way no
good—too stiff —too much te sit up and te show.”
With relish Maku pulled at her evil-smelling briar.
“Maori—well, he like te sun and te talk. Plenty food
—he no worry. He my people. Igoto te pah. Good-
bye, Deighton. See you to-morrow.” She padded
off.
“Hey, Maku —your shoes, your hat! ” shouted the
lawyer after her.
“Oh, no good to me —you keep,” she answered,
leaving a bewildered solicitor waving a pair of large
but beautiful crocodile shoes forlornly in the air.
And next day found Maku in her favorite posi-
tion on the front step of Deighton and Green’s, an
old rug pulled round her shoulders, bare feet protrud-
ing from beneath unshapely petticoats, and in her
mouth her old pipe.


r I s » ~ *
'.s'"' *
I
3: B ;.»f
m m
" ' ...
m
m
9 a
With justifiable pride, Sydney celebrates the birthday anniver-
sary of Australia, from January 26 to April 25. It will be a
period of pageantry and carnival, emphasizing that, in the build-
ing of a virile young nation, there is still time for play. Thus,
interspersed with scientific and cultural congresses, will be a
round of gala sporting events, worthy of a great occasion.
1
- B ■
I
hi
Surf Carnivals, Big Cricket and Tennis, Gala Race Meetings,
The Empire Games, the world’s largest Rifle Shoot, Bowls _
f \
Carnival, Big Game Fishing Competition, Anniversary Regatta— \f'
all will bring Australia’s leading athletes and sportsmen into
their various arenas against stars from overseas.
mi
■ ■ ’ ' . •
■< mm m
- '"T*
* 4*
■
In the realms of pageantry will be Venetian Carnivals on Sydney’s glorious
harbour, a magnificent scheme of Municipal decoration and illumination, His-
torical, Commercial and Industrial Pageantry, Military Naval and Air Force
Review, and the greatest Royal Agricultural Show of all time. You certainly
must come to Sydney. Make arrangements now. Write for full details.
GENERAL ORGANISING SECRETARY
Commonwealth Bank Buildings,
Martin Place, Sydney.
USTRALIA'S 150™ 9
ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS
SYDNEY - JANUARY 2 6 - APRIL 25 - 1938
V
&
W
<
rr
'O/
vs
If
DINING
INT YOKOHAMA OR
SIGHTSEEING
IN LONDON
o
Wherever you may go through-
out Australia or abroad you
will appreciate the safety and
convenience of Bank of New
South Wales Travellers’
Cheques.
n
m
These cheques are honoured throughout the
world. They are cashed by all banks and by
the principal shipping and railway companies,
hotels, stores, tourist offices, etc., everywhere.
The Bank’s Travellers’ Cheques are issued in
amounts of £2, £5 and £lO, each cheque bearing
a specimen of the traveller’s signature for identi-
fication purposes.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
OBTAINABLE THROUGH ANY BRANCH OF THE BANK
E287F.1937
flame rose and fell in the darkness. Our faces,
hands and bare legs stood out in red relief against
the leaning darkness fc'liind us.
“It’s over the range now,” I said. “If the men
don’t stop it it will be here before morning.”
My mother went Lack into the house. I watched
her through the open door, her head buried in her
arms.
Although there were no trees near our place and
the house iiself was set in a bare space, wild scrub
grew on three sides of us. The road lay between
two walls of bush. The back portion of the house
was built of wood, and it was match dry. On the
north side the undergrowth was thicker. There were
no people within miles of us to whom I could go for
help; we had no horse or cart, and there were a
lot of us, some hardly more than babies, and my
mother was only good for a short, slow walk at her
best.
It seemed as if the world had forgotten us. I
went inside. “What are we going to do?”
She looked up, and her face was grey and old.
“There’s nothing to be done. I’m done, done.” And
she threw her head down again and sobbed piteously.
I went out and stood on the road again and
watched the nearing flames, my nostrils breathing
nervously to the smell of burning. “Unless a change
comes That was what a voice had said.
Fright began to mesmerise me. Fear claimed me.»
I could see the fire quite plainly, always nearer. How
long I stood there I do not remember, but it seemed
a long, long time. Then my heart began to beat
faster. The sound seemed to have changed. It was
not the roar of the fire that I heard, but a low, distant
moaning.
I waited, wondering, bewildered. And then there
came the sound of a distant wind, rushing somewhere
through the trees, an even volume of sound, unbroken
and steady. I stood like a statue on the road, my eyes
to the blazing north, my ears to a fresh south wind.
Slowly the distant tree-tops began to toss ; the high
thin branches of the old gums in the near paddock
shook. A coolness blew along the ground and about
my ankles. Dead leaves sprang from the dry earth,
spun round, gathered in armies, rustled their salute
and raced off with the wind. Down among the
timber the storm came in full charge, howling and
furious. The bush bent before it. I laughed, and then
I cried. The big trees tossed their arms in wild
abandon. A bird shot past in a swift black line to
cover.
A great spurt of fire soared its challenge in the
northern sky, then fell to the fire-drenched earth
below, and as it fell, and as if in answer, a long livid
lash fell across the sky, flaying the heavens, and
cracked to a clap of thunder that went reverberating
down the world. The change had come.
I held out my hand, and a solitary little spit of
rain fell into my palm. I went inside and waited.
Big, heavy drops of rain hit the roof, and we listened
as they grew in number and strength until they became
a shower and then a pelting wall of rain.
I stayed up listening to the music of running
water playing into the tank. I watched the little rivers
running down the window-pane. The lamplight
streamed out into the darkness, gilding the beaded
water-drops that blinked and spluttered against the
dark curtain of the rain.
I went to bed and lay listening to the water
running into the tank. It would be full, and our
dam would be full; and then I remembered the honey
and the fruit, the rabbits, the possum-skins, the money
—all the help my little world had given me.
“Unless a change cpmes” That was what
a voice had said.
And I thought of the tank that had burst right
in front of our waterless home. “Christ!” —that was
what the man said. Yes, “Christ! don’t thank me.”


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
The M.L.C. maintains its Ordinary Branch bonus rates for 1936.
Examples:—Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry; Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/- per cent.,
increasing to £4/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
Endowment Assurance policy, maturing at age 60, age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for first year
at £l/18/- per cent., increasing to £3/2/- per cent, for the 30th year.
REASONS WHY THESE RESULTS ARE POSSIBLE:
The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets cover-
ing them are unsurpassed for strength in Australia. 84
per cent, of the assets of over £25,000,000 consist of
Government, Municipal and Local Body Loans and
Loans on Policies.
The mortality experienced, owing to careful selection of
risks, is extraordinarily light.
The Company is managed efficiently, and always has
been. Last year the expense rate was 10 per cent, of
the total income.
The rate of interest earned on the funds and reserves
exceeds 5 per cent. The rate assumed in valuing the
Company’s liabilities is 2f per cent., leaving a margin
of more than 2 -4 per cent, for profit.
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £3,500,000.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS EXCEED £33,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E., Managing Director. W. J. BLOOMFIELD, 8.A., LL.B., Joint Managing Director.
Temporary Head Office (during rebuilding):
Hosking House, Hosking Place (off Castlereagh Street), Sydney
or off 86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
From the Baron Von Big's Notebook
OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
DRAWING BY PERCY LINDSAY.
THE IRON HORSE
“ I HAVE always,” wrote the Baron Von Big,
I “been an uncompromising enemy of the rail-
I way. I never take a railway journey without
getting a mote in one or both of my eyes and
a pang of regret for the leisurely mode of travel which
sufficed for our fathers and should suffice for their
sons.
“What good are they, I would like to know —to
what ends of human happiness do they lead us? Can
one make love in a lurching, rattling, roaring environ-
ment that crushes out tenderness? Can one die in
peace and comfort amidst a pandemonium of noise
and discomfort that is unequalled in the din of battle?
“These observations are here induced by some
recent experiences of my own in this year of grace
1856, being the first twelve months in his term of
office as Governor-General of her Majesty’s Colonies
of New South Wales, Tasmania, Victoria, South Aus
tralia and Western Australia of Sir William Denison,
K.C.B. It was during his reign that the Iron Horse
began its mad career in the land of my adoption.
“In 1845 was formed the Sydney Railway Com-
pany. This horrid incorporation of lunatics pro-
posed to begin their benighted business with a line
from Sydney to Parramatta, and the first sod was
turned by his Excellency Sir Charles Fitzroy’s daughter
on July 3, 1850. Some five hundred infernal black-
guards of navvies—the convicts were gentlemen com-
pared with them —were imported by Government, and
the line was completed last year, and opened for
traffic on September 25, 1855.
“I and some few others alone know the reason it
was not closed to traffic at Christmas-time in that
first year of its operation. Had I but played
the man instead of the sentimentalist, railway
enterprise in Australia might have received a blow
from which it would not have soon recovered. It
is to be feared that the abominable Iron Horse has
come to stay, and I cannot be blind to the fact that
such a state of things is largely my fault. However,
these notes will prove to the world that the Baron
Von Big was not without conscience and contrition.
“COR a very long time I refused to lend my
* patronage to so frightful a system of travel,
though this aloofness did not seem to discourage other
people from making use of the railway. I fought a
bloodless duel with a Parramatta gentleman who
hinted that I feared to use the trains, putting a bullet
through his hat when I might very well and just as
easily have sent it through his head. On a couple
of occasions I raced trains from Parramatta to Sydney
with my tandem, beating them easily ; but on a third
attempt to defeat a single engine was so badly bested
that I gave up the sport in disgust. The local farmers,
some of whom anticipated loss from the railway’s
competition with horse-traction, elected me chairman
of the Anti-Railway League formed in the district,
' and it was while holding this position 1 met with a
kindred soul in my detestation of the Iron Horse.
“Mr. Thaddeus Aloysius O’Grady was a neighbor
of mine at Castle Hill, a man of considerable property
in land and a very forceful and original character.
Up to the advent of the railway he and I had not
been the very best of friends —some slight dispute
over a question of a boundary fence. If the Sydney
Railway Company did no other good, it made firm
friends and allies of Thady O’Grady and Augustus
Von Big. A formidable combination, if you like!
“On my way home from Sydney one November
evening in ’55,1 dined at the Woolpack in Parramatta,
and, going into the bar from the stableyard, was
edified to hear the following piece of oratory:
“ ‘And for why, Misther Payten, I ask ye, should
we bow th’ knay to this monsthrosity? Is it aloive?
Does it brathe and shnor-rt an’ puff an’ bellow loike
’twas a crayture wid a sowl of its own? Or is it jist
a damn’ box o’ thricks conthrolled be thim graysy
fellies that drives th’ injin? A mahn wud think ’twas
some new brade of animal that lived on mate an’
dhrink an’ was able for to beget its like and have
childher, so he wud. But ’tis nothing o’ th’ soor-rt.
Lave it out on a rainy night, an’ what d’ye
find in th’ marnin’? Why, nothing but a
rusty ould hape of iron that’s cowld an’
lifeless an’ can’t move a yar-rud. “As good
as aloive,” they say, th’ blashted num-
skulls! An’ yet they almost worship th’
foolishness, so they do —some o’ th’ poor
ignorant haythen that lives along th’ line
an’ sees it go rippin’ an’ roarin’ up an’
down. To hell wid such tommyrot, say I!
Th’ counthry could well ha’ done without
it, so it cud! Hello, thin, me big Bar’n,
an’ what moight yere opinion o’ this damn-
able conthraption be, thin? A whisky for
th’ Bar’n, Misther Payten—an’ will ye not
jine us y’silf? ’
“ ‘My opinion, Mr. O’Grady,’ I replied, ‘is in
entire accordance with your own. We certainly had
no need of this heathenish contrivance —no need at
all. I can see it doing infinite harm to the horse-
breeding and agricultural interests. Mark my
words, O’Grady, this devilish contrivance of steam
and steel is going to do infinite harm to the country.
I for one would not regret to see its rails torn up,
its cuttings and embankments levelled back, its engines
and coaches relegated to the scrap-heap.’
“‘Bedad, thin!’ said Mr. O’Grady, looking at me
curiously. ‘Bedad an’ be jabers!’
“There was more in the Irishman’s look than at
first I realised. We dined and wined together and,
getting on towards midnight, rode out in company
along the Windsor road in the direction of our respec-
tive homes. Mr. O’Grady’s house, Tara Hall, lay
beyond my own demesne, so what more natural than
for him to ride with me through the gates of Pampe-
luna for a final glass of whisky before we sought our
beds? As a matter of fact, neither of us did so before
sunrise, both being tirelessly eloquent upon the in-
tolerable situation created by the new railway.
“ ‘A boon an’ a blessing it is, praches Father
Riordan down in St. Pathrick’s lasht Sunday, so he
did,’ says Mr. O’Grady, ‘an’ me list’nin’ to him wid
rage in me hear-rt. Great benefit ’twill be, says he
from th’ pulpit, to town an’ counthry. A new age,
he says, th’ age of shtame. I tell ye, Bar’n, ’twas
all I cud do to kape mesilf shtill an’ not jump up in
me righteous anger threat’nin’ for to write a letther
about him to Archbishop Polding. Th’ age o’ shtame,
indade! Th’ age o’ blashted blither!’
“ ‘Your feelings did you credit, Mr. O’Grady,’ 1
shouted, leaning over and slapping him affectionately
and admiringly upon the knee.
“ ‘Sure, now, call me Thady, Bar’n Von Big,
won’t ye, thin?’


.a
Young Men!
LEARN
AVIATION
By HOME STUDY
The COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION, by a Course in
Correspondence, trains students in the Construction and
Maintenance of Aircraft and Servicing of Air Motors,
qualifying them for commencement in practical training.
I. Aircraft Maintenance
COURSE
(The Technical knowledge for
“C” Ground Engineer’s licence).
2. Aero-Engine
COURSE
(The Technical knowledge im
“D” Ground Engineer’s licence).
(W. Kingsford-Smith, Principal.)
Write for Free Booklet to the
COLLEGE OF CIVIL AVIATION
Dept. 14, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
A Spa in Your Own Home.
\X/HAT an attraction the World-famous Spas
vv have been to thousands of sufferers from
Rheumatism, Constipation, Headaches, Dizzi-
ness, High Blood Pressure and dozens of other
allied complaints. The great drawback has
always been the great expense entailed in
travelling to Europe. Now, however, the won-
derful curative elements of these Springs which
are found in BARTZ are brought to you in
your own home for a few pence.
BARTZ, Nature’s Tonic Salts, is a soothing
and cooling drink without any fizziness, it
cleanses the whole system and gives life a new
sparkle. Buy a jar to-day and take a dose
each morning half an hour before breakfast
and you will soon notice the difference in your
health.
BARTZ is sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers in 1/- and 2/- jars. Wake Up—and
take BARTZ, the Cheaper and Better Salts.
BRANDAUER’S
m
G*
PENS
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUKR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
ffc.V
m
i !
tit
1
a.
m
i
u
Useful and appreciable gifts
for Christmas and the Holidays. '
Picnic Case for four persons, 47/6, 84/-. Picnic
Set for two persons, 32/6. Ladies’ Fitted Leather
Cases, 95/-, 145/-, 190/-, 210/-. Ladies’ Frock
Case, 59/9, 65/9, 71/9. Australian Wool Rugs,
21/-, 25/-, 30/-. Imported Rugs, 45/-, 55/-, 63/-.
English Lancewood Sports Seat Sticks, 30/-, 35/-
to £4/4/-.
Write for our New General Catalogue.
Also our Christmas Gift Catalogue.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street - - - - - Brisbane
And at Toowoomba, Townsville and Roma. ,
“ ‘Please to address me as Augustus, my dear
and best of Thadys,’ I shouted back at him as the
daylight stole into the dining-room. ‘We’ll do some-
thing together against this monstrous innovation upon
our peace and liberties. My hand upon it, Thady!’
“ ‘Augustus,’ cried the enthusiastic Celt, ‘ye’re a
mahn afther me own hear-rt. Y’r hand, me bould
bucko! ’
“With alcoholic solemnity we wrung each other’s
hands, vaguely pledging ourselves to do something
about what O’Grady called ‘th’ blashted whales of
opprission.’ Then he staggered out into the early
sunlight and led his horse home.
< ‘ J T was soon brought home to me that my Hiber-
* nian neighbor was in deadly earnest. All the
time he was planning and cogitating some act of war
against the railway.
“One afternoon I met him
in George-street, Sydney, where
he buttonholed me with a por-
tentous wink, and then, taking
me by the arm, led me into the
smoking-room of the Royal
Hotel. We sat ourselves down,
and Mr. O’Grady tugged at the
bell pull and then ordered beer.
“ ‘Augustus, me bhoy,’ he
said, ‘l’ve solved the problim
of what’s to be done about th’
Iron Horse.’
“ ‘Oh, indeed,’ I said. ‘And, pray, then,
what is to be done about it, my dear Thady?
It seems to me that the poor fools of people
actually enjoy travelling in it.’
“ ‘We’ll give it a blow will knock out its
popularity in proper shtyle. ’Tis mesilf’s
tellin’ ye, ’Gustus. Afther what we’ll be doin’
there’s none’ll want for to ride in it again.
Sure I tould George Kilpatrick, th’ coach
conthractor, as I come by his place in Church-sthreet
this mornin’, he might buy back his horses, for his
ould buses will soon be on th’ road again.’
“I was startled, for I wondered where the Irish-
man’s irresponsibility might lead him. I was pledged,
after a fashion, to back up O’Grady’s plans, and was
a little uneasy as to what shape they might take.
He told me.
“ ‘Good God!’ I cried, jumping to my feet. ‘You
don’t mean to say you’ve done that? ’Tis murder.
Murder, you mad Irishman!’
“Without losing a moment, I rushed out into
George-street. I hailed a passing cab, jumped in and
ordered the driver to make his best speed to the rail-
way station, out in the fields beyond the Sandhills
cemetery in that part of . suburban Sydney known as
Redfern. The last I saw of Thaddeus O’Grady he was
running up and down the pavement outside the hotel
seeking another hansom.
“Briefly, the tidings I had received from this
desperate lunatic were to the effect that he had
made every preparation to wreck the Parra-
matta train that day. There was only one
train each day out and back, and it left
the Sydney end at midday and started the return
“I say, old man, that's not cricket, y' know!"
“Who the hell's playing cricket?"
journey from Parramatta at three o’clock in the after-
noon. All the night before, assisted by one of his
hands whom he could trust implicitly, the enterprising
Thaddeus had spent with a crosscut saw, operating on
the supporting timbers of the wooden bridge spanning
Haslem’s Creek, ten or a dozen miles out from Syd-
ney, on the way to Parramatta Junction—the suburb
that afterwards became Granville —which was at first
the terminus of the line.
“Of course, I had no desire to inflict injury
upon the large number of people who would
be travelling by the train—it was curiously popular
amongst excursionists in those first months of its exist-
ence —but I had a much deeper reason for wishing
to save it from disaster on that particular occasion.
A lovely creature, the wife of a naval officer then
absent in the islands, was coming to spend Christmas
with me at Castle Hill, and my heart quailed
as I contemplated in imagination the mangled
remains of my charming Julia lying broken
and bloody at the bottom of Haslem’s Creek.
1 ‘ D EHOLD then, at half a minute before
' twelve noon, a large, flushed and ex-
cited German gentleman of good appearance
dashing on to the platform at Redfern, intent
upon interviewing the driver of the
Parramatta train.
“At a barrier a fellow in uniform
sought to check me, crying imperatively
as I rushed up to him ‘Ticket, please!’
“With that resourcefulness which has
ever characterised my actions in moments
of desperate emergency, I smote him on
the jaw, stretching him prostrate on the
platform, and leaped across his body to
continue my furious career. As I came
close to the train a handbell somewhere
started to ring furiously, and, with belch-
ings of steam and hoarse and raucous puffings,
the engine began to move.
“But—l was active in those days, though
nearer sixty than fifty years of age —I was too
quick for it to escape me. With a final effort
I hurled myself at the back of what they called
the ‘tender.’ Gasping, I clung there for a moment or
two whilst the train drew out of the station, and then,
painfully and with difficulty, hauled myself up and
collapsed on top of the loose coals with which the
vehicle was loaded. When I recovered my breath I
became aware of two brawny and grimy men who
stared at me from the cab of the engine.
“ ‘Chook him off, Jem!’ one of them shouted to
the other, who immediately scrambled up on the coals
and came at me. I pushed him in his hairy chest,, and
he fell off the train. Then I advanced, yelling into the
cab, scrambling down off the cascading coals. The
driver tried to hit me with a heavy steel tool. Some-
how I evaded his kindly attentions, and we grappled.
('Continued on page 74.)


A * ■ '-V **• < " S' ‘
TRAVEL “* mim
•9
PACIFIC
CANADA
and
ATLANTIC
■hi
KS
■
TO
/TT'
I
i
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINERS
" NIAGARA a*xL AORANGI "
UNION STEAM SHIP CO LTD.
INC.
IN
N.Z.
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, OR ANY TOURIST AGENT.
“It was an amazing fight! The train had gathered
speed, and the engine went lurching and swaying
along the rails, whilst my powerful antagonist tried
to shove me through the gangway and off the engine.
He kept up a roaring and bellowing, the most furious
abuse of myself and my parentage.
“But at last I hit him in the jaw, and he subsided
limply against the coals in the front of the tender.
So there was I, Augustus Von Big, solely in charge of
that bounding, leaping, oscillating iron horse, with not
the slightest idea as to how I might check its headlong
and terrible career. Ten minutes the man lay whilst
we roared across New South Wales, and then he came
to. He staggered to his feet and grasped a lever, and
the engine began to slow down.
“When it stopped I shouted at him: ‘The bridge
is broken at Haslem’s Creek. You’lF —— But I got
no further, for he hit me with his spanner, and I
knew no more.
i r | SPENT a happy Christmas with the lovely Julia
' out a very unhappy New Year, occupied mostly
with satisfying the Government and its myrmidons as
to how I knew some miscreant, or miscreants, had
sawed through certain of the piles of the railway
bridge at Haslem’s Creek, and at the same time con-
cealing the fact that I knew the guilty party.
“You may judge of my disgust when O’Grady, at
a meeting of the Anti-Railway League of Parramatta
and District, denounced me, the chairman, as ‘half-
hearted.’ ”
PLUM DUFF
By PHIL DORTER
“ ri ND now we’ll have the pudding.” Mrs.
/“\ Macginity struggled from her chair to the
/ \ kitchen and returned bearing a pudding twice
as big as your head and exuding an atmos-
phere of steamy mystery with little blue flames licking
around the side where the brandy was still alight.
Big Bill Malone had first share, and went to work
like a hungry horse, and soon we were all munching
away appreciatively.
Presently Bill gulped and swore. “Hell, Mrs.
Mac, I’ve swallowed one of them horseshoes.”
Mrs. Mac looked surprised. “But there’s nothing
in the pudding.”
“I tell you I swallowed something.”
“Oh, away wit’ ye; there’s nothin’ went into it
save good wholesome food.”
“I don’t care what”— —
Young Mickey piped up from his corner. “Oh,
yes, Ma, I put sumpin’ in when you said you didn’t
have no frippences.”
We turned curiously towards him, and Pop Mac-
ginity asked, “Well, and what did ye put in’it, ye little
heathen?”
Mickey looked guilty, and murmured something
about little silver things from his dad’s cupboard.
Pop was interested now. “What little silver
things?”
“You know, in the green tin.”
Pop’s eyes nearly left his head. “Migord, how
many did you use?”
Mickey had a hunch that he was in for trouble.
“Only one,” he blubbered.
Big Bill was worried now. “What was it, Pop,
poison capsules or something?”
Pop shuddered. “N-no ; a detonator!”
“Migord! ”
“Hell!”
Mrs. Mac screamed and bolted for the kitchen,
taking Mickey as she went.
I didn’t feel too comfortable myself, and edged
away from Bill, who sat there looking strange from the
ears down. He tried to mutter something but coughed
instead. It was too much ; we cleared the dining-
room in half a minute, and later Bill, came through
the door treading as though he was made of glass.
“’Strewth, fellers, what am I goin’ to do?”
We all felt sorry for him, but we kept our dis-
tance and discussed his predicament.. The mine
doctor was out of town, but Joe had a brainwave.
“What about old Doc. Williams?”
“He couldn’t cure a man of toothache.”
Doc. Williams had come to Broken Valley before
most of us were born, and had a patient only when,
the mine doc. was on holidays. Still, he was better
than no one. So we decided to take Bill to Doc.
Williams, with myself as escort.
I kept ten yards from him, and walked slowly
along the road ready to bolt if he started coughing.
THE doc. had passed seventy, and old age had
made him as absentminded as an overfed pup. but
a prospective patient put new life into him. He came
to the door beaming'from ear to ear.
“Yes, yes,” he burbled. “What is it? Too much
Christmas dinner? Come in.”
Bill tried to explain. “I’ve swallowed”
“Yes, yes,” said the doc., “come in.”
“I’ve swallowed”
“All right, don’t worry. I’ll soon have you fixed
up.”
“But”-
“Now just take things quietly ; strip off and lie
on that couch.”
He shuffled from the room without giving either
of us a chance to explain. Bill looked at me, sighed
and started to disrobe.
Soon the doc. returned with a black box full
of queer silver gadgets.
Bill tried again. “I’ve swallowed”
“Yes, I know. Lie down and open your mouth.”
Bill obeyed.
“What did you say you’d done to yourself?”
asked the doc.
“I tried to tell you. I swallowed a detonator.”
“Ah, yes; that’s not serious, we’ll What!
What did you say you’d swallowed?”
“A detonator.”
The doc. edged away a little. “Now let me see.”
The doc. seemed to be wondering how he could
be rid of us, but he smiled fearfully and summoned
"It’s richt glad I am tae see ye aboot again.
Come and I'll buy ye a drink."
courage for the approach. Taking a long shiny
gadget he tiptoed up to Bill and said: “Open
your mouth as wide as you can,” and he pushed
the shiny contraption down Bill’s throat.
It must have irritated Bill, for suddenly
his chest gave a heave and he started coughing
and spluttering like he was going to burst.
I beat the doc. from the room by a short head.
WHEN Bill appeared nobody would go near him.
Everywhere he went the crowd bolted like a
parson from a pub. Mrs. Stevens saw him coming
and rushed screaming into the middle of the road
to grab her little Willie and hurl a string of abuse
at Bill, calling him a flaming firebug and a lot of
other things. When he walked into the bar the crowd
cleared a space about ten feet on each side, and the
barman slid the pot along the counter from about
five yards off.
Such isolation and anxiety were bound to get any-
one down. By five o’clock Bill was haggard and
drawn. Suddenly he banged his pot on the counter
and yelled: “Gord, I can’t stand this!”
The noise frightened the whole crowd, but we
calmed down and had another discussion. At last
Jimmy Flannigan suggested that Bill go to the city
to see a specialist
Bill shrugged his
shoulders and shook
his head. “Can’t, I’ve
oniy got a couple of
quid till payday.”
Well, although he
was a comparative
stranger, we all sym-
pathised with Bill, and
the hat went round.
We collected £ll Is.
l|d. altogether and
passed it on to him.
“I’ll never forget
you fellers for this.” he
said feelingly. “I’ll
pack straight away and
catch the eight-thirty.”
We yarned for a
while after he had gone
to pack, and then we
all wandered home for
tea. We were glad Bill
was going to see a
good doc., but more
pleased that he wouldn’t
be hanging around like
a live bomb.
I was reading in
my room when he
came to say good-bye,
and, mustering cour-
age,. I stood up to
shake-his hand. Sud-
denly he spluttered and
coughed. I left by the
window and waited till
he came out.
“Well, goo’-bye, Bill,” I yelied from a safe dis-
tance, “an’ good luck.”
“Goo’-bye, Barney,” he shouted back, “ ’n’ thanks
for everything.”
THe doc. was first. He came puffing and blowing
like a wheezy old engine.
“Where’s that scoundrel?” he shouted at Pop
Macginity. “I’ll have him run in.”
We gathered round. “What scoundrel?”
“That thief who swallowed a detonator. While
I was out of the room he burgled my desk.”
I felt a sinking feeling in the stomach and rushed
to my own room. Sure enough my wallet and five
pounds had vanished.
Gradually half the town trailed along to Mac-
ginity’s with the same tale. Bill, coming in to say
good-bye, had suffered a coughing fit at the critical
moment, and they had not waited to argue or lock
their valuables away.
I heard a chuckle from the corner, and turned
to see young Mickey grinning from ear to ear. We
descended on him.
“’Ere, what’d you know about this?” snarled
Jimmy Flannigan.
Our threatening attitudes put a damper on
Mickey’s mirth.
“Aw, nothin’,” he said, “only there wasn’t no-
thin’ in the puddin’ at all.”
. ....“What!” - > •
“There wasn’t nothin’ in it. Mr. Malone told
me-to pretend I’d put a detonator in it. He gave me
five bob.”


fJfietwftdSift
/ /Hi
* .
/ / .% i i
. - - . ■*; A
:
!;I
7 ii
i&t
• it
■m.
■*:
3SP
Pi
w&
[IRL
mm
i
■
A#
no c CaUuwi# |
*HisW
■ ■ 4-
f:-. ..
■ ;
(D c Gillujns
Scots (Ohisky
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
ADDITIONAL “BULLETIN” FEATURES
So that this Christmas Number could include
additional holiday reading, several of “The
Bulletin’s” weekly features have been omitted
—among them:
THE LAND PAGES— written for the man on the land, by
men on the land—with a free service bureau to assist landmen
to solve their problems, cut their costs and increase their yields.
THE SERVICE DEPARTMENT, which will submit your
queries, whatever they are, to recognised authorities and answer
them free of charge. This section alone is worth ten minutes of
your time to see the amazing variety of questions answered.
RADIO NEWS, containing “reviews” of all the new radio
receivers, as well as heaps of information for the technically
inclined.
WOMEN'S LETTERS matters of feminine interest in all
the States.
Get "The Bulletin" again next week and every week
and see what really wonderful value it is.


.
I
' '
1
mmm
|
zm
I
8
w
ft®
jIiSiBIS?
ft ;>ftft iij
HI
ft
ft' - ''/BOT> v
WmmmW lx
w
,•••■•:
«"<- ft 7 ft
C/ *S
n-c.
is.
'ft.ft-
*v^
r.V^r
Mmmi
a*ir*iv;
: % s *. - •■
y<p.y-\ «; • •/.:/.’: •* - ‘ * *
“ H THi vV
35SW
s?w • •
f*-; ▼ -
TCf::\
zsi'-y
.~{m .*'• •-.
f<* * * 4
✓
Kt
flyf ;*x.' r *wV!
*o 0 ,- /n.
° c e P/ #r* \
VWaiL' Cjft
A
a
cc
.•jr- -a
m
uk
m
... ' ***.,4*4,.
V 3
Xx
a *^/cvCo 4
**"
u
n
IS
***Uu
'°^l/h
The original GILBEY process established
the reputation of GILBEY’S GIN over
three generations ago.
That same exclusive process is used
throughout the Gilbey Distilleries in
England, Canada, America and Australia.
No matter where you drink it, GILBEY’S
is the same in purity and quality the
world over.
GILBEY’S, the world-famous gin, now
costs no more than ordinary gins.
NOW AT THE NEW
REDUCED PRICES
Ml,
