

Us
M
■
ill
msa
: 25
1
m
Wig?
ill
: /
m
:
T
11—
Still
:
v *
. c/ I
iiiiii
I*'
«i
ill!
\
iiiiii
■ ; :-
illil
; -i
S-i&'SSgS!:
mm
Is your capital tied up in investments
which are not returning, by way of
dividends and appreciations in value,
what you are justly entitled to expect?
Is your capital shackled?
Hamiltons (Australasia) Ltd. hold the
keys which will release your capital and
open the way to profitable investment
through offerings of shares in established
companies which are proved dividend
earners.
Ask Hamiltons to advise you on your
present holdings. This service is free of
any fee or obligation. Release your
capital from the shackles which have
deprived you of a reasonable invest-
ment return.
Your enquiries will receive immediate and
courteous attention.
iHamihonS (Australasia) limited
Investment Brokers and Financial Advisers
Authorised Capital £250,000
Head Office, KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY
’Phones: BW 1146 and 1147 (G.P.O. Box 375255.)
Branch Offices: Commercial Bank Chambers, Beardy Strfeet, Armidale, N.S.W. ’Phone Armidale 150. Box No. 123 Armidate.
Union Bank Chambers, Cnr. of Hunter and B>lton Streets, Newcastle. ’Phone: Newcastle 1942.
M
VICTORIA:
Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen . Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 520 J.
QUEENSLAND:
Commonwealth Bank Building,
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
G.P.O. Box 1017 N.
Bank of N.S.W Chambers,
Flinders Street,
Townsville.
G.P.O. Box 280.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
C.M.L. Building.
King William Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 650 F.
NEW ZEALAND:
National Bank of N.Z. Chambers,
Featherstone Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
G.P.O. Box 5 62, Wellington.
The Bulletin
“Legend for Sanderson ” Begins
Vol. 58.—N0. 2975.
Wednesday, February 17, 1937*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, K.0.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY.
ARE THESE THINGS SO?
ARE THESE THINGS SO?
By
Prof. P. J. Dear, M.A. (Oxon), F.G.S.
This volume, of nearly 700 pages, is the product
of half a century’s collection, compilation and col-
lation of material. The work deals exhaustively with
such subjects as Folk Psychology, the Science of
History, the Science of Religion, Anatomy and Psy-
chology, the Higher Criticism, Sociology, Hypnotism
and Spiritualism, the Antiquity of Man, etc. There
is also a biographical sketch of the author. This book
has a cumulative, evidential and logical value.
ARE THESE THINGS SO?
Demy Bvo, Cloth. Price, 15/- (posted 15/9).
To be obtained from the Booksellers,
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Sydney.
DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
with terms and particulars, will be sent
post free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,”
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
Ml
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAID
'Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Fame
Mtj Address
S.B. 137
BOOK LOVERS,
Write to our Secondhand Department for the book you want.
It may be in our large stock, or we will keep a record of
your desiderata.
ROBERTSON & MULLENS, LTD.,
107-113 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
Third Competition, Closing June 6, 1937.
Full particulars of this annual literary award will be published
here from time to time, or may be had on application to The
Bulletin, 252 George-street, Sydney.
For this current competition only novels are eligible, and th
Prize will be Swarded to that which is considered the most
outstanding contribution to Australian literature.
outstanding u publish the successful work in book form,
ine irusiec mav deem worthy. If published as a
----
serial rates Australian resident or any person born in
a ,xj p „, 7pni a nd or British South Pacific islands will be
for the Competition works which must be the
eligible to ente entrants and previously unpublished, either
original work of the entrants “U P Manuscripts must be
whoHyor m part, .m book orjen tme name p a nd address
submitted under amm £ ach entry in a sealed envelope,
°f the author , Me judges have made their decision.
submted'TfS Sppirripn If y award
If this should occur in any year, the amount ot the Prize wiu ue
added to the following year s Prize.
The Red Page
BANNING "GREEN PASTURES."
, With the banning of the film “The Green
Pastures” Australian censorship has provided another
of the horselaughs of history. “The Green Pastures”
is a negro portrayal of scenes from the Old Testa-
ment. The premiere in London was attended by a
number of ministers of various denominations, who
agreed that it was a simple, dignified and delightful
presentation of the Old Testament story. The ban-
ning has fcaused astonishment, naturally, in England.
The English press has been almost unanimous in its
praise of this film.
“The Green Pastures,” it is true, was banned
in England as a stage play on the ground that it
represented deity on the stage. But that banning
raised a storm of protests, and when the adaptation
to the screen came before the British Board of Film
Censors it was passed as suitable entertainment for
young and old.
Presumably the Australian film censor considers
the play blasphemous. That was the reason for
banning the stage play in England; but what consti-
tutes blasphemy? In England the law on blasphemy
is partly statutory. A statute of 1698, repealed in
1813, so far as it protected the doctrine of Trinity,
declares it to be an offence to “assert that there are
more gods than one, to deny the Christian religion
to be true or the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New
Testaments to be of divine authority.”
But the prosecutions for blasphemy in England
have been under the common law, and there is a
difference of opinion among the highest authorities
whether the simple, reverent statement of certain
opinions amounts to blasphemy, or whether a scoffing
or insolent spirit is hot necessary to complete the
offence.
Although Lord Kenyon declared that “the Chris-
tian religion is part of the law of the land,” and there-
fore to question its truth, however seriously, is an
offence, Lord Coleridge, in the case of the Queen v.
Ramsey and Foote (1883), held that, “if the decencies
of controversy are observed, even the fundamentals
of religion may be attacked without a person being
guilty of blasphemous libel.” This has come to be
the generally-accepted opinion.
So what leg has our film censor got to stand on?
The question of blasphemy clearly does not enter
at all. .
Our Governmental guardians of morals, anatne-
matisers of films, stage plays, books and innocent
emigrees, are rapidly approaching the plane on which
moved that terrible American antagonist of tolerance
Anthony J. Comstock. Anthony, of unhallowed
memory, used to walk the streets muttering libidin-
ous . . . lascivious .. . lewd.” Nourished on such
intellectual pabulum as our censors may in the future
decree, we shall all soon be on the road to the same
stupidity.
ARTHUR BAGGE.
"The Little Black Princess."
[The following circular letter is published at the
request of Mrs. /Eneas Gunn in order to correct
recent widely-distributed report that the heroine of
her book The Little Black Princess had fallen into
destitution and other misfortune.]
Bett-Bett, as is already told in my Little Black
Princess, was the niece of our old Goggle Eye: Ebimel
Wooloomool, the “king” or chief of the Elsey River
tribes all the time that I knew him. Because of that
I gave my Bett-Bett to the world as the Little Black
Princess.
Her mother was Goggle Eye’s younger sister—
Katie —and by a letter I have before me from Bett-
Bett dated January 31, 1925, she was then still alive
and with the tribes about the old Elsey homestead.
It was early in 1902 that Bett-Bett was first
brought in to the homestead. She was then seven or
eight years of age, which makes, her now forty-one
or forty-two at the most. She is now as she was then:
a typical child of the bush—lovable, happy and affec-
tionate always, and always strangely constant in her
affections.
It was soon after the New Year of 1903 that, the
“call of the bush” proving too strong for her, she
went out again to her people. But, as foreshadowed
in the last words of my little book, her love and
loyalty for her Missus proved in their turn too strong
for her, and within three days she was back again at
the homestead, peeping—suddenly shy—from behind
a near-by anthill to where I sat sewing on the verandah.
“Me knock-up longa bush, Missy!” she said when
I went out to give her greeting ; and never again has
she left the shelter and protection of the white folk.
When I came away from the Elsey (March, 1903)
I left her in safe hands until something definite could
be arranged for her future ; and a month or so later
she was brought into Darwin by Mr. Little, chief of
the overland telegraph at that time, and placed as
little playmate and guardian over the tiny children
of the governor of the gaol at Fanny Bay, Port
Darwin ; and since then I have never lost sight of
her through all the thirty-three years now gone by.
She was very happy with her little charges and
playmates at Fanny Bay until, during 1904, changes
taking place in that household, Bett-Bett was brought
into Port Darwin itself (again by Mr. Little) and
placed in the home of a Mrs. Ward, whose husband
was an officer in the Overland Telegraph Department
once more as playmate and guardian over Mrs.
Ward’s little girl children.
In April, 1907, Mrs. Ward, coming south on
holiday with her children, brought Bett-Bett with her
for safe holding—now a comely child of twelve years
of age. I met the train at the Spencer-street station,
and, although four years had passed since last the
child had seen me and then all in white tropical
clothes and shady hat —she picked me out at a glance
from the train’s window as it ran alongside the crowded
platform, and hailed me with a delighted cry of
“Missus! Missus!”
I took her out with me to my home in Hawthorn,
and we had a happy time together there ; but we kept
the news of her coming a secret from the world until
she was gone again. The poor little child begged me
to keep her with me “always,” but I was afraid of
the climate and the difficulties here for her future,
and she returned to Darwin with Mrs. Ward rather
pathetically resigned to do as I considered the best.
She remained with Mrs. Ward for another two
or three years, becoming under her care a douce,
clever little housemaid. At the end of that time,
when Mrs. Ward eventually came away from Darwin
on the transference of her husband to Adelaide, Bett-
Bett was placed by Mrs. Ward in the home of another
Darwin resident as house- and parlor-maid ; and from
then on she was self-supporting.
With 1913 —by then eighteen years of age—she
was well and happily married in Darwin, where she
has lived ever since in a well-ordered, pleasant little
home of her own. She has three children: two older
bo.ys and the youngest a girl—born 1914, T 9 and ’2l,
March, 1929, both Bett-Bett and her elder boy
—then fifteen years of age—were baptised and con-
firmed into the Church of England at Darwin. As
a last word, January 8, 1937, brought me a telegram
of New Year’s greetings from her: “All well; wish-
ing you a happy New Year, with my love.” And
that brings her happily, with her own “all well,” on
to this actual present. And, looking back over the
years, I realise with great thankfulness that Life, after
all, has not been unkind to my Little Black Princess.
But there is just one further thing that perhaps I
should now give to the world so as to leave all clear
and right for the years to come; and that is that —
little bush child as she was there was a definite
white strain in my little Bett-Bett, which was exactly
why we brought her in to the homestead and cared for
her as we did—the poor little helpless waif! And
that is why, all through the years, she has been so
cared-for and sheltered by all who knew her story. It
was only for the sake of my little child readers that
I left just that one thing untold.
Yet all that matters, perhaps, is that Bett-Bett has
won through unscathed to her own true, right woman-
hood.
JEANNIE GUNN.
Riviera Fantasy.
Villa Anodyne, by Pamela Frankau (The Bodley
Head ; 7s. 6d.), is a bright young book. It is in the
sparkling—as opposed to the gloomy post-war
tradition and presents a potpourri of fashion. Her
dialogue is, remotely, of the Ernest Hemingway
school. Her leading man, Peter Scribe, faintly
resembles a Michael Arlen heroine. Possibly she is
an admirer of Evelyn Waugh in his superficial charac-
teristics, but she has not reproduced his undertow of
brilliant bitterness.
The story of Villa Anodyne is of the lightly
effervescent musicomedy kind. The scene is the
French Riviera in high summer. Peter Scribe, who,
in addition to being a prominent civil servant, is a
biographer—new style—and a Prince Charming with
a look of “decorative imbecility,” leases the Villa
Anodyne. His next-door neighbor is Josephine Alva,
a super-perfumed lady novelist, who makes love to
him. It happens that they are both engaged on books
about Lord Tulgey. Josephine’s is a novel.
A romantic story based upon historical data; con-
cerned with the late Lord Tulgey, whose glamorous
Victorian villainies had excited Josephine so much that
she wrote of him with a hatred entirely akin to love.
She was devoting most of the book to his early history,
to his uncomfortable marriage, and to the picturesque
martyrdoms of his young wife. Lord Tulgey was
authentically reported to have had the head of a young
Apollo, and the long equine profile shown in the
portraits of his consort, Amelia, had been contracted
by Josephine’s pen to the delicate likeness of a nymph.
The book was luscious with adjectives and brutalities
and similes. Through the pages Tulgey strode in iron
and Amelia swayed in a lily pond. The appeal of history
waking to assume new and striking attitudes under the
floodlight of semi-fiction was undoubted. Josephine
was acknowledged even by her enemies to have a turn
for this kind of confectionery.
She had a way of licking the idea over as if it were
a kitten, smoothing it and purring at it and giving the
impression of being in love with all her characters at
once. The book was to be called The Bride of
Bacchus.
Peter’s is a three-volume work of enlightened
scholarship, but they, are both anxious to see some
letters in the possession of Oscar Thame, an illegiti-
mate great-grandson of Lord Tulgey, who is also
summering on the Riviera. Thame, out of malice,
will not produce the letters, but he has accidentally
given a valuable first edition of Tennyson’s poems
to a local library and has been most effusively and
publicly thanked for it. Peter steals back the first
edition and barters it in exchange for a loan of the
letters. There is an opera bouffe man-hunt for the
thief. Thame grows irritated and nervous, and it is
arranged that the book shall be “discovered” on the
doorstep of his villa. Peter is to leave it there, but
Thame has arranged for a gendarme to be on the
spot to arrest him as the thief. Peter escapes, and
a very respectable, very British general is arrested
instead. A comic interlude ensues while French
justice strains at gnats and swallows camels. Thame
demands his letters back, but they have been eaten
by Bacon, a white horse of character-belonging to
the Villa Anodyne—who has neighed, sneered and
jeered his way through the tale. The incident dis-
solves into air with Thame raging, Josephine routed,
Peter mocking and Bacon triumphant.
Villa Anodyne provides very diverting light
entertainment.
Castles in Manchester.
Novel follows novel with the social history of
the present and the immediate past as major theme.
They arise, no doubt, from a genuine, widespread
desire to “get things straight,” to see to-day in relation
to yesterday and, by taking a wide panorama, to get
to-day and its problems into perspective. Any such
book is meaningless unless it makes a definite contri-
bution in matter or attitude to its subject. It becomes
just so much more padding in a world where people
read to forget.
Janet Beith has followed this fashion in her new
novel Sand Castle (Hodder and Stoughton ; Angus
and Robertson ; Bs. 6d.). Her first novel, No Second
Spring, was very promising. It told the tragedy,
quiet but poignant, of a woman’s lonely life in the
Highlands. It made a single deep impression. Now
that Janet Beith has abandoned simplicity and the
individual for a complex social scene her power is
dissipated. She loses in depth as she gains in width.
The story begins in 1889 and ends four hundred
and thirty-two pages later in 1934. The sand castle
that is undermined and destroyed by time and tide
is the Lancashire cotton boom. Manchester is the
setting. Two boys, David and Allan Stewart, the
younger sons of the Laird of Achray, arrive from
their Highland home in a Lancashire fog to make
their way in commerce. David is sapped and depressed
by city life and by the ugly, stultifying drudgery to
which so many are condemned. Money-making does
not entice him, love cannot hold him. His loophole
of escape is the Boer War, and he is killed by a
sniper’s bullet. Allan is caught up by the romance
of commerce; he marries Annis, his employer’s
daughter, who had loved David, rises to wealth and
consequence, and is pulled down again by the Depres-
sion. The book ends with a flickering conventional
hope in the new generation, Allan’s son having just
proved his courage by marrying on £l5O a year.
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—and in every act. "THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
hal'P yea rly.
/r
SALE
IhiLh
6's
n
1
1
a
_
a
&
Hv
mi
I
\ M
\1
K\
■ ■■ ..
****?■
~ -i.
LAST 3 DAYS
FINAL SALE BARGAINS
FOR THRIFTY MALES
A.—B/6 BRITISH POPLIN STRIPED GOLF SHIRTS REDUCED TO
B 1 71 —Your final chance to procure these smart shirts at generous Sale savings.
Our own full-fitting make, in striped British Poplin. Two matching collars,
double cuffs. Blue or Grey stripes. Sizes 14 to in. neck. Prices, each, 8/6,
9/6, 10/6. Sale Prices, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6.
66
C.—BRITISH POPLIN ’JAMAS
B! 73—You’ll get maximum service from
these Pyjamas. They’re made of super-grade
British Poplin. Neat style with Polo or
Sports Collar. Small, Medium or Out-
sizes. Price, suit 10/6
Sale Price 9/6
66
I©^.
9 7 6
ire
25-
TWEED DRESS GOWN
BI 78 Here’s your Winter Dressing
Gown—at a grand saving! Well tailored
m warm Wool Tweed with girdle and
tassel to match. Dressy Grey. Brown,
hawn or Blue tonings. Sizes 5, 6, 7 and
o only. Price, each 35/-
Sale Price 9 r /
ALL WOOL UNDERWEAR
Bl79—Men’s Natural All Wool Under-
r*V, n £e /y. lCeab !_ e weight. Com-
fortab.e fitting shirts with short sleeves
and underpants to ankle. Sizes 34- to 44-
inch chest or waist. P rice , garment) 6/6 .
Sale Price 4/9
49
B.—CEPEA SERGE TUNIC SHIRT
8172—A Shirt that will wear splendidly.
Made of durable Cepea Serge with White
Linen neckband and single button cuffs.
Assorted stripes. Sizes 1 4\- to 1 7-inch neck
Price, each ... 8/6. Sale Price ... 6/6
D. CEPEA SERGE PYJAMAS
Bl74—Wear Cepea Serge Pyjamas all the
year round. They’re comfortable and
serviceable. A strong British Twill Cotton
weave that washes splendidly. Small,
Medium or Outsizes. Price, suit .... 12/6
Sale Price 11/6
E.—"HORDURA" <**•> ’JAMAS
B 1 75 —You’ll need these warm Pyjamas for
the winter. Buy them now and save. Made
in our own workrooms from soft British
Flannelette in a comfortable style. Winter
weight. Small, Medium and Outsizes.
Price, suit .... 10/6. Sale Price .... 9/6
F. PURE LINEN ’KERCHIEFS
Bl76—Made of Pure Irish Linen, and
they’re a genuine bargain at this price. Buy
at least a dozen. All White with hem-
stitched hems. Good large size, 1 x
1 Price, each 1/9
Sale Price 1 /-
G —PURE WOOL TIES
Bl77—Buy several of these Ties while
they’re less than half pri '.e! Made of Fine
Merino Wool in a weave that ties well and
will not crush. Neat stripes on Navy, Grey
or Brown grounds. Price, each .... 4/3
Sale Price 1/6
@ Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
PITT. GOULBURN and GEORGE STS.,
SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
le^s.
96
\ L
Vi
EACH


"To ze Revanche!”
by Harold Mercer
IT seemed ridicu-
lous to associate
b 1 o o dthirsty
violence with
Arnoldo Bertilli.
At Melchisadek
Mansions, one of
those places where
a few partitions
help disguise mere rooms as flats, I sometimes passed
the little man on the stairs, and in spite of his obvious
devotion to garlic I liked him.
Perhaps his loneliness stirred a feeling of com-
passion ; there was something attractive in the shyly
cheerful manner of his salute in passing. Then there
was the way he amused the children who lived awhile
in one of the flats on his floor ; his dignified protest
when someone carelessly referred to him as “the fiddle-
player.” “It ees, surely, m’sieur, because you do not
know. I am not ze feedle-player—no! I am ze
musician, ze arteest!”
My own acquaintance with him was mainly a
matter of things heard, until my landlady told me
of his blood-lust.
“Would you mind trying not to meet Mister
Bertilli to-night?” she said nervously, intercepting me
at the foot of the stairs. “He is a little upset; in
fact, I am afraid he has been drinking, and he is
excited. You see, he’s furreign,” she added. That,
to her, was enough to account for anything.
“It’s your ’air, if yer’ll excuse my sayin’ it,” she
went on. “A man with your colored ’air did ’im a
great wrong at one time. I think ’e was in love with
the man’s wife, an’ the man took ’er away. Which
was quite a respectable an’ proper thing to do, /
should say ; but you never know what these fo-
reigners think. That’s why ’e is in Australia. ’E
follered ’is enemy ’ere, an’”—her voice dropped to
a whisper —“ ’e says ’e will kill ’im when they meet.”
“He seems such an inoffensive little man.”
“So ’e is—quite respectable ; there’s not another
tenant pays ’is rent more regular. But for fourteen
years —so ’e told me —’e ’as sworn revenge.”
It struck me, as she dropped her voice again, that
she was enjoying the thrill of it.
“For fourteen years! ’E ’as a little image in ’is
room, an’ ’e swears —with a knife in ’is ’and—that ’e
will kill the other man when ’e finds ’im.’^
BERTILLI was only a handful, and the warning
merely amused me until one day, having left my
door ajar, I turned to a sound to see Bertilli standing
in the doorway, vibrant with fury, with a knife
gleaming in his hand.
“A-a-ah!” he exclaimed with a gasping breath.
“Zose hair! Zat eyes! At la-ast!”
There was so much seriousness in the gleaming
eyes that it was a relief indeed to see the darkness
clear from his face.
“No, it is not you,” he said suddenly, slipping
the knife away. “ ’Ow much apology do I owe you,
my frien’, ’oo I meet on the stair!”
He advanced into the room. In my relief I
pushed the whisky-bottle towards him.
“I drink to you ; I also drink to ze revanche! ” he
cried. “Ah, you do not drink? Is eet zat”
“Yes, yes—l’m drinking. The revenge, certainly!”
I said hurriedly, and his sudden ferocity was calmed.
“To ze revanche! ”he cried. “Some day, m’sieur,
I will keel a man wis ’air like yours.”
“As long as it is not me,” I said amiably.
“Let us ’ope, m’sieur, zat eet ees not you,” he
said darkly.
To assure him of my friendliness I indicated the
whisky-bottle again, and he took a seat as he helped
himself.
“Leesen,” he hissed, leaning towards me. “Eet ees
not to make ze monee zat I come to Australie! Think
eet not, m’sieur! I am ’umble I will not boast,
m’sieur; but, m’sieur, I am ze great arteest, gre-at
musician! In Paris, in Europe, I make ze gre-at name.
Kreisler, vot ees’e? Pouf! Eet is I, Arnoldo Bertilli,
zat shall be Kreisler. But eet is not so. My life, eet
ees spoil. By a man wis ze ’air like you! ”
I really wished he would forget about my hair.
“Leesen, m’sieur: I love ze lady—oh, ze perfect
lady—ze Madonna, ze Venus! lam at ’er feet; but
no, she ees .’ard —only because I am marry, my wife
ees alive, I cannot marry wis ’er. She ees ’ard!
An’ me ze gre-at arteest! What is marriage to an
arteest? Ees not Arnoldo Bertilli more zan marriage?
‘No,’ she say; ‘you wait; your wife, maybe, she
divorce you.’
“Oh, ze cruelty! Zee agonee! ’Ow can a man —
ze arteest —wis ze ’eart on fire wis jealousy, be hees
best? An’ wis my torn chest where ees my art? ’Ee
go. I vill not boast, m’sieur, but lam a genius ;I am
ze greatest composer in ze world! But ’ow can ze
greatest composer write, upset-down wis passion?
“ ‘Non, non, Arnoldo ; you must wait,’ she say
to me —ah, cruel! ‘You must prove yourself. I
cannot love a man in ze so bad temper.’
“I am despair. I moan. I take ze knife an’ say
I steek eet in ’er ’eart; but no, eet does not make ’er
love me. No, she laugh ; an’ then she go suddenlee.
I find out. My frien’ —ze man I ’ad not suspect —’e
ask ’er to marry heem, an’ she chose zat to an arteest
zat cannot marry ’er! An’ ’e was ze man wis ze
’air”
“Like mine,” I said quickly; “but not me.”
“Leesen, my frien’,” he said ; “I have ’ere ze
daggare zat will go t’roo hees ribs like so —ooah!
when I see him, ze man wis ze ’air”
“Like mine,” I finished for him. “But why not
forget it, old man?”
His eyes flashed furiously. “Forget? I, Arnoldo
Bertilli, forget? Ah, nevare —nevare! I have sworn
to ’ave revanche. Come, you will see!”
He overwhelmed me, dragging me by the elbow ;
and so I was introduced to that little shrine before
which the frail musician kept the flame of his ven-
geance burning. Having sworn his oath again with
dramatic intensity, he swore a new oath that, in spite
of my hair, he knew I was his friend and he was mine.
A FTER that a growing liking gave me a genuine
** concern for the little chap. There was a childish
innocence about his conceit of himself that had an
appeal of its own. Except for his hunger for revenge,
his was a remarkable simplicity. It seemed pathetic
and absurd that such an impulse should obsess his
whole life.
I even became anxious about him, especially in
what my landlady called his “excited moods,” but my
concern was much more for Bertilli himself than for
the man he hunted. The idea of the little musician
dangling on a rope was unpleasant. It would be like
hanging a child.
He had a supreme confidence that one day he
and his enemy would meet. He did not hurry
matters ; he went on with his work in an orchestra.
But the thought of his revenge was constantly before
him.
It can be understood, then, what my feelings were
when Hartley turned up—Hartley, the man with hair
like mine.
ONE day as I rode past on the William-
street tram I saw the musician’s
dapper figure, the violin-case in his hand,
making a way along the pavement, and
the idea that this was a dangerous
character seemed more ridiculous than
ever.
“Look! Look! The man with the
violin-case! Surely that is our little
friend of Paris —little Bertilli!”
The woman’s voice was well-bred
and sweet. Turning to look into the
next compartment, I caught a view of a
pleasant-faced pretty woman, rather
ample in figure, inclining towards a com-
fortable middle age. The man with her
was leaning forward eagerly, and I
noticed he had hair —like mine!
“Arnoldo Bertilli? You must be
mistaken. What would he be doing
here in Australia?”
“He’s gone now ; but, Harry, I’m
sure I wasn’t mistaken.”
“I’d have jumped off to speak to
him if I had seen him,” said Harry, “if
you are sure it was he we must look
him up.”
“Of course I’m not mistaken,” said
the lady. “Don’t you remember? He
used to make love to me! I’m sure I
wouldn’t have married you so soon if I
hadn’t been a little frightened of him.
I had no idea that he had taken it so
seriously. You know, Harry, I really
cared for the little fellow in a way.”
“Well, so did I,” Harry agreed
heartily. “You couldn’t help it. He was
so like a child with his big ambitions
and his conceit —and his little shyness.
You felt he was a chap you had to look
after —the sort of fellow you had to
help.”
* ~ Precisely my own feelings! They were lost in
the bustle of the emptying tram at the top of William-
street, leaving me with a feeling that I ought to have
spoken to them, conveyed some warning. Apprehen-
sion seized me ; and yet it seemed ridiculous to go to
the police.
| LEFT matters to chance, and was given a shock
1 when my landlady entered my flat less than a week
after the incident in the tram.
“Oh, please, please keep your door shut,” she
said. “Mr. Bertilli has come home, and he is excited
—very excited ; and there is a friend with him.”
Bertilli certainly was excited. I could hear him,
apparently trying to sing, shout and laugh at once. I
closed my door.
But Bertilli did not let that stop him. He entered
boisterously, and at his heels came another man —the
big, wholesome-looking man I had heard addressed
as Harry in the tram.
“My frien’ —both my frien’s,” said Bertilli, “per-
mit me to present my ol’ frien’ M’sieur ’Artley. I
have not seen him for fourteen years!”
There was' a note of exultation in his voice.
The situation, to me, was tense ; all the more so
because Hartley was heartily jolly, oblivious of the
fate in store for him, and Bertilli on the top note of
excitement.
“Sit down while I get the whisky,” I said, trying
to cover my nervousness. “No, you sit over there, if
you don’t mind.”
It was something to get the table between Hartley
and the avenger ; I sat near Bertilli, prepared to spring
if I saw his hand go towards the hidden knife.
“Well, here’s to more meetings,” toasted Hartley.
“Just fancy me running across old Arnoldo after all
these years! We knew one another in Paris —and he
knew my wife, too.”
“Did I not love ’er?” laughed Bertilli; but only
I, apparently, sensed the danger in his voice.
“Of course ; anyone would love her,” said Hartley
heartily. “What did you think of her this morning?
I always say she keeps as charming as ever. A bit
stouter, of course, but that makes her all the jollier.”
Poor fool, unconsciously goading the fury already
stirred against him!
“It is because she ees ’appee,” said Bertilli. “1
forgive you for taking ’er from me, for ’ave you not
made ’er ’appee? Ees eet not all a man can ask, if
’e love a woman —that she ees ’appee?”
“It’s the right spirit, but I don’t know that I could
feel that way,” said Hartley, standing up suddenly.
Surely it must come now! Alert for action. I
watched Bertilli for a moment; but he apparently
wanted to play with his enemy for a little longer.
“I’ll get some water if you don’t mind,” said
Hartley.
I had been watching the situation so keenly that
I had not noticed the deficiency; even now, instead
of apologising and getting the water myself, I merely
motioned him to the kitchenette.
Bertilli leaned towards me. I was watching every
movement he made.
“What an escape!” he whispered. “The girl I
lof, she was sleem, so like ze fairee ; but now oh.
mon Dieu.! —oh, so fat! And it is only for the
M’sieur ’Artley I would have marry her!”
He laughed suddenly, took the knife from its
hiding and flung it under the couch.
“A healt’! ”he cried. “May we all bee sateesfied
—zose who marry ze girl, and zose who dont!


A Serial Story of the Queensland Coast
By
VANCE PALMER
ILLUSTRATED BY
CLAIRE DALLEY.
Chapfer L
I.
BHERE was an air of subdued excitement
around Cayley’s. The massive hotel of
white concrete that dominated the esplanade,
pricking the darkness of harbor and fore-
shore with its seven bright letters, had been
alive with people coming and going since the
coastal steamer berthed at sundown. All the cars in
the town seemed to be drawn to the lighted foyer,
from which issued a tongue of red drugget stretching
to the kerb. Cars were still coming from the wharves
three hundred yards away, disgorging their luggage
and occupants with painful slowness and slithering
off to their ranks under the spreading figs or circling
back to the boat in the hope of picking up another
load.
Half-past six, and the May evening closing in.
Past the hoardings where Garbo’s sad eyes looked
down through the dusk streamed the homegoing
crowd —wharf-lumpers, shopgirls, fishermen in crum-
pled dungarees and broken sandshoes —to be caught
up almost unawares in Cayley’s flood of liquid bright-
ness and stand for a moment transfixed, like wild
animals in a car’s headlights. Someone being married,
was it? Or just the Clune woman making a big
show for her opening night? A couple of native
youngsters from the estuary, barefooted, hatless,
darted about like water-beetles in the pool of light,
opening the doors of taxis, turning up impudent,
engaging eyes to the occupants.
“Carry your port in, mister?... Oh, mister!”
At intervals they retired to the dusk of the
weeping figs, where their salvaged cigar-butts made
the glow of twin stars.
Inside the hotel there was noiseless activity, a
restrained scurrying of servants in response to bells
in remote corridors upstairs. Over seventy people,
most of them spoilt by obsequious stewards, were
wanting the same things done for them at the same
time: but the organisation of the hotel was equal to
the demands on it. Even the two waxen-faced clerks
in the foyer had the look of men presiding successfully
over a great occasion.
It was, in fact, the opening of Cayley’s in its
new, ambitious form: it was also the opening of the
winter season. Most of the summer Port Cowrie
drowsed in a bath of vaporous heat or went about
its work in a lazy dream, coatless, cheerfully casual,
aware in a dim way that it was remote from the
larger centres of life, supremely indifferent to the
fact. A haze hovered about the tall hills massed
behind the town: sugarcane secreted sweetness in
moist valleys: warm winds filtered in from the north,
smelling of spices, mangrove-mud, ancient junks, and
ultimately bringing the drenching monsoonal rains.
It was a time of lounging on balconies with the lids
half-closed, listening with a part of the mind to
mechanical music, but keeping an inner ear attuned
for whispers of the cyclone that might at any time
come swooping in from the wastes beyond the Reef.
Now, with the early days of May, life moved
to a quicker pulse. There were the tourists, for one
thing. Discharged of her crowd of them, the Strath-
cona lay silent against the wharves, her upper decks
peculiarly empty under the glare of their arc-lights,
even her lower decks deserted except for a couple
of stewards on duty. She had brought little but
human cargo from the south, and none of her hatches
was being worked. With her deck-chairs neatly
stacked, her lounges locked, her pianos covered with
tarpaulins, she basked fatuously in her own light,
most of her passengers transferred to that supple-
mentary home for expensive people up the street
where a hundred globes pricked out the word:
CAYLEY’S.
| T was nearly time for dinner. In the long L-shaped
dining-room, cool with palms, covers had been laid
for a hundred guests, yet it seemed as if there might
have to be a second sitting. So many local people
wanted to dine at Cayley’s on this particular night
that the telephone had been kept busy with inquiries
for vacant tables. Laura Clune, in spite of her genius
for management, was flurried. Magnificent in her
cerise silk that made a sound of lapping water, she
flowed about the inner arteries of the hotel, giving
an inspiriting word now to the cooks in the kitchen,
now to one of the waiters, now to some hurrying
maid. Her complexion a miracle of rose and pearl,
her eyes aglow with lively darkness, she radiated
encouragement to all around her, soothing their
nerves with her silken smile, reviving them with thin,
warm streams of her own vitality.
But at the back of her mind was a nagging fear
that something would go wrong at the last moment.
Hadn’t she had a presentiment on waking that some-
thing would go wrong?
“If I could only have waited till June! June’s
always been my lucky month, no matter how Chris
laughs at all that. And if you go against your instinct,
what you really believe But so much depends
on starting at the very beginning of the season.”
This was the day she had dreamed of for six
years. It was, in a sense, the culminating point of
her life. And the little blue-edged cards, scattered
through the lounges of the Strathcona and the better
hotels down south, had been successful. The guests
included the Italian Consul, an English peer, the
members of a Gilbert and Sullivan opera company,
as well as other people whose names were known to
those who pored over social columns. Yet there was
this faint uncertainty at her heart.
It increased when a mousy, soft-voiced maid
approached her near the entrance to the kitchen and
whispered confidentially “He keeps on asking for
you, Mrs. Clune.”
She gave her uneasy, caressing smile. “Tell him
I’ll come as soon as dinner’s over, Edna.”
The girl hesitated on one foot. “He wants to
come down. Says he’s not going to stay shut up
there.”
A hurt look darkened Laura’s eyes, as if the girl
herself had been aggressive. “What an outrageous
way of putting it. I’m sure he’s not himself if he’s
talking like that. Can’t you persuade him that every-
one in the house would be only too glad if he was
well enough to come down?”
“I’ve done my best, Mrs. Clune, but he’s got
some cranky idea in his head. Keeps asking for his
dress-clothes.”
“My dear child, he knows perfectly well they’re
in his drawer... Or perhaps they’ve been left in
his old room downstairs. But it really doesn’t matter.
Dr. Cerutti wouldn’t hear of him getting up yet —he
was quite emphatic about that. I’ll explain to him
when I come.”
She floated away to taste the soups and flatter
Tony, the head-cook, who had been grumpy all after-
noon because he couldn’t get the small fish he needed
for some special Italian dish: but all the while as she
labored with the cloud on the dark Latin face it was
the need of humoring Sanderson she was thinking
about. What had suddenly put into his head the idea
that he must appear at dinner? Was there always to
be this struggle against the demon of perversity in
him that fought against his own good and gave him
delight in humiliating her? If only Cerutti had been
firm: but then Cerutti, with his drooping lip and
muddled desire to please everyone, could never be firm.
Crumpled up, poor old dear, at the first angry roar.
She had carefully refrained from mentioning her
preparations for the evening lest they might excite
Sanderson, fill his head with a notion that he ought
to come downstairs and join in the fun. Everyone
knew what that would mean: he would take too
much drink, pick a quarrel with someone, make a
scene. And there was Cayley’s to consider its
reputation, its future, the guarantees implicit in the
little blue-edged cards.
Her head felt empty: there was a dull core of
pain in it surrounded by curling waves of vapor.
Moving about the corridors she had so little control
over her feet that all the strips of carpet seemed to
slope downhill.
“I’ve taken too many aspirins,” she thought.
“I’ve nothing left in reserve. And everyone depends
on me —everyone.”
Hesitating a moment in the darkness beneath
the stairs, she pressed her fingertips to her forehead.
There was a limit to what you could give out, in
affection, in encouragement. You were good to people
because of something warm and” spontaneous that
surged up in you, an overflow of life, and then
gradually you found they took this sympathy for
granted, wanting more and more, coming to you for
support (Tony and his small fish!) whenever anything
went wrong, and grumbling if you didn’t give enough,
even when you were ill and overstrained. Till at last
your life became no longer your own but other
people’s, and you couldn’t even get a thrill out of the
things you’d planned and worked for. How could
Chris be so heartless as to talk of being shut up and
kept out of things when everybody knew
The faint sound of a string band from the dining-
room announced that dinner had begun. She saw the
Italian Consul walk across the hall talking vigorously
to a short, dark woman with immense earrings. She
heard jets of lively talk bubble up in the lounge, on
the stairs, in the smoking-room. Doors opened,
diffused light spread over the walls and ceilings,
people merged in a pleasant stream.
Immediately she put away the fear that something
would go wrong—that Sanderson, for instance, would
come down and make trouble. He would not come
down: it was impossible that he should. Hadn’t
she hidden his trousers in the cupboard of her private
room and taken away the key?
11.
OPSTAIRS, in the left wing overlooking the
courtyard, Sanderson lay on his tumbled bed
arguing with the girl who was bringing him his
dinner. He looked frowsy, unkempt, in spite
of his orange silk pyjamas, manicured fingernails,
smooth-shaven chin. Tall and massive, he had recently
had a stroke which affected his right arm and
shoulder: his figure had grown paunchy*from want
of exercise. And there was a lack of proportion
about his face. The big, bald dome of forehead
belonged to a man of power, but the eyes were small,
bloodshot, cantankerous, the drooping grey moustache
covered a slack mouth, the skin looked puffy. All the
vitality that once had made men fear him, talk about
him, follow him, was slowly oozing away. It was
only with the help of a bottle of whisky daily that
he maintained a spurious semblance of it.
“No, my girl, take it away,” he said, waving his
hand towards the tray. “Take that infernal soup and
slops away. Doctor’s orders be damned! If I’m too
much of an invalid to eat in company I won’t eat
at all. Tell Laura that. Tell her I see through this
sickbed bluff and tomfoolery. Having a great old
jamboree down there to-night, isn’t she, and wants
to keep me out. Scared I’ll run amok and upset the
apple-cart, eh?... Cayley’s! Hell! who was Cayley?
Haven’t the ghost of an idea —have you?”
The girl didn’t answer, but deliberately went on
arranging things on the table beside the bed.
“Mrs. Clune says she’s going to have her dinner
up here later on,” she told him in a dry, clipped voice.
“Who was Cayley?” he repeated, his eyes on her
turned back. “You don’t know, and those fools
down there don’t either. Or who Sanderson is. Don’t
know and don’t care: ignorant even of where the
food comes from that lines their bellies. World’s
made easy for ’em these days. Hardly a spot in the
whole damned country where they can’t buy all they
want with a cheque. Comfort! Only thing they
think about, dream about. And there’s nothing to
give ’em a jolt—make ’em realise there has to be a
framework of wood and steel beneath the cushions.
No distance left. No dry stretches to send men crazy
or make ’em buckle up their courage. Conquest of
earth and air—survival of the fattest. Run out my
car, John: I’m going for a little spin to the Gulf.
And from there it’s only a day’s hop to Java, eh?”
He chuckled and fell into a fit of coughing, from
which he emerged with watery eyes that gradually
became bellicose again as they fastened on the turned
back. t
“Take it away,” he repeated. “Told you I wasn’t
going to eat it, didn’t I? And you’re on tthe wrong
track, my dear, if you think what I say doesn’t count
under my own roof. It counts, all right; it’s going
to count more: I’m not booked for the graveyard yet.


Whose money built this place? Who got the first
license when there were blacks camped along the
waterfront and bullock-drays bogged in Hunter-street?
You’re not interested! Think I’m an old dodderer
who likes to hear the sound of his own voice, don’t
you?”
The girl smiled with one side of her mouth, and
her hidden eyes said “There, you’ve hit it. Bull’s eye
at last... She’s too good for you. Ought to have
shunted you off to a home for incurables long ago.
Any other woman would.”
Like all the girls on the staff, she was devoted to
Laura. And she disliked the old man in the bed, with
his cranky eyes, his habit of maundering on about the
past. What if he had made money and cut a figure?
Everyone knew he’d have drunk up every penny of
what he’d made long ago if Mrs. Clune hadn’t man-
aged to put by enough to rebuild the hotel. He was
only a drag on her and on the place now.
WHEN she had gone Sanderson grunted to himself
and poured out another nip of whisky from the
nearly-empty bottle on the table. Luck to the old
name! His mind was running on Cayley’s: glimmer-
ing through a fog in the background was an idea of
suddenly appearing in the lounge downstairs and
confronting the assembled guests with the question of
who Cayley was. A devil had been aroused in him,
a stream of garrulity set flowing. He had been shut
up too long, hamstrung, left to his own thoughts and
the chatter of women: now he wanted to be among
men again and talk. Talk copiously! Images came
teeming, crowding—images of the past. The long
road being constructed up the Range, lines of sweat-
ing men swinging picks or wheeling dirt, drays tipping
out their blue metal, Cayley’s tin shed in the gully
with the barrels of beer on the counter. A useful
old scoundrel, Cayley! It had paid him, as con-
tractor, to have the fellow for a dummy* dispensing
sly grog in the evenings, making the place a centre:
it kept men contented and tied to the job, instead of
sloping off to town when they earned a little money.
And those were the days when talk of gold was in
the air and good workers hard to secure. Fifty years
ago and more! He had cheerfully stood behind
Cayley in his many brushes with the law, paying his
fines and setting him up in a pub of his own in the
end.
“Gentlemen gentlemen, I repeat for the
moment let us forget the ladies and be comfortable.
There weren’t any ladies in the days I want to talk
about. Only gins who weren’t worth getting speared
over. You’re here to enjoy the
wonders of our great northern
playground. Let me tell you some-
thing of its past. I’m its past
Chris Sanderson. Scrub-worker,
contractor, Cabinet Minister, un-
discharged bankrupt —a hell of a
lot of other things as well. Boy
when I came here, now an old man
full of history. You see this hotel,
built by a young Dutch architect
on modern lines and furnished
No, that’s not where I want to
begin.”
He was blundering about the
room, muttering and looking
vaguely into cupboards, when
Laura appeared at the door,
flushed, breathless, both hands
occupied with a tray. A quick
sense of relief had shot through her
when she heard his voice inside
the room: he was always more
amenable when he talked, it was
his silence she dreaded, for you
couldn’t tell then what mad idea he
might be brooding over, shut in
behind his frosted eyes. She put
down the tray, which contained a
cocktail and savory for herself and
another small bottle of whisky for
him, then sank down fatigued in
the basket-chair beside the bed.
“Oh, my God, what a battle!
I begin to wonder if it’s worth
while straining every nerve to
please a lot of people you don’t
really care a rap about. People
who give simply no response, no
matter what you do for them. It’s
just that I can’t bear to have any-
thing fail for lack of that little
extra bit of attention... Come
back to bed, Chris, and talk to me
while I eat. Lucky boy to be out
of all this welter.”
An affectionate sympathy
flowed out of her, caressing him
with its touch: the eyes that shone
from her carefully-made-up face
were soft as a bird’s. Curled up
in the basket-chair, her body
relaxed, one arm drooping toward
the floor, it seemed as if she had
been waiting all evening for this
moment.
“Talk to me, Chris. Tell me
anything you’ve been thinking
about. I can’t begin eating till you
do.”
There was nothing simulated
in her feeling for Sanderson. She
had never forgotten the atmosphere of generosity
that had made their first days together so sunny
and exciting: how, except through him, could
she have secured those trips to Singapore and
the East, that relief from financial strain, the chance
of running this absorbing hotel! But it wasn’t merely
a matter of money. If they had been hard-up and
scrambling (often it had nearly come to that) she
would still have felt that life with him was worth the
strain. There was that touch of the playboy in him:
it flickered through his eyes even now: it had always
given her a happy assurance that life was a dance,
an adventure, and needn’t trickle out into dreary
nothingness when you entered the forties and could
get no comfort from a mirror, no excitement from the
glances of men in the street.
Sanderson stood in the middle of the floor, fixing
her with a blind stare, exasperated at having the flow
of his ideas stopped suddenly.
“Who was Cayley?” he demanded.
She gave a low, running laugh. “I don’t know,
dear. You’ve told me before, but I’ve forgotten.
There must have been ever so many men had this
place since he did, but it sounded such a nice name
that I wanted to keep it. Was he that man who let
the taps run free the day you first got into Parlia-
ment? Or am I thinking of someone else? Do
eat a little, Chris, and keep me company. Dr. Cerutti’s
coming up for a talk with you later on.”
“Cerutti be damned! Where the hell are all my
clothes, Laura? Hidden ’em away, haven’t you, so
that I can’t get out. Want me to stay cooped up in
this infernal box till I’m ready for the undertaker.
It’s no good, my dear. I may be crocked, but I’m
tough, and I’m going to make old bones. Going to
enjoy myself, too, while there’s a kick left in me.
‘That laugh of Sanderson’s,’ they used to say; ‘it’ll
drown the Last Trump.’ Trot out my clothes, Laura.
I’m going to put a bit of life into that crowd of wax
figures down there, show ’em how we used to wet
the head of anything new in the old days.”
“Oh, please, Chris,” the woman pleaded, passing
a distracted hand across her forehead, “what’s the good
of going over it all again? I’ve come up here to
get a little peace. I’ve had such a rotten day—worried
all the time for fear something would go wrong at
the last moment. I was haunted by all the horrid
things that had happened in May—that trouble over
the fire, the news about Steve. And Tony was in one
of his bad moods —the range wouldn’t draw properly
and there were no small fish. Do settle down comfort-
ably and talk. There'll be hundreds of other evenings.
Hundreds of them.”
He stared with sudden intensity at the necklace
on her throat as she tossed off her cocktail.
“Cat’s-eyes! ” he muttered. “Who gave you
that?”
Relieved, she stroked the necklace, a purring
softness in her laugh. “You’d never guess, would
you? You never remember little things like that. It
was given me by a thoroughly nice man about fifteen
years ago —oh, yes, a man I was desperately fond of,
Chris —and I’ve had it put away in a drawer most of
the time. Almost forgot I had it, he’s given me so
many other pretty things. But doesn’t it go with this
frock? Say it does.”
HE did not answer. He was back again in the old
rut of thought, eyes vapory and cantankerous,
mind moving along in a monotonous rhythm.
“Who was Cayley? Don’t know, do they, and
don’t want to know. Speed hell-for-leather along the
road and forget the man whose bones made it...
Well, that’s all right. When I was in full stride I
never looked behind. It’s a new country. Hell of a
bright future, but a shady past. Keep your eyes
ahead, fixed on the skyline. Cayley’s been in his
grave for thirty years, the old blatherskite —so much
whisky in his bones that no grass would grow over
him. Talked his way out of every row he ever got
into, but went out without a word when he dropped
a couple of thousand on Radium and the banks called
up his overdraft. Curled up like a nigger who’s had
a bone pointed at him. That’s the way with some
of these fellows — quick enough tongues so long as
tongues are the weapon, but no guts when it comes to
a real fight.”
He sat down on the edge of the bed and started
on the second bottle of whisky. The woman knew
that when that malicious, reminiscent chuckle came
into his voice the worst was over: he had settled
down for the evening. Peace began to flow over her,
though it was a peace shot with flickering intimations
of difficult days ahead. More and more she had come
to regard him as a wayward youngster who had to
be cajoled and tended: but it was becoming increas-
ingly difficult to give him her time now she was
embarked on a new policy for Cayley’s. The running
of a modern hotel was an exhausting business: it
taxed your strength and patience to the limit. You
had to be rubber and steel, smoothing out little
differences between the girls, jollying the men, yet
never being just soft, keeping exactly the right pres-
sure on them so that they neither grew slack nor
rebellious at being overworked. And there were
always the faint voices (of your friends, of your
frayed nerves) whispering that you had taken on too
much, that the presence of Sanderson was a drawback
to the hotel, that he would be just as happy in some
hydro in the hills, padding about the garden, talking
to other old people about the past.
She straightened herself as if a drop of icy water
had fallen on her spine. “What a beastly suggestion!
I’d throw up everything rather than leave him now.
He’d be miserable if we separated: so would I.”
For over a year she had been telling herself that,
but every day with less conviction. She was senti-
mental in her view of what she owed him. He had
been over fifty when she first met him, and was
already going downhill. The energy that had created
his many enterprises and carried him into Parliament
was already flagging and there were large blobs of
mud clinging to his name. An atmosphere of scandal,
both public and personal, hung about him: there
had been his associations with women, and stories
of the corruption that had marked his short reign
as Cabinet Minister were on everyone’s tongue.
Besides, he had begun to drink heavily, and an odd
streak of violence always showed out when he went
beyond a certain point. It was as a patient he had
come to the small private hospital she was running in
the hills outside the town, and less devoted hands
might have let him slip quickly to the bottom of the
pit.
He was near the bottom now. She was under no
illusion about that as she sat watching his left hand
reach shakily for the glass on the table and a film
creep over his eyes: but although what was happen-
ing downstairs engrossed the whole of her mind she
didn’t allow her attention to wander, even for a
moment. (“The poor boy’s so sensitive: I mustn't
show by even a flicker.”) Curled up in her basket-
chair, as if completely at ease, she nibbled at her
savory, her low, gurgling laugh flowing over Sander-
son whenever a spark of humor flashed from him.
It was only when he sank back among the pillows
and let his arm droop over the bed that she rose
quietly and, after looking down at him with an
abstracted air, stole out through the french lights.
Sanderson heard a key turn in the door along
the balcony and woke from his light doze with a
nervous start. The comfortable warmth of Laura's
presence had evaporated ; the room felt chill.
“Closing time,” he muttered. “No good going
on talking. All the crowd gone home hours ago.
Locked out for the night... Or locked in.”
‘A
FROM the courtyard floated up the sound of fox-
trotting feet, blurred by a clatter of kitchen
crockery, a murmur of voices. Sanderson raised him-
self in his bed. It was as if life were calling him in
soft, enticing whispers, promising him something in
a voice just outside his range of hearing. Youth,
power, a return of his old vigor! The main idea
that had been at the back of his mind all evening
persisted. He must get his clothes! Yes, he must


get them somehow. Lack of them was the one thing
that prevented him from being himself jovial,
boisterous, a bubbling fount of humor and wit.
He stumbled through the french lights on to the
balcony and looked muzzily down at the courtyard.
The two rooms he and Laura occupied had been
designed as a temporary hospital and were shut off
from the rest of the balcony by a partition. Sander-
son wandered over and tried the door in it. It was
locked!
A storm burst in his brain. “So this is what it’s
come to! Want to shut me up like a smallpox
patient, do they? Keep quiet in your dogbox up
there, you old crock, and don’t spoil the fun. Damn
that pack of women! I’ll give ’em a surprise—show
'em there’s life in the old dog yet.”
It was surely a small thing for him to climb over
the rails and round the wooden partition. Once on
the other side he could easily find his way to his old
room downstairs and regain possession of his clothes.
Then there would be the devil to pay for someone!
Whose money had built this hotel? Who was lord
and master in it?
He had clambered over the rails and was hanging
on to the outer edge, maintaining a grip with his
toes and the fingers of his left hand. He felt airy,
transfigured, separated surprisingly from his flesh.
But he had overestimated his strength, forgotten the
deadness in one side of his body. Something was
making the world move and sway. The balcony
rocked: the concrete courtyard swam giddily up, then
receded to fathomless depths, a greenish sea-floor
bathed in submarine light. All the blood in Sander-
son’s body was rising to his brain, turning to vapory
clouds. Beads of sweat formed on his scalp, trickled
down his chest: he could only remain still, waiting
for his mind to clear, for strength to flow back to him.
But before the miracle happened he had lost his
grip. Coffee was being served in the lounge and
smoking-room, the foxtrotting feet had begun to
move again, and nobody heard him fall.
Emerging from a timeless stupor, Sanderson
picked himself up and staggered towards the nearest
lights. There was a tinkle of china, a gleaming of
white shirtfronts and women’s dresses, a hornet’s buzz
of talk.
“Effie couldn’t come this winter her hus-
band....” “It was the second-officer said so that
night on the bridge....” “... .the best bait for king-
fish, at least in my experience....” “... .and a golf-
course, t 00....” “If a man could get hold of a little
launch....” “ stranded on one of those bare
cays —worst cyclone since the ’eighties.”
A fair-haired woman bending over to light a
cigarette suddenly dropped it with a scream as San-
derson blundered in through the wide doors, blood
on his bald forehead, on the breast of his pyjamas.
He stood staring at them with blinded eyes, an insane
chuckle in his throat.
“Cayley?” was the question he wanted to fling
at them. “Who was Cayley?”
But before he could do more than give an inar-
ticulate grunt his legs crumpled beneath him, and,
clutching at a small table covered with glasses, he
collapsed in a heap on the carpet.
111.
IN the editorial room of the “Times” in Hunter-
street two men were occupied with a grave problem.
It was more pressing than that of the unemployed
cane-cutters who had been quietened for the winter
by the erection of tents on the racecourse: it over-
shadowed the coming trouble between China and
Japan which had restricted the market for trepang
and threatened to lay up half the luggers along the
coast. In its way it was one of the most delicate
questions that had ever confronted the pompous little
rag of a paper. What was to be said of Sanderson —
Sanderson, the old-timer—who had died that morning
in a private hospital outside the town? Was he to
be written up in glowing style on the leader-page, the
triumphs of his career celebrated, his character eulo-
gised, his loss lamented: or was he to be quietly
ignored in a paragraph? There was a good deal of
risk in either policy.
Weston, the editor, a serious, fat-witted old fellow
with eyes that looked watery behind their pince-nez,
sat back in his chair watching the tiny blobs of ink
spread on his blotting pad.
“If I’d only my own view to consider,” he said
weightily, “I’d let him pass out with a few lines on
the back page. It’s not as if he’d been in the lime-
light lately—not in a creditable way, anyhow. Most
of the people in the town have pretty well forgotten
him. There was a good deal about him that is best
forgotten—about both his personal characer and his
financial adventures. He faded out of public life after
that inquiry, and it’s hard to say anything now that
wouldn’t rake up dead bones... On the other hand —
well, one can’t help feeling he has his place in the
history of the district. That ought to count. There’s
a river called after him somewhere in the ranges, isn’t
there*? Then his name’s connected with the building
of that road.”
The ghost of a smile hovered round the dark,
sardonic face of Corcoran, the sub-editor.
“One of the pioneers! The old swine ought to
get the benefit of the legend. Hard-living and hard-
drinking, but with a heart of gold and the vision of
anew world opened up for future generations. Blaz-
ing the track for those who follow after. I could do
a couple of sticks on that well enough.”
Weston frowned slightly. “You don’t want to
make a joke of it. Or let people think we’re con-
doning the outrageous things he did —during the latter
part of his life, anyway.”
“Then what about taking the plunge and telling
the exact truth about him? No mud or malice, but
the whole gaff blown. I could do that with even
more pleasure. The nigger-shooting on the Jameson-
road in the early ’eighties, the money poured out
in palm-oil to get most of his contracts, the welter
he made of it in Parliament. Then his relations with
women, his wife included. Quite a juicy story it
would make, ending up with that night a month ago
when he flopped over the balcony at Cayley’s and
appeared in the lounge like a ghost.”
The old man’s glasses were fixed on his sub-
ordinate in heavy disapproval. A clever little devil,
Corcoran, but dangerous! If he only let his mind
concentrate as fully on the paper as it did on the
scandalous history of the town!
“I doubt if either of us is equipped to write the
exact truth about Sanderson,” he said drily.
“As it’s possibly known to his Maker?”
“Well—yes.”
“But I wasn’t talking of a highly-sterilised brand
like that. Merely the ordinary kind we use in our
clearer-headed moments —the reverse of what we have
to write. There are a lot of entertaining stories about
Sanderson going the rounds of pubs and private
meeting-places. They make him quite a human old
scoundrel.”
“The talk of pubs and private meeting-places isn’t
overshadowed by the law of libel,” said Weston.
“No, but I don’t think Sanderson would find
anyone to get excited and pour out money to defend
his memory. His wife’s dead, and, anv-
how, she hadn’t lived with him for
donkey’s years. Refused
even to take an allow-
ance from him, if
report’s true. And his son —they came to blows the
only time they met. Sanderson told me that himself.
The boy’s hunting a job somewhere down in the
sugar country now, and probably his opinion of the
old man would be less fit for print than anything we’re
likely to say. As for Laura —well, Laura isn’t in a
position to take up arms for Sanderson. Besides, she
never reads anything but the advertisements for
Cayley’s. ‘The most pretentious hotel in the North,
designed on modern lines for modern people.’ I
believe she thinks that folder we printed for her
is the finest bit of literature since the translation of
the English Bible.”
Weston was not listening: he was steeped in
solemn reflection. What line should the “Times”
take? We stand in a place where it is demanded
But what, after all, is truth?
“There’.; Macready,” he said. “He’s a nephew
of his. A director of the paper, to boot.”
Corcoran grinned. “And how the whole family
has done its damnedest to cover up the connection
with Sanderson! Keith was a good barometer. If
there was a chance of the old man’s stock rising again
Keith would have signalled fair weather and kept
close to him.”
He began to describe an encounter between
Macready and his shady old uncle during some cele-
brations that had marked the town’s jubilee. His
high spirits bubbled, a lively malicious look sharpened
his features. Over Weston’s pale blue-china eyes a
film of inattention spread again, for he was not
amused. He disliked Corcoran’s flippancy, the up-
ward twist of his eyebrows at the corners, the sparrow-
like way he hovered about the life of the town, pick-
ing up crumbs of comedy. There was no disputing
the fellow’s ability, but something was lacking in him
—character, fixed principles, a serious point-of-view.
Besides, they were getting away from the point. There
had never been any question of showing up Sander-
son or writing about him in ironic terms. De
mortuis All he wanted to decide was whether to
treat him like any other public figure, devoting a
couple of columns to his career, or to adopt the
drastic course of dismissing his death in a few lines.
“It seems our attitude must be dependent upon
the Macreadys,” he began, twiddling his pen. “The
trouble is we can’t ask them directly. And yet we
can’t take the risk of outraging Perhaps it would
be safer to adopt the public point of view. To let
down Sanderson is, in a sense, to let the whole dis-
trict down. For good or evil, he’s part and parcel
of its early history. In time to come his little foibles
will be forgotten.”
“And his nobler achievements will remain,”
thought Corcoran. “Mustn’t miss seeing wood for
trees. Another turn of the handle and there’s a
leading article written.”
Aloud he said, jumping up to interrupt the
rhetorical maundering of his chief: “I’ll drop in
and see Laura. We’ll be able to find out from her
how the Macreadys are taking it. Ten to one Keith
has decided to receive the old boy back into the family
and bury him with full honors.”
(i Continued on page 50.)
Sanderson stood in the middle of the floor. “Who
was Cayley?” he demanded.


Behind the story there is a rather wooden frieze of
public events arranged in stiff single file.
The characters are conventional: the stern but
upright old millowner, the son who will not follow
in his father’s footsteps and dissipates a painfully
acquired tradition, the sweet grave heroine, the charm-
ing wayward hero, the staunch second-best man.
David is the only character who lives, and he dies
all too soon for the good of the book. The manner
of telling is pleasant and smooth —a little too smooth
for a story that, fully realised, would not be smooth
at all.
Australian Writers: K. S. Prichard.
Though Australian by nationality and in the
fullest sense an Australian writer, Katharine Susannah
Prichard (Mrs. Hugo Throssell) is not Australian by
birth. She was born at Levuka, Fiji, the daughter
of T. H. Prichard, then editor of the “Fiji Times,”
but resident for the greater part of his life in Aus-
tralia, having arrived with his family from Monmouth-
shire at the age of four. Her mother was born in
Australia, a Fraser whose father came from County
Clare. Her youth Katharine Susannah Prichard spent
in Australian country districts and in Tasmania. She
was early on the Inky Way, writing for several Mel-
bourne papers before going to London in 1908 to
freelance in Fleet-street. After that she was in
America, but most of her life since has been spent
in Australia. She married in 1918 Hugo Throssell,
V.C., and a son was born in 1922. The drawing by
Dubois is best regarded as a representation of char-
acter. It is no portrait; her face is more gentle
and feminine. ,
In few writers can such a progressive pattern be
found as that which stands out from her work
up to Working Bullocks. Even since that novel, in
which she had at last struggled through to entirely
individual expression, there has been improvement, in
the sureness of her literary touch and her getting
further away from her early romanticism —thrown off
completely in Coonardoo and in the size of her
fictional canvas, as in Haxby’s Circus.
Working Bullocks contains some of her finest
writing. It is a fresh, vigorous piece of literature, with
great trees standing up in it, the very sight, scent and
sounds of the Australian bush, and the men and horses
moving through among the tree-trunks, bullocks
straining down to the wagonloads, ring of axes.
Haxby’s Circus also holds abundantly the beauty of
Australian landscape, but here, naturally enough, this
is seen fleetingly, in patches, as the circus moves mainly
through Murray River country. In Working Bullocks
the surroundings are a continuous single presence;
here the reader is in big-timber country, and some-
how a coo-ee seems to have gone reverberating all
through the novel.
The sense of actuality in this novel is so positive
that anyone who reads a novel for more than the
physical story might wish the necessity for narrative
development completely out of it so that the story
might be wholly added to his stock of life experience.
This intrusion of narrative necessity is as strongly felt
in Haxby’s Circus, in which, when the narrative
wheels are not noticeably working, the impression is
that of reading a chronicle of actual circus life. The
emotional element of her characters dominates all
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s work ; usually charac-
ters and environment are so closely knit together that
no more than a sentence or two ever stands alone
between them. If this author looks on a scene for
three sentences somebody walks across it.
Coonardoo is also a sterling novel, with compara-
tive grimness of setting ; one in which the drier inland
scene and the life there is extraordinarily suggested
by the very gait of the narrative, the paucity of
occurrence, the empty spaces of the story itself. The
sympathetic and accurate depiction of the aborigines
brought into contact with the whites is its abiding
value, which applies also to some of her finest short
stories, including “The Cooboo,” one of the finest of
all, and one of which it can be said, with more
grounds for critical confidence than usually supports
such sweeping comments, that no finer short short story
has yet been written in Australia. It is a masterpiece,
with the rich, lasting quality of folklore ; a story that
must stand as a beautiful memorial to its author
indefinitely. Originally published in The Bulletin,
“The Cooboo” is included in Kiss On the Lips, along
with a dozen other tales, every one of which has
something of the strong quality that first showed up
fully in Working Bullocks and has remained in her
work since.
Katharine Susannah Prichard must carry within
her an exceptionally adamantine artistic integrity, for
she might much more easily than most have taken the
wide flowery way to —nothing. Her first published
novel, The Pioneers, won in 1915 an all-British novel
competition with a prize of £lOOO. The work is so
juvenile, so derivative of the very lightest sort of
romanticising about bush settlement, that its likelihood
of winning any prize, except in a juvenile class, seems
incredible to-day. Dozens of writers have written
better first novels, and quite a number of Australians
have written novels as good, have been published and
praised —and have accepted that as literary achieve-
ment. Among other singular judgments, The Bulletin
itself called The Pioneers “a splendid novel”!
Happily, none of this influenced the author. Another
novel, written before The Pioneers, was published the
same year ; her next came out in 1921, full of signs
that - here was a writer who was not going to be stam-
peded by flattery into a “career,” who was self-
contained, and who had her own estimate of literary
values. This novel was called by the publishers The
Black Opal, though the author, with more literary
sensitiveness and accuracy of label, called it Black
Opal. It shows increasing improvement, but the
romantic-fiction machinery moves rather largely in it.
Then came Working Bullocks (1926), Coonardoo and
Haxby’s Circus, and no novels more vital have been
written in Australia. Another novel is being published
in London this month.
Katharine Susannah Prichard has also written a
play, “Brumby Innes,” which won a “Triad” competi-
tion for the best Australian three-act play ; her short
story “The Grey Horse” won an “Art in Australia”
short-story competition ; and Coonardoo was awarded
a £5OO prize in the first Bulletin Novel Competition.
Her literary output also includes a volume of verse
in the “free” manner, but there is probably more
poetry entangled in any one of scores of her prose
paragraphs than in the whole of this work. There is
also an incredible book on Russia and other soapbox
writings—rather a sorry spectacle when one of her
creative ability turns to mere direct polemics.
CHARACTERS AND SCENE.
This is from Haxby’s Circus : —
Monty, Syd, Les, Bob and Rabe sat down on the
grass beside the food Gina had spread out for them.
She passed plates of corned beef to her young brothers
and put Dan’s ready for him. Rabe said he did not
want anything to eat; a cup of tea would do him. Gina
made it strong, black, sweetened it with sugar and set the
quart pot down beside him. For herself she took a
couple of bunches of grapes, muscatels and flame
Tokays. Filled with sunshine, rose-tinted, the grapes
hung along their stalks, some of them mauve and burned
dry, as they turned to raisins, others pale-green and
cool as iced water.
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD.
Gina had been teased a good deal about the young
farmer who held up the circus wagons that morning to
present Dan with a sack of grapes. Rocca called him
her “beau” because he had been following the show
around. From Bendigo and Southern Cross to Mallee
he had been at every performance for a week, and this
morning, just after sunrise, had ridden out from an old
white-washed homestead among trees. Gina on Bonnie
looked out to see the young man streaking across pad-
docks,' gilded with early sunshine. He had waited at a
long white gate for the circus wagons to pass, given Dan
a cheery “good morning,” and presented the grapes.
“Thanks. Thanks very much.” Dan had taken the
bag of grapes and stowed them away on the buckboard.
“See you at the show to-night?”
“I’ll be there,” the young man answered heartily, and
stood staring at Gina as the wagons moved on.
“Go on, give him a wave, Gi,” Lily teased. “It’s
good for business and Dad’s not looking.”
Gina turned in her saddle and waved back to the
horseman standing beside that long white gate in the
fence round his paddocks. She had seen his hat fly
off and watched him canter away over the stubble fields
again.
Dan pulled up after awhile and handed out bunches
of grapes. Everybody had eaten grapes as they rode
along. Gina gave handfuls to Beauty and Bonnie. Even
the bears and monkeys had a cluster or two.
The sky was the color of grapes now, flame of the
Tokays and gold of the muscatels, clear pale light
washing high up into the faded blue; mists among the
trees like bloom on the purple and black grapes.
Coming through vineyard country, Gina had seen
men and boys in blue trousers, limp felt hats, picking
cartloads of grapes like these. Standing among rows of
vines, under bare blue skies, they snipped off . great
bunches and piled them into spring carts drawn by
staunch, slow-going, ruddy-brown, bay or roan horses.
Sometimes the circus wagons passed these carts on the
road, and men or boys driving gave the girls bunches
from their flamy, green and amber loads. As often as
not Jack or Rocca bought a case of grapes. But Gina
thought she had never tasted grapes as nice as these
“her beau” had brought her; all liquid sugar and sun-
shine, they were.
She wondered who the young man was as she lay
on the grass beside Rabe and the boys, happily con-
scious that the day had been permeated by a faint
odor and taste of grapes. Who was the young man,
she wondered. What was his name? It was real nice
of him to bring the grapes like that. Her hands sought
the used mugs and plates. She started to clear away
after the meal.
DESCRIPTION.
It is only necessary to take up Coonardoo,
Haxby’s Circus or Working Bullocks and let it fall
open at any place to see Katharine Susannah
Prichard’s mastery in dialogue. Phraseology, idiom,
the whole rhythm and structure of Australian speech,
are to be found in those novels. Therefore that part
of her craft can be left to be taken for granted in
order to make room for this description from
Working Bullocks : —
When the team had spelled a day, Red brought the
big whim into action. The Marloo she was called,
and considered the biggest whim in the south-west.
Her wheels stood 10 feet high, and the tallest man in
the country could not touch her arch, standing with arms
upstretched beneath it. Red was going to work the
Marloo on a tree which stood 200 feet to the first
branch, and lay awkwardly on a steep hillside. The
log would take some moving, he reckoned, and he had
requisitioned 40 bullocks for the job, 10 pairs of picked
beasts, for his own and Billy Williams’s teams.
The teams and whim had to break their way through
the bush and between trees to where the log had fallen,
just over the brow and sloping down the hill.
While the bullocks spelled out from the whim, Billy
Hicks and Ern Collins dug under the log on either
side, looking like queer busy beetles beside the great tree,
whose crest of sear leaves and broken branches lay
scattered for hundreds of yards about them. Billy passed
a wire rope under the butt, where he had been digging,
and across the brand of ’Orey Smirke’s and Bolshey’s
initials. Red hooked the bullocks he was going to
move the log with into position at the other end of the
rope. Ern Collins, winding another wire rope round
the butt, threw it out on the opposite side; Billy
Williams caught it and hooked on his team. Strung out
on either side of the huge butt, the bullocks looked as
if they would pull in opposite directions. But Red’s
team was to haul out, and Billy’s pull back and prevent
a crash of logs and beasts down the sheer hillside if the
log got under way too quickly.
As Red swung out his whip and the bullocks
huddled against the log, they lowed and jostled each
other, knowing the effort and terror before them. Red
swinging out before them called to the leaders with great
rousing shouts, his whip lashing and volleying about
them:
“Come up, Rusty!
Rusty! Rover!
Robber! Sport!
Ginger! Tom!
Come up, Rusty!”
Backs bowed, heads down, horns rattling, the bul-
locks struggled. The men shouted.
The log did not move. Red put his team at it
again, crowding the bullocks against the log while Billy
held his beasts ready to support if the log got away too
fast. Again and again Red swung out, shouting and
working the bullocks up to a pull; but the fallen tree
scarcely moved. Red inspected the log and the slope
of the hillside to see where his generalship was at fault.
He took off his hat, and raked back the heavy gingery-
red hair, lying sweated against his head.
“She ought to go,” he said. “They’re not pulling.
Oil ’em up a bit, Billy.”
He went back to the leaders. Standing out before
the bullocks, his voice rang harsh and threatening. The
dancing snake of his whip cut the hides of the crouching
beasts. Billy Hicks laid into a sulky red-poled bullock
against the pin which a branch picked up from the
ground, and Ern Collins lammed the beast nearest to
him with the flat of his shovel. Through the clash of
voices, the lash and cracking of his whip, Red shouted
hoarsely:
“Come up, Rusty!
Rusty! Rover!
Robber! Sport!”
The swampers danced and yelled, hats off, waving
their arms and whacking the beasts with spades and
branches. Coughing, gasping, in a spurtie of dust and
bark, the bullocks lurched and staggered forward. The
log moved. Bill Williams roused his bullocks to hold it
in place. The swampers yelled, waving their arms for
Red to halt his team as the log was getting too much
pace on. Red swung his team over.
Negotiating, slowly, steadily, no more than a foot
at a time the great log was drawn across the hillside
and got into position so that the whim could be steered
over it.
Trees, beyond the gap of brilliant sunshine where the
king karri had fallen in the forest, threw heavy shade.
Red spelled the teams working on the log in the shade,
and took two pairs of bullocks he had held in reserve
to move the whim over the log.
In position, great wheels straddling the fallen tree,
a chain, heavy as a ship’s anchor chain, was looped
from the whim under the log. A back chain with huge
iron hooks biting into its flesh prevented the log running
backwards when it swung off the ground as the bul-
locks moved.
Red brought over the full teams and crowded
the bullocks, in four strings of 10, against the log, under
the whim. Horns rattling, chains clashing, heads thrust
forward, eyes startled, protruding and bloodshot, the
bullocks waited for the crack of whips, the lash and
crashing of men’s voices, and struggled to move forward
under the whips and voices, pulled, swaying, neck
strained, great bodies taut. Whim and log moved. The
bullocks staggered and floundered. Red, yelling, furious
and exultant, danced beside them, his whip volleying;
Billy, shouting and whirling, kept his bullocks to the pull
they had got under.
The whim moved off down the hill at such a pace
that it looked as if whim and log would crash over the
teams and bullock-drivers. Billy Hicks, sitting on the
whim behind the log, screwed down the brake, which he
could just hold. His was the position of danger, and he
hung on to the brake down the stiff slopes, knowing any
unexpected jerk or jolting of the brake from his hands
would send him to his long sleep, as it had done many a
good swamper before him.
The whim and great log rocked and swayed like a
ship in a stormy sea as the teams swung downhill,
Red and Billy Williams striding out to keep up with the
pace the bullocks made.
As the bullocks swerved to a curve in the track,
Red saw an old man and a girl on a spring-cart working
away among the trees. The girl, standing in the cart,
turned to look at the whim. Her face swam to Red,
barred by saplings, spattered with leaves and sunlight.
He had a vague idea of having seen it before; but his
eyes and brain were filled by the whim and the bullocks.
There was only the track whim wheels had broken
through the bush that morning to follow', and a way had
to be steered between trees, fallen timber, old stumps.
When the teams turned into the road to the land-
ing, Red halted them for a breather. Dust rose about
the knees of the beasts and above the whim wheels in
fine red mist. The bullocks, with heaving sides, stood
coughing and gasping, eyes wild and bloodshot, noses
bleeding from the terror and strain they had come
through. But the worst of the haul was over. It was
slow and easy going, up and down low hills to the rake
lines. A moving cloud of red dust hid bullocks, men
and whim as they moved on again.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
The Pioneers (Hodder and Stoughton, 1915); Windle-
straws (Holden and Hardingham, 1915; written prior
to The Pioneers ); The Black Opal (Heinemann, 1921);
Working Bullocks (Cape, 1926); “Brumby 'three-
act play (1927; not yet published); The Wild Oats of
Han (Angus and Robertson, 1928); Coonardoo (Cape,
1930) Haxby’s Circus (Cape, 1930); Earth Lover
(Sunnybrook Press, 1931); Kiss on the Lips (Cape,
1931) The Real Russia (Modern Publishers, 1934).
Political Pamphlets. —The New Order; Marx
the Man and His Work; The Materialist Conception.
Anthologies Containing Short Stories. Tates
from Far and Near (Appleton); Capajon (Jonathan
Cape); An Australian Story Book (Angus and Robert-
son); Australian Short Stories (Dent).


3
DIAMOND CENTRE CRIP
PREVENTS
ACCIDENTS
WHEN YOU BUY
If safety means anything to
you, when buying tyres you’ll
look for the full diamonds of
the “G-3” - the world’s safest
tyre.
The centre-tread diamonds
right round the “G-3” make
it the quickest-stopping of all
tyres. The sharp edges of the
deep-cut diamond blocks form
a right-angled check to skid-
ding in ANY direction.
It’s easy to realise the power-
ful road-grip of the full
diamonds if you press the
palm of your hand down on
the “G-3” tread next time you
buy tyres.
A
\
5-C7-37
MADE
I A
II S T It A L I A


*
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
■
A. *AA|
Ml
nun
■Hh
««
; I i
I'l . AS -A,
HI
■
WS®m
■
■■
ng
HH
—'i ''i'l*
BteiiiL., -•I-4?S
■kjK
■
A
Hi
m
mm®
MM
H 1
Immi
m
%m.
m
K I 1 1
m
m
mmm
m
Li
m
m
:
■
m ill
H
—H W
A
P«HHhE:
ip. Bfc}; 1-:■?lnnnranitipii
m
l 1
rrrii
& 111 |3l n f 'III! Mil/ 1
H |
Is- IS: - ill A:!: I
Hp§ . .
/i i * *w ' mi «g|yj?
i s
It Hi
If ||S|®P
: ■
s£mMsi
I H ■
Jf
HH
"V
:':
:; : s;
:' I |
ll
"i
■si
isa-,,a: ;
iiiiiiiliiiiiiiiii
U
r -S
| Iff; I -
■ : 11
'
lilil
A- Ills Il'll
II ;
llslll!
•<■ < ~, // / 1 3i mi - si IMife a-s., <
/is'S - 4
i 1
&
an
~
A .
Further View of One of the Huge Storage Cellars,


THIS WALL WON’T FALL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: T. B. Browne, Ltd., 163 Queen Victoria
Street, London, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d. New
Hebrides and United Kingdom via France or
America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
AN "IMPLEMENTED" MARKETING
"SCHEME."
In the ugly jargon of their tribe, Mr. Lyons and his
friends certify that all manner of blessings will flow
from Federal marketing “schemes” if the annoying
Constitutional impediment which stands in the way
of their being “implemented” is removed. The gentle-
men are a bit vague as to the benefits to be derived
by consumers, and also as to whether these benefits,
if any, will outweigh the loss of the right guaranteed
in Section 92 of the Constitution: “Absolute” free-
dom of “trade, commerce and intercourse among the
States, whether by internal carriage or ocean navi-
gation.” Evidently it is thought that specific assur-
ances are not required.
In any case, there exists a marketing “scheme,”
fully “implemented,” which 800,000 adult consumers
have had ample opportunities of studying for them-
selves. The place is Sydney ; the authority is a board ;
the commodity is milk.
This board is “charged with control of the supply
and distribution of all milk supplied for consumption
in the metropolitan area.” It derives its powers from
an Act passed in 1931, and within its State field it is
supreme—as supreme as marketing boards will be
in the Commonwealth field if the people add to
Section 92 an “amendment” that will make it worth-
less. Criticism of the board’s administration —and it
has been in office for five years —has been vehement
and incessant. The stock reply from the Treasury
benches in Macquarie-street, Sydney, is that nothing
can be done: “the board is in full control.”
Yet the Government has twice found it expedient
to subject the concern to the tedious interruption of
an inquiry by royal commission. The first commis-
sion was handed in 1933 to an eminent K.C. (retired).
His curiosity was aroused by unusual financial trans-
actions dating from December 29, 1931, the very
day after the appointment to the board, as chairman,
of Mr. Hamilton, then one of the joint managers of
Daily Farmers, had been “approved.”
From December 29 onwards large sums of money
belonging to the company had been made available to
themselves by the joint managers. One sum of over
£7OO was cash received from the branches, not banked,
and handed to the managers apparently on December
29. Other moneys received by the managers prior to
Mr. Hamilton’s retirement [on January 4, 1932] consisted,
among others, of cheques, drawn on the company’s
account, for £750, £237 and £550. Two of these cheques
were drawn without a named payee; the other was
drawn for wages and admittedly was not for that pur-
pose.
It was alleged that these large sums “were used
in payment of special cash rebates to customers of
the company.”
At the inquiry, Mr. Hamilton was asked to name cus-
tomers to whom he had paid these cash rebates. He
named some 40 persons although he could not posi-
tively swear. All the people on the list, with the excep-
tion of two, absent in the country, were called, and with
the exception of three denied that they had received any
cash rebates.
So the Commissioner was driven to the con-
clusion that “a large portion of the £3500 was not
spent by the managers in the way they have indi-
cated.” Nevertheless, he reported that there was “no
evidence before me to prove for what purpose this
money was spent or that it was applied corruptly.”
I therefore find that there is no evidence that any
improper or corrupt practices or acts were used to
obtain the appointment of Mr. Hamilton or any person
to the Milk Board.
Dairy Farmers became the board’s principal agent.
In February, 1932, Mr. Hamilton, “advancing what
I believe was his honest opinion,” pressed for the
appointment of Dairy Farmers as sole agent. He
was outvoted.
Bottled cream is delivered in Sydney suburbs at
the caviare price of 7d. a quarter-pint. The first Com-
missioner mentioned a case in which Dairy Farmers
bought 35,000 gallons of South Coast cream, without
the board’s knowledge, at 6s. 3d. a gallon (“had it
been purchased under the board’s direction the cost
would have been 7s. 6d.”), and got it carried free
over the insolvent Government railways. The trans-
action was a “breach of the law,” and by it Dairy
Farmers “gained a very considerable sum.”
Other “breaches” on the part of agents were de-
tailed by the first Commissioner. “Standardisation,” in
particular. Fresh Food and Ice “ran separated milk
into milk intended for consumption.” Dairy Farmers
pumped “the lower and weaker contents” of milk
vats into other milk intended for consumption, and
then “pumped the upper layer for separation for
cream.” Each method was an offence against the
Pure Food Act.
This Commissioner, however, wound up by
agreeing generally that, “in the face of great difficul-
ties, the Milk Board has endeavored honestly and
successfully to perform the duties imposed on it by
their acceptance of office under the Milk Act.”
The other Royal Commissioner was appointed
last year. He took evidence for several months, the
depositions running to millions of words. His
report has been handed to the Government. It is
expected to deal, among other things, with allega-
tions that separated milk has been sold to consumers
at four times the price paid to the farmer. It may
be published before Referendum Day and it may not.
This inquiry was launched largely at the instance
of dissatisfied farmers, some of whom protested that,
under “control,” they were getting too little for their
milk and consumers were paying too much. This is
not to be disputed.
Dairymen delivering milk to country factories get
lid. to 11+d. a gallon for whole milk and 7d. to
7jd. for separated milk. The board sells to the distri-
buting companies—in Sydney, Dairy Farmers and
Fresh Food and Ice —at Is. Id. and 9d., and they sell
whole milk to vendors at Is. sd. The “maximum”
retail price of this country milk is 7d. a quart; and
“dairymen within the metropolitan district who retail
their own milk are entitled to charge up to Bd.
a quart.”
These have been the rates in good seasons and
bad. If lid. to a gallon for whole milk and
7d. to 7-Id. for separated milk were fair prices in
good years, they were not fair prices last year when
supplying districts were suffering from drought and
farmers were under heavy additional expense for
purchase of fodder. And all along the consumer has
got it in the neck. Before this marketing “scheme”
was “implemented,” he could buy good milk, deliv-
ered, at sd. and s£d. a quart. But Dairy Farmers,
and Fresh Food and Ice (incidentally, each has a
U.A.P. politician among its bosses) have done rather
well. A Dairy Farmers prospectus admits that annual
profits rose from £2411 in 1931-32 to £15,515 in
1934-35 and £15,934 last year; and Fresh Food and
Ice profits shot up from £4052 to £16,400.
Annual consumption of milk in Sydney is round
20,000,000 gallons, and supplies are drawn from
districts which could furnish 65,000,000 to 70,000,000
gallons. So arbitrary limitation is practised, and dis-
tricts like the North Coast, from which the best butter
comes, are excluded altogether from the market. The
board decides how much milk it will take from par-
ticular districts and individual dairymen, and if it
decides that it will take no milk at all from them at
certain times there is no one to gainsay it. And it
licenses or withholds licenses from dairymen, vendors
and shopkeepers at its own sweet will.
In its report for the year to June 30, 1935, the
board complacently records that it “purchased three
most interesting milk films” from Britain and “has
exhibited these in the suburbs and at schools, where
they have been very well received.” But under this
“implemented” marketing “scheme” it has not fol-
lowed the British practice of distributing free milk
at schools ; there has been some legal barrier or other
to that. Few individuals would have the face to
conduct a “Drink More Milk” campaign, with milk
at sevenpence and eightpence a quart, among the
children of men on the basic wage, relief work and
the dole ; but boards are different.
The Auditor-General notes that for the period
Jan. 1, 1932, to June 30, 1936, Milk Board “adminis-
tration and overhead expenses” reached “£118,377,”
which amount was exclusive of the £7OOO or £BOOO
spent on the two inquiries. “Advertising and pub-
licity” for the last twelvemonth cost £9392, £1656
having been spent on “staging the play ‘The Milky
Way.’ ” “Payments for freight amounting to £63,151,”
not being “subject to audit check,” were “not capable
of audit verification.” “Bonuses given to a section
of the producers” were “not legally payable and await
validation by legislation.” There is a time limit for
“payment of moneys due to the board by the distri-
buting companies” ; it has “not been strictly com-
plied with by one of the companies.”
Truly a perfect example of an “implemented”
marketing “scheme.” All the features are present:
prohibition of the free movement of goods ; enforced
restriction of supplies; arbitrary fixing of prices;
complete government by regulation, and, in the result,
an outrageous price for a commodity which children
must have in abundance if they are to grow up healthy
and strong. And, for the skinned consumer and
the dissatisfied producer, no appeal to Parliament—
the Government merely authorises costly and useless
inquiries and Parliament washes its hands of the
whole business. Yet politicians who have inflicted this
atrocity on the people of Sydney are demanding more
and bigger marketing “schemes.” The role they
assign to the victims is to vote inter-State freetrade
out of the Constitution and then to wait with sheep-
like resignation for what will be coming to them.
Left Again.
It is two years and four months since the British
Government began negotiating with Canberra for a
new air-mail agreement. It proposed to establish an
all-Empire flying-boat service, carrying mails at Iyd.
a letter and reducing transit time to Australia from
13 days to seven days. The arrangement was to be
inaugurated in the first quarter of this year.
It was hoping against hope that the Lyons Govern-
ment would accept such a scheme in a reasonable
tirne. Ine Lyons Government makes a practice of
being odd man out, and here it was asked for a
subsidy so that what it calls its “air-mail fee to the
United Kingdom” might be lowered by Is. 4\d. a
letter, overseas communications being speeded up in
the process. Months elapsed before it could say any-
thing coherent on the subject. Then Mr. Parkhill was
heard to mumble something to the effect that he was
for the retention of the service whose transit time,
when achieved, is 13 days—because flying-boats would
be too slow!
Last week the first of the 24-passenger flying-
boats designed for the British authorities left South-
ampton to fly to Australia on an experimental journey.
At once Mr. Lyons announced that agreement had
been reached.
It is a grudging sort of agreement with some
good jokes in it. For instance, the Lyons Govern-
ment has “decided to retain a surcharge on outward
mail at an inclusive rate of sd. a half-ounce” —its
extortionists held on to the eighteenpenny exaction
until public opinion forced them off it—retention
being “subject to the right to adopt the carriage of all
mails without surcharge.” In other words, while
inward letters will be carried for three-halfpence, out-
ward letters will cost fivepence till the Lyons Govern-
ment exercises the “right” which nobody ever thought
of challenging.
Flying-boats are to be used, of course. They
are used everywhere on the type of route represented
by the Singapore-Sydney section, but if they do not
turn out satisfactorily Australia may withdraw from
the arrangement.
And Qantas-Empire, with the Commonwealth
Government, will control the route from Singapore
to Sydney. It would be better to have the whole
route under one British-Australian authority, but this
the Parkhills would not have, and the British con-
ceded the point. For all practical purposes, because
they are providing the boats and most of the capital,
they are already in control. There is to be no pro-
vision for major repairs and engine overhauls at this
end —the Lyons Government conceded that very im-
portant point—so Britain will be the home base for
every machine in the service.
The cost to Australians will be comparatively
small. There is to be an annual payment of £32,000
to £52,000 sterling, according to quantity of mail
carried. In addition, the Commonwealth will have to
find £30,000 for ground organisation and mainten-
ance.
Mr. Lyons accompanied his announcement ot
the agreement with a long explanation. He considers
it sounder to keep the surcharge, and he is all
for Australian control which practically he has
not got. Still his remarks about it are interesting
—“the policy of Australian control has so far proved
exceptionally successful, both financially and opera-
tionally.” Anybody who couldn’t make a success ot
carrying letters at the rate of 18d. per half-ounce in
a light, slow-speed aeroplane must be a poor business-
man.
However, Mr. Lyons finds that “the existing
twice-a-week service can be operated at a net cost
much less than the once-weekly through service under
the cheapest of the Imperial Airways offers.” To
the Prime Minister the fact that the new service
gives double the passenger accommodation, several
times the mail accommodation and five times the com-
fort—these machines have sleeping berths and dwart
the D.H.B6’s now on the route—means nothing.
That Australia acquires the services of machines which
in war-time could land 100 men per day 500 miles
from the coast, and which have an emergency range
of 1500 miles, does not impress the Prime Minister.
And he is concerned about the safety of the
flving-boats as compared with the D.H.B6’s. They
may, he says, have advantages for the Timor crossing,
but
it is to be questioned whether they possess advantages
on the score of safety over the whole route, bearing in
mind that they must be flown over some 350 miles of
land between Darwin and the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
over some 400 miles of land between Normanton and
Townsville.
The minds of politicians work curiously. The
new machines are about 17 tons burden. They are
literally ship-built, and at sea could withstand a storm.
Their range is such that they have a 300 p.c. margin
over the distances which Mr. Lyons mentions. Their
engine power is such and so distributed that it is
difficult to conceive circumstances short of sheer
catastrophe in which they could not reach the open
sea in case of partial breakdown. Yet, while Mr.
Lyons doubts their maximum safety—and if his
doubts are well based he should not have agreed
at all to their use apparently he has had no
qualms about the ’planes in use, which, slower,
smaller, less staunch, have been negotiating the Singa-
pore-Australia crossing for a couple of years without
raising a single spasm of fear in the Ministerial bosom.
Exactly why politicians should feel themselves
qualified to interfere on the technical side of such
matters is not clear. They would not think of trying
to teach the Orient Co., whose mail subsidy is to be
continued, its business in regard to hulls, machinery
and internal details. If they did they would probably
be told to put their heads in a bag.
The net result of the protracted negotiations is
that Australia will at last find itself served with
modern overseas aircraft working on a reasonable
schedule, but it will remain the only country in the
British Commonwealth which pays a heavy surcharge
on its external air mail. Under the new British
arrangement it will cost a halfpenny less to send a
letter from London to Melbourne than it costs to
send a letter from The Bulletin office to the other
side of George-street, Sydney. This must be marked
up as another of the great gifts which have come to
the public from the Lyons Government.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parkes "Went Too Far."
“When our grandfathers wanted to abolish inter-State
tariff duties they used language that went too far.”
— Attorney-General Menzies in Melbourne Town Hall.
In Marketing and the Constitution (Melbourne
University Press) Professors Giblin and Bailey point
out that “general prohibitions fettering the exercise
of legislative powers are a quite common feature of
all Federal Constitutions. The whole object of insert-
ing them is to prevent infringements of fundamental
and agreed principle, under pressure from sectional
interests or from temporary exigencies.” It would
almost seem that the professors expected the too-
clever Mr. Menzies to say what he said at that Town
Hall meeting.
Henry Parkes was the author of Section 92. It
was the substance of the second resolution he pro-
posed at the Sydney Convention of 1891: “That the
trade and intercourse between the Federated colonies,
whether by means of land carriage or coastal navi-
gation, shall be absolutely free.” Of the thing as finally
adopted (“On the imposition of uniform duties of
customs, trade, commerce and intercourse among the
States, whether by means of internal carriage or
ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free”), Quick
and Garran wrote in their “Commentaries”:
This section is intended to provide for the perfect
freedom of trade and commerce among the States. In
order to secure that object the strongest possible words
have been used. Nothing has been left to implica-
tion ....
Absolute freedom of trade may be defined as the
right to introduce goods, wares and merchandise from
one State into another, the right to sell the same
and the right to travel unburdened by State restrictions,
regulations or obstructions. Freedom of trade neces-
sarily means the right to sell as well as the right to
introduce, and the right td travel in order to sell. The
right of introduction without the right of distribution
would reduce freedom of trade to an empty name.
But a new breed of politicians has arisen, and
their cry is that Parkes “went too far” —secured for
the Australians to the remotest generation more free-
dom than it is good for them to have.
Parkes “went too far.” Our Parkhills and Pater-
sons will “correct the position”—if they can.
Taxation by Groups.
Dear Bulletin, —No Government has a right to
authorise any group of persons to tax the consuming
public for its own profit. It is to enable the Com-
monwealth Government to do this very thing that
the “amendment” of the Constitution that Section 92
“shall not apply to laws with respect to marketing” is
proposed.
To endow any group of persons representing any
interest with legislative authority to fix the price
which the Australian public must pay for any neces-
sary commodity is to enable such group to levy a tax.
Under the policy hitherto in force, but declared
by the Privy Council to be illegal, the people of the
Commonwealth were compelled to pay for necessary
commodities produced in Australia from 10 per cent,
to 50 per cent, more than the price at which the people
of Britain were enabled to obtain them, notwith-
standing the cost of transport across the world. It
is to give legal authority to the continuance and exten-
sion of this state of things that the proposed “amend-
ment” of our Constitution is advocated.
The proposal really amounts to an attempt to
revive in the twentieth century in Australia the legal-
ised establishment of a system of monopolies which
led to so many abuses that it was abolished by the
British Parliament in the sixteenth century.
Our primary producers are protected in their
home market by a prohibitive tariff, and that is all
any industry has a right to ask. —Yours etc., Arthur
Griffith (formerly Secretary for Public Works and
Minister of Public Instruction).
The Craze for Electrification.
In Sydney last week, A. D. J. Forster, managing
director of the Clyde Engineering Co. (he used to
be a State Railway Commissioner and a member of
the Tariff Board), gloomily mentioned in the Arbi-
tration Court that his company is making practically
no locomotives, “although a big section of its plant
was designed for that work.”
We used to turn out 50 engines a year. Last year we
made three —all for Tasmania. No orders are being
placed by the N.S.W. Government. The electrification
of the Sydney suburban railway system is probably the
reason.
The N. S. Wales Railway Department, now run
by a trained accountant, has a craze for electrifica-
tion, though electrification in these parts never pays.
It seems a queer craze for a country which has so
much coal to sell and so much difficulty in finding
foreign buyers, though they used to be numerous ;
but the N. S. Wales Government and Government
departments are addicted to queer crazes.
Sea Harvesting.
The Japanese who have been fishing off the North
Australian coast are now extending their operations.
Double the fish taken away last year will be carried
to the depot at Singapore and thence distributed.
The ships trawl a few miles off the North Aus-
tralian shore from a home base 4000 miles away.
Any lost on the way would scarcely be missed. Japan
has 359,000 fishing-boats, of which 10,000 are deep-
sea going. About 800,000 of the population is engaged
permanently in the fishing industry, and another
725,000 occasionally when other occupations are
slack. There are also about 20 floating canneries
at work.
The output of fish from British Columbia is
worth over £3,000,000 p.a. Britain’s fisheries are
worth £15,000,000 p.a. Australia, with the greatest
undeveloped fisheries in the world, imports sea-food.
Imports over a number of years have been lound about
£1,500,000 p.a., and duties which run to 4d. a pound
do not blot out the trade. Sardine purchases alone
send £BOO,OOO out of the country to Europe. Yet
Australian seas teem with the fish which in the Medi-
terranean is called the sardine, in Norway the sild and
elsewhere the pilchard. Shoals are to be met a mile
wide during the migration season when the. fish move
northwards. But only the seabirds, which follow
them in thousands, fish for them.
Attempts are now being made by Captain F. T.
G. Dunn, a Queenslander, to organise large-scale
fishing in North Australia. The captain was once
in the service of the Alaska Packing Co., which
handles a long stretch of coastal fishing on the Ameri-
can Pacific Coast, and afterwards in charge of the
fleet of the Monterey Canning Co. After exploration
of the north coast of Australia, off the Kimberleys
in particular, he declares that there are at least 20
shoaling-fish varieties which seasonally can be cap-
tured in Australian waters in hauls as large as any-
where in the world. His scheme is to build a well-
equipped fishing village to begin the development ol
the industry and to operate with modern ships.
It is an idea worth attention. A few white
villages backed by abo. labor along the Kimberley
coast would make the lonely bays and inlets look
.a little more homely on the map. It is up to Aus-
tralia to realise this before Asiatic fishermen who
operate a few miles out to sea off those regions be-
come possessed of the same idea.
Apart from anything else, a fisherman popula-
tion is, as Britain and Germany have discovered, a
fine basis for the human part of the naval defence
nucleus. No nation without capable seamen has ever
succeeded in defending itself navally.
"It's Old Pull It Down!"
“J.H.M.A.”: The decision of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to demolish the old Convict Barracks at the
top of King-street, Sydney, is what might have been
expected in a community which allowed Dr. John
Dunmore Lang’s Scots Church to be pulled down
unnecessarily and stood by whilst Fort Macquarie
gave place to a tramshed.
The oldest city in the Commonwealth has always
been careless of its historic relics, and now, besides
the Commissariat ‘Stores in Sydney Cove, St. James’s
Church, the Supreme Court and Petty’s Hotel, there
is hardly anything left of Old Sydney. An eleventh-
hour movement is on foot to save Greenway’s fine
piece of architecture, which, with St. James’s opposite,
preserves in the heart of the city something of the
little town whose 150th birthday is to be celebrated
next year.
A suggestion has been made that it should be
handed over to the Royal Australian Historical
Society, on a guarantee of restoration and repair, to
be used as a historical museum. There is no real
necessity for the demolition of the old Macquarie
building. Its use in the way proposed would be an
educational advantage to a people so forgetful of
its own story as is Sydney’s.
Bawling for Babies.
From a young man in Melbourne:
Commonwealth politicians and city leader-writers are
renewing their pleas for more intensive Australian breeding.
Bawled in the abstract, “populate or perish” sounds good and
lusty. The difference between Mr. W. M. Hughes and the agi-
tated leader-writers is purely professional; where Mr. Hughes
fondles the nearest infant for the pleasure of inter-State
cameramen the writers view their subject with impractical
detachment. Politically, young couples agree that Australia
should fill its empty spaces; personally—well, they like children,
but they reckon they know their own business.
If Mr. Hughes corners a few of his young acquaintances,
he’ll find them quite prepared to discuss the matter; but
neither abstract blundering nor the shrewdest of political clap-
trap will change their minds. They have budgets to balance,
insignificant enough from a departmental viewpoint and
operated on entirely different principles, but all-important to
the young people themselves.
Any loan they secure they must repay. They can’t get
easy credits and hope for a debt, like the national one, that
will outlast their earthly existence. When thoughts turn to
babies, they think in the singular. A baby might be just a
vital statistic to Mr. Hughes, but it is a staggering budget
entry, a Big Thing, in the average young couple’s household.
There is the upkeep in addition to the initial expense.
Most young couples in the cities haven’t any empty spaces to
fill; they occupy flats. Lots of them can’t earn money enough
to get a place with a garden; others don’t feel secure enough
or happy enough about the future that will belong to their
children.
Modern means of communication and a general educa-
tion system have made the average young man and young
woman more thoughtful than those of a generation ago.
They won’t be calling in the maternity doctor until they can
pay for the result.
The Hawker Demon Smash.
“D.N.L.”: North-west Tasmania was the scene of the
latest R.A.A.F. mishap. Two Hawker Demons set
out from Laverton (Vic.) bound for Hobart with
orders to call at Wynyard (Tas.) for petrol. In very
thick easterly weather, with a low cloud ceiling, they
missed this point, and, with petrol giving out, found
themselves over wild country to the south.
One machine made a forced landing on the
main road at Waratah ; it had petrol for only 10
minutes left. The other crashed 25 miles to the north-
west in heavy scrub after striking a hillside head on.
A two days’ search from land and air followed,
a Wackett Gannet being sent from Sydney and a
’plane from Hobart. Both men —Pilot-Officer Bus-
combe and Sergeant Gould —were found, luckily with-
out serious hurt. Both ’planes were damaged, the
second one irreparably. The country is so rugged
that it took a land party five hours to travel three
miles.
The incident draws attention to (1) the inadequate
flying range of Hawker Demons, and (2) the dis-
advantages of the aerodrome at Wynyard. The
Hawker Demons were not able to fly Bass Strait and
still have petrol enough to search lengthily for a
landing ground. It should never have been necessary
for them to be ordered to proceed to Wynyard.
As for the aerodrome, it has a range of hills on
the south ; the Rocky Cape ranges, frequently under
fog or cloud, on the west; Table Cape and rolling
hills to the north-west. The country attracts heavy
fogs, rain hazes and naturally a low cloud ceiling.
The unfortunate aviator caught in heavy weather —
Tasmania can supply this —cannot come below the
cloud ceiling for fear of hills, and if he goes above
it—well, the experience of Lieut. Buscombe is enough.
Mr. Pearce, when Minister for Defence, visited
the locality and was shown different sites for a
terminal airport. The choice lay between Smithton
and Wynyard.
The Smithton ’drome is on a plain two miles by
three miles. Between it and the sea, half a mile away,
the highest obstruction is a 70-foot funnel. It is
singularly free of fogs, owing to the constant air move-
ment (the Southern Ocean is 20 miles westward, and
Bass Strait is at the door)- Smithton Heads, 12 miles
of yellow sand —an aerodrome in itself —and the
Stanley “Nut” to the east make distinctive landmarks.
This ’drome can be approached from the sea with
perfect safety at 200 feet; the clouds never form a
ceiling that low. It is due south of Brighton (Vic.).
All the islands in western Bass Strait lie between
it and Laverton. Any machine in Australia can land
there with safety; the Windhover D.H.B6’s and all
various R.A.A.F. ’planes have actually used it.
In the early stages of construction Smithton resi-
dents were given to understand that their ’drome
would be the first Tasmanian port of call. They
provided over £l2OO for the work, asking for only
£5OO from the Government. Then their ’drome was
abandoned in favor of Wynyard, on which money
has been spent without stint. It has been demon-
strated at a cost of thousands of pounds, and with
grave risk to two useful servants of the country, how
unwise the preference was and how necessary it is
to utilise fully the natural advantages of Smithton.
The Man Who Forgot.
On the Anniversary Day holiday Mr. J. W. Kitto, a
former Deputy-P.M.G., placed an important letter in a
letter-box in Sydney. Naturally, it was not delivered
until late next day.
It is strange that Mr. Kitto should have
forgotten all about the holiday habits of his old
shop. The Post Office will not send an urgent wire on
a Saturday afternoon to suburbs a few miles from
Sydney G.P.O. unless it receives porterage. On Mel-
bourne Cup Day a man lay dying in Melbourne, and
it was desired to get an urgent wire from Sydney
delivered at Essendon aerodrome. The Royal
Exchange branch at Sydney thought it couldn’t be
done except by paying a porterage of several shil-
lings, but “they might do something for you in
Martin-place.”
The G.P.O. has not yet introduced sixpenny tele-
grams. It sticks to aerial postage rates which are the
highest in the world. Its suburban mail deliveries
would be considered a relic of the ’eighties in Britain,
where it is regarded as a sacred duty to deliver H.M.
mail at the earliest possible moment, irrespective of
the day. Some parts of London have hourly deliveries
running up till 10 o’clock at night, and even on
Christmas Day letters come. In Sydney, any letter
posted after 10.45 p.m. at Circular Quay, probably
the busiest night spot in Australia on a crowded theatre
evening, will not reach a destination half a mile away
till the afternoon of the following day—the first clear-
ance is 10 a.m.
British post-office users will before long be able
to send air-mail letters anywhere in the British Com-
monwealth — except Australia for Iyd., or yd. less
than it costs to send a letter across the street in Aus-
tralia. The British G.P.O. instituted sixpenny tele-
grams a year or so ago, and has had to add hundreds
to its staff to cope with the rush of business, which
is yielding a big profit. And it has recently even intro-
duced travelling post and telegraph offices, equipped
with public-telephone booths, which attend sporting
fixtures and public gatherings for the benefit of the
taxpayers, even on holidays.
The trade they have done in a brief experience
has led to the doubling of the equipment.
Another Breakdown.
Early in 1935 the Stevens Government introduced a
Film Quota Act, designed to oblige exhibitors to show
and distributors to handle a percentage of Australian-
made films. A “quality clause” was added.
Now the Government has discovered that the
section of the Act affecting distributors cannot be
enforced. In other words, that the distributors’ quota
is not a distributors’ quota because there aren’t suffi-
cient Australian-made films to be distributed, and distri-
butors representing American interests can’t be forced
to make them. The Australian must find the money
(always difficult in pioneering industries), produce the
film, hand it to a distributor—an American, perhaps,
or a representative of American interests —and trust
that person to make a profit for him.
Australia cannot succeed as a film-producing
nation until capital gets behind the industry, and
capital will not get behind it without some Govern-
mental protection. This is not afforded by provincial
film-quota legislation.
The talkies virtually wiped out our stage, and
are still keeping Australian musicians, actors and
writers out of work. Britain has furnished admirable
lessons in how not to run a film industry. Probably
the English are not as fitted for film-production as
they are for the finer art of the spoken play. This
is not necessarily true of the Australian, an action-
loving and cinema-minded person.
A Film Quota Act with a “distributors’ quota”
that allows the distributor to sit on the fence whilst
the Australian chases up a film for him is doubtless a
joke to Americans. Australians fail to appreciate it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Adelaide”: Being one of the very
few S.A. households that could run to
gold table-ware, the Sidney Kidman
home is a favorite mark for thieves. A
year ago they took the late pastoralist
knight’s Moonee Valley Cup of 1927,
with sundry golden-wedding presents
and such of his show-stock medals as
seemed worth, while. Last week they re-
turned for spoons and forks, one spoon
alone being valued at £5O. Sidney Ayers,
son-in-law, and his son were alone in
the house and were not disturbed.
* * * *
“Mako”: One of the oddest bequests
ever made in this part of the world was
that in the will of Preston Chambers,
civil engineer, who died recently at
Auckland (M.L.). He left £lOO to the
Episcopal Church of St. James, Mor-
peth (N.S.W.), to be invested and the
income to be annually divided among
the organist of the church and any choir-
boys under the age of 14, provided, that
on December 28 of any year in which
the date falls on a Sunday the “Adeste
Fideles” is sung or instrumentally per-
formed in the church.
* * * *
“Vulagi”: He runs a wayside picnic
joint, and I found him gazing thought-
fully at one of his tables on which some
vandal had deeply carved his initials.
“Ah well,” he said, “let’s hope the
blighter gets it!” The initials were
“V.D.”
* * * *
“Kahu”: A northern M.L. township
having no gaol, short-sentence prisoners
are housed in “cells” at the back of the
police station and employed in the John
Hop’s garden. For years this “Rest
House” was presided over by a solitary
member of the force. Detained in an-
other district one night he ’phoned his
wife that he’d be late, telling her to
“lock those birds up after tea.” He
returned after midnight to find every-
thing quiet. Next morning he rose early
to let the “boys” out. In a few moments
he was back demanding, “Hey, who’s
that woman in Tumate’s cell?” It was
explained that Tumate’s wife had called
the previous afternoon and missed the
cream-lorry that was to take her home.
There being no other means of trans-
portation Mrs. Tumate had been given
a couple of blankets and accommoda-
tion with her erring husband. “Husband
be hanged!” roared the cop. “Tumate’s
missus is in the Waikato.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In the days of my English
youth, currant wine ranked with cowslip
wine as a pleasantly innocuous beverage
that could be hospitably offered (along
with a slice of cake) to young girls and
growing lads and even ascetic curates
without the risk of it doing them any
harm. Hence it rather staggered me to
read the other day that a N.S.W. citizen
had been fined a fiver for having half a
dozen gallons of the stuff on his prem-
ises, He had an Italian name, and he
told the usual, hard-luck story of his
currants not being good for much else
and how the. brew was merely for his
own consumption, but the testimony of
a cop who had observed persons drift-
ing away from the currant-wine factory
with every evidence of being well and
truly shot settled his hash. I suppose
you can get alcohol from almost any
fruit or vegetable, properly treated, but
the possibility of getting drunk on cur-
rant wine would have been scouted in
Queen Victoria’s gracious days.
* * * *
“West Aussie”: The representative of
a Sydney daily who is circling Australia
by ’plane could hardly have chosen a
worse spot for the simile with which he
described his departure from Geraldton
(W.A.) —“straight as a railway through
the scrub.” The Geraldton-Northampton
line, the very first built in Westralia,
was tendered for at so-much-a-mile in
the ’seventies, and the result was that an
enterprising contractor made the rail-
way wander round the landscape at his
will. Its hairpin bends are so frequent
that a tradition still lingers in the dis-
trict of the guard having once pulled
up the train to get a light for his pipe
from the engine-driver—without leaving
his post.
* * * *
“Horsetailer”: For the most original
act under the influence I votd that of a
“Your cows seem very contented, Mr. Thompson."
“I should think they should. Just paid five hundred quid for a bull."
chap I saw on the roof of Medley’s
Hotel, Euston (Vic.), some years ago.
He was breaking bricks off the top of
the kitchen chimney and dropping them
down it on to the stove —“just to hear
the splash,” he told the cop later.
* * * *
“Mid”: A lot of rubbish is printed
about “Duchy of Cornwall” revenues,
which are supposed to go to the Prince
of Wales, when there is one, and the
destination of which otherwise (as now)
is indeterminate. More than half the
properties appertaining to the “Duchy”
are not in Cornwall at all; they include
villages scattered over the whole of
southern England and one or two scraps
of London itself. When the House of
Commons begins to debate on what
allowance (if any) should be voted to
Mrs. Simpson’s husband-to-be, some-
body will probably point out that he
ought to have saved enough from his
allowance as heir apparent to keep him
in affluence for life. At the beginning
of this century the annual revenue from
the Duchy of Cornwall was close on
£150,000. And he drew it for full 25
years.'
* * * *
“Fergus”: A Maorilander learned the
other day that since 1921 a fourth of an
overseas fortune has been awaiting his
pleasure. During intervening years—and
depressions —he had been selling cigar-
ettes and pipes to Dunedin Scots. The
fortune was his brother’s; a condition
was that the Maorilander should afford a
niece “such material assistance as her
executor might require.” The brother
died as a result of a European revolu-
tion in which he backed the. wrong shirt,
and the will was drawn up in hospital by
the prison chaplain named as executor ;
translation difficulties allegedly account
for delay in contacting the tobacconist,
That delay will probably cost him his
£lO,OOO. Born in revolution, the gift has
probably been dissipated by rebellion—
the estate is in Spain.
* * * *
“Y.”: I don’t like repetition of the
names of hereditary monarchs. It’s too
confusing. That long Louis line in
France always made me shudder. To
this day I’m not sure what the number
was of Louis the Well-beloved, or even
of any Louis who was well-hated. As
for interior decoration and furniture, I
never know one Louis period from an-
other, and I believe very few do. A man
who was helping to redecorate a theatre
once informed me: “We’re doing this
entrance in the Louis style.” I asked
“Which Louis?” He replied “Any old
Louis.” We remember Edward VI. be-
cause he died young, Henry VIII. through
his six wives, and George IV. on account
of scandals, obesity and the Brighton
Pavilion ; but there are vast deserts in
the knowledge of most of us concerning
other old-time monarchs of those names,
It would save a lot of headaches if every
new sovereign had a new name. As it
is, it’s as bad as trying to place which
abo. King Billy is which.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The pearl that led to
murder on the schooner Mist and the
hanging of a white man and two colored
accomplices (B. 6/1/’36) had an exis-
tence all right, but it never reached
Broome. Stolen from the original finder,
it was hidden in the core of a thick
hawser while the lugger was searched.
Stolen from there by a keen-eyed Malay,
it was sold to a Chinese steward on a
Fremantle-Singapore boat. After that
the gem is reputed to have adorned the
tiara of a Russian princess, to be sold
in London when Czardom crashed. It
was the story of the second theft circu-
lating among the snide fraternity that
enabled the murderers to pitch the tale
which lured the victim on board the
old abandoned schooner. Curiously
paralleling a recent Bulletin yarn, the
murderers forgot to relieve their victim of
the wallet which had been their ob-
jective.
* * * *
“Plantagenet”: Touching on that
“Hemp Parrel” pen-name (B. 27/1/’37).
A parrel is a steel-wire rope which,
passed round the mast and secured to
eyes on the band on the yard, keeps the
yard home against the mast (see Manual
Seamanship, Vol. I). Years ago on
sailing-ships these parrels were, of
course, made of hemp. Later the rope
was on the inside of a wooden band.
Nowadays, however, the only place
where a parrel is used is on signal yards.
* * * * *
“Shep”: I wouldn’t depend on fire
fumes to drive out gas (B. 10/2/’37) —
tear gas, at any rate. As a spell after
stretcher-bearing in one of the Ypres
stunts we were given an ambulance load-
ing post to run. Walking wounded corn-
ing down one night passed through tear
gas. They were already sniffling when
we suggested that they wait in our dug-
out, where an open brazier was going,
The ambulance came ; we asked them
to have pots for us in Blighty, and, hav-
ing farewelled them, dropped the gas
blanket down over the dugout entrance
for a final warm-up before turning in.
In a few minutes all five of us were
weeping and blubbering our hardest. It
was an hour or more before we had
fanned out of the dugout the last of the
gas from our visitors’ clothes,
* * * *
“Menengai”: “Centurion” is quite
right in his statement (B. 28/10/’36) that
the “Digger’s hat” was worn long before
the Boer War. The N.S.W. cavalry who
went to the Old Dart for the opening
of the Imperial Institute and military
tournament in 1893 and were attached to
the Queen’s special escort had it on
their heads, and I believe it was in use
even earlier.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The last clean-up
of accounts in the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank revealed two amounts of over
£lOOO apparently ownerless, and over
2300 lesser accounts in the same condi-
tion. Rarely is any explanation sug-
gested for such financial forgetfulness on
the part oi: depositors. In one case,
however, the police were furnished with a
clue regarding a substantial sum which
had been left for years unclaimed. It
came in the form of a letter from a citizen
0 f quite good repute, delivered after his
death. The gist of it was that he was a
reformed criminal who had decided, many
years before, to lead a better life; his
resolution had gone to the length of re-
fusing to touch the bank account which
held the proceeds of several successful
robberies. The writer suggested that the
police might be able to make restitution :
but as he gave no specific details about
his ill-gotten gains nothing could be
done.
sfc ❖ # *
“Sailor Once”: So the Waterhen got
home on the Australia with a torpedo
in the Jervis Bay manoeuvres! I remem-
ber a hectic naval interlude in 1901 at
the same place. A steam-pinnace from
the flagship, with a midshipman in
(charge, was towing a target for the
better training of the torpedo ratings in
H.M.S. Mildura. The first one let go
scored a bull. It missed the tow by
streets, but caught the pinnace just abaft
the spot where it kept its works. The
snotty didn’t follow the glorious tradi-
tion of the sea and go down with his
ship ; he was in the “ditch before
the torpedo had actually put in
its fell work, and his crew struck the
water at the same moment, making one
great, simultaneous splash. When the\
had cleared their vision the pinnace was.
like the Royal George, “fast sunk be-
neath the waves.” The “old man’ was
very grieved about it all, but joy was to
come with the morning. It was then,
at 10.57 a.m. to be exact, that the flag-
ship herself torpedoed, not a pinnace,
but H.M.’s third-class cruiser Wallaroo,
and holed her, too.
LAUNDRESS IN HOSPITAL.
Monday morning, and a brisk wind blowing,
A hot sun flaming like the Eden-sword;
Monday morning, and a fine day for washing,
But here I’m lying in a cool white ward.
(And I’ll do no washing in this clean white
ward.)
No more collars and no more shirts;
No more blouses and no more skirts;
No more towels and counterpanes;
No more supper-clotlis with coffee-stains.
Bread and butter on a thin white plate;
The pillow turned and the sheets drawn straight;
A bright young doctor with a yarn to. tell —
And I don’t care much if / never get well!
Sunday morning, and a blue sky shining,
And 1 was walking on the way to church;
Round the corner came a big car tearing—
Then a skid, and a squeal, and a sidewise
lurch.
Praise the Lord for His mercies wide—
The richest man in the countryside!
“Give her the • best that the place can
afford” . . .
And here I’m lying in a’ neat white ward.
(And I’ll do no washing in this sweet white
ward!)
No more soda and no more suds;
No more boiling of flappers’ dirty duds;
No more handkerchiefs; no more slacks;
No more stale bread and tins of kippered
snacks.
Cake made with butter, and the tea just right;
Grapefruit for breakfast and muffins at night;
A bright young doctor with a yarn to spin;
A red-haired nurse with a dimple and a grin
Who comes in directly when I touch a little
bell —
Oh, I don’t much care if I never get well!
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O’NEIL.


POPOVICH’S BEARD.
“Soviet diplomats were recently instructed to
dress in a more civilised manner in order to make
friends among the foreign bourgeoisie.”
When Popovich was quite a child and very rude
and simple,
He was not clad as infants are in napkins and
a dimple,
But presented an appearance which was Popo-
very weird,
Already clothed from top to toe with half a
yard of beard.
Through boyhood’s years he wore it, and he
found it very nice
For using as a skipping rope or as a hutch for
mice,
And as it grew in volume all the neighbors’
children cheered
And played their games of hide-and-seek in
Popovich’s beard.
Untouched by Popovanity, he aped no manners
foreign,
But wore his splendid whiskers both for over-
coat and sporran;
And when at last he sought a bride he Popo-
vilely leered
And chased the gentle maiden and lassoed her
with his beard.
When Revolution stalked the land then Popo-
vich went pop,
And offered it his services the bourgeois heads
to lop;
The army called for sacrifice, and straightway
commandeered
And fed their starving horses on a portion of
his beard.
Rewarded for his service by a job detecting
spies,
He proved himself a cunning sleuth, a Sherlock
for disguise,
And, simulating seaweed, watched his victims
as they neared,
Then bagged them for the Ogpu in the meshes
of his beard.
By dint of this and other feats of what you'd
call Sax Rohmacy,
He qualified in record time for Soviet diplo-
macy,
And journalists recorded soon how statesmen
dumbly peered
At the vast inscrutability of Popovich’s beard.
At last there dawned the dreadful day when
he was told to shave,
And Popovich with Popovim began to curse
and rave;
And his sorrowing relations found him hanging,
as they feared,
From a bracket in the bathroom by his Popo-
vanquished beard.
MAORILAND. DOUG.
* * * *
“Kali”: Sydney menfolk seem lo be
taking to the topi. Walking up Pitt-
street I saw over a score of imitation
helmets and one real one worn by men
in a single block. Ten years ago it was
very different. Returning from the East
I lost at sea the felt I had bought in
Brisbane, and as to go bareheaded was
tantamount to committing suicide in the
“Why have you left Mary, Jacky?"
“She gettum figure like you, Missus - just like bag of chaff."
country I had left I wore my topi up
Sydney town. I don’t think I could
have attracted more attention or caused
more tittering if I had been the original
Wild Man from Borneo.
* * * *
“D.A.”: The late “Smiler” Hales was
no stickler for historical accuracy. One
of the most glaring anachronisms in his
numerous works of fiction is to be found
in Moon of the Devil’s Own, a tale of
Spain during the Peninsular War (1808-
1814). Colonel De Vaux, one of the
heroes of the story, having occasion to
kiss the heroine’s hand, does it “as though
he were saluting the hand of his sovereign
lady, the young and winsome Queen
Victoria.”
* * * *
“C. Mac”: “Giaour’s” request for the
meaning of “Ataturk” (B. 10/2/’37) will
be found answered in John Gunther s
generally well-informed Inside Europe.
Gunther says that at first “the blond,
blue-eyed combination of
patriot and psychopath” who is
dictator of Turkey was simply
Mustafa. At school he was called
Mustapha Kemal to distinguish
him from all the other little
Mustaphas—“Kemal” meaning
“perfection.” After Gallipoli
he became Mustafa Kemal
Pasha, the addition a military
title equivalent to general.
After walloping the Greeks in
1921, Ghazi (usually spelt Gazi)
was stuck in front of the other
three names; it meaning “de-
stroyer of infidels”: “an odd
sobriquet for Kemal,” says
Gunther, “inasmuch as he was
the greatest infidel in Turkish
history.” Ten years later he
abolished military titles, and so
lopped Pasha from the end of
his string. In 1934 he ordered
every Turk to assume a patro-
nymic in the Western fashion,
and chose for himself Ataturk
(father of Turks). Finally he
modified this to the Turkish
form of Arabic, to become
Kamal Ataturk. Gunther calls
him Kamal thenceforth, but Kemal is
used by most other writers.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: These Indian poten-
tates are getting fussy. Cabled that the
Maharajah of Alwar, who is taking a
slightly-enforced holiday in Europe, held
up a Continental express because he
objected to sitting on the carriage’s pig-
skin upholstery, which to him, as a
Moslem, was unclean. For a long time
polo-playing, pigsticking Indian aristo-
crats have used English saddlery, which
is rightly rated the best in the world and,
as far as the saddle-seats go, is pigskin.
Alwar in the past has spent a lot of
time and cash buying and using saddles
of this type ; it was his obsession with
this and other extravagances at the ex-
pense of his job which led to his being
ordered a trip abroad.
“Twenty-seven”: Sydney school pupils
are of many nationalities, from abo. to
copper-colored little Orientals. Still
there was mild surprise the other day
when a Lithuanian arrived at our estab-
lishment. Her equipment consisted of
about a dozen English words and a trigo-
nometry book written in the Lithuanian
tongue. This tongue, with Lettish, has
the closest relation to Sanskrit of all the
living languages. Strange that on the
shores of the Baltic there should survive
such traces of the mystic East.
* * * *
“H.R.P.”: The pronunciation of proper
names beginning with “G” is a bother,
and not to Australians only (B.
10/2/’37). During a recent Atlantic
crossing in the Bremen, my cabin-mate,
a Yank, eyed my trunk, which bore
“I may be Wrong , sir, but I strongly suspect that's a Woman stowaway!"
Melbourne, Sydney and Geelong lug-
gage labels. He remarked: “I reckon
I’ve heard of Melbourne and Sydney,
but whar’n hell’s Geelong?”—pronounc-
ing the “G” hard. Perhaps it would
have been better to have retained the
earlier spelling “Jillong.” Later, in a
quiet Yorkshire parsonage, a clergyman
surprised me by remarking that he knew
of someone in “Jippsland.” He may,
of course, have been right, and we have
erred, as “Samivel” suggests, in harden-
ing the “G.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Clean k.os.? I saw five
in a row, and it happened in that elegant
thoroughfare Lord-street, South-
port (Eng.), in 1920. It was a
late hour as with a feminine
friend I sought a lone taxi at
the kerb. No sooner were we
seated and the engine running
than two “tough guys,” with
three less - determined - looking
crooks behind them, grabbed
the driver’s arm. “Hey, we
spoke first for this cab,” they
yelled, and tried to pull our
Jehu from his seat. He switched
off, clambered down and as the
five rushed at him we heard the
sound of five thuds and
glimpsed five inert forms in the
street. Wiping bruised knuckles
with a red handkerchief the
victor clambered aboard.
“Where to, sir?” said he, as if
this sort of thing was all in the
day’s work. Inquiries revealed
that he had been a prominent
Cockney lightweight before he
took to the steering-wheel.
“Fiona”: Shanghai-ings? One enor-
mously popular lady novelist, beloved
of flappers the Empire over, rarely wrote
a line without compulsion. The lady
was one of the super-temperamental
variety; but a practical family, depen-
dent on her earnings, saw to it that pub-
lishers and editors were never dis-
appointed. They guided their gifted one
into an upstairs room each morning at
nine o’clock, and kept her there until she
had turned out her daily portion. She
didn’t take the incarceration at all
mildly, as smashing crockery, breaking
furniture, vases hurtling from windows
and chair-legs and other items littering
the lawns bore witness; but she seemed
to derive inspiration from these activi-
ties, and after the orgy would settle
down to a good morning’s work.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Sad as was the fate of the
Pittwater author who lost his MS. in a
whirlwind (B. 10/2/’37), his sufferings
were mild compared with the experience
of a Sydney damsel who set out on her
yearly vacation one cyclonic morning.
She was crossing Circular Quay to get
a railway tram when her suitcase fell
open, and the disgorged contents were
immediately at the mercy of a raging
wind. The heavier garments merely
swirled round in the near-by puddles,
but flimsy undies took to the air like
soaring birds. Helpers rushed to the
rescue, and citizens of commercial ton-
nage were to be seen tendering with em-
barrassment garments they had retrieved
from the elements. One elderly gentle-
man was valiantly fighting the gale par-
tially enveloped in a pink nightie, which
he was furiously trying to dislodge with
his umbrella; another, with a similar
garment swathed round his feet, was
angrily trying to kick himself free. The
owner of the distributed wardrobe was
weepingly relating her misfortunes to a
policeman, and when I finally tore my-
self away two tramguards were having
an argument as to which should scale
the tram and from the roof rescue a
wisp of lace and chiffon suspended on
the overhead wires.
* * * *
“Old Unionist”: Minor salesmen-on-
commission is a game at which probably
80 per cent, of those who try their hands
are failures. But even those whose own
earnings may be nil do their little bit
of advertising for the firm that sends
them out; more than one big concern
owes as much to the advertising work of
the myriad canvassers who failed and
dropped out after a few hopeless weeks
as to that of those who have managed
to make a living. A Travellers and
Canvassers’ Union was formed as long
ago as 1910; but its scanty funds didn’t
enable it to last long. The C.T.A.,
having become a trades union for in-
dustrial purposes, obtained the “Lumby
award,” which should cover the poor
battlers but doesn’t; it is difficult to
provide industrial protection in a business
in which every hard-up takes a hand at
one time or another in the hope of
making a few bob, if not a living.
* * * *
“Fisher’s Ghost”: After careful in-
spection of the moulding and fitting of
modern military gas-masks, I shouldn’t
be surprised to learn that the cost did
run into somewhere round £4, as they
are much more complicated than the
earlier war issues. Full protective suits
are not contemplated as a general issue
to troops, on account of bulk alone,
without allowing for the cost of special
material used in trousers, jackets, boots,
headgear and gloves. These are for the
benefit of specially-trained fatigues
neutralising areas which have been con-
taminated by mustard gas or Lewisite.
Front-line troops will probably wear
something more in the nature of a light,
all-enveloping cloak, with a pair of
goggles, which have nothing to do with
the gas-mask. This gear is intended as a
protection against a form of warfare not
encountered in the last scrap —the spray-
ing of finely-divided particles of blister
gases from aeroplanes. The catch with
all protective devices is that it is not
safe to handle them after any exposure
to blister gases, so that every attack
means a fresh issue while the old lo;
are being decontaminated by factory
processes. Transport is going to be quite
a headache in any future war.


m
2 OforY (r
10 for
WIBB4
All over the world Craven
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality .
A
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
i
TIPPED
CIGARETTE
T HI S
GENE R A T
C OR K
O F
THE
POLITICAL POINTS
Dreadful news greeted Lyons the day he
arrived in Sydney “to open the Yes cam-
paign”—the N.S.W. council of the U.A.P.
had “decided to give members a free
hand in their attitude towards the market-
ing referendum.” The council’s own
hand had been forced by 12 U.A.P.
Assemblymen, who said they would
work for a No vote whatever the bosses
decided, and by U.A.P. branches which
forwarded hostile resolutions. The.
worst of it is that knights of the U.A.P.
Table Round who find themselves obliged
“to give members a free hand” had
joined the unhappy band of Yes cam-
paigners.
Inane Canberra benevolence won the
last Westralian election for the Labor
Government, and it is likely to do the
same for Tas. Labor, now campaigning
briskly. Loans apart, the islet got
£1,041,200 from Canberra in 1934-35
and £997,400 in 1935-36 ; and the popu-
lation is only about 230,000. Part of the
largesse went in restoring the cuts in
civil-service (also Parliamentary and
Ministerial) salaries, and this is making
first-class election material.
Twice “S. M. Herald” has asserted in
“orderly-marketing” articles, written in
its most hysterical Granny strain, that
“many thousands of returned soldiers
on vine-fruit holdings in the irrigation
settlements” will be Rooned “by a
thoughtless No vote.” The A.D.F.A. in
its referendum circular claims no more
than that there are “over 2000 returned
soldiers in the industry.” And many of
them are in S.A. and Westralia, whose
Governments are recommending a No
vote.
If all the “marketing schemes” are
“implemented,” how will consumers be
protected against wholesale profiteering?
Forward, Mr. Lyons!
It will always be possible for the Minis-
ter administering the marketing legislation
to halt any home price proposals that he
does not think reasonable.
It will be possible no doubt, but not
probable, and, as the Minister will decide,
not at all necessary. As things are, the
Minister will be a Cocky.
Part of Page’s case for smashing inter-
state freetrade in order to “implement
marketing schemes”:
If the butter producer is forced to accept
wages fixed by peasant competition in
Latvia or Roumania, he will cease to be a
boot consumer. He will go out instead
and fashion wooden sandals with a stone
axe in the scrub. The boot manufacturer
will follow him pretty speedily to look for
yams.
And this, O shades of Parkes, Barton and
Deakin, is what political argument has
got down to in the country for which
you thought and wrought!
The Senator McLachlan who is Post-
master-General is back from M.L. with
secretary. He crossed the Tasman “to
attend the Science Congress,” where his
presence, even if desired, was not re-
quired. His “work” at the Science Con-
gress was over on January 12, but he and
secretary did not cast up in Sydney until
February 5. Perhaps in the meantime
they were studying the working of penny
postage, although it is a subject Mr.
McLachlan is careful never to mention.
When in M.L. on his superfluous trip,
McLachlan, the P.M.G., described him-
self as “a baggage-carrier for my brain
trust.” Australians will not quarrel with
the description, but they could get a
better baggage-carrier for a fraction of
-the money.
Nowadays Australian Governments
seem incapable of making up their minds
promptly on any subject other than bor-
rowing. In November two brothers, un-
speakable. young ruffians but alleged to
be of weak intellect, were sentenced to
death for the murder of an old-age pen-
sioner at Rockley (N.S.W.). Not until
last week were they told that they were
not to be hanged. Cabinet sat again
and again to “consider” their case, but
failed to come to a decision. The motive
was “humanitarian,” but the effect was
inhuman. Even supporters of capital pun-
ishment would allow that in these matters
one “consideration” is enough, and that
the condemned should get the benefit of
failure to agree.
The English cricketers played in Can-
berra last week. A delightful preliminary
par. stated that, although no public holi-
day had been gazetted, “unless their ser-
vices are required urgently public ser-
vants will be. given leave to attend the
match.” They all attended the match.
U.A.P. newspapers were informed that
“ten important subjects” were to be
“considered” by Commonwealth Minis-
ters at a Cabinet meeting in Sydney, and
Australia, Lord Nuffield has distributed £100,000 in charitable gifts and
received 10,000 begging letters.”
“When thou doest alms let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth.”
—Matthew vi, 3.
"If this goes on, Willie, old boy, we’ll have to fall back on the jolly old scriptural
injunction."
while Ministers were swarming on the.
place another important subject—trade
relations with Canada—was added. The
only resolutions adopted were that So-
and-so should be appointed a Counsellor
at Washington, and that Such-and-such
should be put on the Public Service
Board at £2OOO a year.
In his amiable fashion Lyons men-
tioned to the English cricketers that he
once skippered a cricket team that had
Joe Darling in it.
But I was only nominally captain. Joe
Darling told me what to do.
He is still “only nominally captain,” and
Sir Geoffrey Whiskard and Mr. Keith
Murdoch now tell him what to do.
Having to take “election” ballots in
two Leg. Council provinces, Doutta
Galla and Melbourne North, Melbourne
Trades Hall Council intervened in
Doutta Galla in favor of P. J. Clarey.
Clarey was donkey-licked by another
P.J.—Kennelly, organising secretary of
the Vic. Labor party, who got 813 votes
to Clarey’s 462.
“Impersonation” was the word used
by Melbourne Trades Hall Council when
it called upon the “comrades” in Doutta
Galla to rise up and support Clarey. It
was repeated by Clarey at the declara-
tion of the poll, the candidate adding
heatedly that the impersonation had been
“wholesale” and “rampant.”
I am informed that four women voted
13 times during the afternoon.
Mrs. O’Wholagan denies it.
Melbourne “Age,” booming the de-
parting Dunstan as it has boomed no
politician since Deakin:
He is a true son of Australia, who, while
ready and willing to learn from other
countries, puts his own country first.
Unfortunately, the idol’s vision of his
own country is bounded on the north
by the Murray, on the south by Bass
Strait, on the east by the Tasman and
on the. west by the South Australian
border.
In December, 1935, Premier Forgan
Smith and a secretary were sent to Britain,
at the instance of the Canegrowers’
Council, to attend a sugar conference
that was never held. The bills, exclusive,
of salaries, came to £2lOO and were
footed by the State, which had a deficit
of £741,800 that year. Now the Cane-
growers’ Council is demanding that
Forgan Smith and a secretary should be
sent to England again to attend a sugar
conference that may be held, and that
the Commonwealth taxpayers should
foot the bills. Considering that a whole
flock of Federal politicians are going to
London, and Bruce will be there in
any case, this is the rankest of impu-
dence.
When the new overseas air-mail ser-
vice is in working order, Britons will be
able to send a letter to Australia in seven
days for An answering letter wilt
cost sd. at least, Lyons, Parkhill and
McLachlan being in charge of arrange-
ments at this end. For 2d. a man in
Dunedin can send a letter to Hobart
carried by ’plane over part of the route
(i.e., to Wellington), but it costs sd. to
send an air-mail letter from Hobart to
Launceston.
The Admiralty assembled 30 war-
ships, more than 100 military aircraft
and 25,000 land troops when it tested
the vulnerability of Singapore against
attack from the sea. R.A.N. participa-
tion would have increased the scale and
realism of the test; but the only Park-
hill considered that “no useful purpose
would be served, because we are more
concerned with the. defence of our own
coastline.” The mock attack failed, even
though marked advantages had been
given to the invader. As we still have
Parkhill, a gratifying outcome.
A youth has been fined at Brisbane
for carrying a letter for a reward. Among
other remarkable, powers of our re-
markable Postal Department is that of
penalising (minimum, £5) any miscreant
who saves a farmer a long trip into
town by taking in the store order or a
prescription to be made up. Proof of
reward or otherwise lies on the defen-
dant.
Melbourne “Age’s” Queensland corre-
spondent refers to a controversy which
has been raging in the “Courier-Mail”
as to inferior butter foisted on the Bris-
bane consumer, and admits that the
chorus of complaints is warranted.
Indeed, Brisbane does not generally get
good butter. The higher grade goes over-
seas with a benediction from Common-
wealth officials; the “seconds” is retailed
at pretty high prices to consumers, who
have no language but a cry.
However, consumers will have ballot
papers and blue pencils next month if
they object to the “right” to force them
to take second-rate goods at first-rate
prices being given a nation-wide appli-
cation, with Constitutional sanction.
Oddly enough the correspondent believes,
on grounds unstated, that “Queensland
will give a strong Yes vote.”
Lang has won his umpteenth faction
fight, having 25 p.c. or so of delegates to
the good when the questions of his dic-
tatorship and the expulsion of the 21
“industrialists” (four of them Parliamen-
tarians) were put to the vote. The old
gentleman (he has entered the sixties) is
now barking against both referendum
proposals, declaring that Commonwealth
control of aviation would rob N.S.W. of
its railways, or something like that, and
that, though he is all for the sort of
“orderly marketing” that would give the
wheatgrowers 7s. 6d. a bushel and the
butter-producers and the dried-fruits
men two bob a pound, Lyons, Page,
Baldwin and Lord Nuffield are after “an
Imperial rationalisation scheme” that
would compel the Australian workers to
pay famine prices on coolie wages. He
remains the U.A.P.’s greatest asset.
A Melbourne “Argus” recantation:
Why restrict the public’s choice of can-
didates for Parliament? Preferential voting
in Parliamentary elections is designed to
fulfil the same purpose as a selection
ballot.
The “Argus” used to be strong for
“united action against the common
enemy” (i.e., Labor); “united action” to
be secured in the first place by restric-
tion of Parliamentary nominations to
wirepullers’ pets.
It came out' in one of the appeal
cases that N.S.W. policemen who lost
their jobs after the publication of the
s.p. report were sacked by the “sooper "
under instructions from Chaffey, the
Chief Secretary. Writs claiming £113,000
damages have been issued against the
Government', a Government which
doesn’t like to be reminded of what it
cost to sack Meat Board members and
Conciliation Committeemen. Chaffey is
the forcible-feeble Minister who permits
the white elephant known as Jenolan
Caves House to refuse newspaper con-
veniences to patrons because, it is too
much trouble.
[Any referendum matter requiring a signature
is signed by J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252
George-street North, Sydney.]


Mies Gimlet tries her
HAND BEHIND THE BaR ,
The Secretary op the Steeplejacks union
BETS SOME PIRST-HAWO IHEOV?WVAT\OH .
RISXS
A, Dt?W4U. OPWAtE«J .
The Punter the peeukqs
OP A TIN HARE .
w ~ w
It VI V >
TES, SAVS THE RS.RO.MAH, DOBBIMS Day IS OOKE .
W- W\EEK IMASiIHES
WJHAT it 'NOOLO BE u»4&
"O QE A Dictator.
n
PoKGO, DSEKMS "WW
HE'S BeAt7Mix.H ,
The Oppice e>cry svyap& ft-aces ,
THAT WHAT-IT-FEELS-LIKE FEELING.
“Guarded front and rear against the menace of electric-trains, N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Hartigan walked two miles along the railway track to experience for himself
how dissatisfied fettlers fare.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
/.**
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from 7/6
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
"1
m «
§ I
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
THE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised . . . . £1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund ..
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,250,000
1,000,000
£1,250,000
\lso 106 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.3.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Walter Burley Griffin, dead in Luck-
now at 61, was a picturesque person with
original views about architecture. He
shone as a landscape planner, and the
laying-out of Canberra was right into
his hands. He was 36 when he won the
prize for the design of the new capital.
His other work of importance in Aus-
tralia was in plotting out the Murrum-
bidgee irrigation area. In Sydney he
planned a garden suburb at Castlecrag,
on Middle Harbor, but Sydney did not
take overkindly to his ideas of domestic
architecture. Eighteen months ago he
went to India to build a library for
Lucknow University, and India imme-
diately took him to its bosom, since his
type of clean-walled, flat-roofed build-
ings was entirely suitable to the heat of
Hindustan and in keeping with the tradi-
tions established in constructing New
Delhi. He was up to his neck in work —
one job was laying out the huge All-
India Fair—when the end came.
Other people’s worries are the specialty
of F. P. Morris, formerly Vic.’s special
F. P. MORRIS, Victoria’s Friend in
Trouble.
Children’s Court magistrate, who is
shown wearing the “strictly confidential”
look presented to callers at the Mel-
bourne “Trouble Centre.” This institu-
tion is a recent Morris creation designed
for advising people in any brand of
trouble—social, domestic or spiritual
Beginning work as a telegraph messen-
ger, its founder was later a Customs
and Treasury departmental clerk ; then
for three years secretary of the Indeter-
minate Sentences Board. This job inter-
ested him in the causes and effects of
delinquency, and when he finished his
13 years in Vic. Children’s Courts in
August he established the trouble-clear-
ance centre. He regards this advisory
work as the fulfilment of a life ambi-
tion, and his wife is just as enthusiastic.
Present headquarters are at St. Stephen’s
Church, Richmond.
“Uramao”: Charles Prince, doyen of
American printers and controller of the
Charles Prince Press, N’York, who
passed on the other day, was in Maori-
land in the late ’fifties, associated with
one of Dunedin’s first publications,
Otago “Punch.” With his daughter,
Prince revisited Dunedin about 15 years
ago. He was 89 at the finish.
Twenty-one years have passed since
the Sydney Con. opened its doors to
students. Of the teaching staff appointed
by the director, Henri Verbrugghen,
only five of the original professors re-
main, the rest having been transferred
to other spheres, terrestrial or celestial.
The surviving members of the old guard
are Frank Hutchens and Lottie Dearn
(piano), Cyril Monk (violin), Mrs. Bris-
tow (theory) and Roland Foster (sing-
ing). One of the earliest Con. students,
Essie Ackland, then a girl in her teens,
is returning to Australia next month as
a celebrity artist.
Frazer East, senior v.-p. of the Dig-
gers’ League in Queensland, has gathered
a C.M.G. Brisbane-born, he sacri-
ficed a Uni. course to enlist in 1915,
going overseas with the 52nd Batt. In
1923 he became State president of the
R. and in 1927 represented Aus-
tralia at the Empire Service League Con-
ference in London. He was the league’s
host to the present King when in Bris-
bane as Duke of York.
F. H. Wells, dead in Adelaide at 73,
came of a family which built most of
S. lighthouses. He had many years
of hard riding over S.A. and Centralia
as a mounted constable; then he was
given charge of a minor police job -
registration of motor vehicles! He saw
the job grow into an enormous revenue-
producing concern.
Native mythology and carving lost a
sympathetic authority when Thomas
Heberley, grandson of a whaling-ship
skipper and a Maori princess, died be-
fore he could complete his Dominion
Museum labors. Brought up among the
Maoris, he inherited their creative skill
as well as an appreciation of the symbol-
ism of their ancient carvings. It was
Thomas Heberley who carved Maori-
land’s national gifts for members of the
royal family; other examples of his
work include the Maui Pomare memo-
rials and the Kitchener casket in St.
Paul’s, London. Through his personal
efforts the Dominion Museum acquired
the historic carvings which decorated the
original Te' Kooti meeting-house in the
Urawera country.
H. J. Finnis, secretary of Adelaide
Royal Agricultural Society, has left on
a well-earned trip to Europe. He has
been in the job since 1926, and in that
time the show receipts have doubled,
entries have trebled and membership has
risen from 3000 to 4000.
“Dee” meets a Soviet prisoner:—-
Karl Radek, now in clink for getting off-
side with Comrade Stalin, was the big journal-
istic shot in Moscow two years ago. He was
living in a flat near the British Embassy when
I was taken by a comrade from the Moscow
“Daily News” to see the little fellow the
“Times” once described as “cross between a
bandit and a professor.” “Would you like to
see what is happening in your own country?” he
asked when I was introduced as a Maorilander.
He went to a pile of papers and drew out some
copies of a Wellington daily. “I watch you
all,” he explained. “Australia, New Zealand,
Shanghai, South America —they all have some-
thing worth looking at.”
Dentist’s helper, saddler, preacher,
army chaplain and author, Donald Mac-
Lean, who wrote, among other books,
John Scarlett and The Man from
Cur die’s River, has passed out quietly at
Kew (Vic.). A prolific writer of stories
for overseas magazines, he preferred to
live in Australia, even though not being
near his market cost him a good deal
of money in his time. His one break
with Australia was when Alexander, of
the Chapman-Alexander Mission, in-
duced him to go to the U.S.A. to write
that missioner’s biography. The war
caught him up while he was away, and
for four years he was captain-chaplain
with the B.E.F. at Havre casualty clear-
ing station. Then he had a few years in
England lecturing on the Common-
wealth. He was one of this country’s
wittiest and most useful publicists.
F. G. Thorpe, who went from the
Prime Minister’s Department to the
Public Service Commissioner’s Office
some, years ago and has been an assis-
tant public-service commissioner since
1935, becomes Chairman of the Com-
monwealth Public Service Commission.
He kicked off in the Post Office, but it
was his work on the finance sub-com-
mittee of the Defence Department dur-
ing the war that led to his higher pro-
motions.
Keith Officer, who took Treasurer
Casey’s old job as external affairs man
for the Commonwealth in London three
years ago, is to add to his varied experi-
ence a term as Australia’s first “diplo-
mat”—Counsellor on the staff of the
British Embassy in Washington. He
was destined for the law and took an
LL.B. degree at Melbourne University,
but had barely time to settle down as
associate to Justice Higgins of the High
Court when he was called away for five
years’ war service. He won an M.C.,
was mentioned in dispatches several
times, gathered also an 0.8. E. and
presently turned up as a political officer
in Nigeria. Later he was private secre-
tary to the Governor of that warm
colony, until the climate drove him
home. In 1927 the eye of S. M. Bruce
rested on him, and he was co-opted into
the Commonwealth service.
Frith has pictured E. T. Fisk, of
Amalgamated Wireless, as Fisk would
probably look under post-mortem. Fisk
lives for wireless, dreams wireless and
rarely has a moment of his waking
hours to give to anything but wireless.
Few men have such records of service
to radio. He joined the Marconi Co., at
20, in 1906, was almost immediately sent
to the Arctic on a special mission with a
sealing fleet, came to Australia as a
wireless man on a liner in 1910, took
over the g.m.-ship of the A.W.A. in
1913 and has been chairman of that co.
since 1931. Away from his work he
Frith’s premature post-mortem on
E. T. FISK.
ERIC HOLMES, from Rabaul.
is anything but the dry-as-dust scientist.
There is no better raconteur in Australia
and no man with more interesting remin-
iscences on which to exercise his gift.
In Australia for a visit, Eric Holmes
is Director of Lands and Mines in Man-
dated New Guinea. He is a Queens-
lander, trained as a surveyor, and one
of the oldest hands in the Rabaul Ad-
ministration, which he joined after doing
his bit with the 9th Battalion.
From J. H. M. Abbott:
Stacy Waddy, who passed out in London
last week at 61, was the eldest son of Richard
Waddy, for many years manager of the Com-
mercial Bank of Sydney at Morpeth (N.S.W.),
and Richard was a son of Major-General
Waddy, once commander of the N.S.W. forces.
Going to The King’s School, Parramatta, in
the early ’nineties, Stacy Waddy had a notable
scholastic and athletic career; he was captain
of the school and of the cricket and football
teams. A Broughton and Forrest scholarship
took him to Balliol; he played with the Oxford
XI for two seasons, took an honors degree in
1897, and became an M.A. a few years later.
The Bishop of London ordained him in ’9B,
and he worked hard and long hours in a Bethnai
Green parish until the beginning of the cen-
tury. Back in N. S. Wales in 1900, he was
attached to Christ Church Cathedral at New-
castle (N.S.W.), then incumbent at Stockton
until 1905, going thence to Singleton and shortly
afterwards being selected as head of The
King’s School, which post he held for 10 years,
when he went as chaplain to the war. His
term as head was specially marked by the de-
velopment of the house system —The King’s
was the first of Australian great public schools
to adopt it. The attendance at the school in-
creased enormously during Waddy’s time, and
it gained greatly in efficiency, both in class-
room and playing-field. He took a party of
the school’s cadets to the Indian Durbar which
followed the coronation of King George V. In
1918 he was made a canon of St. George's
Cathedral in Jerusalem, and became archdeacon
in Palestine in 1922. In 1925 he was appointed
secretary of the Society for the Propagation of
the Gospel in London, becoming an honorary
canon of Peterborough Cathedral in 1931 and
a D.D. in ’33. The best fight writer ever saw
at The King’s took place one morning be-
tween breakfast and chapel. Waddy was the
winner.
Dr. Cairns, just appointed Professor of
Surgery at Oxford, will find another S.A.
man in a medical chair there ; Howard
Florey is Prof, of Pathology, having
moved from Leeds University two years
ago. Florey was the S.A. Rhodes
scholar in 1921, Cairns in 1916. Cairns
saw service in France before going to
Oxford.
Queensland’s new Minister for Mines,
T. A. Foley, has one of the oddest hob-
bies of all Commonwealth public men.
Since boyhood he has been a bird lover,
starting with pigeons. Now he imports
and breeds roller canaries, and has about
200 of these gifted songsters in his
aviaries.


: »?s
mz
888%
m
I
66
atze
yldy
7f
SMOKE
GARRICK FILTER TIP
"J-lie <=>clentiiic d-lcjatette jjot <=>enutive J-lvcoati
Garrick Filter Tip delivers to your throat and
palate the pure benefits of an entirely new and different
blend of fine Virginia tobaccos (a Garrick Specialty).
10 - 9d. : 20 - 1/6
And now in handy
Pocket Flat 50 Tins.
Also Round Airtight 50’s.
2 i
48878-10.6


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENLEIGH RUM "MINE TINK IT BEST"
cayo, however, my nostrils had been
tickled with a faint aroma which 1 knew
to be familiar, but could not quite place.
But it had been raining in Huancayo
and the burning wood smoke left no
doubt. It was the smell of gum-trees.
At this location they grew in great pro-
fusion, and the Huancayo valley, at an
altitude of 11,000 ft., knows practically
no other tree. Tall, straight and slim,
they are in great demand as timber for
the copper mines.
* * * 3
“Hanko”: He was rolling an old and
rusted swinglebar into his swag when
we struck him, a thin little snoozer
breaking camp near Currawarna. “Ain’t
you getting enough exercise?” asked my
mate, jerking a thumb toward the pon-
derous bar. “Huh,” snorted the swaggie,
“some louse-bound cow worked that
into me knot while I was boozin’ at
Carrathool. There must be all of 401 b.
in that lot,” he continued pridcfully, “an’
I humped it while I was dead crook, too.
D’yer know if there’s a junk yard in
Wagga where I could flog it?”
* * * *
“Harry N.”: For real toughness I’ll
back an old Gippsland chap against all
“Painkiller Micks” and “Spinifex Neds.”
Rising 80 and still going strong, he has
MISUNDERSTOOD.
Ol’ Bluey, after munce of search,
Secures a brief ’e carn’t refuse,
Caretakin’ in a ’igh-toned church;
I seen ’im polishin’ the pews.
“Yer clicked orlright,” I says ter Blue.
’E larfs an’ says, “Too flamin’ true.”
“I'm set fer life,” ’e lets me know,
“An’ this ’ere possie is a beaut.;
The eighteen-pounder in the show,
A canon bloke, ’as said I’ll suit,
An’ claims ’e’s satisfied at larst—
’E’s ’ad some stoomers in the parst.”
But circumstances unforeseen
Arise ter take affairs in ’and,
An’ skittles Bluey—bowls ’im clean.
As far as I can understand
A charnce remark is taken wrong
Just when ol’ Bluey’s goin’ strong.
The organist an’ canon were
Together, maggin’ re the choir,
When in blows Blue ter see if there
Is anythink as they require.
They says, “We don’t surpose yer could
Find us a treble wot’s reel good?”
“Wot! Pick a treble! Stone the crows!”
Says Blue. “Youse are ambitious blokes;
I’ll tell the world as one ’oo knows
’ls onions an’ ’is artychokes;
But save yer sugar, they’re too tough,
Yer’ll find a double’s ’ard enough.”
MAORILAND. C. G.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Our Italian neighbor
asked us to bring out a parcel from one
of the local stores. He could not re-
member the name of the shop, and none
of our suggestions hit the mark. At last
his face brightened. “I have heem,” he
cried. “It is what you say mother of
pups,” We duly collected Tony’s parcel
from Beeche’s store.
* * •* *
“Kawnpawrk”: About half a mile
past the junction of the Pittwater and
Newport roads at Mona Vale (N.S.W.) is
a laneway connecting both roads, and
midway along it an artist has modelled
a realistic group of abos., in and about
a waterhole and a few oak trees. One
abo. is in the act of spearing a fish. I’ve
passed the spot dozens of times lately,
and every time a kookaburra has been
perched about three feet overhead and
just clear of the spear, waiting patiently
for his cut that never turns up.
* * * *
“Kellick”: “Manah Bolek” (B.
13/1/’37) need not be surprised when
advised to take a full sight, plus a little
elevation, when shooting at dusk.
There’s an old axiom among riflemen:
“More light, less sight; less light, more
sight.” Which reminds me. After an
hour’s instruction on “fine sighting” one
of our number could not get within
miles of the target. Our instructor,
foaming at the mouth, roared, “Hang it,
man, do you know what a ‘fine sight’
is?” “Yes,” said the equally enraged
shooter; “the finest sight I can think of
would be a gunnery instructor
about to sink for the third time.”
* $ $ *
“Old-timer”: Confining Bunty, the
station’s big Clydesdale stallion, was an
apparently impossible, job. Put in a
loose box, he kicked the doors from
their hinges and walked out. No pad-
dock would hold him ; he either leaned
against the fence until it fell over or
shoved his head under the bottom gale
bars and lifted. He became so panicky
when hobbled that the boss wouldn’t
take the risk of such a valuable animal
injuring itself. Came Bhul Rham, an
Indian hawker, with a little yellow dog.
Bunty was in the high-walled, circular
breaking yard. While Rham talked, we
noticed that the sound of the stallion’s
hooves on the gate ceased. On the
ground lay the gate, wrecked; in the
entrance sat the little tyke, pugnacious ;
and in the yard stood the stallion* cowed.
Rha*m got a tenner for the tyke, which
spent its later days handy to gates and
doors that now successfully confined a
strangely subdued rebel.
t- * * *
“J.C.” (London): The coastal plain of
Peru is bare, treeless and, except where
irrigation makes a green slash across the
grey desert, entirely waterless. Lima is
irrigated from the Rimac River, but the
trees never grow to any height. I was
not much impressed, therefore, when
they told me in Lima, “You’ll like the
trees when you get on the Hill” —the
“Hill” being the casual term applied to
the white-populated part of the Andes
generally. Long before the train reached
the. terminus of the railroad at Huan-
“It's all right, Bill. They cant touch US — We're outside the three-mile
limit. ”
polished off enough beer and “Red Ned”
to float the Queen Mary. Always a
tiger for work, he would be on a bender
for weeks at a time, and still cut his
cord of wood every day. Many times
when a kid I helped him up in the morn-
ing from his bed under the stars. He
would be covered with frost and so stiff
that he couldn’t bend his knees, but after
10 minutes’ brisk sparring at a fence post
he would be thawed out enough to toddle
off to his woodcutting —minus breakfast,
but that didn’t' seem to worry him. The
usual rumor had it that a busted
romance started him on the downward
path, but the old chap declared he had
but one love —booze.
#
“Emoe”: “Palmdale's” cabbage-eating
Italians couldn’t have come from the
same part of Italy as some who worked
on a Gippsland construction job a few
years back. There were over a hundred
of them, and in six months they had
cleaned up all the game, both feathered
and furred, for 10 miles around. Even
the small wrens did not escape them,
and once I saw (and smelled) the car-
cass of a large dog fox cooking in their
communal stewpot. Then they turned to
the rivers, and by means of set-lines
every few yards cleaned them up to
such purpose that it was three years
before a decent fish was taken out of
them again. A lot of money was made
on that job, but the local butchers didn’t
get any of it.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The greyhound put up
a rabbit, which streaked for home and
mother, diving into the burrow a foot
ahead of the dog. Dog’s long head shot
down burrow as brakes failed to grip in
time, dog’s body described parabola, and
the verdict was a broken neck.
* * * *
“Polyp”: Largest sea-snake ever
caught in Australian waters was a 6ft.
2in. Astrotia stokesii hooked three years
ago at Moray Reef (N.Q.). One of the
rarest and most venomous of the tribe,
he is a bulky olive-brown fellow sport-
ing a row of projecting scales with
divided tips on the lower surface of the
body. He is found also in Chinese and
Indian seas, and, unlike W.A. abos. with
their varieties (according to a recent
par.), Binghis of N.Q. fear him as much
as they do the stonefish —which is say-
ing something.
* £ * *
“Myall D.’’: Steve was wetting and
smoothing the hair on the horse’s
shoulder, to see the brand. “That ’minds
me uv me old dorg,” remarked “The
Dag.” “I useter call him Right ’cos he.
wus never wrong. Well, me an’ the dorg
wus after a coupla bullicks uv mine that
got away with a lot uv scrub cattle. We
found a mob, but they tore off through
the timber with Right at their heels.
After a while. I heard ’im barkin’ like'
anything ’bout a mile away. I guv the
ole dingo bait I wus ridin’ a wollop, an’
hightailed it to where he wus. He’d run
a bullick inter the head of a fallen tree,
an’ had him jambed up in a fork an’ —
yer mightn’t believe, it —there wus the
ole dorg settin’ up on the bullick’s rump
an’, ye might say same as you are now,
lickin’ the brand to make sure if he wus
mine or no.”
* * * *
“Nordbo”: Said Jack Campbell (ask
anyone in N.Q. who he is): “As a young-
ster 1 was cooking for a droving
outfit. Near Wedderburn (Vic.) rabbits
abounded, and my cattle-dog (a bitch
heavy in pups) had the hunting of her
life. Suddenly she left the track and
dropped a pup near a log. Out of the
log jumped a rabbit. The bitch went
after it like a streak. Two hundred yards
away she stopped and dropped another
pup, then took up the chase immedi-
ately. Half a mile farther we pitched
camp. Presently the bitch came in,
very winded, went straight to a heap of
sacks and dropped number three and
four. In a moment she was off again,
to return quickly carrying the left-behind
pair in her mouth. She made no bones
about the maternity business.”
* * * *
“Western”: The abo. has us all tricked
when he goes out in his flattie troll-
ing for tailer, trailing the customary
couple of lines over the stern. Whereas
we have to keep our dinghies going at
a fair speed so that the eager fish will
snatch sufficiently hard to hook itself,
Jacky rows leisurely along, holding his
lines with his toes, ready at the slightest
touch to give that jerk which every
angler knows is needed to coax a tailer
to grab.
**>!:*
“W.”: Glad to hear, through “Botfly
Bill” (B. 27/1/’37), that Monaro’s great
horseman “Joker” Johnson is still chas-
ing the elusive brumby. Years ago I
roamed the Snowy River country as his
understudy, and together we made a few
useful hauls. One batch of 20 —mostly
creamies—were taken across to Sale, and
from there trucked to the better market
in Melbourne. Although wilder than the
ordinary March hare when we left, they
were (with a few exceptions) surprisingly
docile when untrucked. The “few ex-
ceptions” proved entertaining. I can
still see Jo on the saleyard fence, doubled
up with laughter, a whirlwind of gal-
loping horses and trailing ropes on the
skyline, and, in the middle distance,
hopelessly pursuing their late purchases,
a string of profane town-dwellers.
❖ J|c * *
“Frigid”: British papers have ex-
pressed surprise that an escaped wallaby
after a winter in the Highlands of Scot-
land should have been in top-hole condi-
tion when recaptured. Much of the Aus-
tralian climate in which mountain
wallabies and kangaroos have their being
is far more rigorous than anything Scot-
land can show. Even Switzerland can-
not boast such an extensive area under
snow in winter as this country.
* * * *
“Billy Bugle”: 1 don’t know whether
snakes dig their own holes, but I
do know that no matter how narrow
the hole its occupant can always turn
round in it. Dashing for cover a snake
always enters head first; try him an
instant later and his head is ready for
action just inside, the entrance.
* * * #
“Centre”: Has any Aboliar beside
“Shamuseen” (B. 30/12/’36) noticed
wanghi-trees and coconut palms trying
to get away from each other, and “lean-
ing almost parallel to the ground in
their endeavor to do so”? I never
have, and I’ve lived surrounded by a
grove of wanghi-trees above which
waved scores of coconut crowns, the
boles of which stood straight and true
among the wanghi trunks. What does
“Shamuseen” suggest as an explanation
for such a phenomenon? Also, will he
oblige with the locality of this vegetable
feud? I know my Torres Strait 'pretty
well, and I want to get my camera
focused on something worth while.


“Jabu”: Rabbits were plentiful, and
we had all reached double figures with
our shooting except Terry. Then he
got his first kill —shot clean through the
head. “Was it a hard shot?” we asked
ironically. “My oath,” said Terry.
“Why, I could only see its tail!”
* * * *
“Heresone”: The discomfort caused
by sugarcane “hair” is generally exag-
gerated, as when “Badilla” (B. 20/1/’37)
says the cutters in green cane wear long
sleeves. Many varieties have little or no
“hair,” and I have cut P.O.J. (one of
the worst) in a Jacky Howe with no ill-
effects. In my experience, the cutter’s
garb varies from singlet, slacks, boots
and hat to shorts and hat. Socks are
effeminate ; anyway, they encourage
scrub itch, sometimes mistaken for cane
“hair,” though it is parasitic in origin.
“Badilla” is wrong, too, about the
“hairs” being only on the tops ; the trash,
from the ground up, is full of them.
* * * *
“Ped.”: I’ll back the young wood
duck (maned goose), when it is about
half-feathered, as the fastest bird on the
ground. I’ve tried them with my boots
off and a claypan as a track. Young
emus, turkeys and all other feathered
Phar Laps are only play to me when
I’m in condition and with a feed or two
of corn in me —I can run them down
with my trousers on and without peel-
ing off my boots. But the ducklets have
always left me standing for a hundred
yards or so.
* * * *
“Reynard”: Nothing very new in
foxes developing a sweet tooth (B.
3/2/’37). AEsop has told us of one with
a weakness for grapes, and the Book of
Judges mentions the little foxes which
spoil the grapes. I have been credibly
informed by those truthful folk the
Bedouin that when the dates are ripe the
foxes and jackals of Sinai are a destruc-
tive agency. As many of my Light
Horse cobbers will testify, many date
palms bear long before they are high
enough to lift the dangling clusters of
fruit out of reach of beasts, which enjoy
an open go, as our delighted horses used
to do whenever the chance offered.
* * * *
“Groper”: Some fish are extraordi-
narily docile. On the Peel Inlet (W.A.)
net-fishers yarded up about five tons of
Westralian kingfish, average length about
two feet. Lifting one section of the net
they gathered about half for the Perth
market, leaving the rest paddocked.
Without apparent alarm the big fish swam
“We better take 'er away before she brings the flies”
around their prison until three days later
they in turn were lifted. Mullet would
have jumped the net; tailer and most
other free swimming fish would have
gone frantic, and either gilled themselves
to the last one or so upset the net in
one mad rush that most would have
escaped.
“Kriz”: A 25ft. crocodile an Austra-
lian record (B. 27/1/’37)! About half
a mile from the Ord River (W.A.)
Tuckerbox, a Binghi attached to the
camp of Jimmy Weaber, head stockman
for the Wyndham meatworks, was round-
ing up a few stray bullocks when a move-
ment in the long grass brought him up
short. The croc, made for the river;
“ Won't there be no wood-choppin'?”
but Tuckerbox’s spear struck home, and
the croc, disappeared with it sticking out
of the armpit. A few days later the abo.
returned to camp and mentioned the in-
cident. The banks of the river were fol-
lowed, and at the bend of the Ord the
croc, was found. Too high to skin, they
ran the stick over him —32ft.! The head
was cut off and stuck on an antheap, and
two weeks later was exhibited in front of
the Wyndham Roads Board office. Some
idea of its size may be gathered from
the fact that a 6ft. Binghi straddled the
huge jaws and his feet didn’t touch the
ground.
* " * * *
“Ah Sam”: Has any Aboliar tried
fresh-water perch fishing Chinese style.
Ah Foo cuts a lOin.
or 12in. hollow tri-
angle from stiff gal-
vanised iron, to the
base of which,
through suitable
holes, he attaches six
short lines each with
hook and worm, and
to the apex fastens
a strong main line
with a good floater
and plenty of length
so that it may be
attached to a tree or
something while he adjourns to valet the
cabbages. His theory is that when the
first perch takes the hook others, seeing
their brother plunging and the cluster
of worms dancing merrily, dash in reck-
lessly to get their cut. It works. Not
infrequently Ah Foo pulls up six fine
fish.
“Hanko”: There may be a friendlier
wildling in the bush than the shingle-
back lizard, but I have yet to meet it.
Shingly needs no inducement or formal
introduction to cobber-up with humans,
and will waddle into a smoke-oh or
lunch-time gathering with all the assur-
ance of an old acquaintance. Also, the
armor-plated one will allow itself to be
handled with not even a flick of a re-
sentful tongue. Credit it to hide,
stupidity or what not, the fact remains
that this reptile enjoys contact with homo
sapiens.
* * * *
“Long Reef”: That statement by an
English big-game fisherman on his way
to M.L. that he had never heard a
whisper in England of such sport exist-
ing in Australia (B. 3/2/’37) has been
endorsed by two relatives of mine who
turned up in Sydney the other day with
a party bound for the same spot. One
of them —generally accompanied by his
wife, who is with him on this occasion
—has gone after big fish and game in
North America and East Africa. They
told me they never had the least trouble
in getting information about conditions
in those places, and found that every-
where every possible requirement was
catered for. Yet neither had the slightest
knowledge that big-game fish were
plentiful on our east coast, and they
were amazed when the press announced
the capture close to Sydney Heads of
several good-sized marlin the week they
arrived. Surely it is worth this country’s
while to spend a little money in adver-
tising our sporting resources in London,
with a little propaganda about Barrier
Reef wonders thrown in.
:J: >»: if.
“Wairua”: Things had been disappear-
ing from our backblocks M.L. farm, and
we suspected Brown Brother at the ad-
jacent kainga. One of the youngsters
removed the innards from a large pie-
melon, cut holes for eyes and contrived
a grinning open mouth full of teeth. On
a windless night he erected the melon
on a draped photographers’ tripod, and
set a candle alight inside. Shortly after
midnight we heard yells. Understanding
the Maori make-up Dad made a few
casual inquiries as to the health of the
kainga. Etawara, he discovered, was
very ill, having been chased by a fearful
taipo when taking a midnight stroll
wrapped in saintly meditation. Dad pre-
sented Etawara with half a crown to
assist his recovery, but, with an eye to
future use, kept the identity of the taipo
a close secret.
* * * *
“Dipso”: “Walkabout” (B. 3/2/’37)
prefers melted butter for staving off early
intoxication. I always use oil from a
tin of sardines. Lined with this, I have
on numerous occasions withstood the
open-handed hospitality associated with
shivoos in W.A. mining townships. The
old-timers’ explanation is: “Forms a
fil-um, and prevents the fumes gettin’
to yer ’ead,” Be that as it may, it’s
“good medicine.” Never, after taking
such precaution beforehand, have I found
myself incapable of catching and
saddling my own car. The brand of sar-
dine does not seem to matter.
* * * *
“M.L.W.”: Though anything which
happens to be in a shearer’s path is
assured of a hearty sock, eye weakness
isn’t the trouble (B. 27/1/’37). He is
merely in a hurry. A man shearing 160
sheep per day has three minutes for
each, which includes getting into the pen,
catching a sheep and dragging it to the
stand, pulling the machine into gear,
doing the shearing, pulling the machine
out of gear and getting the sheep down
the chute. No wonder they use every
possible device for saving time or that
there are curses at any holdup. As an
example of the pace, an old sheep-
barber I knew, who suffered from heart-
burn and used baking soda for relief,
keeping a treacle-tin lid of it beside his
pen door, would dive his face in and
lick up a mouthful each time he dashed
past, finishing each “run” with a mo.
white and stiff with the surplus. Curses
and worse await the rouseabout who
causes delay by any practical joke, such
as tying up the control cord of a stand
out of a shearer’s reach, locking his pen
door or taking his handpiece while he
is in the pen. I’ll wager there’s enough
concentrated energy used by a boardful
of shearers in one day to blow the shed
above them sky-high.
THE NAVVY.
Hammer and drill or the driving bar,
And arm for a hefty knock!
His is the craft where the cuttings are
And the quarries of iron rock.
His, too, the fare of the tent and track
And the mateships swiftly made:
Grown strong with struggle and rough with
wrack,
In an always perilous trade.
On “alley” boards, where the ale is set
And the fickle dice are read,
He’ll play his soul on the “centre-bet,”
And his pay to a month ahead;
And, though he may covet the easy bliss
Of the man whose purse grows fat,
He's roved too long through a world like this
To be chained to a stake like that.
Gamely he faces the test of time,
And he fears no one on earth,
Nor pauses once on his stubborn climb
To think if the climbing’s worth.
But, thinking most of the holes he loads
And their fuses, burning fast,
He laughs while the great, wide mountain
roads
Are cleared by the lifting blast.
N.S.W.
FRANK McCALL.


Vive reasons why a
private executor may
prove unsatisfactory
1. He offers no security.
2. He may leave the Country.
3. He may not live to carry out the Trusts.
4. He gives his spare time only to the
administration of the Estate.
5. He probably does not know the duties of
an Executor.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited offers ample security, cannot leave the
Country, goes on for ever, devotes its whole
time to the carrying out of the duties and has
acted as Executor and Trustee for nearly 6o
years.
It is better and safer to appoint a corporate
trustee and ensure perpetual fidelity to the
terms of your Will.
An appointment may be arranged at any time.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
C. AGENCY COMPANY LTD.
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne ... 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits, £951,874.
Trust Assets under Administration, £28,800,000. £20,000 has been lodged
with the Colonial Treasurer of New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the
Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D.S.O.j
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman), W. D. Stewart,
R. T. Hilder.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £24,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,300,000
W. J. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B., Arthur Eedy,
General Secretary. Managing Director.
CONCENTRATORS
In addition to our well-known
PATENT “CURVILINEAR”
CONCENTRATING TABLE,
suitable tor all classes of ore,
and used the world over, we are
now manufacturing a new
machine in the “McRICHPALS”
ALLUVIAL GOLD AND TIN
SAVING MACHINE, suitable for
all classes of alluvial and low-
grade deposits, river sand, etc.
20/30 tons per day, and high
recovery assured.
Send for particulars and prices both
machines.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
10-12 Parramatta Koad, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
Towards
Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 t. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up. £50.378 .. 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929. . 476,034 109,362 120,439 246.233 2,078.210
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152.. 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623.. 2,286,598
1931.. 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,419.668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 . . 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,690
Taxation refund, £18,307 .. . . 2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included. £21,000 . . 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 61,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755.616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086 ; 1925,
£20,352 ; 1928, £17,015; 1929, £8537; 1930.
£8926; 1933, £4463; 1934, £8926; 1935, £9000;
1936, £4500. t Nine months.
The good work done by the manage-
ment in other respects has been partly
offset by tosses on mortgages, which
tnoratcrmtn legislation has placed largely
Dutside the board’s control. Comment-
ing on recent amendments to this legisla-
tion in N. S. Wales, the chairman said:
“If by close attention to letting and re-
pairs the first mortgagee increased the net
returns, he would in effect be not only
working solely for the second and subse-
quent mortgagees but detrimentally to his
own interests.” It is not surprising, there-
fore, that the board does not regard mort-
gages as gilt-edged securities, the net
return from which it claims to be less
than the return now to be had from
Consols, which is about 4 p.c.
Including Accident business, the spring
in last year’s income was £16,285, of
which £10,065 was in respect of
premiums (£263,157) and £6220 interest,
etc. (£133,088). Claims, which contracted
slightly in 1935, were up £31,609. Ex-
cluding dividends to shareholders, exes,
increased by £12,035, of which £B3lO was.
on account of depreciation and mortgage
losses (£13,087). The excess of incom-
ings over outgoings was thus £27,359
lighter at £61,297.
The £61,297, plus £45 from the pre-
vious year’s carry-forward, was used
£5830 to cover growth in liabilities
under policies, £38,982 (up £2436) to
provide reversionary bonuses to policy-
holders, £2030 to further strengthen the
reserve for Accident risks, and £4500
(H p.c.) was handed to shareholders as
against £9OOO (24 p.c.) for the previous
term. Policy-holders’ interests thus re-
main in the foreground.
In 1935 the basis of valuation was re-
duced from 34 p.c. to 3 p.c. By thus
widening the margin of protection for
policy-holders the co. aims at handing
them better bonuses later on. After
deducting taxation (£8680), the net re-
turn from investments in the Life depart-
ment was 4.2 p.c. on the mean Life fund
as against 4.6 p.c. in 1935. When the
co.’s new headquarters, now going up at
the corner of Martin-place and Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, are complete and
let, a better net return than 4.2 p.c. can
be looked for.
During the year an extra £114,225 of
new business was put on the books:
1932 1934. 1935. 1936
Sum assured.. £418,829 £516,393 £786,955 £901,180
First premiums 11,951 15,511 26,783 27,119
Renewal pre-
miums .. 231,026 200,982 196,531 202,434
Interest, etc. 113,133 115,538 126,688 132,908
Claims .. 202,881 196,661 194,564 223,200
Exes 78,462 79,836 72,904 82,244
Excluding taxes and the amount written
off mortgages, etc. (together £21,767),
exes. (£60,477, down £2407) took 26.3
p.c. of net premiums as against 28.1 p.c.
for the previous year. On the same
basis, and assuming that first premiums
are 10 times more expensive than re-
newals, the year's new business cost
127.6 p.c., as against 135.4 p.c. in 1935.
Here is a view of the financial struc-
ture, with comparisons:
1934. 1935. 1936.
Public securities.. £1,462,583 £1,449,932 £1,412,297
Mortgages .. 695,565 653,496 603,93.)
Loans on policies,
etc 144,945 141,060 137,562
Book debts, cash,
etc 92,587 77,407 88,420
Equipment .. 7,730 8,124 19,463
Properties.. .. 509,214 591,125 726,389
Shares in other _ „„„
cos 229,559 305,076 321,313
Tangible assets. £3,142,183 £3,226,220 £3,300,379
Sundry creditors.. 93,664 95,284 119,812
Net tangibles .. £3,048,519 £3,130,936 £3,180,567
Assurance fund*.. 2,616,863 2,701,509 2,758,352
Paid capital .. 357,208 300,000 300,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £12,942,
1938; £15,308, 1984; £16,411, 1935 ; £18,441,
1986.
The outstanding feature is a growth of
£135,246 in the book value of properties,
due to erection of premises already re-
ferred to. The reduction in mortgages
was £49,561, and in public securities
£37,635. The amount coming to sundry
creditors increased by £24,528. Owing
to the amount written off mortgages,
etc., the growth in the assurance fund,
etc., exceeded the growth in net tangibles
by £7212.
The scrip was delisted a year or so
ago, following changes in the co.’s
articles, which conflicted with Stock Ex-
change regulations.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re— Rc—
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 54,242 8 p.c. = 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „ „ 49,867 621 50,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „„ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „„ 49,867 68,267
1930.. 39,501 61 „ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 „ „ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 .. 67,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 67,937
Reserves disappear, £l6OB .. .. 56,329
From inner reserves, £10,408 .. 66,737
1933.. 4,666 6 p.c. = 10,200 61,203
Reserves disappear, £lO6B .. .. 60,135
1934.. 5,901 64 p.c. = 11.050 54,986
Reserves disappear, £1204 .. .. 53,783
1935.. 11,151 7 p.c. = 11,900 53,034
Trans, from tax reserve, £2000.. 55,034
Insurance claims, £2300 .. ' . . 52,734
1936.. 12,956 7 p.c. = 12,495 461 53,195
After the Harbor Bridge wiped out what
had been the co.’s chief source of revenue
for over 60 years and £453,332 of capital
was returned —fares had been raised,
fixed assets written down and liquids
accumulated for the purpose—the div.
dropped from 8 p.c. to 6 p.c., and for
a while it looked as if the co. would
have a struggle to maintain the lower
rate. However, the management suc-
cessfully turned its attention to the re-
duction of costs, partly by introduction
of new types of boats and partly by con-
version of some of the old steam craft to
Diesel power. Also, new runs were
opened up, and tourist and other traffic
increased as conditions generally im-
proved. The div. was lifted to 6\ p.c.
in ’34 and to 7 p.c. in the. next year,
although, according to the published
figures, neither rate was earned.
Last year there was a marked increase
in tourist traffic, to which the co.’s new
ss. “freedom of Sydney Harbor ticket’’
and its harbor and concert cruises con-
tributed. The opening of Luna Park and
of the Olympic .swimming pool, Milson’s
Point, also helped earnings, while the
subsidiary, Harbor and Land Transport
Co., sent along an unspecified div. Also,
two more of the old steam craft were
converted to Diesel power, to the benefit
of costs. After allowing £4624 for depre-
ciation, the net result benefited by £lBO5,
reaching 7.2 p.c. on average capital,
compared with 6.6 p.c. and 3.4 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c., and it is doubtful whether
anything better may be looked for at
present. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing £2300 taken from the insurance re-
serve, mainly to cover cost of repairs to
the Kurra-ba, following a collision in
September last. Of £5258 previously set
aside for taxation, £2OOO is now labelled
“weather contingencies reserve,’’ and the
balance has been struck off the book
value of vessels.
One of the old vehicular ferries, out
of commission since the. opening of the
Bridge, is to be converted into a special
tourist and concert steamer, and four
more other craft are to have Diesel
engines installed. To meet the outlay
163,181 new ss. shares were put out in
July last. At the close of accounts,
£31,154 of the money had been gathered,
leaving £9641 to come. When the lot
is in paid capital will be £210,795, on
which 7 p.c. will call for £14,755, or
£1799 more than was netted last year.
The market, which has revised its esti-
mate of the scrip, prices the fully-paid
ss. shares at Bs. 6d. as against 10s. sd.
(ex rights) a year ago. The. return at
Bs. 6d. is 4.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 6s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1932. 1935. 1936.
Paid capital. . £023,332 £170,000 £170,000 £201,151
Liabilities . . 65,520 41,478 40,041 20,749
Landed property 42,820 28,434 26,781 26,211
Ship property 212,413 29,921 63,470 77,641
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 20,278 1,000 1,000 1,000
Plant & machinery 6,096 4,787 7,019 6,549
Fuel, stores, etc. 13,725 7,942 7,531 8,125
Shares in other
cos 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 24,018 30,909 43,127 47,249
Public securities,
etc 330,528 62,251 16,951 5,712
Cash .. .. 8,572 2,271 2,139 2,157
The new capital and £11,239 from the
co.’s holding of public securities were
used to reduce the outside debt by
£25,292, add £14,165 to the book value
of ship property and carry an extra
£4122 of debtors’ balances.
The Transport Co.’s net earnings are
not disclosed. Its activities, especially in
the lighterage section, increased. Free-
holds, which include Clifton Gardens
Hotel and Royal guest-house, are in at
£81,075 ; ship property, £54,263 ; plant,
£4807 ; more or less liquids total £22,885.
Including £42,598 coming to the parent,
sundry creditors figure for £46,940. Paid
capital is £107,008.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1926 .. 8790 10 p.c. = 7930 860 16,070
1927 .. 9131 10 „ „ 7930 1201 17,271
1928 .. 9730 10 „ „ 7930 1800 19,071
1929 .. 8540 10 „ „ 793 0 610 1 9,681
1930 .. 6032 7}„ „ 69 4 7 85 19,768
1931 .. 1484 6i„ „ 4768 16,492
1932 .. 5028 7 ~ „ 5551 15,969
1933 .. 6257 7 „ „ 5551 - 706 16,675
1934 .. 4477 5$ „ „ 43 62 115 1 6,790
1935 . . 4247 5 „ „ 3965 282 17,072
1936 .. 5957 7i „ „ 5947 10 17,082
The spring of £l7lO in last \ year’s net
earnings was due largely to improvement
in the co.’s trade with southern and
eastern Asia, where firm connections had
been established long before the slump.
Locally the revival in the motor-car and
upholstery trades kept the price of hides,
the co.’s principal raw material, up.
Still, there was a strong demand for in-
dustrial leathers, and the outturn of the
co.’s tanning and belting factories was
maintained at a high level. Also, sub-
stantial progress was made in the power-
transmission and engineering section of
the business, and the selling rights for
Australasia and eastern Asia for an all-
steel split pulley were, acquired. After
meeting all outgoings, setting.aside £1062
for depreciation and making provision for
taxation and other contingencies, enough
remained to show 7.5 p.c. on capital,
compared with 5.3, 5.6, 7.8, 6.3, 1.8,
7.6, 10.7 and 12.2 p.c. back to 1928. The
div. was lifted from 5 p.c. to 1\ p.c., the
final being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a. For
14 years to the close of accounts in 1929
a steady 10 p.c. was paid, followed by an
average of 6.5 p.c. for the half-dozen
difficult years to the close of last
accounts.
As for the outlook, if is bright enough
on the demand side. But the recent sharp


NOBEL;
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
NOBEL 1
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL'S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, £tC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH, W.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE, S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: It. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty.. Limited.
ZEEMAN, TAS.: J. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART, TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, liedstrom, Limited.
f
9
s
CONCEALS NEAL
••
■
m
m
ECONOMY
No car as good as this ever cost
I j ffl | Many people are under the impression that Buick is such
* " a good car that it costs a lot to own and run. It is all, and
more than, the good car they think it is but they’re wrong about the cost!
First of all, Buick is easy to buy any Buick dealer will quickly prove to you in
cold figures that under the easy terms of the confidential G.M.A.C. plan you can buy
a Buick on a bedrock and thrifty budget.
But there’s more to Buick economy than first cost. This big, outstanding car asks
but a lean diet of petrol and oil and when you count in repair bills and
overhauling with fuel costs, you’ll find that Buick is as good to own from the
upkeep angle as it is from the standpoint of style, comfort, safety and performance.
It’s smooth, it’s brilliant, it’s swift You’ll constantly hear good things about the
gliding ride of its Knee Action and the safety of its Hydraulic Brakes and all the
other host of features but the most happily surprised comment you’ll hear is about
the frugality of Buick’s habits!
NO OTHER CAR IN THE WORLD HAS ALL THESE FEATURES
★ Valve-in-head Straight Eight Engine . . . ★ Genuine Knee Action Comfort and
Safety .. . Anolite Pistons, 50% Lighter in Weight .. . Torque Tube Drive .. .
Beautiful Safety Body by Holden .. . Sealed Chassis .. . "Armourplate" Safety
Glass Windscreen . . . -jfc- Built-in Luggage and Tyre Compartment . . . Perfected
Tiptoe Hydraulic Brakes ... 'A Level Floors, Front and Rear .. . Automatic Starting,
Spark and Heat Control . . . ★ Ride Stabiliser . . . No-Draught Ventilation.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED BUICK DEALER
8.423
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia
to
« ?c ?*** j?! r °«s
See v . "* e 6
°<npi e 0,,r Bu ick
o ur
°at f
or
Y Of >«. and (^e &ler
in&
you
a£>c
te/„; e P^en f ihi.
a 'r ao W*,,, 1‘ b ‘ trad e a d n r-
Ut **<ie T aU ‘
re Sist
r? < ~!’ insiir \ qUlre d) wciiv ery
serviced *i h *»d ,f *>lly
‘° 4ust r y ben ref United K i >nd
a/e Jn ia Vi// ah:* tn g-
r equi
deli
and
"> En a T‘<! b? TI
or
GEn ERa L * gla *d * Ranged
m °To Ks .^-
H OLo
en’s.
ft
Ltd.
Your Money Goes Farther in a General Motors Car
The 1937 2-unit “Air Chief” Car Radio designed for Buick,
includes a special remote control to match fittings on the
instrument panel. Speaker fits in header bar flush with
roof lining, giving ear-level reception to all passengers.
The 1937 single-unit “Air Chief” Car Radio, a compact
set with in-built speaker and special remote control to
match fittings on the instrument panel.
New six valve sets with increased distance reception and
tone equal to the best home radio. Ask for a demonstration.
rise in the price of hides and the ten-
dency of costs generally to rise may
make it difficult to hold export markets,
while competition will tend to depress
any buoyancy in selling prices.
The fully-paid pound shares, which
have not a very active market, are priced
at 245. as against 21s. a year ago. At the
higher figure the return is 6.3 p.c. on a
74 p.c. div. basis, or 5.4 p.c. on the
average div. for the last half-dozen years.
The cover is 245. 3d. in net tangibles.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1928. 1981. 1935. 1936.
Capital .. .. £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities .. .. 30,723 30,765 32,740 23,928
Freeholds .. .. 50,881 50,881 50,881 50,881
Plant, etc 9,450 7,677 6,895 6,891
Stocks . . . . 50,925 47,373 53,658 47,731
Hook debts .. 21,732 21,744 18,398 16,859
Cash, etc. .. 1,815 2,259 2,177 2,034
Last year a reduction of £5927 in stocks
and of £1539 in debtors’ balances was
accompanied by a contraction of £BBl2
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors. The more or less liquid surplus
(£42,696) was £1203 stronger than at the
previous balance. Plant and buildings
are reported in good order and conser-
vatively valued ; much depends upon
that.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925 . . 32,991 20 p.c. = 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 „ „ 29,201 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ „ 29,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 13* „ „ 19,467 .. 23,558
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 35,570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 3,063 109,629
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 . . 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
Squatting out west in N. S. Wales and
over the border in Queensland, where
this co. has been a runowner for more
than half a century, is a precarious busi-
ness. The seasons are the big gamble.
The other chief factor governing earn-
ings is- prices, and seldom is there a favor-
able combination of the two. When such
a happy state does occur, as it did last
year, attractive returns are won. Still,
for the investor, scrip in a squatting con-
cern is a question of average rather than
immediate return.
The market therefore prices this co.’s
fully-paid 30s. shares at 345. as against
20s. a year ago. The return at 345. is
('Continued on next page.)


r
PALATO
dJuvds that /dzaUt £h& fadcdt*
SCHWEPPES...
146 NOT OUT
By the Special Cricketing Correspondent
Schweppes with their wonderful reputation are doing
better thqn ever this year. As summer advances their
“deliveries” are getting faster and faster. That
remarkable Indian member of the team, Tonic, is
always brisk and lively and has scored all round,
displaying tremendous coolness at heated moments.
“Ginger” Ayle also well merits his position. His
class can be judged by the fact that yesterday four
in succession were taken in five minutes. His wor
in the gully is wonderful.
Schweppes’ refreshing innings nearly came to an
end about 10 p.m., when that sparkling newcomer to
the team, S. Palato —in partnership with that spirited
fellow Ginn was almost stumped by Law off License
in trying for a quick single. They are still not out,
however, having carried the score up to 146 . .
from T 790 to 1936.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 483
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Sirius House, Sydney, for advice
regarding value and marketing of rare minerals and
metals. — Advt.
4= * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plans, certification o f
shipments. L MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
“ * * * *
For the best value in all ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Ltd. These tools are
fully illustrated and priced in our 1935 General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for your free copy. — Advt.
* * * *
Buyer of TANTALITE and all classes ores, con-
centrates, metals. LOUIS' BURKARD, 250 Pitt
Street, Sydney. Telegram address, “Burkardore. -
—Advt.
8.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The in-
vestor who is content with an average of
5.3 p.c. on his money counts on divs.
averaging 6 p.c. The cover is 245. sd. in
net tangibles.
. For 23 years to the close of accounts
J* 1 1923 divs. averaged 4} p.c. Then
half the capital was jettisoned to cover
amortisation of leases. On the reduced
figure (£146,002) an average of 20.7 p.c.
was paid for the five years to the end of
1928, thanks to a run of good seasons
and extraordinarily high prices. Next,
£275,000 of fresh share, capital was
gathered to buy Quantambone, near Bre-
warrina (N.S.W.). Drought followed, a
loss of £101,680 showed up in ’29 and
another of £35,570 in ’3O, and the co
went to the bank for £151,000-odd to
save the breeding ewes, rams and young
wethers. Moreover, for the next three
years, slump and seasonal fluctuations
made it difficult to squeeze much in the
way of profit out of the business. Things
have looked up since ; shareholders got
3.3 p.c. in ’35 and 10 p.c. last year, mak-
ing the average div. over the last eight
years 1.6 p.c.
Now consider these figures:—
, sheep
C 1 . °t( Boi oU ' v< l ol, ,M ' ( r Average
1928.. 82,507 176,747 1887 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 i5/4/io
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44,681 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1933.. 173,260 137,904 3820 74,274 19/8/10
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 i45,69i 4086 69,075 16/18/-
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
Owing to an unfavorable season in 1935,
which meant poor lambing and heavier
sales of ewes, 19,053 fewer sheep were
shorn last year. Still, Nature was kind
and prices were up ; the year closed with
11,653 more sheep on the books, and
gross earnings from all sources (£102,968)
were £19,719 better. Including £5715
(down £7599) struck off for depreciation
and £19,006 (up £8780) set aside, for the
taxgatherer, exes. (£58,288) were £737
lighter. The net result thus benefited by
£20,456, reaching 18.3 p.c. on capital
compared with 9.9 p.c. and 9.8 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The div was
lifted from 3.3 p.c. to 10 p.c.
The remarkable recuperative power of
the industry is further reflected in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1024. 1930. 1935. 193 c.
Capital .. £146,002 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 912 151,689 7,332 292
stations, plant,
78 - 743 192 > 522 125,141 ii 8,683
horses .. 45,239 87,150 75,599 79,324
wool unsold.. sio 1,900 1,317 uso
h ’ etc ’ ” 109,789 2,08r> 3,189 38,212
Since 1930 the outside debt has been re-
duced f rom £151,689 to £292. Last year
the cash holding was strengthened by
£ J 5,063.
The immediate outlook is bright
enou S h - There has been a good lambing,
a “ the runs are weli grassed and the
P r ' ce wool is up.
Re Oriomo Explorations (B. 10/2/’37).
The actual amount spent by the co. in
testing about three-quarters of its 400-
acre alluvial option at Hill End (N.S.W.)
was £1430. At the annual meeting early
this month, the chairman announced that
co - had £20,000 in cash and deposits,
and there was £7425 of overdue and
deferred calk still In rnme
ut -ICireCl CailS Still tO COme.
* * * *
The reef is dinninp west at QSfl in
* 18 QI PP "8 al * 3ll ’ 111
the shaft of the Golden Jacket, the new
fi n d j n virgin country af Charlton (Vic.)
being worked by Charlton Gold De-
velopment, which intends to open out at
another 10ft. and drive north and south
to prove the length of the lode. Aver-
aging 6in. to 15in. in width, the vein is
going down vertically, bedded in soft
slates. At 35ft. the reef was driven on
for 40ft., where it had pinched to 3in.
to 4in. in the face. To date two small
crushings from the shaft averaged 20oz.
and 13oz. respectively. T. R. Victor says
that, although the mine is opening up
encouragingly, development is insuffi-
ciently advanced and too little is known
geologically of the field to estimate the
tonnage of ore available.
* * * *
Though developments over the last
year or two have disclosed nothing
startling, New Red, White and Blue,
grand old producer on the Bendigo field,
has earned sufficient to keep off the
call list. For the six months to the end
of January, 11,893 tons ore was milled
for 17690 z. gold, while 23,650 tons
sands was cyanided for a further 4910 z.,
together worth £18,925. The shaft' is
down over 2000 ft., but, during the last
term, operations were confined to the
1500 ft. level, where stoping of the
western spurs, average grade 3dwt., is
proceeding. The 1500 ft. level is to be
connected up with the North Blue,
thereby permitting the northern area of
the mine, both on the western spurs and
the main reef, to be opened up, while
the neck reef is also to come in for
attention. There is 30 head of stamps
on the spot. Retreatment of old tailings
is yielding a profit of £4O to £5O a week.
* * * *
Nell Gwynne, most northern of the
B.M.L. group at Bendigo, has struck
what may prove to be the capping of the
reef now being successfully worked in the
adjoining Central Nell Gwynne mine. A
winze 1750 ft. north on No. 5 (400 ft.)
level has intersected an 18in. spur show-
ing colors at a depth of 100 ft., some
600 ft. south of Central Nell’s boundary,
but further sinking will be necessary
before anything definite can be known.
The co. is working on the Nell Gwynne
line of reef in the centre of the field,
where previously little development had
been done. A spur system at the 700 ft.
and 800 ft. levels is being developed for
regular working, the last 141 tons crushed
at the associated Napoleon mill, where
there is a 30-head battery running, yield-
ing an estimated 390 z. 7dwt. gold. Of
late 3dwt. to 4dwt. values have been ob-
tained from the shaft.
* * * *
As against £B4 in the preceding half-
year, Wattle Gully cleared £9540 in the
six months to Dec. 31 ; two Is. divs.,
together requiring £6OOO, were disbursed.
The co. recently installed a 20-head bat-
tery, capacity 1000-2000 tons monthly,
on its Chewton (Vic.) property. In-
cluding ore put through the Government
mill, 3614 tons (average grade 10.4dwt.)
was crushed for 18930 z. gold, valued at
£15,862. Development work at 655 ft.,
where a new level has been opened up,
and development and stoping on the big
lode at' the 575 ft. level provided most of
the stone.
* * * *
Triton (W.A.) is steadily elbowing its
way to recognition as a gold-producer
and dividend-payer. Formed in October,
1933, the co. reached the production
stage in August, 1935. For the year to
Sept. 30 last 77,715 tons ore (head value
not stated) was put through the mill for
26,9710 z. fine gold, valued at £232,668
in Australian currency, equal to a re-
covery of 6.94dwt. per ton. After pro-
viding for taxation, the profit was £9.1,078
( = Is. 10|d. per share). A 6d. div. in
July last took £24,000 ; a like, amount
was paid on Sept. 30, and another simi-
lar payment is to be sent out on March
12. Ore reserves at Sept. 30 were esti-
mated at 217,000 tons, averaging 7.5dw1.,
above No. 5 (550 ft.) level, as against
157,000 tons a year ago. This reserve
tonnage has been slightly increased by
further developments on Nos. 4 and 5
levels, and No. 6 (689 ft.) level is about to
be opened up. Mine output and treatment
are to be increased from 6000 tons to
9000 tons a month, and costs (245. lid.
mining and 9s. treatment) are expected
to be reduced by 4s. a ton. This repre-
sents a saving of £43,000 on the basis of
ore reserves at Sept. 30. The cost of
mill extensions, etc., is figured at approxi-
mately £25,000, to be paid for out of
earnings, which may mean delaying the
next div. Reduction of costs will bring
into the profitable, zone additional and
lower-grade ore, thus reducing the aver-
age grade of ore treated. Still, aggre-
gate profits can be expected to benefit,
and, in the long run, shareholders should
reap a fuller return. Much depends
upon how the property opens up at
depth. The present objective on the
main Triton ore-bodies involves a cam-
paign of shaft-sinking, etc., to No. 9
(1050 ft.) level.
* * * *
Sydney-controlled Associated Northern
Ora Banda (W.A.) is down at heel finan-
cially. In 1934 the co. took over the
Slippery Gimlet and Gimlet South Ex-
tended at Ora Banda, together with
plant valued at £60,000 and a tailings
dump of approximately 50,000 tons. It
issued 450,000 ss. contribs. called to
2s. 6d. each, and handed the vendor
150,000 fully-paids, plus £20,000 cash.
Shareholders are now urged to take up
410,550 forfeited shares at 3d. each in
order to raise funds for a development
scheme, estimated to cost £7OOO. Treat-
ment of the tailings, which have “con-
sistently paid a profit,” is nearly com-
pleted.
* * * *
Lake View and Star continues to be
Australia’s greatest gold-producer. Its
contribution to the Westralian yield for
the last quarter of 1936 was worth
£A337,138. The profit was £143,582.
During the quarter 7840 ft. of driving,
crosscutting, winzing, rising and shaft-
sinking was done. Of gold worth
£564,000 produced in Westralia during
January, Lake View accounted for about
one-fourth.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance’s directors con-
tinue to talk about the co.’s good fortune
in acquiring a controlling interest in the
Enterprise, Kalgoorlie (W.A.). Chair-
man Bell says the transaction will give
Perseverance a very substantial addition
to its profit; Dr. Edwards (director)
says he is optimistic regarding what
Perseverance will get out of the deal.
The market remains unimpressed.
# * * *
Retreatment of Gt. Boulder’s two tail-
ings dumps by Golden Horse Shoe is now
in full swing. Chairman F. A. Hamil-
ton recently told Horse Shoe shareholders
that the dumps were estimated to con-
tain £758,000 sterling, with gold at £7
an ounce. Retreatment costs were reck-
oned at £489,000, leaving an estimated
profit on joint Boulder-Horse Shoe ac-
count of £269,000. It will probably
take from four to five years to re-treat
the two dumps.
* * :f. *
Declaring his unshaken belief in the
future of Youanmi (W.A.), Lord Lee
(chairman) told shareholders that for
many years to come yields would be
satisfactory and profits would expand.
The market for the co.’s scrip has
strengthened, and a new share issue is a
possibility in the near future.
Corderoy Mines, Ltd., owner of
several goldmining blocks on the Pilbara
field (W.A.), announces good prospects,
but says nothing about when production
is likely to commence. The co.’s prop-
erties are among the most northerly
worked in the West with London funds.
* * * *
The new system of taxing gold-
mining profits in S. Africa is not pleas-
ing everybody. Reduced to non-
mathematical terms, it entitles the
Treasury to half the profits of each mine,
less 5 p.c. of its aggregate allowable
working expenses. There is an allow-
ance for amortisation, with special pro-
vision for capital expenditure up to the
start of profit-earning. Properties leased
from the Government come into a sepa-
rate category, and in some instances the
royalties payable exceed the percentage
which would be due under the tax
formula. The new system does away with
many anomalies which previously ex-
isted ; one objectionable feature is that,
of two mines producing the same grade
of ore, the one which has lower costs
pays the larger percentage rate of tax.
The arbitrary 5 p.c. of expenses to
be deducted from the Treasury’s half-
share of profits obviously results in un-
fair treatment of veteran mines, where
little scope is now left for normal de-
velopment expenditure.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.K.: (1) A reasonable spec.; at the
moment scrip appears to be fully-priced at
4s. Id. (2) Any sharebroker... .M.H.: No
record; write secretary, Adelaide Stock Ex-
change.... Te Awamutu: Sinking Fund pay-
ments are governed by the Financial Agreement
of 1928 —see Commonwealth Year-Book. A
payment of £1 annually, compounded at the
rate of p.c. p.a., would amount to £lOl-odd
in 39 years... .C.J.S.: No record... .J.G. If
safety of capital is important, look the other
way W.R.W.: The bonds are a long-term
speculation, and guesses as to what the owners
thereof are likely to get in the long run aren’t
worth much.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
II
Hi
mill
■
mu
: :
Ifll
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water in all rooms. Rooms with
and without private Bathrooms
and Telephones available. Meals
at moderate rates unexcelled
cuisine Dining Rooms, Grill
Room, Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
Love may be blind, but hate is seldom
dumb.
F F F F
“I waited 17 minutes for a chop in a restau-
rant,” states a golf writer.
What would be bogey for the course?
F *1- F F
A spinster is a woman who has been
engaged once too seldom.
F F F F
A Sporting War.
“In another ten years the internationalisation
of sport will have superseded war,” says a
Sydney sporting official.
“In the year 1947,” remarks Professor
Tosh in his History of the Fourth Decade
Conflicts, “the tension between the two
countries had grown so great that the
Prime Minister, Mr. Tryons, decided to
conscript the country’s manhood for
various sports.
‘ln the meantime a team of Japanese
cricketers had effected a landing at Bris-
bane. It ultimately retired with the loss
“A prominent Siamese statesman is named
Damrong.”
He has a wonderful lot of twin
brothers.
F F F F
“A magistrate at a suburban court told a man
that he could not do as he liked in his own
home.”— “Sun.”
He’s telling us.
“A craze for stripes is the latest fashion for
women.”
Men will stick to spots.
“Ice skating brings down the figure,” says
a physical culturist.
Come to think of it, he’s right.
F F F F
“After all, blood is shicker than water.”
— “Sun.”
Particularly Nelson’s Blood.
F F F F
“It’s Moments Like These”....
“There were cries for Fleetwood-Smith, but it
was announced that he could not meet the
wishes of the crowd, as he was having a bath.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
It reminds me of one time when I was
playing Shylock in “The Merchant of
Venice.” My interpretation of the role
was so good that hardened first-nighters
broke down at the end of Act 111,
Scene 1, and wept. Wringing their hands
in despair and gnashing their teeth they
cried for me —tears flowed down the
aisles and flooded the orchestra-well.
Even strong men bawled.
“Percy,” pleaded the manager, burst-
ing into my dressing-room, “you’ve
simply got to take that scene again—the
audience is out of control.”
But I couldn’t respond. I’d missed my
tea, and was grilling the pound of flesh.
Percy.
F F F F
“What should be done to the man who does
evil under the clock of religion?”— “Sun.”
He should be ticked off.
F F F F
“Jane Withers summonses with throaty warb-
lings the youth of the neighborhood.”— “Argus.”
This settleses the childrenses’ doingses
for a few eveningses.
F F F F
“A clergyman says that women who parade
the streets in bathing costumes invite criticism.”
Yes ; and they don’t care a wrap.
“Mean to say you've never heard of THE Cholmondeley-Wother spoons?”
of five Tests; but a tennis team which
made a bold attack upon Sydney scored
an immediate success and captured large
quantities of gate-money. The Japanese
Ist Natatorial Brigade inflicted heavy
losses on the defenders of local titles.
“By the middle of the year it had
been found necessary to call up the re-
serves of the 1940 Ping-pong class. The
struggle had its fluctuating fortunes. A
remarkable success was achieved by
Australia, following the surprise, landing
in Japan of a company of hard-bitten
Aussies who introduced two-up, carried
all their objectives and seized the public
imagination.
“The denunciation of the Government
by Mr. Youse for its failure to provide
effective national training in tiddlywinks
and snakes and ladders started a con-
troversy, boiled over into a real sport-
ing war, and it was not until all invading
sporting forces were withdrawn that
peace broke out.”
H. M.
*j*
“She froze him with a single glance.”
—Short story.
That’s cheap refrigeration if you like.
F 4* F F
“Even the Australian police are natural
actors.” — Lauder.
They certainly sometimes give an
arresting performance.
*1- 4- *l* 4*
Picking the Eleven.
The selectors should bear in mind the
element of luck. A bad batsman having
a run of luck is worth more than a
champion experiencing a bad trot.
For instance, Bingledon, that superb
batsman, should be dropped in favor of
Fleetfoot Biff, who should be promoted
to opening bat, thus strengthening the
side by the inclusion of another bowler.
Everyone recalls that Bingledon was
shaping confidently when he was caught
by Gammond. It was a perfectly-hit ball,
and would have passed 10ft. over Gam-
mond’s head if at that moment Gam-
mond hadn’t been stung on the foot by
a bull-ant, causing him to leap high in
the air with hand upflung in agony to
take an unintentional catch.
Fleetfoot Biff, on the other hand, has
no idea of batting, but he must be given
credit for the way he played a terrific
ball from Farmes. Scorning the use of
the bat, he had glanced it neatly to leg
off his head just above the left ear. The
fact that he never sighted the ball, and
that he was stunned for five minutes
after the shot, does not matter in the
least, as it resulted in a boundary. Such
luck must not go unrewarded.
Scradman must be criticised for not
getting out when he reached his hundred.
As statistics show, no batsman can ex-
pect to average more than a century per
innings; therefore every run over the
century must be subtracted from his next
innings in the final Test. Starting from
minus 200-odd he will find it difficult to
score at all. This may cost us the Ashes.
C. V. s.
“Bowlegs are a sign of courage,” says a
psychologist.
Which bowls out the idea that their
owners have ’em that way to prevent
their knees from knocking.
* F -I- F
“Every country is booming its natural re-
sources in case of war,” says a writer.
Now everyone knows what’s meant by
roar materials.
“The sound of lovebirds whistling their en-
dearments would not be an effective stimulus
to steady work by typists, Melbourne nerve
specialists consider.” — Melbourne “Herald.”
How about training an ostrich to
croon?
“Racehorses suffer from seasickness,” says a
sports writer.
Ani-mal de mer.
F F F F
“There are seven medical men in the town,
all clever doctors.” — “Sun.”
Seven pillers of wisdom.
F F F
“Two stowaways charged in Auckland (M.L.)
told the magistrate they left Sydney because
thieving had become the principal industry.”
We could not stoop to practise theft ;
But when, to our dismay,
’Twas clear no other job was left,
What could we do, of cash bereft,
But simply steal away ?
C. G.
>l* -1- * *
The Profession of Roof Ironing.
“Estimates given for ironing shingle roofs.
Work guaranteed.”— Hobart “Mercury.”
Well, well! So there’s another shingle
roof ironer in the Commonwealth! I’d
like to meet him. We could form a
Shingle Roof Ironers’ Protection Society
and make certain of keeping up high
prices to the, public.
I became a shingle ironer quite by
accident. I had served my apprentice-
ship as a corrugated roof ironer. It was
rather a good job—all I had to do was
to wait until a heavy hailstorm or some
stones thrown by kids put dents in the
galvanised roofs, or rooves (see hoof,
hooves), and then iron them out. By
conscientious work I had risen to the
position of journeyman dent-ironer, and
had invented a method of reconditioning,
by a special dry-hydraulic process, the
old dents that had been taken out. I had
a row with the management over my
commission on reconditioned dents and
left. After that I set up my own shingle.
Now, in my trade we have a jargon
which we employ for technicalities.
Thus we refer to a “married” roof as
one that has fallen in. It simplifies the
description. A roof that hasn’t yet fallen
in is known as a “single.” One day I got
a ring from a man to come up and fix his
shingle roof. Thinking he was half-shot
and slurring his words I went along
equipped with my iron-ironing tools.
When I got there I found it was a shingle
roof, a type I had never before ironed.
However, I’ll give anything a fly once,
so I got a relay of irons—of the Mrs.
Potts variety—going on the fire. It was
hard work dashing up the ladder at top
pace so that the iron wouldn’t get cold
before I could start pressing the shingles
(I had to use a damp cloth, too, so that
they wouldn’t scorch), but after a while
I got so fast that the friction of the iron
against the air as I flew up eight rungs at
a time made it hotter than when it left
the fire. So hot, in fact, that even through
the damp cloth it made the shingles curl
up like those you see on a Chinese
pagoda. The owner went a bit maggoty
when he saw them, but, as I explained
to him, shingles with permanent waves
were the latest fashion in coiffure, so
why not in architecture?
But I wasted a lot of time on that job,
for the handles kept coming off the irons,
which rolled down into the water-filled
guttering. On the last day the steam
rising from the guttering as the red-hot
irons plunged in became so dense that
I lost my bearings and, groping around,
fell over the edge. Fortunately, I took
the fall-with my head. I tremble to think
of the disaster had my hands suffered
injury and lost their delicate touch. As
it was, in getting up again I felt dizzy
and, collapsing, trod on my kneecap.
The next shingle roof ironing job I got
was shortly afterwards when my knee
was still stiff. I got sick of trying to get
up the ladder quickly with the irons.
They kept getting cold, so, in desperation,
I took the brazier up on the roof with
me. The nurse told me afterwards that
it was one of the most spectacular fires
ever seen in the district.
S. W. K.
Separation.
The hour has come, alas ! when we must
part —
When all that’s left is but to heave a
sigh
And brace my nerves and steel my sad-
dened heart
To bear the strain of bidding you
good-bye.
I’ve no intention, darling, to disguise
The fact that it has been the height
of bliss
To hold you so and gaze on you, my
prize,
And think how sweet your lips have
been to kiss.
But now the destined hour has struck,
my dear,
And I perforce must be as firm as
rock,
Because, clear one, you’re empty, and I
hear
Fate’s voice declare, ‘‘Time, gents ! It’s
six o’clock.”
P.O.M.C.
Lament.
Beauty and breeding spoke from out her
eyes;
Or so I thought, in my infatuation.
A las ! that grace of form so often lies,
Leaving the lover naught but lamen-
tation !
Her lying beauty made my judgment
blind;
l fell, and dreamed not that her heart
was lacking.
I’ll yell the bitch and then go forth and
find
A dog that’s really worthy of my
backing.
R.W.D.


In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1936 a copy of the original Prospectus duly dated and signed* by the persons named therein
as Directors has been filed for registration with the Registrar-General at Sydney who takes no responsibility for its contents.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
SOLOMON ISLANDS GOLD
SLUICING LIMITED
(To be registered under the Companies Ordinance 1931-1932, and the Companies Acts, Canberra, F.C.T.)
CAPITAL - - - - £lOO,OOO
Divided, into 400,000 Shares of 5/- each
of which
200,000 Contributing Shares are offered for subscription, payable One Shilling (1/-) per share on application, One Shilling (1/-)
per share on allotment, and the balance in three Calls of One Shilling (1/-) each per share at intervals of not less than
one month. Of these shares 60,000 thereof are reserved for application by the members of “Chuba Limited” for a
period of fourteen days from the date hereof in terms of the Agreement hereinafter referred to. Any shares not so
applied for may be allotted at the discretion of the Directors.
100,000 Fully Paid Up Shares of Five Shillings (5/-) each are to be issued and allotted to the Vendors, Solomon Islands Gold
Development Limited, and/or its nominees. In addition the sum of Seven Thousand pounds (£7000) in cash is to be
paid to Solomon Islands Gold Development Limited.
100,000 Shares are to be held in reserve for issue at the discretion of the Directors. These shares are to be first offered to
shareholders pro rata to their respective holdings.
400,000 Shares.
FIRST DIRECTORS:
WILLIAM WOOD, Physician, 141 Macquarie
Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM NEVILLE HARDING, Taxation
Specialist, 91 Phillip Street, Sydney.
ALLAN MACDONALD TURNBULL, Company
Director, 37 Dudley Road, Rose Bay.
ERNEST ALBERT LAURENCE, Solicitor, 0
Wvnyard Street, Sydney.
(One other may be appointed.)
SOLICITOUS i '
FRED. C. EMANUEL & CO., Dalton House,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITOR:
CHARLES ALLEN LAW,‘Chartered Accountant
(Aust.), Stanton House, 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
BANKERS:
BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES, Melbourne
Buildings, Canberra, F.C.T.
SECRETARY:
JAMES HILTON, P.C.1.5., A.F.1.A., 6th Floor,
Mercantile Building, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
MELBOURNE BUILDINGS. Canberra, F.C.T.
CONSULTING ENGINEER:
HERBERT JOHN AULT, Metallurgical Engineer,
Tulagi, British Solomon Islands Protectorate.
SOLOMON ISLANDS REPRESENTATIVE:
JOHN CHARLES MYLNE SCOTT, Makambo,
Tulagi, British Solomon Islands Protectorate.
BRANCH REGISTERED OFFICE:
Makambo, Tulagi, British Solomon Islands
Protectorate.
OBJECTS.
1. The objects for which the Company is being formed
are (inter alia) to acquire from Solomon Islands Gold Develop-
ment Limited all their right title and interest in and to the
Prospecting Licenses numbered 828, 829, 831 and 839 (for-
merly known as B 17) each of about 500 acres and the benefit
of Applications for Leases made by the Vendors over the
latter two Prospecting License areas and the Alluvial Stream
bed rights over the areas known as Prospecting Licenses 838
and 840 on the Central Sorvohio River on the Island of
Guadalcanal.
2. To adopt and carry into effect with or without modi-
fication an Agreement dated the Fourth day of February,
1937, made between Solomon Islands Gold Development
Limited as Vendors of the one part and James Hilton as
Trustee for this Company of the other part.
3. To equip the said mining tenements with suitable plant
and machinery and to carry on mining operations thereon.
4. To do all other acts deeds matters and things either
alone or conjointly with any other person or persons cor-
poration or corporations which the Directors may think inci-
dental or conducive to the objects and interests of the Company
or any of them and to enter into and execute all deeds docu-
ments and/or other writings which may be necessary or ex-
pedient for the purposes of the Company.
INTRODUCTION.
In presenting to the investing public the potential value
of an entirely new and virgin goldfield, it is considered desir-
able to set out particulars of data secured at greater length
than is usual in order that prospective sharehiplders may more
readily visualise some of the interesting conditions existing in
this almost unexplored territory.
This is rendered further necessary owing to the fact that
but little authentic information has been published in respect
of British Solomon Islands Protectorate; and that portion
which has filtered through has invariably referred to the
coastal regions and such localities as have been opened up
to commercial enterprise.
In the circumstances referred to, brief data not directly
associated with mining activities are presented with a view
to such being of some informative value, and to render some
explanation as to why this potentially rich territory has
remained so long unexploited in respect of its gold and
mineral wealth.
The Solomon Islands embrace one of the biggest groups
of islands in the Pacific, comprising ten very large islands
and innumerable smaller ones, and these are situated between
the parallels of 5 degrees and 12 degrees 30 minutes South
Latitude and the meridians of 155 degrees and 170 degrees
East Longitude.
me total land area embraced is 14,600 square miles.
The Solomon Islands are a British Protectorate, adminis-
tered by the Colonial Office, London, through the High Com-
missioner of the Western Pacific stationed at Suva, Fiji, who
is in turn deputised by a local Resident Commissioner stationed
at Tulagi, the present capital of the Group.
GENERAL.
The larger islands of the locality are extremely moun-
tainous, the main spurs invariably rise in almost perpendicu-
lar fashion from the river systems. These razorback ridges
are extremely narrow and are literally studded by innumerable
precipitous walls as they reach the higher elevations.
Apart from the coastal regions, which are largely com-
prised of tropical grass plains, the country itself is very heavily
timbered, with a riot of every conceivable form of under-
growth and vegetation, which renders progress, apart from the
beaten track, an extremely difficult and hazardous undertaking.
Numerous mountain streams converge into wide river
systems approaching the coastal plains, which serve to drain
the interior sections of the larger islands of the Group.
Climatic conditions may be described as being tropical,
temperatures at sea level ranging between 72 degrees to 92
degrees with high humidity, but in the mountainous regions
early-morning temperatures have been recorded as low as 49
degrees.
The islands, being narrow, receive the benefit of pre-
vailing South Easterly sea breezes, and as a result living con-
ditions compare more than favorably with other tropical
countries. In this region hurricanes are unknown.
The general health of the European population may be
described as being reasonably good, although mild malarial
fever is prevalent, and all residents suffer attacks from time to
time.
In 1934 the white population throughout the Group was
497, the alien population 193, of which number ever 80 p.c.
were Chinese, whilst the estimated native population has been
set down at 94,738, of which number 40,067 live on Malaita
Island, the chief source of reliable labour in the Group.
The returns of population for the period 1933-1934 on
Guadalcanal Island indicated that 81 white people were resident
thereon, and that the native population had been determined
at 14,215, with an average of six persons per square mile.
PREVIOUS HISTORY.
The Solomon Islands were first discovered in the year
1567 by a Spanish expedition in charge of Don Alvaro de
Mendana, who established a footing on the Island of Santa
Cruz, but upon his death in 1595 the Islands were abandoned,
and the remaining members returned to Gallio, a seaport in
Peru.
No further record appears to be in existence regarding the
Solomon Islands for over 200 years from that period, although
they were subsequently “re-discovered” from time to time,
and several unsuccessful attempts were made to establish a
permanent footing within the Group, only to be abandoned
owing to the continued hostility of the natives and lack of
communication with other parts of the world.
In the year 1893 Great Britain established a Protectorate
over the Group, but it was not until 1905 that the Solomon
Islands were opened to commercial enterprise, when Levers
Pacific Plantations Limited took up large areas of coastal
country to establish plantations: They were closely followed
by Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co., and the Malaita Company, and
other interests who have ever since been closely associated
with its progress.
MINING.
The mineral wealth of the Solomon Islands up to the
present juncture has been more or less neglected for very
excellent reasons, namely, mining activities were not legalised
prior to 1927, and progress subsequent to that period has been
retarded largely by reasbn of the fact that the central and
mountainous portions of the larger Islands have as yet been
only partially explored, the major section being geologically
unknown.
The occurrence of gold in the Solomon Islands was estab-
lished in 1930 by F. Kajeweski, an Australian botanist,
during his researches on the Island of Guadalcanal, the largest
Island of the Group.
! As a result of this important discovery, very valuable
work of an exploratory character was carried out by the
“Guadalcanal Prospecting Syndicate” (now Chuba Limited
and Guadalcanal Limited), who were obliged to overcome
very formidable obstacles in the shape of pioneering through a
trackless jungle, aggravated by the difficulties encountered in
maintaining reserves of labour, foodstuffs and other essential
supplies.
I The results established in these preliminary explorations
were of such an encouraging nature as to warrant the Vendors
making an exhaustive investigation, and Pioneer Expedition
No Liability were entrusted with the further examination of
the secured territory.
Several areas which up to this stage had only been sub-
jected to preliminary scout boring and haphazard prospecting
operations were then systematically tested by “close boring,”
pitting and boxing, to determine values in bulk testing, in
selected positions, which would be indicative of the whole
of a given section, and the process was repeated to such an
extent to enable a conservative estimate of the value of the
whole to be arrived at.
These operations proved that former preliminary estimates
arrived at were more than substantiated, and the Vendor
Company—Solomon Islands Gold Development Limited —was
then formed for the purpose of acquiring the areas, to further
test and develop them, and to carry out preliminary work
of a useful character which would remove many of the diffi-
culties then existing and expedite the introduction of an
operating Company to exploit the values determined.
This involved the construction of a motor transport route
from the coast line to the foothills, a distance of 14 miles,
in order that essential supplies might be economically trans-
ported. This work has been completed, and this Company will
obtain benefits arising therefrom.
In addition, a comprehensive system of inter-wireless com-
munication has been established between the various depots
on the field and Tulagi. It was realised that it was essential
to provide a means of rapid communication in a country where
the usual avenues of communication were totally non-existent.
These and many other important works have been carried
out, including the survey of the areas, preliminary survey
of mountain road routes connecting the furthermost areas with
motor transport route before referred to, the compilation of
data of a very important character and the selection of an
aerodrome site centrally situated to the Company’s areas.
Thus it will be noted that everything possible has been
carried out prior to the incorporation of the Company which
is now being formed to exploit the values proven within the
areas herein referred to.
AREAS.
The areas to be acquired are located on the Central
Sorvohio River on the Island of Guadalcanal, and embrace a
total area of about 2000 acres.
These areas may be briefly described as embracing Pros-
pecting License locations referred to as 829, 839 (formerly
numbered B 17), 831 and 838, and it is intended also to acquire
the “Alluvial Stream bed rights” over areas described as 838
and 840, which adjoin the beforementioned areas, the other
mining rights in 838 and 840 being the property of Pioneer
Expedition No Liability.
The Central Sorvohio River traverses all areas with the
exception of 840, which is situated on the Tsarivonga River,
whilst 838 and 829 have the additional advantage of being
traversed by both rivers.
The distances along the courses of the streams are as fol-
lows: —
Tsarivonga River 4050 yards = 2.3 mdes.
Sorvohio River 11,650 yards = 6.6 miles.
The elevation at a point determined approximately midway
in the sections named has been determined by aneroid reading
as being 800 feet above sea level, so that the areas have a dis-
tinct advantage in the shape of “fall,” with an abundance ot
water always available iri excess of all possible requirements.
These particular areas have been subjected to numerous
tests by bores, pits and boxing by the Company’s Consulting
Engineer, and the results established indicate beyond all reason-
able doubt the value of the areas as an immediate proht-
producing enterprise when equipped with the necessary plant
selected to deal with the same.
REPORT.
In a very comprehensive report dealing with the areas held by Solomon
Islands Gold Development, Limited and covering almost eighteen months of test-
ing operations, Mr. Herbert J. Ault, a Metallurgical Engineer of outstanding ability,
states (inter alia) :—• , .
The report which here follows deals with the economic position ot the
"Solomons” in a manner that has been heretofore impossible.
The several factors of major consideration which must be examined in a pro-
position such as exists in Guadalcanal are:—♦
(a) The amount of Alluvial ground and its value,
(b) The nature of the ground,
(c) The methods to be employed for winning the values,
(d) The economics of the proposition as a whole.
The writer returned from the Islands in September, after accompanying
Director Davis over the field, with sufficiently accurate data, gathered from
widely chosen testing localities, to enable him to analyse very fully the amounts,
values and distribution of the gold in the areas held. ,
To appreciate these facts fully the following analysis should be studied,
together with a mat) which has been prepared for the purpose:
AMOUNT AND VAJLJE OF GROUND:
Location.
Tsarivonga River |
Sorvohio River
Tsarivonga River '
#: . !
Sorvohio River
I
>» >»
Contents,
v i
| River
TOTAL CUBIC YARDS, 933,000 - £465,410.


Abridged Prospectus of SOLOMON ISLANDS GOLD SLUICING Limited— (Continued).
(A) Dealing with areas as outlined in full lines on the map, viz.: 828-31-39-29-38
and 40, it will he seen that an aggregation of 933,000 cubic yards valued at
£465,410 is the estimate of the alluvial areas it is proposed to exploit.
It will be observed that' the ground averages out at very close to 10/- per
cubic Yard.
In the tabular analysis on the map the ground is separated in two groups,
namely: Stream bed and flats.
The quantities are given for each group. The position here is to meet the
condition of variable costs which will arise in dealing with economics of handling,
later in the Report'.
The distances along the courses of the streams are:—
Tsarivonga River . . . . 4,050 yards 2.3 miles
Sorvohio River . . . . I 1,650 ~ = 6.6 ~
NATURE OF GROUND:
(B) Starting from 828 and progressing upstream it is necessary that the varying
nature of the ground be considered before the economics and methods to be
adopted for its exploitation can be analysed.
828 contains wide beaches and high flats and stream bed, containing boulders
up to 3 feet major diameter, the gravels form from 12 to 15% of the total volume.
831 is mostly gorge and high flats, containing boulders up to 4 feet diameter,
but mostly from 2 feet to 2 feet 6 inches diameter, the gravels form 10 to 12%
of total volume.
839 (formerly BI7) contains boulders up to 12 feet in diameter, but mostly
are about 2 feet to 3 feet diameter, the gravels are about 6 to 10 % of total volume.
829-38 and 40 are comparable with 839, except that in the Tsarivonga River
the proportion of gravels is between 8 and 12% of total volume.
The depth of ground *in the stream beds is about 9 feet at 828 to 4 feet
6 inches in the upper reaches. The depth of ground in the flats is from 12 feet
to 20 feet at 828 to 839, and thereafter from 9 feet to 12 feet. The gold varies
from line to 7 and 10 dwt. slugs.
The latter are more numerous as we progress upstream until 829 is reached,
and thereafter are absent, but are replaced by spongy slugs and specimens up to
2 or 3 dwt. and much more fine gold.
METHOD TO BE EMPLOYED:
(C) The proposition is one of boulder handling, having regard to the means for
dealing with the sharp and vicious floods that occur almost every afternoon
over four months of the year, but are almost unknown in the forenoon at any time.
The small percentage of gravels makes the gravel handling equipment an easy
and relatively costless choice.
The sluicing equipment is also simple and relatively small.
As to boulder handling, the writer, after the very fullest investigation and
study, and following most searching inquiry into available supplies of equipment and
advice from experts, has definitely decided that there is only one method of attack
which will be positive and safe and payable.
The method is expensive in first cost, but to adopt any other would be taking
chances that could not be recommended.
This method is to employ a caterpillar traction drag-line swinging crane, with
a combination of grapnels, tip buckets, nets and slings to swing over a 60 feet
radius at 40 cycles per hour.
The boulders would be stacked higher than the flood level, and together with
the sluice tailings would be formed into the traction road as the stream is worked
upward.
Simultaneously the gravels would be nozzled into a sump from which the
gravel pump would elevate to sluices about 20 feet above stream level, so that the
tailings would be let to a convenient place for topping up the traction road.
(Some conception of the proposed method recommended will be gained from
the sketch shown hereon.)
To give an idea of capacity in terms of cubic yards daily, the variable nature
of the ground must be considered, for instance, in the 828 area, taking a 40-cycle-
per-hour rate at cubic yards per cycle, 480 yards would be handled daily.
This rate is to be quite reasonably expected, and even exceeded in this particular
area.
In 831, the conditions are different because more grapnel work has to be done,
and it would not obtain a rate more than 350 cubic yards daily, but in the former
case the value is 8.2/- whilst in the latter the value is 10.18/- per cubic yard.
Further upstream in 839, the average value is 10.4/-, and here it would not
be expected to handle more than 300 cubic yards daily. In areas 829-39 and 40,
the average value is 10.6/-. The handling rate would be about 260 yards daily.
Summarising these results, the gross income varies from £196 daily in the
lower areas to £l3B in the higher areas.
The average gross income would be £167 daily. At this rate of handling, the
life of the proposition would on an average handling daily of 300 yards be 3111
days, taking 300 working days per year, this works out at over 10 years.
Whatever the cost of plant, it would have to be divided by 10 to arrive at a
yearly amortisation, and an upkeep cost allowed for during this period.
It would appear from the above figures that some consideration should be
given to supplementation of plant out of profits, to an extent that would obtain
the best results to the shareholders.
The larger boulders have to be blasted down to handleable size, say t'o 3 feet
max. dimensions: this is taken care of in the economical section of the Report.
The rate of handling doubtless will be accelerated as expertness is obtained in
the handling of the equipment. Here it is desired to be as conservative as possible
in stating the case.
ECONOMICS:
The writer has very completely investigated this factor, and during the last
seven or eight weeks has been solely engaged in preparing data and investigating
the various forms of mechanisations possible, also estimating in terms of time and
money, the cost of organisation and equipment.
No detail has been neglected in arriving at figures both as to installation of
plant and the operating organisations.
Careful tabulation of the data has been made for his own guidance and it is
available for the Directors’ inspection. All figures considered are conservative and
the estimate safe.
The construction programme has taken into account all purchases, freights,
duties, transport and landing charges, erection, time of ordering, times of delivery
in Sydney, and Tulagi or Guadalcanal, engagement and maintenance of staff and
labor, recruiting charges and dates, and in fact every conceivable cost', so as to be
sure that the estimate is safe..
The total cost of plant and equipment, ready for operation, is: £29,454.
The construction period is 48 weeks from the first order.
The spendings over every four weeks are as follows:—•
Ist four (4) weeks £2,161
2nd ~ ~ ~ 2,710
3rd „ „ 3,368
4th „ „ „ ........ 4,745
sth „ „ „ 3,829
6th „ „ 3,258
7th „ „ 2,984
Bth „ ' 1,8.54
9th „ „ 1,664
10th „ „ „ 925
11th „ ;, „ 1,028
12th „ „ „ 918
£29,454
To amortise in 10 years a fund of £3OOO yearly should be made a charge on
operating cost on 300 days yearly—£lo daily
The estimated cost of operating includes for staff, power, labor, rations, main-
tence, spares, transport and supplies, and every other operating cost.
It is £4O daily. '
Total operating cost £5O daily, including amortisation.
Daily average profit is £l67—£s0 —£117. Yearly estimated income on 300
working days is £35,100 yearly.
Working capital of Company should not be less than £40,000 from which,
together with cost and fully paid considerations, the nominal capital of the
Company can be arrived at.
The foregoing deals only with exploitation of the ground as tabulated and
does not in any way deal with other aspects of the Solomon Islands venture.
(Signed) H. J. AULT.
At a later date, the following appendix was added to the foregoing report, '
reading as follows:—>
Since the completion of this report, which gives an estimate of ground and
values, the following information has been received from the field:—-
“A terrace (probably a deep lead) has been located high above river level
showing 15 feet deep and probably a quarter-mile long of ground showing values
of £5 per square yard on the bottom.
“If this is a deep lead the possibility of its extension into and beneath the
basalt open up highly potential additions to the estimated values given.
“For every yard of width of ground had this find represents £2200.
“This is probably the "lead* which has enriched the river bed towards the
‘No More’ flats.
“It is anticipated that quite a few more of such deposits will be located as our
investigations proceed."
H. J. A.
IMMEDIATE PROGRAMME.
Immediately on the incorporation of this Company, it is intended to proceed with a
programme of vigorous development and plant installation with a view to gold production.
It is proposed to engage the services of Mr. H. J. Ault to act in an advisory capacity to
the Company, and to have all the necessary plant installed under his capable supervision.
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.
The consideration payable on the incorporation of the Company is to be satisfied by the
allotment of 100,000 fully-paid shares each of Five shillings (5/-), and the payment in
cash of Seven thousand pounds (£7000). In any future issue of shares the Vendors will hold
no preference to the then existing shareholders.
CONTRACTS.
The following Agreements are to be entered into:
(;) Agreement dated the Fourth day of February, 1937, made between Solomon Islands
Gold Development Limited of the one part and James Hilton as Trustee for this Company
(to be registered) of the other part.
(b) Agreement by letter dated 22nd January, 1937, to James Hilton as a Trustee lor the
Company from Leslie James Davis, Esq., to subscribe for or procure applications for
200,000 Contributing Shares in the capital of the Company.
The above Agreement and letter, together with draft Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Company, and copies of the withinmentioned Ordinances may be inspected
at the office of the Company’s Solicitors, Fred C. Emanuel & Co., at any time during usual
business hours.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made in due course to have the shares listed on the official list of the
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane Stock Exchanges.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
All preliminary and flotation expenses, including stamp duty, registration fees, legal
charges and brokerage, will be borne by the Company, and for the purpose of the Companies
Act, 1936, it is estimated that these/apart from brokerage and commission, will amount to £3OO.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION.
The minimum subscription upon which the Directors may proceed to allotment is 200,000
In conformity with the provisions of “The Companies Act 1936” the following additional
particulars are set out: — . , . .
1. The Memorandum of Association of the Company, with the names, descriptions and
addresses of the signatories thereto, and the number of shares subscribed for by them
respectively, is printed in the prospectus and forms part thereof.
2. There are no founder’s or management or deferred shares.
3. The number of shares fixed by the Articles of Association as the qualification of a
Director is 400 shares in his own name or a shareholder of a Company holding at least
400 shares in this Company. The remuneration of Directors shall be such sum as the
Company may in general meeting determine. The Directors shall be paid all their
travelling and other expenses properly and necessarily expended by them in and about the
business of the Company, and to attend meetings of the Board of Directors.
4. The names, descriptions and addresses of the Directors are:— •
Name.
William Wood.
William Neville Harding.
Allan Macdonald Turnbull.
Ernest Albert Laurence.
Address.
141 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
91 Phillip Street, Sydney.
37 Dudley Road, Rose Bay.
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Description.
Physician.
Taxation Specialist.
Company Director.
Solicitor.
5. The name, description and address of the proposed Secretary of the Company is James
Hilton, F.C.1.5., A.F.1.A., 6th Floor, Mercantile Mutual Building, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney,
and of the proposed Solicitors are Fred. C. Emanuel and Co., Dalton House, 115 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
6. The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by the issue
of shares to the public in order to provide for:
(a) the cash purchase price of the property to be acquired by the Company, £7OOO,
(b) preliminary expenses and brokerage and commission payable to any person for
agreeing to subscribe or procuring subscriptions for shares, £2BOO,
(c) the repayment of any moneys borrowed for the foregoing purposes, Nil, and
(d) working capital, £40,200,
is the sum of Fifty thousand pounds (£50,000).
7. The amount payable on the application and allotment of shares is the sum of Two
shillings (2/-) per share, such amount being payable One shilling (1/-) on application and
One shilling (1/-) on allotment.
8. There has been no previous issue of shares or debentures.
9. The name and address of the Vendor of the proposed property to be purchased by the
Company is, Solomon Islands Gold Development Limited, Melbourne Buildings, Canberra,
Federal Capital Territory, Australia, and the amount payable to the Vendor in cash and
shares is £7OOO cash and the allotment of 100,000 fully-paid-up shares each of five shillings
on the capital of this Company.
10. The amount payable as purchase money for the property aforesaid in cash and shares is,
Cash £7OOO, and 100,000 Fully-paid-up Shares in the capital of the Company. No amount
is payable for goodwill.
11. No commission for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe or procuring subscription for shares
has been paid within the two years preceding. Brokerage will be paid on the issue of
shares contemplated by this Prospectus at the rate of one and one-half pence per share on
all shares allotted on appplications made through a member of a recognised Stock Exchange,
or through an Agent approved of by the Company, and the said Leslie James Davis shall
be such an Agent, and in addition the said Leslie James Davis will be paid an overriding
commission of one and one-half penny per share on the 200,000 shares now offered for
public subscription in consideration of him agreeing to subscribe or procure subscriptions
for the said 200,000 shares in accordance with the underwriting letter hereinmentioned.
12. The amount of preliminary expenses other than the abovementioned commission or
brokerage is estimated at £3OO.
13. No consideration is payable to any promoter other than the commission and brokerage
set out herein.
14. The only material contracts entered into on behalf of the Company are:
(a) Agreement dated the Fourth day of February, 1937, made between Solomon Islands
Gold Development Limited of the one part and James Hilton as Trustee for this
Company of the other part.
(b) Underwriting letter to James Hilton as Trustee for Solomon Islands Gold Sluicing
Limited (to be registered) from Leslie James Davis, Esq., agreeing to subscribe or
procure applications for 200,000 Contributing Shares in the capital of the Company.
Such letter bears date the 22nd day of January, 1937.
The above documents may be inspected at the offices of Fred. C. Emanuel & Co., Solicitors.
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney, at any time during usual business hours.
15. The name and address of the Auditor of the Company is—Charles Allen Law, Chartered
Accountant (Aust.), Stanton House, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
16. The Directors are all shareholders each to the extent of 1000 shares in, and Directors
of Solomon Islands Gold Development Limited, the Vendor Company. The Directors,
William Neville Harding, Allan Macdonald Turnbull and Ernest Albert Laurence, are
shareholders to the extent of 951, 1017 and 100 shares respectively in and are Directors
of Chuba Limited. No sum is being paid to any Director in cash or shares or otherwise
to induce him to become or qualify him as a Director.
17. The shares of the Company are all of one class.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES,
Application for shares will be received only on one of the forms referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the original prospectus. Copies
of the full prospectus and forms of application for shares may be obtained from the Underwriter, LESLIE J. DAVIS, Stanton House, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney (G.P.O. Box 3369 PP, Sydney, ’Phone 81755), or from the Secretary of the Company or any Member of the Stock Exchanges in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide or Brisbane.


refill!
mm
n 11
FfMU
< ~K£Ylwr
VICTORIA PALACE
201-229 Little Collins St., Melb. Cl.
• Melbourne’s largest, most modern hotel.
Central —next to Town Hall. Quiet —off tram
lines. Comfortable —luxurious appointments
throughout. Inexpensive—popular “Room
Only’’ tariff: Singles. 4/- to 7/6 per day;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/- per day. Write Dept.
826 for catalogue.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST NON-LICENSE.D HOT£L
n
m
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
. O 7(a
Sheet
metal
STAMPING
MACHINERY j
JohnHcinc
SYDNEY €t m SOW Ltd • SYDNEY
McPhersons
Represontatives; J
PT y. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide,. Perth*
E.S.C.A., Brisbane. __
Business,Robbery,Etc.
E. W. Bonwick’s Acknowledgment
Dear Bulletin, —In reference to your
article on Mandated Alluvials (B.
10/2/’37), you are quite right in criticis-
ing the report of Nov. 9. At the then
stage of development it was wrong to
attempt any estimate of quantities. It
shows the danger of discussing “highly
probable,” “possible,” etc., reserves of
ore. Subsequent developments at Man-
dated destroyed practically every as-
sumption upon which I based the figure
criticised by you.—E. W. Bonwick,
Sydney Grammar School, 10/2/’37.
Mandated Alluvials ss. shares con-
tinued to fluctuate between 3s. and 4s.
last week. It seems certain that cash in
hand will not fully cover outlay neces-
sary on plant. Profit in sight, estimated
at ss. 7d. a share, may be more or less
than that figure; in any case, share-
holders are not likely to see it in full
unless plant can be bought with present
cash in hand (about £14,000). Some
people still have hope that the sulphides,
described by Mr. Bonwick as unpayable,
may eventually be worked at a profit.
But the stock at present is most interest-
ing to bears who are covering.
Demand for Emperor shares fell away
in Melbourne and Adelaide following
The Bulletin’s comparison of Austra-
lasian and Rand mining costs with those
estimated for the Emperor by E. G.
Theodore. In the week prior to the
article 29,800 shares officially changed
hands in Melbourne ; next week 4750 ;
while in the first four days of last week
the call-room turnover was 8200. The
price has held around 21s. Considering
all the risks associated with goldmining,
especially as regards a new property
where native labor has yet to prove
itself fully, it would be unwise to dabble
too confidently in Emperor scrip. Gold-
mines often become very uninteresting
on ’Change after full production com-
mences, even though reasonable profits
may be earned. In addition to the
1,500,000 shares already issued, the
vendors may subscribe for at par 350,000
shares before March 15, 1938. The
present cash in hand will not by itself
pay for the full plant-erection pro-
gramme, which is estimated to cost
£20,000 more than the working capital
with which the show kicked off. And,
of course, there have been, and will be,
other heavy exes.
* * #
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of ingot
steel for the first 32 weeks of the cur-
rent year is up about 14 p.c. on the same
period of 1935-36. In that last full
year, when steel production was 20 p.c.
higher than in 1934-35, net earnings rose
27 p.c. (to £850,361). If the same ratio
between production and profits is main-
tained for this financial period, B.H.P.
should show about £1,020,000 net from
the steelworks and its associated indus-
tries when the year closes on May 31
next. That would be over 19.5 p.c. on
the issued capital, some of which, not
yet fully paid, doesn’t call for full divi-
dends. Obviously B.H.P. will be well
able to hand out more, than the 124 p.c.
p.a. distributed now for 18 months;
whether more than 124 P-c. w disbursed
revolves round a question of policy.
In any case, with the Barrier mine in
profitable production again, potentiali-
ties are not overestimated in the market
price of 82s. Nearly a third of the
capital is tied up in associated enter-
prises that have yet to pass on profits.
* $ * *
On the basis of then’ respective in-
terests in Australian Portland Cement
Pty., each £1 of capital in the Kandos
Co. is worth 12.8 p.c. more than each £1
share in Australian Cement, Ltd. The
reason for this is that Kandos holds
1.484 A.P.C. shares for each £1 of its
own capital; Australian Cement 1.315
shares. Miscellaneous assets total about
the same in both cases. With the Vic-
torian co.’s £1 shares at 295. lid. last
week, Kandos 16s. scrip should have
been at 275. It was at 255.
Jje He *
Interest in investment shares rallied
again last week, Tuesday being a day
of outstanding buoyancy. Bank scrip,
which resisted the recent easing tendency,
was in favor, and breweries were popular,
especially Tooheys (Sydney) and Castle-
maine Perkins (Brisbane). For some
time it has been difficult to pick stocks
“You can't expect a big boy like that to go half-fare.”
“ He's not big. Hid unself under seat cornin' down.”
that had market possibilities because of
the generally high level of share values;
but recent selections here have turned
out particularly well. Berlei ords. have
jumped 3s. 3d. (to 40s. 3d.), Winchcombe
Carson 2s. 9d. (to 395. 6d.), Mauri Bros,
ords. Is. 6d. (to 735. 6d.), Edwards Dun-
lop 3s. 6d. (to 505.), Bank of N. S. Wales
£2 12s. 6d. (to £36 55.), Morris Hedstrom
ords. 4s. 3d. (to 30s. 9d.) —all within the
last couple of months, and some during
the past few weeks. Favor is reserved
for stocks of proved and probable merit,
taking the long view always.
* * * *
A wool cheque of £35,530,000 for the
first seven months of 1936-37 compares
with £37,927,000 for the whole of 1934-
35, and £49,100,000 for 1935-36. Aver-
age price so far this season has been
16.1 d., as against lOd. in 1934-35 and
14.2 d. last season. For the four months
to the end of January, during which
time probable and actual Japanese com-
petition influenced the market, the rise
in quotations was unbroken, 19.5 d. being
averaged for January. About 62 p.c. of
the current season’s clip had gone away
up to the end of last month. If the
market doesn’t relax £55,000,000 should
be about the final figure for the season.
* * * *
Those people holding Newbold Fire-
brick shares might find the present as good
a time as any to sell out. The market
was around 375. 9d. last week, when
the 10 p.c. div. was repeated. The rate
isn’t likely to be increased, and though
the business at present is quite prosper-
ous it is of a type extremely susceptible
to economic moods.
The property of Solomon Islands Gold
Sluicing and the engineer’s report
thereon were fully discussed in B.
30/12/ ’36. The co.’s prospectus has
now been issued ; it strikes as being a
full and fair document, with the com-
plete report of H. J. Ault included. The
minimum subscription on which the
directors may go to allotment is the lull
public issue (200,000 ss. shares), of
which 60,000 shares are first to be offered
at par to shareholders in an associate
co. Including 100,000 shares to be issued
as part vendor’s consideration (the other
part is £7OOO cash), the co. will start
off with a paid capital of £75,000,
over £40,000 of it available for de-
velopment. The engineer reckons on
a profit of £35,100 p.a. (gold at
£6 an ounce) for 10 years. The
area appears to have been carefully
prospected ; the directors propose to
go ahead with development and sluic-
ing operations almost immediately. It
looks a promising venture on a new field,
not yet fully proved. If estimated re-
coveries and costs are achieved, profits to
Commonwealth investors would be
better than prospectus figures, which are
based on gold at £6 per fine ounce, as
against £8 15s. actually ruling.
* * * *
Melbourne Steam ords. were strongly
recommended here at 275. on 11/11/ ’36 ;
following a repeat of the 6 p.c. div. last
week they sold at 295. 6d. The shares
saw 31s. last September. During the
half-year to Dec. 31 the co.’s fleet was
kept fully employed; and the board
appeared sufficiently pleased with the
outlook to set aside £24,000 from re-
serves to establish a staff superannuation
fund.
* * *
Readers of this page who have been
caught with fixed-interest securities on
the present declining market have only
themselves to blame. Ever since the
outbreak of the Italo-Abyssinian war,
when it was advised that ordinary shares
were the best available investment in the
event of war-time inflation, the immi-
nence of higher interest rates and lower
prices for Consols and pref. shares has
been stressed almost from week to week.
In London lower prices for Government
securities are now the rule also ; it was
this which made Mr. Bruce so definite
in his opinion that the present was no
time to flirt with British investors on
loan matters.
* * * *
G. J. Coles ords., up to £5 10s. last
week, would yield 3.6 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div. basis, 3.2 p.c. on 174 p.c. The
interim paid on January 15 was at the
higher rate ; in the preceding full year
124 p.c. was paid, though after satis-
fying the prefs. and allowing the directors
and staff bonuses on a very large scale,
19.6 p.c. was shown on average ord.
capital. If the drag of managerial
bonuses is halved it may represent an
additional 4 p.c. on ord. capital this
year, while general trade developments
justify the expectation of a bigger busi-
ness profit in any case. If no more than
20 p.c. comes along regularly, £5 is a
fair price, for this stock.
A story is going round that plans are
being prepared for a remodelled Men-
zies’ Hotel, Melbourne. Speculators will
be wise to wait until full details are
available of how the scheme (if there is
a scheme) is to be financed before pay-
ing any more for the shares on this ac-
count. Buyers paid 16s. 3d. for the ords
in Sydney last week. The market appre-
ciation following N. B. Rydge’s acquisi-
tion of control has yet to be. justified by
published results.
* * * *
Claude Neon, Ltd., offers probably
the best opportunity to buy into the
gas-filled electric-sign business for those
who fancy this kind of investment. It
hires out its signs, and present commit-
ments of lessees are understood to be
about 20s. a share in excess of ruling
market price for the scrip (535.), mostly
due within a short period of years. The
business continues to expand, though
competition is keener than it was. Im-
mediate yield is 5.6 p.c. Much, of
course, depends on’ the solvency of the
co.’s lessees ; general conditions suggest
that debts should be good for the
immediate future, at any rate.
i\i * * *
Following the Sydney County Coun-
cil’s acceptance of the tender of C. A.
Parsons and Co. for two turbo-genera-
tors, shares in William Adams and Co.
rose sharply by Is. Id. on ’Change. This
co. is the Australian agent for Parsons,
and as the total sum involved is £414,892
(Aust.) it should be a nice job for W.
Adams to be interested in. The fact
shouldn’t be overlooked, however, that
every rise of Is. in the co.’s ords. dis-
counts profits to the extent of £11,250.
*•**'*
In Melbourne last week:
Mt. Lyell shares had a keen market towards
the week-end, when electrolytic copper rose to
over £62 in London.
Gordon Gold (Bolwarrah) shares sold
strongly following a reported widening of the
reef; though the full market rise was not
maintained, there were sales at 18s. on Thurs-
day, which compares with 11s. or 12s. averaged
over a long period.
North Kalgurli shares changed hands at
19s. 2d.
Menzies Hotel scrip lifted to 16s. after a
long quiet period.
Pelaco ords. at ss. 3d. were lower than this
time last year, despite the improved earnings.
Twelve months ago there was a speculative
wave of buying in this stock.
Good Yields from a High Market.
Cumberland Paper prefs.—first,
second or third—that can be
bought for 325. or 335. at present
are. outstanding value. On merits
they should be higher than Aus-
tralasian Paper ords., now at 375.,
because they possess all the privi-
leges of. ords., with a preferential
claim on profits to boot. In its
last term Australian Paper Manu-
facturers’ disclosed profit was
more, than 10 p.c. on the total
issued capital, paid or unpaid, of
the two holding cos., Australasian
Paper and Cumberland. The new
160-inch paper machine at Fair-
field (Vic.) began work on June
30 last. The capital now unpro-
ductive in the 132-inch board
machine undergoing erection at
Botany (N.S.W.) should begin to
yield a return after July, 1938. An
income of around 5 p.c. is to be
obtained from Cumberland prefs.
at present prices and div. rates.
* # * *
Yarra Falls ords., returning 4.9
p.c. at 415., are one of the sound-
est and most remunerative indus-
trial equities offering on Mel-
bourne ’Change. From 1929 to
1934 inclusive div. rates were 10
p.c., 8 p.c., 5 p.c., 6 p.c., 9 p.c.
and 10 p.c. (the present rate)
respectively.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Aurie’s Star revealed himself as a
sprinter of uncommon calibre by the
manner of his Oakleigh Plate victory.
The Stardrift gelding left his rivals
standing, much after the fashion of
Arachne in 1935 ; but, whereas Arachne
took lmin. 6sec. to cover the 5\ fur-
longs, Aurie’s Star ran the distance in
lmin. 4}sec., taking a quarter of a
second off the course record established
last year by Belle Silhouette.
Relative times are not always a reli-
able basis of comparison. Arachne in
1935 was followed home by topnotch
gallopers in Winooka and Heros. Minor
place-getters last Saturday were Beech-
wood and Phenomenon, who are not
comparable with the Windbag horse that
Mick Poison took to America or the
Heroic gelding that raced for Jack Holt
so faithfully and well. Yet the victims of
Aurie’s Star included Regular Bachelor,
Studio, Hadrian and Arachne, each ot
whom has earned high repute over short
courses.
During the present season Aurie’s Star
must have landed a small fortune for
G. W. Badman. The Adelaide man is
a courageous bettor when opportunity
beckons, and usually treats stake-money
as a minor consideration. He must have
been delighted when Melbourne punters
tumbled over each other to support
Beechwood, ignoring to a large extent
the effortless win of Aurie’s Star at Wil-
liamstown a week before. Caulfield track
work certainly suggested that Frank
Musgrave’s candidate was a “bottler,”
but the Oakleigh Plate result bore out
the value of race form. Beechwood
went out at 5 to 2, Aurie’s Star at 4 to 1.
Master Motley finished fourth in the
Plate, but the two horses immediately
behind him —Regular Bachelor and
Great Legend—are more likely to be
dangerous in forthcoming engagements.
Great Legend was third into the straight,
and he looks to be on the way to an
early success. Hadrian disappointed visi-
tors from Sydney, who, however, do not
intend to discard the Tippler stallion on
one run.
Lochlee’s third, with 9st. 81b., to Ajax
(Bst. 51b.) and Sweet Memories (9st.) in
the Federal Stakes emphasises his claim
to rank as the best juvenile in Victoria.
Those associated with Lochlee were not
at all sanguine of success. While on
furlough in a Bacchus Marsh paddock
he ate grass voraciously and refused any
fodder. In consequence he lost a lot of
muscle which had to be restored on
resuming training. Lochlee's galloping
action at the finish of the race on Satur-
day was well-nigh perfect.
At severe cost to his admirers Golden
Promise has reached the peak of his
powers as a racehorse. This son of
Limond had 14 opponents in the Bond
Cup. Kept rather far out of his ground
for the first six furlongs, he then went
to the outside of the field and began to
gather in the leaders with sweeping
strides. . He reached the judge less than
a length in advance of Benthos, but it
was a most decisive win, and there may
be better things to follow.
Viceroy —who, like the winner, was
sired by Limond —finished a creditable
third in the Bond Cup, and he promises
to do knight Hugh Denison more valu-
able service than the locally-trained
Heritor, an Oakleigh Plate “also ran.”
Donaster, who was deposed from favorit-
ism by Golden Promise, got into hope-
less trouble.
Holt, who trains Golden Promise,
annexed the weight-for-age St. George
Stakes with Young Idea (7 to 2), owned
in Sydney by Percy Miller. It cost
Young Idea no real effort to overhaul
the favorite, Cuddle, who dropped right
out of the hunt and cannot be in any-
thing near her best trim.
Young Idea scored, easing up, by five
lengths from game little Hostile, with
Plymouth Sound a head farther away. In
almost the last stride Hostile unshipped
his lead bag, which weighed 131 b. The
jockey, of course, weighed in light, and
his mount was disqualified, Plymouth
Sound being placed second and Prince
Quex third.
Plymouth Sound was imported from
England by the Baillieu brothers in con-
junction with W. Clark and W. S. Robin-
son. He went amiss and had to be put
by in the spring. Showing signs of lame-
ness, Plymouth Sound recently was eased
in his work, but he is now quite all
right. While under veterinary care some
months ago an X-ray examination was
made of one of his legs. It showed no
trace of unsoundness. Plymouth Sound
travelled so well at the end of the St.
George Stakes that he may blossom into
Holt’s best performer before the autumn
meetings are over.
With ordinary luck Rondeletia would
have been first home in the Salisbury
Welter, instead of losing to Tindall’s
representative, Quasimodo. There was
a solid phalanx of horses in front of
Rondeletia at the home bend, and he did
not get clear of the ruck until half a
furlong from the post. Panax was unex-
pectedly third. After winning twice in
Sydney last autumn Panax seemed to
lose all form. This period of the year
may be his harvest time.
* * * *
Country Party and Upoko Ariki are
brothers. Country Party beat Bustard
pointless in the V.R.C. Batman Stakes
in November, 1935 ; but, disqualified for
12 months at a retrospective inquiry, he
gets into the Futurity Stakes as a
maiden—with 7st. A wonderful weight
for a proved good one with the others
virtually carrying welterweights ; but the
question is whether he will be thor-
oughly strung up on the day. He may
need a gallop or two in public.
* * * *
Barramul (Caledon-Smart Bird) prom-
ised well as a two-year-old, but his early
three-year-old form was poor. He is
evidently improving, for he won the 11-
furlongs handicap at Canterbury Park
rather nicely, though he had only a
poor lot to beat. Old Double Dutch
was soon out of it, as his saddle shifted.
Andy Knox slipped Barramul away with
a good break half a mile from home,
and didn’t have to exert self or mount to
hold off Jeanne d’Arc and D’Airain at
the finish. It was Barramul’s first
attempt at 11 furlongs. He went out
at 5 to 1 in a field of six. Evidently
horse-dealer Christey thought he wouL.
not see the journey right out.
Ridden patiently, Short Wave (7 to 1)
atoned in the Flying Handicap for his
failure at Moorefield. Moonray (evens),
now raced by Booth, looked the winner
commencing the last furlong, but Short
Wave came with a final burst, and beat
him by a head, with Gayhawk a length
back. Beaupre was fourth. He looked
well enough, but the company was too
select. Heroic Faith (fifth) improved on
his Moorefield outing.
The Westralian sportsman Dr. D. A.
Quinlan has the makings of a good gal-
loper in Publicity, who captured the
first division of the Juvenile Handicap,
at fives. He is a good-looking son of
Heroic-Ridicule, but green—so much so
that young Hickey had a full-size job to
keep him on the fence. Sturdee also
lugged badly throughout and pushed
Beau Ercil off the track. This gave Pub-
licity a run on the rails, enabling him to
score by a length from Beau Ercil, with
Sturdee a head away.
The second division went to O'Reilly
(5 to 1), a big colt by Mid Kent-Pretty
Tress. The dam was a flyer when trained
by Peter Keith. Commencing smartly
O’Reilly was kept at his top by little.
Sally Sana, who may have won with a
good getaway. Pat, carrying the colors
of F. P. McCabe, was third. He is
a nicely-turned son of the Caulfield Cup
and Metrop. winner Denis Boy.
Newcastle - owned and Randwick-
trained Belgravia (4 to 1) is very fit at
present. It was superior condition that
enabled him to beat Jim Pike’s very
unlucky Timurkah and Moaenza in the
Highweight; that and the run of the
race: Timurkah was boxed up early,
and the favorite, Electron, was cut out
at the start, as also was Moaenza.
Old Verdonia is made to earn his oats.
He fell in a hurdle race at Randwick,
bobbed up the following day at Kembla,
and again came to light in the Ashbury
Handicap at Canterbury. So little fan-
cied that he went out at 12 to 1 in a
field of six, the former Queenslander
scored with ease from Imbiber and
Greek Play. The slow pace did not suit
Gold Digger or Limoux.
* * * *
Loud Applause has been sold for
1250 guineas to go to India. There
he will join Rivalli, Count Ito, Hyperion,
Cardinal and a dozen other Australian-
bred horses who are doing well there,
and if his weight can be kept down —
an inclination to grossness was his bane
in these parts —he should be successful.
Apropos, the reappearance of the buyer
from India has greatly improved the out-
look for bloodstock breeders. In fact,
prospects in the business of raising race-
horses and Walers are so good that
small limited-liability companies might
take a hand if the right men are behind
them. This sort of competition would
be a safeguard against the importation
of third- and fourth-rate stallions and
mares from England, which deplorable
circumstance was a leading cause of the
prolonged disappearance of the buyer
from India.
* * * *
The owner of Talking is losing the
services of Capris as a racehorse. Of
course, so beautiful a mare is likely to
develop into a first-class matron, but if
she hadn’t met with an accident on the
last day of the A.J.C. spring meeting
there might have been another good
race or two in her. Epsom form has
been belittled, but actually it was un-
commonly good, as Gay Lover was to
demonstrate in the V.R.C. Cantala Stakes.
* * * *
Sydney will have a fairly strong repre-
sentation in the Newmarket, although
scratchings altered the outlook. Gold
Rod, who had Bst. 111 b., a rather
nice weight for a good three-year-
old, was withdrawn because he is to be
reserved for w.f.a. races. Siren (7st. 131 b.),
who in ordinary circumstances would
have been a strong fancy, has not satis-
fied her trainer, and is to be spelled. Nor
is Silver Rose (7st. 51b.) to make the
trip, although there is nothing wrong
with this Rossendale filly, who will be
an early fancy for the Doncaster, if she
trains. However, of horses trained at
Randwick, Gay Blonde (9st. lib.), Had-
rian (Bst. 131 b.), Falstaff (Bst. lib.),
Disalto (7st. 131 b.), Country Party (7st.
9!b.) and Mark Antony and Heritor
(each 7st. 71b.) are still in the New-
market, and Hadrian, Falstaff, Disalto
and Country Party are fancied.
Ins end Outs
The fact that there had been rain—
the pitch was covered, and there was
nothing wrong with it—seemed to scare
N.S.W. batsmen facing the English
bowling on Saturday. At all events
Fingleton, Beattie, McCabe and Robin-
son were out for 32. Then Chipperfield
(39) shaped soundly till he got a ball
from Fames in the face and knocked his
wicket down. Some of the youngsters
made it look like a score. Jackson (42)
and Hynes (35) set about things in good
style, and Lush, a fast bowler primarily,
put on 49 with a little luck. All out
231 ; Fames three for 65, Sims four for
46. Lush did even better with the. ball.
At stumps he had Barnett and Worth-
ington back for 24.
There was more rain over the week-
end —not much, and the wicket was still
covered —and to the dreadful astonish-
ment of selectors Lush and Chilvers had
the Englishmen all out before lunch for
73 (Leyland 16, Sundries 11). Lush got
six for 43, Chilvers—he’s been bowling
well for years, but could never satisfy
selectors —four for 2 /
* * * *
Chipperfield won’t be in for the fifth
Test. An X-ray on Monday showed his
jaw fractured as a result of the knock
from Fames in the England-N.S.W.
game. Doctor’s advice —“No cricket for
a month.”
* * * *
Queensland failed miserably in its
Brisbane game against South Australia.
Bradman sent the Northerners in; at
stumps he had them in the field, and
with Badcock had wiped off the 137
they’d collected (Allen 68, Baker 39).
By stumps on Saturday the visitors had
finished with 257 (Bradman 123, Badcock
56 ; Wyeth four for 52, Dixon four for
70), and outed Queensland again—this
time for 139. Brown got 3 and 1 ;
Tallon, 3 and 48, and he stumped Brad-
man. Cotton, three for 27 and three for
50; Grimmett, four for 18 and one for
35 ; Williams, two for 38 and two for
39, and Ward, none for 40 and four
for 3, feasted. With six of the 20 runs
needed already behind them S. Aus.
had to wait over till Monday to finish it.
Then it was done without loss.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Cash and attendance
records for Australia - England Tests
promise to go by the board for the fifth
match in Melbourne, beginning February
26. The cash record to date is £75,325
for the series with Chapman’s team in
1928-29. Takings this time are £69,645
to the end of the Adelaide game, making
£5681 to come in to put up new figures.
As the extensions to the Melbourne C.G.
have been completed the vast atten-
dances and takings of the third match in
Melbourne must go sky-high.
* * * *
“Dormouse”: This seat - reservation
business is going to be. a permanent
feature of Australian cricket. With some
misgivings Geelong opened a stand for
reservation for the Country-England
match at the Pivot. This was booked
out so quickly that it was decided to
seat the space in front and reserve the
accommodation there as well.
* * * *
Many old cricket hands will be sorry
to hear of the death in Westralia of
Harold Evers, once an outstanding
wicketkeeper in Sydney and later a
tower of strength to the game in
Groperland. Evers landed in Perth in
the 1900’s, and soon jumped to the front
in Westralian cricket, becoming skipper
of the State side and holding down the
job for many years. He was a mighty
hitter as well as a first-class ’keeper, and
his giant physique made him unique
among Aunt Sallies, who do not, as a
rule, run to excessive inches. A fine
personality in all respects, he kept up his
interest in the game long after giving up
playing it, and did much on the admin-
istrative side.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian
C.A. is sending Ernest Jones, mightiest
of old-time Australian fast bowlers, to
Melbourne to see the fifth Test. To
Jones, with his tremendous pace, the
efforts of McCormick, Allen and Voce,
who are no more than fast-medium at
the best, should seem a joke. Jones went
three times to England, and in 1896
took 123 wickets at 16.03, following that
in 1899 with 135 at 21.10. He was a
useful hitter, too, averaging over double
Sgures on each tour, with 55 as his best
effort, and wonderful in the field. Like
Jack Lyons Jonesey was a diamond in
the rough, and some of the yarns told
of the pair in England are worthy of
resurrection.
/ (Continued on next page.)
The Torrens eight had another win—
the third in succession—in the S.A. row-
ing championship on the Port River.
Berri was the runner-up, three lengths
back. Time for the three miles, 16min.
52sec.
* * * *
W. N. Wauchope, who is dead in Mel-
bourne at 71, was an all-round sports-
man of a type common enough once but
little known to-day. A pedestrian of
some note in the 1880’s, his best per-
formance was the winning of a heat in
the Stawell Gift from scratch. Later
he played football with Williamstown,
Essendon and St. Kilda, and cricket with
Coburg when Dr. Ramsay Mailer was
Coburg’s skipper. Against Stoddart’s
1895 team Wauchope made 66 for
a team representing Dandenong, where
he was then living. He was a first-class
gentleman rider in addition, and once
at a country meeting rode the winners
of five of the six events on the card.
* * *
England followed up its success
against Wales with a 9-8 win over Ire-
land in the third of the season’s Rugby
Union internationals. Campbell, who
learnt his Rugger at The King’s School,
Parramatta, and is now at Cambridge,
had a 50-yard dash for the winning try
five minutes before time, when Ireland
was ahead 8-6.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Alma Stakes: Sweet Memories ,
next, Lochlee.
Woodcliff Handicap: Viceroy ;
next, Donaster.
Futurity Stakes: Pamelus ; next,
Country Party.
Hawksburn Handicap: Falstaff ;
next, Disalto.
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Glenfield Handicap: Bulldozer ,
next, Misnomer.
February Handicap: Fireman ;
next, Peanut.
Minto Handicap: Fanfare; next,
Panrose.


r A
//
~7i&x£ -to- ■mu6&S4-
$Me, B.V.DrXfe:
Cool as a summer breeze, light,
absorbent, really snug and easy in
wear and easily washed.
B.V.D.’s famous Union Suit has been
the summer underwear choice of
smart men for years.
Look for the well-known
. . . Red Label
FO«
MAOt
RtfM 1
BtSl
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA FOR
THE B.V.D. CO. INC., NEW YORK.
UNDERWEAR
Sydney Sports Ground
Fights.
For the first scrap last week, one Bill
Pluto (lOst. 71b.), son of an old-timer of
some renown, came forth to do battle
with Jimmy Purcell (lOst. 4|lb.). The
fight—for it rose to that category at
times—was chiefly notable for another
display of Purcell’s unique manner of
fighting, which, as recently recorded
here, is to hoe in for half a minute every
round, and for the rest of the round shut
up and take it. Fie didn’t take such a
lot this night ; in fact, had he waded in
for, say, a minute a round he’d prob-
ably have collected the honor and glory
(there couldn’t have been much for any-
body to collect from the gate).
Pluto’s seconds came prepared for the
worst, lugging a suitcase big enough for
carrying the remains away if necessary.
But Purcell hasn’t a will to win strong
enough developed ever to provide any-
thing as final as that. He’s aggressive in
his moments, but he’s always out to act
the gentleman, in which he had much
opportunity with the slithering Pluto,
whose balance is either rotten or depen-
dent on sliding boots. Once Purcell, too,
went down ; he was knocked down, but
referee Baker was so surprised, perhaps
by the fact of its being Purcell this time
or the thought that Pluto had it in him
to do it, that he forgot to start the
count. It was a muddling fight, with the
blocky Purcell the more aggressive and
the loose-jointed, thin, brown Pluto box-
ing a bit better and incomparably the
better dancer. It may have been for this
last he got the decision ; it didn’t matter
much who got it.
The main “attraction” of the evening
was the next bout, between Dick
Humphries (lOst. 61b.), from Darling-
hurst, and Jack McNamee (lOst. 51b.),
from Victoria, said to be a protege of
Carroll. He hasn’t yet learnt any-
thing of note from the other Jack.
Making his first Sydney showing, he
turned out to be a tall, white-
bodied, thin-faced youth, whose most
remarkable boxing asset is that he
does not lead with the glove, as lesser
boxers do, but with the left biceps, com-
ing in sideways like an emu approaching
a poisoned waterhole. As boxing it
looks as attractive as the stern of a
trawler, but he carries with it a punish-
ing underneath rip, and the combination
of this and the awkward stance had a
deadening influence on the Humphries
performance. So much so that the fight
lost all interest, and only Baker’s “Stop
wrestling and fight!” in monotonous
monologue and the cipher instructions to
Humphries by one of his bottle-holders
made it at all entertaining. The cipher
is: “Roll!” “Tip!” “Knee bend!” “First
there!” “What I told you!” Whatever
this mystic jargon may mean, it goes on
throughout the encounter. As Humphries
uses the same left hook when the advice
is hurled at him and when it isn’t, it
must be an extremely subtle cipher.
The ref.’s choice between two un-
damaged boxers after 15 rounds of it
was Humphries, so the cipher-user may
be credited with some part in this great
and glorious victory. Those out of hear-
ing, no doubt, credited it to the fact that
McNamee, notable boxer as he possibly
may be, steadfastly declined to fight. The
trip from Victoria seemed needless; it
could have been fought out as well by
post. The Humphries seconds had no
Plutoistic fears for the worst; they
brought his reviving equipment out in a
cigar-box.
Without undue pessimism, the contes-
tants for the last scrap of the night
could have been accompanied by a
stretcher, and it was a toss-up through-
out the staggering 15 rounds of terrific
fighting which would have been most
likely to need it. At times both of them
were within an ace of needing it to-
gether. The battlers in this fierce on-
slaught were Herb Bishop (lOst. l|lb.)
and Terry Reilly (1 Ost. lflb.). They had
met a few weeks previously, when, as
some thought, a humane, and, as Reilly
thought, a damfool referee stopped the
contest after eight rounds and called
Bishop the winner. Reilly left the ring
muttering astonishment and maledic-
tion ; and Mr. Lucas obliged with this
return bout.
A year ago Bishop was lightweight
champion, Blatch taking the belt from
him in a slather-and-whack in pouring
rain at this same open-air address. Had
Bishop still been champion, or had any
champ, and challenger put up such a
scrap as he and Reilly put up, the event
would have been widely chronicled as I
the fight of the century.
There was fight in it all the way.
It began instantly the bell went, each
of them fighting hard, close together, bor- <
ing in with both hands, blows of such !
force, so solid and incessant, that it
seemed impossible that anybody could
last out the distance at such a rate. They
lasted it and were both fighting as
fiercely at the end. The first six rounds
were fairly clean-cut. It was savage fight-
ing, but both of them still had their
heads, and blows were clean, crisp and
stinging. The referee interfered too
much, repeatedly breaking them while
they were still in-fighting admirably: this
interference is getting overdone ; appar-
ently a blow isn’t a blow unless it’s
swung a yard. In the seventh the ret.
addressed the Bishop for holding, and
the. Bish., very excusably, volubly pro-
tested.
If fighters could not reasonably be
accused of any sort' of loafing or un-
fairness it was this pair. All each wanted
to do was damage the other fellow, the
Bishop selecting the body and Terry the
dial. The eighth was terrific. There
was a punishing punch for every single
second in the full three minutes. Even
the crowd, which the previous encounter
had put soundly to sleep, woke up now
and cheered. The men went to their
corners each not more than a punch this
side of the stretcher. Bishop showed
most signs of the battle in the tenth ; ne
fought dazedly, leading with his face, and
stopping with it enough to deaden a
Clydesdale. In the eleventh, still lead-
ing with the dial, he had his right eye
badly opened. The wallop seemed iC
bring him back to his senses, from which
he’d seemed astray for several rounds.
“Know anything about shark-fishin', cobber?”
In the twelfth he fought as if his brain
was functioning again, though Reilly
made him fight to the final bell. Bishop
got the points decision, Reilly had the
satisfaction of vindicating himself, and
the crowd saw as staunch a toe-to-toe
fight as anyone could ever want to see.
If the pair meet often enough it will be
the stretcher for one of them ; possibly
for both.
fins and Outs
“Cotter”: England made cricket his-
tory by invading Canberra and playing
there the first match between an
overseas side and an Australian team.
The Englishmen grabbed the chance to
get some batting practice, and ran up
380 in short order, scores running from
a smacking 82 by Ames to 1 by Fames,
Sims and Duckworth also failing to
emerge from single figures. Bowler Jack-
son calls for a pat on the back for tak-
ing 5-143. A neat 49 by Kelly was the
feature of N.S.W. Country’s first innings
of 162. The follow-on realised only
78, Copson taking 7 for 16.
A two days’ match at Geelong with
the Victorian countrymen provided some
bright cricket, the Englishmen getting
some batting practice in their two in-
nings of 281 and 251. Hardstaff scored
94, Ames 51 and 36. Collins, 5 for 48,
gave the visitors some trouble in their
first shot. Geelong’s two efforts yielded
161 and 50 for one.
* * * *
South Australia on its way to Bris-
bane had a one-day tilt with the locals
at Newcastle. Minus Beattie, reserved
for the N.S.W. match with England,
Newcastle made 115, Camps scoring 38
before Grimmett got him. Grimmett
took five for 28. South Australia
then settled down to a batting
feast, Badcock and Bradman topping
scores with 78 each. Scott’s three
for 76 was Newcastle’s best bit of bowl-
ing. South Australia won on the first
innings.
* * * *
The Australian team for the deciding
Test at Melbourne on February 26 is to
be selected in Sydney on Saturday, Feb-
ruary 20. Dwyer and Bradman will be
watching the South Australia-N.S.W.
match, while their colleague, Johnson,
will have an eye on the England-Victoria
clash in Melbourne. As Bradman was
in Brisbane with the South Australians,
no doubt he cocked a winker over the
Queenslanders.
* * * *
“Statis”: Bradman heads the Austra-
lian batting averages to the end of the
fourth Test with a total of 641, a highest
score of 270 and an average of 80.12.
There is a vast and significant drop to
Fingleton, who fills second place with a
total of 381, a top score of 136 and an
average of 47.62. O’Reilly, with 17
wickets at 26, is fourth on the bowling
list, which is headed by Sievers (nine at
17.88). F.-Smith has bagged 15 wickets
at 25, and McCormick nine at 25.44.
Leyland heads the English batting with
67.66 and a highest score of 126. Ham-
mond is a point behind, in spite of his big
231 n.o. hit in the second Test. Barnett
has averaged 48, with a highest of 129.
In bowling Voce is well ahead of his
mates with 23 wickets at 19 each. Allen
has 17 at 25 and Hammond 12 at 19.91.
Except for Bradman’s freak scoring it
will be seen that England has obtained
better results than Australia in batting
and bowling. In fielding the visitors have
beaten us.
* * * *
“Hotham”: People are making a lot
of fuss about Bradman’s indispensability
and refer to our side as a one-man team.
So it is, as far as supreme batting ability
goes, but England is in very little better
case. Allen’s lot would be in a very
bad way without Hammond’s batting and
bowling. The Gloucestershire man has
this trip lifted himself out of the “bats-
man-only” class, and revealed himself
as fit to be ranked among the great all-
rounders. As regards the rest of our
team we have no one but McCabe to
balance that formidable trio, Barnett,
Leyland and Ames, while our tail fades
by comparison with men like Wyatt.
Allen and Hardstaff.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Commenting on Allen’s
tactics in sending Verity in first at Adel-
aide, tactics which have involved the
English cricket world in a fury of argu-
ment, an English expert sadly remarks
that if it is sound policy to send in tail-
enders to prevent better batsmen meet-
ing the cream of the attack, then ali
previous skippers have been crazy. Allen
was probably taking a desperate chance.
Previous attempts to find an opening bat
to partner Barnett had been failures,
and it must be remembered that while
here with Jardine Verity showed him-
self a very stonewall on a couple of inn-
portant occasions,
and made the.
runs, too. Wyatt
was an unknown
quantity until his
second innings in
Adelaide showed
his injured arm
to be as trust-
worthy as ever.
Bar accidents, he
will be a certainty
for one of the
opening jobs in
the fifth Test, and
Australia may find
him a snag, as in
the past.
“Fitzcray”: It is just 42 years since
the result of a Test-match series depended
on the last game. That was in 1894-95,
when five-match Tests were first per-
manently started ; it was not until 1899
that five matches were adopted in Eng-
land. The. 1894-95 series was against
Stoddart’s team. England won at Sydney
by 10 runs —this was the famous “sticky-
wicket” Test —and at Melbourne by 94.
Australia then took the third and fourth
matches at Adelaide and Sydney, only
to lose at Melbourne by six wickets.
“Tenth Slip”: Two useful young
cricketers left Sydney last week to play
with the cricket team English millionaire
Cahn prefers to gay ladies or frisky
horses as a hobby. The tourists are
Walsh, a slow bowler from Glebe, and
Mudge, a most promising bowler-bats-
man who has already made his mark for
N.S.W. in Sheffield Shield cricket. Cahn
specialises in overseas tours, besides
his annual English programme, and all
the men he employs as cricketers are
given jobs as well in his chain-store busi-
ness. Last year the team was in the West
Indies. This coming season it will tour
Malaya, and the two Australians will
join up at Colombo. Their contract is
for three years on very satisfactory
terms, and was fixed up by Alan Fairfax
while in Sydney.
Nineteenth Hole '
“Divot Digger”: The officials running
the A.I.F. Golf Day at Killara (N.S.W.)
on February 23 are already headachy
over the problem of keeping the huge
field —there are over 500 entries —on the
move. Fore caddies will be posted to
mark balls off the fairway, and a dozen
other devices to save time will be in
action. There will be the usual unit
competitions, in addition to prizes for
runner-up, best gross score, best net
score and for the first and second nine
holes. An innovation is the partnership
aggregate. Each player may nominate
a partner, and the combined total of
their scores will count. Players finishing
early may fill in the rest of the day at
Roseville, Pymble, Eleanora and Avon-
dale, all of which are staging special
A.I.F. events.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland has cut
down its championship meeting to a
week for the convenience of visitors
from the South. , Play opens on May 1
with a handicap, the amateur foursomes
being played on the Monday. Tuesday
and Wednesday will be devoted to the


Positions Vacant.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Examination for appointment as Tele-
phone Mechanic, Postmaster-General’s
Department, Western Australia and
Tasmania.
AN examination as above will be held in all
capital cities and in such other centres as may
be necessary, commencing on 10th April, 1937,
open to males who are British subjects, who
were born not earlier than 3rd August, 1886,
and not later than 10th April, 1919.
Applications should be made on foolscap,
and must reach the Secretary, Commonwealth
Public Service Board, Canberra, F.C.T., not
later than Ist March, 1937.
Full particulars can be had on application
to the Commonwealth Public Service Inspector,
Bth Floor, Commonwealth Bank, Sydney.
The BANK of
AUSTRALASIA
Incorporated
by
Royal Charter
mm.
£2
m
/835
1835
OVER 100 YEARS
of sound' and progressive Banking Policy have developed an
increasingly efficient network of financial and travel facilities with
all parts of the world.
These facilities will readily be placed at your disposal.
• © e
Interest will be paid half-yearly on any amount lodged on deposit
for a fixed term.
9 0 0 © ® •
Coronation Travellers will End the West End
Branch at 17 Northumberland Avenue, near Trafalgar
Square, specially equipped for their use and convenience
My Speedo now
103*000 miles l"
registers
• • • writes V-tt Utility Ownrr
m-
illlilll
SS8
ra'S
S® X
x‘X :::■
: XXX X:
■x.;x
S5?':
a
III
:W.2
Is v-x-l.; .X :: :
'•'•■•'x-.. : ' ' :x x •
mmm
-x
X' X :
X
X Xxx:
ix.x
m * ..
XxlxX-X
'XX § X : : X : ;x ■
mm
Thousands of owners endorse the performance
and dependability of Ford V-8 Utilities. Here
are typical opinions:
“My speedo now registers 105,000 miles. The V-8
engine has never been rebored and my petro 1
consumption has averaged 20 m.p.g.”
“In 7 months, frequently carrying loads over 20
cwt., I have travelled 19,700 miles in my V-8
Utility without the sligliest trouble of any kind.”
Now r is the time to buy your V-8 Utility. For a
limited period special terms or allowances are
available. See your nearest Ford dealer at once.
A BRITISH
EMPIRE
PRODUCT
B A a tm
AIHINOH
Oil
(J3NVMOTIV HI-30VBi1V«3amVI33dS Bo|
Xisod3oQQ|i
00IH 3d Q 31IW H Ali.31 HIS V UOi
FORD V-8 UTILITIES
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
F 136 24C
open championship, and the amateurs
will strive against each other on Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday, May 22.
There are five purse events for the pro-
fessionals, totalling £135, and ranging
from £l5 at Brisbane on May 15 to £25.
Entries close May 12.
* * * *
“Sandy Gallop”: The decision of the
Brisbane golf heads to restrict to 18
holes play in the first and second rounds
match play in their amateur champion-
ship is not finding favor with southerners
who are expected to turn up in Brisbane.
Many of these consider that it is too
much to ask players to make a long
and expensive trip on the chance of
being knocked out in a short 18-holer,
and a return to 36 holes is urged. In
Britain and elsewhere 18-hole champion-
ship matches are in favor, but in N. S.
Wales, which has tried them, many ob-
jections were raised, and they were
abandoned.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australian Davis Cup team selec-
tion furnished only one surprise—this
time no wives will accompany the team.
The players are Crawford (capt.), Quist,
McGrath and Bromwich. Sproule will
go again as manager. If a fifth player
is decided on, Schwartz has been named.
The team will not be assembled for
training as on the last occasion, but the
N.S.W. members have been asked to do
at least two hours’ gym. work before
leaving, while Quist is also to do his
daily dozen in Adelaide. They leave
Sydney by the Niagara on March 18.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Norman Brookes is
being furiously attacked in Sydney be-
cause the Australian tennis heads are.
asking that the Australian tie with the
U.S.A.—supposing Mexico doesn’t out
our men in the first round —be played on
the Forest Hills courts instead of at
Germantown. On these occasions
Norman is always blamed. The Ameri-
can championships are always played
at Forest Hills, and what i:; good enough
for the Yanks should be good enough
for us.
* * * *
“Roland Garros”: The first round of
the European zone of the Davis Cup draw
reads tamely, and no likely winners of
the trophy are visible. Australian in-
terest will centre in M.L. v. China and
South Africa’s reappearance with the
Netherlands as opponent. The second
round is more interesting. Germany
opens against Austria; France meets
Norway and will probably be Germany’s
rival in the zone final, though a surprise
may come from quarters like Czecho-
slovakia, which did so well last year.
* * * *
“Kooyong”: Some of these athletes
must find it rather hard to realise to
what State they owe allegiance. Many
cricketers are citizens of two or three,
and footballers are as bad. The latest
change-over is to be made by Quist.
From his early days he has been a South
Australian tennis representative; now
he is to take up his residence in Mel-
bourne, and will in future play for that
State, where he is taking on an important
job in a Dunlop-Perdriau subsidiary.
Hopman, once a N.S.W. star, is now Vic-
torian by adoption. He and Quist should
team up into one of the most formidable
doubles combinations in captivity.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The proposal to
hold an annual women’s tennis tourney
on the lines of the Davis Cup has been
well and truly donged by the U.S.A.
tennis heads. There are quite enough
sporting distractions to give lovely
women excuses for not learning to cook
and rock the cradle without another one
being crammed into the list, says Uncle
Sam in effect.
Miscellaneous
“Birkenhead Park”: The second of the
British Rugby internationals, Scotland v.
Wales, played at Swansea, saw the lads
from the Land o’ Cakes triumphant by
13-6, a big licking for a Welsh team on a
home ground. Wales had hard luck in
being beaten by England 4-3, a dropped
goal doing the damage, and with only
Ireland to meet has no hope of the
championship this year.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
is reforming the Retention Committee
founded in the depth of depresh to help
crack players who wished to stay in
Sydney instead of losing themselves in
country football. It has been decided
to draw up a new set of rules, and this
is to come up for endorsement at the
end of the month.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland craft had it
all their own way in the Australian old-
type 18-footer championship sailed at
Brisbane, Tangalooma winning all three
heats and scoring the possible of 45
points. Vision (Q.) was second with 13
points and Britannia (N.S.W.) next with
eight. As the Bananaland-designed and
-built Aberdare had previously walked ofl
with the Australian title for the new style
18’s sailed for in Sydney, Brisbane’s
years-old reputation for designing cracka-
jack open sailing craft has gone higher
than ever.
* * * ' *
“Breakfast Creek”: Brisbane boating
men have long been noted for their skill
in open-sailing-boat design. In the days
of the twenty-twos and the early
eighteens the Whereat family ruled the
roost. Now the star designer is Colin
Clark, whose old-type eighteens are
invincible. In addition to the flying Tan-
galooma, Australian champion in 1932.
1936 and 1937, Clark has turned out
Britannia and Vision, both Australian
champions, and numbers of other fliers
in the different classes.
* # * *
The N.S.W. eight for the King’s Cup,
to be raced for at Murray Bridge, South
Australia, on April 24, has been selected.
Four clubs are represented, Thomas
(bow), Buckham and Burrell (stroke)
coming from Mosman. From North
Shore come Moody and Willis, from the
Police Elias and Wood, while Dixon is
Sydney’s contribution. Bowden is cox
and Grace (Shore) and Bain, of Sydney,
are emergencies. The crew averages
12st. 61b., and all are experienced water-
men. Cecil Pearce will, of course, row
for the State in the sculls.
* * * *
“Toowong”: Misguided Brisbane
people are trying to organise a Henley-
on-Brisbane. To me, failure is stick-
ing out a foot. The Melbourne show
periodically has to be pulled off the
financial rocks. Yet Melbourne, like
London, has a convenient little canal-
ised ditch, whereas the Brisbane River
at the Toowong Reach, where the affair
would have to be held, is over quarter
of a mile wide. The social side is the
two ends and beginning of the Henley
type of regatta. That can be brought
out to the full when you can chat corn-
fortably to your friends on the water
from the banks. In Brisbane a mega-
phone, and an amplifying one at that,
would be needed, and one cannot tell a
girl what an absolute duck she looks in
her decorated canoe with a loudspeaker.


After the Coronation Visit in May —
THE PARIS INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR.
Svery man going “Home” this year should cross the Channel and visit this world-famous Paris Fair.
Here are exhibits of all the latest developments in all branches of manufacture, gathered from all
Nations.
lere meet on friendly fields all the business magnates of the world —a meeting that this year
will be far greater and more representative than ever before.
Don’t fail to see this gigantic exposition of the Modern Art of Manufacture.
For full particulars apply to the
Trade Commissioner for France, Wynyard Sf., Sydney.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
SINCE
1834
PE TTYS Hotel
"More than a Famous Hotel . . . It is a Delightful Home"
For 102 years, Petty's Hotel has given service to guests. Even to-day
this fine old hotel is still renowned for its service; its comfort; and its
conveniently central position.
See the new private dining room and lounge.
Tariff, room and breakfast from 11/6, inclusive from 18/-.
(I) E. YOUNGS, Manager.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Rembrandt.”
REMBRANDT .... Charles Laughton
HENDRICKJE STOFFELS,
Elsa Lanchester
GEERTJE Gertrude Lawrence
In this necessarily brief record of the
private life of the great painter Laugh-
ton invests his characterisation with a
warm humanity that makes Rembrandt
a lovable fellow. Slightly flattering, per-
haps, for the artist had a liberal share
of human failings; yet the 'idealistic
facet is presented so convincingly that it
is easy to accept it as his strongest point.
The film opens prior to the death of
Saskia, Rembrandt’s first wife, which
was the time of his greatest prosperity
and popularity, and ends with the death
of Hendrickje Stoffels, the housemaid-
mistress who inspired him to some of
his greatest works. At the last he is
shown friendless and poverty-stricken,
but with his strong philosophy and his
unquenchable will to paint' and paint.
Through it all shines the high intelli-
gence of two of the screen’s greatest
collaborators. Alexander Korda’s direct-
ing is instinct with a genius for detail
and authenticity. His sequences are logi-
cal and clear, even when they move with
great speed. Scenes are highly artistic.
Laughton is superb. He uses his voice
as Kreisler does his violin. Nothing more
beautiful has been heard on the screen
than his eloquent rendering of a philo-
sophy on women, or his recital of a
Psalm of David, which might well wring
a tear from the hardened old reprobate
who sits as his model of King Saul.
Laughton can get more dramatic value
from a whisper than any other actor
can from a shout. Elsa Lanchester gives
a sympathetic interpretation of the de-
voted Hendrickje, and Gertrude Law-
rence does well as the virago Geertje.
In one. respect' only is this fine film
disappointing—there is not sufficient
emphasis on Rembrandt’s successes
before adversity overtook him. Only a
fleeting glimpse is given of one painting:
that of the Civic Guard, known as the
“Night Watch,” the criticism following
which led to so much of his future
trouble. At Sydney Embassy.
“The Tenth Man.”
SHADY FINANCIER .... John Lodge
HIS WIFE Antoinette Cellier
WIFE’S FATHER .... Athole Stewart
HONEST MAN Clifford Evans
Taken from Somerset Maugham’s play
of the same name, this Sydney Embassy
support is convincingly done.
Lodge has the part of a juggler of
other people’s money who has climbed
from lower social rungs and married the
daughter of an incompetent old glutton
because the old boy is in the peerage and
his name is useful. Disliking her hus-
band’s shady ways and attached to a
member of the House of Commons, the
wife wants a divorce, but the shady one
ruthlessly intimidates her, using a near-
criminal action of her father as his
weapon. He soars upwards on his
crooked flight and wins a Parliamentary
election despite ugly whispers. It is his
motto that “nine men out of every ten
are either knaves or fools,” and he has
mostly succeeded by confining his deal-
ings to one or the other. Then the tenth
man —an earnest young fellow in his
employ— asserts himself. The conflict
between the two is packed with dramatic
interest, and the ending, which could
easily have slipped to a conventional
plane, is, while unexpected, logical and
ironically just.
John Lodge, a vigorous young actor,
plays the part of a black sheep with none
of the apologetic airs of many young
actors. Antoinette Cellier fits in nicely,
and Clifford Evans gives a well-sustained
tense study of the honest subordinate who
cooks Lodge’s goose. Athole Stewart
plays a traditional part in a traditional
manner, but Barry Sinclair, who is Miss
Cellier’s lover, is too colorless for the
role. It’s an English-made film.
“Theodora Goes Wild.”
PSEUDONYMOUS AUTHORESS,
Irene Dunne
ARTIST Melvyn Douglas
CHIEF MAIDEN AUNT,
Elizabeth Risdon
This delightful comedy is notable for
the air of spontaneous gaiety which per-
vades it and the natural portrayals of
widely different types. Dialogue has its
witty moments and fits the attractive plot
like a glove.
It all concerns a famous authoress of
peppy best-sellers whose pen-name—
known only to her publisher and a gay
old city-dwelling uncle —hides the iden-
tity of the young niece of two small-
Elsa Lanchester sits to Charles Laughton in “ Rembrandt ,” at
Sydney Embassy.
town maiden aunts, who are bringing her
up strictly. When one of her stories,
appearing serially in the local rag, shocks
the town she protests to her publisher,
and the fun starts when she meets the
artist who does her cover designs. He
follows her back and, playfully holding
over her a threat' to reveal her identity,
gets a job as gardener, this providing some
sparkling comedy. When she discovers
that there’s a wife in the artist’s back-
ground she enters vimfully into sophisti-
cated living, becomes involved in inno-
cent scandals and at last succeeds in
landing her man. Even the maiden aunts
turn out trumps and accept what they
think is Theodora’s baby without batting
an eyelid.
Irene Dunne has never given a better
performance. Her comedy sense is sound,
and she lives the part. Melvyn Douglas,
too, enters into the spirit of it, and the
two pair up perfectly. Character roles
are admirably played by Elizabeth
Risdon, Spring Byington and Thurston
Hall. At Sydney State.
“Counterfeit Lady.”
JEWELLER’S DAUGHTER, Joan Perry
PRIVATE DETECTIVE, Ralph Bellamy
DIAMOND MERCHANT,
Douglas Dumbrille
When Zeno stated that “knavery is the
best defence against a knave” he pro-
vided an enduring skeleton which drama-
tists of every generation since have
draped with action and incident, accord-
ing to time and place. In this Columbia
melodrama at Sydney State the love story
develops out of a series of exciting
actions surrounding the recovery of a
stolen diamond. Dialogue lacks wit,
but a series of climax and anti-climax
sustains interest.
Ralph Bellamy, as the suave and sophis-
ticated private detective, is the hero, with
Joan Perry, who set out to recover her
father’s stolen jewel, as heroine. Douglas
Dumbrille, as the doubtful dealer who
receives the stone, is the driving force
in the plot.
“The Big Broadcast of 1937.”
RADIO STATION DIRECTOR,
Jack Benny
SESSION-SPAHNSOR .. Grade Allen
PRESS AGENT Jack Milland
SWING-TIME GROANER,
Frank Forest
THE “FIND” Shirley Ross
The gag-men have been hard worked
in making this snappy revue. Witty and
original wisecracks and comic asides fly
off at every few feet of celluloid.
The exertions of a groaner in a N’York
studio are constantly twitted by a small-
town announceress. Apparently the lady
also has inharmonious aspirations, for
she chops in on his broadcasts and turns
his solos into duets. The station director,
exasperated, gets his press agent to bring
her to the Big City and give her a jahb
to get her off the air. She goes all goofy
over the p.a., a sweet youth with ducoed
hair, but when she finds her job is not
broadcasting she gets narked and sidles
up to the star groaner. Publicity hounds
“build up” a radio romance, and listeners
are about to be bored with a radio
wedding when she bolts. Chase ends
with her abject return to the arms of the
duco-haired lad.
The foregoing 18-carat fatuity is for-
tunately only incidental to the hilarity,
which is mostly in the skilled hands of
Jack Benny, a comedian of the dry, quiet'
school. Grade Allen employs her
squeaky voice to deliver some nutty
notions with good effect. Only a few
minutes mar a sparkling film, and that
is when Benny Goodman and the swing
band that ought to be swung with him
murder all the rules of the musical game
while a couple of husky howlers try to
keep up with them. At Sydney Prince
Edward.
“Along Came Love.”
COUNTER-JUMPER .. Irene Harvey
POOR MEDICO Charles Starrett
Adolf Zukor has presented some good
films in his time, but this isn’t one of
them.
A bargain-basement “wrapper’’ has as
her ideal the constellation Orion, and
thinks she meets him on this material
earth in the form of a young but im-
pecunious doc. who woiks as a theatre
commissionaire. In an effort to help
the lovers the counter-jumper’s “maw,”
an old-time vaudeville star, returns to
the stage and is promptly arrested for
putting over “hot stuff.” Ensues a
scandal for the doc., but the day is
saved by the bargain-basement manager
heroically marrying the old trouper.
It’s indifferently acted by the princi-
pals, but Ferdinand Gottschalk, H. B.
Warner and Doris Kenyon make some-
thing of their subsidiary parts. At Syd-
ney Prince Edward.
“Crack Up.”
GERMAN SPY CHIEF .. Peter Lorre
PLAN-LIFTER Brian Donlevy
INNOCENT OFFSIDER .. Tom Beck
International espionage is here con-
vincingly represented, an excellent cast
interpreting a feasible story. The film
moves briskly and holds some tense
moments. Its one weakness is in the
ending, where the director, striving after
dramatic effect, has not made enough
allowance for the natural law of self-
preservation.
The “Colonel,” a crippled half-wit,
good-humoredly accepted as mascot on
an American aerodrome, is a German
baron, chief of a spy organisation which
is after the plans of a secret ’plane being
built to the War Department’s orders.
Chief pilot is “Ace” Martin, whose
hobby is selling information and plans
to the highest bidder. By a clever trick
he gets the plans through his innocent
assistant-pilot and negotiates with a Ger-
man operative for their sale. But, sus-
pecting treachery, he then shoots the
Teuton and hits out non-stop for Europe,
accompanied by his co-pilot and air boss,
who know nothing about his secret acti-
vities. In mid-Atlantic the “Colonel”
shows up as a stowaway. Revelation
swiftly follows, with a thrilling climax.
By his performance in this film, Brian
Donlevy puts himself head and shoul-
ders above any other screen player of
virile roles. Peter Lorre’s portrayal is
handicapped by a most un-Teutonic ap-
pearance, but he acts a sinister figure
most intelligently. Thomas Beck, Ralph
Morgan and Helen Wood are strong in
support. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Phantom Broadcast.”
PSEUDO CROONER .... Arnold Gray
HIS VOICE SUPPLIER, Ralph Forbes
INNOCENT GORE-SPILLER,
Gail Patrick
Real life has no place in this piece,
a mass of improbabilities cluttering up
what even deft handling and some good
acting fail to make other than a C 3 plot.
A hunchback with a voice gets an
Adonis to open his face and go through
the actions while he accompanies and
does the real vocal stuff, thus tricking
the radio fans. How his millions of
listeners could see his deformity without
television isn’t explained. His dummy,
of course, is a weak-tea-and-lounge lion,
and dummy stops a bullet. Suspish points
to the hunchback, who, to protect an
innocent goil, does the heroic and con-
fesses. (“Ah! what is life to me so that
her honor is saved!”) But before the
cops can nab him he staggers into the
broadcasting studio, theatrically croons
a farewell to his lost love, and then
wriggles out —whether by bullet, poison
or Crooner’s Disease no one seems to
know.
Ralph Forbes as the hunchback gives
an impressive performance. Gail Pat-
rick doesn’t jar the optic nerve, and


THE BENEFICIAL FOOD
ALL CHILDREN LOVE
I.—DORIS MITCHELL
Reared on ARNOTT’S FAMOUS MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS, judged by Dr. Stang, of the Baby Clinic,
Perth, to be the Champion Baby of the Collie Baby Show
of over 200 babies.
Delicious biscuits which are eagerly eaten by
children even when they refuse other foods.
They are most valuable and nutritious. Thinly
butter a few and place them in the school bag;
you will thus make the child’s school lunch
more attractive and infinitely more beneficial.
During the past half century over 40,000 photographs of strong, vigorous
children reared from the age of six months on Arnott s Famous Milk Arrowroot
Biscuits have been sent with testimonials by grateful mothers to William Arnott,
Limited.
CLmotts
FAMOUS
MILK
ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnett's
“They are Better thaa Ever”
Arnold Gray is a sweet-looking fellow
who, if he entered a lift, would cause
any gentleman instinctively to raise his
hat. At Sydney Capitol.
“The Longest Night.”
STORE PROPRIETOR, Robert Young
SALESGIRL SWEETIE, Florence Rice
POLICE CAPTAIN .... Sidney Toler
A thriller with unusual setting, skil-
fully constructed and plentifully sup-
plied with tense situations. A fault is
that, while some sequences move briskly,
others drag.
A young man, inheritor of a big de-
partment store, finds in his private ele-
vator just on closing time the murdered
body of a trusted woman employee. A
handful of customers and employees are
still there when the police arrive, and
all exits are locked. The victim’s
crooked son is next to go, then his girl
accomplice, whose innocent sister has
become, friendly with the proprietor.
There’s a frantic search for the triple
murderer, who leads the hunters, when
the lights go out, through deserted depart-
ments, the chase working up to an excit-
ing climax, with a gang of toughs dressed
as cops mixing it with the genuine law
preservers and firemen, who have been
summoned in a novel way. The real
culprit, of course, is kept as a final
surprise.
Robert Young and Florence Rice hold
down the romantic roles with ease, and
Sidney Toler is a blustering, boneheaded
police captain. Catherine Doucet, Janet
Beecher and Olin Howland etch in some
neat character sketches. At Sydney
Haymarket-Civic.
“All American Chump.”
BUCOLIC
MATHEMATICIAN .. Stuart Erwin
HIS TOUGH MANAGER,
Robert Montgomery
BIBULOUS HARD-HEAD,
Edmund Gwenn
DAUGHTER KITTY .. Betty Furness
This is a slight variation of the “Three
Men on a Horse” plot. Instead of three
punters exploiting a timid but infallible
tipster, three impecunious carnival
troupers amass wealth through a rustic
lightning calculator who, by virtue of
his prodigious memory, beats the world’s
champion bridge-player. Gangsters have
been requisitioned to add excitement by
kidnapping the lad from the wide open
spaces during the tournament, but with
good luck beating nous by a street he
foils the black-jowled villains and lands
the bacon and the beauteous goil.
It makes better entertainment than
might be expected, mainly owing to a
running fire of witty backchat, brisk
action, some humorous situations of
which the most has been made and some
sterling character acting.
Edmund Gwenn manages some de-
lightfully effortless acting ; he has great
mastery of expression and an unerring
comedy sense. Stuart Erwin with a
little more polish might become a suc-
cessor to Will Rogers. A younger ver-
sion, he is not unlike Rogers in looks,
and a drawling speech and rustic man-
nerisms add to the resemblance. Robert
Armstrong and Betty Furness give solid
performances. At Sydney Haymarket-
Civic.
“March of Time.”
Developments in Ireland since Eamonn
de Valera took charge in 1931 are the
chief item in the current issue of “The
March of Time,” a periodical filming of
current world affairs. In this presenta-
tion the green isle is now not nearly so
disthressful a country. Changes in its
economic foundation include new second-
ary industries —rubber works, car assem-
blies, textile works, peat-briquette fac-
tories—while older industries —distilleries,
breweries, butter factories —incidentally
have been expanded enormously. Eamonn
de Valera’s speech falls more naturally
on Australian ears than that of almost
any other important figure overseas.
The conflict between State and Church
in Mexico is dramatically portrayed;
obviously it has been acted for the
photographer.
The chreer of Roosevelt as President
completes the bill. Good stuff this, a
brief history of the U.S.A. in recent
years, with some excellent photography
of great dams, electrical works and the
like. At Sydney Regent.
“The Marriage of Corbal.”
CITIZEN DEPUTY Nils Asther
FRENCH MARQUIS .. Hugh Sinclair
ARISTOCRATIC DUMB-BELL,
Hazel Terry
SERGEANT Noah Beery
A regrettable English film. The piece
just drags its slow length along until
it mercifully passes out in a welter
of yawns. Alleged to have been founded
on the Sabatini novel, it is an anaemic
travesty of the original. It could almost
be mistaken for a burlesque.
Hazel Terry’s histrionic ability seems
confined to staring wide-eyed at the hero
—this a representation of innocence!
Nils Asther’s acting talent fails to get
beyond sidelooks and smirks. Hugh
Sinclair, arraigned before a bloodthirsty
deputy, bleats: “Ai am a believah in
Libertay, Equalitay and Frahternitay! ”
Even Noah Beery is depressed. At Syd-
ney Lyceum.
“Calling the Tune.”
BUSINESS ROGUES,
Sam Livesay, Donald Woolfit
CADAVEROUS EXECUTIVE,
Clifford Evans
BOSS’S DAUGHTER .... Sally Grey
This rambling affair has to do with
rivalry between two pioneer gramophone
cos. The sixpenny yellowbacks might
have been combed for its melodramatic
and improbable situations. A big busi-
ness director, who looks like a navvy in
a boiled shirt, sneaks into the rival fac-
tory at midnight and plants a bomb.
Another bullnecked scoundrel, this time
the managing director, after dishonestly
ousting his partner, takes the ex-partner’s
son into the firm, with the ultimate inten-
tion of breaking the young fellow. And
so the incredible stupidity goes on to its
unconvincing finish. At Sydney Lyceum.
STAGE SHOWS.
The Russian Ballet.
Current programme at Sydney Royal
is a well-balanced quartet of some of
the season’s most attractive offerings.
All of these ballets improve enormously
on further acquaintance.
Gracefulness is the note in “Les Syl-
phides,” with Chopin’s waltzes and
mazurkas as a lovely background to
perfect rhythm of movement. Helene
Kirsova floats feather-light in the hands
of Roland Guerard, and Nina Golovina
dances the waltz with beautiful free-
dom. The corps de ballet is excellent,
and the production altogether so de-
lightful that even shabby “scenery” can-
not spoil it.
Leon Woizikowsky is the “fresh” cap-
tain in the realistic “Port Said,” with
Nina Raievska as L’Orientale, both
entering heartily into their wild danc-
ing. Jean Hoyer infuses plenty of
humor into his Drunken Sailor, and
Irena Bondireva is impressive as the girl
whose nostalgia threatens to be a wet
blanket on the revelry.
“Les Presages,” highly symbolical,
brings out some fine dancing. The
brown-skinned Tamara Tchinarova is a
sinuous Action, Leon Woizikowsky
makes Fate a sinister figure, and daugh-
ter Sonia is Frivolity to the life. Almost
the entire company is included in this
fine work, which has Tschaikowsky’s
“Fifth Symphony” to help it along.
“Prince Igor,” brilliantly colorful, is
dominated by Nina Raievska and Leon
Woizikowsky, who make lively enter-
tainment of the barbaric Polovtsien
dances from the opera. This is one of
the most spectacular and pleasing ballets
in the company’s repertoire.
Jascha Horenstein conducts “Les
Presages” and “Prince Igor,” and Ivan
Clayton “Les Sylphides” and “Port
Said.”
*l* -I- 4* 4
Graham Mitchell’s Vaudeville.
Graham Mitchell’s Serenaders have
called their first programme at Mel-
bourne Apollo “Celebrating.” Syd Beck
is billed as the “star,” but it was Gladys
Moncrieff, persuaded to sing “Love Will
Find a Way” from her box, who was the
real star of the first night. Five melody
maids, who style themselves the 5Ks,
were excellent —good musicians and
rhythmists. Los Granados are clever
dancers of the india-rubber athletic type.
Jim Max plays the piano far better than
he does anything else, and the Lynton
Brothers are fast tap-dancers in canary-
colored shoes and Reckitt’s-blue suits.
The Foster Brothers possess the neces-
sary complex motor muscles to play
steel guitars, tap-dance and either sing or
whistle at the same time. Olga Kay
has a good soprano voice, and the ballet
accompanied her in “A Fan Fantasy.”
Above impressions were gathered during
the first part of the programme only, for
the interval took place at 10.30 p.m. on a
date just two nights before all-night
trams were introduced.


THE INVESTOR
IS ON VELVET Hartley Withers
TNIT Trusts have won a striking success in Britain
because those who invest through them know
exactly what they are getting for their money, says
Mr. Withers, one of England’s foremost financial
authorities. He adds:
“A free market and quick and easy purchase and sale are
secured. This advantage is especially important to small
investors, and by it well-diversified interest in enterprise
is made possible to capitalists of all sizes. With an expert
Board to select the securities, and absolutely trustworthy
Trustees to hold them, the investor is on velvet.”
By buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you obtain—for as litt'le as
approx.—an interest in 20 of Australia’s strongest
Companies. Your investment is safeguarded by
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.,
Union Building, Bond Street, Sydney,
acting as Custodian Trustees. For application forms
and descriptive booklets apply to:
The Managers of the Trust—
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: 85294. BOX 4028V.V., G.P.O.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
It is now 105 years since The King’s
School, Parramatta, first opened its doors,
and last Saturday there was commemora-
tion by hundreds of parents and friends.
Many of its old boys descended on the
school and played a cricket match against
the present pupils. Dinner, served in
hall, was just one out of everyday
school life. A service in the school chapel
was attended by as large a congrega-
tion as it would hold, fathers who had
been King’s boys being present with their
sons, present-day pupils.
Sydney has gone all coy in the
manner of the beggar maid with King
Cophetua. Up to date Midas Morris
Nuffield has chucked the charitable in-
stitutions of this State £40,000. Societies
and hospitals that care for children have
got a large helping. This Letter was
glad that the work of the University
Settlement House was helped with a
gift of £5OO ; the example may stimulate
others who owe their wealth to N. S.
Wales to send more cheques. The
Settlement House, under the guidance of
a daughter of the late Judge Docker,
does a great work in building healthy
minds and bodies for the children of
Chippendale. The Bush Nurses, too, are
feeling a bit whoopee-ish over their
£lOOO.
Justice Evatt last week opened the
show of black-and-white drawings by
Bulletin artists, past and present. This
is in David Jones’s gallery above the
George-street store, and to it came scores
of admirers. It was interesting to note
that among the gazers the mellow vin-
tage of the ’nineties was outnumbered by
the new wine of these nineteen-thirties.
There was almost a record roll-up of
young men to this show. Everything
there is of black-and-white art in Aus-
tralia is on the walls. The tradition
created by “Hop,” Phil May and David
Low is being carried on.
The Geoffrey Whiskard party at Can-
berra had the perfect setting for some
Elizabethan masque. The High Commis-
sioner for the United Kingdom and his
lady were inspired when they decided to
hold their garden-party by night. On
sunken gardens, blaze of zinnias, green
sward and trees hundreds of Chinese
lanterns turned luminous eyes. Furlongs
of electrics and arc-lights glared down.
There were singing by the Canberra male
choir and orchestral music. Hundreds
of guests from as far off as Sydney and
Melbourne went to this reception, which
had Governor-General Gowrie for princi-
pal guest. The visiting English cricketers
were there and hosts of cricket enthusi-
asts ; also all Canberra place and power.
Ruby-red glowed the long taffeta frock
worn by Geoffrey Whiskard’s lady.
A reminder of South American days
was brought to Dame Mary Gilmore in
the sheaf of scarlet nerine from the
Wahroonga garden of Mrs. A. G.
Thomas. The Dame recalled how she
had seen the long, spidery petals against
the swamps of Paraguay. Tiger-lilies,
gladioli, roses and lily-of-the-valley were
other offerings piled about the new
Dame’s place on the Lyceum Club’s
lunch-table last Friday. The attendance
packed the club rooms, and laudatory
speeches were made by the club’s presi-
dent, Mrs. Thomas, and by past presi-
dents.
Dame Mary, who apologised because
she hadn’t had time to buy a new hat
for the occasion, was erect and impres-
sive, and no hat could have suited her
better than the caramel-brown felt she
wore. In her speech she said she would
never be able to reply to the thousand
or so messages that are still pouring in
upon her. Surely hers must be the most
popular honor in the New Year list!
There was an informal reception both
before and after lunch, and the Dame
was still receiving congratulations at
two-thirty.
Hazel King, daughter of knight Kelso
King, newly returned from her studies
in London with Plunkett Green and
Dorothy Helmrich, will give her first re-
cital at the Conservatorium on March 8.
This will benefit the outback hospitals
of the Country Women’s Association, so
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is president of a
committee that has Mrs. Harold Bott for
secretary and Miss Elizabeth Plummer
for treasurer. That attractive duo
violinist Nora Williamson and pianist
Mildred Hill are also on the programme.
Montgomery Dunn photograph.
When you utter the gasp of astonish-
ment before the immense and hoary
webs that waver among the boughs of
Cinesound’s “Tall Timber,” don’t give all
the credit to the sober and honest spider.
These effects are made, while you wait,
by a man with a squirt charged with a
solution of rubber. This was demon-
strated out at the studio one afternoon
last week, when Ken Hall and his com-
pany were rehearsing shots. The scene
was a log hut set among stretching vistas
of sturdy trunks and spreading boughs.
The location is the Stroud district. In
the hut the villain is cooking up dirty
work between heroine and the hero, who
is innocently broiling a rasher of bacon.
Under the stimulus of tea, leading lady
Shirley Anne Richards and second lead
Eileen Britten told of happy days in
Gloucester and Stroud. By their time-
table the meals in the hotel where they
stayed were served. If they had a sun-
rise call, then the general breakfast
table was set with the first kookaburra's
laugh. In the evening, when the company
dined, all dined. At no matter what
hour the groups set out for their labors,
people gathered around and gave a
parting wave. They met with so much
kindness if has warmed their hearts for
the rest of their lives. An interesting
exhibit in the studio is the enormous
canvas on which is painted the whole
background against which the camps are
set. When indoor shots are being taken
its evidence is indisputable as to whether
the big white gum was to the right or
the left of the tent flap. A scenic artist
is a necessary part of every film-produc-
ing outfit.
Mrs. Philip Rudder, who was Gwen
Stevens, had her bridesmaids about her
when, last week, she hostessed her first
party. The Philip Rudders are justly
proud of their Killara home, and their 70
or so guests confirmed their opinion.
The rooms were heady with all the
flowers in season. The Premier and Mrs.
Stevens (Mrs. Rudder’s parents) were
there ; so were the A. E. Rudders. The
hostess wore a white tunic with her black
skirt. The tunic, which was of thick silk,
had lustrous black castles sprinkled on it.
The first Westralian Association’s
lunch for 1937 had the twofold purpose
of welcoming president Mrs. A. Carroll,
who has been journeying in her native
West for six months, and of honoring
Dame Mary Gilmore. Mrs. Parsons,
who has been deputy for Mrs. Carroll,
looked handsome and made a neat speech
of welcome. The shoulder of her
Florentine-blue frock was decorated with
orchids. Mrs. Carroll’s flowers were
frangipanni, her ensemble black-and-
white. The setting was the Lyceum
Club, and it was the. first congratulatory
lunch on her decoration the Dame has
been tendered. The first telegram of
jubilation reached her from Kalgoorlie.
Dame Mary released in her speech the
fact that her mother had been in charge
of the literary column on a W.A. paper.
There was great applause when she told
that her Old Days, Old Ways had been
translated into Braille.
Mrs. Carroll told of people in the
West who have been travelling six miles
each way to buy water! That was just
before the recent rains. The associa-
tion’s secretary, Mrs. Mattei, was an-
other speaker. Pretty Mrs. W. A. Pat-
r'ck (her husband’s a rector in North
Perth) had words of welcome cooed
at her. ■
One of Sydney’s many pretty girls who
went off to the Coronation gaieties by
the Oronsay on Saturday was Margaret
Ruthven, daughter of the J. L. Ruthvens,
of Potts Point. Margaret, who makes
the journey with her mother, hopes after
the Coronation excitements to settle down
to further studies in dramatic art. Dayne
photograph.
The novelty-patterned crepes and
linens of the moment are often worn
with unconscious humor. Last week this
Letter sat in a train opposite an elderly
woman, plump and of the most sedate
demeanor. She looked a real home body.
Her black frock was closely patterned
with lacquered and wildly-racing silver
greyhounds. Some years ago, Oriental
designs were in favor, and there was a
very austere and conventional spinster
who came back from Asia with a frock
on which Chinese lettering was scrolled.
She wore it until one day, buying some
fruit from a Chinese market gardener, he
commented: “That is welly nice saying—
it wish you many children! ”
The Fellowship of Australian Writers
is already busy on its yearly ball, which
has always paid the piper. This time
the name of the pageant-frivol is to be
the “Writers’ Coronation Ball,” and it
will be held (ballroom being obtainable)
on the eve of the doings in Westminster.
Sets depicting characters in Australian
novels, stories, plays and films are already
under discussion. One group —Kings and
Queens of England—will supply topical
flavor. Dame Mary Gilmore will be the
night’s personage. Long before that,
however, she will be called upon to share
a midday cutlet of congratulation with
the F.A.W.
Some Sydney people travelled to Goul-
burn and the picnic races at Kippilaw
(the Frank Chisholm station), but most
of the racegoers were from the surround-
ing districts. A bitter wind made tweeds
and furs the only suitable raiment.
Gordons, Osbornes, Prells, Faithfulls and
Maple Browns were among those who
entertained or were entertained at picnic
lunches. Elizabeth McFarlane and Phyllis
Harris were the heroines of the Ladies’
Race. The Stanley Prells gave a dance,
the Max Chisholms a cocktail-party and
the Kippilaw Club Ball was in the Goul-
burn Showground pavilion.
Invitations are just out for the wed-
ding of Jeanne Suzor to Michel Doucel.
The ceremony, which will be performed
by the Papal Delegate, Dr. Panico, will
take place in the Suzor drawing-room
at Eastbourne, Darling Point. After-
wards the Consul-General for France
and Mrs. Suzor will entertain at an out-
size in receptions.
“Twelfth Night” will be performed in
the right setting for a season of three
nights commencing on Feb. 23. In the
garden of St. Vincent’s Convent, Potts
Point, the Palmer Gardiner players are
producing this favorite play of Eliza-
bethan England. The music of Mendels-
sohn and Roger Quilter and a real
Elizabethan catch will be added delights.
Theresian Club charities benefit.
Captain Ponsonby, of the pleasant
smile, takes away with him one press-
woman’s testimonial. As an A.D.C. he
certainly deserved the aid part of the de-
scription. The Oronsay took him away
on Saturday, warmed with the friendly
cocktail of farewell. The George
Walkers, of Vaucluse, mixed one brew in
his honor.
The new Consul-General for Japan,
his wife and their three small daughters
arrived in Sydney last week by the
Kitano Maru. They will stay at the
Wenthworth till the departure of the
Murais, when they will move into the
former Consul-General’s home at Point
Piper. Mrs. Torao Wakamatsu, who
lived with her parents at Hampstead for
some years, speaks English fluently. The
three smiling little girls have been pupils
of the Sacred Heart Convent in Tokio,
and their parents think it probable that
they will now attend the Sacred Heart
Convent at Rose Bay.
Madeleine Clarke is the first woman
to have the position of A.B.C. advance
agent for concerts. Madeleine was for
some .years a newspaper woman in Bris-
bane, and later did advance work for
theatrical and concert companies in Asia
and in England. Among artists she has
been associated with she ranks Guy Bates
Post and Dr. Malcolm Sargent high for
amiability. Last year, under her own
management, she toured Muriel Brunskill
through Australia and Maoriland.
Ena Elizabeth Cantor carried golden
water-lilies and lily-of-the-valley with her
long white-and-gold wedding frock when
she married her Lieutenant D’Arcy
Thomas Gale, R.A.N. His ship is the
H.M.A.S. Moresby, and fellow-officers
turned up immaculate in their white uni-
forms, their swords flashing to an arch
as the bridal group stepped from St.
Mark’s. Mrs. D’Arcy Gale is the only
child of the John Cantors, of Darling
Point, and her parents made Elizabeth
Bay House the congratulation centre.
Here Mrs. Cantor received, bead motifs
in chalk-white on her dull black satin
frock. Her flowers were lily-of-the-valley.
Mrs. A. Gale, the ’groom’s mother, car-
ried red roses in contrast to the soft
grey of her frocking. The three brides-
maids and a small trainbearer were grace-
ful compositions in ivory and gold.
Among well-known returnees by the
Orion were Mrs. Harry See and daugh-
ters Joan and Lorraine. Mrs. Eric
Strelitz, who now makes her home in
Mayfair, came back in the same ship
on a visit to mother, Mrs. Jack Jacob-
son, of Bellevue Hill. Mrs. Strelitz lived
up to the reputation both she and her
mother have always held of being
among this city’s smartest dressers.
Mrs. Jack Crawford, who before her
marriage was Marjorie Cox and had
proved she knew all about tennis, is off
once again to England and the Davis Cup
matches. With her mother, Mrs. T. H.
Cox, she will sail for America by the
Mariposa on the last day of March. They
will have six weeks in New York, and
then on to London. Wimbledon, a tour
of the countryside, and attendance at one
of the Coronation Courts are among Mrs.
Crawford’s plans.
A Melbourne visitor whose arrival in
Sydney is always an occasion for many
greetings and meetings is the wife of
Major-General Bruche. With sister-in-
law Miss Bruche, she put up at the
Metropole last week till the Awatea
took her on to Maoriland. One of her
hostesses was Mrs. Harry Bundock, who
staged a lunch at her Potts Point home.


TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
NO. 5 OF A SERIES.
"C
%
£
/Vi
‘u
(p-j/
J
"The Pride of the Force"
LONDON.


SHOPPING, meeting and escorting children,
driving cars in city, engaging domestics.—
MARGARET RUSSELL, Amaroo, Albany
Road, Toorak, Vic., U 4032.
When you come to Brisbane on your
trip north, see the wonderful display in
the TRITTON Art Gallery. There
you can see Antiques and pieces of
Old English Furniture, including an
Indian Officer’s Medicine Chest circa
1750, and imported Oil Paintings being
reproductions by well-known R.As. of
pictures by the world’s greatest masters.
Admission to the TRITTON Art
Gallery is free. F. TRITTON (PTY.),
LTD., Complete Home Furnishers,
George Street, Brisbane.
BE SURE YOU SEE THE UNIQUE COLLECTION OF
ORIGINAL DRAWINGS FROM
Now On Show At
DAVID JONES’ STORE
George Street (Opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
THE WORLD'S BEST HUMOR, BY 29 ARTISTS
Legal Notice.
IN THE LOCAL COURT OF ADELAIDE.
No. 12130 of 1936, BETWEEN ESTATES
REALISATION LIMITED, Plaintiff, and MR-
FRANK FLEMING PRINCE and MRS-
PEARL EMMA MOORE, Defendants TO tne
abovenamed FRANK FLEMING PRIN ,
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
day of September, 1936, commenced ag -
you by the abovenamed Plaintiff claiming -
assignees the sum of £4BB 2/- due by you unde,
contracts dated the 15th day of August, ■
for the sale and purchase of Allotments 1
18, Riverview Estate, and Allotment j, _ lC £
den Park. AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE
FRANK FLEMING PRINCE and
that you are required within twenty-one •
after the insertion of this ad '' e L t '
enter an appearance at the Local Court, A
aide, South Australia, and that in detamt
your so doing judgment may be given g
vou in your absence.
7 POVEY & WATERHOUSE,
Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Solicitors for the abovenamed Plaintia-
Melbourne
Chatter
Mrs. E. W. P. Chinnery had an elec-
tric drill to compete with when she was
guest of honor at the International Club.
Even with all the club windows closed
the drill’s noise got to the eardrums
before the speaker’s voice. Mrs. Chin-
nery spoke of New Guinea, the natives
and their customs, her trips by schooner
up the Sepik and other tropical rivers
where mosquitoes are as large as cock-
roaches. A couple of murderers in
manacles were passengers for a time.
Among members present was Mrs. A.
E. V. Richardson, of Adelaide, in a
green suit of Russian inspiration. She
and Yvonne are on their way back from
the “A cubed S” congress in Auckland,
where Yvonne absorbed a lot of infor-
mation through lectures on such puzzling
subjects as “The Nativisation of Educa-
tion.” The International Club’s first
Japanese member, Mrs. Matsunaga,
made her first appearance at the after-
noon reception. She speaks excellent
English, for during her girlhood her
father was Consul-General in Canada.
Mrs. Matsunaga has a young baby born
in Australia. According to Mrs. Carlyle
Smythe and other Australian friends, the
Japanese lady is something very special
in the way of a cook. Another guest
was Frau Krug, a German woman who
is working her way round the world.
She has travelled a great deal, and often
manages to get free passages (particu-
larly in ’planes) for journalistic adver-
tising articles. In Japan, where she spent
six months, there was little scope and
small pay for foreign journalists, so Frau
Krug made use of her degree in chem-
istry and got a temporary position in
Osaka doing research work on tuber-
culosis. Among others who heard Mrs.
Chinnery’s lecture were Mrs. A. S. Wil-
kinson, whose silk frock was patterned
with mah jongg characters; Mrs. L. R
Stillman, in navy blue; Mrs. Harry
Tudehope, in salmon-pink blouse and
grey suit; and Mrs. Sidney Anderson,
very much better in health since her trip
to Perth.
Invitations to the McGowan cocktail
party at Menzies read 5.30 to 7.30. The
fact that they were being entertained by
a baron may have helped everybody to
remember the request: the drift started
at seven, and a few minutes after 7.30
saw the waiters alone with the iceberg
and tiger-lilies.
The McGowans are both very Scot-
tish —he rather solemn ; she with sense
of humor enough for two, a twinkle in
her eye, a marked accent and an air of
purpose and dependability. Among
guests at the reception were Lord and
Lady Somers, she very slim in her black
suit, Oriental lacquer blouse and tiny
black hat. Mrs. Bob Menzies wore black
with a crisp dash of white at her neck
and a jaunty little black hat. The Post-
master-General and Mrs. McLachlan
were there ; also the Harold Darlings, she
in a tailored frock of infinitesimal
checks. Also present were the Herbert
Gepps, the Fred Kitchens and the David
Rivetts, the latter couple fresh from
Auckland and the Science Congress.
Our Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
are practical encouraging patrons of the
legitimate theatre. They attend more
musical shows than they do pictures, and
have found that theatre parties are a suc-
cessful method of entertaining friends
and official acquaintances. Last week
everybody was happy at the Princess
Charming” party, which was followed
by supper in the Lower Town Hall.
Guests " were principally members of
city councils and their wives and Mayors
and Mayoresses of metropolitan munici-
palities. Every woman guest discovered
a box of chocolates on her chair, and
the men were not forgotten: at each
interval they made their way to the
private anteroom, where Cr. Wales had
arranged for various refreshments to be
on tap.
During supper the Mayor of Haw-
thorn made a presentation on behalf of
his colleagues of a steamer rug to the
host and to the hostess of an alli-
gator-skin bag of the generous propor-
tions so useful for holding passport
and other papers which travellers have
to carry round with them. The couple
leave for the Coronation on March 16 ;
and, incidentally, their trip is their own
and no expense to the country. They
will cross Europe overland by rail and
air.
So great has interest become in the
League of Health and Beauty that Olym-
pia would be too small for this year’s
demonstration in London, which will be
held instead at Wembley Stadium. For
the first time Australia is sending a con-
tingent of teachers and students, who
will be among the 2000 women taking
part in the display to be held soon after
the Coronation. Well-known figures in
the Australian branches of the league
who will leave with the contingent are
Thea Hughes (who recently had word of
a special invitation to demonstrate for
the King and Queen), Myrtle Gillham
and Mary Wimberley. Miss Wimberley
(whose photo, is by Broothorn) is Eng-
lish ; she trained at the league’s head-
quarters in London, came to Australia
last year and has been teaching at the
Melbourne branch for the last three
months.
Mrs. Bagot Stack worked out her own
system of exercises for women and
founded the league with 16 members in
1930. Last year membership reached
100,000. Mrs. Stack is dead, but her
beautiful 22-year-old daughter Prunella
(who is a splendid advertisement for her
mother’s health plan) is leader in her
place. The league supplies programmes
of exercises for women of all ages and
standards of physical efficiency. Finan-
cially it is within everybody’s reach.
Initial cost is for white satin blouse and
black shorts, with 6s. contribution
covering badge and annual subscription ;
then Is. for every class attended.
Coloratura soprano Sylvia Bernita
(Joan Allen in private life) is a loyal Aus-
tralian who left Sydney when aged three
months. On the voyage overseas she
showed no sign of good lung power; in-
stead, she won the reputation of being
the best baby on the ship—she was never
heard to cry all the way to England. Miss
Bernita and Count Patti, who were guests
of honor at an A.B.C. reception last
week, are certain to be popular. They
became engaged in the Italian language,
for the Count’s English is chiefly long
pauses for deep thought between words.
Miss Bernita is a cousin of her “good
cobber” Gubby Allen, who left here
when he was seven. The singer has seen
one Test match in England, but she is
no cricket fan, and “always seems to
be looking the wrong way when some-
thing happens.”
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Mitchell couldn t
have had a more, perfect evening for
their cocktail party high above the city
on the roof of Alcaston House. The
air was warm and balmy, and there
was so little wind that gay tablecloths
scarcely fluttered their colored corners.
Noticeable among the guests was Mrs.
Frank Sampson in navy blue, with a
cute hat which turned down when one
expected it to go up. Guest of honor
was Dr. Alva Boyd, who exchanged
news of plans for travelling abroad with
Kathleen Adamson, who is sailing on
the Orion. Miss Adamson doesn't quite
know where she'll rest her head in Lon-
don, for she had just received word that
for the second week in May her sister
had been asked £4OO for rent of a flat
on the Coronation procession route.
Oscar Lempriere and son-in-law
Archie Turner were among spark-plugs
at the party which they and their wives
gave before, sailing as a quartet on the
Oronsay. In spite of the dissimilarity in
their ages the two men are great friends
and like doing the same things. Among
other kindred spirits present was Dick
Clarke, accompanied by his wife, who
was very trim in navy, with white buttons
running up and down the skirt. Both
hostesses wore black, and Mrs. Turner
had three sumptuous gardenias at her
throat. Mrs. Stuart Brunton was there,
but without daughter Gladys, still at
Lome. Two overseas visitors having a
look at their old home, town were Mrs.
Robin Todhunter and Mrs. Huntley
Griffith. In the party also were Dr. and
Mrs. Ewen Downie.
In the Broothorn photo, is Mrs. F. A.
Henry, wife of the Consul for the
U.S.A. in Melbourne. Mrs. Henry is
Irish by birth. She has travelled a
great deal and speaks Spanish (she and
her husband were stationed for several
years in the West Indies). Two daugh-
ters are married and living in England;
the youngest, Pamela, is at school at
St. Margaret’s. Mrs. Henry has a keen
appreciation for beautiful scenery, and
is always pleased when she has a few
days to spare for long week-ends at
the cottage she has leased in the Dande-
nongs.
Captain Jimmy Caulfeild was Mrs.
Ted Dyson’s excuse for going off the
Hay diet which she had been trying,
Captain Jim, hale and hearty in the
early eighties, comes to Australia every
year on the Moldavia, always in cabin
48, which he furnishes for the trip from
his collection of drawings and colored
lithos. of ships in full sail. Mrs. Dyson
is always among Captain Jim’s guests
for luncheon, and this year she drove
him to Government House, for he never
omits to sign his name in the v.-r. book.
Captain Caulfeild mingles with Eng-
land’s aristocracy, has dined with kings
and queens, and has on several occa-
sions exchanged plugs of tobacco as a
preliminary to pipes smoked with the
Duke of Windsor.
“I’m working for a rival firm and 1 11
get the sack!”—this from Gladys Mon-
crieff, with desperate emphasis on the
last four words. Gladys occupied a box
at the Apollo for the first night of
Graham Mitchell’s “Serenaders.” Half-
way through the show the persistent
comedians on the stage, a glaring spot-
light and hysterical persuasipn of the
large audience wore down her deter-
mination and, after many refusals, she
sang the old “Maid of the Mountains”
favorite “Love Will Find a Way.” Her
voice was gorgeous, and every hit of the
thunderous clapping and stamping was
deserved.
Gwen Munro, leading lady of “Orphan
of the Wilderness,” is off to London in
May, with a career in view. She will
travel with her mother, Mrs. Horace
Munro, who agrees that chaperoning her
daughter is worth the sacrifice of giving
up a personally-planned new home.
Mignon sails earlier, and will probably
be married by the time her mother and
sister arrive in London. Her fiance,
Dick Allen, is an aviator, and as the
couple expect to live in Karachi part of
the year Mignon is collecting a two-
seasons trousseau.
After 20 years Dr. and Mrs. Barry
Thomson are uprooting themselves from
Rupert Clarke’s colossal mansion Clive-
den. Only one resident has been there
longer—Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, who
has watched Melbourne grow from a
town to a city from the windows of her
apartment. The Barry Thomson couple
move next Monday (22nd) to an ail
mod. cons, plus flat in a brand-new
building, 628 St. Kilda-road. It hasn't
room for all their possessions, which
include 18 cases of crystal, 12 cases of
silver and some marble statuary.
Not all the exhibits in the show of
posters at Myers are likely to knock
the spectator silly with wanderlust. The.
Maoriland examples, for instance, fail
to do justice to .that country’s beauty.
It is the Varmland of Sweden, the tall
dark firs of Norway, a lone duck fly-
ing over the vast open sky of Hungary
that spell romance. The Graf Zeppelin
is effective in a simple design ; so is the
giant K.L.M. in blue, mauve and silver.
“London-Paris, Sleeping-cars, Ferry-
boats” is suggested by a sleeping face
in very modern style of drawing above
a twinkling Channel steamer.
All the lure of tropical islands tickles
the imagination in the Hamburg-
American Lines glimpse of “Via West
Indies.” Some English posters score on
a point of size. The Isle of Man is pic-
tured in dull greens and browns;
sombre, peaceful and very quiet. The
use of the simple design and the mini-
mum of printed matter is demonstrated
with a half-figure, including her wrist-
watch and the sole printed word “Under-
ground.” Few of the Italian posters
come up to the standard of those from
Austria and Switzerland, some of which
are from photographs —camera art at
its finest. What the illustrations of
Mexico lack in size they rAake up in
color and strong design.
Benefactor -at - large Nuffield likes
honeydew melon. The Windsor, where
he gave a luncheon to mark his donation
of £25,000 for charities, remembered his
preference for the choice fruit and server
it unannounced. “Now that’s what
like to see,” said the host; “good service,
good memories and no fuss.” Cocktails
and presentation of the cheque were in
the blue room, and luncheon for about
20 set amidst gladioli in the gold room.
In a recent letter Mrs. Hylton Dak
said “Cairo is getting like Paris, onl\
more interesting,” high praise from one
who is devoted to Paris. The Hylton
Dale couple spent the latter half ot
January in Upper Egypt, and plan to be
in Rome for Easter. Mrs. Dale’s picture,
painted by W. B. Mclnnes, was recently
exhibited for the Archibald competition.


Wear the
convenient
“ZIPP” FASTENER
RIDING BOOTS
(Reg. Design No. 9292.)
They are quicker and easier to put on and
take off. Ideal for riding or walking.
Zipp Fastener is obtainable at Front or
on Side elastic.
Price 33/9 per pair.
Order Your Size To-day.
Exclusive to
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.
In Queen Street Brisbane
When in Sydney Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“ ( Ihe <JM.acleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
NEW PICTURES BY THE BEST
AUSTRALIAN ARTISTS
Admission Free
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write tor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Senior Sergeant Gaibiri, of
the Papuan Armed Native Constabulary,
King’s Police Medallist in the New
Year’s Honors, is a Kiwai from the Fly
Delta, a sturdy chap, shorter than most
of his tribe, but with the characteristic
high, narrow skull and hooked nose. He
was a corporal in the Tamata section of
the police in 1903 when a new R.M.
cleaned up the rather incapable detach-
ment and promoted him to sergeant. In
all the years, since he has had a wonder-
ful record for capacity and sterling per-
formance of duty, and he possesses the
unusual merit for a Kiwai of being en-
tirely trustworthy in the matter of wine
and women. Under the urge of a C.O.
who would not tolerate “pidgin” or
“police Motu,” he, learned to speak ex-
cellent English for a native. One of the
royal commission which reorganised the
administration after Australia took over
has recorded his amazement at hearing
from the sergeant drill expressions which
would have graced the lips and imagina-
tion of a Guards R.S.M. Gaibiri’s chief
delight' was to don European clothes in
the evenings when the police and their
friends from the near-by villages at
“Zedo”: Queensland maintains its
position as the most enterprising State
in aviation. With the centre already
linked to the interior and to the north,
new lines are mooted every few months.
The latest joins Longreach via Barcal-
dine, Blackall and Springsure to Rock-
hampton, and there is to be new light-
’plane connection between Longreach
and Rockhampton on two days a week
when the mail ’plane isn’t running. Soon
it will be possible to visit every large
town in Queensland and New Guinea by
air service.
* * * *
“Attack Creek”: Sam Irvine, the
Birdum-Alice (N.T.) mailman, has been
more than usually eloquent about the
state of the N.T. road north of the Ten-
nant. A really virile description of the
fairway which links North Australia with
Adelaide could not call it a “road” at
all. It is, in fact, more like a museum
than a road ; it is made up of assorted
mud holes, sand patches, broken-down
creeks, rain gutters, craters where trucks
have sunk to the axles and been dug out,
“devil devil” and other such features.
When the rains come vehicular traffic is
out of the question ; the other day, when
Irvine tried to travel the highway with
packhorses, five of them got bogged. Of
course, in the present state of Australian
finances, the country could scarcely
afford to put the track in even moderate
order. That would cost almost as much
as a Ministerial trip to the Coronation.
* * * $
“X.T.”: An earnest discussion, in-
spired by remarks of a visiting British
vet. who sees nothing good coming out
of the tropics, is going on about the
nutritive value of beef bred above Cap-
ricorn. Why beef should be any different
above Capricorn and below I do not
know, but the Queensland Agricultural
Department intends finding out by
chemical analysis. Personally, I know
of very ancient families which have been
brought up on meat bred in the tropics,
and they seem to have thrived on it. For
generations they have eaten their aunts,
cousins and other lady relations; they
have eaten the income-tax collector, the
local Minister for Referendums, and, at
a pinch, even the butcher. Racial de-
terioration seems to set in with them
only when a misunderstanding Adminis-
tration forcibly weans them from a local
meat diet and forces them to torture
their stomachs with sago and bullama-
cow-belong-tin, bred south of the tropics.
* * * *
“Eulo”: Many an ancient’s tongue
will be set wagging by the death of Vic
Palazzi, of Cunnamulla (W.Q.). Time
was when all westerners who could afford
it, and who fancied themselves, bought
their saddles from Palazzi. He had been
at the game for 40 years, and getting a
Palazzi saddle was once like buying an
Amati violin. You put in your order and
prayed that business was not too brisk
down Cunnamulla way, and in three
months, or six, or a year the article
turned up, and you kept it with the
tobacco and the family jewels. Nobody
could hurry Palazzi. He was an artist
to the fingertips, and it was a sad day
for him when the coming of the motor-
car and the decline of virtuosity among
stockriders sent him from his old trade
into pastoral pursuits.
“Hey, Ma, any sign o’ water yet ?”
Tamata were having a sing-song. Clad
in snowy white duck, he would stalk
among them in bright yellow boots which
complained to heaven. He never danced
or sang himself —just gave his counten-
ance to the show. May his old age be
long and honorable. He is a “white
man” if ever one walked the earth.
"Australia Jane's" Budget
There was a deep-sea flavor about the
invitations sent out by A. S. Huybers,
president of the Royal Queensland
Yacht Club, to the farewell cocktail
party for his wife, who leaves for Eng-
land on the Orion. The card invited
members and their wives to “splice the
main brace” at any time between 4.30
and 6 o’clock on February 12.
General T. W. Glasgow was cast for a
new role at the wedding of Ewen
Beauchamp and Molly McCaulay at St.
Andrew’s Presbyterian Church, Creek-
street. Being the bridegroom’s uncle, he
was picked for best man. The bride,
one of a bevy of very pretty sisters, had
a sister as bridesmaid. The reception
was at the Daniell.
Enid Conley, who has finished a broad-
casting season with 4QG, was with her
husband (she is Mrs. Clement Q. Wil-
liams) guest of honor at an afternoon-
tea given by Mrs. A. A. Fullarton at
Rowe’s. A shoulder spray of sunset
roses and frangipanni was presented to
the lady, who wore a floral frock in
tones of brown and parchment and a
large brown hat.
Three members of the Mcllwraith
croquet club and bridge, circle are get-
ting ready for tours abroad, so a huge
farewell party is on the way for them.
The tourists are Miss A. E. Paterson,
the club’s champion mallet-swinger, and
her sister, Mrs/ E. Teys (both off to
England), and Mrs. Charles Street, who
is preparing for a trip to America.
The J. F. O’Reillys, of Hamilton, are
also off, with a 10 months’ tour head.
They leave by the Moldavia and will be
in London for the Coronation. After
that, Europe and America.
February 10, 1887, saw the wedding
of the Charles Oggs, and to celebrate the
golden anniversary they entertained a
number of friends at their home at
Newmarket. They were married at
Taroom (C.Q.), where the bride’s father,
the late Robert Alexander, was a P.M.
Hilda Greene, first Australian woman
to fly to England and back within less
than two months, stepped out of an
overseas ’plane at Archerfield satisfied
that air travel is the only sane means
of transport. She left Brisbane on Dec.
16 and spent three months in London
and Paris, looked on Switzerland from
the windows of a train and went on to
Alexandria, where she joined the
Canopus, one of the new flying-boats
built for the Australian run. Annie
Greene, an associate of the Academie
des Beaux Arts, was in London to meet
her sister, and they did the rounds of
the theatres, hearing “The Messiah”
with Malcolm Sargent conducting and
Muriel Brunskill chief soloist.
Two other homing Queenslanders were
Christabel and Madeline Bird, who left
Brisbane a year ago on a world tour,
In circumnavigating the globe they car-
ried their suitcases up and down the
gangways of no fewer than 28 ships, of
which one was the Queen Mary. Their
first port of call was Bali, then Singapore
and London. Here they saw the jubilee
celebrations, and later the nation in
mourning for George V. After Europe
they looked over North America,
A Honiton lace veil over 150 years
old, lent by Mrs. R. Griffiths-Bowen, of
Sydney, was worn by Elizabeth Jean
Atlee Hunt when she kept her altar
date with Alexander Frederick Roche
nt St. Andrew s C. of E., Lutwyche. The
bndal S own was of deep magnolia satin,
and the bnde carried white cactus
dahlias and stephanotis. Gladys French
and Greta Delbridge, frocked in old
ro se, were the ’maids. The bride is only
daughter of the E. N. Atlee Hunts, and
the ’groom only son of H. Roche,
Windsor. The reception was held at the
Canberra.
When Nell Haymen leaves for Eng-
land to wed Capt. Pat Honnor, formerly
A.D.C. to the Governor, her sister, Mrs.
A. S. Roe, will go with her. They will
bre ak the trip at Malta for a week or
two *
Olive Strickland daughter of Mrs.
R u j h of Sherwood, eft for
S V by the Canberra, and will go on
to Fill to wed Rev. Donald Boorman,
Q £ Levifk aj fourth son of the late C.
g oorman an d 0 f Mrs. s. Boorman,
T wee( j Ri ver (NSW)
, .. ‘ ' ’ ' ,
Mrs W. Hendry Drew who died the
other day, was the eldest daughter of the
late William McWhirter, founder of one
of Brisbane’s biggest drapery stores, and
was one of the directorate of the big
had a hrst - ra,e capac,ty
the hospitable O’Shea
home a t Toowong, was used as a grand-
stand by those enthusiasts who wanted
t o watch the first regatta of 1937
arranged by the G.P.S. rowing club. The
Governor was among the onlookers ;
he scooted up and down the river aboard
the official launch. The regatta hap-
pened on Ella O’Shea’s birthday, and
lots of the rowing fraternity brought
along flowers by way of greeting,
Cathleen and Marie Courtney, sail-
ffig for England and the Continent,
wer e farewelled in the rooms of the
Catholic Daughters of Australia. Mrs.
Pat Dowd and Eileen Masterson were
hostesses. At Naples the girls will
leave their ship and travel to Rome,
where their aunt is head of an English-
speaking convent. Then they go to
London to share a flat with a girl friend
who is studying singing with Sir Henry
Wood.


s-
rrzv'i
»»» »
/ N
m
-rrnmwirr^-
■ : ' % i
pi^
rnMM
L ..'; 3?. . 2
How what? How to make a perfect party; Get together in a
pleasantly - large room a number of young people of all ages,
distributed fairly evenly as regards the sexes. Mix ample
quantities of VICKERS and Vermouth and what have you?
Let the result circulate freely and the party take its course.
ICKERS
GIN
FA M DUS SI N C/E 17 s'o
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Warm rays of the sinking sun stole
through the stained-glass windows of
Perth College chapel and dyed Jocelyn
Lejeune’s ivory rose point lace as she
exchanged vows with lan Thom, of
Wygee station, Yalgoo. Her curd-white
Liberty satin foundation shimmered
under the folds of the cowl-necked, full-
sleeved bodice, and ran the length of
the hip-fitting, full-flared skirt, which
ended in a long, pointed train. The mist
of her tulle veil, rising from a halo of
twisted velvet, half-concealed the sheaf
of cream to gold gladioli. Four ’maids
—Ayris Lejeune, Jane Grant, Pat Had-
field and Alison Harper—followed the
bride to the flower-decked altar. Their
white stiffened nets, hand-embroidered in
a daisy design, were puffed and kilted
over apple-green taffetas, caught at the
neck with glittering crystal and swathed
with long taffeta sashes. Across their
brows were sprays of cactus dahlias and
gladioli in the same shade as the posy
nestling ’gainst Mrs. Lejeune’s blue
Mechlin lace as she welcomed guests at
the Esplanade.
Another flight into matrimony with
Perth College chapel as the taking-off
ground was that of Hester Barrett-Len-
nard and Hubert Shields. The bride’s
streamlines were girt with cream crepe
Roubaix, slit wing-sleeved and built with
an undercarriage which swept off into a
long, swirling train. Above her head
rested a cloud of Brussels lace, flecked
here and there with orange-blossom. In
her wake came Sheila McPherson and
Dorothy Ferguson swinging baskets of
pink roses before their two-toned frocks,
the one. in mauves and the other in
blues, happy combinations of lace and
taffeta.
Some 18 months ago Nancy Grasby,
B.Sc., left Westralia on holiday bent.
The vacation was destined to be short-
lived: soon after her arrival in China
she was invited to take up secretarial
work at the Embassy in Shanghai. Later
she was requested to transfer to Pekin,
her journey being carried out with
almost glass-cage care. With the Uni-
versity of California and the study of
an elusive grub in view, she resigned
from her position and set out for
U.S.A., but while in Japan, on the first
stage of her passage, she became
attached to a scientific expedition, and is
at present to be located on a tiny island
off Formosa. Besides the Japanese and
their wives, the personnel of the com-
pany comprises four American scientists,
three Englishmen and Nancy. In addi-
tion to her secretarial duties she applies
her skill in culinary arts in preparing
dishes for the white members of the
complement and is adding a polish to
the Japanese interpreters’ English.
Before setting sail for England Girl
Guide president the James lady was
given a valedictory party by State Com-
missioner Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere. Ihe
hostess, set about with navy and white
georgettes, welcomed office-bearers at
her home in Mount-street, where the
guest of honor pressed her presentation
book to the folds of her black-and-white
figured georgettes.
Vale Charles McNess’s wife, who died
in her seventieth year after a brief illness.
Although of a strictly retiring disposi-
tion, she was well known in philan-
thropic circles. Jointly she and Charles
McNess. made gifts to charity totalling
nearly £200,000.
Kate Davies, only daughter of the late
Herbert Davies couple, of Bridgetown,
was married to Dr. K. G. M. Aberdeen,
of Northam, without the assistance of
’maid or ’man. St. George’s Cathedral
was beflowered with Madonna lilies, and
the Dean of Perth performed the cere-
mony. The bride’s floor-length mush-
room-pink lace was belted with velvet
and topped with a picture hat of match-
ing ballibuntal straw on which perched
a cornflower-blue ribbon bow.
A brace of engagements with celebra-
tions attached are those of Frank
Meagher and the Charles Hadleys’
second daughter, Gladys, and Keith
Robertson and Esme Oakley.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
With so many leaving for the Corona-
tion, we are swimming in cocktail par-
ties. Kenneth Duffield, off again to
London after a brief visit to his home-
land, was guest of honor at the home
of his cousin, Guy Makin. Dr. and
Mrs. C. E. C. Wilson, of Fullarton, are
living in a whirl of farewell parties.
With daughter Honor, they leave shortly
for London.
Mrs. Anthony Fotheringham, only
daughter of the A. L. Ladburys, of East
St. Kilda, who was recently married in
Adelaide to Anthony Fotheringham,
leaves by the Dutch ship Meliskerk for
England to see the Coronation, accom-
panied by her uncle and aunt, the Laith
Ladburys, of Armadale (Vic.).
Colonel P. W. Vaughan, who as
manager of the Commonwealth Bank in
Adelaide has been resident here with
his family for some years, has just re-
tired. At a farewell social given by
the bank staff he was presented with
a gold cigarette-case., and Mrs. Vaughan
with a travelling-case.
Interesting visitors from Sydney who
made a brief stay in Adelaide at the
South Australian and left by the Mel-
bourne Star for London were the James
Ashtons and Miss B. Meeks, and with
them Robert, Philip and Geoffrey Ash-
ton. They are the polo-players, and are
taking their ponies with them for the
Beaufort tournaments, with, of course,
a glimpse of the Coronation as well.
Summer frocks were again given an
airing at the Tattersall’s Club meeting
at Morphettville, when chairman H.
Allan Morris and his wife entertained at
afternoon-tea. Mrs. Morris, always a
smart frocker, looked well in an
Oriental-patterned satin tunic over a
black skirt, and her wide-brimmed yellow
hat of coarse straw was trimmed with
ribbon to tone. Others glimpsed were
Mrs. T. D. Davidson* Mrs. W. A. Piper,
Mrs. J. H. Morish, Mrs. A. V. Benson,
Mrs. Whitmore Carr, Mrs. W. P. A.
Lapthorne, Miss Rosamond Bickford,
Mrs. Baden Pattinson, Miss Josephine
Kennedy (niece of Mrs. H. Allan
Morris), and Mrs. Albyn Rankine.
His Ex. and Lady Dugan attended the
last trotting meeting at Wayville, she
wearing a silver-fox fur with her navy
wool georgette frock and high-crowned
navy hat. After the racing his Ex. pre-
sented the cups to the winner of the
inter-Dominion championship, and later
the J. J. Rices entertained at supper, she
in a navy striped crepe suit and small
navy straw hat.
Iris Hart, only daughter of Mrs. E. J.
Hart, of Fullarton, and the late Wilfred
J. Hart, kept her altar date with Maurice
Dale Chapman, younger son of Mrs.
C. J. Chapman, of St. Peters, and the
late William Chapman. The bride is
widely known for having played lead in
a J. C. Williamson company and for her
delightful broadcast singing. She was
gowned in ivory satin, cut on princess
lines merging into a train. Bridesmaid
Lois Bennett wore a frock of Corona-
tion-blue chiffon over satin the same
shade, on slim lines. Mrs. Hart enter-
tained about 70 guests at the Wentworth
afterwards.
Mrs. Nutter Thomas gave a cheery
farewell party at Bishop’s Court, North
Adelaide, for Mrs. William Bussell,
widow of the late Archdeacon Bussell,
before her departure for England by the
Orontes. Mrs. Bussell will be the guest
of her brother, Bishop Harmer, of Kew
Gardens, London; he was formerly
Bishop of Adelaide.
Mrs. M. J. Joubert and Mrs. G. F. H.
Bekkcr, wives of two South African
delegates to the inter-Empire Wool Con-
ference in Melbourne, have been spend-
ing some days in Adelaide before leav-
ing for home by the Ulysses. They have
enjoyed seeing something of the pas-
toral .country and the station home-
steads, and were delighted with Ben-
acre, Glen Osmond, where Mrs. Lance
Lewis, wife of the president of the
Stockowners’ Association of South Aus-
tralia, entertained them.
TASMANIA.
After Race Week, conferences. The
Organisation for the Blind held meetings
and was entertained, enjoying the Speck
in its delayed summer weather. Delegates
from all States attended. Then there
were the Labor Women’s Conference
(with May Holman, W.A., president) and
the National Health and Medical Re-
search Council, this welcomed by the
Tasmanian Society at an outsize shivoo.
W. M. Hughes and his Dame were, of
course, highlights. About 300 guests
climbed the red-carpeted stairs at the
Town Hall.
For the wedding of Dr. Bert Hiller
and Peggy Gurney the Cathedral, deco-
rated with masses of bamboo, prunus and
pink blooms, was crowded. The bishop
tied the knot, and the bride was given
away by her brother Derek. Her dress of
heavy magnolia satin had a long train,
and was plainly cut, the voluminous net
veil held by orange-blossoms. The three
’maids were Dora Grant, Sybil Sale and
Elma Hiller, wearing pink, mauve and
green, their pretty hats trimmed with
twists of all three colors. Festivities
were at Hadley’s.
The pair were entertained up to the
last minute before their wedding. Among
the last of their hosts and hostesses were
Sybil Sale and Dr. Counsel ; Herbert
Lewis gave a big shivoo at his mother s
home, Werndee, Augusta-road, where
Dame Mary Hughes was among the
guests.
Joyce Shone and Fred Edginton were
married at St. David’s, to the tune of the
new peal of bells. It was a very pretty
wedding, the church decorated with
great spikes of red gladioli and white
daisies. The bride’s frock of cream
lace was worn over a slip of heavy satin,
with the new wide sleeve line at the
shoulder. Her tulle veil was held by a
halo wreath of orange-blossom. Stella
Shone (sister) and Esther Shoobridge
’maided in red ninon and carried wild-
flower bouquets, little Elizabeth Gibson,
the bride’s niece, bearing the train. Mrs.
Shone and Mrs. Edginton held a recep-
tion at Hadley’s. ~ . .
Gladioli were a wonderful sight ai
the City Hall flower show. Other gor-
geous masses of color were provided t>>
the exhibits of dahlias, while the rank
and file, so to speak, of other autumn
flowers made a fine display.
Mrs. Edith Waterworth was wel-
comed as guest of honor at a big re-
ception given by the Womens Non-
Party League at Hadley’s. Mrs. G. 0-
Smith presided, and Mrs. Waterwor
and the brass-hats of the movement w
at the official table, where the party in-
cluded the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayor-
ess State Treasurer Dwyer-Gray, tne
E. W. Turners, knight John cP £r>hol!s
his lady, the Lewis lady and theNich
lady, Mrs. R. Snowdon Hay, Prof, an
Mrs. A. B. Taylor and Mrs. O. M.C*
vert (hon. sec.). Mrs. Waterworth. haj
been collecting civic health kno
during her travels abroad.
Isabelle Winston-Simmons and n
young niece Dorothy have departed fo
a trip to the Cold Country. They wen
on the Ulysses. . he
The Butters knight and his lady,
in black with a spray of pink carnaton
bade their farewells to Hobart in
tails at Hadley’s before going bacx
the mainland.


METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD
£1,375,000 LOAN
INTEREST 41% P.A. REPAYABLE 1949.
PRICE OF ISSUE £9B/12/6.
EFFECTIVE RETURN TO INVESTOR £4/8/-%.
LOAN NOW OPEN
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
THE LOAN IS SECURED UPON THE FULL INCOME OF THE BOARD.
Subscriptions FOR EACH £lOO may be paid as under:
Option 1. £9B/12/6 in full.
Option 2. £lO with application.
£3O by 10th April, 1937.
£3O by 10th May, 1937.
£2B/12/6 by 10th June, 1937.
Option 3. £lO with application.
Balance of £3B/12/6 at any time up to
10th June, 1937.
Prospectuses and applications obtainable at Commonwealth Banks, also
Board’s Head Office and Branches at Parramatta and Wollongong.
WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST.
The money will be spent on essential Water and Sewerage Works.
IT IS FOR YOUR BENEFIT!
Adequate water supply and the sewering of Sydney Suburbs are
necessities, and vital for public health.
A FIRST-CLASS INVESTMENT WITH REPAYMENT OF
PRINCIPAL AT PAR ASSURED AND REGULAR PAYMENT
OF INTEREST EACH HALF-YEAR CERTAIN.
The Loan will be listed on Stock Exchange, and thus provide
ready realisation.
The money will provide full-time work for thousands of men.
SYDNEY.
T. HAYNES UPTON, President.
F. J. HENRY, Secretary.
The Long White Clound
Labor and Its Unionists
Maoriland Labor was founded on the
sympathy of unionists, but its first Gov-
ernment, like previous ones of the same
color in Australia and Britain, is realis-
ing the difficulties of satisfying allies as
suspicious as they are powerful.
Printers and workers in freezers who
disapproved of Arbitration Court awards
have already embarrassed the Savage
Government. Minister of Public Works
Semple even now has a disapproving eye
on malcontents in his department, and
Under-Secretary Lee, busy on housing-
scheme details, is treading warily under
the watchful eyes of carpenters and
joiners.
Advertisements for “joiners for New
Zealand” appeared in Glasgow and
London papers late in 1936. Maoriland
unions indignantly point to unemploy-
ment in local trades and demand an ex-
planation. But Housing Ministry officials
have alibis; they were not appointed
until after the advertisements must have
left Maoriland.
Union suspicions die hard. Auckland
says the ads. “show either a definite
understanding with the Ministry by a
certain firm or a cynical disregard of
the wishes and policy of the Govern-
ment.”
Cables have gone to Glasgow to stop
men leaving there without knowledge
of the Maoriland position—but if the
40-hour week and no Saturday work and
good wages attract a few Scots the Sav-
age Government will face another tough
spot.
“D.N.”: Men dislike being deprived
of either beer or bets, and Maoriland laws
that make beer illegal in some areas
and bookmaking illegal everywhere pro-
vide precarious but handsome livings for
illicit purveyors. Two Dunedin bookies
were fined a total of £5OO the other day.
Police witnesses said they had “earned”
£B5OO in six months. Maoriland book-
makers operate by similar methods to
those of the Australian s.p. man, but
they have the additional benefits of a
powerful national association whose
members flourish in every important
centre. They interchange results and
prices, and arrange and uphold their
own code of business ethics. Anyone
who refuses to settle with a Wellington
bookmaker, for instance, quickly learns
off-course that Auckland won’t take his
bets; in other words, he is on the
national black list. Curiously enough,
while the administrators of Maoriland
justice deny the general existence of
bookies, the Taxation Department regu-
larly collects on their earnings. Which
reminds me that the Government rail-
ways offer the most popular means of
importing beer to a thirsty no-license
King Country.
* * * *
“Korero”: Canterbury (M.L.) is track-
ing down the real facts of its early settle-
ment (B. 20/1/’37). Researches began
some months ago on a pile of rat-eaten,
yellowed documents dating from the
beginning of the Canterbury Association’s
work a year before the First Four Ships
arrived in 1850. The oldest paper con-
tains the Deans brothers’ report on
which Canterbury was chosen for settle-
ment ; in 1846 the two Deans procured
from the natives a 21-year lease of a
block that included what is now the
whole of Christchurch. For these rights,
the association swapped them another
section —and Christchurch came into be-
ing. But it was tough going. To the
secret delight of less historical M.L.
cities, dignified Christchurch learned the
other day that most of it was mortgaged
to four churchmen and an English lord
for £lO,OOO when the association found
itself short of cash in 1851. This sen-
sational document, which calls the. settle-
ment by the originally intended name of
“Lyttelton,” was retrieved within two
years by high-pressure land salesman-
ship.
* * * *
“Mak”: When an intelligent Maori
sets out to achieve an object he nearly
always lands it—even if the chase whisks
him into strenuous overseas competition.
The Bulletin has mentioned him as a
politician, a bishop, a doctor, an aviator,
a modern farmer, an athlete and a
musician. He has also won international
fame as a painstaking scientist —Dr.
Peter Buck, Te Rangi Hiroa to his
people, is director of the Bishop Museum
in Honolulu and was previously a Yale
University professor. He is one of the
N.Z. University’s four hon. doctors of
science, the other degrees having been
conferred on Lord Rutherford, the late
Dr. Cockayne and Dr. Jenness. Radio
has its Maori experts, and Adelaide (S.
Australia) boasts an engineer-announcer
whose tribal fathers settled Hawke’s Bay
and later contested possession with the
invading whites. Present English Rugby
League crowds still cheer Nepia, Smith
and Harrison, who went overseas to turn
to profit the Maori people’s aptitude for
athletics. And young, educated Maoris
have an inherited enemy to overcome
“I hear your husband has been playing up a bit."
"Yes, he has; but I soon showed him who Wears the trousers."
when they seek worldly success —most
of them experience at some time the
desire to respond to an indolence that
has attracted some promising men back
to a place on the whare mat, that seat
of tribal philosophers.
* * * *
“D.N.”: Taranaki alpinists conduct
searches for missing Mt. Egmont climbers
(B. 3/2/’37) in thorough fashion. From
three major and widely-separated moun-
tain-house bases and several higher huts,
parties comb different areas and main-
tain constant communication with each
other by portable radio and inter-house
telephone. Like most snow mountains,
Egmont is seamed with deep gullies, and
it is easy to miss the tracks in bad
weather or darkness. Even if the lost
person works his way down from the
exposed upper slopes to the comparative
safety of the bush below, freezing
weather imposes an endurance limit that
makes any successful search a race
against time. In cases where climbers un-
familiar with Egmont attempt night
descents in bad weather, one misstep
can begin death glissades of several thou-
sand feet —and the searchers are beaten
before they start. The last victim—
Egmont’s 23rd—was found at the foot
of a steep 2500 ft. snowfield.
* * * *
“Xo”: Andrew Burns, the veteran
Maoriland journalist, has outlived two
of his early printing apprentices who
achieved success in the newspaper busi-
ness. One was his son Alec, general
manager of the Christchurch “Press”
from 1925 until his death a few days
ago ; the other was T. C. List, who died
in 1934 after having made his Taranaki
“Daily News” one of Maoriland’s lead-
ing provincial dailies. Alec Burns
learned his types on the Riverton “Star”
and T. C. List on the Petone sheet
Andrew Burns acquired when he moved
to the North Island. Young Burns be-
came a reporter on the Marlborough
“Times” and then transferred to the staff
of the N.Z. Press Association; T. C.
List took over a small Manaia paper and
used it to earn a deposit for the New
Plymouth “News.” After Alex. Bums
quitted the assistant editor’s chair on
the “Press” to become its g.m., he and
List joined each other on the board of
the N.Z. Press Association. Another of
Andrew Burns’s sons, Nelson, also
turned to journalism and, as Te Pana
Burns, is well known in Maoriland, Syd-
ney and Melbourne newspaper worlds.
“Waitot”: Insects attacking gorse,
bidi bidi, ragwort and other plant pests
in Maoriland (B. 10/2/’37) can save
farmers considerable money and labor
if they retain their appetites and special-
ised tastes. While some weeds reduce
the carrying capacity of pastures, others
poison stock and taint farm produce. Dr.
Miller, of the Cawthron Institute, says
Maoriland’s wool clip is annually re-,
duced in value by £250,000 through bidi
bidi burrs ; bracken costs the man on the
land another £1,300,000, and members of
the twitch family an additional £200,000.
Ragwort, which also poisons stock, could
reduce butterfat production by as much
as 30 per cent. So there are good
reasons why Maoriland farmers should
encourage the Cawthron Institute work
that has interested overseas agriculturists
for some time.
* * * *
“Motu”: Australian survivals of the
reptilian age include crocodiles, turtles,
lizards and snakes, but Maoriland’s
unique tuatara, the sole trans-Tasman
relic, offers quality instead of quantity
—and it neither bites nor deliberately
poisons. Wild pigs have been largely
responsible for exterminating main-
land tuataras, but the coastal islands
from Three Kings down to Cook
Strait provide natural sanctuaries for the
remainder of the species. Visitors entice
the inquisitive tuatara into sight by mak-
ing noises near the burrows which nesting
sea birds seem quite content to share
with the reptiles. According to natural-
ists, the tuatara owes its survival, as well
as its great' individual age, to an amaz-
ing conservation of energy and effort.
***>!'
“M”: Just a few weeks before the
sixth anniversary of the earthquake that
destroyed its building and plant in 1931,
the Hawke’s Bay “Herald” was amalga-
mated with the Hastings “Tribune,” from
whose office it has been published since
the ’quake. The “Herald” began publi-
cation in Napier in 1857 and the “Tri-
bune” in 1912 ; they became the after-
noon “Herald-Tribune” on January 18.
* * * *
“Hutiwai”: Culture has been a mono-
tonous Maoriland radio refrain since
Prof. Shelley became Director of
National Broadcasting, but his pro-
posals reveal no cause for concern. From
his Wellington culture studios, Prof.
Shelley intends sending the strains of a
national symphony orchestra into remote
parts of the country; overseas artists are
to be engaged ; there is to be a better
radio service for schools ; and listeners’
groups are being planned. To provide
against the doubtful future of the last
the ambitious Prof. Shelley plans to
produce a weekly magazine on the lines
recently suggested to the A.B.C. by a
Bulletin contributor. It looks as though
Uncle Scrim will have to sweat hard for
huge commercial-station profits in a
Maoriland not yet kindly disposed to
radio advertising; Shelley competition
will be keen.


Amplion
HEMEMOTOR
THE STANDARD
•* B*• ELIMINATOR
MODEL 180 GENEMOTOR.
INPUT:
flv. 2.2 amps.
OUTPUT:
180 v. 30ma.
PRICE, £6/10/-.
Also available for public address ampli-
fiers, transmitters, etc., with outputs
ranging up to 500 volts 150 rua.
MODEL XI FILTER.
For use with Model 180 Genemotor.
PRICE, 30/-.
Write for Bulletin No. 42.
AMPLION (A/SIA), Limited
66 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
RADIO BARGAINS.
Philips Eliminators 10/-, 12/6, 15/-; Philips Audio
Transformers 10/-, A.W.A. 6/-, others from 3/-.
Lightning Arrester and Switch, 6d. Variable
Condensers from 2/-. Reinartz Coils 1/6. Valves:
6-volt Battery, 6/-; A.C., 227. 3/6; 224, 4/6;
42, 6/-; 6A7, 7/6; 687, 7/6; 2A6, 6/-. Cord Grin
Holders, 3d. All tested and guaranteed. Add postage
RADIO SUPPLY STORES,
7 KOVAL ARCADE,
>1
4
Radio Constructors,
A limited number of issues
of “Australian Radio News
(formerly published by “The Bulle-
tin”) is available at “The Bulletin
office. 1933 and 1934 issues con-
tain a large amount of useful shor.-
wave and broadcast constructions
articles. Price 3d. per copy. Post
age included.
RADIO NEWS.
Special Country Air-Cell
Demonstration.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Considerable interest has been aroused
among country readers concerning the
nature and possibilities of the new Ever-
Ready Air-Cell, referred to briefly in
these pages recently. Stocks of this cell
have been held up by the U.S.A. water-
front strike, but ample supplies will be
available, this month. While awaiting
stocks the staff of the Ever-Ready Co.,
in conjunction with technical radio jour-
nalists and a leading radio manufacturer,
have not been idle. Three samples only
of the Air-Cell have been on hand, and
for months these have been subjected to
rigorous treatment in duplication of what
might be expected under outback con-
ditions.
The Air-Cell is a radically different
form of primary cell for the filament
supply of a battery-operated receiver.
Unlike other primary cells, it delivers
somewhat over two volts, and its method
of so doing is unique. That will be de-
scribed in a subsequent account of the
make-up and action of the Air-Cell.
Testing Air-Cell Sterling “Siruferised” Radio under actual
country conditions. Left to right: Mr. Murphy (Parkes
Electrical Co.), N. Buchanan and J. M. Tait (Sterling Radio,
Ltd.), and G. K. {“Bob”) Herring ( Ever-Ready Co.).
To anybody who understands thor-
oughly the needs of the country radio user
the A (or filament) and not the B (plate)
supply has always been the stumbling-
block. There is no doubt that the Air-
Cell opens up an entirely new era for
the radio user who has long endured the
troubles of battery-charging.
Dry-cell B batteries give excellent ser-
vice, and the Australian-made B battery
is second to none. Of the accumulator
itself as a source of filament supply there
is also no complaint ; if it is kept
charged and in good condition, it is also
beyond reproach. But facilities for
charging are in many instances a very
different story, and letters to these pages
give ample proof that many people run
into trouble with accumulators. These
people live a long way from a charging
station. A frequent result is that just
when wanted —say, in the middle of a
Test match—the radio fails ; the A bat-
tery is flat.
With the Air-Cell there is no such
trouble. Used properly within its rating,
it will give two volts at half an ampere
for 12 months or more. All that it needs
is topping up with water occasionally.
Anything that makes for better and
cheaper radio operation for country lis-
teners is of prime interest to The Bul-
letin’s radio pages, so an invitation
made jointly by the Ever-Ready Co. (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., and Sterling Radio, Ltd., of
Sydney, to take part in a flying visit with
the object of introducing to country
dealers both the Air-Cell and receivers de-
signed expressly for use with the cell was
instantly accepted. On the afternoon of
February 5 two cars pulled out from
Sydney carrying one Air-Cell, five or six
Sterling battery chassis, a few Ever-
Ready Superdynes, and the following
personnel: G. K. Herring (general sales
manager Ever-Ready Co.), R. W. Erwin
(U.S.A. representative of the National
Carbon Co.), .J. M. Tait (managing
director Sterling
Radio, Ltd.), “Nat”
Buchanan (chief en-
gineer Sterling), Don
B. Knock (The
Bulletin), R.
Edwards (technical
editor “Radio Re-
tailer”) and A. Earle
Read (editor “Aus-
tralasian Radio
World”). The objec-
tive was Parkes, with
halts at Bathurst and
Orange.
It was fairly late
at night when the
convoy reached
Bathurst, but man-
ager Marning, of the
Bathurst Furnishing
Co., provided an
aerial for a prelim-
inary test. True to
summer tradition,
the night was
rent with static, but a good idea was ob-
tained of the behavior of the new Ster-
ling chassis under Air-Cell operation. (It
is worth noting that these chassis are
known as Sterling “Siruferised” Radio,
both I.F. and R.F.
coils being designed
on the Sirufer vari-
ab 1 e permeability
iron core as de-
scribed in detail in
B. 13/5/’36.) The
selectivity and gain
of the chassis was
at once evident, and
comparison was
made with a chassis
using 175 kc. air-
cored I.F.Ts. The
465 kc. Sirufer-fitted
models left no doubt
about their superi-
ority, there being
absolute freedom
from station over-
lapping. The most
interesting of these
receivers was an un-
pretentious four-
valve superhet with
a perfectly silerft
background and a
rather amazing performance. It had a
valve combination using IC6, KF3, IK6
and KL4. Designed for Air-Cell use, it
takes less than 500 milliamperes from the
cell and around 15ma. from the 135 volts
of B battery. A thoroughly excellent
job for the Australian countryman’s new
era of filament economy!
Next day a halt was called at Orange,
and the Air-Cell introduced to dealers
D. J. Bono, of Western Agencies, and
O. B. Green, of Orange Electrical Works.
Arrived at Parkes, it was decided to test
the receivers under open-air conditions
well away from local electrical interfer-
ence. With dealers West (VK2EI), of
West’s Radio, and Murphy, of Parkes
Electrical Co., the party went out into the
bush and slung an aerial over a handy
gum-tree. Under afternoon conditions,
with severe electrical storms riding the
country, many Sydney and inter-State
stations were tuned in with no effort,
and the members of the radio press
present agreed unanimously that the Air-
Cell is one of the finest developments yet
introduced for the benefit of outback
listeners.
The demonstrations were most con-
vincing, and the impression gained from
the tour was that the Air-Cell is destined
for the great popularity it justly merits
in the Australian inland. The technical
story of the cell will be told in a future
article.
Don B. Knock.
Simple Fuse Protection.
Where high voltages are used there
is always risk of expensive breakdowns ;
the centre-tapped secondaries of high-
voltage transformers are no exceptions.
One transformer rated at 500 volts
(either side of the c.t.) at 250 ma. suf-
fered a short: a modulation-hum con-
denser on one side of the secondary had
broken down, placing practically a dead
short across that part of the. winding.
The outfit continued to work, and the
first sign of trouble was a fizzing sound
and smell of boiling wax. The domestic
power meter was breaking records.
The equipment, now working with a
completely re-wound transformer, _ is
wired according to the illustration.
Fuses consisting of .3amp. pilot globes
are inserted at FF. In addition to pre-
venting shorts in condenser breakdowns
this protects the transformer against rec-
tifier faults and shorts occurring in other
parts of the smoothing or supply circuit.
Overload occurring beyond the. rectifier
is saved by the blowing of ihe fuse
lamps, since the A.C. is instantly re-
Dealer West ( West’s Radio), of Parkes, looks on whilst “Nat”
Buchanan (chief Sterling engineer) makes adjustments. The
new Air-Cell is in the foreground.
moved from the rectifier plates. Costing
but a shilling or two, this system will
save many expensive burn-outs.
R.H.A.
Amateur Chatter.
The 1937 Convention of the W.I.A. is
over ; at least, the agenda-paper . items
have been disposed of. The next job
before, the N.S.W. division, and also
F.H.Q., is organising the 1937 Amateur
and Short-wave Radio Exhibition to be
held in Sydney. The last exhibition
demonstrated the value of amateur ex-
hibits when correctly staged in conjunc-
tion with the radio trade, and every
effort will be made to eclipse that suc-
cessful show.
It is hoped that it will shortly be
possible to arrange for the operation of
a five-metre transmitter at elevated
distant positions. A useful test which
might well be undertaken would be
a trip with a mobile station —carry-
ing directive array—to Mt. Kosciusko.
During the W.I.A. Convention, VK2BP
visited the writer’s station and lis-
tened to the signals from his own
station at Hazelbrook. Blue Mountains.
He. decided that they could, with advan-
tage, be very much stronger.
From overseas it is reported that some-
one is inside the amateur 20-metre band
broadcasting war news and propaganda,
with repeated “Atencion” calls which are
so distorted that the only thing certain
is that the language is Spanish. It is
noted that Nationalist bulletins in several
languages are regularly jambed on 31
metres by the Government station EAX
at Barcelona, which sends out a flow of
Morse signals obviously for that purpose.
Spanish amateurs are reported to he defi-
nitely closed down.
VK2NO.
Wireless Institute
Convention.
Inter-State delegates visiting Sydney
for the thirteenth annual convention of
the W.I.A. were Bob Beatson (VK4BB, of
Maryborough, Q.),
“Doc” Bar bier
(VKSMD, of Adel-
aide) and Geo.
Thompson
(VK3TH, of Mel-
bourne). Proxies
were Don B. Knock
(VK2NO) for Tas-
mania and Con
Bischoff (VK2LZ)
for W e s t r a 1 i a.
N.Z.A.R.T. was re-
presented by J. Wil-
son (ZLIJW). The
agenda paper’s 44
items, many of which
required long con-
sideration, were dis-
posed of in three sessions, taking up most
of January 30 and 31.
The convention brings the various
executives together for the purpose of
thrashing out matters affecting the wel-
fare of all transmitting radio amateurs.
The institute is the official mouthpiece,
recognised as such by the P.M.G.
Recommendations are subsequently dis-
cussed with the Wireless Branch of the
department, which is under the control
of J. Malone, in Melbourne. The Aus-
tralian amateur is more favorably situated
than many of his fellow-experimenters
overseas, for the authorities here give
every reasonable encouragement and a
sympathetic hearing to representations.
Thus the W.1.A., closely co-operating
with the department, is a form of self-
government for the amateur.
The night of January 30 was chosen
for the fourth annual dinner, which was
made a gesture of welcome to the inter-
state men. The Dungowan was packed
with “hams” and many people con-
nected with the radio trade. W. T. S.
Crawford, senior radio inspector for
N.S.W., was the guest of honor, and made
some pithy comment on certain aspects
of “DX hunting.”
February 1 was notable for visits to
the La Perouse receiving centre of A.W.A.,
Bunnerong powerhouse and Pennant
Hills radio centre. Although radio is
naturally a primary interest with “hams
it is safe to say that the greatest interest
was taken in the QRO stuff at Bun-
nerong. After dealing with a handful of
watts, it is certainly interesting to see a
meter scale with pointer idling around


MODEL AEROPLANE
KITS
Build an Aeroplane and you will find it
the greatest of all hobbies. Suitable for
boys from (1 to 60. Don’t delay, send
along your order and you will find your
spare time fully occupied.
SELLEY JUNIORS, 14in.
Fairchild. Aeronca.
Curtis Navy Racer. Verville Air Coach.
Heath Parasol.
2/8 posted.
SELLEY LIGHTWEIGHTS, 15m.
Sportster.
Swallow.
Bat.
Boeing Pl 2.
Curtis Hawk.
Vought Corsair.
Lockheed Sirius.
Stinson Reliant.
Curtis Swift.
Howard Pete.
5/6 posted.
SELLEYTEX FLYING SCALE
CONSTRUCTION KITS.
Rearwin Sport, 16in 8/6 posted
Bellonca Swoop, 20in 10/11 „
Monocoupe, 20in 13/6 „
Vought Corsair, ISin 13/6 „
Curtis Osprey, ISin 13/6 „
Lockheed Orion. 20in 13/6 „
Ryan Sportster. 24in 24/3 „
Fairchild 22, 24in 24/3 „
Boeing F4R4, 24in 28/3 „
Waco C. 24in 28/3 „
Goshawk, 24in 32/3 „
Waco D Military, 24in 32/3 „
Boys’ Practice Kits 1/6 posted
Hundreds of Kits to choose from.
Boys’ Shockproof Watches, Reliable
Timekeepers 4/- posted
WORLD GLOBES.
Amazingly detailed, absolutely accurate.
Right up to the minute. Show all latest
political boundaries. Over 4000 place-
names, steamship routes, ocean currents,
principal railroads. A necessity for the
library or den and an educational present.
?in. .. 15/-. Sin. . . 19/6. lOin. .. 29/6
Add 1/G for postage.
RADIO PARTS.
We carry one of the largest stocks in
N.S.W. and can supply anything you
require at the lowest possible prices.
Established eight years. We can supply
Philips, Radiola. Airzone, S.T.C., Weldon
and Wembley Sets.
WEMBLEY RADIO
841 George Street, Sydney.
Telephone: MA2866. (Next Marcus Clark’s).
RADIOKES
VIBRATOR
Radiokes PERFECTED Vibrator—easy to instal —
marvellously economical —100% satisfactory. Saves
vou money on batteries. Suitable for ANY battery
set. £6/6/-. Voltage Divider Unit, 15/..
Write to Radiokes, Ltd., Sydney, for free illustrated
literature NOW.
I
M
P
E
X
s^,
Hi
m
m
y
?.vr
m
THE
GUARANTEED
BATTERY.
New Revolutionary Battery,
with Long Life Guarantee.
Write for New Price List.
IMPEX, LTD., Abbotsford, Vic., and
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
the 50 megawatt mark! On the last day
of the arrangements made for entertain-
ing the visitors A.W.A. Valve Co. con-
ducted a party through the works, where
the various intricate processes of modern
radio valve manufacture were demon-
strated. That evening there was the
final item for the convention —Waverley
(N.S.W.) club’s 18th annual reunion.
D.B.K.
Radio Club Birthday.
Waverley (N.S.W.) Radio Club has had
its eighteenth annual reunion (2/2/’37),
some 80 amateur transmitters sitting
down to the spread. This club has a
remarkable record ; among other things
to its credit many present-day licensed
experimenters secured their grounding
for an amateur ticket in the old club-
rooms. Gordon Wells, president, wel-
comed among speakers and guests W.
Stewart, of Philips Radio (a foundation
member), W. M. Moore (Federal presi-
dent, W.1.A.), H. F. Peterson (president,
N.S.W. division, W.1.A.), H. K. Bur-
bury (radio inspector), Don B. Knock
and J. Moyle (VK2JU). Sydney’s many
radio clubs were well represented, and
an innovation was the calling to order
before speech-making with a Morse key
actuating an amplifier, by means of
which the chairman rapped out
“QST de VK2BV, QRX.” The menu,
couched in radio terms, included such
items as: “Johnny was a little ham, his
sigs. were Ruff and Raw. The R.I. heard
and did his stuff, Dit-Dit-Dit-Daw-Dit-
Daw,” and “Our latest member wants
to know if the 20-metre band will be
playing in the contest at the Sports
Ground.”
VK2NO.
Transatlantic Television.
According to “Practical Wireless”
(England), considerable international in-
terest has been aroused by Marconi’s
statement to the effect that television will
soon span the Atlantic. Television sig-
nals from Germany were picked up in
New York last year. A General Elec-
tric research engineer says:—
“We have maintained communication
across the Atlantic on short wave-lengths,
and are exploring the possibilities of
ultra-short-wave transmission for long-
distance broadcast for television. It is
known that a broadcast on 15 metres
can get across the Atlantic, but the ob-
jection to using this band for television
is largely a matter of cost. Television
takes up too much space in the ether.
If television were broadcast from this
country to America the space would
have to be obtained at the expense of
normal wireless telephony communica-
tions. Telephony bands are only 10,000
cycles per second apart, whereas tele-
vision bands are 1,000,000 cycles per
second apart, and as much as 3,000,000
cycles for high definition.
“The growing use of wireless telephony
will make it practically impossible for
enough space on the wave-lengths now
in use to be sacrificed, except perhaps
for 90-line television, requiring 100,000
cycles per second, which might give a
just satisfactory close-up of one person.
From the beginning of television, there-
fore, we have been experimenting on
short wave-lengths, and it is quite pos-
sible that we may be able to broadcast
internationally pictures of a full 400-
line definition in the near future.”
Radio and Mines.
Use of radio for communication be-
tween underground workings and with
the surface is not new in mining. Early
“And now, folks , the bride comes tripping down the steps —perhaps
she'll say a few words.”
there was danger of a spark possibly
firing coal-dust gas, but with modern
equipment all that has changed.
The writer conducted some of the
earliest experiments with radio in coal-
mines in the North of England. Broad-
casting being then a novelty, these were
concerned solely with the investigation
of reception of the local station at the
deepest 'levels. Difficulty was experi-
enced in getting a good signal a mile or
so from the bottom of the main shaft,
though in proximity to this signals were
quite strong. What was happening was
that the steel cages’ guides and steel cables
were acting as conductors of radio im-
pulses from the overhead gear, making
quite a bulky and effective receiving
aerial.
But radio transmission for mine-emer-
gency purposes has gone steadily ahead
since then, and now the ever-useful ultra-
short wave is taking its place in this
work. Recently in England very success-
ful tests were conducted at the Bette-
shanger collieries of Pearson and Dor-
man Long. Equipment was of the
“transreceiver” type, working on wave-
lengths between two and five metres, the
design by L. W. Hermes, of Surbiton,
Surrey. Similar Hermes equipment has
been adopted by the British Army for
use in the field. It consists of a battery-
operated two-valve combined trans-
mitter-receiver, in which switching
changes the function from transmit to
receive. Three similar stations were
used in the mine tests, one at the pit-
head, one in an electric sub-station near
the bottom of the 2000 ft.-deep shaft,
and the other in a remote portion of the
mine workings, about 700 yards from the
bottom of the shaft. During the tests
the mine was working normally, and per-
fect inter-communication was obtained
at all times at excellent voice strength,
completely free from electrical interfer-
ence.
The resuits are all the more interest-
ing in that the transmitter-radiated
power was only 0.5 watt. There is con-
clusive proof in this and similar instances
that the ultra-short wave is far superior
to any other form of radio communi-
cation. The equipment in itself is com-
pact, and needs only a few lightweight
batteries for power. Quite unskilled
operators can be shown how to work
it in a few moments ; in fact, there is
little more to this than taking a telephone
receiver olf a hook, dialling a numoer
and talking.
Such “transreceivers” will play an im-
portant part in military signals in the
future, for they will do all and more
than much more cumbersome equipment
will do in certain circumstances. The
weight does not usually exceed more
than 151 b. complete, and therefore it
makes an easy load for even a boy.
D.B.K.
All Round the Dial.
“6-Valve”: After reading a few weeks
back a Sundry Broadcasts eulogy of the
“early-bird” announcer from 2BL, I
listened to other announcers to compare
them. It is a game that adds much to
the interest of wireless. I gave the
“early-bird” chap a few hearings. He
is all lhat was said of him. Analysing
his performance, why does he appeal?
Through brightness and sincerity, I
should say. From 2BL I wandered over
N.Q. commercial stations. One fellow
stood out on his own. I gave him several
hearings and put him up beside the 2BL
bloke for comparison and judgment
The 2BL-er wins on points, but only by
a margin, age and experience giving an
assurance which the other just lacks.
This N.Q. nomination is 4AY Ayr. His
personal comments are keen enough:
“The Hoozle-Dozzle Blues, recorded by
H.M.V. — why, I don’t know!” . . . “If
the composer of that had been marooned
on a desert island the world would be
a better and brighter place.” In my
opinion sincerity is the main appeal in
an announcer’s voice—that and the art,
when he is reading what he is putting
over, of giving the impression that it’s
coming off his own bat.
* * * *
The fights at the Sydney Sports
Ground, as reported by 2BL, had to
be given in snatches, 50 minutes
of listeners’ valuable time having been
taken up by Messrs. Lyons, Page,
Stevens and Hogan “opening the
Yes campaign” at the Town Hall. This
was poor stuff poorly delivered ; and the
descriptions of the stoush were regret-
tably spasmodic.
* * * *
“King’s English”: An interesting side-
light on Australian accent is gathered
trom amateur radio-telephony conversa-
tions. Several Americans on 20 metres
reply to Australians thus: “W6XYZ
standing by for VEE KYE so-and-so.”
The “K” of the prefix “VK” would not
thus be emphasised if Americans hadn’t
noticed it with many Australians. As for
the Americans, when one of them talks
about “beatin’ it to woik foist thing in
the moining,” the hearer this end knows
he’s in touch with a Noo Yoiker.
The Question Box.
How to get D.C. in the speaker field from
six or more volts A.C., using an Elkon recti-
fier as shown in sketch enclosed? Use the
letters A to C, etc., as I am keeping a copy of
the sketch ? —491.
Somewhat higher voltage will be needed than
six volts A.C. initially, as there will be a
voltage drop through the rectifier. The trans-
former secondary should be wound for 10
volts, and if the rectifier is to be used in full
wave this winding will need to be centre-tapped.
For half-wave rectification the two extremities
of the complete rectifier should be used; if
these are not marked plus and minus they will
be indicated by a red and blue marking cor-
respondingly. The rectifier can be connected
straight in one side of the transformer second-
ary—that is, either in the A or B side —with
the other side of the rectifier and other side
of the transformer to the speaker field. A
filter condenser must be used across the load,
and this should be a high capacity electrolytic
for low working voltage. If a condenser is not
used, hum will be considerable.
* * * *
(1) Is it necessary to have two separate aerials
—one for short waves and one for broadcast —
with a dual-wave Stromberg-Carlson eight-valve
set ? (2) length of aerial ? —492.
(1) No. (2) A well-elevated horizontal aerial
about 80ft. overall length, including the lead-in
to the set, would be right for your N. Q’land
district.
* * * *
An advertisement of a portable receiver is
enclosed. Opinion of this? —493.
Have no working knowledge of the product,
but co. is well known, and the specifications
indicate that this should be a useful form of
portable. If it uses a stage of T.R.F. it should
be capable of distant reception under favor-
able conditions; an external aerial would prob-
ably be needed for consistency. ,
* * * *
Further answer to “488” (B. .3/2/’37), re-
ferring to the price of the new Ever-Ready Air-
Cell.
Price has been fixed at £2 16s. 6d. per cell;
stocks are assured before the end of February.
See article in this and next issue.


ag
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly. the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while, you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwadc.
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Calcium Deficiency.
“Tri-cal”: For a -long time I’ve
thought my milk supply was not what
it ..should be. Not that, the stock isn’t
‘ good, you-know, i was told that fat-
ness of cows may mean calcium, de-
ficiency in the feed, causing the pro-
tein and other digestible nutrients to
be stored as body fat instead of being
utilised for milk production. Being
wise in time, I fed a pure wholesome
mineral supplement —Tri-cal-os Bone
Flour, and already I’m getting appreci-
able increases. ,I’m telling you this
because I think your herd should be
giving better returns. . .
Davis Gelatine (Australia), Ltd., G.P.O.
will send you a folder —I wrote for mine.
Box 3583S, Sydney,
Old Farmer.
/m*7\
> w.s /r
!&''!.[ -m ill
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
Business Going West!
Yes to ——6 AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
ag
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia-
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITTS LISEED MEAL.
Universal Tally, Again.
“J.J.”: One point advanced by advo-
cates of the universal tally (B. 10/2/’37) 1
is worth consideration. There is evidence
of some sweating of boy labor in the
shearing industry, although the award
limits the proportion of boys to be
employed.
A boy of 15 and a youth just turned
21 may be employed as pickers-up, each
with the same number of shearers to
look after; they do the same work, but
the youth is paid almost twice as much
as the boy. And, in spite of the boy’s
low rate of pay, his travelling expenses
are the same as an adult’s. Boys making
a long rail-and-road journey to early
western N.S.W. sheds seldom earn enough
in the first shed to cover their return
fare ; if a following shed is not immedi-
ately available they find themselves
stranded.
Two boys are doing a fair day’s work
in picking up for eight average shearers
on a shade over 1000 a day, and keeping
the board swept, picking the locks and
tarring. Yet two boys are sometimes
expected to keep the wool away from 10
fast men doing close on 2000. The
grazier suffers eventually in the poor
preparation of his clip.
Shedhands’ wages demand reconsidera-
tion. Payment according to age should
be replaced by recognition of the class of
work done. Picking-up and wool-rolling
can be taught in a few days, but piece-
picking, which demands skill, experience
and speed in handling wool, merits addi-
tional pay. This is the only solution to
the present scarcity of good piece-pickers,
whose importance is evident when one
considers the proportion of a clip that
skirtings comprise and their increased
value of late years.
Superfines.
“Sheepo”: The trade does appreciate
the quality and high-spinning capacity
of some extra superfine merino wools,
46-rd. per pound having been paid for
the top line of hogget wool of L/ROC
at the recent Launceston (Tas.) sales.
In.the main, however, values realised
for many high-class super, merino wools
are not what spinning capacity-merits in
comparison with those received for
medium merino, Polwarth and Corrie-
dale clips. . It needs, to be something
extra special among the superfines to
realise the price / merited -on Bradford
tops quotes. . Greasy'’values- are often
confusing. ■
Few extra-superfine wools now appeaf
on show floors of the. mainland. Sucfl
clips—once a feature of the Geelong
sales —are giving way to Corriedales and
Polwarths. in Victoria’s Western District.
Manufacturers will probably have' to
depend on. Tasmania for most of their
superfine merino requirements, . but the
trade, not ; the growers, is to blame for.
the scarcity. ;
''■ Fertility in Sheep.
“Corriedale”: The. practice of “pun-
ishing” ewes after their lambs have been
weaned and then flushing them before
mating leads to much infertility. Ewes
don’t need as rich feed after the lambs
have gone, but that is no reason for
lowering their condition. Feed should
be sufficient to maintain regular health.
The ova are being formed continu-
ously, and take several months to mature.
A sound one of these must be released
at mating time for every lamb born.
If the ewe’s condition is lowered, the
regular production of ova is interfered
with.
The ideal ration is good, medium-
quality pasture. This will keep the ewe’s
condition even, and maintain her breed-
ing apparatus in sound functional order.
Lucerne, after fattening-stock have
grazed the best of it, is also a good
ration.
Extra feed—either grain or good pas-
ture —a few weeks before mating is
beneficial; the ova respond to it
“Mirage or no mirage —’ere goes!”
rapidly, and those nearest maturity do
not run the risk of becoming cystic.
In addition to fertility failure, after-
weaning “punishment” predisposes the
ewe to milk-fever. It is also believed to
cause entero-toxaemia in lambs.
Feeding Stock.
“Albarmount”: When a drought gets
going- hand-feeding should commence
while the stock are still strong and vigor--
ous.
Dry, coarse feed is of such a fibrous
nature that it sorely taxes the digestive
organs of even healthy animals. How
are the weak ones going to fare? Apart'
from the abnormal amount of fibre, this
class of feed has such a low protein and
mineral content that toxic poisoning fre-
quently occurs in the intestines through
the action of an unbalanced diet. Far
too many graziers allow their stock to
reach this stage before supplementing
the dried-up pastures. Ewes in lamb
particularly should be. fed while still
strong.
As pastures dry off, protein and
mineral content correspondingly depre-
ciates. Dr. J. B. Orr, an - authority on
animal nutrition, and H.' R. Marston, of
the C.S. and 1.R., both emphasise that
supplying minerals alone is not eno,ugh,
and that protein is much mo,re impor-
tant. Cattle meed a proportionately much
larger ' mineral supply than sheep.
For sheep, finely-chaffed hay and
crushed grain, fed through self-feeders
or bag troughs, make an adequate diet.
Half a pound of each will be sufficient
if other roughage is available. Where a
whole ration is necessary, 21b. chaff and
ilb. grain should be given.
Corn, wheat and bran are rich in pro-
tein and carbohydrates, and have enough
minerals to balance the ration when
used with rough grass, hay or scrub.
Kurrajong, soft-apple, mulga, wilga,
mountain-oak and box are still exten-
sively used. H. S. Henley (Cowra) fed
kurrajong to the mothers of the fat
lambs which took first prize at the last
Sydney Show. Molasses should be sup-
plied as a laxative.
No matter how good the feed, start-
ing the job early will save more sheep
and grow more wool.
Noxious Weeds.
“Nabawa”: While Governments play,
with grandiose schemes for spending,
money on “works,” noxious weeds con-
tinue to rob the country of millions of
pounds annually. Somewhere in the
secret archives of the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment reposes the draft of the Noxious
Weeds Bill, which plans to place control
under one authority, the only means
whereby the job can successfully be at-
tacked. Why is not the bill made law?
In the Riverina one lot of landowners
is waging a losing fight against skeleton
weed while another watches helplessly
the inroads of St. John’s wort and penny-
cress. In the north and west, Noogoora
and galvanised burr, Mexican poppy, St.
John s wort and lesser evils are spread-
ing over wider areas every year.
Eastern Riverina County Council —
five shire councils combined to fight
weeds and doing excellent work —has
charged the Government with failure tc
attack, the menace. George Mack, cf
the well-known Weemabah merino stud
Trangie, forecasts ; that river lands
along the Macquarie will be useless with
Noogoora burr within a few years ; Ken
Carn, special weeds officer of the De-
partment of Agriculture, has repeatedly
said, and experts of the C.S. and I.R.
' back him up,' that systematic work will
beat the, weeds. t
The writer gazed last month over a
.vast stretch of fertile valley near Tum-
barumba, that was a mass of golden
bloom; the beautiful evil of St. John's
wort in flower. As far as the eye could
. see the weed grew like a cultivated crop.
This was once, a soldier settlement. Some
young pines poked a frond or two out
of the mass.
The idea is that when the pines reach
the stage where their branches interlace
overhead and shut out the sun, lack of
light will kill the wort! The Lord know*
how long that will be. In the meantime,
15,000 acres forms a prolific seeding-
ground in that Spot alone.
Conferences have been held again and
again on this subject, but the spate of
words has not killed a single weed. There
are chemicals, methods of grazing, pas-
ture improvement, all proven weed-
killers. The C.S. and I.R. and N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture are both
ready to tackle the job. But nothing
can be done while a weed is noxious in
a shire and not noxious in a munici-
pality within the shire, or noxious on
lands beyond the shire’s control, such
as P.P. reserves, Crown lands, lands held
by banks and unoccupied. Easily the
worst offender is the Crown itself.
Throughout the State are roads, re-
serves and commons under State control
on which weeds flourish and from which
they seed adjoining land.
Cattle Industry Slated.
“Cow . Punch”: Wakefield Rainey, a
retired colonel of the Royal Army
Veterinary Corps, recently had a look at
Bananaland’s cattle industry, then went
home and wrote in the “Scottish
Farmer”: -
In. Queensland a great effort is to be
made to develop production of beef for
export to Britain to replace, in part, ex-
ports from Argentina, N.Z. and other
countries, . and to —undercut Home trade
and lower the food standard of British
; people, i
.Objections to these proposals from the
scientific,' ethical, . economic and humane
points : of view are manifold, but are either
f not recognised or deliberately obscured by
the promoters.
The- colonel then outlines the objec-
tions :
Animal food produced in the tropics
lacks “ substance, stamina and appetising
quality. This is one reason why proper
nutrition .of .Europeans in tropics has never
been solved. Sufferings of European cattle
in the tropics under any but best conditions
' of management are often terrible. Flies,
ticks, pests and pestilences, lack of pro-
tection against rigors of climate and effects
of drought, hardship in travel, lack of
skilled supervision, all combine to make
existence of cattle in tropics hateful.
Mr. Rainey has seen
in the bare paddocks adjoining Queensland
factories droves of emaciated cattle, bought
for a few shillings each, awaiting their turn
for conversion, into canned meat or what
are called in Australia “small goods.” It is
economically unfair that this offal should
be sold in competition with sound pro-
ducts. It is. sadly evident that drought is
not. an- abnormal condition in Queensland
any more, and sadly certain that it will be
accentuated by the drying up of under-
ground water supplies.
The “Scottish Farmer” has a wide cir-
culation in the U.K. Where Rainey is


1
miirnm.
it
m
m
■ ■; 0
■ w
WD-40—Drawbar rating,
27.99 h.p.; belt, 44.04 h.p.
r YOU'DON’T HAVE 1
TO SPELL A TRACTOR
Save hours of time in
your farm work ...
PRICES FROM
JEI 99 up
All day long all night, too, if you are
in a hurry to beat the weather in your
field operations—your trusty McCormick-
Deering tractor sticks to its task. It's a
comfortable feeling when you start these
anxious jobs to know that all the time
the end is in sight... And you needn't
lose any sleep over selecting a tractor
when you go to the McCormick-Deering
line. There you will find the tractor to
give you the best results whatever the
size or kind of farm you work... Let us
send you catalogues, or consult your
McCormick-Deering local agent.
STEEL WHEELS OR
PNEUMATIC TYRES
You can have steel wheels or
pneumatic tyres on any wheel
tractor in the McCormick-Deering
line.
14 DIFFERENT MODELS
In addition to the wide range of
farm tractors, the McCormick-
Deering line embraces a complete
range of tractors for all kinds of
industrial and municipal work—l 4
different models all told.
is
KBUO3B
TD-40 Drawbar rating,
33.51 h.p.; belt, 43.12 h.p.
WK-40—the new 6-cylinder
tractor replacing the 22-36.
T-20 Drawbar rating,
18.33 h.p.; belt, 25.31 h.p.
Balya
BIG POWER FOR BIG FARMS
a big-scale property International Harvester offers you the McCormick-
Deering Diesel-powered WD-40 tractor, the WK-40 kerosene tractor
and the TD-40 Diesel-powered TracTracTor.
MEDIUM POWER FOR MEDIUM FARMS
The medium-sized tractors in the McCormick-Deering line cover the
needs of the medium-sized farm. The range includes the 10-20 and
W-30 tractors and the T-20 TracTracTor. All these models operate on
power kerosene.
SMALL POWER FOR SMALL FARMS
With the versatile McCormick-Deering 12 Series tractors—W-12, 0-12
and F-12—International Harvester effectively meets the small farmer's
demand for economical power. All three of these models operate on
low-cost kerosene and provide a sterling investment for mixed farms,
orchards, vineyards, and other small properties.
0-12 Drawbar rating,
9.44 h.p.; belt, 13.45 h.p.
• ! ~-u
W-12 Drawbar rating,
9.55 h.p.; belt, 13.88 h.p.
10-20 Drawbar rating,
13.5 h.p.; belt, 21.6 h.p.
W-30 Drawbar rating
19.69 h.p.; belt, 31.31 h.p
F-12 Drawbar rating,
9.44 h.p.; belt, 13.45 h.p.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
A 33
THE
wrong the Australian Meat Board should
correct him.
Dehorning Export Cattle.
“Bullocky”: The Australian Meat
Council has issued a pamphlet in which
it is pointed out that in the Argentine
dehorning is a matter of normal routine,
but in Australia not more than 10 p.c.
of the cattle which reach the meatworks
have been treated.
Yet horns are responsible for more
loss than growers imagine. The council
says that in herds of mixed animals up
to 20 p.c. more horned cattle of identical
runs with the polls are graded down to
seconds and about 6 p.c. are rejected for
export.
Nobody who has seen the results of
horning on export meat can doubt the
economic importance of the question.
But dehorning is far from easy under the
Australian system. It will not come
generally until meat-producers adopt
farm instead of station big-mob methods.
Three-day Disease.
“C3C”: Over a wide area of infected
country in Queensland the following has
proved the best treatment for three-day
disease:
Do not disturb the animal on first or
second day. In the case of a milker, take
a few squirts from each teat to keep milk
ducts open.
The third day the animal will prob-
ably start to move about and nibble
tasty bits of grass. Now is the time to
build her up with plenty of green suc-
culent' feed. If no greenstuff is available
use good bright lucerne chaff or cotton-
seed meal. Strip the cow thoroughly
twice a day, as quietly as possible.
On the fourth and fifth days a cow’s
flow should be coming well on again,
but will not be fit for human consump-
tion. To determine when it is drop a
ljt'tle into hot tea. If still affected, it will
rapidly clot or coagulate. If it mixes
cleanly in tea, both the milk and cow
are norma .
Isolation seems of no use with this
complaint, which knows no barriers.
There is not much to fear if normally
healthy, vigorous herds are left quietly
in the shade when stricken.
“Wah”: In parts of the Darling
t-6 /rw u *u a u
Downs (Q.) where three-day sickness has
iaken a heavy t 0,,, dairymen beiieve .ha,
Z
appearance of the disease would seem
to strengthen this theory. Drenching
appears useful as a preventive, but worse
than useless as a cure. In my particular
neighborhood well-fed cows seem more
susceptible than poor ones; in no case
has a cow died after contracting the
disease while in good condition.
“Ek Dum”; Three-day sickness is now
well over the N. S. Wales border,
I n the Brunswick-Byron district about
80 p . c . of herds have had sickness, farms
having as many as 30 invalids. Around
... ......
f y ° sle Production losses on individual
f arms of over 30 gallons per milking
° een reported, and on the Manning
at east a of all farms are affected.
On the New England Tableland the loss
u Cattlc a K n ? on
dairy farms has been substantial.
. . . . . A .
"S? "dSW
%$£ ■““>»* P""** «*■
'
Dipping Sick Beasts,
“Cockyson”: A sick beast should
never be dipped or hand-washed. Apart
f rom the knocking about involved in
(Continued on page 44.)


B
»:
fKR
A heavy working Cossack made in tough
Brown. Calf and leather-lined throughout.
The heavy double sole is made from the best
Australian sole leather.
Stocked ill full and half sizes. Price, 45/-.
Write for a Catalogue.
WHEN RECKONED
OVER YEARS OF WEAR.
The man whose footwear lasts
for years is the man who buys'
quality.
He pays more to begin with, but
when reckoned over years his
boots cost him far less than the
man who buys an inferior grade.
Be thrifty and buy Abbey Foot-
wear; be sure of getting your
money’s worth.
ABBEY SHOES
316 GEORGE STREET, 224 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY
\<9
&
“Van-Chrome”: the
name tells the
quality chr o m e
vanadium steel, the
toughest steel known.
From this material
the wrenches are hot
forged in the “double-
hexagon” pattern,
which gives a firm,
non-slip grip on the
nut with greater
turning power.
These are the best
wrenches obtainable.
For a slightly higher
price they will give
many times the ser-
vice you get from
ordinary wrenches.
A splendid gift for
your motorist friend.
Good T ools Are Cheap
Jsxbs**.
• ■ •/>''
■
.„ / \
lOC
wp
m
"VAN CHROME”
SOCKET SET No. SA-72>/ 2
STANDARD SERIES-i/ 2 " DRIVE
The set consists of 16 pieces: 10 “Van-Chrome” 12 point
sockets, 7/16in., Jin., 9/16in., fin., 21/32in., 11/16in., Jin.,
25/32in., 13/16in., fin.; Reversible Ratchet, Speed Handle,
Sliding T Handle, Extension sin. long, Extension lOin. long
with revolving grip, and Universal Joint. Packed in a metal
tool box. Weight, 11 Jib. Price, complete 67/6.
With this set the mechanic can build any combination required
to suit the need of the moment.
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
546 Collins Street, Melbourne
And at Adelaide, Perth.
v \
(4 /ic/
STATIC
Like a tree, Money will grow if given the
opportunity. On fixed deposit with the
National Bank, it grows steadily and sturdily,
giving greater financial independence as each
six or twelve months pass by. There is no
variation in value, as with many other
investments, and no brokerage, commissions
or other charges to pay. Amounts from £5
upwards will be accepted.
% NATIONAL BANK
Branches Throughout Australia
M/12/36
*p l
77ie
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
dipping, the poison wash used is an irri-
tant. If it happens to be a bit too
strong it can cause discomfort even to
healthy, good-conditioned animals.
The mortality among young calves is
usually high if they are dipped or hand-
washed when sick. Hand-washing is
even worse than dipping, as there is a
tendency to apply too much pressure in
the effort to do a thorough job.
Should sickness be the result of tick-
infestation, dipping will destroy any
chance there may be of recovery. The
sick animal should be placed where
further infestation is not possible, and
the ticks removed by hand or curry-
comb.
If a sick beast is treated for tick the
wash is best applied with a spray pump.
On warm days keep treated beasts in
the shade until dry, and never apply
wash lavishly. Wetting through to the
skin is enough.
Butter Taints.
“Mookau”: The N. S. Wales Agricul-
tural Department is conducting a cam-
paign aimed at wiping out avoidable
taints in butter, which are causing heavy
losses. Much of the trouble arises
through packing butter in boxes made
of resinous and sappy woods which have
not been properly treated with formalin-
casein.
The department advises wrapping in
triple aluminium-foil parchment. Ex-
periments in which butter was packed
in foil late in November and defrozen
on January 7 showed that the butter re-
mained in perfect condition, free of
either wood flavor or discoloration.
Samples of the same butter packed
directly into wood lined with single ordi-
nary parchment paper showed the sides
tainted and oxidised and a variation of
color through the mass.
How a Cow Feeds.
“Silky Bag”: The best grazing time
for the dairy cow is during the day. She
likes to see what she is eating, and has a
functional motive for wanting to fill her
paunch before nightfall.
When grazing the cow is storing food
for later cudding and passage, to the true
stomach. Obviously, the animal which
can fill her paunch quickest will have
more time in which to cud and produce
milk.
Few cows fill up completely at one
grazing. They tire of grass-snatching,
and usually alternate the daylight work
of storing food with one or two hours
of rumination. At afternoon milking-
time they have another one to two
hours daylight in the yards. This calls
for a further hour or two of grazing
after milking. Without this few cows
feel well enough “lined” to last the night'
out in rechewing and digesting the food.
Cows that interrupt their nightly camp
to look for feed are usually either on
short rations or an unbalanced diet.
Wheat-Field Peas Rotation.
“Hortus”: Rotation suggested is
fallow, wheat, peas, wheat. This gives
three crops in four years, as compared
with two crops in the same period in a
wheat-fallow scheme.
Graze and burn the wheat stubble.
Then cultivate the land in preparation
for field peas, which should be sown
with the wheat drill about the middle of
May. About 601 b. to 901 b. of seed to
the acre, plus £cwt. super., will fill the
bill.
After the pea-crop is harvested for
grain, put sheep on to clean up. The
land will be left quite bare. Don’t leave
land unworked, but prepare it at once
for wheat. In this way a short summer
fallow is allowed to intervene ; the air
and sun sweeten the land, and if rain
falls it soaks in uniformly.
To allow a little longer for preparing
the seedbed, choose an early-maturing
wheat to follow the peas. Bobin, Wara-
tah and Nabawa have proved suitable.
Wheat after fallow on one farm yielded
47bus. 301 b. Same variety after peas
gave 43bus. 391 b. Three years’ average
has been 38bus. 431 b. and 36bus. 561 b.
respectively. On another farm, wheat
after fallow produced 27bus. 331 b., and
after peas 27bus. 231 b.
More farmers are going in for the com-
mercial growing of field peas since the
advent of the pea-harvesting machine,
which enables the seed to be taken off
with the same ease as the wheat crop.
It not only picks up the vines when
lying flat on the ground, but threshes
them cleanly without loss, and there is
a minimum of cracking.
This scheme may not work on large
holdings, but smaller farms would do
well to try it.
Brackish Water Irrigation.
“Exess”: The Clarence River farmer
mentioned by “Aerogenes” (B. 27/1/’37)
is shortly due for a disappointment, un-
less he makes sure there’s no salt in the
water taken from the river for irrigation.
A similar idea was tried by a Hawkes-
bury River orchardist some years ago.
It was apparently a success for the first
couple of years. Then his trees, especi-
ally in the fruit, showed a distinct fall-
ing off, owing probably to the soil becom-
ing salt-impregnated.
A safeguard is frequent tests of the
water with silver nitrate. One drop
poured into a small test-tube of water
is enough. If salt is present a white
cloud will form in the water. The test
tube must be clean ; also, there is suffi-
cient salt on a man’s skin for a cloud to
show if the s.n. is run off the finger into
the water.
A Banana Trouble.
“G.M.”: “Choked throats” in bananas
are usually a sign of insufficient care.
Imperfect root systems, lack of nourish-
ment and beetle-borer may all cause the
evil. The beetle-borer can be at least
minimised with plenty of flour and Paris-
green baits. For the other troubles
hard work is the only remedy.
Soaks, lack of weeding, particularly in
dry weather, and surface clay compacted
do their share of damage. The banana
is a gross feeder which suffers when other
plants steal its breakfast or when the soil
is in such condition that it cannot get a
full meal. This must be kept in mind
the whole time, weeds ploughed under,
good tilth maintained and land properly
drained off.
Hints for the Farm.
“Colon”: Discarded aluminium pots
make good knife and tool handles. Cut
a piece of half-inch piping the length of
the required handle and halve it down
the middle. Tie the two halves together
with tie-wire, stand upright in some
sand, and fix the knife or tool in the
centre of the pipe. Melt the aluminium
over the forge (it has a fairly low melting
point) and pour it into the pipe mould.
Allow ample time to set before removing
the two parts of piping. Finish off with
emery-paper.
“Hints”: To prevent young seedlings,
particularly tomatoes, from bending for-
ward to the light, whitewash or paint the
back boards or wall.
“Hortus”: One of the best and easiest
remedies for roup is bread pills soaked
in oil of aniseed. If given early, one or
two pills during the day should do the
trick.
“Salmon Gums”: To clean a drink-
ing trough, fill it, add and dissolve, a
small quantity of bluestone and allow to
stand for a couple of hours, making sure
no stock drink any of it. Then rinse out
thoroughly.
“Marsh”: Avoid the knife in dealing
with a horse’s corns. Sprinkle sugar on
each corn, then burn well into it with a
hot iron.
“M.P.”: The comb of a shearing
machine makes a show-ring job of a
horse’s tail.
“Longun”: Try this in putting the hind
shoes on a bad kicking horse. Required:
one hobble-chain ; about 3ft. or 4ft. of
strong clothesline or white cotton
braided ploughline; 15ft. legrope. Fasten
hobble-chain to butt of tail with the
small piece of rope, using two or three
half-hitches. Slip legrope over hind fet-
lock, pass the end of rope through the
end of hobble-chain, draw the foot up
to required height and make the end of
the rope fast to the fetlock. The foot
is held in the right position—it is not by
the collar-rope method of doing the job.
An extra-nasty customer may need a
hind leg pulled up with a collar-rope
while the hobble-chain is being secured.
“Longun”: A small screwdriver can
be made permanently magnetic by rub
bing the point on the plates of the wire;
less speaker (permagnetic). Very small
screws can then be placed in position
and started with ease.
“Sandy”: Molasses is good for pigs
when the milk supply is short —a cup-
ful to a kero.-tin of water. Mix with
the milk and feed in the usual manner.


“The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of ss. each
on acceptance.
.(SSS^S
WSaBBBL
m
s&
a
xjx-:
X »
SP
m
H?rS
"k
<r
The ever-increasing popularity of
Ever-Ready Radio Batteries has led
to lower production costs which the
manufacturers, in keeping with their
usual policy, are pleased to pass on
to the public in the form of the fol-
lowing reduced prices:—
NEW PRICES EFFECTIVE FEB. 15.
Superdyne 45 volt B Battery ..
Superdyne 60 volt B Battery ..
Heavy Duty 224 volt B or C Battery
Heavy Duty 45 volt Vert. B Battery
Heavy Duty 60 volt Vert. B Battery
No. 126 44 volt C Battery
Old New
Price Price
18/- 15/-
25/- 22/6
7/6 6/9
14/6 12/6
18/- 17/6
2/3 2/-
B* BATTERY
OPERATED RADIO
Now Costs
EVEN LESS
to pun !
EVER-READY CO. (AUST.) LTD.,
SYDNEY AND LONDON.
Wm roR
m vou
Avn«n#w
SCHOOLS/
Hat**
/RAHWAY
J SCJWAC
Ik •SYOMIY >
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW
The Paper that carries
100% of local retail
advertising must he
powerful.
In Wellington, New
Zealand, 100% of local
retail advertisers use the
columns of “The Evening
Post” for their publicity.
The majority of them
use “The Evening Post”
exclusively. They do so
because they know from
experience that “The
Evening Post" brings
immediate response.
“The Evening Post”
(Blundell Bros., Ltd., Props.)
Wellington’s Only Evening Paper
For particulars and rates apply t'o
any accredited advertising agency.
Brisbane’s Leading
Daily
THE
TELEGRAPH
has the largest sale in the
area of Greater Brisbane,
and carries the largest share
of local retail and classified
advertising.
Successful Traders
show the way
Brisbane’s most prosperous
business houses consistently
advertise in “The Tele-
graph.”
“The Telegraph” is Queens-
land owned and controlled.
Essentially the Home Paper
of the Brisbane people.
(Member of A.8.C.)
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.A.K.: Ingenious rhyming, but unfortunately
little else John S.: You can do better than
that. Try making one a winner, instead of
spraying us with lyric small shot Short-
fellow: Unstirred (except wrathfully) by “the
ceaseless movement of your tides”... .Curlew:
Having read both covering letter and poem
we’d suggest that you should confine your
literary activities to writing covering letters
Rockdale: Poem as rocky as pen-name
R.M.M.: Pretty lilting, but not our meat
R.A.: Musical item is the better of them, but
even it is rather forced verse-making J.W.:
Can’t have you “sighing with aggressive fre-
quency” in these pages L.R.L.: Thousands
will enjoy this:
DON BRADMAN.
Maker of a multitude of runs,
To you .1 dedicate these words,
The greatest of our sporting sons,
Uncrowned king of flannelled herds.
To see your sparkling nimble feet
Scamper to that leather sphere,
With eagle eye and foot so fleet,
To smite at records we hold so dear.
And when our sons the game have played,
And their grandsons take up the sport,
Still to Bradman their hats will raise,
To thee, 0 king, our praise is brought.
....J.T.: Merely sets us wondering how it is
that the most extravagantly enthusiastic poems
on feminine beauty are written by women....
8.F.: Some of them have certainly seen print
before, which tends to make others suspect
M.L. de B.: Even a church magazine would
regard it dubiously W.C.: No luck....
H.C.McC.: Well, girls must grow up, you
know, or it would be a poor lookout for the
human race R.W.H.: Yes, we’ve seen to it.
....L.T.: Very nearly H.F.: Yours, too.
• L.F.: Pythagoras now finding his way
back R.F.: Not for us S.R.: Try writ-
ing about life you know 1.W.: Might do a
woman’s paper... .M.A.: Not interested in
"To-day’s Bargain ” T.F.: “ McLean
Snored.” Could you blame him? ... .E.C.:
Nothing in those three; but don’t give up....
E.C.D.: It doesn’t make a story J.H.Not
here; but you should place it. Keep trying.
....B.McG.: “He couldn’t do it! but —he
must do it! He must do it, or get out.”
He got out... .M.E.M.: We gave it up when
“he heard of the romance of the Wistaria.”
R.S.: “Bluff” failed J.L.: “Reincarna-
tion” still a long way off EJ.C.: “If this
sort of stuff is acceptable I intend to follow
it up with another, and perhaps more.” It isn’t,
but why not try another “sort of stuff”?
A.F.: “Say, boy, this is some ranch. I wonder
will our benefactor give us a job.” Where do
you meet these “tramps”? N.L.: “Dennis
was giving a party for no purpose except to
entertain his friends and himself.” That’s un-
usual! J.E.8.: Not up C.H.K.: Family
touches done naturally, but there isn’t enough
to the story... .S.A.: You haven’t broken new
ground with that Houja: A stronger yarn
would have carried the good humor home....
E.K.8.: Not enough appeal in that slapstick
G.A.P.: Snap finish telegraphed too far ahead.
T.M.W.: Rather too agonising A.R.:
The atmosphere rings true, but it is more of a re-
cital of events than a short story R. MacG.:
You pile on the horror too thickly
D. MacD.: It merely follows the conventional
coward-turned-hero p10t... .G.M.: You’ve used
a lot of space to say little. No, stories sub-
mitted have no bearing on the other Youth
Competition... .K.G.T.: Depends too much on
coincidence... .P.8.M.: Yours makes the
1789th dead cat-mistaken parcel yarn we’ve read.
. ... W.M.P.: The gentle satire would be appreci-
ated only by Brisbane dwellers... .E.K.: No
gold showed up in the assay... .K. 8.: Bibu-
lous gent, sleeping it off, prior to. return
E. : Dreams under gas are, after all, dreams,
and we’re not keen on them... .K.A.8.: Sketch
too thin... .E.E.A.: Something in that un-
usual style, but the thing just fails to click
A.M.M.: Even the good character-sketching
couldn’t bring it home... .J.S.W.: You made a
good job of Eb., and dialogue was sound
enough, but story wandered along too slowly.
A.D.: Little henpecked men who dream of
big-game-hunting feats are handed over to the
office strangler L.M.: You didn’t develop
your characters sufficiently—just to make them
bow and whisk them off-stage isn’t enough
J.McL.: The office oak-chest is overflowing with
historical stuff—you might place it elsewhere.
... : We’ve heard of the dipsomaniac
turning teetotaller, but only in fiction like yours
over a girl... .E.McE.: The germ of an idea,
but you haven’t made the most of it 1.R.:
Good-looking, fair-haired, blue-eyed English-
man, the Riviera, flying in Dorset. You’re
several latitudes off your bearings.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.L.: You’ll be turning them in on tram
tickets next K.D.: Well, you seem to be
able to draw a straight line... .F.J.: About
four years too late with that cricketing car-
toon A.W.M.: Deep-sea diver and mermaid
now reposing at the bottom of the basket....
J.F.N.: No urge to save gent, with wooden
leg from the pursuing crocodile... .A.D.: Signs
of progress; don’t make linework so heavy....
P.8.W.: Gags too long-winded, and figures
seem to have been run through a mangle....
A.G.H.: Tackle something more simple;
you’ve a long way to go yet....E.R.: Fallen
tree, or farmhand sleeping off a spree?
P.S.: Crude cartoon... .T.T.: Neat and deco-
rative sketches illustrating a batch of tame gags.
. ...0.M.: Work with a broader nib and get
more sweep into your linework C.S.: Arms
that sprout from middles of backs; legs like
drainpipes... .F. 8.: This week’s dreariest
scratching... .T.W.: If your friends laughed
at that jest they’re easily amused L.N.8.:
Picture may have had some point if you had
told us who was charging the windmill
E.C.: Frail little effort and frail little gag
R.G.: The day of the silhouette has long faded
away... .H.R.D.: Office statistician reports that
there are 153 variations of that wheeze —all
of them 01d... .R.S.C.: One glance and we
needed an eye-bath... .G.H.: The signature is
its only presentable part.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL,
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din, ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking businesg_
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Two energetic ladies, Q’land (30 and 26),
want position managing and working together
guest-house, kiosk, cafe or something similar.
Both good cooks. Used to catering. In or
about Sydney preferred. Disengaged from
April 1.—4601.
Ex-member R.E., 8.1. F. (47), wants constant
work anywhere, carpentry, painting, gardening,
concrete or mechanical; also able bookkeeper
or caretaker. Refs. —4599.
Man (36), Vic., wants opening for self and
£200; or would provide truck for carrying, con-
tracting or for cream or milk run. Consider
anything.—462B.
Literary or radio MSS. typed neatly and
accurately by typiste at home; or will visit with
machine. North Shore (Sydney) or Pennant
Hills districts.—-4593.
To buy a second-hand musical score of “The
Belle of New York.” —4594.
Words of poem “Did You Ever Count the
Fences You Have Hit?” —4587.
Information Sought.
(1) Date of birth of S.A. cricketer Clem Hill ?
(2) Year he and Hartigan made the big score in
a Test match on the Adelaide oval ? —4592.
(1) March 18, 1877. (2) January, 1908; Hill
(160) and Hartigan (116) put up an eighth-
wicket partnership of 243.
* * * *
In this year’s Tests what were Bradman’s
and Hammond’s double centuries, how long
did they take to score them, and number of
fours ? —4648.
Bradman at Melbourne scored 270 runs in
458 min., with 22 fours; at Adelaide 212 runs
in 437 min., with 14 fours. Hammond at
Sydney scored 231 not out in 460 min., with 27
fours.
* * * *
Up to the end of the fourth Test at Adel-
aide, what were the results of matches on the
various Australian ovals? —4641.
Australia England
Won. Won. Drawn. Total.
Sydney .... 16 14 0 30
Melbourne 16 12 2 30
Adelaide 8 5 0 13
Brisbane 0 3 0 3
40 34 2 76
* * * *
(1) What is the difference between the bowl-
ing of Fleetwood-Smith and Dr. Hordern?
(2) In what season did Hordern play Test cricket,
and his average? (3) What were his best Test
match efforts? —4623.
(1) Fleetwood-Smith is a left-hander; Hor-
dern was a right-hand bowler. (2) Hordern
played only one season, during the visit of
Douglas’s team (1911-12), when his figures were
277.2 overs, 43 maidens, 780 runs, 32 wickets,
average 24.27. (3) In the first Test at Sydney
he took 5 for 85 and 7 for 90—12 wickets for
175; in the fifth Test at Sydney his figures were
5 for 95 and 5 for 66 —10 wickets for 161.
* * * *
What are the rules regarding "cutting the
grass” and “covering the wicket” during Tests
in Australia ?■ —4636.
Cutting the Grass.—The playing ground, in-
cluding the pitch, shall be cut with the mowing
machine every day of the match (except Sunday)
at any time up to within half an hour of the
time fixed for the commencement of play.
Covering the Wicket. —The whole of the wicket
may be covered up to the commencement of
any match. After commencement of play
the ground may be again protected when neces-
sary, and shall be protected every night during
the continuation of a match, but the covering
shall be removed every morning, if fine, at
seven o’clock. The covering after the com-
mencement of the match must not protect a
larger area than 18ft. by 12ft. at each end, and
must not protect more than 3ft. 6in. in front of
the popping crease.
* * * *
(1) What subjects are necessary for matricu-
lation at the N.S.W. leaving certificate exami-
nation ? (2) What is the cost of full university
course in law ? (3) Is it possible to become a
solicitor without a university course? If so,
what is the procedure? —4sls.
(1) The syllabus of the matriculation examina-
tion showing the requirements for matriculation
in the University of Sydney has been posted.
(2) The fees payable in the Faculty of Law
amount to £l2O 12s. The courses extend over
four years. (3) A person may qualify for ad-
mission as a solicitor by passing examinations
prescribed under Supreme Court rules. Addi-
tional information may be obtained from the
secretary, Solicitors’ Admission Board,
Supreme Court, Sydney.
* * * *
What are the duties of an art director in the
film industry? Salary? What previous training
would be necessary ? Is there any place in
South Aus. where one could be trained? Where
would one apply for job as assistant to an art
director ? —4493.
He designs the sets for a film, and has to
interpret the mood of the play in his settings.
He needs to be a trained architect, as a work-
ing plan must be made of the set for the
construction department. He must be capable
of supervising construction, and knowledge of
camera angles, lighting and movie technique
is essential, as he works from the script and
designs with a definite idea of the action.
Salary in Australia would range from £4OO a
year upward. Training must be acquired in a
movie studio; as far as is known, there is no
place in South Australia where practical ex-
perience could be gained. There is only one
studio in Australia in constant production—■
Cinesound, Ebley-street, Waverley, Sydney,
where the art director is Eric Thompson, of
Hollywood, with J. Alan Kenyon as associate.
Studios in Hollywood or England would be the
correct training-ground, having large art de-
partments working on each production.
* * * *
(1) It was recently stated that about 350
English 2\d. Jubilee stamps were issued in Prus-
sian blue, 10 of which were at large in Aus-
tralia, and reputed to be worth over £2O each.
Is this correct? (2) If so, likely purchasers of
a used copy? —4545.
(1) About 360 of these stamps were issued, and
possibly a few may have found their way here.
They were color trials, and the color is quite dis-
tinct from the normal blue in which this stamp
is printed. The Prussian-blue shade is of great
rarity, the ordinary blue worth only a few
pence. (2) J. H. Smyth, Ltd., 114 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, or any other stamp dealer.
* * * *
Titles of works, with names of authors, which
have won Le Prix Goncourt during recent
years ? Also, titles of works in English if
translated ? —4620.
1930: Malaise, Henri Fauconnier (translated
as Soul of Malaya). 1931: Mai d’Amour, Jean
Fayard {Heart’s Harrow). 1932: Les Loups,
Guy Mazeline ( The Wolves). 1933 : La Con-
dition Humaine, Andre Malraux ( Storm in
Shanghai). 1934: Le Capitaine Conan, Roger
Vercel ( Captain Conan). 1935: Sang et
Lumieres, Joseph Peyre.
* * * *
Origin and history of the “Molly Maguires”
in U.5.A.?—4601:
They were a secret society, formed originally
in County Monaghan, Ireland, to “intimidate
landlords,” the name arising from the fact that
members were disguised as women for the out-
rages they committed by night. Transplanted
about 1867, the society terrorised coal regions in
Pennsylvania ; there the object was ostensibly
to secure for members exclusive political power.
The reign of terror ended in 1877, when some
ringleaders were executed.
* * * *
Particulars of life of O. Henry? —4sB4.
O. Henry was the pen-name of William
Sydney Porter, bom Greensborough, North
Carolina (U.S.A.), September 11, 1862. He
became editor of a humorous weekly, the
“Rolling Stone,” at Austin, Texas, where he
was a teller in the First National Bank. Later
he joined the “Post” in Houston. In 1898 he
began to write short stories for magazines, 12
volumes of which have been collected, among
the best-known being Cabbages and Kings,
The Gentle Grafter, The Four Million and
The Trimmed Lamp. He died at New York,
June 5, 1910. His life has been written by
C. A. Smith (1917) and A. Jennings (1922).
* * * *
When did Mohl live? Some of his works?
—4405.
Jules Mohl (1800-1876) was born at Stuttgart,
Germany, and educated for the Lutheran
church, but early was attracted to Oriental
studies, to which he devoted his life. From
1826 to 1833 he was nominally professor at
Tubingen, but was actually studying in Paris,
becoming a member of the Institute in 1844 and
Professor of Persian at the College de France
in 1847. He was for long secretary to the
Societe Asiatique, his annual reports on
Oriental learning being collected by his wife arid
published under the title Vingt-sept Ans d’His-
toire des Etudes Orientates (1879-80). His great
edition of Shah Nameh was published in six
folio volumes between 1838 and 1868. A
seventh, edited by Meynard, was published in
1878.
* * * *
Brief particulars of Mary Somerville and her
descendants ? —4640.
Born Jedburgh, Scotland, December 26, 1780,
the daughter of Admiral William Fairfax, she
married a cousin, Captain Samuel Greig, son
of High Admiral Greig, of the Russian Navy;
a son, Woronzow, predeceased his mother,
dying childless. Widowed early, she received
help and encouragement in her valuable astro-
nomical studies from her second husband, Dr.
William Somerville (also a cousin), to whom
she bore three daughters. Of these two, Martha
and Mary, outlived their mother, but died
unmarried; the former edited and amplified her
mother’s life. Mary Somerville died November
30, 1780, at 92. After the death of her last
surviving child all her papers and other
memorials of her passed into the hands of her
nephew, William Ramsay-Fairfax, Bart., as her
nearest relative.
* * * *
(1) Outline of Julian Thomas’s career? (2)
What did he write apart from the “Vagabond
Papers” ? (3) How many numbers of that
work were published? —43B3.
(1) His baptismal name was Stanley James,
born Walsall (Eng.) 1840, the son of Green
James, a solicitor. He was correspondent for
London newspapers in Paris at the inception
of the Third Republic, and in England during
the agricultural disturbances of 1872, when he
made some valuable independent investigations.
After a brief stay in U.S.A. he came to Aus-
tralia and joined the “Argus,” writing articles
signed “The ' Vagabond.” Transferring to
Sydney in 1877, he did a somewhat similar
series for the “S. M. Herald,” and was
“Herald” special correspondent in New Cale-
donia during a native rising. His record of a
trip to Asia appeared in the “Argus”; also a
series of articles on Victorian country centres.
Later he joined the “Age.” He died September
10, 1896. (2) Occident and Orient (record of
the voyage to the Orient); Cannibals and Con-
victs (experiences in the Western Pacific); “No
Mercy” (an unsuccessful play produced by
Alfred Dampier). His descriptive matter (some
in French) for the Victorian Government
during the International Exhibition appeared in
booklets. (3) There were five series of the re-
published Vagabond Papers, together with an
Annual, published in 1877.
* * * *
(1) Difference between the armament of the
Sydney and Emden ? (2) Casualties of Sydney ?
(3) Did her guns outrange the Emden’s? (4)
Was she at any time in danger of being tor-
pedoed? (5) Assuming last two foregoing as
facts, how explain action of Sydney’s captain?
(6) Was an inquiry held ?— 4356.
(1) The Sydney had eight 6in. guns; the Emden
10 4in. guns; each also had smaller pieces and
submerged torpedo tubes. (2) Four killed,
12 wounded. (3) Yes; to a considerable but
undetermined extent. (4) At one stage in the
battle Captain von Muller attempted to launch
a torpedo, but was unable to approach close
enough to do so with any prospect of success.
(5) Range of the German guns seems to have
been unknown to the naval authorities, and in
deciding to open fire at 9500 yards Captain
Glossop was acting on information supplied to
him by his superiors; he was thus caught un-
awares when the Germans opened fire at 10,500
yards at the extreme range of their guns, using
the then exceptionally high altitude of 30deg.
Fifteen hits were registered in the first 10
minutes, with the Sydney steaming off at
superior speed in order to recover her dis-
tance and control the action, the Emden mean-
while endeavoring to get closer but being unable
to do so. (6) No.
* * * *
(1) What is cellophane? (2) Where is it
manufactured? (3) What chemical will dissolve
it? (4) Its chief uses? —447B.
(1) A thin transparent material made from
cellulose by a proprietary process resembling
that used for the manufacture of artificial silk.
(2) In England, America, Germany and Japan.
It is not made in Australia. (3) Amyl-acetate.
(4) Widely used as a wrapping material, being
proof against air, oil and moisture. Also em-
ployed in lining the gas-cells of airships.
* * * *
How much metal, in cubic feet, can the
average miner mine in an eight-hour shift of
the following metals : (1) Slate, (2) quartz, (3)
blue metal? —4464.
If the question relates to quarry work where
miners are in parties and the stone is broken
down by workmen other than the miners, an
average miner would remove the metals at
approximately the following rate: Slate, 240
cub. ft. per shift; quartz, 200 cub. ft.; blue
metal, 180 cub. ft.
* * * *
(1) Most suitable wood for woodcuts, and
how are they printed? (2) Where can suitable
linoleum for lino-cuts be obtained, and how
are lino-cuts printed ? —4520.
(1) Pear- or boxwood can be printed either
on a flat press or without a press, applying
printers’ ink to the block with a small rubber
roller, the paper being then laid on the block,
a piece of newspaper folded over it and the
whole well rubbed with the hand or the handle
of a tablespoon. (2) Best quality plain brown
lino. Some of the big furnishing houses in
Australia sell remnants cheaply. Printing
method is the same as for woodcuts.
* * * *
(1) Type and number of lights required for
a tennis court ? (2) To light three courts placed
side by side and 15 ft. apart? (3) Should lights
be placed along sides of court or along the
centre ? (4) Cost of lamps and reflectors ? (5)
Where obtainable in Sydney? —4s67.
(1) Twelve 500-watt gas-filled Mazda or
similar lamps, six on each side of the court,
placed 15ft. 6in. apart and 18ft. high. They
should be mounted 2ft. outside the side lines.
(2) Thirty-six lamps; a set of poles between
courts may be used to support a double row of
lamps. (3) Side lighting is recommended. (4)
500-watt lamps, 14s. each; reflectors, £2 each.
(5) A.G.E. Supplies Co., Ltd., 95 Clarence-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
How to fix paper maps on linen for school
purposes ? What sort of linen to use, and where
to get it? —4578,
The word “linen” is used merely as “fabric”;
any strong cotton —white calico, unbleached
calico or any cheap white stuff used for linings
—can be used. Soak material for at least 24
hours in cold water, partly dry and then iron it
smooth: keep it in folds if possible, and do
not wring into wrinkles. Tack it out on a
table with drawing-pins, cover it with an even
thinnish layer of flour paste, lay on the map,
and weight with books protected by sheets of
paper from the damp. Gums or mucilage are
not so good as a flour paste made thus: Boil
a cup of water containing half-teaspoon of
powdered alum, then stir into it about one
tablespoon of plain flour mixed to a smooth
paste with cold water, and keep stirring until
it thickens; boil for five minutes, remove from
fire and add one teaspoon oil of cloves as a
preservative. More flour makes a thicker paste.
* * * *
How do so-called “double-jointed” people
differ from normal? —4627.
They are merely persons who, by long-con-
tinued and excessive joint-movements have
stretched to an abnormal length the ligaments
which hold the bones together. “Double
joints” don’t exist.
Brief Answers.
A.8.J.: Write to Marion Jauncey Farquhar,
care of her publishers, Geoffrey Bles, Ltd., 2
Manchester-square, W.l, London X.Y.Z.:
“Story” is published at 432 Fourth-avenue,
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.; the editors are Whit
Burnett and Martha Foley R.H.W.: Worth
about £1 Is., according to condition... .P.R.:
The only book we can trace approximating the
title is Druggists’ Circular, containing 2896
formulas for druggists, previously published as
Druggists’ Formula Book. Approximate price,
245.; copy would have to be imported
T.J.C.: List of books dealing with folklore
of the Australian aboriginal has been posted.
T.L. Portugal has a standing army of
approximately 31,000... .W.H.F.: Jascha Hei-
fetz is 35. He was born in Russia and is a
naturalised American... .P.G.: The Romantic
’Nineties, by A. W. Jose... .W. 8.: (1) That is
the breweries’ own private business. (2) Depu-
ties are unknown; they are either licensees or
they are not. (3) As deputies are unknown,
any increase, if such exists, is not definable. (4)
Possible, but highly improbable. (5) Monopo-
lies do not exist; therefore they cannot be pro-
hibited. (6) Only the gentleman in question
could tell G.M.: Will insert a “Wants”
notice if you supply name of author... .N.C.:
Youths between the ages of 164 and 18 are
entered as ordinary seamen, and, if suitable,
may be selected for the W./T. branch. Apply
to District Naval Officer, Edgecliff, Sydney
E.M.J.: Write Registrar, University of Sydney,
Newtown, N.S.W F.H.S.: Yes; no differ-
ence in forms or declarations... .M. 8.: (1)
The verse “The Men Who Made Bad Matches”
is too long to quote here; it is by Henry
Lawson, and is in his volume of verse The
Skyline Riders. (2) The Duchess of Kent’s
Christian name is pronounced Mareena
A.F.M.: “The Dying Stockman” has six
stanzas, with a chorus of four lines after each,
and is sung to the air of “The Old Stable
Jacket.” It is in A. B. Paterson’s collection,
Old Bush Songs, published by Angus and
Robertson E.H.: You probably mean the
verse “Nine Miles from Gundagai,” by Jack
Moses; it is in his Beyond the City Gates.
“On the Wallaby” is by Henry Lawson, and
was included in his volume of verse When I
Was King, published by Angus and Robertson.
A.B.: Learn to Write for Broadcasting,
Claude Hulbert (3s. 9d.), and How to Write
Broadcast Plays, Val Gielgud (3s. 9d.)..-. .H.T.:
At June 30, 1936, the population figures were:
N. S. Wales, 2,665,487; Vic., 1,846,844; Q’land,
980,850; S.A., 587,293; W.A., 450,243; Tas.,
229,550; Northern Territory, 5313; Fed. Cap.
Territory, 9780; total, 6,775,360... .F.M.8.:
Tasmania’s wettest part is in the west coast
region, the mean annual rainfall at Lake Mar-
garet being 145.42 inches; 175.12 inches in
1924 H.A.: London General Press, 6 Bou-
verie-street, London, E.C.4... .E. 8.: Cannot
trace the person’s address... .J. 8.: Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street; Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 424 George-street; Tyrrell’s, 281
George-street; G. Greenwood, 199 a Castle-
reagh-street ; E. T. Bourne, 143 Castlereagh-
street; and Basement Book Co., 10 Campbell-
street —all Sydney... .T.N.L.: (1) No infringe-
ment. (2) Use of device you mention might in-
fringe another person’s trade-mark. You could
ascertain this by a search of official records,
which a patent attorney would do for you—
see advertisements at end of Wild Cat column.
V.P.: The £lO, being all profit, would
represent 100 p.c. profit on sales... .E.L.K.:
Write Benjamin N. Fryer, honorary secretary,
Australian Limited Editions Society, Herald
Building, 66 Pitt-street, Sydney R.J.: Plum-
bago makes a good hedge, especially for divid-
ing a garden. Quite hardy, it flowers through
late spring and summer. Plant from 30in. to
36in. apart in April-May or August-September.
A.N.: Owen Aves, 27a Bedford Chambers,
King-street, W.C.2; Bayne and Aris, 303 Salis-
bury-square House, E.C.4; G. R. Cole, The
Green, Southgate, N. 14; Harding and Giles, 2
Henrietta-street, W.C.2; Ronald Massey, Ltd.,
106 Victoria-street, S.W.I; and E. Sharman,
28 Red Lion-square, W.C.l —all London....
M. : (1) Fauns and Ladies, by Jack Lindsay,
was published in 1923. (2) Printed on the hand
press of J. T. Kirtley, 28 Burton-street, Kirribilli,
N. (3) Edition was limited to 210 copies
signed by the author.... A.W.: An executor is
liable at law to account at any time to the
persons interested in the estate, to whom he is
in the position of a trustee. It is assumed
you have an interest in it. Write to him point-
ing this out and asking for the information you
require. State that if not complied with you
will have to place the matter in the hands of a
solicitor,. a course which may involve expense
to him. If he should still fail to comply then
do so W.W.S.: They are valid objections.
Whilst not legally excluded from the office of
executor, the fact of your residence in another
State and possible absence from Australia
would necessarily involve additional expense to
the estate and cause serious delay in administer-
ing it G.S.: Write Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6
Henrietta-street, London, W.C.2 H.F.T.:
Due to improper feeding A.L.: (1) Member-
ship of Marylebone Cricket Club is not con-
fined to titled persons. Any person can apply
for membership at any age. (2) Lord’s re-
ceived its name from Thomas Lord, who origi-
nally owned the ground and ran it as a private
venture. The word is spelled with an apostrophe
“s” to signify that it belonged to Lord
T.0.C.: Particulars not available in Australia.
Write British Consulate, Berlin... .H.W.C.:
Cannot trace any Australian firm stocking the
article C.A.: (1) Should be registered under
N.S.W. Pure Food and Drugs Act. (2) No.
(3) Chemists and storekeepers (4) Australian
Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd., Dowling-street,
Waterloo, Sydney. Jars with bakelite tops are
the most suitable. (5) Any printer. (6) Manu-
facturing chemists, such as Elliotts and Aus-
tralian Drug, Ltd., or Parke, Davis and Co.,
sometimes undertake the manufacture and mar-
keting of genuinely useful preparations....
(Many others mailed.)


ADVERTISEMENT.
0 F
AUSTRALIA.
OMMONWEALTH
NOTICE OF REFERENDUMS FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE ELECTORS
OF CERTAIN PROPOSED LAWS FOR THE ALTERATION OF THE
CONSTITUTION.
I.HEREBY GIVE NOTICE that I have received copies of Writs, issued by His
Excellency the Governor-General, in the name of the King, addressed to the Chief
Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth, and to the Commonwealth Electoral Officers
for the several States, commanding him and them to cause the PROPOSED LAWS
FOR THE ALTERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION, entitled:—
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (AVIATION) 1936,
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (MARKETING) 1936,
to be SUBMITTED, according to law, in each State, to the ELECTORS QUALIFIED
TO VOTE for the election of Members of the House of Representatives, and appointing
the following dates for the purposes of the said submission:—
1. For taking the votes of the Electors, SATURDAY, the SIXTH day of
MARCH, 1937.
2. For the return of the Writs, on or before THURSDAY, the FIFTEENTH
day of APRIL, 1937.
Section 12 of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration ) Act 1906-1936 provides
that the POLLING PLACES appointed under the laws of the Commonwealth for
the time being in force relating to Parliamentary Elections shall be polling places for
the purposes of the said Referendums.
THE FOLLOWING IS A COPY OF THE PROPOSED LAW FOR THE
ALTERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION, ENTITLED CONSTITUTION
ALTERATION (AVIATION) 1936:
A PROPOSED LAW
To Alter the Constitution with Respect to Air Navigation and Aircraft.
BE it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and Preamble.
the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia,
with the approval of the electors, as required by the Constitution, as
follows:
1. This Act may be cited as Constitution Alteration (Aviation ) 1936.
2. The Constitution is altered by inserting in section fifty-one after
paragraph (vi.) the following paragraph:—
“(vi.A.) Air navigation and aircraft:”
Short title.
Air
navigation
and aircraft.
STATEMENT SHOWING SECTION 51 OF THE CONSTITUTION, WITH THE
PROPOSED NEW PARAGRAPH (vi.A.)— IN BLACK TYPE—INSERTED.
51. The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power Legislative
to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Common- Vers 0
wealth with respect to: — Parliament. .
(i.) Trade and commerce with other countries, and among the States:
(ii.) Taxation; but so as not to discriminate between States or parts of States:
(iii.) Bounties on the production or export of goods, but so that such bounties shall
be uniform throughout the Commonwealth:
(iv.) Borrowing money on the public credit of the Commonwealth:
(v.) Postal, telegraphic, telephonic, and other like services:
(vi.) The naval and military defence of the Commonwealth and of the several
States, and the control of the forces to execute and maintain the laws of
the Commonwealth:
(vi.A.)
(vii.)
(viii.)
(ix.)
(x.)
(xi.)
(xii.)
(xiii.)
(xiv.)
(xv.)
(xvi.)
(xvii.)
(xviii.)
(xix.)
(xx.)
(xxi.)
(xxii.)
Air navigation and aircraft:
Lighthouses, lightships, beacons and buoys:
Astronomical and meteorological observations:
Quarantine:
Fisheries in Australian waters beyond territorial limits:
Census and statistics:
Currency, coinage, and legal tender:
Banking, other than State banking; also State banking extending beyond
the limits of the State concerned, the incorporation of banks, and the issue
of paper money:
Insurance, other than State insurance; also State insurance extending beyond
the limits of the State concerned:
Weights and measures:
Bills of exchange and promissory notes:
Bankruptcy and insolvency:
Copyrights, patents of inventions and designs, and trade marks:
Naturalization and aliens:
Foreign corporations, and trading or financial corporations formed within the
limits of the Commonwealth:
Marriage: . | . ,
Divorce and matrimonial causes; and in relation thereto, parental rights,
and the custody and guardianship of infants:
(xxiii.)
(xxiv.)
(xxv.)
(xxvi.)
(xxvii.)
(xxviii.)
(xxix.)
(xxx.)
(xxxi.)
(xxxii.)
(xxxiii.)
(xxxiv.)
(xxxv.)
(xxxvi.)
(xxxvii.)
(xxxviii.)
(xxxix.)
Invalid and old-age pensions:
The service and execution throughout the Commonwealth of the civil and
criminal process and the judgments of the Courts of the States:
The recognition throughout the Commonwealth of the laws, the public Acts
and records, and the judicial proceedings of the States:
The people of any race, other than the aboriginal race in any State, for whom
it is deemed necessary to make special laws:
Immigration and emigration:
The influx of criminals:
External affairs:
The relations of the Commonwealth with the islands of the Pacific:
The acquisition of property on just terms from any State or person for any
purpose in respect of which the Parliament has power to make laws:
The control of railways with respect to transport for the naval and military
purposes of the Commonwealth:
The acquisition, with the consent of a State, of any railways of the State on
terms arranged between the Commonwealth and the State:
Railway construction and extension in any State with the consent of that
State:
Conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial
disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State:
Matters in respect of which this Constitution makes provision until the
Parliament otherwise provides:
Matters referred to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the Parliament
or Parliaments of any State or States, but so that the law shall extend
only to States by whose Parliaments the matter is referred, or which
afterwards adopt the law:
The exercise within the Commonwealth, at the request or with the concurrence
of the Parliaments of all the States directly concerned, of any power which
can at the establishment of this Constitution be exercised only by the
Parliament of the United Kingdom or by the Federal Council of
Australasia:
Matters incidental to the execution of any power vested by this Constitution
in the Parliament or in either House thereof, or in the Government of the
Commonwealth, or in the Federal Judicature, or in any department or officer
of the Commonwealth:
THE FOLLOWING IS A COPY OF THE PROPOSED
ALTERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION, ENTITLED
ALTERATION ( MARKETING ) 1936:
A PROPOSED LAW
To Alter the Constitution with Respect to Marketing.
BE it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Senate, and
the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Australia, with
the approval of the electors, as required by the Constitution, as follows:
1. This Act may be cited as Constitution Alteration ( Marketing ) 1936.
2. The Constitution is altered by inserting after section ninety-two the
following section:—
“92a. The provisions of the last preceding section shall not apply
to laws w'ith respect to marketing made by, or under the authority of,
the Parliament in the exercise of any powers vested in the Parliament
by this Constitution.”
LAW FOR THE
CONSTITUTION
Preamble.
Short title.
Marketing
laws.
STATEMENT SHOWING SECTION 92 OF THE CONSTITUTION, WITH THE
PROPOSED NEW SECTION 92a— IN BLACK TYPE—ADDED.
92. On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce, Trade with-
and intercourse among the States, whether by means of internal carriage monwealth 1 '
or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free. to be free.
But notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, goods imported before the
imposition of uniform duties of customs into any State, or into any Colony which,
whilst the goods remain therein, becomes a State, shall, on thence passing into another
State within two years after the imposition of such duties, be liable to any duty
chargeable on the importation of such goods into the Commonwealth, less any duty
paid in respect of the goods on their importation.
92A. The provisions of the last preceding section shall not apply Marketing
to laws with respect to marketing made by, or under the authority of, laws,
the Parliament in the exercise of any powers vested in the Parliament
by this Constitution.
Dated the tenth day of February, 1937.
GEORGE BARRETT,
Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the State of New South Wales
S'-tOmc.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal .
February Issue Now on Sale.
OVERSEAS AND HOME BORROWING.
INVESTMENTS ANALYSED.
OUTLOOK FOR RUBBER.
METALS.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
National
Advertisers:
LET
“The Barrier Miner”
carry your message into the Broken Hill
market, where £27,000 is distributed each
week in wages from the mines alone.
“The Barrier Miner” is the only paper
bought voluntarily by people of Broker
Hill and surrounding pastoral districts.
Details from P. A. Messenger, Warwick
Building, Sydney; A. G. Pike,
Newspaper House, Melbourne; Advt.
Department, News, Ltd-, Adelaide.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
SPIEMDffIriMS
EVERY IVEEJC
OhSaLE~AuStATES'-Pj2/CE&!
50
w
Vv
Vw -W\\_
m
i
tm
mm
§■
■'
■
■ ;
RM
An important chapter in ocean travel has been
written by the Canadian-Australasian Line (Inc. in Canada). Since
1893 this trans-Pacific service has been a link between Australia and
Canada.
Calls are made at
IUCKLAND, N.Z.; SUVA, FIJI; HONOLULU, X.H.; VICTORIA, 8.C.;
and VANCOUVER.
Travel by this picturesque route to Europe!
Full particulars from: —*
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., LTD.
347 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
, INC. \
V IN N.Z. )


THE MAN WHO BEAT FOLEY
[Fitzsimmons, Slavin, Billy Murphy and Jackson (2) were the subjects of previous articles in this series .]
Professor Miller is merely a name to the
present generation, but in the ’seventies,
’eighties and early ’nineties his was a
name to conjure with. Mention of it
produced vivid impressions of a splen-
did man, the greatest all-round athlete
in the world. And Australia has had no
one like him since.
He was French on the father’s side,
son of a tutor who was a famed swords-
man in his day. As a fencer with foil
and singlestick the son was to surpass
the father’s skill. He was a great
weight-lifter, boxer and wrestler—in all
styles, but Graeco-Roman chiefly. Trained
as a telegraphist, he worked in the Vic-
torian Post Office and Railway Depart-
ment before he found his metier, as Pere
Meunier (otherwise Old Man Miller, the
tutor and basso) would have said, and
became an athlete by profession.
An athlete was what he called him-
self. The “Professor” was bestowed on
him by an admiring newspaperman and
accepted with tremendous dignity. It
was no empty designation. Had a Chair
of Sport been established by the Vic-
torians at their University William Miller
would have been a unanimous choice.
The London
“Times” sent a man
to Reno to report
the Johnson-Jeffries
fight. All the past
and contemporary
champions that
could be assembled
were invited to see
the show and sever-
ally introduced from
the ring. Among
them were John L.
Sullivan, Corbett,
Fitzsimmons, Lang-
ford, Tommy Burns
and our own Bill
Lang. “The only
one who had a pres-
ence,” the “Times”
man wrote, “was
John L. Sullivan.”
Flad Miller been
there he would have
had to make it two,
and start with
Miller.
For Miller had
that which was
denied to Jackson,
Slav i n, Goddard,
Foley and Dooley.
No statelier figure
has ever walked
Australian streets.
He might have
taken for his example
Charles the First,
who “nothing com-
mon did nor mean upon that membrable
scene”; certainly, he tried to dignify
every scene in which he was an actor.
No Prizefighter.
For that reason, though he had out-
standing qualifications, he never fought
under London Prize Ring rules. Prize-
fighting was illegal, and Miller dis-
dained to become a furtive lawbreaker,
dodging the police to bring off a fight
and exposed to the risk of figuring in a
disgraceful scene of ruffianism even if
the police had been evaded.
He had too much self-respect for that
sort of thing and too much respect for
the feelings of his pupils—and pupils he
was never without. So he never made
a boxing match for money till he was
midway through the thirties, when a
fighting man, as a rule, is past his prime.
In the early ’eighties, glove-fighting
was coming into vogue while London
Prize Ring bouts remained under ihe ban.
It was given out that tussles with the
gloves would be regarded as legal if
billed as “scientific displays” or “spars.”
For the time being wrestling was on the
wane, and Miller, who really preferred
Graeco-Roman wrestling to boxing,
caused it to be known that his hat was in
the ring if a suitable opponent could be
found.
He was fond of writing letters to news-
papers. In these he sometimes exhibited
a Gallic exuberance, though he was
rarely wanting in Gallic courtesy.
In February, 1882, Miller challenged
“Jem Mace or Jack Thompson” to “a
bout with the gloves for £lOO a side in
Melbourne or Sydney.” He. referred to a
public exhibition he had given with the
Old Master. “The little applause Mace
got, if any, was when he deliberately
asked me to lead, Mace ducking at the
same time and making feints with left
and right. I can assure Mace when we
are on our merits he will not be able
to resort to these little artifices. I have
met most of the best boxers of the present
day on their merits, and the general
opinion of the Press in America is that
I am equal to anyone with the gloves,
1 have had quite enough experience to
show Mr. Mace that he can teach me
nothing.”
a li* i
Argument With MlCken.
In the early part of 1883, which was
perhaps his most memorable year, he
had a difference of opinion with Abe
Hicken, who, after having licked all the
best men of his weight (lOst.) in England
and the U.S.A., had been defeated by
Larry Foley. The dispute led to Miller
addressing this most professorial note to
the Melbourne “Sportsman”:
“Some nights ago Mr. Abe Hicken and
myself had a few words over a state-
ment I had made that I was willing to
box any man in Australia for a substan-
tial sum. Mr. Hicken on that occasion
also remarked that I had no necessity
to go to America to meet Sullivan, as
there was a man in the colony who could
accommodate me. The whole affair was
THE “PROFESSOR" SHOOTS OUT HIS LEFT.
born of the excitement of the moment,
and I therefore thought no more of it.
During the last few days, however, to
my astonishment I have been met on
several sides with the news that Hicken
has, in his own bar, and in the presence
of numbers of people, expressed himself
ready to box me at any time and for
any amount. Now, sir, I don’t suppose
for one moment that Mr. Hicken really
wishes to meet me, and I merely set his
bounce down to the desire for a little
cheap advertising and self-glorification.
If this theory is correct (and I sincerely
trust it is—for Mr. Hicken’s sake), well
and good. If not, he has only to whisper
the fact to have me instantly at his
elbow with a sufficient deposit to ensure
a match on any terms.”
Hicken came back with the claim that'
he had “defeated the gigantic Miller” —
“for £lO a side, and the contest lasted
only 28 minutes” —and that he was ready
to defeat him again for anything from
£SOO to £IOOO. But The Bulletin of
March 24, 1883, declared “the Miller-
Hicken set-to a thing of the past. The
fight took place in the Melbourne ‘Sports-
man’ instead of a 24ft. ring, and Miller
had all the best of it. Hicken refused
to box, but wanted to fight Miller, know-
ing well that the heavyweight would not
meet him, for, as Miller truly says, he
is an athlete and not a prizefighter. If
Hicken could not thrash Miller at box-
ing, he would probably have a worse
show in the ring, where Miller’s wrestling
would come in. If Hicken is anxious for
a fight, Foley might oblige him.”
Miller v. Foley.
But it was Miller who was to be obliged
by Foley.
In this case there was no preliminary
newspaper controversy. Melbourne
friends put up £250 for Miller and Syd-
neysiders collected the same amount for
Foley, and the pair arranged to give “a
scientific display, for trophy value £500,”
at Sydney on May 26, 1883.
There ensued an Australian counter-
part of the Sayers-Heenan fight. Foley
was about the same weight as Sayers,
and was probably as good a man in
every way ; but Miller could protect him-
self better than did Heenan. In each
instance the ring was rushed by partisans
of the lighter man.
The subjoined account, which gives a
lively description of the manners of the
period, was published in The Bulletin
of June 2, 1883 ; the drawings, though
unsigned, were by Livingston Hopkins
(“Hop”).
T ANARUS, I* #
8 nree Hours Of rigtlf.
The stage door of the Academy of
Music was guarded by the most pic-
turesque assortment of low blackguards
we have ever seen since we last attended
choir practice at the little church in
Sussex-street. But in the “front of the
house” Government House was strongly
represented, and there were, among
others, two C.M.Gs. On the stage, shed-
ding his eloquence upon the mingled
throng, was Dan O’Connor.
A feeble, painfully-made-up old
gentleman in a brown suit began to
potter about the ring. “Grandfather, go
home to grandmother! ” was one of the
cries that greeted him. This monument
of the Battle of Waterloo period having
subsided, Mr. Larry Foley was officially
brought out by Jack Thompson, who
had invested in a red shirt, white flannel
pants and a blue belt.
Larry, who was naked save for a kind
of silken fig-leaf, made a speech. He
said “Genelmen, we’re a-goin’ to ’ave a
fight. The other party comes from
t’other colony, so give ’im a chance.
What I say is ‘Let the best man win.’
D’ye see?”
When Miller came out a moment later
Mr. Foley made another oration. “Now,
chaps, we’re a-goin’ to begin. What we
want and what we’re a-goin’ to have is
fair play. It’s a friendly battle, so give
the cove a chance.”
Foley had shaved off those side-levers
which so fascinated Rosalind when
Lawrence enacted Charles the Wrestler
at the Queen’s; but Miller still sported
that moustache for a hair of which half
Collins-street used to wrestle. He sat
down in his dark corner on the O.P. side
with an appearance of good nature and
content which was pleasantly suggestive.
Christie, his second, came in the cos-
tume of an ordinary gentleman, with his
coat' off. Christie is a celebrity if you
like. He was one of the smartest c/Fthc
Victorian detectives, and a chaperon of
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh, v'to
presented him with a large quantity of
cameo jewellery which still decorates his
neat, clean-cut, greyhound-like orm.
The men stepped into the ;in * midst
a dead silence, which was b • u only
by a gentleman downstairs cursing
another gentleman who had jumped on
his hat. Foley, who was a perfect pic-
ture, danced about like a cork, but Miller
was quiet,
A grander sight than the muscular de-
yelopment of this man could not be
imagined. It is not too much to say
that no sculptor, however gifted, could
exaggerate the grandeur of his form-
could carve in stone or mould in clay
a more perfect model of a perfect Her-
cules.
It was thought, and openly stated
indeed, that Foley would, by superior
science and activity, knock Miller out of
time in a few minutes. Foley certainly
danced round and sparred very cleverly
for a full 20 rounds ; but it was evident
after the first half-hour that he would
have to pay the penalty for dancing—
the piper.
Miller, as a matter of fact, had far
more science than Foley, and he has a
heart just as big. Nothing finer than
the hitting with his left was ever seen
in any ring. As quick as lightning and
as straight as a dart, he got Larry time
after time, round after round, until the
effect became sick-
ening. Miller from
the first underesti-
mated his own
powers. Had he
forced the fighting
and been content to
fake while giving his
very best and hard-
est, Foley must, de-
spite his wonderful
pluck, have been
beaten in twenty
minutes.
The fight began
about three. After
half-past four Larry
began to look very
crooked, and Mil-
ler’s gloves were
saturated with blood,
while Foley’s were
as white as the faces
of his supporters.
But though Larry
was banged all the
time, the more he
was banged the
more he smiled.
It was quite a
quarter-past five be-
fore people began
to get tired of see-
ing Foley being
made a butcher’s
shop of. About this
time he was knocked
clean through the
ropes on the prompt
side, and if the band had been playing
he would have killed the man who gruels
the big drum.
All through the fight Christie had sat
or stood quietly in his corner, but Jack
Thompson, who had all the while be-
haved in a peculiar manner, such as
carrying Foley back into his corner (a
ridiculous proceeding, for it only tired
him) and cheeking the audience, now
conducted himself with much indiscre-
tion. In one instance he got right into
the middle of the ring and was indig-
nantly ordered back by Christie.
A friend of Foley’s who was very
drunk tried to interfere with the bottle-
holding arrangements. Larry, resenting
this, very properly tapped him on the
jobbernowl. On this, he seemed to those
in front to disappear with the rapidity
of a figure in a Dutch clock.
It was amusing to watch the efforts
that were made to brace Larry up. Even
time he went back to his corner he was
given ice water, and his head was
plunged in a bath of the same chilly
fluid. As to refreshments, he had admin-
istered to him everything except save-
loys.
Miller, on the. other hand, used when
time was called to stroll over to his chair
and get fanned. Then he’d get up, punch
Larry on the nose, walk a bit about the
ring and come back again. It was like
playing skittles, only there was one pm-
Then Larry got groggy, and when he
was down had to be picked up — con-
trary to old Q.’s rules. His hits grew
more feeble as he grew more bloody and
bruised. battered. He was a bruised,
swollen anc’ wretched object.
And then—what was anticipated: a
swarm of ruffians crowding the ring and
fighting to try to make a draw of it, the
appearance of the police and the end.
Dusty, greasy, hot and generally de-
grided, the reporter escaped from a mur-
derous r n ig of drunken demons


•I/WA-
for your holiday
h
*7" /<
:/ W
%
wnen
JWNtr
II
i P
This land of countless attractions awaits you—
ancient temples beautiful scenery native
customs and colourful bazaars. Your luxury
liner visits many interesting ports along the
smooth water route. Life on board is pleasant.
Spacious decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, and talking picture equipment.
At your request, we shall be pleased
to forward Folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY TELEPHONE 87901
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used whoily in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm, Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
§e U**
A 10 per cent,
increased circula-
tion for 1934-35
means better
cover for you.
in ADVERTISING
Behind the service offered to Advertisers in "The
Examiner" (Eet. 1842), the only daily in Laun-
ceston, is the experience and goodwill of nearly
a century of publication.
“THE EXTMINER’S” ADVERTISE-
MENTS REACH THE HOMES IN
LAUNCESTON AND THE NORTH.
7LUDIT
•BUREAU OF-
CIRCULATIONS.
A. _____ A
Full Information, Copies, Advertising Rates from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS PTY., LTD., 71-75 Paterson St., Launceston.
M. S. ALLAN, N.S.W. Bank Chambers, 368 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
D. N. SCOTT, 9 Bligb St., Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
lighting on the stage ; from a storm of
curses and a hurricane of howls.
The referee postponed his decision as
to the result. Next morning he certified
hat the battle was a draw!
The Stormy Sequel.
The referee was “Black Bill” Forrester,
:ne racing man. He it was who 14 years
later owned and trained the brothers
Gaulus and The Grafter, first and second
n the Melbourne Cup. Gaulus had
.a rather queerly in the Hotham Handi-
cap three days before ; nevertheless For-
rester got a much better reception after
the Cup race than when he failed to
declare for Miller.
All The Bulletin men were for the
Victorian. The sporting man wrote: “This
cecision has caused a perfect howl of
indignation in every corner of Australia.
The referee, in The Bulletin’s opinion,
"as bound to award not only the stakes
hut the verdict to Miller, whether the
j.tter pleased to accept it or n0t....
Foley was knocked down, and more than
once John Thompson helped him to get
up. The referee saw this —if he didn’t
he was blind. It might reasonably have
been expected that Foley would at once
have been disqualified and the stakes
given to Miller, for Foley was liable
for and bound by the action of his
second in pulling him up.
"We met Miller in the street the morn-
ing after the match. He had one scratch
on the chin, caused by a nick in the
barber’s razor.
"Miller got the stakes and a good deal
besides. Why should he get the money
if he did not win the battle? He was
actuated by what may be termed charit-
able motives. He knew he had beaten
his opponent. He knew that his oppo-
nent lived, to some extent, on his repu-
tation, and when the question was put
straight to him, the great big soft-hearted
lump of muscle hesitated to inflict any
further moral injury upon the man he
had smashed physically.
“The true history of this celebrated
glove contest will perhaps never be
written, and the degraded ruffians who,
manipulated by a coterie of low-bred
wealthy blackguards, interrupted the con-
test and swindled Miller and his backers
may never get their deserts.”
A Poet's Tribute.
Yes, he does look operatic and Italian,
as you say ;
If he were he’d give the chest notes with
a gusto, by the way.
No, dear boy, that man’s an athlete and
a boxer most renowned,
For the Sydney crack who faced him had
last week to kiss the ground.
Oh, he fairly won the contest, but they
faked the thing a draw,
And the talent execrated, for he doesn’t
break the law.
Yes, he is a rara avis, perhaps the only
one you’ll find,
Who displays a perfect science with gen-
tility combined.
Miller on Foley.
In a letter to the Melbourne “Sports-
man,” Miller thanked “George Adams,
of Taftersall’s Hotel, for many kindnesses
received at his hands. lin no way in-
clude in the scenes which marked the close
of my contest with Foley the real ‘sports’
of Sydney. By them and by the public
generally I was very cordially treated,
and had the matter been left solely in
their hands the verdict would have been
a very different one. As far as my game
little adversary is concerned, I have seen
all the best middleweight boxers in the
world, and I can confidently state he has
no superior of his own weight and
inches.”
But Miller’s supporters—or some of
them —were by no means satisfied. One
of them in a letter to the “Sportsman”
indignantly suggested this as the posi-
tion: “Foley’s backers said to Miller
‘Make a draw of it and you will get the
stakes.’ This will enable us to get out
of our debts and it will enable you to
give your stake-finders just what you
think.”
Miller’s admirers gave him a benefit
in Melbourne, and he publicly announced
that out of the benefit and the match
with Foley he had cleared £540. He re-
turned his stake-finders their money, plus
40 p.c. This was handsome, treatment,
for, according to sporting custom, they
were entitled to no more than what they
had put up.
Miller to John L. Sullivan.
Just before he signed to Foley, the
“Professor” lifted a 1921 b. dumbbell “at
arm’s length above his head.” Even
while he was training for Foley he had
engaged to wrestle a miner named Biack-
burn ; this fellow and Thomas he actu-
ally put through on the same mat. Mean-
while he had accounted for the mer-
curial Mons. Victor in a fencing match
with foils, giving Mons. 10 points out of
21.
Miller’s compliment to Foley was sin-
cere enough. In another communication
to the press he said he was willing to
back Larry against Charlie Mitchell,
then in the U.S.A. and issuing frequent
challenges to John L. Sullivan. He
offered to meet John L. on his own ac-
count, challenging Sullivan in 1883 to
come to Australia and announcing in
February, 1884, that he was “going to
the States to close with Mr. Sullivan's
kind offer to knock me out in four
rounds.”
His pen was very busy at this time.
In a letter to the “N.Y. Police Gazette,”
he recited the facts about his meetings
with “the Solid Muldoon,” the wrestler.
“Muldoon and myself,” he wrote, “have
wrestled four times —once in New Jersey,
twice in Baltimore and once in Madison
Square Garden. That match ended in
a draw ; in the others Muldoon suffered
defeat. Muldoon has never beaten me.
I may state that I have issued a chal-
lenge to Mr. John L. Sullivan for $2500
a side, allowing him SSOO expenses, the
match to take place in Australia or New
Zealand. If said challenge is not ac-
cepted, it is my intention to go to
America early next year and settle as to
who is the champion at boxing, and
when that matter is settled I shall be
prepared to meet all wrestlers for the
championship.”
Sullivan was 12 years younger than
Miller. That would not have daunted
the “Professor,” but it was fated that the
pair were never to meet. Miller sprained
an ankle badly that year, and it was
months before he could walk without a
stick. When perforce out of action he
learned that Donald Dinnie was on his
way to Australia and that Clarence
Whistler proposed to follow. He decided
to stay in his own country and wrestle
both.
In those days there was no boxing
boom in Australia or the U.S.A. There
was really more money in wrestling in
both countries, as, generally speaking—
title bouts in America excepted—there is
now. So no one thought of suggesting
that the 37-year-old Miller was afraid of
the 25-year-old Sullivan because he did
not pursue John L. to his native Boston
or to his favorite stamping ground New
York.
By this time, Miller and Foley had
become fast friends. In May, 1885, the
opponents of two years before, joined
forces to run a boxing show which “drew
crowded houses to Chiarini’s Circus.”
Peter Jackson was then in Sydney, and
“one night Miller and Jackson had a
rough go-in. Jackson had evidently
been doing a lot of work and looked as
fit as a fiddle, in great contrast to Miller,
who was terribly short of condition....
The spar took place on sawdust, which
was all against a heavy man like Miller,
whose ankle may not have quite re-
covered from the bad sprain it received
in Melbourne. Miller again says his
wrist is not well. Towards the finish,
Jackson commenced to give way and
Miller ran him right back to the limit of
the circle.” A match was talked of, but
nothing came of it.
About this time, Tom Lees, who then
claimed the championship of Australia,
wanted to fight the “Professor,” who had
taught Lees all he knew. Miller ignored
his pupil’s challenge. He wrestled Donald
Dinnie, but their performances were more
in the nature of exhibitions than serious
matches.
Beaten by Whistler.
Far more dangerous was Clarence
Whistler. Whistler and Miller had a
Graeco-Roman match at Melbourne on
September 26, 1885. It was a genuine
meeting for the world’s championship,
Miller having beaten Muldoon, Ross and
Bauer (him, when ill, he wrestled for nine
hours), and Whistler won. It took
him an hour and a half to gain the
first fall, but in ten minutes after the
spell he had clamped on an arm-hold
which forced the “Professor” to yield to
save the imprisoned member. The
American was a much younger man than
Miller and in better condition.
Within six weeks, Whistler was dead,
and Miller was one of the pallbearers
at the funeral. A man of magni-
ficent physique, but as wild as a
hawk, Whistler celebrated his victory
by going on a bender. It was his
habit on these occasions to drink all
the wine in sight, and then chew up his
ard swallow it. He did this once
too often, with variations. Exit Whistler.
Last Years as Athlete.
The Bulletin of May 29, 1886, had
this note: “Professor Miller has thumped
his last t lump as a professional athlete
and retaken his old gymnasium in Mel-
bourne. There he will devote the whole
of his time to teaching young amateurs.”
But within three years he was back in
the U.S.A., heaving more huge masses
of meat about padded rings.
At the age of 42, Miller penned this
defiance to all the athletes in California:
“As I sail for Australia on November 17,
18 89, I issue the following chal.enges, to
take place at any of the athletic clubs in
San Francisco on Friday, November 16,
for a suitable purse. I will make a match
against any two athletes at boxing,
Graeco-Roman wrestling, heavy-dumb-
bell lifting, foil and singlestick fencing,
the winner of the most exercises to be
declared the winner of the match. I
am also prepared to meet Joe McAuliffe,
champion heavyweight boxer of the
Pacific Slope and the Western States, in
a six-round contest with ordinary boxing
gloves. I am fully 201 b. overweight at
the present time and shall entertain no
other proposition except the challenge
now issued and shall not enter into any
newspaper controversy.”
It was the last of his many challenges.
He was now too old for boxing and he
grew too heavy to wrestle. He returned
to Melbourne and to his unique place
in its sporting life, to be pointed out in
the streets as the man who beat Foley
and Muldoon, and who might have been
matched at the same time for the boxing
championship and the wrestling cham-
pionship of the world. Then, having
heard, no doubt, that Muldoon had
struck it rich —the “solid” man had
started a great training camp for tired
businessmen, and was to become chair-
man of the New York Boxing Commis-
sion—the grave and dignified veteran
went to America for the last time. By
all accounts, he. was still there a year or
two ago.
When he fought Foley Miller had
turned 36. Though no more than sft.
9]fn., he scaled 15 stone and went 48in.
round the chest. Were he in Australia
to-day and in the prime of his magnifi-
cent manhood, he would assuredly offer
to meet Lurich and Leo Kelly in the
same ring ; and all sporting Melbourne
would back him to beat both.


IF YOU WANT
TO REACH THE PEOPLE
WITH MONEY
ADVERTISE
IN PERTH’S LEADING
WEEKLY, THE
THE JOURNAL WITH THE
HOME CIRCULATION.
Sydney Representative:
HAL J. JOHNSTONE,
Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Representative:
MERVYN S. ALLAN,
368 Collins Street.
Plomp!
Fight into the
middle of South
Australia's week-
end !
65,742
COPIES OF
“THE MAIL”
Adelaide's Leading Week-
End Newspaper!
REPRESENTATION:— AdeIaide —News
Ltd., North terrace. Melbourne —Mr.
A. G. Pike, Ist Floor, Newspaper House.
Collins street. Sydney—P. A. Messen-
ger, Warwick Building, Hamilton street.
London—F. A. Smyth, 34-40 Ludgate
Hill. E.C.4.
Cbc mercury
Tasmania’s First Daily Newspaper
(Established 1854).
Advertisers using space in the “Mercury”
know definitely what volume of publicity
their products are getting in Tasmania
through this publication. The “Mercury,”
which circulates in every coi tier of the
State, is the only Tasmanian newspaper
which gives an A.B.C. certificate of; circu-
lation. Its circulation exceeds that of the
combined totals of the other dailies in
Tasmania. That it continues to grow in
popularity is proved by its circulation
figures. A.B.C. certificates issued show
that during the 12 months ended March
31, 1936, the “Mercury’s” circulation in-
creased by 1580 and that its circulation
had reached 20,169 daily..
Full particulars from
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: MERCURY, HOBART.
Sydney Office: Lisgar House, Carrington St.
F. L. WILSON & CO., Representatives.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins St.
F. RIEUSSET, Representative.
"THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age ” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their
attention that which is required in their
home or business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial news-
paper, with an atmosphere of individual and
personal appeal.
Price per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes about 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 117 Pitt Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
HE took up his hat and sauntered out into the white
glare of Hunter-street, crossing over to where the
big weeping fig made an inky shade for gossipers and
taxi-drivers gambling in one another’s cabs through
drowsy afternoons. Small and dapper, his hat tilted
at a rakish angle, his dark eyes darting out with a
freakish liveliness from underneath it, Corcoran was
a figure in the town and knew it. Acquainted with
everybody, he was as much at home with the colored
fishermen of the backwaters as with the fashionable
women of the front who gave bridge parties and
chattered about operations, movie-stars, their last trip
south. Men liked his dry wit, applied to their enemies
or friends. There was always a stir when he lounged
into a bar or clubroom, a rustle of hilarious welcome :
“Here’s Jimmy! Hullo, you old keyhole spy,
what’s the latest? Dug out any more scandals about
council contracts or the private lives of visitors to
Cayley’s?”
Yet his entrance created a secret uneasiness, put
people on their guard. They could never be quite
sure of being armed against the penetration of those
agate eyes, the malice of that barbed tongue.
“Legend for Sanderson,” he chuckled to himself
now. “That’s what the occasion demands. If it’s
left to me I’ll provide a clinker. One that hi grow
wings and cover the whole continent.”
Round the corner to the waterfront, where the
outgone tide had left a dreary expanse of mud, he
moved with jaunty lightness, his glance resting on
everything with the faint contempt of one who really
belonged to a livelier and larger world. There were
the three years he had put in on a paper in Singapore,
the eighteen months spent in knocking about the treaty
ports of China. Great days, those! They became
more highly-colored every time he looked back, set
him brooding on opportunities he had lost. Why,
after such experience, had he returned to this little
hole of a town where he had to spend his days sub-
bing reports of council meetings, writing leaderettes
about rooting out cane-grubs and communists, play-
ing up to the prejudices of a moron like Weston?
There were Flo, of course, and the two boys. A
man like himself was a fool to marry early and 'let
himself be tied by the leg. Yet there were moments
when he doubted his own dissatisfaction, even doubted
the reality of his ambition for another kind of life.
Would it be so easy, after all, to give up this local
reputation, this pleasant routine of office and private
bar, this sense of knowing his world and being able
to see through it?
He cultivated irony, the weapon of the defeated,
and, as a relief from cane-grubs and official politics,
wrote highly-spiced satirical articles, under a
pseudonym, for a Sydney weekly.
“Wonder how Laura’s taking it,” he was think-
ing. “She may blossom out. Grass widow. Flower-
ing grass... Did. the old boy die broke or did he
leave her provided for?”
I N her private sitting-room, just off the American
1 bar, the woman concerned had thrown herself
down on the lounge with the abandon of a child:
her hair was disarranged, genuine tears played havoc
with her well-prepared complexion, her body was
humped in an ungainly heap, with the dark dress
rucked up over the slip and one shoeless foot droop-
ing to the floor. It was not Sanderson’s death that
had upset her: she had sensibly accepted that as a
relief: but in going through his scanty papers she
had come across a letter that had hurt her worse
than a blow on the mouth. To think he should keep
a letter like that! There was such a diabolical cruelty
in itg phrases, such a wilful misconstruction of her
relations with Sanderson, who, as everyone knew,
would have been only too glad to marry her if he
could have got his divorce. All the loyalty she had
shown him for eighteen years was overlooked: she
was merely a scheming old wanton who had fastened
pn to him for the sake of his money. And this view
of herself, so novel, so disenchanting, was more than
she could bear at the moment. The thought of any-
one holding it made the world seem utterly loathsome.
“You, Jimmy?” she said as Corcoran was shown
in. “How did you know you were the only man I
could stand seeing just now? There have been all
sorts of people dropping in. They’re frightfully kind.
It was hateful to have to pretend I was ill and in bed.
But I’m desperately unhappy. I’ve just had a horrid
experience. Read this. Just read it!”
She sat up and dabbed at her eyes, groping
behind her for her compact. But with Corcoran she
did not really care how she looked. There was a
dryness about him, an air of critical detachment.
They met on perfectly safe ground: they had grown
friendly over the problem of furnishing Cayley’s.
“I don’t think I’m oven-sensitive,” Laura was
saying. “I’ve had to take some pretty hard knocks
these last few years. When you’ve made up your
mind to go your own way and not to trouble what
the world thinks But there’s a cold, deliberate
sort of spite. And coming just now when I was upset
anyhow.” ...
There was a tremolo in her voice: she caught
a glimpse of herself in the glass across the room, and
it made the tears well up in her eyes again. Corcoran
lit a cigarette and, leaning against the mantelpiece,
read the letter with deliberate curiosity. For a while
he failed to see the reason for Laura’s outburst of
hysteria. What was the woman making a scene
about? Did she expect people to be sentimental about
her loyalty to another woman’s husband, to bring
offerings of flowers? Most of the epithets were
directed against Sanderson himself, and there was an
amusing vigor in them: he stored one or two up for
future use. But he was puzzled by the signature.
“Neil? Who the devil’s Neil? That son of Sander-
son’s, is it? Seems to have a fairly large dose of
family feeling, hasn’t he?”
Laura was exploring with her left foot for the
missing shoe. “Is that the explanation—just family
feeling? But it’s too outrageous. Sanderson would
have done anything for him if the boy’d taken him
the right way. No one could say. Chris wasn’t
generous .when he had the money. It was a vice
with him, really: money simply flowed away from him
at the end. After that second failure of his he lost
all sense' of it. But this boy—l didn’t know a thing
about it till afterwards—not a thing. > He appeared
during one of Chris’s bad spells.”
Corcoran lifted an eyebrow. “Appeared? You
don’t mean his first appearance.”
“Don’t be tiresome, Jimmy. Of course I knew
of his existence —vaguely. But people I haven’t met
and don’t expect to meet never have any reality for
me. He came here about eighteen months ago—
worked his way up on a sugar-boat because he was
short of money. I don’t know what he expected his
father to do for him: this letter was evidently written
just after they’d met. But I could have made every-
thing right if I’d been here when he came: found
some work for him at the hotel, played the mother to
him, helped to reconcile him and his father. It’s just
bad luck I was away up on the Tableland. I’ve tried
to get in touch with him since. Done all I could to
find just where he is and what he’s doing.”
“You should have asked me,” said Corcoran.
“You?” she said in surprise.
“It’s my business to know all about people—the
Argus eye of the profession. I could have put my
hand on him quite easily six months ago—in hospital
here with a broken collarbone. Probably he’s swing-
ing a cane-knife down in the sugar country now.
You’ve never met him?”
“No: where should I? I hardly knew Sander-
son had a son till then. He never talked about his
family affairs —nothing would make him. Of course
I didn’t want him to —I knew they’d been unhappy.
His wife —she’d left him a couple of years before we
met. Left him of her own free will—deserted him
absolutely. And the poor boy had taken it so badly
he was drinking himself to death. What would have
come to him if I hadn’t looked after him and given
him a home?”
She was overcome with memories of all she had
done for the dead man, and Corcoran, standing with
the letter between his fingers, watched her with an
amused curiosity that hardly betrayed itself in his
sober, prune-colored eyes. Poor old Laura! A heart
of gold, and the emotional balance of a rabbit!
Where did she conceal all the shrewdness and capacity
that allowed her to organise a big place like Cayley’s
and keep it running like clockwork? Was it a genius
for securing the devotion of other people, so that they
were willing to work their fingers to the bone on her
behalf? Probably. Some sort of goodwill, magnetism,
sentimental appeal, flowed out of her, infecting
everyone around. For it wasn’t only men she
attracted: hadn’t he seen the way the girls on the
staff fluttered about her or followed her with their
eyes!
“My dear Laura, you don’t want to take a few
pellets of mud so seriously,” he said blandly. “The
boy was obviously a bit wild and let himself go.
Can you wonder? No money,' great expectations.
He probably looked for fatted calf and a guarantee
for the future. Anyhow, this is just mechanical stuff
—nothing very personal. The bold, bad woman who
seduced my father.”
But Laura’s mind was moving to its own rhythm.
“It’s not fair. I could stand them thinking anything
about Sanderson except that I hung on to him for
his money. There’s something so unspeakable about
that: what worse can you say about a woman than
that she wants to get more than she gives? As if
Chris weren’t in difficulties all the time I knew him.
As if I hadn’t to shoulder all the worry and responsi-
bility. You can answer for that, Jimmy ; you know
all the facts. People ask how I got Cayley’s. They
want to make out he made it over to me to secure
himself against creditors. It’s not true. It’s an
abominable slander. Every penny that’s gone into
it I’ve saved from money he allowed me. You know
how I’ve saved, Jimmy, hardly spending anything on
myself. That last trip to the East —I only let him
take me because he was running amok here and 1
never knew what he’d do next. Besides, I wanted to
see those Shanghai hotels before I rebuilt Cayley’s.
But people have always seen the worst in anything I
did. Those Macreadys! They’d have let him die in
a ditch, but now it’s all over they want to take him
back into the family again and refuse me the right
of following him to his grave.”
Corcoran pricked up his ears. “Ah! Cat’s
jumped, has it? Keith’s brooded over the matter
and decided to give absolution.”
“I don’t mind, really,” said Laura with deliberate
tolerance. “It’s better for all concerned that they
should. I was fond of Chris, but there’s nothing
more I can do for him now. It’s only that boy’s
letter hurts—the letter and the fact that Chris kept
it. He can’t be more than a boy, for all his talk.
Sanderson didn’t marry till he was nearly fifty.”
Her mind loosened by emotion, or the memory
of emotion, she talked on in a jerky, disconnected
way of her life with Sanderson: their first meeting
at the nursing-home, his second rise and fall, her
determination to create some fixed point in their lives
by getting hold of Cayley’s: and Corcoran, standing
with one hand in his pocket, watched her through the
haze of his cigarette-smoke, the forced sympathy
fading from his eyes.
That broken-down old swashbuckler, he was
thinking: had she really loved him for his own sake?
Was there anything about him that could rouse
affection or desire? Or was she merely the maternal,
expansive kind of woman who must have some man
to fuss over, the more helpless the better? She was
hardly fifty yet: she must have been quite a young
woman, an attractive one at that, when she went off
with Sanderson. And probably she would bloom
again.
Before he left he had found out everything he
wanted to know —that she owned Cayley’s in her own
right, that Sanderson had died almost penniless, and
that it would be impossible to ignore him in the paper
since the Macreadys, the most powerful people in the
town, had decided to restore his name to the family
roll.
{To be cor. 'nued next week.)


u
out
Kidneys
need
Assistance
1
4
v
Gin Pills
will not
I fail
you!
D° you ever feel
like the woman
in this illustration—
completely worn - out
with Backache —no
strength or vitality?
Possibly you do. But do
you realise that it is your
Kidneys that cause your
back to ache? They are weak
and need something that will
tone them up—something to
strengthen them—and that some-
thing is Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills,
Australia s most reliable Kidney
Tonic.
You will notice an immediate im-
provement in your general health after
taking Gin Pills. Vitality will return —
you will feel stronger in yourself, and
able to do much more without getting that
worn-out, “all-in” feeling.
You can place every
reliance in Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills, for they are a
time-proven remedy which
has brought lasting relief to
thousands suffering from Back-
ache and other Kidney and
Bladder Troubles such as Rheu-
matism, Joint Pains, Lumbago and
Rheumatic Swellings.
The composition of Gin Pills is quite
different from ordinary kidney remedies,
and they contain no harsh or dangerous in-
gredients. Anyone can take Gin Pills with
absolute safety. They will never fail you.
DE SHELDON S
27 Pills 1/9
IMMENSE SALES
60 Pills 2/9
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ag
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
X
_o* ■?*
O v 0 v 6
**
**
G e
\V
aS*
v<^
<l°
Jfl
&r
W
e
\X
<>✓>
V
*
\*
f ~ I*# • .-•*
/^' s .•••■■ ..•••■'
*M S ' .••* .*'*


no matter
where you live what
\
you d 0... what you earn
t/a&nui
OFFERS IDEAL RADIO
In the country home —in the most remote shack—in city flat in
mansion—or in your car —you can enjoy the most realistic, trouble-
free radio reception of modern times.
The TASMA series of over 36 different types of receivers contains
one for every locality, every income—no matter how small—and
every purpose.
Each of these receivers is housed in cabinets which are artistically
executed in flawless veneers and selected woods which have been
fully seasoned to withstand all climatic conditions; all vital parts
have been carefully impregnated for protection against humidity
and changing weather. That new and revolutionary discovery—
the FERRO-COIL (exclusive to TASMA)—which automatically
shuts out all sounds except those you want to hear, and which
prevents overlapping, interference, noise and hiss, is embodied in
every TASMA receiver.
We promise you that when you hear and see any of these out.
standing receivers at the showrooms of your nearest TASMA
dealer or—if you prefer—in your own home, you will be
amazed at the tremendous steps which have been taken by radio
science and skilfully applied by TASMA.
m
£27/10/
MOD El. 375
(OILBEKT CABINET).
.'/-Valve Broadcast Battery
Receiver specially designed
for country listeners to give
nation-wide coverage. Price,
including batteries, £27/10 /-.
\\
£ 29/15/-
AUTO RADIO.
6-Valve Auto Radio Receiver with the
exclusive Tasma tone chamber. The
most efficient Avto Receiver sold
to—day, and the only Auto Receiver
specially built for local conditions.
Supplied complete, ready for instal-
lation, £29/15/-.
£37/10/-
MODEB 325
(MASEEIEEB CABINET)
6-valve A.C. Dual-Wave
Receiver for broadcast recep-
tion (200-550 metres ) or
world—wide A.C. recaption
(18-50 metres).
Price, £37/101-.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD,. 370
I'MXDKRS STREET, MELBOURNE.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Oliver J. Xilsen & Co., Rtd.,
•19 King William Street, Adelaide.-
DISTRIBUTORS
> 10W ZKA LAXJP: New Zealand Electric Equipment Ltd., Wakefield Chambers, Wellington, N.Z*
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Thomsons, Ltd., 671 Hay
Street, Perth; 51 Adelaide Street, Fremantle;
and at Kalgoorlie, Narrogin, Bnnbury.
Carlyle & Co., 915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. Grice, Ltd., 90 Queen Street,
Brisbane, and Branches at G.vmpie, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Maekay.
DARLING DOWNS: Rosenstengels Pty., Ltd.,
Rutliven Street, Toowoomba.
MODEL 310 (LAWRENCE CABINET).
3-Valve Dual-wove Battery Receiver /or
country listeners, l’rice, including batteries, & 33/tOi-
m
£29/15/-
MOPKL 365
(LAWRENCE CABINET).
5-Valve Dual-Wave A.C.
Receiver. Price, £2!)/15/-.
MODEL 350 lor A.C./D.C. recep-
tion, emoloyirif 6 valves.
Price, ' £3l/151-.
■
'M
'
■j
■
mm
£2l/17/6
MODEL 360
(GILBERT CABINET).
>-Valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver.
Price, £2l] 17/6.
MODEL 370 for A.C.ID.C.
-ecention. employing 6 valtet.
Price, £23]17!6.
m'
m::m
TASMA RADIOGRAM.
The Dunl-I’urposn Receiver of
outstanding beauty. A grace-
ful combination of dual-wave
receiver and all-electric ■phono-
graph.
COROXATIOX CABINET.
A new type of cabinet to ham*
the famous TASMA models.
Coronation P.cceivers an
specially for people for whom m
baby set is too small arul <M
console too large. The "in be-
tween” size of the Gotonawfb
fills their requirements.
in the fotlowino models: *’>
33 0, 360, SlO, 310, 375.
Tlie following well-known Tasmu Models are
as Tasma “Radiogram" Combination
360 5-Valve A.C. Broadcast Receiver
370 (i-Valve A.C./D.C. Broadcast Receiver
365 5-Valve A.C. Dual-Wave Receiver
310 5-Valve Battery Dual-Wave Receiver
350 6-Valve A.C./D.C. Dual-Wave Receiver ...
325 6-Valve A;C. Dual-Wave Receiver
335 0-Valve Battery Dual-Wave Receiver
330 7-Valve A.C./D.C. Dual-Wave Receiver ....
380 8-Valve A.C. Dual-Wave Receiver
now available
41 Guinea*
44 Guinea'
46 Guinea*
46 Guinea*
49 Guinea*
52 Guinea*
.53 Guinea*
57 Guinea*
59 Guinea*
