

STEEL WORKS
NEWCASTLE
AUS
A
RAL
T
m
fltllfillli
mmmm
lliiii
ii
BLAST FURNACE
PLANT
msmm&
m
m- 2
Hgj&i&i
3S ~ r ELECTRIC SHOVEL
LOADING 50TON
€*uarr¥ mmrnns
COAL STACKING
BRIME AT WORKS
58888
mm
oji§3 %
StEE*-
WON
List of Manufactures.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
FISHPLATES
BRIDGE AND
SLEEPER PLATES
PLATES
CHECKER PLATES
BEAMS
CHANNELS
SHEET PILING
ANGLES
TEES
SQUARES
ROUNDS
FLATS
OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEELS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
SLABS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALENE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
FOUNDRY COKE
COAL
BUNKER COAL
HOUSEHOLD COAL
“Quality Products ”
All Made in Australia.
OFCWt FLEET
Ihe BROKEN HILL
PROPRIETARY COMPANY LIMITED
Mine Owners, Ship Owners, Iron and Steei
Manufacturers and Colliery Proprietors
Offices:
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH and LONDON
iVorks: Newcastle (N.S.W.), Iron Knob (S.A.), Devonport (Tas.), Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
*\ s < <s' y/tS •* S yS V
The Bulletin
Vol. 58.—N0. 3009.
Wednesday, October 13, 1937.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
FOR 1937
is now ready and will be forwarded post free with
terms and particulars on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“The Block,” 424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
New Fiction.
Australian Philip Lindsay, notwithstanding 14
historical books, remains youthful. In his latest,
Gentle Harry Retires (Ivor Nicholson and Watson;
7s. 6d.), he has temporarily abandoned the Middle
Ages for the eighteenth century. His historical detail
is of the kind certified by Hogarth.
His hero, Gentleman Harry, fop, highwayman and
blackguard, whose history, including his transporta-
tion to Jamaica, is fully summarised, has a worthy
though less accomplished partner in villainy in Jem
Loxton. They both fall in love with the same woman,
Mrs. Patty, from the West Indies, a fair young
creature who can toss off brandy glass for glass with
any man and who is always attended by a gigantic
negro in gorgeous uniform.
Jem, his courage daunted by the qualities and
appearance of his friend and rival, abandons his suit
and contracts, through her unscrupulous mother, for
a marriage a la mode with a young girl. Gentleman
Harry and Mrs. Patty learn to their mutual surprise,
and under very unconventional circumstances, that
they are really father and daughter. Harry comes
at length to the gallows, where, realising an ambition
expressed in the book’s earlier pages, he “dies like a
gentleman.” Jem and Mrs. Patty end in each other’s
arms.
The period, both in high and low society, was
dissolute, and hygiene, whether personal or public, was
out of fashion. Lindsay makes sure that we are fully
apprised of this. We visit thieves’ kitchens where filth
is thick on the floor and the half-naked patrons of
both sexes scream curses at each other. We go to
gilded gambling halls and observe amid scenes of
splendor the depravity of the haut monde. Dialogue
is notable more for its directness than its delicacy.
Yet Gentleman Harry Retires is essentially a light
romance. The author favors “realism” in his detail,
but it is merely a garnish used in the same way as
other light romantics use perfume and sentiment.
In his latest book, Highland River (Porpoise
Press; 7s. 6d.), Neil M. Gunn has given his admirers
a companion piece to his Morning Tide. It is another
idyll of boyhood in the Highlands, written in a vein
of delicate, sensuous beauty, but entirely without dra-
matic quality.
The story is of Kenn, a fisherman’s younger son,
who grows up in a tiny village by a river mouth on
the coast of Caithness. The river was the great source
of excitement and adventure during his childhood
and youth. He joined the “ploys” of the other boys,
went poaching with his brothers and on his own
account, lived near to and on an equality with the wild
life of the coast and the braes, and dreamed the
days away. He was a clever boy, and won the
bursary that' carried him in the first year of the war,
when he was 17, to Glasgow University. He enlisted,
and fought until he was gassed and temporarily
blinded on the Sommef. He survived to return at last
to his native village. Now his parents are dead, his
brother Angus killed in the war, everything changed
except the braes and the river. In a pilgrimage to its
source he finds peace.
The events of the story are not told in this order.
The whole appears as a reminiscence in which the
author collaborated with Kenn. Now it is taken
up in one voice, now in the other. The narrative
is never wholly within the period of which it is
treating. There is a series of pictures, each complete
in itself, and they are played off against each other.
Scenes of bloodshed and horror from the war are
interleaved between idylls of childhood and adven-
tures of boyhood.
A conscious record of Highland life among the
very poor but very independent fishermen and crofters,
it has some character in common with such work as
Maurice O’Sullivan’s Twenty Years A-growing or
the film “Man of Arran.”
In Windless Sky (Hogarth Press ; 7s. d 6.) Fritz
Faulkner has written a very curious book. The set-
ting is in one of the southern States of America; the
date, left to the reader’s imagination, is uncertain. It
might be 10 years ago or a hundred.
The story is of a large family ruled patriarchally
by the father, Lewis Hedman. The author picks up
character after character, makes them visible and
puts them aside.
The longer you think of the book the more you
find in it. Out of its obscurity a story slowly rises
to the surface, intricate and complex, belying the
vagueness of its telling. You sense, rather than learn,
the father’s tyranny veiled in his goodness, the
hypocrisy of Karl which is yet goodness too, the
futile rebellion of Emma and William, Emma’s half-
perverse love for an outlaw boy and what became
of it.
Windless Sky is a book full of treasures for those
who care to take a little trouble. The prose is too
smooth, yet, when you are used to it, strangely
lulling. Some of the natural descriptions are beautiful.
H. E. Bates, whose latest book of stories wears
the title Something Short and Sweet (Cape ; Moore’s
Bookshop ; 7s. 6d.), is a master of the short-story
form, but after closing his book it is difficult not to
wonder why so many of his stones end in disaster.
We have a story of an aged couple toiling in
intense heat to harvest their little patch of barley.
A thunderstorm comes along, drenches them and ruins
the crop. There is the story of an anaemic young
woman and a pimply-faced young man out selling
“Day of Judgment” literature and chalking texts on
walls and fences. The girl is making love covertly
to the unheeding youth, who tells her at the end of
the day, when she is about ready to weep with
exasperation, to write “God is Love” on a gate.
There is the tale of a circus midget who falls hope-
lessly in love with the gigantic proprietor. Another
might have been entitled “How She Became a Gin-
soak.” There is a sex-starved spinster who commits
suicide because the man she secretly loves goes out
with a flapper.
The only serious story that does not end in gloom
is one about a young woman who comes, after much
tribulation, to understand the true nature of her
interest in another young woman ; she at least has
hopes of the future.
All these stories are very well told. They are
true to life as far as they go. But they grow out of
the false notion that life is something to be continu-
ally measured in terms of its mishaps.
F.D.D.
"BULLETIN" LITERARY
COMPETITIONS.
No award having been made in the S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize competition for 1937, the prize next
year—if a novel good enough to reach the standard
that has been set is submitted —will be £2OO.
It is a condition of the award that £lOO goes
towards the encouragement of Australian writers and
recognition of Australian literature every year. If
the award is not made in any year the amount is
added to the Prize for the next year. The judges this
year considered that no novel had been submitted
measuring up to the standard.
That standard is one Australian writers have set
up for themselves —Kylie Tennant, with her clear
picture of a slice of Australian life, Tiburon, the first
year, and Miles Franklin, with her notable historical
novel, All That Swagger, in 1936.
The trustees of the S. H. Prior Memorial Prize
believe that Australian literature can be best served
by keeping the standard as high as that, and raising it.
The competition closes on June 6, 1938. This
year it is again being restricted to novels. Conditions
can be had on application to the secretary, S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, 252 George-
street, Sydney.
The other of The Bulletin’s current literary
competitions is that for screen stories. This is being
run in conjunction with Cinesound Productions, Ltd.
These are the producers of, among other things that
are helping to get film-making on its feet in Australia,
the picture “Tall Timbers,” now doing the rounds
and containing some authentic glimpses of life in
Australian timber-getting country.
Cinesound offers a special prize of £lOO for a
story suitable for adaptation as a screen play—one
that an entertaining film can be made out of. Cine-
sound also undertakes to buy stories other than the
prize-winner which may be suitable for filming.
Along with this The* Bulletin offers prizes of
£3O, £l5 and £5 for the best stories submitted in this
competition, with an extra prize of £5 for the best
brief story. No story must exceed 6500 words; the
brief story is limited to 1500 words. Any of the
stories accepted for publication in The Bulletin will
be paid for at Bulletin rates whether they win prizes
or not.
That fully explains this competition, but those
in need of further details can get them by applying to
The Bulletin. The closing date for the Screen Story
Competition is January 31, 1938. Entries should be
addressed: Short Story Competition, c/o The Bulle-
tin, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
A TRIO OF MEDICAL WRITERS .
In Health and a Day (Dent and Sons, Ltd.; 7s.
6d.), Lord Horder, Physician-in-Ordinary to
presents a collection of a dozen addresses delivered
to his brother-peers in the Lords, medical students,
wireless listeners and even the Women’s Club of
Kansas City.
Horder wants to see a halt called in the
craze for elaborate mechanical aids in diag-
nosis and treatment and a -return to the simple but
eagle-eyed methods of the older physicians. He dis-
counts the real value of many of the shining and im-
pressive machines which give a surgery the look of
a battleship’s engine-room.
Horder thinks the nature and incidence of human
disease have changed through the years. The
“sweating sickness” of Tudor times killed 10,000
in 10 days during one outbreak. Anne Boleyn
nearly died of it; and Henry VIII., not liking
the look of things, made his will, took the sacrament
and fled to the country, telling Anne that he would
be glad to pay half the doctor’s bill.
The “sweating sickness,” whatever it was, no
longer murders nations. Bubonic plague, typhus,
cholera, smallpox have been defeated; typhoid fever
is almost unknown in modern towns; bad epidemics
of diphtheria, scarlet fever and measles are never
seen. .
In place of these we have now to fight the in-
crease in affections of the heart and blood vessels ; the
figures for diabetes have rocketed skywards, and so
have those of cancer. Some of the newer drugs may
kill as well as cure, and the wider use of X-rays and
radium has led to many disasters. There is now a
huge army of occupational diseases our fathers never
knew, and the viruses which give us infantile paralysis,
influenza and common colds are still at the top of
their form.
Dr. Rosalie Slaughter Morton (A Woman Sur-
geon ; Robert Hale, Ltd. ; 12s. 6d.) is the daughter
of an old Virginian family in which 17 descendants
in the direct line and 52 in collateral branches were
doctors. Brushing aside her relatives’ objections, she
graduated in 1893, and later studied in Germany,
France and England. She has rubbed shoulders
with Tolstoy, Ibsen, Mark Twain; she knows the
China of the Boxer Rebellion, and she helped to stamp
out plague in India. Her brain and energy were
responsible for the American Women’s Hospitals
during 1917 in France and Macedonia, and for the
registration of some seven thousand women doctors
for military service.
In Serbia Dr. Morton is a national heroine. She
knew, at first hand, the horrors of the Great Retreat,
and made herself a sort of Dr. Florence Nightingale.
This woman of boundless energy visited Australia in
1923 for the Pan-Pacific Congress, stayed at Govern-
ment House with her old Newfoundland friends, the
Davidsons, and carried away with her a crate or two
of books, a gift from the late George Robertson.
The Medical Essays of Professor Jonathan
Meakins (Angus and Robertson; 10s. 6d.) were
recently delivered in Sydney to a post-graduate audi-
ence. The essays are a bit too bony for the non-
professional reader; they deal in a technical way
with the latest discoveries in the treatment of the
anaemias, of heart failure and similar high matters.
The only section of the book’s contents likely to be
plain sailing to most people is that on the mystery
of growth ; read it if you wish to know why, when
something goes wrong with a small gland about the
size of a pea, you may be either an eight-foot giant
or a two-foot dwarf.
F.J. BRIDGES.
WESTRALIAN CRIME STORIES.
In Who Rides ? (Lovat Dickson ; 10s. 6d.), H. E.
Graves, late officer-in-charge Criminal Record Office,
Perth, gives his version of a number of Westralia’s
notable criminal happenings. As he records them
they lose nothing in the telling.
He tells, for instance, the story of an Italian house-
hold in which a boarder paid the wife attentions that
were undesired by her and resented very much by
the husband, but tolerated by both because his money
was needed in the home. Describing the last occasion
on which the boarder made advances to the wife, he
says: “At the time, remember, Concetta’s husband
was not far away.” He goes on to describe how the
boarder was subsequently found dead by the police,
stabbed in seventy-three places with a great fish-
knife. After being struck once, he had fled from
his assailant and locked himself in his room, but the
door had been battered down by his furious attacker.
The author imagines how he felt when the door gave
way, and once again he saw “the knife” coming for
him. Then a surprise: “The husband was not within
half a mile when the killing took place.”
The story is adorned with a photo, of the knife
with grisly stains adhering, and other stories are
enlivened with pictures of the corpse, and so forth.
Who Rides ? dates from 1925 to 1935, and gives
inside views of matters ranging from the killing of
Inspector Walsh and Sergeant Pitman by illicit gold-
buyers in 1926 to the Kalgoorlie riots over the em-
ployment of aliens in mines.
Trouble Trail: Max Brand (Hodder and Stough-
ton ; 7s. 6d.). Larry was going strong as an outlaw
until he fell in love with the sheriff’s daughter. How
he was gaoled and how his nobler attributes earned
him a pardon and proved him worthy of her love.
Perry’s Cows: Margaret lies (Gollancz; 7s. 6d.).
Feuds between Essex villagers. Old Perry defends him-
self against neighbors who want to drain their land
into his cow pond. Has the feel of the earth, but is
rather shapeless and moves heavily.
And No Quarter: Maurice Walsh (Angus and
Robertson). Deals with the adventures of Martin
Somers, skilled swordsman, surgeon and adjutant in
O’Cahan’s Irish regiment which took part in the wars
in Scotland in the middle of the seventeenth century.
A stirring and well-written story of adventure.
Rangers is Powerful Hard to Kill: Caddo
Cameron (Ward, Lock ; 7s. 6d.). Badger Coe and
Blizzard Wilson, rangers, come to Casato to clean
out the rustlers. The popping of pistols gives way at
length to the tap of the undertaker’s hammer knock-
ing up coffins for bad men.
French Girl: Arthur Mills (Collins; 7s. 6d,).
Young Parisian demimondaine and how his asso-
ciation with her brought a promising young English-
man to penury. The writer achieves a risque yam
without sacrificing a conventional outlook.
The Rising Tide: M. J. Farrell (Collins; 7s. 6d.).
English county setting. How two women are defeated
by the traditions of the family into which they marry.
Fairly well done, but rather heavy going in the first
half, where the writer asks us to take the characters
seriously and at the same time be amused at their
quaint Edwardian ways.
A t Last the Island: Margaret Lane (Heinemann ;
7s. 6d.). An English novelist, his family and one or
two acquaintances sampling the simple life on a Medi-
terranean island. A pleasant tale of small happenings
eked out with a little humor and topped off with a
love match.
Behold the Woman!: T. Everett Harre (Jarrolds;
Moore’s Bookshop ; Bs. 6d.). Fair and much-courted
harlot of Alexandria who was cruel to men, perse-
cuted Christians —even to taking a hand in the flog-
gings—and was at length led in gentleness to the
Faith. Seems to be well informed on the historical
side. Style, lushly romantic.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — Always.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
THE SENIOR STORE.
LOW PRICES
KEEP YOUR HOME COOL
WITH
VENETIAN BLINDS
• THEY CAN BE PAINTED ANY COLOUR.
■.jane.**
&
M
m
.* ,r
ttui.'
**
mm
JfiHVfc-f'
assay.-i
u.
INSIDE VENETIAN BLINDS
The coolest, airiest type of Blind you could possibly buy for summer time
comfort .. . and one that means restful privacy. Anthony Horderns’
OUTSIDE VENETIAN BLINDS
Outside Venetian Blinds are also cooling. These are painted to any colour.
Price 2/1 square foot. Minimum size 14 square feet. Price 29/2 each.
And we will send our expert fitter to measure and advise. Estimates free.
H
HINDOW
II
SCREENS
uli M
Price, Price,
Galvanised Gauze. Bronze Gauze.
r*T.
i
i©
m
■■■
si'i
*
ri
fcs>
G^f
m
<o\
a
if
-S"'
m
5,^
No. i.
Oft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. ..
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. <Sin. ..
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOiii
7ft. x 3ft.
Price,,
Galvanised Gauze.
J3/6
14/3
15/-
15/9
Price,
Bronze Gauze.
19/9
21/-
23/3
34/-
wi n oe outsiae
when ANTHONY HORDERNS
have fitted
FLY PROOF
DOORS
and WINDOW SCREENS
Make a selection from 1 8 various
designs in Fly-proof Doors. They
will be made to any size required.
Anthony Horderns’ fitters will
measure and fix Fly-proof Doors
or Window Screens at small extra
ESTIMATES FREE
Anthony Horderns’ Fly-proof Doors are
Strongly Made with Seasoned Timber
1
m
mm*
m
ss®
m
m
i m
w
No. 2.
Price, Galv’d Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 15/0
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. .. 16/9
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 17/6
7ft. x 3ft. 18/3
Price, Bronze Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 21/6
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. .. 22/6
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 23/9
7ft. x 3ft. 25/9
No. 5.
Price, Galv’d Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 23/3
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin... 24/-
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 24/9
7ft. x 3ft 25/9
Price, Bronze Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 28/9
6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. .. 30/-
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 31/-
7ft. x 3ft 33/-
m
i,' /
II
* m
il
I):
mm
m
/ >
1
No. 6.
Price, Galv’d Gauze.
6ft. 6in. s 2ft. 6in. .. 19/-
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Bin. .. 19/9
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 20/6
7ft. x 3ft 19/9
Price, Bronze Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 22/6
6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Bin. .. 23/3
Oft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 24/6
7ft. x 3ft 25/9
No. 7.
Price, Galv’d Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 17/6
6ft. Bin. x 2ft. Sin. .. 18/6
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 19/-
7ft. X 3ft 19/9
Price, Bronze Gauze.
6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. .. 22/9
6ft. Sin. x 2ft. Sin. .. 24/-
6ft. lOin. x 2ft. lOin. 25/3
7ft. x 3ft. 27/3
# Blinds —Third Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY ’Phone M 2401, Day and Night


A Light-Hearted Serial
NO TRAIN ON TUESDAY
By J.B.BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
AUTHOR’S NOTE:
As far as 1 am aware there is no town
of Terrigan either inside or outside N.S.W.
If there is a hillygoat named Baldy I have
never met him, and any resemblance which
he or any other persons may find in the story
to himself or themselves is entirely fortuitous.
CHAPTER XVI.
SEg ARLY in the afternoon of the Saturday fol-
S|Jj lowing Coronation Day, Mr. Buckenara was
for the second time that week surprised by
the unexpected arrival of a train.
“There’s a train coming!” announced
Tom, the porter, poking his head into his
chief’s office.
This time Buckenara did not argue, but hastened
out to see for himself. His face was a study in
mingled bewilderment and pleasure.
“What’s the strong of it?” inquired Tom.
“I don’t know, unless they’re giving us back the
one-forty they stopped two years ago.”
The two stood in silence waiting the arrival of
the unexpected train. Presently it steamed into the
station and pulled up. The guard stepped on to the
platform and approached the two. No one else
alighted and it was apparent that all the carriages were
empty.
“What’s the idea? What are you doing here?”
asked the stationmaster.
“We just came down here.to turn the engine
round,” replied the guard.
“Turn her round? What for?”
“To go back.”
“Where?”
“To Sydney.”
Buckenara was bewildered.
The phlegmatic Tom took on the role of infor-
mation seeker. “Wotcher come down empty for?”
“We didn’t.”
“Well, where are your passengers?”
“They all got out at Thatcher’s Siding.”
“Why? What the hell are they going to do
there?”
“Camp there.”
“Camp! Who were they?”
“The troops.”
“The troops!” gasped Mr. Buckenara, coming to
life again. “What troops?”
“All of ’em. Generals and privates and foot-
sloggers and machine-gunners. We brought ’em all.
The tanks and artillery are coming by road.”
“Tanks! Artillery! What are they doing down
here?”
The guard knew all about the state of affairs in
Terrigan. He also enjoyed the reputation he had
painfully earned of being what his female relations
described as “a one for his little joke.”
“Well, I did hear the General say to one of his
officers that before the week-end was out he’d blow
the town to smithereens. Course, he might’ve been
joking ; or he might’ve meant some other town.”
While this conversation was in progress the engine
had manoeuvred around into position at the other end of
the train, and was now hissing its eagerness to depart.
“I’ll tell you what,” said the guard as he stepped
aboard. “I’ll ask the General as a special favor not
to shell the Royal. Then you'll be safe enough.”
The unwelcome train had steamed out again
before Mr. Buckenara had time to recover his com-
posure. Then he turned to Tom in panic. “Did you
hear that, Tom? Troops at Thatcher’s Siding! What’s
it mean?”
“He was just kidding,” replied Tom. “Thinks
he’s funny, that’s all.”
“D’you think that’s all he was doing then —just
joking?”
“Yes.”
“Then what'was the train doing down here?”
“Blessed if I know,” said Tom. “Seems to me
trains just come and go when they feel like it lately.”
“Anyway, joking or not, I’m going to report it,”
said Mr. Buckenara.
With this patriotic motive in mind he set out
straightway for the Hotel Royal, leaving Tom to
explain to the growing stream of inquirers the whys
and wherefores of the mysterious train.
Such members of the Cabinet as were gathered
at the Royal were inclined to take the same attitude
as Tom.
“He’s pulling your leg,” said Mr. Mutton. “Come
on, have a whisky and forget it.”
“I don’t know,” maintained the Railways Com-
missioner doubtfully. “I reckon he meant it.”
, “Nonsense,” put in Mr. Napper. “If the Com-
monwealth really sent troops, and I don’t for one
moment think it would, they’d come right into Terri-
gan, not stop two miles away.”
Others were of a like mind —but not for long.
It is not on record who brought the news to
Terrigan. The young man who burst into the lounge
to tell the Ministry was too excited and the Ministers
were too astoupded to worry about the identity of
their informant.
“They’re going to bombard us,” he burst out.
“They’ve got their guns trained on the town arid
they’re going to wipe us out!”
“I knew it was right,” said Buckenara. “You
thought that guard was pulling my leg, but I knew it
was right.”
“Steady on,” Napper told the young man. “Calm
down. Now, what’s this all about?”
The messenger of destruction spoke a little more
coherently. It appeared that several eyewitnesses had
seen soldiers—“thousands of them, with guns and all”
—preparing their camp on Thatcher’s property, less
than two miles from Terrigan. Thatcher’s southern
boundary fence ran along the boundary of Terrigan
shire.
Napper and co. immediately left the hotel to seek
corroboration This was not hard to find. Already
the news had swept through the town, growing more
lurid in detail as it went. A whole squadron of bomb-
ing ’planes had been seen hidden in the undergrowth!
Scores of cylinders of poison gas had been unloaded
at Thatcher’s, and orders had been issued to the
soldiers that no quarter was to be given even to women
and children.
Out of all this mass of rumor one fact stood
clear—that a number of troops was definitely
encamped on Thatcher’s property, for what purpose
no one could say.
The usual quota of week-end visitors was in
Terrigan, but most of them were out riding, fishing
or golfing. A large number was at the Sports Ground
watching a football match. Those who were left in
the town had caught the feeling from the townsfolk,
and many were talking of leaving Terrigan immedi-
ately.
It stands to Mr. Napper’s credit that he at once
took the situation in hand and did his best to
allay the fears of the women, who seemed certain
that at any moment the buzz of hostile ’planes would
be heard overhead. From the steps of the School of
Arts he delivered an impassioned speech calling on
the citizens to stand firm in the face of the threatened
danger. True, he pointed out, the troops were within
two miles of Terrigan, but they were not yet upon
Terrigan soil and there was no proof that they ever
would be.
“No British Army,” he said, “even in these aban-
doned days would dream of shelling a defenceless town
without an ultimatum. There is no need to be afraid
merely because a few soldiers are camped on our
borders. When the guns begin to boom, that will be
the time to fear. That will be the time to run for
shelter. But now, while the enemy is at our gates, we
must stand firm and untrembling and prove ourselves
worthy of the independence we claim. We must not
shrink”
There was a distant rumble, as of thunder, and
a shudder ran through the crowd.
“We must not by word or action give them cause
to think we are afraid”
The rumbling increased in volume and intensity.
It could almost be called a boom. Napper’s audience
looked at one another in dismay.
The schoolmaster continued desperately.
“Shoulder to shoulder we must stand, remembering
that united we stand, divided”
A loud boom took away any desire the crowd
may have had to learn what would happen if they
divided. It is idle to ask who fled first. One moment
Mr. Napper was addressing a large concourse, and the
next he was afforded a first-class view of the rear
portions of their anatomies as they rushed helter-
skelter for the protection of their homes. Napper
gazed after them in astonishment. So intent had he
been on his speech that he had not noticed the sounds
which had caused his audience to vanish so suddenly.
His backers, who surrounded him on the steps, had
noticed, but taking their cue from Napper they stood
firm, though by no means untrembling.
“What’s wrong with the fools?” demanded
Napper.
“It’s the guns,” stammered Mr. Mutton. “We’re
being bombarded.”
“Nonsense.”
“Can’t you hear them?”
The rumbling broke out again, and Napper was
forced to admit that he could hear something.
“Sounds like thunder,” he said, but he didn’t
sound as if he believed himself.
“N-no! They’re shelling us. We’ll be wiped out.”
“They’ll have to improve their aim,” replied
Napper. “They haven’t hit the town yet.”
“But they’ll get the range presently. Don’t you
think we should take shelter?”
“Shelter? Don’t be foolish! Do you suggest
that we are afraid? Bombardment! Rot! Still, I
think it would be more dignified to discuss the situ-
ation in the hall than in the street.”
THE discussion proved rather lengthy, and when it
was finished the sound of firing had ceased and
the inhabitants of Terrigan were once more in the
streets.
With Chief Man Peperell at his home several miles
away, and Jerry Bannister and Hiram Pettigrew out
for a spin in the country (accompanied by Sally),
Napper and Mutton had had things very much their
own way. They had decided to send a deputation to
Thatcher’s Siding to find out the intentions of the
investing army. They would lead the deputation, and
they had chosen two others to accompany them.
Napper had just addressed a few more reassuring
remarks to the crowd from the running-board of the
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE REVOLT.
Terrigan, a small N.S.W. South Coast town, ■
has had its Tuesday train service discontinued;
at a meeting of protest the people of the dis-
trict decide to secede from New South Wales
and the Commonwealth.
Prominent figures in the new Dominion
are :
Hiram Pettigrew, an American million-
aire pickle-manufacturer, who has guaranteed
Terrigan’s share of the national debt.
Jerry Bannister, a young lawyer; he
started the whole thing as a joke. Sir Hamish
McTaggart, a staunch Jacobite, Governor of
Terrigan; he believes the appointment came
from Rupert {“the King-over-the-water”).
Pettigrew’s daughter Sally.
Mr. Napper, the schoolmaster; Mr.
Peperell, the shire president (now Chief Man):
the postmaster, Mr. Mutton ; Bannister
senior, the bank manager; and the station -
master, Mr. Buckenara, all of them Ministers
of the Dominion of Terrigan.
In Sydney and Canberra the Governments
are perturbed at the possibilities of the revolt.
To complicate matters, the Prime Minister and
the Minister for Defence are in London for
the Coronation celebrations. Canberra deter-
mines to hold the annual militia training camps
just outside Terrigan, hoping to bluff the rebels
into withdrawing their Proclamation.


:ar which was to carry the deputation when Sir Hamish
arrived in a state of great excitement.
“We must rally th’ clans, mon,” he said to Napper.
“We must raise the standard an’ send oot the fiery
cross !•”
The rumors had reached Inverbannock, and he had
come quickly across with Angus at his heels. The
schoolmaster assured him that matters were not yet so
serious as that.
“These gentlemen and myself are going out to
investigate the rumor,” he told the Governor in loud
tones. “We hope to be able to bring back news that
all is well. If we do not return, we know, Sir Hamish,
that Terrigan will follow you to a man.”
The driver of the car had started the engine, and
amid its roar the most noble portion of his harangue
was lost, but the crowd loyally cheered him to the echo.
“Ah’ll come wi’ ye,” said the Laird.
The schoolmaster respectfully but firmly insisted
that the job was one for the Government, not the
King’s representative, and Sir Hamish reluctantly
agreed. Napper scrambled into the car, and it moved
off.
As the car approached the military encampment
a white sheet which had been hastily commandeered
was produced and waved ostentatiously. Just short
of the line of tents the driver pulled up and the depu-
tation stepped out.
“We wish to see your Commanding Officer,” said
Napper to the private who challenged him. They
were led some distance, told to wait outside a large
tent, and were then bidden to enter.
The officer stood up as they approached. After
the exchange of formalities the schoolmaster began:
“We represent the Government of the Dominion of
Terrigan. We have not received any ultimatum, or,
indeed, a communication of any kind, from the Com-
monwealth Government, and we wish to know your
intentions.”
Fortunately the Commanding Officer was a good-
humored warrior and he took no offence at the
demand. He knew that Terrigan had proclaimed its
independence, but he refrained from smiling at
Napper’s lofty attitude.
“Well, sir,” he replied, “my men are not camped
within the boundaries of Terrigan, so I don’t see that
you have any reasonable right to insist upon an answer
to that question.”
“I have every right,” Napper returned. “We have
women and children in our town, and the interests of
humanity demand that you tell us what you intend
to do.”
“What on earth have your women and children
got to do with me? I’m only concerned with my men
and to see that they get the utmost value out of this
trip. The experience should be invaluable to them.”
“Experience! ” stammered Napper in amazement.
“You mean to tell me you count the lives of women
and children of no importance except for the experi-
ence their slaughter will give your men? Why”
“What the devil are you talking about?”
The Commanding Officer turned to the other
members of the deputation. “What’s the fellow mean?
I’ve brought my men down here for a fortnight’s
training camp and he’s talking about slaughter! Is
he mad?”
Napper stood dumbfounded whilst Mutton en-
deavored to explain. Presently he broke in: “But
do you really mean that? Is this really just a training
camp? You haven’t been sent down because of our
Proclamation?”
“My dear chap, annual training camps com-
menced to-day all over Australia. We’ve no more
intention of attacking your town than we have of
invading America.”
“But the guns we heard a short time ago?”
“Just artillery practice. Quite harmless—we were
shooting in the opposite direction to your town and
there was no one within miles.”
The deputation returned in triumph to Terrigan.
Napper in his speech from the School of Arts steps
assumed almost the air of a conqueror, and a large
portion of the crowd went home with the firm con-
viction that the town had been saved from destruction
by his efforts alone.
LATER in the afternoon Jerry and the Pettigrews
returned to the town and were soon apprised of
the latest developments.
Jerry was worried.
“That’s bad,” he commented.
“Nothing to worry about,” replied Napper and
Mutton in concert.
“Oh, yes, there is,” said Jerry. “This is serious.”
“Not at all! There’s no harm meant. It’s just
a training camp.”
“Maybe, but why is it held just outside Terrigan?
They’ve never camped down here before, have they?
D’you think it’s just a coincidence?”
“Yes, I suppose it is,” said Napper a trifle doubt-
fully. “It’s good country for manoeuvres, the Major
told me.”
“It must be very good for them to have made up
their minds at such short notice.”
“What d’you mean?”
“Up till three days ago they were going to Liver-
pool and Holdsworthy. I saw it in the ‘Thunderer’ on
Tuesday. What made them change their minds so
suddenly?”
Neither Napper nor Mutton was able to find an
answer to this question.
Jerry continued. “George Brown told us Gage
was furious when he got the Proclamation. He and
Bengers have arranged this. They know better than
to send an active force against us. They know as
well as we do that the papers and the public would
raise too great an outcry. But this is shrewd. They’re
trying to intimidate us without actually doing anything
the press can object to. Bengers thought it out, I’ll
bet.”
“You mean they’ve sent the troops down here for
their camp hoping to bluff us into withdrawing the
Proclamation?” asked Mutton.
“Yes. They hope we’ll take the hint.”
“Gee! That’s shrewd! Clever fellow, Bengers.”
At a hastily summoned meeting of Cabinet, Jerry
repeated his suspicions, and Peperell and the others
were soon convinced that he was on the right track.
Most of the Ministers were at a loss for a plan of
action. Jerry felt himself that it was the beginning
of the end, but could not quite see how he could put
this viewpoint to the others. The Minister for Educa-
tion and Propaganda, however, had been pondering
deeply on the matter since the afternoon. He now
produced a plan.
“I take it,” he said, “that if the troops had
marched into the Dominion and tried to subdue us by
force we would have resisted them?”
Chief Man Peperell looked uncomfortable. He,
too, felt that all was up, but he lacked the courage
to take the initiative immediately. Had he done so he
might have swung the majority. He remained silent
while most of his colleagues agreed with Napper that
they would have been prepared to defend Terrigan to
the last ditch.
“Then,” continued Napper, “there is no need for
us to change our tactics. We can still fight them with
their own weapons. We were prepared to meet force
with force. We must now meet guile with guile.”
“Be more definite,” urged Peperell.
“Well, they have planted troops on our border to
intimidate us. We must raise and train troops here
to show we are not to be intimidated. They don’t
intend to fight, and neither do we. But if they intend
to pretend that they intend to fight, then we must
“It’s the guns. We’re being bombarded .”
pretend a similar intention. Let them see us drilling
our troops. What’ll they do then?”
Mr. Peperell suggested that it might spur the
enemy on to invasion, but Napper deprecated the idea.
“As Bannister has pointed out,” he said, “the
Commonwealth daren’t attempt bloodshed. Quite
apart from anything else, the Government has an
election to think of. They daren’t use force against
us.”
“Then what do you think they’d do?”
“They’d have to withdraw the troops and think
of something else. Probably send Bengers home to
talk to the Privy Council about it. Anyhow, they
couldn’t keep the troops down here long. It’s only
the annual fortnight’s camp, and if they keep them
down here longer people will want to know why.”
“I don’t go much on diplomacy,” remarked Hiram
Pettigrew, “but it seems to me there’s some horse-
sense in that.”
Mr. Napper bowed.
“Me and Napper’s not always agreeing,” con-
tinued the American, “and there’s some of his fool
plans I reckon’s plumb crazy, but this one sounds the
real Mackay to me.”
Jerry, too, was forced to admit that Napper’s
scheme had much to commend it.
Chief Man Peperell protested that he still thought
such a course would provoke reprisals, but the rest of
the Cabinet were in agreement with the plan.
“We must rush it through Parliament on Mon-
day,” said Napper. “Meantime we can go right ahead
with the details. Drill, physical culture and rifle
practice for a start. Skirmishing and manoeuvres
later. To make it more realistic, we’ll have sentries
and frontier guards posted at night.”
Mr. Peperell, seeing that it was useless to argue
any further, became suddenly enthusiastic. “And
coastguards at Terrigan Bay.”
“Certainly.”
“There’ll be a way out, all right,” said Jerry.
“I suppose you’ll turn State evidence and frame it
up that pop was trying to annex Terrigan and hang it
on to the United States. Not that that wouldn’t
serve him right for being such a sap. Mind you
think up a good one,” she concluded. “I’m tired.
I’m going to bed. ’Night, pop.”
After she had gone Pettigrew turned to Bannister.
“Don’t take any notice of her, buddy. Sally doesn’t
understand business. Her mother was just the same.
No idea. I don’t like some of the guys that’s with
us in this show, but the scheme’s O.K. That money
of mine is as safe as a bank.”
“No, she’s about right,” said Jerry dejectedly. “I
did start it for a joke, as I told you before, and I
didn’t know where it would lead. It’s been fun,
exciting fun, having to move a step at a time, and
counter any move the other side made. But now I
can’t see the next move.”
“Why, it’s as plain as your nose. We start drilling
men to bluff ’em.”
“That’s only putting it off. All sorts of things
are going to crop up.”
“But the papers are all on our side.”
This was substantially correct. Coronation Day
news had almost filled the Australian dailies for the
past few days, but most of them found some small
space for discussion of Terrigan’s Declaration of Inde-
pendence, and through virtually every article ran a
current of approval, either expressed or implied, fot
the action of the town. The restoration of the Tuesday
train was almost entirely disregarded, although the
“Thunderer” did mention it with the comment:
Now that the bone of contention has been removed
it is devoutly to be hoped that saner counsels will prevail
and Terrigan will withdraw its effort to cut the painter
that binds it to the Mother State and to the Common-
wealth.
“Yes,” agreed Jerry, “they’re all on our side, but
they won’t be for long. Don’t forget the train is
“There's another thing,” added Peperell. “Now
that we know it’s just a routine camp, we should offer
our hospitality to the troops.” .
“Quite so,” broke in Napper. “A friendly gesture
to a fellow-Dominion.”
It was decided to send an open invitation to
Thatcher’s Siding asking that the troops be permitted
to visit Terrigan when off duty, and promising them a
good reception.
< I T DON’T like the look of it,” said Jerry a short
* while later, when he was seated with Sally and
Hiram in the latter’s room at the Royal.
“It’s all right, son,” replied Pettigrew. “Every-
thing’s going along swell.”
“Too swell to be pleasant,” Jerry told him. “Those
troops aren’t down here for fun.”
“Don’t get hot about that. Who cares what the heck
they’re here for. It’s good publicity! That’s what
matters to us. And it’s good business for Terrigan.
All those doughboys back there—they’re gonna spend
their spare cash in this joint, and they’re gonna tell
their folks about it when they get home again. Ain’t
that good f’r us? Won’t it bring more tourist-folk
down here?”
“I suppose it will, but where’s the business going
to end?”
“It would have been a lot better for some people
if some other people had thought of that before they
started the business,” said Sally.
“Now, see here, Sally,” retorted her father
heatedly. . “You don’t understand this argument. This
is business, and you don’t know nothing about it. You
keep out. See?”
“I’m not criticising you, pop. You came in cold
because you were so mad about those cops. But
some people started the show just for fun—just to
see what it would lead to.”
“I say, Sally, that’s not fair,” protested Jerry.
Sally continued relentlessly. “Well, now they’re
getting scared, those smart guys that set it going.
They’re not sure where they are. Well, it’s up to them
to find a wav out.”


running again, so we’ve really got no valid excuse for
seceding at all. And complications are going to
spring up. Take Customs. We can’t very well put up
a tariff against Australia. And we can’t turn free-
trade because we would never be able to prevent
things being smuggled into New South Wales through
our territory. So we’ll just have to accept Australia’s
tariff laws. And postage. We can’t issue stamps be-
cause no country would honor them. We’ll still have
to use Australian stamps.”
“Um-m.”
“And there’s England. She’ll want to know a bit
about Sir Hamish, who’s supposed to be representing
her.”
“Supposed to be? Say, buddy, what d’you mean?
Ain’t he on the square?”
The young solicitor explained briefly. Pettigrew
whistled. “Say, that sure is a racket. How are you
gonna get out of that?”
“I can smuggle Sir Hamish out peaceably, at a
pinch, I think. And I think it can be done without
hurting his feelings, too.”
“Does a guy like that have feelings? What was
that you called him?”
“A Jacobite.”
Hiram chuckled. “Jacobite, eh? Well, that’s the
darndest thing I’ve heard of. And that gold-darned
old piper. Is he one, too?”
“Yes, rather.”
“He hasn’t got any feelings, has he?”
“Lord knows. Pinch his bagpipes and see.”
Hiram was silent for a few moments. Then he
asked. “Supposing this revolution was called off.
What do you reckon would happen in this burg?”
“In what way?” *
“Tourists —and property, real estate.”
Jerry considered awhile. “It’s hard to say. I
have thought all along that if once we got the people
we’d be able to keep them. The town has a good
climate, a few beauty spots, and most of the attrac-
tions the usual tourist resorts possess. The town is
tourist-minded now, and has learnt how to cater for
them. With reasonable advertising it should be able
to keep it up.”
“That’s the way I figure it out, too. I’m not
scared of the dough I’ve put into the joint at all. I
reckon it’s safe.”
“Then you’re in favor of calling the secession
movement off?”
Hiram stood up. “No, sir! Not on your sweet
life. You’re kinda forgetting I didn’t come into this
to make money. I joined in to get my own back on
those smart alicks that tried to blister me. That’s
why I came in. And I’m going to stay in!”
“That’s all very well. The people that made the
trouble for you were the Sydney police. Your grudge
is against them. But it’s the Commonwealth I’m
worrying about. They’re the people we’re up against
now. They had nothing to do with taking the train
away and they had nothing to do with all those police
charges against you.”
“Aw, those Governments are all the same,”
grumbled Hiram. “All tarred with the same brush.
And, besides, I’m not gonna let Sally think she’s talked
me out of this. I’m gonna show her the old man’s
still got a head for business.”
The idea of coming out of the matter in a favor-
able light for Sally’s sake counted considerably with
Jerry, too. He felt that Terrigan’s position was untenable
and that a climb-down of some kind was necessary,
but he was endeavoring to think up a plan which
would solve the difficulty without making the town
and its leaders appear too ridiculous. He felt that to
go on was impossible, yet a meek surrender would
mean letting the town down and letting himself down
both in Sally’s eyes and in his own conscience.
After he left Mr. Pettigrew and went to his own
room he turned the matter over and over in his mind.
Surely there was some alternative which would prove
satisfactory to the Commonwealth and to Terrigan, yet
would permit him to come out of the affair, if not
with flying colors, then at least with his head held
reasonably high!
ON Sunday afternoon the men from the camp took
full advantage of Terrigan’s invitation and poured
into the town in large numbers. Uniforms were some-
what of a novelty in Terrigan and, judging by the
friendliness of the Terrigan maidens towards their
wearers, a welcome novelty.
At the Sports Ground, where the weekly ritual of
reading the Proclamation was being gone through,
Terrigan damsels clung proudly to the arms of mili-
tary escorts ; on the calm waters of the bay military
arms propelled row boats in which other Terrigan
damsels reclined luxuriously beneath sunshades;
whilst in the main street groups of the sullen-faced
male youth of the town raised unwilling hats to girls
who were showing military sightseers the historic spots
of Terrigan.
Small things influence the fate of nations, and it
may be that this feminine fickleness had something to
do with the enthusiasm with which the young men of
the district answered the call to arms which was made
through the columns of the “Times” next morning.
Napper and co. found no difficulty at all in per-
suading the citizens to attend drills and parades and
to take turns at sentry-go at night time. Uniforms
were necessarily scratch affairs, and arms were varied
and interesting—mostly rifles of a sporting type. Two
or three returned men volunteered to drill the recruits,
and everyone turned to with a will.
Sir Hamish was enthusiastic over the idea and was
anxious that kilts should be ordered for the troops,
but Cabinet decided that the matter of uniforms could
be left in abeyance for the time. Every night a line
of guards was placed around Terrigan, and the sentries
were relieved every two hours. Nobody was quite
sure what they were there for, but it seemed a splendid
idea. The procedure adopted was to challenge every-
body and let everybody go by.
Troops from the camp came and went every night
and were not hampered except for the short time
necessary for answering the challenge.
In the matter of the Proclamation, Canberra and
Sydney alike observed a dignified silence.
CHAPTER XVII.
POLICE COMMISSIONER DANSIE had been
a very worried man. The Proclamation and
the fact that the tie with the Commonwealth
had been severed were bad enough, and now
the drilling that was going on all around him seemed
particularly ominous.
“It wouldn’t have been allowed under the old
laws,” he complained to his wife, “and I’m not sure
that it should be allowed now.”
“Then p’raps you’ll stop it,” jeered his dutiful
helpmeet. “P’raps you’ll go down to the Parade
Ground [alias the Sports Ground] and give the order
to dismiss.”
“Well, I don’t know” commenced Dansie.
“No, that’s the trouble. You never do know!
Dismiss! Why, you couldn’t even dismiss your own
men, dumb as they are! Police Commissioner—over
two boys!”
“Now look here, Mary, you needn’t throw off.
It was you that made me take the job.”
“Peter Dansie,” she said in steely tones, “who’s
paying your salary?”
Peter was silent, for only the previous day he had
received a letter from Sydney headquarters. It was
not a long letter, but its effect on Terrigan’s Commis-
sioner of Police was profound. In purport the letter
was similar to epistles received from their former
chiefs by Napper, Mutton and Buckenara intimating
that, as these worthy public servants now considered
themselves to be working for Terrigan instead of
the State, they might in future look to Terrigan for
their salaries.
Cabinet (at a meeting attended by all four persons
concerned) had considered the position and decided
that the Dominion would take over this responsibility.
As Peter had nothing to say in reply to her ques-
tion, Mrs. Dansie followed up her advantage. “Terri-
gan’s paying for it from now on, and well you know
it. It’s like your cheek objecting to the drill. Where
would we be if it wasn’t for Mr. Napper and the
others? You ought to be helping them, that’s what
you ought to be doing.”
So Peter reluctantly offered his services to his
country, received an honorary commission and
regarded himself as irretrievably lost.
~T OWARDS the end of the week, Jerry obtained
* from Cabinet three days’ leave of absence on the
plea of business in Sydney, and left the town on his
decrepit motor-cycle. Napper tried hard to ascertain
precisely what this business was that took Jerry away
so suddenly, but he got little information out of the
young solicitor.
To Bannister senior Jerry was slightly more
communicative. He told his father that his business
had to do with the happiness of an old friend and that
secrecy was imperative. Sally, perhaps, might have got
a little more out of him, but she didn’t try.
During the few days that he was away little of
note happened in the town. The week-end saw a
record number of tourists arrive—the publicity given
to Terrigan by the Proclamation was responsible for
that —which was appreciably swelled on the Sunday
by the leave men from the camp over the border.
On one or two occasions the local swains almost
came to blows with the lads in khaki, but fortunately
wiser counsels prevailed and there was no disturbance.
The Terrigan youths consoled themselves with two
thoughts. Firstly, the next Sunday would probably
see the intruders gone, and, secondly, before long they
would have uniforms of their own with which, to
dazzle the eyes and flutter the hearts of the fickle
Terrigan girls.
An invitation to the Commanding Officer to pay
a visit to the town was not accepted —much to the dis-
appointment of Cabinet, who had talked of giving him
a civic reception. This did not deter the Ministry from
accepting an invitation from the Commanding Officer
to be present at a field day at Thatcher’s Siding, in
which all units were to be engaged.
It was a most illuminating day. for the Fathers of
Terrigan. They witnessed large-scale manoeuvres,
bayonet practice and sharpshooting ; saw artillery in
action working in conjunction with aerial “spotters” ;
watched the huge lumbering tanks at work and saw
gas-masked infantry advance under cover of smoke-
screens. . o. . ; .
“Those big guns,” shuddered Chief Man Peperell
on the way back, “we wouldn’t: stand much chance
against them!:”
“And the tanks,” added Buckenara. “Once they
started on a place they wouldn’t leave a wall standing.”
. “Nonsehse,” retorted Napper. “Don’t let your
imagination run away with you. There’s no likelihood
of the troops ever being used against us. Why, if
they tried”
“Yes, we know, we know,” Peperell cut him short.
“You’re going to tell us the press wouldn’t allow
it. Maybe they ave against it, but once it started they
wouldn’t be able to get down here quickly enough to
get photos, of the ruins.”
Terrigan had certainly had its fair share of
reporters and press photographers during the preced-
ing few days, and photographs of the town and its
principal citizens had appeared in most of the papers
of Australia. Sir Hamish granted no interviews and
spoke to the press only through Jerry, or, in his absence,
Dick Taylor. Photographs were obtained of the Laird
at official functions, but efforts to get posed studies of
him failed. One chain of newspapers claimed to have
secured an exclusive scoop, but readers who had visited
Terrigan realised that it was Angus and not Sir Hamish
whose rugged lineaments glared defiantly at them
from the printed page.
The photographing of Terrigan had been done so
thoroughly that it certainly seemed that unless the
town was bombarded and destroyed there would never
again be any necessity for a press camera to be seen
in the place.
“Anyhow,” said Mutton, “I certainly think we
should continue to have sentries posted each night.
“Undoubtedly,” agreed Napper. “If only as a
gesture.”
A few more days passed. Press notices were still
amusedly tolerant of the new Dominion, and generally
unsympathetic towards the Sydney and Canberra
Governments. In commenting on the military camp
at Thatcher’s Siding no paper had actually accused the
Government of trying to intimidate Terrigan, and
Bengers in interviews was careful not to be drawn on
the subject.
From the other side of the world came cabled
utterances from the Prime Minister and the Minister
for Defence. They were separated at the time, one
being run to earth in Manchester and the other on a
tour of inspection of Woolwich Arsenal, but they spoke
with a single voice.
“We will not stand any nonsense from Terrigan,”
said the Australian Prime Minister when interviewed
by our representative in Manchester to-day. “The Aus-
tralian Commonwealth is one and indivisible and we
cannot countenance any attempts to monkey with the
Constitution. We do not approve the use of stern measures
in ordinary circumstances, but there are times when they
are necessary. This, we feel, is such a time. That is my
opinion, and my colleague the Minister for Defence is
in agreement with me. I have ordered that all measures
necessary to quell the rebellion be taken.”
His colleague was no less definite.
“While I am Minister for Defence,” he told our
representative, “I shall not shrink from taking stern
measures when stern measures are necessary. 1 realise
that some men would hesitate at taking the steps neces-
sary to put down this revolution, but I shall not. I have
cabled to Canberra and to my department telling them
what to do, and I have no doubt that if my instructions
are carried out to the letter the rebellion will be of short
duration.”
These cables were discussed by the Terrigan
Cabinet.
“Stern measures! ” snorted Mutton. “They’ve got
the cheek to call a routine training camp stern
measures. We ought to cable the true facts to the
London papers.”
Napper was in haste to agree, but the Chief Man
suggested that the statements were merely a further
example of the policy of bluff that the Governments
had adopted.
“We’ll just have to ignore them,” he ruled.
“Cabling London won’t do us any good.”
“Those messages bring up another point,” said
Napper, not to be crushed. “The Imperial Confer-
ence is discussing Empire Defence. Where do we
stand in regard to that? We should certainly be
consulted.”
“Well,” argued the Chief Man, “in view of the
fact that we claimed Dominion status less than forty-
eight hours before the Imperial Conference opened,
we could hardly be expected to send a delegate.”
“That’s so,” agreed Napper, “but we have a right
to take part in any future deliberations. Take these
proposals for a Pacific Pact. As a Pacific power we
must certainly be represented at the conference when
it is held.”
Cabinet agreed that the question of the proper
representation of Terrigan at the Tokio Conference,
if and when held, could safely be deferred to a later
date.
“I still think we should cable London about the
other affair,” grumbled Napper, but the meeting
ignored him and passed on to other business.
ON Thursday morning Jerry’s motor-cycle again
chug-chugged out of the town. This time he merely
asked Taylor to carry on for him and set off without
seeking the permission of Cabinet.
“What’s the mysterious mission, son?” asked his
father.
“Call it Secret Service,” laughed Jerry. “D’you
mind locking this up for me?” he added, handing his
father a package.
The bank-manager could get no more information
from him.
“Young Bannister’s getting too cheeky,” com-
plained Napper at the meeting that morning.
“He’s got more brains’n any other guy in this
outfit,” defended Hiram Pettigrew.
“I’m not disputing he’s clever,” said Napper, “but
I do think he ought to show more respect to Cabinet
in his comings and goings. How do we know where
he is or what he’s up to?”
Pettigrew keenly resented these insinuations
against Bannister and told the gathering so in plain
terms. Chief Man Peperell saved the situation by
rapping for order and opening the meeting.


Negotiations with Canberra and Sydney were still
virtually at a deadlock. Both Governments (after con-
sultation) had written pointing out that the Procla-
mation was contrary to the Constitution and calling
upon Terrigan to withdraw it. Terrigan had replied
that, not having signed the Constitution, it did not
consider itself bound by it.
Government salaries had been stopped and Terri-
gan had guaranteed to pay them. Cabinet had gravely
suggested that the question of a fair valuation of all
Federal and State property within the boundaries of
the new Dominion should be referred to the Privy
Council; the National Debt to be split on a per capita
basis. So far no reply to these proposals had been
received.
“We mustn’t be in too great a hurry,” the Chief
Man told his Ministers. “After all, it’s a big ques-
tion, and it is only natural that they want some time
to think it over. Meanwhile we must just carry on.”
“What about the soldiers? How long are they
going to stay?”
“We shall just have to wait and see. I don’t think
any harm need be anticipated from that quarter. They
seem to fraternise with our young people very well.”
I—l AD Mr. Peperell been present at the dance at
* the School of Arts that evening he would doubt-
less have derived considerable pleasure from the sight
of the troops fraternising with the young people of
Terrigan. Closer inspection, however, would have
revealed that they were confining their fraternising
to the girls. The young men of Terrigan were
gathered in a group near the door, and, judging by
the savage looks that they cast in the direction of the
soldiers, they would not have proved very amenable
to fraternal advances.
The dance was proceeding on the good old country
lines of grab your partner when the music starts, but
somehow or other when the periodical rushes were
made every man in uniform seemed to secure a
partner with the greatest of ease, while the locals had
to retreat disconsolate to the door or dance with
ill-simulated pleasure with the wallflowers.
As the evening advanced the feeling became
more and more tense. It was left to Patrick Rooney
to put a spark to the charged atmosphere. Patrick
had been trying all the evening to get a dance with
Molly Curnow. At last he had secured a promise of
“the first after supper,” and, not feeling capable of
calmly watching the saucy Molly waited on at supper
by a ginger-headed lance-corporal, he had slipped
round to the Royal for a little fortification.
Finding a few friends there seeking like solace, he
stayed a little longer than had been his intention, and
imbibed perhaps a little more than was necessary, so
that when he returned to claim his partner and found
her dancing unconcernedly in the arms of the lance-
corporal he saw more red than the latter’s locks could
be blamed for. Dodging across the room he placed a
hand on the soldier’s arm.
“Thish ish my dance,” he said thickly.
“Do you know this man?” his rival asked Molly.
“Coursh she knowsh me. Ev’body knowsh me,
y’ red-head,” replied Patrick truculently. “She’s my
girl, aren’t y’, Molly?”
Molly, crimson with embarrassment, made no
reply.
“Shall I get rid of him, Molly?” asked the soldier
gallantly.
At this remark Patrick ceased to trouble about
Molly and turned all his attention to her partner.
“Get rid of me?” he shouted. “Come on, then,
get rid o’ me!”
Most of the dancers had stopped and were crowd-
ing round. The young men by the door pushed over
to see what was going on. Patrick’s intention at this
stage was no doubt to annihilate the red-headed
soldier and then take on the others one by one, but
he was not destined to carry out this programme. He
had only landed one wild blow on his rival when two
other soldiers seized him and pinned his arms to his
sides.
This was the signal for a general boil-over.
Terrigan’s young men came in a body to the rescue of
their comrade, and the men in uniform rallied to the
aid of their colleagues. Partners were left stranded,
and as fists began to fly and men struggled on the
floor of the hall the girls rushed for the exits and
explained hysterically to those outside that mass
murder was being perpetrated in the hall. The effect
of this was to bring reinforcements for the local side,
and soon the outlook for the soldiery was very gloomy.
Although their uniforms seemed, during the danc-
ing, to have been omnipresent, there were actually not
many soldiers at the dance and they were getting by
far the worst of the deal. It was providential to them
that someone thought to switch off the lights. In
the darkness things became more subdued. Most of
the combatants did not relish blind fighting, although
Patrick Rooney went blithely on punching friend and
foe alike, on the principle that it was better to maim
a friend by mistake than run the risk of letting an
enemy escape unscathed.
When the lights were switched on again it was
found that most of the soldiers had escaped ; a few
who had been held when the lights went out were
prisoners, while in several parts of the hall men who
had been wrestling in the darkness discovered that
they had been wasting their efforts on their own
colleagues.
Peter Dansie and his two satellites then arrived
and endeavored to take the situation in hand. All
sorts of dire treatment were being suggested for the few
prisoners who were held, but wiser counsels prevailed,
and the crowd contented themselves with taking their
captives to various spots well out of reach of the town
and releasing them to find their several ways back
to camp.
At the camp, the defeated ones, black of eye and
bloody of apparel, endeavored to rouse their comrades
to wreak reprisals on Terrigan. A raiding party was
almost organised when a whisper got to the ears of the
Commandant, who issued strict instructions that no
man was to leave the camp until further notice.
Military police patrolled the camp for the rest of
the night. This was just as well for Terrigan’s sentries,
who would have had to bear the brunt of the attack,
the rest of the lads having retired to their beds, their
honor vindicated at last.
Next morning those who had participated in the
disturbance felt much less happy about the affair. In
the cold light of day they could see
that the honor of the army demanded
satisfaction, and they realised that if
the whole encampment took the
matter up Terrigan’s forces would be
hopelessly outnumbered. This feel-
ing communicated itself to the rest
of the town, and Terrigan that day
lived in a state of fearful anticipation, not knowing
just what it was expecting.
The Ministry gravely discussed the situation. Mr.
Peperell suggested a deputation to Thatcher’s Siding to
explain that the trouble had merely been a personal
quarrel with unfortunate complications, but Napper
strongly opposed this, urging that it would permanently
lower the prestige of the Dominion to offer an apology
before one was asked for.
“Under international law,” he pointed out, “they
can’t do anything without an ultimatum. They’d have
to give us twenty-four hours to consider our reply.”
“Who takes any notice of international law nowa-
days?” asked Taylor. “If they’re going to raid us
they’ll do it without going to the trouble of sending
warning messages. Personally, I don’t think we’ve
anything to worry about. If they were going to cause
trouble they’d be here by now.”
The others were not so sure, but it was decided
to let things take their course. When the late after-
noon arrived and still no word had been received
from the enemy, Terrigan came to the conclusion that
a night raid was intended.
CHAPTER XVIII.
DESPITE Napper’s belief in the army’s respect
for international law he was quite in agree-
ment when someone proposed doubling the
guards that night and stationing them closer to
the town. Accordingly, when night fell the sentries
took up their posts with a grim feeling that at last
they were going to experience the real thing.
Fate could scarcely have chosen a worse night for
their trial. A howling gale was blowing in from the
sea, bringing with it driving rain, so that, when each
batch of sentries came off duty at the end of their
two hours’ watch, they were wet to the skin and their
teeth chattering with the cold.
“S-surely they w-won’t be m-mad enough to d-do
anything on a n-night like this,” stuttered one half-
frozen guard as he tackled a cup of steaming coffee
at the canteen shortly after midnight.
“S-strikes me w-we oughter chance it and c-call
the other chaps in,” said another.
Napper and Mutton, who had assumed jointly the
unofficial post of Minister for War, were standing near,
warming themselves at a stove. Napper overheard
the conversation and took the opportunity to deliver
a homily on duty and patriotism. It was quite a
fine extempore effort, though it would possibly have
carried more weight had he been just a little bit wet
or even slightly frozen.
He had not quite reached the end of his perora-
tion when there was a commotion outside the canteen
and in rushed Angus, water streaming from his beard
and clothes and in a state of wild excitement.
“Och! Mister Napper, mon,” he called. “They’ve
coom! They’ve coom! ”
(Continued on page 50.)
As the car approached the military encampment a
white sheet which had been hastily commandeered
was produced.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
WITH WHICH IS AMALGAMATED
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ..4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business.)
RESERVE CAPITAL .. .. .. .. 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman); Edward R. Knox; Owen E. Friend;
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E.; Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and Canberra, F.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
£2OO FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL.
No entry having been considered worthy of the Prize this year
the amount goes on to next year’s award, making the total £2OO.
Details can be had on application to “The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
Book of the Month!
THE
INCOME TAX ACTS
1936-37.
Federal and All States
(except Western Australia)
The recently-passed Federal and State Acts, aiming
at the standardisation of taxation laws, have been
collated, summarised and explained by Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson in one handy and comprehensive volume.
This volume represents the last word in service to
the taxpayer or professional man who is concerned
in the taxation of income from one or more States, as
the new legislation has made other volumes obsolete.
i * . \ ’ 'V , .»’• i ' - * . •* ;
CLEAR COMPREHENSIVE COMPLETE
Price, £l/1/-
Order now from the publishers—
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 252188, G.P.0.,
Sydney. ;
ROUNDABOUT
Enter, Cossacks—On Foot.
Of course if they had come bounding out on
horseback they would have been stirring from the
start. As it was, a more unpromising beginning never
yet heralded a happy ending.
There would have been plenty of room for the
steeds with Sydney Town Hall platform stripped bare
of its chairs, potted palms, grand piano- and tiers of
addicts sitting there with eyes turned up to the ceiling
in the last stages of musical bliss. As cleared for
this occasion an expanse almost vast enough to accom-
modate about a tenth of Australia’s total politicians.
The audience would have leapt out of its seats
and cheered. These being Town Hall seats, the leap-
ing would have been done with all the more alacrity.
Only the best upholstered people last out the concert
season in Sydney.
But the Dons enter on their own hoof. Emerg-
ing from a cavernous hole under the organ loft, they
come straight forward in single file across the vast
empty spaces, dressed in surely the drabbest oufit in
the entire Cossackian wardrobe—navy jackets, drab-
looking navy at that; dark slacks with dull-red bands
down the sides, tucked into black top-boots; bands-
man caps with the same red strips round them.
Deploying into a hollow half-circle and standing
there waiting for their leader under the floodlight
containers, like half-kerosene-tins, strung on wires
above the platform, front stage, they have a strong
family resemblance to Salvationists. But a bunch
of these getting together to testify to the Lord
and criticise their past lives on a street corner in
Chippendale could have given them points in show-
manship.
As they wait there
the Salvationist impres-
sion gives way to another
in which they figure as
the complement of a
sloop in the Russian
Navy. It is easier to pick
which had been the cook
and the cabin-boy, the
stokers and the engine-
room than to imagine any
one of them on top of a
horse. Even their top-
boots look better suited
for swilling down decks on Baltic tramps than slipping
into stirrups.
If there is anything about them that could be
described as the answer to a maiden’s prayer it hasn’t
been translated from the original Russian. And there
for some time they stand —glum. A sort of Marcus
Show in the Volga manner.
There is, of course, an outburst of handclap-
ping. Convention prescribes that even for electioneer-
ing politicians, and there is enough of it to have
been called an ovation if applied to one of this variety
of entertainers ; but it is an anaemic tumult.
Sarcastic signposts to Bumbledom, the famous
Town Hall chairs can now be felt asserting their
malignancy, grinning malevolently beneath the thou-
sand or two representative lengths of vertebrae
brought here under dinner-jackets, sac suits, evening
frocks and fur coats for them to deal with for a
couple of hours. The prospect of getting the mind off
them seems appallingly remote.
Enter now the
Captain of this Sal-
vation-looking crew.
More handclapping, a
trifle more hopeful. He
comes out brisk as a
drill - instructor, steps
through where a breach
opens smartly near a
flank of the semicircle.
In this way he makes
his exits and entrances
all the evening; going
out to pace behind the
ranks after items, corn-
ing back to take the applause or give encores. A
little performance by itself.
A big chap, Comrade Kostrukoff, with a broads
smiling, shining morning face ; a living advertisement
for all the best household soaps, toothpastes and
health salts on the market.
He is still smiling as if appreciating the joke
he’d worked off on the audience by sending his world-
famous concert artists out looking like a sloop’s crew
become Salvationists. Shoulders as broad as Chief
Little Wolf’s, but lacking this eminent barbarian’s,
precautionary spare-tyre round the middle, he would
have made a magnificent lion-tamer. In Russia to-day
he could not be less than a No, 1 Stakhanov, with
a special issue of two extra hogsheads of vodka a
week and a cubicle to himself in the snorehos.
Smiling still he turns on the semicircular crew
with the twist of a sergeant-major, brings his clenched
fists up with elbows pressed close to sides (see plate
1, any book of physical jerks), leans slightly towards
his all-weather seamen Salvationist dismounted postil-
lions from the rolling steppes, opens his hands and
begins mesmerically moulding fistfuls of air.
The curve responds flutteringly. It doesn t leap
up and frolic, but it comes to life. Save for the ex-
sloop’s-cook, who wears a look of lofty disdain that’s
going to take some shaking off, all eyes on deck con-
centrate on No. 1 Stakhanov.
For some freakish reason or other the most
noticeable thing about them while he is tuning them
up is what great ears they have got. These seem to
stick out like wings. A few feathers, and they could
all fly away up into the organ loft. This, reference
to the Sundry Shows music critic discovers, is not
unusual in musical people.
Well, that is one explanation. Have you ever
sampled vodka? Do so. Pour out a tumbler of it,
sniff its sweet peppermint bouquet, toss it down at a
gulp. If you don’t drop the
glass and grab your ears to
stop them whirling off the sides
of your head the stuff palmed
off on you might have been
metho. or some equally in-
nocuous beverage; it wasn’t
vodka. Some of the crew
might have been slow on the
grab.
Now, apparently, Stak-
hanov No. 1 has them where
he wants them. They are transfixed, watching
him, and he begins to play them. They are still the
sloop s crew on deck, and yet he begins to mould
music out of them. Literally, almost, he moulds it;
using his hands like a potter; muscle ripples tossing
across his half-acre of shoulders. He draws it up
out of them, towards him ; seems to hold it in his
hands, still shaping it before letting it float up and
out over the heads of the audience behind him.
It bathes the air like a drift of mist. Then the
voices come, floating after it. They are launched out
into a hymn, a Te Deum.
Stakhanov up there in front is quite evidently not
playing on his sloop’s crew alone. He is drawing the
audience into it as well. They let him know how
completely when the offering ends.
It isn’t all like that. Mixed up in other offerings
there are horses galloping in the air, boatmen coming
from the distance and passing on out of hearing,
barbaric twangings which the programme says are
musical instruments. There is comedy in a soldier’s
song.which the Dons relish enormously. It has to
do (vide programme) with a beetle tickling Malania
out in the woods. The morality, is not as clear as it
might be, but as Malania walks home Mr. Paterson
should not be unduly upset.
The sloop’s crew is not a sloop’s crew all night,
either. After the first interval it sports royal-blue
jackets and looks almost gay; after the next interval
the jackets are white, and on these a patch of orange
lighting from the containers aloft produces an effect
in expressive color that lavish stage shows'rarely
bring off.
Then one of the highlights, the sword-dancer.
A fierce-looking customer, this; Mephistophelean.
Five short-swords as big and heavy as bayonets
gripped fanwise in his teeth, another of them stuck
up in his round headgear, two more that stick out
on each side of the back of his neck, another two
held in his hands with points
pressed into his throat. He
dances with this array as if
they were feathers ; ends by
tossing them one at a time
with his teeth to stick up in
a row quivering in the
boards. A superb bit of
barbarism.
This extraordinary show
is loose in Australia for a
while, .It is one to see. At the rate of living anti
other things in Russia the supply of Cossacks can t
last for ever.


*
T
y
i
m
J
m
*+.
m
V
1
©
©
&
s
*
=3B
VE
UEL,REPAIRS
ARHR, TIME !
ABOR
S»
WKA
/ AA=> .
I £?%-*' *«, „
~~ th *£she^
'ERkIS!
%Ssss
p " d/ c/f/ es; G °°dye Sr
1
Farmers all over the Common-
wealth are getting more and
better work AT LESS COST
from tractors equipped with
Goodyear All - Way-Traction
Tractor Tyres. The special all-
way-traction design of this tyre
makes it the ONLY tractor tyre
with maximum grip and pulling
power Forwards—Backwards
—and Sideways!
The result is a definite average
saving of 25% on fuel (some
cases greater!) and in addition
—substantial savings in labor,
tractor maintenance and re-
pairs and time (most jobs in
top gear!). Road hauling on
Goodyearized tractors is fast
and easy-no delay for wheel
changes.
THE GOODYEAR ALL-WAY-
TRACTION TRACTOR TYRE
gives 50% more traction, 100%
more shoulder grip, 30% more
drawbar pull, 30% better
cleaning!
GOOD-YEAR
ALL-WAY-TRACTION
TRACTOR TYRES
• *% *
/** * *
r s °ofe> v
4 Yu r Tyre <& /? /
,* Üb t>e,
N **e $ A " ’ y<itt sy.
of M
t<a rm
'O.
'"ejj
t
I
*
' &Zo;


ROYAL
PURPLE
Wt
X.
s.
x:
■
X
" r
- ■
n ■
m
HS
■
warn
mt
m
mm
* <■"
—--■ ■;'
HR
■
■ ■
as
:rfx
■
S»«S
i S
-.3
■
i i
HH
H
H
~
HI
.
■
in
™ -
■
V:-' : ..
mm
Hi
E
|||||
y : xx:
mm
sa
■
H
x-
m
mm
■
SSI
V.
n
H
a
;;
Hi
n
mm
m m
HU
m :
5 ••••
m
mm
...■ — -
H
H 8
xx
From this Small Beginning in 1851 Stocks now exceed 4i million gallons.


WELLY NI!
"The Archbishop of Sydney (Dr. Mowll) protested against the sufferings inflicted on non-combatants in China; and in opening a fete spoke strongly of the feeling
aroused in Australia. Archbishop Mowll referred to the fact that he had spent many years working among the people in China, and he had the greatest admiration for
them. He wished there was a greater Chinese community in Sydney.”— “S. M. Herald.”
“Are you listening, my four hundred and fifty million Chinese friends? Do you feel nervous, restless, unhappy? Then, to paraphrase the Apostle,
come over into Australia and help yourselves!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239■■ Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: National Mutual Buildings, 91
King William Street, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambtop.
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.; 3
months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
DEFENCE IS THE ISSUE.
Defence ought to be a non-party matter, and pressure
of events has made it that in Britain: the British
Labor party did not dare to vote against the rearma-
ment programme. In Australia, very unfortunately,
it has become a major issue at the national election.
The performances and promises of the Ministerial
parties are anything but satisfactory ; but they are
far less unsatisfactory than those of the Australian
Labor party.
According to the leader of the Labor party, if the
country had 25 squadrons of aeroplanes, with land
and shore organisation at “the highest strength within
its resources,” it would be reasonably defended. He
is satisfied with the “existing” shadow army and
shadow navy, but his 300-unit air fleet —ah, that
would be “equal to any that could be brought against
us”!
No invasion has yet been made by aeroplane,
except for desultory raids. And the military value of
aerial raids has yet to be proved, as has the effec-
tiveness of aeroplanes against heavy naval ships.
There is no record of a major naval ship having been
even seriously hit by an aeroplane under battle con-
ditions. One was caught unprepared during the
Spanish business, and hit by pirate machines ; but the
damage was trivial compared with what could have
been inflicted by an eight-inch shell well aimed.
Even as a weapon of aggression against our
coastal cities, the aeroplane must be ranked as a
member of the Suicide Club. In an attack on a
cruiser or a fort equipped with anti-aircraft pom-
poms, the fastest and most modern aerial giant would
have only an even-money chance of getting home
again. If it worked from a land base, with oiltanks,
provisions, repair shops and land defences, the base
would not be there very long when the cruisers and
opponent air raiders got at it. If it were mothered
by a seaplane-carrier, the carrier would need a naval
guard; in any case, a carrier is four times as vulner-
able from the air itself as a cruiser, and is subject to all
the limitations of range which apply to battleships
under war conditions. Its approach to an enemy coast
is necessarily known. It must have a base within a
reasonable distance to oil and provision it, and its
lines of retreat to home waters must be guarded.
The big raiding bomber cannot do effective
damage from a distance. It must fly directly over its
objective, risking a bombardment, designed not merely
to aim at a single objective, but to blanket the portion
of the sky in which the ’plane operates. When its five
tons of bombs have been dropped, its teeth have been
drawn. And bombs cannot be accurately aimed except
at large objectives. Their fall is influenced by speed,
drift, wind conditions and the human element operat-
ing at breath-taking speeds, which at certain angles
affect the sight of gunners and pilots alike.
Nor can raiders land in case of injury to their
power plant without the very great probability of
destruction and death or capture, even if their
machines are capable of alighting on sea or soil.
Their power to damage is limited by their bomb
capacity, very small armament and singularly small
ammunition capacity. In the Nanking raids, of 50
bombers operating from a well-prepared base, 140
miles from their objective, only 24 got through, and,
though Nanking is almost the size of Sydney and has
very prominent military objectives, they did little
damage. They had little to fear from Chinese anti-
aircraft guns or Chinese marksmanship. In Britain
anti-aircraft guns and gunners are so good that, as
a week-end cablegram informed us, “in recent exer-
cises gunners scored hits on targets towed by aircraft
at heights ranging up to 13,000 feet.”
The fast battle-cruiser or battleship, or even the
modern light cruiser, is a menace of another color.
The 35,000-tonners which are being built in Britain
will have a range half-way round the world. They
are invulnerable to anything not of comparable speed
and size, except through a lucky shot. They are so
defended that it would be strange if a squadron
of bombers came within reach of their pompom
air blankets and high-angle guns of larger calibre.
They will be heavily deck-armored to resist any exist-
ing bomb. Their superstructures, so far as effective
fighting quarters go, are to be built on the all-enclosed
principle, and are concentrated to produce the smallest
possible target from whatever angle. The arc and
angle of their guns, as with most other ships which
have been built in the last seven years, will enable
an immediate maximum concentration of fire in
almost any direction.
Beside the capacity for injury of even a single
battle-cruiser turret, the power of the greatest bombers
in existence is feeble. The velocity of a one-ton bomb
is only that generated by its fall, subject to whatever
drag may be applied to it by air currents or its angle
of launching. The muzzle velocity of a 16-inch naval
shell, which weighs nearly a ton, is 2650 feet per
second. It can penetrate nearly four feet of steel
at the effective range of dropped bombs. Its effective
range is about 20 miles, and each gun can fire six
shots every five minutes. In five minutes a double
bank of three gun-turrets can place 36 tons of shells
on a target well out of sight. Such a ship can destroy
with certainty any light cruiser and any auxiliary or
commercial vessel; it can hold its own with any but
very-heavily-armed land forts, being capable of
advancing or retiring while actually firing, and of
meeting on at least equal terms any adversary which
any navy is likely to provide. It is a hundred to one
against its being wrecked and destroyed by a single
shot, even from major artillery or torpedoes.
Moreover, though Mr. Curtin might build his
300-aeroplane fleet for £7,500,000, it would certainly
be obsolescent in two years and, at the present rate of
progress, obsolete in three years. A battle-cruiser
costing the same amount would be in commission 20
years hence, and the new technique of remodelling
might give it another dozen years of effective life.
Australia must have a strong air force. But it
will be many years before an air force can be more
than a second line of defence. One of Australia’s
vital needs is a navy, including at least one big ship
able to tackle anything likely to come along, efficient
anti-aircraft and anti-gas defences, harbor defences,
adequate heavy coast artillery and a trained and
mechanised land army based on national service. As
Captain Fitz Gerald, of H.M.A.S. Sydney, says:
We need to keep forces at such strength that no
enemy will be foolhardy enough to come across the sea
to attack us.
Of ships over 29,000 tons Britain has 546,000
tons; its cruiser strength brings tonnage above
the 1,000,000-ton mark: one ton to every 45 of popu-
lation. Australia’s battle-cruiser and battleship ton-
nage is nil. Its cruiser tonnage—and its cruisers,
except one 7000-tonner, are obsolescent —is 37,000
tons: one ton to 184 of population, despite the long
coastline which we have to defend. On the British
scale we should have 150,000 tons.
“Arguing” against evident facts, Mr. Curtin
asserts that “the major operations in Spain, and even in
China, are air operations.” Then why all the battles
and sieges in Spain; why the International Brigade
and the “75,000 Italians”; why the submarining of
merchantmen and the anti-pirate patrol; why the
desperate land fighting in China? It is a fatuous
reading of the situation in both countries, but this is
more fatuous still:
Japan has attacked China with hardly a shot being
fired by a warship. Yet China is being beaten to its
knees.
Beaten to its knees, yes; but primarily because
of the Japanese Navy. Sea-power has enabled the
Japanese to land sufficient man-power on the main-
land, as it did in 1904-05, when Russia was the enemy.
By virtue of its sea-power, Britain protected its Empire
against invasion in 1914-1918, and landed its armies
and those of its allies wherever they were wanted, in
France, Belgium, Egypt, Gallipoli, Mesopotamia,
Arabia and East Africa; and in the end sea-power
triumphed. “The War,” Lord Fisher wrote in Records,
“was won by an effective Blockade.” How blind the
good Curtin is! And in times so critical how impos-
sible it is for Australians to place their destinies in
the hands of a man so blind!
Boycotting Japan.
“In many countries throughout the world indignation at
the Japanese barbarities in China has called forth protests.
It is a perfectly understandable and laudable sentiment which
aims to make those protests effective by a boycott of Japanese
merchandise.” —Sydney “Sun.”
Understandable, yes. It means that there are lots
of hasty people about. Some of these are well-
meaning enough. They are told something, they
believe it unquestioningly, and they respond to it on
the lines of simple Christian ideals.
A boycott of Japan has ramifications far more
complex than the well-meaning variety of protester
seems to imagine. Nothing could be further from
the mark than holding it to be a simple matter of
expressing “laudable sentiment.” Behind the proposal
are forces and purposes that need bringing into the
light, and ahead are consequences that demand to
be faced.
For one thing, it would be incredibly stupid for
Australia to bait Japan into enmity. A people of less
than seven millions scattered about an undefended
continent cannot afford to go looking for trouble in
any quarter, and it certainly has no business barging
into the affairs of the one country that can be imagined
as a possible invader. In our present defencelessness
it is plain lunacy to encourage action which that
country would have to regard as unforgivable provo-
cation.
Apart from that aspect of these boycott proposals
there is a material side on which the consequences
would not be a speculative possibility, but positive,
immediate and lasting. The outcome of the trade
war of about a year ago should have informed even
numskulls that Japan has the power and the will to
respond instantly and effectively to provocation in
commercial dealings. And that was merely a result
of clumsy Governmental negotiation; not a boycott
of all Japanese goods.
Such a boycott—because Japan would certainly
retaliate —would have immediate and continuingly
disastrous effects here in Australia.
Australia is Japan’s third-biggest supplier. In
actual cash result Japan is Australia’s best customer.
In the accounts for 1935-36 —the year before the
bungling trade war —Australia’s imports from Japan
cost £4,969,571 ; Japan’s imports from Australia
totalled £17,661,232. Japan has practically no divi-
dend-drawing investments in Australia, and Australia
pays no interest on loans in Japan. Therefore those
figures represent a favorable balance to Australia of a
clear £12,000,000. Our exports to Japan are mainly
raw materials —it is, as usual, chiefly the man on the
land whom “laudable sentiment” proposes to sacri-
fice. It would do so to the tune of almost every penny
of that £12,000,000 a year. The man who would pay
directly most heavily—leaving out of consideration
what the loss would mean to Australian standards as
a whole; employment and our cost of living—would
be the same one who footed the bill for Mr. Gullett’s
comparatively insignificant spot of trade bungling.
As to our imports from Japan, only about a third
of these are the sort of things the hasty protesters have
in mind for their boycotting. About two-thirds is
used in manufacture here —either factory or home.
Also, only an insignificant portion of the total im-
port—a matter of a mere few thousand pounds’ worth
—can be classed as luxury goods.
The people who would be hit by this supply being
cut off by boycott would be those who could least
afford to be hit; those who find making ends meet a
tough enough business. The bulk of the goods we
import from Japan are not toys and other cheapjack
wares ready to go into immediate circulation; they
are still-incomplete materials which have to be con-
verted before they are used, are bought largely by the
average run of wage-earning people and help to keep
the cost of living down.
The boycott of these goods would be directly
disastrous to the traders who handle them in Australia.
Manufacturers who use Japanese materials have to
carry big stocks of them to keep their works going.
All such traders and manufacturers would be faced
with the loss of their stock in hand and that on the
way down from Japan, or already bought in Japan for
future delivery. They would be direct victims of the
“laudable sentiment”; their customers would be
victims ; so would many they employ.
It should be clear that our trading with Japan
is something too complex and interlocked to be lightly
hazarded to satisfy sentimentalists, however well-
meaning these might be, and whether a boycott is
inspired from Sydney or Geneva.
There is another aspect of these boycotting pro-
posals that ought to be taken into the account. This
is their relationship to the dangerous cult which
holds it a mission of the British Common-
wealth to interfere in the affairs of other peoples,
as the world’s stern moralist and policeman,
and to be continually on the lookout for oppor-
tunities to do so. There is more at the back
of this than the sort of arrogance, long since exploded,
which used to picture one Englishman as the equal
to any three foreigners. It has direct inspiration also
in Communist and parlor-Communist ambition to
have the British Commonwealth drawn into an offen-
sive camp against the countries —Germany, Italy, Japan
—where anti-Communism is deliberate and necessary
policy. It is this which accounts for the easily verified
fact that when any of those countries becomes in-
volved in a dispute with any other country it can be
forecast with absolute certainty to which side we will
be asked to extend our “laudable sentiment.”
What the people pushing this line of foreign policy
for the British Commonwealth are plainly heading for
is another war to save their conception of alleged
democracy. They—as distinct from their mere well-
meaning “laudable sentiment” dupes—are pushing
this fantastic boycott proposal as deliberate political
policy.
Boycott, for whatever ends, is a hopeless weapon.
Used by Australia individually, it would act as a
boomerang, and a particularly nasty one. Even
applied collectively by a large assortment of nations
against one nation occupying a poor country, it has
been proved —conclusively enough, jt might be
thought, to satisfy even its fanatic supporters —an
utterly useless and a highly dangerous instrument.
It is unlikely, after that experience, that Britain,
for one, would have anything to do with it again.
Certainly Australia wants nothing to do with it. Mr.
Lyons has given a commendably clear No to the
individual-boycott idiocy. A statement is urgently
needed from him that he is not committing us to
the collective variety.
Everybody with any feeling at all is shocked at
the tragic happenings in China. It is normal Christian
sentiment to wish to see that ended. But it is about
as blind a variety of stupidity as the human brain
can produce to imagine that we can end it on the
arrogant lines our “laudable” sentimentalists and the
sinister dealers behind them propose. That way we
are merely asking for trouble, and a lot of it.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Appeal to the Alphabet.
The notion that there is a special electoral virtue in
the letter A has spread from Mr. Lang’s Labor party
to the Douglas Credit people in Queensland. They,
too, are running an “A” Senate ticket —Aird, Allen
and Argaet; Mr. Lang’s A’s are Amour, Armstrong,
Arthur and Ashley.
The A’s will be grouped on ballot papers and
will come first. This is held to be an advantage, the
theory being that exercise of the franchise is such a
nuisance to many electors and such a conundrum to
many more that these masses of people, the indolent
and the ignorant, will vote 1,2, 3, 4 —there are four
vacancies in each State—for the first four names they
see, and thus put the A’s in.
Lazy and foolish electors there doubtless are, but
the history of Commonwealth elections gives no sup-
port to the party-boss impression that they exist in
such numbers that their laziness and folly can decide
an election. As a matter of fact, the initial letter of
the alphabet has. been singularly unsuccessful in Senate
elections. Though there was a Z (Mr. Zeal) in the
first Senate, no A got in till 1919, when the late Mr.
Adamson was elected; and Mr. Adamson’s career
in Commonwealth politics was brief and unfortunate.
In 1925 came Mr. P. P. Abbott and Mr. David
Andrew. Mr. Abbott was defeated in 1928, and Mr.
Andrew did not stand again. Another Abbott, Mr.
Macartney Abbott, was elected in 1934. He is the
only elected A in the present Senate, and the Chamber
has had only four elected A’s since 1901.
On the other hand, the Senate has never been
short of M’s. There were eight among the 36 Senators
before one died in August—two MacDonalds, two
McLachlans, McLeay, Massy-Greene, Millen and
Marwick. The last-named was appointed to a vacancy
by the Westralian Parliment; he is contesting the
present election and has an excellent chance. There
are still more M’s among the Victorian Assemblymen
elected on October 2 —three McDonalds, McKenzie,
McLachlan, Macfarlan, Mackrell, Maltby, Martin,
Michaelis, Mullens, Moncur and Murphy—l 3 out of
55. The A’s make a relatively poor showing, there
being only Allnutt and Argyle. There will again be a
Z, Zwar (U.A.P.). Mr. Zwar’s defeat was loudly pre-
dicted, for his seat, Heidelberg, was Labor for many
years, but this Z must be as hard to scrape from his
seat as was Zox of the many waistcoats in other and
more spacious Victorian Parliamentary days.
The of Macs is noticeable, especially
is their names begin with the thirteenth letter of the
ilphabet. If there is anything in the Lang Labor
ind Douglas Credit theory, 13 should be particularly
jnlucky on ballot papers ; but apparently it is nothing
of the kind. If there are morons who vote against
:he Macs because their names are so low down, there
must be a far greater number of intelligent and respon-
sible electors who are drawn to them by the old-
fashioned feeling for men and measures.
Tasmania had an M.H.R. named Seabrook, who
;at in two Parliaments. After three unsuccessful
ittempts to get back he came out in 1934 for the
■senate. Having persuaded himself that S was an
infavorable letter, he had his name changed by deed
poll to Ceabrook. Ceabrook, formerly Seabrook,
:ame a bad eleventh in a field of 14.
"Adopted by the Perth Conference."
Mr. Maurice Blackburn, M.H.R., has been rather
quiet since the settlement of his dispute with the
leaders 'of the party organisation over his flirtation
with the League Against War and Fascism, or what-
ever it called itself; but the necessities of campaign-
ing have drawn him into the defence controversy.
And he has shown himself as frank as of old. At
Coburg, according to the friendly “Age,” he said:
The defence plank in the Labor party’s platform
to-day was adopted by the Perth conference in 1918.
It is a timely reminder. That Perth conference passed
other resolutions, and together they assisted to keep
Labor out of office for 11 years. One of them said
■‘further participation in recruiting” was to be “sub-
ject to conditions.” One of the “conditions” was
that the Allies should “assert their readiness to enter
into peace negotiations on the basis of no annexations
and no penal indemnities” ; another, that there should
be a ballot of A.L.P. members, “to close not later
than November 1.”
Then some thought, or what passed for thought,
was given to the army that Australia would need
after that sort of peace was signed, and it was decided
that the Australian Army should be rather like the Red
Army, then about to enter on its career of—er—
conquest of other Russians and Eurasians —not, of
course, of Germans or Poles or any other fighting
people with arms in their hands. It was to be a
selection-ballot and pledge-and-caucus army.
That Perth conference was held during the second
campaign on the Marne. The Germans had crushed
the British Fifth Army, had defeated the French in
great battles, and were still threatening Amiens and
the Channel ports. They had overcome Russia and
Rumania, and were getting from those conquered
regions wheat and oil. Their giant guns were bom-
barding Paris, and it was by no means certain that
Paris could be held, or that Italy, terribly beaten at
Caporetto, could hold out.
Peace at that stage, peace “without annexations
or penal indemnities,” would have meant victory for
the Hohenzollerns. They would have held Alsace-
Lorraine, been supreme on the Rhine and in Central
and Eastern Europe, and would not have had to
surrender a warship ; and with their naval strength
unimpaired, and with immensely-increased prestige,
and having tasted conquest and made Turkey—the old
Turkey, extending from Adrianople to Basra—a vassal
State, they would have remained in New Guinea, at
Australia’s northern gate.
Mr. Blackburn was a delegate to that Perth con-
ference. He hasn’t helped his party by recalling what
was resolved there. But Australia should profit by
the recollection.
"It May Have Been a Porpoise."
An unknown submarine fired a torpedo at a British
destroyer—no, two British destroyers—engaged in
anti-piracy patrol work south of Valencia. The
torpedo missed its two targets, and a Spanish coast-
guard saw the destroyers turn about and drop depth
charges. Did the depth charges “get” the pirate?
They did.
They evidently split the sides of the submarine,
because a large quantity of oil rose to the surface.
Personal belongings, including a book, are reported to
have been picked up by H.M.S. Basilisk. A torpedo
found in the vicinity was handed over to experts by
the Ministry of National Defence at Valencia; its
characteristics indicate that it is of Italian manufacture.
Such was the story spread before Australians by
their Glorious Press until the Admiralty said the final
word. The Admiralty reported, after “a full investi-
gation,” that no attack was made, and that the alleged
torpedo (“of Italian manufacture”) “may have been a
porpoise.” The only sides split were those of elderly
seadogs.
Of a piece with this “atrocity” was a Sydney “Sun”
story that “Poison Gas” has been employed in “Japan’s
Horror War.” The authority for this allegation is
the Nanking Foreign Office, which is challenging the
Valencia Ministry of National Defence for the
distinction of being the most proficient graduate of
Moscow’s Mendacity Department (“Lying Taught in
Six Lessons”). But the “Sun” implicitly believes every-
thing that comes out of Nanking and Valencia. The
same evidently applies to the “Daily Telegraph.”
On the strength of some vague remarks by Presi-
dent Roosevelt which have failed to move even the
Manchester “Guardian,” the “Daily Telegraph” has
persuaded itself that the U.S.A. is ready to abandon
the policy laid down by Washington and join with
Britain and the League in bringing Japan to its knees.
Roosevelt has declared for “positive action” against
Japan Australia, and the rest of the Empire, must
be with him.
What does positive action mean? It means two
things, both simple, bloodless and effective.
One is to paralyse Japan’s Army and Navy by
cutting off her vital oil supply.
The other is to paralyse Japan’s economy by closing
the world markets to her goods.
America and the Dutch East Indies are to attend to
the oil boycott. Australia “ ‘must’ make it clear that
we stand behind America,” and “must not allow this
great opportunity to pass”—meaning that we “must”
conspire to “paralyse Japan’s economy by closing the
world markets to her goods.”
This particular section of our Glorious Press
seems to have gone gaga.
A Change ©f Front.
Propagandists have short memories. Throughout
Australia Communists are organising meetings to
protest against “the butchery of the Chinese,” and
alleging that the Nanking Government is not only
defending China but is also the vanguard of the
defence of Australia.
In the face of that plea issues of the “Pan-Pacific
Worker” (Australian edition) for October, 1930, make
curious reading. Then, as now, Chiang Kai-shek was
head of the Chinese Government. Then, as now, Com-
munists were issuing appeals to the Australian workers.
One of them included the following passages:
In the first two days after the butchers of the
Nanking Government reoccupied the city of Changsha,
which had been captured by the revolutionary Workers
and Peasants’ Red Army,...more than 3000 workers
were decapitated or shot. The Kuomintang (Govern-
ment party) reports dozens of decapitations daily in the
cities of Wuhan, Nanchang, Kiukiang, Nanking and
Canton. The cities, streets and highways in and around
these cities are literally soaked with the blood of
workers and peasants who were in the least suspected
of having sympathised with the Red Armies British
and Japanese marines helped the militarist butchers
hound out the best and most active workers of Chang-
sha for decapitation. The imperialist brigands join the
Nanking butchers in their shouts of triumph.
And the “workers of the world” were adjured to
“protest against the work of Chiang Kai-shek and his
mass butchers” and the “White terror of the Kuomin-
tang” : —-
There is no time to be lost, for the streets of China
are running with the blood of your Chinese fellow-
workers.
. Now Communists are urging Australian workers
to defend the “butchers.”
War on the Fly.
According to a man in the N.S.W. Health Depart-
ment, flies cause 2000 deaths a year in N. S. Wales
alone through the spreading of infection. If the rate
is the same in other States, Australia loses 5000 of its
people every year through flies, and this takes no
account of the weakening of health, loss of work and
loss of energy caused by the small and übiquitous
creature. Neither does it give the measure of loss
through the damage done by the spread of disease
among animals —the fly has recently been blamed for
contagious abortion in cattle.
The roll of death, too, represents only that attri-
butable to the housefly. It takes no account of the
havoc wrought by blowflies, which costs the sheep
industry from £2,000,000 to £4,000,000 p.a., according
to the type of season, or the discomfort and misery
inflicted by all varieties of the winged pest. There
is not a shearing-shed in the Commonwealth in which
they are not a curse, and not a home in the far inland
into which their season does not bring the fear of
sandy blight, infected cuts and months of misery.
And they are destroyers of food on a vast scale.
Little is spent by Governments in dealing with
flies. To the political mind the fly is an evil for which
there is no mitigation. Yet a national war could be
waged on it at no great cost, and conquest would
bring manifold blessings to the nation and the dumb
creation and leave no regrets.
One Transport Control.
Aerial progress moves so swiftly that it is difficult
to keep up with it. Last week, while it was still
uncertain when Australia’s organisation for the flying-
boat service to Europe would be complete, Imperial
Airways put the new 18-tonners of the Canopus type
on the India run, thus making the whole route to
Australia independent, of landing-grounds on foreign
soil and of foreign fuel supplies.
The same week a hovering ’plane a type of
machine which designers have struggled to invent for
30 years—made its appearance unobtrusively at the
German army manoeuvres. Against a 28-mile head-
wind it can remain stationary in the air, and can land
at speeds and in spaces which enable it to come to
ground on roofs.
Meanwhile, two young Australians, one a son
of George Julius, the inventor of the totalisator, flew
round Australia in a tiny home-made machine
powered with a motor-cycle engine and running at
a fuel cost of Id. per mile.
Developments like these have a special signifi-
cance for Australia. They mean that within a couple
of decades air transport will be a common facility
for the -man in the street and for the man on the
farm. No country will benefit more from them than
Australia, whose population will be closely knit
together by faster and more common air transport
in a way at present scarcely imaginable.
Meanwhile —except in Federal territories which
have few people—transport control is legally in the
hands of the States. A patched-up agreement makes
inter-State flying subject to uniformity of regulation,
but land transport across borders is still governed by
a diversity of laws which render it as hard for even
the private motorist to pass from one State to another
as it would be normally for him to move from France
into Germany under the European triptique system.
There is no formality in the United Kingdom when
an English motorist or flier crosses from England into
Scotland and vice versa.
This blocking-off of the continent into compart-
ments will operate in the air, as well as on land,
as soon as freight-carrying and wholesale movement
of light ’planes between capitals becomes common.
Control of all transport must be transferred to the
Commonwealth Parliament, and freedom of travel
throughout the Commonwealth must be placed beyond
the power of petty provincialists to interfere with or
deny it.
Victoria's Industrial Progress.
For industrial expansion of the kind protectionist
Australia will always favor, Victoria has never had
a better period than the current year. It has seen
several million pounds invested in new manufacturing
enterprises. General Motors-Holden’s and the Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corporation have each established
centres at Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne ; Australian
Paper Manufacturers have extended pulp milling to
Morwell, in Gippsland, and now two more financial
business organisations have announced Victorian
factory extensions that should play important parts in
Australia’s industrial future.
The International Harvester Co. has acquired
from the State Government 45 acres of Corio Bay
land for the establishment of a £400,000 plant to
manufacture farm implements and transport equip-
ment. This company is already a big Australian
assembly and distribution organisation; the Geelong
extension means that implements previously imported
will now be of Australian manufacture.
Managing director G. L. McHenry says the Aus-
tralian products will be backed by the 106 years’
experience gained by International Harvester plants
in Canada, Europe and the U.S., so the service
advantages of manufacturing on the spot should be
very real ones to rural customers as well as to Aus-
tralia’s industrial labor market.
On top of this development a woollen manufac-
turing company is establishing a £14,000 factory at
Preston, a suburb of Melbourne. Preston Textiles
is already operating successful mills at Daylesford
and Sale, and the Preston extension is expected to
provide steady employment for many more factory
workers. Naturally raw material will be Australian-
grown wool destined for Australian use.
Industrial expansion of this magnitude in a period
of 12 months within only one State of the Common-
wealth augurs well for eventual achievement of the
self-dependence ideal adopted so many years ago by
the fathers of Australian protection. It is a real
justification for wise continuance of the national
fiscal policy.
Norwegians Get the Oil.
“Bray Rock”: The highly profitable operations of
two Norwegian whaling fleets in North Westralian
waters afford further evidence of the utter neglect
with which we treat sea-industries of immense value
and easy accessibility.
To September 16 the factory-ship Ulysses,
receiving catches made by eight chasers in the neigh-
borhood of Shark Bay, treated 1763 humpback whales
for 67,360 barrels of oil, weighing over 11,000 tons
and worth at present prices well over £250,000. A
companion ship, the Frango, with six chasers, worked
north of Shark Bay for a yield of 45,000 barrels.
Between them, including by-products, they have
earned over £500,000 in a single season.
The Norwegians come 12,000 miles to reap this
harvest from our very doorstep, and, except for a trifle
of coal and food supplies, Australia doesn’t share a
penny of it. Yet Australia had its own whaling-
industry once.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
252 George-street, Sydney.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: It reminds me of old
times to read that the Japanese tried to
break the Chinese line at Shanghai by
driving a herd of bulls ahead of their
advance. In the closing days of the Boer
War, when the remnants of the com-
mandoes were being rounded up in the
barbed-wire-enclosed blockhouse areas,
the desperate burghers more than once
tried the same dodge, and sometimes with
success. Their trouble was getting the
cattle, for many of the areas were de-
nuded of stock, and as soon as the
British tumbled to the dodge they saw to
it that the others were cleared bare of
everything but the meerkats.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Jens August Jensen, who was
a Tas. M.H.R. for eight years (1910-18)
and a Commonwealth Minister for four
years (1914-1918), died last year, leaving
all his property, valued at £349, to a
cousin, Maggie Jane Gilbert. The will
was unsuccessfully contested in Mel-
bourne last week, and queer things came
out at the hearing. Jensen was married
twice ; his first wife brought him four
children and the second wife three.
Apparently to the annoyance of both
families, Miss Gilbert —she died last
May—was a member of his household
for many years, and he made consider-
able gifts to her —shares, Common-
wealth bonds and real estate —from time
to time. Once he beat the second wife’s
children with a horsewhip for “telling
tales about Miss Gilbert,” and in other
respects he behaved oddly. The case re-
calls the affair of the Shaw wireless sta-
tion, which was the cause of Jensen’s
exit from Commonwealth politics. He
and a Tasmanian Senator, Long, were
instrumental in getting the Government
to buy it for £55,000. It came out up-
wards of two years later that Shaw, who
had been a missionary, drew £5200 of
the £55,000 in “notes of large denomina-
tion.” Long admitted having got £1290,
of which £3OO, he said, was “a return of
money advanced” ; when it was men-
tioned that he had actually banked
£2400, he explained that he had won the
rest at the races. What became of the
other part of the £5200 was never re-
vealed (Shaw died a few days after
he got his money), but Long re-
signed and Jensen was dismissed from
the Ministry. Incidentally, Jensen was
totally blind for some time before his
death.
* * * *
“Taipo”: “That’s Octagon,” he told
me as I ran a red cow into the bails. I
had just taken over the herd on a 50-50
basis, and the owner was making me ac-
quainted with the animals’ names to
ensure continuity of records. I scanned
the cow from tail to horns, but, finding
no marking to give warrant for the name,
“Why Octagon?” I asked. He looked
pityingly at me. “Because she’s got five
teats, of course.” I glanced at him
sharply, but he was so obviously ingenu-
ous that I left it at that.
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Labor leader Curtin, like
most journalists, is a better writer than
a speaker ; not that he isn’t a much better
speaker than most. But men who have
churned out hundreds of weekly edi-
torials are liable to get out of the way of
perorations and fireworks and to give
more attention to solid argument than
vote-catching platform appeal. Which
reminds me that when Curtin was first
imported from Victoria to Perth to run
the “Westralian Worker” he began by
emphasising that he wouldn’t regard the
job as a stepping-stone to Parliamentary
ambitions —for which some of his pre-
decessors had used it. He was doubtless
perfectly sincere, too, in saying that he
entertained no notions of that sort—then.
But that was 18 years ago, and Curtin
found himself presently picked as a
Labor candidate, whether he would or
not, on the strength of his forcefulness
as a writer.
* * *
“Peep”: Another story that went the
rounds about the Porkanbeans (B.
15/9/’37). When they took over their first
sector and were comfortably settled in
their commanding officer received the
usual issue of carrier pigeons. A day
or two later G.H.Q. got a very polite
note from the Beans commander con-
veying his thanks for the birds, “which
had made a most delicious pie.”
* H= * *
“Curate’s Egg”: One section of Aus-
tralia where flappers will never succumb
to the slimming craze is Torres Strait,
where Binghi prefers (and generally
secures) his affinity in generous propor-
tions. My nomination for the native
Juno goes to Mauru Lifu, a Darnley
Islander, who in the Cape Melville
cyclone which wiped out the Torres
Strait fleet earned the Royal Humane
Society’s award for rescuing two white
men, whom she carried through a stretch
of raging surf to safety. The last time F
saw Mauru, the lissom belle of former
years was gone, and such were her Brob-
dingnagian proportions that, when she
started on her last journey to the Thurs-
day Island Hospital, a block and tackle
had to be improvised to get her aboard
the lugger. Her memorial in the T.I.
cemetery is still an object of interest to
tourists.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: The Great War made
us see a lot of old-time notable events in
their true perspective. The 132nd anni-
versary of Trafalgar falls on October 21.
It was a great day once, but now many
on shore will wonder why H.M. ships are
“dressed.” In Portsmouth in the early
’nineties, matelots on that date, when
closing-time came (if it ever did), re-
turned to their ships fully persuaded that
they had themselves taken a leading part
in the great naval action, and their lapses
were winked at even by captains usually
regarded as martinets. The British losses
at Trafalgar are given as 1587 killed and
wounded; of that number fewer than
500,1 believe, actually lost their lives. At
Jutland, 111 years later, 2200 men of the
Indefatigable and Queen Mary were
blown to perdition in a moment, without
ever seeing an enemy vessel.. The casual-
ties on that occasion were 9049 killed and
494 wounded.
*** * *
“Nincompoop”: For the past four
months or so there has been emblazoned
pi n c .i „
on onej of the marble walls of the. vesti-
bule of the Brisbane Courier-Mail _ the
inscription m gold and black lettering:
“Men are never so likely to settle a ques-
tion rightly as when they discuss it
freely,” the credit for this admirable
aphorism being assigned to Milton.
Although hundreds or thousands of Bris-
banites must have given the inscription
a look-over a visitor to the city was the
first to draw attention to the bloomer.
It took two stonemasons a couple of
hours to remove the objectionable slab,
and substitute one bearing the name of
the real author of the sentence ■
Macaulay.
* * * *
“Brix”: The word “jay,” applied to
pedestrians who seem to suffer from some
inability to cross a street in a reasonable
manner, is nowadays far removed from
its connection with the bird of that name
(B. 6/10/’37). For decades past “jay,”
in dialect English, has been applied to a
stupid or tiresome person, just the variety
“I move We show our esteem for the shire president by buildin' the new incinerator alongside his joint."
who dodders across busy thoroughfares
in traffic-peak times. Of this offender
“jay” is an excellent description. “As
vain as a peacock, as silly as a jay, as
blithe as a lark,” said the Englishman of
yesterday, just as the Australian of to-
day says “as mad as a snake, as cum
ning as a dingo, as bold as a magpie.”
He * *
“El V.”: A case at Glen Innes in
which a driver was acquitted on charges
of slaying three women who were run
down by his car suggests the need for
reorganisation of controls. The driver
said that when he approached the women,
upon whom he came suddenly, he applied
the footbrake, but, the pedal being shiny,
his foot slipped off it to the accelerator
pedal. On many types of light car, ac-
celerator and brake pedal are so close
together that a large foot does not need
to slip. A driver in a hurry can easily
depress both pedals with one movement,
and I often wonder how many accidents
are due to this cause. What is called for
is a wider spacing of the pedals, combined
with the elevation of the brake pedal so
that it could be fully depressed without a
straying sole reaching the accelerator
pedal.
* * * *
“James W.”: Add to the list of mis-
leading blunders presented to school-
children one in a widely-used Australian
atlas. A view of a North Queensland
canefield is published with the informa-
tion” that in Australia Queensland is
“the only State where sugarcane can
be grown.” The worst phase of such
things is that correcting them shakes the
kids’ faith in their - textbooks or their
teachers.
“Verri”: It was a wet Sunday after-
noon, but the usual few fishing enthu-
siasts were seated on the end of oui
suburban jetty. Suddenly out of the
murk loomed a large sedan, which
parked itself side-on and revealed a party
of four young men, who proceeded to
bring forth and bait lines with protes-
sional zeal. The old hands grumpily
gave way a little, but the newcomers,
having set their lines, retired to the car
and fished in warmth and comfort. Also,
to the intense disgust of the regulars,
they caught three fine fish before roanng
off into the rain. Can that tisnin, do
they? „ inquired one ancient with co i d
contem p t> “Huh,” returned his neighbor
with equal scorn> “they’re them lounge
lizards the p ape rs write about.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In an article on Marcus
Q arke> j read t h a t he lost his job as an
“Argus” reporter in the ’seventies by
“ wr j dn g a glowing report of a theatrical
en t er tainment before it had been pre-
sented» Unfortunately for Clarke, the
show was postponed at the last moment
and His copy went into print several
da y S before what he had described hap-
pened. Those things do occur occa-
sionally. Many years ago a Westralian
Minister of the Crown, who was stand-
ing for a city seat, asked me to write up
his election speech before it was de-
livered. The leading daily, he explained,
had promised him two columns if he
could get the stuff in before 10 p.m., by
which time he reckoned to be still in the
full tide of his eloquence. I did tlie best
I could with the notes he gave me—
furnished him with one copy of what I
considered a masterly discourse and de-
livered a duplicate to the press,,where the
comps fell on it before the meeting
began. All would have gone well, no
doubt, if some rude interjectors hadn’t
made a set at the speaker before he was
a quarter through my polished periods
and rattled him so much that he lost his
place in the MS., and the disjointed re-
marks which followed were almost en-
tirely his own. Still, what he had
designed to say, instead,of what he had
said, duly appeared next morning, and I
don’t know that anybody bothered much.
Anyway, he topped the poll, later to
become an Agent-General and a knight.
* ■ * * *
“Chelaka”: The news that Britain’s re-
armament proposals include the training
of 35,000 carrier pigeons recalls the great
work performed by these birds during the
war. From 1916 onwards ’planes
loaded with boxed pigeons flew over the
lines into occupied territory in France
and Belgium dropping the cages attached
to small parachutes. Notes asked the
finders to write anything they knew re-
garding the movements of enemy guns
and troops or any other information that
might be of use, the reply to be placed in
the message band on the bird before its
release. Invaluable intelligence was re-
ceived in response to some of these
appeals, and the leakage of important
information from behind their own lines
became so serious that the Germans
placarded all occupied towns with notices
warning summary execution for any
citizen found with a carrier pigeon 01
even one of the baskets. The system was
persisted in until the end of hostility—.
THE A THEOREM.
“An All-A Senate ticket has been nominated by
Labor in N.S.W. and by Douglas Credit in Queens-
land.”
If you cherish the ambition to become a poli-
tician.
If you fain would help your country’s laws
to frame,
You must tear to little pieces Mr. William
Shakspeare’s thesis
About there being nothing in a name.
Dialectic cuts and thrustings may be useful on
the hustings
When to bid for public favor you essay;
Put the most persuasive “chinning” will be
never found as winning
As a moniker beginning
With an A.
I agree with Will completely that a rose would
smell as sweetly
If you labelled it a cabbage or a weed,
But I’ll swear it doesn’t follow that a name is
just as hollow
When you’re standing for the Senate —no,
indeed!
Alphabetical fixations enter into calculations,
And a chap is trebly armored for the fray
When to wit and worth and learning he can add
the pull concerning ’
Every sturdy voter’s yearning
For an A.
You’ll encounter contradictions of your
vehement convictions,
And be conscious of considerable doubt,
Phrased in language terse and candid, if
diplomas were demanded,
You’d be summoned when file same were
handed out.
But ’twere well for you to smother any indig-
nation, brother,
Lest it spoil your preparations for the Day.
Just rely upon a letter. Has the alphabet a
better?
You’ve a magic franchise-getter
In your A.
A. HAYWARD.


“Trevdee”: A screen advertisement
arranged by the Telephone Department
of Brisbane G.P.O. is getting more
laughs than a Laurel and Hardy comedy.
First it shows the fire brigade being
called by telephone—they dash out in a
flash with their motor equipment. Then
an ambulance service —they dash out
even faster and, if anything, looking
more up to date. Finally the police are
called —and out comes a John Hop
pedalling slowly and strenuously on an
antiquated pushbike!
* * * *
“Kerys”: Unbreakable glass received a
rare advertisement the other afternoon
at the golf course I patronise. A player
who wanted to open his car found the
door locked and the key inside. After
reviewing the situation he decided the
only means of entrance was through a
window, and hit the glass with a club.
Nothing happened, so he hit it harder.
Interested friends arrived, gave good
advice, smote the glass with a hammer,
and admitted themselves beaten. At his
wits’ end the owner rushed to ring up
his wife, with a request that she should
come at once with the second family car.
Dear me! said the lady; when anything
like that happened to her she just bor-
rowed a screwdriver and wriggled it in at
the top of the window. The implement
was produced and duly wriggled, and
the window slid amiably down. Five
minutes later the gratified motorist was
purring home, bragging of the amazing
quality of the glass in his car.
* V * *
“Sailor Once”: A lot of bilge was
written recently about a treasure-hunt off
some Nor’-Westralian island in which
H.M.A.S. Sydney was to have a part.
Such ventures are not for H.M. ships ;
they work to set schedules, and in these
troublous times there is not a unit of
the fleet, however small, the position of
which is not definitely known. Had the
Sydney stumbled upon any hidden
treasure, her personnel would not have
benefited. Prize-money is the only extra
that ever comes the matelot’s way, and
that in time of war only ; I believe that
even salvage is taboo in the Navy. Money
recovered (say) from an old wreck would
be transferred to the Treasury; all the
captain would get would be a receipt for
it.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Having occasion to call at
a solicitor’s office which was about to
remove to new premises, I found a
mostly young staff speculating over the
uses of an iron contraption which had
been unearthed in a lumber room. It
“See how daintily they hang, sir."
was information to the whole lot, in-
cluding the partners themselves, when I
identified the mystery as a letterpress.
Yet no office was complete without a
copying press 40-odd years ago. Beside
the old press was a bottle of copying ink,
in which all letters used to be written
before being placed between the damped
flimsy-pager sheets in the copying books.
The volumes of flimsy records of old
correspondence remained, the copper-
plate letters being as readable as when
they were new.
* * * *
“Kali”: Mention of those opium-
laden rats (B. 15/9/’37) recalls another
ingenious method. A boat trading with
Asia was tied up -at
the old Yarra wharves
while some members of
the crew were busy
painting her. Just as a
small launch chugged its
way into sight one of the
painters overbalanced and
fell into the water. Im-
mediately his compatriots
rushed to the side, and
next moment four lifebelts
were thrown to the
struggling alien. Man and
buoys were picked up. But
instead of pointing in
towards the vessel the'
launch opened her throttle
and moted at full speed
upriver. Two hundred
yards farther on she
turned sharply and ran
alongside a wharf, flere
the whole party dis-
embarked, jumped into
a waiting car and were
driven off. Police in-
quiries disclosed that the
launch had been hired out
by a party of Celestials
for a day’s angling. It
must have been a profit-
able fishing trip four
lifebelts stuffed with opium plus a pro-
hibited immigrant.
* * * *
“Alpha”: A story reminiscent of
Henry Lawson’s “Loaded Dog” appeared
in a war cable from Spain the other day.
The Basques, it was stated, were just
counting “one, two three—and over”
when an officer’s pet retriever dashed for-
ward, picked up a live grenade and de-
posited it at his owner’s feet. Owing to the
speed with which the company scattered,
casualties were slight. The yarn looks
like a correspondent’s furphy. For one
thing, the modern bomb is only hurled
with sufficient fuse burning to carry it
over to the target, as the boomerang
effect is unpleasant and inartistic if the
enemy has time to field it. Even the
rawest of troops will find this out for
themselves in five minutes’ grenade-
fighting. For another—has anybody ever
seen a dog pick up a piece of cast-iron?
I haven’t, in a lifetime among dogs.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: Cheers for the Syd-
ney doctor who growled angrily recently
about the treatment of our small band of
lepers, shut up in frowsy huts to wait a
lingering death. The very word leprosy
causes a shudder because its unsightly
lesions can be seen on the skin. But we
can’t see the lesions of tuberculosis in
the lung; and that s why Dumas s
Camille and Murgers Mimi—beauteous
consumptives both, and so a danger to
everybody were surrounded with
romance. Our attitude towards lepers is
a relic of mediaeval days. The Chinese
are first among the few peoples who give
“ They're not drains, you idiot they're voice-pipes!"
lepers a square deal; many a leper in
Canton and Peiping supports his family
comfortably by giving an all-day show
of his sores in the street —and that with-
out any baneful results on his audience.
Leprosy is not one-tenth so catching as
quite a number of other diseases.
* * * *
“Latrans”: The Queensland Railway
Department must be more generous than
most in the amount of space it allots for
its dog-boxes if a lady can crawl through
one at a pinch (B. 6/10/’37). In West-
ralia, where I have had a good deal of
experience with these contraptions, 1
never saw one which looked as if it. would
accommodate the most sylphlike woman,
even for the brief time it would take to
wriggle from one door to the other. For
that matter, I don’t think I ever saw one
with two doors.
* * * *
“Cold Feet”: This bravery! Two
Emu Plains (N.S.W.) farmers were re-
ported recently to have
tackled a bull with their bare
hands in a successful effort
to rescue a mate who was
being gored. Bravery is com-
parative, and, like booze, de-
pends very much upon what
a fellow’s been used to.
I’ve seen sailors stand aghast
at a station-hand’s foolhardi-
ness in riding an outlaw. On
the other hand, the bushman
had a sneaking regard for
the same old salts who could
speak so lightly of going
aloft in a howling gale off
the Horn. In all these cases
the admired act was part of
the day’s work to the man
performing it. The highest
bravery is that of the man
who is capable of assessing
fully the danger. When that
one, fearing mightily, “car-
ries on” —well, it takes guts.
“Wistaria”: I don’t know whether Sir
Henry Browne Hayes (B. 29/9/’37) was
a Cork tanner or the Irish equivalent of
a Regency buck, but some of his pic-
turesque doings at Vaucluse are well
authenticated. There is no doubt, for
instance, that he imported turf from Ire-
land to make a snake-proof ring —or
what he regarded as such around his
Vaucluse property. Touching which, a
friend of mine once told me that years
ago he was mooning around the historic
residence and happened to ask a gardener
employed there if there was any clue to
the site of the century-old trench. The
man shook his head. “Nobody knows,”
he said. Then he smiled slyly and told
the story of how a patriotic Irish lady
had once approached him with an offer
of five shillings for a bit of the soil that
had come all the way from Erin. “Did
she get it?” he was asked. “Shure, she
did,” was the reply. “I got a trowel and
did a bit of measuring and gave her a
real good five bobs’ worth.”
* * * *
“Spare Corp”: Pedlar Palmer (every
+u y
Palmer » as Pedlar ’ . and there were
scores ot them, but this was our Pedlar
Palmer) was as indifferent a soldier as
he could be without being a bad one. He
reckoned the Germans were “decent
sorta blokes,” and that he didn’t want
to harm them more than was consistent
with his duty as a soldier. But at Pass-
chendaele there came a sudden change.
A bit of shell went so near to hitting
Pedlar that his wristlet watch, a present
from his fiancee, hung on its strap, a
mere mass of crumpled metal. Pedlar’s
wrist was no more than slightly bruised,
but he gave no thought to his close call.
“The cows! ”he yelled furiously. “They’ve
smashed me watch!” and from then on
he was a changed man. The other day,
when I met Pedlar dressed for a Dig-
gers’ occasion, he was sporting the ribbons
of the D.C.M. and M.M. He won both
of them after the loss of his watch had
made the war a personal affair for him.
H 5 *s*
“Junius”: Labor leaders turn up in
England from the most unlikely places.
Lord Ponsonby, for instance, who has
held office in two Labor Cabinets, was
in his youth a page of honor to Queen
Victoria before going to Eton and Balliol.
Sir Stafford Cripps, whose downright
advocacy of open co-operation between
his party and the Communists has re-
cently brought him into the limelight, is
the youngest son of a baron, a knight, a
K.C. and a Bencher of the Middle
Temple. Melbourne’s octogenarian Dr.
Maloney, who recently returned from
England, has been complaining rather bit-
terly that the Labor party in the Old
Country is growing “too respectable.”
The indictment can hardly apply to
Cripps, who is apparently prepared to
lead in directions where even “the wild
men from the Clyde” would hesitate to
follow him.
¥ *i* H*
“S.S.E.”: The phrase “The Six
Families” applied to certain Westralian
clans (B. 22/9/’37) is far older than
“Sextus” suggests. It was in common use
when I came to Perth in the early
’nineties, and had its origin in a statement
of Dr. Richard Robert Madden, an Irish-
man who was sent to W.A. as Colonial
Secretary in 1847. Madden wrote to Sir
James Stephen, Under-Secretary for the
Colonies, from Perth in 1848:
This Government has been for some
time a kind of patrimony or family prop-
erty in the management of individuals
here, who undertake to manage public
affairs so as to spare a new Governor
too much trouble, and prevent his dis-
turbing the dead repose in which it is the
interest of a few official parties to keep
things. That regime, which has depressed
all interest and energies but those of five
or six persons, it is now sought to main-
tain.
Madden never mentioned who the six
persons were, but various shots have
been made at their identity. The Parkers
at that time were not in the public eye
at all, while the Burt family did not come
to Westralia until 1860. Most people
agree that the Leakes and the Hamers-
leys should be included.


m
W 187/1
THE
For real quality Tobacco...
*
and for your throat’s sake
—smoke
CRAVENA
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
¥
CORK TIPPED CIGARETTE
; '
:
G E N E R A T I
THIS
20M'6
10 for 9 d
POLITICAL POINTS
Unemployed youth will have a real
champion, and one with no Communist
connections, if J. J. Simons gets in for
Perth; and he is sure to poll well.
Simons founded the Young Australia
League when he was only a youngster
himself. No Australian has done more
to help youth forward and make it con-
scious of its duty to Australia.
Tunnecliffe is giving up the Vic. Labor
leadership in which he has been so con-
spicuously unsuccessful. A wise de-
cision. Other leaders somewhat stricken
in years should join him in retirement;
for example, Argyle, who is nearly 70,
and Lang, who is just on 61. Tunne-
cliffe is 68.
The Brisbane Government’s anti-s.p.
measures are telling against Federal
Labor in Queensland, particularly the
four men out for the Senate. It may be
deplorable but it’s true. McLachlan’s
refusal to interfere with the broadcasting
of race meetings and the use of telephone
and telegraph services by s.p. bookmakers
is operating distinctly to the advantage
of his party in Queensland, whatever may
be the effect in S.A.
Curtin’s claim that his party will gain
five Victorian seats in the House and
three in the Senate is laughable when
Assembly election figures for 1935 and
1937 are studied. Compared with the
year in which Labor won 18 seats out of
65, the party vote has slumped in Bal-
larat, Essendon, Nunawading, Hamp-
den and Bulla-Dalhousie, and is station-
ary in most other places. The only
noticeable improvement is in Dandenong,
where the party had an exceptionally
good candidate in Field.
How rotten the arrangement of
Assembly seats is in Victoria is shown
by the fact that 28,000 U.A.P. voters in
Oakleigh and Dandenong, which are
neighbors, have been left without repre-
sentation. Had they been C.P. voters in
adjoining country divisions they would
have elected four members.
The Archbishop of Canterbury, whose
incursions into politics have been un-
fortunate, has come out of his palace
again to demand action against the
Japanese. In the last resort the action is
to be taken by young men —the arch-
bishop is 73. News of his Grace’s inten-
tion reached Tokio, and an Anglican
bishop and his flock implored the old
gentleman to moderate his transports.
For this they were scolded by Bishop
Burgmann, that very superiah Friend of
the Soviet. The bishop lives in Goul-
burn, so his skin is safe.
A Labor Government, if Australia
declared for one, would probably consist
of Curtin, Forde, Beasley, Ward, Rose-
vear, James, Brennan, Holloway, Makin,
“Texas” Green, Frost (or Barnard), and,
in the Senate, Codings and Brown, if they
get back. It is no combination for un-
quiet times.
Westralian Premier Willcock has been
engaged in a “review of the State loan
expenditure,” and finds it “not particu-
larly encouraging.”
Over 38 p.c. of our expenditure from
revenue is eaten up by the cost of servicing
our public debt. We have spent nearly
£100,000,000, and direct earnings from loan
undertakings provide only about half the
interest. This makes one hesitate to borrow
money in any circumstances.
However, after a mortal struggle in the
Willcock buzzum, this hesitation has
been overcome.
In shabby repudiation of “the open
go,” Vic. C.P. wirepullers ordered a
selection ballot in Wimmera, hoping to
oust McClelland, the member since
1931. The ballot gave one Wilson a
majority of 15 over McClelland, but
McClelland is going to let the general
body of electors (about 55,000) decide
instead of a few hundred. The wire-
pullers hope that their man will get all
the Labor vote, but McClelland will
probably remain M.H.R. for all that.
McClellands, McDonalds and McDou-
galls are hard men to shift.
'Dr. Page’s programme has 15 Points.
One more than President Wilson’s, and,
as dry old Clemenceau would have said,
five more than that of le bon Dieu.
During a duff week in the English
racing world, the Aga Khan visited
Geneva, where, under the holy sport’s
presidency, the “League Assembly decided
to ask the signatories to the Nine-Power
Treaty, Japan included, to discuss the
“Any questions?”
“Yairs. Whose ear did you bite for the twenty-five quid you’re goin ’ to do in?”
situation in China.” About the same time
President Roosevelt, resorting to an ages-
old dodge of rulers overburdened with
domestic difficulties, made a “strong”
speech on foreign affairs, naming no
names but closing with the words “posi-
tive endeavors must be made to preserve
peace.” Addressing the Conservative
party conference, Chamberlain referred
to these developments with considerable
phlegm. But the one-eyed Sydney daily
press is tremendously excited about them,
and the “new” “Daily Telegraph” recom-
mends an immediate boycott of Japan.
Sydney’s “new” “Daily Telegraph” is
happy now:
England, France and America are
armed and internally strong. Russia, also
strongly armed, is with them in the
present crisis.
Considering that the ruling horde in
Russia has been buffeting “comrades” —
even railwaymen, cooks and zoo hands
—from Finland to the Caucasus, and
from the Don to the Amur, the absence
of any reference to Russia’s internal
strength is strange. Perhaps errors and
omissions may be pardoned to enthu-
siasm.
“ T u a c iif t
The defence plank of the Labor plat-
form to-day,” said Maurice Blackburn
at Coburg (Vic.), “was adopted by the
Per* conference in 1918"-actually
Jttne, 1918. So was this resolution, short-
ened a bit:
Further participation in recruiting shall
be subject to q clear and authoritative
statement on behalf of the Allies assert-
ing their readiness to enter into peace
negotiations upon the basis of no annexa-
tions and no penal indemnities [and]
an immediate inquiry.
The resolution was to be submitted to
“a referendum of members of all [A.L.P.I
branches and affiliated organisations not
later than November 1. Blackburn was
a delegate from Victoria. With him,
among others, were Scullin, Barnes and
—representing Tasmania—Curtin.
, '
The Senator whom President Roose-
velt placed on the Supreme Court Bench,
in pursuance of his policy of reforming
it, has admitted that he belonged to the
Ku-Klux-Klan. The Ku-Klux-Klan is
against Catholics, Jews and negroes.
With two-thirds of the nation roaring at
him, his Honor has put a Catholil, a
Jew and a negro on his staff, and de-
clared the incident closed.
Mrs. Weber won Nunawading (Vic.)
with the handsome majority of 2000. A
League of Women Electors organised the
election for her admirably, and some of
its members must now regret that they
didn’t nominate for the Commonwealth
elections. Incidentally, Nunawading is
one of the few U.A.P. divisions in which
there is no great disparity between the
sexes. The Nunawading men number
11,237 and the women 13,270. In Toorak,
which returned Argyle, there are 16,291
ladies and only 9973 gents.
The executive of the S.A. Housewives’
Association, which has 20,000 members,
has decided against a boycott of Japanese
goods, saying very sensibly that such a
boycott “would not be in the best in-
terests of peace.” In Melbourne on the
same day, at a meeting of the League of
Nations Union, Prof. Woodruff said it
was “the duty of all to tell the Govern-
ment on October 23 that these horrors
must stop” ; and Judge Foster intimated
that he had “taken a vow.”
Never again will I buy Japanese goods
until Japan submits her cause to the
League. That should be the reaction of
all decent men and women throughout the
civilised world.
This silly union, with its tricky peace
ballots and its furious old gentlemen,
would be a real danger to peace if any-
one now took it seriously.
As always when a foreign question
arises, Australian Labor is at sixes and
sevens. A Newcastle Trades Hall resolu-
tion :
Iron ore from the Yampi Sound con-
cessions, given to the Japanese militarists
by the Lyons Government for the sake of
sordid profits, is being used, not only to
bomb and murder unfortunate Chinese
women and children, but also to prepare
for the invasion of Australia and the
slaughter of our people.
Not a ton of iron ore has left Yampi for
Japan, nor has any concession been
“given to the Japanese militarists by the
Lyons Government.” The parties to the
Yampi arrangement are the Westralian
Labor Government and a British con-
cern, and if Lyons interfered Westralia
might start another secession movement.
Dunstan and his Cockies had 20
seats in the last Victorian Assembly,
and, thanks to Labor’s sacrifice of one-
vote-one-value and of its chances in
former Labor electorates like Warren-
heip and Warrnambool, they will have
20 in the next. But whereas they were
second in numbers they will
be third when Bond, the
Ind. Lab., is readmitted to
Caucus —and seeing that the
A.L.P. bosses vetoed Labor
opposition to Hogan and
Bailey, whom they “ex-
cluded” with Bond, he can’t
be kept out. Victoria is evir
dently doomed to have more
third-party government, but
it needn’t be governed by
the weakest of the three par-
ties—the one which, unlike
the others, js fantastically
overrepresented.
It’s a wonder somebody
didn’t think of running a Z
ticket for the Senate. AZ,
Zwar, got in at the Vic.
Assembly elections, holding
by a good majority a seat,
Heidelberg, whjch used to
be Labor and which Labor
confidently expected to re-
gain. If, as the N.S.W.
A.L.P. and the Queens-
land Douglasites sup-
pose, people really vote
for letters of the alpha-
bet, a Z ticket might
tickle their fancy more
than the A tickets which Lang and his
friends and the Major’s disciples are
perpetrating. It would at least have the
charm of novelty.
On the morning of the election which
was to give him 20 of the 65 Assembly
seats with 150,000 votes or so (there are
1,139,920 electors), Dunstan had the gall
to say of the party from which he ac-
cepted a portfolio for three years that
“the U.A.P.’s only policy is office.”
What’s Dunstan’s other policy?
Amalgamated Wireless has proved a
very fortunate investment, but hitherto
the Government has got little out of
Commonwealth Oil Refineries. Divi-
dends, however, are now in sight, for
C.O.R. made a profit of £77,530 last year
after allowing £89,630 for depreciation
and £20,000 for taxation. A div. could
be paid but for one thing:
The profit has been used to extinguish a
debit balance of £62,707.
Australian Treasurers protest that they
never do anything like that
[J. E. Webb and Cecil Mann, 252 George-
street_, Sydney, sign anything requiring a signa-
ture in this issue.!


THE STONEWALLER.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POWER DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
t, e c : Champions
POWER to climb hills. POWER to
cover the ground quickly. POWER to
give your car greater speed with less
effort, less vibration, less expense. Get
POWER the way racing champions
get it... with CHAMPIONS.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
~\
S 3
&
Mi
mwjrw*
msjjjjL
WJJJJJJJ.
7JJJJ777
JJJJJJJJ
JJJJJJ7J
J 7 JJJIJ7‘
**■
31
gd
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
Edward Campbell, unanimously elected
Lord Mayor of Melbourne, has a good
chance of snaring a knighthood. With
one exception each of his predecessors
since 1920 has received a title upon
completion of his third year of office —
Swanson, Brunton, Luxton, Gengoult-
Smith and Wales. Stephen Morell got
his in his second year.
The late John Higgins, one of the few
non-military, political or judicial Aus-
tralians to earn a G.C.M.G., was a
versatile Bendigonian who forsook his
profession as a metallurgist to become a
grazier. His work brought him into
contact with W. M. Hughes, who had a
high opinion of his organising ability
“Bawra” HIGGINS.
and made him chairman of the Central
Wool Committee and of Bawra, the
affairs of which occupied much of his
time until liquidation was completed in
1932. During the war he declined pay-
ment for his services and gave many
unostentatious benefactions to charity.
Australia has a baronet who doesn’t
want the title. He is 85-year-old George
Cecil Morris, who lives at Mona Vale
(N.S.W.) and grows flowers and vege-
tables. The title came his way through
the recent death of his nephew, Sir
Tankerville, fifth baronet. George came
to Sydney nearly 50 years ago, opened
a pub at Albion and Riley streets, and
later had a farm at St. Mary’s. The title
dates from 1806. The estate goes to
the sisters of the dead knight.
N.S.W. Masonry’s William Thompson,
Grand Master from 1914 to 1924, is dead
at 75. Thompson’s period in office saw
an increase in membership from 20,000
to 56,000. He founded the Masonic
Schools at Baulkham Hills for the chil-
dren of dead Masons. William Thompson
was for six years in the Leg. Assembly
for Ryde until he retired in 1920.
When the maritime strike tied up the
coastal ships in the ’nineties, Harrie B.
Lee took his master’s certificate and his
15 years’ experience into the Sydney fire
brigade. He climbed every rung of the
ladder until he finished up as Chief of
the Melbourne brigade, and on his re-
tirement from that position 10 years ago
was retained by the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment as advisory officer on fire pre-
vention methods throughout the Federal
services. He has given the “stop” signal
at 77. His son, also Harrie 8., served
with the A.A.M.C. in the war and re-
ceived the D.S.O. and M.C. He is now
practising in Nigeria.
New president of the Queensland
Chamber of Manufactures E. P. Simpson
quit retailing in Melbourne nearly 30
years ago and with his four brothers went
to the northern State to make flour. Now
Simpson Bros. Pty. is a thriving business
with a great interest in the export of
Australian flour to the Orient. E.P. has
made a study of the marketing possibili-
ties of Australian goods to the densely-
populated countries north of the tropics,
and he has been co-opted by the Queens-
land advisory committee on Asiatic trade.
Baden Fletcher Baden-Powell, brother
of the founder of the Scouts, who died
the other day, spent several years in Aus-
tralia in the ’eighties. He was A.D.C.
to Anthony Musgrave, Governor of
Queensland, was a year or so in New
Guinea and came back to Brisbane on
the staff of that popular Indian Mutiny
veteran Henry Wylie Norman. .While
here, 8.-P. made contact with Lawrence
Hargrave, who was then developing his
flying theories, and the result was the
invention of the Baden-Powell military
kite. The old warrior saw a lot of fight-
ing with the Scots Guards in the Sudan
and S’Africa and during the Great War.
He was a pioneer in flying—went up with
Wilbur Wright in 1908 and was a pas-
senger in the'first Zeppelin—and was a
founder of the Aeronautical Society.
Archbishop Mannix, now 73, has cele-
brated his episcopal silver jubilee. He
arrived in Melbourne in October, 1912,
as coadjutor-archbishop, and he suc-
ceeded Archbishop Carr five years later.
Professor and president at Maynooth,
Ireland, the Archbishop has devoted him-
self in Australia to the cause of educa-
tion ; Newman College, Melbourne Uni.,
will commemorate him, and he estab-
lished Corpus Christi College at Werribee
for the training of Australian priests. He
said once: “I never had a controversy
till I came to Australia.”
“Billy” Brennan, dead at 72, was for
20 years secretary of the northern miners
(N.S.W.). He was imprisoned with Peter
Bowling during the 1909 coal strike, but
was released when McGowen led the
first N.S.W. Labor Government on to
the Treasury benches. Brennan was in the
Legislative Council for nine years, but
resigned to contest the Hamilton seat,
and won it, only to be defeated at a
selection ballot 12 months later.
“Sandpatch”: I first met David
Morgan Jones (B. 22/9/’37) in 1930. He
was even then suffering acutely from the
illness which eventually caused his death,
and had almost lost the use of one leg.
Asked whom I considered the greatest of
Greek philosophers, I answered Socrates.
Raising himself with difficulty and bal-
ancing with the aid of a walking-stick, he
declaimed that portion of the “Phaedra”
relating to Socrates’ death. He had been
compelled to preach from a chair in the
chancel, as his leg was too bad to permit
him to stand, but he remarked there
were some things one simply could not
recite sitting down. Scholar, saint and
Welsh gentleman, he had few equals
among the contemporary clergy in either
classical learning or knowledge of human
nature.
“Uramao”: E. P. Yaldwyn, who re-
tires from the managership of the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia in M.L. at the
end of October, has served the Com.
over a wide stretch of Australasia. Born
in England 65 years ago, at 15 he passed
the Bankers’ Institute at Melbourne nd
joined up with the Commercial in 1888.
From managership at Fremantle and
Launceston and an inspectorate in Mel-
bourne he crossed over to M.L., where he
opened the first branch at Wellington.
There, too, he was chairman of the Asso-
ciated Banks for the 1934-35 term.
The Commercial of Sydney, one of
Australia’s oldest banks, established 103
years, pins its faith on Australians for
its important posts. The g.m., C. Darvall,
comes of an old Australian family, and
the bank has now appointed A. S.
Osborne to the management of its Sydney
head office. Osborne followed his father
into the service of the Commercial and
had his early experience in country
branches. Transferred to Sydney his rise
was rapid. He was appointed assistant-
secretary, later sent to London, the Con-
tinent and America for experience, and
on his return in 1933 became assistant
to the g.m. He is one of the most ener-
getic of Australia’s young bankers.
Former Dean of Adelaide, Rev. G. E.
Young, came to Australia from Hamp-
shire in 1875 when he was 23. He was
on a station and in the office of the Wal-
laroo mines before he took orders in
1886. Then from a curacy at Terowie he
took charge at Kapunda, Mt. Gambier,
Port Adelaide and Unley. He resigned
20 years ago on the ground of ill-health,
but lived on to see 85.
George Main, who succeeded Colin
Stephen as A.J.C. chairman, looks like
filling the job well. He gives the impres-
sion that in spite of his responsibilities
he enjoys the racing as much as anybody
on the course, and he is more approach-
able than some of his predecessors. He
A.J.C. Chairman.
became a member of the committee in
1921, the year after Salitros, bred on his
Illabo (N.S.W.) property, had won the
Derby. His brother and partner, Hugh,
is N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture.
British universities seem to be crammed
with bright young economists keen on
Australian jobs. Melbourne Uni.’s latest
acquisition is Wilfred Prest, who is com-
ing out as senior lecturer from St. An-
drew’s, Scotland. He’s only 30 and is
a Leeds honors graduate in history and
economics. During 1930 and ’3l Prest
was a research student at Manchester,
and some of Britain’s heavier economic
periodicals have used his articles on
coal-industry problems. He also con-
tributed an industrial survey of Lanca-
shire to the Britain in Depression sym-
posium published in 1935. He comes to
Melbourne on the heels of two other
young English economists Reddaway,
of basic-wage-inquiry fame, and Clark,
the statistics champion.
Known to most Maorilanders in Aus-
tralia, E. G. Lane, son of the Maoriland
chemist whose emulsion has been run-
ning over the palates of Tasman Sea
LANE, of “Lane’s.”
youngsters for nearly 40 years, runs the
Australian end of the business from the
factory in Richmond, Melbourne. Born
in Oamaru, the South Island town Maori-
lander Edward Lane, senior, says he put
on the map, “Chum” has been a Vic.
citizen for 14 years. He is president of
Melbourne’s N.Z. Association.
Adelaide has lost two good doctors.
The first, Ramsay Smith (78), was im-
ported by the S.A. Government from
Edinburgh during the “hospital trouble”
of 40 years ago. The rest of the pro-
fession made things difficult at first, but
he lived it down. He was in charge of
Australian hospitals at Cape Town in
1900, and at Cairo in 1915. His Medical
Jurisprudence is a standard textbook.
The second, Harry Swift (79), came
from Cambridge by way of London hos-
pitals just 50 years ago, and ultimately
held about every post of honor in S.A.
open to a medical man, being especially
an authority on diseases of children. He
was a champion golfer in earlier days.
His son Brian is following in his foot-
steps in Adelaide.
“Sassafras” on a queer character:
Harold A. Waldron, known in the Centre
as the “Professor,” whose black boy raced into
Ti-tree Well last week with a message that
he had fallen from his horse and was dead,
was, in appearance, the living counterpart of
Captain Kettle, with ginger pointed beard and
well-combed moustache. He had an extraordi-
nary career. A South Coast (N.S.W.) native,
Waldron was employed by McGarvie Smith, of
anthrax-vaccine fame, as an inoculator. McGarvie
Smith had married the widow of Daniel Henry
Deniehy, orator and politician of the late
’fifties. Waldron’s first wife was Deniehy’s
daughter, but the marriage ended his association
with McGarvie Smith. Afterwards he was
in the pathological laboratory at Sydney Uni.,
and styled himself a bacteriologist. Claiming
to know the secret of the preparation of
anthrax-vaccine, he sent a consignment to
South America, but it was dumped overboard.
His greatest exploit was to convince an Aus-
tralian syndicate that he could break the bank
at Monte Carlo. It sent him there in 1914. He
always claimed that his system was right, but
“human nature beat him.” He gave evidence
in the Royal Commission on Goode, Lang’s
railway commissioner, and was the most as-
tounding witness in the case. For the last four
years he had been prospecting near The
Granites.


m
■
H
.....
I mMm. ■ llliiiiil
lillHill
■
ililP
ii
fe®
i!
: yy.^yir.
II
mi
mtm
m
EFFECTIVE DEFENCE
MORE WORK* MORE WAGES‘LOWER TAXES
>55
€>
wo?
A JOB THAT ONLY
Leading a government that you can trust ...
THAT HAS SERVED YOU WELL ... THAT ANNOUNCES A REALLY
FORWARD POLICY, BASED ON SOUND PRINCIPLES
r"
HjUU
ystM
M
. . Ladies and Gentlemen, you have your
choice, and I leave the issue confidently with
you. You have trusted us in the past and we
have not failed you. On October the 23rd
you can renew that trust, confident that the
vital interests of your country will remain safe
in our hands.” The Prime Minister (The Rt.
Hon. J. A. Lyons, C.H., M.P.) in his policy speech at Deloraine
(Tasmania) on September 28th, 1937.
On October the 23 rd Australians will prove true to themselves and
their country and will return the Lyons Government with an em-
phatic majority. Only the Lyons Government has a practical grasp
on the vital issues of the day.
The Lyons Government offers the ONLY effective Defence plan. A
vote for Labour is a vote to leave Australia isolated —pathetically
helpless against the forces of possible aggressors. You cannot, and
must not, take that risk in these anxious times.
The Lyons Government offers the ONLY effective National Insur-
ance Plan. A vote for Labour is a vote either to inflate
the currency or double the income tax. There is no other
possible way to finance the Curtin scheme.
Compare the policies in detail and you will find the same
fundamental difference right through. Lyons, having
governed wisely and well, now steps forward with a bold
policy of widespread social betterment and national security.
The Curtin policy is but a repetition of the Scullln policy
of 1931, with Lang and Beasley still the dominant faction.
Remember the misery and disaster
which followed the Lang-
Beasley rule in 1931 and would
follow it
again,
when
you go to
the polls
on Octo-
ber the
23 rd.
y n*
FOR THE
SENATE VOTE
ARKINS
HALL
HARDY
HELMORE
1
2
3
4
And number every
other square also.
VOTE FOR THE
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEENUEIGH RUM MINE TINK IT BEST'
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe’s request for
a few o’ them Brisbane papers to make
a drop of paper-oil for his sore tooth
took me back to boyhood, and I asked
him to show me how the real dinkum
stuff was manufactured. He rolled
several thicknesses into a cylinder,
damped it lightly in places, cut a V
notch near one end to take an old spoon,
supported it on the billy-hook, and
touched it off at the top. When it had
smouldered down to a few inches he
withdrew the spoon, a quarter full of
yellow oily liquid, dipped a piece of
cotton-wool and pushed it into the
offending grinder. “She’s dinkum, Bill,”
he announced after a few minutes. “No-
thin’ like paper-oil for toothache. Better’n
tobacco or pipe-juice, though pipe-juice
is the stuff if yer get bit by a snake.
Rub it well in, and yer don’t need no
doctor. And, reckerlect, if the kids gets
earache just blow a few puffs of yer pipe
inter the ear’ole.” After all, Joe’s paper-
oil is just creosote, when you come to
think, and creosote is first-rate for tooth-
ache.
$ * * *
“Venner”: How’s this for a quick cut-
out? Our neighbor started to shear his
small flock of 60 at 4 p.m. Twenty-four
hours later he was home with the cheque
in his pocket. A wool-hungry buyer
had snaffled him as soon as he reached
the township, paid him 14d. per pound
for everything, bellies and locks included,
and taken delivery of the clip.
* * * *
“Presser”: Queer things turn up in
woolbales. Not long ago a very defunct
hen and her clutch of eggs came to light
in a bale opened in Sydney. Something
much worse was on the verge of hap-
pening at a station near Boggabri
(N.S.W.). A four.-year-old crept into a
half-filled bale during the lunch-hour
and fell asleep. In the rush of resuming,
fresh fleeces were thrown on top of
him and the press started. A peculiar
noise caused investigation, and an un-
conscious kid was extracted from the
middle of the bale. It took some time
to bring him round, but if he hadn’t
mustered wind enough to raise that
squeal of protest he might not have been
discovered this side of Sydney or Kobe.
* * * *
“Groper”: Angling in a W.A. estuary
for black-bream, we caught nothing but
cobbler, or catfish, brought down in
thousands by the floodwaters. The in-
evitable mug happened along, and in
the excitement of landing his first “fish”
grabbed an immense cobbler just behind
the gills. The whole three barbs got
him, and instantly he was a moaning
mass of agony, with the only prospect
of relief a cocaine injection and plenty
of nearly-boiling water. A school of
porpoises next happened along, and,
rooting along the bottom, they brought
up cobbler after cobbler, tossing them
in the air apparently in order to swallow
them head first. Contemplating our
fellow-angler’s hand, we wondered what
the porpoise’s gullet must be lined with
that the needle-sharp, poison-carrying
barbs caused no inconvenience.
* * * *
“Henare”: Whales also use isolated
rocks for the barnacle-scraping process
(B. 29/9/’37). Not far from the whaling
station on the east coast of North Auck-
land (M.L.) are two rocks between
which, according to local legend, all
whales pass on their migration to the
south. The whale is known to be a
conservative migrant with a liking for
the old sea-tracks of his ancestors, but
modern piscatorial research explodes the
theory of a sentimental attachment to
the rock gateway, and puts the barnacle
theory in its stead.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Touching on the strange
power which some bushies allegedly have
over animals, perhaps some Aboliar can
explain why the ancient art of hog-
calling has never taken on in this coun-
• try. In all the recognised pig-raising
centres I’ve visited out here not one
agriculturist summoned his porkers at
mealtime by uttering the peculiar bel-
lowing refrains which are the accepted
thing in U.S.A. and England. The near-
est approach to the overseas method I
have seen was that of a bearded resident
of Orbost (Vic.) whose porcine charges
came waddling to the swilling troughs
when he beat a tattoo on an old kettle-
drum. In the days before the railway
Bairnsdale pig-raisers lured pigs dis-
tances of 100 miles and more by drop-
ping maize cobs at regular intervals
along the roads. Mayhap some brass-
throated Aussie will yet become a vocal
dinner-gong and stun the swine world.
* * * *
“Squalus”: Sharks are notoriously
free-and-easy about meals, and one
caught in Ross Creek, Townsville, was
more catholic than most. He held a
bag with five cats in it, a dog’s skeleton,
most of a goat and a rock-wallaby.
Where he got the wallaby is a mystery.
Presumably it fell into the headwaters
of the creek somewhere in the range
behind the town and was snapped up on
its way to salt water. Incidentally, the
brute was caught quite close to the town
at a spot where it has long been un-
healthy for dogs to swim.
V
“Glimmer”: I don’t know what 100
Hereford steers in a small paddock would
do (B. 22/9/’37), but I do know that not
one beast in 20,000 would come out of a
mob to attack a man in an open area.
That, of course, bars fellows affected with
pleuro and other sicknesses —a bullock
with a bad head is likely to do anything.
If they are the ferocious creatures.“Ellen-
vale” would have us believe, what
happens to the bodies of the many swag-
men they must gore to death in the back-
country? Going up the Georgina from
Boulia to Camooweal (Q.) a man on foot
would pass through stations carrying over
100,000 head of cattle. At the right time
of the year about half of these would be
congregated on the river frontages, where
the road runs. If the cattle are very fit
and a trifle playful they might ring up
round a man, rake up a bit of dust,
bellow and prance about; but as for
charging him —p’ff! The time to look
out for a beast is when one is on his
own. I’d sooner face a mob of Hereford
steers a dozen times than sling a leg over
the toprail of a yard where a solitary
joker sulks.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: You may get a hen
to mother her brood of ducklings, but
don’t try the reverse on a duck. Any-
thing in the nature of a freak is ana-
thema to Gertie, and the chicks won’t
survive five minutes after leaving the
shell. Incidentally, can anyone explain
why, although inbreeding has little
noticeable effect on hens, it’s fatal to
ducks and turkeys?
* Jje * *
“Shamuseen”: The reason why the
slung hammock is not utilised as bedding
in the bush is because it could not also
hold a dog, from which the gents of the
road draw their warmth at night when
the weather is so cold that a man alone
“Yes, it's Uncle Fred right enough; but I thought he'd have made a
better strip than that."
could not carry all the necessary nap.
Happy is he who is possessed-of a colony
of tykes when the frost is on the grass.
Snuggling dogs generate untold warmth,
and I recall my first experience of the
hospitality of the track when I camped
with Spinifex Sam. In the arctic hours
I’ll never forget Sam’s big-hearted action
as he descried my shivering form under
my “cigarette” swag, and enjoined me to
“have another dog, mate? I got plenty.”
Since then, I’ve sworn by and at dog
blankets ; so, until some genius invents
a hammock capable of holding a few
peripatetic hot-water bottles, I’m off them.
* * # sp
“Macfergus”: They knew how to deal
with the grasshopper pest in the Childers
(Q.) district when that locality last had
a visitation. Long trenches were dug
and lined with molasses; calico wings
were run out, and oilcloth stretched at
an inclining angle on the far side of the
trench. The insects in the hopping stage
were easily driven into the trenches or
on to the oilcloth, off which they slipped
into the pit and were there held fast by
the treacle. The flying ’hoppers were
rounded up by cracking whips and the
ringing of cowbells, and scared clean
out of Childers. My oath!
* * * *
“Shack”: Outback houses of bag-and-
tin (B. 29/ 9/ ’37) are not the only build-
ings that facilitate easy removal. On the
Nor’-Westralian goldfields timber and
galvanised iron are often scarce and
costly, so the houses follow prosperity
as she smiles on one town and frowns
on another. A large four-roomed bun-
galow was dismantled and taken from
Mt. Magnet to Youanmi, about 90 miles ;
Youanmi flopped and Sandstone boomed,
so the bungalow made another journey
of some 40 miles. Adverse years struck
Sandstone, and Youanmi “came good”
again, so the bungalow returned. Of
course, I’ll admit that in the event of
a willy-willy a slap in the face from a
piece of hessian is more pleasant than a
wallop behind the ear from a piece of
3x2 jarrah.
**=!-*
“East Cape”: Papuans, may be poor
trackers (B. 29/9/’37), but “Gulf” slips
badly when he says that they are indif-
ferent to the hovering frigate-birds be-
cause they “don’t possess the means of
bringing them down.” In many of the
villages of the Eastern Division the
Papuans keep the frigate-birds as pets,
building special roosts for them in the
villages to which the predatory fowls
retire to sleep off a busy day of robbery
and spoliation of the hard-working gull
proletariat.
* * *
“Tyke”: Can vouch for the accuracy
of the statement that a candle can be
fired through a board from a gun (B.
29/9/’37). On a visit to England long
ago I was taken some miles to Sessay vil-
lage, in the North Riding of Yorkshire,
to behold a hole in the strong oak door
of the church. I was informed that long
ago, before I was thought of, a candle
had been fired through the door from
a muzzle-loading gun. The sacrilegious
villains were my dad and the son of the
then rector of Sessay, both young in
years if old in wrongdoing. Those were
the days when the rod was not spared,
and the wages of sin were paid in full
and with compound interest.
* * * *
“Flight”: An old dog-poisoner in C.Q.
put me up to a point how to win a bet
that there are eagles about. Going
out in the open, he lay on his back and
gazed straight up into the cloudless sky.
I did the same so
he could prove it
to me. As soon
as our eyes had
adjusted them-
selves to the
focus tiny specks
could be dis-
cerned moving
about. After a
bit I was sure
they were eagles.
“You can do it
any t i m e,” my
tutor said.
“Though th’
eagle mightn’t be
straight above
you for a start,
as soon as a man
lies out in th’
open th’ eagles
up there see him
before he can see
them. They fly
straight over him
to have a look at
him —he might be dead. There’s always
one of them blokes on watch all th’ time
up there. If he does anythin’ that ain’t
ordinary, that brings others over to see
what th’ first bloke’s doin’. You can
win a bet any time on that.”
* * * *
“Shikari”: The practice of instantly
gelding a slain male deer or other quarry
(B. 29/9/’37) is universal among hunt-
ing peoples. The civilised cove gets all
that done for him, but if he ever has
to kill a bull or ram for his own con-
sumption he would do well to get busy
with the knife at once.
* * * *
“Tailer”: Nearly fainted when I saw
(B. 29/9/’37) Jolliffe’s drawing of a
horse-wagon. It is fitted with a most
inadequate pole instead of the double
shafts demanded by use and convention.
Recalls a famous error in the first issue
of Transvaal sovereigns. They were
designed in England, and the artist fitted
the voertrekker ox-wagon on one side
with shafts instead of the usual dissel-
boom. A good number were issued be-
fore the mistake was discovered and cor-
rected, but even at the time of the Boer
War the coins were at a premium, and
should bring good prices now from col-
lectors.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: An intelligent atom is
Willie Wagtail, the only bush bird that
associates regularly with domestic
animals. He knows that in front of a
feeding cow is a good place to catch flies,
and he dances about so near that now and
again old Buttercup gives a snort to blow
him out of her way. He pirouettes on her
back for the same reason, and rides along
on Dobbin when the old moke is har-
nessed to a cart. For sheep he has an-
other use. I have seen him alight on the
hack of many a jumbuck and tug out a
bit of wool to line his nest with. A
sheepman, seeing the feathered shearer at
work, remarked, “No darn wonder
there’s a lot of rosellas on my run.”
RETURN.
“The Queensland Railways will run an excursion
trip from Brisbane to the wheatfields of Warwick and
Killarney on October 16.”
Here in the valley where I was born
1 am living my youth anew;
Hansen’s paddocks are green with corn
And the tassels are tipped with dew.
The butcher-bird on the box-tree bough
Is piping his old refrain;
But where is my boyhood sweetheart now,
Dear little dimpled Jane?
Here’s the short cut we used to take
Across the paddock to school:
Here’s where 1 killed the tiger-snake;
And here is the darkling pool
Where we watched the. platypus at his play
When the light of the summer moon
Came close in the wake of the dying day—
But where is my laughing June?
The pigeons coo as of old. they cooed
In the hush of the bushiand hill;
The ibises march, and the mountains brood,
And the crows are clamoring still.
This is the scrub where I hid away
In dread of the master’s cane;
Somebody cried for me that day—
Dear little dumpy Jane?
Harry is running his father’s store;
Jim’s on his father’s farm;
At old Ted’s smithy young Theodore
Is swinging a lusty arm.
And the roosters crow, and the horses neigh,
And the sky is wide and clean ;
And life goes on in the same old way—
But where is my dark Doreen?
My dark Doreen, with the playful pout?
June, with the lashes brown?
Married, to better than I no doubt,
And quietly settled down.
I closed a door when I went away
And I flung away the key;
There may be a Road to Yesterday,
But the road is closed to me!
Where are the lasses I wooed so well,
With blossom and rosy thyme?
Maybe the postmaster-chap could tell,
If I asked —but I haven’t time.
I thank the gods for this gracious day
As I hasten to catch my train,
But I wish I could have, ere I speed away,
One glimpse of my darling Jane!
QUEENSLAND.
L.M.D.O’NEIL.


“Gryllus”: Like the younger and less
commercialised class of poet, birds sing
most vociferously in the spring. It is,
of course (for birds), the season of court-
ship and home-making, but any senti-
mentalist who comes over all gooey with
kind thoughts of the little father-bird
pouring out lyric ecstasies in order to
cheer the dear little mother-bird through
the long hours of hatching out their
sweet little babes is merely wasting good
guff. Willie Wagtail sings day and night
in the sapling clump at the bottom of
the garden, where Mrs. W. is expecting,
but not for her ear. Not on your colo-
nial! What Willie's sweet notes really
mean is that he’ll knock the flamin’ hide
off any blanky cow wot trespasses on
his property, irrespective of weight. I
admire his spirit a lot more than that
of the husband-plover near the swamp
who only pretends a broken wing.
* H= H= *
“Elaps”: It has been proved beyond
all cavil that the snake has no earthly
chance of hearing as we understand the
word (B. 29/9/’37). He gets his impres-
sions of sound or movement from vibra-
tions, as many others of the lower animals
do, and here possibly I created a false
impression by talking of ground vibra-
tions only, though these were mentioned
as accounting for a snake’s awareness of
the approach of a possible enemy. Sound-
and possibly light-vibrations have to be
“Now will you buy a flag?”
taken into account. We hear ourselves
by the impinging of sound-vibrations on
organs specially designed to receive them,
In the same way the earless snake is
aware of them, though he doesn’t hear as
in the ordinary sense of the word.
* * *
“Bundeena”: Touching on the dugong
(B. 1/9/’37), the shark seldom gets
a chance to make a meal from the
mammal. According to Binghi the dugong
feeds and travels in shoals, the flanks
and rear protected by the old bulls, who
are savage in defence of the flock. If
attacked by a shark the bulls form a
circle around the females and lose no
time in hopping into the invader. Jacky
reckons two bulls are more than a match
for the biggest shark.
* * * *
“Blatch, Jnr.”: Choom had orders to
take a dozen traps out and set them
around the various gaps in the rabbit-
proof fence. With the traps slung up
behind his saddle, Henry still hung ner-
vously around the camp till asked at
last what the so-and-so he was waiting
for. Henry stammered, “I say, you
blokes, what do I use for bait in these
things, anyhow?”
* $ He *
“Smore”: In our backyard there is a
very tall gum-tree that for a long time
I’ve wanted to cut down. “Groper” (B.
1/9/’37) supplied the advice I needed.
Following his directions I climbed 110 ft.
with the aid of a rope and
two boards, cut the top off
the tree and now —how in
hell do I get down? Am I
to hang down from the board
like a sloth and stick the
other board in the notch
below, or what? Mean-
while I am having my meals
fired up by rockets twice a
day, and my mate reads
The Bulletin to me from
below by megaphone, but
so far there has been no
other par. which deals with
descents from big trees.
Next week there’s a parachute-jumper
coming to our town, and I’m thinking
of borrowing his gear ’cause I’ve got to
be down in time for the Show. How
about it, “Groper”?
* * * *
“C.-B.”: Beheaded stringybark and
other young saplings yield water only
when the sap is up (B. 29/9/’37). When
it is down (and it’s down a long way as
a rule when all surface water has dis-
appeared), devil a drop of drinkable
fluid will ooze from the cut ends. The
only tree of this chicken’s acquaintance
that will yield a spot of drinkable water
all the year round is the bottle-tree ; but
a cutting tool of some sort is needed to
get at it. Water contained in tree veins
is seldom drinkable (usually it smells to
high heaven and has the color of de-
cayed beer), and, apart from the tea-
tree, such water-containing timbers are
few and far between. At a pinch the
butts of the heart leaves of the grass-tree
might supply a drop of moisture by chew-
ing ; but, then, the grass-tree doesn’t
grow everywhere,
* * * *
“Koombooloomba”: “Pauw” (B.
15/9/’37) may know the bird from which
he takes his pen-name, but he doesn’t
know the Australian plain-turkey. When
cleaned and skinned its gizzard is like a
piece of an old felt hat, and shrivels
away to nothing when cooked. Squat-
ting at the approach of a vehicle is not
due to laziness from overeating, but is the
poor fathead’s idea of escaping notice,
He certainly does considerable execution
among the wingless ’hoppers, but the
only fliers he catches are the odd unfor-
tunates that land under his judicial nose,
Not for him the helter-skelter scurry of a
“ Bert , stop teasin' "im!”
white-leghorn flapper or the lightning
swoops of the ragtag urchins of the air.
Old bush beliefs die hard, and the un-
questioning acceptance of the one that
the scrub-turkey was an active dissemi-
nator of prickly-pear led to his outlawry
for years. Investigation by an Agricul-
tural Department’s officer showed that
the seeds were crushed in Moongera’s
very efficient gizzard, and he has since
been restored to the partially-protected
list. If the dignified magnate of the plains
adopted the diet of his scavenging name-
sake, even for one day, his corpse would
be available for dissection to settle this
argument.
* * *
“K.S.”: Watched several wattle-birds
bathing in a stream near Montrose (Vic.)
on a sunny day not long ago, and if the
sun didn’t cause them to suffer from ver-
tigo I’ll eat my hat. After their tub they
flew drunkenly to sundry perches, their
eyes wearing the glaze noted in the booze-
artist, and they gawked and clowned and
made funny faces at one another for a
good five minutes. After that they
seemed to undergo a return to sanity and
strict decorum. I’ve noted this queer
behavior in wattle-birds before —but these
outbursts occur only in sunny weather
after a prolonged bath.
jj? jjt ■
“Fu Manchu”: How to catch mag-
pies? It’s easy if you have a pet like ours
to start with. We just let Maggie wander
round in a clear space where she can
attract others of her species. Soon she
engages one in battle, grabs it by the
breast with her claws and falls on her
back screeching “Quick, George, quick! ”
A net does the rest, and Maggie repeats
the performance. We intend trying her
out on the crows soon, and after that—-
well, there have been some big wedge-
tails hovering around the lambs lately.
$ $ $ $
“Curate’s Egg”: Against the noxious
properties of mangrove-bark and -sap as
mentioned by “Lunar” (B. 22/9/’37) I
place the many virtues of the hardy
shrub. In the Torres Strait islands it
does not occur in the gnarled and stunted
form of the south, but grows into fine
erect poles up to 20ft., as straight as a
gun-barrel; it is smooth as milled timber
when stripped of bark. Most of the huts
in Binghi villages have floors and sup-
ports made of this durable wood. Binghi
makes a species of flour by macerating
the young green shoots with rocks.
* * H= H=
“Turon River”: Tell “First Blue” (B.
29/9/’37) that another way to prevent
the extinction of Murray cod is to obvi-
ate floodings in cod rivers. Twelve
months ago the Turon (N.S.W.) was well
stocked with cod; then a cloudburst
above Sofala sent the river down on a
7ft. face that didn’t stop to turn corners.
For days afterwards the banks were lined
with birds gorging themselves on cod,
some weighing up to 501 b. The peculiar
part about these floods is that, although
the river will be alive with trout before
their arrival, not a single dead specimen
can be found after they subside.
* * * *
“Mag”: Binghi’s treatment of rheuma-
tism (B. 21/7/’37) reminds me of a
method adopted by the Fraser Island
(Q.) abos. for extreme and crippled cases.
A rude stretcher was improvised close
to the water’s edge, height something
over 2ft., length the average height of a
man, with a top covering of stout bark.
A fire was then centrally made on the
sand underneath, and when the bark was
well and truly hot the nude sufferer
was laid on the top. To prevent his
scorching, willing hands kept him con-
stantly turned. When treated to the
attendants’ satisfaction, he was dipped
bodily into the briny. It was an efficient
and sure cure for the most obstinate
cases.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me an’ Mat was
humpin’ our blueys, and somewhere near
Eugowra we sticks a bloke up and asks
him if he knows of a good camp for the
night. He ruminates a bit, then points to
a hill. “There’s a cave up there,” he
says. “It’s dry and fairly roomy. They
reckon it’s haunted be the ghost of a bloke
that died in the horrors there years ago!”
We weren’t scared, so up we went. It
was a bonzer camp, an’ we soon settled
down. But somehow, after the fire died
down and I was lyin’ there awake, I got
to thinkin’. Soon I sensed that old Mat
was tensed, like meself. “ ’Dja hear
that?” he hisses suddenly. “N-no,
what?” I stutters. “Listen,” he gasps :
Clammy, tongue-tied, with strainin’ eyes,
I listen' hard, but can’t hear anything.
“Can’t y’ hear it?” he whispers. “No,”
I stammers. “Then it must be me own
blood curdlin’,” he chuckles, and snuggles
into his nap.
*.* * *
“Groper”: The fact that Billy Blue-
gum must have his leafy diet well sea-
soned with eucalyptus probably explains
why he no longer exists in W.A., and
why all attempts to acclimatise him have
failed. Years ago the Perth Zoo im-
ported a dozen with the hope that accli-
matised bluegums in the gardens would
provide a sufficient food supply. But
every one died —possibly the bluegums
in their new environment failed to pro-
duce a sufficiency of the essential oil.
Jarrahs and other Western eucalypts are
certainly very limited in their produc-
tion of the oil—which again may explain
why, although the koala once existed, as
numerous fossil remains demonstrate, he
has long ago passed from the scene, prob-
ably along with the vegetable life that
once nourished him.
5P * * *
“Hanko”: Although you will see their
ragged nests in almost any variety of im-
ported tree, sparrows seem not to fancy
Australian vegetation as home sites. They
appear to have a special aversion to the
eucalypts, and will rarely alight in them.
The only native growth I’ve noticed the
little brown finches favoring as nursery
supports is that stray from Kangaroo
Island the prickly acacia.
TRICKED.
“Muster!” he said. “I reckon that there’s few
can teach me that there game!
Pine country, spinifex or plain, to me they all
come just the same.
Gimme some dogs, a decent hack, and lead me
to it, and you’ll see
The champeen sheepman of the West, the daddy
of ’em all—that’s me!”
The boss said “Right! I’ll put you on and let
you loose to show your stuff.
Go out and muster Number Six —you’ll find it
neither good nor tough.
A half-day’s work it is at most.” ... “I’ll have
’em in the yard by ten,”
He said, “and if you use a comb you won’t
find any stragglers then!”
The morning went and still no sight nor any
sound of him we had.
The boss was chuckling. “Up to us to take the
bluff from that smart lad! ”
The rams were trailing from the tank, the
magpies settling down to sleep,
When he came into view at last —with his two
dogs and not one sheep.
“A good day’s work!” the boss remarked. “I
see you brought the two dogs home.”
The new hand grinned: “They followed, mate.
Now you go out and take that comb;
I’ve mustered all there was to get—there weren’t
no sheep when I began.
You see I’ve seen that trick before. Thanks
for the long day off, old man!”
N.S.W.
P.T.F.


A private executor
is presumed to
know the LAW
The full responsibility for an estate during its
administration falls on the trustee’s shoulders.
He is presumed to know the law in all its
intricacies, and is held responsible for any
mistake.
Many trustees, realising the burdens placed
upon them, prefer to transfer their responsi-
bilities to The Trustees Executors and Agency
Company Limited, which devotes its whole
time to the duties of Executor and Trustee.
Private trustees desirous of relinquishing
their duties are invited to make an appoint-
ment to discuss how this may be conveniently
arranged.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
£ JICEHCV COMPANY LI D.
(Incorporated in Victoria in Jaia.)
THE OLDEST TRUSTEE COMPANY IN AUSTRALIA
412 Collins Street, Melbourne . . . 1-5 Bligh Street, Sydney
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and Undivided Profits,
£955,805/10/8.
Trust Assets under Administration,
£29,399,725.
£20,000 has been lodged with the Colonial Treasurer of New South
Wales and £lO,OOO with the Treasurer of Victoria as guarantees for
the proper Administration of Estates.
BOARU Or DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman),
Maj.-Gen. Sir Bmdenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G,, K.C.V.0., D.S.O.J
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, John Fordyce,
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones; Manager: K. M. Hughes.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman),
W, D. Stewart, R. T. Hilder.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
T 3. 10.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c, 71 p.c, Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. = 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
1929. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 ~ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 „ „ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 „ „ 48,000 399 428
1934. .109,163 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 60,000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
First prefs. reduced to 5 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
Service has been the outstanding de-
velopment in the art of shopkeeping of
recent years. Among other things, this
has meant (1) convenient location of the
store, (2) comfort, pleasure and facility
in shopping—brighter stores, better dis-
play and a carefully-trained staff—and
(3) variety and quality of merchandise
and equity in prices, which have led to
a closer study of family budgets, keener
buying and extensive and informative
advertising, etc. In all these matters,
D.J.’s management has exhibited what
appears to be the right kind of vision,
combined with practical care for detail.
About 10 years ago the co. transferred
the major portion of its business from
the corner of George and Barrack
streets —here David Jones founded the
business in 1838—to the new store it
had built overlooking Hyde Park, op-
posite St. James (City Railway) station.
Slump brought a contraction of nearly
58 p.c. in net earnings over the two years
to the close of accounts in 1931, when
the ord. div. (it used to be a steady 10
p.c.) dropped to 4 p.c., and reserves were
tapped for £1777 to pay it. However, the
women liked the new store, the manage-
ment successfully grappled with its new
problems, and turnover bounded along as
conditions continued to improve. Also,
the co. made more of its merchandise in
its own factory, thus gathering additional
wholesale as well as retail profits.
So rapidly has the business expanded
that, in order to provide extra trading
facilities and so relieve congestion in the
new store, the diagonally-opposite block
on the corner of Castlereagh and Market
streets was bought for £365,000, or there-
abouts, early in the last term. Another
store, expected to open its doors early in
1938, is now going up on the site, and
£441,949 in all had been expended on this
property when the books closed. There
was thus a lot of money represented by
a property that contributed nothing to
the pool.
Still, after setting side £43,663 for de-
preciation and sending £lO,OOO to the
staff fund, net earnings sprang £18,901,
reaching £165,049, or enough to pay both
lots of pref. divs. (together £27,750) and
show 21.3 p.c. on average ord. capital, as
against 19.7, 15.6, 13.5, 10.9, 8.7 and 3.7
p.c. back to 1931. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., money being wanted for com-
pletion and equipment, etc., of the new
building.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure: —•
1931. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £1,000,000 £1,000,060 £1,125,957
Deposits .. .. 14,604 39,637
Overdraft .. .. 92,034
Sundry creditors.. 159,217 219,927 278,097
Mortgages, etc. .. 452,475 251,042 602,207
Total liabilities. £626,296 £602,640 £880,304
Freeholds 7 . r „ 0 279 0 12 1 1,302,309
Plant, etc. j 1,296,03 U 1,279,912 t 351,966
Stocks .. .. 459,305 488,574 552,333
Book debts .. 221,643 360,022 400,752
Investments, cash, etc. 37,404 57,041 137,231
During the year £125,957 of fresh capital
was gathered. It brought with it £99,933
of share premiums, while £351,165 was
added to mortgages and £58,170 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
lot, together with surplus earnings, went
into freeholds and plant (up £374,423
net), stocks (up £63,759), book debts (up
£40,730), investments and cash (up
£80,190). Also, an overdraft of £92,034
at the previous balance was wiped out
and £39,637 of deposits was returned.
The year’s contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£210,012) was
£92,984. At the end of July there was
still £83,910 of capital to come; cash
holding totalled £110,169. The contract
price of the new building is not stated,
nor is any hint given whether share-
holders are likely to be asked for more.
Judged on last year’s performance,
shareholders’ prospects are rosy. Still,
in the present unsettled state of world
affairs, the future is very uncertain. Be-
cause of this, the tendency of costs to
rise and the board’s pre-slump policy
of keeping the div. steady at 10 p.c.,
the market takes a cautious view, and
prices the pound ords. at 41s. 6d. as
against 455. 6d. in February. The re-
turn at 41s. 6d. is 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The first prefs. at 275. and
the seconds at 295. return 4.4 p.c. and
5.1 p.c. respectively. The net tangible
cover is £l2 12s. lOd. firsts, £6 19s. Bd.
seconds and 365. lid. ords.
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net . To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1926.. 147,915 9 p.c. =3 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492.591
1928.. 168,449 10 120,000 48,449 541,040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ „ 120,000 60,294 591,334
1930.. 148,184 9 „ ~ 108,000 40,184 631,518
1931.. 78,050 6i„ „ 78,000 60 631,568
1932.. 72,027 6 „ „ 72,000 27 631,595
1933. . 72.659 6 „ „ 72,000 659 632.254
1934.. 84,426 61 „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 74 „ „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 8 „ „ 96,000 12,819 654,250
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937 e.iUff 2< p’!frf 112,463 1 2,683 756,933
The lift in the div. fitted in with market
anticipations, but the issue of 250,000
new 16s. shares, one for six, at a pre-
mium of Bs. each, in February last was
a surprise. Since 1930 the co. has ob-
tained most of its finance through its
associate, Tooheys Standard Securities,
Ltd., at a cost of p.c. To pay 9 p.c.
on the £200,000 of share capital gathered
during the last term the capital and pre-
mium money combined (£300,000) need
turn in only 6 p.c. Appearances are that
the practice of raising additional capital
through the associate co., having served
its purpose during bad times, has been
discontinued for the present, thus adding
to the investment possibilities of the
parent’s scrip.
The next table shows the effects of
movements in earnings and of economic,
political and other developments upon
the market for the shares:
, Scrip Return Not
Pace .Market at Market Tangible
Sppt., Value. Price. Div. Price. Cover.*
1929.. 16/ 38/- 10 p.c. 4.2 p.c. 23/11
1930.. 16/- 17/3 8f„ 7.4 „ 24/5
1931.. 16/- 14/9 5{ „ 5.5 „ 24/5
1932.. 16/- 21/6 6 ~ 4.4 „ 24/5
1933.. 16/- 23/9 6 „ 3.9 „ 24/5
1934.. 16/ 29/9 64§, 3.4 ~ 24/6
1935.. 16/- 28/9 74 „ 4.1 ~ 24/6
1936.. 16/- 31/9 8 „ 4.0 „ 24/9
1937.. 16/- 32/9 9 „ 4.4 „ 24/7
*Last balance. {Final 8 p.c. p.a. {Final 5 p.c. p.a.
§Final 7 p.c. p.a.
So far as can be seen, which isn’t very
far at the moment, prospects of a bit
better than 9 p.c. are encouraging. The
present easy-money conditions are con-
ducive to free spending, and the full
benefit of the new capital will not be
felt till the close of next accounts, when
earnings should also receive a little help
from Sydney’s sesquicentenary celebra-
tions. Still, costs are on the up-grade,
and it is doubtful whether much, if any,
further reduction of unemployment need
be looked for.
N. S. Wales developed its biggest
thirst (29,475,000 gallons of beer) and
Tooheys reaped its best profit (14.1 p.c.
on capital) during 1928-29, when unem-
ployment averaged a shade over 11 p.c.
Slump, etc., brought both consumption
of beer (18,122,000 gallons) and the co.’s
profit (6 p.c. on capital) to their lowest
levels in 1931-32, when the unemploy-
ment figure rose to over 33 p.c. for the
last quarter. There has since been a
steady improvement in conditions gener-
ally, and Tooheys’ earnings have con-
tinued to climb.
For the calendar year 1936 beer con-
sumption was 26,218,000 gallons, up
2,454,000 gallons. Unemployment fell
from 11.3 p.c. for June, 1936, to 6.5 p.c.
a year later. For the 12 months to the
end of July, the co.’s gross earnings
sprang £52,461, reaching £667,744. That
was after allowing £31,933 for deprecia-
tion and making an unspecified provision
for bad and doubtful debts, etc.;
1929. 1936. 1937.
Gross earnings .. .. £782,921 £615,283 £667,744
Exes 612,627 506,464 547,608
Net profit .. . . £170,294 £108,819 £120,136
The net result benefited by £11,317 of
the increase, reaching 9.6 p.c. on
average capital, compared with 9, 7.7,
7,6, 6, 6.5, 12.3 and 14.1 p.c. back to
1929. The div., which averaged 9.3 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930, was lifted from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c.
The co. and its big competitor, Tooths,
supply all but a fraction of the beer con-
sumed in N. S. Wales. There is no price-
cutting in the trade; competition mostly
takes the form of buying up hotel proper-
ties, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over. Since 1929 £1,115,628 has been
added to the book value of the brewery,
hotels, etc., as the following table shows:
1929. 1934. 19'36. 1937.
£ £ £ £
Capital .. 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,400,000
Sundry
creditors.. 497,220 245,933 363*762 387,476
Loans* .. 325,773 791,485 790,916
Brewery,
hotels, eta 1,593,197 1,891,053 2,331,009 2,708,825
Stocks .. 161,886 77,354 77,886 94.257
Book debts 584,413 437,784 602,572 549,010
Cash and
public
securities . 24,059 7,146 6,471 7,128
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,560 39',560
* Adrances by subsidiary.
Last year’s new capital, together with the
share premiums, an extra £23,714 from
sundry creditors and more besides, went
into hotels, etc., up £377,816 net. Debtors'
balances were down £53,562, and stocks
up £16,371. Leaving loans from the sub-
sidiary and shares in other cos. out of
the reckoning, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £262,919 (down £60,248)
when the books closed.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 51,784 10 p.c. = 50,000 1,784 186,829
1928.. 59,849 10 „ „ 50,000 9,849 196,678
1929.. 62,428 10 ~ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 62,657 9 „ „ 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66.195 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6„ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 „ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 ~ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72,364 9 ~ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
Milling and refining are the backbone
of earnings, which are supplemented by
returns from a fine wad of investments
(£426,000-odd) outside the business. The
investments include Australian Consols
(face value £322,270), in at £319,588,
and shares in the Bundaberg Distillery,
in at £64,951, or 60 p.c. of their face
value. The distillery, which was de-
stroyed by fire in November, 1936 —the
loss was covered by insurance, and a
loss-of-profits policy was also in force—
has been rebuilt, and operations were
resumed at the end of August. Refining
(about 12,500 tons per annum) is done
under contract with the Government,
and the profit therefrom is moderate.
Fluctuations in earnings arise mainly
from the milling section of the business.
Here returns depend chiefly upon the
tonnage of cane put through the rollers,
which, in turn, is governed by the
seasons.
The price of raw sugar in Australia,
which varies slightly according to costs
between the mills and consumers of
refined sugar, is maintained at a high
level in order to cover the loss on the
surplus exported. The following table
shows what has happened in connection
with the whole Australian crop over the
last half-dozen years:
Total.
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
Season. Tons. p.o. Price. Price.*
1931.. 605,000 50 £26 19 0 £lB 6 6
1932.. 533,000 37 25 2 3 19 6 1
1933.. 667,000 4S 23 18 6 17 4 3
1934.. 642,000 51 24 0 0 161011
1935.. 647,000 48 24 0 0 16 17 0
1936.. 782,000 54 24 2 0 17 1 4
*Excluuing excess sugar.
The drop in the local price since 1931
is due chiefly to a cut of |d. per pound
in the retail price of fines (now 4d.).
This and variations in the quantity ex-
ported and the price realised abroad ex-
plain movements in the average price.
Millaquin, which does not disclose the
quantity of cane it handles, didn’t share
in the general experience last term, be-
cause of a lighter crushing. The season
opened well, but dry conditions de-
veloped as the year advanced. After
setting aside £17,780 (down £655) for de-
preciation, the net result was £14,795
lighter at 11.5 p.c. on the half-million
of capital, compared with 14.4, 13, 12.6,
a loss, 13.2, 13, 12.5 and 12.4 p.c. back
to 1929. The distribution was kept at
9 p.c., of which 3 p.c. is labelled bonus.
The outlook for the current crushing
season from July to December is not en-
couraging, the board says. Taking
results over the last five years, net earn-
ings averaged a shade over 10 p.c. on
capital and dividends a wink under 8 p.c.,
compared with 12.6 p.c. and 9.5 p.c. re-
spectively for the preceding quinquen-
nium. Obviously much depends upon
seasonal conditions. The world price of
sugar is expected to strengthen gradually
under the new International Sugar
Agreement, provided, of course, there is
no major disturbance of world condi-
tions.
On the market the pound shares fell
sharply from 41s. 9d. to 365. 3d. fol-
lowing publication of the accounts. Last
week-end the figure had recovered to
375. 6d., at which price the return is
4.8 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The net


ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
ives many years of Trouble-free Service
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
-tfgr-n
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Every
BLUE GILLETTE
blade is
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED
GIVING
• extra hardness to the cutting edge
• extra strength to the cutting edge
• extra keenness
• extra life and better shaving
Packet of Five 1/6
\
AS
11181 lP r:
jddt *
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
AND BLADES are ]
made for each other
SHE DREADED GOING
UPSTAIRS
Woman’s Fear of
Rheumatic Pains
One of the many troubles that afflict rheu-
matic sufferers is the difficulty of getting up
and down stairs. Such was the case with this
woman, before she started taking Kruschen,
but now she finds it no trouble. Read what
she says:—
“I have been taking Kruschen now for over
12 months, a half-teaspoonful in hot water first
thing in the morning, and I feel a new woman.
I had very painful rheumatism in my knees and
back and also my head was getting very bad.
I used to dread walking upstairs, now I am
very thankful to say it is no trouble at all and
I scarcely have any pains. I feel better in
health than I have done for years.”—(Mrs.)
G.M.
Two of the ingredients of Kruschen Salts are
effective solvents of uric acid. They swiftly dull
the sharp edges of the painful crystals, then
convert them into a harmless solution. Other
ingredients of these Salts have a stimulating
effect upon the kidneys, and assist them to
expel the dissolved uratic needles through the
natural channel.
tangible cover is 325. lid., of which
17s. 2d. is represented by surplus liquids.
The following table shows how snug
the financial position really is:
1933. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,060
Sundry creditors .. 95,327 110,012 102,814
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,578 323,939 333,580
Plantation, etc... . . 63,302 58,420 58,036
Railways and tramways 37,654 32,374 33,213
Stocks 86,826 80,307 88,541
Book debts . . • • 12,929 10,454 9,909
Investments .. .. 258,717 416,837 426,762
Cash 46,905 29,918 7,579
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £429,977,
of which £319,588 was represented by
Consols and £47,578 by cash. The
future of the scrip as an investment will
partly depend upon what the board
ultimately decides to do with the money
now invested in Consols.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 38,859 15 p.c. = 32,686 6,173 70,293
Profit on sale assets, £6749 .. .. 77,042
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77,423
1929.. 40,007 15 „ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 .. .. .. 19,042
1934.. 9,319 24 p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO .. .. .. 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. .. 20,989
1936.. 30,019 8.5 p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 „ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
Much of the difficulty into which this
catering and refreshment co. got itself
arose from the policy of property pur-
chase during the boom. While such a
policy may give glittering results on a
rising market, it spells trouble on a fall-
ing one, especially when the purchases
are made largely on borrowed money
and are in excess of trade requirements.
However, with the growth of employ-
ment and the improvement in conditions
generally, Sydney has eaten the co. out
of the worst of its troubles. Meanwhile,
the debt was lightened by passing the
Melbourne section of the business, and
with it a £lOO,OOO mortgage, to Lucullus,
Ltd., for 23,000 8 p.c. prefs. and 37,000
ords., and by sale of one of the co.’s
Sydney freeholds to City Property Es-
tates for £12,000 in scrip. Also, new
branches have been opened in busy
centres (total now 37), Tate’s Tea and
Coffee House, Ltd., and Pearsons’ Fish
Cafe, Ltd., were bought, a lot' of attention
has been given to service and the appear-
ance of the cafes, and the business has
been extended to Newcastle, Sargents
(Newcastle), Ltd., being formed for the
purpose with a nominal capital of £50,000
in £1 shares, of which the parent took
6000 f.-ps. for rights and 35,000 were
offered to those on the parent’s register.
During the last term, turnover con-
tinued to expand. Gross earnings
(£209,843) were up £1795. Including
£10,009 for depreciation (amount not
stated for the previous term), exes.
(£177,231) were down £799, which is
encouraging, considering the rise in costs
generally. Taking an unexplained addi-
tion of £926 to reserves into the reckon-
ing, the net result was £3519 better at
11.2 p.c. on capital as against 10, 6.2 and
3 p.c. for the three preceding terms. The
div. was lifted from 8.5 p.c. to 9 p.c.,
the final being at the rate of p.c. p.a.
As for the current term, immediate
prospects favor further slight improve-
ment in earnings, which should get a
little benefit from next year’s celebra-
tions. Still, competition in the restaurant
business is very keen and likely to re-
main so, costs are on the up-grade, and
the declared intention of the board is
to strengthen reserves, which are none
too stout a prop, for capital at the
moment.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the fully-paid pound shares at 295. 6d.
as against 295. a year ago. At the higher
figure the return is 6.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 225. 2d. in net tan-
gibles.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —•
1929. 1935. 1936. 1937,
Capital .. £272,050 £291,666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages .. 289,750 130,228 129,916 128,378
Overdraft .. 30,665 21,220 10,761 8,030
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,358 58,123 56,724
Freeholds .. 576,428 297,426 297,426 293,620
Leaseholds .. 12,536 6,861 10,184 12,250
Plant, etc. .. 95,325 94,500 93,952 91,300
Stocks.. .. 29,431 5,788 6,782 6,586
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 25,788 41,072 40,239 41,819
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 77,348 92,615 94,372
* Including provision for taxation.
During the year £5668 was snipped off
the debt, £2066 was added to leaseholds
and £l5BO to debtors’ balances and cash.
Debtors are mostly mortgagors, who
figure for £33,975. The growth of £1757
in shareholdings reflects the purchase of
Pearsons’ Fish Cafe, Ltd., now reported
to be showing satisfactory results.
Lucullus paid an unspecified ord. as well
as its pref. div. When the books closed,
liabilities exceeded more or less liquids
by £144,727, an improvement of £7052
over the twelvemonth.
Wynyard Properties, Ltd.
This co. was registered in Sydney on
July 20 with a nominal capital of
£lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of which 30,000
have already been taken (for cash), an-
other 30,000 are now offered and the re-
maining 40,000 are in pickle. It is a
clean float; there is no promoters’ or
vendors’ consideration in either shares or
cash. The idea is to go into the
“bachelor”-flat business in the city. For
this purpose the co. has bought (at an
unstated figure) the property known as
54-56 Margaret-street, facing Wynyard
Park, between the G.P.O. and the Harbor
Bridge.
The existing premises are to be demol-
ished, and a new 14-storeyed structure, to
be known as Wynyard Court, erected. It
will contain 143 apartments, each self-
contained, with hot and cold water,
refrigeration, etc., and requiring “very
little actual furniture.” The typical flat
will consist of living-room, 16ft. by 15ft.;
bedroom, Bft. 6in. by 9ft. 6in.; kitchen,
bathroom, etc. Richardson and Wrench
estimate the rental value unfurnished at
from 355. to 475. 6d. per week, and fur-
nished at ijrom 455. to 675. 6d. per week.
The front portion of the ground floor,
facing Margaret-street, will consist of the
vestibule and two shops. The basement
is to be leased as a grill-room and kitchen,
enabling meals to be served to the flats.
Estimated cost of the land and build-
ing is put at £99,900, and of furnishings
and equipment, £9OOO. It is proposed to
raise a first mortgage of £60,000, which,
together with £60,000 of share capital,
would leave £ll,lOO to cover preliminary
exes, (estimated at £1800) and provide
working capital. Richardson and Wrench
estimate the capital value of the property,
when complete, at £107,000.
The board has not yet decided whether
the co. will manage the property or lease
{Continued on next page.)


One-man operation Fordson with extension control
pulling an 8 ft. Harvester in a 10 - bag crop.
14H.P. ON DRAWBAR— 26 H.P. ON BELT
(Australian Tests by Mr. E. J. C. Rennie, Melbourne University.)
In the hands of thousands of Australian owners,
Fordson has proved its many advantages as a power
unit for harvesting. It reduces costs by saving time
and operating expense—many owners report a fuel
consumption on harvesting of less than a gallon per
acre. Your nearby Fordson dealer will be glad to
arrange a test under your own working conditions. A
special Fordson finance plan provides terms to suit
your convenience.
The English
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: MOTOR TRACTORS PTY. LTD.
Corner Bridge and Young Streets, Sydney
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
‘‘HOT SPOT” FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RATIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED QRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
Queensland: BUZACOTT’S (Queensland) LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tas.: MALCOLM
L'l'D., City Showrooms: 601-3 Lt. Collins
MOORE
St., Melb.
South Australia: POWER PLANT LTD.
90-100 Currie Street, Adelaide
Western Australia: LYNAS MOTORS LTD.
Hay Street, Perth
FORI) MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INC 0 R P ORATED IN
il l ßll 111 l ■IIIHIIIIMII ■lll W
VI .CTO R I A )
F206.27T
INVENTORS.-—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and-Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co, (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRALASIAN timberlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELLIS, B.Sc. (late
Director State Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals. Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals.
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O- *•
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Sutn
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. —Advt.
Public Notice.
C ORESTRY BONDS.—I pay up to £5 more
D per bond than other buyers for rer
petual Forests Bonds. —R. F. CORMACK, 44
Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
it. An offer has been received for a 10-
year lease of all flats at a price that
would show 10 p.c. net on capital, after
providing for redemption of the mort-
gage, the prospectus says. Estimated
annual revenue from leasing the whole
undertaking is put at £16,848—143 flats
(average £2 p.w.), £14,872; two shops,
£832 ; two basement areas, £624; dining-
room, £520. Including rates, taxes, etc.,
and £2lOO for amortisation of the mort-
gage, exes, are figured at £10,360, leaving
£6488 net, or 10.8 p.c. on a capital of
£60,000.
Under the co.’s own management
annual revenue is figured at £22,426—140
flats (three reserved for staff) are expected
to bring in an average of £3 2s. 6d. a
week each, less £2300, approximately 10
p.c., for vacancies. Exes, are put at
£14,895, leaving £7531 net, or 12.5 p.c.
on capital.
No difficulty is anticipated in securing
desirable tenants at the maximum rentals,
the prospectus says. Much depends upon
this, as experience in other parts of the
city shows. Competition in the flat busi-
ness is very keen these days. Among
other things, this means a heavy call for
maintenance, repairs' and improvements,
On the board are W. J. Curtis, K.C.,
W. Whitfield, E. A. Goldsmid and P.
Haege.
„ c ., T , t • u •
Big Ben Silver Lead, N.L., is bemg
iormed to lake over, prospect and
develop an area of 120 acres adjoining
Montana Western Extended’s mine (near
Zeehan, Tas.) to the west. Nominal capi-
tal is £37,500 in 250,000 shares of 3s
each, of which the vendor takes 25,000
fully paid, 100,000 are offered to the
public, and those on Montana Western’s
register are invited to subscribe for
75,000, one for two. The Extended
co.’s technical and administrative staffs
will look after both properties, and
it is proposed to erect a joint treatment
plant, the design of which will depend
upon the result of metallurgical tests
now being carried out at Melbourne
University. The lode on Big Ben out-
crops on rising ground, and underlies to
the east at an angle of 45 degrees. It
has been stoped out to the 50ft. level
for a distance of 200 ft. north (average
width 3-4 ft.), where, “owing to surface
configuration,” the drive entered mud-
stone. Along the 200 ft. there is evidence
of patches of galena underfoot. To the
south, surface prospecting shows small
veins of galena for a distance of 300 ft.
Hand-picked samples of ore averaged
63 p.c. lead and 90oz. silver per ton, but
too much notice need not be taken of
that. Everything will depend upon the
behavior and value of the ore-bodies at
depth. T. I. Dyson recommends that the
main vertical shaft (now down 37ft.) be
deepened to 150 ft., and the lode driven
on and crosscuts put out east and west.
Until the results of this and a lot more
work are known, the venture remains a
gamble. Thus far the whole field has
proved patchy.
* * * *
At 83,732 (up 17,114) tons, ore re-
serves of Aberfoyle Tin, the Ben Lomond
(Tas.) producer, are approx, six years’
supply for the mill. Formed in 1926,
the mine commenced regular production
in 1932. To June 30 last 59,692 tons
of ore had been mined and £50,327 dis-
tributed in divs. Here are results over
the last four years:
All-in C'trates, Tons
Year Crushed, Costs,,. A -
June, Tons. Ton. Firsts. Seconds. Dividends.
1934.. 10,234 42/2 195.0 215.2 124 p.c. =s 117,812
1935.. 13,218 48/2 280.5 337.2 20 „ „ 12,500
1936.. 14,791 46/8 295.5 344.0 20 „ „ 12,500
1937.. 13,289 55/9 258.0 338.0 20 „ „ 12,500
Despite a sharp lift in costs, last year’s
profit, after providing for taxation and
£2OOO for depreciation, was £5902 higher
at £24,195, thanks 7 to the lift in metal
prices. The 20 p.c. div. took £12,500,
and a further £3500 was earmarked for
depreciation and £BlOO for development
amortisation. With tungstic acid around
its present prices, the wolfram content
of the ore is proving a nice sweetener.
At balance date the co. held £26,236 in
Government securities and cash, and
owed outsiders £6BBB. •_ Costs should
benefit from the switch-over from steam
to electric power in June last. Improve-
ments to the crushing plant are now con-
templated, as well as new headgear at the
main shaft, where a crushing station, with
a belt-conveyor to the mill-bin, is to be
erected. Paid capital is £62,500 in 50,000
10 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 200,000 ords,.
all ss. shares. Last dealing in the ords.
was at 15s.
* * * *
Following piercing of 14ft. of large
spurs, carrying fine and shotty gold, by
a crosscut from the bottom (530 ft.) level
to the east back, South Virginia’s 10s.-
paids have lifted from 7d. to 3s. 6d. and
then fallen back to 2s. 9d. in the market
over the last few weeks; the cross-
cut is to be continued to the syncline
and the spurs then prospected. Some
people are attaching significance to the
fact that the mine is on the Paddy’s
Gully line of reef, adjoining the one-time
particularly rich Garden Gully line, at
Bendigo (Vic.), and that the Eaglehawk
district, where the mine is situated, has
been most productive in the past between
700 ft. and 1500 ft., in which case the co.
may be getting on top of something
worth while. It crushes at the distant
Sheepshead battery, which makes milling
costs high. At June 30 cash in hand was
£1464.
* * * *
Big Bell’s mill (W.A.) was started
by Lieut.-Governor Jimmy Mitchell the
other day to the accompaniment of flags,
cheers and feasts. The usual speeches
followed. Minister for Mines Munsie
said that the gold-carrier in the property
was 750 ft. in length and 80ft. in width,
and had so far been proved to a vertical
depth of 650 ft. Sufficient ore was proved
to keep the 30,000-ton-a-month mill
crushing continuously for years. The
venture is a huge low-grade one, the
expected extraction of gold per ton being
a little over 3dwt. It is backed by the
American Smelting and Refining Cor-
poration, a wealthy organisation with
world-wide ramifications. Dale Pitt is in
control of operations.
* * * *
For the year to June 30 last Gold
Mines of Australia, an exploration and
finance concern, turned the preceding
term’s loss of £17,952 into a profit of
£16,994 per share), reducing the
debit at p. and 1. to £23,143. Formed
in 1930, the co. has interests in Triton
(W.A.), Victoria Gold Dredging, Morn-
ing Star and the B.M.L. group at Ben-
digo (all Vic.) and Mt. Coolon (Q.). The
three first-named are the most likely-
looking at the moment. Partnered by
Gold Exploration and Finance, G.M.A. is
at present boring a 5000-acre alluvial
area at Newstead (Vic.), while testing of
the old Berty United deep leads in the
same State is also proceeding. Exclud-
ing shareholdings, in the books at
£120,671 (cost), more or less liquids were
£11,951 in excess of liabilities at balance
day. The last div. of 6d. per share went
out in 1934.
* * * *
The directors of Rothsay, N.L. (W.A.),
say the future of their mine depends on
shareholders putting up more to finance
the development and stope preparation
recommended by the new general man-
agers, Bewick, Moreing and Co. Roth-
say started crushing with a 2500-ton-a-
-rnonth plant some time ago, but had to
give up owing to treatment troubles.
Those were remedied, and a fresh start
was made. Then it was found that in-
sufficient ore was developed to meet the
demands of the plant; hence B.M. and
Co.’s recommendation. The mine has
a fairly long and promising shoot, and
therefore a chance.
'l*
Paringa, on the northern fringe of the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, nears the pro-
duction stage. To date more than
£150,000 has been spent on developing
the show, and the installation of a treat-
ment plant with a capacity of 4000 tons
a month has further reduced the con-
tents of the co.’s till. Paringa is an old
mineowner on the Kalgoorlie field. In
the early days it mopped up most of its
funds in shaft-sinking and equipment. It
extracted nearly £30,000 from shallow
ground, then gave up. Tributors stepped
in, and over a period of years took out
about £BO,OOO. Co. resumed operations
on the property in 1933. At the last
annual meeting chairman Beale estimated
that ore of a gross value of £400,000 in
Australian currency was in sight, and
that a working profit of £50,000 a year
was assured. Paid-up capital is £159,247
in shilling shares.
* t- * *
Gambier Lass, Leonora (W.A.), has
discontinued operations because of un-
satisfactory development, serious water
difficulties and lack of funds. Co. paid
£6OOO and gave away 10,000 shares for
the property, which at the time of pur-
chase was said to have a gold-carrying
formation that “gave every indication of
living at depth and of carrying payable
values over a considerable distance.” It
previously spent £14,000 on a dud in
the same locality, for which it handed
out £7500 and 60,000 shares.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
High Street: Australian Whaling Co. has
just issued its balance sheet; contact secretary,
A. G. Noble, 19 Martin-place, Sydney
C.M.S.: Not recommended T.P.L.: Hold.
. ...W.M.: A sound investment, particularly in
present weak condition of market... .D.R.:
Should be room for the co., but prospectus
estimates likely to take time to achieve
A.8.C.: (1) Has prospects, but business not
yet established, and therefore speculative. (2)
Fair prospects of small capital gain. (3) Yes,
but you might do better in Finney Isles.


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is "No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
F.. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 11&-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
SMOKE-OH!
In a N.S.W. country town a Mr. Cobb
married a Miss Webb, and it is said that
he married her as soon as he spied her.
*2* * *2*
“Some firms have made the stern rule that
any clerk found betting on horses may be dis-
charged at once.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Again proving the truth of the adage
“Where’s there’s moke there’s fire.”
*2* *!* -I- -2'
From what is taking place in Alberta
it looks as if it is the Douglas Discredit
Plan.
*2*
“Hotelkeeper says that publicans discourage
drunkenness.”
Quite right—the size of the nips they
give shows that.
Then there were the two nudists who
were unsuited for each other.
♦l* *!♦ 'h *l*
Women often give men their own way.
*l* *l*
“Weather conditions became increasingly
worse, and finally head-wines brought the air-
men down.”
You’d have thought that would have
kept them elevated.
•I*
“A doctor says that the habit some girls have
of plucking their eyebrows can be highly dan-
gerous.”
Bearing out the old adage: Put not
your trust in pincers.
*2* -I* -V
At any rate, Talking is sure to win the
big event on October 23.
“A competitor at a recent rifle meeting ? fired
20 rounds without even getting an ‘outer.’ ”
No doubt he has since been snapped
up by one of the turf papers as a tipster.
Another Injustice.
“A burglar, charged with being found on
premises with intent to steal, unsuccessfully
pleaded that he was a somnambulist.”
He protested he merely meandered at
night
Sound asleep, or at least in a coma,
But the Beak, in a manner more brusque
than polite,
Opined that the tale that he pitched had
a quite
Unmistakably fishy aroma.
Perhaps. But I think it’s the truth he
maintains,
That they wrongfully pulled the poor
bloke up;
He snoozed as he walked, as he plainly
explains,
And the one undeniable fact still remains
It was when he was “pinched" that he
“woke up” !
BO.
The Eeding of Branimals.
“The Zoo authorities in South Africa have
succeeded in crossing a lion with a tiger. The
resultant animal is called a liger.”
Which reminds me of the time Pro-
fessor T. Spoon invited me to help him
on his experimental farm at Gumtree
Gully. On his unique property, he em-
ployed dats to exterminate the mats and
rice, while the efficient cogs herded his
shows and ceep with fanine cunning and
celine sagacity.
His ceep were failures, being an ex-
pense to feed and producing only poor
quality lins and skeather. The meef or
button they gave was very inferior. Still,
it’s an ill wind that blows no good, and
the shows more than made up for their
unfortunate cousins, and were a great
success, giving both mool and wilk.
In my opinion, the hybridising should
have been left at that, but the professor
had other brainstorms. He produced
interesting results in crossing rabbits with
possums, and the resulting pobbits, hav-
ing forsaken the burrow and taken to
the timber, were subsequently destroyed
in a bushfire. This was a far better
method of exterminating the brutes than
digging out warrens.
However, an unfortunate quarrel arose
between the professor and myself. He
had, for some reason, crossed a pig with
a goat, and I insisted that the resultant
poats sneated. This the professor denied,
emphatically declaring that a poat didn’t
sneat —it blorted. I couldn’t stand it any
more. I left the professor deep in his
experiments, trying to raise hucks and
dens.
D.M.
Working It Out.
“Quarrels between husbands and wives have
been cured, psychiatrists claim, by writing little
plays for them and letting them fight out their
differences on a stage.”
“Now,” said the consulting psy-
chiatrist, “this miniature play will allow
you to compose your differences by pre-
venting the full psychodrama of your
inter-relations from emerging. Just
speak your lines naturally, but, mind, I
want you to stop at the words ‘lt might
look like a hat then! ’ ”
[Scene: A breakfast room. Husband
sitting at table. Wife putting plate in
front of him.\
H.: “What! Sausages again? This
is the fourth time this week we’ve had
the blasted things. Are you too nit-
witted to pick on anything else?”
W.: “Shut your flytrap, you big
Alick. What do you expect with the
“. . . .and resisting arrest!”
money you give me to manage on
poultry with every meal?”
H.: “Well, I could have that, too, if
you didn’t splash it on hats like that
stupid-looking affair you got yesterday! ”
W.: “If it was as stupid looking as
you I’d burn it!”
H.: “Well, why don’t you? It might
look like a hat then!”
W.: “Don’t talk to me like that, or
I’ll let you have this across your silly-
looking face!”
H.: “You! Why, you couldn’t hit
yourself if you had someone to guide
your hand!”
W.: “No? We’ll soon see about that,
you beast. Take this —and this”
H.: “You bad-tempered little swine!
Cop that! ”
{Enter psychiatrist hurriedly, holding
up his hands)
Psy.: “Now, now, didn’t I ask you
not to go beyond the wor”
H. ( turning savagely on him): “You
shut up! No one asked you to shove
your bib in!”
W.: “Well! the idea! It’s like your
hide interfering! And don’t you get
bullying my husband!”
Psy.: “But”
(Exit psychiatrist Very hurriedly, pro-
pelled by client’s boot.)
Nipper.
“Witness said that accused, after forcing his
way into the house and using abusive language,
had punched him in the face.”
He came, he swore, he stonkered.
No doubt unemployment insurance,
when it is established, will be based on
fire premiums.
•I
“In Australia,” Allen said, “Duckworth played
in a match against women. I asked him how
he had fared. Duckworth replied: ‘Not very
well, but I have made two very good dates.’ ”
—Sydney “Sun.”
“Duckworth replied: ‘Not very well, but I
have made two very good appointments.’ ”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Prunes and prisms!
“Widow, middle-aged, own home, like meet
widower to 45, mean, teetotaller.”
— Melb. view mat. ad.
First she wants him tight and then she
doesn’t. What does she want?
•h •b 4*
“Wooed Her in Church: Choirmaster’s
Romance.” — Woman’s paper.
Took her in his Psalms.
•h *l* *l*
“Some golfers are great travellers.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They knock about the earth a good
deal.
*l* -I* v *2*
It’s going to be Shocktober to some of
the politicians.
•h -h *!*
Customs and Inhabitants of Our
Great Outback.
An outbacker who is kept busy all the
year round is the woolbale-presser.
It is obvious that without considerable
pressure it would be impossible to get
the required weight of wool into a stand-
ard-sized bale. This is achieved by
highly-skilled pressers working in teams.
As great weight and strength are essen-
tial, ex-heavyweight wrestlers make ideal
pressers, and it is from their ranks that
these specialists are usually recruited.
After all the burrs, bindi-eyes, knots,
shakes and splits have been taken out
of the wool by the burr-gatherers, bindi-
eye spikers, knot-undoers, etc., it is thevi
washed with a special soap which will
not shrink it. After being sun-cured it
is handed to the classers. They sort it
out into its types (rams’, ewes’, lambs’
and the black wool from the black sheep).
As they toss the wool into its allotted
corner (the classers’ building has four
sides, thus allowing just sufficient corners
for the purpose) the pressers start their
operations.
Though at first glance it may appear
simple, actually the work of pressing calls
for perfect synchronisation of movement.
First, a bundle of wool is pushed into
the bottom of the loose hessian bale, and
on top of it is placed an ingeniously-
devised contraption consisting of two
boards joined together by a number of
powerful spiral springs. On each of its
four corners stands a presser. Clasping
each other’s arms to form an endless
square, they all commence leaping up
and down, and, so that they all come
down on the board together, a time-
beater is employed. To relieve the
monotony and the better to maintain
perfect rhythm of movement, suitable
chanteys written in 4-2 time are sung.
This saltant periodicity is essential,
otherwise not only would the wool be
pressed unevenly, but injury might even
be sustained by any presser who got out
of step. When the method was first
evolved it was no uncommon thing for
a presser coming down a split second
before his three colleagues hit the board
to shoot straight up and crack his head
on the ceiling. It was this, as well as
the fact that as the bale got fuller the
pressers shot farther up, that led to the
evolution of the exaggerated cupola roofs
which are a feature of pressing-rooms.
In Central Australia, where sheep draw
their chief sustenance from the drought-
resisting caoutchouc vines, the wool has
that decidedly elastic quality which makes
it invaluable to manufacturers of sus-
penderless socks. The baling of this type
of wool is a much more hazardous occu-
pation than that of the ordinary kinds.
Here the pressers are paid special wages,
being deemed for the purposes of the
award acrobats and thus getting their
“ticket” from the Theatrical Employees’
Union. These particular pressing-sheds
have, of course, no roofs.
The presser’s work is by no means
finished with the stacking of the wool into
the bale. Actually, the most difficult and
strenuous part of his job is shaping it
and helping to get the bands on.
To complete this arduous phase, the
bale, after being sewn with horsehair (no-
thing is wasted on a station, and the clip-
pings from the horsetailer’s scissors are
spliced together by the rouseabout—who
is usually an old sailor—for this purpose),
is moved to the “shaping-room,” a very
small structure with a low concrete roof
and enormously strong walls. Here the
pressing begins in earnest. The bale is
stood on end, and on each of the four
exposed sides a presser puts his massive
shoulders, using his feet as a lever against
the wall and exerting every ounce of
energy.
It naturally follows that, under such
terrific pressure from the sides, the bale
Would become unduly elongated were not
counter-pressure exerted from the top.
This is effected by having two extra-
heavy pTessers, known as the “anchor
men,” pushing down hard from the top,
their feet against the roof.
When the shape-checker is satisfied that
the bale is sufficiently symmetrical to fit
on the station lorry he gives the signal
to the band-fixer, who immediately slips
the strips of hoopiron around the bale,
fastening them firmly with safety-pins—
no easy task when it is realised that he
has only that fraction of a second while
the presser is taking a breath to slip the
hoopiron between him and the bale. Good
band-fixers are scarce, owing to the neces-
sity of their having very strong teeth
and an extra long reach, the former to
hang on to one end of the hoopiron with
while their long arms grope around the
bale to catch the other end.
S.W.K.


: :
:■ Ki
mm
«Sffl
mm
m&Sspa&m
IDENTICAL WITH THE
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS If
V f <?
' - s7+i|
.<<■■■
Vivi®
k*
bl
I >
inhale & Q’m conoincei
Black & White
ale so muc
• * •
9 for 6d., 18 for 17-
Cork Tipped or Plain
BWIO2-24
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Consolidated Press
On Sept. 24 the co. which publishes the
“Women’s Weekly” in all States and the
“Daily Telegraph” in Sydney issued ac-
counts made up to March 27, 1937.
Apparently they cover 12 months’ opera-
tions—the “Weekly” and “Telegraph”
were to be taken over from Sydney
Newspapers (in which E. G. Theodore
and Frank Packer were the principals)
and Associated Newspapers respec-
tively “not later than March 31,
1936.” Consideration for goodwill for
the first-named publication was £265,000,
£125,000 for the second, both sums being
taken out in ord. shares in the new co.
Goodwill paid for in each case was
equal to 16s. 2d. per copy of the
“Weekly’s” Nov., 1935, claimed circula-
tion per issue, and to 255. for each of
the 100,000 daily copies which the “Tele-
graph” was reputed to be selling.
The “Weekly” for the five months to
Nov. 30, 1935, was said in the prospectus
to have earned £15,527, “equivalent to
£37,266 p.a.” The “Telegraph” in 21
weeks to Nov. 24, 1935, was credited
with a profit of £5?B9 —the prospectus
didn’t bother to show the yearly rate.
But if both papers had maintained
those figures for the 12 months covered
by the accounts now published, profits
would have been something like £50,000.
The plans of newspaper and mining
magnates, no less than those of mice and
men, seem liable ,to go astray, however.
After capitalising £77,000 of outgo under
the heading of “establishment account,”
net profit for the period has actually
been shown at £11,950, allowing £10,600
for depreciation. The pref. div.
charge hasn’t been covered “more than
FIVE TIMES OVER” (prospectus) ; it
wasn’t covered quite twice over. Had
establishment exes, been charged to
revenue there would have been a debit
of £65,050. No ord. div. is mentioned.
At flotation in January last year the
cash capital introduced to Consolidated
amounted to £250,000 in 150,000 ords.
(subscribed by Sydney Newspapers, E. G.
Theodore and D. F. H. Packer) and
100,000 6j p.c. cum. prefs. (taken by the
public). Another 35,000 ords. were
issued in exchange for the old “Evening
News” plant, bringing vendors’ shares,
including those for goodwill, up to an
amount of £425,000. The cash-paid
capital of £250,000 (making a total of
£675,000 altogether) was to be applied,
as to £95,000, in buying the “News”
building, £lOO,OOO in buying new plant
(“machinery already ordered includes
rotogravure presses for production of
color work”), £6OOO in covering prelimi-
nary exes, and £49,000 in working capital.
The following figures compare the
commencing financial position as pictured
in the prospectus with the achievement
after a year’s trading as shown in the
first balance sheet:
Prospectus First
Estimate Balance Sheet.
Paid capital .. .. £675,000 £675,000
Liabilities .. .. 335,408
Buildings .. .. 95,000 104,275
Plant .. .. 135,000 183,641
Cash, etc 49,000 8,337
Stocks .. .. 169,532
Debtors . . .. 77,385
Shares in other cos. ' 1,000
Preliminary exes. .1 6,000 5,231
Goodwill .. .. 390,000 -390,000
Establishment account 77,000
Buildings are £9275 up on the figure sug-
gested by the prospectus, and plant is
£48,641 higher, though the rotogravure
color-press was said to have been ordered
when the prospectus estimated the addi-
tional outlay on plant. It is now
described as an “artgravure” machine.
Stocks on hand, presumably mostly
paper supplies that haven’t yet been
“artgravured,” are in at £169,523 —
“cost or market value, whichever the
lower, as certified by the co.’s officials.”
Book debts amount to £77,385, shares
£lOOO, and cash, prepayments, etc.,
£8337. To carry extra fixed-asset outlay
and finance working-capital requirements,
as well as to provide for the £77,000 now
represented by nothing more than “estab-
lishment account,” the co. had a debt of
£335,408 (including tax provision) at
balance day, and in respect of £197,898
of it the creditors (including the banlO
had been granted security. The excess
of liabilities over more or less
amounted to £80,154.
The prospectus mentioned “over
100,000’’ as the circulation of the “Tele-
graph,” and the “Weekly” had net sales
“exceeding 300,000 copies.” The annual
report says that the “Telegraph” when
taken over was selling at the rate of
90,000 a day, a year later at 156,000 a
day, and now in excess of 170,000.
“Telegraph” advertising is said to have
lifted from £l6OO to £3200 a week. Net
sales of 382,000 a week are claimed for
the “Weekly,” including 30,000 p.w.
added by popularity of “artgravure.” In
the circumstances it would be interesting
to know exactly how much the “art-
gravure” outfit cost the co. Newspaper
plant, incidentally, usually leads a fast
life.
The prospectus said the prefs. would
be backed by £2 15s. 9d. a share in net
tangibles. Last balance day this security
had dropped to £2 Is. 9d. a share by
reason of “establishment” outgo. The
tangible backing is all in fixed assets,
there being over £3 7s. per pref. share
in liabilities that have a prior claim on
the undertaking.
Since the close of accounts “the co.'s
position has improved materially.” But
the board doesn’t say whether “estab-
lishment” exes, are still being charged
up. Even last year’s £77,000 debit raises
an immediate query—why so much was
paid for “goodwill” in the first place.
This page has never run away with
the idea that the sky was the limit for
Broken Hill silver-lead share prices.
When quotations were at their top last
March (in B. 24/3/’37, to be exact) the
whole subject was thrashed out at length,
and this advice was given:
To those who wish to be sure of their
profit it is suggested that Norths and
Souths be sold. To retain a long-term inter-
est in the great silver-lead field, investors
couldn’t do better than hold Zinc Corps.
Highest quote in March for Norths was
935., Souths 60s. 3d., Zinc Corp. ords.
£8 14s. 6d. Last Thursday sales were
made in Norths at 605., Souths 395.,
Zinc Corps. £5 12s. 6d. The drop in
every case has been about 35 p.c. Zinc
Corp.’s attraction is that it is now
approaching the stage of its greatest pro-
duction, and it has the longest assured
life of any mine at the Barrier; at the
same time it has the lowest capitalisation
of the three biggest shows. Nevertheless,
it is only a stock for those who specifi-
cally desire “to retain a long-term in-
terest in the great silver-lead field.”
*.* * *
If copper averaged as low as £5O
sterling a ton for a year, Mt. Lyell on
past mining experience should show over
21 p.c. on its capital. There is about 255.
a share in investments and liquids out-
side the mine. Last Thursday’s price of
395. put a figure of about 14s. a share on
the mine, assuming that investments are
worth their book value. Mostly in the
fertiliser business, last year they turned
in enough to pay 4.5 p.c. on capital.
* * * *
Loloma (Fiji) announces ore reserves
of 138,960 tons averaging 26.8dwt. as
at July 31. The figure includes 28,620
tons “probable” and “possible.” If the
gold content is as estimated (186,4080 z.,
up 30,0000 z. during the year) it would
be worth about £1,600,000 at present.
There are 825,000 shares issued, 180,000
f.-p. to 55., the rest paid to Is. 6d. The
plant, now having its first run, was de-
signed to put through 500 tons a week.
Assuming that estimated ore reserves
could be treated within five years for a
net profit of £1,000,000 —and there is
nothing certain about goldmining profits
until the divs. are actually pocketed—
then, subject to development and capital
outgo, the speculator at 20s. a share
could look for his capital back and a
yield of about 4 p.c. p.a. over the period.
Obviously net profits of more than
£1,000,000 are looked for by the market.
They are by no means assured from the
“proved” ore reserves. It is noteworthy
that last year’s addition of 33,830 tops
to the total reserves assayed 17.7dwt.,
as against the 26.8dwt. estimated all-in
average to date.
With Loloma’s new plant running (a
first clean-up on Oct. 28 is anticipated),
and Emperor’s timed to start soon, the
sharemarket for the scrip of both cos. is
hardly in its happiest mood. Lolomas
weakened further, to 205., last week, and
Emperors flopped sharply to 11s. lid.
at one stage. Emperor’s plant should be
a good job (Ruwolts had a lot to do with
it), but working of plant represents only
one mining problem. The ore has been
described as having a high moisture con-
tent, and there may be other difficulties
in the way of remunerative returns be-
sides the obvious one of high capitalisa-
tion. The vendors collected £600,000 in
cash and shares.
* * * * <
In Melbourne last week:
Gordon and Gotch ords. were as firm as any,
sales being recorded at 545. 3d. Henry Jones
scrip also kept firm. British Tobacco showed
a marking-down at 48s. 6d.
Australian Cement- shares kept very steady
around 325. 6d. Drug Houses scrip had a
fairly regular market between 265. 3d. and
265. 6d., yielding 5 p.c.
Emperor and Loloma shares were traded m
substantially at fluctuating prices.
North Kalgurlis kept very firm at 20s.
Boulder Perseverance showed a sharp rise
to 3s. 3d. after sales for some time under 3s.
Scrip in Saxon. Montana, one of the latest
Zeehan (Tas.) floats, changed hands at 2s. 3d.
and 2s. Id. Montana Western scrip was
weaker at around Bs.
Broken Hill South was the most heavily
traded in Barrier stock. B. H. Prop, was the
industrial with largest turnover.
Associated Pulp was active at 20s. 6d.,
down about Is. 3d. on its highest price.
(jEorge Farmer prefs. (B. 6/10/ 37) con-
tinued to be dealt in around par. The ords.
changed hands at Bs.
Herald shares showed recovery at 68s.
E., S. and A. Bank.
The £3-paid shares in this, small-
est of the English-registered Aus-
tralian banks, can be picked up at
about £5 12s. each. Highest price
this year was £6 12s. Interim div.
in May was at the rate of 7 p.c.
p.a., paid in sterling, less English
income tax ; previously divs. were
free of this charge, and they may
be again. But deducting 3s. 9d.
sterling in the £l, yield, allowing
for exchange and accrued div. pay-
able about Nov. 26, is a shade
over 4 p.c. It is probable that
when the Federal elections are over
the market for bank scrip will
appreciate.


A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC, INNOCUOUS.
Ilf
■
No' odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of City
life. Hundreds
in use. Shell Oil
Co., 53 repeat
orders; Bank
; N.S.W., 15. In-
i stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools, Private
Homes, etc. Can
be installed where Septic Tanks are impracticable.
Simply installed. Cheap to run. Automatic.
Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6 other States.
Write for free pamphlet. HYGEIA SANI-
TARY CO., 28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE PRODUCTION
OF ANTI-CORROSIVE COATINGS.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
20227/34 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WITH EVERY GALLON
9*
'i.
Always ask for C.O.R Super Plus Ethyl, the only
super grade petrol that also contains BENZOL. v A
natural anti-knock fuel in itself, benzol, when
blended with super grade gives your engine
EXTRA POWER and presents you with a bonus of
EXTRA MILES PER GALLON AT, NO EXTRA
COST. :, ■ •; ; t \ .: ' : r . ; ’ :.J
Remember only C.O.R Modern Petrols contain
BENZOL— an exclusive, C.CKR improvement, ,
SUPER
ETHYL
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Commonwealth Government & Anglo-Iranian Oil
Co. Ltd.), Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE
sue
£
cO
m
C93.SO.SP
The Weekly Slump
The further collapse in London metal
prices about the middle of last week
bashed down quotes for almost all Aus-
tralian base-metal stocks. Lead and
spelter, at £l7 16s. lid. and £l7 13s. 9d.
a ton respectively in London on Wednes-
day, were little more than half the peak
price of last March. Tin pitched down-
wards by £l7 a ton in two days, to £234 ;
the fall here has been comparatively
small, though the figures look big. World
metal markets, because of rearmament
speculation early in 1937, have been tur-
bulent all this year. Though the high
prices of March and April were never
considered here to be secure (the specu-
lative war-boom element was deprecated
in B. 3/3/’37), present quotes for most
metals suggest that they are not greatly
out of balance now with other commo-
dities, though having been higher than
warranted they will quite likely go lower
than really justified for a time.
Electrolytic copper slipped to £53 last
week, showing greater firmness than other
metals. The brake is again being put on
output. This doesn’t affect Mt. Lyell,
except that that concern will benefit by
any consequent steadiness in prices.
The fall in metal shares on Australian
’Changes has been accompanied by a less
noticeable but general weakening in in-
vestment shares:
March April July Oct.
16. 29. 29. 7.
Carlton .. .. 64/- 63/6 67/6 63/9
C.-Perkins .. 26/- 26/9 26/9 26/-
Tooth .. .. 57/- 58/3 55/6 55/6
G’brough, Mort.. 39/6 39/- 36/6 34/3
Winchcombe .. 36/6 36/6 36/-* 34/6
Adelaide Steam 32/6 32/6 31/3 32/
Q’land Insurance 60/9 60/- 60/- 60/9
A. Gas “A” .. £7.2 £7.3 £7.4 £7.3
Assoc. News .. 24/3 23/7 23/- 23/-
Austral'ian Glass 93/6 90/- 95/3 91/6
Australian Paper 39/ 35/- 33/6* 33/-
Aus. Cement .. 31/6 31/6 32/- 32/6
B. Prop. .. 91/3 81/3 82/9 77/-
Burns, Philp .. 80/- 73/- 72/9 58/-*
Electrolytic Zinc 66/6 57/6 58/- 53/6
Fairymead .. 39/3 37/6 35/- 32/9
G. J. Coles ..106/- 105/- 111/6 94/-
Mauri Bros. .. 75/- 74/- 70/6 68/6
W. H. Soul .. 84/6 85/- 90/- 90/-
Yarfa Falls .. 43/- 42/-* 39/9* 40/-
North B.H. .. 89/3 70/9 76/- 61/*-
B.H. South .. 58/- 46/9 47/9 39/-
Mt. Lyell .. 52/6 45/3 43/6 39/3
* Ex rights.
Broken Hill Prop., whose interest in
silver-lead is comparatively small, re-
mains depressed. Electrolytic Zincs at
535. 6d. haven’t yet touched the 1937
lowest quote (495. 9d.), but previous
low this year for Norths was 695., •
Souths 445. 6d., Lyells 405., and last week
all three dipped deeper.
Bank scrip has also been depressed
lately:
Apr. 29. July 29. Oct. 7.
Bank of N.S.W. .. £3B/10/- £35/5/- £33/7/6
National (£5) .. 7/17/6 7/10/- 7/3/-
The approaching elections have had an
influence here. With the return of the
present Government probable, there
should be recovery in bank scrip by
November.
Steel production by B.H.P. in the first
four months of its new term amounted
to 248,775 tons, up 15 p.c. on the 1936-37
rate of production. Pig-iron output is
just a little higher this term. In the
latest month (to Sept. 26) steel output was
a record for the plant at 64,139 tons.
* * * *
The 40-hour week and other “humani-
tarian” incidentals wished on France
have had a lot to do with the slide in
the franc. Now “off” gold, the country’s
currency is at the mercy of ebb and flow
in exchange movements —and the ebb is
a lot greater than the flow. High costs
invariably drive gold out of a country so
long as gold is free to be driven ; after
that the exchanges drift. The deprecia-
tion in Australian currency was accom-
panied by a fall in costs that gave us a
wonderful leg-up in the world; in
France the exchange is. chasing rising
costs. Unless something can be done
about these costs the outlook won’t be
very happy. Economically France is the
Sick Man of Europe at the moment.
* * * *
Balance sheets to June 30 published in
Britain lately have on the whole indi-
cated sharply-rising profits, though some
of the reports mention increasing costs
owing to higher labor and commodity
rates, and in one or two instances profits
have been actually lower as a result.
* * * *
At Briseis (Tas.) engineer-and-manager
Atkinson’s estimate of Is. 6d.-per-yard
costs has been achieved—not a common
thing in present-day mining—and from a
mining point of view excellent work has
been done. The tendency of market
backers, however, to run the ss. shares
up to a substantial premium some time
back was scarcely justified. Time enough
for that when the first financial results
are published.
H= H= * H=
H. B. Dickie, Ltd., Melbourne, which
makes towels and terry-cloth, reports
that Queensland cotton is improving in
quality, and the co.’s products are now
100 p.c. Australian. The co. has secured
a contract for towels with. the R.A.N.;
if towel-making is overdone by Austra-
lian manufacturers, Dickies are con-
fident that other lines can be tackled
with profit.
Dickie ord. shares were one of the
issues to keep steady last week in Mel-
bourne ; recommended in B. 27 /8 / ’37
at 255. 6d., there has been a div. of lOd.
since, and last week sales took place at
255. 6d. Over a month there has thus
been a slight improvement in the market.
* * * *
After sales as high as 235. in August
(the scrip was pointed out here a week
or so earlier when around par), there was
a drop in Davies, Coop and Co. ords. to
21s. 3d. after the publication of accounts
that showed 9.8 p.c. on ord. capital.
Last week quotes on Melbourne "Change
picked up,'/ and ' there ' were several
sales at around 21s. 9d. On a 6 p.c.
div. basis the yield offering is over 5.6
p.c., allowing for the div., or 6.5 p.c. if
the distribution lifts to 7 p.c. (the final
for 1936-37 was at that rate). The co.
makes cotton tweeds, denims, etc., in
addition to turning out men’s clothing
and knitted goods.’
* * . * *
United Provisions, Ltd., continues its
uncertain career in the. bacon, small-
goods . and tinned-delicacy business—*
difficult avenue of earning these days.
George Farmer, a competitor, disclosed
unsatisfactory results about a month ago,
and now the co. which merged the pro-
prietaries of Huttons and Foggitt Jones
announces that, while profits of the two
businesses more than cover pref. require-
ments, no ord. div. is recommended. Last
year 2 p.c. was handed to the ords.
United Provisions has become one of the
most notable examples among listed in-
vestments where better times have had
little beneficial effect on profits. The
ords. are down below Bs. again.
* * * *
Ords. in Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
Sydney, sold at 68s. 6d. last week, ex 2s.
final div. and bonus. The 15 p.c. div. was
covered nearly twice over by earning*
for the 12 months to June 30. At the
latest market the yield offering is £4 7s.
6d. per cent.—a good one considering
the high-class nature of the stock.
* * * *
Electrolytic Zinc’s profit of £536,613,
after providing £145,000 for amortisation
and depreciation and £130,534 for taxa-
tion, though well up on 1935-36 results,
didn’t put any great heart into the market
last week. The result was equal to 20.6
p.c. on capital, as against 12.4 p.c. in the
previous term. E.Z.’s profits are more
stable than those of Barrier mines by
reason of its refining contract, but this
contract is difficult for outsiders to trans-
late into estimated profits when metal
prices are fluctuating. The co., of
course, has its own mines at Rosebery
(Tas. West Coast), which it bought from
Mt. Lyell about 15 years ago. Including
bonus, 171 p.c. was paid to shareholders
during the term.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper (Burnie,
Tas.) anticipates that before paper sales
start to offset outgo the co. will have
spent £200,000 more than the capital
raised. This is partly, but not wholly,
due to increased freight rates and
material costs. The board doesn’t antici-
pate any difficulty in arranging the neces-
sary financial accommodation,
* * * *
Myer ords. were again very weak last
week in Melbourne. Ex div., sales were
made at 345., returning £5 6s. p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. The rate was well covered
by last year’s earnings, and the scrip
now looks cheap.


df
£ Racing
0 Hunting
& Shooting
0 Sight-seeing
BINOCULARS
At a lower price the new Spimller and
Hoyer Binoculars are sturdy and excep-
tionally light—have independent eye-
piece adjustment as well . as , centre
focus. Complete with leather case and
strap. Earge, 8 x 40, 190 z., £ 16.
Average size, 8 x 30, 160 z., £l5.
' Write for jiarticulars.
E. ESDA I L E & SON S,
43 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone, 8W313.1 (3 lines).
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Three-year-olds are so very good this
season that it is a pity they are not more
strongly represented in the Caulfield Cup.
Judged on two-year-old form, as they
necessarily are, horses at three years are
never harshly treated by the handicapper,
and in the past three-year-olds have been
very successful. However, with this ex-
ception, there has rarely been a more
representative Caulfield Cup, and possibly
Ronsardian (7st. 31b.) may turn out an-
other Palfresco.
Balkan Prince (Bst. 101 b.) and Man-
olive (Bst. 51b.) have come from West-
ralia ; Brownfelt (Bst. 71b.) from Queens-
land ; Alinura (Bst. 71b.) from S.A. ;
Talking (9st. 21b.), Silver Standard
(Bst. 71b.), Fireman (Bst.) and Sir Regent
(7st. 121 b.) from N. S. Wales ; Wotan (Bst.
121 b.), Flood Tide (Bst. 91b.) and Inter-
national (7st. 1 lib.) from Maoriland,
while' there will be at least a dozen Vic-
torian candidates, from Donaster (Bst.
101 b.) to El Bruno (6st. 71b.).
Talking does not appeal. Greater
weights have been carried to victory by
four-year-olds, but Talking is no Poseidon
or Manfred. Silver Standard is much
more attractive ; but he has been second
in two Metrops., and perhaps he is fated
to be second in two Caulfield Cups.
Flood Tide won three good races at
Auckland last season, two over the Caul-
field Cup distance. He has been start-
ling the touts with his gallops at Men-
tone, and he must have greatly impressed
the A.J.C. handicapper, for his Metrop.
weight was 9st. 31b.; but he failed at
Caulfield on Saturday. Flood Tide is a
five-year-old ; Willie Win (Bst. 71b.) is a
year older. In Willie Win’s case also there
is no doubt as to his staying the distance ;
his last race in Maoriland brought
success in a mile and a half handicap,
the Great' Autumn.
The Adelaide mare is good and
game, and so is Brownfelt; but the Perth
stallions have higher credentials. Man-
olive’s sire won the Caulfield Cup twice
and his dam won the Melbourne Cup.
But Manolive has had a lot of racing
this season. The same applies to Steven-
age (7st. 101 b.), though each would get a
bit more weight if the handicapper could
do his job over again.
Donaster won three races in Adelaide
in the winter of 1936 and two —the Adel-
aide Cup, with Bst. 111 b., and the
Coronation Cup, with 9st. 41b. —last
winter. He was not at his top last spring,
but he seems to be racing much better
this season.
The Trump (7st. 101 b.) has been recog-
nised as a good horse ever since he made
a one-horse race of the V.R.C. Stand
Handicap as a three-year-old, just two
years ago. Then he was third in the
Caulfield Guineas to Young Idea. Since
then he has proved difficult to train, and,
though he showed early in the season
that he had regained his three-year-old
form, he had to be eased in his prepara-
tion. It didn’t prevent his winning the
Toorak Handicap, and, if he comes
through all right, he will take a power
of beating. He is very nicely handi-
capped, and Caulfield is his favorite
course. He is another son of Manfred,
and his owner (Eccles) and trainer (Reid)
should know what is required of a Caul-
field Cup horse.
Sir Regent beat Silver Standard in the
Metrop., and a rise of 31b. on his original
weight is not much for so meritorious
an achievement. El Bruno was un-
thought of until he ran away with the
Stand Handicap at Flemington on
October 3. That performance brought
him right into the picture. One of those
he defeated in that race was his stable-
companion Lautus, who had been backed
beforehand for the Caulfield Cup—
Lautus had 7st. 21b.
• ♦ • ♦ • •
The Chanter (Bst. 71b.) was one of the
favorites last year, when he had 31b. less.
The distance troubled him then, and it
may do so again.
If The Trump comes through his final
gallops well he will probably go out
favorite. This Page likes The Trump,
Silver Standard and Sir Regent in that
order.
* * * *
Ten years ago Textile won the Toorak
Handicap and the Caulfield Cup. Nobody
who was at Caulfield on Saturday will
be greatly surprised if The Trump lands
the double. His victory in the Toorak
was really brilliant.
Darcy Eccles’s five-year-old gelding
was backed for a small fortune, and the
price shortened from fours to 5 to 2.
He did not appear to have the ghost of
a chance when second-last at the half-
mile, and in a similar position turning
for home, but he finished at whirlwind
speed and scored by a head from Dark
Sky.
Third, lengths farther off, Balkan
Prince earned credit, as he was carried
off the course at the home turn. How-
ever, the form speaks best for The
Trump, who had 111 b. more than his
Cup impost, while Holt’s candidate
comes down only 31b. Spinifex tired
into sixth place after leading and having
everything in his favor. The Chanter
and Regular Bachelor did not start.
The Trump recently suffered from
some mysterious physical trouble, and
was off the tracks for an alarming
period, during which it was doubtful
whether his Cup preparation could con-
tinue. Now he seems to be as fit as a
fiddle. Eccles ran second in the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1922 with The Cypher,
and was second to Peter Pan 10 years
later with Yarramba. His luck in big
events has been tantalising, but The
Trump may lift the hoodoo.
“Ossie” Phillips, who won the Mel-
bourne Cup of 1936 on Wotan, looked
like celebrating his return from overseas
with a success in the Herbert Power-
Handicap on the M.L. stallion, who
seems to be at his best in the spring.
After runaway tactics had failed with
Flood Tide, Wotan swooped to the front
along the rails, but went under by half
a head to his stable-mate, International.
Odds of 20 to 1 were available about
International; Wotan figured at fours
and was a point better favorite than
Flood Tide. Wotan had his exact Caul-
field Cup impost, whereas International
will have to go up 81b. It was a won-
derful finish, Beau Roi being third, only
half a head behind International, with
Alinura and Demotic right on top of
the placegetters.
Ajax (5 to 4) thoroughly deserved his
Guineas victory. McCarten rushed him
to the front from the extreme outside at
the barrier. Outpacing Lynch Law, Ajax
led Sir Grey by two lengths at the half-
mile. It was feared that Frank Mus-
grave’s representative would tire after
turning for home, but he fought on well
when challenged, and lowered' the mile
course record by a quarter of a second,
reducing it to lmin. 37sec.
Paramount feature of the Guineas con-
test was the finishing effort of-Avenger.
Five lengths behind the leader on the
bend, he made up so much ground over
the last furlong that he. ran Ajax to a
neck/ In a few more strides the posi-
tions would have been reversed. Hua
did not begin so well as Jim Scobie ex-
pected, but was less than a length behind
Avenger when they reached the judge.
Avenger had been off-color for a
couple of days after his return from Syd-
ney, the result of an unduly long delay
on the train journey. It took three
hours to get from Spencer-street station
to the seaside suburb of Mordialloc, and
constant shunting affected the nerves of
Percy Miller’s colt.
That Young Idea could beat only one
of his five rivals in the Caulfield Stakes
suggested that something must have been
wrong with the Constant Son stallion. In
such poor weight-for-age company
Young Idea ought to have been the bet
of the day, yet he started at 11 to 8
against and was closely pressed by John
Wilkes (15 to 8 at barrier-rise).
At no stage was Young Idea really in
the picture. Charles Fox, who belongs
to Sol Green, rushed to the front at
seven furlongs and led Prince Quex two
lengths at the half-mile. John Wilkes,
who is in the same stable as Charles Fox,
challenged him at the turn, and they had
a terrific tussle up the straight. Refusing
to surrender, Charles Fox prevailed by
a head. He was moderately supported
at 7 to 1 ; 10 to 1 had been laid.
Bartle had to forego the mount on
Normal in the Debutant Stakes and
other riding engagements through being
kicked by Lynch Law in the early morn-
ing. J. T. Jamieson secured O’Sullivan
for Normal, and this M.L. youngster, by
the. Hurry On stallion Lord Warden,
registered a first-up victory at the nice
odds of 8 to 1.
Normal squeezed home by half a
head from Beau Frere (Beau Pere-
Chelae), who started favorite at 3 to 1
and turned the tables on his Flemington
conqueror, Pooh Bear. Ground lost by
Beau Frere in being carried out wide at
the straight entrance cost him the race.
Beau Frere ought to be in line for
Maribyrnong Plate honors. He was
bought for 750gns. at the M.L. sales by
Charles Wheeler on behalf of John
Wren, and is out of a sister to the dam
of Hall Mark.
Jewel (11 to 8 on) dealt punters a
body blow by her miserable display in
the Debutante Stakes. The Simeon’s Fort
filly did not come within coo-ee of her
Flemington form at the previous week-
end. J. F. Aldridge, of the Kismet stud,
won easily with Loveable, a filly by Gilt
Edge from Trey (The Welkin-Teppo), a
sister to the dam of Hall Mark. Minor
places were filled by Happy Dinah (who
is consistent) and Brazen Duchess, a
stable-mate of Regular Bachelor.
At the close of the afternoon The
Trump was restored to Caulfield Cup
favoritism, being in slightly better de-
mand than Balkan Prince and Silver
Standard. Silver Standard is the Cup
choice of James Scobie. The veteran
was vastly impressed with the manner
in which Silver Standard galloped along-
side Hua at Randwick and Rosehill and
with his second in the Metrop.
* * * *
None of the winners on the last day .
of the A.J.C. spring meeting was N. S.
Wales-bred —a rare happening at Rand-
wick. Homily (Canonbury Stakes),
her half-brother Courtcraft (Clibborn
Stakes), Golden Treasure (Waverley
Handicap) and Mala (Randwick Plate)
were raised in Maoriland ; Beau Ercil
(Chester Handicap) was bred in Victoria
and Buzalong (Final Handicap) in
Queensland. Three-year-olds ran first,
second and third in the Chester Handi-
cap. Before the end of the season they
are going to make a lot of the older han- /
dicap and w.f.a. horses look rather
cheap.
* * * *
Only Mala, Allunga and Lough Neagh
contested the Randwick Plate. It was
supposed to be a two-miler, but it was;
really only a mile-and-a-quarter race.
Mala, who had been backed from threes
to 7 to 4, but closed at twos, won in a
canter from Allunga and Lough Neagh,
both very tired. Mala has Bst. 121 b. in
the Melbourne Cup. He finished sixth
last year with 7st. 61b.
Schoolmate, a plain-looking Queens-
land-bred gelding, trained at Brisbane by
V. L. King, was favorite for the Chester
Handicap. His was an inglorious dis-
play ; slow away, he beat only two home.
Beau Ercil (7 to 1), carrying the Capris
colors, had a fine tussle with his former
stable-mate St. Constant, sold for a
pound by Alan Cooper to Joe Cook.
Commencing the last furlong, the quid
horse looked a winner, but Beau Ercil
worried him out of the big end of the
prize. Mangoola came fast to get third.
Courtcraft (6 to 4 on) made an excel-
lent impression by his performance in
the Clibborn Stakes. He was left the
best part of 10 lengths, but at the end
of a couple of furlongs he was in the
lead. They seemed odd riding tactics,
and the colt lugged badly in the straight,
but he is game ; anyway, he won com-
fortably from Correct and Silenus. . A
protest for interference was dismissed.
Courtcraft is to run in the Victoria
Derby. He is improving with racing,
and looks like paying his way in Vic-
toria.
Courtcraft’s half-sister and stable-com-
panion Homily (7 to 1) made her oppo-
nents in the Canonbury Stakes look like
hacks. Badly placed early, she dropped
the opposition at the Leger and scored
from Vanquish and Starbine. Strathroy,
who is raced by Sylvandale’s owner, was
fourth. This Veilmond colt was slow
to leave the barrier, and has possibilities.
Harry Taylor made a good purchase
when he gave 750 guineas for Golden
Treasure. After scoring at Victoria Park,
Golden Treasure was put aside for the
Waverley Handicap, and, starting at 4
to 1, he outstayed Tapestry and Billy
Boy. On the strength of his fourth in
the Metropolitan, Old Rowley opened
favorite. His run in that race must have
knocked him out, for, after being last
most of the way, he beat only Fugitive
and Bringa. During the week he had
been backed for the Melbourne Cup by
a bookmaker who thought him a good
thing beaten in the Metrop.
Backed from 12 to 1 to eights, Buza-
long made a one-horse race of the Final
Handicap. He took charge three fur-
longs from home, and after that the only
question was who would fill the other
places. Sal Volatile and Tuckiar did.
Autoland, finishing fast, was fourth. The
stewards asked Shean and owner-trainer
Leftwitch to explain Buzalong’s improve-
ment on his form in the Suburban Han-
dicap. After investigating the betting
transactions, they accepted the explana-
tion. All the same, the inquiry was
amply warranted, and it is to be hoped
that the stewards will continue to be
curious about pronounced reversals of
form. •
* * * *
“T.”: Only £564 10s. was toted on the
Randwick Plate —just about 10 p.c. of the
“investments” on other races —and it was
a dreary race. If the A.J.C. had a horse
of its own in these events it would
stimulate speculation and greatly im-
prove them as spectacles. If it were an
unwritten law that the club horse should
cut out the pace, they would always be
truly-run, instead of being—as nowadays
they generally are —a combination of
exercise gallops and half-mile sprints.
“A club horse for weight-for-age events”
would be a good committee motto.
o Continued on page 30.)
“Sulky”: Globe Derby, the Tas-
manian stallion who has produced more
noted pacers than any other sire in Aus-
tralia, has another champion coming on
in Van Derby. Van Derby crossed the
Strait for the Melbourne Show, at which
he won in each of his eight starts.
Rushed back to Tasmania, he set new
mile figures for the Elphin track during
the Launceston Show. He stepped 2min.
8 l-ssec. for the mile, and clipped
3 l-ssec. off his own record set last year.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: Drastic changes
have taken place in bowls under the re-
vised laws, and a new terminology re-
places the old. A rink is now the bit
of grass the game is played on, and not
a team of four. There is no “team ’
now—you play on a “side” ; and the in-
discriminate use of “end” and “head
for the same thing is banished. Nor is
there a “skip” any more—he is the “cap-
tain,” while the “scorer” has become the
“marker.” Lastly, the frivolous expres-
sion “kitty” has been jettisoned in favor
of “jack.” The expressions “Could you
stop one?” or “What about a quick
one?” remain unaltered,
FOR CAULFIELD.
Caulfield Cup: The Trump, 1 ;
Silver Standard, 2 ; Sir Regent, 3.
Burwood Handicap: John
Wilkes ; next, Nightguard.
Gwyn Nursery: Pandava.
Windsor Handicap: Beechwood ;
next, Heroic Faith.
FOR RANDWICK.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Bristol;
next, Verberry or High.
Flying Handicap: Mangoola ;
next, Beau Ercil or Bodley Head.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Maurice or Beau Ercil; next.
Bengal Lancer.
Club Welter: Coolspell; next,
Verberry or Nabob.


Make your own money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
CHEST
NOSE & THROAT
AILMENTS
WITH
i
luce
n l c i
TFoJ
Save lots of money by making
your own family remedy for
m
made up
|M YOUR
qWN home
not
gd
nose, throat and chest ailments by simply adding a two-shilling
bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water. Then you
will have a supply equal to up to £l’s worth of the best ready-
made-up remedies for catarrh, sore throats, coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis and influenza. For catarrh and colds in the head
you put a few drops of made-up HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning. Remember, HEENZO does NOT contain
MADE UP
IN YOU*.
oWN HOME
mm
wmmmmm
m
1
»
k
k
any poisons. (Poisons can eventu-
ally destroy the delicate mem-
branes.) As a gargle for sore
throats, HEENZO gives instant
relief and, because of its purity,
can be used whenever distress is
felt. As an internal remedy for
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis
and influenza, the goodness of
HEENZO is universally known.
Because of its purity and freedom
from poisons, there is no danger
of overdosing with HEENZO, and
it will not upset the digestion of babies or
adults. HEENZO is equally good for
people of all ages. All chemists and stores
in Australia sell HEENZO.
! HEENZO,
Should be used in every home
«mm
CARCLEe., ,H ~ Za
(OPE THROATS
MADE up in Your
OWN HOME


"silver edge'*'
BRAKE LINING
TRADE MARK Ar REGISTERED . THE RAYBESTOS CO
'SAVE
}EGISTfcRfcD . THE LU. k
MONEY /
There is never any true economy in cheap articles;
particularly does this apply to your motor vehicle’s brakes.
Your safety and the safety of pedestrians depend upon the
reliability of your brakes.
For over twenty years “RAYBESTOS” Brake Linings have main-
tained a name for quality, building up a reputation for consistency of
product unrivalled by any other firm. It will prove cheaper in the long run
if you ask for your brakes to be relined with “RAYBESTOS.”
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN AKNOLD, G.F.O. Rox 71, Melbourne. Viet
The life of a tyre gauge ends when its accuracy is
gone. Comparing useful life with cost, a Kismet
tyre gauge gives you best value. It is made with
precision—tested repeatedly during manufac-
ture, to give exact readings every time
and for always.
Get a Kismet —the extra cost
comes back to you in longer
useful service.
'-O Xc 3 .dr Calibrated
\ Jl 7 0-50 pounds
clearly marked
on wide flat sur-
faces in single
pounds ; in neat leather
wallet.
<3
a
m
Factwy Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, Australia.
Manufacturers
. WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
Under the Whip
On the third day at Randwick Alan
Cooper recovered another £1125 of his
outlay on Talking—wagers, training ex-
penses, jockeys’ fees and the like are
left out of the argument. His £19,000
horse went out at 7 to 2 in a Craven
Plate field of four, Gold Rod being at
10 to 9, Allunga 3 to 1 and Lough Neagh
7 to 1.
Bartle had been secured for Talking,
Munro’s services being required for
Allunga and McCarten’s for Gold Rod.
The new jockey jumped Talking out in
front and he was never passed. Allunga
started out in pursuit three furlongs from
home, and steadily gained on him all the
way up the straight, but could not quite
get there, and Talking won by a neck.
Lough Neagh was third, two lengths
away, and the Epsom winner a bad last.
Afterwards Gold Rod was so distressed
that the vet. was called in. It was not a
case of foul play, and the chestnut was
all right next morning. There is a morose
impression that he will give of his best
only when things are going all his way,
and Talking is also darkly suspected of
being a Sunday horse.
Out of Kelso’s stable came first and
second, Silenus and Bristol, in the
Members’ Handicap for three-year-olds.
With the favorite, Bourbon, and Maurice
they made a very exciting finish of it,
Silenus being a neck in front of Bristol
and the other pair, who could not be
separated, another head away. Kelso's
colts were each backed, Silenus being
8 to 1 and Bristol a point shorter. The
latter was giving his stable-companion
81b., and as he carried Bst. 111 b. and was
hampered when making his run it was
no mean performance, considering the
time. Talking, with 9st., ran his mile
and a quarter in 2min. 3sec.; Silenus’s
time was 2min. 41sec. So Bristol’s gallop
was not much inferior to Talking’s.
'
Kelso well deserved the change of
luck. In the Gimcrack Stakes he had
seen his well-fancied filly Politesse stop
at the post. The Gimcrack went to Gay
Romance (7 to 1), a Gay Lothario filly
owned by J. C. Bendrodt and J. W. C.
Monder. She is trained by Bendrodt,
who has evidently learned something
aboiit the training game in hours snatched
from a life devoted for many years to
the commercial side of ballroom danc-
ing.
Little Might Not (14 to 1) did the Ring
a good turn in the Suburban Handicap,
for which Buzalong and Shakespeare
were the favorites. The Queensland horse
Jocular (10 to 1) ran another second, and
King’s Head, his lOst. lib. notwithstand-
ing, was third, Celebrate with 9st. 81b.
being fourth. This was another close
finish, and Might Not ran the mile in
lmin. 36isec., which is good enough for
most Epsoms. In this race there was a
solid commission for Red Thespian, and,
as in the Epsom, he showed up in the
straight; but so far this spring the chest-
nut from Newcastle has failed to repro-
duce his fine autumn form.
When half the distance of the Sydney
Handicap, 12 furlongs, had been tra-
versed, there seemed little hope for Sar-
cherie (5 to 2), Gay Knight (10 to 1) or
Latharna (8 to 1), they were so far back.
As it happened, they outstayed the
others. A rousing finish ended in favor
of Sarcherie, who beat Gay Knight liter-
ally in the last stride ; Latharna, a bad
last most of the way, was a good third.
As she did in the Doncaster, Sarcherie
got up on the rails. It showed excellent
judgment on the part of J. J. Lahey and
his trainer Webster to reserve the mare
—for this race —the first prize was £4Bo—
instead of going for the bigger stuff,
but it doesn’t say much for handicap
form, that of the three-year-olds ex-
cepted, when old-stagers like Sarcherie
and Lough Neagh can keep on winning.
* * * *
“D.”: Not only the bloodsucking tax
p.c. plus fractions of sixpences and
unclaimed dividends —detracts from the
popularity of the Randwick totes. There
are so few clerks employed at pay-out
windows that collecting generally means
tedious waiting. This is particularly the
case with the new “combination,” five-
bob-each-way, outfit. On Metrop. Day
there were long queues waiting to be paid
half an hour after a race. Indeed, men
and women with Metrop. tickets were still
lined up when the bell went for the Cen-
tennial Park Handicap 40 minutes after
the Metrop. It is a very stupid form of
economy, for many exasperated punters
simply give the tote a miss and take their
money to the bookmakers. They may
lay cramped odds, but they always pay
promptly.
Sjj Sk
“Thormanby”: Steve Donoghue is re-
tiring from riding to train for the Sas-
“Remember what I told you—no slogging till you're set."
“An' who goin tell me when I'm set?"
soons. After a beginning in England,
Donoghue tried France and Ireland before
again returning to the scene of his
first start. His first win in England was
at 24, but after that he never looked
back, becoming the most-sought-after
horseman since Archer. He won six
Derbies, one more than Archer, and every
other classic event of the English
turf, including the Oaks and Thousand
Guineas this year for Sir Victor Sassoon.
A long spell of illness and financial mis-
fortune was ended when he was retained
by Sir Victor, and he soon found his feet
again. Only 53, he should have a long
run of training successes before him.
“Hoofbeat”: Cabled that the French
mare Corrida, by winning the Prix de
I’Arc de Triomphe for the second time,
has brought her stake winnings to over
£50,000. This is claimed to be a record
for a thoroughbred mare, though a
Yankee trotter, Goldsmith Maid, is
credited with £76,000 during her 12
years’ career on the tracks. Corrida,
a daughter of Lord Woolavington’s
Coronach, winner of the Derby in 1926,
is retiring from public life to embark pn
a domestic career.
M.Q. and Rafferty
“E.A.8.”: The wrestling at the Hobart
championships was uninteresting and in-
effective. The only grapplers of any class
were Garrard, Scarfe and Knight, and
their opponents were too poor to show
them off.
As for the boxing, the game has slipped
tremendously. It was harder to win a
Tasmanian championship 30 years ago
than it js to gain an Australian title to-
day. On the form shown at Hobart I
don’t wonder Australia is unsuccessful in
Olympic and Empire games. If Maori-
land sends across a team similar to that
which visited Hobart. about 12 or 15
years ago under the control of Dawson
and Donovan —it included Charlie Purdy
and Lachie McDonald —they will clean
up our representatives in short order.
In the contests for championships it
was nothing but swing, swing, swing—
as often as not with the open glove and
with no body weight behind it. There
was not a single knockdown, much
less a knockout. A few fellows were
roughed or wrestled to the floor,
and a couple of bouts were stopped
to save the victim’s ears being excessively-
boxed, for that was all it amounted to.
The boys were in good shape, and were
game and fair, but their knowledge was
very limited. They would go back a
yard instead of a few inches, with both
feet off the ground, and their tap-dancing
would have ended their contest if their
opponents had not been so crude. Their
ducking and weaving were capital, but
their footwork was awful, and they didn’t
know how to punch.
The best contest to my mind was the
first heat of the lightweight, Ellis v.
Hallis. This was exciting, and so were
Ellis v. Brown and Ellis v. Piper on the
final night. Ellis won all three, but
each of his opponents made him step all
the way.
Mace (N.S.W.) was the best of the
feathers. The welters and middles were
poor.
Ins and Outs
“A.S.”: The nucleus of the Australian
XI seems already shaped. Bradman,
McCabe, O’Reilly, Badcock and F.-Smith
pick themselves. Gregory and Fingleton
have good chances, and McCormick is
our best specimen of a fast bowler,
though no world-beater. White is well in
the running, and it will be hard to leave
Grandpa Grimmett out if he does well in
the early Sheffields ; he is still deadly in
England. Oldfield might well be dropped.
In Tallon and Barnett we have two
notable stumpers, with Tallon a class
batsman as well. Unless Brown and
Robinson recover lost form they should
not be considered.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Australian selectors have
a fine chance of remaking the Australian
Eleven this year, for it is a long time since
so much really good young material has
been available. One man with strong
claims to consideration is the North
Sydney left-hander White, who did so
well with the State team last season and
kicked off this year by taking 9 wickets
for 40 against Paddington. This was cer-
tainly done on a rain-impaired pitch, but
many such are encountered in England.
If White gets his chance early, instead
of being left in the discard for years until
half his skill has departed, as was the
case with Hornibrook, he may become
one of Australia’s greatest left-hand
trundlers.
* * ■ * *
“Aigburth”: An English press sym-
posium has been trying to find out who
first applied the word “Test” to England
v. Australia matches. No one seems to
know, though one Gillott, who says he
lived many years in Melbourne up to
1900, says “he never heard the expres-
sion used in his experience there. Writer,
with a fair acquaintance with big cricket
in Australia off and on since the mid-
’nineties, is equally at sea. There must
be somebody about able to spill infor-
mation on the subject. He is adjured to
speak now or for ever hold his peace.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Arthur Richardson, after
a long spell in England as a professional
' and a turn here as umpire, takes the
field again with Glenelg. Robinson, of
N-S.W., the latest outlander to transfer
his affections to S.A., will play with
Prospect club. He has been picked in
what is practically a South Australian
team to be led by Bradman in a Labor
Day match. Counting Darling, who will
not play in the big stuff, importations to
S.A. in the running for the Sheffield
team number eight in all if we are to
count in Bradman and Grimmett. Others
beside those mentioned are Scaife (V.),
Wilson (V.), Ward (N.S.W.) and Badcock
(Tas.). Great encouragement for local
talent!
sj; H* He ❖
“Susie Swattit”: Sad news for the
chairman of the Board of Control. This
season is to see the first women’s inter-
University cricket match, the contestants
being Sydney and Melbourne. Sydney


m
.
mm
'jiz
i
ii<
BIkM
m
m
FROM the huge annealing fur-
naces in Lysaght's Mills, the
iron emerges fitted for whatever
may be demanded of it. It is this
care at vital stages of its produc-
tion which ensures the absolute
reliability of Lysaght's Special
Tankmaking Iron, which is giving
unrivalled service and satisfaction
to users throughout Australia. This
iron is sold under a special guar-
antee, particulars of which can be
obtained from the manufacturers.
FREE—a copy of Lysaght's Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write to John Lysaght
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Box 196 D., G.P.0., Sydney.
In the annealing
furnaces under
rigid pyrometric
control, the grain
structure of the
metal is changed.
LYSAGHT
AUSTRALIA
TANK MAKING
LYSAGHT'S
SPECIAL
TANKMAKING
IRON
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Macleod Gallery”
25 2 George Street
C Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free.
Z 54
LO
:£
"0
cO
0
Ci^
%
Z
-4
N*
R!
G'®S
sc*
fp>
M 2
Pi
G'*
O^
o*2
:
i# | I *;::
msws&
Orient Steam Navigation Co.
Ltd. Incorporated in England. s*s§§:
TONNAGE, 2*23,400 5*20,000 1*15.000
Uni. has always been a strong supporter
of feminine cricket, and now Melbourne
has admitted the game to the sacred circle
of official sport. Sydney Uni. oval will
probably be the scene of the clash.
Nineteenth Hole
“Wynnum”: Anderson, the holder of
the title, defeated Walker in the play-
off for the Queensland close champion-
ship. The second meeting provided as
tense a struggle over the 36 holes as che
first, Anderson winning by a stroke.
Walker has been a bit off his game since
he so narrowly missed the Australian
open title in Sydney last month.
* * * *
“Oakleigh”: Victoria’s A.I.F. tourney
attracted 522 entries, and most of these
finished, though rain and darkness closed
the long day. The winner was A. J.
Sinclair, of Albert Park, who, with a
start of 17, returned a net card of 60,
which made him 6 up on Bogey. He is a
freak player with a left-hand grip and a
right-hand swing and stance. The tourney
for the limbless contingent over nine
holes went to A. G. Michael. There was
a near tragedy when L. Nicholls, of
Eastern, just missed holing in one,
though he would have put up a world’s
record—for a shout.
* =:= * *
“Shirley”: The rather long-winded
tourney for the Tasman Cup between
Australian and M.L. women ended at
Napier in a win for the home team by
four matches to two. Misses Hutton and
Kernot won one of the two foursomes for
Australia and Mrs. Sloan Morpeth one
of the four singles.
* £ * *
“Shirley”: Strange how an experienced
golfer can bark his shins over the rules.
In the M.L. open championship at
Hamilton, Murray, professional at Auck-
land, returned the lowest aggregate —297
—but was disqualified for illegally play-
ing his ball on the last green. Three who
tied for second, Hornabrook, Shaw and
Moss, played off. Hornabrook, well
known in Australia, won.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Cotton is to visit the
U.S.A. during the British winter for the
southern tournaments. He also has a
Hollywood contract for some movie
shorts, and so should manage to get
his fare home. Otherwise, while wish-
ing him luck, one cannot help recalling
that plucking the Yankee rooster on his
own midden is a tough job in any form
of sport.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: As a Scot I welcome
the news that 500 golfers have struck in
England because the Mitcham club has
raised green fees by saxpence a round
and the day charge from 2s. 6d. to 3s.
But what chiefly interests me is that the
strike has been extended to the bar.
This should open the road to a return
to a fine old Scottish custom, chronicled
in art and literature, of carrying one's
own refreshment round the links with
one. This was once universal, the cad-
dies holding the bottle till it was found
that many of them couldn’t be trusted ;
then players saw to the transport of the
lifesaver themselves. For this purpose,
they wore the roomy, square-tailed shoot-
ing coats so often seen in old pictures of
the game. These could easily accommo-
date two quart bottles, and as the pockets
were in the tails the swing was not inter-
fered with.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: A returned traveller has
been telling interviewers that Rigg will
probably come along with Budge and
Mako, a tour of the Philippines he and
some others were to have made being
cancelled. Rigg is only 19. Other pos-
sible visitors are Perry and Vines, but
so far matters haven’t got beyond the
talking stage. It is hard to see where
the money these expensive gentlemen
will want is to come from in Australia.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Britain is to chal-
lenge for the Davis Cup in the European
zone. The Americans are already talk-
ing of holding the Cup “indefinitely.”
Optimistic, for they beat the Germans
in the final only by the skin of their
teeth.
Miscellaneous
“Olympic”: Rugby Union clubs have
increased to such an extent in Melbourne
that the Union intends starting a re-
grading system for next season. The
creation of reserve and second grades
will be among the changes, and if there
are clubs enough there will be a third
grade. At the end of each season the
premiers in second grade and the bottom
club in first will change grades, their
reserve team to go with them. This
follows the British Soccer League system,
and is a great incentive to keenness
among clubs and players.
* * *
“Bowen Park”: Queensland R.U. re-
ports a net profit of £623 on the season
just ended —the best the Union has made.
The Queensland quota for the cost of
the 1939 Australian trip to England has
been fixed at £3OO, and this has been
tucked away .on ice. It is intended to
play matches against Victoria as well
as N.S.W. if it can be managed in future.
Progress in the country has been most
encouraging, and the code will probably
resume in N.Q. next year, with Cairns as
the centre.
* *
“Gate”: Tottey, the N.S.W. Rugby
League footballer, has been signed up by
the Halifax club. Selected for the Austra-
lian team but dropped because of injury,
Tottey accompanied the team as a
tourist; his mates threw in for his pas-
sage-money. Doctors in England have
pronounced him fit, and hence his en-
gagement. He is to be found a job and
paid the usual £5, £4 or £3 for win, loss
or draw ; the club repays the passage-
money. Halifax, of course, will have to
pay £2OO to the N.S.W. League for the
poaching.
<! J,: * *
“Brass Addler”: Commenting on the
fact that guarantors of the cost of bring-
ing out the English Soccer players got a
return of close on 100 per cent., presi-
dent El son Green, of the Queensland
Association, said Queensland’s share of
what was left of the £12,000 receipts of
the tour was about £l2O. He mentioned
one other interesting item. Players and
officials of the Australian teams oppos-
ing the tourists were to receive bonuses.
If they accept them they will become
professionals.
v
“Splash”: The Australian swimming
championships set down for Melbourne
and Hobart in February may be can-
celled. Victoria is applying for the can-
cellation on the ground that the Austra-
lian tourney follows on the heels of the
Empire Games in Sydney and swimmers
in other States than N.S.W. will be un-
able to obtain leave from work for both.
A mail vote will be taken on the sug-
gestion, and the decision must be unani-
mous.
* * * *
“Blade”: Winning the Boone Cup at
Mosman regatta on the Lane Cove River
gave North Shore the right to represent
N.S.W. in the Grand Challenge Eights at
Henley-on-Yarra. Otherwise the most
interesting feature of the regatta was the
appearance in one of the minor events of
a “maiden” oarsman 58 years old.
H= * * *
“Shell”: Bobby Pearce announces he
is willing to meet Evans Paddon for the
world’s professional sculling champion-
ship, but is solid on having the match in
Canada. Robert says the race would be
rowed at Toronto Exhibition in Sep-
tember next year, and offers to pay all ex-
penses, with a stake of £5OO. He adds
that he would have come to Australia
but that “he couldn’t see” where he was
to make any money.
“Der Jong”: The proposed polo tour-
ney in Sydney next year is to include
M.L. and Australian State teams and one
from South Africa, if one can come.
Polo, outside the military garrison of
other days, never cut much ice in South
Africa. The class of horses is far in-
ferior to the mounts on this side and, in
addition, the Afrikander in the mass is a
poor horseman compared with the Aus-
tralian. At one time the Natal garrison
tried hard to popularise the game. One
of its converts was Louis Botha, then a
young farmer just over the Transvaal
border.
* >1: *
“Callum Beg”: This is a revolutionary
world. Ranelagh, exclusive home of
polo, is to stage what are known to-day
as “Highland Games.” Prior to Scott’s
glorification of them Highlanders prac-
tised no games save cattle-stealing.
To-day they present the ordinary field
sports disguised in kilts and Gaelic
nomenclature. In the mid-’nineties a
similar gathering was tried on the unfor-
tunate Londoners, but fell far short of
setting the Thames on fire.


SUNORY
SHOWS
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.”
Joan Crawford, William Powell, Robert
Montgomery, Frank Morgan, etc.
It always was smart, and it bobbed up
again in the M.-G.-M. bill at the St.
James, Sydney, last week as fresh—
maybe a bit fresher and certainly a
whole lot funnier —than when it first
came along.
In this latest version there are times
when it is impossible to forget that the
play was constructed for stage purposes,
and with all the subtlety of a first-rate
craftsman working to the limitations of
stage facilities. In these portions it
seems odd that the acting is being done
by photographs of three-quarter figures
or busts. Since so much of the best of
it is dialogue, it follows that you have
these cut-off figures there in an almost
static state for quite noticeable stretches.
They are, of course, talking, and, the
words being Lonsdale’s, it would be hard
to find easier talk to listen to ; but the
impression of being addressed by a series
of still studio photographs is hard to
shake off.
Another thing, in the screen version
nothing whatever is left out. All the
past occurrences that the playwright has
to suggest in the dialogue are shown in
close detail.
It needs to be said that this detail
adds enormously to the visual variety of
the play. This screen version begins
right back before Mrs. Cheyney has
managed to get acquainted with English
aristocracy. There is a shot of the trans-
atlantic liner, and then Mrs. Cheyney is
undressed and in Lord Elton’s bed, to be
discovered soon after, of course, by Lord
Elton. He being Frank Morgan this is
naturally done very funnily.
And so we are on the way to introduc-
tions, and the train is laid that’s to lead
to her attempt to steal the Duchess’s
pearls for the crooks in whose company
she works, with heart-interest making the
job increasingly hard to go on with.
The sumptuous London house she takes
as a necessary part of the scheme, the
Duchess’s country house to which she’s
invited as a guest and all the rooms and
all that happens in them at both addresses
are, of course, here with no detail
omitted. No ; there are two omissions
from the detail: (1) the director has re-
frained from showing her actually lifting
the pearls ; (2) when there is a telephone
call, there is no flashback to show the
person at the other end. These are the
only demands made on the intelligence.
It could all be equally well enjoyed by
people who had had their brains com-
pletely removed.
All this detail, it can be emphasised, is
excellent. All the settings are worth
looking at, and the closing scene —
alfresco breakfast in the Duchess’s garden
—is as much a pleasure to the eye as the
extremely smart dialogue is to the ear.
These matters make it possible to say
that the film version greatly enlarges on
the stage play; all of the stage play is
there, with additions, and where these
additions include dialogue it is dialogue
good enough for Lonsdale himself to
have written.
In all ways it is a classy picture, acting
included. The par* of Mrs. Cheyney
might have been written for Joan Craw-
ford ; Powell fits like a glove such a role
as that of her partner ; Montgomery does
passably in the rather odd hero role ;
Morgan is in great fettle ; Jessie Ralph
is a glorious Duchess.
The picture has to be awarded The
Bulletin’s special cork-tipped crown
seal, even if the beer does go flat. Or
perhaps we can prevent that.
“It J s Love Vm After.”
Leslie Howard and Bette Davis.
Plot of this amusing comedy at Syd-
ney Regent is old and reliable. Flapper
(Olivia de Havilland) has developed a
devastating pash on tragedian (Howard),
who, though in love with his leading lady
(Miss Davis), is not above a bit of
philandering.
At behest of flapper’s fiancee (Patric
Knowles) actor undertakes to disillusion
flapper, takes up quarters in her home
uninvited and gives a truly colossal exhi-
tion of bounderism.
He even invades the girl’s bedroom
and locks the door. No good. Nothing
In a production of “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” at Sydney St. James—
Robert Montgomery, Joan Crawford, Frank Morgan, William Powell.
can shake her off. Rescue is at last
effected through intervention of leading
lady.
Howard revels in a part that appeals
to his sense of the whimsical. Prodigious
conceit is tempered by generous impulses
and a grain of humor. His colloquies
with his dresser (Eric Blore) and his
furious quarrels with the lady who plays
Juliet to his Romeo and Desdemona to
his Othello are laughably absurd.
The weakness of the play is that once
started it might go on for ever. It is
ended by putting the flapper’s emotions
into reverse gear, suddenly and miracu-
lously.
Miss Davis plays up to Howard splen-
didly. George Barbier, Spring Byington,
Bonita Granville and E. E. Clive have
small parts.
“The Devil Is Driving.”
With Richard Dix and Joan Perry as His
Nibs’s Adversaries.
This current offering at Sydney Capi-
tol is propaganda against reckless car
speeding, particularly that done under the
influence. It is also a soundly-con-
structed, solidly-acted and generally-
effective, if rather blunt, drama.
Dix, as District Attorney pushing a
case against a young scatterbrain, gets
off statistics somewhat to this effect:
Between 1928 and 1936, 296,230 persons
were killed by automobiles in U.S.A.
America’s automobile deaths for 1936
alone totalled 37,500, approximately the
figure of all Americans killed in the
Great War. The number of deaths by
automobile in U.S.A. for the last 15 years
exceeds the number killed in all wars the
United States has had a hand in.
Such a basis, of course, ensures that
the film has an exciting spectacular side.
There have to be speeding and crashes to
carry the idea through, and these are
convincing enough for anybody. This
aspect of the film gains in convincingness
from crowd scenes at the smashes man-
aged as the American film-makers can
manage such things—most realistically.
These crowds looks like crowds, not
supers, working. They give the impres-
sion of behaving exactly as crowds would
in such circumstances.
Dix that one-time he-man with
broncho below and gun at hip—makes a
first-rate attorney in the American man-
ner. For most of the way it’s a fairly
easy part for one with his build, looks
and bellow; but the final court scene,
wherein he has to make the admission
that at an earlier appearance there had
been a spot of perjury, demands from
him, and gets, genuinely solid acting.
Joan Perry, as the heart-interest and
zealous-reformer press-girl who eggs him
on to his heroic deeds, is a trifle pallid,
but passably effective.
As in most films these days, there is
remarkably sound acting in the minor
roles—about a score of these, at least.
In his first phase Dix is a general prac-
tising lawyer who defends the son of a
rich townsman, the boy’s drunken driv-
ing having killed a woman, crippled a
child and left the bereft husband almost
a lunatic. Dix secures a not-guilty ver-
dict by prearranged perjury, some of it
ensured by virtual blackmail.
Heart-interest suspense enters here;
the girl-reporter-reformer, having been
behind scenes, goes cold on Richard. Then
Dix becomes District Attorney, is urged
by the young lady into an anti-road-hog-
gery campaign, and in court gets a taste
of the medicine he himself had earlier
administered.
The entertainment will not be helped
for anybody by giving away any more
of the plot.
Australian transport people ought to
buy this film and keep it in constant cir-
culation, showing it in schools and any-
where else that an audience offers. Its
propaganda side is as applicable here as
in America, and, though that is the most
important aspect of it, those to whom it
might be shown would not complain
about it as entertainment.
“/ Cover the War.”
The other main item on Sydney Capi-
tol’s current all-action bill; a brisk bit of
work set somewhere about Iraq.
There’s a British troop stationed out
there in the desert; a troop just about
big enough to fight its way out of a
paper-bag. Luckily, it’s opposed by an
Arab contingent just about numerous
enough to hide behind a couple of date-
trees.
To this setting—to “cover the war” —
go a pair of American cameramen, an
intrusion which eventually leads the
British forces into a tight hole in the
hills, but, of course, spectacularly gets
them out of it again. There’s also the
necessary ration of heart-interest.
The sort of picture that small boys
will vote a corker. There’s even a chat-
tering monkey in a leading role —one
would think specially for their benefit.
And of course plenty of bang! bang!
bang! and great hunks of the surround-
ings rising into the air. Hurrah for the
brave British soldiers, and hurrah for the
cameramen!
“The Lady Escapes ” was apparently
meant to be a satire on the fragility of
marriages as entered into by neurotic
idlers who regard children as burdens to
be borne by lesser folk. The effort is
feeble, and the story an immature hotch-
potch in which a couple of society head-
liners marry, and immediately proceed
to brawl like any ’Arry and ’Arriet, the
lady heaving cut-glass and Sevres porce-
lain instead of saucepans at her lord. Act-
ing and directing are third-rate. Going
the rounds.
Shorts in the current programme at
Sydney St. James are rather below
M.-G.-M. standard. “Gilding the Lily,”
a Pete Smith comment on feminine make-
up, is probably the best of them, and
there are some effective shots of aerial
bombing damage in China. The James
Fitzpatrick technicolor travel-piece takes
a run round Siam, but the color’s not a
patch on that of the English film “Wings
of the Morning.” There’s more color in
a crudely-jumbled affair called “Circus
Tricks,” which has some really good bits
in it, but as a whole is long and dreary.
“Back in Circulation,” at Sydney
Regent, presents Joan Blondell as a re-
porter, Pat O’Brien as a managing editor
(the usual caricature) and Margaret Lind-
say as a society woman who allows her-
self to be convicted of murder rather than
tell the truth to the detriment of the man
she loves. Mr. O’Brien, in addition to
being managing editor, seems to do a
good deal of reporting, which is perhaps
the reason why things get into the paper
so often without his knowledge. The
Blondell-Lindsay combination produces
some very fair drama, but the story reeks
with impossibilities.
Afternoon with Rubinstein.
Before a packed, attentive Melbourne
Town Hall audience on Saturday after-
noon, Arthur Rubinstein played the
Bach Toccata in F Major and the
“Appassionata,” as well as other dis-
tinguished works and a sheaf of encores.
Saturday afternoon would have been
impossible at one time for a successful
recital by such an austere artist as
Rubinstein, but the radio has worked
wonders with the public, and, whatever
its shortcomings, the A.B.C. realises
what is occurring.
Mature habitues of the front rows were
conspicuous by their absence, but what
was not absent was appreciation. While
the pianist threaded his way through his
magnificent exposition of the “Appas-
sionata” one could have heard a pin
drop.
A Chopin panel followed the interval.
Rubinstein’s fingers lift this composer
out of the realm of musical confec-
tionery to which most programme
builders, enthusiastically aided and
abetted by the virtuosi, have relegated
him. The move up is into the same
territory as Bach and Beethoven.
Rubinstein raised the unfortunate
“Cathedral” of Debussy above the waves
and resubmerged it in the same classical
manner as the Chopin, and concluded by
making light of the keyboard puzzles of
Prokofieff and Albeniz.
Comedy Harmonists.
The Comedy Harmonists continued to
paint their musical scenery at the Apollo
Theatre, Melbourne, last week before
enthusiastic houses.
The visual audience gets all that is
worth while of the art of the six Aus-
trians imported by A.B.C.
The Don Cossacks.
Although not understood by many of
the audience, except the Russians who
Pick of Sydney Shows
“Over She Goes” Bright stage show; George Gee; Royal
“Wings of the Morning” . . Superb technicolor romance; Embassy
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” ... Smart, classy comedy; St. fames
“It's Love I’m After” Bac\stage comedy; Regent
“Maytime” Musical; Liberty


fg
MU 1L _ ...... ; ...
ptie^Ss
ISlpp
MM
1111111
ffcy
. : :
Hi
■
m
s : ■
■H
■
■
mm
■■
■
2:1
H
■
34 Gardeners Road,
MASCOT.
To Messrs. William Arnott, Limited,
HOMEBUSH.
Dear Sirs,
I am sending you a photograph of our baby girl
Ruth, aged 12 months. She has been fed on
Arnott's Milk Arrowroot Biscuits since she Was six
months old, and, thanks to them, is a very healthy
child.
I am,
Yours faithfully,
Mrs. R. Bryan.
Du-ring the past half-century over 40,000
photographs of strong, vigorous children
reared from the age of six months on
Arnott’s Famous Milk Arrowroot Biscuits have
been . sent with testimonials by grateful
mothers to William Arnott, Limited.
Qmott!s
Famous
MILK ARROWROOT
BISCUITS
Always ask your Grocer for Arnott’s “They are Better tkaa Ever
rolled up in force, the Don Cossacks’
singing and dancing pervaded Sydney
Town Hall last week with a rousing
atmosphere and gusty spirit of good-
fellowship.
These wild men from the Caucasus are
masters in conveying impressions and
drawing sympathetic response to the
varying moods of their songs. “The
Snow Has Blown Over Russia,” an
exile’s pathetic longing for his home-
land, “In 1893,” a rousing Cossack war
song, and “My Lady Sweet,” a more
jocular number, were appreciated spots
in one evening’s bill.
Although clever, their harmonising
compared unfavorably with the Har-
monists’ efforts in this line, but their danc-
ing was a breath of fresh air. There was
nothing mystic about it, no gyrating sen-
suality or convulsive physical jerks, but
straightforward and spirited masculine
stuff.
Simple but effective lighting helped to
make the show a thoroughly good one.
Adelaide Repertory.
The Repertory has skipped lightly from
Shakspeare to bright modern comedy,
with another large and quite different
cast.
“Call It a Day”—with father, mother,
son, daughter and housemaid all going
decorously skittish on the approach of
spring—is neither farce nor sentiment,
but clean comedy.
Hardly ever has the Rep. acted better.
One character study after another
emerges, all clear-cut. Praise can be
handed out to all concerned, adding that
the most difficult part, a temperamental
girl of 15, is handled by Margaret,
daughter of Arthur Fay, the producer,
with professional skill.
Louis Lavater 9 s Preludes.
Allan and Co., Melbourne, forwards
for review “Twelve Preludes” by Louis
Lavater. These are brief studies in novel
harmonic progressions and contrasts,
varied in rhythm and purport, and they
improve upon acquaintance. Lavater is
one of those experimentalists who do not
believe that the resources of pianistic ex-
pression were exhausted when Chopin
and Beethoven laid down their pens, and
his discoveries, whatever their ultimate
value, are always interesting and stimu-
lating.
Lowlands Art.
The loan collection of paintings by
Dutch and Flemish masters currently on
view at the N. S. Wales National Gallery,
though it contains no Rembrandt, Ver-
meer, Hals or Hobbema, and only one
Rubens, and is notably bare of those in-
timate house interiors so beloved of the
sixteenth and seventeenth century Dutch-
men, nevertheless does unfold an impres-
sive panorama of the palmy century-and-
a-half of Lowlands art.
These Lowlanders, eschewing the
romantic pseudo-antiquarianism of Italy,
stuck to their own knitting; painted the
things under their own noses, and made
such a good job of it that the people and
the manners of their times still live on
their canvases.
Thorough in everything, they used good
paint and impermeable varnish, and it is
difficult to credit that work which looks
as fresh and brilliant as though it were
painted yesterday (such as the Van Dyck
“Virgin and Child”) drew gasps of ad-
miration when Charles the First was
King.
Centuries make little impression on the
aspect of people and landscapes. The
Dutchmen knew little about impression-
ism and would give a threepenny bit full
detail if it came in the composition, but
they knew all about the effects of light,
atmosphere and distance, and their land-
scapes are very convincing and strangely
familiar.
The portraits, too, bear the stamp of
authenticity. Among many canvases full
of deep rich shadows (those Lowlanders
lived in dark, narrow houses) there is a
Caesar Van Everdingen painting all in
dove-greys and olive-greens of a two-
year-old girl—a plump, good-natured tot
with a happy twinkle in her eye. If she
lived to 80 she has been dead these 200
years, but her infancy is eternal.
Something should be said of the still-
lifers —the chaps such as De Heem, Van
Huysum and Mignon, who would paint
a rose or a lobster so you could smell it,
and then put a fly or a ladybird on it
to tempt you to brush it off. Also the
animal painters, such as Berghem and
Van de Velde, whose cows and dogs say
the last word about bovinity and caninity.
And the Frenchmen who are put in, per-
haps for contrast —Greuze with his un-
healthily ethereal children. But always
the eye and the mind come back to the
deathless, merry little maid of Van
Everdingen.
A Painter in Pencil.
In his show at the Grosvenor Galleries,
Sydney, Douglas Pratt presents etchings,
water-colors and pencil drawings.
The water-colors are not all successful,
and “River Gums Near Wagga” and
“Meadows of the Riverina,” the best of
the seven, have an inescapable Heysen-
ish flavor. The etchings are more in-
dividual. The gum-trees are graceful and
the architectural drawings are neat, cor-
rect and nicely composed.
What really matter are the pencil draw-
ings. With a pencil in his fingers Pratt
is really happy. He can produce light,
atmosphere, chiaroscuro, distance—
almost any of the effects of the painter
save color, and even color is subtly sug-
gested. There is no artist in Australia
who can capture so fully as Pratt the
riant, exultant beauty of a young gum-
tree.
The woodland scenes in this show
are all delectable; there are some
beautiful drawings of old Woollahra
mansions and one or two city scenes that
do justice to Sydney’s distinctive charm.
Two Strivers in Paint.
Jessie Brooks and Valerie Lazarus,
whose joint show is at the Lodestar
Galleries, Sydney, are, presumably, first
and foremost portraitists in oil. They
paint portraits very much alike, being
disciples of the school that, in the mind’s
eye, cuts curved surfaces into facets and
paints them thus.
In portraiture this gives a battered
ruggedness of visage which can be very
effective when applied to Mussolinis and
Bismarcks, but which, one would think,
is hardly calculated to cause pretty young
ladies and nice young men to jump with
joy when they see themselves thus de-
picted.
Both Miss Brooks and Miss Lazarus
are more at home with urban landscape,
and each achieves success in this genre—
Miss Lazarus with “Darlinghurst” and
“The Bridge,” and Miss Brooks with
“The Bridge from Observatory Hill ”
Miss Brooks’s flower studies make pleas-
ing color patterns, but their rendition
of texture is sometimes astray.
Helen Stewart’s Paintings.
The two best pictures in Helen
Stewart’s show of paintings in oil at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, are the
pencil portraits—one of a Chinese gentle-
man, the other of the skipper of a
liner. These drawings have character
and life.
The rest of the show is a series of ex-
periments in color and form and the
expression of texture and atmosphere,
sometimes quite successful in one re-
spect, as in the color harmony in
“Stocks,” the hot aridity of “Stockyard
Outback” and the bold composition of
“Sacred Bridge, Nikko,” but giving a
general impression of conflict and un-
rest.
There was a time when Miss Stewart’s
idea of expressing the delicate fragility
of a lily or a camellia was to outline it
in a solid quarter-inch band of black or
vermilion.
The latest essays, clever though some of
them are, in their own outre fashion, just
consolidate this critic’s first-formed
opinion that Miss Stewart should eschew
landscapist eccentricities and isms and
devote herself to portraiture, for which
she has an outstanding talent.
A. E. Macdonald —
Connoisseur of Excavations.
A. E. Macdonald’s show at 309 George-
street, Sydney (erstwhile the Booklovers’
Club), covered the usual gamut of point-
ing in oils —portraits, still-life, rural land-
scapes, sea pieces and city scenes.
An uneven lot, varying in style and
competence of performance, and the pick
of the bunch those city scenes represent-
ing pits for tall building foundations.
When he gets on to this subject Mac-
donald’s style becomes smooth and
bland, and his draughtsmanship masterly,
and he gets exactly the effect he is after.


DoN’T miss Indian
Days at Banff .... in
Canada’s Rockies, in
July next on your way
to Europe. Only seen
when you travel via
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly. Co., Inc. in Canada
Eeldeoere '»*> Belvedere ,e>»» Belvedere • t>*i Belveoere i*<
lio BtLVEOCKf BILVtOCFU Pi- 1 BtLVtOtKt
MADE BY
MARTIN, SONS & CO., LTD.,
HUDDERSFIELD, ENGLAND,
THE FOUNDERS OF THE WORSTED INDUSTRY.
mpiWTP
THE IDEAL OF ALL WELL-DRESSED MEN.
POSITIVELY
rHE LARGEST RANGE OF EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
EVER PRESENTED FOR MEN’S
SUITINGS
Belveoere
>x<i BiLVtoEKr «f». fetivrotKi BttycciiHt '4» giLvtotKt ett-
t
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Probably no spring race week in
Sydney has glittered with more parties
than the one just past. Dinners, dances,
five-to-sevens and engagement parties
have been tucked into the bright bon-bon
of the racing carnival. George Gee, the
inimitable, has helped the fun nightly at
the Royal in “Over She Goes,” which
might be better entitled, judging by the
hilarious applause, “Over He Goes.” At
the Town Hall, the Don Cossacks have
added to the gaiety with their high, shiny
boots, their colorful tunics and their
whirling dances.
Irises, tulips and orchids from country
gardens have been a feature of race-
week parties. The red, purple and gold
tulips that decorated Elizabeth Bay
House for the coming-of-age party of
Nea Arnott were brought by Nea’s
father from Orange. Nea, a daughter of
the Percy Arnotts of Strathfield, wore a
blue frock gay with pink, blue and
mauve flowers. Her mother’s black
chiffons had a shoulder drape of black
net which ended in a short train.
Joan and Lorraine See’s cocktail party
was another bright spot in the week,
which closed with the usual dance at the
Royal Golf Club. . ?
Although a gloomy sky greeted Ladies
Day, mercury ran high and Miss Sydney
unanimously decided on wearing her new
spring outfit to Randwick. It was a day
of sheers, flowered silks and wide-
brimmed hats, many of the nutcovers
without a crown. Haloes were larger and
were worn with great success above
fluffy locks. The elbow-length _ sleeve
seemed the most popular. Coats, if any,
were short and very often of the natty
bolero type. Colored shoes put in an
appearance, and heels came down a peg.
Every known color added to the gaiety ;
and, as usual, navy-blue and black had a
large following.
The Governor-General entertained at
luncheon, and so did Lord and Lady
Wakehurst. Lady Wakehurst’s neat-fit-
ting apricot crepe frock was of the new
shortness. With it she wore a white fox fur
and a white straw hat. The Hon. Mrs.
Helme Pott, who was in Lord Gowrie’s
party, pinned a bunch of buttercups on
her black frock, and June Winter-Irving,
of Melbourne, also in the group, wore a
long white cape over a white blouse
and black skirt. Mrs. Franc Falkiner’s
black toque was complete with eyeveil.
Joan Marks’s black crepes were gaily
printed in tulips. Mrs. C. L. Jones wore
one of the widest-brimmed hats at the
meeting, petunia in shade. Tiny black
birds and red birds were perched on the
brim of Mrs. Eric Sheller’s black hat.
Mrs. Garnet Halloran’s suit was of rust
angora. Mrs. Hugh Poate wore a vivid
red-and-blue scarf with her black frock.
Duck-egg green in shade was the junior
Mrs. Walter Burfitt’s outfit.
Mrs. Lionel Dare was in grass green ;
red poppies wreathed around her hat.
The yoke of Mrs. Langford Gibson’s
black frock was entirely made of tiny
red, blue and white flowers. A white
quill rose at right-angles from the crown
of Mrs. Colin Sinclair’s brown straw hat.
Mrs. John Casey, of Canberra, wore
dusty pink, as did Mrs. Geoffrey Ashton.
Mrs. George Main, wife of the A.J.C.
chairman, wore black and white, Mar-
garet Burns’s hyacinth-pink coat covered
a floral-printed silk, and John Mc-
Kelvey’s lady wore black, unrelieved
save for the tiny silver rings through
whch ran the ribbon on her hat.
Mrs John Collins’s dusty-pink frock
was worn with a pink hat. This had its
wide brim edged with daisies. Mrs. Alan
Copeland’s white frock was covered with
a blue-and-white printed redingote. In
the showers Mrs. Langer Owen sheltered
under a wine-red umbrella. This matched
the dominant tone in her printed frock.
Mrs. Jimmie Burns’s frock was all blue-
and white spots. Mrs. Reg Moses wore
a brown hat with a rosy pink sheer. Mrs.
H. Cary’s navy hat was gay with tulips.
Mrs. Harry Meeks, Mrs. Lennox Bode
and Mrs. V. Laidley Dowling were
among the smartly dressed.
On Saturday the same faces, under
different hats, were again to be seen back-
ing their favorites, and the vice-regals
from both Admiralty House and State
Government House once more enter-
tained at luncheon. Lady Wakehurst’s
frock was patterned in red, white and
blue, Mrs. Helme Pott’s suit was of navy
silk, June Winter Irving’s leaf-green
woollen suit had its sleeves bordered with
fox fur, and Valerie Crowther’s blue
frock was covered with a brown coat.
Orange is having a gala week in honor
of the visit of the Governor and
Lady Wakehurst. The two have gone
primarily to open the new quarters for
the nursing staff of the Base Hospital at
Orange, but there will be so many social
whirls packed into the week that the dis-
trict should feel like a merry-go-round
at top speed. The Mick Daltons, of Kan-
garoobie, will be the vice-regal hosts
during their visit. This is a Dorothy
Welding photograph of Mrs. Dalton, who
is as well known and liked in Sydney and
Melbourne as she is in Orange.
Kangaroobie is one of the show station
properties of the district. The house, like
every home three generations of Daltons
have lived in (the present Country Club,
Duntry League and the R.C. Presbytery
were Dalton homes), is well built, and
surrounded by trees and flowers. Just
now the wistaria vines in the courtyard
should be a curtain of bloom. Alto-
gether the vice-regal pair are in for a
pleasant time in this smiling place, with
its tree-fringed streets and the far-flung
emerald-green grasslands.
Commissionaires with gigantic um-
brellas kept the passage dry between the
kerb and the steps of the Union Club last
Wednesday. The umbrellas were neces-
sary because most of the women had
come from Randwick in their new spring
finery. Once on the steps the gay
awnings provided protection. Consett
Stephen, president of the club, and
Rodney Dangar received the guests in the
cool old hallway, where club attendants
were handing out orchids and lily-of-the-
valley. Somewhere overhead the orches-
tra played softly. At the foot of the
stairs were rock plants, and in the dining-
room was the usual playing fountain
rising from a cool rockery of fern and
flowering shrubs.
On the vice-regal table there was a
nine-branched candlestick that was made
of pink and mauve stocks, and was com-
plete with tall jade-blue candles. A large
green crinkly paper elephant had his
innards filled with bon-bons. On an-
other table was a silver boat, its cargo
silver and green bon-bons. High stan-
dards of roses, iris, carnations, lilac and
azaleas filled the corners of every room.
Every window had its box, every table
and mantelpiece its baskets of iris, lilac,
tulips and roses. An immense jar of dog-
wood in the smokeroom drew admiring
glances.
Lady Wakehurst came on to the party
in the frock she had worn at the races.
Mrs. Rodney Dangar wore a silver fox
fur and a black halo hat with her
black crepes. Mrs. Crawford Robert-
son was in beige, Alexander Gordon's
lady was in black and white, and Parry
Morgan wore an all-brown ensemble.
Mrs. James Macarthur Onslow wore
black-and-white crepes and a wide-
brimmed hat; Mrs. Pat Rothe’s frock
was in tones of delphinium-blue and
white ; Mrs. Walter Swinson’s black hat
had three golden roses at the front of
its high crown. Mrs. Fred Learoyd was
there. Olive King’s red-and-white printed
silks were worn with a white hat.
Sydney stood with bowed head last
week when the passing of one of its
greatest citizens was announced. The
death of Dame Eadith Walker has bereft
not only the city but the whole State of
a woman of vision, with the means to
see her visions brought to achievement,
with a generosity to spend nobly in the
common good.
Dame Eadith was one of Australia’s
greatest heiresses. Her father, Thomas
Walker, of Yaralla, left her the whole of
his huge fortune. She also inherited his
sense of responsibility towards others not
so fortunate in life. She supported gener-
ously her father’s endowments of the
Thomas Walker Hospital for Convales-
cents, but it was to the Red Cross and
the returned soldier that her generosity
poured out in an unending stream, and
she saw to the upkeep of the library at
the Prince of Wales Hospital at Rand-
wick. Old age, too, wasn’t forgotten. She
built and endowed in perpetuity a group
of cottages at Concord for elderly men.
She was made a Dame of the British
Empire in 1928.
Adele Younghusband’s show will be
opened by the Langer Owen lady at the
Lodestar Galleries at 3 p.m. on October
20. Like the artist, the speechmaker is
a Maorilander. Mrs. Younghusband
will exhibit oils, water-colors, lino-cuts
and pencil portraits. Her work has
been included in various exhibitions
throughout Maoriland. She also has had
pictures accepted for two years in suc-
cession by the British Empire Society of
Arts in London. Lady Alice Ferguson
during her husband’s Governorship of
Maoriland was one of Mrs. Younghus-
band’s admirers. Among the pencil
portraits to be exhibited at the Sydney
show will be one of Harry Tighe and
one of Jeanie Ranken. Monte Luke
photograph.
Pink and blue were the recurring
colors in the dresses at the Pastel Ball.
Not only in the dresses but in the
decorations. Every shade of pink that
appears in a sunset, every tone of blue
the sky can show, were present in satin
and silk and trailing chiffon. There were
lilacs, too, and all the daffodil tones,
and the sea’s foamy greens. This ball
was one of the grandest of the season,
and the women on its committee were
both influential and good-looking. Lord
Gowrie was present, and Lady Gowrie
would have been but for the operation
on her tonsils. It was a guinea-a-ticket
party, and there were 1000 dancers at
the Trocadero. The cause was the Blind
Institute.
A group of girls, all dressed in blue,
sold pink carnations, and every man in
the room soon sported a carnation in
his buttonhole. Orchids seemed the
flowers of the night as far as the women
were concerned, and were worn in shoul-
der sprays and in the hair. From coun-
try gardens came the spring flowers that
stood in huge jars at the entrance to the
ballroom. In the foyer were tubs of
blossom, and on the wall at the back
of the vice-regal table arum-lilies,
greenly tinted, kept company with tulips
and azaleas.
Nearly every dress had its accompany-
ing cape, many of fluted and petalled
net, some in satin. Two of the most
attractive ones of the night were Miss
Clarice Faithfull Anderson’s, which was
waist-length and was made entirely of
crushed-pink satin rosebuds, and Mrs.
Malcolm Mackellar’s many-petalled one,
which had the lightness of feathers.
Mrs. Eric Sheller, president of the
ball committee, contrasted old rose and
pale pink in her chiffons. The skirt of
Mrs. Alan McGregor’s frock was in
alternate bands of two shades of pink
and slate-grey ruched tulle. The tight-
fitting bodice was in the grey, and the
fluffy cape in the pale and deep pink.
Mrs. T. H. Kelly wore lilac chiffon, Mrs.
C. L. Jones’s pink satin frock had very
puffed-up sleeves, Mrs. Lennox Bode’s
silver lame was embossed with deep-
blue roses, and Faith Macarthur Onslow’s
frock of shell-pink lace had its cape
clasped with diamond brooches at the
shoulders.
With her blue crepes Mrs. Roy Buck-
land wore a blue butterfly in her
hair. The Hon. Mrs. Helme Pott
and her daughter Hermione came
with Lord Gowrie’s party. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Lane-Poole and Ann
Lane-Poole were also in this group.
Chief Justice Jordan’s lady chose white
organza gaily printed in red and pink
roses. Melbourne’s Valerie Crowther,
who is staying at Admiralty House, wore
blue lace over satin, and Mrs. Harry
Rosenthal’s sea-green net cape was worn
over deep-green crepes.
A new hint on hairdressing can be
acquired from the Rubens sketch of one
of his daughters. At the opening of the
Dutch and Flemish Loan Exhibition at
the National Gallery this attracted quite
a bit of attention. The portrait is a
side-face view, and the pretty head has
its corn-gold plait brought up to the
crown of the head, where the loose ends
look like two tightly-curled ostrich
plumes. There’s a “Child Holding an
Apple,” its cheeks as rosy as the fruit
which she holds. Women, too, hung
over Van Dyck’s “Virgin and Child”
during the whole of the afternoon.
Knight Percy Sargood, passing through
Sydney on his way to his native Maori-
land, was one of the important people
of the afternoon, and blushed at Public
Librarian Ifould’s laudatory remarks.
Percy and his wife have given an art
gallery to Dunedin, and he has engi-
neered the loans to Australia of the art
treasures of the world. John Lane Mul-
lins, who introduced the speaker, had a
seat at the flag-draped table on the dais.
The Gallery’s Art Director, Will Ash-
ton, with Mrs. Ashton, welcomed all-
comers. Among these were noticed
Dame Mary Gilmore, talking to Mrs.
Walter Burfitt, a keenly interested Esmey
Burfitt, in navy and white, and Sydney
Ure Smith talking to Mrs. Gordon
Brady, who had brought her daughter
Felicity Garvan, in a sleeveless navy
frock and a white and wide straw halo
hat.
Ruby Adams came with Kitty Burton.
Mrs. Philip Coote, just arrived from
Rabaul, wore a grey suit and grey
sports felt. Mrs. Jimmie Burns wore a
white hat turned up at the back, with a
white-spotted black frock. Alice Bryant
brought her visitor, Nancy Welsh, from
Orange. Judge Backhouse and Judge
Sheridan were there ; so were Mrs. Hans
Fay, Mrs. David Cohen, Mrs. Louis
Stone, Mrs. Eric Sheller and Alexander
Gordon’s lady. Later on everybody
found the way to the kiosk in the
Domain, and there drank tea and talked
art as the day drew to its close.


Introducin'!!
\
hn
a
i'll
II
5
ICE CREAM
Listen in to
STATION Sill
“Mystery in
Africa”
0.15 to 6. SO p.m.
Mon . Tues. Wed. Thurs.
Storekeepers not already stocking
Penguin Ice Cream should write to
the N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co.,
Ltd., 25 Harbour Street, Sydney.
4
Hei
IRE’S a new friend to greet you
and treat you to a new thrill in ice
cream . . . Meet the Fresh Food
Penguin, the Ambassador of purity,
bringing you the perfect ice cream ...
New, different, delicious and ever so
good for you.
See that you get Fresh Food Penguin
Ice Cream, the modern product of a
firm backed by three-quarters of a
century of progress.
N.S.W.FRESH FOOD 1 ICE CO LTD.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
i £
WM
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
iTESP
mm me* mm
ESSand
ERGY
¥
to be physically fit in the true sense means
something more than a negative condition of
health or freedom from sickness. It means
building up and maintaining a store of vitality
and endurance, a reserve of strength to draw on
as required. Something that will help everyone
to make a supreme effort to win through, no
matter how handicapped at the start in life s
race. The foundation of fitness is a well
nourished body and there is no better way of
attaining this than by taking Roboleine, the best
protective and energy creating food. A teaspoon-
ful three times a day supplies the body with
that extra nourishment which builds up strong
bone and healthy tissue, and increases resistance
to infection.
In 60z., 12oz. and 360 z. glass jars.
ROBDLEINE
(Made in England)
The best protective and
health restoring food
Melbourne
Chatter
Suits were predominant at the Caulfield
Guineas, for feminine racegoers are
always suspicious of a north wind apt to
change its mind in the late afternoon and
blow up cold and wet. Furs, too, were
present, much to the inconvenience
of their far-too-warm-to-be-comfortable
owners. Hats were anything but covering
for heads, for crowns are now split open
to the four winds and the only excuse a
brim can give for its existence is its reper-
toire of surprises.
The Ken Coxes were noticed starting
off the day in winning mood. Steve
Thompson, who had such a good time
with doubles and even trebles at
Moonee Valley a couple of weeks ago,
found some of his profits slipping back
to their original source. It wasn’t
Cynthia Duigan’s lucky day either, for,
having asked for a place ticket on Inter-
national, she discovered that the girl at
the tote window had made a mistake in
punching “win.” She obligingly changed
the ticket for Cynthia, who watched with
disgust International win and pay £6,
while her place ticket was worth only
31s. Maimie Brown, of Perth, was
noticed in the committee box. Jim
Buchanan’s black bowler hat was sighted
not far from Mrs. Jim’s grey suit. Deep
suntan make-ups were worn by fair-
headed Mrs. Frank Major and by Guelda
Pyke, just back from England with a lot
of smart clothes and new ideas. Mrs.
John Byrne was all in green, and Allison
Davidson chose black for frock and hat.
The Victorian Aero Club’s display on
Saturday, in which ’planes were entered
from three States, was one of the most
successfully organised aerial functions
Melbourne has seen. There were no
long waits to make spectators restless,
and clear explanations through the ampli-
fiers kept everybody acquainted with
what was happening. Plush carpets with
plenty of padding beneath were spread
on the grandstand for Lord Hunting-
field, who had so much to do that he
didn’t stay in any one place for long.
He enjoyed two air trips, had chats with
several competitors, a walk among the
’planes, and a tea engagement. Tea for
about 300 official guests was in the club-
rooms, but the other thousands went
neither hungry nor thirsty ; picnic trestle-
tables were spread in the aeronautical
atmosphere of the hangars.
Among aerial-minded folk present were
Freda Thompson, who won the Oaks and
competed in two other races. In the
Derby she piloted her little navy-blue
Christopher Robin, in which she flew solo
from England. Freda takes the air in
white overalls, and on her finger is Frank
Young’s square-cut emerald ring. Her
sister Claire also wore overalls for the
Oaks. Other competitiors, Florence
Wurts and Miss J. Young, were in linen
frocks and coats. Seventeen-year-old
Jean Burns and Miss Graham, who is
sec. of the Brisbane Aero Club, were
present, both in navy blue. Other inter-
state aero-club identities were the James
Dimmitts, of Perth.
Dr. Hugh Mitchell, flying for Geelong
Grammar School in the Public School
Old Boys’ Race, drew the oldest and slow-
est machine, in which he had a little joy-
ride away by himself, for by some error
he left the ground last instead of first.
J. G. McDonald was first home for Gee-
long College. A double parachute jump
by J. Reece and F. Mueller caused excite-
ment, as did Ken Frewin’s acrobatics in
his bullet-like Ryan monoplane and
Flight-Lieut. Boss-Walker’s fast climbing
in a Compar Swift. Air Force pilots
displayed the powers of Bulldogs and
of Hawker Demons, directed by wire-
less orders from Flying-Officer Cresswell.
Nobody, competitors or spectators, came
through the pageant with clean faces, for
the ’planes, particularly the Bulldogs,
churned up dust in thick yellow clouds.
Clothes suffered, but nobody wears the
season’s race garments to an aerodrome.
Centenaries are in the air, so it is all
in order that the P. and O. Co. should
celebrate the hundred years of progress
that have passed since its first little steam-
ships made everyone seasick in their en-
deavors to transport mails and passengers
between England and India in 70 days.
Celebration No. 1 consisted of drinks for
1000-odd in the Mooltan, which set up
the party fever. Another do, not so large
but quite as lavish, happened in the
Chitral. There hordes of women wore
two posies and others shed their own
blooms specially bought for the occasion
when they found presentation flowers
available. Invitation cards read 5.30 p.m.
and everybody was on time, for arriving
at 5.45 meant driving round and round
to find parking space on Station Pier.
Much deference was paid to A. P. Case,
tall product of the co.’s London office. As
well as congratulations for the chefs who
created the savories and for the stewards
whose compositions in flowers were
Grecian arbors, formal gardens, ships in
full sail and rising suns (which at the
end of the party were whizzing round
and round in the heads of the steady
drinkers), there were goodwill offerings
for the H. R. Cumming couple, celebrat-
ing their 28th wedding anniversary, and
for Joyce Robinson, just one year in her
present job. Nance and Dick Cumming
were there ; also Barbara Hayden Smith,
wearing a suavely tailored coat of bur-
gundy velvet. Major and Mrs. Harold
Wilkinson came with their daughter
Vaire and Ken Degenhardt, St. Peter’s
College keys in his buttonhole.
A man who really enjoyed the party
was Don Wright, from Nauru and en
route to Ocean Island, where, according
to Phosphate Co. regulations, only beer
is drunk, and not too much of that.
Owing to the 14 days’ sea voyage neces-
sary for infantile-paralysis quarantine
from Melbourne, Don is having his send-
off from Adelaide on October 19. An
interesting-looking couple also present
were Mary Reid and Bill Wilson, who
are being married this month, and who,
after a honeymoon spent travelling Bris-
banewards, will go to live on the Darling
Downs. Miss Reid’s hat, which she
bought in Paris, was an imaginative
soup?on of white canvas surrounded by
a cottage-garden border of fuchsias.
Other devastating headpieces belonged
to Mrs. Vivian Wilshire and Anne Turn-
bull. Mrs. Wilshire’s sky-blue felt with its
shovel brim accompanied a tailored suit
and flowered satin waistcoat. Anne, all
in black, wore her black chimney-pot
hat startlingly striped with white. From
the middle of the party onwards guests
showed tendencies towards helping them-
selves to the floral decorations. Late
stayers didn’t have to produce the aggres-
siveness that sometimes comes from a
feeling of guilt, for their marauding of
armfuls of lovely blooms was performed
by sanction and invitation of the ship.
Independent candidate Mrs. Clarence
Weber, who was successful in winning
the Nunawading seat in the Legislative
Assembly, has a commanding presence,
a good carrying voice and plenty of con-
fidence in her capabilities. She is frankly
delighted at her victory, and admits to
no qualms about the job ahead of her
and the responsibility of being the first
woman returned at a general election.
The family sharing in the congratulations,
both verbal and floral, all through the
week, consists of Peter Mitchell, who is
doing third year Agricultural Science,
lan, Leonard, Shirley and Michel Weber.
Shirley is a domestic economy student
at the Emily Mac. Mrs. Weber’s por-
trait by Broothorn.
Everybody is glad to see the David
Robertsons home again after their health
trip to England. Their party last week
was the scene of a genuine welcome to
the pair—little Mrs. Robbie, who is the
proof of the old saying that “good things
come in small parcels,” and to “Robbie,”
who is so much better after his long
illness that he carried out the duties of
host throughout the evening. Mrs. Eric
Nettheim, who came over from Sydney
to meet her parents, surprised her Mel-
bourne friends with a new coiffure of
short cut and straight fringe. The Charles
Hartmans were there after a four months’
suitcase existence touring round the
world. Mrs. Hartman wore the result
of a morning’s shopping in Paris: a slim
black skirt and a tunic built over with
lacquered pagodas. She didn’t take her
golf clubs on her trip, and, although
“Chas.” had his, he only played twice—in
Oklahoma, in a temperature of 103 deg.
Other guests included _ Gerry Gerity
and Sam Gebbie, both in good form,
and the Percy Rickards couple, Mrs.
Rickards’s dress accessories being
diamente clips and a couple of diamente
keys. With B. N. Perkins was his wife,
who wore a gown of black organza
sprayed with tiny flowers, and a giddy
little hat with a chou-chou of black lace
as its frontal decoration. Mrs. Bob
Scott’s hat was a morsel of black straw
which expressed its exuberant mood in
a top-note cluster of gardenias.
The smile in the Broothorn portrait
belongs to Alison Syme, and was doubt-
less induced by the manner in which
tickets are being sought after for the Vic-
toria League Ball. The dance, at which
the Governor and Lady Huntingfield will
be present, will take place on Friday and,
as a Caulfield Cup eve function, is a
preliminary to the gayest season of the
year in Melbourne. Miss Syme is one of
the ticket secretaries. '
Guests who came to the Fred Raes’
party to welcome home Group-Captain
and Mrs. Eric Harrison were showered
with pink azalea petals all the way along
the drive, for azaleas, apple blossoms and
white and yellow banksia roses, climbing
high over the shrubberies, are playing a
rapturous welcome to spring. Mrs. Har-
rison wore patterned chiffon and a pair
of beautiful silver-foxes, a present from
her husband, whom the Department of
Defence sent around the world on aero-
nautical matters. In his turn “Rick” had
in his pocket the newest thing in watches,
neat, small and flat as a cigarette-lighter,
a gift from Mrs. Harrison, who went to
Colombo to meet him.
Among other guests were Basil Buller
Murphy and wife Dr. Deborah, whose
black pancake hat grew a circular plot of
polyanthus. Dr. and Mrs. R. F. Harvey
were there, Mrs. Harvey in one of the
season’s most commendable turnouts —
lacquered tunic with black skirt. Wing-
Commander Hepburn was the recipient
of early congratulations for his birthday,
which happened last Monday.
Col. and Mrs. Dave Blake were there,
just returned from Adelaide, where they
went for a rest —but they’ve come home
for just that, such is the hospitality of
Adelaide. South Australians present
were Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson, daughter
Yvonne and Linley Rogers, who a few
months ago was transferred to Mel-
bourne. He wore something out of the
box in neckwear, a dark-red tie with a
faintly outlined pattern of racehorses,
jockeys up. It looks far nicer than it
sounds, and all things considered is a
pretty good effort for this time of the
year. Yvonne’s originality was on her
head, a yard of shiny black ribbon and
a wisp of veil snipped together in a few
minutes. So far the wearer of this in-
genious achievement has been unsuccess-
ful in tracing one hatbox and six hats re-
ported missing on her motor trip from
Adelaide.
The Athenaeum was no grim bare barn
for the opening of the Women Painters'
Exhibition. Flowers, mostly from Mrs.
H. M. Gulliver’s Sassafras garden, were
in such profusion that vases gave out,
and anyone inquisitive enough to have
probed among the lovely blooms on the
piano would have found cleverly camou-
flaged piedishes as the source of water
supply. Among the multitude present
were the R. Wilkinsons, Mrs. H. E.
Spry, in white tarn and black suit, Chris-
tine de Gruchy, looking charming in a
little split-brimmed black hat, Mrs. Tom
Patterson and Mary, whose round black
saucer hat had a peephole in the crown
and, as an accessory, a lapel-length veil.
Mrs. Patterson’s elder daughter Nell,
who went to America with her aunt, Mrs.
Harry Box, is still lingering abroad, stay-
ing with relatives. Mrs. George Ellery,
whose portrait was hung by Aileen Dent,
was greeted by many friends, for not
long ago she returned home after three
years in England. Her son, Dr. Reg
Ellery, and his wife are also returned
travellers. Their wanderings included
Russia.
In spite of being up at 6 a.m. (for
who can sleep on the morning that marks
the end of a long sea voyage?) Fay Comp-
ton and her players looked fresh as
daisies at their first party in Melbourne,
given in the early afternoon by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress. The new
arrivals confessed to feeling slightly
hoarse in their throats, the result of so
much talking earlier in the day, and said
that their wits were as jellies from the
orgy of unpacking, but their enthusiasm
and excitement were evident.
Miss Compton, who pronounces her
name Cumpton, is no aloof leading lady
of temperament; she is one with
her company, a pal and a staunch
friend. Her youthful face, figure and
blonde head, which on the day
of her arrival was simply a natural-
wave coiffure with neither curls nor rolls,
do not suggest the existence of a grown-
up son, Anthony Pellissier, at present
acting with Noel Coward. Miss Comp-
ton brought her golf clubs with her, and
also hopes to get some tennis and riding
while in this country.
The only other married folk in the co.
are Strafford Hilliard and Ann Codring-
ton, husband and wife and parents of
22-year-old Patricia Hilliard, at present
playing in a London theatre. Patricia
has had experience in films, and during
the making of one picture was earning,
much to her father’s amusement and
pride (though he kept it dark), three times
as much as he was.
Blonde Hayley Bell and Peter Dearing,
the youngest members of the co., intend
to take up golf together, practising in a
quiet paddock if they can find one. Peter
is producer for Miss Compton, and hopes
that Australian playwriters will forward
him their MSS. with a view, perhaps,
towards future productions.


Do You Get 5 per cent, a
Year on Your Savings?
SECURITY
VQS
Hundreds of men and women throughout Australia enioy
a better income since they bought FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES. Their savings, often as
low as £23-£25, are spread securely over the shares of
20 first-class companies, with the Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd., as Custodian Trustees. Income distri-
buted twice yearly, and Certificates realisable at any time.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers : —
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
FAB
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
from every part of the world visited the last
Spring Fair. At the coming Spring Fair more than
8000 Exhibitors from 25 countries, including Great
Britain, will help YOU to make 1938 a record
trading year.
SPRING FAIR
begins March 6,
1938.
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles,
Engineering and
Building Fairs, etc.
Information (including Travel Marks and Asia Trading
Marks) and Letters of Introduction available of LAKb It.
BRITNDAHL, Commissioner in Australia for tlie Leipzig
Trade Fair, Challis House, Martin Place, G.P.O. Box
3127 P Sydney.
C. N.’kEPPEE, Temple Court, 422 Collins Street, G.P.O. Box
20245, Melbourne.
11. C. ITTBRSHAGEK. Shenton Park, West Australia.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Crump”: I listened to the national
station telling us all they were going to
relay the next day. On my table I have
a communication from the fellow in
charge telling me my guinea sub. is due
next week. Beside that printed form
there is a letter from a station-manager
friend of mine who is 50 miles or more
from a telegraph station. His eldest son
is dangerously ill. The boy’s mother is
with him at the hospital, several hun-
dred miles distant from the station. An
arrangement has been made with 4LG,
the B wireless station at Longreach, to
repeat urgent messages at stated hours —-
the father to listen in at those times. Any
time, several nights a week, the same
4LG can be heard sending messages to
Roxborough, on the Georgina, 100 miles
or so from the nearest telegraph stations.
Being on an island off the N.Q. coast, I
asked 4AY Ayr its terms for repeating
messages to me. The manager of 4AY
recognised the position I was in, and did
not bleed me. Once, when the sea was
rough, a telephone message to Ayr was
immediately repeated over the air to my
wife on the island telling her I was safe.
It seems to me, though, that this sort of
service to us remote northerners should
not be left to commercial stations. The
Government which takes our license fees
should lend a hand.
* * * *
“Sounder”: What’s the good of sing-
ing out about a northern hydrographic
survey (B. 22/9/’37)? Of course, the
thing should have been done years ago.
The Barrier Reef is a natural protection
to the whole of the eastern coast on the
northern side. We have some charts of
it marked indefinitely by Matthew
Flinders, with probable soundings and
supposititious islands. Absolutely, we
know nothing else. But how long would
it take to make such a survey with the
means now at our disposal? One lieut.-
com. of the department estimated 300
years. I think he was an optimist. Hav-
ing seen the surveyors at work, and know-
ing how they are hampered by brass
braid, I’d say about 3650 years. One
of the first essentials would be to have
the Hydrographic Office on the spot in
N.Q.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: “Mataranka’s” (B.
29/9/’37) treasure does not seem as well
authenticated as that traditionally asso-
ciated with Torres Strait. From time to
time relics of Spanish explorers are being
found all over the archipelago, and
Frank Jardine actually found a small
meed of treasure-trove at Somerset (Cape
York), whilst a better haul was made by
Bruce on Stephen Isle. This is fertile
territory for treasure-hunting, for Stephen
Island is right in the old ships’ passage
used by Torres and his lieutenants, who
stayed long enough in the locality to
build the permanent stone fishtraps on
Darnley Island. On Murray Island an
official found Binghi youngsters playing
a native game for which round flat
beans were normally used as counters.
In this instance the youngsters were
using round gold Spanish crowns. Natur-
ally, diligent inquiries as to the source
were prosecuted, but without success, as
it needs a wizard to dissect truth from
legend. Binghi, cheerful soul, is ever
willing to oblige with the tale which he
thinks will best please his Caucasian
catechiser.
* * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Brisbane’s city fathers
have had a lot to put up with of late.
There were stray cattle which broke into
the personally-tended kitchen garden of
Ludmayor Alf Jones himself. Now, the
finance committee is being defied by a
person who insists on re-erecting a dilapi-
dated humpy on municipal land. Three
times the committee has had it torn down
and the materials carted to a. rubbish
dump ; three times has the indomitable
transgressor rebuilt it, each time more
battered than before. Exasperated by
derisive cpmparisons, photographic and
otherwise, between this persistent archi-
tectural excrescence and the million-
pound Town Hall, the council has de-
cided to invoke the laws of trespass.
i„ M . ..
MUSTrasiCi «iane 5 DUugeT
Brisbane continues to flock to the
Marcus Show The George Mathesons
had a party in their box for the first night
__rw ML-e A A/i t ocKa at-w-i Tvfi-e
—Captain and Mrs A. M Leslie and Mrs.
SDr anTiuS i P
y watched
the show from the other box.
After the final flutter of the cards in
the Australian contract bridge champion-
ship, there was a supper party of about
100 in McWhirters’, and president Austin
Lennon and his wife, the lady in a
white georgette picture frock inlet with
black lace, did the honors. The trophies
were handed over, together with tiny
replicas.
William Blackall Groom, who died a
few days ago, was the fourth son of the
late W. H. Groom, for many years mem-
ber for Drayton and Toowoomba in the
Leg. Ass., and first Federal member for
Darling Downs, a seat afterwards held
by his son, Littleton Groom. With elder
brothers Fred and Harry, William
assisted in the management of the family
paper, the “Toowoomba Chronicle,” and
for years wrote the turf notes. He was a
leading authority on bloodstock.
Verse-speaking is becoming a recog-
nised form of entertainment in Bris-
bane, and the entertainment put on by
Ruby Massey’s choir at the Town and
Country Women’s Club was excellent,
There were some music, too, a one-act
costume play, “A Man in the Kitchen,”
character studies and a scene from “Lady
Windermere’s Fan.”
Ena, younger daughter of the F. W.
Deardens, of Arden Downs, Goondi-
windi, was married to D. S. Middleton,
son of the Rev. George and Mrs. Middle-
ton, St. Peters, Sydney, in her home
town, in a church massed with flowers.
Rev. Cyril Whitehead, of Rockhampton
(C.Q.), brother-in-law of the bride, did
the knot-tying.
Another big country wedding was
solemnised at St. Andrew’s C. of E.,
Longreach, when Elva, elder daughter of
“Why didn't you bring the bullick team? I got about a dozen logs to snig out."
“ Blime , boss , I thought y'd on'y 'ave about eleven !”
Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Spence, Maroomba,
Muttaburra, was married to William
Hutchinson, manager of Ambo Downs,
elder son of Mrs, E. Hutchinson, Minnie
Downs. A gown of pearl bridal satin
and a veil of Brussels net draped the
{ F
scores ° £ did the tri P t 0
Toowoomba eacb w j tb j ts complement
o£ wedding ’ guestSi £or the wedd mg 0 f
Sheila, daughter of G. N. and Mrs.
Watson, of Oak Park, Yarranlea, and
Sam, second son of the late J. P. O.
Cowlishaw and Mrs. Cowlishaw, of
Clayfield. Bridegroom is a grandson of
the late Jimmy Cowlishaw, formerly one
0 f the directors of Brisbane “Tele-
graph.” St. Luke’s was the setting.
White lilies and red roses decked the
church. The bride looked charming in
her gown of white Chantilly lace and
court train of Brussels net, lent by cousin
Gwen Watson, who brought i,t back
with her from England. A veil and
coronet of orange-blossoms and a
shower bouquet of white rosebuds were
the accessories.
Tom McMinn and Gwen Campbell
were married in Holy Trinity, Valley,
and the Repertorians turned out in full
to see the ceremony. The bride was in
white satin, wreath and veil, and Wini-
fred Fuller, who ’maided, was in shell-
pink georgette. The wedding breakfast
was eaten at the Hotel Canberra, and the
moon is shining at Caloundra.
Yusuke Tswrumi and his daughter
Kazu-ko have been in Brisbane. Father
is a member of the Japanese Diet, and he
and Ms daughter have been attending the
New Education Fellowship Conference.
The Institute of International Affairs
arranged a party for the visitors, and
father talked and daughter demonstrated
Japanese dances. The Constitutional
Club also lunched them, and Kazu-ko
gave a second dancing demonstration in
the Lord Mayor’s rooms. Mr. Tsurumi
spoke on Japanese culture.
Ethel Graham and Bill Lucas were
married by special license in the women’s
medical ward of the Ipswich Hospital
so that the bride’s mother could be
present at the ceremony. The nurses
went to a lot of trouble to decorate the
ward, and there even were a tiny altai
by Mrs. Graham’s bed and a wedding-
bell which swung above the bridal party.
Funds of the St. Vincent de Paul
Socie, y benefited the ball bdd in * he
Remo, through the courtesy of the Aus-
tralia-Italia S.S. Co. Mesdames P. K.
Copley and K. Herbert and Miss B.
Crowe were the hostesses, and Arch-
bishop Duhig was among the guests.
Plenty of bunting and a myriad of
colored lights decked the ship,
The military have been doing a lot of
entertaining lately. Officers of the sth
Division R.A.E. held their at-home in
the Kelvin Grove drill-hall, and in-
eluded a pontoon among the decorations,
Captain and Mrs. R. J. H. Risson re-
ceived the guests, the lady in dusky pink
with shoulder straps of ruby-studded net.


OUT WITH OLD-FASHIONED TOOTH PASTES
The New PEPSODENT
alone confains IRIUM which thrillingly
sfeps-up lu-stre on teeth
■
Of
*.:■*» jS**.
e Ps,
Off,
e m
c °nt
e Pf/,
Aq
An
y ft,
">Sf
%
°*/
e d(f
3ft-
fis
/ttg
9 »t
Off-
'*'6.
*SA
At.
MhJ
DOUBLE THE THRILL
«■ DOUBLE YOUR MONEY BACK
If Pepsodent doesn’t show up any other tooth paste you ever used... bar none!
The new Pepsodent alone contains
Irium, the spectacular new lustre
discovery.
It works on a totally new and
unique principle. It dissolves film
on teeth with a wonderfully swift
but gentle action.
The new Pepsodent, because of
Irium, thrillingly steps-up lustre on
teeth. Yet it is doubly safe because
it contains no pumice, no grit!
Doubly delightful because it con-
tains no chalk, no soap!
The New PEPSODENT alone
contains IRIUM
IRIUM is the secret of its amazing
polishing power, its phenomena!
cleansing action, and the reason why
it gives teeth double lustre with
double safety.
Paste, and if, in your opinion, it
does not give you Double the thrill,
Double the safety and Double the
delight of any tooth paste you ever
used—bar none—we will give you
Double your money back.
Just post the partially used tube to
The Pepsodent Co. (Aust.) Pty.
Ltd., Melbourne, and we will send
you double what you paid plus
postage.
Double Your Money Back
Try the New Pepsodent Tooth
PEPSODENT
The Special Film>Removing Tooth Paste
THE 2/- SIZE IS THE MOST ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSODENT CO. (At/ST.) PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
High-Polish Your Teeth FREE
This coupon entitles you to a-
free generous supply of the new
Super-Soft High-Polish Pepso-
dent Tooth Paste. Just mail
to the Pcpsodent Co. (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Dept. No. 4, Box
488 G, Melbourne, C.l.
Name ...
Address
Citv State
■
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 815 of 1937.
BETWEEN ETHEL MAUD SMITH Petitioner
And ALFRED FORESTER SMITH Re-
spondent.
TO ALFRED FORESTER SMITH late of
Murwillumbah in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL MAUD
SMITH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Twenty-ninth day of Decem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
seven and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this first day of October, a.d. 1937.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
J. G. MOFFATT, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
104 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWARD PRERO formerly of
Mt. Isa in Queensland Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that a petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of JOAN MAY PRERO of 59 Eliza-
beth Street Hobart in Tasmania praying for a
dissolution of marriage In default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce judgment m
respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid on or
before the Eighteenth day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-seven an
appearance must be entered at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart.
R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar Supreme Court.
TO WALTER JAMES BARKER formerly of
91 Raleigh Street Thornbury in the State
of Victoria Accountant.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ELSIb
DORA BARKER commenced divorce proceed-
ings against you on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Otnce
of Prothonotary of the Supreme Court ot Vic-
toria at Melbourne within twenty-one days ot
the date of this advertisement the case may
proceed in your absence.
REGINALD BLAKEMORE,
40 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Proctor for the Petitioner.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Officers of H.M.A.S. Sydney attended
the ball in aid of Missions to Seamen
organised by the Flying Corps Associa-
tion and held at the Palais Royal. Uni-
forms were worn, so the dressing was
diversified with plenty of gold braid. In
the official party were Lord and Lady
Mayoress Barrett, Brigadier and Mrs.
A. M. Martyn and daughter Joan, Com-
mander and Mrs. A. S. Rosenthal, Cap-
tain J. U. P. Fitz Gerald and officers of
the Sydney, Commander E. Nave, Mr.
and Mrs. Murray Fowler, Dr. McDonald
Moore (president of the F.C.A.) and
Lily Waite (president of the Missions to
Seamen). The Palais had been beauti-
fully decorated with mixed flowers under
the supervision of Mrs. Lance Lewis. An
amusing golf competition was conducted
during the evening.
At the South Australian Alan Chapman
was host of a sherry party and dinner
dance combined. The guests were mem-
bers of the Adelaide Musical Comedy
Co., which has recently earned £l2OO for
charity. About 100 were present. There
were 14 speeches at dinner, and presenta-
tions to Mr. Chapman (producer),
Charles Bradley (vocal director) and Phil
Peake (maker-up). The orchestra played
selections from “Viktoria and Her
Hussar,” choruses were sung and even
some of the ballets were danced.
It was the second entertainment for
the co. Pianist Tom King gave a birth-
day party in a suburban hall to which
members were invited to come dressed
as children. Chapman as a little girl
whose fair curls were tied with pink
ribbon was the belle of the ball. The
co. is now busy on “The Vagabond
King,” in which Felicia Francis is to
play the lead.
Dame Enid Lyons, in black with silver-
fox furs, was guest of honor at a sherry
party given by Mrs. P. W. Rice at her
lovely home, Portrush-road, Toorak, the
afternoon of her departure. Geraldton
wax-plant blooms from Mrs. Rice’s
garden were extensively used in decora-
tion, combined with peonies in the same
light-pink shade. Dame Enid left later
in the afternoon by ’plane for Canberra,
There was a good rally to a bridge
P art Y organised by the Junior Red Cross
|° r ai se funds for the upkeep °f the
holiday house at Henley Beach. Mrs.
Lipman, the convener, was assisted
£y a committee of 80 women. Mrs. Clive
Bonython, Mrs. Louis McCubbin and
Mrs Lionel Williams ran bazaar stalls,
bouquet in pale-blue, red and silver
was presented to Lady Mayoress Barrett,
presented the prizes at the conclu-
Sl ° n *he evening s play. She was re-
feived on / ar f lval MklF- C W.l-
loughby (chairman), Mrs. R. L. Butler
anc * Colonel Woodcock,
Painter Nora Heysen, daughter of
Hans, returned to Adelaide in the Nor-
wegian ship Thermopylae after an
absence of nearly four years abroad. She
spent six months studying at the Byam
Shaw school and 12 months at the Cen-
School of Art, where she went in for
modelling, which she considers a great
he jP to a pamter who does figure studies,
Miss Heysen has brought back an im-
mense amount of work that she did in her
studio at South Kensington.
Mr. and Mrs. Duncan Fraser, of
Forestville, celebrated their golden wed-
ding with a dinner party at the South
Australian. In the lounge, where the host
and hostess received their guests, the
floral decoration was carried out in
golden and white flowers. On the
dinner table the daffodils matched the
candles and wedding-cake, which had
been made by the Frasers’ daughter, Mrs.
J- E. Wills.
The Kidman lady, who is to leave
shortly on a trip abroad accompanied by
her granddaughter, Joan Reid, gave a
garden party at her home, Eringa, Mills-
wood. It was an informal affair inspired
by the fact that the beautiful garden was
at its best. Weather was ideal, and after-
noon-tea was served in a marquee and at
small tables on the lawn. The hostess re-
ceived the guests with her daughter, Mrs.
Sidney Reid. An orchestra on the lawn
made music.
WESTRALIA.
Archdeacon Huddleston tied the mat-
rimonial knot at St. George’s Cathedral
for Leslie Burridge’s only daughter
Joyce and medico Roland Nattrass. The
bride paced the aisle in swirls of white
ripple chiffon cut on Grecian lines, with
folded bodice girdled with white satin,
the skirt moulded to the hips and falling
in undulating folds into a long train.
A cloud of ruched tulle held by a circlet
of orange-blossom billowed far beyond
the train, and sweet-scented bridal blos-
som and snowdrops nestled amid ferns
in the posy. Rita McGibbon, Molly
Noble, Nancy Parker and Dorothy
Kirby ’maided in picturesque replicas of
the bride’s frock, with palest-green and
mauve chiffon knotted at the waist and
falling into graceful trains. Two rolled
coils of chiffon on their heads matched
the mauve and pink sweet-peas of the
bouquet. Toastings at the Karrakatta
Club took the form of an informal cock-
tail party.
Artist Irene Carter, holding an O.S.
presentation bouquet, stood at knight
John Kirwan’s elbow when he opened
her exhibition of water-colors in the
Newspaper House Art Gallery and coped
with a spate of congratulations from the
invited guests. Westralia, Victoria and
Italy provided backgrounds for the
studies, of which the majority were archi-
tectural subjects. “A Corner of London
Court” drew crowds of admirers, and two
Melbourne street scenes, “Rainy Day,
Queen Street,” and “St. Paul’s from
Prince’s Bridge,” could be glimpsed
through the throngs before them. The
Italian scenes were the result of the
artist’s five years’ study in Venice.
Two well-known old Westralian fami-
lies were linked when lan, eldest son of
the H. D. Forbeses, of Broome and West
Perth, met Ayleen, only daughter of Mrs.
C. A. Piesse, of Wagin, at the altar of
St. Mary’s. The Bishop of the Nor’-west
and Rev. Patrick forged the link. The
bridal raiment of swathed drapings of
magnolia satin widened in gleaming folds
into a long train veiled with mists of
tulle, falling from a circlet of satin. A
retinue of three ’maids, Geraldine Smith,
Esme Piesse and Verna Arthur, followed
in shirrings of apricot georgette top-
knotted with russet rosebuds. Mrs. Piesse
hostessed after-rejoicings at the Hotel
Adelphi clad in cyclamen matelasse and
matching eye-veiled headgear of velvet.
A diminutive figure, brown eyes spark-
ling with enthusiasm for her cause,
stepped off the Oronsay: Sister Mary
Lowson, leader of the Australian nursing
unit which has been in Spain for the last
year. Lectures to the Student League in
the Undercroft at the University, the
Modern Women’s Club and the Legacy
Club and other public meetings have
filled her busy week.
Colored lights festooned in the trees
and along the winding pathways leading
to the clubhouse, yachts lying at anchor
in the moonlit bay and flower-banked
ballroom and lounges lent a glamorous
setting to the ball given by Freshwater
Bay Yacht Club in honor of Rear-
Admiral Lane-Poole and officers of the
Canberra. Mrs. Glaskin, trailing rippled
black georgettes in her wake, stood at
the helm with her commodore husband.
The Hobbs lady set sail in a length of
rose and silver lame, Nancy Hobbs car-
ried out manoeuvres in squadron-red
ninons, and Mrs. Doy Forrest’s foaming
Patou pink chiffon and tulle frothed
’neath glinting silver-beaded coatee.
Priestley’s play “Dangerous Corner”
drew crowds to the University Refec-
tory for the two-night season given it
by the Uni. Dramatic Club. The unusual
plot held the audience until curtain-fall.
Rex Ennis carried off the bulk of the
acting honors, with the three feminine
players —Heather Sharp, Betty Cook and
Lesley Graham —sharing the rest of the
applause.
TASMANIA.
The Auto Car Club’s party at the club-
house was a gay affair. The new lounge
was opened and came in for a lot of
admiration. President Wedler Arnold
was helped in the receiving job by his
daughter and the club secretary, H. C.
Ikin. Flags and flowers were used in
decoration, and bridge and dancing kept
the young and not-so-young amused.
Mrs. McLaren did the business part
of the big bridge evening for the Girl
Guides and Boy Scouts’ funds. Lady
Clark lent Government House for the
occasion, and provided supper. Over 60
tables were filled.
Richmond went gay and held a
matrons’ dance in the public hall, at
which all the district was represented.
The committee numbered 20, with Mrs.
C. T. Jones and Mrs. R. G. Swan as
joint secs. Decorations were profuse, as
all the spring blossom is at its best.
Supper was a special feature.
Hutchins School’s dance drew a crowd
of youngsters and parents to the gym-
nasium, where they were received by the
Head (unfortunately Mrs. Harris wasn’t
well enough to be present) and Captain
and Mrs. Brettingham Moore (he is
the president of the Parents’ Assoc.).
This year the school broke its entertain-
ment into two parts, the second night
being given over to the younger pupils
with games and moving pictures. Colored
lights were festooned in the old trees,
and the show was a gay one.
Mrs. H. Tasker is taking Cynthia home
to finish her schooling. They leave on
October 25. Cynthia gave a farewell
dance to her contemporaries at the Bel-
vedere, where the decorative scheme was
in the colors of Fahan, Collegiate,
Friends’ and Hutchins schools.
October sees an eruption of weddings,
and the prospective brides and their
friends are fairly snowed under with
parties. Wanda Piesse had 18 dates on
her list the other day, and most of the
others have just as many. Marie Dakin
leads the wedding dates, she and Laurie
Murdoch ; then come Jean Buchanan and
Stuart Pixley ; then Peggy Dick and Pay-
master-Lieut. R. G. A. Jackson, R.A.N.,
and then Wanda Piesse and Lieut. David
Logan. Several others are in the offing,
with dates not yet fixed.
News comes from Maoriland that Joan
Woods (Launceston) and Captain G. V.
C. Colchester were married at St. Paul’s,
Auckland, the bride wearing a tailored
suit of silver grey and a summer felt hat
in blue. Barbara and Peggy Mace (both
formerly Hobart girls) ’maided, and their
mother, Mrs. D. Mace, helped the bride
entertain afterwards at her new home in
Mission Bay.
Howard Buchanan, of Sydney, flew
over to Hobart to give daughter Jean
Helen into the safe keeping of Stuart
Ellis Atkins Pixley, only son of the
E. B. Pixleys, of Kingston Beach. The
wedding was at St. David’s Cathedral.
Jean, who wore orange-blossom in her
hair and carried an armful of lily-of-the-
valley, made an attractive picture in her
trailing ivory moires. The veil of
Limerick lace was over 100 years old,
and Jean was the seventh bride to
wear it.


At your request we
shall be pleased to
forward Folder No. 61.
Plan now for your Christmas vacation —a
delightful tour of the East. To enable you
to fully appreciate your holiday, we take
you by way of interesting ports along a
smooth water route. You will enjoy
delightful days of cruising on sheltered
waters inside the Great Barrier Reef,
calls at Thursday Island and Darwin and
the trip across the Timor Sea to Java, the
"Garden of the East."
Complete with every modern conveni-
ence, the m.v. "Merkur" and t.s.s.
"Marella" sail regularly from Melboyro.e,
Sydney and Brisbane to Java and
Singapore.
am
m
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 87901
128 ADELAIDE ST., BRISBANE. 312 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
31 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE. 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WEL'GTON, N.Z.
The Long White Cloud
Air Inquiry Pointers
The first Maoriland air accidents to
be investigated by open inquiries (B.
6/10/’37) involved two club machines.
They crashed with loss of lives in totally
different circumstances, but evidence
tendered at each stresses the importance
of providing better weather-reporting
facilities than club airmen have at the
present time.
One machine disappeared over Cook
Strait on March 23. The bodies of pilot
and passenger have never been recovered.
The other crashed near Stratford on a
flight from Wellington to New Plymouth
on June 2, and the passenger, a well-
known Maoriland businessman, was
killed. In each instance the ’planes ran
into low-hung clopds not reported before
the flights were begun.
Although Maoriland distances are so
much shorter than in Australia, phe-
nomenal weather changes are bred by
series of upthrust ranges, and even slight
changes of wind often mean sudden
changes in local climatic conditions. A
good flying day can become a bad one
within an hour when, in some parts, the
wind swings round and blows from the
sea. Meteorological bases capable of im-
mediately relaying such localised changes
to airport centres must some day be
established at points along Maoriland’s
main air routes.
Many Maorilanders who weren’t aware
of this have realised the necessity since
they read reports of the open inquiries.
One N.Z.R.A.F. witness further empha-
sised the point by explaining that present
altimeters are graduated for each 200 ft.
—and that descending lower than that
to pass below heavy cloud involves con-
siderable guesswork for most club pilots.
“Kiwit”: Opposition members pre-
pared to slate the Labor Administration
on the slightest pretext—the traditional
right of Opposition members —also be-
lieve that young Maorilanders should be
interesting themselves in the future of
their country (B. 29/9/’37). Their reason
is altogether different from those ad-
vanced by Labor spokesmen touring
various electorates, and J. G. Cobbe,
former Crown Minister in the Forbes-
Coates Government, gave it a recent air-
ing. Young Maorilanders, he declared,
were faced with the prospect of harder
lives as a result of the “reckless spend-
ing and extravagance” of the Savage
Government; the “load of debt” which
would be left behind would “burden
taxpayers for years to come.” Cobbe
can’t have perceived the beauties of
“costless credit.”
* * * *
“Kohi”: Maoriland Labor members
have turned the equality-of-income theory
into partial practice by voluntarily pooling
their salaries. This gives ordinary mem-
bers a bit more and chops a few hun-
dred off the salaries of Cabinet Ministers.
It looks good, but Opposition critics
still find something to wail about. They
say that, if Labor really believed in its
principle, it would not have appointed
the Director of Broadcasting, the Direc-
tor of Commercial Broadcasting and the
Director of Internal Marketing at £l5OO
each when the heads of other depart-
ments, who have belted their way up
from the bottom of the service ladder,
receive considerably less.
* * . *
“Paekiri”: Maorilanders —particularly
West-Coasters-—will smile at novelist
A. J. Cronin’s knowledge of the Shivery
Isles. In his best-seller The Citadel
Cronin makes the great-grandfather of
one of his characters emigrate to M.L. as
a boy and get his first job as a milker
on the “Greymouth dairy farms.” Thirty
years later the same character, “in the
top-floor office of the first Auckland sky-
scraper,” put his signature “to the deal
unifying the Island dairy farms into a
great dried-milk combine.” Allowing
that great - grandfather, grandfather,
father and son married at the average age
of 25, great-grandfather must have started
work on the “Greymouth , dairy farms ’
in 1817 approximately. But what West-
Coasters will want to know is, who
cleared away the blackberries?
* * # #
“Waitot”: Plants native to Maoriland
are now growing in the gardens of
Windsor Castle. George VI. and his
good lady are keenly interested in horti-
culture, so G.-G. Galway dropped the
hint that some Maoriland rarities would
be well received. They were—and in
good condition, too. The plants, mostly
of alpine families, were collected in the
hills back of Christchurch and from the
heights of Otago ; about 80 of them —
of 49 different species—left for England
in special cases fitted with gauze
windows and packed in the ship’s vege-
table chamber where the temperature is
always constant. The Galway shipment
included a number of plants not pre-
viously in cultivation in England and
Maoriland botanists are wondering how
they will acclimatise.
* * * *
“Motu”: Harold Gatty, now Tasman
Sea representative for Pan-American
Airways, has made it clear that the sav-
ing of those 300 miles on the last of
the trans-Pacific hops won the day for
Auckland instead of Wellington when it
came to choosing the Maoriland ter-
minal (B. 6/10/’37). He-says Welling-
ton’s sheltered harbor would make an
ideal flying-boat base, and it has suffi-
cient clear-water take-off to keep it so
for many years. But the first machines
that will be flying the South Pacific
route won’t have such a range-margin
that an extra 300 miles can be over-
looked in safety—and modern airline
operation depends for success on the
sort of preliminary planning that weighs
facts like these. Far from considering
extension of the last stage, the American
company actually plans to establish an
emergency base, complete with radio
direction-finding equipment, only 100
miles short of Auckland. When there’s
dirty weather over the Waitemata, or
headwinds have reduced petrol supplies,
the big clippers will be dropping in at
Russell.
# * * =H
“D.N.”: People who understand the
Maori language can still be bored by
marae speeches at gatherings conducted
“with time-honored ceremonial” (B.
29/9/’37) unless they also appreciate the
significance of picturesque Maori figures
of speech. For instance, when a shrewd
old tribal leader wishes to reprimand his
people, he awaits a suitable public occa-
sion and then slates them in metaphor ;
the larger the crowd of appreciative visi-
tors from other tribes, the better the old
boy talks—and talks. To twit his people,
he may hang his oratory on the widely-
known native proverb “Where were you
when the kowhai bloomed?” If a white
man understands sufficient Maori to get
that, he still needs to know the back-
ground of the early natives to appreciate
the magnitude of the insult. They always
planted their kumeras, or sweet potatoes,
when the kowhai began to bloom, and it
was a rush communal job ; if they waited
longer, they exposed their crops to para-
sites, and if they planted earlier, the
chances were that frosts would bring
ruin. So fire that proverb at a Maori
and he knows you think he’s a lazy so-
and-so.
* * * *
“Fergus”: The Auckland-Wellington
business rivalry (B. 6/10/’37) is an un-
important national whippersnapper com-
pared with an inter-island scorn which
still rears its out-of-date Maoriland head
at unexpected moments. The latest I’ve
struck popped up after the Springboks
lashed .the All-Blacks in the final Test —
and it appeared as far away from Maori-
land as a suburban flat in Melbourne!
A Rugby fan from the North, regarding
the offending radio with growing dis-
favor as the match proceeded, couldn’t
restrain himself when another All-Black
movement fizzled out among the inside
backs. “Hell,” he grunted, “the
South Islanders never were any good!”
It didn’t seem an opportune moment to
express the surprise I felt that a Maori-
lander, after a good few years in bulky
Australia, should still place such human
importance on the few miserable miles
of Cook Strait separating the two islands.
* * * *
“Korero”: J. A. Lee, Under-Sec. in
Charge of Housing, says hardly a day
passes but one or two Australian carpen-
ters wander into his department in
search of jobs—and get them! Skilled
tradesmen from the United Kingdom
“But, oh, ma, you should have seen the one that got away!"
have also been lured to Maoriland, and
they are good immigrants. But even a
Labor Government can expect the kicks
of unionist supporters when news gets
round that local carpenters, after several
years on low-rate relief, are required
sometimes to make temporary way for
workers from overseas. However, the
building trade is booming, and the few
union complaints have lacked their cus-
tomary ferocity and rarely seem to be
repeated.
*’* * *
“Kaha”: With customary boldness
Transport Minister Semple has launched
in Christchurch his campaign for the
registration of Maoriland’s 250,000
cycles. The city on wheels is almost
unanimously behind his proposal for a
one-and-only registration fee of a shil-
ling, and empowering legislation will be
included this session in a general bill for
the consolidation of transport laws.
Registration will be carried out through
the . Post Office, which will also arrange
transfers of ownership for a sixpenny
fee. Cycle-stealing will be a more
hazardous profession when the police
have registration numbers to facilitate
their inquiries. In the past it has paid
well.
$ $ * $
“M.”: Those local sawmillers who
differ with Government officials in esti-
mates of millable white pine in South
Westland areas now being opened up (B.
8/9/’37) aren’t the only Maorilanders
who would have one believe the depart-
mental survey errs on the side of
caution. Some hikers, stalkers and pros-
pectors who have been through the areas
tell of mile after dense mile of potential
butter-boxes. All the same I’d still in-
vest any loose betting cash on the accu-
racy of the forestry experts’ audit. Kahi-
katea, as the native calls this Maoriland
pine, grows best in damp valley bottoms
and on rolling hills that lie considerably
lower than most of the mountain ranges
surrounding them. People who tramp
through this sort of country aren’t mugs
in the bush, and where possible they
naturally choose routes involving a mini-
mum of climbing which means they
strike through the valleys where there are
miles of white pine. The forestry men
presumably carried out a comprehensive
survey. It is odds-on that there isn’t
near as much butter-box timber as
casual observers believe.


Used extensively overseas by “men
who know,” Raymart transmitting
gear has built up a reputation for pro-
viding a far higher standard of trans-
mission. “The Friendly Wholesale
House” will furnish full particulars
of any component parts. Prices are
the lowest in the State.
Get in touch with John Martin,
sole distributors of Raymart “Craft
A Creed” transmitting equipment.
Same-day service a specialty.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonraar,” Sydney.
116-118 Clarence Street,, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONLY STATION
that can give you com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONLY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Explanations for Beginners.
The second of a series explaining the
terms used in technical articles and the
principles of radio practice.
Alternating Current.
Alternating current, expressed simply
by the letters A.C., alternates in voltage
from zero to whatever maximum posi-
tive value may be given, then it drops
back past zero to a negative value equal
to the value on the positive side, return-
ing again to zero. This rise to positive
and fall to negative starting and ending
at zero is called one cycle. There are
two alternations to one cycle. In the
common A.C. house supply the period
of cycles is 60 per second and the volt-
age 240.
Direct Current.
D.C. always flows in the same direc-
tion. It is a current which does not
change polarity, and generally remains
at a constant voltage. Direct current
cannot be used to operate the ordinary
all-electric receiver unless it is of the
A.C.-D.C. type (or plain D.C.). The
A.C.-D.C. type can be used on both kinds
of supply, but the D.C. type is restricted
to direct current.
Impedance.
The opposition to current flow in an
A.C. circuit when this circuit contains,
in addition to resistance, inductance or
capacity, or both. Impedance is meas-
ured in ohms.
Inductance.
The generation of a voltage in a cir-
cuit by a change of current, either a rise
or fall, whether in the same circuit or
one near by. The more effect a circuit
has in itself or neighboring circuits the
greater is its inductance. When a con-
ductor is formed into a coil by turning
it back on itself many times, the induct
ance is greatly increased. Thus coils
are used when it is desired to obtain a
maximum inductance in a minimum of
space, and are often themselves called
inductances.
Capacity.
Anything that will receive or contain
electricity is a capacity. A condenser
has a capacity according to the amount
of electric charge it will receive and
hold.
D.B.K.
Accumulator Maintenance.
The modern accumulator will give long
and satisfactory service if properly cared
for. The writer knows of a six-volter
that has been in constant use for five
years.
It must be charged regularly. If it is
discharged, and then left standing for a
lengthy period before being recharged, it
will deteriorate. Even though an accu-
mulator may be charged to the utmost,
deterioration will still occur to some ex-
tent if it is left unused for a long period.
The fault with most short-lived accu-
mulators is persistent overdischarging.
The accumulator should never be com-
pletely discharged.
Undercharging is as bad as overcharg-
ing, as then the cells are called upon for
heavy demands when they have no
reserve energy. One result is sulphating,
with disintegration of the active material,
and, although a lengthy course of charg-
ing and discharging may restore condi-
tions to normal, in most cases the damage
is irreparable.
Voltage and specific gravity must be
checked. Voltage should always be
tested with the accumulator under load,
and specific gravity read by an accurate
hydrometer. Density readings taken im-
mediately after “topping up” with dis-
tilled water will very likely be incorrect.
Sp. gr. should be taken only after the
accumulator has been on charge for some
hours, when the solution will be of uni-
form density. With a fully-charged
accumulator, the reading should be
approximately 1.260, but the makers’
instructions should be noted in connec-
tion with this.
A hydrometer is inexpensive, and in-
dispensable. It consists of a graduated
glass float arranged inside a glass tube,
fitted at one end with a rubber bulb,
and having the other end open. In use,
the open end is inserted into the solution,
the bulb is squeezed, then released, and
a quantity of the solution will be drawn
into the tube. The specific gravity is in-
dicated by the graduated glass float.
Typical accumulator plate assembly.
An accumulator in good condition will
have positive plates of a clean chocolate-
brown color, with negative plates a light
grey. Sulphation is shown by a powdery
deposit on either set of plates. A com-
pletely-discharged cell will show a sp. gr.
reading of about 1.200.
The electrolyte, being acid, is injurious
to most materials, and care should be
exercised in handling accumulators. If
acid is spilled accidentally, liquid
ammonia can be used to neutralise it.
If at any time it is desired to make up
a fresh supply of electrolyte, it should
be done by a competent electrical engi-
neer. Sulphuric acid should be added to
water during the mixing process, and
never vice versa. Never in any circum-
stances add acid to an accumulator after
the initial filling, only distilled water.
Terminals should be examined periodi-
cally for sulphation. Any deposit should
be removed with a wire brush, and the
surfaces should be given a thin coat of
vaseline after cleaning. If the accumu-
lator is of the kind in which the cells
are connected by lead strips locked in
place with screws and nuts, these strips
should be kept in clean contact with the
screws. If the accumulator is of glass or
celluloid construction, the surface should
be wiped occasionally with a clean dry
cloth to remove moisture.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
During the morning hours from five
to seven, excellent telephony contact can
be had on 20 metres with English and
Continental stations. Outstanding on the
morning of 5/10/’37 was G2NA, in Staf-
The well-equipped short-wave listening post of Robert C. Kramer at
Plainfield, Ill., U.S.A. The receiver is a National NCIOOX, with three-
valve pre-selector. A doublet-type aerial is used for all reception.
fordshirc. So strong was the speech from
this station that the writer commented
on the fact that the Englishman must
be using high power, but learnt that the
input was only 20 watts to a T2O final.
The strength came from the aerial sys-
tem-two half-waves in phase, accu-
rately fed by matching stub and 600-ohm
line. The aerial is one of the most im-
portant factors in all radio communica-
tion, assuming stable receivers and trans-
mitters.
In view of the schedule announced for
56mc. DX by ON4AU, a lookout was
kept for the Belgian on 20 metres, and he
was contacted. He will be receiving only
C.W. signals, the receiver consisting of a
Directional Reinartz rotary beam aerial
used for 56mc. experiments by J. Pardin
( VK2ABZ) at Dundas, N.S.W.
special T.R.F. type with Acorn valves.
His power is 250 watts output at
56,080 kc., and a twin dipole array, simi-
lar to one used by the writer, is directed
over the Great Circle route for Australia.
A simple T.R.F. receiver was made up
for 56mc. and 28mc. with 956 R.F., 954
detector and 41 audio. For super-regen-
eration, an EBC3 was used as inter-
ruptor, and a heterodyne oscillator was
included, working at 10 metres and using
a 6C6. Several points about T.R.F. re-
ceivers for C.W. reception at these high
frequencies were noted. It is difficult to
strike a correct L/C ratio balance in the
detector for best signal detection. If too
small a tuning capacity is used across an
Acorn grid circuit, poor signal voltage is
developed. If a large capacity (40mmfd.)
is used, signal voltage is higher, but
tuning for weak C.W. signals becomes
difficult, even with the best of dial
mechanisms. The beat oscillator idea is
worth incorporation with the object of
securing more stable C.W. reception, but,
unless it is coupled only so much as is
necessary, interlocking is present and the
oscillator takes charge. It is an old idea
in modern dress on five metres.
A visit from VK4RY reveals that dur-
ing the scheduled five-metre test day on
26/9/’37 the Queenslanders were on the
job in full force. Nothing was heard of
Sydney stations, which is not surprising,
considering that the writer’s station was
the only one known to be active. Too
many are apt to take it for granted that
inter-State or overseas DX on five metres
is impossible, and lose heart because of
the lack of immediate results.
The 10-metre band is waking up. Some
American ’phones are reaching good
strength and Europeans should appear at
any time. Observance on 10 metres is
useful in checking possible conditions
for short or long skip at five metres,
though times over similar signal paths
may be widely different.
VK2NO.
Heard on Short Waves.
The Ideal battery all-wave receiver has
been set up recently at Townsville (Q.).
At present the 19-metre stations are miss-
ing until around 4.30 p.m., but the 25-
and 31-metre bands show much improve-
ment. GSD throughout transmission 1
is as good as anything heard. GSB im-
proves as time progresses, also GSO and
GSG, but these are never
equal to GSD now. At 8.42
p.m. on 2/10/’37 GSO
was scheduled to come on,
and was the best of the 19-
metre stations. Of the Ger-
mans, DJE is outstanding,
being better than DJB and
DJQ. GSG is far behind in
strength. On 30/9/’37, at
approximately 16.80 metres
and below GSG, a new sta-
tion was heard with strength
almost equal to DJE. The
announcer is a lady, not
unlike OLR’s, but no Eng-
lish is spoken. 2RO, RNE
and OLR4A are very fine
in the mornings, and at 8.30
a.m. on 1/10/’37 2RO was
full speaker volume and
stronger than TPA4.
NORTHERNER.
Australia-England Five-metre
Verification.
It was reported (B. 25/8/’37) that there
was reason to believe that five-metre
transmissions from VK2NO had been
picked up in North Wales by Mr. Cecil
Mellanby, of Pwllheli, and a recent letter
leaves no shadow of doubt that the tele-


om
et
\i i ft 8
Vv
£
\
..w RsW n ?
111 ur <" 9 ** ;
, s^
„ & \o\ W, ”V is i« tnofl'® I ’.
fS^:^r^" S
o© nx v, v/at" , j.oei'® 0 v 3 u'/-
*V«oUfl" :., woo dep „„ can bU '
N '?° r !ed
TV» O ' ,S .fIQ. cV% ° o% xeV '° -
*ou< b ?£ ibe osl
\fv\H ' ls
THE EVER READY CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
T 4
phony transmission from VK2NO on
22/11 /’36 was heard.
Mellanby goes into details of the re-
ception as entered in his log:
22/'ll'/*36. Time approx. 20.20.
VK2N(?) on 56mc. ’phone in QSO with
VK(??)L. Fragments of speech—reference
to 100 watts pair 35Ts rotary beam
antenna Signals lost in noise level.
QSA2/3 R strength various, 2/3 and 3/4.
Extremely high noise level and static.
VK2NO was working with VK2HL
locally at the time, and using the Rein-
artz rotary beam, aimed due north-west.
The transmitter uses two 35Ts in the
final, with 100 watts input.
Mellanby says he heard the signals
previous to 22/11/’36, but did not bother
much about it at the time. He encloses
a circuit diagram of the receiver. It is
a three-valve battery “straight” set, using
R.F. pentode regenerative detector, triode
first audio and pentode output. The de-
tector is coupled to the first audio stage
by means of an audio transformer with
windings in series as a high-impedance
choke. A large capacity (160mmfd.) is
used, shunted by a small tuning capacity
of 15mmfd. maximum.
This reception undoubtedly constitutes
the world’s record for ultra-high-fre-
quency signals. Actual contact between
two such points is the next hope.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
{Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Milliard 80A Concert Master.
The Mullard Co., of British origin, is
long established in Australia, and for
three years has been manufacturing
modern broadcast receivers here.
The new model 80A all-world re-
ceiver is a five-valve dual-wave super-
heterodyne for 240-volt A.C. operation—
the valves a 6A7 frequency converter,
6D6 intermediate frequency amplifier, 75
demodulator, automatic volume control
and buffer audio amplifier combined, 42
pentode output valve, and 80 full-wave
rectifier.
On test it was obvious that iron-cored
I.F. transformers are used in the receiver,
owing to the remarkable gain with silent
background obtained from the single 6D6
I.F. valve There is no sign of unwanted
background hiss, and the audio quality
is excellent. Although there is no pre-
selection before the 6A7 converter,
images are scarcely noticeable on short
waves. This indicates meticulous care in
lining up and tracking the tuned circuits.
On a strong short-wave station, such as
Daventry, the volume control can be
opened wide without any tendency to
microphonic resonance, so often caused
by minute vibration of variable condenser
plates. Examination of the chassis shows
the condenser gang to be resiliently
mounted, a very important feature on
short waves. Every station marked on
the dial at broadcast frequencies could
be heard well, including all the Maori-
landers and Westralians, and this with
a picture-rail aerial! There is no need
to fish for Daventry, Berlin and other
prominent short-wavers. For a four and
rectifier superhet the performance is
really astonishing. Price particulars can
be obtained from Mullard (Australia)
Pty., Ltd., 26 Clarence-street, Sydney.
Radio Comment.
“E.M.F.”: Question 583 (B. 8/9/’37)
deals with a home charger using zinc and
copper in Epsom-salt and bluestone solu-
tions. The Epsom salt is unnecessary ;
plain water in the porous pot will do.
The cell takes a few hours to become
active after being made up, but there-
after three of them in series will keep
any two-volt accumulator right up to
pitch. A little sulphuric acid in the
porous pot water will make the cell de-
liver the goods practically at once. Zinc
and copper are a lot easier to obtain in
the Australian outback than aluminium
and lead.
* * * *
Slades Radio Pty., Ltd., Croydon,
N.S.W., has issued a comprehensive
catalogue of Calstan precision test equip-
ment. The range includes meters of the
D.C.-A.C. types, the new R.F. thermo-
couple type for transmitter application,
multimeters for A.C.-D.C. volts, ohms
and milliampere tests, oscillators, valve-
testers, analysers, cathode-ray oscillo-
graphs, amperemeters and micro-ampere-
meters. Slades now has a modern en-
graving plant for panels.
$ $
“Spotcash”: An English radio enthu-
siast recently paid a few bob for a box of
drills, files, odds and ends of metal and
an old accumulator. The accumulator
plates showed no sulphation, and exami-
nation proved it to be one of the early
Groves storage batteries. The plates of
these early cells were made of solid plati-
num and silver. Platinum was worth £2O
and silver 3s. per ounce at the time.
* % * *
One of the most interesting features at
Britain’s Radiolympia this year was the
collection of ancient radio apparatus. It
included the actual gear used by Marconi
for experiments in the grounds of his
father’s villa in Italy, a receiver used in
the front line during the war, and a
microphone used
by the royal
family. Centres of
attraction were the
old original 8.8. C.
2LO transmitter,
which was built on
the roof of a store
in Oxford-street,
and a scale model
of the modern
8.8. C. Droitwich
transmitting sta-
tion. 8.8. C. con-
trol desks and
mi c r ophones of
earlier days were
shown, and ancient
but once - popular
crystal sets held a
place of honor.
❖ *
“P a n i wallah”:
Daventry listeners
last week heard a
special programme
celebrating the “P.
and O.’s Hundred
Year s.” The
origin of the
famous shipping
co. was traced to
1815, the year of
Waterloo. That
year Brodie
McGhie Willcox
opened a little office in London as ship-
broker and commission agent, and later
took in Arthur Anderson, who was to
become a partner, as a clerk. A mail
contract was signed with the Admiralty
in 1837 for conveyance of mails between
England and the Spanish Peninsular
ports, and in 1840 the service was ex-
tended to Egypt and India. The pro-
gramme was the story of the evolution
of the steamship and the growth of an
Empire.
What's What in Radio.
Swedish national programmes are now
relayed on short waves by Stockholm on
19.80 metres. The callsign is SBG.
Other transmitters are working simul-
taneously on 29.63 and 49.47 metres.
* * X *
A regular television-telephone service
between Berlin and Leipzig has proved
popular. It has been particularly useful
to technical authorities concerned with
research work on the propagation of
signals at television frequencies along
cables. The service is to be extended to
include Frankfurt, Kiel, Hamburg and
Munich.
* * * *
When the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s new
motor freighter Beltana was off the Cape
of Good Hope, en route from the U.K.,
it worked two-way with the A.W.A.
coastal station at Perth (W.A.) on 600
metres. The Beltana’s radio equipment,
manufactured in Australia by A.W.A.
and shipped to Dundee to be fitted, was
intended primarily for short-range work-
ing.
High-power U.H.F.
Radiotrons.
An outstanding advance in radio
operation at ultra-high frequencies is the
production in U.S.A. of two new Radio-
tr o n valves,
types 887 and
888. As a
Class-C ampli-
fier the water-
cooled 888 can
deliver an out-
put of 800
watts at 300
mega cycles.
Maximum
plate voltage
is 3000 and
maximum
plate current
400 m i 1 1 i-
amperes. The
filament takes
24 amperes at
11 volts. At
five metres the
full output is
delivered with
3000 volts on
the plate. The
valve measures
only 7|in. by 1 11-16 in., including water
jacket.
With such transmitting valves, it will
be possible to radiate real power at
very high frequencies. The types 887
and 888 are identical except for amplifi-
cation, which is 10 for the 887 and 30
for the 888.
Among other new Radiotron valves
are:
The 921: Phototube (Gaseous Type).—
This has a short double-ended construc-
tion which eliminates the conventional base
and provides a long insulating path between
electrodes. Its high sensitivity to red light
and infra-red radiation makes it particu-
larly adaptable for use with the incan-
descent lamp as a light source.
The 922: Phototube (Vacuum Type).—
A sensitive phototube of the vacuum type,
having high internal resistance and low
leakage current between electrodes. It is
especially suited for space-limited applica-
tions where the use of a high resistance
load is desirable to give maximum circuit
sensitivity. Its large spectral response in
the infra-red region makes it useful where
tungsten-filament lamps are employed as
light sources. 1
Eddystone All-World Eight
Receiver.
Some time ago the writer referred to
a British Eddystone receiver as being
an ideal proposition for use in the
Islands and N.T. This is the All-World
eight-valve battery superhet, designed in
particularly solid style, and using two-
volt valves. It was not then available in
this country, but advice has now been
received from the Australian Eddystone
distributor, R. H. Cunningham, 397 High-
street, Glen Iris (Vic.), that the first
model is to hand, and that, after examina-
tion and testing, others will follow
speedily.
This receiver is quite obviously not a
mass-production job. The tuning range
is from 13.44 metres to 2000 metres. The
case is die-cast in one piece, and the
chassis and shields are also in one piece.
This means that there can be no elec-
trical noise due to imperfect contact
between metal assemblies. Even the
I.F. transformer shields are an integral
part of the metal structure.
The makers claim that this receiver is
moisture- and dust-proof. Mr. Cunning-
ham, an experienced amateur trans-
mitter, who knows just what a good re-
ceiver should be for varying conditions,
says “for eight valves the punch is ter-
rific, with practically no background
noise.”
It is hoped in the near future to have
one of these Eddystone productions for
test and review. Though this kind of
receiver will be something entirely new
to radio enthusiasts in Australia, the
price is quite reasonable.
D.B.K.
A new 14-page booklet issued by
A. W. Valve Co. gives an insight into
methods of valve manufacture at the co.’s
Ashfield (N.S.W.) works. The making of
valves is explained in detail and illus-
trated by photographs. The booklet may
be had free on application to the co.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Is it possible to build a good modern
dual-wave receiver utilising the cabinet, speaker,
etc., of a wornout Stromberg-Carlson model 732
A.C. receiver? (2) If so, what circuit should
be used and where can parts be got ? —6OO.
(1) Yes, provided a good dual-wave coil kit
and switching mechanism are obtained. (2) Try
Radiokes, Ltd., Cleveland-street, Redfern, Syd-
ney. Each kit is accompanied by a complete
wiring diagram and instructions.
t- * * *
(1) When can the 1938 edition of “The Radio
Amateur’s Handbook” be expected? (2) I
have a 12-volt lighting plant. Can this be used
for transmitting power? (3) Suitable corre-
spondence course for radio? (4) Cost of an
amateur transmitting station? —601.
(1) Early in February. (2) Yes, by using a
genemotor with 12 volts input and high-voltage
D.C. output. (3) Try Australian School of
Radio, Wembley House, Railway-square, Syd-
ney. (4) Depends on requirements. Anything
from £25 to hundreds.


TILLEY LAMPS
300 CANDLE POWER
Obtainable
from your local
agent or
British made. Fool
proof and trouble prdof.
Burn for 10 hours -on
lj pints of ! kerosene.
Three. times the life of
ordinary mantles. All
lamps fitted > with
PYREX Globes and
insect proof fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated,
may be used as a
Storm Lantern, Hang-
ing Lamp, j or Table
Lamp. Height, 19in.
Price, 50/-
Complete.
Write for Catalogue of
Table, Wall, Vase and
Other Lamps.
W. KOPSEN & CO„ LTD.,
70 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PALATABLE MINERALS.
V- • y
“Tri-cal”: One chap who uses Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour told me of an amusing
experience he had which proved the
palatability of the stuff. After he mixed
a lot of Tri-cal-os and salt he went to in-
spect his young cattle, and after refilling
their boxes, which had been empty for
a few days, he was fairly mobbed by the
herd ; they came from all round to lick
and jostle at his clothing, and he quickly
made a dive out of the paddock for
safety. He’s quite convinced that Tri-
cal-os supplies a long-felt want.
i ,'V
Davis Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O. Box
all information about Tri-cal-os.
35835, Sydney, will give
Old Farmer.
CONSISTENT USE OF
V ITA-LIC K
PRODUCES GOOD. EVEN
FLEECES.
Mr. H. R. Watson, Cresswell,
Charleville, Q., writes, 28j11’29:
“Further, for wool prices I
have done well and believe that
Vita-Lick helps the sheep to
grow a good, even fleece.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Beef Cattle at Melbourne.
“Cow Punch”: Melbourne Show
staged a pretty good display of beef
.'cattle, southern studmasters competing
vigorously with N.S.W. breeders. The
animals represented four leading breeds.
D. R. McCaughey’s (N.S.W.) Coonong
Shorthorns won everything they com-
peted for. This stud at Borambola Park,
Tarcutta, uses Scottish bulls freely, and
the cattle have that shortness of leg
and capacity for maturing early de-
manded by exporters. Coonong Formid-
able, a massive white three-year-old, won
the bull championship. He is by Glas-
tullich Barone (imp.), well fleshed, has
great depth and stands four-square. A
younger Coonong sire,- Gladiator, was
reserve. He is by Millhills Rosicrucian
(imp.) from Calrossie Flossie' Virginia
(imp.), and it was age more than appear-
ance that separated him from the
champion.
Western Vic. produced the champion
cow, bred by the veteran A. J. Simpson,
breeder of Lindenow Duke of Derrimut
40th, who celebrated his fortieth Show
with champion and reserve champion
awards for cows. Like the bull, the
champion cow (Clifton White Winsome)
is white. She is by Milton’s Mariner,
and her dam comes from, the D.errimuts.
Herefords were the best seen in Mel-
bourne for years. Mrs. Biddlecombe’s
Golf Hill-cattle, progeny of Free Town
Director (imp.) kept the main prizes in
Victoria. , - ,
The champion bull was Gisborne
Admiration, now owned by M.. N'. Mac-
Kinnon, Hamilton (Vic.), but bred by
J. A. Beatty, at Narrandera. Admiration
has plenty, of style, is well sprung,-very
even, and well balanced. Reserve was
Golf Hill Dreadnought, which lacked a
little on the crop and stood less soundly
than the champion. The cow champion
(Corisande 13th), another Golf Hill pro-
duct, is over four years ; old, is beauti-
fully colored, has a wide and level top-
line and is deeply built. ,
Victorians, mostly mixed farmers, like
the dual-purpose Red Polls j and pay
more attention to milk than N.S.W. Red
Poll breeders. A. G. Hunter had a fine
lot on show. He provided the champion
cow in Northwood Ena,: a daughter of
Woodburn Ena, an old champion of
T. H. Payne’s Woodburn stud. Old
Whiteway Wiseman (imp.) sired many of
the prize-winners, including J. Mclntosh’s
champion bull, Woodburn Wiseman.
Five years old, his weight is about
24001 b. ; his dam gave 4901 b. of butter-
fat as a four-year-old. , ?> .
There was a big increase in Aberdeen-
Angus. The champion bull, shown by
the Kahlua stud, Coolac (N.S.W.), was
a two-year-old, Gaelic Bard of Waiterenui
(M.L.).
As usual, the Upper Murray stud of
the Sutherlands, Thologolong, dominated
the female classes. These breeders pro-
duce A A cattle of very high quality, and
it is likely that the climate and pastures
of the Upper Murray country are partly
the reason. - ,
The Australian Meat Board, created to
investigate the beef industry and correct
any faults it could find, could begin by
asking itself why the chiller industry is
in the doldrums. Cattle such as those
on show at Melbourne, and at Sydney
and Brisbane earlier in the year, prove
that studmasters are doing their part.
Werribee Farm Jubilee.
“J. Want”: Werribee State Farm (Vic.)
has just celebrated its jubilee. The farm
was opened on September 27, 1912, when
little was being done in pasture improve-
ment and less in rotational work, and it
has always carried out its job with
.reasonable economy. It has largely been
concerned with wheat and oats rotations,
dairy and poultry stock improvement and
irrigation, particularly of pastures.
Nearly 90 p.c. of the 2,500,000 acres
sown to wheat in Victoria carries Wer-
“I could've sworn I'ad it under me shirt!"
:ibee wheats, and other States besides Vic-
toria have benefited by the farm’s'work.
To ‘ Victoria, the development of
Ghurka, (.Ranee, Free Gallipoli and others
has meant air increased average yield of
two bushels per acre, which, on this year’s
values, having regard--, to improved
quality, is worth nearly £BOO,OOO p.a. to
producers and £90,000 p.a. to the rail-
ways in freight. - Much of the work
stands to the credit of cerealist G. S.
Gordon, who has made ,a world-yyide
reputation for both himself and Werribee.
f \ , T.tf'-: ? . -r- ~ " V ' '
Dams for Export Lambs.
“Ghanam”: W. G.’ Burgess, president
of the Australian British Sheep Breeders’
Association, warns breeders that they
cannot compete with M.L. lambs on
the English market until the use of
crossbred ewes from a long-wool ram
on a merino is generally adopted.
Merino ewes give a less blocky carcass
than the second-cross animals, and, with
rare exceptions as to 1 districts, first-cross
lambs are not so satisfactorily early
maturing. Further, the: average English
buyer does not regard theif type of flesh
as prime. It is not a question merely of
producing good lambs, .but of turning
off the right type of'carcass. /.
It is a matter in which State experi-
mental farms might take a deeper interest,
breeding pattern types which would guide
farmers, : and illustrating standard
methods by which the desirable type of
animal might be made universal through-
out the main breeding districts.
Wool Troubles.
“Lion”: Australian wool-on the aver-
age is the best in the world, but a lot of
.it is not as good as it might be for a
variety of reasons.
> Firstly; "there is bad classing, usually
. due to inexperience. Classing cannot be
thoroughly learnt from a college course.
I know of one college man who_classed
90-odd bales X)f pieces out-of a 230-bale
clip, lof another J who “classed” t4O bales
<of docks out- of a 300-bale clip. There
should be a practical apprenticeship,
v- Sometimes the best pieces of.fleece are
skirted off and thrown to the-piece-
pickers’ table, pieces of dags, etc., are
rolled up inside the fleece and. breech
wool'and forelegs are left in—all these
things mean heavy price, reductions. .
Careless pressing does much damage.-
One competent, .classer told me recently
that he would never have a double-ended
bin if he could avoid it; because he had
known cases of wool from another line
being taken , out and baled up to finish a
bale, rather than keep that presser wait-
ing. The presser, of course, was on per-
bale rates.
Careless board work is usually due to
an understaffed board, especially where
the whole team is fast. I have seen dags
swept up holus-bolus with the board
locks, and bellies thrown into the bin
with none of the stained pieces removed.
Overworking piecepickers is respon-
sible for the broken and first-pieces lines.
If ;shearing is fast and skirting heavy,
one man cannot ; keep pace with five
shearers, though some contractors expect
him to do so.
More good clips' are spoilt in the wool-
room than anywhere ; else.
A Word for Contractors.
“Boss-of-the-Board”: 1 The shearing
contractor gets little praise from graziers
and A.W.U. officials, : yet neither have
offered any worth-while alternative. Con-
tinuity of work for shearers is impossible
without the contract system.
' Any shortcomings in shearing methods
can be remedied while the work is in
progress. If the contractor, overlooks bad
work, the owner has a right to have
things altered. If bad work is allowed, it
is no fault of the contracting system, but
of the owner who permits it. ,
The tally system, though it reduces the
number of sheep shorn per day, will not
relieve the industry, of shoddy shearing.
It is the supervision, not the system,
which is sornetimes at fault...i
Olives for Sheep.
“Muly.an”: The hot, dry central regions
that suit the merino should be suitable
for the Spanish olive. It has long been
cultivated in S.A. for its fruit and oil.
Sandy * soil suits- the olive, which is
easily grown from seeds, cuttings and
branches. When planted around dams,
tanks and along bore drains, it helps to
conserve the water and gives convenient
shade and a supply of handy fodder.
Both fruit and leaves make sheep food.
A tree comes into bearing in about five
years ; thence it continues to bear pro-
lifically for hundreds of years. In
normal seasons, the fruit can be left to
drop off.
Even when it is withered, sheep relish
it, and in drought they leave nothing of it
on the ground. During lean periods the
leaves can be flailed off, as is done on
many places with myalls and kurrajongs.
When the crop is ripe fruit and leaves
fall together; but while there is other
feed the leaves can be reserved till the
fruit is done.
In S.A. the trees produce oil of fine
quality, averaging about two gallons per
tree, or between 250 and 300 gallons per
acre. In western N.S.W. and Queensland,
however, the purpose of the tree would
be shade and sheep feed. A trial on the
Barkly Tableland would be worth while.
Wheat Rains Needed*.
“XT.”: As I write, wheat districts in
N.S.W. and Queensland are having a bad
time. The grasshopper has invaded
the ‘Darling Downs, but the main
trouble in N.S.W. is lack of rain. Crops
in the Cowra district, though fed with
Tfin. .during September, have had a set-
back from the heat, and in the western
• section of the district only moderate
crops can be expected even if good falls
•come soon. ‘ ' -
The south-western district, particu-
larly around West Wyalong, is in a worse
• plight, though around Temora, Ariah
Park and Ardlethan there are many
< farms which promise better than medium
harvestings. Large areas of crop are


[INTERNATIONAL
Illustration shows the 4-ton Model D-50
with semi-trailer body. Other sizes
range from Half-Ton to powerful Six-
Wheelers.
J.,„,
INTE RN ATI '"“I 1
D '
(d
Today International Harvester
offers truck users the finest value
of the year, a product not only
engineered to the moment, hut
styled for public acceptance.
For more than thirty years the
manufacturers of International
Trucks have been constantly at
work on the basic problems of
engine and chassis design, load
distribution and ' braking, in-
creased power, fuel economy,
truck manoeuvrability, and driver
comfort. The resources of their
engineering staff, their labora-
tories, plants and proving
grounds, have been centred in the
development of a fundamentally
better product. These new trucks,
therefore, represent a distinct
advance on past International
models and are not merely, grada-
tions from yearly- changes in
exterior design. j International
- y' (j . |
does not' {make major changes
yearly, but,when it does introduce
a new line of trucks, it makes
truck history.
- No matter what your hauling
requirements may be, there is a
truck in this new International
Line, built; to meet your needs
exactly. Without placing you
under any obligation, we would
like to ' send; you a catalogue of
this. new International Line. Or
come in to our showrooms and
see these new Internationals for
yourself.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD PTY. LTD., HOBART, AGENTS FOR TASMANIA
The new
Inter national Utility, .
Panel units in
several sizes, Half-Ton up.
W
Dump bodies of
all types are available■
One of the
new Internationals with tray body .
m
3 to 3yi~ton
International D-40
—one of the long range
of heavy-duty Internationals.
G 566
NTERNAT
drying, and there has been no more than
30 points in five weeks.
Cargellico, Rankin’s Springs, Barellan
and Binya will show poor returns at the
best. Some farmers will draw a com-
plete blank; others may retrieve a light
yield of medium grain if rain comes
quickly.
Parkes had splendid mid-August falls
and good showers early in September,
but a dry period since, marked by hot
and heavy winds, often blowing with gale
strength, has done immense harm, and
an inch of rain is needed to produce a
middling-heavy output.
Condobolin and the districts west of
Trundle show only poor growth, but in
Peak Hill and Bogan Gate areas crops,
though thin, are of medium density and
healthy. There will be some good
returns as the result of scattered storms,
but generally the western N.S.W. area
has nothing to be overcheerful about.
A Pasture Improvement Book.
“Zedo”: Dangar, Gedye continues its
good work in producing pamphlets on
farm problems, the latest one of the
most useful and copiously illustrated
handbooks yet printed in Australia on
pasture improvement. Every phase of
the business is dealt with thoroughly.
The N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture,
who joins Dr. Earle Page in writing in-
troductory articles,,declares, rightly, that
the natural pastures of Australia were pot
designed for high-production,'and that
recognition of this fact has resulted in an
increase in the N. S. Wales top-dressed
area; from 135,000 acres in 1934-35 to
351,000 acres in 1935-36, which,is com-
bined, with a steady increase in the acre-
age Under sown grasses and lucerne, now
together amounting to about 3,000,000
acres —an insignificant area having re-
gard to individual results obtained.
A. W. S. Moodie, H.D.A., who writes
the main sections, says that the average
cost of super, top-dressing should be
about £3 10s. per ton for fertiliser, with
a rebate allowance from the Federal
Government of 10s. per ton. A motor-
lorry and broadcaster which throws fer-
tiliser 15 to 20 feet on each side of the
track can cover up to 200 acres per day.
Allowing for labor, fuel and all other
incidentals, as well as the cost of lcwt.
super, to the acre, the expense should
work out at about ss. per acre.
The author is strong on sub. clover,
which,'' he says, adequately fed with
super., ; will within five or six years turn-
poor grazing land into country which
can be sown with perennial rye and other
grasses which demand high fertility.
• He also shares the affection of Hunter
River men for Phalaris tuberosa in the
right places, and goes carefully into the
question of suitable mixtures for varying
districts.
On the N. S. Wales tablelands, he
plumps for lucerne, sown from 21b. to
61b. per acre, in low and uncertain rain-
fall seasons, as the best all-round and
most reliable feed. Where the country is
more fertile, he suggests a supplement of
various grasses—say, lucerne 21b., Wim-
mera rye 21b., phalaris lib. to 21b. and
sub. clover 21b., top-dressed.
On lower-rainfall tableland, his recipe
is lucerne and phalaris and an avoidance
of annuals in favor of perennials. Where
.the rainfall is high and regular, he is all
for prepared land with some such mix-
ture as perennial rye 81b., Akaroa cocks-
foot 51b., red clover 21b. and white clover
lib. '
On the slopes, suitable varieties are
more limited, but lucerne should be the
staple and sub. clover should have a
more intensive use than on the higher
country. Phalaris is likely to be suc-
cessful in suitable country with a rain-
fall above 20 inches. Typical mixtures
include lucerne 31b. and phalaris 21b. per
acre or lucerne 31b., sub. clover 21b. and
Wimmera rye 21b. Wimmera rye is par-
(Continued on next page.)


K pp^ ct
Comfort
poR
There’s one thing about an
Abbey Riding Boot—it feels
as good as it looks.
The high polishing strong Calf
is extremely soft and supple,
moulding to the foot like a
leather half its weight.
The tough Australian Sole
Leather is springy and light,
bending easily and unresist-
ingly with each step.
Made in Brown Willow Calf
in full sizes.
Leather-lined throughout with
a light welted sole.
Price, 39/6.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
1338.
When ordering don't forget your tin
of Abbey’s Shoe Polish. Price 6d.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a
good Shoe.”
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
BY Si
'M,
W,
m
jk
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
&
A
So commonplace to-day that it is accepted
as a matter of course, a cheque account is
one of the most useful of modern con-
veniences. Another banking convenience is
an interest-bearing Fixed Deposit for the
investment of surplus funds from £5 up-
wards. Both Fixed Deposit and cheque
account facilities are provided for all
reputable persons and firms by this Bank.
It II It A L lIAKK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners: C. R. McKerihan (President), H. Rogers, P. Kearns
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
OCTOBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
MARKET PSYCHOLOGY AND THE OUTLOOK.
Interest Rates.
Share Prospects and New Issues.
Mt. Morgan—Zinc Corp.—Montana Western—
Malayan Tin.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, OR £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
For Sale.
Dairy, Wheat and Lamb-raising
Property For Sale.
685 acres freehold, on Brisbane-Goondiwindi
road, 110 miles Brisbane, 35 miles two cities
Darling Downs; school adjacent, butter factory
8 miles, cheese miles; 610 acres alluvial
black chocolate soil, cultivated; 250 acres wheat,
45 lucerne (whole property will grow lucerne),
balance fallow, 19 paddocks watered, creek
bores, 400 acres sheep-proof. All improvements,
good house, quarters, etc.; full farming and
haying plant, tractor, etc., 50 A.I.S. cows, milk-
ing machine. Probably finest piece of land on
Downs; 5 miles to two stations, trucking yards,
etc Owner selling to live on other property,
fl 2 acre.—D. McAdam, Springburn, Clifton,
Queensland.
ffluTfy'allel&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
gd
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
_ -2-ton - capacity, weight .. fiClb.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from: —
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Soring Street, Sydney.
ticularly useful in the northern area
where soils are heavy and fertile.
On the coast, for winter pastures, cer-
tified perennial rye 81b., Akaroa cocks-
foot 51b., Italian rye 21b., red clover 21b.,
and white clover lib. give a rich mix-
ture ; but a dry-season combination of
phalaris 31b., Akaroa cocksfoot 41b., red
clover 21b. and white clover lib. would
prove more suitable on fertile soils.
The book contains an article on pas-
ture improvement and animal health by
Max Henry, N.S.W. chief vet., and sec-
tions on fodder saltbushes, Mitchell
grass and the use of swedes as winter
feed in the New England, as well as
helpful chapters on the prevention of
erosion.
Lucerne and Straw Economy.
“Hortus”: There is always heavy waste
of leaves when bales of lucerne hay
are broken up and fed in the open.
Get a galvanised-iron tank, one tier
high, and put in a very weak syrup of
water and molasses. The day before
using the bales, soak them in the liquid
for a few hours. Make a small plat-
form of sawn timber on to which the
soaked bales can be hauled so that the
surplus fluid can be drained back into the
tank. The next day break the bales,
cut them in two and turn them over to
the sheep. Wastage will be lower than
with any other fodder and the stock will
like the hay all the better for being damp
and sweet.
English farmers make straw a founda-
tion for their winter fodder. Stock can
be induced to eat it by chaffing it —an
armful of bush hay and an armful of
straw, put into the cutter together, mixes
well.
Stahdover Cotton.
“Zamia”: The Queensland Agricul-
tural Department has issued a warning
against the practice of allowing old cotton
fields to stand over until land is pre-
pared for wheat or winter feed.
Standover fields are breeding grounds
for pests, particularly cutworm and corn-
ear worm, which thrive in the weed
growth. Last season a great deal of
damage to seedling crops came from this
source in spring and summer.
Some farmers sow Rhodes grass be-
tween standover cotton rows during Feb-
ruary and March, but there is no guaran-
tee that the weed will strangle the growth,
since the earth is often packed hard by
summer rains. Fields carrying old
cotton should be ploughed before the
spring weeds have made headway. Any
weeds which appear afterwards should be
destroyed by cultivation.
When grass is sown it should be put in
thickly enough to give a heavy and even
cover —about 81b. to 101 b. to the acre is
a fair planting. One of the chief mis-
takes is to cover seed too deeply. It
should be surface-sown and covered by
brush harrowing.
Sugar Records.
“Titre”: The Queensland Sugar Experi-
ment Bureau reports new records for
the season just passed with 21.1 tons of
cane per acre crushed and a sugar yield
of 3.04 tons per acre for the first time in
history. The normal sugar yield has
doubled in 30-odd years.
The crop last season was 744,000 tons,
against a previous high level of 638,000
tons in 1933; 425,000 tons was ex-
ported—l2s,ooo tons more than in the
best previous year.
Dr. Kerr, head of the bureau, thinks
that, with the current development of
irrigation, a yield of 800,000 tons sugar
at the rate of 3.5 tons per acre will soon
become normal. This, of course, will
bring new problems, since Australian
consumption is unlikely to take up the
expansion and the disparity between
local and export price is great —local this
year £24 25., export £7 19s. The in-
creased export quota brought the average
price down to £l5 Bs. 4d. per ton ; and
the crop, off a little over 323,000 acres,
was worth £11,337,000, or an average of
about £35 per acre.
Acreage yields vary greatly with dis-
tricts—l. 99 tons sugar around Childers
(S.Q.) against 4.51 tons on the Lower
Burdekin. But it is obvious that even
the poorer average lands with nearly £7O
per acre offput could stand a very fair
reduction in price, especially if sugar is
supplemented by the power alcohol busi-
ness, with which the C.S.R. is experi-
menting in a large way.
Despite heavy labor costs and the high
price of land and its preparation and
maintenance, sugar remains the most
prosperous rural industry in Australia.
Fox Baits.
“Turon River’s” experience with fox
baits:
Poisoned sardines were a failure and
dangerous to dogs. Fat- or butter-balls
proved too messy and gave very ordinary
results. Dragging a dead fowl and leav-
ing it in a likely spot poisoned wedge-
tails but no foxes.
But here’s one that seems worth trying:
Cage a live rooster and hang the cage
well out of reach in a tree. Poison half
a dozen fresh hen eggs with strychnine,
inserted through small holes in the shell.
Seal the holes by immersing the eggs in
water.
Bury the eggs in a circle around the
tree.
The rooster will crow and attract foxes,
which find the eggs and, being un-
able to carry them, may eat ’em on the
spot, thus assuring a fox right at the bait.
The old-fashioned method of poison-
ing with rabbit heads has everything in
its favor. It’s cheap, easy to handle, and,
when a fox is bait-hungry, he’ll go it in
preference to any other bait or decoy.
“Rom Ney”: Warm spring days and
rain are likely to bring worms in sheep.
Severe infestation is easier to prevent
than to cure. Infested sheep that have
not been dosed quickly foul the pastures
and cause reinfestation if conditions con-
tinue suitable. Have worm medicine
ready.
“Puffinus”: Recent experiences of Aus-
tralian poultry-breeders near cities sug-
gest that U.S. safeguards might well be
adopted. There an elaborate system of
tattooed brands, systematically registered,
of purchase records and of thief-alarms
for roosts is in operation. Branding is
done in purple ink on the underside of
the wing-web with a pad of fine needles
set in the required design. In some
fowlruns an alarm fires a blank cartridge
if a door or window is raised or a trip-
wire touched. Thieves usually select
well-matured young layers, with the
result that the months of hard work put
into raising them and the profits to be
expected from them are all lost at one
stroke.
“Jayem”: C. L. G. Fielder, stock in-
spector at Dubbo (N.S.W.), has been
urging wheatfarmers to pay more atten-
tion to pigs. He says that when wheat
prices slumped some farmers found that
by feeding grain to pigs they realised
prices equivalent to 4s. a bushel for
wheat. Pigs will readily turn most crops
to profit.


%
cA
%■
V
JL
SN| c^ 6 " 1
'■«
SS^ 6N| O e °
SH °, io <\ *
\e°
nj6 s
Stt°
SI
tVo"
\e°
\i® s
S^°
vj6'
\e°
VN
nw
VN
SS°
VN
G v
ALL PARTICULARS OBTAINABLE FROM THE LOCAL P. & O. AGENTS


m
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
Q N
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.'; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 98
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A bril'uant new course.
including service, for £l/11/6.
Write for details to
METROPOLITAN SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM,
6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Typist, S.A., will type authors’ MSS. ex-
pertly and cheaply.—73sl.
Words of recitation commencing:
I often think and ponder on the crooked scheme of
things.
Why a few should have the treasure and the pleasure
that it brings.
—7353.
Words of recitation “Nothing to Wear.” —
7372.
To buy No. LXIX, Vol. 7, Part 9, of J. H.
Maiden’s Forest Flora of N.S.W., issued Nov.,
1921, or whole set. —7383.
Information Sought.
(1) Members of the Australian Rugby Union
XV that defeated Great Britain at Sydney
C.G. on August 30, 1930? (2) What were the
scores, and how many points were scored in the
second half? —7448.
(1) A. Ross (full-back); O. Crossman, S.
King, C. Towers, G. McGhie (three-quarters);
T. Lawton, captain (five-eighth); S. Malcolm
(half-back); J. Breckenridge, J. Ford, L. Pal-
lreyman, G. Storey, A. Finlay, E. Thompson,
E. Bonis, W. Cerutti. (2) Australia scored six
points (Malcolm and McGhie, tries), Great
Britain five points (Novis a try, Prentice a
goal); all the points were scored in the first
half. «
* * * *
(1) In what years has Sydney University won
the N.S.W. Rugby Union premiership? (2)
Were any R.U. premierships played during the
war years? (3) When did Sydney University
enter N.S.W. Rugby League premiership
matches, and what were its match results last
year ? —7432.
(1) Under the club system (1874-99) —Uni-
versity won in 1881, ’B2, ’B5, ’B7, ’BB, ’B9, ’9O,
’9l and ’93; under the district scheme (1900-37)
—in 1904, ’l9, ’2O, ’23, ’24, ’26, ’27, ’2B and
’37. (2) No. (3) 1920; played eight (all lost),
scoring 41 points, with 309 against them.
* * * *
(1) What were the bowling figures and no-
balls of Australian umpire Jack Scott v. Eng-
land in 1928-29 ? (2) Did Scott ever play for
Australia in Test matches ? (3) What are Scott’s
figures in Sheffield Shield matches ? —7420.
(1) For South Australia —1 for 102 and 0 for
43 (two no-balls); for an Australian XI—
-2 for 61 and 0 for 38 (four no-balls); for
South Australia —1 for 81 and 2 for 74 (two no-
balls). (2) No. (3) 918.5 overs, 97 maidens,
3772 runs, 117 wickets, average 32.23. Scott
played for N.S.W. and S.A. in Shield matches.
* ! / * * #
(1) Date of appearance in The Bulletin of
Norman Lindsay’s famous “Woman I Was”
drawing? (2) Who wrote and what were the
lines that accompanied the drawing ? —7321.
(1) July 19, 1906. (2) Mrs. William Macleod
in her book Macleod of “The Bulletin”
attributes the lines to James Edmond. They
were headed “A Trio,” and read as follows:
We walk along the gas-lit street in a dreadful row,
we three ;
The woman I was and the woman I am, and the
woman I’ll one day be.
* * * $
(1) Particulars of Kingsford Smith’s attempted
flight to M.L. in May, 1935 ? (2) Number of
mailbags carried? (3) Any special postmark or
cachet applied? (4) Value of a cover carried
by Kingsford Smith and sent to Auckland by
boat and back to Australia ? —7295. ;
(1) The Southern Cross left Richmond
(N.S.W.) at 12.30 a.m. on May 15, 1935, and
had covered some 600 miles when an exhaust
manifold broke and a piece of flying metal
splintered the starboard propeller. The ’plane
was forced to return. (2) Fourteen bags were
thrown overboard; seven bags were saved
and were subsequently shipped to M.L. (3)
No; the date is the only identification. (4)
15s. to 20s.
* * * *
What are the different classes of submarines
in the British Navy, and the number in each
class ? —7352.
There are seven classes: H class (410 tons
surface displacement), nine; L class (760-845
tons), nine; O class (1311-1475 tons), nine;
Parthian and Rainbow class (1475 tons), nine;
Swordfish class (640-670 tons), 10; Thames
class (1805-1850 tons), three; Porpoise class
(minelaying, 1500-1520 tons), two.
»** i *
(1) What six countries are the largest im-
porters of goods to Japan ? (2) To what six
countries does Japan send the most goods? —
7331.
(1) Imports: U.S.A., 809,645,000 yen; British
India, 305,646,000 yen; Australia, 235,149,000
yen; Manchukuo 191,005,000 yen; China,
133,818,000 yen; Germany, 120,818,000 yen.
(2) Exports: U.S.A., 535,515,000 yen; British
India, 275,637,000 yen; China, 148,788,000 yen;
Dutch East Indies, 143,041,000 yen; Manchu-
kuo, 126,046,000 yen; Great Britain, 119,458,000
yen. Figures are for 1935.
* * * *
What has the N.S.W. Motor Traffic Act to
say regarding the duties of agents and dealers
in selling a motor vehicle? —7436.
Regulation 27 under the Motor Traffic Act
stipulates: “Any person who on behalf of any
other person sells or otherwise disposes of any
motor vehicle or any portion thereof, together
with a number-plate issued as prescribed, shall
forthwith forward to the Commissioner of Road
Transport a written notification of (u) such sale
or disposal; and (6) the full names and
addresses of the owner of such vehicle or
portion, the person on whose behalf such vehicle
or portion has been sold or disposed of and
the person to whom such sale or disposal has
been effected; and (c) the date of the sale or
disposal; and (d) the number of such plate.”
4: *
(1) When did Italy invade Abyssinia, and
when did Haile Silassie flee and the war end?
(2) What countries have recognised Italy’s an-
nexation of A byssinia ? —7423.
(1) October, 1935; Haile Silassie fled from
Addis Ababa, on May 2, 1936, and a week later
Italy annexed the country and proclaimed the
King of Italy as Emperor of Ethiopia. (2)
It has been recognised de jure by San Remo
(July 8, 1936), Germany (October 24, 1936),
Austria and Hungary (November 11, 1936),
Japan (November 27, 1936), Chile (November
30, 1936) and Switzerland (December 23, 1936).
* * * M* *
What would be the Victorian ordinary income
tax, super tax, additional tax, unemployment-
relief tax, special tax and total State tax on the
following Victorian incomes: (1) £lO,OOO per-
sonal exertion, (2) £lO,OOO property, (3) £4OOO
personal exertion and (4) £4OOO property ?
7268.
The following figures have been supplied by
the Taxpayers’ Assoc, of Victoria: (1) £lO,OOO
personal exertion—lncome tax, £404 3s. 4d.;
super, £3O 6s. 3d.; additional, £lOB 12s. 5d.;
unemployment-relief, £452 18s. 4d.; special,
£62 10s.; total tax, £lO5B 10s. 4d. (2) £lO,OOO
property —Income tax, £BOB 6s. Bd.; super,
£6O 12s. 6d.; additional, £217 4s. lOd.; unem-
ployment-relief, £452 18s. 4d.; special, £62 10s.;
total tax, £l6Ol 12s. 4d. (3) £4OOO personal
exertion—lncome tax, £154 3s. 4d.; super, £ll
11s. 3d.; additional, £33 2s. lid.; unemployment-
relief, £lBl 3s. 4d.; special, £25; total tax,
£405 os. lOd. (4) £4OOO property—lncome tax,
£3OB 6s. Bd.; super, £23 2s. 6d.; additional,
£66 ss. lOd.; unemployment-relief, £lBl 3d.
4d.; special, £25; total tax, £603 18s. 4d.
*❖❖ . #
Origin of the phrase “not worth a conti-
nental” ? —7450.
In 1775 an assembly of delegates from 12
American colonies calling itself the Continental
Congress met at Philadelphia and exercised cer-
tain powers of government until the Federal
Constitution came into force. This Congress
issued currency notes, popularly known as
continentals, whose subsequent depreciation
gave rise to the proverbial phrase “not worth
a continental.”
* * * *
(1) What is the gold injections treatment?
Is it used in arthritis? (2) What is olive-oil
emulsion, and is it idsed in arthritis;?— -7233.
(1) Various preparations of . gold salts are
now used in the treatment of arthritis, and the
results are promising; the specialists report a
greater percentage of successes with this than
any other form of therapy. Such treatment
must be carried out only under skilled super-
vision as the drug’s effects vary with the indi-
vidual. (2) Olive oil is emulsified by special
methods, and the preparation has been used for
the treatment of certain infective conditions,
usually by injection into the blood. Its value
for the treatment of arthritis has not been
established.
* Mr * *
What foods are suitable and unsuitable for
person suffering from acidity of the stomach ?
—7367.
Suitable foods are mutton, lamb, chicken,
tripe, sweetbreads, rabbit, whiting; stale white
bread, rusks, plain biscuits; rice, tapioca, sago,
arrowroot; asparagus, spinach, cauliflower,
French beans; baked apples, juice of oranges
or grapes; milk, weak tea, water. “Made
dishes,” twice-cooked meats, sauces, pastry,
pickles, cheese, sweets and preserves should be
avoided. Meat should be underdone; fish
should be boiled or steamed.
J*C * ❖ *
Is the use of aluminium cooking vessels dan-
gerous ? —7389.
No. Aluminium is not poisonous. Long in-
vestigations have shown that the minute amounts
of the metal which may be dissolved by food
juices are innocuous. The suggestion that toxic
effects may result from the ingestion of food-
stuffs cooked in aluminium vessels has given rise
to much controversy and experiment, but the
evidence is that the amount of aluminium so
introduced into the system is too small to
produce any deleterious effects, and a critical
survey of the literature on the subject shows
that the use of aluminium cooking vessels is
devoid of danger. Very large amounts of alu-
minium taken experimentally with foods in the
form of baking powders have been found to
cause diarrhoea, but no symptoms of general
poisoning have resulted from the ordinary use
of such powders.
* # * M:
Translation of the following Latin phrase:
“Quis nescit, primam esse historice legem, ne
quid falsi dicere audeat, deinde ne quid veri
non audeat” ?■ —7439.
“Who does not know that it is the first law
of history that it shall not dare to state anything
which is false, and consequently that it shall
not shrink from stating anything that is true?”
M: * M=
(1) What are the first signs of the fungoid
disease known as carnation rust? (2) What
steps should be taken to prevent its spread?
—7200.
(1) It first appears on carnation leaves in the
form of small elevated pustules, over which
the epidermis of skin soon breaks and frees
a reddish-brown, snufflike mass, which con-
sists of the reproductive spores of the disease.
(2) As soon as the rust appears, pick the dis-
eased leaves off and burn them. This will not
cure the plant, but it will, to a great extent,
stay the spread of the disease. Pull up badly-
affected plants and burn them, as serious in-
festations are beyond cure. Lime dusted over
the plants while the dew is on them will keep
the rust in check, as it will burn up the spores
before they become disseminated. A weak
solution of permanganate of potash is also a
cure for this fungus, if the plants be syringed
with it regularly. Another remedy is spraying
the plants every fortnight on a dry day with a
mixture made up of sulphate of copper 40z.,
quicklime 30z., water one gallon.
Me * * *
Translation of the following quotation which
appears on the title page of a book of speeches:
“Tria sunt quee preestare debet orator, ut
doceat, moveat, delectet?” —7330.
“There are three things which an orator ought
to display, namely, that he should instruct, he
should move, and he should delight.”
* * * *
Origin and history of the Whigs ? —7264.
The term originated in the reign of Charles
11., and first applied to the Covenanters in
Scotland, then to fanatical Scottish Presby-
terians and later to the strongly Protestant
and Nonconformist party in England. With
the passing of the Reform Bill in 1832 the term
was superseded by “Liberals.” In the U.S.A.
the expression was adopted by the party that
opposed President Jackson. Probably derived
from “whig,” meaning “sour whey.”
* M= * *
Particulars of the Mamelukes ?— 7240.
Originally, in the thirteenth century, the
Mamelukes formed a body of Turkish and Cir-
cassian slaves instituted by the Sultan of Egypt,
and attained such influence that by 1250 they
were able to appoint one of their own body to
the Egyptian throne. A succession of Mame-
luke sultans reigned until they were taken
into the service of the Beys when the Turks an-
nexed Egypt in 1517. They came into power
again after Napoleon’s conquest of Egypt, but
in 1811, by the order of Mehemet Ali, they
were lured into the citadel of Cairo and mas-
sacred.
*-* * *
History of the East India Company? —7271.
Incorporated by Elizabeth in 1600, by 1613
the co. had obtained a charter of privileges
from the Great Mogul, and set up a factory at
Surat, India. It suffered heavy losses under
Charles 1., and although Madras and St.
Helena were added to its possessions it was
found necessary to open a subscription list for
new stock. The co.’s charter was annulled during
the Commonwealth, but was renewed three
years later when new capital of £370,000 was
raised. Bombay came under the co.’s influence
in 1662, and became an important trading
port, but later complications arose when France
sought supremacy in India. In the ensuing
struggle Clive gained a victory for England,
and after 1675 the co. received the revenues
of Bengal, Behar and Orissa and remained a
British Dominion in India, undisputed except
by the native princes. A governing Constitution
was formed in 1772, and Warren Hastings was
appointed Governor. A new charter was
granted in 1781, and in 1784 Pitt established a
Board of Control of the India Co., which con-
tinued until 1858, when, as a result of the
mutiny, the Crown assumed sovereignty over
India.
* * * *
(1) Who owns the private railway in Victoria
between Kerang and Koondrook? (2) Gauge
and length ? (3) Cost of construction and
equipment? (4) Receipts and expenses, train
mileage, passengers and goods carried last
year ? —7329.
(1) Kerang Shire Council. (2) Gauge sft.
3in., length 13 miles 75 chains. (3) £41,619 up
to September 30, 1936. (4) During the year
ended September 30, 1936, the gross receipts
were £5917, and the working expenses, in-
cluding interest, £6694. The train mileage for
the same year was 13,244. The number of
passenger journeys was 5593, and the tonnage
of goods and livestock carried was 12,857.
■? -r- M= *
In the manufacture of seamless tobacco tins,
in particular the Havelock 2oz. tins made by the
Union Can Co., Melbourne, is there any paint
or lettering on the tin before it is stamped into
shape ?— 7198.
Yes. Printing is done while the tinplate is in
full-sized flat sheets; forming or stamping is
a later operation. Each color is printed
separately, the lightest first and the darkest
last. A coat of clear varnish is then spread
over the printing ink and dried. From the
strips of printed flat plate, the tins are stamped
or formed in one operation, trimming being
a subsequent process. To avoid marking or
scraping the lettering, the machine tools have
a polished surface. The plate is stretched in the
stamping process and the printed letters grow
taller.
* * M= *
(1) Where can I obtain a copy of the new
Arbitration Court award pertaining to wool-
classers in N.S.W. and Vic. ? (2) What is the
address of the Woolclassers’ Assoc, of Aus-
tralia ? —7241.
(1) Government Printer, Canberra. (2) 10
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
* =K * *
What is meant by “within the pale?” —73o4.
The English Pale, or simply the Pale, in
Ireland, was. that part of Ireland (varying in
extent at different times) over which English
jurisdiction was established. The term seems
to have been first used in a statute of Edward
IV. which ordered the area to be fortified with
a double ditch and a palisade. The Statute
of Kilkenny (1367) recognised that the inhabi-
tants of the part of Ireland where the King’s
writ ran were to have no dealings with the
Irishry outside it. The term was also applied
to the territory of Calais.
* * * *
How to remedy stickiness in an oilcoat ?
7302.
If the coat can be unfolded but has been
damaged it may be given a new dressing. Dis-
solve loz. yellow soap in 1+ pints of boiling
water. Stir in 1 quart of boiled oil. When
cold, add 7-pint of gold size. Paint this on
coat, first warming fabric and dressing. Three
coats should be applied, allowing each to dry
thoroughly before the next is put on. Oilskins
should be hung up on hangers when not in use
and allowed plenty of room, never folded.
Brief Answers.
G.C.H.: A mixture containing potassium
bromide (10 grains) and phenazone (5 grains)
will help to allay the irritability, but treatment
must still be directed to cleaning up the con-
dition of the scalp. The dandruff will dis-
appear if treatment is persistent and suitable.
. ...H.C.G.: It should not be necessary, the
procedure under the Torrens form of title
being very simple. A form of discharge is
endorsed on the mortgage deed. The mortgagee,
having signed this discharge, should hand the
deed to you, together with the certificate of
title. You then take the two documents to the
local Lands Titles Office to have them stamped
and recorded. The cost would be about 12s.
6d A.W.U.: A male is eligible for a service
pension under class A if he has reached 60
years and served in a theatre of war....W.A.:
Write Dept, of Territories, Canberra, F.C.T.
. ...J.P.: It would be very dangerous to use
petrol in a kerosene blowlamp L.C.N.: A
mixture of waxoline brown and nigrosine would
be suitable. Dye merchants would give full
particulars as to methods of use... .D.F.Y.:
According to Hoyle’s Games Modernised, a
proper scale is prop and cop 6d., solo 6d.,
abondance (common or in trumps) Is., over-
tricks in all cases Id., misere Is. 6d., open
misere 35., abondance declaree 3s C.J.R.:
The book usually sells for about 2s. 6d. in
second-hand shops... .W.M.: Worth only a
few shillings even if in perfect condition....
C.H.: (1) Varicose veins are best treated by in-
jection into them of a solution of quinine.
The treatment is simple and practically painless,
and any doctor can carry it out. (2) Use of
elastic stockings not recommended—they are
dear, and soon stretch... .JJ.C.: A successful
flea-killer is pyrethrum, a constituent of many
fly sprays and insect powders. Other means are
washing the floors with hot soapsuds or with
crude oil emulsion, or by spreading along the
floor (especially along the cracks) a quantity of
naphthaline, then closing the room for some
hours; the naphthaline can be swept up and
used again. Tiled floors may be wiped daily
with a cloth dipped in kerosene. Blankets, etc.,
may be sprayed with Flytox or some similar
preparation... .J.E.8.: (1) Curvatures of this
type need the attention of a bone specialist.
There is still time to effect improvement with
competent treatment. (2) Do not think opera-
tion is likely or necessary, but a properly-fitted
plaster jacket may be needed. (3) Don’t know
the qualifications of the men you name. (4)
Wouldn’t advise exercises unless under super-
vision K.V.8.: Write Elliott Bros, and Aus-
tralian Drug Co., O’Connell-street, Sydney
J.8.E.: Write Lecturer-in-charge, Tanning
School, Bourke-street, Waterloo, Sydney
J.M.: (1) The Big Game Angling Contest being
organised in connection with the 150th cele-
brations is open to amateur fishermen only,
fishing from boats, and every entrant must be
a member of a club which is affiliated with the
Big Game and Rod Fishers’ Association, under
whose rules and regulations, except as other-
wise stated, the contest will be conducted. (2)
Every entrant must sign a form agreeing to
fish under and be bound by the conditions
laid down and lodge same with the secretary
of an affiliated club before commencing to
fish N.C.P.: Full information on the sub-
ject may be obtained from the Curator of the
Technological Museum, Sydney. Although
Backhousia citriodora produces an excellent oil
for commercial purposes, it is a slow grower.
The tea-tree known as Leptospermum citratum
is worthy of cultivation for its essential 0i15....
J.A.D.: The New Magic of Swimming, by Gil-
bert Collins (7s. 6d.)... .A.R.M.: Billiards, by
Walter Lindrum (3s. 9d.)... .F.R.D.: Write
J. N. Patteson, c/o George Ireland, Royal
Hotel, Young (N.S.W.), or J. S. Mann, Chemist,
Burrowa-street, Young (N.5.W.)... .J.J.H.:
Appeal is not likely to be very large, and it
would be inadvisable to risk cost of publica-
tion yourself. Suggest you submit book to a
publisher... iF.8.8.: Cannot trace any connec-
tion... .J.C.; Print is worth only a few shil-
lings N.L.S.: Cannot trace the name in any
aboriginal vocabulary. Owner of the property
may be able to explain... .E.0.N.: You will
find a few drops of glycerine on the ribbon
helpful C.M.: Apply direct to the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission for the in-
formation... .H.C.M.K.: (1) No. (2) Yes. (3)
Experience with an agency and course of train-
ing in advertising. (4) Necessary to have three
accounts and to produce bank references to
secure accreditation.... D.P.: Provided the pave-
ment artist does not interfere with the build-
ing, as by drawing on its walls, resting pictures
against it and so on, the occupier of the prem-
ises cannot restrain him. The control of the
pavements rests with the City Council and the
police, who have ample powers to see that the
streets are kept clean and free of obstructions.
The pavement artist should obtain permission
from the council before setting up on his pitch.
M.P.: (1) and (2) Marriage with a deceased
wife’s sister or a deceased husband’s brother
is now legally permissible in all States of the
Commonwealth. (3) According to the “Table
of Kindred and Affinity” contained in An-
glican Book of Common Prayer a man ‘ may
not marry his brother’s wife.” Conformity
with the law or adhesion to its own ancient
table is a matter within the Church’s discretion.
It is not bound to marry with its customary
religious service if it does not see fit to do so.
W.J.G.: Can find no mention of the use of
wool packs or wool bales in connection with
the construction of the Hawkesbury River
bridge in records available N.F.H.: The com
is a pattern three-halfpence, and was not used
in the currency. Many thousands of pattern
coins were struck during the long reign of Queen
Victoria, most of them finding their way into
the cabinets of collectors. The small silver
patterns issued in large numbers for various
purposes (mostly to the order of tradesmen for
advertising, etc.) are of low value. The large
silver patterns are, on the other hand, or high
value. Your specimen would be worth 6d.. ...
(Many others mailed.)


IS THAT ALL? ... ONLY A FEW PENCE A WEEK
MORE FOR PETROL THAN SMALLER CARS?
YES ... AND THE LITTLE VAUXHALL
GIVES US A 6 CYLINDER ENGINE.
INDEPENDENT FRONT WHEEL
SPRINGING and all . . .
1192 more buyers
of Little Vuuxhall
than any other small car in 1937
Read that
TWICE!
Read those headlines a second time —-“1192 more
buyers of Little Vauxhalls than any other small
car in 1937!” Don’t they say: “You’d be wise
to see the Little Vauxhall before looking at any
other small car.” Don’t they say: “Here are 1192
small car buyers who have seen and compared
other small cars —and then bought Little Vaux-
halls.” Yes, see Little Vauxhall . . . and see the
features you get that no other small car offers you
. . . smooth, modern 6 Cylinder Overhead Valve
Engine instead of a 4 Cylinder design . . . Indepen-
dent Front Wheel Springing giving Knee Action’s
dfg
famous gliding ride . . . silent “Turret” Top Body by Holden
. . . luxuriously furnished with Relax-o-form Seating, Multi-
Adjustable Front Seat, No-Draught Ventilation, Pockets in all
Doors, etc. The amazing thing is that you will
only pay a fraction more (and in some cases
actually less) for a Little Vauxhall than you would
have to pay for a less roomy, lower powered car . . . for Vauxhall is
sold considerably nearer to its English price than any competitive car.
You will find your local Vauxhall Dealer happy to allow you to
df
drive a Little Vauxhall “14” without the slightest obligation ... and to explain to
you how easy it is to buy a Little Vauxhall under the convenient, confidential
G.M.A.C. Payment Plan. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDE N'S LTD.
Consult your local Authorised
Vauxhall Dealer
CHIEF” CAR RADIO^
The 1937 2-unit “Air Chief” Car Radio
designed for the 14-h.p. Vauxhall in-
cludes a special remote control to
match fittings on the instrument panel
A new 6-valve set with increased dis-
tance reception and tone equal to the
L best home radio. Ask for a demon -A
r
J 666
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
IVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
No vitality in “Life” L.W. (Vic.).:
“Timber-cloistered mountain-tops” might pass,
but we jib at “bright lorikeets whose flying
jade Is lighted as with crimson tow”
G.C.G.: No kick in it L.W. (N.5.W.).:
You’re not going to rhyme “tackle” with
“rattle” here, or “fancy” with “Frangaise"
E.E.: Your devil-may-care swaggie is hitting
the home trail.. . .A.T.S.: Afraid it wouldn’t
have much meaning for the great bulk of our
readers Spotlight: Can’t do anything with
it J.A.S.: Passable as rhyme, poor as
prophecy... .G.L.L.: Four lines:
The Chows are mashed to mincemeat and we all
stand by.
The Chows are squashed in thousands, but here
are you and I.
The Chows are in the slaughterhouse, looking mighty
queer,
But I can eat my porterhouse and wash it down with
beer.
J.W.: Flavorless stuff on a well-worn theme.
. ...R.H.S.: What are “half-sad regrets”?
Aren’t all regrets wholly sad? G.A.G.: Dog-
gerel R.L.J.: There’s quantity ad lib. in
your verses, but darned little quality. Abbrevi-
ate, condense, polish, concentrate on writing
something worth while instead of spreading
yourself over a dozen hackneyed themes, like
a climbing creeper V.D.: If there was any-
thing in “The Seasons” it was showed up with
words N.F.G.: “Nine Fathoms Deep” was
a little too far for us J.P.T.: Eliminate
superfluous characters, and try a daily....
W.J.M.: Not interested in “How Elsinora
Died” ... .E.P.: Chased that gory murderer
off the premises... .J.C.: “The Return” is
coming home... .J.M.C.: Appreciate the feel-
ings of the jockey who swallowed the horse
dope... .H.L.N.: Not interested in the history
of the Japanese stage C J.R.: We couldn’t
keep “Queer Company”... .F.D.M.: Alarmed
by the threat of further contributions.. . .C.A.:
There’s hope for you, but you’ve a long Way
to g0....H.8.: Refuse to take up “The Black
Man’s Burden”... .K.T.: Solve your mysteries
before you send them to us... .G. 8.8.: Looks
to have been written with a post-office pen....
P. 8.5.: “There are many prospecting tragedies
which have never been written.” Wrong; we’ve
had them a11....0.8.: Nothing in “A Box of
Tricks”.. . .T.L.: “Thirst” made us hurry out
for a long glass R.D.S.: “I just popped
this in on the spur of the moment.” Well, we’re
just “popping” it back again... .D.M.: “The
Globetrotter” is still travelling... .R.T.:
“You will find enclosed three yarns.” We
didn’t W.W.G.: Deeply moved by “Spilled
Beer” S.F.: “When Johnny plays with his
toys there is generally a deafening crash, a
blinding flash and a cloud of smoke, and every-
one rushes from the room.” Yes, most small
boys are like that... .F.M.: Not for u 5....
M. : Dislike the damsel whose “painted
toenails charmed the cavaliers of Cullabirra
Creek”... .L.T.: And we’ve no time for
swaggies with an “Oxford accent” J.S.:
Just a yarn E.H.: “Sands of the Desert”
trickled into the w.p.b M.McD.: “The
Trusty Steed” was left at the post... .N.D.L.:
“In One Ear and Out the Other” goes back the
way it came E.K.S.: Try elsewhere.... A.W.:
After reading “The Might of the Pen” we put
our money on the sword J.McG.: “The
sharp salt stink of the stagnant pools” is not
for us J.D.: Good ending, but it couldn't
carry the feeble prologue... .W.D.: It opened
promisingly, then monotony set in A.S.:
We liked it, but there is no space here for
Hebrew chants.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.P.: Have you sent us an aboriginal rock-
carving by mistake? E.J.M.: The youngster
shows some talent. He should have lessons....
N. : If you can’t attend a life class buy a
book on anatomy... .P.W.: Admire your pat-
riotic fervor but not your draughtsmanship
L.G.D.: The hitching-post might pass, but not
the horse J.H.: From what burial-ground
did you resurrect that gag? .R. 8.5.: You’re
better with the eraser than with the pen....
J.H.G.: Grandfather is a stray from a well-
known American monthly... .N.E.: The class
of drawing which wrecks an Art Editor’s eye-
sight W.P.: We dislike these inscribed bal-
loons tied to the lips of characters... .G. 8.:
You are this year’s first with that drawing of
Father Christmas kissing the maid W.A.L.:
Figures might have been hacked out of hard-
wood with a blunt axe....J.5.: Neat drawing;
antiquated jest N.O’F.: Sketches more like
fashion drawings than humorous illustrations.
... .M.E.P.: Backgrounds are charmingly done,
but you can’t draw figures... .F.C.: A moth-
eaten collection of jests and stiff drawings: V..
L.M.S.: Cartoon arrived three months too late.
D.D.: Poor perspective and harsh linework.
. ...W.H.: The same youngster has been
making the same retort to the same parson for
years... .P.M.: A crude and untidy batch of
amateur efforts... .C.R.: B. E. Minns has de-
picted the same scene between Jacky and his
lubra J.D.: The lady is as shapely as a sack
of potatoes T.M.: You should be among the
cheque-earners in a few years’ time if you study
from 1ife....J.W.A.: Cannot appreciate your
passion for one-armed characters... .S.R.: Pre-
pared to accept and pay for original jokes
without pictures E.J.: Several people in the
office know the man but none could recognise
your caricature of him 8.M.: Dave, Sarah
and the prize milker are old friends
C.S.F.: Gag so feeble that it collapsed on the
doorstep G.T. : Blacktracker put to the job
of finding his way back to North Queensland.
P.H.: Sketches are first-rate, but the humor
belongs to a children’s supplement... .W.W.G.:
A hopeless bunch.
Eighty-four-year-old H. H. Schlapp,
who was one of the metallurgists brought
from America long ago by Broken Hill
Prop., has been made honorary member
of the Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy, a distinction previously
conferred on only two others, Lord
Cadman and Delprat. Schlapp was with
Mount Lyell for a while, but for some
years has been in retirement in Mel-
bourne.
A MIXED GRILL.
Fritz Hart, who has married again in
Honolulu, has had a varied career. He
was for many years director of the
Albert-street Con., and he conducted
some of the finest symphony concerts
Mel bourne has ever heard. He paid three
visits to Honolulu to direct its muni-
cipal orchestra, and he has found time
to compose upwards of 100 musical
works, including a dozen operas-one of
them was included in a Williamson grand
3’ er L r ff er, ° lre - f y ts pen ‘, n Hn'r?
the Melbourne musical world put Hart
out of the running a few years ago aqd
he returned to Honolulu, where he has
settled, if a man of his energy can settle
into the chair of music at the island
universal y. * # *
Though the value of Maoriland ex-
ports for the last financial year were
£64,000,000 (depression-year average was
£37,000,000) and the Government is
drawing on “public credit” and has given
the country the blessing of the 40-hour
week, there are still 38,000 unemployed,
It seems rather a large number for a
country with a population of 1,500,000,
and the situation doesn’t look any better
for Minister Webb’s explanation. He was
asked “How many men are on susten-
ance doing nothing?” and the reply was
“About 19,000, of whom at least 10,000
are unemployables. Before Labor got
in the story was that every workless man
would be in a job in six months.
* * * /
“M.C.”: M. Rene Henri, back in Mel-
bourne after visiting 29 countries, had a
two hours’ interview with Frau Goebbels.
A beautiful and charming woman who
plays a part in ruling Germany, she
assured the overseas traveller that Herr
Hitler does not really admire shiny noses.
The fuss made about scrubbed-with-soap
complexions and the uncolored lips of
feminine Germany seems to be part of a
window-dressing campaign organised by
Hitler or someone else with a flair for
advertising. In Russia M. Henri found
that, although beauty treatments and
machinery in the Soviet were back in the
dark ages, it was possible to get perma-
nent waves at tourist hotels. In France
he discovered beauty salons for babies.
Regarding men’s fashions he found that
beards are growing, feathers in pork-pie
hats are still favored, “tails” and plus-
fours are longer than ever, evening shirts
are often made all in one with then-
collars, and ties for day wear are
wound round and round to make a fat
firm base for the knot. Colors are giddy,
and fashion-plate males are coming out
in rashes of spots upon shirts and socks.


COUNTRY LIFE! Where the days are long and strenuous,
and where the question of foot comfort is so necessary if
the day is to be finished without aching feet and weary body.
That is why
The "Zipp” Riding Boot
by Pike Brothers (Reg. Design No. 9292) is so popular
with horsemen. It is extremely comfortable, and its elastic
sides are so convenient, making the putting on or taking off
of the boot such an easy and simple matter. The service
of the boot is unquestioned. It is well made from
strong tan calf leather, with welted soles, and is obtainable
with “Zipp” fastener at side or front. The
“Zipp” Riding Boot is available in full or half
sizes at
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street
33/9
BRISBANE
CQCMI.
\aVt(
SYDNtY
UltluNOTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2\ DAYS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed and
Observation Deck, Men’s and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Ca^ and M .
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
m ’ The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
For all Particulars apply: .
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
{lncorporated in N.Z.)
„ . go William Street, Melbourne.
247 George Street, Sydney. ! 53 wmiam j >
A FORGOTTEN FIGHT
A t O,e request o, many readers. the chronicles of
im me it give s aT“ely pic.uJtf the manner'sZf sporting Melbourne in the age 'of Donald Wallace and his Carbine. Martin Loughlin. Tom Hales. “Pro-
* fessor” Miller and Joe Thompson, the bookmaker.
1 was informed that if I wanted to see
Burke v. Slavin in a peaceable way, with-
out having to remove the ear of the man
in front of me to make a little lane of
vision to the stage, or have my own
removed by the man behind me, for the
same purpose, I would have to be on
the spot as soon as the doors were
opened. As I did want to see it, and in
as inoffensive a way as possible, I was
there not more than an hour after the
time mentioned.
I found I had been deceived, or Mr.
Michael Nathan, who gave me the in-
formation, had been deceived. The hall
was merely sprinkled with spectators,
who glared stonily at the stage in the
centre as though it was all they had
come to see. They were gloomily satis-
fied.
The audience began to thicken very
slowly, and as each person took his seat
his eyes became fixed on the stage with
the same strong glare I had noticed in
the previous arrivals. It might have been
a meeting of corpses assembled to try
one of their number who had presumed
to resurrect himself before his due time,
such was the ghastly solemnity that
blooded over all.
1 settled stolidly down and glare a
the stage like the rest. I was not so lost
m the contemplation of it, however, that
1 didn’t notice a few faces in the audience
that seemed familiar to me though i
seemed to have seen them before in far
different surroundings. There was an
evident attempt at disguise in each case.
The slouch hats were worn awkwardly,
and pulled darkly down over the fore-
head in the manner of poker-players, but
not with the poker-player’s careless grace.
“Parsons for a pound,” I murmured,
as it flashed across my mind where I had
last seen them. Like my sallow-faced
friend behind me, they had, no doubt,
come there to “improve the occasion,”
and warn their congregations in burning
words never to go to such exhibitions if
they valued their souls’ salvation. I had
seen the same reverend gentlemen on the
lawn on Cup day, with the same godly
purpose in their hearts, I am sure.
After this I went to sleep, and missed,
I believe, a smart little set-to between a
black boy, whom some malignant humoi-
ist had named “Pluto,” and a white
young man called King. I was told that,
as might be expected, Pluto gave Mi.
King Hades.
i may have slept for a couple of hours,
or for a week as far as I know, when 1
was awakened by the sound of tremen-
dous cheering. Burke and Slavin had
appeared at last. The first person in the
audience my glance lit on was one of
the disguised parsons. He was clapping
his hands, in a faint and furtive way. He
caught my eye and cowered,
Burke came in first, with his trainer,
Mr. Michael Nathan. He looked like
a yo ung gladiator fresh from the baths —
ruddy and springy and prancing with life.
jq e h a s a pleasant face (at least, he had
then), not at all what you would expect
to fj nd on the shoulders of a pugilist, and
he stepped into the ring with a bright
sm ji e
j cou id n ’t help thinking “That is neither
{he forrn nor the face to stand much
punishment ”
Then Slavin came on with a slouch of
t he shoulders that reminded me of the
bhoys in the long coats with tails you
invited to “thread on if you dar,”
and the triangular walk intended to take
ag much of the pathway as possible,
whom j remem ber having seen at Fairs
Ire j and wbo were generally, and
respectful | yj a n u ded to as “Tarrers”
a j Terrors). It seemed as if there
™ 8 J lausg<
. f ,
. Slavin walked to the middleof :
fin g ar >d held up the gloves, mfor g
h] 6 audience that they were eig -oun
gloves, and he had agreed to _
Burke out with six-ounce gloves , as,
that he wouldn t try to knock any man
ou t with eight-ounce gloves,
Then Nathan said that Inspector Pew-
tress refused to allow any but eight-
ounce gloves to be used,
Then Peter Newton, Slavin’s trainer,
said that .Slavin wouldn’t undertake to
carry on the match with any such gloves.
Then pandemonium! I thought that
respectable-looking audience who had
kept so depressingly quiet during the
early part of the evening would have
howled their heads off and then thrown
them at both champions and their
backers. And leading the hooting was
my friend the parson.
In an interval of exhaustion a voice
from the gallery suggested that they
should “fight with pillers,” a remark
which was received with ironical
JACK BURKE.
applause. Fired with the success of this
piece of humor, some other wag hinted
in a howl, regarding Slavin, “Give ’m
some bloomin’ whisky and let him fight
with his bloomin’ feet.” This was also
received with yells of delight.
At last it seemed as though some
arrangements had been made. Slavin
took his seat at one corner of the ring,
Burke at the other, with three muscular
persons fanning each of them. One
stood in front of his principal, swinging
a towel up and down, as though they
were each offering incense to an idol.
I asked a gentleman in a moustache
who sat beside me if he knew who a
certain distinguished-looking person in
the gallery was, indicating whom I meant
by a nod.
“That’s a pug,” was the curt reply.
And I made sure he was a poet!
The fanning went on, and the cham-
pions glowered at each other from their
separate corners. Burke, as I said before,
has a somewhat pleasant face —a face
which was never meant to be made a
batter-pudding of in a prize-ring. But
Slavin—Slavin has a face that fears no
foe. Punishment can do nothing beyond
improve it. A flinty face, such as you
would in all likelihood break your
knuckles on if you struck it.
The eyes are well guarded by the brows
and the cheek-bones. The cheek-bones
and the nose, in fact, are the only
features open to blows, and you might
as well hit an iron spike as hit that nose.
Such a face I can imagine on the end
of a battering-ram in the old Roman
days. The shoulders are made to match
—square and somewhat gaunt-looking,
but giving you the idea of having been
expressly constructed to propel a pair
of fists to smash things and do nothing
else: the true shoulders of the old war-
riors who lived by their swords and died
by somebody else’s. The whole upper
portion of Slavin’s body gave me an im-
pression of what I might call grisly
strength.
The fanning and the incensing move-
ment with wet towels went on for about
a quarter of an hour, during which time
the combatants looked unutterable death
at each other. This was what I had
come to see. But evidently the rest of
the audience hadn’t, for they rose up
with one prolonged howl and demanded
that the fight should go on.
Burke came forward and proposed
that, as Slavin wouldn’t agree to fight
under the conditions, the money paid for
admission should be returned. Furious
applause from the audience!
Slavin gave a slow and seemingly bitter
consent to the proposition.
Then, fortunately for the Ring, some-
body called out, “What about the bets?”
That was another matter. There was
a cry as of many wild asses in the wilder-
ness for Joe Thompson.
Mr. Joseph Thompson stepped upon
the stage, wearing his hair cut bald in
his well-known eccentric way. He took
up the gloves and balanced them in his
hand with the air of one who had on
chance occasions seen such things before.
The audience appreciated this panto-
mime and chuckled.
There had evidently been a great deal
of confidence placed in Mr. Thompson
when he went inside the ropes. He
rose to the occasion, and fired the gloves
to various ends of the hall for con-
noisseurs to heft them, as the Americans
say. It was amusing beyond measure to
watch each man who was fortunate
enough to get hold of a glove poise it
knowingly, look at it with one eye shut,
look at it with the other shut, make
a lunge at an imaginary opponent, and
pass it on with a wise uncompromising
cough.
I saw my friend the parson with one
in his hands, and I regret to say he
looked at it —fondled it!—with quite a
professional air. One was passed to me


Make the Best Cough
Remedy and Save Money.
Wise folk save money by making their
own family cough and influenze remedy
with HEENZO. A bottle of HEENZO
costs two shillings, and, when added to
sweetened water, makes a supply equal
in quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed remedies for coughs,
colds, croup, bronchitis, influenza, and
whooping cough. Over ONE MILLION
Australian citizens annually use HEENZO.
Order from your chemist or store now.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Coras have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
the Only Receiver
for the
DISCRIMINA TING
LISTENER
Listeners who demand the most exacting quality in their
Radio quickly discern and appreciate the perfection of
Ultimate Receiver.
Ultimate Receivers are designed for your enjoyment. Their
unusual power makes them unrivalled for world-wide recep-
tion. You can tour the world at will, delight in music and
entertainment from numerous foreign countries, with the
same smooth reception as your local stations.
Other features that make Ultimate the perfect Radio are
the increased sensitivity, absolute accuracy in tuning and
the glorious tonal realism.
DO YOU KNOW THAT NO FEWER THAN 798
VERIFIED STATIONS HAVE BEEN LOGGED ON A
STANDARD ULTIMATE RECEIVER?
'S/t/lj&U
REAL RADIO
Ultimate offers a comprehensive
range of Receivers . . . A.C., Battery
Operated, Air-cell and Vibrator
Powered Models ... 5 to 15 Valves
.• . . from £29/15/- to £l2O
ULTIMATE
Sole Australian Concessionaires
GEO. BROWN & CO. PTY. LTD.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers.
Write for full particulars,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: M 2544 (2 lines).
American Butt Walnut Radio-
Gramophone Combination for A.C.
or Battery Operation.
in time, and I gazed at it, felt the tex-
ture of it, balanced it, blinked at it with
alternate eyes, and passed it on with the
same wise cough.
The gloves were flung back upon the
stage again, and it began to be clear to
the audience that nothing was to be done,
Then Young Australia and the fathers
and the grandfathers of Young Australia
arose together and groaned.
I looked down and looked up ana
behind me and before me, to meet with
nothing but husky chaos and gnashing of
teeth—-some of them false, by the way. 1
was to d afterwards that a man who had
a °5 on the match swal-
lowed his teeth, gold plates and all, in
sheer fury and has had to be fed on
chewing-cud mixture ever since.
During this time phantoms of various
sorts and in various suits went gibbering
in and out and around the ring. Mr.
Joseph Thompson would come to Slavin
and say what sounded to be ‘'Whish-
whish-o-hoo” and gesticulate with an up-
ward motion of his arms and a down-
ward inflection of his legs. Then he
would shimmer over to Burke and say
something like “Hoo-whish-whish” and
wave his legs upwards and his arms the
other way. I understood that he was
carrying challenges from one to the other
of dreadful defiance.
“Mister,” I said to the man in the
moustache sitting next to me, “isn’t it
splendid?”
“Isn’t what splendid?” he growled.
“Why, the fight,” I answered.
“You fool, this isn’t a fight,” he
growled, “nor not likely to be neither,
s’elp me.”
“Ah! ” I remarked meekly, “I thought
it was. I never was at one of these fights
before, and I thought this might be the
way they were carried on.”
“Miller—Miller!” There was a cry
for Miller all over the house. Professor
Miller rose like a weary earthquake and,
after carefully testing the strength of the
planks, came slowly thundering on the
stage. He also whish-whish-hooed and
hoo-whish-whished at each corner, but
the champions were immovable.
No sign of life was brought from
Slavin, even when it was hinted that he
should go home and go to bed or he
might catch cold and die and cast a
gloom over the community. He simply
sat there, stolid, glowering, and fanned,
For another half-hour several gentle-
men, including Mr. Hedley of the “Age,”
who came on and explained something
about the gloves which was listened to
with enthusiastic silence, appeared and
disappeared, and menaced and shook
warning, witch-like hands and came back
again and went again.
All of a sudden a hand was waved
from the ring for silence.
It was the bejewelled hand of Mr.
Joseph Thompson—may the best four-
poster in heaven be his bed for that
same! He informed the audience that
the match, as originally arranged, was
off, that bets were off, and that the
agreement was that the men should fight
six rounds, knockout or draw, gate-
money to be divided.
No dissent was made, except by a few
unruly persons, who were promptly
stifled.
Then the men stripped, took each a
draught of water (unhappy necessity of
pugilism!), walked into the centre of
the ring and shook hands.
As they stood in front of each other I
marked again that what the sporting
writers call the “pink of condition” was,
if taken literally, the absolute fact with
regard to Burke. He looked as springy
and as supple as a chamois.
As for Slavin, he was in what might
be called the grey-pink of condition. At
times he looked almost livid.
There was no dancing or minuetting
around. Slavin stretched. Burke par-
ried. Burke reminded. Slavin recol-
lected. Then two or three times Burke
played havoc with his gloves upon that
flinty jaw.
It seemed to me that he gave the battle
into Slavin’s hands by hitting him. If
Burke had adopted all the permitted tac-
tics of the ring and allowed Slavin to
tire himself out there might have been
a different end to the affair. But it would
have had to be fought out in a forty-acre
paddock.
The fact of the matter is, the only way
for anyone I know —barring Peter Jack-
son —to fight Slavin is to let him kill you
at once and then quietly borrow a
hammer —a heavy one from a friend
and hit him on the head when he isn’t
looking.
Burke came up like the Dancing Faun
for the second round. He had had
rather the best of the last one and
paraded bravely before his two-and-a-
half-stone-heavier and four-inches-taller
opponent.
I looked around the audience. There
was not a face in the crowd that was not
more or less fiendish barring a few
belonging to a few prizefighters. They
were calm and professorial. But the rest
of the audience was simply ferocious.
Then for the first time did I realise
thoroughly the fierce bloodthirsty joy of
those who looked down on the arena
and, turning up their thumbs, cried:
“Habetr
The face of the parson I had singled
out was flushed and carnivorous-looking.
I could see him digging his nails into
the palms of his hands.
I found myself doing the same thing at
the same moment. The whole audience,
in fact, had been suddenly brutalised.
And yet they talk about settling matters
of dispute between nations by arbitra-
tion, while there are such passions as
these in the breasts of men!
Peace comes only when one or other
party is tired —never till then —and
only then till they can gain breath to
fight again.
The combat of the two looked like the
fight between a tiger and a panther.
Slavin was the tiger, gaunt, powerful,
merciless. Burke was the panther, sleek,
supple, spirited, but crushed by weight.
It didn’t require a prophet to tell who
would come off best. And yet all my
sympathies were with the poor panther.
He made a gallant fight for it, always
driven outwards, always trying to get in,
but his lighter weight and softer flesh and
silkier sinews were against him in the
limited space allowed. If it had been a
Parthian battle he would (and I am not
sneering) have probably come off better.
End of second round. Panther down.
Third round. The tiger is infuriated,
loses his temper, rushes at the panther.
Ah! the poor panther tries to close,
feints, dodges, avoids, but with one great
arm like the arm of a steam-crane Slavin
stretches at him. Fare you well, Killesy!
The poor panther is dead.
Not a bit of it!
Up once more, elastically, brightly,
and the panther is himself again.
There are deafening cheers for Burke.
Slavin looks desperately and dangerously
around.
The black blood is rising in him.
Burke comes sufferingly, but still smiling,
forward.
Cheers for Burke again.
There isn’t even the pretence of an
overture. Slavin has gone in to slay. I
was not mistaken in his looks. He
reminded me of what Blakely Hall tells
of Sullivan and Slade. Sullivan simply
glared Slade out of the ring with his
murderous eye.
Burke was not to be glared out in that
way. But in spite of his fiery resistance,
his feints and counter-feints, it was no
use —Slavin had come in to kill.
He played the tiger to a vengeance.
But it was the enraged tiger this time.
He sprang on the poor, unhappy panther,
who could only make a few feeble ruses,
and —the stretch of that powerful paw
and down again.
All over.
The police came on the stage. Burke,
staggering up, says he will fight again.
Nonsense! He manages to get as far
as the ropes and says he will.
There is no doubt in my mind that
Slavin would have killed Burke if the
matter had been arranged in a legitimate
way.


In a moment the place was in an uproar.
“Who? Where?”
“Th’ sheeps! Th’ Laird saw un ; they’re in th’
loch! ”
Mr. Napper gazed at him perplexedly. “Sheep?
What are you talking about?”
“Ah didna say sheep ; Ah said sheeps. Twa o’
them. In th’ loch—th’ bay. Sheeps. Dee-stroyers! ”
“Good heavens!” exclaimed Napper. “War-
ships?”
“Aye. Ah saw them masel’. Th’ Laird saw them.
Twa dee-stroyers.”
“We must look into this.” Napper was at once
the man of action. “Come on, you lads. Mutton,
collect a few more and hurry to Inverbannock. Come
on, Angus, show us the way.”
Within a few minutes a small crowd had col-
lected on the beach of Terrigan Bay. Sir Hamish
joined them there and explained to Napper, a little
more coherently than Angus had done, how he had
seen two destroyers stealing into the bay.
The Minister for Education peered out to sea.
Sure enough, despite the darkness, two dim, sinister
shapes could be seen.
“What on earth can they be doing there?” asked
Mutton, who had arrived with his hastily-collected
contingent fast on the heels of the first party.
“Must have been brought down to co-operate
with the troops,” replied Napper.
Only one light could be seen on each of the
vessels, and these seemed to be flickering on and off,
though this was probably due to the rain and the
action of the sea, which, despite th; sheltered nature of
the bay, was far from smooth.
“Signalling,” said Napper. “They must be expect-
ing them back at the camp.
Any of you read Morse?”
One or two could, and
proceeded to try, but a few
moments later both lights
vanished altogether.
“Probably in code,
anyway,” said Napper.
“Well, what’s the next
step?” Mutton asked him.
Napper’s plans were
already formulated. “Wc
must send a message to the
guards to be doubly watch-
ful. , The attack may come
at any ,moment now. And
someone will: have to go
out and find out something
about those two craft.”
It took some time to
muster two boats’ crews,
but in due coux'se they were
ready to set off. , Napper
gave final instructions.
“Don’t try to board
them,” he said. “Just row
around and find out as
much as you can.”
The young men in
charge of the two boats nodded. As they pushed off,
Napper, with a sudden recollection of something he
had read of Wolfe’s capture of Quebec, called out
“Muffle your oars!”
The first boat was struggling with the elements,
and its occupants took no notice of the advice. Some-
one in the other boat asked “What with?”
Napper hadn’t thought of that, but was not at a
loss.
“Use your coats. Anything!” he shouted back.
“Like hell! ” was the undutiful response from the
second boat as it followed its mate into the darkness.
“Hoo long will they be?” asked the Laird.
“It’s very rough, and they’ll have to row around
the ships to see what is afoot. I should say it’ll be
an hour before they’re back. Meantime we’ve lots to
see to in the town.”
“Ah’ll watch frae Inverbannock,” volunteered Sir
Hamish.
“Thank you, your Excellency, and ftl leave a few
men on the beach to watch out in case the enemy
tries to put a landing party ashore.”
AN hour later an anxious crowd gathered once
more at the bay. The boats had not returned,
nor had any attempt been made to land men from the
destroyers. A quarter of an hour passed and still no
sign of the boats. The strain of inaction and suspense
was beginning to tell upon the group, when suddenly
a scout came careering along the beach to report that
a boat was heading for ,the shore about half a mile
north.
“Of course! They’d naturally land on that side
of the bay,” Napper pointed out excitedly. “They
can link up with the troops from Thatcher’s Siding and
make a joint attack. One boat only?” he asked the
messenger.
“We saw only one, sir. * Might’ve been more
following it.”
“Hurry! We must cut them off. Come on, every-
body.”
With as much speed as it could muster the party
moved north. It reached the point whence the alarm
had been sent just in time to see a boat’s crew making
a final effort to run their craft up on the beach. The
crew jumped out and pulled it up on the sand. Quietly
the waiting band closed in around them. The invaders
showed no signs of fight, but stood wet through and
trembling with cold alongside their boat. Napper was
puzzled.
“Don’t move!” he commanded. “You are out-
numbered and have no chance of escape. If you
attempt to launch that boat again”
“Who wants to laiunch it?” asked one of the men
in aggrieved tones.
“Well, don’t!”
“Not likely to.”
Napper was enjoying his role of general. “Now,
we want an explanation,” he said. “What’s the idea
of landing here?”
The men looked at each other and one spoke up.
“ ’Strewth, you didn’t expect us to go on rowing
round the bay all night, did you?”
“What!” }
“We must’ve been gone hours already. Couldn’t
find any destroyer. Couldn’t find anything. Didn’t
even see the other boat. Talk about dark. Never
saw anything like it.’ And rough! We’re lucky to
get back at all. We’ve done our best, and if you want
to find out anything more you can damn’ well go
yourself. We’re through! Come on, you chaps.”
For once the Minister for Education and Propa-
ganda was at a loss for words. He drew back, and
The boat disappeared into the darkness.
no one attempted to interfere with the damp and
dejected boat’s crew as they set off in search of warmth
and dry clothing.
“Perhaps the other boat will return to the start-
ing point,” suggested Mutton. “Shall we go back
there and wait a little longer?”
It seemed the only thing to do, so back they went
to the point from which the two boats had set out.
Another freezing hour passed during which spirits
sank lower and lower. Messengers were continually
going to and fro between the beach and the town,
bringing to the one the assurance that so far no attack
had been made on the town, and to the other the
disturbing news that the second boat was still missing.
Also at intervals Angus would come down to
the beach to assure Napper that “th’ Laird had seen
th’ sheeps agen.”
After his third visit Napper returned with him to
Government House to try the evidence with his own
eyes, but could discern nothing in the bay.
“Ye’re a wee bit too late,” regretted Sir Hamish.
“Twa minutes agone Ah saw them full clear. They’re
gang agen the noo. Forbye ye’ll bide a wee.”
Napper agreed to wait awhile in the hope of catch-
ing a glimpse of- the destroyers, but after fifteen
minutes of fruitless waiting he was impatient to be>
at the beach again. Arrived there, he found the posi-
tion unchanged. It was nearly three hours since the
boat had left the beach, and the possibility of her
having been overwhelmed in the heavy sea was fast
becoming a certainty.
“Do you think she might have been captured by
the —the others?” asked Mutton in low tones.
“I’m beginning to hope shp has,” whispered
Napper in reply. “Though I told them not to attempt
boarding operations.”
“What’s to be done?”
» Napper did not reply to him personally, but raised
his voice and addressed the crowd, calling for volun-
teers to man the boat which had been hauled up on
the north beach. The crew was not easily obtained,
but the fact that it was obtained at all on such a night
and in such circumstances was a tribute to the grit
of Terrigan. ,
Silently it was launched and disappeared into the
darkness, while the watchers on shore prepared for
another long virgil. The oarsmen had no sooner lost
sight of land than they realised to the full what the
other two crews had gone through. With pitch dark-
ness all around them they might just as well have been
rowing in the middle of the Pacific. Drenched, utterly
miserable and already tired from a night of inaction
in the rain, they strained mechanically at their oars.
Luck, which had not favored the boat when in
the hands of its first crew, was with her this time,
for all of a sudden a dark shape loomed up ahead
of them, and another could be discerned a little farther
on.
“There they are!” said the man at the tiller.
“Steady her! We’ll row near and have a good look.”
The helmsman peered ahead.
“Gee!” he cried. “There’s our other boat along-
side.”
, They drew closer.
“There’s no one in it. They must be on board.”
“Napper said not to board ’em,” wheezed stroke.
“I know, but they must have! ... I’m going to
take you alongside.” • ' : y
‘.‘Ahoy!” he shouted a moment later. “Aboard
there!’’ '
A torchlight flashed over the side of the vessel.
“Bring her along here,” directed a voice. ’
“Here,” was indicated by a Jacob’s ladder slung
over the side. Five minutes later the boat’s crew were
standing with their colleagues on 1 the enemy’s deck
well pleased to be released for the time from' the
unequal struggle with the storm. . ... . ...
D ACK on shore Napper, Mutton and' the others
waited in the rain ; their numbers grew fewer and
fewer as marrow-chilled men dragged aching limbs
home to bed and warmth ; the leaders and the few
faithful ones at last sought the shelter of Inver-
bannock and, giving up their thankless vigil, dropped
off to sleep.
A moment later (or so it seemed to the sleepers)
Angus burst in with “Th’ Laird’s seen th’ sheeps agen.
Ah saw them maser.”
Wearily in the grey dawn Napper and the others
followed Angus to the lookout where the Governor
stood pointing excitedly out into the bay.
“Ower yonder, mon. Ower yonder,” he cried.
Napper followed the direction of his pointing
finger. The sea had calmed somewhat and the rain
had ceased. Out in the middle of Terrigan Bay two
vessels rode at anchor. Napper recognised, them at
once. '
“Trawlers,” he groaned. “The Green Funnel
fishing boats.’,’
“Eh!’’.said Sir Hamish. “Are they no’ dee-
stroyers?”
Napper did not reply. He was almost past speak-
ing.
“Ah’ll get ma telescope.”
The Laird disappeared and returned with a spy-
glass which he handed to Napper, who trained it on
the trawlers. Presently he gave a. gasp of surprise.
“Our boats are there,” he said. “Both of them,
alongside the near trawler.”' ' P . A- -
He handed the telescope to Mutton, who con-
firmed his statement. . '
“They’re empty,” he added ; - “the crews must
have gone on board.” - ’ ; - -_ '■
“Yes, but why?” .... f... ~.. .
Mutton could not supply an v answer, but the
explanation, which could not find a way into official
minds, was suggested readily, .enough by one of the
bystanders. He had been, one of the crew that had
struggled to the north beach ; a hardy soul, he had
changed into dry clothes and'returned-to the bay.
“If y’ ask me,” he said, “I reckon they got to
th’ trawler, an’ when they found she wasn’t a warship
and wasn’t going to do any hafm they just thought
they’d stay there.” 1
“But,” said Napper, “why didn’t they come back
to tell us?”
“Well, I s’pose when they found everything was
jake they couldn’t see any sense in rowin’ all the way-
back in that storm just to tell y’.”
Napper knew in his heart that this was probably
the truth. He had gone through much that night,
and for once his spirit was momentarily crushed-—so
much so that he did not attempt to deliver a speech
on the subject of duty. Instead, with a gleam of hope
he started off on a new scent.
“What are the trawlers doing here?” he asked.
“Perhaps the Government has chartered them
and”— —
“No, they’ve come in for shelter. Seeing how
rough it’s been in the bay, you can imagine what it’ll
be like outside.”
“Anyhow, I’m going to get some sleep,” an-
nounced one of the other men.
“So am I.”
“Me, too.”
Napper and Mutton bade good-bye to Sir Hamish
with all too little show of respect for his exalted posi-
tion and followed the rest of the party.
(To be concluded next week)


NOTES ON
WRITING FOR
PUBLICATION
By Bernard Cronin .
Writing for publication has its pains as well
as its pleasures. The creative effort involved
is often both pain and pleasure, and it is some-
times difficult to say whether the ultimate
achievement, the completed manuscript, is a
reward, a compensation or a purge. There is
no doubt about rejection or acceptance. Especi-
ally to the beginner one is sheer joy, the other
is defeat and disaster.
And yet my own experience in editing thou-
sands of MSS. shows that many MSS., per-
haps 50 or 60 per cent., fail to make the
grade only because of minor faults or defects
in construction or treatment, the mishandling
of a good plot, poor phrasing, faulty emphasis
here and there, or merely because the theme or
subject is not suitable for the publication to
which it is offered. This is supported by the
“Answers to Correspondents” published in every
issue of those papers that welcome outside
contributions.
An expert opinion on a MS., if it has the
virtue of frankness—and no opinion is of value
unless it is both expert and frank —will often
point the way to a speedy removal of faults.
This, however, though valuable, is the negative
side of criticism. To be completely helpful,
criticism should be constructive; it should be
positive, not only pointing out errors and
faults, but also showing ways, some of them
perhaps not pursued by the writer, by which
his object can be attained more effectively.
Genuine criticism should, in fact, add as well
as subtract, bring good material to the con-
struction as well as take away rubbish.
It is with these considerations in mind that
I approach the criticism of any MS. —short
story, novel, article or play—submitted to me.
It has happened more than once that I have
discovered in a. MS. evidence of a talent for
literary effort in a direction different from
that followed by the writer. The first work
submitted by one of my pupils was a novel,
mid-Victorian in treatment although modern in
subject. In asking him to write short stories I
pointed out that twenty short stories can be
written in the number of words required for
a novel and yet each story is complete in itself
and is thus a proper subject of criticism, the
substance of which can be used in producing
the next short story. The Bulletin accepted
a, number of these stories. Other acceptances
in Australia and abroad followed. Then ex-
periment in Radio plays disclosed a talent that
quickly brought him many commissions. An
important, though secondary, effect of his
earlier efforts was the creation of a facility that
enables him to execute these commissions on
time.
Any honest effort to tell a story, express a
thought, or show a dramatic situation is a fit
subject for criticism. First principles are un-
covered and mastered. Their useful application
in any direction for which the writer has a
special talent will, with persistent effort under
wise direction, soon or later come about.
I am sure that many young writers are dis-
couraged because of a feeling of frustration.
They have done their best. Because they do not
know first principles their own analysis and
reflection do not disclose the faults that are at
once apparent to the craftsman’s eye. Such
writers are invited to communicate with me and
get particulars of individual advice and ser-
vice that will equip them to get regular pub-
lication.
They are asked to write fully and freely.
BERNARD CRONIN
398 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
PE-LMANISM Reviewed
by a Medical Psychologist*
[M.D. (Edin.). M.8.,Ch.8. (Edrn.), D.P.M. ( Land .)]
You will be impressed by this con-
fident endorsement of Pelmanism by
a Medical Psychologist.
Mental Hindrances to Success
|\ /TANY men and women break down
x in their striving to obtain the success
in life to which they are by nature
entitled. Their intelligence is inade-
quately trained; their pefsonality is im-
perfectly developed. Their mind stuff is
good, but it is not' being used in the
right way. They think inaccurately and
loosely; they waste energy; they fail to
achieve their purpose. Their minds lack
direction, and the net result is a feeling
of mental insecurity and inferiority,
which further intensifies the defect's of
their thinking apparatus.
A Psychologist Praises Pelmanism
Is a re-creation and re-synthesis of the
adult human mind possible? After an
investigation of the Pelman System of
Mind-training from a psychological stand-
point I can answer most emphatically—
Yes! Pelmanism is a method founded
upon modern principles of psychology,
whereby the native intelligence can be
exploited to its full value, and whereby
the personality can be revitalized and its
social worth increased to the maximum.
Pelmanism capitalizes the mental powers.
A Trained Mind Is a Permanent
Possession
I would like to emphasize at this stage
that Pelmanism is not a mysterious,
secret process, or a magical formula,
which has only to be repeated to endow
the mind with the qualities of genius. It
is a system of mind-training which both
directly and indirectly fosters, guides,
and controls all the factors which con-
tribute to the harmonious working of
the mind as a whole. Once the human
mind has been Pelmanized it will remain
so throughout life. The system is not a
key to success, to be used and thrown
away; it is an everlasting key to mental
efficiency and happiness, to be cherished
and zealously guarded.
Pelmanism Breathes Vitality and
Vigour -
I have read through the Course, and,
as a psychologist, I am amazed at the
ingenuity with which so much applied
psychology is “got across” in such a
simple and interesting manner. The
Pelman System treats the mind as a real
“live” instrument which is to be exer-
cised. The imagination is caught from
the first page of the first book and held
to the last. The lessons demand and
entice an active co-operation throughout.
The very pages seem to breathe vitality
and vigour.
* Reprinted from the December, 1935, issue
of New Health. Edited by Sir W. Arbuthnot
Lane, C.B.
No Two Minds Alike
The Course is contained in a series of
fifteen “Little Grey Books.” Attached
to each book is the work and progress
sheet, which the student fills in after the
completion of each lesson. It is by
means of these sheets that the funda-
mental personal contact is with
each student. Pelmanism accepts and
works upon the psychological axiom that
no two human minds are alike, an axiom
too often lost sight of in the conven-
tional mass educational method. It is
by virtue of the system of individual
tuition that Pelmanism achieves its re-
markable success.
Developing Your Possibilities
What does the Pelman system actually
achieve? It is an education in the truest
sense of the word. It requires active
co-operation on the part of the student,
but the enthusiasm which it inspires
makes that co-operation a pleasant and
fascinating task.
Pelmanism makes the very best of
your native mind stuff. It fills in the
gap which a conventional school or
university education so often leaves.
Pelmanism enables the mind to be used
to the highest possible advantage. - It is
not a mystic system of faith and hope;
it is founded on sober psychological
principles established by the method of
science.
Your Latent Abilities
Pelmanism develops the latent quali-
ties of the human mind, and enriches the
mental life to a high degree. To be able
to concentrate; to observe accurately; to
have initiative and directive ability; to.
be graced with social charm and tact,,
with moral courage and cheerfulness; to
be possessed of a good memory, organiz-
ing power, and presence of mind—all
these much-desired, positive mind quali-
ties are possible through the Pelman
System of Mind Training. In business,
trade, profession; in social or public life,
the Pelman attitude of mind is an asset
of great value.
Success in This Modem World
There is great need for Pelmanized
brains in this modern world of ours.
Uncontrolled and undisciplined minds
are the greatest of all the menaces to *
civilization. Children leave school un-
taught in the science and art of thinking.
They drift and fail to achieve a purpose
in life. To all these, the Pelman Institute
is willing to extend a helping hand which
will lead them assuredly to mental well-
being and success. This is no idle boast,
for many thousands of men and women
have found their way to the achievement
of their ambition and to a happy and
profitable life through this System.
International Awards
to the
Pelman Institute.
Liege. ... 1930. Geneva. . . 1933
Nancy . . . 1932. Paris .... 1933
FREE OFFER TO READERS.
A full description of the Pelman
Course of Scientific Mind Training is
printed in a book entitled “The Efficient
Mind.” This is a book which everyone
who wants to get on in life should read.
It will tell you all about Pelmanism and
what famous authorities think of the
system. To get a free copy of this book
all you have to do is to cut out the
following form and post it to-day to the
Pelman Institute
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory,
and Personality.
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane (cnr. Market St.),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
Don’t miss this opportunity. Write
for this book to-day. All correspon-
dence is regarded as confidential. The
Pelman Institute has no outdoor repre-
sentatives.
The Pelman System
of Mind, Memory and
Personality Training is
a world-wide organiza-
tion of 40 years’ stand-
ing. The Institute in
Melbourne has been
established 30 years.
There are over half
a million Pelmanists.
Over 35,000 have en-
rolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
TO THE PELMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
Occupation (Optional)
469 All correspondence is confidential.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
:
V **
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
& ....
s\V
:v-\vs
y c°
*r
f
rK
•*V
.\. %»'>** ,»>J
* $>V e * o< * °V C c,e«
V&* *€SjdP
&
&
<* e t .\\ 6
,# ss
oOr
/
, '
,v
• • ’
.** Jf
, o<
MV® 1
rt' \® 6 '


m
m
■i '
•v ;
m
4
liiiii
mm
wm
■
>■ - ?
WMMZ
- tfiwS
TASMA MODEL “415”
BATTERY MODEL DE
LUXE.
This remarkable 7-valve Dual
Wave Battery Receiver operates
from a 2-volt heavy-duty 15-
plate A battery. The receiver
can be operated for 150 hours
between charges. LOW “B”
BATTERY DRAIN is an out-
standing feature. Feather-Light
Rapid-Momentum Tuning Drive.
Dial Light Switch, Permeability
Tuned Intermediate Frequency
Transformers, Air Trimmer Con-
densers, Continuously Variable
Tone Control, and 10-inch
Special Permanent Magnet
Speaker.
43 Guineas.
In Homestead or Carmen
Cabinet.
TASMA MODEL “435”
DUAL WAVE DE LUXE
This new 5-valve dual-wave
Tasma is available in the
“Homestead” cabinet or in the
distinctive “Carmen.” The
Tasma “435” sets an entirely
new price standard for dual
wave receivers. In addition to
the broadcast band, all overseas
stations from 15-50 metres can
be easily tuned.
Price: 28 Guineas.
This Receiver is also offered in
the “Gumnut” table model for
22 Guineas.
fg
CARMEN
CABINET
HOMESTEAD
CABINET | ;
#
no wonder every
radio critic says
“BUY THE NEW
c lafonaC
TASMA MODEL “475” (DUAL WAVE)
This 5-vaLve Dual Wave Receiver is designed to work on
a 6-volt accumulator only.
This special vibrator-operated B-battery-less Set gives an
All Electric performance—remarkable daylight range—
and plays all principal overseas stations as well as
Australian.
Price, 38 Guineas.
Complete with Heavy Duty 6-volt Accumulator.
In “Gumnut’' Cabinet, 32 Guineas.
TASMA DE LUXE MODEL “480.”
The illustration shows the Tasma “480” in the beautiful
“Carmen” cabinet constructed of distinctive figured
veneers of Queensland maple and walnut. In addition to
excellent broadcast performance this model provides
exceptional results on short-wave; it is a set which will
give good daylight reception in every country district.
Also available in the “Homestead” cabinet, or—for those
who prefer the table model—in the already popular
“Gumnut” type.
Price (including long-life two-volt accumu- oa _
lator and three 45-volt Superdyne B batteries ) uUUIcaS
If in “Gumnut” Cabinet, 28 Guineas.
GUMNUT CABINET
THE SURPRISE CABINET OF 1937
THE “GUMNUT” TABLE CABINET.
A special Table Cabinet, to listeners who
require something smaller than a console. It
should be noted, however, that, in spite of the
reduced dimensions of this cabinet, standard
chassis and speaker are used, giving console
performance and tonal reproduction.
Any of t'he following models are available—
-430-435, 475-480, as described in this
advertisement.
Model “430” De Luxe A.C. Model in
Table Cabinet.
‘Gumnut"
Price, 19 Guineas.
TASMA STAR FEATURES for 1937
COMPARE WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER RECEIVER.
© SUPER-SIZE 20-INCH EDGELIT
GLASS DIAL! Each scale acid-etched
into the glass, colour-filled and flood-
lit. In addition to the calibrated
short-wave scale (on dual wave sets
only) ALL 103 AUSTRALIAN
STATIONS are indicated with hair-
line accuracy.
© TWO SEPARATE AND DIFFER-
ENTLY COLOURED TUNING
SCALES are fitted to dual wave dials.
The colour of the lighting changes
when you switch from broadcast to
short wave, or vice versa.
© EXTRA TUNING RANGE at each
end of the broadcast band—and the
short-wave band has been extended
to tune from 16 to 50 metres.
© FEATHER-LIGHT RAPID-
MOMENTUM HIGH-SPEED TUNING
CONTROL. The swiftest and most
accurate tuning equipment ever
evolved. The indicator can be swung
completely round the dial with one
light flick of finger and thumb—yet
so perfectly controlled that even the
most remote station can be tuned with
micrometer accuracy.
9 HERMETICALLY SEALED,
DUST-PROOF AIR TRIMMER CON-
DENSERS—NEW IMPROVED
FERRO-COIL—OPTIONAL AERIAL
TAP ensure permanent factory-
perfect reproduction even in the most
difficult areas, and no matter how
close the Tasma owner may live to a
powerful broadcasting station. A sure
safeguard against background hiss,
“jittering,” etc., give EXTRA DAY-
LIGHT RANGE to the man in the
country.
9 SPECIAL DIAL LIGHT SWITCH
enables the dial light to be extin-
guished when the station has been
tuned in, thus reducing drain on
accumulator.
• EXTRA VOLUME! The new
Tasma can be tu,ned from the faintest
whisper to full “dance hall” volume
without the slightest suspicion of dis-
tortion or whistle.
9 LOW “A" BATTERY COSTS—CHEAPER REPLACEMENT COSTS—
ACCUMULATOR EASY TO CARRY BECAUSE OF REDUCED WEIGHT.
HARVESTER CABINET
TASMA MODEL “430” DE LUXE
5 VALVE BROADCAST RECEIVER.
It is stated after exhaustive tests that no other
broadcast receiver at the price of the Tasina
“430” can give such magnificent performance.
Offered in popular “Harvester” cabinet (as
illustrated) or in the new “Ronsard” cabinet
by Beale, this receiver possesses all the
NEW TASMA STAR FEATURES.
Price, 23 Guineas.
{Also available in the “Gumnut” table
cabinet, lb guineas.)
Model "435” A.C. Dual Wave De Luxe
Receiver in "Gumnut” Table Cabinet.
Price, 22 Guineas.
Other models range
from 15 to 56 Gns.
BIST
IBUT 0 R S :
Victoria: HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 370
Hinders Street, Melbourne.
JOHN HOLLWAY AND SONS, ¥> Armstrong
Street, North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
South Australia: OLIVER -T. NILSEN
and CO., LTD., 49 King William Street,
Adelaide,
Queensland: -NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY),
L TD.j 197 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. J. GRICE, LTD,, 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton and Cairns.
Queensland —Darling Downs: ROSEN -
STENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba.
Western Australia: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart. And 59
George Street, Launceston.
• • ' ...
let of THOM AND SMITH PTY.
