

: v
tHE 0
THE
UJ
\ library
-
\ v '£
.!■
5* * mm
HP'
1
• h*
: :’S; ;
■■■ • s
. ..
.v' ¥. v«m|
.<£9l
ati iSi
v:. ,
81
fSSMmm
mm
Mft—
■■ / ■
; J
UmM
pgg|§§
' ■ ■."■ ::
■". ■ feJ'MfN
m
.
■
■I
«■
■V.
■> - ; 'i : '
PMWwiMaj
ft • •
h Far Tttr
BEST BUTTERV BUY
for CARS, MOTOR CYCLES,
RADIO and HOME - LIGHTING
Sales and Service from Garages and Radio Dealers
throughout Australia, New Zealand and the East
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3036.
Thursday, April 21, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
DEBASING A CULTURE.
In Robert Lynd’s In Defence of Pink (R.P.
6/4/’3B) there was the wise observation that the
invention of the printing press, though it was
prophesied that it would enable men to think for
themselves, has turned out to be a means of preventing
them from thinking for themselves. Lynd was
referring to propaganda, and he pointed the same
moral as did Aldous Huxley in Brave New World
when he pictured the slaves of the future mind-
conditioned into contentment with their lot by the
insistent Coue-ism of radio pillow-’phones.
Equally notorious in effecting the suppression
of thought, and equally powerful in debasing a culture,
are the modern amusement-devices, the drivelling
radio and the talkies. The latter have come to stay,
and their improvement is a comparatively simple
matter; Sydney audiences simply guffawed at the
revival of , that marsh of sentimentality “Smilin’
Through,” and no doubt such trash will be laughed
off the screen in due course. And at the worst,
though that is bad enough, talkies and radio merely
tend to stultify thought; propaganda, substituting
mechanical reaction for independence of mind, is a
much more dangerous thing ; and, since it, too, has
apparently come to stay (Great Britain, for the first
time since the war, is now employing it as openly as
Continental countries), average minds are going to
find clear thinking more and more difficult.
Talkies are a pleasant attack on the mind;
propaganda an infuriating one; those “bestial and
sadistic” magazines attacked by Lindsay’s cartoon
(B. 6/4/’3B), presenting to the young and the mentally
under-developed a picture of life at once filthy and
inaccurate, are a vile one.
If only for their half-wit grammar ; their broad-
sides into Australia of the silliest and lowest forms
of that rather amusing phenomenon American slang ;
their rotten writing ; if on no other grounds than their
aesthetic foulness, they should be banned:
Simon Templar’s unlawful excursions against evil-
doers has made criminal history.
Years add to a killer’s vengeful fury, but fate holds
the plumbline on his plans.
Or this touching example of facial acrobatics:
His nose bled a little and it dribbled slowly across
his face. His eyes dropped open and stared.
Those samples indicate the general average of
the grammar. For language:
They called Ed Riker, H.Q. dick, brainy but a slug
softie.
Those of you who read the Chicago “Daily Standard”
know that I got a swell feature for my paper. What
most of you don’t know is that I got an infinitely
sweller girl.
Of the shockingly bad writing which these belles
lettres are insinuating into the idiom of those people
who rush the bookstalls for them there is an embar-
rassment of riches. Consider this alluring piece of
travel-writing, quoted direct from “The Claws of the
Corpse Cult”:
Hawaii! Where spies play with the fate of nations.
Hawaii! Refuge of traitors and expatriates; where plots
are hatched in incensed drawing-rooms; behind whose
misty curtains are spawned unknown, unnamed horrors.
Hawaii! Hawaii where two worlds mingle in a
seething cauldron; where the gentle hand may sheathe
a bloody dagger; where the quiet pulse may mask
turbulent lusts. Hawaii!
But why rush off to the steamship office? Red-
blooded, two-fisted action in the next yelping drama
of blood and kisses holds the reader spellbound:
The girl whirled towards him. “Me? Me a louse?”
she yelped. She ran over and began kicking him.
Ristig spat at her. She moaned with rage, kicked with
a new fury. Ristig rolled, trying to get away from her,
and Kitto slammed her back in a chair. Her voice
scaled up until it was almost a shriek.
There is even some of the new poetry in one
of the magazines, surely much more valuable fodder
than the decrepit Keats or the doddering Williams,
Wordsworth and Shakspeare. One tender lyric,
original in its lively treatment of ears, recalls the
perambulating nose in one of the prose extracts
quoted:
I lean upon the window-ledge
To-night, and think of you;
The white magnolias bloom outside,
The roses wet with dew.
Hot ears fall on my restless hands,
My soul cries out anew,
As I lean on the window-ledge
To-night, and think of you.
Prose and poetry mingle with telling pathos in
one last sweet heart-throb:
Then through the walls of her apartment came drift-
ing those haunting, mocking words: —
You ain’t been blue—
No —no —no!
You ain’t been blue —
Till you’ve had that mood indigo.
There was stark tragedy in that singing voice.
Pathos. A heart laid bare. Fierce little chills of iciness
shook the listening girl. As though fascinated by the
melody she stood still at the open window—the window
out of which she would presently plunge—and listened,
breathless, to the haunting voice as it droned on:
That feelin’ goes stealin’ down to my shoes,
While I sit, and sigh, go ’long blues.
As the song started all over again, a great surge of
spiritual ecstasy shook the listening girl. Her eyes
lifted to the starlit skies. Very definitely she shut the
window. The song had won. Life for her would go on.
That is the sort of twaddle that is being dumped
in Australia in these U.S.A. works of art. That, and
this sort of decadent beastliness:
THREE SPINE-PRICKLING TERROR SHORTS.
Horror in the Cornfield: I defied intuition—and
unknowingly consigned my wife to the arms of a lust-
crazed idiot.
To the Victor I Belong: Men must spill their blood
in bestial fury—that I may know the thrill of love.
Home of the Winged Monster: The bat-like beast
longed for the renewed life which lay in Judith’s white
helpless body.
Maritime Melodrama.
Richard Sale in Is a Ship Burning? (Cassell)
gets his punch in early:
The S.S. San Marino burned on the night of January
29, 19 —, and she sank in the delayed dawn of the
30th after the white-hot heat had split her plates and
let the omnivorous Caribbean into her empty bowels.
A book that opens in this vein and then goes
back to recount the story of the four days before
the disaster, with their jesting and love-making on
the edge of unsuspected tragedy, and the four days
that followed it, with their suffering and despair on an
empty sea, could hardly fail to be effective.
Sale has wrought quite effectively. He gives us
everything we could reasonably ask. The San
Marino was a super liner on a super cruise:
Steadily, lithely and with a certain emanation of
pride in her own prowess, she had crossed the eastern
Caribbean Sea, holding obdurately to her twenty knots.
Her white wake was stencilled with white swirls and
fancy curlicues from her revolving screws. Her ladylike
bow broke twin coxcombs against itself, shining white
and clear in the unbroken swell. To the west were
the ports of call never to be revisited: Havana, Port au
Prince, Kingston, Christobal, Barranquilla, Port of
Spain. North of her lay the landfalls she would never
hail: St. Croix, St. Thomas
The tone is heroical, an essay in sustained
bravura. The story is told by an eyewitness, Banion,
the second wireless operator, who with a certain
stagy bluffness telegraphs the events and illumines the
actors in sudden flares.
The characters are as well chosen as stage proper-
ties —the mad scientist out of whose fear the whole
disaster arises, the innocent doctor whose real interest
is in toy locomotives, the honeymoon couple, the
profiteer, the yellow gangster, the newspaper man who
went straight ahead taking photographs, the man who
took advantage of the turmoil to shoot his mistress’s
husband, the villain who turns hero ; hundreds of
them, all spotlighted in turn.
Events are to tone —the brief love story of John
Banion and Sydney Wells, the death of the captain
before the outbreak, the giant confusion of the fire,
days on a raft surrounded by sharks under a tropical
sun, in an open boat with a religious negro and a
dying girl. Every last touch of melodrama is there,
and well executed according to its own lights: The
events are extraordinary, the characters have neither
pasts nor futures.
Is a Ship Burning? inevitably challenges com-
parison with Cozzens’s S.S. San Pedro, the story of
a shipwreck in similar circumstances ; a masterly job
that left upon the reader’s mind the impression that
the thing had been done once and for all.
An American Looks at India.
In The Rains Came, a novel of modern India
(Cassell), Louis Bromfield has produced his most
ambitious and impressive book to date. It marks, too,
a notable trend •in the American novel to-day ; the
efflorescence there of the new violence.
The “honest to God” phase of the American
novel was followed by a period of sophistication in
which, with characteristic ardor, the Americans outdid
their European models. This reached its apex in
such writers as Carl van Vechten. Then came the
reaction, the outfacing of sophistication by violence.
Again and "again they call the bluff of those artificial
societies that were the be-all and end-all of Van
Vechten’s works by facing them with disasters in
the raw.
It is, in America, an experimental mood. In
Western Europe the recoil from artificiality has also
taken the form of violence, but the result is the propa-
ganda novel rather than the psychological experiment.
The Rains Came is an excellent example of the
American trend. Bromfield draws in great detail the
picture of an Indian State, the good old Maharajah,
“simple and brave,” the fiery Maharani, the European
colony in all its manifestations, the teeming millions
of the native population, divided and subdivided by
every difference in race, creed, language and outlook.
Ranchipur, rich and well-governed, seething with
problems, but problems faced and attacked, a meeting-
place of East and West, is the stage for Bromfield’s
great experiment in psychology. It is a picture of
despair and defeat with an emanation of unconquer-
able hope.
The key character is Tom Ransome, who has
fled from the sick world of post-war Europe to find
first another sick world in the East and then,
mysterious and splendid, the “Indian Dream.” India
is sick because of the breakdown of the Hindu
religion.
You might call it the Hindu evil. It stifles and
suffocates and paralyses. It is like the stench which
hangs over the poor quarters when there is an out-
break of plague or smallpox.
There is always fear in India, not fear of some-
thing but fear itself.
It is because of India itself . , . not the people, but
the earth, the sun, the sky, the very life of India which
is cruel and ruthless. It is a country of burning sun
and dry plains and wild cloudbursts, where nothing is
ever wholly peaceful and green and pleasant, a country
crawling with life and where the very principle of life
itself seems at times, to become menacing and evil and
destructive ... a country filled with snakes and wild
beasts and floods and drought and earthquakes, where
even nature itself is more hostile than elsewhere. And
yet a continent swarming with life ... as overcrowded,
as over-fertile, as Africa is empty and sterile.
Against all these warring elements of Man and
Nature, this malaise, this will to death, and this over-
fertility that is India as Bromfield sees it, is set the
“Good Will,” the efforts of the Maharajah and those
he has gathered about him —Major Safka, the Brahmin
doctor ; Raschid Ali Kahn, the Muslim head of police ;
Miss MacDaid, the Scottish nurse ; Homer Smiley, the
American missionary ; Miss Dirks, the English school-
teacher —to unite the people and to give them all
that is best in the East and West. Beyond this spear-
head of the “Indian Dream” are all the helpless and
indifferent ingredients of such a State, and Ransome,
the onlooker.
The theme of the book is the winnowing by
disaster of Ranchipur. First comes drought; the
rains are overdue ; suspense grows from day to day,
till at last the monsoon comes with greater violence
than usual. Storms culminate in an earthquake that
breaches the wall of the reservoir that was the pride
of the city. A wall of water sweeps across the plain,
razing house, drowning thousands, leaving behind it
wreckage, death, famine and pestilence. The Maha-
rajah dies. It seems like the end ; but out of the
chaos, irrespective of nationality, courage rallies
itself and a new beginning is made.
The Rains Came is very thoroughly imagined
and carries a great weight of reality. All the charac-
ters, even though on analysis many of them are found
to be the inevitable stock patterns such as the
immoral financier and his beautiful “bought” wife
who finds nobility at last in work and sacrifice—are
vital and convincing. The disaster is by no means
a mechanical solvent of the plot; it is the plot, and
the psychological interest is in the reactions of the
characters to it.
Along the Boulevards.
Arthur Mills, picking up the tradition from
Leonard Merrick, has made the cafes and boulevards
of Paris his literary hunting-ground, but, as befits a
more sophisticated generation, he brings less senti-
ment and fantasy and more cynicism to the sport.
French Girl is a neat, compact, and telling story of a
young man’s downfall. It happened in Paris, it
happened just when he thought his eyes were wide
open, and after all it didn’t matter very much, because
the young man was quite unimportant.
Tony Wharton was an officer and a gentleman.
He was quite sure, in a quiet way, that that was
enough for any man to be, and that he need not put
any further effort into living. He was in Paris going
home from India on furlough in the lively expectation
of marrying the engaging daughter of a millionaire.
We see him first being expertly and very pleasantly
taken in by a head waiter as he embarks on the tradi-
tional night out. Later he has an uncomfortable and
comic experience involving a cocotte and a shortage
of ready money. He has had his lesson and feels
that his education in the great subject woman has
been completed.
The millionaire was not eager to claim him as a
son-in-law, and it was eventually decided that he
should resign from the army and serve a year’s appren-
ticeship to business to make a man and a money-
spinner of him. Like Tony, Sir John had his fixed
ideas, only they were different.
Tony was sent back to Paris on a rather vague
job, mostly clerical, and was for a time very pure and
very lonely. Then he met Jasmine, who was different.
She didn’t ask for anything, she didn’t grab. She
even thought up cheap ways of doing things and in-
sisted on mending his clothes. But, poor child, she
had to live; there was the rent, and Tony had to
worm the tragic story out of her. She liked going to
the races, too, and she had friends that she was sure
would be useful to Tony.
The reader watches the hero topple. Jasmine
was different, but she got there just the same. She
had no malice. She could scarcely be said to have
intentions. She was just natural. Of course, Tony got
into money difficulties, neglected business and appeared
before Sir John —who suddenly arrives on the scene
—unshaven, a lapse which finally dispatched his hopes.
A more sapient and less romantic colleague wins the
heiress; Tony finds a job with a former brother
officer in South America, and Jasmine takes to her-
self an American writer of best sellers to whom she
tells the story:
“It was droll, that. He come to Paris to make
money to marry an English girl. He meet me; he
follow me a quatre pats —how you say? on four feet
like a little dog; he forget the English girl; then he
grow tired of me; and now the English girl say she
is tired of him; so he go to South America. La! La!
it is far, that. I do not like those places. I prefer Paris.
But”—Jasmine laid her hand on her companion’s arm—
“there is a story you could write.”
The famous author shook his head
“No; there’s n'o uplift in it.”
“What is that —uplift?”
Looking at Jasmine, whose eyes had strayed to a
wrap made from skins of slightly better quality than
her own, he realised that to explain the meaning of
“uplift” to her would be difficult.
The Medieval Manner.
In The Song of the World (Heinemann) the
French writer Jean Giono is introduced to an English-
speaking public. His book is in the pre-Raphaelite
tradition. It carries into the modern world the
medieval romance.
This has never quite died out; it crops up here
and there in different countries and decades. William
(<Continued on page S.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’’ — always.
‘THE SENIOR STORE.”
I
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Froaressive ideas for the land
tfe BLACKSMITH
m
o^y
O
%/
9
n
''\i A
I
3
A
i
■Vfl/V _ -
f/»
A
fl
rv
/ v.
ED
)PAv'\[
N /•
2111U31
211R130
»
211R132
x
x.
THE "RAPID'
211R130—The "Rapid" Forge, weight 1501 b.
A strong and durable forge for horseshoers,
coachbuilders, or any class of heavy work.
The Blower is conveniently fitted, so as one
man, if desired, can watch heat and turn
handle. Pan made of 12-gauge iron; 30in. x
24in. x 6in. deep, with hood, door attached
to side. Can be closed or opened if necessary
to get glow in fire. Legs made of Hin. angle
iron with cross stays. Extra heavy fire iron
provided. Advisable to lay a layer of clay
'on bottom of pans. Price £l2/10/
'"RAPID" HAND-CRANK FORGE
211R131—The "Rapid" Hand Crank Forge,
with 18in. pan and machine-cut gears; weight
801 b. This forge is made in Australia, and
will compare favourably with any portable
forge on the market. Can be taken to pieces
and assembled in two minutes —no spanners
required. Scientifically constructed to give
the best possible blast. Duplicate parts are
always obtainable. Price £B/5/-
211R132—The "Rapid" Hand Crank Blower,
machine-cut gear, scientifically constructed
to give the best possible blast. Can be taken
to pieces and assembled in two minutes.
Showing blower and stand conveniently de-
signed for fitting in water Tuyere iron, also
for tube and pipe attachments, for providing
fresh air for shaft sinking, sewer work, etc.
Price £7/2/6
211R152—"Vulcan" Type Heavy Tuyere Iron to suit
the above blower. Price 45/-
Km
211R133
EFFICIENT
;.)i
r-
v; h
&dsf,
r CyV
.sfiro-
ii_f I '!^tr
q)> '
211R134
DRILLS
*,y^
7
hi
ki
211R135
211R133 Ball-bearing Post Drill No. 611 is
fitted with both hand and automatic feed and
has two speeds. Drills to centre of 12in. circle,
drills holes up to l£in.; run of feed, 3in.; run
of table, 11 in.; chuck bored for iin. shanK
drills; weight 961 b. Will give long service
Price ®6/-
211R134 Ball-bearing Post Drill No. 61. A
well constructed light type drilling machine,
fitted with adjustable automatic feed, similar
to No. 611 in construction. Specifications:
Drills to centre of 12in circle; drills holes up
to 1 in.; run of feed, 3in.; run of table, 11 in.;
weight 511 b. Price 57/6
211R135 The "Dawn" Hand Drill has two speeds,
and is back-geared so that crank turns forward on
both speeds. Two feeds—hand and automatic —are
provided. Automatic feed is adjustable to three speeds.
A square slotted table is provided. Spindle diameter,
l|in.; run of feed, 3£in.; run of table, 10in.; length over-
all, 38in.; diameter of pulley, 6in.
No. 616, for hand. Gross weight, 1751 b. ... £5/11/6
With fqst and loose pulley. Price £5/19/6
Furnished with chuck for 1-in. straight shank bits.
Separate chuck to take ordinary bit stock drills.
Price, extra 2/6
«> Agricultural Department Fourth Floor, Pitt Street.
Be sure to get a copy of our new Easter Show Catalogue
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Box 2712 C, G.P.O. SYDNEY ’Phone: M 2401 (Day or Night)


MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
.€.200
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin,” 252 George St., Sydney.
A Cat-and-Dog Life
TERENCE
O'FLANAGAN
By PHIL DORTER
DRA WINGS BY SUCH.
THE Ed. called me into his office.
“Take a look at that,” he
said, passing me a small-town
newspaper labelled the “Gum-
badubbin Express.” “Read those
sporting notes.”
I read them and saw that Mulga Mick, Tarbrush
and Gimlet had won various events at the Gumba-
dubbin dog races. It seemed sensible to me, and I
said so.
“Wake up, man,” said the Ed. “Take a look at
the times!”
I did.
“Holy mackerel!” Two hundred and twenty
yards was the longest race, and from the print Mulga
Mick had needed just twelve seconds to cover the
distance. Then I stopped to think.
“There’s some mistake,” I said. “Either the
chap who printed this was tanked or else they tell
the time differently in this joint.”
“No,” said the Ed. “Several issues show similar
times. Anyway, you’re going to find out what it’s
all about.”
“0.K.,” I sighed. “Just where and what is Gum-
badubbin?”
“That,” said the Ed., “is your job,” and dis-
appeared behind his desk.
nr HREE days later I drove into Gumbadubbin. It
was a dusty, God-forsaken island in a sea of grey
mulga, with one pub, a couple of streets and a few
shops. I clambered from the car and pushed into
the bar. Its only occupants were the barman and a
disconsolate red-headed chap.
I downed a quick one and came straight to the
point. Turing to Fiery-top, .1 said, “I’ve just dropped
in from the city to get a line on your dog races.”
“There ain’t,” he said sorrowfully.
“Ain’t —I mean aren’t what?” I asked.
“There ain’t no dog races any more,” he said.
“There ain’t any dogs.”
“Then where’s Mulga Mick, the greyhound who
can do two-twenty yards in twelve seconds?”
“ ’E wasn’t a grey’ound, ’e was an Airedale ; ’n’,
anyway, ’e’s goi\e, too.”
“An Airedale!” I exclaimed. “Gone! But I
don’t understand.”
“It’s a long story,” he said, so I called for drinks
and waited while he oiled his throat.
“The dog races were Lofty Morgan’s idea,” he
began. “We were siltin’ outside the pub one Sunday
afternoon some months ago, all of us tryin’ to think
of somethin’ to do apart from two-up ’n’ heads ’n’
tails, when Lofty jumped as though ’e’d been stung.
“ ’Oly smoke! ’ ’e yelped. ‘Why didn’t I think
of it before?’
“‘Think of what?’
“ ‘Dog races; we could ’ave ’em every Sunday
’n’ Saturday afternoon.’
“ ‘Yair,’ I said. ‘ ’N’ where’re you goin’ to get
the whippets or grey’ounds or whatever they are?’
“ ‘ ’Oo in the ’ell wants grey’ounds?’ ’e said. ‘The
speed of ’em doesn’t matter if we can ’ave the race.
There’s twice as many dogs as men in this joint.’
“ ‘Yair,’ I said again. ‘Dogs is right; every-
thing from the rat that Mrs. McGinity calls a cross
between a poodle ’n’ a dash’ound to Mike Walker’s
splawfooted ’roo dog. ’N’ not two of the
whole bunch alike.’
“ ‘Doesn’t matter a bit,’ said Lofty.
‘We can ’andicap the big ’uns ’n’ make
the race a fairly even go. Anyway, it’d be
better than sittin’ round ’ere all day like
shags on a rock.’
“We didn’t take to the idea at first,
but when Lofty’d ’arped on it for a couple
of hours we began to think about it just
to shut ’im up. The more we thought about
it the more we liked the idea, ’n’ at last we
called a meetin’ in the parlor at the back
of the pub.
“It went the way of most meetin’s, with everyone
gettin’ drunk ’n’ the business' in ’and gettin’ nowhere
in particular. But Lofty wasn’t goin’ to see ’is idea
nipped in the bud, so ’e jumped to ’is feet ’n’ blew
off so much wind that we ’ad to agree to build a
course.
“We ’ad to work on Monday, so nothin’ was
done for a week, but underground Lofty could talk
of nothin’ else. ’N’ the more ’e talked the more
pleased ’e was with ’imself. ’E seemed to think that
with dog-racin’ Gumbadubbin would grow intb a
second Rivvyerror or somethin’.
“ ‘Of course,’ ’e said as ’e swung ’is ’Olman
down for the third ’ole, ‘I don’t expect very much
for a start; but once people get to ’ear of it there’s
no knowin’ what’ll ’appen.’
‘‘ f OFTY’S enthusiasm got us all in the finish, ’n’
next week-end we set to to build some sort of
course. Once started, everyone was dead keen on
the job, ’n’ with the nightshift ’n’ afternoon-shift put-
tin’ in a few hours every day, ’n’ all the kids in the
town runnin’ backwards ’n’ forwards ’n’ failin’ over
’emselves to ’elp, it was finished in a fortnight. It
was just a straight two-twenty yards, walled in with
mulga, wire, kero.-tins ’n’ any other scraps we could
find. As Lofty said to me, it looked like a rubbish
dump that’d been ’it by a cyclone.
“The first meetin’ Was to be ’eld on the followin’
Saturday afternoon, so the next job was to get the
dogs. Strays were thicker in Gumbadubbin than ants
round jam, but when the crowd’d finished with ’em
every flea-bitten mongrel in the town ’ad an owner
’n’ was chained up, washed ’n’ dieted like one of the
family.
“Mike Walker ’ad so many offers for ’is big
’roo dog that ’e ’ad to sit guard over ’im every night
with a shotgun.
“On Saturday afternoon a big mob gathered at
the course ’n’ brought their dogs. Of course there
was a ’ell of a mix-up at first; the course would only
’old a dozen dogs at a time, ’n’ there were about sixty
of ’em, all yappin’ ’n’ snarlin’ or fightin’. ’N’ we
couldn’t match a peke. or pom. against an Alsatian
or ’roo dog, so Lofty ’n’ I did some quick thinkin’
’n’ talkin’.
“I jumped on a box
’n’ yelled for silence.
‘Gents,’ I said, ‘you all
unnerstan’ we can’t race
sixty dogs at once, so
we’re goin’ to split em
into weights. Any objec-
tions?’
“There weren’t, so I
went' on. ‘Anything under
two ’ands is a lightweight,
between two ’ands ’n’ three
middleweights, between
three ’n’ four welters, ’n
over four ’eavies. ’N’ the
races will be run in that
order.’
“With Lofty ’n’ me ’elping ’em, the crowd soon
sorted out their tykes, ’n’ then everyone wanted more
directions. I took the box again ’n’ explained that
the general idea was for the owners to stand at one
end of the course ’n’ call their tykes, then when the
gun went a dozen chaps at the other end would let
’em go together.
“It took ’em another twenty minutes to work
it all out, but at last everything was set for the first
division of the lightweights. I waved my arm to the
blokes at the other end ’n’ they started whistlin ’n’
yellin’ like mad. When the dogs were just about
breakin’ their collars to get away I shouted to Bill
Sweeney, the starter, ‘Let ’er go, Bill,’ ’n’ ‘Bang!’ ’n’
they was off.
“Well, I don’t know whether the tykes just
entered into the spirit of the thing or whether the
gun frightened six months’ growth out of ’em, but
you should’ve seen ’em go. You’d’ve thought all the
’ammers of ’ell were on their tails. Scooter, a mong.
that looked as though ’is mother might’ve been one
of them curly-’aired sausage dogs, won by two lengths
’n’ a tail.
“But it didn’t really matter which tyke won so
long as the mob liked the races. It’d been a kind of
ambition with Lofty to make a success of it, ’n’ ’e
was as pleased as a pup with two tails when ’e ’eard
the crowd yellin’ ’emselves ’oarse. Everyone got
more excited with each race.
“For the ’eavyweights there was Mike’s ’roo dog
Gimlet, Jet Durant’s Airedale Mulga Mick, the pub-
keeper’s Alsatian ’n’ three others that might’ve been
anything from long-’aired collies to goats. It might’ve
been the size of the dogs or it might’ve been any-
thing, but by the yellin’ of the crowd it seemed that
the ’eavyweights’ was the most important race of
the day.
“We lined the tykes up at the start ’n’ let ’em
go. It wasn’t even a race. Gimlet won by fifty
yards from Mulga Mick ’n’ the Alsatian, with the
other three trailin’ in about thirty yards be’ind.
“The crowd didn’t like that. When they’d gone
Lofty ’n’ I ’unted around for an idea to even things
up for the next meetin’. We couldn’t very well
’andicap Gimlet by fifty yards ’n’ Mulga ’n’ the ’roo
dog by thirty in a two-twenty yards race, so we
reckoned the only thing to do was to make ’em carry
extra weight.
“On Sunday afternoon the crowd was bigger
than Saturday’s mob. The first events went off much
the same as before, but you should’ve ’eard the ’owl
when Gimlet turned out with a six-pound bag of
sand strapped on each side. Mulga Mick ’n’ the
Alsatian carried four pounds apiece. We let ’em go,
’n’ they finished so close it was ’ard to tell which
crossed the line first, but the race was given to Mulga
Mick. The mob loved it!
1 ‘ A ETER that everyone lived for the dog races ’n’
nothin’ else. If you couldn’t talk about the
last race ’n’ show an intelligent interest in dogs, it was
best to shut up. ’N’ people knew, the dogs’ names,
too, so the s.p. man came down to the course to lay
the odds. ’E couldn’t’ve done anything else very well,
’cos no one was interested in ’orses any more, even if
they could listen to the races from the wireless set
in the pub.
“Then a few visitors began to drift in from the
surroundin’ district ’n’ near-by towns, and it looked
as if there was somethin’ in what Lofty’d said after
all. But when the races’d been goin’ for about three
months, somethin’ went wrong. It was ’ard to see it
for a start, but gradually the dogs got fed up with
sprintin’ like mad for 220 yards every week-end ’n’
gettin’ nothin’ for it.
“Lofty noticed it first.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e said to me, ‘the dogs’ve lost interest
in the races. We’ll ’ave to do somethin’ about it.’
“ ‘I know,’ I said, ‘but what?’
“Lofty rubbed ’is chin. ‘I don’t s’pose we could
persuade ’em with a dish of tucker or a bone.’
“ ‘No,’ I said. ‘Some of ’em get that now, ’n’ the
rest’d soon get used to it ’n’ slow down again,’


“Suddenly Lofty brightened. ‘I got it,’ ’e said.
‘We’ll buy a real tin ’are.’
“It took a fortnight for the tin ’are to come from
the city, so while we were waitin’ we built a windin
drum ’n’ geared it to a bicycle. When the ’are arrived
all we ’ad to do was tie it to a bit of rope and connect
it to the drum.
“It worked even better than we’d expected. The
tykes nearly went mad tryin’ to catch the ’are ’n’ their
times dropped considerable, so dog-racin’ boomed
again. But only for a little while. One day the dogs
caught the ’are. They rolled it over a couple of
times, sniffed at it ’n’ walked away in disgust.
“This time, ’owever, it didn’t take Lofty long to
think of somethin’ else.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e said to me, ‘we’ll ’ave to get real
rabbits.’
“ ‘Yair,’ I said, ‘you’ve got as much chance of
gettin’ a rabbit ’round ’ere as you ’ave of catchin’
a whale in Lake Amadeus. Drought ’n’ poison ’as
killed ’em all.’
“ ‘We can get ’em from the city,’ ’e explained,
so we waited another fortnight for a crate of rabbits.
We got ’em, ’n’ they worked all right for a while ;
but the ones that the dogs didn’t catch were pinched
for rabbit stew, so we ’ad to send away about every
three weeks for a fresh crate of rabbits.
“Lofty was worried.
“‘Barney,’ ’e said, ‘this is too expensive.’
“ ‘Well, why not get somethin’ cheaper?’ I asked.
“ ‘Yes, but what?’
“It came to me in a flash. ‘Cats! There’s plenty..
of ’em in Gumbadubbin.’
“Lofty looked at me for a moment; then,
‘Barney,’ ’e said softly, ‘I believe you’ve got it.’
“ ’ J\J ’ it seemed as though I ’ad at the time.
Whenever a meetin’ was due Lofty ’n’ I’d
kidnap a couple of cats. We used to put ’em under
a basket a few yards ahead of the dogs ’n’, when the
gun went, pull away the basket with a bit of string
’n’ let the dogs go at the same time.
“ ’Oly smoke! You should’ve seen ’em go. They
nearly snapped ’emselves in ’alves tryin’ to catch
those tabbies. Once or twice they did, ’n’ that was
the beginning of the end. All the cats round the
town seemed to ’ear about it, ’n’ not wishin’ to inake
a dog’s breakfast they began to snatch their time ’n’
clout out for the mulga. Only one or two at a time,
but after a couple of months fummies were as scarce
in Gumbadubbin as parsons in a two-up school.
“At last Terence O’Fianagan, the pubkeeper’s
big ginger tabby, was the only cat left in Gumba-
dubbin. We ’adn’t wanted to use Terence ; ’e was a
big friendly chap, almost ’uman, ’n’ used to spend
most of his time on the counter smoogin’ to the
fellers in the bar; but, as Lofty said, it was Terence
or the dog races, so Terence it ’ad to be. We weren’t
worried about anything ’appenin’ to ’im ; ’e could
run like an emu ’n’ was big enough to ’old ’is own
with ’alf a dozen tykes.
“On Saturday afternoon we carried ’im carefully
to the course ’n’ put ’im under the basket ’n’ got
everything ready for the start of the ’eavyweight.
You know what it’s like before a race. All
the dogs were strainin’ ’n’ tuggin’ at their
leashes to get at the cat ’n’ the crowd
were all on tiptoe ’oldin’ their
breath ready to cheer.
“ ‘Let ’er go, Bill,’ I yelled, ’n’
ripped off the basket. But nothin’
’appened. The cheer from the
crowd stuck in their throats, ’n’
the dogs made one spring, then tied
’emselves up tryin’ to stop in mid-
air.
“Terence just sat there washin’
’imself. ’E ’ad just one look at the
dogs ’n’ went on with ’is bath. The
tykes didn’t know what to make
of it. They milled around in a
bunch ’n’ whined ’n’ looked at their
owners as though askin’ ’oo in the
’ell’d ’ad the cheek to put such a
cat in front of ’em.
“It was only for a minute
though, ’cos presently Terence got
to ’is feet ’n’ decided to take a
stroll along the course. ’E didn’t
’urry ; just went very slowly, en-
joyin’ the sun, wavin’ ’is tail ’n’
stoppin’ to sniff the ground when
’e felt like it. The dogs followed,
but they didn’t ’urry either. In
fact, they bumped against each
other tryin’ to keep farthest from
Terence without injurin’ their dig-
nity. When the cat stopped each
tyke found ’e ’ad a flea that was
annoyin’ ’im or else discovered an interestin’ smell on
the side of the course. But all the time they watched
Terence.
“The crowd was all tensed up waitin’ for some-
thin’ to ’appen, ’n’ it came at the 100-yard mark.
Mulga Mick’d scratched every flea ’e could find ’n’
sniffed at everything along the course, so when
Terence stopped to investigate a beetle that was
crossin’ ’is path Mulga made a spring, ’n’ the rest of
the dogs followed ’is lead.
“It was all over in ’alf a minute. There was a
bit of dust ’n’ a ’ell of a lot of yelpin’; then the dogs
put their tails between their legs ’n’ belted back the
way they came. They went so fast you’d’ve thought
their paws never touched the ground. Terence just
sat there lickin’ the dust off ’imself.
“That seemed to be the end of dog-racin’ in
Gumbadubbin, but in the pub that night Lofty ’ad
another one of ’is brainwaves.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e yelped so loud that I spilled my
beer, ‘there’s only one thing to do.’
“ ‘Yair, scrap the course.’
“ ‘No,’ ’e said, ‘put the cat be’ind the dogs.’
“I didn’t get the idea at first, so ’e explained.
‘The cat ain’t a bit scared of the dogs ’n’ the dogs
are scared stiff of the cat. If we put Terence under
a basket be’ind the dogs ’n’ let ’em all go together
the tykes’ll bust ’emselves tryin’ to get away from
the cat.’
“It was worth tryin’ as our last ’ope, so on Sunday
we lined up the dogs ’n’ put Terence be’ind ’em.
When the gun went the dogs just stood still waitin’
for somethin’ to ’appen. They didn’t wait long.
Terence was feelin’ playful, or else ’e knew what we
wanted, ’cos as soon as the basket was off ’e waltzed
up be’ind the dogs ’n’ arched ’is back ’n’ spat at
Mulga Mick. That was all the tykes needed. They
gave a kind of strangled ’owl ’n’ bolted. From the
way they went you’d’ve thought they was tryin’ to
get rid of their tails.
‘‘ FN OG-RACIN’ boomed again. Times for the
220 yards dropped to 12 ’n’ 13 seconds, ’n’ we ’ad
more visitors than ever. Sometimes the tykes would
try to get nasty, but Terence soon settled ’em. A spit or
scratch was all they needed, although once or twice
Terence chased ’em for fifty yards or so. The funny
part was that that cat seemed to hate Mulga Mick.
’E used to give ’im all ’is attention at the starts, ’n’
consequently Mulga was the fastest dog on the course.
“But the business of chasin’ dogs was like a drug
to Terence, ’n’ soon ’e took to goin’ for ’em whenever
’e got the chance. ’E used to wait round corners or
be’ind trees ’n’ spring at ’em like a ball of striped
fury. ’N’ none of the tykes ever stopped to argue.
“Soon the dogs got fed up with it ’n’ began to
leave town. Gimlet the ’roo dog was first. Terence
sprang at ’im from a pub window ’n’ Gimlet gave one
yelp ’n’ didn’t stop runnin’ till ’e disappeared in the
mulga. ’E didn’t come back, ’n’ neither did all the
others that followed ’im. Some didn’t even wait for
Terence to tell ’em, but just sneaked out of town.
“We tried all sorts of dodges to keep ’em ; even
locked Terence in the garage at the back of the pub,
but ’e found ’is way out ’n’ went for the tykes worse
than ever. It was terrible to see ’em all leavin’, but
we couldn’t do anything about it.
“At last Mulga Mick was the only dog left. Jet
Durant used to keep ’im on a chain all day, but one
afternoon ’e got off ’n’ went for a stroll up town.
Terence saw ’im cornin’ ’n' crept into an empty oil-
drum to wait. He must’ve been breathin’ ’eavily or
“The tykes gave a kind of strangled
’owl ’n’ bolted. From the way
they went you’d’ve though:
they was tryin’ to get rid of
their tails.”
else ’e made some noise that
attracted Mulga, ’cos the dog
cotked one ear ’n’ trotted up to the
drum. When ’e was a few feet away ’e
stopped to sniff, then turned to bolt, but ’e
’adn’t a chance. A whirlin’, twistin’ ball of
claws ’n’ teeth struck ’im full amidships ’n’ ’ung
on to ’is back. Mulga shook the cat off ’n’ gave
one ’owl ’n’ bolted, ’n’ Gumbadubbin’s last dog van-
ished down the road in a cloud of red dust.”
The red-headed one drained his glass and sighed
gustily, “ ’N’ that was the end of dog-racin’ in Gum-
badubbin.”
I couldn’t think of anything to say, so I shuffled
my feet and asked, “What happened to Terence?”
He had walked towards the door, but stopped
to answer my question. “The last that was seen of
Terence O’Flanagan was a long rangy bit of fur ’n’
bone streakin’ through the mulga after a couple of
ole-man ’roos.”


More of the Parsley Word-mangling
DRJENKINS AND MRIDES
By Harold Mercer
ILLUSTRATED BY ARIA.
BUT for the sen-
sational news-
paper reports of
the disappear-
ance of the notorious
Enoch Nottaben, and
incidentally £40,000 in-
vested by trusting
clients, Mrs. Parsley might not have told me about
the mysterious Mr. Palder. Mrs. Parsley evidently
had read the full details of the Nottaben affair ; the
one paragraph that really interested her was the part
of the police report stating that the vanished Nottaben
had not been seen in his “elaborate and stylishly fitted”
flat for two weeks, and that six months’ rent was
owing.
Over that item the worthy Mrs. Parsley became,
as she put it, “speechless with indignation.” Which
meant that she was more voluble than ever.
“Doing” my room, she said, “It makes me sick to
read of a man like that, going off with all that money
and not paying his rent. I don’t call it at all honest.”
“You don’t look for honesty in a man who
behaves in that way, do you?” I asked.
“Even if a man is a thief he can at least be
honest,” said Mrs. Parsley firmly. “You’ve only to
take Mr. Palder, who was Number Seven. He might
have been a Dr. Jenkins and a Mr. Ides, as Mr. Slom-
pack once said, but he paid his rent as regularly as
one of them Garden angels. Even those who whispered
all sorts of things about him had to admit that he
was a perfect gentleman.
“A jolly man he was ; and his wife and he got
on so well together that Miss Perry said she was quite
sure they couldn’t be married, not legal. Miss Perry
is one of them who never seemed to have heard about
what that Honey swore. Mrs. Palder was a nice
woman, too, only she did like to put it on. And I
didn’t like the way she spoke about having Come
Down, as if living in these flats was that. But I
liked him very much. Everybody had to.
“ ‘Well, Mrs. Parsley,’ he’d say as he went out in
the evening, ‘l’m off to break into another bank.’
“I thought all that was a harmless joke until
the police came. Of course the breath of suspicion
falls on the just and unjust alike, and Mr. Palder
never seeming to do any work, but always prosperous
and going out every night, made people curious.
Especially Miss Perry. 'She thought he might be a
drug-runner, which she said madp a lot of money.
That about evil being to them as evil thinks applied
to Miss Perry!
“ ‘You might as well say that young Mr. Vingard
(he was Number Fourteen) is auspicious, too,’ I says.
‘He stays at home a lot during the day, and goes out
at night.’
“ ‘That’s silly,’ says Miss Perry. ‘Everybody
knows that young Mr. Vingard is interested in mission
work and is going to become a clergyman. But there’s
nothing to explain why Mr. Palder goes out at night,
except what his wife says about him going to his
club. Which I don’t believe! I’ve never heard him
coming home drunk yet—not on a single night.’
“That is what Mrs. Palder had told me: ‘Tom
is fond of the night life, although there isn’t much of
it in this country. Nothing to what we were used to
in London. Tom would like to take me out, but
I prefer to stay at home with a
book now, and I don’t interfere
with Tom.’
“IT wasn’t only Miss Perry ;
' a lot of people were curious
about Mr. Palder. Even Mr.
Slompack used to talk about
‘the mysterious Mr. Palder.’ Of
course, Mr. Slompack was
always fond of high-flowing
repertory.
“You’d better look out that
you’re not entertaining burglar’s
underwears,’ he says.
“ ‘Mr. Palder,’ I retorted,
‘is down on the electrical roll as
a gentleman, and I’m sure he
is that, and nobody can say
otherwise, about him.’
“ ‘You never know, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mr. Slompack.
‘He may be a nifty curious
character. For all you know
he is this Raffles burglar they’re
talking about so much.’
“ ‘You will have your little joke, Mr. Slompack,’
I says. But I began to think there might be, as Mr.
Slompack said, something nifty the night Miss Perry
showed me that report in the evening paper.
“It was all about another of those Raffles rob-
beries, and was headed ‘Raffles Robber Again:
Audrastic Thief Fools Maid.’ The robber had been
seen by a maid in the house, but he was lounging
on a couch smoking and told her he was waiting for
her mistress, who was his sister, to come home, and
had got in with a key she had given him. ‘You’d
better keep your eye on me, young lady,’ he says ;
‘I may be a burglar.’ Him joking like that made the
girl think it must be all right, and she left him alone,
only to find, when her mistress came home, that the
bird had flown and so had a lot of valuables. It
was because he did things like that they called him
the Raffles burglar, though I must say, at first, I
thought it had something to do with the lottery.
“ ‘There you are,’ says Miss Perry. ‘You say
there’s nothing queer about Mr. Palder because he
wouldn’t joke about breaking into banks if there
was. I suppose you’ll say this man wasn’t a burglar
because he joked like that?’
“That seemed inexhortable, as Mr. Slompack
says. It turned me into a doubting Thompson like
the others. It seemed to me a terrible thing that a
nice man like Mr. Palder might be a burglar; I’d
never had anything like that in my house before.
“I didn’t know what to do. At one time I
thought of asking Mr. Palder to go before anything
happened; but even if he was a burglar he was a
most respectable burglar. It certainly seemed to me
that if anything came out he would prove to be one
of those good burglars you read about who do their
burglaring to pay for an expensive operation for an
invalid sister or some other good purpose.
“And I was glad to see him talking a lot with
that Mr. Vingard, who he called ‘Padre,’ though he
wasn’t that yet—only a parson in embroglio, as Mr.
Slompack put it. I thought that perhaps, talking to.
him, he might see the terror of his ways and that
burgling wasn’t quite the right thing.
“In any case, I didn’t know that he was a burglar
at all; and it was not for me to throw the first stone
at the crows. But I do know that every time I saw
a detective coming near the place it made me feel
terribly frightened.
< < I T was Detective Frame and Detective O’Grady
* who did come at last. Them police are a deceit-
ful lot; oh, what a mangled web they weave the way
they practise to deceive, as Shakspeare says. They
pretended they was making inquiries about someone
who was missing, and wanted to know who had come
to stay at my flats during the last few months.
“I felt all of a-twitter. I’m a law-abiding citizen ;
but I would be a traitor to my sect if I betrayed a
tenant who was really such a nice man and paid his
rent regularly. So I tried to make the most of Mr.
Vingard and all about how he was interested in mis-
sions and was going to be a clergyman. They didn’t
seem to worry much about him.
“ ‘This Mr. Palder Thomas Palder, isn’t it?
What does he do for a living, do you know, Mrs.
Parsley?’ asked Detective Frame.
“It seemed to me that matters might look very
black for Mr. Palder if I told them he went out every
night without doing any work, so I said he was night
porter at a hotel, which was the only thing I could
think of that was done at night that was respectable
on the spurt of the moment.
“‘What hotel does he work at?’ asks O’Grady,
sharplike.
“ ‘Mr. O’Grady,’ I says, dignerfied, ‘I am not
my brother’s keepsake, and I do not ask where my
tenants work unless they tell me.’
“I wanted to warn poor Mr. Palder, who, I felt
sure, even if he was a burglar, was more sinned against
than sinning; but it is difficult to let a man know
you think he is a burglar.
“‘A terrible thing happened yesterday, Mr.
Palder,’ I said when I caught him in the morning. ‘lt
quite upset me. Two detectives came.’
“ ‘Aha, Mrs. Parsley, you are discovered! ’ he
says. Not a twitch on his face, mind you. ‘What
have you been doing' now?’
“ ‘I believe they’re after that Raffles burglar, and
they think he might have come here,’ I says. ‘Poor
fellow, I feel sorry for him.’
“I thought that might prompt him to let me into
his confidence trick, as they call it, and I wanted to
see how he took it.
“ ‘Ah, the net’s closing on that chap ; they’ll get
him yet,’ he says. He was as cool as a concubine.
“ ‘Them detectives are very auspicious,’ I says.
“He only laughed. ‘They’ll be arresting me yet,
I expect.’
“Him joking like that cheered me up ; but then
I thought of what the papers said about that Raffles.
“It seemed a pity, in a way ; if he’d only taken
me into his confidence trick I could have warned him,
and he could have got down the back stairs and out
the back way. But they were too quick for me. They
were upstairs before I could say Jack Robinson, if
I wanted to say anything so stupid.
“My heart felt quite heavy as I saw him go away
with them, though he was still as cool and undis-
cerned as could be. There was something terrible
about picturing a jolly soul like Mr. Palder being
locked behind iron bars.
“I was quite prepared to be sympathetic to poor
Mrs. Palder, with all her putting it on, when she came
downstairs. But she didn’t seem at all upset, as I
thought she would be.
“ ‘Some men from the police have been here to
get my husband to identify someone,’ she says. I
felt quite impatient with her, still putting on that
swank when her husband seemed to be in trouble, as
she must know, and trying to pretend that it was
something altogether different. But she was angry,
too.
“ ‘Some interfering fool has been saying that my
husband works in a hotel—night porter or something,’
she says. ‘Fancy! My husband—a man of impu-
dent means! I’d be obliged, Mrs. Parsley, if you hear
anyone saying anything like that if you’d put them
right. Night porter, indeed!’
“Fancy a woman going on about a simple thing
like that when her husband was in serious trouble!
From the way . she took it, I didn’t like to tell her
that it was me that said that, doing my best for her
husband.
“I WAS glad, I can tell you, to see him come back
again, although them detectives were still with
him, but soon they said good-bye and let him come
in. They had been standing beneath my window, so
I heard them calling him ‘Tom.’ That was something
I didn’t like. I’ve noticed that them detectives always
call a man they’re going to arrest Tom or Joe or Bill.
I suppose it’s to make it more friendly-like.
“What it seemed to me was that the net was
closing, as Mr. Palder himself said, and even if he’d
bluffed them for a time they were just waiting to
grab him. I was all the more sorry because Mr.
Vingard had had to go away, being appointed to a
mission in Balmain which he had to leave at once
to go to. It is always useful for a man if he gets
into trouble with the police, I’ve noticed, to have a
clergyman to go along and give him a good character,
even if he is a burglar. And although Mr. Vingard
wasn’t quite a clergyman, in embroglio is better than
nothing.
“But you talk of being audrastic! That very
night there was another of them Raffles robberies. It


seemed like flying into the face of improvidence. The
papers in the morning had a big account of it. That
Raffles, after robbing a place, had helped himself to
a good supper of cold chicken and champagne and
left a note of thanks for it.
“If I saw them detectives once that day I saw
them half a dozen times, passing the door and wait-
ing about the street corner; it worried me so much
that I had to ask Mrs. Palder if her husband was going
out that night.
“ ‘Why, of course he is!’ she says, as if surprised.
‘Tom couldn’t miss his club for the world.’
“She would swank, that woman! I felt inclined
to shake her. Aha, me lady, I says, pride comes before
a fall of snow ; but all the same I was very sorry for
him, and her, too, in what seemed bound to happen.
- “‘Off to rob another bank, Mrs. Parsley,’ he
says, as cool as ever, as he was going out.
“ ‘Don’t you think a little holiday in the country
would do you good, Mr. Palder?’ I asks.
“ ‘Think I need a holiday, eh?’ he asks, laughing.
“ ‘You’re not looking too well,’ I says.
“ ‘You want to get rid of us, I’m afraid, Mrs.
Parsley,’ he laughs. ‘lt’s not so easy.’
“As I said, you couldn’t help but like Mr. Palder.
Always so jolly, whatever happened.
“It was nearly midnight when the telephone began
to ring like mad. I seemed to know what it was
before I lifted the receiver.
“ ‘Police here,’ said the voice on the other end.
‘ls that Mrs. Palder? No? I want to speak to Mrs.
Palder. Tell her it’s about her husband.’
“ ‘l’ll tell her,’ I says, my heart all jumping.,
“I’ll say this, that she was extracted. She was
very fond of her husband.
“ ‘Oh, Mrs. Parsley, my husband has met with —
with an accident,’ she says. It seemed to me then
that even at the eleventh hour, when, as everyone
knows, graveyards yawn, she had to keep up her
swank. ‘He’s in hospital. I’ll have to go to him.’
“‘You pore soul!’ I says. ‘Can I do anything
for you? Could I come with you? It’s very late-.’
“But off she went by herself without saying any-
thing more. And she didn’t come back, although I
sat up nearly all night hoping to hear all about it.
<‘\\l HEN I did go to sleep I slept in. I was all
* late when I got up in the morning, and being
behind with my work I had no time to look at the
papers.
“And there, suddenly, was Mr. Palder! His
head was all bound up, and his arm was in a sling;
and he looked very pale.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘l’m afraid we’ll have
to be leaving you. Mrs. Palder doesn’t like going
on living here now. She won’t come back herself.
She asked me to come to fix with you and collect the
things.’
“‘Oh, Mr. Palder!’ I says. ‘l’m so sorry at
what’s happened. There’s no need for her to feel
like that about it. Did you get bail?’
“‘Get bail?’ he says; but he went on: ‘My wife
has got peculiar ideas. After all that was in the papers
this morning she doesn’t feel as if she could go on
living here.’
“ ‘l’ve been that busy I haven’t been able to get
a paper yet,’ I told him.
“ ‘Oh, here it is,’ he said. It gave me a bit of
a surprise—him carrying that paper and seeming
proud of it all —but blunders never cease. On the
paper I saw the headlines, as big as the Harbor Bridge:
“ I felt all of a-twitter.”
‘Raffles Caught. Night Watchman’s Pluck. Injured,
Holds Robber.’
Im sorry, Mr. Palder,’ I says. ‘Even if you
were a burglar, Im sure you were a good burglar.
“‘Burglar!’ he exclaims. You’d need one of
them excavation-marks to write it down the way he
said it. '1 caught Raffles, Mrs. Parsley. Mrs. Palder
is a bit sore with me getting my name in the papers
like that. It’s an honest living, I say; but, you know,
Mrs. Palder is a bit peculiar. She doesn’t like people
to know I’m a night-watchman.’
“Did you ever hear the likes! There it was in
blackened white, as the saying is, in the paper, all
about how brave he’d been in tackling that Raffles.
“ ‘You’ll be surprised about who Raffles was.
Look here,’ he said, pointing to the end of the report.
Til read it! Edward Jones, alias Egbert Halliday,
alias Tilton Vingard, alias Rev. Tilton Vingard. That’s
'R a ffl es j’
« T , , , u . T ■
, I "early dropped through the floor ; but I knew
then ' vI V that s™“? V, ”S ard had bee " , ca ! ed a ™*
to a mlsslon elsewhere after them detectives had
come to the flats.
“But I will say this,” concluded Mrs. Parsley,
“even if Mr. Palder was a Dr. Jenkins and Mr. Ides
and Mr. Vingard was a thief, they was both honest,
They paid their rent.”
WAITING
BY LES ROBINSON.
MUCH of my life has been spent, or misspent,
in waiting—for something or someone to turn
up, for things to become better or worse, for
day to break, for night to fall, for tides to
come in or go out, for wind, lakes and rivers to rise
or subside, for rain to cease or commence, for proces-
sions to pass, for trams, trains, buses or ferries, for hours
and hours in shelter-sheds, in queues, in old and faulty
motor-cars, in hairdressing-saloons, dentists’, doctors',
fortune-tellers’ and opticians’ consulting-rooms, on
doorsteps, park seats, street corners or forms, chairs
and benches, usually hard ones too (but never sofas
or beds), provided for the purpose at banks, hospitals,
council chambers, refreshment-rooms, termini, concert
halls, Government, businessmen’s and post offices.
And it looks as though the bulk of the remainder
of my allotted span is likely to be spent, or misspent,
in exactly the same way or ways, too.
A large, perhaps the larger, portion of other
people’s lives meets, it would seem, with a similar fate.
Massed waiting is prevalent; in fact, far too much so,
especially as seating accommodation always seems to
be insufficient, in the ppinion of the dupes or victims
(long-suffering) of the haphazard, the erratic, the
absentminded, the unreliable, the circumlocutory, the
never-ready, the laggards and sluggards, the thieves
of time, the confirmed and arrant humbugs in our
midst. The old adage, “All things come to those who
wait,” which, unless two of the “things” are boredom
and inconvenience, I myself have always found
fallacious, may have something to do with it.
T' HERE is an art in waiting. It can be, but usually
* isn’t, cultivated. Some people can’t keep still.
They fidget, they pace restlessly to and fro. If obliged
to hang about for long they fume, make faces, glance
at clocks and watches every few minutes, glare at
bystanders and mutter to themselves. Others become
every waiting moment more and more self-conscious,
even to the extent of imagining that policemen or
detectives, disguised as mere idlers, are unobtrusively
but none the less intently scrutinising them. Others
again, having become inured, resigned, much as they
may detest it, to waiting, muse, brood, drowse, read,
play solitaire, do crossword puzzles, write letters,
attempt to mend watches, add chapters to their
memoirs or untangle string.
Having been subjected to what at times seem
centuries of always profitless waiting, I can claim
myself to have become as patient as a ceratodus.
After the first few forlorn hours have gone by I invari-
ably, if so fortunate as to have found a place in which
it is possible to sit or lie down, fall asleep. Often when
the person or persons for whom I have been con-
strained to wait turn up at last, they are unable,
because of night by that time having fallen, to find
and wake me, which is advantageous really, as it
prevents me from being infuriated by their callous
indifference, their hypocritical, glib and pusillanimous
explanatory mendacity, their feeble, their clumsy, their
hackneyed excuses, their brazen effrontery and grins,
their even waggish air sometimes of having had a
harmless little joke at my expense.
Musicians, though their physique is seldom such
as to justify them in the belief that they are fitted to
withstand the strain imposed even upon the most
robust by waiting, have, for some perverse and obscure
reason, attempted to idealise it. Innumerable are the
piano pieces, violin, cornet, trombone, concertina,
ukulele and organ solos and songs, for the most part
gently and dolefully remonstrant, mawkish or merely
maundering, entitled “Waiting at the Church,” “Always
I’ll Be Waiting,” “I’m Waiting for You,” “Waiting
for the Robert E. Lee,” etc.
Being devoid of vehemence and exasperation, of
bellicose and fortissimo crescendos indicating patience
worn to a thread and snapping at last, suggesting, as
so many of these nearly-always-sentimental composi-
tions do to a wishy-washy extent instead, stuffy draw-
ing-rooms in which well-fed suburbanites are sitting
at pianos or pianolas, whiling away, as an aid to
digestion and in a tranquil frame of mind, an after-
dinner hour or two, they are none of them even dis-
tantly, if indeed at all, related to the stark, the naked,
the tiresome and ageing truth.
The screeching of rusty and ungreased axles or
brakes, the howling of thwarted wolves, of dissatisfied
dingoes, of dogs when left chained up in backyards
while their owners are at the pictures, the bawling of
storm-tossed and disconsolate sea-lions, even the moo-
ing of neglected cows when it is long past milking-
time, express in sound to a much more adequate
extent the real mood engendered by the discomfort of
lengthy and enforced waiting; or “cooling one’s heels,”
as it is so aptly termed, especially when water in the
depth of winter is trickling on to them off a raincoat
or saturated trousers.
AITING-ROOMS, tram ones in particular, seem
* “ to have been designed for the purpose of dis-
couraging rather than encouraging waiting. As often
as not they face the quarter whence the foulest
weather, with much greater frequency than the mild
and inoffensive kind, creeps stealthily or, like a bin-
jang, swoops full tilt upon the luckless, if tramless,
wayfarer who has left his storm-proof apparel and
accessories, always supposing he possesses any, at
home.
All such edifices have only one back wall each
and two quarter, or abbreviated, walls for sides. They
are wide open in front, do not button down it and
in consequence are at the mercy of the elements which
rarely, if ever, have any. The seats are the hard prison
kind, put there presumably in order to make the sit-
ting portion of the occupant’s body, if it remains long
upon them, ache, so that, in desperation and self-
defence, no matter how fatigued he may be, he is
obliged, unless, of course, he is wearing padded
trousers or has brought a cushion with him, to do
most of his waiting on foot.
The lighting is the kind one would expect to
find in countries which do not wish the populace to
be enlightened and therefore discourage reading. As
though his cup of discomfort, in
wet and windy weather especially,
were not already overflowing, the
damp and shivering waiting-room
occupant is denied the only solace
—in such and similar adverse cir-
cumstances a solace indeed —that
the bleakness of his sorry plight
and surroundings most undoubt-
edly demands. Forgetting this
momentarily, he makes himself a
cigarette or fills and is about to
light his pipe, but has no sooner
done so than the notice “NO
SMOKING. PENALTY £2” ob-
trudes itself on his gaze.
Only those who have used
waiting-rooms nocturnally, in order
to evade housework and obviate
the necessity of owing rent, realise
fully how unsuitable for all wait-
ing purposes they are really, unless,
of course, among such purposes
being struck by lightning or catch-
ing one’s death of cold may be
numbered, in which case no better
or more likely waiting-places than
the tram kind could possibly be
devised.


LUCA
it
KING
OF
THE
ROAD
IJffTll
f o*>
SooS
0\
o • •
mm
TijTTwilSa
********
The Canadian
Australasian Line y s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(a omdimQti^
Delicate Romancing.
There is genuine delicacy and poetic feeling in
Felicita, by R. E. Spencer (Cassell), a story designed
to capture the feeling of an old American house whose
owners have either died or been drawn away into the
swirl of modern life. In one important particular the
author has yielded to a facile romanticism that will
displease or charm according to the taste of the reader.
To the old house, on the invitation of its latest
owner —a man who wouldn’t live in it at any price—
comes Malcolm Burke. He has earned distinction in
journalism. He is in poor health, believes himself to
be merely run down, but is actually worn out and
dying.
The old place, tumbledown but beautiful even in
decay, lays its charm on him. He spends his days
wandering from room to room, sitting still for hours
at a time, speculating on the personalities of those who
once used the furnishings, standing at windows look-
ing out across the surrounding scene.
The house is occupied by three old colored ser-
vants glad to have the care of someone with which to
fill their lives. A little at a time Burke makes friends
with them and gradually hears the story of the house’s
former occupants. This part, the characters of the
servants, their guarded attitude toward Burke, the
slow ripening of their confidence, their perception that
he is a dying man and their protectiveness toward him,
is beautifully and convincingly done.
Burke has been haunted all his life by the desire
to write a novel, one that must concern itself only with
beauty. Here, then, is a theme to his hand. He
begins, heads off in the wrong direction, makes another
start, and out of his brooding there arises a figure to
help him, a hallucination, Felicita, who enters his
room late one night through the closed door. She is
his constant companion from then on. She goes
with him in his midnight ramblings through the
house. She is with him when he collapses and dies in
the garden.
Felicita is very charming, but it seems rather
obvious. The finely-natured old man, dying, and the
sweetly-natured young girl in the romantic garb of
an earlier generation. However, the old house is really
felt. In that the book succeeds.
Science Made Plain.
The best book describing for the layman the
present condition of the physical sciences is
undoubtedly, at the moment, Atoms, Men and Stars
(Angus and Robertson; Bs. 6d.), by an American
writer, Dr. Rogers D. Rusk.
A professor of physics, Dr. Rusk must be an
excellent lecturer, for, while he has a lively style and
imagination, his respect for fact is profound, and
with him the temptation to romanticise, not always
resisted even by Jeans and Eddington, is sternly
curbed. He gives the facts —or the facts as they
stood at about the end of last year and makes
these abundantly interesting.
He is clearer than any other writer on the subject
of the physical basis of matter. From the measure-
ments he gives of atoms and electrons it is possible
to get some sort of an idea as to their relative
dimensions. A model of an atom sufficiently large
for its electrons to be discernible without a micro-
scope would be a sphere 633 ft. in diameter —four of
Sydney’s tallest office buildings piled one on top of
the other would be overshadowed by it. In this vast
mass an electron would be represented by a little
speck one-hundredth of an inch in diameter. It
is not at all clear thaf even that little speck would be
visible in a faithful model. It is termed a “particle,”
but nobody has ever seen it and it may be a mere
centre of electrical energy.
Anyhow, there are fewer than 500 of them in an
atom of the densest known substance. The rest is
clear space. If you could cramp these electrons and
other “ons”—photons, protons, neutrons and posi-
trons, and the yet undetected but suspected negatrons
and neutrinons into contact you’d have matter
unimaginably heavy. “A thimbleful of protons
with no empty space might approach a million tons
in weight.”
But no laboratory machine can compress atoms
to that extent. The best that can be compassed is
500,0001 b. to the square inch, under which water
(they taught us at school that it was incompressible)
has been reduced to one-fifth its bulk and ice has
been squeezed into a substance nearly as heavy as
iron. Consider the tremendous force that holds the
components of the atom so rigidly in their orbits
(oh, yes, they fly around at enormous speed); that’s
what the writer of popular newspaper articles on
science means when he says there’s enough power
locked up in a glass of water to drive a liner like
the Empress of Britain right around the globe. But,
as Dr. Rusk makes clear, there’s no immediate pros-
pect of unlocking it. It might take more power than
the job’s worth. But though the laboratory workers
can’t undo atoms (save in a very piecemeal manner)
they can alter atoms and they can change one element
into another. Alchemy is no longer an old fairy-tale,
but a new branch of science.
Dr. Rusk’s exposition of the Einstein theories,
of Planck’s quantum, and of the discoveries of the
radiologists, from Rontgen to the younger Curie,
tempt quotation, but these subjects are best not
nibbled at. The concluding chapter, “God and the
Scientists,” suggests modestly that science and
religion are not entirely separate realms, a conclusion
which can hardly be quarrelled with when one con-
siders the average doctor of philosophy’s concept of
religion. “ Machines and Man’s Future ” counters
pessimism by recalling that in the long run science
always provides a lot more employment than it
takes away.
Morris was the most famous of the modern romanti-
cists, Maurice Hewlett picked up the waning torch.
He leaned somewhat heavily toward sentiment, but
his Song of Renny was in the direct line. James
Stephens and Lord Dunsany dabbled in it, with a
bias toward fantasy. James Branch Cabell with his
twist of Gallic humor brought it well into the lime-
light again with his Jurgen and The Silver Stallion ;
now it lifts its head in France.
The Song of the World has all the hall-marks
of authenticity—the tale of love and courage, strong
men striving, the timeless setting with a medieval
flavor, the heroical flourish, the even manner of
telling, as of events related long after the passion
that had caused them was stilled, the journey that is
as much de rigueur in a romance of this type as the
restaurant scene in a musical comedy.
The setting is the French Alps, and the story tells
how Antonio of the Isle of Jays, called Golden Mouth,
and Sailor, an old man, set out to look for Sailor’s
red-headed son Danis, whom they fear has been
drowned while floating timber down the river. They
come to the Rebeillard country, ruled over by Maudru,
a sinister cattle king, and find that, far from being
dead, Danis had run away with Maudru’s daughter and
killed his nephew. Danis and his bride are rescued,
not without dust and heat. Sailor find's death and
Antonio the blind woman whom he loves at first sight.
It is all unreal enough by the standards of com-
monsense. It makes its own reality as it goes along.
It is well named, for it has something of the quality
of a song. It gets you in the end and begins to
run in your head like a tune. The prose is smooth
and rich, ornamental with fantastic images—a heart
“like a toad lying in a foliage of blood,” “meadow-
saffron eyelids,” “the earth was soft like the flesh of a
dead beast.” The scenery, which is a big feature of
the. book, has the flavor of that classical romanticism
which informs Corot’s landscapes.
It was open country, ploughed all over and surging
like the sea; its horizons slept under a misty haze. It
was composed of wooded hills, covered with red earth
and clusters of twisted pine-trees, of tilled valleys and
small plains with one or two farmsteads, of villages
stuck on the tops of rocks like honeycombs.
The characters are delineated in the romantic
manner, smoothly turned lay-figures, universal at the
expense of their individuality. The dialogue is man-
nered and elliptical but effective. This is love at first
sight:
We went in, we drank a pint. She went to the
cupboard, wiped the glasses and handed them round:
here’s yours, here’s mine, bang on the table. She
brought in the bottle. She poured out. She leant her
head aslant as she poured, just to look at the brim and
not to spill the liquor. One day, at the farm, my sister
helped me to a drink. Lean a bit more, I say to her.
No, not the same. All day long I had the other way
of leaning before my eyes. Nothing like it. Neither
that nor the fingers nor the motion. Only going to
the cupboard, opening it, taking the glasses, turning
round, coming towards the table where 1 sat, only that.
You might have put a thousand women to it, not one
would have done it like that. But she could do it, she
could. I wonder . . . Finally I proposed to her. She
said yes.
There are less, interesting ways of telling it.
Reviewed Briefly.
Verse . . .
The Perfect Debutante: Adrian Porter (Collins).
Collection of very light verse about debs, and other
virile subjects. The Eton-Harrow match, for
instance:
A vision dressed in crepe de Chine
Once caused a most distressing scene
By asking young Lord Chiselhurst
“Suppose the bowler gets out first?”
Another, noticing the wicket,
Remarked “Some boys are playing cricket.”
Sailortown Chanties and Troopship Memories:
Captain Jack Hamilton (Joseph Grantery). Songs
with a swing to them by a man who knows sailing-
craft and verse-craft.
General ...
Father Brown on Chesterton: John O’Connor
(Muller). Original of G.K.’s pleasant sleuth practises
detection on his creator. His fossicking in dusty
places isn’t remarkably interesting.
New Frontiers of the Mind: J. B. Rhine (Faber).
Clairvoyance and telepathy tested under laboratory
conditions with playing-cards. Two exciting moments
in 300 pages, and no wildly interesting conclusions.
A record of sound, careful work.
A Book of Famous Dogs-: Albert Payson Ter-
hune (Angus and Robertson). True dog stories
ranging from Alcibiades’ unfortunate pup to
Strongheart of the fillums. Terhune is famous for
his dog yarns, and this job is up to standard.
Fiction . . .
The Journey : Robert Eton (Nicholson and Wat-
son). After five years of the rough-and-tumble of a
travelling showman’s life Nigel Emsworth is restored
to his true position in society and the arms of the
woman he loves..
I Can Get It for You Wholesale: Jerome Weid-
man (Heinemann). American low comedy with a
dash of false sentiment. The leading character
swindles workmen by organising bogus trade unions,
but he’s full of wisecracks, a great hit with the girls
and kind to his mother.
A Love Like That: David Garth (Angus and
Robertson). Playboy inheritor of the Blair Steamship
Company is jolted into a sense of his personal respon-
sibilities through the love of a Texas lass.


i
a
i
- s
J
sets a NEW QUALITY Standard
THERE IS A NEW SPIHIT IN THE SUPER SHELL PUMPS
THE SHELL COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
S3B/14J.


X
.. ' V
mm
nni
a* -m
•*
< e
vM ; -
m
H
:-
sm
4
1
1
1
1
m
■V. ;:-
mm
lr
li
a


TUNING-IN AGAIN.
"I' ve communicated with London, Thorby, and everything’s ‘jake’.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted ’ Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ); 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
RESULT OF A PLEBISCITE.
The plebiscite on Austrian union with Germany
simply confirmed what the world already knew —that
overwhelming majorities in both countries desired the
union and were, determined to have it. The vote
demonstrated that, far from Herr Hitler’s march into
Austria being in the nature of an attack on a foreign
country, to be compared, as it was, with the rape of
Belgium, the intrusion was joyfully welcome to nearly
all the Austrians who belong to the German race.
The plebiscite has, of course, been grossly mis-
represented by those who held it to be our sacred
duty to go to war to prevent any alteration in the
artificial rearrangement of Europe botched up in an
avenging spirit at Versailles. But no amount of mis-
representation, nor of the abuse that has gone with
it, can upset the plain truth that the countries con-
cerned in the union would themselves have gone
unitedly to war against any threat to thwart the
consummation desired by both.
That is the stubborn fact. In the total vote the
percentage in favor of the union was 99.08 p.c.:
Germany, 98.47 p.c. ; Austria, 99.65 p.c. The total
number eligible to vote throughout the world was
49,546,950. The total vote was: Yes, 48,799,269 ;
No, 452,180; invalid, 75,342. Germany voted: Yes,
44,531,450; No, 440,899; invalid, 69,647. Austria:
Yes, 4,267,819 ; No, 11,281 ; invalid, 5695. Add that
in Germany 45,041,996 voted out of a total of
45,248,858 eligible, and in Austria 4,284,795 out of
4,298,092, and the evidence would appear to be con-
clusive enough to convince the most bigoted objector
to the union.
It did not convince the “S. M. Herald.” Drawing
on the mantle of bigotry, the Old Lady of Hunter-
street greeted the cabled results of the plebiscite with
an astounding outburst of bad temper. No doubt she
is ashamed of it all now; she has reason to be. If
a cadet on her staff had committed blunders compar-
able with those made in the leading article with which
she sought to convince her readers that Austrian white
was German black he would have been sacked.
Determined to make out a case against the union
at all cost, the silly old girl put herself under the
necessity of printing two versions of her one very
angry leader. Dwellers on the north side of the harbor
had the one version served up with their morning
toast; dwellers on the south side had the other ver-
sion. Northsiders got this:
The world may observe some other curious details,
too. At the Reichstag elections for 1936 there were
45,408,191 enrolled electors in Germany who cast their
votes nearly all for Hitler. Yet to-day the electors
inside Germany number apparently only 41,060,095!
Leaving aside natural increase, have the other four
millions-odd died or forfeited Nazi rights?
What anguish ensued when somebody cast an
eye from that outburst to the figures of the German
voting in the cables a couple of columns away it
would be more charitable to forget than to imagine.
For—as a glance at the results will establish —the lost
four millions that excited “Granny’s” altruistic soli-
citude had neither “died” nor “forfeited their Nazi
rights,” but had inconsiderately rolled up and voted.
The total was 45,041,996.
The faux pas did not appear for breakfast on
the south side of the harbor. The version served up
on the south side read:
The world may observe some other curious details,
too. For one thing, the polling stations in Germany
were conveniently equipped with Storm Troopers, whose
function was “to round up laggards” ; for another, all
unmarked ballot-papers were counted as favorable, thus
outmanoeuvring the voter in his only possible compro-
mise between his convictions and his fears.
Though “Granny” omitted to say so, the only author-
ity for that substitution was a correspondent of
London “Daily Telegraph,” the Vienna correspon-
dent of which paper was expelled from Austria a fort-
night ago. Still, there was that gaping hole in the
leader, and it had to be filled with something, even
if the filling—the suggestion that all those figures of
the plebiscite can be dismissed as a nightmare product
of voters flogged to the booths and there voting against
their true convictions and out of craven fear —is so
simple and childish as to verge on feeblemindedness.
In the vote taken off Sydney Heads, with no
“Storm Troopers” to “round up” the voters, every one
of the 24 Austrians and 248 out of the 250 Germans
voted in favor of union. Off Auckland (M.L.) about
98 p.c. of the votes favored union, and in the vote
taken off England, of 1167 Germans and 801 Aus-
trians, only five of each were against. In short, the
plain historic truth is that both outside and inside
their countries the German and Austrian people “felt
the call like magic and gloried in it.”
“Granny,” setting out on her heresy hunt, had
got astride the unhappy nag Misfortune. Her very
angry leader (both original and hastily amended ver-
sions) went on to say that
some two and a half millions of the former Austrian
population were not eligible, through distranchisement
or disappearance.
If anything, this was an even worse blunder than
the other. Reference to the plebiscite results will show
that the total vote cast in Austria was 4,284,795. At
the 1934 census Austria’s total population was
6,762,687. The difference approximates “Granny’s”
missing two and a half millions. All “Granny” over-
looked was that a total population includes adoles-
cents, juveniles and babies in arms.
It might be felt that in these statistical aspects
“Granny” plumbed the depths of contemptible special
pleading, but some allowance should be made for the
circumstances. At the moment the old soul is under
the necessity of turning not one but several somer-
saults, and the indignity of it is unbearable. It is
enough to make any respectable old lady bad-
tempered. Until Mr. Chamberlain made it clear that
Anglo-Itajian friendship was to be a positive part of
Britain’s foreign policy no paper in the Empire was
more viciously hostile to Italy than “S. M- Herald.”
Not being such a facile performer of acrobatics as
Sydney “Sun,” “Granny” cannot fall in line with the
new direction of British foreign policy overnight.
Then there were the eclipse of Mr. Eden, the
collapse of the League of Nations and the shocking
exposures of the rottenness of Soviet Russia, as well
as the stubborn disinclination of people here and in
Britain to be stampeded into any of the crusades
considered necessary to uphold the fantasies or the
existence of one or another of those once glorified
idols—a severe affront to the self-esteem of an honest
soul who had always kept herself in the van of that
glorifying.
As to the general results of the plebiscite in rela-
tion to the world at large, there is nothing whatever
to be gained here or anywhere else by remaining
stupidly annoyed and incredulous. The union, favored
by the enormous majority of the people concerned in
it, has been accomplished and ratified. The map of
Europe has to be redrawn with an enlarged and
closely united Germany in the centre of it. Even
those most disturbed —with reason —by Germany’s
painfully reminiscent display of force should find con-
solation in the fact that with this passing of Austria
passes yet another of the more dangerous potential
causes of yet another European war. That is matter
for nothing but relief, and none will appreciate it
more than those who did the actual fighting against
the Germans in the last war —The Diggers who, a few
days hence, will be reaffirming in their Anzac Day
gatherings their devotion to peace, their belief in
preparedness and their contempt for those who, in
time of peace, go crusading for interventionist wars.
"R.A.S."
Australians had the hardihood to consider holding
their first “fair” just over 125 years ago. In the same
year, spurred by the initiative of Macquarie, they
discussed the forming of the first agricultural society.
This scheme remained in abeyance till 1822, because
the Governor wished the new body to admit emanci-
pists, a provision to which haughtier settlers objected.
The pioneer fair was held at Parramatta; and “hun-
dreds of the most respectable inhabitants” attended.
There were then 30,000 acres under cultivation. A sort
of census taken at the end of Biigh’s reign, three years
before, had shown 703 settlers working land ; 383 of
these were on small holdings (30 acres was the limit)
between Sydney and the Hawkesbury. Only 26
farmers had over 300 acres.
Including land not in use, the inhabited area was
then 1480 sq. miles. There were not quite 7000 acres
under wheat, 6000 acres under maize and a few
hundred acres under barley, oats and potatoes.
John Macarthur held nearly one-third of the sheep,
the Macarthur flock numbering over 5000. The biggest
cattle-owner next to the Government was Laycock, a
former quartermaster of the Rum Corps, who had
four bulls, 97 cows and 72 working bullocks.
On the 383 small holdings there were 12 bulls,
69 cows, 33 bullocks, 1379 sheep, 484 goats and 2373
swine. But many of the settlers had no stock
at all. They lived in bark sheds, open at one
end to the weather. The giant trees of the Hawkes-
bury flats were taken out without heavy haulage or
“forest devils.” The ground was cultivated with hoes.
Floods came down and swept away the crops,
and wheat rose in price. Sometimes it cost several
pounds a bushel, and bread was once ss. a loaf.
Sometimes the Government had recourse to catching
kangaroos to feed its soldiers.
But the colonists had their fair, as they had their
horseraces. They became the fathers of hundreds of
shows. And within a year the Illawarra had been
colonised ; within two years the Blue Mountains had
been crossed ; within little over a decade from the date
of the Bligh rebellion occupied territory measured
140,000 square miles. Flocks and herds were pouring
out over the Bathurst Plains and up the Hunter, and
Alexander Berry was preparing to turn the Illawarra
into one of the richest pieces of dairying country in
the world.
Followed the great agricultural companies, with
their purebred cattle and their skilled farmers. In
1827 the Van Diemen’s Land Company imported the
first Shorthorn bull of which there is a recorded
pedigree. At the 1938 Sydney Royal Show the Van
Diemen’s Land Company is still showing pedigreed
beef cattle. Cattle bred from its superb early stock
improved the blood of unnumbered thousands of
beasts which have walked through Australian show-
rings in the 111 years since the first importations.
From the beginning the Australian show was
different from its grandmother, the English agricul-
tural fair. England’s Royal Show is a movable festi-
val, held on casual grounds in a different centre every
year. Its buildings are makeshift, though its organi-
sation is superb. It shows good stock and good agricul-
tural exhibits. The Bath and West and the Highland
shows have the same characteristics. But they and
the American exhibitions, with the exception of the
Canadian ones, such as Toronto —the only thing of
its kind which comes near Sydney in size and spirit
—are specialist, single-purpose affairs.
The character of Australian shows, particularly
Sydney, the mother of them all, belongs to Australia
exclusively. The solidity of the buildings, the stock-
housing arrangements, the ever-increasing competi-
tion in district exhibits, the spirit of friendly emula-
tion and the splendid organisation which has succeeded
in superimposing a vast township of secondary-
industry displays on an old-time agricultural exhibi-
tion structure are things which make the overseas
visitor wonder. So does the audacity with which the
organisers have added a touch of the circus in buck-
jumping displays and other competitions with a special
appeal to Australians.
Sydney Royal is managed—very cheaply for a
business of its size—by a council of businessmen and
pastoralists, with literally the co-operation of every
section of the community. The council’s work is rarely
heard of, it is done so unobtrusively. Its secretary is
a Digger who came back from the wars with a repu-
tation as an organiser and with a D. 5.0., and on him
falls the bulk of the detail.
There is considerable detail. The task of passing
several hundred thousand people through a confined
space, of arranging for them to see everything, and of
keeping them safe from fire and the general dangers
which beset' crowds is no ordinary one. Yet it is always
done smoothly ; and the same applies to the other big
Australian' shows.
The crowds themselves are a sight for the stranger
to see. Every year they seem to improve in health and
physique, and they are good-tempered always. They
were good-tempered even in the depression years,
when the least of their worries was that they had to
cut down their spending. A day at the Show will
give the inquiring stranger a better idea than any
number of books could give him of the quality of the
manhood and womanhood that made the nation, and
of the energy and understanding that have gone into
the building of businesses like McKay’s and Anthony
Horderns’ and a hundred more.
The Royal Agricultural Society in every State
has become an asset which pays substantial dividends.
The work of these societies, even though it has
expanded into new exhibition avenues, is no longer
confined to a few days of the year. The N. S. Wales
R.A.S., apart from its main function, has become a
rallying-point for better farming. It holds a winter
sheep show. It manages the affairs of most herdbook
societies, helps in the training of young landmen. It
keeps up a year-long campaign, supported by a steady
flow of prize-money, to promote pasture-improvement,
fodder-conservation and increase of stock and grain
yields.
Each Australian State could do without its imita-
tion House of Commons, as Queensland has done
without its imitation House of Lords (the others still
have their imitations); but no State could do without
its Royal Show.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Settlement.
The British and Italian Governments have arrived
at an agreement which is creditable to the good sense
and good feeling of both. It is not to take effect until
the Italians helping General Franco are withdrawn,
but as the civil war has evidently entered upon its last
stage for one thing Barcelona and the Catalans
have been isolated from Valencia and Madrid—that
should not be long delayed.
Britain, for its part, allows that the Mediter-
ranean, for Italy, “is life itself,” and virtually agrees
to recognise the conquest of Abyssinia, as nearly every
country in Europe has done already, though it will
preface recognition with a formal reference of the
matter to the League. Italy accepts the position that
the Mediterranean is a highway vital to the British
Empire, and freedom of passage in the Suez Canal
is pronounced a necessity by both parties. And there
is to be an exchange of information on armaments
and fortifications in the Mediterranean and the Red
Sea.
The agreement shatters Left Wing newspaper
prophecies which have become part and parcel of
the cablegrams spread before Australian readers, and
have been accepted as gospel by Australian journals
which should have known better.
Spain is not to be carved up by “the Fascist
Powers.” The Balearics will not become Italian pos-
sessions. There will be no Italian invasion of Egypt,
Arabia, Iraq, Palestine or Spanish Morocco. And
the waters of the Nile will flow unvexed from the
source to the sea.
Australians and Maorilanders have every reason
to be grateful that the Chamberlain foreign policy has
borne such good fruit. Their future would be clouded
if, because of the bankruptcy of statesmanship, they
were dragged into unnecessary wars with countries
which, in the desperation which war breeds, might
raid their coasts and bomb their cities. It is known
that Mr. Chamberlain has set his heart, not only on
ending the crazy quarrel with Italy, but on improving
the relations between Italians and French and between
French and Germans. He aims indeed at a Four-
Power Agreement, though fanatics and trouble-
makers will do their best (and worst) to prevent it.
No Australian Wanted.
By way of showing that they are still “tuning-in to
Britain,” and are still “colonials” in thought and
feeling, Mr. Lyons and Mr. Thorby announced last
week that they proposed to seek out “a high officer of
the British Army” and make him “Inspector-General
of Military Defence.”
It seems that they have no particular high officer
in mind, but they are sure that the British Army
could furnish a multitude of suitable high officers, if
required. In a communication to the press, Mr.
Thorby said that “the appointment would probably
be for two years, at the end of which time it might
be possible to fill the vacancy by the appointment
of an Australian officer.”
Mr. Thorby, it should be explained, is Minister
of Defence. He succeeded Mr. Parkhill, who was
rejected by his constituents in October. Of neither
Minister can it be said that he qualified for his highly
responsible position by service or study.
In the early days of the Commonwealth it was
the practice to hand the Defence portfolio to the
least important politician chosen by the P.M. or by
Caucus to make up the Ministry, the idea being that
anyone could look after it. After one of these appoint-
ments a rugged old Scot entertained the Senate with
an account of how he and other members of the party
had inveigled their Minister into a fort when the
artillerymen were about to fire their biggest gun, the
interesting sequel being that “it nearly frightened him
out of his wits.” No doubt Mr. Thorby is made of
sterner stuff, but it is questionable whether he knows
any more about the job to which he has been
promoted than the Minister who was gun-shy, or that
other predecessor (lie, admittedly, was of more Cabinet
consequence) who defended the proposed purchase
of destroyers of the River class on the ground that
they could go up rivers.
It seems improbable that Mr. Thorby has read
the Official History of the A.I.F. campaign, volume
by volume, or Mr. Lyons either. If P.M. and Minister
had read these volumes, and profited by the reading,
they would know that there are in Australia at this
moment men who are in every way competent for the
post which has been vacant since Chauvel laid it
down, and any one of whom would be more likely to
make a success of it than any officer the Government
is likely to get for two years from Britain.
There is Brudenell White, and there is William
Glasgow. Each has proved himself a master of the
science of war, and both have five years to go before
they reach the age at which Foch was made General-
issimo. There is Charles Rosenthal, whose talents
are wasted in Norfolk Island. And in the A.M.F.
there is Lavarack and there is Jess. This is Jess’s
record, in brief:
Staff captain to Monash’s Brigade at the Landing;
brigade-major of the 2nd Infantry Brigade till after the
Evacuation; commander of the 7th Battalion, March,
1916, to March, 1917; instructor at Senior Officers’
School, Aldershot; G.S.O. II at Australian Corps Head-
quarters; G.S.O. I of Third Division; Commander
10th Infantry Brigade, October, 1918 (at 34); Director-
General of Repatriation and General Officer Command-
ing A.I.F. (for two months), 1919; Camberley (1920);
Commandant in three States (Tasmania, Westralia and
Victoria) and Adjutant-General.
Is it conceivable that superior credentials are
possessed by any British officer willing to take a
Dominion job and gamble with his chances of pro-
motion for two years? In any case, why should
Lavarack, who was placed at the head of the army in
1935, now have to take orders from a newcomer?
Why shouldn’t he be promoted?
Diggers are arriving in the capital cities for Anzac
Day ceremonies. Mr. Lyons and Mr. Thorby will
be well advised to suppress any inclination they may
have to explain to the Diggers that there is no Aus-
tralian who could make a good fist of the Inspector-
ship-General, but that “it might be possible” to
appoint an Australian at the end of two years.
For the Veterans.
The establishment of a War Veterans’ Home in N. S.
Wales to which worn-out Diggers may retire for peace
and comfort will give a sovereign chance to those who
wish to celebrate Anzac Day with a little gift of
kindness.
It is proposed to spend £50,000 on the building
and equipment of a home at Narrabeen, north of
Sydney. Narrabeen has its attractions, but it is
scarcely the most alluring site. Its foggy, reed-edged
lakes and swampy beach lands may, in the case of
some inmates, be too reminiscent of Flanders and
duckboards.
A far better spot would be Dame Eadith Walker’s
old home at Yaralla, Concord, now at the disposal
of the State Government. The purpose is one which
Dame Eadith herself would have thoroughly approved,
and the big estate and its extensive gardens would
provide the Diggers with occupation and amusement
in peaceful and delightful surroundings. However,
if Yaralla is out of the question, the Narrabeen pro-
ject certainly deserves support.
Nor should the thing be left altogether to public
subscription. Every year there will be more and more
men who have broken down under the delayed strain
of war fatigue and war memories. Every State should
have its national home to which they would have the
right to retire, instead of dying neglected, forgotten, as
so many have done.
We Must Have the Best.
At the risk of startling the officialdom which hangs
round the neck of Australian aviation, P. G. Taylor,
one of Australia’s most experienced flying men, has
been telling the public about flying-boats of 100 tons
burden, capable of carrying a 30-ton payload, and
with a range of 3000 miles. This when officialdom
is about to terminate three years of almost Olympian
hesitation and Trojan argument by building several
seaplane bases —at what would be considered overseas
the cost of a single runway—to enable some small
but modern flying-boats with a 1000-mile range to
come on the London-Australia route.
Mr. Parkhill, who preceded Mr. Thorby as
Minister of Defence, objected that seaplanes were un-
suitable for this type of job. According to Mr. Taylor
the world is now convinced that the size of land-
planes is limited by weight, landing gear and length
of take-off, but there is no predictable limit to the
size of flying-boats.
In the U.S.A. flying-boats are being built to carry
72 passengers by day and berth 34 over long distances.
Maoriland will be served with this type of ship, and
will thus be brought within three days of the U.S.A.,
soon after Australia is linked with Britain by the
Short flying-boats.
Even now the Manila Clippers carry a crew of
eight and 15 passengers. Mr. Taylor saw one coming
into Alameda, after it had flown 2400 miles from
Hawaii.
It gave me a pang to think that, although Austra-
lians were first over the Pacific, there is not yet a British
service over this route.
It is announced —by cable—that the flying mail-
boat Centaurus “has broken all records for commer-
cial aircraft” by making an emergency flight of 2169
miles from Tiberias to Karachi in a day, thus “assur-
ing that it will be possible by night flying to cover
3300 miles in 20 hours.” It did not need any such
performance to prove that possibility. Because of the
Rockies, New York-San Francisco is more difficult
than Tiberias-Karachi; but four years ago the regular
night mail was doing it in hours. Now it is regu-
larly done in 11 hours, and that time is to be reduced
below 10 hours. The distance is 2600 miles.
In October, 1934, a Dutch Douglas, carrying
seven persons and mail, flew from Mildenhall to Mel-
bourne (10,800 miles) in three days 18 hours, with 19
stops. The biggest Brisbane-Sydney ’plane flies 2000
miles every day when in full service.
Foreigners are bidding for a share in the Aus-
tralia-Europe air route, and the danger is that the
sad story of Pacific shipping may be repeated. Per-
haps the best way of averting it would be to place
some keen aerial organiser, like Taylor or Robinson,
in charge of aerial-mail policy, and give him a free
hand.
Australia and the Alien.
The influx of foreigners looks alarming only because
there is so little British immigration and so small a
natural increase. Last year about 6400 foreigners were
granted landing permits—l9oo for N. S. Wales, 1800
for Victoria, 1200 for Westralia, 400 for S.A. and
990 for Queensland. About 2400 were Italians.
Australia owes a lot to immigrants of non-British
blood. James Mario Matra, who first made a concrete
proposal for the settlement of N. S. Wales, was the
son of a Corsican. Governor Phillip was the son of
a Frankfort German. Monash and Rosenthal, two
of Australia’s greatest generals, came of Continental
stock. A Norwegian was Henry Lawson’s father.
Von Mueller, greatest of Australian botanists, was
a Dane.
One of the ablest Australian journalists of his
time was Gottlieb Schuler, a Wurtemberger. This
editor of the Melbourne “Age” was a trusted adviser
of Governments during the war, in which he lost his
only son. Music, art, engineering, agriculture—all
owe a great deal in Australia to foreigners. Thousands
of German and Italian farmers have married Aus-
tralians and produced children who are indistinguish-
able from Australians of British descent.
So long as European immigrants are personally
desirable, and are ready to make Australia their coun-
try, and so long as they do not come in such numbers
as to threaten to alter the racial balance, they should
be welcome.
Terns and Taxpayers.
Further car-parking restrictions are to be foisted on
Melbourne motorists by a City Council at a loss to
evolve more generally convenient methods of relieving
traffic congestion. Along specified streets in the
major business area kerbside parking is to be pro-
hibited for varying periods between 8 a.m. and
midnight.
The only persons who have obvious cause to
welcome the new rule are those interested in taxis,
garages and car-parks. The City Council seems to
do much more thinking about taxis than it does about
city taxpayers who are also motorists and business-
men, though its thoughts are not particularly intelli-
gent.
In April, 1933, it restricted the number of taxis
to 630. In January, 1936, when the depression was
being left behind, this total was chopped by another
80. The 550 remaining cabs are still expected to
serve an expanding Melbourne. Half this number
is operated by one company and the other half by
owner-drivers, most of whom, for the convenience
of central offices and switchboards, belong to one
of several non-profit “companies.” Council officers
inspect all cabs twice a year. Over the last five years
there have been improvements in appearance and
comfort —a lonely credit mark for the administration.
Limitation was originally enforced to ensure
good conditions for drivers. Whether or not this has
been the result, the people of Melbourne could use
more taxis than are now available. On wet nights,
on holidays, during race-meetings and at any rush
hour, it is almost impossible to get a cab unless it
has been booked hours in advance. The parking
restrictions to be enforced within three months won’t
ease the position. Only a few days before they were
adopted, a licensed-vehicles committee recommenda-
tion that the taxi limit be expanded by 100 was with-
drawn from full council, no explanation being given
to the public. Before denying private motorists the
right to central kerbsides the City Council should
see that more taxis and car-parks are provided.
An A.M.F. for 1938.
The views of “Louis Mattil”:
Before, during and after the war I was one of those
in Victoria who in an attempt to put jam on the pill of
compulsory training formed parents and citizens’ associations
to work with company headquarters.
I was on the committee of the first of such associations.
We tried to make the company or battalion drill hall a club.
Provided gym. appliances, comforts, special uniform badges,
medicine and play balls, trophies, battalion colors; got up
tattoos and sports meetings, and were play-leaders and the like.
In turn I officiated with companies in a tough industrial
metropolitan suburb, a quiet conservative provincial city and
a country township.
Talking with officers in each place, I learned that the
success of the compulsory system was measured wholly by
the presence in units of the man or youth who was deter-
mined not to drill. He set the tune and pace for file, platoon
or company; pace and tune had to be slowed down to him.
In the result we had that futile numbering, forming fours and
tramping round drill-hall concrete which exasperated the
general mass of decent young fellows, who, though they didn’t
like the military business, realised that it was a necessary duty
or accepted the inevitable philosophically.
No one can be made to train who won’t train. He can
be punished for not training, but that’s all. Falling out the
toughs, usual recourse of the harassed officer, was just what
they wanted. They stood round and laughed at the mugs
who obeyed.
I have seen A.I.F. men, seconded after wounds or illness
to A.M.F. training duty and edgy from shellshock, weep
before a defiant platoon of hooligans. I have seen permanent
A.M.F. men dismiss a whole parade in despair.
Week after week a batch of recalcitrants would be brought
by a bored C.O. before a bored police magistrate sitting in
Federal jurisdiction and “committed.” Now and then s.ms.
belted some of the gas out of the toughs, but this had little
effect; the young ruffians had brought mutiny to a fine art.
In those days the intellectual pacifist had not been born.
He has arrived now, and will infest a new compulsory
A.M.F. All the evils of the passive resister will be there intensi-
fied. The impotence of the command will be as intense.
With every available fit officer and n.c.o. in the A.1.F.,
the A.M.F. had to be staffed with old fellows, rejects, amateurs,
returned-woundeds and returned-empties. Ageing Boer War
men, rankers and troopers were invited to accept temporary
honorary A.M.F. commissions, given a manual of arms to
swot up, and set to drill compulsory-training units. I, an old
rifleman (U.K.) but all-civvie, actually instructed A.I.F. recruits.
Better than attempting compulsory training, to my mind,
would be to make more use of the volunteer who will train.
The compulsory-training provisions could be brought into
effect at any time to sweep in the hangbacks, even if they were
mere rank-fillers and furphy-wallahs.
If the goosestep part of soldiering were cut to a minimum
and present-day militiamen were made specialists in arms
and trained from the jump as officers on the lines of the O.T.C.
in Britain, it would encourage ambitious young fellows to
join, and there would be the requisite personnel to staff
the P. 8.1. when it became necessary to force a general muster
into being. Anyone who was then a ranker only would have
only himself to blame.
The camp trouble would thereby be mitigated. That
tough element made annual camp foul for decent men and
a horror to mothers. In a national muster the toughs would
be drafted into penal companies, leaving the general ranks
sweet for normal men.
Compulsory training by Rafferty rules —one in, all in,
irrespective of brains or eagerness—will not succeed in 1938
any more than it did in 1912-17. Certainly it provided a fine
nucleus for • the A.1.F., but remember it was a volunteer
nucleus, composed of A.M.F. men who were fine despite
compulsory training, made hell for them by the standback
brigade.


“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS
“S.T.S.”: Hats off to the Australian
amateur actress! The latest one was
found gagged and bound at Port Adel-
aide, with a lurid story of attack by
night. But the women police worked
on the fairly safe theory that any Aus-
tralian found tied up (unless really badly-
hurt) did it him- or herself. And pres-
ently she confessed ; she had broken a
wristlet watch, a present, and robbers
seemed the best way of accounting for
it. What distinguishes this from the
crowd of such cases is that (1) she was
found by passers-by actually in the gutter
on a cold night, clad only in a torn night-
dress ; (2) the imaginative artist has
reached the age of 12.
* =i= *
“Centurion”: These publisher’s blurbs
are the limit. One, forecasting the pub-
lication of a new book in a London
journal, says of the author that he is
the great-great-grandson of “Brigadier
Gerard, Napoleon’s dashing general, as
described by Conan Doyle.” There
never was a Brigadier Gerard. In his
memoirs Doyle tells how he got the idea
of the Brigadier Gerard sketches in the
’nineties after reading the memoirs of
the Baron de Marbot, then newly-done
into English. De Marbot, who enlisted
in the Republican army as a trooper and
died a marshal of France, served in all
Napoleon’s campaigns, and when his
memoirs ended in 1814 was a general
of brigade. Doyle, who had little
French, thought that a brigadier in the
French service was equivalent to one in
the British (the rank corresponds to our
R.S.M.) and titled his imaginary hero
accordingly.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Sea-apprentices can be
as refreshingly innocent as ever, on occa-
sion. Our 17-year-old, back from his
first deep-water voyage, related as his
most startling experience that with a
girl who fainted just in front of him
when coming down the gangway of a
’Frisco ferry. Secure in a school-
acquired knowledge of first aid, he picked
her up, carried her to a bench, kept the
crowd from pressing round, ordered
someone to bring cold water and splashed
it in her face. To his horrer her comely
visage promptly turned to a dreadful
dusky tint with great black streaks
around the eyes. Artificial respiration
seemed the only way to avoid arrest for
girl-slaughter in a foreign land, and he
was about to apply it when she sat up
suddenly. Producing a vanity mirror, she
took one look at her strangely-hued
features, and then landed him a hefty
slap across the face. “You dumb guy,”
she yelled, “look what you’ve done to
my mascara!” “And,” he said ruefully,
“I’d never heard of the darned stuff
before.”
“Glum”: Family misfortunes were
elicited in nutshell form by a Ballarat
barber hair-clipping an eight-year-old
lad. “Got any brothers?” asked the
shearer affably. “Had one. He got run
over.” “Any sisters?” “Three. Had
’nother. She drunk caustic soda.” “Is
your father alive?” The half-clipped
head was nodded. “Aw, yes, but he
pinched fowls and they’ve locked him
up.”
* * * *
“Torts”: I join issue with “Fi. fa.”
(B. 30/3/’3B) when he says trespass isn t
a cause for action unless damage or in-
jury can be proved. In 1765 Lord Cam-
den, Lord Chief Justice, stated: “By the
laws of England, every invasion of pri-
vate property, be it ever so minute, is a
trespass. No man can set his foot upon
my ground without my license but he
is liable to an action, though the dam-
age be nothing; which is proved by
every declaration in trespass when the
defendant is called upon to answer for
bruising the grass and even treading
upon the soil.” This principle is re-
ferred to by legal authors of the present
day, and is uppermost in the mind of
every law student submitting himself
for examination. It is not without reason
that the law is as stated, for the object is
"She's not pullin' too Well! Sure you haven't got your brakes on?"
to prevent owners taking the law into
their own hands and to preserve the
sanctity of “the Englishman’s castle.”
The measure of damages is another
matter, as Judge Hawkins well knew
when he tendered sixpence to the land-
owner.
# * * *
“K.S.”: Our local Salvation Army
captain is a fine, conscientious fellow,
but he has no sense of humor. One
Saturday night, accompanied by a
woman officer who brought a pram con-
taining her chubby infant, the captain
took his usual stand. But, not so usual, a
congregation rapidly gathered. The cap-
tain shone with joy—his work was be-
ginning to bear fruit —but the attention
of the audience was held not by the
fervid oratory of the preacher, but by
the pram, upon which had been fixed a
large cardboard sign bearing a text in
6in. letters, “Be Sure Your Sins Will
Find You Out.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: That Birmingham tailor
who claims to be the world’s most un-
sinkable man is only one of many
people with bodies below the ordinary
specific gravity. The condition depends
principally on texture of bones and
amount and distribution of surface fat.
James Harrison, of Wynyard (Tas.), and
Arthur Bushnell, of Nambour (Q.), can
both stand, sit, sleep, read, walk and sup-
port weights in deep water without sub-
merging. At least three Australian
women can do equally well in the un-
sinkable line. One Wynnum (Q.) lady
likes reading the paper on a summer
day while floating in the local baths with
her small grandson sitting on her. But
if it came to a world competition I’d be
inclined to look among Torres Strait
islanders for the champion. That sable
giantess the late Mrs. Douglas Pitt, of
Darnley, who once swam 19 miles in a
cvclone carrying her young baby, and,
for the last four, her husband as well,
looked at least 17 stone. She actually
weighed barely 12.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Among recent Queens-
land tourist-blurb has been a thrilling
tale of ancient days when a nest of
Chinese pirates on Booby Island, in
Torres Strait, used to prey on Spanish
vessels going to Manila. The usual
Spanish skeleton, gold pieces and sword
are alleged in support, also the customary
undiscovered pirates’ hoard, although the
trade route of the day lay nearly 1500
miles away. Booby’s real romance, such
as it was, lay in the sea post office in a
cave at the north-west corner, where a
food cache was also maintained for many
years for the benefit of castaways. Un-
inhabited, and beyond the reach of the
flimsy canoes used by the natives of the
western end of the Strait, the barren
rock served this purpose well. A curious
natural water reservoir exists in the
plateau, and holds several thousand gal-
lons. Carved and smoked inscriptions
are still to be seen in the post office cave,
left by visiting ships, but the earliest is
no further back than the late 1840’s.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: An analysis of divorce
figures by Queensland’s Statistician is
claimed to show that the low Q. rate
is due to greater prevalence of domestic
bliss. For the last year there have been
only 150 divorces among nearly a million
people, whereas W.A. had 159 for less
than half that number, and S.A. 212
among rather more than half. N S.
Wales has had much more than double
the Queensland rate for many years past,
and Vic., with twice Queensland’s popu-
lation, has four times as many divorces.
But N. S. Wales provides some 20 valid
grounds for action and Queensland
only 11.
* * * *
“A.A.”: A keen bridge-player who
embarked recently on a trip overseas
found three like-minded fellow-travellers
the second day out. Before the first
game it was agreed to play for “half a
crown.” At the close of the first even-
ing’s play it was decided to continue the
games till the end of the voyage and
settle then. The traveller did not keep
a tally of the scores, but had a feeling
he was well on the right side. The day
before disembarkation his friends met
him on deck and handed him a cheque
for £2013 17s. 6d. “What’s this for?” he
asked. “That’s your winnings for the
trip.” “But that’s impossible ; I couldn’t
have won anything like that at half a
crown a hundred.” “True,” was the
reply, “but you were playing for half a
crown a point”
* *
“Nakh”: I have never run across the
scientific designations of “trench-foot”
and “shell-shock,” though presumably
such designations exist. The tropics ard
particularly prolific of colloquialisms to
describe foreign invasions of the human
organism. There are “dhoby itch,”
“Singapore heel,” “Labuan foot,” “Cocos
knee” and “Penang toe.” These diseases
are generally believed to be local and
indigenous by the white popuiation, bu
are they? Sportsmen in Java are
to swamp sores from pursuingthe P
over the irrigated native padi-fields, and
in Cocos the jagged coral is responsi
for poisonous wounds which
posed to be peculiar to atofl. Dhobv
itch flourishes wherever Indian laundry-
men are permitted to wash the white
man’s underclothing by banging it on
a rock in the communal ditch which it
is overpoliteness to call a river. But are
there medical names for these diseases,
“Darwin head,” of course, requires no
Latinised analysis,
* * *
“Selma”: The troubles of Melbourne
florists recounted m Melbourne Chatter
recently were nothing to what came some
years ago when an aspiring society dame
managed to rope in a Governor-General s
flapper daughter to be bridesmaid at her
daughter’s wedding. Begged to name the
flowers she would like to carry, the
damsel declared she wouldn’t look at
anything but lilies-of-the-valley, not only
out of season just then, but in those days
as rare as diamonds at any time. Un-
happy florists scoured the suburbs and
the State, begged the girl to reconsider
her choice (which she declined to do),
tried N.S.W. and S.A. without success,
and finally managed to persuade a
Queensland woman who grew the blooms
as a hobby to agree to provide them. She
did it unwillingly and demanded a sub-
st™tial price. Bride’s father made terse
remarks.
“Kwakprak”: Nothing unusual about
Jones, M.D., becoming a barrister (B.
30 / 3 / ’3B) —there are a dozen or more in-
stances in Australia, and hundreds in
England. The late Dr. Todd, of Sydney,
practised both professions. Dr. W. Mullen,
of Melbourne, was an M.D. and LL.D.
and a D.S.C., a Master of Arts and a
Master of Civil Engineering. Conversely,
quite a few'members of other professions
have qualified as doctors. Sydney’s most-
in-demand surgeon of a decade since
served his apprenticeship in sail, and was
a qualified foreign-going master when he
took his first medical degree. Other Aus-
tralian doctors have also* earned their
first crust at sea. Of yet others, one was
a practising civil engineer, another a
veterinarian, a third a clergyman, two
were pressmen and three more were
schoolmasters.
*** ' *
“Bushy Park”: I was yarning with
Long Bill at the saleyards when a
stranger came along and touched him on
the sleeve. Bill glanced at him and said,
“Orright, orright—in a minute.” He
talked with me for about 20 minutes
while the stranger hovered in the offing
and then remarked, “Well, see you again.
I’d better have a bit of a yap with this
cove. He’s me old man, and it must
be nearly ten years since I seen him last.”
$ * * *
“X.T.1.E.”: The secretary of one of
our Far Western cricket clubs had serious
occasion to complain about the state the
pitch was getting into. “I think the
trouble is due to the rabbits,” he re-
marked musingly. “I’m sure it is,” ob-
served a member of the committee. “We
must get some better batsmen.”
A MAYORAL BRUMMELL.
“At the annual dinner of the Local Government
engineers (Sydney) the Mayor of Manly reproved
those of his hosts who were not wearing evening
dress. Clothes, he declared, stamped the professional
man as such and improved his status. His Worship
went on to relate how he had added distinction to
his own mayoral robes by having a cascade of lace
sewn on the neck.”
“The rank is but the guinea stamp. A man’s
A man for a’ that.” Ev’rybody knows
Who penned those lines amid the moors and
clans
Of Scotland. Nor will anyone suppose,
The life and letters of the bard who scans,
He’d any diff’rent views regarding clothes,
Or held, whatever costly snip supplied them,
They changed the status of the chap inside
them.
“Wit makes the man,” another poet wrote;
To “manners” pride of place a third one
grants;
But what are these without a glossy coat,
A gleaming shirt-front’s wide and white
expanse,
Some speckless linen at the wrists and throat,
And unexceptionably fitting pants
Fresh from the tailor’s pressing apparatus
To put the hall-mark on a fellow’s status?
Doll yourselves up, you careless engineers,
When for your annual binge you next pre-
pare !
However excellent the wines and beers
And unsurpassable the solid fare,
There may be guests appraising you, one fears,
Far less by what you are than what you wear.
In crafts like yours these hospitable rackets
Clamor for swallowtails or dinner-jackets.
Clothes make the man, in spite of Pope and
Burns —
Beau Brummells, anyhow—and one may add
The more a bloke financially earns
The more impressively he should be clad.
The trouble is, however much one yearns,
There’s few of us may run to rags as glad
Or robes to fit us half as spick-and-spanly
As those which decorate the Mayor of Manly.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T” : jbat p ar about the Amazons
who win flapper-press wars (B. 6/4/’3B}
somehow reminded me of old General „
Butler’s counterstroke against the
young ladies of New Orleans when ,
they tried to make their city unhealthy
for Union soldiers—by, among other
measures, spitting in their faces. Butler
retaliated with General Order 28:
As the officers and soldiers of the United
States have been subjected to repeated in-
sults from the women (calling themselves
ladies) of New Orleans, in return for the
most scrupulous non-interference and
courtesy on our part, it is ordered that
hereafter, when any female shall, by word,
gesture or movement, insult or show con-
tempt for any officer or soldier of the
United States she shall be regarded and
held liable to be treated as a woman of
the town plying her avocation.
There was a fearful row about it, and
Palmerston uttered an indignant protest
in the British Parliament. But, though
no lady suffered the prescribed penalty,
there was no more hissing or spitting,
and the Union soldiers stayed.
❖ * * *
“Nikko”: One old-time Maoriland
patriarch had his own method of deal-
ing with long-winded preachers. He took
with him to church an impressive-look-
ing tome, and by his turnip watch gave
the preacher 20 minutes. After that, if
the gale of oratory had not subsided, he
produced his book, ostentatiously turned
the leaves to seek his place and became
absorbed in perusal. It always worked.
No preacher, old or young, was known
to survive Grandpa’s hint by more than
a sentence or two.
“Don't go too close to them, Captain—they might fly up and drop a
bomb on us!”
“Scotia”: A young man who had been
a boarder at one of Australia’s “great
public schools” finished his education in
England. Returning recently, he sought
employment with a pastoral co., which
asked for a letter from his Australian
form-master. It was four years since
the applicant had sat under that author-
ity, but in reply to his request he received
a note saying that, turning up old deten-
tion books, the master found his peti-
tioner owed him 200 lines of Ovid. If
he liked tq do the impot he could have
bis letter. Cursing the long memories of
pedagogues he bought a second-hand
Ovid and did his lines.
* * * +
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Although the
.• f r 0
question of conscription for army service
in England is enriching political space-
writers, none of them seems to remember
that <=<™Pulsory navy enlistment by
“Souvenir o' the Show?”
“ No , thanks—we got some!”
means of the pressgang is still lawful,
It remained in actual operation until an
organised system of manning the senior
service was introduced in 1853, and
although superseded in practice was
never legally abolished. Pressing was
theoretically limited to seafaring men on
ships or shore, but many an innocent
landsman who didn’t know bow from
stern “joined” the navy under the per-
suasive influence of slung shots and boat-
stretchers. Nelson and several other dis-
tinguished naval officers were strong
opponents of the pressgang system.
❖ ❖ ik
“McAngus”: What’s all this television
for the masses the World Radio Conven-
tion speakers kept talking about? If
by any chance “masses” means my
unique and sublime personality, they can
go to the devil; I shan’t buy a set in 10
years’ time, even if I have managed to
fhe y n off l t i he lnsta ‘ ments on f * e rad ‘° b y
men. It reminds me of the colossal
cheek of those newspapers that run
“John Citizen” cartoons, presenting an
imbecile little worm as a portrait of you,
brother, and me. Reminds me of the
unheard-of impertinence of London
“Daily Express,” which addresses its
three million readers as one jelly-like,
conglomerate “Mr. Smith.” The Scot-
tish great-grandfather who ranged the
stern, wild hills of Whangamomona
(M.L.) like a mighty bull would turn in
his grave to hear his clan addressed as
such collective nonentities. Hoots to the
Radio Convention!
=l= * * *
“Den”: In capturing Lerida General
Franco is following in famous footsteps.
Scipio defeated the Carthaginian Hanno
before its walls, and it was there that
Caesar defeated Pompey’s generals
Afranius and Petreius. The French cap-
tured the town in 1707 and again in
1810.
* * =i= *
“Old Lag”: The “Times” the other
day reproduced a paragraph printed in
that paper in 1838, telling of a meeting
of Middlesex magistrates to discuss the
relative merits of the silent
and separate methods of
imprisonment then coming
into fashion. One of the Beaks
told how he had recently
come across three little girls
of seven, eight and ten years
respectively who were under-
going separate confinement in
Pentonville prison. The
matron said that when the
smallest criminal was asked if
she wanted anything before
being put away she asked for
a doll. And when matron
went to the cells of the other
two to see if all was well, she
found the abandoned
wretches had made dolls of
their clothes and were nurs-
ing them in bed. The Beak
added that the system was
hardly suitable for children
of tender years, and he had
made representations to the
Home Secretary accord-
ingly. That individual had
approached the young Queen, and there
was to be a prompt alteration. His
speech was loudly applauded, so it is
evident that the Beaks of those days
weren’t as stony-hearted as is generally
supposed.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An odd case in an Adelaide
court was that of a detached wheel, half
of a motor-truck’s double rear-wheel,
which came off while travelling at a
good speed, broke through a fence and
climbed on to a verandah. The owner
of the truck denied any negligence,
pleading that the outfit was in the same
condition as received when new; but
he had to pay the £lO damage done.
“Xo”: Diamonds cut and polished by
Amsterdam craftsmen to “the specifica-
tions of whatever market they are in-
. , , e „
tended 4/ 3 ) g
racial variations of feminine fancy For
instance, there’s hardly any Australian
demand for gems of more than two
carats—most locally-worn stones are
about a quarter this weight. Reason isn't
so much the lack of cash as an inherited
British aversion to anything smacking of
“flashiness.” On the other hand, South
American girls like their diamonds big
and rich in sparkle. After the Amster-
dam Dutch have touched it up, the
chances are that the 15-carat rose-pink
stone recently auctioned in London will
pass through the hands of dealers in Rio
de Janeiro or Buenos Ayres before it is
lost down the inevitable drainpipe.
* * * *
“Dr. Tanner”: There are considerable
delusions about starvation. Given ample
water the normal human adult can do
without food for as long as 21 days.
Back in pre-war times there was a craze
for that particular “cure.” Devotees be-
lieved that abstention from nourishment
for two or three weeks enabled the over-
charged body to get rid of toxins and
other organic poisons which choke the
path to vigorous old age. King O’Malley
was such a believer; he opened the ball,
as it were, by abstaining from food for
a record period, still carrying on his
duties as a Federal Minister. In Boulder
City (W.A.) we had several experi-
menters, one a burly council official who
reduced several stone during his, three-
weeks starve ; another, very thin, who
claimed a cure of chronic dyspepsia as
the result of a similar voluntary famine.
Hundreds of others underwent the “cure”
without ill results. Yet the average bloke
lost in good wet bush for a couple of
days is gone in the legs through starva-
tion weakness. Fright is really his trouble.
* * * *
“Culifacies”: Naturalists laugh even
louder to themselves than do tropical-
trained doctors when the flapper press
comes all-over hysterical because a mos-
quito has been discovered in an aeroplane
at Darwin, newly-arrived from England
via Koepang and intermediate ports.
Malaria, yellow-fever and plague are the
only big epidemic diseases in which in-
sects play the villain’s part. There’s no
yellow-fever on the ’plane route. Plague
exists in places, but an extraordinary
series of coincidences would be needed
to get a plague-carrying flea into Dar-
win on an aeroplane. As for malaria,
the N.T.’s own mosquitoes can already
do as much in the malaria-carrying line
as any imported insect. ’Planes from the
Victoria River, for example, might be
the means of infecting some distinguished
visitor from overseas during his night in
Darwin, and of much consequent abuse
of this benighted country as malaria-
ridden. He’d get his first symptoms
about Sydney, and he’d certainly blame
Sydney.
GEE-FEVER.
1 must go down to the gees again, my luck
once more to try,
And all I ask is a long shot that will catch
the judge’s eye;
And the tids’ kick and the tote’s throng and
the packed stands snaKing,
And the drum of hoofs in a hard race and the
dust they’re making.
1 must go down to the gees again, for the ring
where odds are cried
Has a loud call and a clear lure I may not
put aside ;
And all I ask is a sunny day, with tips from
someone knowing,
And the swish and glitter of dames’ frocks,
and the jocks’ whips going.
1 must go down to the gees again, to the
books’ and punters’ strife,
Where the angry roar of “Rub ’em out” cuts
like a whetted knife;
And all 1 ask is a cert, or two that will leave
a chap in clover
And obviate his walking home when the last
race is over.
N.S.VV.
MIDFORD.


ĸ
20/orlV
10 for 9 (i >
WlBB4
i* «l
All over the world Craven A
%
are appreciated for the
excellence of their quality.
CRAVEN A
ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS.
TIPPED CIGARETTE
THIS GENERATI
POKITICAL POINTS
"‘Progress in the Australian manufac-
turing industries has been truly remark-
able,” says a British authority whose busi-
ness it is to collect facts about Australia.
“Many could successfully compete with
imported goods on a duty-free basis.
There may actually be a shortage of
labor before long.” A splendid compli-
ment to Australian Protection rightly
used ; and it is Robert Dalton, the Senior
British Trade Commissioner, who pays it.
Lang is Right at last—about Commu-
nism:—
The hand of Communism is the hand
of death. It destroys everything it touches.
In every country where Labor has agreed
to a united front with the Communist
party that country to-day is either Fas-
cist-controlled or hourly dreading a Fas-
cist victory.
He said that to his Easter conference at
Sydney, adding that he was sure to win
the next election, when he will be just
on 65.
When Parkes, Dibbs and John Robert-
son wanted to drop colleagues, they just
dropped them. Stevens reconstructs his
Ministry. It is a rather ridiculous pro-
cess, involving wholesale resignations
and retaking of oaths, and it really
spares nobody’s feelings ; but perhaps the
idea is that it helps to keep up the fiction
that State politics really matter.
In the latest reconstruction of the Syd-
ney Ministry, Chaffey, Shand and Ryan,
M.L.C., were shoved out and Gollan,
A. D. Reid and Mair shoved in, Richard-
son being added as an honorary to make
the number 15 (10 would be excessive).
Gollan becomes Chief Secretary in place
of Chaffey, and Reid goes into the De-
partment of Agriculture—Main did not
stand for re-election.' The old journalist
Ryan did not want to remain a Minister,
and there will be no public tears at the
elimination of Chaffey, though the pro-
motion of Gollan gives no cause for joy.
However, Chaffey and Shand rightly
resent the fact that newspapermen were
told of what was going to happen before
any inkling was given to them.
“In the new House I am going to be
a volcano,” said Shand when he was
“retired” from Stevens’s Ministry. Very
interesting, especially as he is young as
volcanoes go—only in the mid-fifties.
Maoriland Labor is still a bit off its
rocker about the League, and members
of the silliest Labor party in the Empire
and of the Liberal party which doesn’t
realise that it is dead have taken ad-
vantage of the fact to make trouble for
Minister MacDonald. They noisily chal-
lenged his statement that no Dominion
Government had “expressed disagree-
ment” with his Government’s foreign
policy. Savage’s version was: “We have
disagreed with certain phases of British
foreign policy, but we have never allowed
these differences to divide us.”
The poets would have welcomed the
Anglo-Italian settlement: Shakspeare,
Byron, Shelley and Browning anyhow.
Also Pope, though he might have altered
the first line of his couplet:—
’Gainst forms of government let fools
protest:
Whate’er is best administered is best.
Certainly he had too fine a mind and
was too great a lover of his kind to let
forms of government stand in the way
of peace.
Woolgrowers don’t' care for the British
plan of a regulated flow of Empire pro-
duce to Britain, as unfolded at the Pro-
ducers’ Conference. They see in the pro-
posal a vast network of conferences,
councils, committees, boards, regulations
and delegations, but nothing that will en-
able them to sell more wool at a fair
price. The leader of the British delega-
tion suggests that they are narrow-minded.
Actually, the most broadminded speeches
delivered at the conference were uttered
by R. F. Boyer, of the Graziers’ Federal
Council.
Having doubled the national debt and
found himself with another “emergency
demanding immediate action,” Roosevelt
is out with a further five-thousand-million
“Wake up, Birdofreedom, and show 'em how you can fly !”
dollar programme “to make work, main-
tain relief and expand credit.” The Presi-
dent might have learned from Australian
examples that, once a Government starts
taking loan dope, it can never leave the
stuff alone. Australia should profit by
his example, though it is not likely that
politicians like Stevens will.
Maoriland didn’t catch the trade-diver-
sion disease, and as a sign of their appre-
ciation the Japanese are sending one of
their best men to Wellington as first
Consul-General. Stepping off at Sydney,
the gentleman, Mr. Gunji, laughed at the
notion that the Japanese armies had suf-
fered setbacks in China, saying that all
they had to contend with was Commu-
nist guerrilla fighting. This when one of
young Mr. Fairfax’s leader-writers had
seen the Chinese “wresting victory out
of defeat in a fashion fascinating to all
observers.” There could be no stranger
example of human credulity than the fact
that leader-writers really believe the war
cables.
W. F. Sheahan, the Sydney barrister,
seems to be Lang’s new favorite. He not
only appeared for the Big Fellow at the
Government pipeworks and brickworks
inquiry, but stood for Petersham with
the Boss’s blessing. As counsel for Lang
he will almost certainly receive fees run-
ning into four figures from the Govern-
ment, which footed all the royal-commis-
sion bills. Trade-unions and A.L.P.
Leagues are nevertheless to be invited to
subscribe £250 “to enable Mr. Sheahan
to challenge the result of the Petersham
poll.”
“K.D.”: Dunstan, his assertion: “I
never opposed the move for an airport
at Fishermen’s Bend, and the Common-
wealth Government has never shown any
enthusiasm for it.” Dunstan never op-
poses anything very decidedly unless it is
the U.A.P., and he didn’t oppose that
when he was a member of the Arevle
Government’. But in 1936 the minority
Premier virtually opposed the airport
project on the ground that the Bend
could be better exploited for industrial
purposes. Later, he shifted ground and
said it was a Federal job. As for the
Lyons Government, it never shows en-
thusiasm for anything except office. But
it did offer £lOO,OOO towards the cost of
a Bend airport.
In State matters, at all events, Aus-
tralians will not accept government by-
newspaper. Adelaide “Advertiser” sup-
ported Butler’s Lib.-Cockies, and they
were reduced to 15 members in a House
of 39. Brisbane “Courier-Mail” sup-
ported two wings of the Queensland
Opposition, and they emerged with 17
seats in a House with 62. And Sydney
“D.T.” instructed the Ryde electors to
reject the “dangerous” Minister Spooner.
They gave him an absolute majority of
1445.
Daily papers backing the Red Catalans
joyfully announced that their situation
had improved a bit, ’planes, guns and
munitions having arrived in large quanti-
ties. They didn’t mention the source, but
there was no necessity ; they had blithely
stated that droves of motor-lorries and
-ambulances and thousands of Red
militiamen, driven across the frontier by
Franco, were arriving from France. The
only difference between French and
Italian intervention is that the French
effort has been greater. Also the Italians
have been comparatively candid.
Car hogs are beginning to catch it at
last —in N.S.W. anyway. One who ran
down a cyclist and killed him got two
years; and a doctor whose car crashed
into another, injuring a woman, was
awarded 12 months. In the past juries
refused to convict, however bad the case.
Perhaps N.S.W. jurors have been study-
ing recent Maoriland practice.
Stuart Doyle, the moving-picture man,
has been scolded by a heavy daily for
saying that he heard less war talk in Lon-
don than in Sydney; but he is a shrewd
observer and has never gone about with
his ears shut. The blame should be
fixed in the right quarter. There would
be little war talk if Sydney dailies didn't
go in for scaremongering, nor would the
sharemarket have the jitters so often,
i. Gullett has been over in Maoriland
studying “the political atmosphere,” and
to him it was “strongly reminiscent of
the atmosphere which prevailed in the
Commonwealth when the first Fisher
Government was formed in 1905.” Actu-
ally, the first Fisher Government was
formed in 1908. But what’s three years
to a trade-diversionist, especially when
the wool cheque is down 15 millions?
Just when the terms of the Anglo-
Italian agreement had been settled,
Roberts, the political professor, came out
with a series of articles on armaments in
the first of which he blithered, “We feel
a potential menace in German and Italian
arms that we do not feel, say, in French
or even Russian.” Nothing about the
menace of Russian intrigue, which was
cheeky and blatant until the Red devil
grew sick and his tail drooped. “We”
who “feel” are Roberts and his employer,
Mr. Warwick Fairfax, formerly of the
Oxford Union.
When Litvinoff offered to let Britain
and the U.S.A. come into a war against
“the Fascist Powers” Sydney “D.T.” de-
scribed it as Litvinoff’s Peace Gesture,
and “S.M.H.” and the “Sun” also gave
it gracious notice in leaders. Chamber-
lain coldly rejected the Greek gift, and
the “D.T.” will never forgive him. Reply-
ing to his refusal to gamble with the fate
of the Empire, the “D.T.” tells him, in
effect, that he is hopeless: “Russia’s vast
strength might have been mobilised
against the aggressors,” and he won’t
give the signal. Perhaps it is because he
knows that, after 20 years of Red con-
trol, Russia couldn’t fight its way out of
a paper bag.
From “No Prof.”:
Possibly when the then-unknown Hitler
started out on the campaign which has changed
the course of events in Europe some elderly
German cynic repeated the phrase that Talley-
rand applied to Robespierre: “This man will
go far; he believes every word he says.”
Having courage, Hitler has gone much farther
than Robespierre, who was just a windbag, as
Anatole France called him: anyway, his nerve
failed at the crisis of his fate. Adolf is more
akin to Cromwell, and, since Carlyle has had
a great vogue in post-war Germany, he is
pretty certain to have read Cromwell’s Life and
Letters. Like Oliver, he is part mystic and part
fanatic, and is not too sophisticated to prb-
claim himself the instrument of Providence ; so
our unlettered press, which sets the cocktailing
flapper on a pedestal, can’t understand him.
But, then, it wouldn’t have understood John
Wesley or William Booth.


THE PET GETS PETTISH.
“When you feed them, groom them, sleep near them, you can get to love pigs, but they do get a bit pernickety at times.” Sydney Royal Show Story,


The “SERIES”
Delightfully Soft Light Weight
Pure Fur Felt. Shades: Drab,
Steel or Fawn. Silk lined. Made
by Christy’s, London .. 25/-
PIKE BROTHERS, LTD.,
Brisbane.
If Cash with Order, post free.
SPEED DEPENDS ON SPARKING PLUGS
DEPEND ..Champions
SPEED that only a smooth-running engine can give.
SPEED that takes you on your way with safety and
economy. SPEED that makes the hills seem level. Get
SPEED the way racing champions get it . . . with
CHAMPIONS. An Empire product—made in Windsor. Canada
f//
r«*
173333 JJ.
33333333
JJ3333/3
U3JJJA
jjJJI/A.
JJTI/A
rJZ
.
>y
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
PERSONAL ITEMS
G. C. Gollan, who steps into Chaffey’s
shoes as Chief Secretary in the N. S.
Wales Ministry, is a good-looker who, if
he were in vaudeville, would honestly be
able to claim himself as “a natty dresser,
on and off.” He has been Government
Whip, and had a term as Acting-Chief
Secretary. Scion of a well-established
North Coast family, Gollan started work
as a school-teacher; then went into busi-
ness. He had his first taste of public life
as a councillor at Auburn, where J. T.
Lang lives, and was twice Mayor of that
loveliest village of the plain.
The highest scientific honor extant, a
Fellowship of the Royal Society, has
come the way of a Victorian who gradu-
ated at Melb. Uni. at the age of 16 —
Prof. H. H. Woollard, M.D., D.Sc. He
has lived for many years in England.
His F.R.S. is a recognition of the value
of his neurological researches and
analyses of food values. He served with
the A.1.F., came out a lieut.-colonel,
A.A.M.C., and since 1936 has occupied
the Chair of Anatomy at University Col-
lege, London.
External Affairs at Canberra gets a
brilliant lawyer from Adelaide in Anstey
Wynes. In a short but outstanding
career, he has won all sorts of honors at
Pulteney-street, St. Peter’s and the Uni-
versity, which made him Doctor of Laws
in 1933, since when he has been a law
lecturer and has written a volume on
the Australian Constitution.
Born in Paris, of Cornish parents, 81
years ago, Judge Bevan, who died at his
Sydney home last week, came to Aus-
tralia as a young man, and put in
several years in Queensland, survey-
ing. Moving to Sydney he studied
law and was appointed associate to Judge
Innes ; later he was called to the Bar,
and served as Crown Prosecutor for the
north-west. A term as Solicitor-General
preluded his translation to the District
Court Bench. Judge Bevan, who retired
11 years ago, strove actively to reform
prison conditions. A kindly, bookish
man, his main hobby was gardening.
C. R. Lowes, of Cunnamulla (Q.),
who at 84 has set out on his last
journey, was among the very last
survivors of the early N.T. drovers.
Born at Adelaide and educated in
Melbourne, he learned cattle on his
father’s property at Corowa (N.S.W.).
By 1877 he had graduated by bring-
ing a large mob to Central Queens-
land. Five years later, with a brother
and Ridley Williams, owner, he took
2000 head from N.S.W. and Queensland
to the Northern Territory, the first big
mob to make the continental crossing
successfully. The trip occupied over two
years.
Greatest operatic basso of his time,
Feodor Chaliapin has gone to sing in
the heavenly choir, or wherever it is that
good Muscovites go to. His voice was
one of those phenomenal organs that
make musical history, like Caruso’s and
Melba’s. Once railway porter and deck-
hand on Volga steamers, he learned some-
thing of music in the choir of his home-
town (Kazan) cathedral, and made a
living by singing and dancing in a tour-
ing co. for a couple of years before his
possibilities were perceived by maestro
Oussatov, of Tiflis. He was 21 when he
first appeared in opera at Petrograd. It
was not till he had sung at La Scala, in
Milan, several years later, that his fame
began to spread abroad. His New York
debut came in 1908, and Sir Thomas
Beecham brought him to London in 1913.
He toured Australasia in 1926. His best
role was Boris in Moussorgsky’s “Boris
Godounov,” but he also created new
standards for Mephistopheles in
Gounod’s “Faust” and Don Basilio in
Rossini’s “Barber.” Well over 6ft. in
height, he had a magnificent stage pres-
ence, and his abilities as an actor in
macabre roles were remarkable.
Queensland’s Legislative Chamber has
suffered a distinct loss on the picturesque
side from the disappearance of the tall,
white-crowned figure of Godfrey Mor-
gan, telling off the misdeeds of Labor
with a long, minatory finger. Like
Henry Gullett, he was a journalist who
took up politics. His ruthlessly efficient
leaders in the Brisbane “Daily Mail” of
the Ryan-Theodore days read like the
punitive expeditions of some early pioneer
against cattle-killing abos. The Moore
Government of 1929-1932 gave him his
chance with the portfolio of Minister of
Railways. He accepted it with a gallant
slogan of “Back to the Horse.” Brisbane
has not forgotten Morgan’s horseback
ride from Central station to Parliament
House accompanied by cheering crowds
—mostly in motor-cars.
Everybody in the beef-cattle world
knows A. J. Simpson, who, with Robert
Clarke, of Bolinda Vale and Rath-
farnham (Vic.), revived the Derri-
muts after the slump of 50 years
ago, and put Australian Durhams again
on the map. Trained with Neil Black,
who came to Australia in the early
’forties as a partner of W. E. Gladstone
and his relatives, Simpson formed his
own stud at Clifton, Hamilton (Vic.),
in 1897, from Mt. Noorat cattle.
Robert Clarke fathered him, and 30 years
ago he burst on Sydney exhibitors with
his Bolinda-bred Duke 257th, and took
home the championship and the female
reserve championship. He has been a
A. J. SIMPSON and son FRANK.
consistent championship winner at Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane ever since.
A. J. Simpson to-day is the Nestor of
the trade. His beautiful home at Hamil-
ton (Vic.) is a show place. His son
Frank, who, in contrast to his father’s
compact middle-size, is about the height
of a Gippsland gum, follows in the family
footsteps. He has a promising stud herd
at Gulargambone (N.S.W.), where, still
in his youth, he is a leader in public
affairs.
Every Hereford cattle-breeder in Aus-
tralia knows Bach, of Salopian Park. Not
only is he a human Hereford himself,
since he hails from the native country of
R. BACH.
Hereford cattle, but for longer than most
men can remember he has been one of
Australia’s most trusted Hereford judges,
mentor to young breeders, unofficial lec-
turer at all the shows which he attends
on the points of the breed. At heart he is
what his picture shows him to be —an
English gentleman of the old school, who
loves the soil and everything that grows
out of it.
Melbourne is to lose its city organist,
William McKie, who goes to Magdalen
College, Oxford, as organist and choir-
master. McKie, who is 36, was born in
Collingwood, Vic., and had his musical
training at the Royal College of Music.
He was also at Oxford, where he ac-
quired his M.A. and B.Mus. His career
began in England as deputy organist at
Ely Cathedral, and he also had teaching
experience in English schools. During
his eight years as city organist in Mel-
bourne his lunch-hour recitals have
earned great popularity. He’s a bachelor.
Though it is 45 years since he last saw
service in these seas (as a middy in the
Orlando), Vice-Admiral J. E. T. Harper,
now on a visit to Australia, is a Maori-
lander by birth, and the first of that
breed to attain Flag rank in the R.N. He
was Director of Navigation at the Ad-
miralty from 1919 to 1921 and compiled
the official record of the Battle of Jut-
land.
E. R. Isaacs, for 26 years manager in
Queensland of S. Hoffnung and Co., died
in a private hospital after an operation.
Born in M.L., he went to Melbourne at
the age of 20, and after a successful
business career in the Vic. capital went
to Brisbane in 1912: He was a Rotarian,
and took an active part in the raising
of funds for the Crippled Children’s
Home. He also was a member of the
Legacy Club, the Brisbane Club and the
C.T.A., and for recreation played bowls.
A versatile man is Alexander Mair,
newly-made Assistant Minister in N. S.
Wales. His dad founded a flourishing
iron and steel business, but Alexander
preferred to battle along on his own
hook, and started his career, despite an
expensive education, as a country black-
smith, with a spot of farming later on
and a keen interest in commerce all the
while. In the fullness of time he became
managing director of James McEwen,
Ltd. He retired from active business
some years ago, and lives on his estate,
Rookwood, at Albury. Has represented
Albury in Parliament for six years, and
his contributions to debate have marked
him as good Ministerial timber. For a
hobby he breeds Alsatian dogs.
Herbert Yeates, East Toowoomba’s
(Q.) new member, is a North Queens-
lander with 40 years’ residential quali-
fications for the Downs seat. In defeat-
ing the sitting Labor man, Yeates regis-
tered the only gain for the C.P. stable.
Alderman, Chamber of Commerce presi-
dent and holder of the pursestrings of
Toowoomba’s kirk, the new member
knocked unsuccessfully on Parliamentary
doors on several occasions. He is a part-
ner in the firm of auctioneers bearing his
name.
G. B. Kerferd has up to date shown
a bigger profit on the money spent on
his education than most Melbourne Uni-
versity graduates. He was floated into
his Alma Mater from Melbourne Gram-
mar on a Government scholarship, and
scored first-class honors in classics in
every year until he departed for Christ
Church College, Oxford. His latest scalp
is the Atchison travelling scholarship,
worth £350, won for the second year in
succession. Altogether his bag of scholar-
ships and prizes totals £1340.
Dr. S. F. Lumb, of Melbourne, is
Queensland’s new Professor of Dentistry.
He has been actively associated with the
ante-natal care of mothers’ teeth, and
with the special ward in Melbourne
Dental Hospital where children up to six
years receive dental attention, and Bris-
bane folk hope he will bring their
Dental Hospital up to date.
Arnold Johnson, the Orient line’s new
g.m. for Australia, is a Londoner who
has been with the Orient Co. since he
left school in 1900. During the war he
served in the Eastern Mediterranean with
ARNOLD JOHNSON.
the R.N.V.R. He came to Australia as
Melbourne manager for the co. in 1919,
and took charge of the Sydney office five
years ago. His latest appointment com-
menced last New Year’s Day. Johnson’s
travels in the interests of the line have
taken him to practically every part of
the world except the Orient, and he hopes
to remedy that omission by sailing via
China and Japan on his nexj: visit to
England. He is a Freeman of the City
of London.


Here is an actual size
illustration of the handy
flat bottle.
AWARDED %
50 MEDAISf
i
Perth
m
50Golb
emit
Prise Mebals
vT?
S'*
rsYc
'■vr
50 Gtfl h
cuxb
Prise Mebefe
BUS“
»ANls h
EfllN
APPOINTMENT
: OOD MEIBOURWE INTERNATIONAL
DUH£B |N
LONDbh
PARIS
BKUSStUS
COOKtW
06
Si
ISO'S
0
1900
ft
188?
1890
1888
889
1888
1888
1888 |BB9 , 889
1889
1889
White label
A Fine Scotch Whisky
°F RARE AGE
John Dewar& Sods
distillers
PERTH
ouse 5.W.1.
NET CONTENTS I PINT, 6FL .01S.
GUARANTEED WHOLLY DISTILLED AND MATURED IN SCOTLAND
SCOTLAND
“White Label” meets
with immediate approval
Connoisseurs everywhere have been
quick to realise that there really is
something different in the character
of “White Label” - something which
emphasizes its outstanding purity
and ripe old age and makes it the
leader over all Scotch Whiskies. You
too will find this evident in the very
first drink of this great Dewar
product. Try it - now !
DEWAR’S
WHITE LABEL
SCOTCH H//udJuj


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Bill, big and tough, en-
joyed a rough-house almost as much as
his beer —when the opposition wasn’t too
strong. Boundary-riding on Euchapivy
(N.S.W.), Bill developed a cheque, a
thirst and a grouch. Riding in to the
homestead he decided to “go” the boss (a
stocky little fellow), collect his cheque
and drift. “Going” the boss would make
Bill’s name big in the district, and he
knew it. He was passing the woolshed,
against which a wagon was backed, when
a bale of wool appeared walking on two
human legs. “Hey, you!” roared Bill,
“where’s that so-and-so boss?” The
man under the bale rolled it on to the
wagon, straightened and said, “Here.”
Bill looked at him, at the 3001 b. bale, at
the other six bales on the wagon and
back at the boss’s serene face. “You
want any help, boss?” he asked.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was in a S.A.
country pub after hours when the police
arrived. He made his escape via the back
fence and along a line of railway trucks.
Pressed, he climbed atop a load of
barrels, only to go through the top of
one into a mass of foetid tallow. He stag-
gered out, went down to the Light River
and plunged in, clothes and all. But the
smell stuck. Next day he was pinched.
The cop said he knew he had the right
man because every dog in the town was
trailing along behind Mat. Two days
in the cooler failed to shift the stench,
though they gave him soap, bristle-
brushes and phenol. It cost Mat a trip
to Adelaide and a Turkish bath before
he could face the world with equanimity.
He * * *
“Naturala”: About this maturity of
the brush-turkey’s fledgling. Have made
some study of the mallee hen, or gnow,
W.A.’s community mound-builder. The
secret of the early maturity of flight and
independence seems to lie in the period
of incubation, 55 to 99 days, depending
largely on the state of the weather. Take
this against the barnyard fowl’s 21 days
and you get the gnow chick maturing in
the egg, undergoing there the same
amount of development as the chicken
attains while running about. The Mus-
covy duckling incubates 35 days and
emerges correspondingly stronger and
hardier than the chicken. Further, the
gnow chick hatches out under two or
three feet of warm covering, and doesn’t
strike upwards right away—it waits
awhile. But Nature’s most curious pro-
vision is a tiny comb of stiff bristles
above each eye to keep out the falling
dirt as the open-eyed chick digs upwards
towards the light. Half a dozen hens
may use the one mound season after
season, until it grows as big as a small
mine-dump. After dropping her egg the
gnow turns and stands it on its small
end. This gives the fledgling a straight
road upwards. The sitting fowl or duck
attends to this matter at hatching time,
turning the live eggs so that the chipped
spot is upwards.
:jc H: &
“Bert’s Missus”: I’ll take “Naturala’s”
word for it that the ’roo has respect for
the dumb sex of the human race 18.
16/3/’3B), but I doubt that bit about his
being able to bluff a rooster by the
power of his aura. My old man’s been
taking his breakfast from the mantelshelf
for a week after injudiciously bending to
collect eggs when a long-legged game was
on guard in the fowl-run. And there was
the matter of a patch in the seat of his
pants besides.
* H* % $
“C. 8.”: The history of the settlement
of N.Q., if it is ever written, should pro-
vide some colorful chapters. Tully and
El Arish especially have been the scene
of some wild doings for which most of
the blame can be put on banyan rum —
it had for some of its ingredients blue-
stone and metho. Under its influence
one resident of El Arish—which is, inci-
dentally, the most successful soldiers’
settlement in Australia precariously
balanced a pannikin of banyan on his
head while his neighbor, a crack shot,
emulated William Tell with a .32 rifle.
“Did you find the Sydney girls fast ?”
“No. I bet you could milk ten cows while they Was busy with one.”
“3.0”: Whiting do take on a different
flavor in different localities. In the same
year I’ve known them to be delicious at
Lake Macquarie and uneatable at Bel-
linger Heads—not such a great distance
apart, on the N.S.W. North Coast. The
whiting’s a clean feeder which prefers
sand-worms, taken usually from a clean
bed, to the floating rubbish that delights
bream and squire. Must be something
in the seasonal change of his diet that
causes the unpleasant taste.
“Pommy”: During the breaking-in
process a newchum strikes some pretty
flinty experiences. We were putting up a
dog-proof fence on open country in the
far north of South Aus. with the mercury
quivering round 110-115 deg., when the
water supply ran short. Hauled by camel
wagon in a 400 gal. iron tank, it was a
whole-day job, and a long day, too, for
two men. We left for the day’s yakka
with one waterbag among seven men,
out of which we had to boil our “quarts”
at midday. As the day advanced so did
our thirst increase, actually and psycho-
logically, because we lacked the means
to quench it. We returned to camp half
an hour earlier. Gum-leaves and pebbles
had been like a twist of a knife in an
open wound. Salt mutton for tea did
not improve matters; neither did the
complete absence of even a thimbleful
of “char.” It was dark when the water-
wagon returned. They had been delayed
by a broken pole. A concerted rush was
made for the water, and I succeeded in
getting a pannikin full, but that nectar
of the gods turned to molten lead as
soon as it hit my stomach. For a quarter
of an hour I was writhing on the ground,
thinking my innards had been trans-
formed into a seething mass. I know
better now.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Wish to goodness
“Dionan” (B. 30/3/’3B) wasn’t talking
through his hat about the extermination
of whales by killers on their northern
route —which is not through the Barrier
but outside it. Last October the usual
procession of thousands of humpbacks
moved up, and next month they will be
coming back, with their sportive 30ft.
infants simply loving to scratch their
dear little backs on a boat’s bottom.
Mother shows them how, and when they
both depart with pounds’ worth of expen-
sive lines wrapped round them a scared
fishy bloke may be forgiven for vivid
expression of his wholehearted wishes
that the worst may happen to them, and
then some. As for killers, during a long
and extensive experience I have seen
maybe a dozen attacks by them on
whales. They mostly feed on fish, and
if the formidable brutes should develop
any commercial value fishermen would
be glad to see them exterminated, too.
“Puffinus”: If “Pab. D.” (B. 30/3/’3B)
actually did hear, and see, a genuine
tawny frogmouth, miscalled mopoke, emit
the “more-pork” call, then he has wit-
nessed and heard something which all
bird authorities in Australia of to-day
have failed to observe. Also, would he
please state the particular part of itself
with which his mopoke made that vicious
jab which knocked him off the tree?
Frogmouth’s beak outfit is entirely de-
signed for catching small insects, and is
not capable of jabs. The real demander
of an encore in swine flesh is the boobook
owl, who owns a businesslike bill, for
the collection of small birds and animals.
Frogmouth’s only vocal performance is
a low, mournful “00-oom,” like the
prayer of some dyspeptic Tibetan. The
mistake arose in early days, when ex-
patriated settlers heard what they
thought were cuckoos calling in the
night—as they would in the beastly
upside-down place, being day birds at
home. Seeing Frogmouth drowsing in
the trees next day, they blamed him.
Boobook was meanwhile asleep in a tree
spout, out of sight.
* * * *
“Mako”: The theory that sheep are an
unintelligent and unobservant type of
animal was forcibly disproved recently
in a M.L. up-country town, where the
road to the saleyards passes the corner
window of a drapery. The proprietor was
staggered one morning recently to hear
a report like a cannon going off, and to
find a lively wether cavorting among a
choice selection of frocks and hats. It
had seen and charged its reflection to the
extent of £4O.
“N.D.P.”: Old Dan had been on the
outer with the women at our place —
mother and daughter. Riding past one
day and wanting to know the time but
not being game to ask the women, he
bellowed at one of the kids: “Hey,
Jimmy, duck inside an’ ask them good-
lookin’ but flamin’ cranky women the
time! ” I waited for fireworks ; all I
heard was daughter calling sweetly, “It’s
nine o’clock, Dan.” Later I heard mother
telling dad, “That old Dan isn’t a bad
old chap.” Those women evidently
doped it out this way: All women could
be called cranky, but darn few could be
called good-looking. Old Dan .knows his
women anyhow.
* * * *
“Hanko”: I’ve met one robin that
didn’t seek the traditional cool hills at
summertime. Throughout March she (a
female for contrariness, always) was stiii
flitting jauntily about our camp in the
orchard area of the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.), her only company being a bevy
of sedate yellow-tailed tits. The prob-
lem is: Was she left behind in the robin
exodus or was she plain perverse? She
summered in a spot as warm and as flat
as a newly-done pancake.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An old bushman,
he knew that strip of country like I know
my own face. So I asked him directions.
“Take this track along to the bridge,” he
told me, “then turn due south for half a
mile, then west till you strike the big
jarrah stump. There’s a track branches
north from there, and that’ll take you
right there.” I repeated his directions.
“I keep on here till I strike the bridge,
then turn left for half a mile, then right
as far as the jarrah, then right again. Is
that it?” He looked worried and
scratched his head. “No,” he said, “it
ain’t. When yer strike the bridge yer
turn south” “Well, that’s left, isn’t it?”
I asked. It was some time
before he saw my point,
and he wasn’t satisfied then.
“Damme if I can follow y’r
reckonin’ at all,” he com-
plained. “You go like I said
an’ you’ll get there.” I did.
# * *
“Notaden”: Begging
“Jindivick’s” pardon (B.
9/ 3 / ’3B), there are eels, ex-
cellent ones, too, in at least
one New England stream
flowing inland from the
great coastal range. At least
there were five years ago,
because I caught them up
to several pounds weight
and of excellent flavor. I
admit that they may not be
there now, because the man
who liked eels well enough
to keep his section of river
frontage stocked up with
them each year from the
upper waters of the Clar-
ence, 30 miles away, has
since died. Young eels are
easy to catch, travel well
and will live and grow to
maturity in any permanent
water. They play Hades
with local fish ? but they are
themselves good fish-food
for humans, and if inland
local fish don’t supply the
need the question is one of
survival of the fittest. Some day there
will arise a business of stocking inland
dams and creeks with eels and carp for
fish-food. It’s badly needed.
* * * *
“Piscator”: The sea monster with a
bill like a platypus which wolfed the
trumpeter as related by “Mandurah” (B.
6/4/’3B) was probably a broadbilled
swordfish. This chap is not so often met
as Zane Grey’s much-boomed friends the
marlins, but is fairly common in Aus-
tralian waters. Like his kind he is a sur-
face feeder, and the fact that the chap
described by “M.” missed first go at his
quarry stamps him as a true swordfish,
for all the breed like to spar a bit at
their prospective tucker before clinching
with it.
9 * * *
“Walkabout”: A popular bush canard
is that of wild ducks carrying their young
to water in their beaks. I don’t know
how tree-nesting ducks do the trick, but
I’ve often seen Mother Duck shepherd-
ing her clutch to water out in s.-w.
Queensland, where in some seasons there
are more ducks to the square yard than
there are fleas on a blackfellow’s dog.
If disturbed on the way to water the
mother tries to draw attention to her-
self, instinct telling the young ones to
get under cover. After the danger has
gone she quickly musters them and
moves on again. In some cases the duck-
lings have a long hike ; I’ve found nests
up to 10 miles from the nearest water.
It would have been a pretty arduous job
for Mother Duck to carry her offspring
one at a time that distance.
PROFITABLE STUDY.
He was short and very shrivelled, with one eye
completely swivelled,
And a long, lugubrious face which seemed
to view the world with doubt;
And, all travel-stained and dusty, with a look of
deep mistrust, he
Shuffled in and asked the shed-boss for a
job as rouseabout.
He looked woebegone and tattered. Life had
obviously battered
Him; but what aroused the interest of all the
station hands
Was not his manner dopey, but the whopping
telescope he
Carried tied to his matilda by a dozen green-
hide strands.
He was so apologetic, with his hang-dog look
pathetic,
That the boss, amused and not a little curious,
put him on.
As a toiler he was comic, but he’d knowledge
astronomic,
And each night, armed with his telescope, the
heavens he would con.
Soon his fervor he imparted to the boys, for
once he started
On his subject he could talk. And so, one
evening, he announced
To a crowd enthusiastic a discovery fantastic:
A new comet which slap-bang into his lucky
ken had flounced.
He’d be famous now like Halley! From that
hill across the valley
They could sight it better. Though ’twas
late, with high excitement fraught,
Every man-jack on the station trudged across;
but with vexation
The astronomer then found his special lens
he hadn’t brought.
So he went back while they waited, all their
ardor unabated,
Till his non-return aroused a dreadful thought
that turned them pale.
Back they sped at pace terrific, but too late!
The scientific
Bloke had cleaned them out—’twas pay-day
—and had hopped the midnight mail!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“The 0.D.”: The city dailies began
to show their ignorance of matters rural
early this Sydney Show time. The “Tele-
graph” came out with a picture of Aus-
tral Park Boy Blue, a Jersey bull, being
prepared “for the judges in the beef
cattle section.”
* * >|< *
“Gryllus”: Two new moons, one on
the first of the month and the other on
its last day, are the main feature of April
skies this year. The planetary display
is poor, excepting for brilliant Jupiter in
the early morning, too early for most
respectably-living folk to admire. Orion
and his Belt are sliding down to the west-
ward, and the place he occupied last
month in the Milky Way has been taken
by the wrecked ship Argo, fast on nebu-
lous reefs. South-eastward, the giant rpd
star Antares glows sullenly. Achernar
is now too low to serve as a guide to the
South Pole, midway between it and the
Southern Cross, but a line from the Cross
to Canopus will serve as the hypotenuse
of a right-angled triangle, of which the
South Pole is in the right angle. The
sun’s facial inflammation is rather worse,
some of his spots being as much as
40,000 miles in diameter, but astrono-
mers consider that it will improve by
next year. The complaint has an 11-year
cycle.
* * * *
“L’F ”: Now and then I receive a jolt
reminding me I am an obsolete survival
of the horse age, as when “J.8.H.” (B.
16/3/’3B) wastes a good ballade asking
who, what or why a backfatter is. An
"It Wasn't what he said that 'urt , but the Way he said it!"
old crony of mine went for a drive round
his back paddock lately (yes, drive, I
said). When he got back he complained
to the rouseabout that there was a steer
missing. His granddaughter, from the
city, put in, “But you got back safely,
didn’t you, Granpa?” Seems she had a
notion that a steer was the rudder of
the old buggy, and thought the equine
turnout might go into a tailspin without
it. But, yes, children, a backfatter is a
self-explanatory term used by stockmen
for an animal, particularly a bacon pig,
that carries a good layer of fat along the
back, the vertebrae of any mammal being
the last place to take on adipose tissue.
Also applied (ribaldly) to plump dames
who display their primeness in backless
creations.
“After hours , boays, an' not a drop left. Tez the blackest moment since
nineteen-fourteen ."
“Nordbo”: The sting of Cairns (N.Q.)
bees is a sure cure for rheumatism. A
bloke I know covered himself up, barring
his swollen fingers, which he poked about
in a hive. He was right as rain the next
day. So when one week-end Sven the
Swede came down from the Tableland
complaining of a bad attack of the dis-
ease I offered him the use of my bees.
“No goo-ood,” replied Sven, “Ay ban
have rheumatiz all over.” “Strip,” I sug-
gested ; “the garden is private enough.
Shy a stone into a hive and stand your
ground.” It was a desperate remedy, but
then Sven was desperate with the pain
of his complaint, and he took my advice.
I retired inside, locking doors and win-
dows against a cloud of angry bees. A
little later I bolted the doors and shut-
tered the windows against the maddened
Sven, who raged round the house clamor-
ing for my blood. I saw him no more
until the following week-end, when he
came down reporting a complete cure
and gratefully offering to drown me in
beer.
“Valencia Creek”: The last of the
wandering minstrels, equipped with a fine
set of whiskers and a man-sized swag,
pulled into our place the other night.
After getting the usual handout, he told
us that he always liked to give what he
couiu in return for his tucker, and offered
to recite any verse by any Australian
poet we liked to mention. He explained
that he meant real poetry by blokes like
Lawson and Brady and Paterson, not
this la-di-da stuff these long-haired coots
turn out nowadays. He Was as good as
his word —in fact, better —for after he
had rendered the couple of items we
asked for he got fairly into his stride
and went from verse to verse and from
poet to poet for the best part of three
hours without a pause. All this in return
for one meal. As we staggered off to
bed, verse-drunk, we were thankful that
we hadn’t offered to tucker him for a
couple of days.
* * * *
“Leon”: “Pandanus’s” coconut pearl
(B. 23/3/’3B) didn’t come from a coco-
nut-palm. It was a conch pearl, which,
for some obscure reason, is known as a
coconut pearl. These yield a higher per-
centage of shapely drops than the pearl-
oyster itself, but they have neither trans-
lucency nor lustre, because the creature
which produces the pearl does not secrete
the precious varnish which hardens into
lustrous nacre. Round the Bahamas
and off the coast of Florida the conches
yield a fine pink pearl, but the Australian
and South Seas variety have the dull
color of camphor, and are of little value
except as curios,
* * * *
“Hanko”: The bloke on the wallaby
who packs baking-powder and a gener-
ous nature is always popular, but the
measly coot that hugs his “risin’ ” is
frowned upon. Which reminds me of
the time a cobber of mine jerked a fist-
ful of saline powder into a hoarder’s tin
while he was busy preparing to construct
a damper. With the first touch of wet the
flour sprang into a bunch of jubilant
bubbles, but soon it flattened to
a bilious-looking patch that
oozed runnels of froth.
“ ’Struth! ” gasped my mate ;
then, “Well, so long, chef,” he
said, shouldering his knot —
“hope yer enjoy yer batter as
much as we did watchin’ yer
manipoolate her.”
* * *
“Dungeness”: You dwellers
in orderly southern
climates know no-
thing of the anxiety
which grips us of
the N.Q. coast when
the cyclone warnings
go up and apprehen-
sive people watch
the post office baro-
graph tracing its thin
line of atmospheric
pressures. Within a
few hours a howling
demon may come
whooping across the
sullen, thudding sea
to tear the roofs
from houses, and
the houses from
their foundations, to
send sheets of iron
spinning through the
air like giant revolv-
ing knives, or
wrapping themselves
round trees or, as happened in Leonta
in 1903, beheading some unfortunate
victim. During that same cyclone a sea-
gull was impaled on the minute hand of
the Townsville town clock. In 1911 the
wind demon overwhelmed the Yongala,
with 140 souls aboard, and put the whole
North into mourning. But for odd bits
of flotsam, no trace of her has ever been
found. In 1918 a steamer was hurled
through the bridge at Mackay, and the
fairway buoy from Flat Top Island was
washed into the main street.
* * * #
“Bull-ant Bill”: Old Joe reckons that
elections are poor affairs nowadays.
“Y’orter’ve seen the time when old
Mcllwraith and that there Sam Griffith
was scrappin’ about gettin’ Chows inter
Queensland ter take the flamin’ bread
outa the workin’-bloke’s mouth. Talk
about beer an’ lash! One night ’arf a
dozen kids comes down Queen-street
singin’ out: ‘’Orrible invasion of Aus-
tralia by Chinese army.’ Reely, it was
a yarn a bloke was writin’ in a paper
they called the ‘Boomerang.’ Got it all
printed in big letters about orful
slaughter of Australian blokes an’
women. Lota coves says they reckons
it’s dinkum, and down they goes to
Chinatown what useter be in Albert-
street, an’ starts dealin’ it out ter the
Chows. Stone the crows, y’orter see
them Chinks go, with their pigtails flyin’
out an’ the blokes after ’em with wad-
dies an’ rocks! Wot’s a nelection now?
Jest a lota skite. Never even see a scrap
now. Queensland’s gettin’ soft to what
it was in my young days.”
* * * *
“Koax, Koax”: Inclined to doubt that
the frog mentioned by “Balanus” (B.
6/4/’3B) was eating birds’ eggs. Have
closely observed frogs—the familiar
“greeny” of the outback was a close
childhood friend —and have fed all sorts
of things to the tribe. Never once have
I seen one conle at anything that did not
show signs of life. What the frog in
“B.’s” story was after was probably the
kingfisher’s nestlings, not the eggs. I
once saw a frog do his damnedest to
swallow a bat which fell on a table beside
a lamp, being only prevented by the
bat’s insistence on keeping his wings
spread, and no doubt one could ac-
count for half a dozen tiny nestlings.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: Whilst crocodile-
shooting is indulged in spasmodically by
Nor’-Westralians, it is not the popular
pastime it once was. The old-time method
was to drive a number of long nails
into a wide plank, tie a sucking-pig to
it and set it adrift in the river. Crocs,
never failed to rise to the bait. Irritated
by the sharp nails, the pig would fill the
air with squeals, and soon an ugly snout
would poke above the water to investi-
gate. A heavy shot placed under the
croc.’s forepaw stopped its rush at the
helpless porker.
MULISH.
“Hundreds of cheated Texas farmers have peti-
tioned Congress to halt the sale of decrepit mules
made temporarily beautiful by ingenious ‘beauty
treatments.’ ”
The mule to me was rich and rare,
For I had seen his hooves assert
His right to scoff a howitzer
And then a colonel for dessert;
I loved their antics blithe and pert,
I loved their voices more than lutes,
But mules have aped the ways of skirt,
They are not what they were, the brutes.
1 think the sudden shock I’d bear
With more of pleasure than of hurt
If to the worth of facial care
Wart-hog or goat should grow alert;
But condemnation cold and curt
Is all that apt the matter suits
When mules to asses’ ways revert:
They are not what they were, the brutes.
How can a man but tear his hear,
And call for help and soda squirt,
To learn, from Clarence Mulford’s lair
Where snakes and rustlers bit the dirt,
And rancher’s daughter used her quirt
Zane Grey’s wild and whiskered coots,
Ihe mules with beauty treatments flirt?
They are not what they were, the brutes.
. Envoi.
Prince, thank the Lord that (as thou wert)
j OU are hideous as old boots;
A™? as for mules —I’ll bet my shirt
They’re still just what they were, the
brutes!
N.S.W.
DHAS.


S Gift
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.80 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats mav be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance. of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
IV rite for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND \V. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. has money to lend on
first-class securities at lowest current
rates of interest.
APPLICATIONS INVITED.
ASSETS EXCEED £25,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£3,500,000
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steelj Ltd.
, Dividends N
Prof. To Re- Re-
Nov.. Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928. .182,090 26,791 Nil 155,299 171,011
1929. .215,040 73,714 5 p.c. =91,675* 49,651 220,662
1930.. 76,430 75.01)0 Nil 1,430 222,092
1931.. 18,071 Nil Nil 18,071 240,163
1932.. 2,203 Nil Nil 2,203 242,366
1933.. 70,359 Nil Nil 70,359 312,725
1934. .120,774 37,500 Nil 83,274 395,999
1935.. 80.009 65,143 Nil 14.866 410,865
Loss on sale shares Southern Blue
Metal, £43,500 367,365
Patents disclosed, £57,651 .. .. 309,714
Loss.
1936.. 29,734 58,125 Nil 221,855
Added patents, £974 .. .. .. 220,881
Profit.
1937.. 145,379 58,125 Nil 87",254 308,135
•Declared but not paid.
Ever since B.H. Prop, bought all the
2,700,000 ords. (they were held mainly
by the Hoskins family, Dorman, Long
and Co. and Howard Smith), paying for
them with 750,000 of its own ords., to-
ward the end of 1935, the story has been
one of additions and extensions to plant,
etc., which have not yet had an oppor-
tunity to show what they can do in the
way of earnings. To provide for the big
programme of expansion, about 1660
acres of adjoining freehold was bought
from the Government for £55,000, and
two near-by coalmines (the Bulli and Mt.
Keira) were purchased to supplement
supplies from the co.’s Wongawilli col-
liery. During the last term, a battery of
72 Otto Wilputte coke ovens and by-
products plant were erected at a cost of
about £1,200,000, and production com-
menced shortly after the close of accounts.
The fourth steel furnace was finished
early in the term, and the erection of a
fifth one was commenced. When it is •
completed, the co.’s steel-ingot capacity
will be 500,000 tons annually. The 36-
inch mill was remodelled and extended,
a new coal-storage bridge for bulk
handling was erected, an extra locomo-
tive and more rolling stock were bought,
another railway siding was erected, and
a second blast furnace, capable of turn-
ing out 1000 tons of pig-iron daily, is
nearing completion.
All this and the necessary additions
to supplementary plant involved heavy
capital expenditure last year:
1985. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. £3,700,007 £3,700,007 £3,700,007
Sundry creditors 049,937* 1,433,651* 3,669,650*
Fixed assets .. 3,794,371 4,218,214 6,364,502
Shares in other cos. 391,809 388,048 388,048
Stocks .. . . 269,009 407,976 538,394
Book debts .. 317,722 353,639 399,661
Investments, cash, etc. 16,692 10,700 16,052
•Includes ord. div. ( £91,675) declared but not paid.
The net addition to the book value of
fixed assets was £2,146,288. Stocks were
up £130,418, and £46,022 was added to
debtors’ balances. To meet the outlay,
the co. went to its bankers for an extra
£526,403, raising the overdraft to
£777,442, and leant upon sundry credi-
tors for a further £1,609,596, making
the amount coming to them £2,800,533,
the bulk of which has been provided by
B.H. Prop. When the books closed,
liabilities (excluding the ord. div. de-
clared but not yet paid) exceeded more
or less liquids by £2,623,868, up
£1,959,207 over the twelvemonth. To
ease the strain, B.H. Prop, will presently
take another 2,000,000 ord. shares. When
all the money on this lot is in, paid capi-
tal will be £5,700,007, of which a mil-
lion carries a cumulative 1\ p.c., reduced
to 5.8 p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act.
As for earnings, the trading loss in
1936 was due mainly .to industrial
trouble, which interrupted production
and new construction for nearly three
months early in the term; and when
heavy plant has been shut down it takes
a little time to develop profit-earning
capacity again. Although construction
overshadowed the production programme
last year, such plant as was available
was kept working to capacity. Still,
costs steadily increased, mainly owing
to the lift in wages and partly owing to
dislocation and some non-recurring ex-
penditure. After openly setting aside
£201,001 (up £117,500) for depreciation,
the board put the year's profit at
£145,379, or 2.5 times the prefs.’ minimum
requirements, or nearly twice their full
contract rate. Only £58,125 (5.8 p.c.)
was distributed, money being wanted in
the business. That cleared the pref. slate
to the beginning of May, 1934, leaving
£174,375, or 3s. 6d. per share, still to
come when the books closed.
With more plant at work, and a
slightly-better price for steel, net earn-
ings for the current term should show
substantial improvement. Prospects of
the co. earning enough to entirely wipe
out arrears of pref. divs. over the next
couple of years are encouraging. At
275. 7d. the fully-paid pound prefs. return
4.2 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div. basis, or 5.4
p.c. on a p.c. distribution, plus arrears.
The cover is £4 in net tangibles.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit., Dividends. serves, serves, t
£ £ £ £
1930.. 20,151* 7 p.c. = 2948 17,203 17,203
1931.. 4,413 5 „ „ 4262 151 \
Transferred to taxation reserve, £5OOO J
From inner reserves, £57,000 .. 1
From tax reserve, £2026.. .. 1 „„
Loss. [ 9fi
1932.. 71,284 Nil |
Deficit.!
1933.. 176,830 Nil 176,734
From inner reserves, £31,018 .. .. 145,716
1934.. 31,378 Nil • 177,094
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. .. 176,950
Surplus debenture interest, etc., £4615.. 172,341
Profit. 1
1935.. 5,878 Nil 5,878 160,463
1936.. 11,559 Nil 11,559 154,904
1937.. 7,381 Nil 7,381 147,523
* Eight months.
t Excluding capital reserve, £166,167 at Dec, 31, ’37.
+ After payment of debenture interest, etc.
Shareholders have been out of the pic-
ture since 1931, and it is difficult to say
exactly when divs. are likely to flow
again. In front of the £102,806 of share
capital is £520,500 of debentures, and in
front of the debentures are the mortgage
(£93,771) and overdraft (£87,072). Chief
investment interest is in the debentures,
secured by a floating charge, ranking
after the mortgage and overdraft, over
the whole of the co.’s assets. These de-
bentures, which are the funded trade
debts of the old Bond co., used to carry
7 p.c. p.a., reduced to £5 Bs. 6d. p.c.
under the N. S. Wales Interest Reduc-
tion Act, and then by agreement to 2 p.c.,
2i p.c. and 3 p.c. for the three years to
the end of Oct., 1937. The temporary
saving of £45,000-odd under the agree-
ment (the idea was to facilitate purchase
of new plant and so strengthen the co.’s
competitive power) is to be paid out of
surplus earnings as circumstances permit.
Last year £7807 was paid in respect of
these arrears, leaving £37,866 (7.28 p.c.)
still to come. The co. proposes to renew
the debentures till May 1, 1941, at 4 p.c.
p.a. Assuming that the arrears just re-
ferred to are also paid during this period,
the average rate of distribution would be
6.4 p.c. On May 1 the co. will pay a
further 10s. per cent, off arrears.
The market prices the £lOO debentures
at £57 10s. as against £5O a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is a shade
under 7 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis, or
11.1 p.c. on a 6.4 p.c. distribution. Ex-
cluding the capital reserve, the cover
is £9l in net tangibles, book value. The
pound shares, unrepresented by net tan-
gibles in the books, have a speculative
interest at 4s. 3d.
Last year turnover further improved,
gross earnings (£126,149) sprang £13,369,
and exes. (£93,242) took £5467 of the
increase, leaving the net result £7902
better at £32,906, or 6.3 p.c. on deben-
ture capital. Actually debenture holders
were handed £25,526, including £7807 (H
p.c.) on account of arrears. That left
£7381 (down £4178) to be credited to
shareholders’ account, as shown in the
introductory table.
Though costs are on the up-grade, and
competition in some lines appears to be
getting more of an edge on it, the board’s
policy of modernising and extending
plant continues, thus improving the co.’s
earning power. The allowance for de-
preciation last year was £20,801.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1933. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital £86,442 £92;306 £97,806 £102,806
Debentures . . 529,747 522,669 523,103 525,206
Mortgage . . 109,786 101,797 97,784 93,771
Overdraft . . 122,099 97,408 88,189 87,072
Sundry creditors 30,312 14,337 10,731 16,696
Freehold .. 320,920 320,981 321,551 322,150
Plant . . 212,754 190,009 194,940 192,033
Stocks . . 226,034 205,517 223,229 227,833
Book debts . . 128,602 99,409 79,438 98,168
Cash, etc. . . 10,426 12,238 9,649 4,010
The growth of £18,730 in debtors’ bal-
ances reflects the year’s brisker trading.
Stocks (up £4604, owing to purchase of
raw cotton from overseas because of
failure of the Queensland crop) is the
item that catches the eye; obviously
much depends upon the course of prices.
On plant £2907 more was written off
than was spent. Leaving debentures out
of the reckoning, the improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£132,472)
was £16,860.
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd. (Vic.)
Towards
Net , Dividends , Re- Re-
dan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 10,654 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 8,542 2112 2,589
Added goodwill, £3OO .. .. 2,289
1929.. 11,261 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 9,245 2016 4,305
1930.. 12,823 8 „ 6 ~ 11,255 1568 5,873
1931.. 2,853 4 „ Nil 2.738 115 5,988
Loss.
1932.. 3,683 Nil Nil 2,305
Profit.
1933.. 2,082 Nil Nil 2082 4,387
Added patent rights, £2l .. .. 4,366
1934.. 274 Nil Nil 274 4,640
1935.. 8,501 9*p.c. Nil 6,252 2066 6,706
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £14,500 .. 7,794
Written off intangibles, £7l .. 7,723
1936.. 13,727 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2252 5,471
Added intangibles, £25 .. .. 5,496
1937.. 14,172 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 11,475 2697 2,799
1938.. 15,923 6 „ 6 „ 13,992 1931 868
‘lncludes special payment of £725.
This co. is in the builders’ hardware
and agricultural-implement business, and
about 40 p.c. of the turnover is in lines
manufactured in its own factories, of
which there are half a dozen. It has
seven stores in Vic.—one at Flinders-
lane, another at Fitzroy and five in
country centres —and there is a sub-
sidiary, W. Hart and Son, at Launceston.
Last year business was extended to
N. S. Wales, where a branch was opened
at Rockdale during the last half of the
term, and a Sydney importing concern
was taken over for about £25,000 in
fully-paid ords. Also, to meet the grow-
ing demand for rust-proof metal sheet-
ing, a new factory is being erected at
North Fitzroy (Vic.), and another free-
hold was bought in the same locality to
relieve congestion in the foundry section
of the business.
Turnover generally improved, thanks
to increased activity in the building trade
and satisfactory prices for wool and
wheat. Record business was reported by
the Tasmanian offshoot, but the new Syd-
ney subsidiary, whose accounts close at
June 30 next, made no contribution to
the pool. The spring in gross earnings
(£90,804) was £11,894. Exes. (£74,881)
were up £10,143, leaving the net result
£1751 better at £15,923, equal to 6.8
p.c. on average capital. The div. was
kept at an all-round 6 p.c., and the
£1931 that remained reduced the amount
of capital unrepresented by tangibles in
the books to £B6B. The prefs. are
entitled to a cumulative 6 p.c. p.a., and
participate with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond that rate.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £176,750 £191,250 £191,250 £256,122
Liabilities . . 64,903 58,024 95,590 90,351
Freeholds .. 43,000 45,212 65,873 73,093
Plant, etc. . . 22,123 23,997 25,757 26,592
Stocks.. .. 148,554 136,005 148,787 166,613
Book debts .. 25,761 29,294 35,198 44,808
Cash, etc. . . 825 2,159 2,964 4,437
Shares other cos. 16,000 16,000 16,000 42 , ,916
The growth of £26,916 in shares in other
cos. reflects the Sydney purchase already
referred to. To enable the co. to carry
an extra £17,826 of stocks, add £B6lO
to debtors’ balances and £8055 to the
book value of fixed assets, shareholders
took up 38,000-odd new ords., making
paid capital £256,122 in 87,000 6 p.c.
prefs. and 169,122 ords. Including
stocks, the most vulnerable point in the
co.’s armor, and in at cost or valuation,
the improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£125,507) was £34,148.
The immediate outlook favors further
improvement in turnover, though the fall
in the price of wool and wheat may slow
down sales in the agricultural-implement
section. Still, the market, mindful of the
nature of the business and the slender
support for capital, sums up the risks by
pricing the prefs. at 235. 3d. and the
ords. at 19s. The return at these figures
is 5.1 p.c. and 6.3 p.c. respectively on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible cover
is £2 18s. Bd. prefs. l9s. lid. ords.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re—
Bee., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1927.. 11,733 7 p.c. = 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8.030 5 ~ „ 11.250 15,038
1929'. . 3,082 2$ ~ ~ 5,625 12,490
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 1 gg
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 ) ’
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
1931.. 30,021* Nil 75,000
1932.. 16,474* Nil 75,000
1933.. 18,011* Nil 75,000
1934.. 37,662 Nil 112,662
1935.. 8.451 Nil 121,113
1936.. 4,556 Nil 125,609
Surpius sale properties, £5222 .. 120,447
1937.. 1,172 Nil 121,619
‘Debited to contingency reserve.
The Kent- and Clarence-street proper-
ties, which had been a drag for many
years (lately the loss on these premises
had been over £2300 annually), were sold
early in the last term for £50,000. The
profit on the deal was £5222, which was
deducted from the accumulated p. and 1.
debit. The money that became available
enabled the board to wipe out the mort-
gage (£25,000), lop £17,046 off the over-
draft and reduce the amount coming to
sundry creditors by £6666:
1930. 1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £225,000 £225,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages, etc.' 55,633 42,478 25,000
Overdraft .. 51,540 70,777 69,707 52,661
Sundry creditors 29,653 23,932 44,643 37,977
Freeholds .. 47,850 46,650 49,002 5,763
Plant .. 4,93,5 6,373 7,030 7,022
Stocks .. 78,17*5 49,276 45,013 45,794
Shares sub. . . ) 99 „ QS 9Q Vas 1 9,167 9,167
Advances sub. f zy,iBB | 20,977 21,329
Book debts.. 194,379 108,772 106,319 101,829
Cash.. .. 8,159 213 1,174 3,115
The net reduction in the book Value of
property was £43,239, leaving the figure
at £5763, which represents the Newcastle
freehold and is less than the cost thereof.
Excepting a reduction of £4490 in
debtors’ balances, due tq better trading
conditions, movements in other figures
were unimportant. Leaving shares in
(£9167) and advances (£21,329) to the
subsidiary, Mitchell’s Factories Pty., out
of the reckoning, the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£60,100) was £46,944. The co., how-
ever, is still carrying a heavy load of
debt. According to the books, only
£103,381 (= 9s. 2d. in the pound) of the
£225,000 of share capital remained intact
at the end of Dec., when the amount
coming to outsiders was £90,638. That
is to say, there was still 17s. 6d. of out-
side money at risk in the business for
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act have not been fully complied with in this advertisement, which is intended for public information only.
A copy of the complete Prospectus, which has been duly filed for registration at the office of the Registrar-General, together with application, form for 7%
Cumulative Preference Shares, may be obtained as set out herein.
AN ISSUE OF
20,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each, bearing a
fixed rate of dividend of £7 per centum per annum,
BY
INDUSTRIAL BANKING CORPORATION
LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales.
Board of Directors:
SIR JOHN HENRY BUTTERS, K. 8., C.M.G., etc. (Chair-
man), Chartered Engineer, 247 George Street, Sydney.
JAMES SAMUEL LEE SHERRIFF, Esq., Share Broker, 26
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ALLAN ROY SIMSON, Esq., Retired Grazier, Elizabeth Bay
Road, Sydney.
GILMORE HOWARD, Esq., Company Manager, 221 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.
Director appointed to represent Preference Shareholders:
ARTHUR AUGUSTUS KELLY, Esq., Company Director, 5
Queen Street, Glebe
Rankers •
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
Stock Exchange Branch, Sydney.
Solicitors:
MESSRS. MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.,
Union Bank Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
MESSRS. P. J. EGAN & JOYNER,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 60 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Secretary:
JOHN HADDON STONE,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Registered Office: ROOM 201, PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
RIGHTS AND CONDITIONS ATTACHING TO PREFERENCE
SHARES.
The rights and conditions attaching to the Preference Shares as offered
by this Prospectus are contained in the statement of Additional Statutory
Information hereinafter appearing.
Interest' at the rate of 5 per centum per annum will be paid in respect
of all calls paid in advance—in addition to the prescribed rate of Preference
Share dividend.
Dividends on Preference Shares will be payable half-yearly after the
termination of the first financial year of the Company, June 30, 1938.
Share Certificates will be issued within two months of the date of allotment.
LISTING OF SHARES ON STOCK EXCHANGE.
In due course application will be made to the several Stock Exchanges of
Australia and New Zealand to have the Preference Shares of the Company
officially listed thereon. This will give the shares a free market and enable
shareholders to either dispose of or purchase shares at ruling market prices.
HISTORY.
The Company was incorporated as a Proprietary Company under the name of
Auto Acceptance Corporation Pty. Limited on August 11, 1937, with a
nominal capital of £20,000. It was re-registered as a Public Company on
November 1, 193 7, when its nominal capital was increased to £lOO,OOO. The
present name of the Company was adopted by Special Resolution of the
Shareholders at a meeting held on February 1, 1938, and has now taken effect
as the approval of the Governor has been obtained.
The objects of the Company are those contained in its Memorandum of
Association, a copy of which is printed herein and forms part of this
Prospectus. In furtherance of these objects the Company intended, primarily,
to loan its available share capital on the purchase of motor cars, motor trucks
and other vehicles and to accept as security therefor hire purchase agreements,
promissory notes, bills of exchange, negotiable instruments and other securities.
It was soon realised, however, that there was available for acceptance by the
Company other profitable and more extensive avenues for financing, such as
those carried on by the great industrial banking institutions of Great Britain,
America and Europe, so to that end plans were formulated for carrying a
programme on these lines into effect.
INDUSTRIAL BANKING PRACTICE.
The Industrial Banking system is one designed to serve the needs of both
producer and consumer—a service supplementary to and complementary
of the financial services already available from the older and established
banking concerns. The monetary resources of an industrial bank are
employed in rendering financial assistance to both producer and consumer for
sound economic purposes, thus contributing to the Nation’s progress and
prosperity.
The vast industrial development taking place in both Australia and New
Zealand at the present time and the high standard of living that is the
consequential outcome of the policy of these Nations’ Government's call for the
granting of credit on a scale not hitherto required. They call, furthermore,
for a drastic revision of the credit system and the curtailment of indiscriminate
credit granting, from the point of view of usurious interest rates and the
thrusting of credit upon those to whom credit is a burden instead of a help.
Nearly one hundred years ago the first Industrial Bank was established in
Germany, and so great was its success that the practice of industrial banking
soon spread to most all other industrial countries. The system of industrial
banking has endured through time, so that its practice in Australia through
the operations of this Company—will be sound and firmly based and conform
to the principles of orthodox and progressive banking practice.
FIELD OF OPERATIONS.
It is intended that the Company’s operations shall not now be confined mainly
to the financing of motor vehicles on hire purchase, as was characteristic of
its initial business, but rather to branch out into all fields of credit granting
and so diversify its credit risks, which, in turn, enhances the security of the
Company’s capital.
It is proposed to create (amongst others) the following operative departments
in accordance with the Company’s future trading policy
DISCOUNTING TRADERS’ LEDGER BALANCES.
FINANCE FOR BUSINESS AND PLEASURE TRAVEL.
FINANCE FOR INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS PURPOSES MACHINERY
INSTALLATIONS, NEW PLANT, Etc.
DOMESTIC FINANCE—House renovations, Hot Water installations, Air
Conditioning, etc., etc.
ESTABLISHMENT PROGRAMME.
In order to provide the finance necessary to carry into effect the foregoing
programme of activities it is the intention of the Company to make available
from time to time further issues of capital. Concurrently with the introduc-
tion of further capital, branch offices of the Company will be established in
suburban areas, later developing to other States and New Zealand.
FINANCIAL.
The policy of the Company is to make loans at a flat rate of interest, not less
than 8 per centum per annum, which are liquidated by weekly and monthly
instalments of Principal and Interest. These repayments as received are
promptly reinvested, so that the actual rate of interest earned on capital
employed is multiplied considerably.
It has not been possible, however, to accurately assess the profits earned by
the Company during its short period of existence, but the following resume
of its transactions will give a general idea of the profitable pature of the
Company’s business.
The paid-up share capital of the Company as at' December 3 1 last was £6133.
This amount, supplemented by accommodation from the Company’s Bankers,
together with deposits and repayments, enabled the Company to make loans
totalling £12,934, in return for which securities were received securing
the repayment of £14,906.
SOURCES OF PROFIT.
The principal source of the Company’s profits will be the interest earned
by loaning its available share capital and other monetary resources, and this
will be derived, not so much by charging high rates, but by a quick turnover.
As all loans will be made on the basis of weekly, fortnightly or monthly
repayments of principal and interest, these repayments as received are
immediately reinvested; thus the funds of the Company are constantly
employed and profit-earning.
Another very profitable souree of profit is that derived from insurances.
The Company conducts a comprehensive insurance agency from one of
the leading insurance organisations established in Australia, covering all forms
of commercial and industrial insurance which are necessary to the various
classes of business conducted, and to be conducted, by the Company. In all
cases where credit accommodation is extended, insurance coverage is
arranged by the Company, in respect of which it gains a substantial annual
income.
SECURITY OF CAPITAL.
The operations of a Company of this nature —industrial banking—offers, not
only one of the most profitable fields of investment, but also one of the
soundest from the point of view of security of capital. No capital whatsoever
is locked up in plant, machinery or stock-in-trade. The only commodity
dealt in is money, which is kept constantly at work. As repayments of
principal and interest are made the margin of the Company’s security becomes
greater, or, in other words, its risk diminishes—which is sound banking
practice.
MANAGEMENT.
The Company is efficiently ana economically managed. No brokerage or
commissions of any kind have been paid, or are payable, in respect of the
first issue of shares. Brokerage at the rate of 5 p.c. only is payable in
respect of the present issue of Preference Shares.
No consideration, either in the form of cash or shares, has been paid or is
payable in respect of the promotion or formation of the Company.
No bad debts have so far been incurred, for with the volume of business
offering it is possible, by judicious enquiry and capable administration, to
accept only securities which are sound.
Nevertheless, the profitable nature of the Company’s activities will allow of
suitable reserves being created for any possible bad debts in respect of
future trading operations, and it is the intention of the Directors to provide
for this accordingly.
PREFERENCE SHARES.
The 80,000 shares numbered 20,001 to 100,000 inclusive forming part of the unissued shares
of the Company shall be and be called Preference Shares and the rights privileges and conditions
following shall be attached to such shares that is to say:—
(a) The holders of such Preference Shares shall be entitled to receive out of the profits which
the Directors shall determine to distribute by way of dividend a fixed cumulative
preferential dividend at the rate of £7 per centum per annum on the capital paid up
thereon respectively.
(b) The holders of the said Preference Shares shall be entitled on a winding up to be paid the
amount of capital paid up or credited as paid up on their respective shares together
with all arrears of preferential dividend whether earned or declared or not down to
the commencement of the winding up out of the assets of the Company in priority to the
holders of the ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company.
(e) Save as aforesaid the holders of the said Preference S'hares shall not be entitled to any
further participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
(d) If and so long as the dividend on the Preference Shares is in arrear for a period of two
calendar years the Preference Shares shall confer upon the holders the same rights as
Ordinary Shares confer on the holders thereof to vote on any resolution at General
Meetings of the Company but the Preference Shares shall not confer any other rights
to vote at General Meetings of the Company.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Interested investors may obtain copies of the complete Prospectus
and Share Application forms from:—
The Secretary,
Industrial Banking Corporation, Ltd.,
Room 201, Producers and Citizens’ Building,
221 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Applications for shares must be made to the Company on the
form accompanying the Prospectus.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
w
v\Vmu N vJ\\u'i
SS
#. \ -
Established 1808.
Security to Policyholders exceeds
£19,000,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or . Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth S'treet, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
NOBEE
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXP LOS IV ES
NOBEL!
I
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder. Smith * Company, limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.': Dalfrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Daigrety & Company, Limited.
BRISBANE, OLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: .1. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN. N.Z.: Daigrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Daigrety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, liedstrom, Limited.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
s|e * Hs !js
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and CoUison and 00. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
*** * .
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and T-elegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
every pound belonging to shareholders
which was represented by tangible assets.
The problem for those in control is
to get the business on a profit-earning
basis again. Last year was a very pros-
perous one for trade generally, and cur-
tailment of some of the co.’s Sydney
sales was followed by an “appreciable
reduction of working costs.” Still, a loss
of £1172 (£3384 less than the previous
year’s) showed up.
The business never has yielded much
in the way of profits. For the 10 gener-
ally fat years to the end of 1929, the
small reserves were tapped for £21,324
to pay divs. averaging 6.5 p.c. Then
slump and the plight of wheat and other
farmers —the co. has wide connections in
the country —reduced turnover and
brought a crop of bad debts, while
growth of the cash-and-carry and chain
methods of retailing kept margins too
narrow to support the co.’s costs.
The scrip has a speculative interest at
3s. 6d.
Industrial Banking Corp., Ltd.
Originally this was the Auto Accept-
ance Corp. Pty., Ltd., nominal capi-
tal £20,000, formed in Sydney on
August 11, 1937, to discount motor-
vehicle hire-purchase paper. The public
became interested in Nov. the same year,
when the present nameplate was put out
and nominal capital increased to £lOO,OOO
in 80,000 £1 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 20,000
£1 ords. On March 24 last 15,307 ords.
had been taken up, on which £6233 had
been paid. No promoter’s consideration
or commission on the issue of this capi-
tal was paid by the co., which ought to
mean that there should be no heavy in-
tangible item to weigh down capital.
Now 20,000 prefs. are offered at
par ; brokerage, 5 p.c. The intention is
to extend operations to embrace dis-
counting of traders’ bills, provide finance
for industrial enterprise (new plant, etc.),
and make loans for house renovations
and other domestic purposes, etc. Ad-
vances are repayable in weekly to
monthly instalments, interest being fixed
at a minimum 8 p.c. p.a. Pickings are
expected to accrue from insurance busi-
ness ; in cases where accommodation is
granted insurance cover will be taken out
by the co., which holds an agency from
one of the established offices.
No accounts have yet been presented,
but the co. claimed to have made loans
totalling £12,934 at the end of Dec. last,
and against these securities valued at
£14,906 were held.
Prospects depend on the management’s
ability to keep funds constantly em-
ployed and its flair for selecting the right
type of risk in a field that is becoming
very crowded. Though the immediate
outlook suggests that we might be in
for a period of tighter money, the high
minimum rate of interest proposed also
suggests that the co. may have difficulty
in putting all first-class risks on its
books. Still, in good times this class ol
business usually earns handsome profits.
The testing period is when the economic
barometer falls sharply and recovers
slowly ; there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest such an occurrence.
Prefs. shareholders have priority to
capital and divs., whether earned, de-
clared or not, and representation on the
board, but no voting rights until their
div. is two years in arrears. On a paid
capital of £35,307, including £20,000 of
pref. money, the cover for the prefs.
would be 355. 4d. per share, subject to
intangibles.
It is intended to list the scrip. On the
board are knight John Butters (engi-
neer), J. S. L. Sherriff (sharebroker), A.
R. Simson (retired grazier), Gilmore
Howard (company manager) and A. G.
Kelly (company director), representing
pref. shareholders.
Emperor, T'avua, Fiji, has offered to
take over the adjoining Koroere prop-
erty for 50,000 f.-p. Emperor 10s. shares,
worth 12s. 6d. apiece in the market, and
Koroere’s directors think the opportunity
should not be missed. At the end of
January, Koroere had current assets
totalling £1747, and there was £456 com-
ing to outsiders. Issued capital was in
300,000 shares of 10s. each, of which
90,000 were fully-paid and the balance
paid to 4s. 6d. each. At Is. 9d. per
share the market' values the undertaking
at £26,250, or £5OOO less than the market
value of the 50,000 Emperor shares to be
handed over, one for six. According to
F. A. Campbell, mine surveyor at the
Emperor, available ore in the Koroere
property amounts to 35,000 tons, averag-
ing 9.2dwt., in the Cardigan lode, and
9000 tons, assaying lldwt., in the West
Cardigan. That is not enough to war-
rant installation of a modern treatment
plant, but the stuff can be profitably
handled at the Emperor mill. Although
recent developments have been discour-
aging, there is a chance of more pay-ore
being developed below the 100 ft. level
on the West Cardigan. Here it is pro-
posed to sink a shaft over the position of
the winze, where lOdwt. values have been
disclosed, and explore the ore-body from
this point. Acceptance of the offer by
Koroere shareholders would wipe out an
uncalled liability and enhance their im-
mediate prospects.
* * *
Mine profit of Raub Australian, the
Australian-bossed Malay producer, for
the quarter ended Feb. 26, which closed
the financial year, was £51786, subject to
depreciation. Crushings for the full 12
months totalled 65,329 tons, compared
with 62,339 tons in the previous term, and
the yield' 20,3610 z. fine, as against
24,5460 z. Midway through the term rich
stone being used as a sweetener suddenly
cut out, and recoveries dropped sharply,
ore-production never having been much
ahead of the mill. Average yield
for the period was down l v 7dwt. at
6.2dwt., the figure slipping to 4.2dwt. in
January. One result was the omission
of the last quarterly div. The new sands
re-treatment plant, recently brought' into
operation, should help profits when initial
difficulties are overcome, but, the general
run of the ore being low grade, resump-
tion of divs. will largely depend on the
opening up of new good-grade shoots,
search for which will meantime add to
the already high cost of the development.
At 12s. each the ss. shares are 10s. below
the 1937 peak.
* * * *
“O.B.”: It the worst happens at depth
in the main workings at Wiluna (W.A.),
where nearly 2,000,000 tons of developed
ore awaits extraction, the Bulletin lease,
over H miles north of the main shaft,
may still give the co. a fair-sized leg to
stand on. At June 30, 1937, over 300,000
tons of 4|dwt. ore was blocked out in
this property, from which 9000 tons had
been extracted monthly and sent to the
mill during the previous year. Recently
a crosscut at the 1200 ft. level proved the
Bulletin shoot to have a width of 14ft.
and an assay value of 12dwt. at that
point. It is the least refractory of all
the gold-carriers so far mined by Wiluna.
* * * *
South Kalgurli’s mine profit for its
1937 term was approximately 6s. 7d.
Aust. per ton of ore treated ; for the
year which closed on March 31 the
figure lifted to 11s. Id. Better recoveries
(a new regrinding plant was in operation)
and reduced costs both helped. Here is
the record for the two periods as com-
piled from monthly returns (Aust. cur-
rency) :
Wkg.
Tons — N , —Wkg. Costs*—Sur-
Mar., Milled. Gross. Ton. Gross. Ton. plus.f
£, £ £,
1937.. 117,783 300,378 51/- 238,735 40/6 38,937
1938.. 121,358 327,055 53/11 236,401 38/11 67,440
* Before and t after charging development.
The improvement of £A38,400 in the
working surplus represents £22,700 in
stg. In the 1937 term the net result
slipped to £526,169, and the div. was
cut from 3s. 6d. to 2s. per share.
This year a distribution at the higher
rate,, calling for £543,750, should be
within reach. The ore supply—latest
estimate is 187,300 tons, averaging 5.7
dwt., blocked, and 98,400 tons, averaging
5.5dwt., probable—has been maintained
at around 2\ years’ feed for the mill,
though the grade is again fractionally
lower. Down to 14s. 6d. in September,
the 2s. 6d. shares are now firm around
20s. The co. has well-lined pockets.
* • * * *
For the last quarter of 1937 Gold
Fields Australian Development, one of
De Bernales’s Westralian group, treated
25,245 short dry tons (head value, 6.33
dwt.) from its Moonlight leases, Wiluna,
for 7004 fine ounces gold, including 767
fine ounces in the form of antimonial
concentrate. After providing for develop-
ment, mining and treatment costs, the
working profit was estimated at £A 19,000,
as against £A 16,800 for the previous
quarter. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing 1103 fine ounces, valued at £A9500,
recovered from the treatment of 293
tons of accumulated concentrates, the
major portion of the expenditure for
which was incurred before commence-
ment of the last quarter. Operating
results for the December quarter of
1937 for Yellowdine and Comet, in
which the Development co. holds a 20
p.c. and 11 p.c. interest respectively, are
as follows:
Yellowdine. Comet.
Ore, tons 13,181 1,493
Residues, tons .. . . 3,892 1,681
Gold, fine oz. . . . . 9,235 2,412
Value, Aust... .. .. £80,305 £20,960
Operating profit .. .. £62,734 £16,875
On its Kintore property, Kunanalling
(W.A.), the Development co. recently
installed a 10-head battery, and crushing
has commenced. Paid capital is £500,000
in ss. shares, which the market prices at
ss. 6d. as against 17s. a couple of years
ago.
4= * * *
Cox’s Find, rich Erlistoun (W.A.-) gold-
producer, where the outlook continues
promising at depth, has yielded joint
owners Western Mining Corp. (three
parts) and Central Gold, Adelaide (one
part), around £A200,000 since June,
1936. For the 12 months to March
last 15,2640 z., worth £A131,790, was
won from 17,509 tons, a recovery of
17.4dwt. Exes, are high, one reason
being the remoteness of the mine. Min-
ing and treatment alone were costing
555. 4d. a ton six months ago, though
that figure was expected to be reduced.
Last two monthly parcels have yielded
over to the ton.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas, N.L., which
has weighed the old White Hope at
Hampton Plains (W.A.) in the gold
balance and found it wanting, is nego-
tiating to procure a plant to treat avail-
able ore reserves, which it estimates will
yield a profit of approximately £20,000.
Estimates of earnings from gold extrac-
tion, however, are not always realised.
Several goldmining properties in Queens-
land, Northern Territory and Westralia
have been offered the co., and the direc-
tors have commissioned a geologist to
examine one in the West which has pro-
duced a little wealth and is reported to
have a 15ft. lode.
* * * *
Swan Bitter Co. (W.A.) has taken a
12 months’ option over a Mf. Magnet
show recommended by Dr. Moss.
Present owners are reported to have
treated 976 tons for 1492 fine oz. gold,
and want £12,000, plus 5000 Swan Bitter
reserve shares, for their right, title and
interest. Swan Bitter proposes to pros-
pect the property and operate its mine
at at the same time.
* * * *
King of Creation and Meekatharra
Gold Mines, two of the lesser lights of
De Bernales’s Westralian group, have both
closed down, the former owing to doubt
about the payability of its ore-body and
the latter “pending some new develop-
ment in the methods of ore treatment
which would warrant the reopening of
the property and erection of the required
equipment.”
* * * *
Gambier Lass, N.L. (W.A.), is return-
ing to shareholders fd. of the 2s. 6d.
originally subscribed, and hopes, if the
remaining plant is sold, to make a further
fractional distribution. Co., a local one,
got £30,000 from the public early in
1935„ Vendors received £7500, and some
of the balance was spent on an old ven-
ture at Leonora. This was abandoned
and another in the same district was ac-
quired. This also proved a dud.
* * * *
Youanmi (W.A.) is preparing to raise
treatment capacity of its plant to 10,000
tons a month. Information obtainable
locally concerning this co.’s activities is
practically nil, but occasionally the Lon-
don board whoops a little about present
operations and future prospects.
* * * *
Impressed with Big Bell’s low-grade
achievements, New York investors are on
the hunt for another similar property in
Westralia. Several shows, promising and
otherwise, have been brought under their
notice, including Paddy’s Flat group at
Meekatharra, which Herman Mandel-
stam recently tried to float in London.
* * * *
As a gold-producer Comet (W.A.) is
champion for its size in the State. Ap-
proximately £70,000 worth of bullion has
been extracted since Claude de Bernales
bought out the prospectors early in 1937
and passed the show on to Gt. Boulder
Mining and Finance and others. Latest
report is that values continue unim-
paired at depth.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.8.P.: There is no open market for these
bonds. Write secretary and ask if he can find
a buyer for you W.1.M.: Australasian Paper
ords. and Morris Hedstrom should be worth
holding... .E.L.D.0.: (1) No. (2) No record.
E.G.: Write to Chief Secretary for full
particulars C.M.: (1) For full particulars,
write Registrar-General, Sydney, stating amount
of nominal capital. (2) If the shares in a
limited liability co. are fully paid, the holders
thereof have no further liability in respect of
the business, whereas a partner’s private estate
is liable in respect of debts contracted by the
partnership, should the assets of the partnership
be insufficient to meet the liabilities thereof.


ISO SOAP
NOR WATER
NEEDED.
Shave Electrically
No more “raw face,” just the
cleanest, slickest shave ever
thought of. Shave in the office,
at home—any place where you'can
Plug in to A.C. or D.C. Over a
million and a half in daily use.
£5/10/-
Factory
Industries,
Representatives:
Ltd., 470 Elizabeth
Sydney.
E.T.C.
Street,
mm
ĸ
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent; PHiMip and Young «tre®ts. Sydney
1
} ■ i
m : WvJJH
m
'** in
I!
IP
wsm
M
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per ni*ht.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Black Marias took 27 men and 13 women
to city police stations, where they were charged
with breaches of the Liquor Act. All were
bailed out.”— Sydney “Sun.”
There’s drinking for you!
*** *l* *l*
“She appeared on the stage wearing a filmy,
transparent garment which electrified the audi-
ence.”—Stage review.
A case of gauze and effect.
►!«
“ ‘lf you are ever in doubt as to whether to
say a thing or not to your husband, leave it
unsaid,’ says a note to women.”
But is woman ever in such doubt?
*!♦ •!*
“The women in the car urged the driver on,
daring him to go faster.”
—Evidence in traffic case.
He should have been charged with
driving whilst under the influence of
women.
+ 4* 4*
“Maternity work is the hardest of all, admit-
tedly ; it has led to more nervous collapses than
any other practice.”— Medical journal.
The maternity doctor is always liable
to be knocked up, of course.
*L
“One of his eccentricities was to have a tele-
phone in every room. There was even one in
the oathroom.” — Short story.
Doubtless this was used exclusively for
answering calls which proved to be
wrong numbers.
4 1 4* t
“Woman Givfes Son an Ear!” — “D.T.”
Most women prefer to give their hus-
bands tongue.
•h *!* •!•
The Sticker.
“Pooley Bridge stays like a mother-in-law.”
—Turf paper.
Dunno what yours is like but mine
makes a welter of it. Shortly after I’d
married her eldest, she paid us a flying
visit just as a trial to encourage us to
settle down. Though a w.f.a. performer
and handy with the nosebag, she won’t
pay any forfeits, but accepts all the allow-
ances about the place.
And talk about stamina! Even before
the wife’s served the soup, mum’s chaff-
ing at the barrier. Then she’ll come
with a great rattle for a third division of
fruit-salad when I’m half through the
washing-up.
Game old battler, all right, but if she
plays up much more she’s to be sent
out for a long spell!
P. O. M. C.
Virtue.
The nudist chap indeed must be
A model of complacency —
Although condemned in ways that hurt,
he
Never seems to get too shirty!
Me.
•P *l*
“Just a hundred and ten years ago house-
holders gazed in wonder and surprise at the
first gas light.”— News item.
Now it’s the bill.
•I- *l* *l*
“To me, one of the most marvellous things
about this country —apart from the loveliness
of the women and the masculinity of the men
—is the enjoyment which you are said to feel
when listening to speeches.”
—General J. Harbord, U.S.A.
The General will have his little joke.
•% *2* *l*
“Sometimes people are apt to laugh at friends
who have been knocked down by cars.”
— “Sun.”
As Shakspeare says, “He jests at
wounds who never felt a car.”
•b *i*
“A section of postal employees tried to estab-
lish a football team but could not get the re-
quired number.”
They belonged to the telephone de-
partment, of course.
“Look out!"
Similarity.
“In the good old days dancing and pugilism
were direct opposites.”— Boxing veteran.
But, nowadays, it’s very plain,
They’ve one important thing
In common: viz., they both contain
A great amount of swing.
T. W. N.
*!• *
“Passenger wants hat- and parcel-racks in
trams.”
He’ll be wanting a seat next!
+
“During the hearing of a case on a breach
of the traffic regulations a magistrate said that
if a car could be made to move sideways the
tremendous problem of parking would be par-
tially solved.”
It is no coincidence that, following this
tip from the Bench, a party of automotive
engineers and designers are now in camp
on the coast making intensive research
into the movements and life history of
the crab.
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
XIII.— The Very Rum Corps.
During Phillip’s five years as Gov-
ernor the colony was comparatively
sober. The only rum about the place
was that ordered by the Home authori-
ties as the regulation issue to the N.S.W.
Corps—about a gallon a day for officers
so that they could “flog ’ what was left
over if and when they sobered up to the
citizenry; one-sixteenth of an inch in
the bottom of the dixie lid for the
swaddies and the rest for the Q.M. so
that he could comfortably retire for life
after a year or two.
When in Dec., 1792, Phillip sailed for
England, home and cutie the Atlantic
hadn’t passed Bradley’s Head before the
military barracks were ringing with bibu-
lous cheers and Major Grose, O.C. rum
and acting-Gov., was getting writer’s
cramp scribbling out orders for ship-
ments of the fiery spirit.
The major’s chief claim to fame rests
in the fact that his father was the one
Rabbie Burns referred to in the famous
line
A chiel’s amang ye taking notes.
The major was unable to pursue his
parent’s favorite pastime because there
were no notes in circulation then, but
he more than made up for this deficiency
when he established rum as the circu-
lating currency.
“Circulating” was right! The citi-
zens, as well as the rum, circulated
freely, especially on paydays. Yet the
effects of this phase of early colonial life
were not so evil as many suppose. At
least it threw up a hardy type of pioneer
with super stamina who could swing a
mad Mick or a banjo for 60 hours a
week, and then swill down his wages on
Friday night in half a dozen enormous
gulps. This, too, with O.P. that was
guaranteed under ’the newly-passed Pure
Booze Act to contain not less than four
fights and a howl over the wife’s photo,
to the nobbier.
It became a common practice among
otherwise free settlers to dispose of their
wives at the satisfactory price of four
gallons. It is patent that it was only
the ameliorating influence of the potent
tipple that enabled a man to exact so
high a price for his spouse ; without it,
he would probably have had a devil of
a job to give her away—conceivably he
might even have had to pay somebody
to take her.
Of course, the use of rum as a medium
of exchange was not without its draw-
backs. -For instance, when the first Syd-
ney theatre put on its powerful melo-
drama “The Blood-drinkers of Lime-
house,” he-men patrons in carnival mood
crashed down their entrance money with
such ebullience at the box-office that the
girl selling the tickets had to swim
strongly through the door to save her-
self from being drowned. Moreover,
most of the audience drank their pass-
out checks at the interval, and nearly
caused a riot when they couldn’t get back
in.
The greatest confusion occurred, how-
ever, when the currency was found to be
“watered.” Prompt action by Governor
Hunter saved the situation, and notices
were posted everywhere warning people
to taste their change before leaving the
counters. The menace was removed fol-
lowing the arrest of a gang of counter-
feiters who had been operating a cold-
tea still.
Later, however, when the holey dollar
and the dump (the Spanish piece of eight
with the centre belted out) were intro-
duced confusion became worse con-
founded, and it was a common sight to
see a half-shot citizen sitting where the
gutter should have been, avidly swallow-
ing about a dozen holey dollars, pour-
ing half a gallon of rum into his inside
vest pocket and trying to thread another
four gallons on to a piece of string tied
to his pants button.
S. W. K.
Distinction.
Oh, the hallstand and the bedstead and
the carpet on the stair,
The curtains and the cutlery we’ve re-
cently displayed,
The radio and loughboy, too — I’m sorry
to declare
Were all bought on time-payment, and
they’re far from being paid.
Not so the stately jardiniere that’s stand-
ing in the hall.
There’s not a bean to pay on it! And
very proud are we
To think that it’s entirely ours, whatever
may befall:
We got that for the labels off the pack-
ages of tea !
T. W. N.
Tragedy.
After twenty years of searching in the
whole wide world about
For the Ideal Woman, to complete
Life’s plan,
It’s terrible to find her and then, after-
wards, find out
That she’s busy searching for the
Ideal Man!
DOUGAL.
Blood and Blunder.
Inspector Rott of Scotland Tard smiled
one of those wry smiles he kept for
special occasions.
The mysterious disappearance of Lord
Toughasell after a bitter quarrel with
his s.p. bookmaker was beginning to look
simple. Snooping about the outer
grounds of Toughasell Towers, the
famous sleuth picked up a crimson trail
in the wet grass that led to the Haunted
Windmill. Murder beyond all doubt!
The inspector hurled himself through
the door and cannoned into none other
than Lord Toughasell himself.
His lordship was very wild at thus being
disturbed. He had retired to the old
windmill to work out in secret a new sys-
tem of all-up betting. Bloodstains?
Rats! His depleted fortunes had driven
him to look for bargains. In a chain
store he had snapped up a pair of red
socks for ninepence. It was an old
family custom of the Toughasells to
walk about in their socks when engaged
in deep cogitation. He was afraid that
chain-store socks were a rank failure in
wet grass.
Inspector Rott hung his head in shame.
It was his first failure.
McM.


Q
S 3
For
MODERN
CRAFTSMEN
Thousands of workshops have found these
compact, efficient machines indispensable.
Inspect our range of “TAUCO” Electrically-
driven Tools unsurpassed for workshop
utility!
“TAUCO” 4in.
Precision Jointer, No. 290.
Patented swinging stop, dual-control handle,
2-way tilting fence, three high-speed knives.
Also available in Gin. size.
“TAUCO” Bin.
Circular Saw, No. 860.
Great capacity in front of the saw for cross-
cutting wide boards; rip-gauge extension gives
tremendous ripping capacity. Cuts 2}in. thick,
llin. high, 18in. wide, 23in. front to back.
“TAUCO” 24in.
Scroll Saw, No. 1200.
Compact and competent for heavy or light
work. 23in. high, 14in. wide, 35in. long.
Machined table 14in. x 14in.
“TAUCO” 14in.
Band Saw, No. 890.
The standard of value in its class! Enclosed
disc wheels, swinging table Win. x 14in., big
capacity under the guides. 41in. high, lGin.
wide, 2oin. front to back.
Folders are available illustrating these machines; send
for one; or, better still, come and see the machines
at our showrooms.
/vjspKerstH®)
Proprietary Limited
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney,
546 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Adelaide and Perth.
Prestige Ords. at 15s. 3d.
Throughout the slump this co.
paid 10 p.c. p.a., then 2\ p.c.
extra came in 1936. In 1937,
though earnings were better, the
cautious management dropped the
bonus because overproduction in
the hosiery trade was feared. The
10s. ord. scrip has been up to
225. 6d. ; recently it was on offer at
15s. 3d., yielding 6.6 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The co.’s products
are in a high class, and finances
are well cared for. The trade
generally is still prosperous.
ONE
COMPANY
FiLLI
INTO ONE BASKET?
Authorities will tell you it is
safer to spread your risk!
Even small investors, with as little
as £22, can now do this. By buying
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT
TRUST CERTIFICATES
they secure an interest in 20 of the strongest and soundest companies
in Australia, and a liberal income yield. Besides the “spread” over
20 companies, your funds are further safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees: Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write to-day for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers:
' AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry” session each Wednesday night at 9.30 from 2 UE.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
The Zinc Corporation
There was a special reason in the be-
ginning for calling Broken Hill’s at-
present most interesting mine “The Zinc
Corporation,” but just now any such
reason isn’t apparent. If there is a
special feature in Zinc Corp.’s ore to
blow about it is the lead content, which
recently has been higher than North’s
and South’s; zinc and silver contents are
lower, especially silver, which goes about
4oz. to the ton, as against 9oz. in the
North mine.
Lead is the most profitable metal of
the lot at present market prices.
If the lead and zinc contents of Bar-
rier ores be regarded as one metal, then
at an average price of £l5 sterling a ton
for both lead and zinc the value of these
metals in North, South and Zinc Corp.
ores runs out at about £4 a ton in each
case. At Is. 9d. per fine ounce, silver is
worth 7s. a ton in Zinc Corp.’s case, 17s.
in North’s. It is in this silver-content
difference (10s. a ton) only that Zinc
Corp. ore varies noticeably from North’s.
Costs of the three big Barrier- mines
vary little per ton of ore treated, though
so far as costs are comparable Zinc’s are
definitely lower than North’s and a
shade lower than South’s.
Last balance day'ore developed (down
to 1832 ft.) represented 3,100,000 tons in
the main lode and 249,000 tons in the
zinc lode. In a vertical direction there
is probably at least another 5,000,000
tons of similar ore; from the boring
plans it seems that over 10,000,000 tons
is reasonably indicated altogether, with-
out exhausting the mine’s possibilities or
the potentialities of the New B.H. Con-
solidated interest. North had 5,021,000
tons in sight last balance day, and more
at depth ; but geological opinion is that
possibilities of ore development in this
part of the lode are more restricted than
in Zinc Corp.’s case. A quarter of a cen-
tury has been suggested by Zinc’s chair-
man as a modest estimate of the mine’s
life.
In 1937 Zinc Corp.’s throughput of
ore was slightly above the 1936 figure,
and recoveries, especially of lead and
silver, were better. Lead and spelter
averaged £23 4s. Bd. and £22 4s. in
London respectively, compared with £l7
12s. 6d. and £l5 os. Bd. in 193 b. In
1936 net profit was disclosed at £369,436
sterling and a 60 p.c. ord. div. went out;
1937 profits haven’t yet been published,
but they should be yvell up. They may
be £650,000 stg., (depending on what
reserves, etc., are made at the board’s
discretion. Metal averages for the first
three months of 1938 Ijave been lead £l5
16s. 10d., spelter £l4 11s. 9d.
Zinc Corp. of late years has been
treating slightly less ore than South, and
earning slightly less profit, when sterling
figures are converted into Australian cur-
rency. In 1936 364,800 tons was milled
by Zinc.
The minimum requirements of Zinc
Corp. prefs. are £49,140 stg. annually.
After 4s. a share has been paid, the £1
prefs. are entitled to a participating div.
equal in amount to that paid on the
10s. ords. Thus in 1936, though the
prefs. received 50 p.c., the ords. were
handed 60 p.c. —a 6s. participating div.
was paid in each case.
Taking the 653,139 ords. at last week’s
market of 85s. (Aust.), and the 245,692
prefs. at £7, valuation of the show is
approximately £4,500,000 (Aust.). At
325. the South mine is appraised at
£5,120,000, and North, at 505., at
£7,000,000.
Assuming that 60 p.c. p.a. is a fair
average return to expect at present from
South shares and Zinc Corp. ords.,
Souths at 325. yield about 9.3 p.c. flat,
while Zincs, adding 25 p.c. exchange
and deducting British income tax of 3s.
in the £l, return 7.3 p.c. at 85s. Norths,
on a 75 p.c. div. basis, return 7.5 p.c. at
50s.
It shouldn’t be overlooked, however,
that a 75 p.c. ord. div. by Zinc Corp.
wouldn’t call for any more than a 60 p.c.
handout in the case of South, and on a
75 p.c. basis the yield to the Australian
investor at 855., allowing British income
tax as before, would be 9.4 p.c.
Again, during 1938 the productive
capacity of Zinc Corp.’s mine and mill
is expected to be lifted from 375,000
tons ore to 440,000 tons, in 1939 to
550,000 tons, in 1940 to 680,000 tons, and
thereafter a peak of 730,000 tons a year.
The peak tonnage of North to date has
been 435,000 tons, in 1936-37, so the im-
port of Zinc Corp.’s expansion pro-
gramme is obvious. It is plain, from the
outlay on the splendid new shaft and
the new mill, that the management has
great confidence in the future of this end
of the Barrier lode. It adjoins New
Broken Hill Consolidated, in which Zinc
Corp. has a 30 p.c. share interest, and
which will be worked from Zinc Corp.’s
shaft.
Whether Zinc Corp. will rush to pro-
duction at full capacity as soon as exten-
sions are available will no doubt' depend
on the directors’ discretion and metal
prices. Dividend policy during the next
few years, when outlay on plant and
development may be expected to be
heavy, very likely will be conservative.
Still, fixed assets in the last published
accounts were valued at only £407,772
stg., as against £1,346,356 (Australian
currency) South and £1,632,483 North.
The two last-mentioned mines had. larger
reserves to offset the higher valuations,
but not withstanding this Zinc Corp.
shows up in a favorable light in com-
parison, and it has a good-looking parcel
of investments, including the interest in
N.B.H. Consol.; a 25 p.c. holding in
B.H. Associated Smelters stands in the
books at nil.
There are market fears that rearma-
ment will increase taxation on British-
domiciled cos. If the levy were made
too hot in Zinc Corp.’s case, the regis-
tration might be shifted to Australia, as
was done in the case of British Tobacco
in 1927 and other cos. at other times.
The United States sharemarkets, which
showed such smart recovery last Satur-
day week, influenced a momentary firm-
ing in base metals last week. Other
commodities showed a tendency to
strengthen also; then there was a re-
action from the recovery, and shares
and metals both came back. Last week
lead was fetching around £l6 ss. stg. in
London, spelter £l4. Barrier mines
closed on ’Change at firmer prices before
the Easter vacation, Zinc Corp. ords. sell-
ing slightly above 855., Norths at 515.,
Souths at 325.
The United States is doomed to diffi-
culties in the shape of unstable markets
—the instability both upward and down-
ward—industrial strife and general eco-
nomic uncertainty so long as the New
Deal is persisted with in its present in-
credible shape. Inflation in prices
coupled with inflation in costs, including
wages, will bring prosperity to no coun-
try. In Australia our currency was de-
preciated 20 p.c., interest rates were cut
22| p.c., and wages were brought down
in proportion when trouble struck us.
The products we had for selling over-
seas soon brought us in a bigger return,
but internal costs and prices didn’t soar.
We had margins of profit to encourage
enterprise and re-employment, and at the
same time the buying-power of reduced
money wages increased. The mode of
attacking the depression problem in this
country has turned out the most suc-
cessful in the world. Much of the
“mode” was forced on us, and it must
be acknowledged that the initial step —
the lifting of the exchange—was the in-
dependent action of a commercial bank
—the ’Wales. A blunt, straightforward
“policy,” with political expediency rarely
showing the way, has been our salvation.
In the United States force-feeding of the
internal price-level has been more disas-
trous than what would have ordinarily
been an unpleasant period on short
commons. Sooner or later the New Deal
will have to go into reverse. The sooner
the better for the whole world.
France, which, ifi comparison with
other countries, changes its currency
almost as readily as it changes its Gov-
ernment, has also put the cart before the
horse in its economic policy. Deprecia-
tion of the franc has been an effect, not
a cause, of higher prices, wages and
general costs throughout the Republic.
Following introduction of the 40-hour
week and other extravagances, such as a
“Popular Front” Government, the cost
of living has soared out of sight, and a
consequent flight of money has been the
apparent cause of the depreciating franc.
Someone remarked the other day that
a country which could produce steel as
cheaply as Australia was bound to pro-
gress. It seems also that to avoid diffi-
culties like those besetting France and
the U.S.A. the best thing we can
do is to keep our cost of living as low
as possible.
American justice has settled the hash
of Richard Whitney, formerly president
of New York Stock Exchange, quick and
lively. A few weeks ago he was found
out; last week he was sentenced to
“from five to ten years” in Sing Sing.
Some remarks of the Judge in passing
sentence are worth recording:
Were you an ordinary type of faithless
employee the Court might have been dis-
posed to temper justice with mercy, but in
this case I cannot. Your course for the
last six years has been a series of thefts,
larcenies, frauds, misrepresentations and
falsifications, covering losses of millions of
dollars. You were caught like a rat in a
trap. You had had the advantage of the
best education in the United States and the
fruits of financial success and legacies from
others. You were at the head of the
greatest financial institution in the world.
All these things you betrayed, and by your
example the decent forces of the world
received a setback.
It seems the sentence may be finished in
40 months with “good-conduct” allow-
ances. Still, as a punishment for such
sharebrokers as betray their clients or
others it is a move in the right direction.
* * * *
Loloma has made its debut in the div.-
list, being apparently the first show
known to Australia to produce a
div. out of Fiji goldmining. A shilling
a share goes out on May 27, and calls
for £41,250. Loloma’s production figures
during the first half-year’s operations of
the plant were given in B. 6/4/’3B. The
scrip closed weaker at Easter.
* * * * *
Nine months’ wool-selling, and the
return, in each of the past two seasons:
Mar. 31, Mar. 31,
1938. 1937.
Bales sold —
Greasy .. .. 2,085,678 2,344,868
Scoured .. .. 61,545 82,133
Amount realised—
Greasy .. .. £33,803,856 £48,398,250
Scoured .. .. £1,329,416 £1,862,512
Average value per
bale—
Greasy .. .. £l6/4/2 £2O/12/10
Scoured .. .. £2l/12/- £22/13/6
Average price per lb
Greasy . . .. 13.01 d. 16.55 d.
Scoured .. .. 23.68 d. 24.10 d.
The cheque is £15,000,000 lighter so far
this season, turnover being 11.5 p.c.
slower and the price for greasy 3|d. a
poupd lower. Better clearances are being
effected now, but for March the average
price was down to 11.8 d., as against
18.3 d.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Yellow Cabs were steady around Bs. sd.
Yellow Express dropped sharply to 6s. Bd.
on profit-taking following the recent share-
market interest.
Goliath Cement ords. came back 9d., to
275. 6d. Australian Cement was steady at
325. 6d.
Yarra Falls was firmer, though Prestige
and Beau Monde were weaker.
Australasian Paper ords. receded to 295.
3d., the lowest quote for years, and repre-
sented favorable buying. The co. has the
larger interest in an enterprise making the
greater part of Australia’s Kraft-paper and
cardboard requirements.
United Provisions ords. held most of their
recent improvement, closing at 6s. 9d.
George Farmer prefs. were on offer at 195.,
after sales at 18s. This scrip looks interesting.
King Island Scheelite weakened to 3s. 6d.
Prime Minister Lyons paid an enforced visit
to the island. His ’plane was weatherbound.


SAVES YOU MORE
THAN £SQ
m
mwmm
m
m
mm
m
rTyx-x^Nv
k
Here's the Greatest Motor
Car Value Ever Offered I
r are two main reasons why
Chevrolet has been the world sales
leader in 6 out of the last ? years. The
first is that Chevrolet has always given the
finest of proven modern features. The second
is that Chevrolet’s price has always repre-
sented the world’s greatest yalue for money.
Investigate competitive prices and you’ll
prove that Chevrolet for 1938 saves you
considerably more than £5O on first cost
alone. Yet these beautiful new models give
you motoring at its best—all the comfort
and enjoyment you expect in a thoroughly
modern car; (read the abridged list of features
at right). Check running costs and you’ll find
that on an average year’s running of 5,000
miles a full-sized “Go-anywhere” Chevrolet
costs only about £6-£7 a year more for petrol
than the smallest cars. Test this outstanding
new Chevrolet on the road . . . Your dealer
cordially invites you to have a Free 5-mile
Drive. Accept this invitation and learn the
practical reasons why you, too, will Be
Ahead With Chevrolet.
GENERAL MOTORS—HOLDEN’S LTD.
Iriou’ll he afseetc/ u/ifh -
OPEN BODY MODELS FROM - - £304
CLOSED BODY MODELS FROM ■ £339
The New Chevrolet Range Includes:—
STANDARD CHEVROLET
Commercial Roadster £304
Sports Roadster £319
Tourer £329
Business Coupe £339
Sports Coupe ... £349
Sedan ... £359
(All Prices Plus Sales Tax.)
MASTER DE LUXE MODE' S are
avaiiab e with Sedan, Coupe and
Sports Roadster bodies.
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE UNDER
CONFIDENTIAL G.M.A.C. PLAN
Your Money Goes Further in a General
Motors’ Car.
IF YOU ARE VISITING ENGLAND ,
you may buy your Chevrolet before you leave
and find your new car waiting for you in
England. See your Chevrolet Dealer about
this special service.
rhevrolet For /938
Consult Your Local
Authorised Chevrolet Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
C607-3S
THE ONLY FULL-SIZED
CAR TO GIVE YOU ALL
THESE FEATURES AT AN
ECONOMICAL PRICE.
HIGH-COMPRESSION «-CYL.
OVER-HEAD VALVE ENGINE.
UNISTEEL TURRETOP’ BODY
BY HOLDEN. THE STRONG-
EST, QUIETEST, SAFEST ALL-
STEEL BODY MADE.
INDEPENDENT FRONT
WHEEL SPRINGING ON
MASTER DE LUXE MODELS.
PERFECTED "FULL CON-
TACT" HYDRAULIC BRAKES.
NEW DIAPHRAGM SPRING
CLUTCH - AN EXCLUSIVE
CHEVROLET FEATURE.
SILENT SYNCHRO-MESH
GEARS.
BOX-GIRDER FRAME . . .
STRONGEST KNOWN TO
ENGINEERING. ANOTHER
EXCLUSIVE CHEVROLET
FEATURE.
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO
Provision has been made in Chev-
rolet to accommodate radio and
a special “Air Chief” model has
been developed for this In-
stallation. The controls match the
other furnishings of the instru-
ment panel—the Speaker (an eight
inch dynamic type) fits flush with
the roof lining and the Receiver
which gives 9-valve performance,
fits out of the way under the Dash
panel. The “Acoustinator” is an
additional feature which provides
the best possible reproduction. Ask
your dealer for a demonstration.
Commonwealth Bank Report
The half-yearly report of the Com-
monwealth Bank Board is always in-
teresting in its opinions and valuable for
its statistics. The one published a few
weeks back is still topical, because con-
ditions continue mixed and disturbing to
everybody. The investor has come face-
to-face with this fact more quickly than
most people.
The portion of the following extracts
relating to general business conditions
inside and outside Australia is in keeping
with the facts and opinions published on
this page from time to time:
During the last half-year the economic out-
look abroad has changed significantly. Eco-
nomic activity in the United Kingdom has
been fairly well sustained, but a number of im-
portant indexes, including employment, build-
ing plans approved and exports of British
manufactures, have declined. It is believed
that defence expenditure has not yet reached
its peak, and as heavy industries generally
have an accumulation of orders which will take
some months to fill, general activity can be ex-
pected to continue at a high level for some
time. Activity in the United States, how-
ever, has shown a decline in recent months,
the Federal Reserve Index of industrial activity
(base: 1923-25 = 100) falling from 117 in
August, 1937, to 89 in November, 1937. The
recovery in international trade, which was evi-
dent up to the middle of 1937, has not been
maintained. The League of Nations index of
the quantum of international trade (base: 1929
= 100) declined from 100 in the second quarter
to 97.1 in the third quarter; but this move-
ment appears to be seasonal.
Economic activity within Australia continues
at a high level. There is evidence that the ex-
pansion of capacity in the manufacturing indus-
tries is being continued. Some of this expan-
sion is due to the stronger competitive position
of Australian manufactures. Part of it, how-
ever, may be due to the expectation that the in-
crease in the consuming power of the public,
evident during the last few years, will be con-
tinued at the same rate. Maladjustments may
develop if this expectation is not realised, but
there is no evidence that they need occasion
serious difficulty. Unemployment of trade
unionists fell to 8.2 p.c. in the fourth quarter
of 1937, compared with 10.7 p.c. in the cor-
responding quarter of 1936. More complete
figures for N. S. Wales and Queensland sug-
gest that unemployment among males in Aus-
tralia, including relief workers as unemployed,
in December was about p.c.
The financial position of the Governments
as disclosed by their figures of receipts and
expenditure for the six months ended December
31 is slightly better than would be expected
from the annual estimates. The increased flow
of imports has forced up Commonwealth
customs receipts, and a substantial surplus of
revenue seems likely. For N. S. Wales the six-
monthly figures are not so favorable, but this
appears to be due to temporary causes, and
Budget estimates will probably be realised. In
other States, with the exception of Western
Australia, the position appears slightly stronger
than would be expected from the annual esti-
mates.
There is no doubt that rehabilitation
of defences in Britain has made busi-
ness rather top-heavy there ; the system
under which rearmament is being car-
ried out has put a premium on wages
for munitions-making, etc., and forced
other costs up to some extent. This
hasn’t helped the export industries, which
are still lagging. In the United States
confidence has gone to the dogs, and
some sort of industrial revolution seems
in progress, the eventual outcome being
most uncertain.
In Australia our problem is to keep
costs down, or at least in balance with
prices, and not to overdo the public-
borrowing racket. Industry generally is
to be congratulated on the comparative
steadiness of its behavior since prosperity
seemed to be returning. Let us hope we
are never again seduced into a state of
“high” wages and high internal prices.
Broken Hill South is turning out about
4000 tons of lead every four weeks,
150,0000 z. of silver and 3000 tons of
zinc from an average milling of slightly
more than 30,000 tons of ore. Produc-
tion all round is at a higher rate than
for the 1937 term; this table compares
output for the first 41 weeks of the cur-
rent term with the first 44 weeks of last:
B.H. South.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
tons. oz. tons.
1937 (44 weeks) .. 41,271 1,424,793 29,607
1938 (41 weeks) .. 40,099 1,554,486 30,906
Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates. ,
The silver and zinc recovery is notice-
ably higher. These metals aren’t so re-
munerative at the moment as lead, in
which Zinc Corp.’s ore is richer than
either South’s or North’s. Zinc’s pro-
duction during the first 12 weeks of its
current term is here compared with cor-
responding figures for 1937 and 1936:
Zinc Corp.
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
tons. oz. tons.
1936 (13 weeks) .. 13,319 314,192 8029
1937 (12 weeks) .. 11,774 271,867 6493
1938 (12 weeks) .. 13,219 314,519 8108
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead
and silver in zinc concentrates.
In Zinc Corp.’s case, during the past two
months an average of 31,500 tons of ore
a month has been put through. The
plant enlargements aren’t yet effective.
* * * *
The 1937 harvest of sugar in the Com-
monwealth (mostly Queensland) is tipped
by the Producers’ Association to be a
record. As the following table indicates,
while Australian consumption shows
only a gradual increase heavier produc-
tion means a much larger export sur-
plus :
Australian
Raws, Consumption, Export,
Tons. Tons. Tofts.
1925 .. 516,155 289,154 227.001
1928 .. 536,968 345,168 191,800
1931 .. 604,844 303,414 301,430
1933 .. 666,741 347,456 319,285
1934 .. 642,409 317,591. 324,428
1935 .. 646,760 336,541 310,219
1936 .. 782.412 359,337 423,075
1937* .. 803,000 355,000 448,000
* Estimated.
Fortunately, in 1937 the average price
of raw sugar at U.K. and Continental
ports rose from 4s. Bfd. a hundredweight
in 1936 to 6s. 4£d. Prices for 1938 are
down so far. For 1937 the average
price received for sugar sold Australia
and abroad may be slightly above the
1936 level.
* * * *
Cocks Eldorado is one of the interest-
ing Vic. gold shows. The 10s. shares
(275,000 issued) would have their market
price of 16s. more than represented by
net profits inside of 2y years if earnings
at the current average rate kept up. A
six-year life was spoken of by the chair-
man at the meeting on Dec. 15. A boring
campaign to prove yardage and values is
being undertaken. A shilling div. went
out on March 17, following a similar
distribution on Dec. 17.
Golden Plateau contribs. have slipped
down to 1 Is. 6d. again. Production
figures for this year were given here last
week.
* '. * * *
Shares in Wests, Ltd., holding co. m
Greater Union, at 6s. last week at-
tracted little attention. In 1937 highest
sale was 11s., lowest Bs. If Union ever
comes out of its. troubles and muddles
to the extent of showing a return to
public shareholders, those on Wests’
register should fare best. Last week
Greater J. D. Williams scrip sold at 4s.
3d., Spencer’s at 2s. 3d., but recovered
to 2s. 9d.
* * * *
Shares of McWhirters, The Valley,
Brisbane, have been changing hands
regularly lately at 13s. 9d. Last annual
div. was 4y p.c., and last interim 2y p.c.
flat. Present price is the lowest for some
time.
_ 7 * * * *
Yarra Falls ords. had come back to
38s. last week, after dropping to 375.,
seller, when recommended here a short
time ago. They are still attractive buy-
ing.
* * * *
Coote and Jorgensen, Ltd., Sydney,
maker of motor-car transmission parts
and general engineer, has had an inter-
ested market for its scrip since the recent
listing. There are 20,000 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 40,000 ords., all of £l. Last
disclosed earnings represented 13.5 p.c.
on ord. capital; 8 p.c. went out. At 235.
6d. the ords. yield 6.8 p.c. Financial
position is comfortable, though intan-
gibles reduce the net tangible backing for
the ords. to 14s. lid. a share.
* * * *
Repco, Ltd., listed in Melbourne last
October, has paid an interim div. of 10
p.c. p.a. It owns the capital in Replace -
ment Parts Pty. and Auto-Grinding Co.
Pty. The public co. has issued 300,000
£1 ords., 100,000, held by the public, now
paid to 10s., and selling at 21s. 9d. The
businesses embrace the selling of motor
parts, etc., in Melbourne, Sale, Hamilton
and Launceston, and the reconditioning
of car engines and the manufacture of
pistons, piston-rings, etc. When the con-
tributing capital is called up, to buyers of
the shares at 21s. 9d. now the return on
a 10 p.c. div. basis would be 6.4 p.c.
Good profits have been shown for several
years, but high returns are expected from
engineering investments.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton, N.S.W., has done
well for itself to date, and the future
is promising. After the old shares were
suggested at 40s. a few weeks back they
firmed to 415., then dropped to 40s.
again in the reactionary market. The
yield is 6} p.c. on a 12y p.c. div. basis,
or 7.5 p.c. if 15 p.c. is maintained on
the increased capital. Capitalisation is
low and management is capable.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
II Where Britain Stands.
[ln the article here condensed from London
“Observer"’ J. L. Garvin puts a clear view of where
Britain stands under Mr. Chamberlain’s foreign policy.
It is a steadying thought that if Mr. Attlee, Mr. Churchill
or somebody obsessed with Mr. Eden’s outlook had i
been in Mr. Chamberlain’s place this year we should I
jprobably have been at war at this very moment.]
f / Mr. Chamberlain has opened a new era Qf
f Strength and hope. He has restored the foreign policy
of this country to a plain foundation.
What are the principles in effect? We do not
trail our coat, nor toss our hat into every ring. We
shun crazy crusades./We shall not plunge into chaos
for abstract ideas. rWe will not undertake new and
remote commitments in Europe on behalf of Czecho-
slovakia or of others. We will not stake the Empire
on unnecessary or. dubious commitments.
thi We-Sfiall "fight at
< need. We are, and we must be, resolved, if they
are challenged, to stake our existence upon them,
f We are decided, and must be prepared, to defend,
_ every part of the Empire. In Europe pledges are to
defend France and Belgium against unprovoked aggres-
sion. If either of those societies went down it would
be our turn next. For mutual aid against unprovoked
attack France is our ally, no less bound to us than
we are bound to her. Anything else would mean
that Britain and France separately would lie at the
mercy of the Greater Reich. Strongly as we believe
in Anglo-German settlement with full French
adhesion, that settlement never can be a surrender
to a squeeze.
j Our relations to France and Belgium concern
I the basis of our own lives and liberties and the
' central security for the Empire. This is the nature
of a supreme issue. No British Government in TH*,
wits can bind itself in advance to go to war for
anything less. In the first phase of hostilities this
island would become the subject of intense attack and
devastation. More women and children would be
exposed to casualties than men. To speak the words
entailing that would be by far the most terrible
responsibility that Cabinet and Parliament have ever \
borne.
Paris and Moscow, to reinforce their ill-judged
and ill-starred Pacts with Prague, urged this country
to guarantee the composite Czechoslovakian State.
The Oppositions and the Churchillians supported
this egregious proposition. It is unthinkable. The
bombing of Britain would be certain ; the preservation
of Czechoslovakia impossible. No war could main-
tain the mosaic of Czechoslovakia. Any war would
pull it to pieces divided between the Reich, Poland
and Hungary. (The merciless mutilation of Hungary
proper by the Versailles system was and isr the most
cruel case of all. Mr. Churchill talks of strategy
in this business. What about conscience? What
about his “moral basis” when he invites democracy
to mobilise twenty years after for the impotent as
well as unblessed purpose of trying to stereotype
Versailles!)
There is one ambiguity and one danger. The
French Left are hazardous associates. In reliance on
Moscow they have renewed their unqualified engage-
ment to Prague. The French are led to believe that
in practice their "rash guarantee will nullify our
deliberate refusal; that if they precipitate the crash
of Europe by declaring war for Czechoslovakia we
shall be dragged into it whether we like it or not.
The wider complications would bring us in. When
a conflagration spreads it is useless to argue where
it was started or by whom. This is the monstrous
peril that may be beyond our control.
To disguise it would be worse than idle. The
Prime Minister felt bound to warn Germany that
Britain might be involved in this way. There is
necessity for equal warning to France. Precipitate
action on their side without our consent would prevent
united action by the British Empire and deprive them
•of the world’s general support. Herr Hitler has to
play his definite part in preventing the general explo-
sion. Now that he has created a Greater Reich by
one mighty stroke, his highest policy as a historic
statesman would be to work by open and peaceful
msans for settlement between Germans and Czechs.
The situation since the Anschluss and the Prime
Minister’s strong but restraining speech is far more
favorable than the preceding conditions to the chances
of prolonged peace. Austria was the worst danger to
European prospects. Czechoslovakia was the next
danger. There the chances of peaceable adjustment
have been remarkably improved.
A third danger which has been acute is about to
be eliminated in another quarter—Spain. Nationalist
victory in the long run was assured by the weight
of the majority of the Spanish people. Without that,
Italian and German aid would have been in vain
against the foreign assistance to the Republicans by
Russia and France and the international brigades.
When the Nationalist victory is completed all the
foreign forces will have to be withdrawn. The
Spanish people, as is well known, will insist on this.
With that, the only real obstacle to the complete
restoration of Anglo-Italian friendship and co-opera-
tion will be removed.
This gain to world peace cannot be over-
estimated. Anglo-German settlement, fully securing
France, will remain the paramount condition of a
long world-peace. We have full hope and faith that
the new circumstances will make that settlement
more practicable in every way, and that it will be
achieved. But for this it is absolutely necessary that
Britain, under the Prime Minister’s leadership, should
develop a further strength in air-force equal to any
emergency whatever. Democracy must now prove itself
as capable as any dictatorship of organisation, power
and sacrifice. If we have beyond doubt the old
historic power to turn the scales when we fight, we
shall not have to do it. The nightmare of nations
will pass.
The Terror in Palestine.
[ln a leader on the latest achievement of Chamber-
lain foreign policy “S. M. Herald” (18/4/’3B) repre-
I sented the agreement as more favorable to Italy than
I to Britain because qf “Signor Mussolini’s difficulties in
* Abyssinia.” As this digest of an article by London
“Times” Jerusalem correspondent shows Britain is
having troubles about the same latitudes which, apart
from any other consideration, make the Anglo-Italian
% agreement highly desirable. This brings up to date
I the record of rebellion against British rule dealt with
I in earlier “Uncabled Additions” under the heading
J “Murder in the Holy Land.”]
I What is happening in Palestine that British officers
need to go about armed, that armored-cars with
machine-guns are a'common sight in the streets, that
armed police patrol the towns and countryside, that
.the frontiers have to be guarded rigidly, and that in
(spite of these precautions the roads are unsafe after
dark, sabotage of railways and telephone wires is
frequent, Jews and Arabs fear to enter each other’s
quarters, Jewish colonists sleep behind barbed-wire
entanglements with armed watchmen, Arab villagers
seek police protection, and no one knows where some
new outrage may be perpetrated? '
This terror in Palestine has lasted almost two
years. It is the symptom of a’ deep-seated political
disease: Arab fear of Zionism, and distrust of the
impartiality of his Majesty’s Government. The Arabs
have extended their antipathy from the Jews to the
Government which allowed the Jews to enter; dislike
of Britain, increased by repressive measures, is becom-
ing deeper Cold-blooded assassinations of individual
officers, Jews and Arabs have brought the threat of
death into the streets of busy towns in broad daylight,
Terrorism is the work of two distinct groups, one
operating from Jerusalem and the other in Galilee with
Syria as a base. From these centres come the money
and the leadership. While it has been impossible so
far to apprehend the men at the top, many subordi-
nates have been arrested. Steps have been taken to
break up the organisation through which terrorism is
financed. This explains manv of businessmen,
and even Arab Government officials.
The individual assassin is a paid gunman,
rewarded in proportion to the importance of his
victim. Five pounds has been the remuneration for
killing a casual Jew, and £2OO has been offered for
the life of a British official or of a prominent Arab
whose policy is opposed to that of the instigator of
the crime,
The gangs are under known leaders, receive funds
and arms from the organisers, and recruit their num-
bers from among the criminal classes, the politico-
religious enthusiasts and the adventurous. At the head
are half a dozen sheikhs, all of whom are mujahadeen,
“holy warriors” animated by religious and political
motives in waging war on the Government. Regular
gunmen are paid a salary of £4 to £6 a month, a large
amount to impoverished peasants,
The Arab sources which support the assassins
also supply money for the bands. Syria is a con-
venient base for the northern gangs. Arms have
been secured there, and between engagements the
leaders take refuge in Damascus and neighboring
places. The long frontiers between Palestine, Syria
and Transjordan make the prevention of smuggling
and of the passage of armed men very difficult. This
has raised the question of putting a formidable wire
fence along the whole frontier, safeguarded by night
with searchlights. The Government in Syria does not
co-operate in apprehending the gangsters.
Perhaps the greatest obstacle the Government [in
Palestine] has to surmount has been the reluctance of
the villagers to supply information. This is due to
various causes: family and communal loyalty, a feeling
that the gangsters are fighting in a national cause, and,
perhaps strongest of all, fear of reprisals. Villages to
which serious crimes have been traced have been
severely dealt with. In some dozen cases since the
beginning of the year the houses of known offenders or
places where they have taken refuge have been dyna-
mited. Extra police have been quartered upon the
villagers at their expense, and heavy communal fines
imposed.
Discovery that a band is operating is a signal
for the military and police to enter the district and
police the villages to protect the people, to drive the
gangsters into the open. This generally results in a
clash ; this brings the troops into action, the Air Force
is sent for, and the hunt begins in earnest. The
Yamoun combat began with an attack upon a com-
pany and led to a running fight, in which the R.A.F.
aeroplanes flew low over the bands and used their
machine-guns and bombs with deadly effect.
So the struggle goes on.
It is a sad reflection that Arabs can say that so
long as they confined their protests against the Man-
, datory policy to legal channels their voice was not
heard in London or Geneva, and that only when they
resorted to lawlessness was their plaint heeded. Now
they say that if they lay down their arms it will be
assumed that they acquiesce in the partition of Pales-
tine ; whereas if they still resist they will delay that
event, or at least secure a better scheme.
Effects of War Jitters. &
[Symptoms and effects of war panic have been on
the increase in many parts of the world, including Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. Not much wonder when war
scares as a means of boosting sales have been a feature
of newspapers for at least three years past, the scare-
mongering—not only in the press, but on the air and
on the screen —reaching a hysterical crescendo over the
last two months. In England even more than here this
trumped-up panic was beginning to have fantastic and
economically serious effects until the Anglo-Italian settle- j
ment steadied the markets. Digest of a corrective leading
article in London “Evening Standard.”]
j Pessimists in London who seem to have accepted
f that a European war is inevitable and that any night
sleepers may be wakened by bombs falling on White-
hall are victims of hysteria.
j They misread the facts and probabilities of the '
current situation, and grossly exaggerate its dangers.
Such alarmist pessimism is of the worst possible
service to the community. There exists a real risk
lest foolish talk of imminent war and even the sensible
precautions the Government is taking against its pos-
sible, but improbable, occurrence may lead people
|to alter their normal habits of living and spending. ,
The mere institution of the Air Raid Precautions
scheme has persuaded nervous citizens that conditions
have become so insecure that it is useless to redecorate
a house, and still more imprudent to buy one. Shop-
keepers in the West End report difficulty in securing
settlement of bills by customers who are in a position
to pay but want to keep an unusually large balance
of cash in their banking account “against war emer-
gency.”
This is illogical panic run mad. The surest way
to invite attack is to impair defensive strength by
weakening the industrial and commercial mechanism
on which our ability to produce armaments, finance
their cost, and buy essential supplies from overseas
depends. To refrain from normal expenditure is not
merely stupid; it means creating unemployment, add-
ing to State expenditure on unemployment assistance
and diminishing the Government’s revenue from taxa-
tion. It is a suicidal policy of disarming Britain
4 economically.
The patriotic citizen to-day is the one who refuses j
to be flustered or dismayed by baseless rumors of j
I war, who relaxes no whit enterprise in developing I
and trade, and who maintains courageously I
land sensibly the purchasing of houses, plant, food- /
stuffs and all the other goods on whose sale the pros-/
jperity of his fellow-citizens depends. /
Soviet Dealings with Britain.
o Condensed from an article headed “Ten to One
Against,” by James Pearson, in London “Evening
Standard.”)
Last year Britain bought from Russia goods
worth £29,096,536. Russia bought goods made or
grown in Britain worth £3,083,025. Russia also
bought goods imported into Britain from overseas and
re-exported to Russia worth £16,432,557.
The re-exports are counted as British under the
agreement. So you see what is happening. The
apparent balance of trade is roughly three to two in
Russia’s favor—£29,ooo,ooo to £ 19,000,000-odd. But
the real balance between Britain and Russia is nearly
ten to one against Britain.
The commercial agreement made four years ago
was to rectify what was then a balance uneven enough.
Failure to distinguish between British exports and
What Dean Inge Said.
As reported in London “Daily Telegraph”
(24/3/’3B), Dean Inge, speaking at a public meeting
at Queen’s Hall, under the auspices of the Friends
of National Spain, said: —
“I am not a politician. I am not sympathetic
to Fascism, and I hold no brief for the Roman
Catholic Church in Spain. But I think it strange
that our Government should have addressed a
ferocious protest to General Franco because 800
persons have been killed in an air raid, whereas
when 50,000 or 100,000 some say 200,000
innocent men, women and children were butchered
in cold blood, with every accompaniment of
cruelty, under the eyes of the Government which
we still choose to recognise, not one word of
protest was made.
“I am here because I hate inhuman cruelty and
persecution, whether religious or anti-religious,
and because I hate systematic lying. Spanish
Government forces are fighting under the Red
flag, not the Spanish flag. Last year experts
estimated that 50,000 persons had been butchered
in Madrid and Barcelona alone. Either the
Government was responsible for these atrocious
massacres, in which case the rebellion against it
was 10 times justified, or the Government had
lost control of the situation and could not
properly be called a Government at all.
“Masses of people in this country believe the
grotesque lie that the rebellion is a reactionary
one against a properly constituted Government.
The French are openly disregarding the Non-
Intervention pact, and hundreds of young men
are being smuggled across the Spanish
Compare that with the “S. M. Herald’s” cable
report (25/3/’3B) of what the Dean declared:—
“The rebellion against the Government has
been 10 times justified because of the atrocious
massacres and because the Government so com-
pletely lost control of the defence of lives and
property that it could no longer be called a
Government.’’
Sydney “Sun” cables also touched on the Dean:—
“I hate cruelty,” said Dean Inge at a meeting
of friends of Nationalist Spain. “I think it
strange that Mr. Chamberlain should have
addressed a ferocious protest to General Franco
because 800 people were killed in Barcelona,
whereas there was no protest against Red
massacres.”
That—and no more! And just “a meeting of
friends”; not a public meeting at Queen’s Hall!
Sydney “Daily Telegraph” cables also touched on
the meeting, and did not mention the Dean at all.


FAT, FLABBY
A MENACE TO HEALTH
Bulging waistline
means more than the
loss of an athletic
figure. Sagging ab-
dominal organs often
lead to serious Heart
Strain, Kidney and
Liver Disorders, faulty
Elimination and risK
of Rupture.
The UOVERNA
CORRECTIVE BELT
supports correctly the
delicate organs, and,
by its gentle changing
pressure, banishes
waistline fat and bulge
with every move you
make.
ķ
7 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Try the GOVERNA BELT FOR 7 DAYS. It
must improve your appearance and reduce
your waistline—or NO COST. Write or call
for lull details. Mention this paper.
GOVERNS BELT COL
CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited-
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Take
the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
HEADLIGHT INSERTS
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
re-exports has made the balance worse than ever.
All the Russians had to do was buy anything in any
part of the world, in the British Empire or in foreign
countries—buy it through a company registered as
British, with offices here —and ship it by way of some
British port. They bought big quantities of tea,
rubber and tin, had them sent through London, and
thereby gave themselves the right to sell a correspond-
ingly larger quantity of goods to Britain.
Britain gets in commissions and wharving dues say
£1,000,000 out of the £16,000,000 which goes down
on to Russia’s debit on the ledger. Worse, British
shipping is not getting anything like its fair share of
the carrying trade between the two countries. In this
respect the Russians have broken even the letter of
their undertaking.
[“Russia, in the exercise of the monopoly she
claims and is at present permitted to exercise, prevents
Britain from employing her own ships to carry her own
imports and exports From and to Russia, and Russia
now carries the whole of the exports of Britain to
Kussia and over half Britain’s imports from Russia.”
From Chamber of Shipping annual report, 30 /3 / ’3B.\
British shipowners have made repeated com-
plaints, but so far as Russia is concerned nothing
will be done. Last year there was an increase in the
receipts of British shipowners from the Russian
trade, but only because freight charges all round were
higher and because the Black Sea route was reopened
to cope with a good wheat crop—more Russian wheat
for England.
Just to put the lid on it, the Russians found yet
another way to turn the agreement to their advantage.
In July, 1936, Russia raised a loan of £10,000,000 in
Britain. The loan was to expire in September, 1937.
By that time Russia had placed orders for machinery
and other goods really manufactured in England for
the full amount of the loan. About £2,000,000 of it
was spent last year. This year another £4,000,000
will be spent, and the same amount next year. These
purchases they ranked in the list of British goods
bought under the agreement; so that not only were
they selling us goods worth nearly £lO for every £1
they bought, but even a part of the pound’s worth
they were getting on credit.
f * ve V he English kick at last. The Association
ol Chambers of Commerce advised that the agree-
ment should be ceased, for it has been unsatisfactory
from every British point of view. The Board of
Trade is at present discussing whether it should act
on the recommendations of the committee or revise
the agreement. The Board will have to revise it so
that its own authors won’t know it if it is to do
any good service to British industry.
Australian Trade Increases.
[London “Advertiser’s Weekly” having published,
under the heading “Australian Selling Methods in
Britain Are All Wrong,” extracts from an interview
given to the Australian publication “Newspaper News”
by R. S. Maynard, president of the Advertising Associa-
tion of Australia, A. E. Hyland, director Australian
Trade Publicity, replied in “Advertiser’s Weekly”
(24/3/ 38) making these points.]
The Australian selling methods are those em-
ployed by all other people successfully engaged in
selling their wares in this country. If we are wrong,
the whole of England is wrong.
A business is judged, surely, by its results. These-
are the sales results for this country of the goods with
which Australian trade publicity has been concerned
over these last 12 years:
Average Annual Sales.
1923-1926. 1933-1936.
Commodity. lb. lb.
Butter .. . . ' .. .. 39,552,000 224,769,000
Cheese 6,775,000 12,412,000
Canned fruits .. .. 12,797.000 49,555,000
Sultanas, Currants and Raisins 52,309,000 80,194,000
Fresh Apples and Pears .. 97,707,000 180,986,000
Doz. Doz.
Eggs .. .. .. .. 952,000 19,489,000
Retail shops selling Australian goods:
1926 8,000
1936 .. .. . . .. 52,000
These increases in sales have been accompanied
by a rise, relative to the prices obtained by competi-
tive goods, in the prices which Australian products
have brought; and all this in a 10-year period which
includes what some declare to be the worst economic
depression in the world’s history.
There are many substantial concerns in Great
Britain and other parts of the world which would
like to be able to point to the same satisfactory record
of business progress.
Cordell Hull on U.S. Policy.
[Though cables described U.S. Secretary of State
Hull s speech on American foreign policy as “one of
the most statesmanlike utterances ever made by any
Secretary of State,” curious blunders were made in
repoiting it here. For instance, in the most important
passage the phrase “there is not a trace of alliance”
appealed in Australian cables “there is no trade
alliance.” This condensation of London “Times” report
gives the gist of Mr. Hull’s certainly most important
speech.)
In announcing our intention to afford protection
to our rights and interests in the Far East, I stated
that we are determined to avoid the extremes either
of internationalism or of isolationism.
To waive rights and to permit interests to lapse
in the face of their actual or threatened violation—
and thereby to abandon obligations—in any important
area of the world can serve only to encourage dis-
regard of law and of the basic principles of inter-
national order and thus contribute to the spread of
international anarchy.
In a world in which the rule of force has not as
yet been supplanted by the rule of law it is the duty
of a great nation to maintain armed forces adequate
for its national defence. No policy would prove more
disastrous than for an important nation to fail to arm
adequately when international lawlessness is on the
rampage.
The maintenance of principles that are of concern
to all nations alike cannot and should not be under-
taken by any one nation alone.
Prudence and commonsense dictate that where
this and other nations have common interests and
common objectives we should not hesitate to exchange
information and to confer with the Governments of
such other nations and, in dealing with the problems
confronting each alike, to proceed along parallel lines
—this Government retaining its independence of judg-
ment and freedom of action.
In the present Far Eastern emergency we have
consistently collaborated with, other peace-seeking
nations in the manner I have just described. I have said
often, repeat again, that in this collaboration
there is no”t a trace of alliance or involvement of any
sort. We have scrupulously followed, and we intend
to follow, the traditional policy of our country not
to enter into entangling alliances or involvements with
other countries.
The interest and concern of the United States
—whether in the Far East, in any other part of
the Pacific area, in Europe or anywhere else in the
world—are not measured alone by the number of
American citizens residing in a particular country or
by the volume of investment and trade or by excep-
tional conditions peculiar to the particular area. There
is a much broader and more fundamental interest —
which is that orderly processes in international rela-
tionships be maintained.
It would be absurd and futile for us to proclaim
that we stand for international law, for the sanctity
of treaty obligations, for non-intervention in internal
affairs of other countries, for equality of industrial
and commercial rights and opportunities for limitation
and reduction of armaments —but only in one half of
the world and among one half of the world’s popu-
lation. The catastrophic developments of recent years,
the startling events of the past weeks offer a tragic
demonstration of how quickly the contagious scourge
of treaty-breaking and armed violence spreads from
one region to another.
The momentous question is whether the doctrine*
of force shall become enthroned once more and bring
in its wake inexorably international anarchy and a
relapse into barbarism; or whether this and other
peaceful nations fervently attached to the principles
which underlie international order shall work unceas-
ingly—singly or in co-operation with each other as
circumstances, their traditional policies and practices
and their enlightened self-interest may dictate —to
promote and preserve law, order, morality and justice
as the unshakable bases of international relations.
We believe that a world at peace, with law and
justice prevailing, is possible, and that it can be
achieved. That is the cornerstone of our foreign
policy.
An Irish Election.
(Condensed from London “Times,” 31/3/’38.)
Probably the most remarkable election of all time
has just been completed in Eire—for the return of 49
members to the new Senate. The whole business was
so complicated that nobody has been able to make
head or tail of it.
The Senate will have 60 members ; 11 of them —
irreverently dubbed “Dev’s cricket team”—will be
nominated by Mr. de Valera, three apiece represent
the two universities, and 43 have been elected on a
kind of vocational basis, which was meant to be non-
political but has worked out on almost entirely party
lines.
It was in respect of the 43 vocational members
that the election was so highly complicated. Five
panels were prepared: cultural and educational, agri-
cultural, labor, industrial and commercial, adminis-
trative. An electoral college was formed of all
members of Dail Eireann and seven representatives
of every one of the borough and county councils;
total membership of the college, 354. Nominations
were made by 49 nominating bodies ; total of can-
didates for 43 seats, 132. All these names appeared
on a single ballot paper. No fewer than 95 separate
counts were necessary.
The first spanner was flung into the works by the
Labor party, which decided to boycott the whole
election because it did not agree with the appointment
of one of the nominating bodies for the labor panel.
The result was that this panel was not filled and
Mr. de Valera had to exercise his prerogative of
adding three names. Nearly everybody voted accord-
ing to a party ticket, and, although certain members
of the Senate will be really independent, it is reckoned
that out of the 49 who have been elected 26 will
support the Fianna Fail Government.
As a vo’cational Senate the new body will be
farcical. For example, the five members who have
been returned on the cultural and educational panel
consist of two veterinary surgeons, one barrister, one
Irish language expert and one medical man. No
fewer than 17 former members of Dail Eirann who
were defeated at general elections and six former
members of the defunct Senate secured election. Now
Mr. de Valera will nominate his 11, but nothing that
he can do will prevent the new Senate from being
a political body, although it may be assumed that he
was quite sincere when he inaugurated the scheme in
his desire that it should not be political.
Italy’s Air Strength.
[lt is an age of terribly changed war weapons. On
this count alone friendship with Italy is even more
important now than during the long term when it pre-
vailed. This aspect is put in bold relief in a further
condensation from Capt. Norman Macmillan’s The
Chosen Instrument .]
The truth is that Italy’s position in the Mediter-
ranean is a strong one. Her geographical configura-
tion, in Europe and Africa, gives her a wide range
of aircraft bases at convenient intervals. Her air
personnel is good. During the Great War I found
the Italian pilot to be an individual of bravery and
resource. Those I have met since possess the same
spirit. Those Britishers who have been inclined to
scoff at Italians must change their views.
Because of the advent of air power Britain’s posi-
tion in the Mediterranean is less strong than it was.
When I visited Italy I saw something of her air
progress. Her latest bombers were the equal of any
in the world. The bombers in some of her regular
squadrons are, in all-round performance, as good as,
if not better than, those actually in the squadrons of
any other air Power. Her national air laboratory at
Guidonia is magnificent, replete with the means for
improving aircraft design. From what I saw for
myself, Italy will not be left behind in the race for
better and still better aircraft.
Italy is a country naturally friendly to great
Britain. Friendship between the two countries would
be of advantage to both. It is absurd for anyone to
say that Fascism in Italy is a stumbling-block to such
friendship. Each nation has a right to determine how
it wants to live.


SPORTING
NTIONS
Under the Whip
A.J.C. chairman Main and the mem-
bers of his committee and staff were a
happy band on Saturday, for Randwick
held a crowd of 68,000 —the best for a
decade. And there has rarely been finer
racing: Doncaster, Autumn Plate, St.
Leger and Sires’ Produce Stakes produced
wonderful finishes. The weather, too,
was perfect —“too perfect,” sighed coun-
try people, thinking of their crops and
stock. And it was the same on Easter
Monday.
Racing charges were too dear —that, it
should now be patent, was the main
reason why the sport failed to revive
when the depression passed. Too much
was demanded of the public, chiefly by
the Government. Now, with admission
and tote taxes reduced and ss. machines
installed, people are turning from the
s.p. harpies, and, unless a major drought
arrests it, the process will go on. Never-
theless, they will demand —and they are
entitled to —better tote service. There
were not nearly enough ss. windows on
Saturday or Monday, and there are never
enough pay-out windows at any time.
Half an hour after the St. Leger, many
backers of Cathartes for a place were
still waiting—and only two place divi-
dends to pay. They were still waiting
when the barrier went up for the last
race. That sort of thing should never be
allowed to happen.
Nightguard, who had been fancied for
the Doncaster, came out of the race in
unusual circumstances. The owner
(Morrow), trainer (Tindall) and jockey
(Breasley) had been carpeted by the
stewards over the running of the three-
year-old in the Cabramatta Handicap on
the previous Saturday. Their explana-
tions were not accepted, and they and the
colt were disqualified for 12 months. An
appeal was lodged immediately, but there
was no immediate hearing. Actually the
scratching preceded the disqualification,
but the two events were of course con-
nected. The withdrawal of Heroic Faith
left 22 in the Doncaster; it was a fair
average field.
In the 1937 race mares (Sarcherie,
Silver Rose and Evening Mist) were first,
second and third. On this occasion an-
other mare won —Hamurah, a four-year-
old “brown or black” mare by Salma-
gundi-Hamurana. Her price was “re-
turned” at 12 to 1, but better than that
could be got from almost every represen-
tative bookmaker in the paddock. The
tote (55.) paid £5 Is. 6d. for a win and
£1 11s. 3d. for a place.
Hamurah and King’s Head (16 to 1)
were always in the picture, and over the
last furlong they made it very exciting.
Had King’s Head gone straight he would
have won ; but he tried to savage the
little mare, and Bartle had to stop riding
him. Hickey, on Hamurah, seized the
opportunity, and his mount defeated the
stallion by a head. Third, three-quarters
of a length away, came Buzalong, who
did much the best of the favorites. Troy
surprised by running fourth, followed by
Mark Antony, Highborn and Mohican.
The erratic Prittle Prattle was last.
Rumors that Bradford had not done
well influenced the bookmakers into
lengthening his price to twelves, but it
firmed to sevens. Perhaps, after all, the
Newcastle horse needed another gallop
or two ; anyway, he was done with at
five furlongs. Evening Mist and Sal
Volatile dwelt at the barrier, and that was
the end of both. St. Constant, Lolorua
and Arabia showed speed for six fur-
longs.
• # * *
Hamurah is trained by W. Henderson,
and races in his colors. Henderson has
been preparing horses for over 25 years;
he originally came from Victoria. He
got his mare into great condition.
Nuffield demonstrated in the Sires’
Produce Stakes that he had not shown
his true form in the Fairfield Handicap
on the previous Saturday. Again
McCarten got a break on Pandava, but
the Brazen colt is apparently no more
than a sprinter; anyway, Nuffield threw
out a challenge at the Leger, and Pan-
dava was soon beaten. Fort Regal, giv-
ing Pandava and Nuffield a substantial
start commencing the last furlong, got to
within three-quarters of a length of Nuf-
field and cut Pandava out of third place.
By Melfort-Regal Fleur, Fort Regal is
trained by Paddy Quinlan, who won the
Metropolitan with Cragford in 1930.
Nuffield went out at 7 to 4, the same
as Pandava. Melbourne punters scarcely
expected to get that price.
Had Allunga been left in the Sydney
Cup he would not have been allowed to
go out at 10 to 1 for the Autumn Plate.
It made the public think he had not re-
covered from his fall at Rosehill. There
was nothing wrong with the way he came
at the right end of the Plate. He de-
feated Sarcherie by half a head, but was
going away at the post. Genetout (6 to 4
on) had the run of the race, but, trying
to get through on the rails opposite the
Leger, was blocked. When he did get
clear the French horse merely plugged
along ahead of Aitchengee and L’Aiglon,
who did well considering his disadvantage
at the weights.
John Wilkes and Cathartes ran a dead
heat in the St. Leger, and, as John Wilkes
started at 5 to 2 on, his backers lost on
the race. Cathartes (8 to 1) led early, but
passing the stand John Wilkes was taken
to the front. At the five-furlongs post
Cook decided that it was time for his
colt to do the pacemaking again, and he
rushed Cathartes round John Wilkes to
secure a clear lead turning for home. The
pair, very tired, raced neck and neck to
the judge; Cathartes was gaining a little
in the last few strides. Silenus was a fair
third. Bourbon, Perimond, Panaster and
Pat failed to stay.
Herarde, raced by H. Ryan and the
younger Lamond, gave a capital exhibi-
tion of galloping when he won the first
division of - the Vaucluse Handicap, at
fours. He made the running with Sweet
Myra, and when she retired had to with-
stand strong challenges from Palarang
and Warrawing, who had slipped through
on the rails. It was a sterling finish, and
a compliment to the handicapper, Fred
Wilson. Heroic Faith ran poorly for a
favorite.
Tickle ended a noble day for the Ring
by taking the second division of the Vau-
cluse, at twelves. This mare has been
racing consistently for months, and her
solid condition was a credit to her
trainer, Hush. Red Thespian was in the
lead half a furlong from home ; Tickle
outstayed him. Sedunum was third.
A Sydney Cup worth £7200, of which
£l2OO was to go to the owner of the
second horse and £6OO to the owner of
the third, should really have attracted a
bigger and better field than one of 16,
with old Sarcherie as topweight. All the
same, it was a grand race. Young
Crusader helped materially to make it so.
Looking at him bounding along at the
head of a strung-out lot, and noticing
how he came again at the finish when
those who toted him had given up hope,
The Bulletin man was more positive
than ever that, ridden a waiting race in
front, instead of hell-for-leather, the
chestnut would have won the Melbourne
Cup that was Wotan’s.
Billy Boy and L’Aiglon did most of the
pursuing of Young Crusader, with Gene-
tout handy and Apollo steadily working
his way up—he had got away rather
badly from his No. 15 position, and Sir
Regent didn’t get away at all. Half a
mile from home Billy Boy was fading;
at that point it was Young Crusader,
L’Aiglon, Genetout, Apollo and Sar-
cherie. At the home turn Young Crusader
still had a lead of three lengths, but
L’Aiglon, moving smoothly for young
Harvey, soon bridged the gap.
When the three-year-old had settled
Young Crusader, he was strongly chal-
lenged by Apollo, who had come very
fast from the three-furlongs. It looked
all over, and cries of “Apollo wins! ” rose
from the crowd of 67,000; but the Car-
bine blood in L’Aiglon (he is by The
Buzzard-Concise) asserted itself, and he
refused to be passed. Apollo had been
asked by Voitre to do just a little too
much, and it was he who weakened, to
be beaten into second place, three-
quarters of a length away. Young
Crusader was third, two lengths behind
Apollo. Sarcherie and El Senorita, the
only two mares in the field, were fourth
and fifth. Then came Genetout and
Aitchengee.
Genetout was favorite at threes,
L’Aiglon being at sevens, Apollo and
Young Crusader at tens. Next in demand
was Mestoravon, who went very well
for a mile and a quarter, but broke down
when pressure was applied. L’Aiglon is
owned by W. Digby, a mining man who
made a punch in New Guinea, and was
bought by him as a yearling for 550
guineas. The colt is trained by Dan
Lewis, and is Dan’s fourth Sydney Cup
winner.
Barden, the trainer of Apollo, was too
ill to see the race or even to listen to a
broadcast description, being a pneu-
monia case in a Sydney hospital.
The Doncaster-Cup double was very
profitable to layers, and for once the
public was spared the newspaper yarti
that it took £50,000 or £lOO,OOO or a
million out of the Ring. Nor could com-
pilers of course libretti have lost on the
Cup race at the prices they laid (tote
divs. on L’Aiglon were £2 ss. 9d. s.o.
and 19s. 9d. place); and the two preced-
ing handicaps were almost “skinners” for
them —Deputy Ruler (20 to 1) won the
La Perouse Handicap and Talking’s sister
High Class (14 to 1) the Biraganbil. Vic-
tories for consistent Bonheur de Pere (9
to 4), Valhalla (5 to 4) and Royal Step
(7 to 2) redressed the balance to some
extent for punters.
Randwick times: Doncaster, lmin.
37^sec; Autumn Plate, 2min. 31|sec.;
Sires’ Produce Stakes, lmin. 25isec. ; St.
Leger, 3min. 4sec.; Sydney Cup, 3min,
23sec. The Cup time was very good,
especially as the track was not as fast
as on Saturday.
* * * *
Begun in a duststorm and concluded in
showery weather, the races at Williams-
town on Easter Saturday brought little
pleasure to punters, particularly when
only one favorite caught the judge’s eye:
Barham, in a division of the Point Cook
Trial.
Great Bear (10 to 1) dealt backers their
initial body blow by running away with
the Seaford Trial Hurdle. The Great
Star gelding hadn’t been a winner for
two years, but had been placed on 16
occasions. J. P. Lewis, the owner-trainer,
thinks it must be a world’s record. A
product of the St. Albans stud, his nag
is well-bred ; the dam, Recamier, is by
Poseidon from Court Beauty, whose dam
was a sister to Multiform.
Mukama (Mart'arma - Taraheke)
brought further joy to the ringmen by run-
ning away with the Maiden Two-year-old
Handicap. He was 25 to 1 with them ;
the div. for each ss. staked on the s.o.
tote was £lO ss. 6d. In six previous out-
ings the colt had finished “down the
course.” This time he hopped out at
the start and was never caught. Mukama
belongs to two Melbourne businessmen
who race as “F. K. Manson” and is
trained by Frank Godby.
The Bullhead colt Bureaucrat was a
4-to-l favorite for the race that Mukama
won. Dannevirke (sevens) beat him for
second place by three lengths. Fryer
brought Dannevirke to Victoria in the
spring with Wotan, Elanage and other
neddies. The black gelding (he is by
Colossus) shaped like a coming winner.
Bert Foulsham, son of the Randwick
veteran of that ilk, has the knack of
“placing” his horses well. A case in
point is Sindicada, who annexed the
Easter Stakes. Worth £4OO to the winner,
the Easter Stakes attracted just sufficient
competitors to provide three place divi-
dends. High Commissioner, fresh from
two wins on end, headed the quotes at
5 to 2, but gave a lamentably poor dis-
play. Taking control at the half-way
stage, Beau Ham (sevens) looked assured
of success until Sindicada came with a
late rush on the rails and passed the
finishing line with a lead of half a length.
Red Manfred was third. This old fellow
has now been “in the money” on three
consecutive occasions and deserves a
change of luck. But a better horse to
follow may be Demotic, though he ran
second-last (at 25 to 1). Demotic showed
up boldly while his condition stood to
him.
J. J. Liston has been in the limelight
lately as president of the V.F.A. He
also is chairman of the Williamstown
Racing Club. Colleagues on the com-
mittee extended congratulations when
Miss Devlin, owned by Liston, took the
first division of the Point Cook Trial.
She was bred by the owner and is trained
on the Williamstown course. Miss Dev-
lin is by Devonshire from Lineage,
winner of the 1929 Oaks. Fifth in de-
mand at eights, Miss Devlin had half a
length to spare from the fast-finishing
Bridge of Mar.
Barham squeezed home by an eyebrow
from Haughty Stare in the second divi-
sion of the Point Cook Trial. If Frank
Dempsey had been able to make Haughty
Stare keep a straight course nearing the
post there must have been a reversal of
the positions. After experiencing such a
fright punters deserved to collect at better
odds than “twos.”
This Page selected Sweet Memories or
Theodore for the Seaside Handicap.
They were together at the home bend.
Condition failed Theodore, and he faded
into fourth place, a stride from the post.
Finch (7 to 2) outstayed Sweet' Memories
(7 to 4) and registered a length victory.
Theodore won’t figure at 20 to 1 when
next produced. A Pantheon four-year-
old, he is maturing well.
Somerset (3 to 1, favorite) was pro-
minent at the straight entrance in the
Werribee Highweight. After establishing
a commanding lead, Riddle weakened
over the last 50 yards. Flying at the
finish, Conchita (sixes) pipped Strymon
(50 to 1) by half a head. Riddle (sevens)
was only half a neck farther away, stall-
ing off Somerset.
Donaster failed the F. W. Hoysted
stable in the Sydney Cup, but the trainer
contemplated the result with equanimity.
Twenty-five minutes or so before Don-
aster went down, Hoysted’s other chest-
nut, Irving, won the Easter Cup at Wil-
liamstown. Because the distance, a mile
and a half, was thought to be a bit far
for him, Irving was allowed to go out
at sevens—this notwithstanding the
strong finishing run that had carried him
to victory in the Glenhuntly Handicap
at Caulfield on April 9. High Commis-
sioner, doing much better than on Satur-
day, ran Irving to a neck, El Bruno
being another half-length away.
* V * *
For the first time on record the Onka-
paringa (S.A.) club did not race on
Easter Monday. Rain—five inches —
washed away its one fixture for the year.
{Continued on page 32.)
Jack McNamee (lOst. 6|lb.), of Vic-
toria, had no trouble trouncing Bill Pluto
(10st. in a match at Sydney Arena
for the welter title. Mainly by virtue
of a straight left McNamee was so far
in front at the end of the seventh that
he couldn’t have lost except by donging
the ref. At the end of the eighth
Pluto’s left eye was closed tighter than
the pubs, and at the instance of his
corner Mr. Haines called it a night.
* * * *
From a start of 1H yards, the Geelong
footballer J. W. Grant won the Stawell
Gift (first prize, £500) by inches from
Whiffen (Ivanhoe) and Willis (Ballarat);
his time being 11 11-16 sec. Grant was
a warm favorite.
$ * * *
“Leichhardt”: Rockhampton cricketers
are scratching their heads over a cricket
problem. The batsmen were running two
when a fieldsman overthrew the ball,
which went to the boundary after the
second run had been completed. The
umpire ordered six to be set down to the
striker’s credit, but there were experts
who said five was the correct number.
The matter has been referred to the
Board of Control, but Law 2 is clear on
the subject. It says a run is scored when
batsmen make good their ground after
crossing; and this was done in the
Queensland instance. A note adds that
any additional score, such as the over-
throw to the boundary, shall be added
to the runs actually made, even if the
total for the stroke is greater than that
for a regular boundary shot.
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Rous Handicap: Red Thespian ;
next, Gay Chou.
Woollahra Handicap: Bradford ;
next, Warrawing.
C. B. Cropper Plate: Ajax.
Dangar Handicap: Apollo or
Billy Boy ; next, El Senorita.
A.J.C. Plate: Allunga; next',
Apollo or Bristol.
Final Handicap: Hope; next,
Troy.
FOR MENTONE.
Pozieres Handicap: The Wizard ;
next, Sindicada.
Somme Welter: Barham ; next,
Riddle.
Gallipoli Handicap: Sweet Mem-
ories ; next, Finch.


THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
(. Incorporated. 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
SEVENTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of Shareholders the
Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 28th March, 1938, and Statements of Profit and Loss and
the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 28th March, 1938,
after deduction of £1,819/14/6, Depreciation, is .. .. .. .. £65,788 1 5
Plus the balance brought forward from the previous year .. .. .. 42,057 7 0
£107,845 8 5
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum was
paid in November last .. .. .. .. •• •• .. .. 31,250 0 0
Leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. • • £76,595 8 5
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year ended
28th March, 1938, at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum, payable after the
General Meeting on 4th May, 1938 .. .. .. .. .. .. 31,250 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of .. .. .. . • • • ■ ■ £45,345 8 5
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the Company, 81
King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 4th May, 1938, at 12 o’clock noon, at which
the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one Director in the place of Mr. Albert Edwin
Hamilton, M.8.E., who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association but is eligible for
re-election and offers himself accordingly.
Since the last General Annual Meeting in April, 1937, we regret that our colleague, Mr.
A. A. Simpson, C.M.G., C.8.E., on account of continued ill-health, found it necessary to
letire from the Board, of which he had been a member since 16th May, 1928. The Directors
desire to place on record their appreciation of the valuable and loyal services rendered to
the Bank by Mr. Simpson.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Board on the 20th January last appointed Mr.
S. McGregor Reid a Director in place of Mr. Simpson.
The Shareholders will be asked to appoint two Auditors for the ensuing year and to fix
their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE.
(Incorporated 1865 in South Australia with Limited Liability.)
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 28th MARCH, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Reserve Fund (£904,187/2/11 in
Government and other Securities
and £95,802/17/1 used in the
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of
Credit, etc-., £473,000/12/5.
ASSETS.
Liabilities of Customers on Letters of Credit,
etc., a s per Contra, £473,000/12/5.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
From 29th March, 1937, to 28th March, 1938.
To Dividend in April,
1037 .. ..£31,250 0 0
~ Dividend in No-
vember, 1937 .. 31,250 0 0
£62,500 0 0
„ Balance 28th
March, 1938 . . 76,595 8 5
£139,095 8 5
By Balance, 29th March, 1937 .. £73,307 7 0
„ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted and
deducting Expenses at Head
Office and 60 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc., and
Directors’ Fees, £2,500 .. 65,788 1 5
£139,095 8 5
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date .. ..£1,000,000 0 0
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
£1,000,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
W. E. WELBOURN, Secretary.
By Balance 29th March, 1937 .. £1,000,000 0 0
£1,000,000 0 0
HOWARD W. LLOYD ]
E. W. HOLDEN [-
A. E. HAMILTON J
Directors.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits
a true and correct view of the state of The Bank of Adelaide’s affairs on 28th March, 1938,
according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and as shown by
the Books of the Bank submitted.
We have obtained all information and explanations required by us.
We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and other Securities
of the Bank on hand at the Head Office. The Assets and Liabilities at the Branches, other
than London, have been taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the
respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Bank is required
to keep by the South Australian Companies Act 1934, or by its Articles of Association, have
been properly kept.
G. R. ANNELLS )
KENNETH W. NEILL }
Chartered Accountants (Aust.). J
Auditors.
Adelaide, Bth April, 1938.
I, WILLIAM JOHN MASSON, General Manager of The Bank of Adelaide, DO
SOLEMNLY AND SINCERELY DECLARE—
That the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used partly in the business and partly
in Government and approved securities.
That the accompanying statement and Balance Sheet of the Bank is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true in every particular.
That the names, addresses and occupations of persons who are the Directors of the Bank
at the date of this statement are:
SIR HOWARD WATSON LLOYD (Chairman), College Town, Accountant.
HON. EDWARD WTIEEWALL HOLDEN, B.Sc., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.L.C., Kent Town,
Manufacturer.
ALBERT EDWIN HAMILTON, M.8.E., Adelaide, Accountant.
WILLIAM STEELE, Millswood, Company Director.
STANLEY McGREGOR REID, Millswood, Accountant.
AND I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by
virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act. 1936.
W. J. MASSON.
DECLARED at Adelaide, in the State of South Australia, this 12th day of April, 1938,
before me—
C. W. NIMMO,
A Justice of the Peace in and for the State of South Australia.
WE, Howard W. Lloyd, Edward W. Holden and Albert E. Hamilton, of College Town.
Kent Town and Adelaide respectively, being Directors of The Bank of Adelaide, DO HEREBY
CERTIFY that in our opinion the above Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up so
as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs.
Dated at Adelaide this 14th day of April, 1938.
HOWARD W. LLOYD }
E. W. HOLDEN ;
A. E. HAMILTON
*
Directors.
STOCK
OWNERS
Read This
.We have been estab-
lished for over 70years
and have never been
FINANCIALLY in-
terested in any stock
or property we sell other
than as AGENTS
ONLY, consequently
it is to our interest as
well as yours to get you
the very best returns
possible and enables
us to give you
UNEQUALLED
SERVICE
WILKINSON
& LAVENDER
PTY. LTD.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS—FAT
STOCK AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
Suppliers of All Station Requisites.
SYDNEY, HAY AND
COONAMBLE


Manufactured by THOS. R. CADM AN & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD.
ĸ
" Bengali”
Reliable Cutlery
Established 1748-1938, 190 years.
REASONABLY PRICED.
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart. Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Bulletin man goes to Geelong:
On the journey to the Pivot, one’s thoughts
turned to St. Albans, where old Jimmy Wilson
bred and trained so many notable performers
in other years. There is still a St. Albans
stud, and it is conducted successfully by Guy
Raymond, of the V.R.C. committee, and H.
B. Ranken; but the size is not what it was
in the days of old Jimmy, who was followed
in ownership by John Crozier, W. R. Wilson
(the Broken Hill mining man) and J. E.
O’Keefe.
O’Keefe raced under the name of *“J. E.
Stanley” and won an Adelaide Cup with Troy-
town and an Oakleigh Plate with Bright Steel.
He used Bright Steel and Traquair as stallions
at St. Albans. The sudden death of Traquair
after he had sired such speed machines as
Woorak and Traquette made O’Keefe abandon
the role of studmaster.
Enjoyment of the Geelong meeting was
marred by a bad accident in the second divi-
sion of the Novice Handicap. Entering the
straight Double Speed (Clarence Badger), Ramu-
lator (Olsen) and Ambassador (Robert-
son) fell. All three jockeys lay where they
fell. So did .Double Speed and Ambassador.
One horse had broken its back and the other
had to be destroyed.
An ambulance rushed to the scene and
removed the lads to Geelong Hospital. Badger
fared worst, and he died of his injuries.
Clarry Badger, like his brother Harold—now
in Sydney to pilot Ajax—served his apprentice-
ship with Bradfield at Flemington. He attained
high rank as a jockey in Adelaide.
Plectrum, the Irish-bred stallion imported
along with Soltoi and other thoroughbreds,
compensated P. T. Heywood for many disap-
pointments by landing the Autumn Handicap
at Geelong. There has been no better galloper
than Plectrum on the Flemington tracks this
season; but, apart from running third in the
Bendigo Cup, he shaped ingloriously in public.
In one of his races Plectrum stopped in a
stride at the straight entrance and finished last.
Heywood discovered that the stallion had a
physical malformation such as that from which
the great Emir suffered in years gone by. E.
£. D. Clarke was too fond of Emir to allow
him to be operated upon, and it is unlikely that
the surgeon’s knife will be used on Plectrum.
His owner’s belief is that Plectrum sometimes
suffers a severe twinge of pain while galloping.
Mainly on that account Heywood determined
not to put any more money on the stallion
until he had won a race. However, punters
were impressed by Plectrum’s finishing effort
in the V.A.T.C. Brighton Welter, won by
Somerset, and they supported him down to
6 to 4. None too lucky in running, Plectrum
came home strongly, to score by more than a
length from a 20-to-l chance, Leporis, with
Trousdale (7 to 1) third.
As a trainer P. T. Heywood was associated
with the Caulfield Cup victory of Calma as
far back as 1883. His outstanding triumph
was with Artilleryman in the Melbourne Cup
of 1919. Handing over Orleigh Park stable at
Flemington to his brother, Phil retired to an
Albury holding, but he rarely misses an im-
portant Melbourne meeting.
Bobken, sired by Jack Marsh, who won
on Sydney and Melbourne courses, started
favorite for the Belmont Trial Hurdle and
looked “home and dry” until David’s Joy,
sustaining a run which began at the half-mile
pole, wore him down. David’s Joy figured at
9 to 2. He is by David, who has sired a host
of excellent jumpers.
Joe MUlcahy, foreman to Carbine’s trainer
at one period, won the Birregurra Trial for
C. W. Leonard with Surat, a gelding by Haz-
rat, now at the stud in Queensland. Mnloahy
trained Hazrat for the Leonard brothers, by
whom he was imported.
Divisions of the Elcho Novice went to
Crowsaint (7 to 2, favorite) and the locally-
trained Shining Star, about whom 7 to 1 could
be had. Shining Star finished only a neck in
advance of Vita Glass,- who carries the same
colors as Plectrum. Being a full sister to Gay
Lover, the horse that lost an Epsom Handicap
on protest and subsequently appropriated the
Cantala Stakes, Vita Glass ought to be running
in better company, and may do so later on.
Places in the Herne Welter were filled by
Mythologist (threes), Wroxham (fours) and
Black Laughter (2 to 1, favorite). It w'as a
ding-dong go from the half-distance. But for
being compelled to make his run on the outside
Black Laughter may have won. Hugging the
rails, Mythologist squeezed home by half a
head, there being a mere neck between second
and third.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Palmer Outs Richards
Putting an unexpected slather-and-
whack end to as clean and handsome a
fight as anyone could wish to set eyes on,
Ambrose Palmer (12st. 711 b.) took the
heavyweight championship back from
Ron Richards (list. 121 b.) by k.o. in the
13th round of their Sydney Sports
Ground engagement.
The blow that won the fight was a
clinking left hook. It caught Richards
just above the point as he was coming
in a short, swift, cleanly-landed punch,
good enough to bring off an outright k.o.
nine times out of ten. Richards, at the
frantic urging of his corner, got up as
Joe Wallis was remarking “Nine!”
Palmer went into him with both hands
as Ron backed into the ropes trying to
smother up. Under the violent bombard-
ment Ron fell again.
This time he had the look in his face
of being both beaten and conscious
enough to know it. His seconds were in-
sistent. They flogged the canvas with
their palms till the resin rose in a cloud.
Ron sat on, with one glove on the can-
vas supporting him, as the count pro-
gressed. At “Eight!” his corner’s com-
mands to “Get up! ” rose to a howl.
Pulling himself together, Ron got up. He
is not lacking in gameness. Ambrose
came at him again, punching with both
hands hard and fast. Ron stood
momentarily and took it, with Ambrose,
crouched, boring into him and slogging.
Then Ron went down for the third time,
and even his corner knew he was down
to stay.
He looked badly dazed, but not un-
conscious. The count this time went
to the full 10, and Ambrose leapt into
the air in his best Australian Rules foot-
ball style.
He had the championship again, and he
had won it cleanly and well in a good
fight. He had never lost it actually ; it
went to Richards because there was no-
body else capable of holding it when
Palmer retired a year or two back with
his eyes badly damaged by Leo Kelly's
head-bumping. Palmer squared that ac-
count in Melbourne a few weeks back.
He gave the again imported Kelly such
a father of a hiding that the negro took
the next boat back to America.
That fight and the one or two he’d
had before it in making his recent come-
back fitted Palmer for taking back the
title. He needed to be fit —fitter, in fact,
than he was ; 12st. 711 b. is more weight
than he can carry. Unless the slug-
“Back, Major—the elephants must have smelt your breath !”
gish display he gave in the early
part of last week’s fight was his plan
for winning a 15-rounder, he’ll need to
stay fit to withstand the challenge he’ll
no doubt receive from Richards. The
fight should have done Ron no harm as
a drawcard. Like Ambrose himself, this
dinkum Australian native is the very pat-
tern of a clean fighter, and, again like
Ambrose, he’s now hitting harder and
fighting better than ever before. The
general idea prevailing about the ring-
side was that Ron was well ahead on
points when the knockout happened.
Awarding the points for vigor, there can
be no question that that’s how they would
go. But, busy and vigorous as it was,
Ron’s performance still needs to have
some things subtracted from it.
For one thing, Palmer rode the bulk
of his punches. Palmer’s right glove
took most of the blows addressed to his
face, and his body defence was, if any-
thing, even better. He made Richards
miss a good deal, and also he took most
of Richards’s connecting punches mov-
ing away. Up to the k.o. session
Richards certainly hit far the harder of
the two ; he scored at intervals with some
hard rights to the jaw and a real beauty
to the solar ; in early exchanges he even
beat Palmer to the punch with his left,
and much of the time his attack had
Ambrose moving backwards. But against
all that, and surely packing up a fair
stack of points, there was Palmer’s splen-
did left.
Palmer would be a much better
fighter than he is—and he’s no slouch —
if he wasn’t under the necessity of pro-
tecting those eyes of his. It keeps his
right almost wholly employed. His left,
however, is a snifter. Using it straight,
he moved in and out with it, scoring
time after time flush on Ron’s mouth.
This was a constant proceeding ; Palmer
hit Richards this way in every round.
Bustling from the start, Ron won the
early rounds comfortably. Palmer got
his straight left working in the third, but
Ron was doing best in this part of the
scrap. From the sixth on it seemed to
present scribe that Richards gave a capi-
tal display of vigorous fighting, and
Palmer a restrained but superior per-
formance of boxing. The sixth was as
pretty a round as could be witnessed. In
it Palmer fought with more vim than
earlier and Richards boxed more neatly.
It was a wonderfully bright patch, extra-
ordinarily fast for heavy men. Once
Palmer scored with a solid hook to the
jaw, then slipped and sat down. It was
in Richards’s corner, where the resin was
spread about half an inch deep in lumps
on the canvas.
Palmer clearly outboxed Ron in the
seventh, but Ron as clearly outfought
him in the eighth, in the course of which
Palmer fell back through the ropes,
which were too loose. Richards was on
top in the ninth also, by the vigor of his
attack and the power of his right. Palmer
sniped him at will with straight lefts in
the tenth, but Richards landed one fine
scoring punch—a heavy right to the
solar. They fought the eleventh in grand
style, still going hammer and tongs when
the bell rang. Palmer dropped his hands
instantly, but Ron was in the middle of
a punch he couldn’t stop. It caught
Ambrose stationary, snap on the jaw,
and all but outed him. However, he
came up for the 12th all right and treated
Ron’s mouth to left after left; it was
in no state for winning a melon-eating
competition when the round ended, and
Ron carried also a decided puff under
the left eye. Ambrose, for his part, was
starting to look remarkably like a news-
paper photograph of Tommy Farr.
Even so, for these last few rounds he’d
been fighting with much more snap. He
began the 13th with two nice left hooks.
They fought extra hard for a bit; then
Ron’s right arm dropped, and over went
the winning hit in a flash. The blows
that actually finished the fight in
Richards’s two bedraggled risings from
the canvas were a sorry sort of anti-
climax. It was the left hook that did
the job, and it was pretty enough to
deserve victory in any fight.
Promoter Benny Bear—who promises
a Henneberry-Sabatino return very
shortly—evidently believes that scrap
addicts these days want a devil of a lot
for their money. Altogether there were
47 rounds of stoush scheduled for the
evening, and about 40 rounds were actu-
ally witnessed. The prelim, bill was five
four-rounders and two six-rounders. A
special prize for the best go among these
—award decided by, among other ex-
perts, Darby Munro and Maurice
McCarten —went to Ivan Timmins (lOst.
41b.) and Art Bennett (lOst. lib.). Bennett
was knocked down by a clean punch in
the first round and again by a clean
punch in the sixth, and Timmins didn’t
do so badly in between times. But it
was the Bennett paw that ref. Mick
Lacey held aloft.
The Bigger Beef
Whatever else may be said of them,
the Bigger Beef (imp.) can put on a show.
It was a bit more than merely a show
when Leo Numa (16st. lib.) put the
kibosh on John Speliman (15st. 101 b.) at
Sydney Stadium last week. It was power-
fully ferocious. Numa, who’d shown
up a week earlier not very impressively,
proved himself both a fierce and clever
grappler. There was no playing to the
spectators; they were too occupied con-
centrating on each other. Spellman
brought off a fall in the third round after
battering Leo insensible with flying
tackles. (For these you use the ropes as
a catapult and yourself as the missile.)
Earlier he’d nabbed Leo by the blond
locks and by that means heaved Leo
clean out of the ring on to his Majesty's
police. Subsequently Leo heaved John
bodily out, and John’s ribs hit the rail
along the back of the press seats with a
frightful crack. Leo also got John’s body
scissored between the ropes in a manner
that made John’s chest bulge like a
pouter pigeon. After this assault and
battery Leo got a fall that left John to
be helped back to his corner, where, in
his state, he should have remained. What
John needed just then was a good stiff
whisky and some beef-tea, instead of
which the bell went. Game as a bulldog,
John plunged forth, and took what was
coming to him.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”: Some of the Victorian
F.A. clubs are taking the introduction of
the Rugby pass very seriously. One
club has engaged “a Rugby expert” to
teach the Rules players all the “tricks”
in the art of throwing the ball, including
the use of the dummy. Already means
of combating the new strategy are being
debated, and some hotheads are even
going so far as to forecast the adoption
of the Rugby tackle.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Because of the quar-
rel between the Queensland and N.S.W.
Rugby Leagues, the allocation of play-
ing dates to other football codes is being
hung up. One of the bodies marking
time is the Rugby Union, which is unable
to fix its programme for the All-Blacks
until the two League bodies have com-
posed their differences. It is anomalous,
to put it mildly, that such a tour as that
of the Maorilanders should be held up at
the pleasure of a professional code, and
that because the Sydney C.G. trustees
have permitted the long lease of an arena
granted for amateur sport.
* * * *
“Stoush”: The prospects of the M.L.
Rugby League team in Australia this
season have not been brightened by an
extra-open breach between the Queens-
land and N.S.W. Leagues. Taking ad-
vantage of the fact that the Queensland
League was absent overseas with the
Kangaroos, the N.S.W. body fixed up an
itinerary which was received in Queens-
land with hoots and derision. Queensland
is in a nasty mood. It points out that last
time N.S.W. insisted on bringing over
a M.L. side, it and Queensland had to


LOW-COST FORDSON
... the profitable tractor investment
IN ANY SEASON, GOOD OR BAD,
FORDSON IS GOOD INVESTMENT
because it is engineered and equipped
to handle every job on station, farm
or orchard efficiently and at low cost .
With its ample power (14 H.P. on
drawbar, 26 H.P. on belt), all-round
usefulness, absolute dependability »nd
low first cost and maintenance, Fordson
is a profit-earner from the moment you
put it to work on your property.
Equipped with either steel wheel grips
or pneumatic tyres, it can be used for
field work or haulage, will pull a 10 disc
sundercut with ease, a 6-furrow mould-
board plough in heavy country 4 to 5 in.
deep at 3 m.p.h. under normal working
conditions. The 4.3 m.p.h. top gear
enables Fordson to be used for light
cultivation at lower cost. A pulley wh eel
is standard equipment and the governor-
controlled engine
makes Fordson
ideal as a stationary
power - plant. Ask
your local Fordson
dealer for full details
of the low operating
costs of Fordson.
Special Fordson
finance plan pro-
vides easy purchase
terms and low rate
of interest.
FORDSON FEATURES
HEAVY-DUTY TRANSMISSION
“HOT-SPOT” FUEL VAPORISER
GOVERNOR CONTROL
OPTIONAL SPEEDS
OPTIONAL GEAR RADIOS
STATICALLY AND DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED CRANKSHAFT
EXHAUST VALVE INSERTS
BOSCH MAGNETO IMPULSE
STARTER
REAR END POWER TAKE-OFF
(optional at extra cost)
TRACTOR
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS LIMITED,
Comer Bridge and Young Sts., Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS:
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE LIMITED,
City Showrooms:
601-603 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Perth
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN
VICTORIA)
F257.27T
Mick Simmons’
Unrivalled Service to
SHOOTERS
mm
LI OX EL IIIUDY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
liallislics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the spent of shooting should avail themselves 10 the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
PORTING RIFLES
k
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE, 22-
cal., bolt action, V-back sight';
for short, long or long-rifle cart-
ridges. Round barrel, 1 Bin. long,
bored and rifled with the same
care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate; nry in
weight, about 3 Jib. ®
Postage, 2/—; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front Ante.
sight; weight, about 4Jib.
Postage, 2/—; Other States, 3/6.
No. 15—WINCHESTER
HAMMERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, MODEL 61, 22-cal.,
24in. round barrel, pistol grip
stock, ladder rear sight, gold
bead front sight, slide action.
Magazine handles 20 short,
16 long or 14 long-rifle
cartridges. This rifle will
handle adequately and
safely the new high-power
Super Speed 22
R.F. Cartridges.
Carriage Paid.
No. 16—WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 62, 22-cal., 20-
shot, 23in. round barrel,
plain trigger, straight
grip, ladder rear sights,
slide action; magazine handles 20 short,
16 long, or 14 long-rifle cartridges;
weight, about s fib. »
Price £5/5/-
Carriage Paid.
Famous D. B.
SHOT GUNS
Ho. S—HOLLIS D.8.8.L. GUN, 12G.,
top lever, 32in. barrels, both choke, bar
locks, crossbolt, walnut stock; weight,
£r. 71b : £l2/17/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 14—BROWNING D.8.8.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN, 12G., 30in. steel barrels,
both choke, top lever crossbolt, walnut
stock, pistol grip, nitro proof; weight,
PHce. 7 ." 1 £ll/11/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 24— STEVENS ARMS CO. D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G., top lever
crossbolt, steel barrels, both choke,
matted rib, barrels and lug one piece,
32in. barrels, walnut stock, pistol grip,
tested for nitro powders; cnlinl
weight, about 81b. *.O/IU/“
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
fork out £l2OO to meet the loss on the
tour, an advance which has never been
repaid.
* * * *
“Gate”: St. George (N.S.W.) Rugby
League club is trying a new method of
paying its players. Instead of the general
divvy from the net share of the gate to
players and officials, a fixed payment by
results on the English system is sug-
gested. First-grade players under this
scheme would get 30s. for a win, £1 for
a draw and 10s. for a loss. Players in
second and third grades would be paid
proportionately less. The nigger in the
woodpile is that if the club has a good
season and its matches draw big gates
players will receive a lot less than under
the dividend system. A dozen wins in as
many matches would bring a player only
£lB, and even in these hard-up days
League clubs which show good form in
the competitions hand out a lot more
than that to their men for the season.
Nineteenth Hole
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golf con-
trollers are thinking of arranging for the
Australian open champion, Naismith, to
visit Brisbane for the State champion-
ships which begin on May 11. They
have already deserved well of the pro-
fessional players by bumping up the
amounts of the cash prizes for the open
and other events, but even then a trip to
the North from Melbourne is a costly
business if a player fails to collect a fair
share of the swag. The encouragement
may take the form of a percentage, of
the gate takings or a direct payment, but
that has yet to be settled.
% sj« jje
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. golf
heads have made their annual announce-
ment that they intend to enforce the rules
relating to amateurism in golf. They
particularly denounce players who accept
presents of golf gear or buy them at re-
duced prices from dealers, and warn
those who, employed by golf-goods firms,
push the sale of their firm’s goods in
tournaments and competitions. Both
practices will be hard to stifle.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: An application for
recognition of Kingston Heath (Vic.) as
a championship course will be dealt with
at the conference of the Australian G.U.
in Adelaide on August 15. It is close
on 10 years ago since Kingston shifted
from Elsternwick to it's present stand,
and the course, laid out by the late Dan
Souter, of Sydney, is now one of the
finest as well as one of the most decora-
tive in Australia.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The British open cham-
pionship begins at Deal and Sandwich
on July 4 and 5 with a qualifying round
of 36 holes medal, which will allow onlv
130 players to get through. Then follow
two championship rounds on July 6 and
7 at Deal. From these only 40 players
will be eligible for the final 36 holes on
July 8.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: Norman Brookes has re-
signed the presidency of the Victorian
L.T.A., but retains the leadership of the
Australian body. One or two of the
State tennis bodies, notably N.S.W., re-
gard Brookes as a dictator beside whom
Mussolini is a shrinking violet, and would
like nothing better than to see him pass
in his job as president of the Australian
body as well. "
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: The A.L.T.A. has
handed out £5OO apiece to Queensland,
Westralia and Tassie. This is less than
was hoped for, but the Australian body,
though it has a reserve of £15,000, lost a
couple of hundred on the last Davis Cup
tour and is feeling economical. For the
same reason, presumably, it turned down
a bill for a minor throat operation on
Sproule, manager of the team aforesaid,
during the tour.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Not surprising
to hear Mexico may forfeit in its Davis
Cup match with Australia. It wanted
Australia to play again on the elevated
spot where our 1937 team contracted
various ailments, but Australia stood pat
on its right for a game in neutral terri-
tory. Mexico now agrees, but only on
condition that the Yanks get one of their
clubs to stage the match and pay all
Mexican expenses. Uncle Sam is said
to be considering the prahposition, with
an increased respect for Mexican nerve.
Miscellaneous
The English girl rowers won the Aus-
tralian four-oar championship on the
Parramatta, beating the Tasmanian title-
holders by a couple of lengths—it was a
three-quarter-mile paddle. South Aus-
tralia was third, only a couple of feet
further back.
H* 'l* “fc *!•
“Jolimont”: For the fourth successive
year and for the 22nd occasion since
1860, Melbourne C.C. won the Victorian
championship pennant by downing Fitz-
roy by 13 runs. ’Roy wanted only 14
to win and had a wicket in hand, but it
was not to be. Ponsford’s 82.60 batting
average headed the M.C.C. roll, while
Nagel took 53 wickets at 14.6.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Frank Sides, the Queens-
land left-hand batsman who was so suc-
cessful in the Victorian Sheffield team
this season, is returning to Brisbane. In
a way it is a pity. Sides this season has
shown that it is possible to hit the ball
instead of patting it, and some of his in-
nings suggested that a place in a future
Australian Eleven was not beyond him,
had he remained in Victoria. In Queens-
land his form is more likely to deteriorate
than to improve, and even if he keeps it,
or betters his performances for Victoria,
he will have to fight the prejudice against
Queensland cricketers.


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON,
Gen. Manager.
T. C. REYNOLDS,
Asst. Gen. Manager.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL STREET
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. B. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., 11.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET )
ķk
doctors say that it your Hormone Glands am
nerves function well you will be vigorous anc
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remed;
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
lerful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ
lirect for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
TlAltlS
MW
81l
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
SUNRY
SHOWS
“Nothing Sacred.”
Carole Lombard, Fredric March.
This satisfying entertainer at Sydney
Plaza neither requires nor suffers from
its technicolor. In light and shade it
would still be very pleasant fare.
On the color side there are not the
opportunities offered by the fashion
parades of “Vogues of 1938” or the mag-
nificent scenery of “Wings of the Morn-
ing,” neither are the tones as natural as
in “A Star Is Born,” but aerial views of
New York, a spot of stage spectacle, a
neon-lighted city, luxurious apartments
and a profusion of flowers lend them-
selves effectively to the medium. One
shot of a smoky city sky is outstanding.
For the plot, Carole, waiting stoically
to pass out from radium poisoning, be-
comes heroine of a human interest news
story, and, with her doctor, comes from
a remote little village to N’Yark under
protection of reporter March and at the
expense of his paper. The big city re-
ceives her with open arms, holds civic
receptions, fetes her, goes the limit to
brighten her last few days.
Carole, of course, isn’t going to die
at all. That the diagnosis was a mistake
both she and her doctor knew before
they left home, but before the truth leaks
out the film gets in a generous ration of
agreeable comedy.
Charles Winninger’s bibulous country
doctor whose morals vary with circum-
stances is one highlight of broad comedy,
and Walter Connolly’s editor, especially
when simmering with suppressed rage
and ready to explode at any moment, is
another.
Carole, too, makes some sparkling con-
tributions. She is particularly well suited
to her role, and gives it more meaning
and displays more comedic ability than
she has done for some time. Added to
which the color assists her in building
up some sort of personality which has
often seemed lacking in previous show-
ings.
March is more her foil than anything,
and, being an able actor, manages his
part very nicely.
The richest and most satisfying angle
of the film’s humor is its gentle but
forceful satirising of the general run of
humans in a big city. All the sympathy
and kindness unloaded on Carole are
merely of a superficial nature. The
donors are really a haphazard, selfish,
unfeeling people, and to them she is just
a passing fancy in their ever-changing
search for diversity.
That being purveyed without malice,
the film is curiously reminiscent of O.
Henry. Other points, too —the story, the
four main characters, incidental touches
and twists and March’s philosophising on
mob psychology—might have come lock,
stock and barrel from the pen of the
same storyteller, which is possibly as
good a recommendation as any for light
entertainment.
“The Buccaneer.”
Fredric March, Akim Tamiroff, Franciska Gaal.
Don’t miss letting the small boys see
chis rattling good outburst of Yo-ho-ho
at Sydney Prince Edward. It would
have gone well at the Capitol or the
King’s Cross theatre, where they cater
for the small-boy instincts, and where the
furnishings are presumably tougher.
There’s a thread of tongue-tied love-
making between Fredric and Franciska
running through it, but it’s not so ex-
ploited that the young ’uns won’t be able
to overlook it entirely. Indeed it’s sur-
prising how restrained the directors have
been about this aspect of their romantic
story of Jean Lafitte, a French corsair
who haunted the Gulf of Mexico and did
valiant deeds for America against John
Bull in the War of Independence.
The Gaal is, we gather from trailers,
a great Hungarian actress invited to
Hollywood expressly to play the part of
a little Dutch girl who gets herself
tangled up with the pirates, preserves her
innocence with ease owing to the chival-
rous character of Fredric as Lafitte and
Akim as Fredric’s humorously ferocious
head offsider. On this showing the great
Hungarian actress’s talent consists in
looking a very fetching quaint little thing,
with a pretty pout. It seems likely that
Brian Aherne ( Garrick ) welcomed by Melville Cooper, with Luis Alberni doing
his mad act on the stairs and Etienne Girandot (in front), in the excellent costume
comedy “The Great Garrick” at Sydney Embassy.
she’d make a good show in comedy;
anyway, she does the eyes. no serious
injury.
Fredric acts a typical Hollywooden
version of a buccaneer. That is to say,
he’s a good-looking scoundrel, who,
however, doesn’t himself do any act of
villainy personally, and who, altogether,
is more sinned against than sinning. His
main service to America as Lafitte lies in
his being in a position to supply Stone-
wall Jackson with flints and gunpowder
and, with his platoon of pirates, hold a
length of front some six or seven yards
long against a British attack.
Akim is excellent as Fredric’s offsider,
keeping the pretty little Franciska under
his ample wing, and there are some capi-
tal spots of character acting in the huge
support. Lavish spectacle items include
the burning of a sailing ship at sea (she
takes an unconscionably long time a-burn-
ing), attack by the perfidious English on
the honorable and valiant pirate h.q.
(a lively burst of rough-house, this), the
pirates paddling in hundreds in small
boats through a very well-watered swamp
to rally to their leader’s call, and the
concluding bit of battle, with Scots
marching forward in line and firing at
regular intervals, and the stumpy cannon
of the day being skittled all over the
place.
Altogether an agreeable stretch of
swashbuckling action-film, with loads of
people doing something violent all the
time, even if the total sum of what
they do represents just about nothing.
“Live, Love and Learn.”
Robert Montgomery, Robert Benchley,
Rosalind Russell.
This M.-G.-M. offering at Sydney
State would be best enjoyed by anyone
who hadn’t seen “Night Must Fall.” From
that dark-shaded drama the Montgomery-
Russell pair here step into the lightest of
romantic comedy. Not a bad idea ; but
they have brought with them the identical
acting styles and mannerisms they em-
ployed in the drama, which isn’t so good.
That is most true of Montgomery. Still
smirking, still wearing his cigarette stuck
right in the left end of his mouth and still
wearing his coat loosely open, he does
little more than rehash his “Night Must
Fall” job. Of course it doesn’t fit.
The Russell does better; she also re-
sembles too much the young lady she was
in the drama, but, unlike Montgomery,
she wasn’t the doer of a cold-blooded
murder, so plagiarising her former part
doesn’t matter so much.
Anyway, it’s much easier to accept her
as daughter of snooty rich throwing in
her lot with earnest but unappreciated
artist than it is to accept the shadow of
“Night Must Fall’s” murderer as the
artist.
The film invites the critical tomahawk
in another respect. It happens to follow
the old, old story of artist and young
wife very happy struggling along in
garret till fame comes; then artist, taken
up by sassiety, becoming quickly spoilt
and sinking his ideals to paint for money,
wife meanwhile trying to get him back
on the old track.
This theme—-art sacrificed to Mammon
—couldn’t possibly be better exemplified
than it has been by the film’s makers in
thus employing these two principals in
turning out an appeal to the popular-pull
side of the box-office. It is clearly an
attempt to cash in on their success to-
gether in “Night Must Fall,” which was
an artistic triumph.
Apart from these aspects of it, the
comedy’s quite a good one, the dialogue
well salted with laughs, and some of the
situations uproarious. Benchley turns in
a typical Benchley job.
“I’ll Take Romance.”
Grace Moore, Melvyn Douglas.
Merit of this current entertainer at
Sydney Mayfair is the Moore lady’s
tuneful warbling; its fault her patchy
acting. There is a paucity of the first
and an abundance of the second. A
shaky actress —on this showing, anyway
—she performs direfully in attempting to
turn comedienne.
That could be excused if she aired her
voice more frequently, but she spends
most of her time living up to the title with
Mr. Douglas and deciding whether to go
with him to Buenos Ayres or to fulfil a
contract in Paris.
Douglas, a very smooth actor, handles
romantic situations about as nicely as
possible, and Irwin and Miss Westley
back him solidly in mildly humorous
fashion.
One scene, too, is worth the price of a
seat. Irwin, bored to distraction during
an opera, starts rolling dice on his pro-
gramme. Douglas, sympathising, lays
down a bet and suddenly the bejewelled
hand of a majestic old sassiety dame adds
a couple of dahlars to the pool.
Musical fare includes snatches from
“Traviata,” “Martha,” “Manon” and
“Madame Butterfly,” and what there is of
Miss Moore’s singing makes clinking en-
tertainment and suggests that the flicks
should stand at least one opera per year.
“Walking Down Broadway.”
Claire Trevor, Michael Whalen.
Support at Sydney Plaza, this is an-
other addition to Hollywood’s debunking
craze. Its statement, somewhat abstruse,
is the same as that of “Stage Door” —
Broadway is a path of thorns with few
roses —but the force of its delivery is
retarded by irrelevancy.
Half a dozen chorines, yawpers and
hoofers gathered together for New Year’s
Eve go all romantic and sign a promise
to forgather again in 12 months’ time.
Two of them make the grade, two are
killed, one goes up for 20 years for
murder and the last lights out with an
account-manipulating boy friend.
The film seems to purport that Broad-
way is to blame for these tragedies, but
the simpler and more logical implica-
tion is that one was killed because she
crossed the road without looking both
ways, and the other because she misbe-
haved herself and then leaned against a
loose balcony rail, and so on.
Still, although the film draws its force
more from highly-fictional tragedy than
from steady realism it has several strong
dramatic moments, most powerful of
which is when a well-sozzled roisterer,
blustering through a crowd to witness
result of tragedy No. 1, is sobered to
muddled comprehension by the san-
guinary spectacle.
With several forms of heart interest
trailing through it, the film takes some
time to state its case, but acting is com-
petent and the assortment of charmers
varied enough to cater for most tastes.
“Counsel for Crime.”
Otto Kruger, Douglass Montgomery.
Support at Sydney Mayfair, this ster-
ling little stretch of drama, together with
one of Disney’s funniest cartoons to date,
adds considerably to the entertainment
at that address.
Its framework is familiar and by no
means promising. Kruger, shyster lawyer
and a clever one, takes into partnership
his illegitimate son, who was lawfully
adopted in infancy by his mother and her
husband. Somewhat enlightened as to
his parent’s methods, the young man, an


\
N:
/
When
a MAN
tells you:
; that he is thankful
to Calvert's Tooth
Powder for a life-
time free from
dental trouble and
for white teeth in
his old age—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
te e
d
Co^ 1
lit
J (
a
Vi*
KOSCIUSKO TEN DAY
SNOW TOURS
Leave Sydney Every Friday
ONE COST COVERS EVERY EXPENSE.
mm
mm.
#il
.. .. :
mi
111
1
1 SgJ
1
J
,
BB •••• •• ••••••
May Tours, £9/5/-
June Tours, £ll/15/-
Ask for Tour Programme.
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
CHALLIS HOUSE, 8 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Tel.: 8W4471 (4 lines).
idealist and ignorant of his true identity,
expresses wholehearted disgust and re-
tires to join forces with the district
attorney.
Of course, the pair of them are
matched in court cases, and Kruger loses
deliberately, so adding to his son’s kudos.
Finally, through the efforts of his off-
spring, he is himself convicted of murder
and sent up for 20 years, mainly because
he refused to divulge the earlier liaison.
That is almost a warning, but the offer-
ing, despite a flaw or two, is a remark-
ably competent production.
Striving for effect, unnecessary incident
and other such padding are almost com-
pletely deleted, and lurv interest is side-
tracked into vague supposition.
Add to all that Kruger’s proven suita-
bility for likeable and cynical villainising
with a touch of martyrdom and a strong
performance from Montgomery and the
result is something of an achievement for
Columbia pictures.
Sydney Capitol .
The Easter egg at this address is some-
what stale.
In “The Sheik Steps Out” Mr. Novarro
is supposed to be a sheik of sorts, but,
despite several “By Allahs!” “By the
beards !” and “By the sacred teeth
of the Prophet!” he remains a forty-
second-rate amateur imitation of Taylor
and Powerish pretty boys.
While the film runs round in ragged
circles he romanticises with and plays
pranks on the daughter of a corkscrew
miljionaire. At long last, complete in
sheikly costume, he saves her from wed-
ding Lord Pooflah by dashing into a
Parisian kirk and turning out to be
Spanish nobleman.
The chicken in the egg chirps more
cheerily. “The Spy Ring” ■ deals with
polo, the U.S. Army, a mysterious
machine-gun and, of course, spies, in the
best traditions of bellerdrammer.
“A Girl with Ideas ”
Now going the rounds, this is a
newspaper opus with Wendy Barrie,
Walter Pidgeon and Kent Taylor filling
the corners of the auxiliary triangle.
It is 66 times longer than anything of
its kind should be, and in the words of
the blurb sheet:
With tea served to hard-boiled reporters every
afternoon, the place [newspaper office] appears
to be a combination of country club and Park-
avenue penthouse. Reporters, along with a
bevy of beautiful society girls who have joined
the staff, are seated at desks to which are
attached an array of efficiency gadgets that
would make a veteran editor’s eyes pop open
in sheer amazement.
Editorial departments are divided by rail-
ings sheathed to the floor in dulled corrugated
aluminium that is smart and dustproof. Other
features include soundless cork flooring,
cushioned chairs for reporters and built-in ice-
boxes for handy refreshments.«
“Who Killed John Savage?”
Deuced superior attitude to the bally
foreigner gets another gentle airing in
this crime-mystery film at Sydney
Embassy. The scoundrels represented are
both foreigners—one in name, the other
a citizen of Gahd’s Own, which land,
when this sort of purpose is to be served,
seems to be even more positively foreign
than any other.
On the other hand, the jolly old Eng-
lish chappie who thinks up an elaborate
scheme to defraud insurance companies
of a huge sum of money is held up by
the film to be quite an admirable char-
acter. He is the hero. The actual nature
of No. 1 villain can’t be given without
spoiling the flick for anyone who may
have a hankering to see it; however, the
name considered right for such a person
is Marchetti. Gahd’s Own’s contribution
is a fat and cheerful blackmailer.
For the rest, the film is quite good of
its kind, holding interest very well up to
the denouement, and then seeming to
have been a devil of a lot about mighty
little. It is well presented and nicely
acted by Barry Mackay and co.
Russo-China in Adelaide.
An unusual art show has found its
way to Australia, and opens in Adelaide.
Gerassimoff is a Russian exile, stranded,
it is said, without passport in Shang-
hai ; whence he sends his impressions of
local scene and (mainly) people.
The collection is fit but few. He
works on a bold scale, as of a scene-
painter whose product will yet bear
looking into closely. His paintings are
good; his colored crayons, types of
Chinese or Manchurian figures, are
simply masterly.
Melbourne Easter Concert.
George English, directing the Mel-
bourne Philharmonics, A.B.C. Symphony
Orchestra and the Wireless Chorus, re-
frained from giving the vast crowd that
turned up for the Good Friday fixture at
the Town Hall the customary ritual of
Mendelssohn’s “Elijah.”
The overture was the Good Friday
music from “Parsifal.” The voluptuous
Wagnerian strains and the admirable
playing of the A.B.C. orchestra entranced
the audience. The “Grail Scene” from
“Parsifal,” which followed, had the ser-
vices of Frank Lasslett, a young and un-
tried bass, Browning Mummery, the
seasoned operatic tenor, and Raymond
Beatty, baritone.
Mummery had but two lines to sing,
and Lasslett carried the burden of the
scene with considerable distinction.
Beatty had all the dramatic intensity
necessary for the young Amfortas, terri-
fied at having to replace his father Titurel
as high priest of the Grail ceremonies.
English had his vast organisation on its
toes for the rendering of Dvorak’s
“Stabat Mater.” The poem was sung in
the original Latin of the thirteenth cen-
tury Franciscan monk who wrote it, in-
stead of in Brunton Stephens’s admirable
translation, but Strella Wilson, soprano,
and Ailsa MacKenzie, contralto, gave it
tenderness, while Beatty and Mummery
gave it passion and intensity.
The tenor solo and chorus of the sixth
section struck this commentator as the
loveliest until the soprano and tenor sang
the duet, “Share the Saviour’s Dark
Affliction.”
Wearing out a couple of collars in the
process—it was a hot night—English
directed his army with rare precision
through the unusual programme. He is
one of those exceptional conductors who
pay their audiences the compliment of
forgetting all about them, being more
concerned with their own good opinion
of a performance than the good opinion
of other people. English certainly got
the latter.
Wirth’s Circus.
They’ve got the greatest bagman on
earth in a cage. Next season, they’ve
only to let him out and give him a billy,
and Harold the orang-outang, with his
wild red whiskers and his winsomely
human mug, will bring the tent down.
Harold was admired before the show,
and so (you had to be early to get a
seat at Sydney) was the information in
the programme about where to get the
greatest 15-penny meal on earth, and
what sort of face-cream Mrs. Bonney
uses.
After that, everything was exciting.
Performing tigers have been seen
before, but there’s always the chance
they’ll eat the trainer.
Mr. Philip Wirth’s jockey act on that
plump white nag which, like a good
trade-unionist, stops the minute the music
stops has been seen before ; but every
year he seems to squat a little more fan-
tastically down the old moke’s tail.
The six black ponies with their scarlet
trappings and the ballet of black and
white horses have been seen before ; but
present sawdust-eater could see them
once a week for the flashing, lovely
spectacle they make. The monkey jockeys
were as comical as ever, and running
them in a proper hurdle race with an
announcer bawling an excited commen-
tary was a beautiful touch.
New, and excellent, were the perform-
ing pigs. The Leotards were new and
really heroic strong-men and strong-girl.
The litfle Oriental bloke, twirling a para-
sol or his youngest offspring or a double-
bed on the soles of his feet, might have
been the brightest spot in an unusually
bright evening, if it hadn’t been for the
Flying De Vards winging like pink
parrots among the branches of the
trapeze in a really thrilling act.
Only flaw was the clowns. They
seemed to be gagged rather than gaggers,
and none of them got wet through.
4
“Six Men of Dorset ”
Enough of the sort of atmosphere
that is created by Synge’s “Riders to the
Sea” or —in the novel form —by And
Quiet Flows the Don was conveyed by
New Theatre players at Sydney Conser-
vatorium to make this story of the Tol-
puddle Martyrs good drama. That was
the doing of Edgar Yardley, who, as
George Loveless, carried the whole piece
on his shoulders.
Perhaps because they left the audi-
ence in a most uncomfortable pitch-
darkness between scenes ; or because of
the numbers of extremely improbable
versions of the Dorset burr; or because
of the poeticised diction, which even in
Synge’s play has a touch of the fantas-
tic ; or because it was so earnestly a
propaganda play, there was a rather
attractive touch of unreality about the
whole performance. The players tended
to be ideas instead of people.
In Edgar Yardley’s case that didn’t
matter ; he portrayed a man who lived
his idea, and it seemed reasonable that
the persecuted Loveless should have been
such a man. Some of the others, though,
were ideas who lived without their men
—iay figures.
An original touch, and a very bad one,
was to make the audience the jury in
the trial scene. One doesn’t go to a
show to sit on a jury. And in any case the
audience had acquitted the trade-union-
ists before the trial ever started, so that
counsel’s eloquence was doubly wasted.
But “Six Men of Dorset” is a very in-
teresting play, and on the whole the New
Theatre put it over both interestingly
and convincingly.
Rossini at the R.A.S. Show.
Patronage of the arts, once the prero-
gative of princes, now devolves upon the
captains of industry. A pioneer of the
“sponsored programme” was the
Schweppes Co., which year by year re-
deems the secularity of Good Friday at
Sydney’s R.A.S. Show by giving a sacred
concert in the Burma Pavilion.
This year, as on many previous occa-
sions, Sydney Phil.’s choir had the job
of music-making; the programme, Ros-
sini’s “Stabat Mater” and portion of
“Messiah.” The choir revelled in the
sweetly-flowing melodious passages, but
lacked crispness in places where exacti-
tude was important. However, the
general effect of the performance was
impressive.
In the “Messiah” excerpt more familiar
ground was trodden, and the result was
a very satisfactory reading.
Art Via the New Education.
The walls of Grosvenor Galleries, Syd-
ney, are hung with a collection of bright-
hued compositions by the kids at the
Balgowlah school.
The art instructor there, Rah Fizelle,
evidently believes in letting the young
idea shoot as it will, for there is little
attempt at drawing about these efforts.
The youngsters, however, keep their
colors clean (possibly they are the sort
of colors that don’t mix very readily),
and in experiencing the wild joy that
comes from laying on vermilions, emerald
greens, Reckitt’s blues and fine rich
yellows they achieve a sort of impression
of spontaneous gaiety.
But, going into the matter more
closely, the portraits—and a great many
of the scribblings seem to be intended
as portraits of one sort or another—are
not quite as unsophisticated as they look.
They exhibit the sort of symbolism
affected by some of the grown-up impres-
sionists —a black J for a nose, for
example.
In a more benighted age art education
commenced in the primary schools with
endeavors to coax unruly little fingers to
draw straight lines and undinted curves.
Nowadays, it would seem, that is of no
importance. Art is no longer long.


if
CIS
U
mm
B
“=i
Linking the Doge’s Palace with the
Dungeons is the famous Bridge of
Sighs. In the days of the all-
powerful Doges, prisoners who
crossed the bridge knew that there
would be no return from the cells;
so one-way traffic
may be said to have
L jfffirp, fr originated in Venice,
s i x or se ven hundred
years ago! Venice is
unique. Glide in a gondola by
moonlight . . . sit at one of those
little tables outside the famous cafes
in St. Mark’s Square, sip a vermouth
and watch the world go by . . . bathe
in company with film stars at the
Lido . . . until you have done these
things you cannot say you know
Europe.
Special TOURIST Rate of Exchange.
HOTEL COUPONS at 5/~ to 18/- (sterling)
a day, absolutely inclusive.
Big rebates in the price of petrol.
50% to 70% REDUCTION in RAILWAY
FARES.
For information and descriptive booklets, apply to.
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret St., Sydney,
or ANY TRAVEL AGENCY.
call's Well with the
Breast-fed Bab
mu
s
m
m
mm
<3m
mm?
m
m
m
■waasa
most valuable service a
mother can render her baby is
to ensure that he will be fed from
the breast. Upon this may well
depend his future health and hap-
piness.
Maternal milk is the one perfect
food for baby. It is naturally con-
stituted to suit his delicate digestion
and to provide every nutritive ele-
ment required to ensure healthy
growth and development.
Doctors and Nurses know the re-
markable value of “Ovaltine” to
expectant and nursing mothers.
Taken regularly before and after
baby comes, “Ovaltine” not only
promotes a rich and ample supply
of breast-milk, but it maintains the
mother’s strength and vitality.
Prices: 1/9, 2/10, 5/- at all chemists and stores
OV4LTINE’
TRIAL SAMPLE: A gen-
erous trial sample of
“Ovaltinesufficient to
make four cupsful, will be
sent on receipt of 3d. in
stamps to cover cost of
packing and postage.
Enables mothers to breast-feed their babies
A. WANDER LTD., 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
04-18-38
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Early Gold Discoveries
BY WILL LAWSON.
OFFICIALLY the finding of gold
dates from 1851, but trustworthy
records show that gold was dis-
covered in New South Wales and
Victoria long before that. Fear of the
effect on the convicts if the news were
made known prompted the authorities
to suppress it.
The first report came from a party of
convicts engaged in building the road to
Bathurst in 1814. These men unearthed
enough gold to start a rush in later days ;
but they were ordered, on pain of being
flogged, to keep the matter secret. As
most of them were to be given their free-
dom on the completion of the road, they
held their peace.
The next report came in 1823 from
Assistant-Surveyor James Mcßrian, who
found gold on the Fish River, 15 miles
from Bathurst, on February 13. In his
field notebook he wrote: “At eight chains
50 links to river and marked gum-tree,
found numerous particles of gold in sand
and in the hills convenient to the river.
Two years later a convict was flogged
in Sydney for having gold in his posses-
sion—he said he had found it in the
bush. He was charged with stealing it.
In 1830 the Polish explorer Count
Strzelecki found gold with pyrites in the
Vale of Clwydd—now Lithgow—in the
Blue Mountains. At the request of the
Government he kept the discovery secret,
and continued with his exploring work. ’
A firm believer in the theory that gold
would demoralise convicts, and settlers
also, was the Rev. W. B. Clarke, who
found it in the upper valleys of the
Macquarie River and at the Vale of
Clwydd. Clarke had lived in Russia and
seen goldmines there. He wrote in 1844:
“New South Wales will on some future
day be found wonderfully rich in
minerals.” And in the Maitland “Mer-
cury” of Jan. 31, 1849: “It is well known
that a goldmine is certain ruin to its
first workers, and in the long run gold-
washing will be found more suitable for
slaves than British freemen.”
The authorities in Victoria took an
even sterner view than Mr. Clarke.
Thomas Chapman found gold at Daisy
Hill, and sold a 16-ounce nugget to Mrs.
Brentani, of Collins-street, Melbourne.
News of this reached the police, and
Chapman had to flee in the steamer Sea-
horse, which was sailing that day for
Sydney. That was in January, 1849.
Superintendent Latrobe sent a posse of
police to Daisy Hill under Captain Dana
to close the field from which the gold
had come.
The discovery of gold in California in
that year sent every Australian who could
find the passage money sailing away
for the Sacramento Valley. Hundreds of
ships departed from Australian ports for
San Francisco. Two years later they
were all coming back again with diggers
for Bathurst, where Edward Hammond
Hargreaves had found gold at -Summer-
hill Creek, not far from where Surveyor
Mcßrian found it. Hargreaves was struck
with the similarity of the geological for-
mation in California to that at Bathurst,
and came home to look for the precious
metal.
The rest is history.
In 1937 Britain launched 46.6 p.c. oi'
the world’s new steamships and 25.7 p.c.
of the new motor-vessels. Total world
tonnage of new steamers was 1,130,959
tons, motor-ships 1,511,789 tons. Com-
bining the figures, Britain’s proportion
was 34.2 p.c., as against 40.4 p.c. in
1936. Japan ran to second place with
slightly less than half Britain’s new ton-
nage. .
* * * *
“Kohi”: His wife was looking thought-
ful over the fact that many of his even-
ing hours were being spent in away-
from-home study, so a Melbourne
slum-abolitionist decided to illustrate
the social necessity. He took her to
that low-lying chunk of near-city land
which each local authority says is the re-
sponsibility of the other; its lent-free
establishments have been improvised
from the odds and ends other Yarrasiders
have consigned to rubbish tips. The
lady of the first dwelling didn’t ob-
ject to its inspection. Various ingenious
comforts were indicated with just pride,
and then, in a wifely aside, the owner
confided that the place wasn’t as tidy as
usual. “But,” she added, politely
suburban, “you know how things are just
after a jag!”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1805.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Head Office: kHMIH, SOJM AOSmiU
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
Securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..£1,250,000
Also 111 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STKEE'I E.C.3
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton,’Grimwade
and Ouerdins, Ltd. ; Melbourne,
pool. Mrs. Pao has sent out cards for
Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
IN3NINIOSNYOQ
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A glorious burst of sunshine gently
fried and toasted the A.J.C. autumn
meeting. Randwick was hot last Satur-
day, and the ladies were bothered. The
brave few who went forth in their new
winter attire had a frantic look before
the day was half done. The girls who
were wise and coolly clad felt a bit of
resentment against a day that had robbed
them of the chance to display a more
mitre-like beret, the blue fox, the red
fox or the silver fox of their new equip-
ment. The Girl in the Flat Opposite,
who has not yet plucked her Arctic fox
from the lay-by, thanked Heaven, almost
fasting, for the brightness of the day.
Any nip there was wasn’t in the air,
but this was one of the most festive
Easter meetings, and there were lots of
nips about. Nan Garvan served a nice
cocktail before her lunch party. There
were 100 guests, and the old trellised
pavilion in the grounds saw a new
arrangement, for the hostess served her
lunch buffet fashion. Her frock, by the
way, was a peach from Paris. Of deep
blue it was woven with a design of little
white doves. Pretty among the guests
was niece Pamela Laidley Dowling,
white and red her outfit.
The Huntingfields and the Wakehursts
shared the steel-railed vice-regal pens—
just one big, happy family. Very effec-
tive was the upturned satin brim of
Lady Wakehurst’s neat hat, which glit-
tered with a diamond clip. Her frock
was black, silver fox her fur, her expres-
sion animated. Lady Huntingfield, in
black, wore a hat with a straight brim
and gauntleted yellow gloves. “I don’t
like her gloves,” confided one surrepti-
tious gazer to another ; “remind me of
yellow gardening gloves.” “Don’t you,
dear?” inquired the speaker’s companion
sweetly. “What a pity, because my new
winter gloves are exactly the same.” Hats
were more amusing than becoming. The
exaggerated halo, the crowns that looked
more like a stilt heel, the turbans, the flat-
crowned hats with the bevelled brims that
might have been worn by the most demure
of Victorian heroines—all were present.
Navy and black were first favorites in
shoes. Black frocks and hats became
almost a procession. Mrs. C. V. Walker
was among the black-clad. Her chiffon
frock was finely pleated. Over her
Breton hat fell a wide mesh veil. Veils
are going to be as necessary this winter
as handkerchiefs. One of the demurest
hats was worn by Joyce Beazley. It
was small, shallow, had a shiny rolled
brim and was moored by a chin strap.
A blue-fox cape, which she wisely
parked in the cloakroom, was the accom-
paniment to Mrs. Reg Stafford’s sapphire-
blue frock, which had abbreviated leg-
o’-mutton sleeves. Her matching hat had
a dash of the postilion in its design and
a true-to-goodness diamond clip in front.
Puff black velvet sleeves jutted out from
Madge Elliott’s black frock. Her small
black hat was of ruched velvet and had
a funnel crown.
Like a forage cap was Hermione
Llewellyn’s black velvet headpiece. Her
crepe frock was of lake blue; Sadie
Budge wore a cerise tie with her Floren-
tine-blue suit. Dr. Dora MacMahon
was with sisters Dorothy and Kathleen,
a bright-looking trio.
A white bird’s wing against its up-
turned brim made Mrs. Ralph Huntly’s
black hat notable. On guard at the
collar of her black frock was a small
white dog with collar and anklets of bril-
liants. Corn-gold was Mrs. H. Weigall’s
color scheme. The Jordan lady belted
her skyey-blue dress with cerise. Noreen
Dangar’s frock was blue, her pillbox
hat brown, with a tuft of yellow feather
standing up in front. Carnation-red was
worn by Mrs. W. Parsons. With her was
daughter Mrs. Holford, just back from
her honeymoon in the West. Dahlia-red
angora was Mrs. Langford Gibson’s
frock ; her soft velour hat was the same
shade. June Munro was there with
fiance Clive Ogilvie, of Delegate. Mrs.
Helme Pott, Mrs. Harry Rosenthal and
Pamela Armstrong were attractions from
Melbourne. Mrs. Tony Hordern and
Mrs. Alexis Albert, her coat bordered in
silver fox, were in the throng. Henrietta
Loder and guest Lorna Mac Smith sat
together, the one in navy, the other in
skyey blue.
There’s only one way to open a
Show, and that’s the way Lord and
Lady Wakehurst did it last Wednesday.
They drove into the ring in a dashing
open carriage drawn by four spirited
greys. There were outriders smart
in blue and white, velvet caps on
their wigs. There were coachmen, cor-
rect to every detail of former days.
There was an escort of Lancers with
their brave pennants. No wonder' the
“God Save” took on even a more spine-
curling thrill. There was a guard of
honor of the Ist Heavy Brigade R.A.A.
And after Lord Wakehurst had inspected
that he stepped on to the flag-hung,
trophy-massed dais and declared the
Show open.
After the opening, the official party
trekked over to the council stand, where,
as since time immemorial, tea was served.
Sydney can expect to see an outcrop of
the pork-pie or pillbox hat. Lady
Wakehurst demonstrated how attractive
it can be at the Show opening. But she,
of course, has the shape of face suited
to such black perkiness. She wore a
frock of black wool romaine and a
snow-white drift of Arctic fox. Ostrich-
feather fronds waved about the collar
of the Sam Hordern lady’s black coat.
Silver fox and a smartly upturned black
beret were features of Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern’s outfit. Premier Stevens brought
daughter Lorna. Likeable were the two
tones of blue in the Hon. Henrietta
Loder’s frock and hat. She made good
use of her cinecamera during the parade
in the ring. Frances Angus was a smart
onlooker; so was Mrs. C. B. Wincott,
and so was Mrs. Harry Meeks.
Eva Garcia is the first overseas woman
celebrity artist to play under the man-
agement of 2GB. Eva is Spanish-
American, and specialises in playing
Spanish compositions. Her piano reper-
toire includes the works of the moderns,
as well as some of the very old masters.
Interesting works include some written
for the harpsichord over 200 years ago.
Eva is small and vivacious. She has
magnolia skin, and hair as sleek as black
satin. Romaine photo.
At the R.A.S., cattle with backs as wide
as double beds paraded with smug com-
placence or withering disdain. This
Letter decided that the judges knew their
job among the Herefords and Clydes-
dales, but on the wooden bench a mem-
ber of the intelligentsia aged about eight
did not agree with some of the awards
at all. Jealousy of the prestige Lady
Huntingfield had gained out of her
knowledge of the porker prevented a
visit to the pig pavilion. A dawdle
among the performing fleas, the tattooed
lady, the Indian magicians, the hoop-
las and the lie-detector proved educa-
tional. The smell of fish fried in peanut
oil, chocolate, horse, potato chips, cow
and hamburgers was shared by 50,000
to over three times that many noses
from day to day. The R.A.S. offi-
cials weren’t selfish; they let the vice-
regals feel that they were in it. Lord
and Lady Huntingfield were specially es-
corted around the ring, and Lord Wake-
hurst was allowed to tie on Silver Lining’s
championship ribbon.
Each year more women become ac-
tively interested in the Show. Two of
the prettiest entrances to the ring were
made by Barbara Bassett Smith, 12
years, who exhibited a Red Poll heifer,
and by the even-younger Betty
Beauchamp. Mrs. Tony Hordern, Mrs.
Harry Meeks, Mrs. J. Biddlecomb of
Geelong, Mrs. M. F. Bruxner, Mrs.
Gordon Munro and Mrs. Ken Mackay
were well-known Show personalities
noted at various times about the centre
of things. In the Admiralty House group
were the Hon. Mrs. Helme Pott and
daughter Hermione. A group of girl vet.
students was busy mopping up experi-
ence. Kathleen Farr was spotted appar-
ently trying to judge a Shetland pony’s
age by its teeth.
Sydney Show ring welcomed Phyllis
Bray, of Glenelg. The South Australian
girl had a bad accident at last year’s
Show, but the great Birthday celebra-
tions of hooves and herds was too en-
ticing an event for her to miss. She has
brought her horses Radiant and Fascina-
tion up from the south, and is among
the expert competitors in the ring.
Phyllis is keenly interested in polo, and
is a member of the Aaeiaiae and Murray
Bridge Hunt Clubs. She intends to stay
on for the centenary Gold Cup polo.
Falk photograph.
The new Commemorative Building at
the R.A.S. is handsome. It has the
map of Australia worked into the
leadlights above its doors. An impos-
ing flight of steps leads up to it.
It is spacious and airy, and for
this Show, at any rate, it is devoted
to demonstrating the development of
Australia. One thing we don’t seem to
have developed in is gold nuggets. The
daddy pioneers of all nuggets are dis-
played near a model of the Broken Hill
mine. Opposite you can study the smelt-
ing industry. Fascination here for small
boys and girls. Perhaps not quite so
ecstatic as in respect to the working
model of a railway. Here a train on
busily-revolving wheels stands before a
moving background of landscape. But
then there are busy little trains that go
hurtling through tunnels, and signals
that blink briskly.
Still further along is a graceful white
model of a seaplane. Opposite is a
puppet show, “The Voice of the People.”
This is quite a noisy Parliamentary ses-
sion, Speaker, members and onlookers
all telephones with faces. The police
have a display in which there is a cast
of the poor “pyjama girl’s” head. Near
by rise the three snowy houses of the
C.W.A. display. These are made of
wool, even to the funny outside chimney.
What the Tech, students can do in the
making of clothes, from hat to shoes,
is shown in the display of fashions of a
century or more. Neighbors are the
Arts and Crafts and the Industrial Arts
Societies with displays of china-painting,
weaving, and in the Arts and Crafts
some exquisite baby clothes. A display
of corals in shades of green, daffodil,
pink, jacaranda and deep-rose vies with
the coloring of the dahlias and carna-
tions in the horticultural building close by.
Since the arrival of the team from
America, hockey is the one sporting
topic among the girls. Mrs. F. J. Davy,
after weeks of arranging and rearranging,
has the whole tour so planned that it
should run like the best brand of clock-
work. With the help of friends and
hockey enthusiasts she has set hospitality
flowing. Besides the association’s recep-
tion there will be Mrs. Godhard’s party
to-night. She has gone to the trouble
to borrow a special lighting effect from
J. C. Williamson and an expert on
stage lighting to handle it. This will be
directed on to the lawn and the swimming
pool. Mrs. Pao has sent out cards for
something special in the way of after-
noon entertainment, and there’s to be a
dance at Hopewood House for which
Jock Pagan is rounding up a company of
young men. “Partners for All” is his
battle-cry.
Admiral Lane-Poole goes off to Eng-
land in the Orford in two or three days’
time, so last week he had his ship,
H.M.A.S. Canberra, made festive with
lanterns and bunting, and said farewell
to Sydney friends. This was an after-
noon affair, and fairly bulged with old
and young familiar faces. Also it was
the sort of upper-crust party of the week,
both Lord and Lady Wakehurst being
present. Also seen among the crush were
the Philip Streets, Jordan, Chief Justice,
and his lady, the Mayoral Nocks and
most of the Consular corps. Sir Hugh
and Lady Poynter and the two girls, who
went off last Sunday in the Franconia,
were having a last word with many.
Pamela Laidley Dowling brought her
almost-new engagement ring and a smart
navy outfit. Young man Blake Pelly,
with Captain Harding, was in attendance
on the vice-regals.
The Stirling Patersons from Edin-
burgh have arrived in Sydney, and he
will give an exhibition of his paintings
about the 26th of the month. He is a
member of the Royal Academy of Scot-
land, and she, a former Melbourne girl,
plays the piano like a professional.
Oswald Cheeke, in his kindly way, is
helping to introduce them to Sydney art-
lovers.
The Roy Bucklands take the view that
country friends should be entertained
when they come to the city. Last week,
to coincide with the opening of the
Show, they staged a cocktail party in their
home at Bellevue Hill. In her primrose-
toned rooms Mrs. Buckland had flower
arrangements of yellow and purple iris.
Her frock was of black net made very
full. Black was also chosen by Mrs.
Grattan Guinness when she and her hus-
band gave a late-afternoon housewarm-
ing in their new home in Sutherland-
terrace, Darling Point.
Thousands of pounds’ worth of cars
rushed out to the Royal Sydney Golf
Club to the after-the-races cocktail party.
This new Social venture will probably
take on, judging from Saturday’s round-
up. The ’ new lounge was called into
action, and helped the festive note with
its blue chairs, its red-topped tables and
parchment decorations. Flower decora-
tions were profuse and colorful, especially
in the big reception-room. Esmey Bur-
fitt and Betty Minnett, who both went off
in the Franconia, served farewell cock-
tails to many in their respective homes.
With 500 to dinner the Australia was
a busy place on Saturday. Manager
Smuts didn’t seem to mind, but rather to
enjoy the crowds. He looked into the
ballroom, where several hundred others
were busy alternating dinner with dance
in the interests of the Veterans’ Home to
be built at Narrabeen. Dr. William Wood
was chairman of the committee, and sur-
rounding him at table were Mrs. Wood
(her frock was black and silver), Dr. and
Mrs. John Maude, the W. Buckingham
couple and Violet Roche.
Many of the dancers were passengers
from the Franconia. One dancer, just 21
and celebrating the event with a birth-
day party, was Margaret Flooch, of New
York. Her bouffant frock was of black
and silver. The wife of writer Arthur
Somers Roche was another traveller
present. A hostess from Maoriland was
Mrs. Lamartine Dwan. Her particular
bit of the Island Dominion is Keri Keri.
With her were the Leo Dwans, the
Ernest Lashmars and Mrs. Talbot. An-
other dancer was Jocelyn Poynter, hav-
ing a bright night before going off in the
Franconia. Sister Shirley, too, made
merry on the eve of departure. Her
special flutter was a cocktail party in her
honor given by Joan and John Goodwin.


k
ķ
Rouse your liver with the pill of the century.
Banish Constipation, Headaches, Bad Breath, etc.
Restore that youthful appearance and vigor with the
pill without the pain. Sold at all chemists, 1/6 for
40, 3/6 for 120 pills. Send 6d. in stamps for sample
of 12 pills, post free, to convince yourself. Box
1182HH, G.P.0., Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL JAMES ARTHUR KITCHEN com-
municate with his father in Cremorne, N.S.W.,
or with PIGOTT, STINSON, MACGREGOR
& PALMER, Solicitors, Sydney, when he will
hear of something to his advantage?
WILL JOHN McKENZIE, son of the late
Robert Peter McKenzie, of North Auckland,
New Zealand, last h'-ard of in New Zealand in
1926, dr anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Whangarei, New Zealand.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
Re JOHN PARKER, late of Mackay, in the
State of Queensland, Pensioner, deceased,
intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that CATHERINE
(or KATHERINE) McDERMOTT (nee Parker)
and/or her issue, WILLIAM McDERMOTT,
and all other persons claiming to be next-
of-kin of the abovenamed, who died at
Mackay aforesaid on the Fifteenth day of
November, One thousand nine hundred and
thirty, are required to forward proofs of their
claims to the Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, on or before the Tenth day of
June, One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
eight, and that after the last-mentioned date
the said the Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, shall distribute the Estate, disre-
garding the claims of all such persons and all
persons claiming by, through or under them
by derivative title or otherwise howsoever who
shall not then have made their claims.
DATED at Townsville this Eighth day of
April, 1938.
J. B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville, Queensland.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1612 of 1937.
BETWEEN BLANCHE MARY SKEWES
Petitioner
And THOMAS LESLIE SKEWES
Respondent.
TO THOMAS LESLIE SKEWES late of 44
Auburn Street Wollongong and formerly
of 8 Virgil Street Bronte.
TAKE NOTICE that the said BLANCHE
MARY SKEWES has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
habitual drunkenness and habitual failure to
support during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Eighth
day of July One thousands nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED thtis Eleventh day of April, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.S.) L. C. HOLMWOOD,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. E. WHATMORE, G. C. M. GEE & CO.,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 14 Spring Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
ZEALAND —WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
(Palmerston North Registry).
In Divorce No. 13/38.
TO GEORGE BERNARD (whose last known
address was 3 Bourke Street Dubbo New
South Wales) husband of Annie Dorothy
May Bernard of Foxton in New Zealand
Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Palmerston North citing you to appear
and answer the petition of ANNIE DOROTHY
MAY BERNARD of Foxton aforesaid wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the ground of desertion and such cita-
tion intimates that in default of your so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwithstand-
ing your absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
notice that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within 28 days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court office at Palmerston North and
there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of the
said citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court office at Palmerston North.
DATED this 4th day of April, 1938.
H. B. REID,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. -
MARTIN BERNARD BERGIN is the Solici-
tor for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the offices of MESSIEURS INNES &
OAKLEY, Solicitors, Rangitikei Street, Palmers-
ton North, New Zealand.
Melbourne
Chatter
Most perishable of all blooms, roses,
filled the Town Hall with their beauty
and perfume for the one day of the
rose show. Knight-of-the-brush Arthur
Streeton opened the exhibition, a fine
one, considering the very dry summer.
Those who called in at any hour to see
the show noticed well-known rosarian
Alister Clark, who wore a committee
ribbon and left the company of the
roses he loves so well only for brief
snacks of lunch and dinner. Four tables
of roses were exhibited from his garden
at Bulla. One of the new roses shown
was “Mrs. Russell Grimwade,” a sport
of “Lorraine Lee.” It’s a bush variety,
is fuchsia-pink and blooms all the year
round.
Among rose-growers clocks and
crystal are most favored for trophies.
There were three very fine clocks,
mounted in cases of polished wood.
One, presented by Mr. Clark, was won
for the third time by Dr. A. S. Thomas,
of Bentley, and thus becomes his
property. A second clock, trophy of
the country championship, presented by
H. J. Brunning, was won by H. J.
Hutchinson. A third, the John Connell
trophy, went to Mrs. T. B. Goodall. A
handsome case of cutlery, the kind that
any newly-married couple who didn’t
have a big wedding might look upon
with eyes of envy, goes to Dr. Thomas,
but only for the first time, which means
that he’ll use it for. looking at only. If
he manages to achieve it three times it
will be his for ever and he’ll have no
compunction in seeing its contents upon
his table at every meal.
The Animal Welfare League meeting
took place in the Town Hall with several
speeches, the reading of the balance
sheet, the arrival of the Lord Mayor,
still flushed from the exertions of a Board
of Works meeting, who spoke in favor
of the league’s work for animals, and
finally tea to finish up the business pro-
ceedings. Among additions and im-
provements to the animal hospital dur-
ing the last year are an X-ray plant
valued at £5OO and a new ward for “in-
patients” containing eight sft.-by-3ft.
cubicles. The building is flyproofed and
has its own cooker and an examination
table placed .under powerful lights in the
centre of the room.
Among those at the meeting were the
Fairbairn lady, the Louis Nelken couple,
Mrs. Lort Smith and Miss Montgomery,
and the Argyle lady, who wore a check
suit and sat with Mrs. Courtney Dix, who
for lapel adornment to her black coat
wore a tawny chrysanthemum. Mrs:,
Frank Andrew, always a good friend to
movements working for the welfare of
children or dogs, cheered her black
ensemble with a white hat. Mrs. U. J.
Nicholas was there ; also Connie Fraser.
Among the younger folk who will prob-
ably help in the junior contingent to be
formed shortly was Mrs. Keith Halley,
wearing a little fur cape and small
brown hat. Before her marriage she
was one of the league’s ambulance
drivers. Pat Lee Smith was noticed in
a tailored suit and accessories of check
scarf and blue waistcoat. Margaret
Swinburne’s color note was played in a
couple of shades of purple swathed over
the crown of her hat. Margaret has a
way with animals, and has encouraged
many a frightened dog or cat to relax
its stiff muscles and stop shivering when
under a veterinary examination.
The Australian Housewives’ Associa-
tion is spreading its wings over practically
all the first floor of Howey Court. On
the wide front window its sign replaces
that of Betty Lee’s dancing school, a
room with a perfect floor and kitchen-
ette adjoining, which premises it is pro-
posed to let on occasions when the place
is not in use. The new additions also in-
clude several smaller rooms for meetings
and social gatherings. The Housewives’
Association (the kindred organisation in
the U.S.A. is known by the more
euphonious name of Homemakers’ Asso-
ciation) has 50,000 members, and as its
policy is not a money-making one it
spends what it has to spare on comforts
for its large family.
Mrs. John Downing, the Housewives’
acting-president, returned from Sydney
last week, where she was a delegate to the
F.A.A.H. Conference. Mrs. Downing is
a good traveller and sleeps like a top on
board the Spirit of Progress or on the
rackety 3ft. 6in.-gauge Kalgoorlie ex-
press. She hasn’t yet tried flying, but oc-
casionally in rough weather has been the
only woman in the dining-saloon on
board ship. Several members of her
family are public-minded and energetic.
One of her daughters, Mrs. F. G. Connor,
who is married to an architect in the
Board of Works at Townsville, is
treasurer for the Y.W.C.A. in that part of
North Queensland. Among grandchildren
John Downing is a resident surgeon at
the Alfred, and his sister Jean is a bac-
teriologist at Bethesda.
Alison Barrett has given up her charm-
ing little bachelor flat in Coolullah-
avenue, has sold her car and furniture
and gone off to England—but not for
long, as she has booked to return to
Melbourne in the Orcades in August.
Among those who -farewelled her on the
decks of the Orama were her mother,
Mrs. Alfred Barrett, and several of her
cousins from the A. O. Barrett family.
When University degrees were con-
ferred recently Judy Amadio, whose por-
trait is by Spencer Shier, was among the
seven young women who received the
certificate of Bachelor of Music. Judy’s
instrument, like her father’s, is the flute.
She is teaching its intricacies to other
young flautists. She is also a pianist of
ability. Her favorite outdoor exercise is
tennis. Judy’s sister Lenore is half-way
through her training as a nurse.
Mrs. Loxton Dougharty, her daughter
Barbara, Lucille Stephens and Honour
Good were among Melbourne people who,
with passports all in order, climbed the
decks of the Viminale bound for Europe.
Lucille, who has never travelled by ship
before, and had some qualms about how
long she’d take to get her sea-legs, is
accompanying Mrs. Dougharty and Bar-
bara through Italy and Switzerland on the
way to England. Barbara says she won’t
come home before she catches at least
one fish in Scotland.
The departing travellers all got heaps
of lovely flowers, and Barbara found an
emu-size Easter egg on her pillow with
love from Jennie Outhwaite and Beth
Campbell. Among those who said good-
bye in and out of the cabin were Mr.
and Mrs. J. L. Menzies, “grandfather”
gallantly raising his hat to everyone he
met on the Way in case they happened to
be friends of the family. Mrs.
Dougharty’s sister, Mrs. C. Carre
Riddell, was there, and among the
younger folk were Titian-heads Winkie
and Mon Murray, Faith Power all in
pine-green, Joyce Robinson, Leigh Crofts
and Clive Sewell.
Among news lines from Australians in
foreign parts is a final good-bye to Pales-
tine from Colonel and Mrs. Fred Salmon
—Mrs. Salmon was Dorothy Hoysted—
who have chosen an old English hbme-
stead near Bath for their residence of
the future. Colonel Salmon had the big
job of Commissioner of Lands and
Taxes, first in Jaffa and later in Jeru-
salem. Among those, who will welcome
the couple of their arrival in England will
be schoolgirl daughter Joan and also
Mrs. Salmon’s sister, Mrs. Fred Morgan.
She and her husband are on leave from
Lahore in India.
From an opposite end of the world
comes a letter with a Hong Kong post-
mark and the information that the
Donald Forbes couple are on their way
to London, where they expect to arrive
early in May. When they are bound for
the Orient once more, several months
hence, they might make a deviation and
break their journey in Australia. Mrs.
Forbes’s sister, Mrs. Rick Tagner, who
was Marie Tait, is sprucing up the guest-
room of her quaint house in Chelsea for
the visitors’ arrival.
Eva Silverman, LL.B., and J. L.
Cremean were opposing factions at the
debate on “Should Women Enter Parlia-
ment?” held at last week’s Housewives’
Assoc, meeting. Miss Silverman, wearing
a brown tammy with her tweed suit, took
the attitude that the entry of women to
Parliament is a natural result of their
enfranchisement; that co-operation be-
tween men and women is the law of life ;
that the true function of woman is to
inspire, encourage and lead, and that her
particular viewpoints on some questions
make her judgment useful in matters of
government.
Mr. Cremean has a sense of humor,
and though he didn’t get the chorus of
boos he half-expected with his statement
that women are not fitted by their en-
vironment to enter the hurly-burly of
Parliament, he was subjected to a pepper-
ing of questions at the end of his ad-
dress, and got into a spot of deep water
over Nazism and Fascism. His most
telling statement was that the reason
there are so few feminine election candi-
dates is that women as a sex are not very
interested in getting into Parliament.
Mrs. F. Grey, who comes from Wel-
lington (M.L.), but spends a good deal
of her time in Melbourne, is making a
plucky recovery at Epworth from her
recent accident. She was involved in a
street collision while travelling in a taxi.
The crowd which collected when the taxi
turned completely over on its side voiced
admiration at Mrs. Grey’s stoicism. In
spite of broken bones she took com-
mand of the situation, remembered to
slip off her rings before a sprained finger
swelled, and refused all help except for
a car home, where she arrived with her
morning’s shopping, a parcel of blue cod,
still intact.
Pictured here by a Spencer Shier
camera is Mrs. Max Glover, who until
her marriage last week was Betty Scott.
She’s the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Scott, of Dandenong-road, and
the ’groom is the elder son of the Arthur
Glovers, of Yarradale-road, Toorak. The
wedding gown of misty-blue feather-
weight woollen material was made by a
Frenchwoman, but the embroidered panel
across the front was ornamented by male
fingers. An Englishman worked upon it
conventional and floral designs in hun-
dreds of minute pastel-colored beads.
After the ceremony in St. George’s, to
which only a handful of intimate friends
were invited, there was a larger gathering
for cocktails at Mrs. J. C. Blair’s flat in
Glenferrie-road, where, with sunporch
and lounge, there is room to spare for an
elastic number of guests. The sole speech
at the party was from bridegroom Max,
whose sense of humor coped fairly with
the occasion, but Betty had a quiet aside
of appreciation for her mother, who had
made several of the beautiful trousseau
things, and for her aunt, Mrs. Blair, who
provided the locality of the party. The
honeymooners have motored to Sydney,
and on their return will settle themselves
into a flat in Williams-road.
Spending a social time in Melbourne
with Menzies as her headquarters is Lola
Roche, who is visiting Australia with her
father. After a few weeks of welcomes
she has now embarked on a similar series
of farewells. It is two years since Mr.
and Mrs. Roche, with Lola and Ethel,
gave up their flat at Myoora and went
off to live in England.
Sheila Rickards is staying with Mrs.
Dick Unsworth, and will probably do the
rounds among more of her friends from
Toorak College days before she returns
to Sydney. Sheila migrated last year
with her family to Ithaca, Potts Point.
Bill Staughton is now doing the dinner
and lunch-time honors at Henry s in
place of Ray Triado, whose new job
necessitates also the relinquishing of his
snug little solicitor’s office. Ray’s new
line of country stretches over six States,
commences straight after Easter, and
embraces the work of associate to Mr.
Justice McTiernan. It should have
begun three weeks ago, but the Judge
sprained his ankle and went to hospital
for his convalescence. Another spot of
news in the Triado family is that Mary
pulled off the millionth chance at the
last Caulfield races by picking a treble,
Irving, Sir Robin and Somerset —a little
gamble that will help considerably with
her winter wardrobe.
A young woman who doesn’t like hav-
ing time on her hands is Mary Stokes,
who has looked her last on the drought
around Echuca, hoping that all will be
green again when next she visits the
district. She has got herself a job in a
city emporium, and is likely to be found
behind a counter selling anything from
knitting-wool to brummy jewellery.
Mary says her sales talk is improving
mightily and the bloom is still upon her
sense of humor. Betty Longstaff is an-
other visitor who got busy when she
came to town. At present she is doing
a spot of work in the city offices of
father’s knitting-mills.


ct a
and try thii one
%
v>.
Vickers'
DRY MARTINI
Welcome dinner tonight
with great enjoyment-after
a Vickers Dry Martini. Fill
thick tumbler half full of
broken ice and add dash
Orange Bitters, one-third
glass Italian-type Vermouth,
two-thirds glass Vickers Gin.
Then stir up, strain into
cocktail glass, and squeeze
lemon on top.
k
HOLD EVERYTHING -
because of irium • •
DCW ntlv floats
Pepsodent gently floats film
away-'mstead of scraping it off.
-JhotoiAjqkl
because of iriuh . . q . ;
Pepsodent reqmres NO SOAP
.. . contains NO GRIT .. •
PUMICE. odffe /
recaUSE OF IRIUH • • •
BE Pepsodent Tooth Paste leaves
your mouth feeling dean and
wholesome. 'RefiMhM ■uj!
PEPSODENT
ALONE among dentifrices CONTAI NS
Good brushing is important
but teeth can’t really
sparkle without the right
tooth paste. End Scrub-
Hard disappointment! Get
real results by daily brush-
ing with Pepsodent con-
taining IRIUM. Irium wins
flashing natural lustre for
your teeth. Dingy film
loosens and floats away like
magic. Try it today!
IRtIVKC
THE 2/- SIZE
IS THE MOST
ECONOMICAL
THE PEPSOPENT CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
AU IS&/8E
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
QUEENSLAND.
Easter Saturday weddings included
Dorothy Saile, of Toowong, and Bill
Moody, of Highgate Hill; Mary Glancy,
of New Farm, and Hector Wilson, who
hails from Cairns ; and Madge Brenton,
of Kempsey, N.S.W., and Frank Norton,
of Hardenia, Engadine, N.S.W. These
last-named newly-weds will make their
home in Brisbane.
Percival Furlong, of Strathfield, Syd-
ney, and Doreen Saunders were married
on Easter Eileen Saunders
as ’maid. Edna Jones, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. J. Jones, Ferndale, Esk, and
E. G. Sheppard, eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. Sheppard, of Mundubbera, also
had an Easter Monday wedding, at Esk.
Travelling to England in the Strath-
aird is a family of 10 which should do
more towards assisting emigration to
Australia than a whole host of officials.
It comprises Mr. and Mrs. D. Nesbit, of
Bald Knob, Maleny, their seven sons
and daughters, and one daughter-in-law.
Twenty-five years ago Mr. Nesbit came
to Queensland from Dumbartonshire
with a wife and five children. To-day,
•two of his sons own their own farms,
and Mr. Nesbit has done so well for
himself that the party of 10 is going
for a jaunt back to Scotland.
Mrs. Hugh Dalzell-Stewart (Arlie
Woodhead, of Brisbane, before her mar-
riage last year) is finding life in India both
pleasant and colorful. Her husband is
stationed at Trimulgherry, in Hyderabad,
and one of the first social doings the
newly-weds attended was the huge
garden party given by the Nizam for the
Marquis of Linlithgow, the Viceroy.
Daisy Tait wore as a veil the Shetland
shawl of fine lace in which she was
christened when she married Herbert
George Walker at the Albert-street
Methodist Church. Her gown was of
white satin, and her two ’maids, L.
French and G. Skinner, of South
Grafton, were frocked in pale-green
georgette. Tartan ribbons decked the
wedding cake.
Sixty-six associates of the Royal
Queensland Golf Club braved the
weather for the opening day. The secre-
tary s team defeated the president’s team,
and huge bowls of dahlias and little low
bowls of frangipanni made the clubhouse
much brighter than the world out-of-
doors. Several associates from other
States who are visiting Brisbane were
guests for the afternoon.
Lady Wilson and Mrs. Forgan Smith
were among the large crowd of inter-
ested women who went along to the
association rooms to hear the Cilento lady
describe the Mothercraft Association's
scheme for training home assistants. The
course will include first aid, budgeting
for the household and the storing of
foodstuffs.
WESTRALIA.
The E. R. Dobsons’ elder lass, Helen,
was a fairylike figure for her matri-
monial date with Kenneth Steele, for-
merly of Melbourne, now chief instructor
of Perth Royal Aero Club. Lacy-
spotted white organza sprinkled with
miniature sprays of embroidered flowers
billowed into a frilly train over which
misty tulle veilings fell from a semi-
circlet of palest-pink leaves. A muff of
delphiniums with trails of Cecil Brunner
rosebuds was mounted on fluffy frills of
tulle. Sister Josephine and Joan Salom
lent support in full-skirted turquoise-
blue organza trappings, with matching
tulle veils to the waist held on their dark
locks with rosebud topknots.
Hurlingham Polo Grounds were
ringed with cars for the gymkhana and
final match of the season. Perth Polo
Club president James Noonan greeted
nor’-westers and city folk who sipped
tea under the trees between events.
Katherine Allnut watched the melon race
in autumn-leaf beret, with cravat to
match; Hylda Holmes perched on a
scarlet roadster and tucked a velvet
scarf of the same hue into trim blue
woollens, and Kath McGuire tied bows
of gold lame on her black crepe swath-
ings. Afterwards club members doffed
sporting garb for dinner draperies and
invaded the Esplanade Hotel, where float-
ing bowls of red roses decorated the
tables for the Polo Club dinner.
The 200 Club opened social proceed-
ings for the year with a cheery dance.
A presentation was made to Frank
Erskine for his able carrving-out of
presidential duties for the year. Vice-
pres. Marcia du Cloux helpeu with me
arrangements in bouffant turquoise
taffetas, Daphne Vincent wrapped her-
self in a length of cloth-of-gold and
pinned a jade ornament in her curls, and
Dorothy Synnot wound apple-green
velvet Grecian-fashion round her ivory
ninons.
The Karrakatta Club numbers so
many enthusiastic gardeners among its
members that the committee has inaugu-
rated a bi-annual flower-show. The
autumn display flowed over the ballroom
in masses of multi-hued dahlias, roses,
chrysanthemums and bowls of mixed
blooms. President Mrs. W. H. Vincent
handed prizes to Mrs. A. W. Jacobv,
Mrs. Fred Thomas and Mrs. D. D.
Paton before members shepherded their
guests to afternoon-tea in the lounges
and dining-room.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The debs.-to-be of 1938 have formed
themselves into a club, and had their
first monthly luncheon at the Wentworth.
They number 12 at present, but will be
sure to add to that as the season
advances.
Mary Steele, who made her debut last
season, is an Easter bride. She is marry-
ing an American, and in the words of
the song will be “Off to Philadelphia in
the morning.”
The marriage of Joan Alicia, only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Walter E. de
Ravin, of Millswood Estate, to Surgeon-
Lieut. Arthur Cross, R.N., of England,
was celebrated at the Mitchell Memorial
Church. The bride’s frock of pale-pink
satin was embossed in white water-lilies
and the sleeves had cuffs of white fox
fur. A coronet of silver and pale-pink
tulle topped the array, and she wore two
heirlooms, a pearl ring, the gift of the
bridegroom, and a diamond star which
her mother had worn on her wedding
day. A small reception was afterwards
held at the home of the bride’s parents.
Consul for Germany Dr. O. Seger and
Mrs. Seger gave an Easter party at their
home, Kensington Gardens. Decora-
tions were in keeping with the season,
and the table-centre was a nest full of
Easter eggs with tiny ducks and chickens
scattered about, which contributed to the
fun of the gathering.
The two English women doctors, Dr.
Hare and Dr. Lepper, are being given a
wonderful time by the women doctors in
Adelaide during their stay in this State.
Dr. Helen Mayo, of Brougham-place,
North Adelaide, has taken them for a
fortnight’s tour of the south-east by car,
which in the present fine weather should
be delightful. The visitors have been the
guests of Dr. Mayo and Dr. Constance
Finlayson, who were hostesses at a large
cocktail party in their honor held at their
charming home.
Tenor Dino Borgioli and his wife, who
have been the guests of Mr. and Mrs.
Guy Makin at Mount House while in
Adelaide, have been a social success. The
Town Hall was packed to overflowing
for the tenor’s opening recital. The visi-
tors were motored to Adelaide beauty
spots. Next afternoon the Guy Makins
gave a cocktail party, held in the garden
as the hot weather lent itself to open-air
entertainment. This party was followed
by a dinner which caused the guests of
honor to make a rather late arrival at
the Adelaide Music Salon’s soiree, held
the same evening at Birk’s Piccadilly.
Mrs. Douglas Mitchell, formerly Miss
Stevenson, of Adelaide, has arrived from
Batavia on a visit to relatives accom-
panied by her small daughter. She will
make her home here for some time while
her husband is in England. Numerous
parties have been arranged in her honor.
The Union Club at the Uni. has been
completed by a £lO,OOO gift from Chan-
cellor Murray for a men’s wing, which
matches the women’s wing given years
ago by Josiah Symon, K.C., and his
lady. A refectory joins the two, cloisters
have been carried right round the lawn,
and the whole forms a marked ornament
to the Riverside Drive, towards which
the University buildings have lately
tended.
TASMANIA.
The Midland Bachelors’ at-home, with
J. M. Taylor as sec., was all the more
enjoyable for being waited for —it was
originally fixed for New Year’s Eve. It
was a very well-run show, and Powell’s
Hall, Campbell Town, was packed with
guests from all parts of the island.
Dressing was very smart, ranging from
the backless scrap of chiffon to the high-
necked model. One girl wore a cape of
flame-colored swansdown over her net
frock. Autumn flowers, vivid berries
and streamers were used in decoration.
Midland Hounds met for the first
time this season at St. Mary’s, starting
from the Garth Napiers’ house, Sunny
Banks, whence they were sent off with
morning-tea. There was a good muster ;
Jack Archer, master, on Bruno, and most
of the old members rolled up, with a
sprinkling of new faces.
Launceston’s Mayoress, with a good
committee behind her and Mrs. V.
Ulbrich as producer, staged a mannequin
parade of Fashions for All at the
National Theatre, Launceston, and added
a good sum to the fund for the after-
care of paralysed children. Even the
elderly matron was shown as an attrac-
tive figure, not necessarily dependent on
the atrocious “matron’s hat,” and the
kiddies’ frocks and frills were delightful.
Brides were well catered for, and, as
there is a perfect epidemic of weddings
in the Speck this autumn, this made a
specially attractive feature of the show.
The H. B. Edgells gave a jolly dance
at Denistoun, Bothwell, in honor of
their daughter Nell, who is marrying
John Gray this month. For decoration
marigolds and flame dahlias, blue del-
phiniums and scarlet vine trails were
blended with brilliant effect. Supper
was served at the Geoff. Edgells’, next
door to Denistoun. Mrs. Edgell was in
black velvet, and Nell’s dress of wine-
colored reversible satin was worn with a
little coat to match. Guests to the
number of about 80 from town and the
surrounding district enjoyed the party.
Great sympathy is felt for Senator
Grant and his family on the sudden
death of Mrs. Grant just after her return
from her daughter Nancy’s wedding in
Melbourne. Mrs. Grant was an active
figure in Tasmanian social and philan-
thropic life.
Mrs. Minna Nares and Kathleen
Agnew left the Speck in the Drama,
Mrs. Nares to return to London, where
she lives, and Miss Agnew for a holiday.
Farewells, bridge, tea and lunch parties
sped the travellers before leaving. The
Queen Mary Club was the setting of
most of them. Lady Clark and her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Winkfield, were at the
party given at her own home, Lenna, by
the Ashbolt lady.


WHY BOTHER RECHARGING
RADIO ACCUMULATORS WHEN
AN AIR CELL RECEIVER GIVES
YOU THESE ADVANTAGES...
Practically every radio
set manufacturer in
Australia produces Air
Cell operated models.
See them at your usual
radio dealers to-day.
An advertisement issued by
THE EVER READY CO.
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.,
SYDNEY
rl
...
..... ,tl •“*■•«»«
...
A 10
1. With normal use good for 12
months' trouble-free "A" bat-
tery operation.
2. No recharging.
3. Level power, as strong the
thousandth hour as at the first,
4. Unusual sensitivity and selec-
tivity.
5. More economical operation—
for best results use with Ever
Ready "B" Superdyne Bat-
teries.
EVEREADY AIR CELII BATTERY
Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
The station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Workshop Mints.
It’s a good idea to place a gasket of
some sort behind any stand-off or similar
insulator exposed to the weather. Worn-
down rubber heels, if in good condition,
are excellent. New ones have too much
pattern, but the used rubbers are usually
smooth enough on both sides to make
quite weathertight. gaskets.
Resistors to go with air-cells some-
times present a problem. They have to
be accurate, and rather than take
chances many experimenters pay to have
resistors made up simply because they
own no accurate low-reading ohm-
meter. If an accurate voltmeter is avail-
able it is possible for the home con-
structor with resistance wire on hand to
make his own air-cell resistors.
First take a length of resistance wire
somewhat longer than will be finally
needed. Connect this in the filament
leads to the receiver. With a heavy-
duty rheostat in series connect up a
couple of dry-cells or accumulators (if
the air-cell is not available or if it is in-
convenient to fill it and place it in ser-
vice) to provide a three- or four-volt “A”
supply. .Switch on the receiver with
rheostat and resistance wire at maximum
resistance positions. The voltmeter
should be connected to one of the re-
ceiver valve sockets. Bring the reading
to about 2.1 volts—no higher—and then
transfer the voltmeter to the opposite
end of the resistance wire, where it should
read —owing to the break-down effect of
the rheostat —about 2.5 or 2.6 volts. If
it reads higher, shorten the piece of re-
sistance wire, the while compensating on
the rheostat to avoid damage to the
valves. If it reads lower, more wire is
needed. If the air-cell itself can be used
the rheostat may, of course, be dispensed
with.
Adjust for a reading of about 2.1 volts
(with a new air-cell) at the valve socket
with all valves running. When the right
length of wire is obtained, wind it on a
small piece of glass tubing or bakelite
strip and anchor the ends under bolts
passing through solder tags.
When applying any of the popular
types of finish (lacquers, enamels, etc.)
to aluminium panels and chassis, roughen
up the surface with sandpaper on emery
cloth first. This enables the paint to
“grip” the metal surface. If the job is
small quite good results have been had
by the use of an ordinary “insect spray”
atomiser. Choose one with a short “lift”
—that is, a small length of tubing from
tank to outlet —as paint, even when
thinned for spraying, is heavy stuff to
force up a long, narrow tube. Spray
evenly and never overdo any coat. Better
to put on a number of light coats with-
out “runs” than one or two heavy ones
showing pools and streams.
R. H. A.
S.A. Amateur Spans Tasman
on Five Metres.
Two Australian amateur transmitters
have now had their experimental 56mc.
transmissions heard distinctly in M.L. —
VK2NO, of Sydney, last year, and now
VKSZU, of South Australia. VKSZU is
operated at Prospect (S.A.) by A. M.
Phillips, a keen u.-s.-w. experimenter, and
on 13 /3 / ’3B his telegraphy signals were
heard strongly by ZL4DQ, W. R. Hamil-
ton, of Dunedin (M.L.).
Another South Australian, VKSRT, in
communication with ZL3JA on ,10
metres, was told that American signals
had been heard there on five metres (a
world’s record). VKSRT got into touch
with VKSZU, who is equipped for five-
metre transmission, and the latter at
once went on the air with repeated calls
for long distance and ZL. No replies
were heard at Prospect, but two weeks
later the report arrived from Dunedin
that ZL4DQ had heard the S.A. calls
at 6.3 p.m. M.L. time with RST at 458.
The signal was characterised by heavy
fading with complete disappearance, and
ZL4DQ immediately answered the calls,
but without success.
The receiver used in Dunedin is a
seven-valve S.S. superhet link-coupled to
a tuned aerial, also used for reception,
and the five-metre transmitter uses
crystal control with a 100th final.
VKSZU spent several hours in call-
ing, changing to various aerial systems,
including a half-wave vertical doublet, a
33ft. vertical with quarter-wave stub and
twisted pair feed, and a 67ft. single-
wire-fed flat-top of the Jones type. It
was the vertical doublet that dropped the
signals into Dunedin. Vertical polarisa-
tion was used also by VK2NO when
heard in Wellington in October, 1937.
Transmitter at VKSZU is also crystal-
controlled, and consists of 6A6 crystal
oscillator and F.D. with 40-metre
crystal, capacity-coupled to a 6L6G,
linked to an 807 which doubles
from 10 metres to five into the aerial
system. Final input at the time was 18
watts. The receiver is unsuited to
C.W. reception, which probably explains
why nothing was heard of the Dunedin
transmissions. VKSZU is now qualified
as the second member of the “VK 56mc.
DX Club.”
The achievement on 13/3/’3B gives
some indication of the provable times to
expect trans-Tasman signals on 56mc.
Furthermore, it is ample proof that ver-
tical polarisation owes nothing to hori-
The owner-operator of this Peppermint
Grove, W.A., amateur transmitter,
VK6WS, W. Schofield, was 60 years
old when he got his ticket three years
ago. It is a fine example of what can
be done by an enthusiast not connected
professionally with radio. Frame,
racks and panels are of steel. From
the bottom the units are: Power pack
in three shelves, modulator, 80-metre
section, section for 40, 20 and 10
metres, final amplifier and aerial
tuning. The transmitter can often be
heard on 20 metres working with
Americans on telephony.
zontal polarisation in the matter of
aerials. Above all, it should be an in-
centive to other VKs to get busy and
do something about the sadly-neglected
five-metre band.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: There are 1850-odd licensed
amateur transmitters in Australia, and
Great Britain, with seven times the popu-
lation, has no more than 2216. Of these
1539 use no more than 10-watts aerial
input, and the remaining 677 use higher
power in varying degrees. The Aus-
tralian minimum input power to the final
stage is 50 watts, and high-power permits
are granted where justifiable up to 150
watts. Australia is not at all an irk-
some place for the radio amateur.
“Querex”: A deal was said about
television at the recent Sydney World
Radio Convention, and estimates of the
number of televisors in use in and around
London ranged from an initial 9000 to
J. L. Baird’s more recent computation of
treble that number. Nothing was heard,
however, about the home-constructor
market. I managed to get a word or
two with Baird, and asked for an opinion
regarding this aspect of commercial tele-
vision in England. He said that a very
large business is being done in the
manufacture and sale of components for
experimenters to make up their own tele-
visors, and that this is considered a very
important factor in the future of tele-
vision. Radio started off that way, and
the home constructor played a big part in
introducing radio to the public. Tech-
nical radio men know that, given the
essentials to work with, there is no more
difficulty about making up a high defi-
nition television receiver than in putting
together 200-watt radiophone trans-
mitters.
“D.8.K.”: Proof that the English tele-
vision market is not confined to the
manufacturer of commercial televisors is
given in such magazines as “Television
and Short-wave World.” Current issue
deals with “The Simplest Home-built
Televisor —Guaranteed Picture Quality—
Cheap to Build from Standard Com-
ponents.” The article is complete with
circuit diagrams, lists of components and
operating instructions. There is a lot of
work in it, but no more than there is in
building a rack-and-panel transmitter
for telephony, with associated modulator
and speech circuits. Suggestions that the
high price of receivers is a serious ob-
stacle to the progress of television do
not hold water if the home construc-
tional side of the business is taken into
consideration.
Television Progress.
As was the case with radio, television
may be expected to advance rapidly.
More research is being done in tele-
vision at the moment than in radio. The
latest U.S.A. development is the Du Mont
system. “Radio Craft,” which gives pre-
liminary details, also makes comparisons
with existing systems:
PRESENT SYSTEMS
(1) Framing circuits
in receiver.
(2) Scanning circuits
in receiver.
(3) Blanking circuits
in receiver.
(4) Wide frequency
band (6 me.) needed
for transmission.
(5) Receiver set for
one number of lines
per frame and frames
per second.
DU MONT SYSTEM
(1) Framing impulses
transmitted.
(2) Scanning im-
pulses transmitted.
(3) Blanking im-
pulses transmitted.
(May be done on
sound channel.)
(4) Narrower fre-
quency band (3 me.)
needed for transmis-
sion.
(5) Receiver can re-
produce any number
of lines per frame and
frames per second.
The Du Mont system is an advance-
ment in cathode-ray tube television and
appears to offer cheaper receiver con-
struction and the possibility of putting
more stations on the air in the channels
allocated. Interlacing is done automati-
cally, through the transrr tted signal; and
detail of 882 lines may be transmitted
on a channel no wider than those now
used to carry 441 lines. Standardisation
of detail is unnecessary, as receivers
using Du Mont system can tune to any
number of lines and/or frames, when the
same transmission is used. Also signal
strength is 25 p.c. greater, as impulses


Somebody's got
< Better Radio
Now!
n hi r.u •««•*/
oiavu u3xsvui
P«n n W
»sY<s
"RADI O”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/0 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
s vcv\\\\u\
k
are the safest equipment for your
radio set. A regular overhaul of your
radio will give better and brighter
programmes. See your local radio
supplier . . .
and be sure to Re-valve with micro-sensitive
RARIOTRONS
(Advertisement ot Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.^
need not be carried with video signal
(may be with audio).
in Sydney, the Philips co. scientist
Dr Van der Pol, speaking to radio engi-
neers at the World Radio Convention,
refuted the suggestion that the ultra-
short-wave medium used for television is
limited to ranges extending to the
horizon of the transmitter. He gave
diagrammatic proof that seven-metre
waves from a transmittei at an eleva-
tion of 100 metres extend tar beyond
the horizon. Much research work in
ultra-short-wave propagation has been
done at the Philips radio laboratories in
Holland.
D. B. K.
A.W.A.'s R.A. Show Display,
A feature of the A.W.A. exhibit in
the Hordern Pavilion at Sydney R.A.S.
VICTORIAN INTERNATIONAL U.-S.-W. NETWORK.
The plan of the well-organised communication network by the ’phone section of Vic. Division,
W.J.A., to take effect on May 21 and 22. The stations at the key positions will be operating
for 24 hours non-stop, with relays of operators. This is the most comprehensive scheme yet under-
taken by Australian amateurs with the object of attempting five-metre communication over long
distances. Organiser is the chairman of the Vic. ’phone section, Howard Kingsley Love (VK3KU ).
is a selection of radio equipment for
aviation purposes. Included is the equip-
ment used at an aerodrome receiving
station to operate the corresponding
transmitting station, usually two or three
miles away.
The apparatus is mounted upon two
racks set up alongside the operator’s
table. By means of a dial .similar to
that of an automatic telephone the wire-
less officer can perform all the functions
which otherwise would be carried out at
the transmitting station. By dialling, the
operator switches on and off the red ob-
struction lights at the top of the wireless
mast; he starts and stops the transmitter,
alters one wave-length to another and
changes over from speech to telegraphy.
Another exhibit is the automobile two-
way radiophone, displayed to illustrate
how the Central District Ambulance
maintains communication with its cars.
Other items were the Teleradio, a small
compact portable wireless set used in
places remote from settlement, a marine
transmitter of the type used by the trawl-
ing fleet for wireless telephony, and an
automatic distress signal transmitter
which enables the SOS call to be sent
out by a person unskilled in radio
operating.
Amateur Chatter.
It should be remembered that slotting
the “mud” bases in 6L6Gs will help to-
wards better efficiency at ultra-high fre-
quencies, but the operation requires care.
What are needed in Australia are National
or Hammarlund octal sockets. Only re-
source of the VK at present is to obtain
WT/22 or Trolitul, and to make his own
sockets up.
••....
W9FM, of the staff of “Radio,” says
tfiat “Th e National Bureau of Standards
(U.S.A.) has checked the ionosphere
reC ords for the time of the recent recep-
fion of VK2NO in Wales, British Isles,
vvith this finding: ‘This was a period of
very high daytime F 2 critical frequen-
cj es? an d fi would appear that the trans-
missjon over the daytime part of the path
was probably by way of the F 2 layer.
We have no reports of the occurrence of
sporadic E in Australia, although iono-
sphere measurements are being made
there, but it would seem that transmis-
sion over the night part of the path must
have been by sporadic E.’ ” It would be
interesting to learn what conditions pre-
vailed at the time VKSZU was heard in
M.L. recently on 56mc. Details are now
to hand on this new record, and the aerial
used was a simple twisted pair doublet,
vertically notarised. During the morning
of 10/4/’3B the writer was transmitting
directionally for M.L. on C.W. between
9 and 12 noon, Sydney time. Nothing
identifiable was heard at this end, and
a change was made from vertical to hori-
zontal transmission and reception on
several occasions.
Latest report from U.S.A. on u.-s.-w.
doings is that the Scottish 56mc. station
GM6RG was copied on the whole of a
tape transmission by W2JGY. GM6RG
was using 400 watts, crystal-controlled.
On 26/2/’3B, between 9.15 and 9.30 a.m.,
Central U.S.A. time, W9QDA heard a
weak code signal, of which he could only
copy a V and an 8 of the call. WBCVQ
has installed a new low-drift crystal, and
is working on 58.02mc. with C.W. A
new bi-directional rotary-beam aerial has
been installed at this station, consisting
of a broadsided pair of double-section
WBJK flat-top aerials, stood end-on and
fed from the bottom, giving vertical
polarisation. According to measured
horizontal field patterns, practically all
the signal is within about 22 degrees of
the nose in either direction, and the stack-
ing of the half-wave elements gives some
vertical directivity. During the third
week in February, W4EDD, of Coral
Gables, Florida, heard several five-metre
signals indistinctly, but they were not
identified. This station is working on
automatic transmission and has several
superhets and a National 1-10 receiver.
It should not be overlooked that when
28mc. is good at a distance of 300 to
500 miles, the five-metre band often
opens up for 500- to 1200-mile work.
Such conditions have been noticed on
many occasions of 28mc. observation in
Eastern Australia during the last four
months, but 56mc. co-operation in the
needed directions has been lacking.
A letter from T. W. Moss, British
S.W.L., of Topsham, Devon, complains
bitterly of the lack of courtesy of VKs
in replying to reports from S.W.Ls. As
the Englishman puts it, “Australians on
’phone are real DX in England.” He
suggests that a black-list should be pub-
fished, especially where postage has been
mailed with the report. It should be
remembered that every S.W.L. is a poten-
tial amateur transmitter, and encourage-
ment can lead only to a future strength-
ening of numbers. Of course, there are
two sides to the nnestion ' the trains-
IWO Slues to tne question. ine trans-
nutter engaged working DX phone on
20 knows that he is reaching to many
corners of the globe, and adopts the
attitudo that he didn’t ask SWTs for
attitude tnat fie efidn t ask b.W.Ls. tor
reports. He is concerned only with the
station he works. Then there is the time
taken in answering S.W.L. reports. A
consistent DX ’phone man almost needs
a private secretary to deal with the situa-
tion, for the numbers are likely to run
into several thousands. But, where pos-
sible, every effort should be made to
reply.
VK2NO.
"Radio" for March.
Outstanding features in the latest issue
of “Radio” are notes on the reduction
of interference with broadcast listeners,
automatic modulation control, capacity-
operated electronic relay, effect of aver-
age ground on antenna radiation, 20-
metre push-button beam installation, a
vertical antenna, solving the lead-in prob-
lem and general service bridging and
speech amplifier. Annual sub. to
“Radio” is 18s. 6d., acceptable through
The Bulletin office, 252 George-street,
Sydney.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany dll
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Agents for the Ideal Battery T.R.F. receiver
in Australia ? —657.
This receiver, designed by Don B. Knock
and described as an experimental type in The
Bulletin, is not marketed commercially. It
could be duplicated by any experienced short-
wave constructor.
* * * *
(1) My Bandmaster 5-valve all-wave battery
receiver uses 6A7 mixer, two 34’5 as I.F. stages,
681 second detector and 38 pentode. Could any
of these be replaced by later or improved types ? ■
(2) What would indicate that valves are getting
old ? —658.
(1) Only substitution that could be made
without introducing complications would be
that of lC4’s in place of the 34’s. Although
this might improve performance it would mean
heavier A-battery drain, as the IC4 takes .12
ampere as against .06 ampere at 2 volts for the
34 on the filament. Improvements could be
made generally throughout the receiver, but this
would mean changing valve sockets and other
items. (2) Difficult to determine from the
operation of the receiver, as other causes may
be responsible for poor reception. Best check
is to have valves tested.
* * * *
(1) Is there any difference in appearance be-
tween the 1937 and 1938 Stromberg Carlson
A.C.-D.C. six-valve mantel-type dual-wave re-
ceivers? (2) Any difference internally? (3)
On the back of my set is stamped the number
6757472. Is this a 1937 or 1938 model? —6s9.
(1), (2) and (3) No information available.
Write to the manufacturer.
* * * if
In my possession are several old but service-
able audio transformers of English make
marked IP, OP, IS and OS. What are these
connections, expressed as grid, plate, etc.?
—660.
Older type English audio transformers were
marked to indicate inside or outside ends of
windings. They should be connected: OP to
B positive, IP to plate, OS to grid, and IS to
C negative.


HITS
LYS
PROOF
, 100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
!*
-'-,< ...
■
m
&
&&%** " kVr&V *
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
" LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Beef Cattle at Sydney Royal.
“Bulago”: Beef-cattle entries at Syd-
ney’s Show were a record this year, and
practically every breed showed an ad-
vance in quality. Promising features
were the number of fine young stock
coming forward and the increase in polls.
Of 895 shown 311 were polls.
There was less “tail” than usual in the
Shorthorns, and the tops were of good
quality. The limit of three entries per
owner per class has had a good effect.
The highlight of the Shorthorns was the
sterling quality of the young Coonong
bulls by Calrossie Red Baronet (imp.).
The two outstanding were Coonong
Highland Chief (six-twelve months) and
Coonong Grenadier. The latter not only
won its class but took the championship
from Coombing Park’s big imported bull,
Aldsworth Royal Prince, winning largely
on rear conformation.
Milton Park cows upheld their reputa-
tion, and four of them were included in
(he five aspirants for the female cham-
pionships. Honors went to the outsider,
however, as Peel River Co.’s Abbotslea
Maid, although lacking the scale of the
Hordern cows, made up for it in style
and a perfect topline.
Polled Shorthorns, which were judged
as a section for the first time last year,
had 44 entries, and the improvement in
the tops brought them up to the standard
of the horned cattle. Antrim Stud, which
recently imported some polls from
U.S.A., took the two championships and
a reserve.
Herefords broke all records with 309
entries. There .were many large classes,
but both in the horned and polled sec-
tions there was too much “tail.” The
prize-winners were an excellent lot, but
numbers of animals were far below show
standard. The judge, P. E. Bradstock, of
Free Town, Hereford, voiced a warning
which Australian breeders should heed.
Not enough attention is being paid to
legs—particularly the hind legs. There
were many instances of sickle hocks,
both hind and forelegs sat too close to-
gether and too far iunderneath the beast.
Breeders are overdoing their zeal for top-
line and weight.
The danger of running separate sec
tions for polls and for horned animals
of similar breeds is that the standard of
the polls may be set on the best polls
rather than on the best of the breed. In
M.L., where there is no Poll Hereford
book, polls and horned beasts are shown
together, and in the past six years polls
have more than held their own.
Abington and the Department of
Agriculture vied with each other for the
Aberdeen-Angus blue ribbons, but
awards were widely distributed. The
divergence in types is being rapidly
minimised, and only an occasional
animal stands out as a distinct Canadian
or Scottish type.
There appear to be good grounds for
recent complaints—not confined to any
one breed —of the growing gap between
show and herd standards. Some of the
cows exhibited were more suitable for
the block than for breeding.
Red Polls were strongly represented,
and the judge maintained an even bal-
ance between the beef and milk pro-
duction for which the breed is noted.
Devon exhibitors were in greater force
than for many years, and the quality of
the younger animals and recent importa-
tions augurs well for the future.
The rearrangement of the Showground
has not been entirely successful. The
new cattle buildings could have been
more practical: the gutter which runs
along behind the stalls should be farther
back to allow large bulls to lie down
without having their hind quarters in the
drain. And all of the new judging rings
are on a distinct slope which makes the
proper showing of cattle difficult, whether
walking or standing.
Dead-wool Qualities and Price.
“C.V.S.”: The best skin-wool is that
removed from the pelt by “sweating,”
and painting with sodium sulphate is less
harmful to wool than other chemical
removal methods.
Compared with fleece, skin- and dead-
wool are inferior except on one count:
yield of top over noil, which is greater
“ ’Member, Ma, I got a chill last Easter when you Washed 'em!"
in skin-wool because of extra length
and “looseness” of fibres.
Dead-wool has not the tensile strength
of fleece. The serrations lie closer to
the fibre, giving it a smooth surface,
which is partly, responsible for its in-
ferior “felting property.” Blending diffi-
culty is caused by the smooth fibres,
which, though thoroughly mixed with
fleece-wool, slip along the yarn during
manufacture, tending to group them-
selves in an uneven yarn.
Good merino dead is at present sell-
ing at about 12d. per pound, mainly
because of its dry, high-yielding nature
consequent upon exposure to weather.
Remove wool from carcass before it
becomes offensive, and spread on netting
to dry before packing. Remove stain
and inferior wool. Never leave dead-
wool till the carcass has rotted away,
when the wool becomes perished through
long exposure and mixed with grass and
bones. The price difference between
early- and late-gathered d.-w. is at least
4d. per pound.
Staffing cf Sheds.
“Teg”: There can be no hard-and-
fast rule for shed-staffing (B. 23/3/’3B).
Last year I followed a contractor’s
team through four N.S.W. sheds. A
strong-wool merino holding (flocks and
studs), burry, had 22 stands, two pressers,
two penners, four board-boys, five wool-
rollers for three tables, four piece-pickers
and one belly-picker.
The classer kept his fleece lines fairly
straight, but let the pieces take care of
themselves. Lamb fleeces were thrown
on tables in heaps and picked (more or
less) into three lines. There was ample
labor, but the clip I thought badly got
up through lack of efficient supervision.
Next was a merino flock with six
stands, one “broomy,” one picker-
up, one piece-picker, one woolroller, one
penner-general, one presser, one classer-
woolroller, handling on an average 800
compact, light-conditioned fleeces per
day in a well-designed woolroom —a
picnic for all hands.
Exhibit No. 3 was a merino flock with
five shearers and the same woolroom
staff handling an average of 700
large, heavy-conditioned, daggy fleeces
per day. A poorly-designed shed, made-
quate wool-table and badly-placed bins
made hard work for all hands, and ham-
pered the work of a good classer.
The last a fine wool m. flock (Yass
district) with five shearers. Owner-
classer and same staff, with an additional
roller, handled 650 fleeces per day. The
woolroom was well designed and
equipped, the labor adequate, and no
one was rushed. . Classing was efficient,
and the woolroom properly supervised.
The result was a well-got-up clip.
When arranging a staff consideration
should be given to the nature of clip and
facilities for handling, as well as to the
pace of the team. In any case, much
depends on the efficiency and judgmeht of
the woolclasser.
Buyers’ Inspection.
“Geelong”: The importance of care-
ful classing and preparation of wool
has been noticeable at recent sales.
Buyers always inspect with greater care
when prices are low, and they are very
cautious when valuing uneven lots, par-
ticularly lines of mixed colors.
Unskirted wool and fleeces containing
bellies are also carefully watched. Lots
now appear on some Victorian show
floors with “bellies included” marked on
the bales as well as in the catalogue.
Regular Breeding.
“Silky Bag”: The udder of a milking
cow that fails to breed a calf every 12
months runs to fat and is hard to cure.
The fat serves no useful purpose, and
exists at the expense of secreting tissue.
If she calves again the secreting tissue,
cramped and robbed of space, prevents
her producing to her full capacity. Some-
times cows go three or four lactations
before returning to their earlier milking
vigor. It may take five years to remove
fat formed in nine months.
Dry a cow off and starve her into a
fine but healthy condition so long as she
is out of calf.
Mitchell Hay.
“A.S.”: “Red Wul” (B. 16/3/’3B) ob-
*j ects that stones and pebbles would
hamper cutting of Mitchell hay, but in
t he area between Hughenden and the
Gilliat there are thousands of square
miles almost without a stone,
Admittedly, a regrowth after cutting
WO uld be unlikely, as Mitchell makes its
g row th .after summer rains; but, though
t h e stiff-stalked dry Mitchell stands up
we u ; i question “Red Wul’s” statement
t h at the loss from hand-feeding would be
grea ter than from the natural grass.
Grass often blackens and withers after
w i n ter rains, which, if there is good dry
f ee d, does more harm than good, as
Mitchell seldom makes a winter growth,
an d the growth of pigweed, etc., is
{Continued on page 44.)


anaemia
m
I
lACKOE
ENERGY
Edinburgh
UNIVERSITY
proves that BIDOMAK will make you well
If you would like to feel gloriously
fit and well—if you want to
magnify your energy - sharpen
your brain to razor edge—put a
glorious sparkle in your eye—pull
yourself up to a health level where
you can glory in vitality-—you are
going to read this message to the
last line.
Buy a Bottle NOW
under guarantee of
READ THESE
AMAZING
CASE HISTORIES
Bedridden invalid to Old-
Time Dancer
For it will tell you the experiences
of men and women once ill but
now bursting with health and happi-
ness after taking BIDOMAK—and
it will tell you of tests made by a
fully qualified doctor which shows
exactly how BIDOMAK bestows its
benefits.
These statements and the results
of purely scientific tests, cannot be
gainsaid. They prove beyond a
shadow of doubt that BIDOMAK
must do you good.
By scientific treatment of the blood-
stream, vital minerals in BIDOMAK
banish “nerves” and bring back
weak, run-down, depressed individuals
to the pinnacle of good health and
happy spirits. This has been proved
by a remarkable series of tests under-
taken by a leading doctor of medi-
cine, who proved beyond doubt,
through exacting scientific research,
that BIDOMAK does everything
claimed for it.
WHY BIDOMAK DOES
GOOD SO QUICKLY
Most nerve troubles and constitu-
tional disorders result from MIN-
ERAL STARVATION. The Vital
minerals by which we live are lost
because of the work, worry, and strain
of modern life.
They are not replaced by our
regular food because modern methods
of cooking destroy its mineral and
vitamin values.
The result is a long list of de-
ficiency diseases due entirely to this
mineral starvation, as specialists de-
scribe it.
HOW THE TESTS WERE
MADE BY INDEPENDENT
DOCTOR
First he selected individuals for
his investigations who were debilitated
and in a condition of “nerves” and
depression. Several were sufferers
from serious insomnia and chronic
headaches.
He checked the progress of the
test by measuring the number of red
corpuscles in' the blood of his
patients by means of a haemocyto-
meter, and he found that of the
cases investigated, the red corpusclar
count, or the number of red cor-
puscles in every cubic millimetre of
blood, was as low as 3,000,000,
whereas it should have been as high
as 5,500,000 in healthy males, and
4,500,000 in healthy females.
After the blood examination was
made each patient was given BIDO-
MAK for six weeks. At the end of
that time they were again seen, and
the condition of their blood again
examined by the doctor. Not only
was there a dramatic improvement
in their general health, but an
astonishing improvement in the con-
dition of their blood as measured
by scientific instruments.
DO YOU SUFFER FROM
NERVES Listlessness Depression
Sleeplessness Anaemia Ner-
vous Indigestion Neuralgia - Nerve Pains
Lack of Confidence Headaches and similar
constitutional disorders.
BIDOMAK has been formulated to banish these
complaints, and revitalise your whole system.
Get a bottle of BIDOMAK to-day.
BIDOMAK PROVIDES THESE
EXTRA MINERALS
These are the mineral foods without which life
would perish from the earth.
BIDOMAK
provides them all in an easily assimilable liquid form.
Extra CALCIUM, which gives us will, long life,
strong teeth and bones.
Extra POTASSIUM, called the healer, pain reliever
and the preventive of constipation.
Extra SODIUM, prevents catarrh, deafness, harden-
ing processes, moodiness, and enables the body to take
up ferrum.
Extra FERRUM, gives warmth, magnetism and mental
endurance and creative ability, builds new rich blood.
Extra PHOSPHORUS helps, other elements to create
bone, brain and red blood cells, lessens fatigue.
GET A BOTTLE OF BIDOMAK
TO-DAY AND BE WELL
20 years a nervous wreck, with a
horrible nerve rash and a blood count
of only 3,500,000, Mrs. Horne, of 136
Layton Street, Camperdown, could
not do her own housework.
Bidomak improved her red blood
count to 5,500,000 red corpuscles to
the cubic millimetre.
Now at 77 she does all her own
work, and even danced 5 old-time
dances.
During her long and serious illness,
Mrs. Horne was bedridden for as
long as 8 months at a stretch, and
her recovery is hailed by friends
and neighbors as a positive miracle.
Just a Walking Skeleton—
Now a Happy Child
“Nothing more than a walking
shadow,” said a friend of little
Marie Ryan, aged 4, and her mother
tells how irritable and nervy she was.
She would not play—picked at
her food —her sleep was disturbed —
now, after taking Bidomak, she is a
different child —obedient-—contented
—eating and sleeping well—and
scientific tests show that her red
blood count has improved from
4,000,000 to 5,000,000 red blood
corpuscles in the course of barely a
month of taking Bidomak.
END NERVES AS YOU END MINERAL STARVATION - WITH
*fv!
0>
re
•*• f . ’V «• ’


3998.
*l\
mv -w
7\',
’ / ViajA
1 'MMii'
m
, v:
TRY THEM ON FOR APPEARANCE.
Wear them for comfort.
There’s one thing about an Abbey Riding Boot, it feels as good as it looks.
The high-polishing, strong calf is soft and supple, moulding to the foot like
leather half its weight Made in Brown Willow Calf in full sizes. Leather-lined
throughout. Brown, Price 39/6.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.” >
EXPLORERS
O F
AUSTRAL
Captain Matthew Flinders r.n.
Professor Scott, in his “Australian Discovery by Sea,” says:
, “Captain Matthew Flinders ranks next to Cook for the importance
of his maritime discoveries in the south, and even before that
great navigator for the scientific thoroughness that characterised
his work.”
Commissioned by the Admiralty to explore the southern coast of
New Holland, as Australia was then known, Flinders in the ship
“Investigator,” put into King George’s Sound in Western Australia.
Sailing eastward from there along the coast he discovered Spencer’s
Gulf and St. Vincent’s Gulf. He proved that New Holland was not
divided into two large islands as some people had imagined.
The following year he sailed around the continent, and he was the
first to suggest that it be called Australia, but it was many years
before the name was officially recognised.
Even for some years after the Bank of New South W ales
was established in 1817, the continent continued to be known
as New Holland, the colony of New South Wales then
embracing the present States of Queensland, New South
Wales, Victoria, Tasmania and about half of South Australia
and Northern Territory,
1 A
pjs
y>y.
m
wm
mm
WWJI*
tY/W
'-ms
cm
ESTABLISHED Itfl?
'T/%
t11C.1938
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the selling of your CLIP on the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST organisation for the sale of
WOOL.
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. Box 484aa, G.P.0., Sydney.
ffuTfy'aZleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Sale.
SEEDS—Wim. Rye 6/- & 7/-, Perr 10/- bus.,
Sub. xd 1/4, Mt. B. 1/5. F’gt paid. All other
seed stocked. Best grades only. Write Haw-
thorne Bros. Pty., Ltd., Kerang, Victoria.
INCOME TAX RETURNS
are due again shortly.
Take advantage of the service offered by
THE PRIMARY PRODPCER’S ACCOUNT BOOK
Have your return prepared by experts and gain the full
benefit of all deductions allowable, with many of which
you are no doubt not familiar.
The cost of the book, £l/1/-, includes the preparation
of your income-tax return.
Write to-day to
The Bulletin, Box 252188, Sydney,
and save money and worry.
poor compensation for destroyed grass.
Fire is another danger.
Again, much of a good season’s vigor-
ous growth is wasted, and it is to con-
serve this growth against drought as
well as short-feed months that cutting
is suggested.
If hay-cutting is payable for 500 sheep
why not for 5000? I have seen stands of
Mitchell and Flinders on both the Downs
and the blacksoil of the so-called
“desert country” that rival anything in
the higher-rainfall areas.
There are many difficulties, but hay-
cutting and the possibility of restoring
eaten-out pastures by sowing natural
grasses appear to be possible ways of
really developing this area.
Pasture Topdressing.
“J. Want”: There seems little doubt
that in most districts of fairly high
rainfall and average fertility in s.-e. Aus-
tralia super, is the best topdressing fer-
tiliser. Most soils in those areas suffer
from phosphorus deficiency, and super,
contains 22 p.c. highly-soluble phos-
phorus.
Nitrogenous manures —ammonium sul-
phate and sodium nitrate —tend to de-
velop grasses but to kill off clovers.
And, since clovers are protein- and ash-
rich, this is a step in the wrong direction.
Apart from this, while amm. sulph. and
other fertilisers of the same type make
for rapid initial growth, this is usually
followed by retarded growth for the rest
of the season.
Super, tends to help clover growth,
partly the result of extra nitrogen de-
velopment. There are failures in this
direction, but they are usually the result
of the soil being already phosphorus-
rich.
Autumn is the best time of the year
to apply super.—up to to the acre
on dry lands and up to lcwt. on lands
greedy for phosphorus. Repeat the dress-
ing in spring.
Ragwort Experiments.
“Madan”: Exhaustive Maoriland ex-
periments with ragwort don’t show much
hope of eradication through mechanical
methods. Roots chopped in February
last year on plants in the rosette stage
began to shoot from the ends in April.
One plant produced 25 shooting roots,
and all of these rosetted and developed
strong growth in the spring.
At the same time, a series of flower-
ing plants were deflowered. Immediately
new crops of flowers developed. They
were picked off each month for four
months. The Maoriland winter nipped
the last budding. Spring arrived —and
with it fresh rosettes from the base of
the stems. By August the whole issue
was showing new shoots from crowns
or roots.
Cutting at various heights was also
resorted to. Reduced to Ift. high in
February, they flourished vigorously and
threw out new flowers till May, rested
and came on strongly in spring. Other
plants cut down to 6in. made even bigger
spring rosettes.
Regular pulling of leaves killed some
ragwort, but other plants lived through
five strippings. Economically, that cure
was obviously impossible on thickly-
infested land.
When plants are torn from the ground
roots are sometimes found alive three
months afterwards. The M.L. Agricul-
tural Department thinks that pulling is
only 50 p.c. effective when plants are
pulled in full flower. Yet it is the best of
the hand methods.
Obviously the best way to deal with
ragwort is to watch carefully for it and
rip it out when there are only a few
plants, laying a lavish dose of poison to
the roots which are bound to remain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Yeno Ham”: Warts with well-
defined necks on cows’ teats can be re-
moved with scissors; paint afterwards
with tincture of iodine or collodion.
To remove other warts apply an oint-
ment of one drachm of salicylic acid
and an ounce of lard or vaseline weil
mixed.
“Salmon Gums”: When sowing this
year’s crop try adding about 21b. peren-
nial rye grass to the wheat. You can
carry a small bag on the drill and
scatter a handful in each time you till up.
It doesn’t affect the yield much, and
doubles the feed value of stubble.
“Tockilly”: Keep the rakers of a Peg
raker or Oriole saw at the exact height.
If they are the merest fraction too high
the saw will not cut. If too low they
lead to choking. They should be about
the thickness of a playing card below
the point for hardwood and twice that
for pine.
“M.L.W.”: To prevent sheepyard
fences becoming too low as the ground
inside them builds up, place blocks undeL
the bottom rail so that it is kept at least
Bin. above the ground, and leave the posts
long enough to take an extra rail on top
when need arises.
“Ghanam”: Reported by the London
“Times” that Cortaulds, the artificial
fibre manufacturers, have perfected an-
other new wool substitute with “dyeing
affinity and other features exactly like
wool” ; also that the co. believes that it
now has in sight a product “100 p.c. like
wool.” If the cellular, crimping and
other characteristics of wool have been
duplicated and manufacturing costs are
within reason, the wool industry can seri-
ously look to its laurels. But there have
been so many previous false alarms, and
existing artificials made on a commercial
basis are so far behind the natural pro-
duct, that there need be no suicides
among sheepmen until samples are forth-
coming and costs are known.
“Mine-tinkit”: An experiment in
breeding fat lambs under the aegis of the
Queensland Agricultural Department is
being carried out on the Atherton and
Evelyn Tablelands (N.Q.). Several
farmers have undertaken to breed lambs
from selected ewes and rams. The main
types are Romney Marsh ewes and
Dorset Horn rams. The chief disabili-
ties to be overcome are the excessive wet
weather and the resultant footrot and
worms. So far, the flocks are in excel-
lent condition —lambing being very suc-
cessful. One farmer has branched out
on his own and bought a few hundred
ewes and some stud rams. A large
northern market, apart from export,
awaits the success of this venture.


finished
for the d«y
Aft (he d*>inK
i • . a book and
A eomtortable There ' s
a long cool gl«f " ,' a<ter a hot, bring
reas^-ts:
iTt ttt-i-- - 4
iootbs
K.B. lAGEB
»N BOTTLES AND
half bottles
the thoughJF ul a h ° e vv
always keeps the
» OTn O E^GERATOR


EXPERT ADVICE given on Business
or Personal matters. Satisfaction guaran-
teed or money refunded. Fee from 10s.
No Advice, No Charge.
EVERARD HEDEMANN,
Expert General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8W6115.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
•FREELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLA Y-
WRITING
Learn ana «_arn ihe most thorough and practical
in Spare Tim a ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Shoit Story Writers . . . You learn
hou) to W. ile and how to sell vour ;■ lories nd articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School oS Journalism
1 0 Eliza etri Street, Sydney
IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
The MAPLETON HOTEL is situated in the midst
of theatreland and close to the best shops. 100
bedrooms, each with bathroom and ’phone.
Restaurant open 8 a.m.-12 p.m. Write for
details. Special rates for Overseas visitors.
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS,
fables: Rachflat. Losciuare. London.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15), Sydney, has intermediate certificate,
some knowledge typing and office experience,
wants position.—93o7.
Writer, Sydney, planning literary history,
wants collaborator exp. in research work. —
9309.
Lady, Sydney, typist, used to handling
authors’ MSS., neat, accurate, will type novels,
plays, stories, etc., for moderate fee. —9310.
Journalist, Sydney, world-travelled, exp. sub-
editing, seeks any literary position. Refs. —
9297.
Sydney lecturer on Australian literary sub-
jects seeks evening engagements. Moderate
fee.—9235.
Married man (32), Vic., rough carpenter and
blacksmith, used to windmills and pumps, also
sheep, wants job on station. Refs. —9244.
Enginedriver (second-class portable and trac-
tion certificate), Vic., teetotaller, wants work
anywhere.—9246.
To borrow or buy old city-theatre pro-
grammes and press clippings prior to 1929, re-
quired for writing a history of each Australian
capital’s legitimate theatres. Information also
wanted about Australian plays and other pro-
ductions for stage or screen. —9270.
To buy books by Charles Lever, especially
Tom Burke of Ours. —9226.
To buy aid for learning to play the piano
generally known as a “piano stick.” —9204.
To buy Great Laughter, by Fannie Hurst. —
9276.
To buy second-hand copy of Bailey’s Botany.
—9301.
To hear from responsible landowners inter-
ested in reafforestation. (Reply to A. Oakes,
Minden, via Rosewood, Queensland.)
Words and music of “The Wild Colonial
80y.”—9282.
Information Sought.
(1) A bowler when delivering the ball damages
the wicket with his boot-sprigs. How can he be
made to cease such practice by the umpire ?
(2) Is there any appeal from the umpire’s de-
cision on this matter? —9327.
(1) Here is the law of the Australian Board
of Control: “If a bowler, upon appeal from
the batsman to either umpire, is considered by
such umpire to be damaging the wicket during
the delivery of the ball or the follow through,
such umpire shall direct the bowler to cease so
damaging the wicket. Should the bowler fail
to obey such direction, such umpire, on a
further appeal by any batsman during the then
current innings, may order that such bowler
shall not bowl again during the course of such
innings, and the over then in course shall be
deemed complete.” (2) The umpire’s decision
is final, and no cricket association would feel
justified in interfering with the decision.
* * sfc
(1) What were the match records in Aus-
tralia of the British R.U. team of 1899, cap-
tained by Rev. Mullineux? (2) How many
points did Adamson ( half-back ) score on that
tour? (3) Who were the scorers for Australia
in the Tests? —9311.
(1) Played 21, won 18, lost 3; points for
333, against 90. (2) Adamson (from Durham)
scored 135 points (8 tries, 48 goals). (3) First
Test, Colton, Spragg and Evans (tries) and
Spragg (two goals); second Test, Australia did
not score; third Test, Spragg (two tries and two
goals); fourth Test, Australia did not score.
$ $ * $
(1) Under N.S.W. Rugby Union rules what
is the penalty for foul play or misconduct ?
(2) Last season referees frequently ordered
players to stand on the line for foul play;
under what rule was this decision ? —9323.
(1) Under Law 34 the referee shall award a
penalty kick, and on the first offence either
caution the player or order him off the en-
closure; for the second offence he must be
ordered off. A player ordered off shall take
no further part in the match and must be re-
ported to the R.U. by the referee. (2) Prob-
ably the referee thought that “humiliating dis-
cipline” was sufficient penalty. There is no
law—just the referee’s discretion.
* * * *
(1) What were Les Darcy’s official measure-
ments when 21 years of age? (2) Results of
Darcy’s matches in 1916 before he went to
America? (3) Where did Darcy die? —9319.
(1) Height, sft. 7in.; weight, list. 61b.;
reach, 73^in.; chest, 40in. normal and 42|in.
expanded; neck, 164-in.; waist, 33in. ; biceos,
14|in.; forearm, 12|in.; wrist, 7|in.; thigh,
23in.; calf, 14Jin. (2) Defeated on points (20
rounds each) Brown (twice) and Clabby (twice);
won by knockouts over Hardwick (seventh
round), O’Donnell (seventh round), Costica
(fourth round), Crouse (second round), Dave
Smith (twelfth and eleventh rounds) and Chip
(ninth round). (3) At Memphis, U.S.A., on
May 24, 1917.
* * * *
(1) Brief details concerning Sir Basil
Zaharoff? (2) Names of the principal munition
factories in Great Britain, and names of the
persons having the chief controlling interests
in them 7 —8980.
(1) He was born in 1849 in Mughla, Anatolia,
of Greek parents, and was educated in London
and Paris. Although a veil of mystery en-
shrouded most of his life he was reputed to be
one of the world’s richest men, his fortune
being built up from munition plants, shipbuild-
ing, oil and other enterprises. He gave large
sums to Greece during die Balkan War, and,
among other things, established chairs of aviation
at the Universities of Paris, Petrograd and Lon-
don. He died in Nov., 1936. See Zaharoff, the
Armaments King, by R. Neumann (George
Allen and Unwin, Ltd., London). (2) Informa-
tion not available for publication. Some of
the details you require may be found in Private
Manufacture of Armaments, by Philip Noel-
Baker (Victor Gollancz, London, 1936).
* * * *
(1) Does the motor-speed limit in N.S.W.
apply to fire engines ? (2) Do fire engines take
precedence over all other traffic ? (3) Are there
traffic rules applying to fire engines ?
(1) N.S.W. Motor Traffic Regulation No.
132 reads as follows: “Nothing in these Regu-
lations shall apply to any fire engine, reel or
other similar vehicle, or to the driver thereof,
whilst proceeding to a fire, or to any ambulance
wagon in charge of an officer proceeding to
the scene of an accident or to a hospital with
an injured person: Provided that such driver
or officer shall give or cause to be given the
best practicable warning so as to enable way to
be made for such vehicle.” Motor Traffic Regu-
lation No. 80 (a) provides that the driver of
a motor vehicle upon a public street shall cause
the vehicle to be drawn as near as practicable
to and parallel with that boundary of the
carriageway which is on his left and brought to
a standstill and remain stationary as long as
may be reasonably necessary on the approach
of and during the passage of any fire engine,
reel or other vehicle apparently proceeding in
charge of a fireman to a fire. The Regulations
also extend precedence to fire engines, after
vehicles containing a medical practitioner pro-
ceeding to a case of accident or illness and an
ambulance proceeding to an accident or con-
veying an injured person to hospital, at all
vehicular ferries, punts, bridges or railway cross-
ings.
sj: s*c %
(1) Particulars concerning the French Foreign
Legion? (2) In what year was it formed? (3)
Period of service ? —9305.
(1) and (2) It was formed in 1831 from
foreign sympathisers recruited for the conquest
of Algeria, and was divided into four battalions
in 1884, a fifth being added in 1891. There
is no transference between the Legion and the
rest of the French army, and no Frenchman
may serve in it without forfeiting his right of
nationality. It is largely composed of Ger-
mans and Russians, and serves principally in
Morocco. Although the source of much ro-
mantic fiction, the Legion works more at road-
and bridge-building than at fighting. (2) A
recruit signs on for five years, with option of
renewal.
* * * *
Brief description of the automatic fire alarm ?
—9302.
This apparatus is usually operated by the
provision of strips of metal which, when heated,
bend and make (or break) an electric contact,
so causing an alarm to ring. An extension
of this principle is the sprinkler installation, in
which the ceilings of the buildings are fitted
with piping connected to the water supply.
Sprinkler heads are so arranged that fhey open
as soon as their temperature exceeds that nor-
mally possible in a room, and discharge a
shower of water. An alarm is given automati-
cally as soon as the system comes into action.
* * *
Why did Francis Grose, Lieutenant-Governor
of N.S.W. during' Phillip’s time, leave the
colony, and what became of him after he re-
turned to England? —93l3.
Worried by administrative work outside his
normal capacity, and by the breaking out of
his old wounds during the hot weather, Grose,
on December 16, 1794, left the settlement in
charge of Captain Paterson and sailed for Eng-
land. There, after a term of rest on half-pay,
he was appointed to the staff in Ireland (1798),
and subsequently to Gibraltar (1805), invalided
home in 1807, and replaced in Ireland in 1809.
In that year he applied for the Governorship
of N. S. Wales, but it was given to Macquarie.
He retained his colonelcy until 1807. Of his
later years nothing is known, but he died at
Croydon in June, 1814.
What is the Japanese system of government ?
—9155.
Japan is a constitutional monarchy. The
House of Representatives is composed of mem-
bers elected by the people. Since 1925, male
universal suffrage has been in force. Women
are ineligible, and the age qualification for
male voters is 25.
* * * *
(1) How is peat formed and what does it
look like ? (2) How is it cut ? —9269.
(I) It is a product of decayed vegetation
found in the form of bogs in many parts of
the world. The plants which give origin to
these deposits are mainly aquatic, including
reeds, rushes, sedges and mosses. They die
and rot. As decomposition proceeds they
become waterlogged and sink to the bottom of
the pool, and in the course of time are com-
pressed and carbonised. Peat in its last and
most characteristic stage is compact, dark-
brown stun, resembling black clay when wet,
and some varieties of lignite when dry. (2) In
Ireland, where they use it for fuel, it used to
be cut with a spade called a “slane” and
curled off in thin oblongs 3ft. to 4ft. long.
Excavators and dredges are now extensively
used, and drying, which used to be done in
the sun, is effected in ovens.
* * * *
(1) Was Maoriland the first country in the
world to give women the suffrage ? (2) rr us
it a Conservative proposal in M .l. ? (3) w nat
was the first Australian State to grant women
the franchise ? —9258.
(1) No. Women enjoyed the franchise under
the first Constitution of New Jersey (U.S.A.)
from 1776 to 1807, though that was due to
an oversight in drafting the Constitution. In
Wyoming women have had electoral rights
since 1869. In Maoriiand the franchise dates
from September, 1893. (2) It was considered
a non-party question, and was supported by
the leaders of the Conservatives, Harry Atkin-
son and John Hall, as well as by Ballance,
Reeves and Seddon, the last-named being in
charge of the bill, as Premier, when it was
passed. (3) South Australia in 1894.
* * * *
What is the story of "Hosier’s Ghost'' ?
9271.
The ballad by Richard Glover is partly
based on truth; it tells of Admiral Hosier,
who was sent with 20 ships to the West Indies
to blockade the galleons of Spain. He arrived
at the Bastimentos, near Portobello, but had
strict orders not to attack the foe. His men
perished by disease, and the Admiral died of
a broken heart. After Vernon’s victory, the
ballad goes on to say, Hosier and his 3000
men rose “all in dreary hammocks shrouded,
which for winding sheets they wore,” and
lamented the cruel orders that forbade them
to attack the foe.
* * * *
What is the nature of the N.S.W. Inebriates
Act ? —9246.
The Act was designed to provide treatment
for inebriates who have been convicted and for
those who have not. For the care and treat-
ment of the latter class, it authorises the
establishment of State institutions under the
control of the Inspector-General of the Insane.
Judges, police magistrates and the Master-in-
Lunacy may order diat an inebriate be bound
over to abstain or that he be placed in a State
or licensed institution, or under , the care of an
attendant controlled by the Master-in-Lunacy,
or of a guardian, for a period not exceeding
12 months. Provision is made also to enable
an inebriate to enter voluntarily into recog-
nisances to abstain. An inebriate convicted of
an offence of which drunkenness is a factor,
or, in certain cases, a contributing cause, may
be required to enter into recognisances for a
period of not less than 12 months, during
which he must report periodically to the police;
or he may be placed in a State institution
under the direction of the Comptroller-
General of Prisons.
(1) Who way David Graham Phillips, author
of the novel “Susan Lenox” ? (2) How did
he meet his death ? (3) Is it true that he was
shot because he depicted a friend’s sister in
“Susan Lenox” ?~~ 9247.
(1) He was an American journalist who
served on Cincinnati and New York news-
papers and wrote extensively for the “Saturday
Evening Post.” At the time of his death-he
had published 17 novels, a play and a non-
fictional book. He left in manuscript six
novels. (2) In the latter months of 1910 he
received a series of threatening letters, charg-
ing that he had maligned certain persons in
The Fashionable Adventures of Josnua Craig
and other books. On January 23, 1911, a
young man suddenly rushed up, fired six shots
at him and then took his own life. Phillips
died the next day. The assassin was a men-
tally-deranged musician, whose papers showed
that he had been planning the murder for
several months. . His sole motive seems to
have been the fancied grievance that the novel-
ist had insulted his family. (3) No. Susan
Lenox was not published until after Phillips’s
death.
* * * *
What are the prizes at present being offered
by the Australian Song Writers’ Club, and
from whom can full particulars be obtained?
—9308.
Popular song (complete words and music, in
either waltz or foxtrot tempo)’, prize £5 ss.
(entry fee 25.). Concert platform song (on any
theme); prize £5 ss. (entry fee 25.). Popular
song lyric (two verses and chorus, in present-day
popular-song style); prize £2 2s. (entry fee
Is.). Full particulars from Will A. Bevan, hon.
sec., Australian Song Writers’ Club, 247 Bay-
street, Port Melbourne, Vic.
* * * *
1 am a British subject at present living in
China. Would there be any restrictions upon
my entering Australia ? —9098.
British subjects of white race are admitted
to Australia provided that they are in sound
health, of good character, hold valid British
passports and satisfy the Customs immigration
authorities on arrival that they are not likely
through any cause to become public charges.
* * * *
(1) Where can agents for sailing vessels en-
gaged in grain-carrying trade in general be
reached ? (2) At what time of the year do
such vessels sail from South Australian ports ?
9140.
(1) Crosby, Mann and Co., of Adelaide,
is agent for the Erikson line, comprising the
greater proportion of sailing vessels carrying
grain from S. Aus. (2) Between November and
March each year.
Information Supplied.
8862. —When planting Pinus seeds or seed-
lings retain the original humus from the soil
or the small scrubby growths that may be
there. Dig the necessary holes for the seedli g ,
preserving the humus, and when planting
and roots are covered put back the hum ■.
pressed well down and occasionally wal . ‘
These pines seem to like the company of otne
plants till they are well established, when tn y
can be cleared away.—“W. C. T.”
Brief Answers.
E.W.8.: (1) Tennyson wrote “Enoch Arden”
and Edgar Allan Poe wrote “The Raven.
(2) Write Lands Dept., Brisbane.. ..E.5.8..
Reports indicate that the Queen of Egyp
will remain in the harem... .N.S.M.C..
Donn Byrne, born in New York in 1889, wrote
three volumes of short stories and 11 novels, the
best of which are about Ireland. He estab-
lished his reputation with Messer Marco Polo
(1922). A biography is by Thurston Macauley.
Byrne was killed in a motor accident in June,
1928... .C.L.0.: The Golden Quill, by F. O
Mann, was published by Blackwell, Oxford
(Eng.), in November, 1924, and was reviewed
on the Red Page of The Bulletin on Feb-
ruary 19, 1925....F.A.W.: (1) Yes (though
fishing for trout is not yet permitted). (2) By
hatching in 1936 and 1937. (3) Rainbow and
brown, brown predominating. (4) Big Brook
(Pemberton), Harvey, Angove Creek (East
Albany) and several small brooks in the
Bridgetown district W.H.: The construction
of the eastern training wall at Port Macquarie
(N.S.W.), which is being carried out by the
N.S.W. Public Works Department, is part of
a departmental scheme of port improvement
at this entrance and is not related to any
defence plan... .J.W.M.: (1) From Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, 314 Albert-
street, East Melbourne. (2) From the respec-
tive Government printers at Canberra and in
the State capital cities... .J.M.M.: N 9. Neither
in Federal Territory nor N. S. Wales is insanity
a wound for divorce. It is in some States....
L.8.D.: The term you employ is somewhat vague.
Send the verses to us for an opinion... .0.5.:
See Australian Aboriginal Place Names, compiled
by James R. Tyrrell... .LT.O.: Write District
Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office, Beach-road,
Edgecliff, Sydney... .R.U.: Oh, Marjorie Ann
was written and published by Brian Vrepont, of
Brisbane; price 3s. 6d W.D.H.: Address
inquiries to the Commissioner of Police at
Brisbane and Melbourne... .M.8.G.: Could
trace no reference in the English press to his
views on the situation... .W.M.F.: On no
account should a paint containing red lead
be applied to any surface with which water to
be used for drinking purposes might come in
contact A.E.D.: Archbishop Gilroy is
R.C, Coadjutor Archbishop of Sydney, with
right of succession. He was born in Sydney
on January 22, 1896... .H.H.: Australian
Dames Commanders of the Order of the British
Empire are: Dame Alice Chisholm, Dame Mary
Cook, Dame Mary Gilmore, Dame Constance
D'Arcy and Dame Jean Connor H.G.: The
swastika is found in remains from the Bronze
Age in various parts of Europe, especially at
Hissarlik (Troy), and was in frequent use as
late as the tenth century. It is found in ancient
Persia, in India, where both Jains and Bud-
dhists used (or still use) it as a religious symbol,
in China and Japan, and among Indian tribes
of North, Central and South America R.S.:
Webster gives both the advertisement and ad-
vertisement pronunciation. The first is gener-
ally accepted as correct... .C.N.S.: (1) H. M.
Green’s An Outline of Australian Literature
covers all the important novelists, poets, short-
story writers, essayists and dramatists up to
about the end of 1930. (2) Published in 1931;
price 4s. 6d., obtainable at leading booksellers.
(3) Nettie Palmer’s Modern Australian Litera-
ture, C. Hartley Grattan’s Australian Litera-
ture and Zora Cross’s An Introduction to the
Study of Australian Literature —all three in
pamphlet form J.P.: Myambat means
“native huts”; Mooray, “a camp”; Yarrawa,
“a violent storm”; Warrawee, “rest awhile”;
Pucawan, “native bear”; and Narrabri, “big
creek” —all N.S.W. abo. place-names S.R.:
Your ticket did not draw a prize... .W.H.C.:
Copyright can be effected by depositing a copy
of the work at the Copyright Office, Common-
wealth Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney,
and paying the necessary registration fee of ss.
G.K.: Central Motor School, 7 Rawson-
place; Efficiency Motor School, Hay and
Castlereagh streets; Security Motor School, 194
Pitt-street; Modern Motor School, 147 Eliza-
beth-street; Commonwealth Motor Schools,
114 Castlereagh-street—all Sydney... .W.W.M.:
Full particulars from Australia’s 150th Anni-
versary Celebrations Council, Commonwealth
Bank Chambers, Martin-place, Sydney
G.P.: (1) Anchises (10,000 tons), Ulysses
(14,646 tons), Ascanius (10,000 tons), Themis-
tocles (11,500 tons) and Nestor (14,628 tons).
(2) Gilchrist, Watt and Sanderson, 5 O’Connell-
street, or Dalgety and Co., O’Connell and
Bent streets —both Sydney A.J.N.: Boundary
Bend and Other Ballads, by Edward Harring-
ton. published by Lothian Publishing Co., Mel-
bourne F.W.8.: The “Watchman” ceased
puoiication about 15 years ago W.A.8.: A
Svdney private inquiry agent might conduct
the investigation for you T.M.: In the
America’s Cup races held in August, 1937,
Ranger (U.S.A.) beat Endeavour II by four
r-'V'c to none... .C.K.N.: Article entitled “The
Breadwinners” appeared in The Bulletin of
April 10, 1936 L.M.: The British Consul at
Las Palmas, Gran Canaria, Spain, may be
able to assist you L.C.E.8.: In 500 holder
of the joker cannot play it if he can follow suit.
A.R.: The total cost of graduation in the
Faculty of Economics in the University of
Sydney is £ll9 12s A.S.: The best oppor-
tunity for a boy of 19 to obtain employment in
motor engineering or radio work is through the
Vocational Guidance Bureau, Department of
Labor and Industry, 132 George-street, Sydney.
Sydney Technical College evening courses in
motor engineering and radio work are open
only to persons employed in related occupa-
tions. Day emergency classes are also avail-
able. Entry to such classes is obtained at the
Vocational Guidance Bureau.


HE WAS AF3AID
TO CROSS A STREET
Lost His Nerve After
12 Months’ Agony.
Suffering from acute rheumatism in both his
knee joints—treated in hospital twice without
result —so unnerved that he was afraid to
cross a street—how readily every rheumatic
sufferer will sympathise with this man. Read
what he says:—
“For 12 months I suffered pain and misery
with acute rheumatism in both my knees.
Twice I was treated in hospital—but it was no
use. 1 could not walk up or downstairs. I
was afraid to cross the street, for 1 had lost
all confidence in myself. Fourteen days ago I
started taking Kruschen Salts and already I
am a new man. 1 can walk with a smart step,
go up and downstairs with ease and cross the
street with complete confidence. My rheuma-
tism is getting better every day.”—D.L.
Rheumatism cannot resist the action of
Kruschen Salts, which dissolve the painful
crystals of uric acid —the cause of those aches
and pains—and assist the kidneys to eliminate
this poison through the natural channels.
THEY ARE WHIPS TO
BOAST ABOUT.
7COWVKL
T-HE -PCRfECT
STOCK WUI-P-
-i
HANDLES PLAITED
ON ZAIR STEEL CORES
No. 14—16-Plait Handle, 6ft. x 12-
Plait Thong 34/6
No. 13. 16-Plait Handle, 7ft. x 12-
Plait Thong 36/9
No. 16. 16-Plait Handle, Bft. x 12-
Plait Thong 39/-
“KINGFISHER”
STOCK WHIPS.
No. 8. 10-Plait' Handle, 7ft. x 10-
Plait Thong 19/6
No. BA. I 0-Plait Handle, Bft. x 10-
Plait Thong 21/-
Post, 1/ 3 each.
Write for Saddlery Catolog.
WALTHER*. STEVEMSOH EW:
I 395 CEORCE ST. SYPHEV
Every
BLUE GILLETTE
blade is
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED
GIVING
• extra hardness to the cutting edge
• extra strength to the cutting edge
• extra keenness
• extra life and better shaving
Packet of Five 1/6
lilr
jmKmr a
BLUE GILLETTES
ELECTRICALLY-TEMPERED BLADES
GILLETTE RAZORS %
AND BLADES are
made for each other
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
C.S.: No, but it has merit R.T.G.: Short
of powder. :..C.H.: “Team” sounds genuine,
but the load’s too heavy for it... .L.G.L.: If
instead of turning that out “by the yard she
turned out something a bit better by the inch
there might be a chance... .J.M.D.: Nicely
typed....E.M.F.: Try to make ’em present
tense... .0.A.H.: Realistic, anyhow:
Then the farmer gathers in the golden grain
Which now dominates the mallee valley,
Which are the true products of the mallee valley,
Which are yearly sold on the market of Barellen.
8.8.: “Barmaid’s Lament” a bit flat....
J.H.: A chuckle again J.8.M.: “Hell’s
Broth” is savory, but where are the oysters?
0.W.: No, sir C.E.H.: Cheer up
A.S.L.: Fear “The Policeman” might be used
in evidence against us... .H.J.W.: True, but
we’ve said it in prose... .J.R.: Not too “in-
glorious,” but on the heavy side P.M.R.:
Pleasant, but feathery A.H.: It’s a wan-
dering river H.R.S.N.: Condensed and
rhymed it would be nearer C.J.S.M.:
’Fraid “the old girl from Cork’s” popping back.
N.C.: An eloquent letter, but there’s only
a flicker in the poem... .T.E.McC.: Your
“modem young lady” is a little too “gingery,”
even for this corner... .M.M.W.: A pretty but
passing cloud E.L.M.: Zip idea, in four
lines instead of 72, might pass 5.0.8.:
Point neatly made, but you’ve been reading
cable “news”.... L.F.T.: Entries accompanied
by stamps have already been returned J.G.:
Not room to say “just what is wrong”....
H.N.D.: No cheque for resurrecting that relic.
B.M.: Too brief for a yarn and too long
for a par S.H.: Not that one, but try
again F.G.K.: Try your hand at something
lighter P.D.C.: The Tiny Tots’ pages are
more in your line M.V.S.: Idea has its
points, but needs better treatment... .8.C.L.:
Too sticky D. 8.: Horrible G.8.R.:
Much too long C.T.P.: Your best to date
B.R.T.: Right off our beat... .F.G.W.:
“Gold-digger” gets nothing from us N.C.:
Tombstone epitaphs seem to be your mark
5.T.1.: There are about 346,927 methods of
dealing with that subject, and you must choose
the worst... .R.P.T.: That lady is contaminat-
ing other basket inhabitants L.C.F.: We’ve
seen that before H.8.M.: “Uppercut”
swung wide... .T.P.S.: Characters too hazy.
B.C.L.: Nothing to it C.D.Y.; Doesn’t
compare with the office boy’s latest contribu-
tion. .. .W.M.F.: There are less gloomy sub-
jects F.N.T.: You’ve borrowed more than
Maupassant’s style G. 8.5.: Write to the
Service Dept, about it V.W.: “Mariane”
has her return ticket P.H.: Laughs were few
and far between... .A. 8.: Mincemeat and no
bones to hold it together G.H.C.: Weari-
some K.L.T., N.L. and F.L.H.: Not torus.
G.N.D.: Back-fence gossip C.R.L.:
W’de of the mark J.H.T.: Have forwarded
“Prayer for Rain” to the State Meteorologist.
L.C.: With better handling it might stand
a chance J.L.P.: “How does this affect your
hardened hearts?” It doesn’t H.M.F., J.N.,
LJE.S. and 8.D.R.: Try them elsewhere.
ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.G.: No niche here for “Our Town’s Prize
Eccentric”... .R.P.J.: You must have dug
deep to disinter that wheeze... .W.W.: No-
thing frolicsome about that crate of atrocities.
....J.C.: If you were under 10 they would
earn you a small bouquet.. . .E.M.: The Art
Editor disposed of the pug in less than one
round R.T.M.: Three scrawny females, a
debilitated goat and a man being blown into
the air. What’s it all about?... .J.J.: Cartoon
on the German-Austrian plebiscite is a crude
and muddled affair... .J. 8.: Cannot see any
editors being killed in the rush to buy your
drawings... .P.D.: For all the use it is to us
you might have drawn it in invisible ink
L.C.: Didn’t we reject the same sketch and
the same gag a few months ago?... .H.N.:
Practise drawing bathing beauties during the
winter and you might tempt us with a couple
in the summer A.L.: The man in the fore-
ground is as much like Hitler as is Billy
Hughes C.D.C.: Young angler who was
only giving a worm a swimming lesson has
long had his day A.F.F.: You might have
told us what the midgets in front of the dog
kennel were talking about G.J.S.: If you
must draw use Indian ink and drawing paper.
R.B.: Even your offer to shout us a drink
when you come to Sydney didn’t tempt us to
reproduce that D.L.W.: Only thing correct
about the boat is the shape of the portholes.
R.N.W.: Good draughtsmanship, but line-
work is a little too heavy; also, gags need to
be brighter 5.8.: Same old tramp, same
old housewife, same old gag and same old fin-
ish in the basket.. . .L.M.: Typical first effort.
....H.C.: Looks as if someone had dipped a
porcupine in a barrel of tar and hurled it at
the drawing paper F.M.: Poster-size sketch
of “Saint Bertram and the Lang Dragon” is
both ugly and belated E.R.: You won’t
get far copying another man’s style....J.P.M.:
Promising student’s work T.A.: There
appears to be a slight change for the better in
your work G.M.: Never mind about
attempting to set a record for speedy drawing.
It is quality that counts W.H.: It finished
among the stragglers... .H. 8.: Admired your
picture of the fat lady at the Show, but we
have nowhere to hang her.
A MIXED GRILL
In Sydney “Sun” it has become
“Madame Tabouis alleges” and in
“S.M.H.” “the ‘Daily Herald’ alleges.”
Significant; still, if the papers concerned
have ceased to have any faith in these
sources of misinformation, they should
reject them altogether.
* * t- *
After giving three hearty Briddish
cheers for a Dutch alliance, which would
be an easy way of buying more trouble
with Japan, “S. M. Herald” allowed its
Canberra correspondent to point out that
“the land and naval defences of the
Netherlands East Indies are not regarded
as strong.” Still, what does that matter?
In all these plans for alliances (and wars)
aren’t we to be “the mugs”?
H= * * . *
First five months’ gold production of
Big Bell (W.A.) is roughly valued at
£A220,000. How much of this is profit
has not been stated. Used to doing
things in a big way, the controllers
(American Smelting and Refining Corp.
and others) have sunk the largest shaft
in the State (22ft. by 14ft.). There are
five compartments, and ore is hoisted in
two-ton skips. The headframe is also
the biggest in the West; it contains 150
tons of steel and is 132 ft. high. Oil fuel
is used for power.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A modern picture-theatre to
replace the old West’s in Adelaide is
again talked of, with Guy Crick, of Syd-
ney, as architect. The house, at present
closed, is a vast rectangular hall, which
was panorama and skating-rink in turn
before staging Adelaide’s earliest
“movies.”
* H= * *
“N.M.”: The second serve of. the
N. S. Wales Birthday celebrations is
about as inspiring as a rewarmed
stew. The poor old decorations hang
about the street droopy as a moulting
hen, the illuminated buildings have the
air of a woman once beautiful and now
very pctssee. But the harbor still wears
an enchanted look, with the arch of the
bridge floating palely jade against the
autumn nights, and the gardens of
Admiralty House might be an illustration
by Dulac.
* * * *
“K. 8.”: A hostess’s job on a luxury
liner sounds like peaches and cream —
not much work, and what there is of it
pleasant, and a background of parties,
soft lights and sweet music. But it isn’t
all quite so easy. Mrs. Merle Sproule,
who with Baroness von Koskuell is co-
hostess in the Reliance, never forgets for
one moment of her waking hours that
the art of life is to avoid friction, and
that her job is to amuse people of 23
nations every day for half a year. Mrs.
Sproule, who is the only American mem-
ber of the ship’s personnel, is a mixture
of personality, intelligence and tact, and
gives the impression of being born for
such a job. For many years she was at
the Moana Hotel in Honolulu as
“hostess”—a misleading word, yet the
Americans with all their originality can’t
think of a better one. One of her stand-
ing engagements is to go every year to
New York to help organise and take part
in the Bankers’ Association’s cruise.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: P. and O.’s veteran Kaisar-
i-Hind has been sold to the shipbreakers.
In constant service for more than 23
years, she was one of the most popular
Bombay mailers, and carried troops dur-
ing the war. Then she was known as a
lucky ship, passing unscathed through
sub. attacks. She wasn’t so lucky in
1921 when, chartered for what must-
have been the first P. and O. cruise,
she carried Americans from New
York to Iceland and Norway. Three
days out from Newfoundland, in the ice-
fields, the main steam line from No. 1
boiler developed a fracture and, before
fires could be drawn, blew the stop valve
clean off. Steam at 2601 b. blew back
from all boilers, and in a matter of
seconds several Hindu firemen were
cooked alive. We blocked off the main
pipeline and carried on ; but in the run
down from North Cape, calling in at each
fiord, she hit a projecting reef in Gud-
vangen Fiord at 15 knots. I was on
watch at the time, and the effect was like
elephants dancing on sheet-iron. Water
surged over the plates, and the pressure
blew caps off ballast-tank sounding pipes.
Bergen was made at “Slow ahead,” and
the diver found plates bashed in along
most of her beam and one blade half
gone from the port propeller. After Ant-
werp, we limped across to Leith, and
finally to Tilbury, literally floating on
the tank tops.


m
m
i
NEW BODY-BUILDINC DISCOVERY.
J p'-,
\c-ikiz
Clogged Colon
The left-hand illustration shows your colon clogged
by fermenting, poisonous food waste. Your partial
bowel movements may be regular, but modern devital-
ised food waste has clogged your colon and the
self-poisoning arising therefrom is keeping you thin
and emaciated. To develop a flat chest and round
out skinny limbs to natural attractiveness, you must
get rid of a clogged colon. Laxatives are useless—
they only act on the lower part of the bowels. They
do not clear away the weakening poisons from the colon walls.
'Coloseptic/ however, cleans the en.ire colon of waste matter,
as shown in the right-hand illustration. It neutralises all acid con-
ditions and restores the body's alkaline reserve. 'Coloseptic'
also stimulates the kidneys, skin pores and respiratory
apparatus—other vital organs by means of which the
system gets rid of acids and poisons. Amazing ga'ns
in weight follow this new, easy scien’ific way. You
need the vital elements in food to build you up and
restore normal, good-look : ng pounds. 'Co’oseptic'
gives you a digestion which gets ALL the good out
of your food. Start and clear your colon now and
add attractive pounds to your weakened body.
Unclogged
Colon
If unobtainable locally, write to Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd., 26 O’Connell St., Sydney.
NO NEED
TO BE
SKINNY
Thousands Gain 12 to 30lbs. QUICKLY —
With New Natural Treatment
Food scientists have at last discovered a new.
simple, natural and scientific method to get rid of
miserable indigestion and constipation—to build
glorious new strength and energy and add as much
as 30 lbs. of firm flesh and muscle to emaciated,
weak bodies. People get thin and run-down because
their organs are so weak that their digestive system
is unable to make the most of the strengthening and
blood-enriching elements which come from their
daily food. Instead, food which should be nourish-
ing the body lies in the colon (large intestine), de-
cays and develops self-poisoning.
THE CAUSE OF SELF-POISONING .
Devitalised and demineralised modern foods give
insufficient exercise to the walls of the colon (large
intestine), thereby losing their power of normal
movement, and are unable to get rid of the poison-
ous acid-forming food waste —which settles in colon
folds. Essential alkalising food minerals, which are
necessary to maintain the body's alkaline reserve,
are not extracted from your foods by the lifeless
walls. Your strength, vigour and vitality are under-
mined and you lose weight through actual lack of
nourishment, although you eat three meals a day.
Meanwhile, the food waste lies stagnant and fer-
menting in the colon, giving rise to poisons which
pass into the blood-stream, developing a generally
acid condition, evidenced by nervousness, weakness,
depression, tiredness, lack of vigour, bad breath.
Your blood becomes thin, giving rise to skin diseases,
pimples, anaemia and rheumatism.
. . main factor in recoveryV*
West Wyalong, August 13, 1936.
About 1934 my health was in a bad stale, I was suffering
badly from indigestion, My brother told me to try
‘Coloseptic’ and I bought a bottle. My weight was then
nine stone eight pounds. The doctors and nurses said that
the condition of my blood was one of the main factors
in my recovery. 1 have been consistently taking ‘Colo-
septic.’ My weight is now 12st. slbs. . . . A. 0.8.
FREE —Liberal Sample of 'Cofosepf/c':
Mail Coupon for a Free Sample. You'll re-
ceive it by return mail, also an inter-
k felling you more about
this subject of autoxima.
FOB. BETTER
INTERNAL
ifa
CLEANNESS
Colo septic
CHECKS SELF-POISONING *AIDS
COMBATS ACIDITY - BUILDS HEALTH -<■
el'
& *> i v
cP v
v^”„ V'
<Vo^>S«££
lO^V:H<-v e v* 6 *
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
X
The New Zealand Government, fol-
lowing the British, had introduced a con-
lowing me mu ,
scription bill, without opposi ion p
from a handful of Labor mem -rs an
their constituents, principally coalminers
and wharf-laborers ; and the thing be-
came law the day after Mr. Pew returned
to Australia. What was Mr. Pew going
to do? Nobody knew, not even Mr.
p ew
A Universal Service League had been
formed, and the people were waiting for
a lead; but Mr. Pew seemed curiously
reluctant to give them one. He was
ready at any time to assure them in ring-
ing speeches that “there must be organi-
sation,” that “we must be up and doing”
(sometimes altered to “we must rise up
and do something”), and that “Austra-
li ans — not a section, but all Australians—
must be prepared to make sacrifices in
order that the enemy may be beaten to
his knees” ; but that was not what they
wanted. Was it possible that the
duchesses of England had been mistaken
in their man?
In truth, Mr. Pew was feeling his
position keenly. He could not forget
that his predecessor had said, in reply
to a trade-union deputation, “I am irre-
vocably opposed to conscription, and am
sure I can say my colleagues are” ; nor
could he forget his own supplementary
remark to the effect that he would never
be a party to sending men abroad
against their will. He was reminded of
these observations every day. By cautious
soundings, he discovered that not all his
colleagues were “irrevocably opposed to
conscription”; but even the devoted
Mr- Yon Yonson his Minister for the
Nav y- had re “ nU y to de-
nounce it on the ground that it was un-
j s j m j dd i e class and the poor.”
oddly enough, the one Irishman in the
Cabinet> Mr Hugh Meagher, had
warned objectors to the latest plan for
g ed j n g recruits by addressing type-
written questions to all eligibles that “the
alternative is compulsion by law, should
the needs of Australia and the Empire
require it.
Mr. Meagher had two sons at the war.
But he was a devout Catholic, and so
fervent a Nationalist that he had served
a short term of imprisonment in Kil-
mainham for reporting a proclaimed
meeting—he was a journalist of ability.
And Archbishop Mannin, who had been
president of Maynooth, was coming into
the picture as a champion of the men of
Easter Week, and in his attacks on the
British Government, attacks delivered in
“the voice of a practised orator, with a
rich range of piercing tones” (part of the
Official History s description), every
word was weighed and every word told.
So Mr. Pew could not be sure of Mr.
Meagher.
Through the land he went, a much
troubled Mr. Pew, making speeches and
seeking guidance. No help came from
abroad. On the contrary the news from
France added to his anxieties,
In six or seven weeks of dreadtul hght-
ing, at Fleurbaix, Pozieres and Mouquet
Farm, 28,000 Australians had been
killed and wounded. And casualty lists
had to be published as they arrived from
overseas, although the veil of the censor-
ship was never withdrawn. To reinforce
the four divisions which had passed
through the furnace, the Army Council
was threatening to break up the Third
Division, then training in England.
As an alternative, the War Council pro-
posed, at the instance of General Bird-
wood, that the Australian Government
should undertake to furnish an additional
32,500 volunteers in September and 16,500
in each of the three ensuing months,
“this” being “the only means of retaining
the Third Division for service in the
field.” And enlistments had dwindled to
a little over 6000 a month, and for the 23
August days which preceded the receipt
of the War Office cablegram they num-
bered only 4144.
Then did Mr. Pew decide that he
would let the people decide for him,
women and men. “The Government,’ he
said, “considers that there is but one
course to pursue, namely, to ask the
electors for their authority to make up
the deficiency by compulsion.”
A paper with a pink cover put it an-
other way: “W. M. Hughes has spoken
the word for which Australia had been
patiently waiting, and the word is Yesr
No, with a slight stress on the and
a hint of pleading pathos in the No.”
“I am going into this referendum cam-
paign as if it were the only thing for
which I lived,” said Mr. Pew when the
measure authorising the referendum was
through Parliament. Similar sentiments
animated a number of gentlemen on the
other side, among them Mr. Ryan and
Mr. Theophilus, of Queensland; Mr.
Clancy and Mr. Intruder, of Victoria ;
Mr. J. D. Bang and Mr. Kilfoyle, of
New South Wales.
Mr. Kilfoyle was president of the
P.L.L., to which Mr. Pew owed a sort of
allegiance. While the campaign was in
full blast Mr. Kilfoyle expelled Mr. Pew.
This expulsion was a sequel to a Syd-
ney Town Hall meeting which Mr. Pew
addressed and Mr. Mac Sherry attended.
The meeting was hostile, and Mr. Pew
lost his temper and his sense of propor-
tion. Advancing to the footlights, and
pointing a long, bony forefinger towards
a group in the gallery from which most
of the interjections and derisive shouts
had come (Mr. Mac Sherry was a member
of it), he cried “In the name of the
Labor party, I cast you out, as the devils
were cast out of the swine.”
The rest of the meeting was all uproar.
A Conservative paper which had come
over to Mr. Pew’s side, after having
darkly suggested for 15 years that his
party was a threat to the sanctity of the
marriage tie and the purity of the home,
pronounced the illustration very apt.
It was expulsions, expulsions, all the
way.
Mr. Ryan expelled Mr. Adamzad, one
of his Ministers, because Mr. Adamzad
was a conscriptionist. Mr. Intruder ex-
pelled himself from Mr. Pew’s Ministry
because he wasn’t. Saying he would
never leave the old party, Mr. Scadder,
of West Australia, left it; he suddenly
made up his mind to support conscrip-
tion and was as suddenly ejected by the
controllers of the party machinery. The
same thing happened to the Labor Pre-
miers of South Australia and New South
Wales, Mr. Cawthray McCaughan and
Mr. W. A. Dolman, though in these
cases the choice was more deliberate and
the expulsion machinery worked less pre-
cipitately.
Mr. Dolman’s Labor Government had
been roughly handled by the Opposition
and by independent newspapers. Being
pushed for money, it had entered into a
contract for the financing and construc-
tion of public works by a British con-
cern, which was to get 5i p.c. on the
loans, 1 p.c. for underwriting them and
5 p.c. for supervising the expenditure, so
that the greater the outlay the greater its
commission. It came out that the syndi-
cate was charging 5 p.c. on the face
value of O.S. postage stamps and Gov-
ernment railway passes with which it had
been supplied, and the Auditor-General
sadly drew attention to other cases in
which “the impropriety of the expendi-
ture” was “obvious.”
On this head there were no remarks
from Mr. Kilfoyle of the P.L.L.; but
when Mr. Dolman and some of his
Ministers announced that they were going
to take the stump for conscription Mr.
Kilfoyle said if they did they would be
expelled.. They did, and he expelled
them.
Mr. Pew had confidently predicted that
“the submission of the question to the
people in this way will not excite the
turmoil that surrounds an election, and
we shall avoid that outburst of public
feeling that would be engendered in an
attempt to dragoon the country or the
Parliament into compulsion.” Never
was prophet more utterly confounded by
the event.
In every State but Queensland, Mr.
Pew’s party had split into bitterly hostile
factions. The nation itself, united at the
beginning of the year, was in two camps.
Even the hierarchy to which Dr. Mannin
belonged was divided. One archbishop
was a vice-president of a Universal Ser-
vice League ; another fervently reminded
his people that it was “a just war’ ; a
third, who had gone to France with the
soldiers from his State, made a statement
which was construed to mean that he
was a conscriptionist. t
Dr. Mannin never left the public in
any doubt as to where he stood. He was
hailed by most of the anti-conscriptionists
as their leader. Nor was their faith in
him shaken when he came out with the
declaration that “Australia has done her
full share —and I am inclined to say even
more than her full share —in this war.”
Still, this utterance was farther than
great numbers of them would have gone,
and it might have been turned to tell-
ing account had the conscriptionists


SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
Per lb.
Sweet crop, mild 6/3
All British, mild 6/3
Riverhead Gold, medium ~ .. 6/?.
Old Peter, medium 6/3
Cavendish, strong 6/3
Beech Nut, medium .. .. .. 6/9
Africander, mellow and mild .. 6/9
Soldiers’ Own, mild 7/3
Normandie, medium 7/9
Winning Post, medium .. .. 8/-
Three Bells, strong .. .. .. 8/-
Bird’s Eye, medium 8/-
Latalda, in pipe only 10/-
White Lodge, medium .. .. 10/-
White Lodge, light 11/
Barlock Flake, light and dark .. 8/6
Cahills, medium 10/9
Union Leader, medium .. .. 11/-
Tender Leaf, medium .. .. 11/
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only .. 8/-
Special Heavy Extra 67-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild 7/6
“Skipper,” medium 7/6
“Big . Hit,” strong 7/C
“Three Sailors” 7/6
“Royal Navy Nuggets” .. .. 7/6
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks .. 7/6
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks .. 6/6
“P.M.” Dark Plug 6/6
Zig Zags 5 for 17-
post FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VA LT BY, BR TSB ANE
IS
s
IX APpOifITMUiP
0 0N«
C;
1
M
m
m
fig
T' a^GVl^
v.
m
o*°
W:
tn»’
sss
m
fi»"
t tH«
GO
»i«
fj&
tsl
m
m
m*
m
KB
TfeS
ijou indue ijinih health -inAht on
uoraons
I . GENUINE* . LONDON GIN
™. QU io^dw W £ngl > ano: ktyesl gin diitUlM in the wolid
made as Gin
should be
made the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
APRIL ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Antwerp Wool Futures and Australian Growers
Will N.Z. Steel Project Succeed?
Survey of Base-metal Markets
Outlook for Wheatgrowers
Stocks Worth Consideration
PRICE 21 - PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published-by The Bulletin Newspapei Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
been led by men with cool heads. As it
was, except in States which were too re-
mote to be visited by Mr. Pew, every-
thing went wrong with their campaign,
and every conceivable folly was com-
mitted by the Prime Minister and his
satellites.
Anticipating a yes vote, they called up
all unmarried men in the 21-35 age group
and had their fingerprints taken, those
passed as fit being sent into camp. Mem-
bers of Parliament and conscientious ob-
jectors were among those who were
spared these ordeals. For other cases
exemption courts were set up, the tri-
bunals being empowered to issue certi-
ficates to, among others, “persons who
in the national interest may be allowed
to engage in work in which they wish to
engage.”
Mr. Blow, the caricaturist, renowned
nowadays for the cartoons in which he
defies Hitler and Mussolini, was granted
exemption on this ground, being anxious
to continue drawing funny pictures of
Mr. Pew. A less sympathetic reception
was given when Durkin, the heavyweight
(no relation to Durkin the middleweight),
solicited a place among the “conchies,”
explaining that he had “a ’orror of
sheddin’ blood.”
And in regulations issued under his
War Precautions Act, which virtually
granted him a despotism tempered by
fear of votes, Mr. Pew had directed that
military questions should be put to male
electors. They were to be asked in poll-
ing booths whether or not they were
naturalised British subjects “born in any
country which forms part of the terri-
tory of any country with which Great
Britain is at war,” and whether, if liable
for service, they had reported to the
military.
When this abuse of his authority be-
came known, three more Ministers
resigned.
Their resignations went in 12 months
to the day after Mr. Pew aiid they had
been sworn in, and left Mr. Pew with
five Ministers, one of whom was Mr.
Meagher. The lapse of four years was
to see Mr. Meagher expelled from the
House of Representatives, on Mr. Pew's
motion, for making a speech derogatory
to the Empire or something like that;
and public life knew him no more.
As clumsy as the Army Council which
had demanded 32,500 reinforcements in
the first month and 16,500 per month
afterwards were speakers who elaborated
on these alleged requirements, which
were afterwards proved to have been
grossly overstated. The demand for
16,500 per month was repeated from the
platform, with no time limit mentioned.
People were actually encouraged to be-
lieve that Australia would be expected
to raise 198,000 additional soldiers within
a twelvemonth; and even those with
little knowledge knew that it couldn’t be
done.
And there was the strange case of the
Maltese.
While Mr. Pew was in the thick of
what he was pleased to call the fighting
a British steamer brought' 98 sons of
Malta, nearly all “deep thinkers,” to Aus-
tralia. At once the antis raised the cry
that they were the vanguard of an army
of cheap laborers who were to be im-
ported under contract (an offence against
the industrial laws), when Australians
were shedding their blood as conscripts
on the battlefields of Europe, leaving
the country naked to its (unspecified)
enemies.
Mr. Pew retorted in kind, meanwhile
cabling an indignant remonstrance to the
Colonial Office. Convinced .that the
terms were such as no Secretary of State
could ignore, he assured the workers
that he would put the matter right, and
turned savagely on the antis.
He was still persuading himself that he
was having much the better of the Mal-
tese argument when another message ar-
rived. It was to the effect that a French
steamer was on its way to this fair land
with 200 more practical pacifists from
Malta, and would arrive before the refer-
endum.
Mr. Pew raged as only Mr. Pew could
do. In phrases which made Mr. Pease,
his Minister of Defence, tremble, he con-
signed the Colonial Office and the Gov-
ernor of Malta to the hottest place in
the limbo reserved for blithering blun-
derers.
A bowdlerised text of his protest to
Downing-street was conveyed to the
Governor, an old Boer War general who
had closed a spirited competition be-
tween De Wet and Delarey for posses-
sion of his person by being captured by
Delarey. This ancient warrior replied,
in effect, that Mr. Pew needn’t get so
shirty ; that he was making a mountain
out of a molehill, begad; that the fact
of the matter was there were too many
young men in Maltah and the beggans
must go somewhere, what!
The Secretary of State was adjured by
Mr. Pew to get in touch with the cap-
tain of the French steamer and stop her,
or tell him to go somewhere else —to
Suva, Samoa or the South Pole; any-
where but Fremantle or Sydney. If his
course wasn’t changed it would “kill the
referendum, which would be a great
national disaster.”
“It is too late,” replied the Secretary
of State. So the French steamer con-
tinued on her course, and nine days
before the poll was taken Mr. Pew was
obliged to announce that she was com-
ing, though her Maltese wouldn’t be
allowed to land.
Acting on his instructions, the aston-
ished French captain took the bewildered
immigrants to New Caledonia, where
they were consoled to some extent by
gobbling French dishes and guzzling
French wine for a month at the expense
of the Australian taxpayer. After that
they were shipped back home, to become
subjects of the old Boer War general
again.
It had been arranged that ballot-
papers should be distributed among the
soldiers on active service, and Mr. More-
duck, who flitted between England and
France, was commissioned by Mr. Pew
to organise the vote of the Western
Front warriors. He confessed to Mr.
Pew that his mission had been a failure.
Many of the soldiers had been so worn
out by the Somme campaign that they
could take no interest in the referendum,
and others were disgusted at being bur-
dened with a responsibility which the
Administration should shoulder itself.
And the Diggers had no taste at all for
the rhetoric of the Anglo-Australians
who addressed them. One of them was
a State politician who had contrived to
add a safe and well-paid military job to
his post as Agent-General. This gentle-
man (affectionately known as Bugle-
pumpkin) made A.I.F. history by assem-
bling soldiers from his State on a raw
winter morning (they had all been
wounded on the Somme, and were about
to be sent back to France), and confiding
to them that it was the dream of his life
to lead them in battle, but the doctors
had certified that he was too fat.
Had the A.I.F. been privy to some of
the “arguments” advanced in Australia
by both sets of controversialists, it would
have been more disgusted still. Rarely
was a generous sentiment heard. Ayes
traded on the ignorance in which they
had kept the people and on their hatred
of the foe ; Noes appealed to different
forms of prejudice—chiefly class and race
—to covetousness, and to unmanly and
womanly fears. A favorite “anti” argument
was that it would be bad business to con-
scribe Aust - Mans at six shillings a day
when an unlimited supply of Russians
could be got for sixpence. And great
play was made with a morbid Ode to
Mother, adorned with a cut of a ghastly-
looking matron depositing a paper in a
ballot-box and, in effect, sending the
sons of other mothers to their death.
On both sides money was spent like
water. Never in the history of the Grand
Old Labor party had antis known it to
be so plentiful. Some concerns exhibited
a generosity which seemed almost reck-
less, and they made only one stipulation
—concealment. Detractors assert that
the foundations of considerable fortunes
were laid in those days.
One of the Irish who were against Dr.
Mannin (others were Senator Clinch,
from Meath, and Senator Slavin, from
Tipperary) was Mr. Mulholland, M.L.A.,
the Lord Mayor of Sydney. Early in the
piece Mr. Mulholland had said those
days would be ever memorable for two
meteors which had flashed across the
sky: the A.N.Z.A.C. and Mr. Pew.
But Mr. Mulholland, a shrewd poli-
tician, was under no illusions as to how
Mr. Pew’s innovation would result. To
a Melbourne reporter he said a week
before the vote was taken, “It hasn’t a
chance in the world.” His own State
virtually decided the matter: the voting
in New South Wales was 474,544 against
conscription and 356,805 for. Only in
West Australia was there a substantial
majority of Ayes: 94,069 to 40,884.
This war-time referendum on war
policy should be a warning to democrats
the world over. In circumstances
which could not have been more favor-
able, the expedient bred national dis-
union. In unfavorable circumstances it
might' mean national suicide.
{To he continued.)


The Greatest Show on Earth
BY JULIUS WANT.
t—N HEN I first visited the Sydney
\A / show ’ in 1909 ’ it: was “ the ,
y\f greatest exhibition on earth.”
Its pride was in its horseman-
ship and in being “the show-window of
the land.” Its best exhibit was its whis-
kers. Haughty gentlemen still drove up
in carriages with spanking bays, and
even haughtier ones arrived from the
bush and Victoria.
Northern and western face-fungus ran
wild in the wind, bushfire style. Many
of the Victorians ran to pointed beards,
and they were divided into two schools
—dairy and beef. They carried about
with them human standards round whom
they rallied —if they were Shorthorn
men, round Robert Clark, of Bolinda,
one of the greatest Australian breeders
of all time, who had known all the origi-
nal Derrimuts, from the Summerton cow
upwards, and had bred most of the later
ones. Victorian Hereford men were
strong on Yelland.
On judging day, beside the cattle-ring,
these gentlemen would assemble their
academies, and round the railing would
be other gatherings. A group of three
squires, all good beef and looking as if
they had been carved out of blackbutts,
would be the Reynoldses, of the Pater-
son, kings of the Hereford world. And
Harry Bracker would certainly be there
—Harry, who was the second white child
born on the Darling Downs. Harry
was a six-footer. He wore mutton-
chop whiskers. He spoke of the pioneers
and explorers of the ’sixties as if he had
left them yesterday, and of Jimmy Tyson,
whose best friend he had been, as if he
expected him to turn up any minute.
All men with the courage of their con-
victions, these coteries. When you asked
Bracker his opinion of the Shorthorns
of the “fancy period” of the ’seventies,
old ladies a hundred yards away pulled
their bonnets over their faces, and old
Mr. Greaves, who was nearly 80 and
wore a grey morning-coat and a button-
hole in the ring, would look startled--
Greaves, of Newbold, who had been dis-
trict surveyor on the Clarence in the
'fifties, and who had begun his stud-cattle
breeding career in 1863.
These, with a strange assortment of
rather hairy dairymen, who shared with
many of the elder beef men the common
attribute of wearing pepper-and-salt pants,
were always the heralds of the Show.
They all arrived on Monday morning as
regularly as the swallows, armed with
umbrellas, with the ends of which some
of them used to dig holes in the ground
during arguments. A different race of men
from the clean-shaven, highly-tailored
products of to-day, though a newer gen-
eration had begun to intrude. And there
were few ladies round the ringside.
Ladies in those days had tender ears ;
bovine obstetrics and classical descrip-
tions of Hereford sires were not their
pigeon.
The expenditure of the Show in those
times was enormous. A whole £18,500
was collected in revenue, and out of that
they turned over a profit of £9OOO, spend-
ing £45 on decorations and £lO2 on
bands, £6OO on advertising and £155 on
judges’ expenses. The lavishness of this
30 years ago took the breath of the world
away, especially as over £lO,OOO was
taken in gate receipts. The society was
immensely proud that £27,000 had been
spent on improvements in four years
since 1905, almost as proud as it was of
its huge staff. The secretary received
£6OO a year, a chief clerk, a cashier and
an accountant each wallowed in luxury
on £2OO a year, and they had a steno-
grapher and typist and a junior clerk
who also acted as messenger. It was ad-
mitted that the Show was a great help
to employment, because it gave a few
days’ work to nearly 200 extra hands,
and what it called its “great new build-
ings,” rising at the rate of £7OOO worth
every year, were presumed to be a mag-
nificent asset to the building industry.
Already the R.A.S. was utilising “every
available scrap of its own territory,” and
could not expand because of “the neigh-
bors, who want all their space for them-
selves.” Still, as I remember it, there
used to be a lot of nice quiet spots to
which a man could retire and take his
boots off to ease his corns.
Yet, it was the greatest Show on earth.
Manchester, it was proclaimed, had once
attracted 218,000 people to an English
Royal Show, and the English newspapers
had burst into paeans of excitement; but
that paled by comparison with the
250,000 people who came to Sydney’s
Show —“nearly half the population of
one of the greatest Australian cities.”
As for entries, in 1908 there were
3803 —horses 664, cattle 948, sheep 695,
poultry 768 and produce exhibits over
400. The development of the last 30
years would stagger the veteran of a
generation ago.
Two pavilions alone this year cost 10
times as much as the whole three-year
building programme of 1905-09. Two
days will provide the attendance of a full
average Show in those days. Cattle
classes in 1908 numbered about 70. This
year there were 283 classes and consider-
ably more than twice the animals shown
a generation ago, with quality on an
average 100 p.c. better all round. Against
the £155 spent on judges’ expenses in
1909, the expenses this year of two only
must have run into well over £lOOO, since
they were brought from England. Pigs,
dogs, agricultural displays from the
great provincial districts which compete
yearly for a championship prize have all
grown out of recognition.
The Show no longer retains its old-
time agricultural atmosphere. The growth
of secondary industries has revolution-
ised it. It is no longer merely the shop-
window of the country in which the only
exhibits not actually of the land were
those with a special appeal to the land.
Miles of shopping streets, acres of in-
dustrial exhibits, giant pavilions full of
machinery, home comforts, side shows
have swamped the land displays and out-
grown them. The show-ring has ceased
to be merely a place in which exhibi-
tions were limited to decorous hacking
and hurdling, with a high jump and a
little trotting as a concession to the
sporting. .
Night lighting has improved so mucn
and become so cheap that it has become
as easy to illuminate the vast arena as
the stage of a theatre. And with the
opening at night has developed a series
of amusements pursued by international
teams, and such as the old gentlemen ol
pre-war years would have looked on as
indecorous offspring of the circus and
beneath the dignity of a society with a
Royal Charter and a prescriptive right
born of tradition to be opened by a Gov-
ernor or Governor-General. Bulldog-
ging and buckjumping, horseback acro-
batics, Cossacks and cowboys mean the
Show” to a good many visitors.
But, taking it all round, Sydney Royal
is a truer mirror of the life of the State
than was the older vintage of 1908,
though if it continues to grow it is a
mystery where they will pack it. Even
now there is scarcely a yard of eaitn
not built on within its enclosures.
Perhaps, like politics and racing, it
will eventually become a fireside amuse-
ment.
ELEGANT EXTRACTS
NATURE ABHORS A FASCIST
How nature “takes sides against the
Fascists” was emphasised in a broadcast
by Professor C. K. Leith, of Wisconsin,
U.S.A. As an instance, Professor Leith
mentioned the German lack of helium
gas.— “ Sun” ( Sydney ) cable.
FOR DIRECTORS ONLY
Talkies featuring Mae West were
viewed by some banks as being undesir-
able entertainment for their junior
officers, who were instructed not to see
such shows. The Premier of Tasmania,
Mr. Ogilvie, K.C., made this assertion
at Melbourne while addressing the Arbi-
tration Court. —“Labor Daily” (Sydney).
SECONDARY CONSIDERATION '
In their tailored white skirts and cream
blazers, bearing the English Tudor Rose,
beneath the crossed sculls, the English-
women’s crew were attractive figures.
Those who were fortunate enough to see
the crew on the river will not forget
easily the picture they made in their
cream shorts and shirts. Their style is
a mixture of Fairbairn and orthodox, but
it is the power of their leg drive which
impresses. —‘A ge” (Melbourne).
RETURN OF PROMETHEUS
“We do not intend to lead any revolu-
tions. Ours will be a bloodless victory,
and the code will continue to flourish.
The New South Wales League must be
made to realise the ignominy we have
suffered. Our humiliation in England and
France; the terrible position that faced
us when we received that cable to ‘return
or swim.’ The New South Wales League
must be made to realise the agony I
underwent when carrying £2OOO round
in my pocket because I knew the board
was capable of commandeering our bank
balance, and not even the greatest of
banks would be a safe repository from
legal action. They must be made to
realise all these things—and many more,
and they will before I’ve finished.”
—Rugby League tour manager Harry
Sunderland, in “Truth” {Sydney).
INCIDENTAL MUSIC
For the first time in the history of Aus-
tralian electioneering, a policy speech
with incidental music as a background
was broadcast by Mr. John O’Carroll,
Independent candidate for Balmain and
Rozelle.
The special “policy speech music” was
given by three of his children. Dainty
fingers ran up the harp strings, and the
orchestra entered into the spirit of the
thing with “There’s No Place Like
Home,” “When You and I Were Young,
Maggie,” and “Just a Song at Twilight.”
—“Daily Telegraph” (Sydney). [Election
result: Quirk absolute majority of 6526
over O’Carroll and Payne.]
NOW BUCK UP, JOHN BULL
Those of us who were fortunate
enough to hear the broadcast by Mr.
James Fitzpatrick, world-famed travel-
talk producer, must have felt deeply
indebted to him. In calm, measured
tones, his voice, charged with that per-
sonality and sincerity which is charac-
teristic of the Ame.ican people, con-
veyed to us his assurance of his faith
in the British Empire and its great influ-
ence in the cause of world peace.
—Letter in “Sun” (Sydney).
BISHOPS AND ALL.
That a request be made to the Police
Department to ascertain if it is practic-
able to have a record of the whole of
the fingerprints of the adult popula-
tion and visitors made and if such record
would assist in identification where neces-
sary.—Cootamundra branch contribution
to Graziers’ Conference agenda.
FASHION NOTES
“There was a time,” recalled Mrs.
Norden, “when men took delight in say-
ing charming, complimentary things to
women. But listen in to-day on a con-
versation between a man and a maid.
‘Great Scott, where did you pick up that
coal scuttle?’ he jibes as he looks over
her new hat. Or, ‘Where did you get
the pill-box, Toots? It looks terrible!
You remind me of an organ-grinders
monkey.’ ” — From “Sunday Sun” (Syd-
ney) N’Yark gusherette.
BELATED WARNING
At the home of Mrs , which was
loaned for the occasion, a party was given
in honor of Miss , formerly the well-
known danger of Adelaide, and now liv-
ing in East Melbourne, who attained hei
majority, and, during the evening, an-
nounced her engagement.
—“ Advertiser ” (Adelaide).
THE SCALERS’ PARADISE
Travellers find the night life in Mos-
cow unsurpassed anywhere in Europe
....Women conductors are the rule on
trams, but no undignified “Fez Pliz” from
them. The conductor sits at the back of
the tram and knits, while she waits for
the passenger to pay her —if they feel
like it. It is left to the decency and
honesty of the passenger to pay. — Re-
turned tripper in “Sunday Sun” (Sydney).
HISTORIANS, PONDER!
Unhcnored and unsung the League
football team which toured England
without any conspicuous success returns
to its native land. Its inauspicious return
is not, however, due entirely to its record
in the field. A quarrel between the
officials of the League and the manager
of the team upon a point of itinerary
has estranged relations so much that no
welcome is proposed. In the face of
the seizure of Austria and the other
recent international occasions, this quarrel
may seem unimportant.
— “Sun” (Sydney ) editorial.


w
111
to
asrerp
is
tece
is
er
Hi
\pint he
7
a
m
r
serves
1
55#
m
tXr
0-
*
iff
tt't’V*
m
Km
7>.
tr,
UW«H!BB!
(D c GilUuw’s
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO , Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMPSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
(IrCoUiurfs
&tfeZi29-
Scots tUhisky
( rov-tto .*®7l
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ķ
TO ‘THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of t he Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regulai
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
*0 .
•<\j #o^
<l°V «. <> X 6LO* N ,c,e e
W^^n” 5 c "
> tp*
.•* .** y
..* t> e Vt
. A< ?*el
$ vo


m
m
m
A
fe-'V
Mmm
■
THE
Countess
An outstanding series ot
instruments, not only
from the standpoint of
appearance and quality,
but because of llaw lev-
technical design.
M
P
i
m
m
mlmm
;■ OJ. < - i
'.V.
mm
: :-v
f-y
wms
\
m
s
r
V.e :
*
mm
* n
■
mm
nil
INTRODUCE THE YEAR’S
MOST EXCITING RADIOS
THE
“ Debutante ”
Meeting' the incessant demand
for receivers with full-size
chassis, yet occupying far less
space than the average lounge-
room console. Says The
Bulletin critic: “It
is doubtful if, in the
same price class, it
could be bettered by
any manufacturei in
the world.”
THE
“Princess
Described by a. leadin„
radio critic as
tionary new dual
receivers . . • tne «*
outstanding of then yp
on the Australian roar
ket.” The most houmous
receivers in the
ST series. From the
artistic point of «
well as that of per
formance, the Tasma
“Princess” has no rival.
Prices from 16 Guineas
(Slightly higher in W.A.)
THE
“Baby”
Extensively improved and
housed in a beautifully
designed and sturdy
Bakelite cabinet, this
new edition of the
Tasma “ Baby ” has
astounded experts by its uncanny
distance-getting ability realistic
reproduction and undistorted volume.
Never before has a “baby” set been
capable of such “grown-upi” per-
formance.
THE
“Ballerina”
Incorporating every modern feature—
from Air Trimmers to Automatic
Volume Control—housed in a luxurious
full-size artist-designed cabinet —yet
selling at a surprisingly low figure—
the new Tasma “ Ballerina ” series
represents a standard of value which
will astound even the most blase
critic.
THE MOST EXCITING RADIOS OF THE
YEAR . . . available for broadcast or dual-wave
reception; for battery, vibrator or air cell opera-
tion; for Alternating Current, Direct Current or
both AC andDC ... the new and thrilling TASMA
series! Tasma issues a challenge! Play any one
of these receivers beside the best of any other sets
you choose—then judge for yourself. Compare
them for performance, for features, for technical
perfection, ease of tuning and superlative beauty
of reproduction. You will acknowledge imme-
diately that no other receivers on sale in Australia
offer you the same value . . . the same flawless
entertainment ... or the same prospect of years
of uninterrupted and unvarying pleasure.
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
WITH
7 Maj
Features
or
WHICH MAKE TASMA SO MUCH BETTER
INSTANTANEOUS
TUNING
. . . The fastest and
most accurate tuning:
method ever evolved.
20 inches of floodlit
tuning: space with 125
Australian stations
clearly and precisely
marked and zoned in
States.
AUTOMATIC
VOLUME
CONTROL
... Audio A/V.C. is an
ADDITIONAL, feature
on all Tasma models.
This permits weak
stations to be played
louder and stops
variations in volume
when set is immedi-
ately tuned to a
powerful local station.
PERFECTED
AIR TRIMMERS
. . . Dust-proof Air
Trimmers, in conjunc-
tion with Tas m a
FERBO-COIL,, ensure
permanent retention
of factory adjustment
over all variations
of temperature and
humidity encountered
in different parts of
Australia.
VARIABLE
SELECTIVITY
. . . Sir Noel Ash-
bridge 3 Chief En-
gineer of the
publicly recommends
that all receivers be
equipped with Vari-
able Selectivity to
ensure 1 full musical
value from pro-
grammes. The Tasma
incorporates the most
efficient type of Vari-
able Selectivity.
INTERMEDIATE
TRANSFORMERS
. . . Permeability
tuned —ensuring: years
of consistent and
unvarying operation.
This feature is typical
of the “hidden values"
which place Tasma so
far in advance of the
general field.
INBUILT MAGIC
EYE
. , , The “Magic Eye”
of the Tasma is built
right into the dial
to ensure immediate
visual indication of
exact tuning. It is
easier to tune a
Tasma than any other
set.
NEW OCTAL
VALVES
. . . Every 1938 Tasma
receiver is equipped
with these new valves.
If a receiver is not
Octal - equipped it
can’t give you the
benefit of the latest
in radio research.
SOLD BY
PRINCIPAL RADIO DEALERS
VICTORIA; HARTLEYS PTY., LTD., 270
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North. Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
LTD., 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY,
LTD., 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and 59
George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY),
LTD., 197 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
(Wholesale Distributors.)
G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90-92 Queen Street,
Brisbane; Rockhampton, Townsville and
Cairns.
DARLING DOWNS; ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Product of THOM AND SMITH PTY., LIMITED. 29-39 Botany Road, Mascot^
