

■ Tt "T* *
New
A
wm
i: i f '
in Style, Performance, Long Life
This magnificently styled new 193 S Hudson Terraplane rides and drives
with the smooth brilliance you can enjoy only in x a recognised
performance champion. When you see the superb luxury of its interior,
the increased room, and the quality of equipment and fittings, you will
be surprised at its low price.
The new Hudson Terraplane is one of three greater New Hudsons . . .
Hudson Terraplane, Hudson Six and Hudson Eight . . . that cost you less
for what you get than any other cars in the world. See Hudson . . . then
drive a Hudson. Discover Australia’s outstanding value cars.
HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY.
MEET HUDSON
FOR
1918
HUDSON TERRAPLANE • HUDSON SIX • HUDSON EIGHT.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY and COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
136 Pliillix) Street, Sydney
Queensland Distributors:
Mcintosh motors pty. limited
Desmond Chambers,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTV. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LIMITED
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
(Also at 145 Gavrler Place, Adelaide)
DRIVE WITH HUDSON’S SELECTIVE AUTO-
MATIC GEAR CHANGE (optional extra) . . .
now in its fourth year, better than ever.
MORE size . . . MORE ROOM and New Luxury
Inside.
DUO-AUTOMATIC HYDRAULIC BRAKES:
Latest, most advanced hydraulics; and the ONLY
braking system with a separate mechanical system
in reserve, working from the same brake pedal.
Easy handling parking brake under dash.
SAFEST BRAKES ON ANY CAR.
BODIES OF ALL STEEL, including roofs of steel,
for greater safety. SAFETY GLASS in wind-
screen, all side windows and deflectors.
WHEELBASES: 117 inches in Hudson Terraplane;
122 inches in Hudson Six; 122 and 129 inches
in Hudson Eight.
HORSEPOWER: 96 and 101 in Hudson Terra-
plane; 101 in Hudson Six; 122 in Hudson Eight.
Western Australian Distributors:
MORXLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, Perth
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Brisbane Street,
Hobart Launceston
HUDSON DEALERS IN ALL
MAIN COUNTRY CENTRES
d
The Bulletin
Vol. 59.—N0. 3029.
Wednesday, March 2, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S library catalogue
is now ready, and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to: —
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
LITERATURE UNDER STALIN.
Lion Feuchtwanger’s Moscow, 1937, “My visit
described for my friends” (Gollancz ; translated by
Irene Josephy), is a small book —160 pages—written
with the author’s usual lucidity in an informal manner.
An attitude of studied impartiality and openminded-
ness drapes the fact that this is a skilful piece of
special pleading; an answer to Andre Gide’s criticism
of the Soviet regime.
The chapters on everyday life in Russia are full
of meat. Feuchtwanger admits that many necessities,
particularly clothing, are scarce.
There is a lack of other daily necessities which is
very apparent to anyone coming from the West. There
is, for instance, a very poor selection of paper of any
kind, and the shops only stock it in small quantities;
medical requisites and cosmetics, too, are scarce, and
an inspection of the shops reveals much that is crude.
The hand of the bureaucrat is heavy on daily
life. The individual is poorly catered for as an indi-
vidual but richly provided for as a member of the
community—which means that housing is bad and
scarce, while social clubs for healthy recreation, swim-
ming baths, theatres, hospitals, parks, are good and
plentiful. He claims that the defects are ephemeral,
that the spirit of the Russian people is victorious and
happy, and that the whole trend of life is toward
rational construction. To this he adds a paradoxical
disquisition on freedom, the account of an interview
with Stalin, some reflections on war and an uncon-
vincing report of the Trotskyist trials, plus some
adverse criticism on the sabotage complex apparently
rife in Russia and the vulgarity of Stalin worship.
Of books in Russia he writes:
The books of favorite authors, too, are printed in
editions of a size which makes the foreign publisher
gasp. Pushkin’s works were circulated at the end of
1936 in over 31,000,000 copies, and the books of Marx
and Lenin in still larger editions. Only the shortage
of paper limits the size of the editions of famous authors.
On any ordinary day the books of such an author
are unobtainable in any bookshop' or library; if a new
edition appears buyers queue up, and the edition, even
if it consists of as many as 100,000 copies, is sold out
within a few hours. In the lending libraries, of which
there are 70,000, books by favorite authors have to be
ordered weeks in advance.
Newspapers and magazines share the demand.
There is a passion for printed matter. But behind
this splendid fa<?ade there is a sinister truth. Although
authors are fostered by the Government, receive regu-
lar salaries and copious encouragement, they are not
producing in the quantities or to the standard expected.
The books that are read so largely are classics and
political works which have been hall-marked by the
authorities as correct. The revolution is not giving
birth to a flourishing literature. It is the same in the
theatres as in the bookshops. With every encourage-
ment offering, new plays are not following in sufficient
quantities to fill the theatres. Non-controversial
classics or farce hold the stage. The drama of con-
temporary life is sparse. One reason, which Feucht-
wanger admits, is that authors, though pampered, are
not free. They must conform to the social outlook,
and a “standardised optimism” is by constant intan-
gible spiritual pressure forced upon them.
Admittedly those Soviet writers who diverge from
the “general principle” are not completely suppressed,
but preference is clearly given to those who strike the
note of heroic optimism in all their works as frequently
and unmistakably as possible.
The casting out of tragedy and the destruction of
the creative artist’s right to implicitly criticise the
existing order of things kill literature. Feuchtwanger
adds:
Certainly the writer who ventures to deviate from
the general principle does not have an easy time. For
example, a great lyric poet whose prevailing mood is
autumnal melancholy, or, at any rate, not at all heroic-
ally optimistic, continues to be printed, read and loved,
but he is no longer mentioned in the press, and he
receives no more publicity. Fear of the forbidden
defeatism often manifests itself in the most childish ways
amongst those who supervise the means of production.
A story, for example, written by a well-known author,
telling how an airman establishes a record and then
crashes, was omitted from a collection of the authors
stories by the overanxious editor as being “too
pessimistic.”
In a word, only art that is also propaganda is
allowed to live. The propaganda required of Russian
art is not the comparatively simple matter of circulat-
ing political maxims; it is the deeper and more dis-
astrous one of adopting a forced attitude to life.
The Softer Side of the Monster.
I brewed for my alpine plurabelle wigwarming
wench (speakeasy!) my granvilled brandold Dublin
lindub, the free, the froh, the frothy freshener, puss,
puss, pussyfoot, to split the spleen of her maw: and
I laid down before the trotters to my eblanite my
stony battered waggonways, my nordsoud circulums,
my eastmoreland and westlandmore, running boullo-
wards and syddenly parading (hearsemen opslo!
nuptiallers get storting!).
The foregoing, from a Faber pamphlet, is a sample
of the Work in Progress over which Joyce has been
brooding ever since Ulysses came out to be banned,
bought and borrowed from. To explain this master-
piece, which becomes comprehensible only when im-
propriety demands it, and which, if only as a mon-
strosity, may become one of the literary monuments
of our time, psycho-analysts aver that Joyce, a dis-
appointed minor poet, is hiding his chagrin beneath
a smokescreen of words ; and it is true that if now
he calls for a doctor rather than a critic he was once
as pretty and as simple a rhymer as any contributor
to the corners of a woman’s paper.
Like Richard Aldington, who was mentioned on
this page recently as having followed up the fierce
Death of a Hero with verse that could almost have
been called Life of a Heroine, Joyce as a monster
has feet of sugar, and his early Pomes Penyeach and
Chamber Music are astonishingly, almost pitifully,
human. The new Joyce, as a serious piece of prose,
offers this:
He has had some indiejestings, poor thing, for quite
a while, confused by his tonguer of bauble. A way
with him! Poor Felix Culapert! Ring his mind, ye
staples (bonze!), in my ould reekeries’ ballyheart and
in my Krumlin and in aroundisements and stremmis!
Sacks eleatherury! Sacks eleatherury! Bam! I deplore
over him ruely. *
The other Joyce wrote this:
Rain on Rahoon falls softly, softly falling,
Where my dark lover lies.
Sad is his voice that calls me, sadly calling,
At grey moonrise. £
Dark, too, our hearts, O love, shall lie and cold
As his sad heart has lain
Under the moongrey nettles, the black mould
And muttering rain.
With Joyce and Aldington, Aldous Huxley, for
whom has been coined the beautiful adjective “intel-
luptuous,” is another whose verse cohtrasts strangely
with his prose. The cynical spectator of Point
Counterpoint, the scientist of the clinical Brave New
World, once published a poem as gentle as
Child, from your forehead
I kissed the hair,
Gently, ah, gently:
And you were
Mistress and mother
When on your breast
I lay so safely
And could rest.
The poems merely point out the obvious fact
that the writers are human ; their interest lies in the
fact that Joyce and Huxley, particularly, pose as
inhuman or superhuman. Probably the tough Ernest
Hemingway has some similar violets shrinking away
where no one can see them.
Exalt the Snail.
Margaret Macpherson, in her recent Antipodean
Journey, observes that London has the fattest birds
and the thinnest people of anywhere in the world,
and anyone who has seen the regular adoration of
the snail on the statue of Peter Pan in Kensington
Gardens will agree that the English love of wild life
can go to extraordinary lengths. The cult of the dog,
so devout that it moved Roy Campbell to depict
J. C. Squire and his bulldog licking each other’s
faces in mutual tearful ecstasy, is part of the same
phenomenon. .
It all derives, no doubt, from the very real earth-
hunger of an urban civilisation, and, if the provision
of a bird-bath beside the sculpture of Rima is faintly
absurd to Australian eyes, there is nothing absurd in
the writings of men such as £L E. Bates, W. H. Davies
and Henry Williamson, of Tarka the Otter, who give
expression to that hunger in its deepest and loveliest
significance. One of the best of the latter company
is Llewelyn Powys, whose latest Somerset Essays
(John Lane) deal faithfully with country or county
matters in Somerset and Dorset.
Powys is doubly the product of civilisation, for
not only is it the hunger of the cities for the primitive
that calls up this type of writing, but essays, as an
art form, are peculiarly the product of a civilised
mind, an intelligence so highly cultured that its ener-
gies have been toned down from the dynamic to the
reflective. It is not without significance that Aus-
tralia’s only essayist of note is a university professor—
obviously a man of deeper culture than the average.
Since an urban civilisation, perhaps regrettably,
is being built in Australia, an earth-hunger compar-
able to the English—the present interest in the fate
of the koala is a symptom —must be developing, and
we could do with more minds of Murdoch’s calibre
to give expression to it in essays of that type in
which Donald Macdonald was a forerunner.
The lucidity of Powys’s mind, which has long
been demonstrated in his philosophical writings, is
paralleled in the present essays by the clarity of his
prose. This, from a * solitary story for children he
has included, is. a typical example:
Just as on the former occasion, he flung open the
small carriage door, and in no time at all she was being
borne up over the sloping roofs of the Weymouth
houses. Often afterwards she tried to remember the
manner of the goats’ progress. They certainly did not
fly. With their driver they seemed to glide through
the cold atmosphere, their cleft hooves striking the
crystal levels of the sky with a reiterated tapping.
Reading the essays is rather like reading Hous-
man’s poems: there is the same sense of a brief
flower of life and a long sojourn in not unfamiliar
and not unfriendly earth. Of this type are his stories
of fantastic Dorset peasants, witches and members
of his own family, living and dying in the country.
But Powys, unlike Housman, has a Puckish sense of
humor, and the priceless story of Sir John Harrington,
who invented a most useful modern sanitary device,
alone makes the book one not to be missed. “Then
one day his mind, the mind of a squire who potters
about with plenty of time on his hands, accidentally
stumbled upon the subject that was to give his name
So odd an immortality—‘a Plain Plot of a Privy in
Perfection.’ ” Sir John wrote a book about it which,
‘sportively illustrated,” gave mild offence to Queen
Elizabeth.
Powys’s book, not “sportively” illustrated, con-
tains really beautiful photographs of the countryside
he writes about.
Panorama of Europe.
Robert Briffault’s Europa —reviewed by the Red
Page in 1937 and recommended subject to a warning
that it was tough reading—has had great success,
selling over 200,000 copies and winning most eulogistic
criticisms. The work of a man raised in high diplo-
matic circles, it was a survey of Europe in the years
immediately preceding the war, hung on the life-story
of Julian Bern and his love for Princess Zena.
In the sequel, Europa in Limbo (Robert Hale),
Bern’s story is carried through the war years and then
into the turmoil of revolutionary Russia. It is a very
serious book and very long. It tries to include every
phase of those troubled years; it develops and
elaborates in a hundred directions and, in the chaos,
the story practically disappears.
Not only does Europa in Limbo try to capture
the whole picture, it also tries to maintain an attitude
of complete disillusionment. Julian is one of those
heroes who knew as much about the war in 1914 as
the most hardened know to-day—or think they know.
He was never taken in for a moment, saw through the
whole war propaganda and war hysteria to the bitter
heart of futility. He enlisted in the hope of finding
speedy death. He was stung again. He encountered
an endless string of idiotic aunts who believed every-
thing, profiteers in high life, brazen women, scoun-
drelly colonels, cynical spies working on both sides,
hard-boiled colonials, but the longed-for shell failed
to come his way.
At Passchendaele he was reported missing and
believed killed, but he was only wounded and a
prisoner. When the Armistice came —page 325—he
was near the Russian border, and escaped over it to
join his lover, Princess Zena, just in time to participate
in the most bloody phase of the revolution. The
lovers were caught between revolution and counter-
revolution, and Zena was killed by a stray bullet
after the most horrible experiences of murder, rape
and rapine. Julian had to go on living.
Europa in Limbo is very thorough and, in its
mass, impressive. The author destroys illusion after
illusion—beginning with Brave Little Belgium and
Brave Little Belgium’s gratitude. “Shouldn’t be sur-
prised if we have more trouble getting rid of the
English than of the Germans. They have a way of
sticking in a place once they get a foot in.” The war
is nothing but “routine tempered by death and dread.”
Zena says: “Anyone who is not suffering to-day
is to be pitied. He must need be a hopeless fool.
Our pangs and personal uncertainties are dwarfed by
the uncertainties of a whole world that cannot answer
the simplest questions.” And somebody else: “If a
stop were put to profiteering the war would be brought
to a stop. Large profits are necessary to entertain
patriotism.” f
In this chaos Briffault is unable to attach any
special significance to his characters. Bern, over-
whelmed, remains a lay figure. Zena is little more
than a mouthpiece ; even her death, after so many
others, falls flat. The other characters are so numer-
ous and transitory that the reader develops no feeling
for them.
The author appears to have hopes of ultimate
salvation through Sovietism, but can hardly be said
to support this hope with any evidence.
Life in Bali.
In the preface to her new novel, A Tale from
Bali, translated from the German by Basil Creighton
(Bles), Vicki Baum states that it is founded on a
manuscript which she inherited from Dr. Fabius, a
Dutchman long resident in Bali, who was a witness of
the events recorded, and the first chapter is put into
the mouth of the doctor. This may or may not be
a novelist’s device to capture verisimilitude, but it is
certain that the book shows a deeper insight into
Balinese life than any tourist could acquire.
The story of the Dutch conquest of Badoeng
from the Balinese point of view, A Tale from Bali
is the author’s best book to date. It is free from the
rather suffocating femininity of her other novels, and
never lapses, either in spirit or treatment, into the
novelette, the pit that up till now could always be felt
yawning perilously near her feet.
The book deals with the interlacing stories of
the lord Alit, Raka the dancer, Pak the sudra, their
wives and children, the rituals and pleasures of their
days in the island paradise. An interesting ..new
world is unfolded with its ceremonies for the planting
and harvesting of rice, its complicated religious ritual,
its marriage by capture, its festivals of cremation,
its absorption in cockfighting, its feudal system. The
pattern is strange and bright—but the Balinese are
not exhibited as human curios. Their customs are
shown as the natural vestments of their humanity,
so that there is a feeling of fullness, richness and
truth in the book.
Across this artless pattern of island life march
slowly and inimically the events of the Dutch con-
quest. The time is 1904 to 1906, but the unusual
setting gives an effect of timelessness. When the
narrative opens the Dutch had already established a
not very satisfactory influence over the island and
were not averse to finding an excuse to annex it.
The excuse came when a Chinese ship sailing under
the Dutch flag was wrecked on the coast of Badoeng.
The Balinese, according to custom but in abrogation
of their treaty with the Dutch, plundered the wreck,
and from this all their subsequent troubles sprang.
The Chinese owner demanded high compensation,
the Dutch supported his claim, negotiations dragged
on and on. The lord Alit refused to pay, recognising
that this was only a pretext and that if this claim
were satisfied another would be raised. The Dutch
blockaded the coast, but hesitated to use force until—
and this is the ironical kernel of the whole affair-
news came that three Balinese widows had sought
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —the salt of business.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
fd
82/6 HARROW
CULTIVATOR
7T&
This does excellent
work in tobacco and
strawberry fields.
The Beams are of I-
seetion steel, light
but strong. Tli e
channel steel
Handles are rigidly stayed to the Beams.
These stays keep the Beams down level at all
widths, so that all the tines work the same
depth. They also make the Cultivator very
rigid and free from “rattle.” The double-
ended diamond tines are of hard steel, and
have a small foot forged on both ends. They
are held firmly to the Beams, and are adjust-
able to three slopes. Depth is altered by
moving the front fork bolt to the required
hole. The Beams open from 16Hn. to 39iin.
Widening is done with a quick-acting lever.
The cast iron wheel, which has a 2in. rim,
runs on a renewable steel bush. Approximate
a weight, 761 b. Price 82/6
Special Price 77/6
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
After Sale
Specials
for The Man
on the Land
£5/12/6 PLANET HOE and CULTIVATOR
ii
an
fs'6
No. 8 Horse Hoe and
Cultivator Combined.
The Planet Jr. No. 8
Horse Hoe and Cul-
tivator is one of the
most valuable time and
labor saving tools
available for the use of the farmer. Has a steel
wheel that does not clog; a frame that is longer
and higher than others; steel standards that are so
attached as to both brace the cultivator and with-
stand strain; levers that operate quickly and easily ;
a depth regulator. Equipment includes four Sin. x
Bin. cultivator steels, one 4in. x Bin. cultivator steel,
two 6in. hillers, one Vin. shovel', all specially
hardened; wall give long service. Price .. £5/12/0
Special Price £5/6/-
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, similar to No. 8,
without depth gauge. Price ■• •• • £5/2/6
OS®
62'6
Canadian
Post Drill
576
Canadian Post
Drill No. 61R.
Drills holes up to
fin. diameter
(round table).
Price .... 62/6
Special Pr i c e—-
57/6.
"UNI”
A Book for Historical Students.
THE HISTORY OF
ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
“The whole story of the firm —told
capitally by T. J. Redmond —is built
on that same visionary faith in Aus-
tralia from the beginning with which
Miles Franklin credited Danny Delacy
. . a There is nothing more solidly
set in Australian tradition than Aus-
tralia’s oldest store, with well over a
century of expanding trading as its
background.” —“The Bulletin.”
On sale by Booksellers in the State,
through Gordon and Gotch, Ltd., and
in the Store. Price, per copy, 1/-.
Postage 3d. extra.
£ll/17(6 Barrel Spray Pumps
t
Pump complete.
Mounted as illustrated.
Barrel fitted to skids.
Hose, 15 ft. x iin.;
Extension Lance, 9ft. x Pipe, cut-off
cock. Dripguard, Cyclone—Duplex nozzle.
Complete £ll/17/6
Special Price • £ll/2/6
25'- Semi-Rotary Pumps
With double-acting iron
body, brass valtves, seat
and rotor.
Sizes .
Prices
Special
0 1
25/- 27/6
22/6 25/-
Sizes 2 3
Prices . 32/6 40/-' 50/-
Special, 29/6 36/6 45/-
Sizes 5 6
Prices 57/6 67/6
Special .... 52/6 62/6
QQ'6
f
41/6
Chain Blocks
37'6
Differential Chain
Blocks (Weston pat-
tern), complete with
40ft. chain, which
gives 10ft. lift (with-
out guides).
To Lift, ton, i i
Prices .... 41/6 46/-
Special Prices —
37/6 42/-
To Lift 1 ton
Price 58/-
Special Price . . 53/-
31/6 Rega
BUCKET
Spray Pumps
28'6
Suitable for Spraying Lime Sul-
phur and preparations based on
Liver of Sulphur, Sulphoids,
Emulsions, Oils, Lime and White-
wash Sprays, etc. Disinfecting
Dairies, Stables, Fowlhouses, Pig-
geries, Stagnant Pools. Washing
Windows, Cars, Carts, etc.
Equipment—* x 3 ply Spray Hose
and Brass Director to each
model. Nozzle: Patent Combina-
tion Bordeaux-Cyclone to Models
Al, A, and B. The well-known
Model “A.” Price 31/6
Special Price 28/6
alia
df
£3/9/6 Earth Scoops
Hound Back Solid Steel
Earth Scoops. Improved
bv the Scraper being made
longer and deeper than
usual, so while it carries
more earth it runs much
easier, and has more
wearing surface.
Prices. Special.
No. 3, 3 cubic feet; net weight 801 b. £6/15/-. £6/7/6
No. 2, 5 cubic feet; net weight 971 b. £4/2/6. £3/17/6
No. 1, 7 cubic feet; net weight 1051 b. £3/11/6. £3/6/6
No. 0, 10 cubic feet; net weight 1351 b. £3/9/6. £3/5/6
65'6
Use
the
Deposit
Purchase
System
df
THE
NEW
LEVER
SYSTEM
94/6 Rega Knapsack
Spray Pump
896
A new Lever System which
gives tremendous power
with a minimum of effort
and easy operation. A full-length, high-pressure
pump. A liquid-tight lid, eccentric lever operated.
Capacity, gallons; weight, 141 b. Brass Alloy.
Price 94/6. Special Price 89/6
Agriculture—Fourth Floor. Free delivery city and suburbs only.
Anthony Hordern and Sons Ltd.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
'PHONE DAY OR NIGHT, M 2401 -INSTANT SERVICE


Again Skinny H azlitt
PROTECTED INTEREST
by
A. C.
HEADLEY
ILLUSTRATED BY LOCK.
SKINNY and I had been running through the
pockets of the yokels with Madame Ravina’s
high-class palmistry, phrenology and signs of the
Zodiac. By shaving twice a day Skinny was
managing to fill the title role and finding new ways
of discussing the curse of the razor.
“Listen, Scut,” he said to me on one occasion,
“why don’t we go back into the bearded-lady game?
I don’t have to shave, and the work is easy, seeing
that I’ve only got to sit there and let them look at
55
me.
“Yeah,” said I, “you’re overworked, picking up
the teacups and telling the rural industry the latest
in weather reports, and seeing long journeys and dark,
handsome strangers in the goldfish bowl.”
“The crystal,” corrected Skinny.
“It may be a crystal to you,” said I, “but it was
home to a couple of goldfish. Sometimes I think
there’s a lot of snobbery in your make-up, Skinny.”
“It ain’t that,” said Skinny ; “it’s this filling in"my
days with a razor in my hand. There oughter be
some more pleasant way of dodging the facts of life.”
“Yeah,” said I, “the last couple of times you
found more pleasant ways we had to pay for them,
and that isn’t my idea of the fair distribution of
chance. What’s wrong with the teacup-reading depart-
ment anyhow? We ain’t making a fortune, but we’re
keeping the wolf a couple of sheep stations away
from the bar.”
“I’m sick of it, that’s all,” said Skinny. “I’m
getting short-sighted trying to read palms that look
more like gold-bearing country. I’d be better fitted
for this game if I was a mining expert.”
“You’d be better fitted,” said I, “if you could
read hands.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “we’ve got to think of
something.”
“All right,” said I, “you do the thinking.”
Well, that seemed to settle the matter for a while,
but there were times when I caught Skinny staring
into the crystal and trying to read his own palms.
It may have been that his heart was not in his work,
but anyway business began to go from bad to rotten,
and the wolf took a couple of jumps closer. It was
about that time that Madame Ravina went into the
discard, and Skinny took to shaving once a week.
“Scut,” he said to me one morning when we
were down to our last few shekels, “there ought to
be some going concern that would pay a dividend for
honest endeavor.”
“The way you put it makes it sound like work
to me,” said I. “Maybe I’d pick up the idea if you
opened up.”
“Listen,” said Skinny, “there’s a dog meeting
billed for to-morrow afternoon down the line.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and all we’ve got to do is have
our two bob all-up every winner and we’ll make a
fortune.”
Skinny dug his hand into his pocket and rattled
the treasury. “Listen,” he said, “where there’s racing
there’s punters, and where there’s punters there’s”
“Mugs,” said I.
A BOUT seven o’clock the next morning Skinny
and I climbed down from the local express at
the town that bragged about a dog course. It was a
boiling day, and from the look of the dogs lying in
the shade around the local pub the greyhound with
the longest tongue would have had the race won at
the box. Even the beer in the place was warm, so
warm that if it wasn’t for the taste you’d have thought
it was Tom and Jerry. We were standing there, blow-
ing on our beer, when Skinny happened to look out
the door. There was a feller striding past with a
greyhound on a leash, and Skinny dug me in the ribs.
“I was right,” he said, grinning all over his face ;
“there’s dough to be picked up.”
“The answer is which?” said I.
“The answer is,” said Skinny, “that the gentle-
man with the streamlined poodle is Maxie Agnew.
He doesn’t know the word ‘honest’ is in the dictionary.
There ought to be some way we can work into it.”
He tossed off his beer in so much of a hurry that he
almost scalded his mouth. Then, “Listen, Scut, you
stick around while I do a bit of secret-service work.”
He was gone about an hour, and when he came
back he was showing the whites of his teeth. He
bought a couple of drinks and set about the explana-
tions.
“Listen, Scut,” he said, “the dog that had Maxie
on a lead, it’s entered in the Maiden under the name
of Stinky.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and I suppose you want me to
sell the information as an item of news for the local
rag. I might be dumb, but I don’t see no fortune
in it.”
“All right,” said Skinny, “be funny. I’m telling
you that this dog has won stakes in the city.”
“Then what’s it doing in the Maiden?” I wanted
to know.
Skinny tossed off his beer before answering. “It’s
a ring-in, that’s why. It could beat the rest of ’em
if the course was lined with telegraph poles.”
“Yeah,” said I, “and what are we going to
use for money to back it with? Anyway, if this
Maxie Agnew knows you’re in on his dog, ain’t he
likely to fix it so it won’t win, and save it for a better
time.”
Skinny grinned. “He don’t know I know.”
“And the other problem,” said I —“the one of
minor importance as to where our betting money is
coming from?”
“Yeah,” said Skinny, “there's that.” And then
he slumped into a thoughtful silence.
ABOUT the middle of the morning Skinny struck
his bright idea. A hefty smack on the back
brought it to my attention.
“Listen,” said Skinny, “how much
dough have we got?”
“At a rough guess,” said I, “three pounds
seven and fourpence.”
“All right”—Skinny took another gulp at his
beer and continued —“there ought to be a dog in that
race that we could buy for that. It’s a maiden. There’s
sure to be some dog that’s been tryin’ to win a race
for the last seven years. Scut, we’ve got to buy it.”
“You can stop me if I’ve heard it,” said I, “but
what’s it all about?”
“You’ll know soon enough,” was all that Skinny
would tell me.
Well, eventually we found what we were looking
for. A feller named Loveday had a dog in the Maiden,
and, looking up its form, we saw that it hadn’t run
better than eighth or started at less than twenties
over a period. We found out where Loveday lived,
and ten minutes later we were knocking on his back
door. He was a stubbly kind of feller, and looked
as though he was trying to hide his neck. When he
saw Skinny and I standing there you could see him
shrink.
“Honest, mister,” he said before we had a chance
of opening the conversation, “I can’t ’elp it if I can’t
pay, can I? I ain’t been workin’ for munce, and the
missus is sick.”
“It’s all right,” said Skinny ; “we ain’t collectors.
We’re philanderists.”
“Wot’s that?” said Mr. Loveday.
“People that go round doin’ good,” said Skinny.
Mr. Loveday looked interested.
“Done much good?” he asked.
“I don’t mean it that way,” said Skinny. “What
I mean is that we make people happy. We heard
about your case, and we think something ought to
be done. You’ve got a dog called Tracker.”
“That thing,” said Maxie —


“How much?” said Mr. Loveday.
“Two quid,” said Skinny, “for a month’s lease.”
“Make it three,” said Loveday.
“It’s three,” said Skinny.
We got everything fixed up about the lease, and
half an hour later we were leading the dog down
the main street. Our only stop was at the local store,
where Skinny left the poodle to buy a bottle of
Indian ink. He still hadn’t told me what it was all
about, and when we’d managed to smuggle the dog
up to our room he started to smear it over with the
ink.
“It better be good,” said I, “whatever it is, be-
cause it’s carrying all our dough.”
Skinny grinned. “You needn’t worry ; in a few
minutes we’re going to see Maxie Agnew, and he’s
going to cut us in on a slice of his dough.”
N/T AXIE didn’t look any too pleased to see us, but
* * a little thing like that didn’t worry Skinny. He
pushed his way into the room and sat down on the
bed.
“You’re lookin’ well, Maxie,” he said pleasantly.
“You must have been robbing a lot of widows an'
orphans.”
Maxie’s reply was not quite as pleasant, but it
boiled down to him wanting to know what Skinny
wanted.
Skinny tossed his hat back on his head. “Listen,
Maxie, you’ve got a dog named Stinky entered for
the Maiden to-day.”
Maxie scowled. “What’s it to you?”
“Nothin’,” said Skinny, “except that it’s a ring-
in, and we’ve got a dog in the same race.”
Maxie showed a bit of interest. “That thing,”
he said, pointing to Tracker; “it couldn’t beat an
egg.”
Skinny grinned. “Tracker couldn’t, but this thing
that looks like Tracker could.” Skinny rubbed his
hands on the spots that had been done over with the
ink. “He’s run 24.2 on the city tracks.”
Maxie chewed this information for a while. “A
ring-in, eh? So what?”
“So,” said Skinny. “There’ll only be two dogs
in the race, and even though I don’t know what your
dog was before he became Stinky I’ve got an idea
that Tracker is a couple of lengths better. Maybe
I’m wrong, but there it is, and what I say is what’s
the use of cutting each other’s throats?”
Maxie, who had begun to look a bit miserable,
brightened up. “Maybe you’re right,” he said.
“What’s the proposition?”
Skinny dug his hands in his pockets and began
to look businesslike.
“To begin with,” he said, “we might as well admit
that we’ve got no dough to back our dog. All we
were after was the stake money. It’s only twenty
quid, but it gives us a chance of building up our
bank for the next time.”
“It’s about time you came to the proposition,”
said Maxie.
“All right,” said Skinny, “all we want is the stake
money on your dog to win, and we’ll scratch ours.
Ain’t it worth it?”
Maxie looked thoughtful.
“0.K.,” he said after a bit, “it’s a deal.”
“it couldn’t beat an egg.”
Skinny flicked his cigarette away. “Don’t think
I don’t trust you, Maxie, but my friend here is hard
of hearing, and he wouldn’t understand what it was
all about unless he saw it in writing.”
I didn’t like the way Maxie took the pen without
hesitating, but everything seemed to be all right, and
as far as I could see there didn’t seem to be any loop-
holes. Still I didn’t like it. When we got outside
again Skinny looked at me and grinned.
“I told you we’d do it,” he said. “It’s the smart
fellers that are the biggest mugs.”
“Maybe,” said I.
A BOUT half-past twelve we started off for the
track. Skinny had already ’phoned the secretary
of the greyhound club and scratched our dog. When
we got there the betting was in full swing. Stinky
was at fives, and was shortening. Skinny looked at
me.
“That’s all I need; it proves he’s backing it.”
He took me by the arm and steered me towards the
bar. “We oughter celebrate.”
It was in the bar that we struck Mr. Loveday.
“ ’Ullo,” he said.
“ ’Lo,” said Skinny.
“I see you scratched it,” said Mr. Loveday.
Skinny nodded.
“Listen,” said Mr. Loveday, leaning over. “I
can give you somethin’ good in this —a thing called
Stinky. It’s information. I ’eard it was a ring-in from
the city.”
Skinny gaped. “Where d’ y’ hear?”
Mr. Loveday waved his hand. “I got me sources.”
When we got out of the bar Stinky had come
in to threes, and it looked as though it would start
shorter still. The only other thing in the betting was
a dog called Razor Blad,e, who was at sixes. You
could write your own ticket about the others.
When the cable started running Stinky was down
to five to two, and we settled down to watch the race.
But there isn’t any use describing it. It would
be better to describe Skinny’s face. Right at the
start it turned white. Stinky was left in the
box, and when he did come out he didn’t seem
to take much interest in the race. The way
he was running the dogs in the next race could
have given him that much start. Razor Blade was
the first dog to jump, and he opened up a good
lead early, and kept it open. He romped in by
about five lengths. I looked at Skinny, but he was
looking so miserable that I didn’t have the heart
to say anything.
“Let’s drown a little of our sorrow,” I said after
a bit, rattling what remained of our treasury.
I took Skinny by the arm and led him to the
bar, and who should be there sinking a pint but Maxie
Agnew. Skinny came out of the coma.
“I thought you said the dog was a good
one?”
Maxie grinned, and I didn’t like the grin.
“No, I didn’t,” he said ; “it was you what said
that. I didn’t say nothin’. Anyway, what are you
growling about? If it had won youM have got the
odds to twenty.”
Skinny was getting sore. “But it didn’t win, and
the way it run a pomeranian could have lapped it.
You doped it, that’s what
you did. It couldn’t
win.”
I began to wake up.
“Yeah,” I said.
“That’s why Loveday
and his ‘sources’ knew
it was a ring-in. He
spread the story him-
self.”
“My,” said Maxie,
“you sound nearly intel-
ligent.”
Skinny was looking
as though he could have
smacked him. I saw
him gulp, and then he
said: “Anyway, you
didn’t win any dough,
Maxie.”
I didn’t like the grin
that spread itself over
Maxie.
“I don’t take risks,”
said Maxie, very quiet.
“I ’ad two dogs entered
in that race, Stinky and
the one that started at
six to one.”
“Razor Blade!” we
both yelped, trying to
make it sound as though
it wasn’t true.
Maxie grinned again.
“Sure,” he said,
“I’ve gotter perfect my
interests.”
NEW TRAPS
BY G.C.B.
F*OME day, when people understand ’ow important
Nw a ratcatcher’s work is, I’ll be paid wot I’m worth
l iil J and able to ride about in me own car; but as
things are I ’ave to make a few extra bob every
chance I get to make ends meet.
There’s traps, for instance. I get my yearly
supply from Stedman, the ironmonger, and in return
he gives me a little cash present. Knowin’ this, you’ll
understand wot a nasty shock I got when the town
clerk tells me at the end of the year that me old traps
will ’ave to last another six months.
“But 1 can’t work without proper equipment,
Mr. Wallis,” I ses, and I digs into me bag and throws
a trap on ’is desk. “Look at that, now. A dirty,
rusty”
“Take it away! ” shouts Mr. Wallis, jumpin’ up
quick. “Wot do you mean by puttin’ that filthy
thing on my desk?”
“Sorry,” I ses, poppin’ the trap and its contents
—wot I ’ad overlooked —back into the bag ; “but I
tell you, Mr. Wallis, the springs in them old traps
soon won’t ’old a tiny baby mouse, let alone a great,
strong rat.”
“That one’s strong enough, anyway,” he ses,
sniffin’. “Get about your work now, Raggles, and
don’t come worryin’ me about traps for another six
months. We’ve got to economise.”
“Very well, Mr. Wallis,” I ses quietly ; “but you
can’t expect me to do me work efficient without
proper instruments.”
He mumbles somethin’ about me bein’ just as
efficient if I didn’t ’ave no traps at all, but I slams
the door ’ard just to show ’im that ’is flattery ’adn’t
smoothed me over.
'"F HE very sight of them dirty, rusty traps got on
* me nerves, and after a couple of days I was
ashamed to be seen settin’ ’em, so I decides to make
’em look a bit respectable, even if they wasn’t
efficient. I spent two evenin’s sandpaperin’ em and
paintin’ the wood green and the springs silver, and
when they was finished they looked a picture—the
sort of trap any rat would be proud to be caught in.
I suppose I would ’ave been quite content to
struggle along with them a few months more if I
’adn’t ’appened to see a special smart line of traps
in Stedman’s, and, me professional instincts bein’
roused, as the sayin’ is, I ’ad to go in and ’ave a look
at ’em. The more I studied ’em the more I felt I
needed ’em to do me work ; and at last I risks gettin’
a gross on approval in the ’opes that Mr. Wallis
would change ’is mind when he sees wot they was like.
I shoves one in me bag as a sample, and, waitin’
till after lunch, when I ’oped Mr. Wallis would be in
a good temper, I takes it up to show ’im. Unfor-
tunately, ’owever, ’is lunch must ’ave disagreed with
’im, because when I lays Stedman’s bill on ’is desk
he performs somethin’ terrible.
“But the position was desperate, Mr. Wallis,” I
ses as soon as I could get a word in. “I’ve been
tryin’ ’ard to carry on with them old ones, but the
rats wouldn’t look at ’em. Rats is fussy animals”
“They’d seem so to you,” he puts in, lookin’ me
up and down insultin’. “I told you distinct you
wasn’t goin’ to ’ave new traps for six months, so you
can take ’em back. Knowin’ you,” he goes on slow,
“I got an idea you ain’t clamorin’ for this purchase
just oh account of your work. ’Ow much is Stedman
givin’ you?”
Well, my reputation is worth more to me than
all the little cash presents I’ll ever get from Stedman,
so after thinkin’ a bit I decides to prove to Mr. Wallis
that he ’ad been mistook very grave in me.
“Mr. Wallis,” I ses, cold and distant, “I ain’t
goin’ to take remarks about me dishonesty from no
one. All I been askin’ for is a chance to do me
work proper, and to prove it I’m willin’ to pay ’arf
the price of these traps out of me own pocket.”
“Wot ?” he gulps. “Say that again, Raggles.”
I obliges, and before I ’ad finished he ’ad ’is
petty-cash box open.
“There you are,” he ses ; “there’s ’arf the price.
And I’m sorry I misjudged you, Raggles. You must
need them traps.”
“Thank you, Mr. Wallis,” I ses. “It would ’ave
been a ’ard blow for me to ’ave to return ’em. They’re
a special new brand. I bet you ain’t never seen a
trap like this before.” And I pulls one out of me
bag and throws it on ’is desk.
“H’m,” he ses, lookin’ interested. “No, I ain’t,
Raggles. Quite a smart-lookin’ affair. I ’ope you
keep ’em in good condition.”
I didn’t say nothin’. I couldn’t. I was starin’
dazed-like at that trap —one of them green ones with
silver springs wot I ’ad redecorated.
I ain’t quick at thinkin’ as a rule, but I see in
a flash that I ’ad mucked things up proper. If I
told ’im that the trap he ’ad been admirin’ was one
of them old ones wot I ’ad been complainin’ about
he’d be misled by appearances and say they shauld
be good enough for a while yet; and if he ’appened
to see me usin’ the new traps he’d want to know
wot ’ad ’appened to the nice green ones.
There was only one thing to do, and, although
it was ’ard for me to ’ave to tell Stedman that I
couldn’t take the new traps after all, and ’arder still
to carry on with the old ones, I ’ad the satisfaction
that I ’ad been well paid for me bit of redecoratin’.


S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date June 6, 1938.
<C.2©O
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
No entry having been considered
worthy of the Prize last year the
amount goes on to this year’s award,
making the total £2OO. Details can
be had on application to “The
Bulletin, ’’ 252 George St., Sydney.
Brief Sketch
BARMAID
By PHIL DORTER
DRAWING BY
JOHN MILLS.
IT had been hot all day, and the smoke and dust
from the mine had drifted back over the town,
seeping through doors and windows so that all
the glasses needed polishing. Kath tugged a towel
from under the counter and began wiping and rubbing
automatically.
Soon the men would push through the swing
doors. A few clean and fresh, but most of them dirty
and smelling of sweat. They would stamp and swear
and abuse her if she couldn’t serve them all at once.
She’d have to serve drinks and smile as though she
liked the beasts and thought their jokes funny.
Here was the first lot now ; four of them pushing
through the door anxious to drown themselves in beer.
“’Lo, Kath, how is it to-night?”
“Hullo, boys”—she must smile —“just so-so until
you came.”
“That’s what we like to hear. Make it beer.”
“You’re lucky to be below these days ; you miss
the heat. It’s been hotter than hell.”
“Listen to the woman —you’d think she worked
for a living instead of playing with beer all day. But
they’re all the same.”
This crowd wasn’t so bad, hardly more than
youngsters, but they’d be just like the rest when they’d
had a few drinks. Cass, the big man on the right, was
older. She didn’t like him. He was stupid and dull,
like an animal. She felt his eyes following her as she
moved.
The crowd was drifting in now ; boys with bright,
feverish eyes, big and strong, but with the pallor of
the underground in their faces, and weary old men
clinging desperately to the remnants of their man-
hood. All the flotsam that drifts into a new field. She
could feel sorry for them until they drank too much.
There was Seaton, the clerk from the bank. At
least he was decent. He said “Thanks” for his drinks
and never swore in front of her.
“Hullo, Mr. Seaton. Lager?”
“Good-night, Kath. Yes, please ; lager with a
dash of lemon.”
She wondered if he was married, if he’d failed
in the city and had been sent to this God-forsaken
hole. He wasn’t young by any means.
Getting old herself, too, she thought as a pain
stabbed her back when she bent for a bottle. She’d
soon be too old for the bar; they wanted young
girls nowadays. Probably have to get a job in
a second-rate hotel, and finish up sweating over a
stove.
The bar was full now, and the men were shouting
and calling her to hurry with the drinks. Barclay
came in to help. Barclay was all right. He’d bought
the hotel with his last penny, and held on until the
town came good, but even now his wife spent most of
what he made. A pity she didn’t help in the bar
occasionally.
Someone was talking to her, and she forced her-
self to smile. “What’s that, Joe?”
“See you to-night, Kath?”
“Not a hope,” she flung back, trying to say it
lightly.
“Aw, come on, be a sport.”
“No, not to-night, Joe; I’m too tired.”
“Well, to-morrow night.”
“P’raps.”
“0.K., it’s a date.”
God, if only she could get back to the city! But
she’d probably have to wait months for a job, and
there was Jimmy to think of.
nr HERE was a stranger with the Somers boys. She
*■ could hear them talking about her.
“Who’s the barmaid?”
“Kath ; she’s a good sort.”
“Yair, not bad. What’s her other name?”
“Sheldon. Mrs. Sheldon.”
“Mrs.?”
“Yair.”
“Where’s the hubby?”
“Gord knows.”
“He left a good thing.”
Kath slammed a glass across the counter. Per-
haps she should have stayed with Dan. But then she’d
had to think of Jimmy.
Someone was swearing, using vile, filthy language.
It made her feel ill. She felt Cass’s eyes on her again.
He had soaked himself in beer, and his eyes were dull,
his lips half open and wet. She wanted to throw a
bottle at him, but she walked over when he called her.
“What is it?” she asked.
He leaned over the counter and said, “Come
here, I want to tell you something.”
She moved a little closer, then tried to jump back,
but one hand held her like a vyce while the other
pawed her shoulder. Someone laughed.
She almost screamed. “Let me go! Stop pawing
me,” and managed to wrench herself away. She
smacked him across the mouth with the back of her
hand and said, “You filthy beast.”
He smeared his mouth with the palm of his hand
and broke the top off his glass on the edge of the bar,
leaving a rough, jagged edge.
“Fiery, eh?” he said. “There’s only one thing for
you ; how about a barmaid’s kiss?”
She leaned against the shelf, really frightened.
Jean had got a barmaid’s kiss in a drunken brawl.
The broken rim of a glass pushed into her face. Kath
shuddered at the recollection of her white, bleeding
lips. Some of the men took hold of Cass and quiet-
ened him.
Her hand was wet where it had smacked his
mouth. She wiped it and felt sick. Cass and his
friends had gathered a circle around them and were
talking of blacklisting. Barclay came up to her.
“Go easy, Kath,” he said. “If they blacklist us
and go over to Chancey’s half the crowd’ll follow
them. Things are tough enough as it is.”
“But the swine was mauling me.”
“Yes, I know it’s hard on you, but we’ve got to
play to them a bit.”
She shrugged. “0.K., Bare.”
She’d have to help Barclay. He was fighting as
hard as she was, and he’d been good to her. Walking
over to Cass and his crowd she said, “Have one on
me, boys” ; then to Cass, “Sorry, Bill, but I’m tired and
all strung up to-night.”
He came back to the counter and grinned. “0.K.,
Kath, meet me afterwards and we’ll forget it.”
She tried to smile and said, “Not to-night, Bill;
make it to-morrow.”
“Good enough,” he smiled thickly. “Here’s fun,”
and they all drank together.
HP HE men were growing noisier, and the smoke and
* the stench of beer and sweat were suffocating. At
length she heard Barclay call “Eleven o’clock ; time,
boys, please.”
Another half-hour of persuasion and shoving to
empty the bar, but at last Barclay locked the door and
said, “You’d better get home to bed, Kath; you’ve
had a tough night. I’ll get Sam to clean up in the
morning.”
She took her hat and bag and hurried through
the side door into the street. At the little tearooms
on the corner she bought a bar of chocolate, then
walked slowly along the road to the boarding-house.
Her feet were burning and her head aching. God,
why couldn’t she get away from it all? If only she
didn’t have Jimmy.
She climbed the stairs to her room and quietly
opened the door. There was a note on the table,
written in Jimmy’s thin scrawl.
Dear Mother, —
I was too tired to wait up for you, so I went
to bed. I only made one spelling mistake to-day.
Jimmy.
She walked over to the bed in the corner and
looked down at her son. His dark curls were scat-
tered over the pillow, and there was a slight smile on
his lips. She tucked the sheets around him and bent
down to kiss his forehead.
For a moment she clutched him fiercely, and his
little arms stole sleepily around her neck. She pushed
him back on to the pillow and smoothed his hair, then
undressed and climbed wearily into bed.


A Difficult Time
Aulumn
By
LES ROBINSON
ATMOSPHERICS
BY
UNK WHITE.
THERE are fewer of those birds whose
raucous and sandpaperish voices match
the coarse-textured coastal scrub
which is their habitat, and drown, all
summer, the attractive musical notes of
other birds which might otherwise have en-
raptured our ears as we roamed o’er hill
and dale at the week-end—just to kill time ;
because we are fond of doing so, had no-
where else to go and nothing in particular
to do ; or merely because the dog needed
exercise.
If kookaburras, which greet the dawn
always with community laughter, were
migratory, only fowls, dogs, milkmen, brawling
cats, yelling and squawling kids, sawmills, factory
whistles, explosions, low-flying aeroplanes, captive
crows, parrots and cockatoos, early-rising motor-
cyclists, grass-cutters, wood-choppers, piano and
bugle learners and crass owners of immense
wireless sets would be left to disturb our autumnal
and winter slumbers. The kookaburras are, however,
monotonously regular in their residential and other
habits. They go on living, year in, year out, in the
same old tree or clump of trees, just as we go on
living in the same old house. But fancy welcoming
the dawn with an outburst of even mechanised
laughter! If you and I were to do it, the right-
thinking, rational, orderly, and exemplary suburbanites
in the houses all about us would take umbrage and
the offensive at once. It is safe, indeed, to predict
that we would be reprimanded by the police or an
inspector of nuisances, and that if we kept on treating
the birth of a new day as a huge joke and ushering
it in with uproarious merriment we should very soon
find ourselves in the Reception House.
The few remaining and hardiest of the cicadas
drone nasally, as though afflicted already with that
catarrh so prevalent at the season’s changing, and in
a dirgelike tone of voice, too, as though realising
from the fall in*temperature, and, it may perhaps be
conjectured as well, a consequent cooling off of the
tree sap upon which they subsist, that their doom
is imminent.
The last of the summer bathers seems reluctant
to enter the water, rippled and chilled by the first
west winter breeze. He stands there dubiously stirring
it with his toes, and is probably wondering whether
a smoke wouldn’t do him more good. The first of
the winter bathers doesn’t seem very thrilled about
plunging in, either. He also, pausing irresolute on the
brink, is wondering, very likely, whether, sustained
by sheer perversity, bravado, self-discipline, or the
cult of the Yogi, he will have the fortitude necessary
to enable him to take those cold plunges all the grey
stark, bleak and drear mornings that are about to
separate him from next spring. And he wonders, at
the same time, possibly, whether there is enough iron
left in his constitution to justify him in hoping that
he will be able to stand it.
Where are the flies that pestered us so persistently
all the summer months? Still there, and, joined by
that large, particularly virulent and vampire-like March
species, which, however, has no hesitation about arriv-
ing much earlier and staying as long as it likes, they
are more pestiferous, voracious, cunning and venture-
some than ever.
And where are the mosquitoes that, undeterred
by all the odoriferous fluids they are supposed to
hate, but to which they undoubtedly grow accustomed
and even seem, after a while, positively to relish, we
buy from the chemist, imagining that, by smearing
our faces with them at bedtime, we will ward off
attacks? Still there, and aided by the large winter
variety,, with sting to match, that, if examined through
a powerful microscope, would, it is my belief, be found
to be thickly coated, like a hairy goat, with fur, to
enable it to prey upon us all the coldest nights
without discomfort —that, of course, as usual and by
a not unfamiliar coincidence, being wholly ours.
A UTUMN is spider-web time; I mean outdoor
spider-web time, for in no particular season of
the year do indoor cobwebs appear to be less numerous
than they were in the other three —not in my domi-
ciliary experience, at
any rate, and I am, I
should hasten to men-
tion, an indefatigable
cobweb - fighter. As
there is about autumn
something conducive to in-
trospection and retrospection
—although, of course, nothing
is needed to foment either,
really and which favors
absence of mind, absent because, wandering
down long winding lanes of pleasantly mellow
thought, this irreducible activity among
spiders (the more you knock their webs down, the
bigger and stronger they build them again), nowhere
more observable than in the garden, is, as the long
winding lanes and trains of autumnally mellowed
reflection so often lead you face first into large sticky
webs, a, to put it mildly, confounded nuisance.
If you think it only accidental they are hung just
that, from your point of view, inconvenient height
from the ground, it shows you are not a suspicious
person. Flies and mosquitoes don’t blunder into those
webs nearly as often as you do, which proves:
(1) —That their minds stray less from their work
than yours does.
(2) —That they fly straight and warily to an objective
(you generally).
(3) —That they dislike to be delayed anywhere indefi-
nitely.
Isn’t it a good job, by the way, there are no webs
strong enough to hold human beings and no gigantic
spiders able to treat them, when inextricably entangled,
as the never more than merely large kinds we have
about us and that beweb our homes and their con-
tents, including ourselves sometimes, treat flies?
A ND autumn, for reasons beyond the compre-
** hension of at least one ex-camper, who, after
years spent in an asylum, now carries about a certifi-
cate, signed by the Master in Lunacy, authorising him
to regard himself and to assert (without hope of
being believed) that he has been cured, or, in other
words, is perfectly sane again, is camping time, too.
It is at this season of the year more than any
other, when the vagaries of the weather are so pro-
nounced as to reduce the predictions of even salaried
prophets to the level of punting, that people unable to
dominate outdoor tendencies, become inordinate, very
often, because of books about the open spaces, written
indoors, leave houses built of brick, stone, concrete,
timber and other sturdy materials, where they are not
at the mercy of the elements, in order to live in frail
canvas and calico ones where they are.
Those who, fowl-like, don’t mind sand being
mixed with their food ; who regard battles with hurri-
canes in the dead of night as the spice of life ; who
think it is great fun trying to light fires with damp
matches and wet wood on rainy mornings ; who are
fond of trudging, heavily laden, through sand or mud —
transforming themselves into pack-horses or -mules,
pro tem., in fact —and who then seek to recover from
the fatigue of it all by lying on the hard, lumpy and
often moist ground, are sure to enjoy autumn camping.
But the insects that prey upon the campers always
enjoy it most.
JUT DITORS of horticultural and agricultural columns
J —' and the domestic scientists who give advice on
household management are wont to say that autumn
is a very busy time of the year. But, according to
them, no season is nice and drowsy and restful, which
hastens you in coming to the conclusion that if the
toil, as all along suspected by those urged, hitherto
unsuccessfully, to engage in such pursuits, is inevitable
and immeasurable, so, too, is the muscle and bone
fag, both being incurable as well, except at great
expense, if your recuperative powers are the kind
that won’t do their best unless by means of restora-
tives, brewed or medicinal, aided.
And then there are those autumn rains that people,
not farmers, be it noted, will tell you are the most to
be relied upon of any in the year. Experientia docet,
however, that you can only be quite certain they will
come drenching along to where you reside if that is
in a locality suitable for frog-farming, low-lying and
of a marshy nature in fact, easily and often flooded.
If your roof leaks and you don’t own a mackintosh,
gum-boots, stilts, or an umbrella; have no indoor
facilities for drying clothes, and there isn’t a cave or a
loft anywhere near into which you could move with
your goods and chattels, even supposing you had a
punt you could use for transportation purposes, you
can safely bet on that autumn deluge arriving with
devastating lavishness, dire and unprecedented vim.
And if, like someone I could mention, you are a
Jonah, it will last for weeks.
O INAL remarks: The nights are drawing in, which
* suits the secretive and the nefarious nicely. It
is, of course, possible to be naturally the first, in fact
many of us are, without being the second, but how
are you going to get the other kind of people to
believe it?
Ants are working overtime, storing up provender.
Grasshoppers, being improvident, futile, irresponsible,
frivolous, haphazard and intemperate (haven’t I seen
them lying under leaves, in the middle of the day,
sleeping off the effects of overindulgence in fermented
grass-juice?) creatures, sadly deficient in nous, ambi-
tion, stability, acquisitiveness, staying- and will-power,
capacity for sustained effort or achievement of any
kind; only useful, in fact, when dead, dried and
pulverised, as concentrated poultry food, aren’t, per-
haps, because ephemeral and aware of it, bothering.
You find out, when you look your winter gar-
ments over, whether moth and silverfish have wasted
the summer months. Have you? You wonder. Per-
haps you resemble the ant, but, if not, if the grass-
hopper is your insect counterpart, we shall meet, no
doubt, as usual, in the morning, beside the tool-chest
of the Road Improvers and Landscape Alterers’ Asso-
ciation. And, unless you are anxious to incur my
enmity, don’t take all the light mattocks and shovels!


immolation on their husbands’ pyres. On a wave of
moral indignation the Dutch Government decided to
act, and sent a strong punitive expedition against
Badoeng.
The Balinese were no match for the trained
European soldiers, and knew it. They chose defeat
with honor, and even for this emergency there was
a ritual ready to their need. Alit, his followers and
their wives voluntarily, clad in white and wreathed
with flowers, went to a “sacrificial death” at the
hands of the Dutch—a consummation of the plan
of conquest that horrified the conquerors.
This climax is handled in masterly style, swing-
ing as it does between the two ways of life, Dutch
and Balinese, that never could meet.
Holtby Short Stories.
Winifred Holtby’s death was promptly followed
up by a volume of letters, written in her twenties ;
now comes a collection of short stories, Pavements at
Anderby (Collins; edited by H. S. Reid and Vera
Brittain).
The miscellaneous pieces there are thirty of
them—are dated from 1923 to 1935, and the standard
is a good deal higher than the rather apologetic
preface suggests. Winifred Holtby was never a bore.
At their worst these stories are pleasant confections,
short and light, embellished with a pretty if super-
ficial wit and abounding in little portraits struck off
with happy facility.
We meet such people as Emily, the family
retainer who with amazing devotion permits herself
to be courted by an assistant in Fortnum and Mason’s
during the war shortage, by a policeman when there
was difficulty over parking the car, and so on ; Mr.
Hilary, who was driven mad by the 8.8. C.; a busy-
body who took a toss ; a girl who was so well brought
up that she missed everything. A touch of humor
and a nip of satire liven things up.
“Little Man Lost” tells of a smug little rich man
on his way home from a discarded love affair in
Paris so adroitly managed that he hardly suffered
any discomfort at all from the woman’s despair— to
a business deal in Hungary. No one could be safer
or more satisfied. But something goes wrong. His
sleeping powder disagrees with him in the night and
he leaves his compartment in haste. Opening the
wrong door, he steps out of the train. He is not
seriously hurt, because a snowdrift receives him, but
he is barefooted, without money, papers or a word
of German, in the Austrian forest country. He
follows the line, hoping for a station, and finds a
cottage. Through the window he sees a girl feeding
her baby. “It was home. It was peace. It was life
and safety for ever. It was the most beautiful thing
that Mr. Berkenshaw had ever seen.” The girl is
Terrified by his appearance. “English!” he yells,
“Money!” and “Passport!” But she snatches up a
knife to defend herself and he flees, “irreparably lost
for ever.”
Tucked away in the middle of the book are short
essays and childhood memories; the usual things:
“Machiavelli in the Sick Room,” “How to Enjoy
Yourself When 111” —some shrewd observations there —
and “The Right Side of Thirty.”
An "Ancient Scandal."
The two parts of Pepita, by V. Sackville-West,
besides reopening a case that excited great interest,
fit together as neatly as the halves of a nut. The
first deals with the story behind the “unpalatable
squabble” that ensued when Henry, one of an illegi-
timate family belonging to the second Lord Sackville
and a Spanish dancer, tried to establish a claim to
legitimacy and succession to the title. The holder
at the time was Lionel Sackville’s nephew, who had
married one of the dancer’s lovely daughters (she was
his cousin and the author’s mother).
The dancer, Pepita, was the daughter of Catalina
Ortega, widow of a barber of Malaga, who is not
necessarily to be regarded as Pepita’s father. Miss
Sackville-West is credulous of a story that her father
was a Spanish grandee, a lover of Catalina’s at a time
when she was a circus rider.
Pepita, before she met Lionel Sackville, married
a second-rate Spanish dancer, Oliva, to whom > she
owed her tuition and her chance to appear in Madrid.
She was separated from her young husband soon after,
either prised loose by her scheming mother or because
she herself realised that life now offered her better
chances away from him. Henry claimed that this
marriage had never really taken place—and there was
a defaced entry in the marriage register in support of
this.
The defendant’s case rested on evidence collected
in Spain from people, now old, who had been intimate
with the parties involved; peasants, household ser-
vants, street vendors, tradesmen, theatre hands, petty
rascals —in fact, the entire Ortega circle of acquaint-
ances. The mass of material was vast, and out of it
the author has reconstructed an informative and enter-
taining picture of life among lower-class Spaniards
during the 1870’s.
Pepita’s stock-in-trade was beauty, charm and
gaiety. It was on these that her success in the capitals
of Europe was founded, for she was an indifferent
dancer. She was a woman of little taste, a collector
of colorful junk to the end of her days. Also, not-
withstanding that she bore him six children —the pater-
nity of the seventh is doubtful —she was scarcely more
faithful to Lionel Sackville, devoted to her throughout
his life, than to Oliva. But she was loyal to her
humble Spanish connections. She set Catalina up in
a fine home in a village near Malaga, and on the rare
occasions when she could visit her lent herself good-
naturedly to all' the public pomp' with''which her-
mother surrounded her homecoming.
The eccentricities of Pepita’s character are some-
what softened by the pink romantic spotlight Miss
Sackville-West turns on her heroine, but they recur
and are allowed to stand out fairly sharply in the
character of her daughter, Lady Sackville, whose story
is told in the second half of the book. Lady Sack-
ville had her mother’s beauty, charm, wilfulness and
irresponsibility, the first two diminishing as the years
passed, the last two increasingly accentuated. With
an assured position in English society and with wealth
to play with, she indulged all her whims regardless
of their effect upon an adoring but perpetually exas-
perated husband.
Her idiosyncrasies took conflicting forms. She
would fling away two thousand pounds on a neck-
lace for a gift, and she would economise by writing
a letter on a piece of toilet paper. She carried all
things to extremes. She picked up her husband’s
enthusiasm for fresh air and carried it to the extent
of insisting on the family—herself included —taking
its meals outdoors in the dead of winter swaddled to
the nose in rugs and mufflers.
Restraint vanished after her husband’s death, and
she hurled money right and left. Her passion was
for buying and remodelling huge old houses, always
after some impractical plan. One of her reconstruc-
tions had a furnace that consumed a ton of coal a
day.
She was always exasperated by nature’s insistence
on producing flowers in season, not when Lady Sack-
ville would have liked them in her garden. So she
stuck in clumps of artificial flowers, painted tin.
Comparative poverty overtook her, so she appealed
to old friends for a “tile for the Roof of Friendship,”
two tiles if they were feeling generous. She never
forgave a certain distinguished painter who sent her
a real roofing tile done up in brown paper. Yet she
was not lacking in wit. In one of her last homes
she was the defendant in nine lawsuits involving unpaid
bills. She referred to the place as the Writs Hotel.
A Pastoral Novel.
Pastoral, by Eleanor Green (Cape), is the work
of one of the younger American writers, unsatisfactory
in some ways, but very pleasing in others.
Two lovers, James and Till, return for a year to
the farm where James grew up. For this one year
they are free. It is an interlude in their lives. They
come as sentimental onlookers sipping delicately at
the pleasures of the country, discovering with gentle
curiosity the lives of those about them, consciously
living out their idyll, conscientiously laying up beauty
and peace.
There are incidents, even snatches of drama, let
neatly into the book, memories of childhood, a village
funeral, Christmas, storm. Each is complete in itself
and a masterpiece of description, but they tend to
disrupt the book as a whole.
The beauty of Pastoral is in the manner of its
writing. Eleanor Green transcribes the surface of
life with imaginative truthfulness, and her sensitive
prose is delicately matched to her perception. It is
unconventional, full of sharp new images. “The
cyclone fondled the valley with its trunk.” “The
white dream of winter was about him ; smooth and
acid cold came down like scorn from the blue sky.”
Her images are always as far removed as possible
from the normal course of the story. They give it
a strange bouquet and save it from the too great
smoothness and sweetness to which its kind is prone.
The weakness of the book is the slenderness of the
main theme ; the last impression being that here is
too much of too little.
Defence of a Bligh Book.
Reviewing my book William Bligh of the Bounty in Fact
and Fable, “J.L.” (R.P. 16/6/’37) says that I rely on the
published Historical Records. He will find that I have relied
on other sources — e.g., the commission of Bligh as Rear-
Admiral of the Blue and the log-book of H.M.S. Porpoise.
The log of the Porpoise is in manuscript and is not in
the Historical Records. The court-martial on Major Johnston
—a most important source of information —is not in the
Historical Records. The statements on which “J.L.” relies
in no way support the theory that the . “Journal” of James
Morrison was written up from day to day. There is little
ground for assuming that everything said by Lady Belcher
on the subject was correct. She was writing long after the
events and was very hostile to Bligh, and is extremely
inaccurate.
“J.L.” quotes a letter from Rev. W. Howell of November
25, 1792, in which he speaks of Morrison’s “Narrative,” which
was to be ready for the press in six or seven weeks —that is,
about three and a half years after the mutiny and more than
five years after the first day mentioned in the so-called
“Journal.” Howell says that the “Narrative” will consist
of a very particular and diffuse account of the proceedings
of Christian’s party after the mutiny and that nothing will
be mentioned that may tend to any disturbance or reflect on
any character. Clearly this cannot refer to an account of
what took place before the mutiny and still less to one con-
taining references reflecting on the character of Bligh. It is
not clear how Bligh became acquainted with the “Narrative”
referred to on November 25, 1792, if he ever saw it at all.
He did not return to England till August 7, 1793.
The letter of October 10, 1792, quoted by “J.L.” refers
to the treatment which Morrison met with during his late
imprisonment, which again has no reference to anything before
the mutiny. If these letters can be relied on, in neither of
these two “Narratives” (if they were separate) was there any-
thing before the mutiny. This seems to leave nothing but the
“Journal” of which the Golden Cockerel Press has published
a copy. This must have been concocted long after the events
relating to Bligh. . . „ ~
As to Bligh’s being acquainted with the Journal, there
is nothing to show the date when he made his “remarks on
Morrison’s Journal,” though we know they cannot have been
made before August 7, 1793. They may have been made long
after. Bligh no doubt took it seriously. It accused him of
• stealing the men’s food and did reflect on his character.
If “J.L.” had compared the so-called “Journal” with
Bligh’s remarks he would have seen that Bligh is remarking
not on the “Journal” that has been published by the Golden
Cockerel Press but on another document.
Bligh contradicts an allegation by Morrison that Bligh
had fabricated something, cheating the Government.. This
allegation is not to be found in the version printed by the
Golden Cockerel Press, a reproduction of the “Journal” in
the Mitchell Library. Obviously Bligh was looking at another
concoction and not, as “J.L.” thinks, at the one in the
Mitchell Library. It does not inspire confidence in either
concoction to find that so grave an accusation was made in
one and dropped in the other.
“J.L.” makes no attempt to deal with the facts that no
one at the trial mentions Morrison’s “Journal,” and that
Edward Christian, who was in correspondence with Morrison,
makes no allusion to it either in his pamphlet of 1794 or in
that of 1795.
Had Morrison kept a Journal when in the Bounty all
would have been known about it. Had he kept one at Tahiti
the other fifteen would have known about it. The “Journal”
is not mentioned till much later. The obvious inference is
that it had not then been concocted and that there is no
diary, collection of rough notes or anything of the kind made
at the time of the events narrated in the “Journal.” “J.L.”
makes no attempt to deal with this. '
The Mitchell Library does not (any more than does any
other library) guarantee that the contents of any document
in its possession are true. The Court did not believe Morrison;
neither do I.
As to Fryer’s Narrative, it is immaterial whether the
original document is the one in the Mitchell Library or not.
Fryer had obviously seen Bligh’s Narrative, as he comments
on it. His own recollection could not be trusted. He says
that Lebogue, of all people, accuses Bligh of cowardice! He
states that in the launch he had a quadrant and Bligh a
sextant, but at the trial he swore that Bligh had a quadrant
and that he (Fryer) was denied one.
As to Simeon Lord —“J.L.” quibbles. What does it
matter whether Macquarie appointed Lord a magistrate, which
had the effect of making him sit on occasions on the Supreme
Court Bench, or whether he appointed him direct to that
Bench? Clearly either was wrong.
LONDON.
H. S. Montgomerie.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
The Laurels Are Cut Down: Archie Binns
(Arthur Barker). Pioneering the shores of Puget
Sound, gold prospecting in Alaska, the American
military expedition in Siberia during the close of the
Great War, linked by the experiences of two brothers.
Good but very still, like tapestry pictures.
The Hobbit: J. R. R. Tolkien (Allen and
Unwin). Adventures in a wonderland whose archi-
tecture owes something to classic myth. For children
—with an invitational glance toward their elders.
The Woman Clothed with the Sun : F. L. Lucas
(Cassell). Anti-Semitism traced from the days of
Rome to the speculative future of man by means of
a series of long and short short stories. Some good
work in it, but the form chosen is awkward for the
author’s purpose.
Morning Tells the Day: Barbara Goolden
(Methuen). English countryside. A too-loving
father’s crushing domination of his only son. A grim
recipe sweetened with the sugar of light romance.
The Marriage Broker: Mrs. Belloc Lowndes
(Heinemann). Adventures in Paris and happy mar-
riage of an Irish-American girl of eighteen who is
unexpectedly left a large fortune.
General . . .
Australian Wild Flower Fairies: Nuri Mass
(Shakespeare Head Press). Admirably designed to
familiarise young Australians with native flora.
About forty of the most plentiful Australian wild-
flowers are shown in full-page black-and-white illus-
tration, with exact botanical description. On opposite
pages the flower tells the youngster very simply a little
story about its home, its relations and interesting events
in its life cycle.
Speak Easily: C. B. Kelland (Arthur Barker).
American college professor as innocent abroad,
amazed at slang, sin, etc. Polysyllabic humor by the
author of Mr. Deeds Goes to Town.
The Standardised Code of Contract Bridge:
F. Dudley Courtenay (Methuen). Compilation by an
American contract-bridge authority of the decisions of
the U.S.A. Committee on Standardisation. This
English edition is edited by Col. G. G. Walsh, leading
London authority. It is the latest and most authori-
tative work on the game.
Out of My Life and Work: Auguste Forel
(George Allen and Unwin). Autobiography of the
Swiss psychiatrist whose most notable work was done
as a naturalist —he has studied ants from childhood.
Readable, because of its candor and a naive, likeable
egotism.
My Memories, by Thomas Brentnall (Robertson
and Mullens). Life story of a Melbourne nonagen-
arian, known wherever Australian musicians gather
together. Brentnall in his time met most of the world’s
great musicians', and his reminiscences on these lines
and his memories of his long career as a chartered
accountant make pleasant reading.
Mea Culpa and The Life and Work of Semmel-
weis: Louis Ferdinand Celine (Allen and Unwin ; 55.).
Introduces to English readers one of the most remark-
able of the younger French writers. Translator R. A.
Parker has retained the trenchant vigor of the original.
Celine, a Parisian medico, was in his youth a Com-
munist. He went to Soviet Russia and returned
revolted to the core. He expresses his disgust in
Mea Culpa, written in the argot of the Paris gutters.;
a regular tour de force of vituperation. The little
biography, on the other hand, is an essay in hero-
worship, written in a politer idiom, but serves just as
handily to clothe the author’s ingrained pessimism—
a pessimism that sinks whole geological strata deeper
than Schopenhauer.
The Child : Learning and Living : Katherine Hey-
wood (Longmans). Brightly-written treatise by a lady
who has been conducting a “garden school” for years.
It covers not only kindergarten but ordinary primary
methods, and is informed by much sympathy with and
understanding of the child mind.
“Den”: Selma Lagerlof is not the “only woman
who has ever won the Nobel Prize” (R.P. 9/ 2/’3B).
Others to bag it include Sigrid Undset, Norwegian
novelist.


SAFETY PROVED!
THE NATIONAL ROADS AND
MOTORISTS’ ASSOCIATION
(N.S.W.) and the
AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALIA
Certify
<3 e \ep^ on ®,
B W '2o' UNt
““iw?.”'’ ' -—r
* one ■' , , £s■*•»•
---sss? a- «s
operating e3o erteinie6 tip n afte • -oximatelY
sfSrV- 1 " lu . . MIM -
... MV £SU« “ a . rv.*; 5S>.
COHVBOUIL
Of v»* *1
»*• *"lf
.» ° tLl l
,>UT<»* OB 's
|es£ss£f- „ >tM H
ft HO*
sSS- r -“
I *i_oc« M *
Q per^ in6 4 °e3^ ala Scatlon S ’° . roxifflft tel 7
« eMln . f-jsrsirfesss*
the 1 J; SS- wes dra *f imp
tittW&V poi*
tv.- engin® t he engi n0 ’.-e line®* _„eedometer . f o r
Sssk ;;; tM -j-jsss- -
4 " a of aP®® do,n9 Rnd 18th. Ju^ y ’ being ie
ends o xo tn.. RB ~ of sumP olJ> speed-
*-v%A 6"tn«i iiA« on .1 A atifl
fte *!»£**** ** t#a for
IgiL- s^»,«s,'SS^joS|‘“-
- ....
&•“ W ' ? .» «\£»
i gssßfil r ,i*
I
». ...
old- ° a , n TaoWal 041 0 S mil® 8 * aS 5 * tW engin® * aB teporte*
zs&ss* rsra *-~
tftS-;... •«*””*•
toBlyB 1
RO yAi- 1
vvt» T 1
Seer
alary
I#ctaai®
to
Aue
lW eli*»
The NEW
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA), LTD. (INC. IN N.S.W.).
For your own
Safety
Get it Today .
190-487


I
ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
m
IN
EPPEL
‘V
1*
Cl*E232fcj
»
r
B
m
ui
ii
9f
a


OUT OF EDEN’S GARDEN.
Not only is Mr. Eden out of the Cabinet, but Mr. Litvinov has been excluded from Mr. Chamberlain’s peace discussions."
“You, too!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
GOOD RIDDANCE!
Most of the cablegrams published in Australian
newspapers are collected by Associated Press, and, as
might have been expected from the extent to which
Associated Press draws on British “Liberal” and Labor
newspapers and reports Labor politicians of no
consequence, the Cabinet changes found it blatantly
pro-Eden. Yet it was from this source that Aus-
tralians learned of the demonstrations made by Com-
munist champions of Anthony Eden on the occasion
of his resignation and of his apology for his adminis-
tration in the House of Commons —the invasion of
Downing-street by Reds distributing Communist hand-
bills and shouting “We want Eden!” and “No Pact
with Italy!” and the repetition of this Red stunt in
Parliament House itself.
From the same source came the information that,
when the French Government learned that Mr. Eden
was about to resign, “the British Ambassador was
summoned to meet the French Prime Minister and
Foreign Minister, and told of the importance that
France attached to his retention.” That was the
version of Madam Tabouis, of “L’GEuvre,” the most
notorious Left-Wing writer of her sex. Another Asso-
ciated Press account is that “when Mr. Eden’s resig-
nation was regarded as likely, M. Delbos, the Foreign
Minister, formally indicated to Mr. Chamberlain that
such a happening would perturb France.”
Not since the seventeenth century, when Louis
XIV. had an English king in fiis pocket, have Paris
politicians dared to interfere so impudently in the
internal affairs of Britain. Only under the adminis-
tration of an Anthony Eden would foreigners have
held British pride so cheap.
Rightly taken, subservience to foreigners was the
cause of Anthony Eden’s downfall. He had to
resign because it had become evident that he
was the instrument of Franco-Russian policy, work-
ing through the League, into which he had escorted
the Red Republic. In the last resort, an old Prime
Minister who is British to the core refused to let
this chronic backer of wrong horses .gamble with the
fate of the British Empire. So he had to get out,‘and
his tame pupil Lord Cranborne chose to leave with
him.
Not long before the war an American magazine
published some verses, “To England in Time of Peril,”
which closed with the lines “Here’s half the world
wohld fight for her who taught them to be free.”
And half the world did fight for her ; but after three
years of Anthony Eden and stiff-necked idealism in
the Foreign Office how many of those allies would
have been on her side in the struggle into which he
and his shady foreign associates were dragging her?
How much support would she have got from Law-
rence’s Arabs, some of whom have lately been
bombed by the Royal Air Force? How much from
their co-religionists and sympathisers in India
80,000,000 of them, devoted to Britain until stiff-
necked idealism became the Foreign Office fashion?
The Italians and the lapanese, as well as the Ger-
mans, were antagonised by Anthony Eden’s policy
and methods. When he asserted that he was working
in “close collaboration” with the Americans, Wash-
ington snubbed him, made an independent settlement
with Tokio, and told the world that it had no alliance
or understanding with Britain. The Belgians removed
themselves from the Franco-British orbit; the ancient
alliance with Portugal was so shaken that a military—
not a Foreign Office —mission had to be sent to Lisbon
to assure the offended Portuguese that the British
Government was not really siding with Red Spain ;
and Brazil’s sentiments are the same as Portugal’s.
As for the Yugoslavs, the Rumanians and the
Poles, they, as well as the Austrians and the Hun-
garians, hastened to make it clear, in different ways,
that they were not lining up with Russia and France,
one putrid and the other putrescent with Communism.-
If it had come to war those two countries and
Czechoslovakia would have been our only
allies. And, in the nature of things, all three would
have been immobilised from the beginning, unable,
because of their internal strife and their military
situation, to lift a finger to help Britain ; liabilities,
not assets.
It is clear from Mr. Chamberlain’s speeches in
the House of Commons, ill-reported as they were by
Associated Press, that, with Mr. Eden in control, we
were drifting towards this unspeakable disaster.
“Month by month,” said the Prime Minister, “we
seemed to be getting nearer to war.” While the
League Covenant remained “the cornerstone of
British foreign policy,” we could, in fact, have
been voted into war by Russia and France and
a rabble of small countries, countries which,
because of. their insignificance or their remote-
ness, need not themselves have been parties to it. By
forcing the resignation of Mr. Eden, and by abandon-
ing collective security as not only perilous but dis-
honest, a thing of “shams and pretences,” Mr. Cham-
berlain has at the very least arrested the drift to
Armageddon. By taking the initiative in negotiating
with Italy and Germany, and by recommending the
same policy to France and refusing to have any truck
with Russia’ he has introduced commonsense and good
feeling into relations which were clouded by suspicion
and resentment. And only in an atmosphere of common-
sense and good feeling can an enduring peace be
made.
Hitler said in to the Reichstag that
his country had no territorial claims against France
now that the Saar had been returned. That statement
offers a basis on which the ages-old quarrel between
France and Germany may be settled, and it can be
permanently settled only by the French and Germans
themselves. Hitler said also that Germany and Italy
had no territorial ambitions in Spain, though they
were naturally concerned at the prospect—-now fading
very fast —of a hostile Bolshevik State being estab-
lished there. On that basis, likewise, Britain and
France can treat with Germany and Italy.
In a lucid interval —after a talk with the Prime
Minister, perhaps—Mr. Eden once remarked that,
whichever faction won the civil war, Spaniards would
rule Spain, as they have done since the expulsion of
the Moors. Yet he made it a condition of entering
into conversations with the Italian Government that
it should (1) agree to ship all the Italians from Spain,
and (2) “effect a substantial withdrawal.” He presented
no such demand to either of the countries which are
notoriously backing the Reds. Yet no unbiased
person who reads the Communist press, and who
realises how easy it is for thousands of volunteers to
slip over a land frontier and how difficult to land the
same number by sea, can help suspecting that there are
more French soldiers helping the Reds than there are
Italian soldiers helping the Nationalists.
The Prime Minister declined to discriminate
between the countries supporting the Spanish factions.
Though he has no more use for Fascism than the
average Briton or American, he refused to let political
objections or personal dislikes stand in the way of
discussions which have become so necessary. As has
been said, it is hard on a man of 68 that he
should have to add the direction of foreign policy in
critical times to the other responsibilities that a Prime
Minister must shoulder; but a Chamberlain never
shrank from an onerous job just because it was
onerous. And this Chamberlain’s way is the way of
peace. He has kept us out of a crazy and catastrophic
war.
Crime and No Punishment.
N.S.W. people, who were startled by two vile crimes
committed recently, are losing confidence in the ability
of the authorities to trace murderers unless they give
themselves up or do themselves in.
No arrest has been made in the case of the girl
who was done to death in the grounds of a church
school at Newcastle, or in that of the trade-union
organiser whose Lidcombe house was bombed at night
—he and his wife were blown to pieces. Yet in each
case the public was assured by newspapers professing
to be in the confidence of the police that an early
arrest was certain. A suggestion that a reward should
be offered in the Lidcombe affair was airily dismissed
until the inquiries had evidently come to nothing ;
then one was offered.
In the meantime the affair of the Pyjama Girl,
whose identity remains a mystery after three years
and five figures have been consumed in efforts to
establish it and find the slayer, was reopened with
the familiar flourish —and result. That officers should
be employed in this obviously hopeless quest when
the Newcastle and Lidcombe crimes remain unsolved
is as perplexing to the public as the repeated promise
of an early arrest which fails to materialise. It is
hard to see how this cocksureness can serve the ends
of justice by securing either information or convic-
tions.
The Minister controlling the Police Department
is the Chief Secretary, Mr. Chaffey. Very likely a
change would be advantageous. Mr. Chaffey is not an
energetic Minister, and at police functions and the
like he at times gives the impression that he is the
leader of a mutual-admiration society.
Country Towns and Settlement.
Before the war the Australian country town and the
small Australian grazing farm were usually the homes
of discomfort. The towns themselves were rows of
untidy buildings with dreary pubs on every corner ;
the streets were rutty and dusty ; the footpaths were
gravel. There was no sewerage, and water supply
was poor or non-existent.
Horse transport was so slow that surrounding
farmers came in no more often than they could help,
and even in fairly closely-settled districts their wives
did not see a shop for weeks at a time. The singular
fact is that in the country districts of that day people
stayed their lifetimes on their native heath. City
lights were not so bright.
Outside the 200-mile belt from the coast, there
are still many towns which are little improved ; but—
particularly in the older Sfates —things have changed.
Some of the medium-sized towns have developed a
vigorous civic pride.
It is easy to pick places which are already benefit-
ing by the change. In the decade of the ’nineties,
when there was still such a thing as immigration, and
when natural increase was almost double what it is
to-day, country-town population was stationary or
slumping. Goulburn (N.S.W.) had 11,000 people in
1891 ; in 1901 it had 10,600. In the war decade it
began to grow. Now the population is about 15,000.
Bathurst had fewer people in 1911 than in 1891.
Parkes had its period of stagnation. But in the last
16 years Parkes has gained over 2000 inhabitants ;
and in those 16 years country-town populations
generally have been drifting to the cities, and the birth-
rate has been on the decline.
Parkes, which this week is holding its anniversary
celebrations, is as good an example as any of what
can be done to keep people and business in the
country. It is built on the westerly slopes of the one
respectable-looking hill for miles. A couple of decades
ago it was just the ordinary western N. S. Wales town
wilting under the loss of its gold traffic.
Looking from the highest point to-day, the
country round about presents a dreary prospect to
an inexperienced eye. Half a dozen yellow, unkempt
roads snake out into dusty plain country. Little
mounds of mullock still mark the goldfields. There
are long wheatfields, the stubble baked by the sun.
But take a nearer view, and within a compass of
a mile Parkes is something snipped out of a metro-
polis. The higher levels of its hill are covered by
a group of churches which would be considered
substantial in any Sydney suburb. Broad, tree-
lined avenues slope down to a main street which is
anything but the street of bush tradition. It is better
paved than any Sydney street. For its whole length
its pavements under broad cantilevered verandahs are
floored in concrete blocks, scrupulously cleaned. The
shops are metropolitan. Where within the span of
young lives there were dingy windows dimly lighted,
the whole place blazes with electricity. Neon signs
wink. There are book stores, fashion shows, branches
of city department houses. The motor showrooms are
full of 1938 models, and there seem to be petrol-
pumps everywhere.
What once were bush hotels in which shirt-sleeved
barmen handed long sleevers to Dads and Daves are
now city bars. The dining-room waiters and waitresses
wear white Eton jackets. There is hot and cold water
in the bedrooms, even though it is Parkes water, which
is the color of last night’s coffee. And on Saturday
night, though all cars are parked diagonally, there
are so many motors that the main street will not hold
them. In this township of 6000 people over 600 cars
may be counted any Saturday. There is a magnificent
swimming-bath, and recently-constructed buildings
are solid and dignified.
That is the newer type of Australian country
town, and it is matched by the neighboring farms.
The man with 2000 sheep a generation ago led a
tinned-dog and damper life. The same man to-day has
a spotless, flyproof house, electric light from his own
plant, refrigeration, all his machinery run by power.
Many have their kitchens fitted electrically, down to
electric mixers. Their cars are of the larger American
type, and it takes them scarcely longer to get to the
nearest picture show 30 miles away than it does for
a Mosman resident, dependent on ramshackle trams,
to taste the joys of central Sydney.
The metropolitan or district daily paper is in
the house the day it is published. Every dwelling
has its receiving set, and reception is excellent. When
you have heard a clear description in English, straight
from Berlin, of the preparation for Hitler’s speech to
the Reichstag and switched round to hear what Mos-
cow, Rome and London have to say about the daily
crisis, next morning’s cables read like a garbled
muddle of distorted facts.
On Sunday afternoons and evenings, the front
rooms of hundreds of Australian farms are filled with
a variety of accents from all round the world: “Station
ZXYZ, San Francisco, calling ABCD, Vladivostok, or
CQ, CQ, CQ.” With a slight twist of the dial you swing
in a second to Hong Kong, to Tokio, to the two rival
Spanish official stations eternally blackguarding one
another. In the bush they reaMy listen to the foreign
wireless.
Towns like Parkes are pointing the way to the
solution of the problem of preventing the drift to the
cities.
EL V.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Diplomacy.
Had an unnaturalised American been “beaten up”
aboard the U.S. cruiser Louisville, as a sequel to
Communist efforts to corrupt the crew, while she
was at Port Melbourne, the Lyons Government would
certainly have refused to make a diplomatic matter
of it, even if the unnaturalised person proved that he
was as innocent as a babe unborn. But Attorney-
General Menzies intimated to a deputation of Vic-
torian Labor members that he was willing to make
a diplomatic matter of the affair in which Italians
were concerned:
I am reluctant to believe that the Italian Government
will be unwilling to listen to any proper representations
properly founded.
Communists had, of course, exploited the incident in
their well-known way. Mr. Menzies shares the
admiration of their tribe for Mr. Anthony Eden, an
admiration exhibited in the “We Want Eden” and “No
Pact with Italy” shouts of Red mobs in Downing-
street and the Parliamentary lobbies at Westminster.
When Mr. Eden resigned Mr. Menzies praised him in
the language of an educated footman lauding his
master the Baron of Bloomsbury. Perhaps he was
anxious to effect a diversion in Mr. Eden’s favor.
Anyway, “diplomatic representations are to be
made to the Italian Government through the Foreign
Office,” no longer controlled by Mr. Eden, “and the
British Ambassador at Rome.” Mr. W. M. Hughes
is to make them. Mr. Hughes embarrassed his col-
leagues by a recent speech on foreign affairs. On this
occasion he was found anxious to oblige. So much
so that he is to ask not only for “an appropriate
expression of regret,” but for “some financial recom-
pense to Frigo Orlando, the man who was assaulted.”
Only a Government without a sense of humor
or a sense of proportion would try to make
an international incident of a forecastle barney at a
time when negotiations big with the fate of nations
have been set in motion. Intelligent foreigners will
only laugh at it. But to intelligent Australians it is
no laughing matter. They can see in it only another
miserable surrender to Communist agitation by a
Government which traded on its hostility to Com-
munism, got the votes and then executed a series of
humiliating retreats.
The same Mr. Menzies who was so ready to
make a diplomatic matter of a Communist-exploited
shindy caused those Communist cases to be with-
drawn from the High Court. Why were they with-
drawn, and how much was frittered away in costs?
The public has never been told.
At Least One Battle-cruiser.
»
Australia’s collection of cruisers has been engaging
the attention of members of the Government. The
youngest is the 7000-ton Sydney, which carries eight
six-inch guns, is otherwise armed to modern
standards, and has a speed of knots. That sounds
well; but French warships of comparable size do
over 40 knots, and the Italian Raimondo Monte-
cuccoli, still in Australian waters, covered 37 knots on
her trials.
Next come the Australia and the Canberra, tower-
ing 10,000-tonners with eight-inch guns. At ten years
old, they are cases for complete reconstruction. They
are slow by modern cruiser standards, and their range
is short compared with those of the new British,
U.S.A., German and French efforts. The Australia
is going into dock, and will be out of commission
for months while she is reorganised.
Then there is the 5000-ton Adelaide. Twenty
years old, she is a coal-burner, and her speed is only
25.5 knots. She carries one more six-inch gun than
the Sydney, but her turrets are reaching the old-age-
pension class. The Adelaide is receiving the equivalent
of monkey-gland treatment.
Lastly, there are the Brisbane, of the same class,
also pre-war and a coal-burner; and the Albatross,
an aircraft-carrier which looks like a Christmas-tree,
and to which the most modern cruisers could give a
start of ten miles in twenty. The destroyers are all
of a bygone age.
With the same deliberateness which led it to
hold up the Salmond Air Defence report until it was
out of date, the Commonwealth Government is now
considering the addition of modern units. It has in
mind the construction of two cruisers in Britain. The
Government is overcome with the obsession that
Australia cannot build ships, and it desires to have
the “most expert and experienced knowledge avail-
able.”
The last time Australia bought a cruiser in Eng-
land there was so much delay on the other side that the
vessel had to be taken over half finished. And, as
every set of stocks in Britain is loaded down with
vessels which Britain needs for its own uses—it has a
building programme mapped out for several years—•
the Commonwealth might have to wait four or five
years for delivery.
And, of course, the exchange would be 25 per
cent, against us, and there would be extra delay if
a heavy vessel was among the purchases, since equip-
ment for bigger ships is especially in demand. So
great is the congestion in heavy naval building that
powerful mercantile companies like the P. and O.
have been compelled to jettison their immediate pro-
grammes because they can get no dockyard accom-
modation.
Australia should have at least one battle-cruiser
capable of fighting anything in the Pacific. Mr.
Thorby and friends incline to a pocket-battleship.
Germany originated pocket-battleships. They were
a makeshift compromise to meet the conditions
of Versailles, but when Hitler cast off the yoke of
Versailles he gave up building them. In any case,
as soon as two of them had been built every major
European country provided the answer to them.
What the Commonwealth does need is something
in the 26,000-ton class, with 14-inch guns and a speed
which would enable her to act as a cruiser for the
protection of trade routes, and to get to crucial points
on the long Australian coastline quickly. Something
in the class of the new French Strasbourg, which will
have 32 knots in her and mount 13-inch capital arma-
ment. And if they are to be built before Doomsday
the new ships must be built in Australia. The materials
and the workmen for most of the job are here.
He Brought No Gifts.
Youngsters who think that no future lies ahead for
them save through Bolshevism should read the story
of a career which is being told in the Brisbane press.
The hero of it was born of poor farming parents
in 1896. At 14 he found himself in an Australian
town literally without money. He took the first job
offering —in a bakery. Before he was 21 he had
enough money to go into the picture business in a
leased building at Young (N.S.W.).
By the time he was 30 he had a string of picture-
shows in western N. S. Wales towns. Later he
invaded northern N. S. Wales, and during the depres-
sion, when most people were thinking bf Blue Ruin
and the Coming Revolution, he gave Wagga a talkie
palace which cost £35,000.
A few weeks ago he crossed the Queensland
border to plank down £120,000 for Lennon’s Hotel.
He remarked that he considered Brisbane the
coming airport of Australia, and that foreign tourists
would expect decent accommodation. So he is
arranging to tear down the existing hotel and build
a new one, which will cost £300,000 over and above
the purchase price.
A splendid example of the tough, farseeing
young Australian, full of go and foresight? Oh, no.
The gentleman is a Greek. He had to start learning
the Australian language when he landed, just over
27 years ago.
No Hymn of Hate Now.
It is. a pity that Australians in general cannot read
representative newspapers in the foreign countries
which are supposed to be consumed with hatred for
Britain and for ever plotting its destruction. Ger-
many, for instance.
Germany has not a free press; its papers repre-
sent, within fairly narrow limits, the viewpoints of the
Government. With this in mind, let’s have a look
at “Kladderadatsch.”
Its issue of December 12 starts with a full-page
cartoon of a praying angel beneath the candles of
the Advent season. The caption is: “O Lord, grant
that it be peace.”
The next page is given over to a full-page poem,
“Germany-England.” Here is a rough translation:
Two peoples, vitally creative and linked by blood,
who within the compass of their individual genius have
always known a friendly spirit of emulation —should they
not be striving hand in hand for their mutual interests
and the good of humanity?
In the fury and the bloody rage of battle they have
proved themselves each other’s peers, afterwards bear-
ing no grudge, maintaining no War-hate. And as,
together, they emerged free in victory, in the glorious
bygone days of Malplaquet, Minden and Waterloo,
bound to each other in peace as in the clash of arduous
war, why should they not be so, also, in the future?
Though here and there there may be conflict of inter-
ests, the earth has room for both peoples. Each can
control its own destiny; each fashion its own peculiar
future. All that is needed is that they shall stand side
by side, wishing each other well, mutually avoiding
avarice and taking care not to keep back the just
dues of each other.
Germany was never greedy or envious of foreign
rights; that was never Germany’s policy, never the aim
of her ambition. All that we desire is that there
should be returned to us those possessions which we
acquired laboriously, piece by piece, and which are ours
by eternal right.
England and Germany, so at unity, could forge
peace for the seething, ailing world. Glad promise
resounds in the Christmas wind for those who have
the goodwill in their hearts to hear it.
German papers often have a tilt at British poli-
ticians, but there is a Frithian atmosphere about their
mirth. It changes to grimness when Russia enters
into the picture. Stalin is pictured as a brutal figure
on the top of a heap of skulls shouting at a Pharaoh:
“You took over 200 years to build your pyramid, but
I built mine in five years.”
Our Forefathers 1 Way.
“Coif”: Comment on lying and libellous press state-
ments about European affairs and individuals (B.
16/2/’3B) reminds one that these matters were better
dealt with in the past. In James the First’s time
several English news sheets were suppressed for
offensive remarks about Spain at the time when an
alliance between the then Infanta and the youth who
later became Charles I. was mooted. During the
Civil War a publication called the “Scottish Dove”
was burned by the common hangman and the editor
compelled to apologise to the French Ambassador
for attacks on France and its rulers.
It is on record, moreover, that Napoleon himself
asked the British Government —it was after the Treaty
of Amiens —-to discipline a French emigre, Jean
Gabriel Peltier, for libellous attacks on him. Peltier
was indicted for traducing and vilifying Napoleon and
“exciting the animosity, jealousy and hatred of the
French against the King and people of England.”
After a famous trial Peltier was found guilty, but on
war between France and England breaking out again
the matter was dropped.
Apropos, Hitler has said that his only grievance
against Britain, other than the question of colonies, is
the profusion of lies published in British newspapers.
He denounced one at the week-end —“the report in a
British newspaper that 40,000 members of the Aus-
trian Legion in Germany had assembled at the frontier
to attack Austria and Czechoslovakia and capture
Vienna was a lie from beginning to end.” Other lies
exposed as such by the parties concerned were that
the British Ambassador had given the Fascist salute
on leaving Rome to report in London and that the
Italian Government had demanded representation on
the Suez Canal board.
The German leader has repeatedly suggested an
international agreement for mutual protection against
provocative journalistic liars. It would unquestion-
ably be a great stride towards peace.
Melbourne Slums.
Victoria’s Dunstan Administration has followed up
its slum-abolition skirmishes by appointing a State
Housing Board. This board is to hold office for three
years, and may be permitted to spend £500,000 ; but
its present powers are limited to “investigation,” a
job thoroughly done by the Housing Investigation and
Slum Abolition Board.
As a gesture to people and organisations pressing
for large-scale rehousing, £30,000 was spent on houses
at Fishermen’s Bend, an experiment which grew from
a slum-pocket tour organised for Premier Dunstan
shortly after he assumed office. Hundreds of appli-
cations for these houses were received, but once the
show passed under departmental control an “economic
rent” was demanded. The most necessitous slum-
families were immediately disqualified, because their
incomes were too small to meet the departmental esti-
mate of an “economic rent.” Then the Government
shied at the idea of demanding demolition of the
slum-dwellings from which successful applicants were
drawn, and vacated low-rent premises were soon
re-let.
The abolition board’s report showed up the type
of dwellings these were. Investigators found that
average weekly income in the worst grade of house
was £2 Is. a week and average rent 9s. 9d. Continued
growth of the unskilled, casual-labor system suggests
that there will have to be a drastic revision of the
“economic-rent” estimate before future rehousing
plans can fulfil their essential part in the reshaping of
Melbourne.
"All Quiet on the Whongpoo."
From an Australian at Shanghai:
You ask if we have a war over here. Yes and no.
Actually yes, but officially no.
Orientals have yet to learn that the only way to win an
argument is to avoid it. Each side figures that the other is
wrong, and they proceed to bomb, shell and slaughter each
other. But to the residents here the whole show is a headache.
Next time you visit Sydney Stadium try to picture it as the
Shanghai area. The city proper is the ring itself, and on
three sides are Chinese, on the other Japanese. Now imagine
air raids, artillery duels and naval engagements constantly
going on all round and you have a fair idea of the situation.
That old slogan “The customer is always right” doesn’t
apply here. China is Japan’s best customer, but appears
always wrong. What started the fuss is anyone’s guess, but
Ido know this: a first-class war is right in our lap, and it’s as
real as the measles but not half the fun.
We do have some fun, however. The S.V.C. unit to
which I belong was stationed near North Station. Each
night we manhandled sandbags vainly trying to strengthen our
position. Snipers were everywhere. One evening a stray cat
decided to look the situation over, got under someone’s foot
and screamed to high heaven. In a split second we had
marb ; ne-guns, rifles and hand grenades spluttering all
round us.
ocveral of us were seated in a sandbag enclosure one
afternoon when some shrapnel burst overhead. We all ducked,
but one chap was so startled that he leapt right out over the
parapet (6ft.) and landed head first amongst barbed wire.
Nobody noticed him go, and when we checked up someone
said, “Where the hell is Isaacstein?”
Then a pale-blue voice was heard outside: “Hey, fellahs!
Get me outa here! ” Poor Ike looked as though a panther had
mauled him.
Every night we had air raids —sometimes three or four.
The Chinaman flies so high he sounds like a bee, but every
anti-aircraft gun lets loose, and it’s a rare sight watching
the tracers and star shells trying to find him but never
succeeding. He drops his load of bombs and goes home
quite happy.
The first casualty in any war is the truth. Although this
is not a war, call it what you will, the truth is handled very
carelessly. The Code of International Law and respect for
other nationals’ property don’t mean a thing. Huge mills,
warehouses, docks, radio stations and farms, each proudly
displaying their national flag, have been bombed, burned or
shelled into wreckage.
Protest or claim until you are blue in the face. All you
get is “Very sorry, it was the other party.”
Neutrals? Never heard of those folks.! “He ran and I
shot him. Very sorry.”
Red Cross? What is that? The Chinese shelled a
hospital ship for two hours. Oh, yes, painted white, green
band, red cross on funnel. That’s fine; can see more easy.
Bang!
The S.V.C. was relieved by British and American troops,
so most of us are back on the job again. I felt a bit sorry
because I had almost solved the problem of how to look well
groomed without the aid of water, which, no doubt, if per-
fected, would aid science.
I’m vaccinated against cholera, smallpox and ingrowing
hairs and whenever I move outside I pack a gas mask, a
.45 Colt and 20 rounds of ammunition.
You referred to Japanese airmen. I watched five
’planes try to bomb a bridge 150 ft. long by 25ft. wide. They
dropped 11 bombs and never made one hit. The day was
perfect; no opposition at all, and they power-dived to within
500 ft.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTESD
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“El V.”: Among the organisers of the
Sydney Anniversary show’s Pageant of
Nations, seeking a symbolical figure to
represent Australia, there were ex-
perts who wanted young ladies adorned
with the Southern Cross. Others thought
that a Bondi surfer would be the true
embodiment. One sensibly suggested a
Digger, but The Bulletin, through a
half-century of use, had assured the win-
ning card for the Little Boy at Manly,
who was' born in the days of the Sudan
contingent—the original model, a Sydney
solicitor, still lives and prospers. Some
of the suggestions were worth the mak-
ing if only for their humor. One deep
thinker co-opted to the committee from
the movies suggested that Australia’s
representative should be a young man
“in the costume of a Greek athlete.” A
lady in ancient Olympic costume might
have even better met the Hollywood
ideal, for the Greeks were certainly not
a prudish people.
* * * *
“Pittosporum”: On the road leading
to Olinda (Vic.) one can see the warn-
ing “Olinda —Go Slow.” But Linda does
not heed the advice, for a little distance
away there is a board with the intima-
tion “Olinda Falls.”
* % * *
“Corporal Wanst”: The Imperial ser-
vice clubs must be shaken to their Picca-
dilly and St. James-street foundations by
the decision of the War Office that
officers in mechanised units must do
without batmen. “The withdrawal of the
batmen from training duties in these
highly-technical units does not make for
all-round efficiency,” or words to that
effect. An allowance will be made to
the officer to allow him to hire a civilian
lackey. The ignorant will ask why
the officer can’t do his own valet-
ing and charing. But in the most
easygoing days that are now gone even
the junior subalterns had enough re-
sponsibility and duties to make it impos-
sible for them to do for themselves, as
many of them would in civil life.
Cavalry regiments, particularly, where
a groom to see to the two chargers
was essential besides the batman.
One person who will not appreciate the
change is the batman himself. His were
many cherished perks in addition to a bit
of extra pay, to say nothing of complete
relief from guards and fatigues. Also he
accompanied his officer on leave and
succeeded by immemorial right to his
old clothes and uniforms.
X He X :jc
“C.McB.”: The law of salvage has
some funny twists. Some steers were
being unloaded at the wharf at Petone
(M.L.) when one dropped overboard, and
it swam out instead of towards the shore.
A launch-owner, after a long chase,
roped the animal’s horns and brought it
to the beach, where it promptly fell dead.
Thinking he had done his part, the
launch-owner left it where it fell. Three
days later he had notice from the
Borough Council to remove the carcass.
He replied indignantly that it was not his,
and explained the circumstances. It ap-
peared, however, that, as he had salvaged
the animal below high-water mark, and
the owners not having laid claim to it,
the carcass became the property of the
salvager. He had to pay a carrier to take
the body away.
* ❖ * *
“Tarry Rope”: Those who remember
the last invasion of gobs, 13 years ago,
may have noticed a remarkable change
in the Yankee sailors ; the chewing-gum
habit seems to have disappeared. I spoke
at various times to about a score of
the U.S.A. men, and not a single one
had the gum in his mouth; on the
previous occasion it was painful to speak
to them because of the universal mouth-
ing, while the street pavements were
sticky to the boots with the discarded
remainders of the stuff. The thought
occurs that America may have taken to
gum-chewing as a solace against the dry
laws ; with the opportunity for legitimate
throat-gargling the habit has been dis-
carded.
* * * *
“Crash”: Although Jews are often sol-
diers, in all my time at sea I encoun-
tered only four Jew sailors, and only
one came up to a standard of anything
like usefulness. What is more, they were
all seamen. A Jewish master, mate or
apprentice I have yet to hear of.
* * * *
“T.”: Recent events have takerl the
shine out of a London “Daily Sketch”
“Perhaps I should have told you, George, that yesterday I couldn't find the oil, so I filled her up
with treacle."
narrative of which the “Sunday Sun” has
bought the Sydney rights—the yarn that
an Italian ’plane crash in Egypt revealed
the secret —contained in a Black Box —
of Mussolini’s Plot to Wipe Out the
British Navy. It is alleged that Campbell
Black, who is conveniently dead, was
summoned from England to Egypt to
carry the evidence back to England—an
oddly roundabout proceeding consider-
ing that there must have been plenty of
fast R.A.F. ’planes which could have
made a one-way job of it. Another
weak point is the assertion that H.M.A.S.
Australia and Sydney were dispatched
from the Commonwealth to the Medi-
terranean, via the Suez Canal, to take
part in the dishing of Musso. Even a
Sydney Sunday paper might have been
expected to know that the new Syd-
ney was never sent from these parts
and did not reach Australia until “sanc-
tions” were a thing of the past.
* * *
“Fileworm”: Australian newspapers
nearly all have had a nice little piece
about St. Valentine’s Day, with refer-
ences to the Cupids and the transfixed
hearts and the lacelike filigree. But none
mentioned quite another sort of valentine
which used to fill the stationers’ windows
in the ’eighties—the scurrilous affair.
Crude representations of awful-looking
people with two faces ; daggers raised
to strike some innocent in the back
with snakelike bodies (“A Snake in
the Grass” was the caption for this
one); with porcine bodies and features;
with elaborate and ridiculous finery.
Every human weakness was cruelly pil-
loried. They must have been sent anony-
mously in large quantities, but I never
heard anyone admit receiving one.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Meeting an elderly Bris-
bane friend whom I haven’t seen for the
last several years, I was struck by his
hard-as-nails, great-open-spaces look,
quite incongruous with his office-chair
occupation. “Golf be jiggered,” he said.
“Prospecting’s the way to keep fit for an
old ’un in this job. Takes you out into
the bush, gives you a bit of real inter-
esting hard work, and so far it’s pretty
well paid for itself.” A mining-town
boyhood had familiarised him with the
idea, and lon Idriess’s little book on
prospecting methods polished up the
details. Every reasonably fine week-end
he shoves tucker, pick, shovel and dish
into his car, and takes another shot at
one of his numerous gold prospects
within 30 miles or so of the G.P.0.,
camping in the bus for the night. A four-
’weight nugget is his record find so far,
but there’s been some nice flake and
dust, too. And —always hope!
* * * *
“Qwertyuiop”: Canberra’s latest
bureaucratic effort has been to require
drivers of petrol-waggon tanks from
Queanbeyan into the Territory to take out
licenses as hawkers. Massive intel-
lects in the Department of the Interior
have figured it out that when they leave
the storage siding at Queanbeyan the
drivers do not know how many gallons
will be required by each garage on the
Territory filling-round. Once he asks
the fatal question, the driver, ipso facto,
is converted into a hawker. The one
fault in an otherwise flawless plan is
that the garages are placing standard
orders, adjusted if need be by telephone
to the siding before the driver leaves,
so that he doesn’t need to ask. But,
nevertheless, it is safe betting someone
will be made to pay for licenses.
* * * *
“Tham”: No need to go to Sweden
(B. 23/2/’3B) to see bathers of both
sexes all together in the altogether. In
a hot pool at Rotorua (M.L.) very early
one morning I saw a thermal wonder
the average tourist misses—the plump
guides and their husbands lolling and
laughing in the water as free from con-
cern as they were of clothes. A bath-
room conversation even with the pakeha
didn’t worry them a scrap, but they told
me, regretfully, that the younger genera-
tion prefers costumes. Swedish beach
inspectors who chase corporations from
their domains would have royal sport
in the Government baths at Rotorua,
where bathing in the nude —not mixed —
is compulsory.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Sydney sympathisers with the
Government of the Fifty-seven Varieties
in Spain have announced their inten-
tion of presenting it with a fully-
equipped ambulance in July, and proudly
record that a collection taken up at a
conference, at' which “a dramatic en-
trance was made by a son of a former
Prime Minister,” realised £9. They could
spend their money to far better purpose in
Australia. Now that fighting is beginning
again, the issue may be decided one
way or the other before July. Except
for the unexpected attack on Teruel, now
regained by the rebs., campaigning was
frozen out by the winter, the bitterest
for generations. And Spain is a bleak
place any winter. A Spanish acquaint-
ance who has been watching the
civil war with painful interest can recall
when two sentinels guarding the King’s
palace in Madrid were frozen to death.
H: X * ❖
“Salmon Gums”: That wattle-and-
daub building mentioned by “Cooramin”
(B. 2/2/’3B) recalls that there is a simi-
lar one of the same vintage (1870) near
Kununoppin (W.A.). Built of mud-and-
straw bricks near the soak at the foot of
Yarrogin Rock, on the old goldfields
track, it was designed as a pub to cater
for the thirsty gold-seekers, but before
the license was granted its owner caught
the gold-fever and joined his prospective
clients. It did good service for years as
the homestead for Barney Lamond —the
“genial Barney” of John Forrest’s expedi-
tions —who settled there after roaming
over most of the State. Seven years ago
only the walls were standing, but they
looked good for a century.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Brisbane is shortly to lose
two of its best-known landmarks —the
old post office, with its verandahed front
and queerly-placed central lane, and
Lennon’s Hotel. Old press hands can
remember the days when the police courts
stood hard by the post office lane in Eliza-
beth-street. There was a time when it
was the habit of a kindly sergeant who
ruled the cells to admonish the more
hopeful looking of the night’s bag of
drunks in the early hours to “go out in
the lane phwere ’tis quiet an schlape it
off.” Lennon’s, more than a generation
ago, was a sleepy old country-town sort
of pub with a lounge like an under-
taker’s parlor and a front verandah on
which large gentlemen sat perpetually
with their hats on the back of their heads,
thoughtfully combing their whiskers. In
those halcyon days, though Lennon’s was
the city’s leading pub, accommodation
there cost only ten bob a day, including
meals. In the war years it was bright-
ened up under the control of Mrs. Sarah
Wylie, who modernised it considerably.
Its Armistice Night celebration was some-
thing to be remembered. The cham-
pagne was largely on the house. Now
the place has been bought by a Greek
capitalist who proposes to spend over
£400,000 on placing it in the front rank
of the Empire’s caravanserais.
# * * *
“Seasider”: Seasick sailors, is it?
What about the most notorious example
in history, Admiral Lord Nelson, who,
as all his biographers agree, suffered dis-
mally—“frequently and devastatingly
sick” is the way the latest historian puts
it? But he was never sick in action, no
matter what the weather. To skip from
the sublime to the ridiculous, I think I
can understand it. In days when I sailed
small boats I never suffered, though as
a passenger in any sort of craft, large
or small, I dive for the side at the first
jobble. Way I put it to myself is that
as skipper and navigator I was too
darned scared to be sick. One nail
drives out another. Don’t mean to say
Nelson was ever scared; his nail, of
course, was Duty.
THE JINGLERS.
How ofttimes in the years agone
I dreamed ’twas ever coming nigher,
Some spark of true poetic fire
From Heaven or from Helicon
Those glowing fancies to inspire
That carry verses hither and yon.
O fruitless hope and vain desire!
The utmost now that I require
Are pegs to hang my jingle on.
To poets ever and anon
Per medium of some wireless wire
Come thoughts to deck in brave attire,
The jewelled words that shine and shone
For generations to admire.
But we, a weary band and wan,
We humbler smiters of the lyre,
Must squeeze and scratch through brake
and briar %
For pegs to hang our jingle on.
Without the quaint conceit to con
Of some unconscious jest-supplier,
Our dash is done, our plight is dire,
No cap and bells are ours to don.
We travel on a busted tyre;
Our working day’s a dies non ;
Our wares would never find a buyer
Were we unable to acquire
Some tag to hitch a jingle on.
No throbbing love, no burning ire,
Nor coming death which gives the swan
A corner in the feathered choir,
May for our tunefulness conspire.
We only ask, to earn our hire,
A peg to hang a jingle on.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Harold Hardupp”: The landlord sor-
rowfully showed me the flat with some
hot comments about the tenants who had
just vacated it; It looked as if angry
elephants had walked through—pictures
were awry, furniture was torn and
frayed, crockery and vases were broken,
and upon various walls were stains sug-
gesting a promiscuous heaving about of
ink, greasy tucker and other soilsome
stuff. “If I’d known they were coming
together under a restitution order I
wouldn’t have let them the flat,” the
landlord explained. “He didn’t want her
back, but he wanted a divorce to beat
her for the maintenance money; and,
although she didn’t want to come back,
she was hanging on to that maintenance.”
I have often wondered what happens
when a restitution order is obeyed; after
viewing the scene of the earthquake, so
to speak, I know.
* * * *
“Moa”: A variation of the item “Fresh
eggs Is., Eggs 9d. per doz.,” crops
up in a dentist’s advertisement in a M.L.
paper. It has a sinister air: “Painless
extractions, 2s. 6d. Extractions, Is.”
“Well, Tom ain't exackly promised to come back, but I know 'e ain't
lorst ALL interest in me."
“Clio”: In a recent divorce case the
daily help was called to testify that she
had seen the lady of the house seated
with the co-respondent in the lounge,
“And were they having a tete-a-tete ?” in-
quired counsel. “Dunno,” was the reply,
“I don’t drink cocktails meself.”
Rokko”: I arise to support “Wodgil”
in his contention that Chianti is a wine
of a claret type, in that Australian claret
is not unlike it in flavor. But true
Chianti, the dry, red wine attributed to
Tuscany, is thinner than claret and less
alcoholic. It is popular with Australians
who touch at Italy on the way to Eng-
"Don't fidget, young man —you made me drop a stitch."
land, something in" its piquant flavor
appealing strongly to folk who have
been long at sea.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Tricky questions?
One, “Will iron sink?” was for years
included in exams, for entrants to the
British Navy. Its inclusion was due to
the belief, still fairly prevalent, that iron
objects, particularly ships, sink only to
a certain depth, at which gravitational
pull was balanced by the pressure of
the water. The theory has no founda-
tion in fact.
* * * *
“Suburbia”: For advertising enter-
prise I nominate the ice-vendor at
Strathfield (N.S.W.) who marks his
goods “Low Temperature Ice.”
* * * *
“E.A.8.”: When the British Phosphate
Commissioners’ steamer Triona sails
from Melbourne this month she will
take a church to Nauru Island,
complete with bell-tower, choir stalls,
stained-glass windows, altars and Gothic
arches. This little lot will be stowed in
1000 pieces, each numbered. The Lon-
don Missionary Society financed the job
with £3OOO subscribed by the natives,
who will reassemble the edifice, cruci-
form in shape, 110 ft. wide, 80ft. long,
with seating accommodation for 1000.
American red pine was chosen, on the
theory that termites shun it.
* * * *
“Tuppy”: A Sydney magistrate who
had just had his ear bitten declared
roundly the other day that the city is
swarming with beggars. The Beak is
just about six years late in his discovery.
J
That active officer General Depression
mobilised the mendicants in force, and
apparently the police and other authori-
ties had the tip to let the law slide and
tolerate the lazzaroni. Some manipulated
gramophones, some tootled dismally on
tin-whistles, others toted portable har-
moniums. Concertinas, fiddles and even
bagpipes were brought into play. The
worst were the hobbledehoys who
lurked in railway subways, crooning
horrid reverberating dirges about home
and mother. As to ear-biters, on any
city street, for two or three years, one
couldn’t pause to look in a shop-window
or light a cigarette without being pes-
tered for “Tuppence for a cuppa
corfee.” The numerous lanes that con-
nect the main arteries of Sydney’s traffic
were infested with inebriates who bailed
up everyone who passed through and
greeted a curt refusal with a flow of
obscenity. Inform the police? Who’d
take the trouble? But it’s better now —
in fact, almost back to normal.
* * * *
“Hauptmann”: According to the news-
papers that know all about the “under-
world” of Sydney and Melbourne, the
prevailing criminal school of thought is
strongly pro-American. Hence bludgers
and other bullies now claim
to be conducting “organised
rackets” (with bookkeepers
and all that sort of swank),
and every now and then
some shady cove is “put on
the spot” and perforated by
a “gunman,” whose firearm,
doubtless, is usually in cus-
tody of his “moll.” Latest in-
novation is kidnapping.
There not being many mil-
lionaires around the local
landscape the pioneer in this
branch of enterprise com-
menced in a small way by
abducting the 2j-years-old
son of a cinema employee at
Narrabeen. The youngster
was taken from a car —not a
luxurious limousine, but a
“baby” roadster and the
father, some hours after the
child was stolen, received a
telephoned demand for ran-
som —£300. The youngster
turned up next day —he had been
parked at a private boarding school,
but his parents had an anxious time.
Uncle Sam has made kidnapping a capi-
tal offence.
“Wodgil”: In the craze for imitating
Americans, another bad old American
custom has made its appearance. From
Adelaide comes the news that girls hitch-
hiked from Sydney to the once-Holy City
in pursuit of their boys aboard the
cruiser Louisville. Actually, hitch-hiking
was introduced before the American
cruisers arrived; and a flapper-paper
went into raptures over two girls (with
portraits) who cadged car-rides from
Sydney to Melbourne. It is a practice
which even a flapper-paper might be ex-
pected to discourage. If it goes on, we
shall read presently that the body of a
flapper has been found on some high-
way, and that a criminal driving a stolen
car is suspected.
* * * *
“Eaby”: A one-legged storekeeper in
a Perth suburb, annoyed by the horrible
din kicked up by some youngsters play-
ing outside the shop, hobbled out to
remonstrate. Receiving no attention he
threatened to tell the police. “You try
it on!” came the bitter retort. “If yer
do we’ll tell the white-ants who’s got a
wooden leg!”
“Season Pass”: A heavy cloak of mys-
tery seems to surround Sydney’s busiest
railway station, which isn’t the one with
the high tower stuck out at Surry Hills,
but the low-browed temporary makeshift
that has been disfiguring Sydney’s
George-street for half a dozen years. A
sizable underground town has slowly
assembled itself in this vicinity—a dim
congeries of fishshops, cakeshops and
beershops. The Railway Department
says it has no control over these
precincts. It has leased them for
60 years, and if the public doesn’t
like the noises and the smells it
can just lump it. Recently, to the noises
has been added a battery of loudspeakers
through which a voice commands the
populace to eschew the George-street
exits at ground level and, instead, walk
a quarter of a mile and use several stairs.
Why were the exits on the western side
of George-street, used by 90 p.c. of pas-
sengers, ever constructed? Also (and
everybody on the North line wants to
know the answer to this one) when is
the great Plaza Hotel going to be built
on this site? At present rate of con-
struction a 60 years’ extension of lease
will be needed when the present one has
run out. Anyway, whom was the station
built for —the public or a publican?
* * He sjt
“Golden Mile”: Just about every gold-
field seemed to possess a mysterious old
digger who secretly worked a rich lode
and died with his secret. But here’s a
real lost gold reef —the richest on the
globe. W.A. as a land mass has been
subject to considerable upheavals and
subsidences, and during one of these at
least one end of the Golden Mile was
pushed away somewhere and lost. On
the Ivanhoe and the Horseshoe mines,
both 12-acre blocks joining on a north-
south line, the lode formations go as far
as the north and south boundaries and
then cut off abruptly, the miners finding
themselves faced with barren country-
rock. Efforts to locate a continuation of
these cut-off lodes have failed, although
shafts of all depths have been profusely
sunk in every possible direction. When
the Golden Ridge, located a few miles
s.-e. of Boulder, was discovered it was
thought that here at last were the lost
Horseshoe lodes. But the formation
proved to be different. So, buried per-
haps only a hundred, perhaps ten thou-
sand, feet, the lost lodes of the Golden
Mile await either systematic diamond-
drilling or the magic wand of the
dowser.
* # * *
“Delta”: I trust Scorfield had a good
look at the composite Light Horse Regi-
ment in Sydney and will turn his impres-
sions to good account. Let me remind
him that leggings are issue, not puttees,
and that officers wear sword-frogs on
their Sam Brownes. Also military issue
saddles, not stock saddles, are correct.
Horses are picketed on ground ropes, and
even the trumpeter wears spurs. And
where did Ted get the idea that half-
troops of L.H. were led by generals?
PARADOXICAL.
Don't jump to the conclusion—
It may be an illusion —
A good “safe” seat is priceless
If you’re an M.L.A.
The queerly puzzling fact is
It may work out in practice
(Should Stevens be your leader)
In quite the other way.
Mo longer you’ll be able
To grab the party label
And be its only wearer,
While others fret and chafe.
Chaps of your own complexion
May fight your re-election
And cook your goose, provided
Your seat is scheduled “safe.”
Conversely, if unsurely
And ever insecurely
You represent electors
Who wobble to and fro,
So that the Danger token
Is for your seat bespoken,
Don’t get all hot and bothered,
It may be better so.
At least you’ll have no jealous
And interfering fellows
From your own camp to jump youl
Claim and your style to cramp;
Risking no vicious thrustings
A tergo on the hustings,
You’ll only need to wallop
Those in the other camp.
Some seats for party ranks are
As safe and sound as banks are,
A simple aphorism
Which ev’ryone allows;
While others much resemble
Those one-legged stools that tremble
Beneath the rumps of coastguards
Or persons milking cows.
But it’s a queer position
For any politician
Who fears that an election
May toss him out, a waif,
To have to acquiesce in,
That danger’s often less in
A seat that’s reckoned shaky
Than one that’s counted “safe.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


*
A
10 /
9 d
or
16
20/<
or
WIBB3
Smoker’s throat?
never , I smoke —
CRAVEN A
THEY ARE MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
ssewS?
TH€ CORK TIPPED Clfi ARE!
D F THIS G E N E RATI
POLITICAL POINTS
“We Want Eden,” shouted demon-
strators in Downing-street when Anthony
weighed in with his resignation. Even
Associated Press admits that they were
Communists. .Yes, Communists want
him, and the “Cronk-News” wants him,
and so do Attlee and Shinwell and Strauss
and the rest of the interventionist gang.
That ought to be enough for the Empire.
Electioneering at Jamestown (S.A.),
Premier Butler said he “couldn’t imagine
a greater calamity happening to Aus-
tralia than that unification should be
brought into being.” Calamity ? Then
Butler counts his Government and the
other five superfluous Governments,
which have borrowed £876,000,000, as
blessings.
Butler claims that his Leg. Council has
“never failed to pass legislation which
was for the good of the people.” It has
passed legislation giving its own mem-
bers a ten-year tenure of their jobs.
Doubtless a happy combination of the
public good with their good.
On one subject Butler and Lacey are
in agreement. Butler rejoiced at Eden’s
resignation, saying that “a repetition of
the colossal blunder of ‘sanctions,’ advo-
cated by Mr. Eden, might draw the
Empire into a European conflict, with
the inevitable destruction of young man-
hood, which must at all costs be
avoided.” Those are Lacey’s sentiments
also.
The “Labor Daily” of February 21,
after describing Lang’s enemies in “the
movement” as Political Outcasts:
The fight is on. In that fight Labor will
have a Leader who has never betrayed his
Great Trust.
The same paper of Feb. 22:
At last! At last! The dictatorship is
ended. Those who have been recreant to
the movement have been dismissed.
In the meantime, the Political Outcasts
had bought Labor’s Great Leader out.
But the fight is still on. Great Leader
and Political Outcasts alike wouldn’t
know what to do if it were ever off.
Peter Loughlin is out again for Goul-
burn (N.S.W.); his old pal Tom Mutch
is standing for Bathurst. Peter was the
U.A.P. member for three years, 1932-35,
but J. M. Tully, who was Lang’s Minister
of Lands, took it from him by 133 votes
in a poll of 12,467. Normally Goulburn
and Bathurst are Labor ; the question is
whether Tully and Kelly will suffer for
their adhesion to Lang, who has become
anathema to the bosses of the Railway-
men’s Union.
Turning Eden down with a bang, the
“Argus” observed that “Britain cannot
indefinitely jeopardise the peace of the
world by neglecting opportunities of
Anglo-German friendship in order to
placate France.” True ; and, as things
are, it can never be sure whether France
will go Communist or Fascist.
With bottled milk at Bd. a quart and
cream at 7d. the quarter-pint, Sydney
consumers have been told by Colonel
Playfair, M.L.C., of Fresh Food and
Ice, that his concern should be regarded
as “a public utility” and guaranteed “a
fixed earning of 6 p.c.” By their Sydney
Government, of course. Come, come,
Colonel!
If the Stevens crowd wins the elec-
tions on March 26, its leader will be
able to claim to be the first N.S.W. Pre-
mier who has won three times running
as Premier. His Government dates from
May 16, 1932, being then appointed
when Governor Game dismissed Lang;
the election which gave him his com-
manding majority was held on June 17.
Forgan Smith arrived as Queensland
Premier on June 11, 1932, and has kept
pace with Stevens since ; but at that first
decisive election he wasn’t Premier.
From a Washington newspaperman’s
comment on Hitler’s speech to the Reich-
stag :
Diplomatic observers interpret his state-
ments as meaning that he has no aims in
regard to the return of the former German
New Guinea, now under Australian man-
date.
Hitler’s speech was reported, after a
fashion, in Australian newspapers, but
the references which prompted the Wash-
ington comment, important though they
were to every Australian, must have been
left out.
Holt, M.H.R., said in Melbourne the
other day that the House would not sit
RETURN SEASON.
“The Dragon was operated by 30 men. As it went into the arena, and through all
sorts of twistings and turnings, coilings and uncoilings, there was tumultuous applause.”
—Report of Chinese Festival in Sydney.
till the end of April, and he regretted it;
but “the Ministry has very serious
reasons for not being able to place a
long legislative programme before Par-
liament at present.”
The Ministry will have a majority and
that’s about all. After the election Mr.
Curtin made a request that no contentious
legislation should be introduced until the
full Labor team was sitting in the Senate.
But surely they’re not “very serious
reasons.” The retiring Senators were
elected to take their seats till June 30.
The Government is responsible to the
people, not to the leader of the Opposi-
tion.
Though the anti-Lang Labor faction
has gained control of the party news-
paper, it is running only nine or ten can-
didates, all against Lang men. IJ.A.P.,
U.C.P. and country Labor electorates it
is dodging altogether. Reds who are
whooping for the alleged party are confi-
dent that these ignoble tactics will appeal
to Australians, being perhaps persuaded
that Australians are an ignoble lot.
The Sydney electricity concern mis-
called a County Council invited tenders
for power transformers, and received five
that quoted the same amount, £10,236
16s. lOd. The same thing has happened
on other occasions. It is dashed annoy-
ing to consumers, but it is an effect of
the current impression that the County
circus is rolling in money, as indicated
by its expenditure on trips and other
frills (it has doubled the chairman’s
allowance), advertising (it gave a con-
tract to a Labor paper in Adelaide), rises
to all and sundry and Personality Girls.
Sydney’s A.W.U. paper is satisfied that
Stevens’s wages tax is “a political confi-
dence trick” and demands its abolition.
Unfortunately in the same issue it reports
its idol Forgan Smith as claiming at the
A.W.U. convention that Queensland has,
among other blessings, “the lowest cost
of living and the least number of un-
employed.” Yet Foggy’s wages tax is
stiffer than Stevens’s, and the Queensland
Labor Conference rejected an abolition
motion.
Assembly nomination-day in S.A.
brought a measure of relief to Labor-
leader Lacey. He was returned un-
opposed in Port Pirie, as was his fol-
lower Riches in Sturt; and former
Attorney-General Denny decided at the
last moment not to nominate against
Nieass, the A.L.P. conference’s man, in
Norwood. Blackwell is out against Mrs.
Skitch in Thebarton, and the party vote
may be divided in other electorates; but
the split is not so wide or deep as a
month ago it seemed likely to be.
Besides Lacey, four men whose names
are in the Commonwealth Parliamentary
Handbook are trying their luck at the
S.A. State elections —ex-Senator Daly in
Victoria, ex-Senator O’Halloran in
Frome, Joel Moses Gabb in Light and
Langdon Parsons in Angas. Gabb, who
was M.H.R. for Angas, as was Parsons
himself, is out against Premier Butler.
He calls himself Independent this time,
and he always was a bit that way.
Bob Menzies, his testimonial:
I desire to express great regret that
Mr. Eden has resigned. Mr. Eden has
very great qualities of courage, almost en-
cyclopaedic knowledge, and practical ideal-
ism.
In short, everything except political
wisdom. With a comparatively small
equipment of knowledge, Lincoln was
as wise a ruler as ever spoke the Eng-
lish tongue. The Anthonys and Bobs
are different.
Colonel Herring, president of Vic-
toria’s Young Nationalists, has been com-
menting on “the parlous position of State
politics,” and parlous it is. But some
people will question the Colonel’s diag-
nosis that at the root of the trouble is
“the rather sickly malady which some
call inertia, ‘inertia’ being defined as
‘a tendency of a body to stay in a state
of rest.’ ” You couldn’t honestly say
that of the N.S.W. Labor party.
Queensland’s Protestant Labor party
is already out with the names of five
candidates, and more are to come. One
of the chosen —he is to stand for Kelvin
Grove —is an employee of the Brisbane
City Council. His calling suggests that
he is the hero of a thousand arguments,
if not of a hundred fights.
In U.S.A. annual incomes of persons
receiving “salaries, bonuses, commissions
and all other forms of compensations for
services” are published, and some of the
information is sent round the world. For
instance, Australia was informed recently
that in the 1936 tax-year the president of
General Motors received $561,311 and
that Gary Cooper got $370,214, Ronald
Colman $362,500 and Claudette Colbert
$350,833. It transpires that these amounts
were gross ; tax cuts reduced the General
Motors man’s income to $165,341,
Cooper’s to $127,753, Colman’s to
$126,056 and Miss Colbert’s to $123,489.
Of salaries amounting to $49,600,000,
taxes took $20,400,000, $16,600,000 being
Federal. There are Americans who be-
lieve that this tremendous taxation con-
tributed to the late “recession” and to
the loss of three million jobs in a few
months —the very frank President’s own
estimate.
Hitler declared in his Berlin speech
that over half a million persons have
been murdered by the “democrats” in
Red Spain. Perhaps by way of reply
Voroshilov, who has apparently become
Stalin’s “Liquidator”-in-Chief, announced
that two more Russian admirals had been
bumped off.
A Canberra commentator records with
a pang that recent manoeuvres have
demonstrated “Canberra’s vulnerability
to attack by hostile aircraft operating
from the N.S.W. South Coast.” Still, its
very inoffensiveness should be protec-
tion enough. What “Fascist murderer”
would be so fiendish as to drop a bomb
on Joe?
From an old newspaperman:
Associated Press reported the Ecfen affair in
a grossly one-sided fashion. It had the gall
to accuse “Conservative London papers” of
“concealing the full feeling of support for Mr.
Eden” from their readers, and jit asserted that
“wherever Dominion opinion is quoted it is
invariably anti-Chamberlain,” though actually
Australian newspaper opinion from the first
was largely pro-Chamberlain. And it recorded
only scraps of what Chamberlain said, though
the P.M.’s speeches were the most important for
years. Presently this pro-Eden concern had to
acknowledge that there had been no resignations
from the Cabinet other than those of Eden and
his offsider (it had suggested that there might
be other resignations); that no Conservative,
Nat.-Lib. or Nat.-Lab. had been anti-Chamber-
lain when the thing was put to the vote, and
that, outside the Attlee and Lloyd George
rabbles, the only pro-Eden speech was that of
the exploded Churchill. Cable services fail in
their duty to the public when they feed it with
views, instead of news.


GETTING FIRST-HAND KNOWLEDGE.
“Artists' models are applying for an industrial award in Sydney.”
v) . /
I WOULDMT TAKE IT OM
f=OR THREE AnND S|Y
A. MINUTE"


5 YEARS'
GUARANTEE
"INVINCIBLE
SINCI
fd
INVINCIBLE
MARINE
ENGINES
20 four-cycle sizes: 3 to 100 horse-
power in 1,2, 4> 6 and 8 cylinder
models. Write for illustrated Cata-
logue to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
AER
MECHANICS
Study for Quad Hangar Job
1 Aircraft Maintenance.
(“C” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
2 Aero Engine.
(“D” Ground Engineer’s Licence).
VV. KINGSFORD SMITH, Principal
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
f
255 a George St., Sydney (opp. Bridge St.)
To Businessmen and Others.
When in doubt which of two courses to
take, consult me two heads are better
than one, especially if one is HED-E-
-MANN. Good Advice, at a reasonable
price, will save yotJ worry and money. As
I only advise on matters that I am com-
petent to deal with, I guarantee satisfac-
tion or money refunded. Fee from 5/-
for interview and advice. No Advice, No
Charge. Call, ’phone 8W6115, or write.
Everard Hedemann,
General Adviser,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
df
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
York Minster.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Uon-
don to Edinburgh, 393
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
BURNS, PHIUP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some March birthdays:
J. B. Cramsie (r*eat expert), 67, and Eric
Spooner (N.S.W. Local Govt. Minister), 47, on
2nd; S.A. Min. for Lands Malcolm Mclntosh,
50, on 3rd; Archbishop Mannix, 74, and N.S.W.
Senator A. K. Dein, 49, on 4th; Major-Gen.
Bruche, 65, and naturalist David Stead (N.S.W.),
61, on 6th; medico-knight Colin Mackenzie
(Aust. Inst, of Anatomy, Canberra), 61, and
S.A. Senator James McLachlan, 68, on 9th;
artist-knight John Longstaff, 76, and Speck
Premier A. G. Ogilvie, 47, on 10th; A. C.
Fisken (former M.H.R. for Ballarat), 41, on
11th; knight Frank Clarke (Vic. Leg. Council
Pres.), 59, G. S. Knowles (Federal Solicitor-
General), 56, and ex-N.S.W. Senator Arthur
Rae, 78, on 14th; Henry Gregory, M.H.R.
(Swan), 78, Walter Lucas (pioneer island
trader), 69, Mat Charlton (ex-Federal Labor
leader), 72, on 15th; N.S.W. Govt. Geologist
L. F. Harper, 65, on 17th; novelist Bernard
Cronin, 54, and artist Louis McCubbin, 47, on
18th; poet Arthur Bayldon, 73, knight Ben
Fuller, 63, author Rev. John Armour (Vic.),
49, and W.A. Speaker A. H. Panton, M.L.A.,
61, on 20th; E. J. Ward, M.H.R. (East Syd-
ney, 39, on 21st; knight Charles Marr,
M. 57, and novelist Roy Bridges, 53, on
23rd; N.S.W. Minister Mick Bruxner, 56, on
25th; knight Harry Gullett, M.H.R., 60, and
Fed. Minister Archie Cameron, M.H.R., 43, on
26th; J. S. MacDonald (director Vic. Art Gal-
lery), 60, Josiah Francis, M.H.R. (Moreton),
48, and author Alex. Chisholm, 48, on 28th;
W.A. Agent-Gen. Hal Colebatch, 66, on 29th;
Speck Senator Sampson, 56, and Vic. Min.
of Public Works Goudie, 72, on 30th; S.A.
Premier Butler, 53, Adel.-born Prof. W. Law-
rence Bragg, F.R.S. (Nobel Prize winner), 48,
N. Chief Sec. Chaffey, 50, and ex-Federal
Speaker Norman Makin (M.H.R. for Hind-
marsh), 49, on 31st.
Alfred Hill, to' whose genius as a com-
poser the A.B.C. proposes next Monday
to pay the tribute of a whole evening
devoted to his works, is one of the very
few Australasians whose biography ap-
pears in both Australia’s and Maoriland’s
Who’s Who. Reason is that, though born
in Melbourne and a graduate of Leipzig
Con., his musical career commenced in
Wellington (M.L.). There for four years
he was conductor for the local orchestral
soc., and though, with the exception of
a term in Auckland and various visits
while musical director for the Firm, he
ALFRED HILL.
has since lived in Australia, so many of
his compositions have a Maori flavor
that the connection with Fernland has
been well maintained. For many years
on the staff of N. S. Wales State
Con., he now conducts a school of his
own in Sydney. His compositions in-
clude several light operas (a recent one
of these, “Auster,” is to be performed on
Monday) and many orchestral, choral
and pianoforte works. His Maoriland
songs, such as “Waiata Poi” and “Home,
Little Maori, Home,” are known in every
part of the world to which Enzedders
have penetrated.
The Inky Way in Wellingon (M.L.)
has lost Thomas Lindsay Buick, passed
hence at 71. Born in Oamaru, he early
took an interest in politics, and in 1890
was one of Ballance’s “young lions” as
member for Wairau. He was once re-
elected, and acted as a Whip for the Sed-
donites; then went into journalism as
part-proprietor of the Manawatu “Daily
Standard.” Later he had an interest in the
Dannevirke “Advocate,” and his latter
days were spent in Wellington on the Press
Association staff. He had a lively literary
style, and the dozen or so historical
works he produced are all easy reading.
The new governor of the Common-
wealth Bank, Henry John Sheehan, has
been in the Commonwealth civil service
for 35 of his 54 years, mostly in the
Treasury, to which he had been Secre-
tary since 1926. He joined the bank
board in 1933, and in that year was
financial adviser to Bruce at the World
Economic Conference in London. He
snared a K.B.E. recently.
The secretary of the Commonwealth
Bank has always been a personality, and
the newest one promises to be no excep-
tion. A Trangie (N.S.W.) boy,
Ernest B. Richardson joined the
Dubbo branch in 1920, came to
Sydney in 1922, and had a
rapid ascent in head office. In
1932 he went to Ottawa as sec-
retary to governor Ernest
Riddle, crossed to London and
stayed a year, then came back
to Sydney as assistant to Athel
Lewis, the bank’s secretary.
Lewis was made London
manager last year, and now, at
34, and not long married,
Richardson takes over Lewis’s
old post—altogether a very
promising beginning in a job
which, these days of politics in
finance, calls for promising
young men of experience and level-
headedness.
Adelaide University has acquired, as
lecturer in French, James Cornell, after
his distinguished career in Melbourne.
He has had the advantage of residing in
France for several years, and has done
a lot of broadcasting about it; also to
French people about Australia.
Good-bye to Robert Black, whom
every farer upon Brisbane’s Inky Way
for 40 years and more knew as pro-
prietor of the hairdressing and tobaccon-
ist shop at the entrance of the old
“Courier” building. He carried many a
young pressman over till payday for
smokes and shaves, not to speak of
drinks. More than that, Bob’s know-
ledge of political and sporting Brisbane
was both shrewd and deep, and quite a
few of the higher seats in Australian
journalism are polished by men whose
first faint glimmer of office reputation for
brains and insight developed from a few
casual words whispered across Bob
Black’s counter.
After nearly 20 years in Repat. J. E.
Barrett is due for long furlough
this year. Originally from S. Australia,
where he was the first Repat. deputy-
commissioner, the Major had his 64th
birthday in Melbourne last week while
attending his last departmental confer-
ence of deputy-commissioners and senior
medical officers. A former Light Horse
officer and present deputy-commissioner
for N.S.W., he proposes seeing a bit
more of the world.
Local historians come into their own
when there’s a centenary in the offing,
and Nathan F. Spielvogel knows the
story of Ballarat as few others do.
Born there in 1874 of parents who
reached the goldfields just after the
Eureka affair, he attended the Dana-street
school and returned to it as headmaster
in 1924. He has been president of the
Ballarat Historical Society since its in-
ception in 1933. He talks about his
hobby over the local radio station once a
week. The society has built up a his-
torical museum in the old school build-
ing, which was last year handed over to
the’care of the society by the Vic. educa-
tion authorities. Spielvogel is no stranger
to this paper ; he wrote his first Bulletin
par. in 1897.
G. F. Morton, Ballarat’s centenary
town clerk, is son of a Morton who
reached the diggings in 1856 ; his mother,
still living, is the daughter of a York-
shireman, William Webster, who reached
Ballarat about the same time as Morton
senior. Col. Morton has been with the
council since 1899, and at outbreak of
the war was assistant town clerk. He
went overseas as 0.C., 23rd Battalion,
A.1.F., and was invalided home from
LORD NUFFIELD.
Egypt. He acted as town clerk when
Brigadier-General R. E. Williams became
acting-State Commandant, and after the
bother succeeded Williams in 1918 when
latter went to the Melbourne “Herald.”
Bishop Green, sometime of Ballarat,
has set up three unusual records. He
was the first student to graduate LL.D.
at .Sydney University, although he came
out of Trinity College, Melbourne, with
an Arts degree. He can claim ecclesias-
tical relationship with all the six bishops
of Melbourne. He received his lay-
reader’s license from Dr. Perry, who
came to Victoria in 1846 ; he was or-
dained by Bishop Moorhouse ; his con-
secration as Bishop of Ballarat was at
the hands of Bishop Field Flowers Goe.
Under Archbishop Clarke he was Moor-
house lecturer in St. Paul’s Cathedral;
under Dr. Harrington Lees he occupied
a canon’s stall at the cathedral; and he
still holds a license and does very active
work at 80 under Archbishop Head. He
has outlived the episcopal careers of the
two bishops who succeeded him at Bal-
larat, and has seen his third successor
enthroned. Bishop Green and Bishop
Stephen, though both old men, are two
of the best Anglican preachers in Aus-
tralia.
Out of harness in Toowoomba (Q.) is
/Eneas McDonnell, M.D., F.R.A.C.S.,
after half a century in the collar as
honorary surgeon to the local General
Hospital. A member of the Queensland
Medical Board since 1909 and one of the
A.T.N.A. examiners, Dr. Mac’s literary
output includes a textbook on The Dis-
tribution of Hydatids in Australia. His
home, Rathdonnell, sheltered many
Queensland vice-royalties on their visits
to the Downs capital.
“W.E.F.”: Touching on last week’s
reference to Oswald Pryor, which of
The Bulletin’s regular art contributors
of to-day dates furthest back? Hugh Mc-
Crae, Fred Leist, Hugh Maclean, Reg
Russom, Ashton Murphy, and I believe
G. Rossi Ashton, brother of Julian Ash-
ton, drew for the paper in the ’nineties,
but Norman Lindsay, I think, has the
longest record as a contributor still on
the job. Samples of Norman’s pen
drawings (bookplates and book illus-
trations) appeared on the Red Page
early in 1900, but they were reprints.
His first real Bulletin drawing appeared
on August 18, 1900, and illustrated a set
of verses by “P.L., Brisbane” (Peter
Airey), entitled “A Push Rondeau.”
Norman’s first full-page effort appeared
in the Christmas number of the same
year and illustrated Victor Daley’s poem
“The Poet and the Muse.” In ,the same
issue Norman illustrated Rod Quinn’s
“The Camp Within the West.” By Sep-
tember 21 of the following year Norman
had invaded the front page with a poli-
tical cartoon entitled “The Price of
Imperialism.” Oswald Pryor, who made
his debut in February, 1902, wins second
place among present-day regulars.
An education authority of high ton-
nage who is visiting Australia at the
behest of the Carnegie Corporation is
Dr. Frederic Spencer, a Cambridge
graduate who obtained his Ph.D. at
Leipzig. Partly .educated in France, he
was for nine years examiner in French
to London Uni., and can sport the
ribbon of the Legion d’Honneur. Lately
he has been chairman of the Faculty of
Arts in the University of Wales. His
Australian mission is concerned mainly
with technical education.
. “Avon”: Maoriland’s Chief
Justice, Michael Myers, who
created a precedent by sitting
in criminal jurisdiction while
Acting-Governor (Lord Gal-
way being in Sydney for the
sesqui.), handed down a judg-
ment v/hich made it clear that
he doesn’t regard the high-
ways as for motorists alone.
’Sonor’s affection for horses
used to be well known. In
his K.C. days a big case took
him to Christchurch, then in
the throes of Carnival Week, which means
racing every other day at Riccarton and
trots at Addington in between. Micky’s
black silk, natty wig and white
tie went beautifully with the loudest
black-and-white check suit ever seen in
the sedate Cathedral City. It was a Satur-
day morning, with the races starting at
eleven. Somehow the case was con-
cluded and the verdict Micky desired
duly recorded by half-past ten. But the
Maoriland’s Chief Justice, MICHAEL
MYERS.
beautiful moment of that short session
was when Myers, K.C., rose to address
the Court, pushed back his robe and let
Denniston, J., have an eyeload of his
regalia. After a slow up-and-down
scrutiny, the old Judge remarked: “I
presume you won’t take long, Mr. Myers.
There seems to be an—er—feeling in
favor of an early adjournment.”


LESS SPENT ON TRAVEL MEANS .
'
if"'-:
MORE TO SPEND ASHORE
d
(PLUS EXCHANGE)
TO ENGLAND
For a moderate fare, One Class
BAY LINERS provide an ideal
means of travel for those seeking
a high standard of comfort and
service at limited cost.
Attractively-furnished cabins . . .
restful lounges, library and
smokeroom ... a splendid play-
room for children, and excellent,
well-served meals are features of
Bay Liner service. Every pas-
senger receives the same efficient,
unobtrusive attention from the
whole of the ship’s staff.
OZlu u-i<(/)(A
Go to England by ONE CLASS
BAY LINER . . . enjoy the run
of the whole ship, and the com-
pany of congenial fellow-travellers.
Play and exercise along the
broad decks; enjoy the diversions
of dancing, concerts and
cinemas. The colourful Suez
Route provides opportunity for
parties to make interesting ex-
cursions at Ceylon, Egypt and
Malta.
ABERDEEN 8 COMMONWEALTH LINE
Write for Free Illustrated Booklet — Fares, etc. — to:
DALGETY AND CO., LTD., ABERDEEN & COMMONWEALTH
2 O’Connell Street, OT LINE,
Sydney. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Droflah”: We were* droving sheep,
and had made camp just on sundown
some 50 miles from Isisford (Q.), when
along came a bagman with the usual
“heatwave” swag and billy. After get-
ting a feed he put the acid on the boss
for a job. After much head-scratching
and feet-shuffiing the boss told him that
he could give him a-job if he had a
saddle. “ ’Struth!” said the swaggie, “I’m
dead stiff lately; the blacksmith in Isis-
ford said he’d give me work if I had a
blanky anvil!”
* * * *■
“Salmar”: It seems that Victoria’s
attempt to establish the quinnat salmon
at Lake Bullen Merri is going to be a
success. Recently numbers of the fish
have been caught with live bait or
spinners, one of them, identified as hav-
ing been hatched only 18 months ago,
weighing over 81b. It was once thought
impossible to establish salmon in waters
with no access to the sea. American,
M.L. and Tasmanian experience of late
years has shown this theory to be wrong.
It is fairly certain, however, that these
salmon will not breed without access to
salt water, which means that stocks have
to be renewed from the hatcheries. The
'quinnat has also been successfully
planted in Lake Purrunbete, which is
linked with the sea by a small stream.
The salmon here are being carefully
checked to find out whether they will
follow the traditional practice of the race
to go to sea as small fish and return to
their parent waters to spawn.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: Why don’t birds nest all
the year round, at any rate in mild cli-
mates and where food is always plenti-
ful? A few species do extend the nest-
ing period over a longer time, but the
great majority cannot mate out of
season even if they wanted to, on ac-
count of the sex functions being out of
action. Even such man-made freaks as
domestic poultry, selected through cen-
turies for egg-laying strains, go off the
job in autumn, although food, warmth
and shelter are all provided as usual. The
explanatory fact is that, among wild
birds, mating, nesting and feeding the
young are a tremendous extra strain in an
already hardworking existence. For
most birds, life is entirely a matter of
getting enough food to keep them from
being hungry and fit enough to dodge
sudden assassination. Those mysterious
life-regulators the endocrine glands
make sure that the job will not be inter-
fered with any more than is necessary
for the perpetuation of the species.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Again, this time from
cricket-writer Pollock’s So This Is Aus-
tralia, the whiskered clichd that Austra-
lian birds do not sing. Caley, who col-
lected about Sydney in 1825 for the Lin-
nean Society, seems to have started the
furphy by writing home that the superb
warblers (magpie, butcher-bird and
shrike-thrush) were about the only fair
songsters in the colony, and not much
at that. Alfred Russel Wallace and
Gould both described the magpie’s carol
as far beyond any European birdsong,
and Latham classified the grey shrike-
thrush as C. harmonica on account of its
“powerful swelling notes.” Marcus
Clarke, London-bred till 18 and, except
for a few months on a station, a lifelong
city-exile thereafter, copied his libel about
a land whose flowers have no scent and
whose birds no song from Lawrence
Oliphant’s description of Japan in the
1850’s. Oliphant went on to say that
Nippon had no lawyers, its houses no
bugs, and its women no crinolines.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The Royal Geographical
Society of S.A. has acquired a metal
plate inscribed “Ludwig Leichhardt,
1848.” It was preserved at Laura (S.A.),
having been handed in long ago by one
Harding, who said he found it attached
to the half-burned stock of a gun “in a
bottle-tree on Mount Inkermann.” There
is a Westralian mount in the Musgrave
Ranges now bearing that name, bottle-
trees do grow there, the plate, six inches
by half an inch, is the kind that would
“Make signs We 're friendly, Percy.”
be attached to a gun, and the R.G.S.
accepts it as genuinely Leichhardt’s prop-
erty, and, though less certainly, as
“proof” that his expedition reached the
Musgrave Ranges.
“Billy See”: To my idea the greatest
mystery of Leichhardt’s disappearance is
what became of his goats. The coura-
geous, if foolish, doctor had great faith
in the goat as a means of conveying
rations by its own transport power. On
the first start of his second journey he
took along 180 sheep and 270 billies
and nannies. These two flocks were dis-
sipated in the seven months of consistent
blundering which failed to take him out-
side the border of Queensland. Making
a second start early in 1848, he is known
to have again taken along a large flock
of goats. Even if the humans perished it
is difficult to imagine the same fate over
taking the goats, especially as it has long
been demonstrated that the semi-desert
centre is capable of affording sustenance
sufficient for the reproduction of con-
siderable numbers of camels and don-
keys gone wild. And the goat would
survive where both the donk. and the
oont would perish. There must, too, have
been a tew billies among the flock, other-
wise the lady goats would soon have
ceased yielding a supply of milk. Nor
would the blacks have been very suc-
cessful in spearing stray goats. It isn’t
likely that all the goats would have been
drowned in the flood which one theory
advances as the cause of the expedition’s
disappearance.
“Nor’-west”: Still awaiting the gun of
the destroyer are the millions of white
cockatoos that add color and sound to
the Kimberley (W.A.) landscape, es-
pecially just aftfcr the close of the wet
season. Out on the swampy plains just a
few miles from Wyndham we came on
flocks which literally covered acres, the
red soil being snow-white with the plum-
age of birds all busily feeding. Raised
by a gunshot these tens of thousands
fluttered to the trees, turning the dark
foliage to beautiful white. And the
noise' Landing on Lacrosse. Island, at
the mouth of the Cambridge Gulf, we
found, even there, the cockies in posses-
sion. Their resentment at our intrusion
was almost deafening. Over hundreds
of miles, right down to the Leopold
Ranges, they are found in the same pro-
fusion—incredible millions. When an
acre or so take to simultaneous flight the
sight is beyond description.
* * * *
“Talus”: At night in the N.Q. scrub
I met a wild boar who must have been
trying to sharpen his tusks on a log
covered with luminous fungus. I shinned
up a tree and watched him go past, his
mouth and the greater part of one side
of his face glowing with living fire. One
glimpse of him would have been enough
to keep a whole tribe of blacks clear of
that patch of scrub at night for genera-
tions. The fungus grows on rotting
wood, and at night a whole log will often
be a glowing mass of pulsating light.
* *
“Tripod”: Tell “ James W. ” (B.
9/2/’3B) that when a cane-cutter at work
has his shirt-tails flapping in the breeze
it isn’t necessarily “for ventilation pur-
poses.” Have met several Bananalanders
(railway fettlers, cockies, etc.) who work
with the tails of their flannel undershrts
hanging out, so as to keep the waist of
the shirt dry. When they stop work the
shirt is tucked into the trousers, thus
forming a dry flannel pad across the
small of the back to prevent a chill
whilst sitting around during smoke-oh.
If “J.W.’s” cane-cutter wanted “ventila-
tion” he would have done the same as do
many of his fellow-workers work in
hat, shorts and boots.
* % H: *
“Pandanus”: At Noosa (Q.), which is
famed as an anglers’ paradise, whiting
is a fish that never appears on the
menus. It is plentiful enough, but is
either used for bait or tossed back into
the sea. The fish feeds on a type of sea-
weed plentiful in the lakes of the Noosa
River but more particularly so in Lake
Weyba. From this weed iodine and
iodoform are manufactured. The anti-
septic diet so affects the flesh of the
fish that a few of them in the frying-pan
give off a smell like a hospital ward after
fumigation.
# * * *
“The Hittite”: So the present genera-
tion of post-splitters can’t take it, eh (B.
26/l/’38)? I busted posts in Vic. at the
age of 15 for a rich uncle who had poor
ideas, and later, till the brain grew a bit,
in the King Country (M.L.), and can’t
agree that this yakka is any worse than
any otfysr real bush slogging. The use
of a maul is a matter of rhythm rather
than main strength and what generally
goes with it; and no one but a mug belts
wedges any-old-how—every wedge from
“lead” to “glut” has its proper share ol
the work to do. If six heavies wont
open the log far enough to allow an axe
to cut the strings, powder, not jelly,
should be used in that timber. Carrying
posts up a steep fence-line in the rain, a
normal Maoriland condition, is different,
That’s work!
**„ * *
Salmon Gums : In a par. l
which I omitted to specify any district
I mentioned a Coolgardie safe, and the
sub. deduced the district from that,
Actually a Coolgardie safe is simply a
frame covered with hessian with a water-
container placed on top. Bits of towel-
ling convey the water to the hessian in
a slow stream, and where evaporation is
intense and the supply of water sufficient
naakes an excellent cooler. The name
comes from its popularity in Coolgardie s
early days, in much the same way as
stew made from tinned puppy was
Mulyinning stew to old-timers,
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A job that should
cause a rush of applicants for pick-and-
shovel work is the big Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
sewerage scheme. The Desert City is
reputedly built on a foundation of un-
discovered gold, and excavation in that
sort of ground may produce anything,
Alluvial will certainly be found—the
country’s full of it—and I suppose the
finder would have enough claim to any-
thing his pick turned up. But the dis-
covery of a reef in the heart of the busi-
ness district might raise complications,
What I really want to know is how the
engineers intend to excavate. Mixed up
with the gold under the pavements is a
lot of solid rock that will take more than
a pop shot to shift, and one good blast
may raise the estimates considerably—
in damages. Taken all round it should
be an interesting job if the men can be
induced to abandon specking long
enough to get on with the work, and to
realise that keeping levels takes prece-
dence over following that likely-looking
show just a few feet further down to
see what she makes to.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: In the dim yesteryear
Deniliquin (western Riverina, N.S.W.)
used to hold a two-day picnic race-
meeting. Attracted by the tales of easy
pickings, Long Harry the Snipe travelled
up from Bendigo. These meetings didn’t
admit outsiders, but L. H. the S. didn’t
have to worry —it rained solidly for a
week, and the mob were glad to attend
his two-up school on the far bank of the
Edward River. He was holding about
£2OO when the police appeared. In the
rush for cover Long H. dived into the
swollen river, but cops awaited him on
the other bank. He dived deep, to come
up downstream and be hauled into a
police dinghy. Fined £2 or a week, he
took it out. “I’ll hafta walk out o’ this
joint,” he complained on release. No-
body saw him go or saw him dive again
into the now shallow river and retrieve
the waistcoat (plus £200) which he had
rammed in the fork of a stump during
his first trans-Edward swim.
THE FLOOD.
“Ignoring a chance to escape when floods over-
whelmed a Maoriland Public Works camp at Kopua-
whara, causing the loss of 21 lives, Tom Tracey
grabbed the cookhouse gong- and raced from hut to
hut, waking the sleeping men and women by crashing
the gong, shouting and banging on doors. He was
last seen chest-deep in water, struggling towards
the last hut.”
When the black murdering tribes of flood
Came yelling from the height,
Torn trees and fences, noise of beasts
With horror filled the night,
Till down the war-demented gorge,
Once sweet with fern and bird,
A sound to make the heart stop still,
The cries of men were heard.
All round the bestial valley now,
Once warm with comradeship,
With toil and peace ’mid bracken fern,
The waters snarl and rip;
And round the solitary huts
An ocean of black fire,
The bushfire of the river, beats
And leaps up high and higher.
For ever in the teeth of death
A hero finds his hour,
And one we thought of common clay
Flames out in pride and power;
So Tracey’s torch or courage now
No moment wilts or waits,
But in the darkness and the flood
Goes out to save his mates.
He raced from threatened hut to hut
Where lay his comrades sleeping,
And crashed his gong and shouted wild
Till they, to safety leaping,
Still saw him struggling in his task
With water to his chest,
Making towards the last lone hut —
And then night hid the rest.
On that black night in Maoriland
Two men died for a girl;
And they and Tracey in the flood’s
Dark terror-ridden swirl
Lit such a torch of courage white
’Twill tower among the hills
When green years grass the waste again,
And peace the valley fills.
N.S.W.
DHAS.


“Bill O’C.”: “ ‘Hell and Hay and Booli-
gal,’ the old bush ballad runs” —so opened
a recent Bulletin par. When and where
did the ballad run, and who started it?
My particular interest in the matter is
that, attracted by the fine irony of the
phrase (which has been current for many
decades), a few years ago I wrote what
may in politeness be called a ballad
around it. The verses were published in
The 8., and have since got between the
covers of a book of my own, Song and
Slapstick , but never before or after the
original printing have I heard of any
other metrical production on the same
theme. I should be interested to know if
anyone else has. Perhaps, however, “the
old bush ballad” is the paragraphist’s nice
manner of suggesting that Billjim sings
his sarcasms as well as his gallops, and, as
it were, instead of lisping, swears “in
numbers.” Apropos, when lately I
dropped from the sky at Hay for a short
spell on “the floor,” I asked a local the
direction of Booligal. He pointed north:
“Fifty miles that way.” “And —er —•
Hell?” He was ready for that, too, and
pointed to the sunset: “Fifty in that
direction.” Flying over Oldman Plain
later I found the explanation: a lonely
and abandoned bush shanty at cross
roads, bare of trees or shelter of any
sort, the ruins of a pub in a shadeless
wilderness, with another 50 miles to go
—in fact, to the foot-weary sundowner,
for all practical purposes it was unadul-
terated Hades.
* * * *
“Flipper”: Agree with “Cudgerie” in
his acclamation of the wonders of the
scrub turkey (B. 16/2/’3B). But that
“moisture still ashine on its downy coat”
on emerging as a chick from the mound
“ That's right —SPOIL the view!"
is stretching it a bit. After much in-
vestigation I’ve come to the positive con-
clusion the chick doesn’t leave the
mound until at least three days after hav-
ing chipped the egg. If “Cud.” will
examine a newly-hatched scrub chick
he’ll find an umbilical sac not yet ab-
sorbed. If he catches one which is just
leaving the mound he’ll find that sac of
nourishment has been taken in and is
part of the fowl. I estimate that absorp-
tion process to take about three days,
which gives more than ample time for
the downy feathers to dry.
* * * ,
“Si Anu”:- “Tid’apa’s” savage little
Malay fighter (B. 16/2/’3B) who always
"Must be a new moon — Bill's turning 'is money over again.'
liked to get to close quarters is an ancient
superstition. Let us call James Brooke,
the celebrated white Rajah of Sarawak,
in evidence. Brooke found that the
opposing Malay imperialists of Borneo
used to build stout stockades at safe dis-
tances from one another, to man the
ramparts every morning and hurl impre-
cations at one another till nightfall.
Then the contestants, man, woman and
child, went down to the nearest water
and had their evening bath together
before sitting down to dinner, and they
finished the day by sleeping soundly
without sentries. Every now and then
one of the belligerent parties would
wake up in the morning to find the
enemy had abandoned his stockade and
built a fresh one a shade nearer, but
in no circumstances would one emerge
from his fastness and attack the
other. It was the headhunting Dyaks
who eventually, suppressed headhunting
in Borneo at Brooke’s instigation. The
Malay of the Peninsula preferred craft
to a direct offensive, as his proverbs
testify. There is a Malay word for “to
kill” which means “to float under a
house and push a lance up through the
floor into the sleeping-mat of an enemy.”
The legendary heroes of the race were
not above using this kind of infighting.
“Wang”: When I happened along the
road-repairing gang was seated under a
tree at lunch —all except one young chap,
who continued steadily swinging his pick.
“What’s up with that fellow?” I asked
the leading hand. “Isn’t he hungry?”
“Oh, Joe’s all right/’ was the reply. “He’s
just making up his time He wants t’
knock off half an hour earlier this after-
noon so’s he’ll have a bit extra time t’
get home an’ changed. He’s gettin’ mar-
ried t’-night.”
* * * *
“Cooee-bird”: Our bow-using ances-
tors are always depicted as shooting the
arrow over the clenched hand. South
Seas bowmen, however, taught me to
shoot the shaft between the first and
middle fingers, the index finger being
crooked over the arrow and touching
the bow. Until I acquired the knack, I
nearly shot my fingers away, a wrongly-
fitted shaft rasping the digits painfully
as the string-end rushed through. Inci-
dentally, I noticed that the imported
islanders delighted to tip their arrows
with small round-headed iron bolts. The
bolt is let down into the hollowed arrow
for about two inches and securely bound.
Though apparently top-heavy, these
iron-tipped shafts flew straight, and with
sufficient force to drop a bullock.
* * * *
“Thunder”: The W.Q. storm season is
with us. For over five weeks now hardly
a day has passed without a storm loom-
ing up somewhere. Out here on the
open downs at Winton we can see the
lot: floaters showing up early in the
cruelly hot day, then, far off, a massing
of thunderheads. Dark shafts of rain
appear, thickening presently into purple
walls advancing in stately style across
the plain. Sometimes these combine to
form one huge storm that marches
grumbling into the distance : more often
we watch their course for a few miles,
then the clouds beyond show through
—the storm has petered out. Others form
meanwhile, to fall and die in their turn.
One evening the line of the Diamantina
was marked from horizon to horizon by
a turgid “sausage” of cloud from which
eight separate columns of water, equally
spaced with scientific precision, fell in
torrents. Registrations afterwards showed
strips of up to sin. of rain, interspersed
with patches of dry ground. All in all,
it’s a wonderful storm season, but the
storms are extraordinarily set in their
ways. With the surrounding district
averaging from sin. to 7in. for this much
of 1938, our homestead has so far regis-
tered a total of about 40 points.
* * * *
“Thirsk”: In extolling the old English
dish frumenty (B. 16/2/’3B) “Bungarrer”
omits one important item. As he says,
the basis of the dish is wheat boiled soft
and sugared with sultanas, cinnamon and
allspice. It may be that the folk who
introduced it to him were content with
that, but in n.-e. Yorkshire, where I
first made its acquaintance, it was re-
inforced with a very liberal dash of
brandy, while the baking process was
omitted. It was prepared and eaten
round about Christmas, and then only
as a nightcap.
* * * *
“Ringer”: We were taking a mob of
800 bullocks from s.-w. Q. down the
Farina (S.A.) stock route, and one moon-
lit night the abo. horsetailer on watch
drew our attention to a singular sight.
Every one of the 800 bullocks was lying
down. On and off I’ve been droving
cattle for 30 years, and never before or
since have I seen all of a big mob dying
down at the same time, either on the mid-
day or night camp.
* * * *
“D. Point”: If Broome (W.A.) wakes
up some morning to find its pearl fleet
vanished, let it look to the Murrumbidgee
River, near Darlington Point (N.S.W.),
where, so the local paper solemnly
asserts, pearls have been found in river
mussels. The paper gives the names of
the finders, together with that of the
local jeweller, who identified the treasures
as “real pearl cultures.” Half the district,
it is believed, is now groping in the
’Bidgee mud, so the Japs will have to get
a move on to peg out this claim.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: Talking of sarcastic
gangers (B. 2/2/’3B), an old-time navvy
bossing our outback Vic. relief job nearly
went mad trying to get some action out
of the rather mixed gang under his con-
trol, and on the second day of his
stewardship he threw in the towel. “All
right, you blokes,” he yelled, “throw
down yer shovels.” The gang obeyed for
once. “Now,” he went on, “jist fold yer
so-an’-so arms and stand still till knock-
off time. If yer goin’ to act like blanky
statoos, yer might as well look like
blanky statoos.”
WATERFALL.
Beneath this crystal curtain
Of broken pride in tears,
The rocks of earth are shapen,
Chiselled and freed of fears.
White laughter for the living,
Pale flutings for the dead —
A brittle dance of sunlight
By shadow partners led.
Leave, when time’s doom recalls them
(The sun to cross the seas),
Crushed roses of a campfire
And gullies dark with trees.
Vocal upon the darkness,
Undisciplined of words —
Pouring for dawn libation,
Cup-bearer to the birds.
All life an urgent movement
To death—the pool below —
The narrowest sickle reaping
All that I sow.
, I hurl my gathered passion
Into a moment’s loss,
To silver scales of fishes
And bathe the moss.
VICTORIA.
BERTRAM INNES.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 pm )
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601. ’
The Federal mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
effected at Lowest Current Rates
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
Phone (three lines): 87361.
THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Evan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
ft
£°2
si
V
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
tralia—it has instantly proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
1 17 York St., Sydney - - - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
The [?]
COLUMN
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
r Dividends N Nominal
, —Pref.— >, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1933.. 5,734 Nil Nil 5,734 19,626
1934.. 10,982 9247+ Nil 1,735 21,361
Preliminary exes., £2569 .. .. 18,792
Dec., £
1934+. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2749 2,628 21,420
1935.. 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ ~7330 2,675 24,095
1936.. 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ ~9162 8,250 32,345
1937.. 25,150 2214 3000 10 ~ ~9162 10,774 43,119
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks (£15,934
at Dec. 31). + Includes arrears. t Six months.
By winning fat profits in a highly com-
petitive market, this co., which turns out
men’s and women’s hosiery, has lately
attracted attention. It used to be Staley
and Staley, which took over a proprietary
of the same name in 1929. The public
became interested in the following year,
when the first prefs. were listed. Paid
capital was then £77,375 ; now it is
£169,306 in 27,685 first 8 p.c. and 50,000
second 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 91,621 ords.
But before the co. could get into its
stride, slump, the hand-to-mouth policy
of retailers and price-cutting had upset
the applecart, and payments to the prefs.
fell behind.
Still, during this time the manage-
ment had entered into arrangements
with the Holeproof people of U.S.A.
in respect to technical matters and
the Australian market, and selling
ground had been prepared by an exten-
sive advertising campaign. As conditions
improved turnover expanded rapidly, to
the benefit of costs, and selling prices
were reduced, thus increasing the co.’s
competitive power. After a 2>\ years’
wait the prefs.’ slate was cleared in 1934,
when the four years’ drought for the
ords. was also broken with a 6 p.c. distri-
bution and the second lot of pref. money
was gathered.
With the help of new plant and
steadily improving economic conditions,
turnover, especially in men’s hosiery,
has since continued to lengthen it's stride.
Last year’s sales were the best yet, and
the plant had difficulty in keeping abreast
of demand. The spring in gross earnings
(£111,822) was £20,'375. Exes. (£86,672)
were up £17,851, leaving the net result
£2524 better at £25,150, or enough to
pay the first and second pref. divs. and
show 21.7 p.c. on ord. capital as against
19 p.c. and 10.9 p.c. for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
money being wanted to finance further
expansion of the business. The £10,774
that remained lifted nominal reserves
to £43,113 —they are labelled nominal
because they are subject to £15,934 of
goodwill.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1934. 1935, 1936. 1937.
Old. capital .. £91,621 £91,621 £91,621 £91,621
Pref. capital .. 75,685 77,685 77,685 77,685
Liabilities* .. 58,304 33,262 41,749 68,818
Freeholds, etc. .. 68,045 70,889 70,787 77,947
Plant and fittings 67,241 65,664 65,349 63,571
Shares in other cos. 5,000 16 16 16
Stocks 92,709 78,645 98.203 126,239
Debtors . . .. 8,718 4,931 2,862 3,141
Cash, etc. .. 659 521 2,017 1,581
* Includes tax provision.
The thing that catches the eye last year
is the growth of £28,036 in stocks ; owing
to the Sino-Jap “incident” the board
considered it wise to build up the co.’s
stock of raw materials. On fixed assets
£5382 more was spent than was written
off, and £27,069 was added to the outside
debt. There was little movement in the
more or less liquid surplus, £62,143.
Plant and buildings are reported in ex-
cellent condition, and adequate deprecia-
tion allowed.
To finance further expansion of the
business, 36,649 new pound ords. were
offered at par to those on the register
at February 23, two for five. When the
new money is all in, paid capital will be
£205,955, on which the pref. divs. and
10 p.c. on ord. capital will together call
for £18,041, or £7109 less profit than was
claimed last year.
Pref. shareholders are represented on
the board, their scrip ranks in the order
stated for capital and divs., and a reserve
equal to three times their combined
annual div. requirements has been created
in accordance *with the articles. The
market prices the firsts at 30s. and the
seconds at 225. 6d., at which figures the
return is 5.3 p.c. in each case. The
ords., which shot up from 265. 3d. in
November to 31s. 6d. a little over a
week ago (the new issue surprised the
market), were at 295. ex rights last week-
end. At 295. the yield is 7 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. Including the new
issue, the net tangible cover is £8 Bs. 4d.
firsts, £4 2s. 2d. seconds and 245. 3d.
ords.
Victoria Nyanza Sugar Co., Ltd.
Nominal
To Re- Re-
April. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927*. 75,158 20 p.c. = 60,000 15,158 16,958
1928.. 44.y6S 15 „ „ 45,000 16,921
1929.. 62 338 16 „ „ 45,000 17,338 34.259
1930.. 55,003 10 „ „ 30,000 25,003 59,262
1931.. 799 Nil 799 60,061
1932.. 718 Nil 718 60,779
Loss.
1933.. 38,617 Nil 22,162
June,
1934 t. 18,367 Nil 3,795
Profit.
1935.. 4.215 Nil 4,215 8,010
1936.. 17,336 3 p.c. = 9,000 8,336 16,346
1937.. 25,624 6 „ „ 18,000 7,624 23,970
*l3 months. tl4 months.
Prospects for shareholders in this co.,
whose headquarters are at Melbourne,
and whose plantations, mill and refinery
are all in Kenya, East Africa, look better
than at any time since 1930, thanks to
a substantial reduction in costs, to the
improvement in conditions generally,
and therefore growth in local consump-
tion, and to a strengthening of the price
of sugar, following the allotment of
quotas by the London Sugar Conference
in 1937.
In its early stages, when the co. (it
was formed in Melbourne about 16 years
ago) enjoyed practically a monopoly
of its home market, some juicy returns
were won and some handsome dividends
were paid. Then, as usually happens
in such circumstances, there was a rush
to get into the business. Overproduction
and price-cutting followed, and the col-
lapse of world prices and a plague of
locusts, since out of the way, accelerated
the retrogression. Shareholders, who re-
ceived an average of 15i p.c. for the five
years to the close of accounts in 1930,
went without for the next quinquennium,
for which the net result of operations
was a loss of £51,252.
However, the tide turned in 1935, and
good progress has been made since.
During the last term, the co. crushed
4742 tons more of its own cane, bought
1588 tons less from outsiders, and pro-
duced an extra 836 tons of fines:
1934. t 1935. 1936. 1937.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Cane grown .. 49,293 50,761 91,726 96,468
Cane purchased .. 21,700 29,690 31,428 29,840
Sugar (white) pro-
duced . . . . 5,057 6,111 11,184 12,020
t 14 months.
Of the fines about 50 p.c. (25 p.c. for the
previous term) was sold locally, and the
entire output averaged about 4s. per ton
more than in 1936. Particularly hearten-
ing features are further reductions in
costs of 15s. per ton of fines, making
total savings in this way over the last
three years £7 12s. 3d. per ton, due
largely to substitution of soft for hard
canes —soft canes mill easier and have up
to 14 p.c. higher sugar content than the
hard variety. Also, alterations to the
furnaces (completed in October, 1936,
at no capital cost) resulted in an esti-
mated saving of £5OOO. After setting
aside £10,366 (up £76) for depreciation,
the declared net result was £B2BB better
at 8.5 p.c. on capital as against 5.8 p.c.
and 1.3 p.c. for the two preceding terms.
The div. was lifted from 3 p.c. to 6 p.c.,
and the £7624 that remained lifted nomi-
nal reserves to £23,970. Reserves are
labelled nominal because they are sub-
ject to £48,200 (= £5 Bs. per acre of
cane planted) of development expendi-
ture capitalised.
The year’s better trading is reflected in
a growth of £38,981 in the cash holding,
etc.: —
1935. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . . . 3,183 4,542 6,524
Mill 112,791 107,623 103,322
Land, buildings, etc. . . 59,401 ]
Rolling stock, tramways, j- 116,069 113,291
plant, etc 56,636 J
Plantation development 52,200 50,200 48,200
Sugar stocks . . . . 505 1,858 466
Book debts .. .. 13,529 12,072 11,214
Cash, etc 18,085 46,032 85,013
The more or less liquid surplus (£90,169)
was £34,749 stronger than at the previous
balance. Including plantations, £9079
more was written off than was spent on
fixed assets.
At 16s. (ss. two years ago) the fully-
paid pound shares return an attractive
7.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis, with the
prospect of an extra 1.25 p.c. for each
additional 1 p.c. lift in the div. Includ-
ing the development account' (3s. 3d. per
share), the net tangible cover is 21s. 7d.
sterling.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
, -Dividends
T , „ „ Pref. Writ- Re-
July, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
££ ; £ ' £ £
1927. .24,765 4000 8 p.c. = 16,000 5000 44,613
1928.. 20.554 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 5000 40,167
1929.. 20.435.4900 8 ~ ~ 16,000 40 602
1930.. 16,260 4000 6 ~ „ 12,000 40,862
Loss.
1931.. 6,027 2000* Nil _ 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23 795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20 479
1934.. 2,395 Nil Nil 18 084
1935.. 3,161 Nil Nil 14,923
Profit.
1936.. 3,527 Nil Nil )
Written off stock, £12,299 . . f 0,10 l
1937. .10,908 8000 Nil 9,059
* Half-year.
The new general manager, who took up
the reins in November, 1935, seems to
be going the right way about things.
To begin with, stocks were overhauled
and reserves tapped for £12,299 to adjust
book values, thus placing the co. in a
position to “sell at current rates.” One
result was a profit of £3527 in 1936,
the first thing of its kind since 1930.
Last term, turnover took a big jump,
mainly because of the co.’s pur-
chase of a large portion of Craig Wil-
liamson’s stock, which it was able to
offer at very attractive prices. This
brought many new buyers to the store,
and some of them have become regular
customers, the chairman says. The im-
provement in gross earnings (£94,752)
was £14,707. Exes. (£83,844, including
provision for taxation and other contin-
gencies) took only £7326 of the increase,
leaving the net result £7381 stronger at
£10,908. This was sufficient to hand the
prefs. 8 p.c. and show 3.4 p.c. on ord.
capital. Actually the prefs. were handed
£BOOO, reducing their dividend arrears to
£lB,OOO (7s. 2d. per share) when the
books closed. The £3908 that remained
lifted the lay-by to £9059, which isn’t
much of a prop for £250,000 of capital
—there are 50,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
200,000 ords.
At last year’s rate of distribution, pay-
ments to the prefs. would be brought
up to date in, say, three years, and the
road thus opened for resumption of ord.
divs. Prospects of the co. being able to
do this are not altogether discouraging.
Certainly last year’s earnings benefited
from exceptional circumstances already
referred to. Still, trading conditions
generally have continued to improve dur-
ing the current term, the Christmas trade
was easily the best since the boom burst
over eight years ago, and the manage-
ment has become more energetic in the
now all-important question of service.
Much will depend upon the success met
with in weeding out dead lines and liven-
ing turnover in others. Perhaps the great-
est obstacle in the co.’s path is the swing
of the shopping centre north from
Flinders-street to Bourke-street.
Too much notice, therefore, need not
be taken of the co.’s performances dur-
ing the war and early post-war periods.
For 13 years to the close of accounts in
1935 it paid a steady 10 p.c., with a bit
•extra in the fattest years, and £40,000 of
bonus scrip was scattered. Then altera-
tions were made to the premises, and the
co. went a bit into debt for the purpose.
The div. dropped to 8 p.c. for the four
years to 1929, and to 6 p.c. in the fol-
lowing term, after which a five-year
patch of rough weather was encountered,
and the co. made leeway.
During the eight years to the close of
accounts in 1931 £129,812 more was
spent on premises and plant than written
off, and £128,940 was added to the debt:
1923. 19,30. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 86,327 228,282 183,352 213,244
Property . . 106,000 244,000 250,675 250,675
Plant, etc. . . 46,188 39,000 45,350 47,600
Stock.. .. 153,776 185,051 100,303 129,152
Hook debts . . 69,833 68,794 42,975 52.676
Cash . . . . 8,202 300 200 200
The outstanding feature last year was
the growth of £28,849 in stocks, the most
vulnerable point in the co.’s armor —
they figure at cost, less depreciation. To
meet the outlay £26,427 was added to
the overdraft (£43,847) and £3465 to the
amount coming to sundry creditors
(£54,397). Mortgages were unchanged at
£115,000. When the books closed, more
or less liquids exceeded the floating debt
by £83,784, or £8658 more than at the
previous balance.
Treating arrears of pref. divs. as a
part return of capital, the prefs. at 295.
are worth 21s. lOd. net, at which figure
the return is 7.3 p.c. The more specu-
lative ords. are priced at Bs. as against
6s. 9d. a year ago. The net tangible
cover is £5 3s. 7d. prefs. and 20s. lOd.
ords.
Southland Frozen Meat (M.L.)
, Dividends- To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. All Shares. serves, .serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 12,722 11 p.c. = 12,490 232 129,050
1928.. 14,683 12 „ „ 13,626 1,057 130,107
1929.. 13,643 12 „ „ 13,626 17 130,124
1930.. 11,394 11 „ „ 12,490 129,028
Unexplained additions t<? reserves, £30,000.. 159,028
1931.. 14,363 12 p.c. = 13,626 737 159,765
1932.. 14,522 12 „ „ 13,626 896 160,661
Unexplained additions to reserves, £ 20,000.. 180,661
1933.. 51,085 381fp.c.=43,716 7,369 188,030
1934.. '22,058 16 „ „ 18.168 3,890 191,920
1935.. 18.117 16 „ „ 18,168 191,869
1936.. 13,386 16 „ „ 18,168 187,087
Bonus scrip issued, £227,227 ; from inner
reserves, £147,228 .. . . • . 107,088
1937.. 30,985 '6* p.c. =20,58,5 10,400 117,488
*On capital as at Dec, 31, 1937. t Includes special
25 p.c. cash bonus.
Shortly before the close of last accounts
£227,227 was transferred from reserves,
visible and otherwise, to capital, raising
the latter to £340,777 in 26,160 5 p.c.
cum. prefs., which advance with the ords.
in any distribution beyond that rate, and
enjoy priority as to capital and share in
new issues, and 314,617 ords. Previous
bonus issues were £45,522 in 1919 and
£22,761 in 1912. So, of capital as it now
stands, 17s. 4d. in the pound has been
provided out of surplus earnings, and
the balance has been more than covered
by special cash distributions (£28,388 in
1933 and £22,761 in 1919) in addition
to an uninterrupted flow of good divi-
dends.
No other Maoriland freezer has put up
such consistently attractive performances
as this one, whose works are at Invercar-
gill, Mataura and Makarewa, at the ex-
treme southern end of the South Island.
Appearances are that for the last 20
(<Continued on page 24.)


m
m
\&g£
rO
s>
o
d e
(V°
rtf
d^ 1
R e
fifli
ffe
|O5
b' e
KOTf§
<P
f.dKt
r°
o s
cpp'
An
rh e
e<4
b'^
Young Men—Middle Aged Men
and even Very
Old Men-
ALL NEED THIS
Special Help
Age
itself
means little
___ _ WHEN
Kidney-
IKf-lfl and
associated
Troubles are
Conquered
This Safe, Sure Way
sffla
* PJS
s ,
Diaqram shoaiinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid Crustals
Like splintered glass, Uric Acid
Crystals tear nerves and muscles.
Tiny painpoints that with every move
make you gasp and limp—weaken
you and spoil life. Rheumatism is
deadly. It starts with kidney-failure.
Cleanse your system of the trouble-
causing acids, crystals and germs;
heal your raw, weakened kidneys by
taking Harrison’s Pills. This remedy
effectively reaches the spot. In quick
time sufferers who have failed to get
benefit from other remedies find
Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
Each year strain on your vital organs
increases. More and more you risk Illness
and Breakdown through Kidney, Bladder,
Acid, Blood-Pressure, Rheumatic and
Urinary Ills . . .
The cause of that rapid decline in health, comfort and
power which starts towards middle age, and gains speed
increasingly, is, primarily, Kidney-Bladder Acid Weakness.
“Mystery Pains,” Rheumatic Attacks, Nervous, Dizzy
Spells, Swellings and Urinary Irregularities are early signs.
Dire ills cam follow if neglect persists. Why take the risk?
Weary Bodies Revive—YOUTH RETURNS—as
Causes of Decline are Conquered by
HARRISON’S PILLS.
Harrison’s Pills safely and surely strengthen Kidneys and
Bladder, Expel Uric Acid, Kill Germs and Revitalise all
the Vitad Organs.
This famous Remedy produces surprising improvements in
health and vigour. See the end of limb weariness, of
haggard appearance and despondent outlook. Note the
end of constipation. See a betterment even in your vision.
Feel yourself become a good ten years younger as
Harrison’s Pills end the causes of ageing ills and instil new
power into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to your
aches, pains, inflammation and stiffness. Feel your step
gain new youthful elasticity; hear your friends remark at
the vast improvement in your spirits and in your bearing.
For the vast majority of people, Harrison’s Pills provide
the most effective method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life.
And, in the added
years, who knows what
further astounding
marvels of rejuvenation
science may devise?
f
HARRISON’S PILLS Restore all the
VITAL ORGANS: si£g
reaching and permanently removing the most insidious causes of ageing ills
is that authorised by the distinguished Dr. Harrison, of London, whose signa-
ture appears on every package of genuine Harrison's Pills.
9#
*
s:¥»
m
wm*
mm
m;m
m
im
■ ;
$Wi
■
S>;«i
m m
m
■ ■
i»3®
i
SSS
m
mmm
fififtCSvX
msm&: <m
>
1
Sfc ' :^s
4#>* r*@«S)#r
Harrison’s Pills combine the most valu-
able known agents for combating the
incidence of Blood Pressure, Glandular
Disorders, Groin Pains and Swellings,
Excessive or Painful Urination, Bladder
Distress, Rheumatism in Joints, Hands,
Feet, Arms or Legs. Cramp, Arthritis,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago, etc. Harri-
son’s Pills conquer Kidney, Bladder and
Blood Germs, Acids, Poisons, Crystals
and Deposits. Action is sure and entirely
SAFE. Puffiness beneath the' Eyes,
Pallor, Muddy Skin, Broken Sleep,
Blurred Vision, and Head. Neck and
Shoulder Pains disappear. A new sense
of REAL fitness comes. A NEW LEASE
OF VIGOUR IS GAINED . . .
THIS IS GUARANTEED:
HARRISON’S PILLS bring benefit at
once. Increasingly, they free you from
your weakness and pain. Try a single
package. If it doesn’t help you—money
back! Chemists and Stores sell Harri-
son’s Pills. 3 sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If
preferred, order by post from the Aus-
tralian Distributors —Amalgamated Lab-
oratories. Sydney.
: :
m
mm;.®
HARRISONS PILLS


NOBEL
i
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
iNOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
\2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS;
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, limited.
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE. VIC.: Dalfrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 11. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.: Dalsrety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith * Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: AY. & G. Genders Pty., Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: .T. S. Munro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Chas. Davis. Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalsrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalget.v & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalget'y & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (ivfelb.). — Advt.
* * * 4=
AUSTRALASIAN timbcrlands and plantation
valuation surveys, milling plants, certification of
shipments. L. MACINTOSH ELIAS, B.Sc, (late
Director Slate Forest Service, New Zealand), Consult-
ing Forest Engineer, 8 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—Tf you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt,
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM. B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: Cent. 872 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab/’ Melbourne.
mmm
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
years or more the verra carefu’ board
has been making additions to plant,
equipment, etc., paying for them out of
earnings and then from the same source
substantially writing them down. A
feature which suggests that profits were
conservatively stated in the past is that
for the five generally difficult years to
the close of accounts in 1935 disclosed
net earnings averaged £24,029 as against
£13,244 for the five preceding ones.
During the last term the Dominion’s
export of lamb increased nearly 10 p.c.
in value, and wool, skins and tallow
fetched a bit more, too. After providing
for “repairs, renewals, taxation, depre-
ciation and sundry contingencies,” the
board wrote gross earnings (£48,306)
£20,549 better than the previous year’s.
Exes. (£17,321) took only £2950 of the
increase. So the net result improved
£17,599, reaching £30,985, equal to 9 p.c.
on capital as it now stands, or 27.2 p.c.
on capital as it stood before the last gift.
Shareholders were handed an extra £2417,
making the div. equal to 18.1 p.c. on
capital at the close of accounts in 1936,
or 6 p.c. on the present figure (£340,777).
In the market sellers ask 28s. 3d. for
both classes of scrip. The return at that
figure is 4.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis,
and it is doubtful whether anything better
need be looked for for a while. Wages
in the industry have recently increased
by from 10 p.c. to 12£ p.c., and the cost
of freezing has gone up by about 3 p.c.
and of killing by over 6 p.c. This rise
in costs will seriously affect profits from
some by-products, too.
The position as balance-sheet * figures
show it compares as follows:
1924. 1934. 1936. 1937.
Paid capital. . £113,539 £113,547 £113,550 £340,777
Liabilities* .. 40,587 222,418 200,368 141,506
Works. . . . 121,946 198,318 244,411 272,993
Stocks. . . . 22,861 00,645 82,053 91,823
Book debts,
cash, invest-
ments. etc.. 139,037 278,573 183,627 246,314
* Includes provision for contingencies.
The apparent reduction of £58,862 in
liabilities, which include an unspecified
provision against contingencies, is con-
nected with the disclosure of inner re-
serves and capitalisation already referred
to. Fixed assets, which appear at cost,
less reserve and depreciation, are up
£28,582, and cash, book debts, etc., in-
creased by £62,687. Visibly, the more
or less liquid surplus (£196,631) was
£131,319 stronger than at the previous
balance, but the improvement was due
partly to disclosure of inner reserves.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £,£, £>
1927.. 11,749 8 p.c. = 9600 2149 55,087
1928.. 10,365 8 „ „ 9600 765 55,852
1929.. 7,181 6 ~ „ 7200 55,833
1930.. 5,276 3 „ „ 3600 1676 57,509
1931.. 6,253 5i „ „ 6600 57,162
1932.. 6,942 5 „ „ 6000 942 58,104
1933.. 7,469 6 „ „ 7200 269 58,373
1934.. 8,559 7 „ „ 8400 159 58,532
1935. . 7,920 6J ~ „ 7800 120 58,652
1936.. 7,865 64 „ „ 7800 55 58,707
1937.. 7,459 6 „ „ 7200 259 58,966
Lately earnings have not lived up to the
expectations of the market, which has
persistently shortened its bid for the fully-
paid pound shares from 265. 3d. three
years ago to 19s. 9d. last week-end. At
the lower price the return is a wink over
6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis, the contribs. at 10s. (they are paid
to 125.) yield 7.2 p.c., and there is nothing
to suggest when, if ever, the remaining
Bs. (it has stood at call for the last 16
years) is likely to be wanted. The cover
per pound of paid caoital is 295. lOd. in
net tangibles, mostly mains, plant and
freehold, worth what they can earn.
Although shareholders have never
pulled any plums out of the business in
the nature of bonus scrip, they have en-
joyed a long, unbroken run of satisfac-
tory divs. For 20 years to the close of
accounts in 1929 the average was 7.3 p.c.,
the highest being 8 p.c. and the lowest
6 p.c. For the eight years since the aver-
age has been a wink under 6 p.c. Mean-
while, electric-lift installations were
undertaken, the Major, Stevens and Coates
business was bought and the Common-
wealth agency for the Express Lift Co.,
London, acquired, the co. thus putting
itself in a position to supply all the
latest' types of high-speed electric lifts
and moving stairways. Earnings re-
sponded all right, but exes, kept pace,
and the co % derived little extra profit
from the larger trading:
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1924.. £41,158 £31,666 1933. . £36,306 £28,837
1926.. 47,279' 37,415 1934.. 46,261 37,702
1928.. 61,995 51,629 1935.. 88,054 80,134
1930.. 47,875 42,598 1936.. 88,507 80,652
1932.. 39,025 32,083 1937.. 73,019 65',560
Last year less business was obtained, and
revenue fell away £15,488, all but £396
of which was offset by savings in exes.
The net result was thus 6.2 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 6.5, 6.6, 7.1, 6.2, 5.7, 5.2
and 4.3 back to 1930. Half a point
was chipped off the div., reducing it
to 6 p.c., and it is doubtful whether any-
thing better need be expected for the cur-
rent term.
Balance-sheet' figures compare as fol-
lows :
1932. 1935. 1936 1937
Capital . . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities .. 10,417 35,021 21,914 18,904
Mains & plant 135,703 136,556 136,237 135,918
Freeholds .. 35,197 35,231 35,231 35,231
Leaseholds .. 1,149 1,149 1,149 1,149
Stock.. .. 9,136 27,5(68 15,462 13,177
Debtors . . 8,678 14,779 15,251 14,103
Cash, etc. .. 2,309 2,290 2,290 2,290
Stocks were reduced by £2285 and
debtors’ balances by £ll4B ; the money
was used mainly to reduce the overdraft
(now £13,072) by £2264 and the amount
coming to sundry creditors (£5831) by
£746. There was a contraction of £423
in the more or less liquid surplus, £10,666.
The year’s renewals, etc., were charged
to revenue, and the mains and plant are
reported in a “high state of efficiency.”
New Occidental Gold Mines, N.L.
Acquisition of the old Chesney mine
last year has given this Cobar (N.S.W.)
producer an additional string to its bow ;
and, with additions to proved ore in the
Occidental, larger millings and conse-
quent reduction in costs are looked for.
During the 12 months to Nov. 30 last
an extra 12,870 tons ore was crushed, of
which 3285 tons was treated by the new
flotation unit. The results compare with
the previous year’s in this way:
Head, Gold Yield N
Tons Value, Dwt., Value, Costs,
Milled. Dwt. Oz. Ton. Ton. Ton.
1936.. 72,104 7.84 24,005 6.67 57/11 39/1
1937.. 84,974 8 28,770 6.77 59/8 36/1
In addition 31 tons copper was produced.
Principally owing to introduction of the
40-hour week, costs increased 3s. a ton,
compared with the last half of 1936 ;
but they were down 3s. on the figure
for the full 12 months of 1936. This
and the lift in the head value of ore
resulted in a working surplus 4s. 9d.
better at 235. 7d. per ton.
Here is the story as p. and 1. figures
tell it:
r~Mine Surplus—, Net
Revenue. Gross. Ton. Profit. Share. Amt.
£ £ £ £
iqos I 208 > 9 48 68,027 18/10 62,214
lyrfo Written off, £29,492.
i<m \ 2 53,600 1 °°,3 1 2 23/7 93,062 1/- 55,587
(Written off, £38,000.
The improvement in the net result was
£30,848. Shareholders got two sixpenny
divs. —a third, requiring £30,367, has gone
out since the close of accounts and
£38,000 is earmarked for depreciation.
To date a large slice of net earnings
has been reinvested in the mine.
Most of the ore from the Occidental
came from Nos. 7, 8 and 9 horizons, and
was cyanided. Extraction averaged 85.8
p.c., and better is expected when a new
mineral jig is installed in the secondary
grinding circuit. During the year £16,200
was spent on plant and equipment, while
1422 ft. of driving and crosscutting, 671 ft.
of winzing, etc., and 1047 ft. of diamond-
drilling were carried out. One result was a
bulge of 113,386 tons in estimated ore re-
serves (488,386 tons down to No. 10
level), though the grade is o.32dwt. less at
B.lBdwt. Of the 488,386 tons, 426,116
is positive and 62,270 probable. It is
proposed to lift throughput from 7000
tons to 9000 tons monthly over the next
few months. Capital expenditure is not
expected to interfere with divs. In some
12' to 18 months’ time, and if Nos. 10
and 11 levels live up to expectations, out-
put is to be further raised to 12,000 tons
monthly.
Practically the whole of the new plant
for New Cobar has been installed at a
cost of £95,810, or £13,380 more
than originally figured on. The ore
here is to be treated by flotation. Pro-
duction at the rate of 3000 tons
monthly has commenced, and treatment
is expected to reach rated plant capacity
of 4500 tons per month when No. 5 level
is ready for stoping about April. Ore
reserves remain unchanged at 140,000
tons positive (102,000 tons of it averages
7.3dwt. gold and 1.75 p.c. copper), and
155,000 tons probable. When the mine
was taken over by New Occidental, C. E.
Blackett reckoned on a gross extractable
value of 635. per ton, with mining, treat-
ment and realisation costs at 425., leaving
21s. a ton net. Treatment of 7000 tons
monthly is eventually aimed at.
On the Chesney area, from which the
old Great Cobar co. extracted 306,977
tons, principally for gold content, opera-
tions have been held up owing to delay
in delivery of pumping equipment. Mines
Department records indicate that the
shaft is down 954 ft. There are two well-
defined veins, which are the northern
continuations of those known in the
Occidental. The western one is the
larger. Over a length of 800 ft., width
of the ore-body averaged 40ft., assay-
ing 31 p.c. copper and 3dwt. 6gr, gold.
In 1911 a drill core from the No. 6 level
on to the eastern vein, said to be Bft.
wide, assayed 3.5 p.c. copper. Approx.
650,000 tons of ore is thought to be avail-
able.
Paid capital stands at £300,231 in
1,214,700 ss. shares, of which 202,200
are preference. At Nov. 30 there were
liquids of £45,458 to cover liabilities of
£25,367. At 10s. per ord. share and 7s.
lOd. per pref., market value of the show
is around £587,000. On the basis of last
year’s results, this is little more than
the net profit in sight from visible ore
reserves in the Occidental alone.
Acquisition of an adjoining 755 acres
has extended life of Takuapa Tin,
operating in East Siam, to an estimated
18 years, assuming that the old
holdings will be worked out in six
years. The new selected area, which
has been paid for out of the co.’s own
resources, is of 680 acres, estimated to
contain 35,000,000 c.y. Mining engineers
Y. Tecpik and C. C. W. Liddelow did
the testing, the former reporting values
of 0.5121 b. t.o. per c.y., the latter 0.532.
Altogether 185 bores were put down,
giving mean values of 0.521 b. t. 0., assay-
ing 72 p.c. metallic tin. The wash is
reported easy dredging, consisting of
coarse gravel and sand, free from stones,
with a little clay. With all-in costs at
3d. per c.y. and tin at £175 London,
profit from the new area is put al
£375,000. For the 12 months to Dec. 31
last the co. treated 4,244,000 c.y. for 988
tons t. 0., as against 3,800,000 c.y. for 829
tons in the previous term. Profit on
working account, according to progress
reports, was £75,566.
* * * *
Normanby Tin, near Cooktown (N.Q.),
is having trouble not anticipated in its
prospectus. Tough overburden is such
a hindrance that a mechanical stripper
is being constructed, and instead of a
div. coming along a call of 3d. is being
made. The prospectus spoke of 200,000
yards going 41b. as proved, with a similar
yardage of lower-value ground as prob-
able. Costs were put at Is. a yard. The
co. has been sluicing for over four
months, with some interruptions, but
average recoveries haven’t come near the
higher values mentioned. The Is. shares,
up to 3s. 3d. in the early stages, fell to
Bd. last week-end. Another property is
expected to come into production next
month.
* * * *
The High Court has decided in favor
of Western Gold in the co.’s appeal
against the Westralian Commissioner of
Taxation. The question was whether a
profit of £42,736 made by Western Gold
on sale of its Reedy’s Mararoa leases,
Murchison field, to Triton was taxable.
The Commissioner contended that, since
the Western co. acquired the leases on
Sept. 22, 1933, and sold them to Triton
six days later, the transaction was a com-
mercial one and the profit thereon tax-
able. The co.’s argument was that it
took an option over the leases in Janu-
ary, 1933, spent about £15,000 on explor-
ing them, and found that more capital
than it had would be required to develop
them. It therefore formed the Triton
co., which bought the leases for £50,000
plus 200,000 f.-p. 10s. shares, which the
vendor still holds. The inference there
is that, for the purposes of taxation, the
co. had not trafficked in mining leases,
but acquired them to secure profits from
working them. The Court decided that
the profit arose through a change in the
form of investment and was not taxable.
The amount of the bill was £ 18,000-odd.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A. 8.: Everything depends upon future de-
velopments, which, of course, are largely esti-
mates. If you cannot afford to take the risk
get out C.W.G.: (1) and (3) No open market;
write secretary. (2) Co. has sole right of
milling, pulping or otherwise disposing of forests
after 10 years and up to 20 years from date
of planting. After that “investment” holders
have the right to convert and market forest
products themselves, under certain conditions.
Latest proposal is to convert bonds into shares,
thus giving bondholders a say in the manage-
ment. (4) Pi'ofit-earning prospects anything but
bright L.L.S.: (1) Looks like a fair spec.
(2) A gamble with the odds against you
W.H.J.: The debentures offer fair security for
both income and capital, as well as an attrac-
tive return E.M.: No record; making in-
quiries.


SMOKE-OH!
“Not one person in the crowd was able to
appreciate his meaning.”— Novel.
But, then, crowds have a habit of being
dense.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Film actress’s new bathing costume has
black and white stripes running across it.”
—Hollywood gossip.
Seems strange nowadays for a bathing
costume to be big enough to carry
stripes.
4* 4* 4* 4* •
“I gave my daughter a proper dressing down
for walking in amongst company clad only
in her pyjamas.” —Daily paper correspondent.
What she really needed, of course, was
a proper dressing up.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Widows of a newly-discovered tribe in
Central Papua carry the jawbones of their late
husbands strung around their necks.”— Oddity.
They can still nag them without get-
ting a back answer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Egyptian hypnotist makes men speechless
for 30 minutes merely by looking at them.”
—News item.
Millions of women can beat his feat
by hours.
4- 4* 4- 4*
“The sum total of the national debts of the
European nations makes an enormous figure.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
In short, some total.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Proved by Figures.
“Are women inferior at mathematics?”
— Woman’s paper.
Good heavens, no! They have always
been excellent at subtracting—especially
from their age or their husband's in-
come. And, as for adding, they only
have to see a man out with someone
who isn’t his wife and they put two and
two together in a flash. Moreover, they
are responsible for an unlimited amount
of division ; while, as far as multiplying
goes—well, please don’t remind me of
our triplets!
Concerning the geometric side,
although some are unable to keep on
the square, others are very proficient at
forming triangles, and they all have
heaps of ambition for the best circles.
They mightn’t know the definition of a
straight line, but they can invariably tell
if their husband is walking on one.
Their skill at detecting a shortage in
the pay envelope points to a definite
penchant for the ire mathematics. Also,
they are excellent at striking a balance.
Indeed, if it is a bank balance, they
can knock it cold!
T. W. N.
“It was his wife’s insistence that caused him
to reduce his whisky drinking.”— “Sun.”
She was determined to take him down
a peg or two.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Skirts were short and tight at Flemington on
Saturday.” —Fashion note.
Punters likewise.
“Nazis ban Jews from auctions.”
Going, going, gone!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Advance Australia.” —Trade slogan.
But overseas moneylenders have taken
a lot of interest out of it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Weaving Tactics.
“Claiming that it steadies his nerves, an
American boxer immediately prior to a contest
does half an hour’s knitting in his dressing-
room.”
With purl and plain and stitch he copes
And nary thought of how he’ll box;
And then he clambers through the ropes
And generously hands out socks !
Zake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Ladies’ Day.
“There was a tent for racing equipment and
jockeys’ scales. An attractive country air was
produced by the fact that the saddlecloths hung
from a clothesline attached to the tent.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
As a punter of the old school, I trust
this novel idea doesn’t spread to Rand-
wick. Imagine backing an odds-on pop
that swung round and bolted the other
way when ten lengths in front with a
furlong to go through taking fright at
the array of fly-sheets and jockeys’ pants
fluttering from the saddling-paddock.
clothesline!
Another thing. Supposing the stable
laundress dallied at the bar over a couple
of gin-slings and failed to have the
saddlecloth dry on time. The trainer
“Hey! Not THAT building !”
would be obliged either to scratch or run
the risk of having his charge peter out
half a mile from home.
And visualise the litter of tubs, scrub-
bing-boards and blue-bags on the official
stand verandah and the pegs scattered
about the lawn. I daresay somebody’d
get twelve months on the outer if a com-
mitteeman skated a few yards oh the
soap and landed without dignity on his
own topper.
No; if they must do their washing on
the course, let ’em go up on the hill and
hang their stuff out to dry on the old
steeplechase fences.
‘ P. O. M. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Eating while in the bath is a dangerous
practice,” says a doctor.
That’s torn it, then—we’ll have to give
up eating watermelons.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Poet visits cinema to get inspiration for his
work.”
But it wouldn’t be quite fair to blame
the pictures entirely for the result.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It’s easy to earn twice the, wages you are
receiving.”— Correspondence-school advt.
Many workers consider they are
already doing that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“According to a German naturalist, worms
can sing.”
But if they splash and make a mess in
the bathroom while they are at it their
wives will soon put a stop to that.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He cooked and ate three pounds of sausages
at a sitting.”— “D.T.”
They were simply out of the frying-
pan and into the fryer.
Change.
At horticulture I’m a dunce,
But l have noted more than once
That widow’s weeds can shed their
gloom,
And into orange-blossoms bloom!
Me.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hitler wants every German to own a cheap
German motor-car.”
One way of shaking up the nation.
4* 4- 4*
“Convicts form prison band.” —News item.
It is to be hoped they don’t start cut-
ting out bars.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Stock Exchange News.
Explosives—up.
Mines —down.
Fertilisers —strong.
Cordials —weak.
Bassinets —no demand.
Political stocks —crashed.
J. B. J.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Men who are fond of a “heavy wet”
rarely save up for a rainy day.
*l* •£•
“At Teruel about 15,000 Loyalists, cut off for
24 hours by a girdle of rebel troops a mile
broad, awaited their doom. They were largely
unaware that their commander, nicknamed
‘EI Campesino,’ after executing a number of
soldiers on the point of stampeding, had
escaped in a tank.”
When they became “aware,” Decamp-
esino was the least they called him.
Because a bride is given away it
doesn’t always follow that the bride-
groom gets a bargain.
■J* ❖
“Police find betting slips in storekeeper’s
refrigerator.”— “Courier-Mail.”
So they were on the ice, too!
4* 4* 4*
Some Little-known Facts About
Australia’s Early History.
VI. — Cook’s Tour.
It was while he was crossing the
Tasman that Cap’n Cook first struck
trouble with the crew.
Not until he had left Maoriland did
Jim wake up to the fact that he had,
while in the Western Pacific, passed the
180th meridian of longitude without
having made that due provision for the
difference in time which is the recog-
nised practice among mariners. He had
given instructions to the lookout man
to keep an eye out for the “arbitrary
line” shown on the Admiralty chart. But
the A.B. ensconced cosily in the crow’s
nest and busily engaged on an intricate
piece of embroidery missed it. In any
case, it is doubtful whether he would
have recognised it, as he hadn’t the
faintest idea what “arbitrary” meant.
In the meantime the navigator him-
self, ostensibly to oil it, but in reality
to satisfy a curiosity he had had since
boyhood tq find out what made it go,
had taken his sextant to pieces. Putting
it together again, he found after he’d fin-
ished that he had seven bits left over,
and in his consequent perturbation the
thought of the meridian went clean out
of his head.
By the time he became aware of it
again several more hours had to be ad-
justed, and it was to a disgruntled crew
one Tuesday evening that Jim explained
that officially it was then Thursday morn-
ing and they’d have to holystone the
deck again. Moreover, as they hadn’t
worked on Wednesday they would be
docked that day’s pay.
The crew took these on the chin, but,
being conscientious members of the Ex-
plorers’ Seamen’s Union they protested
that, if the previous day, Wednesday,
had not officially existed, then the meals
they had eaten had been obtained by
them, as it were, under false pretences.
Therefore they insisted on being docked
foi these as well. Cook, a just man, ob-
jected, arguing that they couldn’t pos-
sibly have eaten the day before, as
officially it had never occurred. In any
case, he couldn’t bring himself to adopt
such a lousy attitude as that. The crew
insisted, however, and hot words passed.
Indeed, Cook suspected that two of the
men swore at him, but as they were
Lancashire lads he couldn’t be sure.
To the navigator, trained in the old
naval school of rigid discipline, the
crew’s attitude bordered on the mutin-
ous. They accepted the cigars he passed
round sullenly, but the smouldering dis-
content which his unreasoning generos-
ity had engendered burst into the flame
of open revolt when on the following
payday the crew found they hadn’t been
docked for the three meals.
Angus McSkirlpipe, a big, dangerous
Finn, started the trouble by throwing his
pay defiantly into the scuppers. Diving
through a huge wave that the Endeavour
had just shipped, he recovered it and
hurled it angrily into the skin belt he
wore. Things started to look ugly when
he dragged his bagpipes out and said
he’d put in three hours’ practice on “Cock
o’ the North” if the crew’s demands
weren’t satisfied. It was too much for
Cook. Pale and shaken at the awful
threat, he agreed to accept the money
for the meals.
The problem of the spare day and a
bit proved a nightmare to Jim in other
ways. For instance, when he sat down
to tea it was, strictly speaking, still early
yesterday morning, and as his valet hadn’t
then brought his shaving water his
scrubby facial appearance clashed with
his smart mess jacket.
But it was breakfast which the ex-
plorer shuddered to tackle. As this,
under the new time system, was. taken
about 8 p.m., his bacon and eggs were
followed—he was a stickler for English
tradition at night—by port wine and
cigars. Still trying to worry out what
time he would show in his log when he
hit Australia, and having to go by dead
reckoning through the failure of his sex-
tant to function, Jim missed Botany Bay
and lobbed at a point much further south.
Many historians have loosely assumed
that the first part of the continent that
he sighted was named after Zachary
Hicks, his senior lieutenant. Actually, he
facetiously dubbed it “Point Hies” when
land first came into view. Cook, excitedly
pointing to it, asked the man at the
wheel for the reading. But the A.B. had
just cleaned up the rum issue for the
whole of the fo’c’sle, and he could only
reply: “Point—hie ; point—hie.”
S. W. K.
Justification.
“A man charged with being drunk and dis-
orderly at a Melbourne court pleaded in ex-
tenuation that his bride-to-be had failed to turn
up for the ceremony.”
Apparently to wed him she refused.
He sought her not, nor tried expostu-
lation,
But left the kirk and got completely
boozed;
For which he could, with justice, be
excused —
For hadn’t he good cause for cele-
bration ?
Bo.
Bartholomews’ Eve.
“Because of his debts, Freddie Bartholomew
has suspended payment of the £5OOO a year he
contributed to the support of his parents.”
Enough to make Bartholomew
Like any tomcat in the dew,
The child of his Bartholomatch
So failing to come up to scratch !
I’ll bet it caused a pretty pother
To father and Bartholomother
When in one brief Bartholomo
Their income stopped. Now broke they
go,
Because their child has let them down,
Bartholomoody round the town.
STOO.


FLOORS BEAUTIFUL/
HUDSON'S ARTISTIC PARQUETRY FLOORS
BIS
m
m
m
m
■
*v. x* - x ;;
PVIK
- ■ V ."
I
~;M:- f 81..... msggik.
■
‘Sfc 3
A
They are practically everlasting and very easy to keep clean.
Hudson’s Parquetry Floors have well earned their reputation
for utility and lasting economy.
GEORGE HUDSON PTY., LIMITED,
Glebe.
Many artistic panels on view at our Showrooms, 7 Castlereagh Street,
near Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephones: 8W1451, MW2771, MW2781, MW2791 (3 lines each).
Meggitt, Ltd.
The fully-paids in this linseed
and linoleum-investment co. repre-
sent reasonable buying at last
week’s price of 31s. It is 4s. below
the 1937 “high,” and shows an
immediate return of £6 9s. per
cent.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Sure and Cocksure Investors
A close view of sharemarkets and their
followers over all sorts of years gives
as good a sidelight on human activity
and human nature as perhaps any other
gathering of humanity. All types are
represented. Old people, widows, trustees
and well-to-dos with savings, funds or
capital to put away for income-earning
purposes are there ; shrewd, active fol-
lowers of business and finance who are
out to capitalise their foresight and
knowledge through anticipating rises or
falls in share prices, or by buying good
shares for longer holding (because of
attractive div. rates now offering or
because of hopes of things to come);
brokers, some of whom earn their living
mostly from commission, some from
market dealings on their own judgment,
some from dealings prompted by advice.
Then there is the most interesting and
revealing section of the lot (of a type
that finds its way into all the other sec-
tions, incidentally) the emotional
market followers, with a lot of money,
perhaps, or with very little, but in the
aggregate representing a large, unstable,
influential body.
The last-mentioned class this page is
in the habit of referring to as punters.
Very often it provides the finance for
new industries when the more cautious
stick to Consols and fixed deposits. But
it also plays havoc with markets for
existing shares. When market panics
occur, punters are well to the fore. They
are rarely among the people who have
held C.S.R., British Tobacco, J. Fielding
and Australian Glass scrip for the past
20 years through thick and thin and
found that period in the long run very,
very prosperous. Mora likely they have
made money by buying cheap indus-
trials in the recovery from slump, made
more in the early part of the gold-share
boom and then lost much of it later,
and have “done” the rest of it by failing
to sell North Broken Hills at above 90s.
when the silver-lead market was soaring.
There is rarely any such thing as easy
money to be made on ’Change. The
most successful market followers work
hard at their job, and they would prob-
ably have a better bank-balance when
they retire if they had devoted their ener-
gies to manufacturing patented clothes-
pegs or running a pub. As in every
walk of life some are successful, others
not. Some of the most gilded in-
vestors, probably, are men in business
themselves who put a portion of their
savings into shares in other businesses
of a type they understand, and then sit
on the shares.
Emotions, or psychology, are big
factors in sharemarket “tone.” Slumps
occur very often because punters, when
rattled, aren’t sure of themselves. When
the preceding boom was on they were
cocksure.
The wise investor won’t do things for
which he is likely to curse himself later.
If, after soberly and critically choosing
an investment, it should go wrong, he
has the inward feeling that he did his
best to safeguard himself, and that ex-
ternal factors were to blame. It is the
emotional person, lured on by hopes of
easy money, who feels either guilty or
a fool when his money fades into a
shadow.
In these days, with money itself some-
times threatened by political expediency,
investment becomes a matter of the most
far-reaching importance. The most re-
mote people are interested. And market
prices of investments, including Consols,
gas scrip and bank shares, have fluc-
tuated so much even since the slump that
expert knowledge or advice is essential
in order to preserve capital and income.
Woolworths again! Net profit £217,717,
equal to 21 p.c. on ord. capital (as against
17.8 p.c. last year), a 15 p.c. ord. div.
(against p.c.), and a bonus issue of
one for five. Nearly a million pounds
will have been handed out in bonus scrip
when the newest lot goes in the post. The
ss. shares were at 255. Bd. on Jan. 31 ;
they sold at 275. 6d. last Thursday.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam scrip is keeping steady
around 345. 3d., yielding 4.1 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The yield isn’t too low
considering the co.’s possibilities. It is
an excellent concern, working splendid
assets, and drawing a good income from
its investments.
* * * *
The sharemarkets showed no excite-
ment of any kind following the resig-
nation of Anthony Eden.
* *
Base metals lifted quite encouragingly
on Wednesday of last week in London,
making a rise of 13s, over two days in
lead, 16s. in spelter, 40s. in copper and
£6 in tin. These prices—£16 2s. 6d. ster-
ling for lead, £l5 7s. 6d. spelter, £42 ss.
copper and £l9O ss. tin—still seem to be
below a fair thing, but improvement,
however little, will give breathing-space
to harried speculators and encourage for-
ward buying by consumers. There was
a slight recession on Thursday, more on
Friday.
Barriers were perky again last Thurs-
day, Norths lifting to 535., Souths to
355. The American market at this stage
was firming, and happy days were re-
puted to be nearly here again. It’s largely
up to Roosevelt.
* * * *
The scrip of North Kalgurli remains
one of the firmest, goldmining stocks in
the Commonwealth. Last week as high
as 235. was paid in Adelaide, and there
were sales at that- figure in Melbourne
and Sydney. A transfer on Thursday in
Melbourne at 245. 3d. was the highest
quote for about two years; the scrip was
picked on this page in 1937 when below
17s. London has been buying lately
at prices on a par with those paid
on Australian ’Changes, making valua-
tion of the show £1,265,000 Australian.
This pays in full for the working profit
indicated in the last announcement of
proved ore reserves —632,360 tons going
7.6dwt. —assuming that the 1937 surplus
of 40s. a ton could be shown on the
milling of the lot. The market, obvi-
ously, is paying well for prospects; this
is a case where mining developments and
geological conditions have rarely dis-
appointed. One of the best goldmines in
Australia, North Kal. should neverthe-
less be bought into only as a mine, and it
must always be remembered that a few
shillings’ rise on each of the 1,100,000
shares can put a big premium on future
profits. To those who insist on having
a sprinkling of gold among their invest-
ments, North Kal., when share prices
are favorable, seems the pick of the
Australian bunch.
* * * *
Carlton and United Breweries, Mel-
bourne, is reported to have acquired part-
ownership of 15 hotels and other assets
in Cairns (Q.). C.U.B. also has interests
in the Riverina (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Australasian Paper and Pulp ords.
slipped back to around 31s. 6d. last
week ; a 4 p.c. div. is payable on March
18. On a 30s. 9d. net price basis the
return offering is £5 4s. per cent., which
is very satisfactory.
* * * *
Australian Glass shares, which were
looked upon here for some time as being
in the “too-high” class, have maintained
their price better than the scrip of most
manufacturing cos. —Broken Hill Prop.,
for instance, which has been often fav-
ored here. “Glass” scrip is around 945.
now, and it has never been much higher ;
the yield on a 15 p.c. div. basis is 3.2
p.c. The interim in respect of the cur-
rent year was no higher than last year’s.
B.H.P. fully-paids at 625. return just over
4 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis, and dis-
closed earnings in relation to capital have
been for some time at a higher rale than
Glass’s, though during the slump B.H.P.
paid nothing for three years, whereas the
Glass co.’s lowest div. was 6 p.c. If
more susceptible to financial conditions,
B.H.P. has a great trade attached
to it, as well as possessing an out-
look that should broaden as the nation
grows. Despite favorable profits dis-
closed annually, a proportion of the capi-
tal has as yet only a potential earning
capacity. The potentialities should even-
tually become actualities.
*** * .
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of pig-iron
for the 36 weeks to Feb. 13 was down
10,096 tons on the figure for the previous
corresponcling period.. at 456,048 tons.
Steel output; - however, at 548,977 tons
was up 54,059 tons—lo. 9 p.c. This is
the more important item. The paid
shares showed improvement last week.
Mr. Dow Jones or somebody else
in New York was probably just as much
responsible for the lift as anything that
has happened in Australia.
* * * . *
If base metals continue to firm, we may
see a better tone in wool prices later. The
staple usually follows metals —at a dis-
tance.
* * * *
In Sydney last week wool averaged
11.9 d. a pound, as against 12d. in the
preceding week.
*** * . .
Winchcombe,, Carson, the Sydney
woolbrokers, report that two-thirds of
the clip to be offered in their city this
season has now been sold. Continental
buying, especially that of France and
Germany, has caused better clearances
than expected a short time back. Three
bales of wool can now be bought for
the price of two a year ago, though
French importers are again feeling the
weight of a devalued franc.
* * * *
There has been increasing inquiry in
Montreal for Pato Consolidated shares.
Placer Development has about a 30 p.c.
interest in this dredging show operating
in Colombia (South America). After a
period of steady rising (to above 80s.),
Placer shares have slipped again in Syd-
ney, the market standing around 745.
* * * *
According to Eric Campbell, Mt.
Morgan smelters should be operating in
about seven months’ time. It will be
good going if they are. Concentrates
totalling 5000 tons, worth around
£190,000, leave for U.S.A. in April. In
the latest monthly crushing figures grade
has shown a slight drop.
* * * *
Further demand set in for Australian
Gas (Sydney) shares last week, the “A”
issue ‘ lifting to £7 12s. 6d. For the
smaller “B” issue, which is theoretically
preferable because it carries no liability,
that figure was offered by buyers, but
no sellers appeared. Though gas scrip
is at present the highest for over a year,
it isn’t yet back to the level of 1935-36,
when there was a boom in public-utility
issues.
* * * *
Holeproof, Ltd., Melbourne, at the
meeting last week, announced that turn-
over in 1937 had “increased substan-
tially” to record level. Plant extensions
are under way.
* * * *
Emperor scrip keeps around 12s. 6d.
The market has had many disappoint-
ments, and is now waiting to see profits
declared before believing in them.
* * * *
Tableland Tin’s reconstructed Return
Creek (Q.) dredge is expected to be at
work by July or August. A better job
is being made of it than first intended.
The reconstructed dredge should be a
good job and should effectively dig and
treat not less than 80,000 c.y. per
month, and give good profits while the big
dredge is being purchased and erected.
Delivery of parts of the big new dredge
has been held up owing to rearmament
overseas, and it may be two years before
this chief unit starts digging. But con-
struction of dams, powerhouse, etc., is
well in hand at Return Creek, and
B.H.P. has been having a look at tin-
bearing areas in the district.
* * * *
The opinions of the “Oriental Econo-
mist,” Tokio (Tanzan Ishibashi, editor),
don’t appear to be clouded by political
influences except where politics them-
selves intrude. Patriotic sneers, boasts
and the rest have no place in this item:
An important consideration will be for
' Japan to finance Government and war ex-
penses through increased taxation to the
maximum extent possible in order to avert
the.danger of extreme currency inflation. At
the same time, it is essential that the Gov-
ernment shall exercise the utmost care to
restrict its interference with national eco-
nomic life to the absolute minimum. ' The
Government’s course just now, however, is
diametrically opposed to this desirable
policy. Not only are imports of such im-
portant raw materials as cotton, wool, etc.,
placed under restriction, but the. foreign ex-
change license system is being enforced
with growing rigidity, and under, the two
forms of control industrialists and traders
are required to go through complicated
formalities at the hands of Government
officials who are complete novices in com-
mercial affairs. The result has been to
undermine alarmingly the competitive
: powers in the world’s markets of Japan’s
harassed businessmen, and the effect of
the faulty war-time policy on the com-
modity price movement has already become
apparent. : ;
“Faulty war-time policy” and “Govern-
ment officials who are complete novices
in commercial affairs”! Japan is no
totalitarian State when its press can say
things like that.
* * * *
Natural Gas and Oil, Balmain (Syd-
ney), is having its periodical flutter in
the sharemarket. The last heard here
was that a pump was being brought from
U.S.A. to do the trick of bringing to the
surface as much gas as was ever anti-
cipated by the show’s backers. It was
claimed by some that the gas had been
there in sufficient quantities all the while,
arid that only pumpirig was necessary to
make a commercial proposition of it.
Then there was talk of reopening the
Balmain colliery, and later of an asso-
ciation with Oil Search. The shares go
up, and the shares go down, and the
months go by.
* * * *
The Gibraltar mine, Adelong (N.S.W.),
has been given the once-over by a Syd-
ney group, and a result has been tentative
arrangements for supplying an additional
battery immediately. Finance was one
of the troubles of the present co.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Loloma shares got above 20s. again. En-
richment at the 224 ft. level has revived specu-
lation.
Carlton Brewery, one of the most promis-
ing stocks of its class in the Commonwealth,
kept firm at 675. 6d. The Carlton and
United organisation for the past 15 years at
least has financed all expansion out of profits
held by itself or holding cos. —no par issues
or bonus issues have been made by the Carlton
holding co. in that time, anyway, which indi-
cates the growing value behind the shares.
Lancefield shares lifted to 4s. 6d., a slight
improvement on recent sales.
Golden Plateaus kept around 13s. 6d. This
stock hasn’t shifted more than a shilling either
way for months. Mt. Morgans rose above
10s., then slipped back a few pence on publi-
cation of the monthly milling results.


Shares Over Eleven
1
J
V
'
The Schrader valve,
“the little fellow
with the big job.”
The importance
of regular
The Schrader Clip-
on is a real per-
sonal gauge, of
proved accuracy.
Its small footing
makes it . very
handy to use.
Obtainable from, all
garages.
The comfort and safety of motoring depend
to a large extent upon correctly balanced tyre
pressures. It is waste of money to insist on good
tyres and then neglect the air pressures in them.
Those few minutes every week with your
Schrader to ensure correctly balanced pressures
are time well spent. More even and therefore
safer braking will result, more comfortable steering
and improved suspension. Remember, excessive
tyre wear is due to under inflation.
So make a regular habit of Schrader-testing
your tyres each week-end. Schrader pioneered
air-control, and their valves are standard through-
out the world.
Schrader
SCHRADER-TEST YOUR
TYRES EACH, WEEK-END
Schrader Scovill Company Pty., Ltd.,
26 Market Street, Melbourne, Cl.
m
m
Mi
TEST
FORDSON ON
YOUR OWN
PROPERTY
%jW
Developing 14 H.P. on the drawbar and
26 H.P. on the belt, Fordson is the lowest
priced tractor per horsepower. Equipped
with steel wheel grips or pneumatic tyres
it can be used for both ploughing and
haulage, will pull a 10-ft. sundercut with ease, a 6-furrow
mouldboard plough in. heavy country 4 to 5 in. deep at 3 m.p.h.
The 4.3 m.p.h. top gear enables Fordson to be used for light
cultivation at lower cost. Pulley wheel is standard equipment
and with the governor-controlled engine makes Fordson ideal
for stationary power. Ask your local Fordson Dealer for
details of the low operating costs of Fordson. The Fordson
finance plan provides easy purchase terms and a low rate
of interest.
TRACTOR
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS
LTD., Comer Bridge and
Young Streets, Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND)
LIMITED
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina & Tas.:
MALCOLM MOORE
LTD., City Showrooms:
601-3 Lt. Collins St., Melb.
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD.. Hay Street,
Perth
df
Banking Policy
Many responsible Australian citizens,
in hanks and out of them, some with a
good deal oF money at stake, and some
6 , . „ . ~ annf j
wUh only savings, concerned
and others out °f wo ‘' ’ , , te s
about what action Canberi a P
in the matter of banking legislation. A
it? rLoTa 'fe^months 6 ago, J and "con-
its report a ie . ° p< , npP]a ii v
aboTthi poTnTof what shou’ld be done
. / hctwppn the
poh C cy Se of the Government of the day
and that of the Commonwealth Bank
Board. Such a disagreement did arise
while E G Theodore was Federal Trea-
surer. Robert Gibson, then chairman of
the Bank Board, was victor in that en-
counter. . , ,
Reports from Canberra received last
week suggest that the bill be.ng drafted
will not provide for any variation in the
present relations between the Bank Board
an d t* lo Government.” That, if true, is
a re lief. But what legislation is being
contemp i ated ?
A reading of the commission’s report
will suggest to many that recommen-
Elions should not be considered the last
word and final judgment on the highly
difficult and very important subject of
whether general banking activities should
be further controlled by legislative action,
The commission itself would scarcely
regard its joint opinion as infallible ; its
members were far from being unanimous
upon some important matters. The
report calls for analysis, criticism when
necessary, and no legislative action
should be taken merely because it accords
with the recommendations. The whole
structure of trade, investment and
finance is involved, and never must it be
overlooked that certain of the commis-
sion’s recommendations, if put into effect,
would radically alter the structure of Aus-
tralian banking. Individual responsibility
would be changed for community re-
sponsibility. As the community must act
through individuals, the change, if it
were made, would resolve itself into con-
trol by the Government or its nominees
in place of control by responsible
officers of banking institutions.
That constitutes the real issue. It is
an age-long problem which has been
solved as a rule by see-saw methods. At
one time the political arm rules finance,
and at another the people resume their
powers. Over the years, through the
world, it will be found that best re-
sults followed a private organisation of
banking, and that, when politicians took
control, sectional pressure forced them
into actions detrimental to sound finance.
Another matter for consideration is
the degree of validity attached to various
benefits claimed for a central bank when
it is invested with control over currency
and credit. Central banks have, so far,
a very short practical history. Are we to
legislate only for the near future, or
should we have in mind the needs and
dangers which might arise 50 years hence?
The U.S.A. has a highly centralised
organisation of banking and credit con-
trol, instituted in 1913. The results haven’t
been wonderful, though, to be fair, it is
hard to say what would have taken place
under a different system. Against the ex-
perience of the United States we can
place our own ; and the advantages are
decidedly on the side of Australia. 1 Our
system stood up to the strain of the late
depression, and has assisted this country
in recovery. In the U.S.A. there was an
unprecedented collapse of banks, and
though some recovery has since been
recorded, in many respects there still
seems to be a terrible mess to clean up.
No doubt our banking system could
be improved, but should it be along the
lines of experiment for which no record
of successful achievement —spread over
a sufficient period of time —can be pro- 1
duced? . The Canberra Government, m
its trade-diversion policy and other in-
cidents, has shown itself to be an incom-
petent judge in these matters. There
must be full public discussion before
any banking legislation goes on the
statute book.
Howard Smith ords. at 21s. 3d. are
interesting. The final div. makes 5 p.c.
for the year, accounts are due this month,
and attractive figures are expected.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell shares improved to 325. Jast
week, which compares with a “high” of
58s. and a “low” of 30s. 9d. in 1937. In
its last term Lyell’s disclosed profits
didn’t come up to the expectations of this
page owing to increased costs and heavy
provision for taxation, etc. Still, from
peak price to lowest in 1937, Lyell’s scrip
fell less than North Broken Hill’s. The
average price of electrolytic in Lyell s
last term, when 22.2 p.c. was shown on
ord. capital, was £6O Bs. 3d. sterling, as
against £46 last week, and £4O 14s. Bd. in
1935-36, when 12.5 p.c. on capital was
earned. In October, 1936, when elec-
trolytic averaged approximately last
week’s figures, closing quote for Mt.
Lyell in Melbourne was 335. 9d. With
the pressure of lower metal prices on,
economies in costs may be achieved at
the mine this term, especially in flotation,
a major item since West Lyell low-grade
ore has become the chief mill feed.
* * * *
The Bank of Australasia’s div. of 8
p.c. for the year to Oct. 12, 1937, was
unchanged, and profits showed only a
slight lift.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The opening of the 1938 autumn round
at Flemington will be remembered where
bookmakers forgather. Three winners
started at odds-on ; a fourth couldn’t be
backed in the ring and paid only ss. 6d.
(10 to 1 on) in the tote. Main events
on the programme—Sires’ Produce
Stakes, Essendon Stakes, Newmarket and
St. Leger—were regarded as such fore-
gone conclusions that 4 to 1 actually
was accepted overnight about picking
all four.
Never had there been such a hot
favorite for the Newmarket as Ajax, who
firmed to 13 to 8 on at barrier-rise.
Playaway started at evens in 1904 ; Top
Gallant was a 6-to-4 pop in 1926. Each
failed signally, though Playaway was suc-
cessful up the straight six a year fol-
lowing her downfall.
Though Frank Musgrave’s colt wasn't
quite the “good thing” that had been
imagined, hats must be lifted to Heroic’s
son. He had 9st., the biggest impost
ever carried by a three-year-old winner.
Chantress (1903) and Waltzing Lily
(1933) each scored with Bst. 91b. As
fillies they would be entitled to 31b.
under the scale in the month of Feb-
ruary.
Ajax had No. 14 position in a field
of 16, Soltoi being the only final ac-
ceptor to decline his engagement. Harold
Badger worked his mount over to the
extreme outside before the journey was
far advanced. Nowadays this “Malua
track” is considered slower than the
inner rails. It operated against Ajax,
who, according to what the jockey told
Musgrave, kept staring about him as the
area crowded by visitors was reached.
Bill Burke, the veteran Flemington
trainer, declared that Phar Lap might
have failed in the circumstances that
confronted Ajax. “Two furlongs from
home,” he said, “Badger was driving the
colt along with hands and heels ; a fur-
long farther on he used the whip. Only
a thoroughbred of amazing courage
would have risen to the occasion.”
Ajax always had the horses on “the
outer” well covered, but opposite the
members’ stand he must have been
three lengths behind Aurie’s Star, who
hugged the flat rails. This fact was so
obvious that the hearts of those who
had laid the odds sank into their boots.
But Ajax suddenly ceased staring, and,
fairly diving under the nose of the judge,
he won by a neck from Ena, with El
Golea, another 20-to-l shot, less than a
length farther off.
In 13 outings Ajax has registered 10
firsts and two seconds, his stake win-
nings amounting to £16,150. Asked
whether this colt was the fastest horse
he ever trained, Musgrave said, “I am
inclined to think he is. At all events he
‘has it on the board.’ But hitherto my
leaning has been towards Amata, with
whom I landed the Newmarket of 1916.
She was a really great mare.”
Early in the afternoon Nuffield gave
his 3-to-l-on followers a frightful shock
in the Sires’ Produce Stakes. Receiving
a slight squeeze at the start, Nuffield
dropped back last, where Ray Wilson
was content to remain longer than might
have been wise. Striving for a run on
the inside of Limulet at the straight en-
trance Nuffield collided with that rival.
Pandava, the pacemaker, might have
won the “Sires’ ” but for hanging out. He
allowed Destiny Bay to slip through on
the rails as they faced for home. With
a furlong to go the heads of Pandava,
Destiny Bay and Lady Montague could
have been covered by the proverbial
handkerchief.
Prospects of Nuffield, on the outside,
looked desperate, but gameness turned
the scale, and he scraped home by half
a neck from Destiny Bay (100 to 1),
with Lady Montague (twenties), half a
head away, just shading Pandava. Deep
sighs of relief attended hoisting of the
numbers. Outcome of the Ascot Vale
Stakes next Thursday now looks more
interesting.
Damalis (10 to 9 on) accounted for
his four Essendon Stakes rivals in
tradesmanlike style, and evidently is an
improving colt, who may be seen to
even greater advantage at Randwick.
Minor honors went to the M.L. colt
Elanage and the tearaway Young Cru-
sader. A solidly-supported second favor-
ite, Gold Rod, ran last. There must be
something seriously amiss with this great
performer. He will not race again at
the Melbourne carnival.
The St. Leger proved a mere exercise
gallop for Hua, who had only Pantoon
to beat.
Favoritism in the Brunswick Stakes
was shared by Irving and Elmdale, who
were quoted at fours. Former stalled
off a splendid challenge from Pooley
Bridge and scored by a head, with
Tuckerbox, who set the pace, a neck
away. Pooley Bridge immediately became
favorite for the Australian Cup.
Turf Boy (7 to 2) went out in half a
point better demand than Coster Lad
for the Pines Hurdle. Through his near
rein having snapped Turf Boy had to
be pulled up. David Quex was on terms
with Coster Lad at the final flight of
battens, but the latter drew away and
comfortably accounted for Bill Burke’s
candidate. Nevizes, also trained by
Burke, was a poor third.
Three-year-olds are not to be strongly
represented in the Australian Cup after
all. Hua was an early scratching, and
Elanage came out last week, after hav-
ing figured among the favorites all along.
So did John Wilkes. At the price, Bian-
coni looks as good as an each-way wager
as anything else.
*.* * *
Booshand, the Warwick Farm trainer,
picked up a bit more easy money with
Brazandt at Rosebery on Saturday. He
has now won three races in succession
with the Brazen colt. Backed from 6 to
4 to evens, Brazandt was never extended
in the Cape Solander Handicap, and his
time for the six furlongs was a race
record —lmin. Msec.
The conditions gave Brazandt a de-
cided advantage, as topweight was 9st.
With a seven-pounds allowance he car-
ried Bst. 71b. Let Slip and Careerbra
filled the places. Perimond was an in-
teresting fourth. His time is nearly due.
Little Holbein captured the Sir
Joseph Banks Handicap at 7 to 2. At
Canterbury his rider had got into all
sorts of bother, but on Saturday the lad
was instructed to keep his mount away
from any possible interference. Haut
Monde and Improvement looked danger-
ous until Holbein went round them half
a mile from home ; after that nothing
got near Holbein, who is a Sydney Cup
candidate.
Old Journal trailed the field through-
out. It looks as if his days of useful-
ness are over. Friar’s Switch did little
better.
A lucky run on the rails enabled
Eclogue (9 to 4) to beat Blue Ray and
Red Eagle in the Nursery. By Tippler-
Rogavis, Eclogue was bred by her
owner, Hunter White. Desert King’s
fourth was a good effort. Slow away,
he was on the outside of his field, and,
turning into the straight, was off the
course. He battled on gamely under the
whip.
Salbury, a daughter of Salmagundi-
Queen Elizabeth, had an easy task in
the Fourteen-two Handicap. She was
backed from sixes to 5 to 2, and admir-
ably ridden by the Queensland jockey
Ken Jeffers. The favorite, Rovina, was
second and Heroic Guest third.
A smart little horse is Blinky Bill, who
recently lost his pony certificate. For
the first division of the Lakes Welter,
Blinky Bill went out at fives. Commenc-
ing smartly, he was pulled back to fourth
position; getting through on the rails at
the turn, he easily held off Assai and
Nabob. He is a five-year-old chestnut
gelding by The Verderer-Lady Clare.
Canegrass lost his chance at barrier-rise.
Buzalong, looking burly, shaped poorly.
He will do better at Easter.
The second division gave Wise Boy
(5 to 2) a belated success. After Mar-
tingale and Turbine had turns in the lead
Wise Boy ran to the front, and he wound
up an easy winner from Turbine and
West Hock.
Kirrang (5 to 2), a daughter of
Magpie-Wattle, put up a meritorious per-
formance in the Trial Stakes. Her chance
looked hopeless five furlongs from home,
but in the straight she unwound a run
that put the result beyond doubt in a
few strides. Levant and Glenesk filled
the places. Kirrang is certain to score in
better company.
* * * *
In death, as in life, John Spencer
Brunton stands revealed as a sportsman
in the real sense of the term. He directed
that any debenture .that he had held in
respect of any club of which he was or
had ever been a member should be
handed back to the club. He remem-
bered all the members of his business
and domestic staffs, left £5O each to
trainers George Price and Andy Fer-
guson and distributed £5O among Price’s
stable hands. His estate was valued at
£56,716.
* * *
Because there is to be another Anni-
versary Celebrations show in Sydney on
April 9, and because it would be diffi-
cult for people to see the procession in
the morning and then make the long
journey to Warwick Farm, the A.J.C.
committee has decided that the races
fixed to be held at the Farm should be
transferred to Randwick. The racing
public unquestionably approves, but
J. M. Dunningham, the Minister for
Celebrations or something, has come
out with a loud objection. It recalls
Dunningham’s ultimatum to the Empire
Games secretary when that harassed man
was completing his preparations for what
proved to be a thoroughly well managed
show —Dunningham’s demand that the
secretary should immediately straighten
out the unpleasantnesses alleged by
squealing newspapers. The secretary
didn’t surrender, and neither should the
A.J.C.
sf * * *
A young Sydney trainer named Laid-
law took part in the demonstration over
the inconsistent running of After Six
after that animal had won at Canterbury
Park on Saturday week. Brought to
book, he said he had no financial interest
in the race, and had joined in the outcry
only as a joke. It has proved a very
costly joke for him; on the recommen-
dation of the new stewards, the A.J.C.
committee has withdrawn his trainer’s
license. The punishment seems severe,
but A.J.C. committees have always been
strict in these matters. Laidlaw is the
son of a Sydney magistrate, formerly a
stipendiary, and now on the Licensing
Bench. He has done well with the
hurdler Spear bine and with the sprinter
Aladdin.
* * * #
“Australasian” Turf Register figures
for the first six months of the current
racing year show that Australian-bred
sires have done famously again, Heroic
being first, Manfred second and Spear-
felt fourth; the imported Pantheon was
third. Another commentary on the folly
of the prejudice against home-grown stal-
lions which existed so long. When
English-bred sires had the field to them-
selves, class fell away dreadfully on Aus-
tralian racecourses. Now that Australian-
bred sires have come into their own
again, horses comparable with the great
ones of the early years of the century,
who held their own with the best in
England and India, have appeared again.
Ajax, Hua and The Trump, back to
his spring form —at the moment, unfor-
tunately, it seems unlikely that he will
regain it —would represent this country
worthily anywhere in the world.
On and after March 12, post positions
for all races to be held in Sydney under
A.J.C. rules are to be drawn and made
known an hour before the first race.
The innovation will be welcome. A
trainer has been heard to protest that
acceptances and post positions should be
published together ; but that would be
simply playing into the hands of the
starting-price gentry, who have done too
much harm to Sydney racing already.
The leading club wants to bring punters
back to the racecourse, not to give race-
goers an additional excuse for not
attending.
* * * *
“Becher”: Not often one sees a stallion
racing over jumps. Battleship, one of
the half-dozen American entries for the
Liverpool Grand National, is one. More-
over, he was at the stud for a season
before being put into training again. The
last American horse to win the big jump-
ing event was Kellsboro’ Jack in 1933.
Jack Carroll
Foxy old man of the Australian ring
Jack Carroll has had the good sense to
turn the game in on doctor’s orders after
14 years of pretty active scrapping. Bar-
ring any he may have had with income-
tax collectors, Jack’s recorded perform-
ance was 99 fights, won 84, lost 10,
drew in three. The other two are en-
tered as “no decision” and “no fight.”
Born at Kensington (Vic.) in 1906,
Carroll (Hardwick really) had a shot at
wrestling before taking to stoush. In his
first year of scrapping (1924) he had
seven fights, winning the first six in a
row, three of them on knockouts. He won
seven of his 10 scraps in 1925, two on
knockouts; 10 out of 11 (one k. 0.) in
1926 ; eight out of nine (three k. 0.), 1927 ;
six out of eight, 1928 ; seven out of eight,
1929 (knocked by Meyer Grace); won
eight in a row (two k. 0.), 1930 ; five out
of six (lost to Wally Hancock on a foul),
1931 ; won five out of seven (knocked by
Fred Henneberry, but later outpointed
Fred; no-decision scrap with Tommy
Fielding), 1932 ; all five (one k. 0.), 1933 ;
all five, 1934; five out of seven (one
draw and, against Paul Schaffer, no fight),
1935; all three, 1936 ; all three, 1937 ;
two points wins over Jimmy Leto, 1938.
Though he had never boxed better or
shown shrewder ringcraft than in his last
half-dozen fights. Jack had long ceased
to be the punishing fighter who in 1927
won three of his eight scalps on knock-
outs. Latterly he always looked the
more vulnerable of the two in the ring,
even against a statue-fighter like Jan-
nazzo. Though he was still the best
drawcard in the game, the barracking
at his recent scraps indicated that huge
numbers were there for the likely
superiority-complex satisfaction of seeing
the champion bite the canvas.
After his final fight with Leto he told
the microphone that he felt fit for an-
other 12 rounds, but Leto’s microphonic
comment, “Too bad Jack got cut up,”
received the backing of Jack’s doctor:
“The other day I fixed you up and put
you into the ring, but I wouldn’t be able
to fix you up again.” Just as well, then,
that he didn’t make it 100 fights, especi-
ally with a punishing fighter in Garcia
lined up as his next opponent. As it is,
he goes out with his honors thick upon
him, still fast enough to make the best
of ’em *ook slow, and with the respect
of all who ever clapped eyes on his
honest dial.
The inter-Dominion surf carnival at
Manly (N.S.W.) saw Queensland, W.A.,
S.A., Tassie and Maoriland represented by
teams and N.S.W. successful. A strong
current and a boisterous surf made things
difficult for swimmers. The rescue and
resuscitation event went to N.S.W., with
Queensland five points away; none of
the others could get their patients to the
beach within the time limit.
* * * *
Evans Paddon, the Richmond River
(N.S.W.) sculler, was much too good for
Sydney’s George Cook in a match for
the Australian championship over three
miles of Paddon’s home stretch of water.
The youngster’s time was 19min. 21 sec.
His performance has encouraged his
backers to try for a race with world
champion Bobby Pearce.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: Quaint names of
cricketers? After all, Christ, with the
short “i” (B. 16/2/’3B), is only an ab-
breviation of Christopher, as Wills is of
Williams, Robb of Roberts or Robin, and
Timms of Timothy. There must be a fair
scattering of them in the Midlands and
North of England, where the Christian
name is popular, and from the Christian
to the surname is only a stage in the
evolution of nomenclature. North, Sly,
Wilson, Johnson (the big cutler), Wade
and Sykes are a few of the eminent
Christophers in those parts.
o Continued on page 30.)
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Elms Handicap: El Golea ; next,
Beaustone.
River Handicap: Aitchengee ;
next, Elmdale.
Welter: Counter Patrol or Sun-
raysia ; next, Evening Mist.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: Ajax ; next,
Hua.
Australian Cup: Bianconi 1 ;
Pooley Bridge, 2 ; Le Grand 3.
Leonard Stakes: Ena; next,
Aurie’s Star.
Final Handicap: Counter Patrol
or Sunraysia ; next, Lolorua.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Dutiful; next, The Jilt.
Brighton Handicap: Electron or
The Marne ; next, Wise Boy.
Moorefield Handicap: Viceroy ;
next, After Six.
Flying Welter: Electron or Mor-
dent ; next, Heroic Faith.


100,000 People Have Read
This AMAZING BOOK!
G noth eh 1.500
f REI BOOKS
krr distribution,
(use coupon)
'W:
ALFRED J. BRITON,
World-fatuous International Phy-
deal Director; Founder of “Health
and Phvalral Culture."
DAST the 100,000 mark, and still going strong! If you
* would read something that would stir your very vitals
—if you would learn something the like of which you had
never even dreamed! Then send for this book and read
how YOU can charge your body full of vitality, add five
inches to your chest, acquire the power of battering rams
in your arms, and develop a neck and legs like pillars! It’s
all here in this very book explained in detail, and you’ll
agree, like thousands of others have, that it’s the most
amazing book you have ever seen.
I Bui'd Strong, Hand-
some, Healthy Bodies
People call me the Muscle-maker. I make
men’s bodies strong and healthy.
My list of thousands of wonderful
successes includes schoolteachers and
lawyers, book-keepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men
and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific
body-building, I go all over your body,
strengthening your internal organs, broad-
ening your shoulders, cutting off fat, and
generally turning you inside out until
you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-
man any woman will be proud of in just
thirty days.
WATCH THEM TURN
AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow
who carries himself with head up. Notice
how the broad-shouldered man always gets their
eye. They want a dependable he-man when
they make their choice—one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I
do not only promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now,
don't put it off a minute. Get going to
new happiness and real manhood to-day.
MAKE THIS TEST
TO-NIGHT!
Before you step into your pyjamas to-night, stand
in front of the mirror and look yourself over.
Are you proud of the man you see? Is he al
strapping, broad-shouldered husky, with arching
chest and rippling bands of solid muscle?
Would you bet on him in a fight?
Be fair to yourself. You can't expect the respect of
men or the admiration of women if you re a
physical weakling. Let me get to work on that
body of yours. Let me build a man who 11 be
PROUD to step out in a bathing suit. This free
book shows how EASY it is. You 11 never know
what this book is worth to you until you ve read
it yourself. It may change your entire life. It’s
a revelation in body-building and muscle-
building. It’s crammed full of pictures and
matter that will make you open your eyes.
Thousands of men have thought it worth while
to send the “free book” coupon below to get
their copies. It won’t cost you one penny. No
obligation—no salesmen will call. YOU be the
judge and jury. Mail the coupon or write—
TO-DAY.
I Don’t Promise You Re-
sults-l Guarantee Them
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid
muscle on your arms; to increase your chest
five inches; to develop your neck to a size
larger collar; to add three inches of powerful
development to your thighs, two inches to your
calves; to give you a firm, slim waistline that
will make you take in a notch or two in
your belt.
And I don’t ask you to take my word for it —
I don’t promise anything—l back every state-
ment with an ironclad GUARANTEE.
I’ve done all this for others. I can do it for
you. Get the PROOF—send for my amazing
new Book—NOW! It’s FREE.
m
:-:9S88Sfi:: : : :
IV
■■
READ THIS AMAZING PROOF!
“I am fitter than ever before —
your course is doing for me more
than I ever imagined.”
R. A. NORRIS, 0., S. Africa.
“The development of my arms
and shoulders has been really
wonderful, and it does my eye-
sight good to look at my biceps
and triceps, which are now be-
coming a ball of muscle. I wish
I had taken your course years
ago and so saved myself much
suffering and ill-health.”
C. J. CROSBIE, S., Yic.
“I am very pleased with your
course, and I feel wonderfully fit
—in fact, I’ve never felt better in
my life. All my friends are talk-
ing about my wonderful phy-
sique. I thank you again from
the bottom of my heart for what
your svstem has done for me.”
J. MORRISON, S., Scotland.
“I have seen my hotly pass
from a bony structure to that of
a well-muscled athlete. I have
gained 7|in. round the chest in
95 days.”
J. M. CRAIG, G., N.Z.
“I have completed the first
course and I am amazed. I have
gained eight pounds in weight
and 2-A inches around chest.”
K. H. FOUL IS, T., Fiji.
“My chest has increased
inches and each arm li inches.
Everyone has marvelled at the
phenomenal development of my
body after only one month.”
J. CLARK, Calif., IJ.S.A.
Gains One Stone !
“I am writing you these few
lines to congratulate you and
your wonderful system on the
way it lias developed niy body.
My weight has increased nearly
a stone, and ray height nearly an
inch.”
G. SWAINSON, M. Est., N.S.W.
Height Increased.
“Gained two inches in height.”
Yours sincerely,
N. GRAVE, Malvern, Vic.
Gains sin. Around Chest.
“I am now 41fin. round the
chest, which is an increase of
5 inches.”
O. E. JEBREEN, M., Nth. Qld.
Gained 7in. Round the Chest!
“Before I started the Course,
my chest, normal, was 27 inches,
but now it is 34 inches, and 36
expanded; truly a marvellous
difference.”
J. MILNER, C., Norfolk Is.
Now a New Man!
“I beg to write and thank you
for the splendid muscle-building
and health-giving course you sent
me some months ago. I have
been through the whole Course
thoroughly and tind myself a new
man.”
A. V. HAY, G., N.Z.
Gained 3in. on Chest.
“I have just completed two
months of Excelding, and am
glad to say that I have already
made a marked development, both
in muscles and appetite. Since I
have started I have gained 1!
inches on the chest, and my
thighs and calves are each one
inch bigger.”
JOHN WOLF, T., Sth. Africa.
Don’t Know How to Express
Gratitude.
“I don’t think you have a more
thankful and satisfied pupil than
I am. In fact, I am that satisfied
I don’t know how to express my
gratitude.. I am lost for words
good enough to praise your won-
derful course. No man should
be without it, at least no man
would be without it if he had
it a few days. It is marvellous.”
D. H. MOREHEAD, D., N.Z.
0W
mMmn
m
ABSOLUTELY FREE!
l*hig month, to every reader of this paper who is
interested —here is my offer: To prove to you what I
have said about the “Secrets of Muscular Strength and
How to Acquire It,” I am going to give ONE FREE
ISSUE, providing you make application at once! This
book has been the cause of changing the lives of
thousands of men. I have received countless thousands
of wonderful letters and photographs of actual trans-
formation of men who never thought they could acquire
strength and development! Make me PROVE these
assertions to you by sending for your copy this
minute, not to-morrow, you may be too late, but
to-day—NOW. Are you ready?
ALFRED J. BRITON
107 Pi It
SYDNEY,
Dept.
L.
Street,
N.S.W.
Just take a peep at the physiques
of these Briton Pupils; they are
only a few. There are thousands
more. You, too, can acquire
mighty muscles and splendid
health. Send the coupon—NOW!
Great Improvement.
“I have now had about 12 days’
treatment, and already I am feeling
vastly improved, both physically and
mentally.”
K. I. MeCALL, G., Solomon Is.
FREE BOOK COUPON-POST NOW
ALFRED
. BRITON, Dept. L,
107 Pitt St.. Sydney. N.S.W.
Dear Sir.—Please send me absnintel* FRKP a cop* of jrom
latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strenerth—And How To
toflnirf It." Don’t send one oennv—lt’« FREE.
d
fTJI*I AIIDKBSS
2 / 2 / ’3B.


De Luxi %
Model,
A cheap tyre gauge is seldom accurate after the newness has
worn off. But a Kismet Gauge, being scrupulously
manufactured to the finest limits of accuracy, guaran-
tees years of reliable service. Although it is priced
• a shilling or two more than an ordinary gauge, it
costs less in the long run, because it keeps
its accuracy and neat finish all the time.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, P.O. Box 71. Melbourne, Australia
STANDARD
TYRE
GAUGES
CADET
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, 1, England.
The
‘Popular
Priced”
Model,
7/6
"silver
EDGE "
TRADE VMARK REC/STEREO
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
22Mc=i
MOTORISTS
CAN YOU STOP?
fd
Have you experienced the uncanny feeling of pressing your brake pedal
and nothing happens?
Do not wait for this experience to be yours, but have your brakes
watched and adjusted at definite periods in the same way as you attend
to the oiling of your engine.
See that your brakes are fitted with “RAYBESTOS” BRAKE LININGS
and so ensure reliability, uniform wear and safety.
RAYBESTOS-BELACO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Factory Rep.: JOHN' ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, MELBOURNE, VIC.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Henneberry at His Top
Imported complete with reputation big
enough to win a war, Young Stuhley was
no match for Fred Henneberry in their
Sydney Stadium engagement. It took
Fred about three rounds to warm up ;
thenceforth it was a walkover. His in-
fighting was pretty to look at; altogether
he gave a dazzling display of classy box-
ing, directing his main attack at the in-
vader’s very open body spaces and mov-
ing in there at his ease, with tons of
power in his clean, fast punching. Bor-
ing into the Stuhley middle, he’d hook
lefts above the jaw or connect with
uppercuts, the unexpected arrival of
which kept the American pained and be-
wildered.
Stuhley—a movie-model of physical
good looks, with splendid shoulders and
his hide tanned to a tint warranted to
make sun-bronzed surf gods ditch their
haloes —tipped the beam at list. 6|lb. ;
Henneberry, list. 41b. Stuhley had
looked much more when he gave an ex-
hibition a couple of weeks back ; weak-
ness from getting it off too suddenly
might explain his showing. Otherwise,
if this was his best it would seem either
that he was overboomed or that Austra-
lian boxing—at all events, as represented
by Henneberry —is of pretty fair
standard.
In his comparative slowness and his
reliance on a punishing right Stuhley
resembles other recent imports, includ-
ing Leto and Jannazzo, who would seem
to all belong to the one American
school. Their line of scrapping shows
up badly against the speed which is the
outstanding merit of the present lot of
Australian fighters. These imports are
all beautiful posers, and, though Stuhley
has some fancy ring antics and moves
about more than the others, they all
seem incapable of doing much unless
the opposition lets them get set for the
punch. On the other hand, they stand
up to all the locals can hand out, and
never get cut about. That apart, beside
the locals they look like only good
honest plodders.
The fact that Stuhley did pretty well
in the opening rounds and progressively
worse as hostilities advanced might bear
out the impression that he was a weaker
man that he naturally had any right to
be. Still, he took such a thumping in the
mid-region that it must have weakened
him, in any case. Henneberry fought
crouching most of the time, burying
punch after punch into Stuhley’s middle,
with Stuhley vainly trying to get his
pistonlike right home on to the jaw as
Henneberry bored in. Usually he missed
Henneberry’s head by a foot, and then
could do nothing but take the terrific
body pummelling and the other heavily-
weighted stuff Henneberry kept letting
loose. From the third round onwards
Henneberry was on the offensive, in-
creasing both his speed and variety of
attack, fighting more vigorously and
dangerously in the twelfth round than
ever. His punching was extra clean,
with great force in it. He kept the fight
speedy throughout, and finished up as
fresh as a daisy. If anything, he looked
better than his previous best. Since he
emerged from semi-retirement he has im-
proved at every appearance, and this
was easily his finest showing to date.
Though all his way, it was a fast, clean,
willing scrap. It drew the Stadium’s best
house this season.
In an open-air show in Melbourne,
run by the people who put on the Syd-
ney Sports Ground scraps, Jack Carroll
(lOst. B|lb.) also kept the Australian
standard at the mast-top, again winning
by a big points margin over Jimmy Leto
(lOst. 61b.). The 12-rounder was held
to favor Leto more than the 10 rounds
of their previous engagements, and he
had Jack bleeding freely from a bit off
the nose and a cut over the left eye
towards the finish. But by then Jack
was so far ahead on points that only
the knockout these recent Americans
make a fetish of could have taken it off
him. Jack gave yet another of his nice
boxing displays, never looked like doing
Leto serious bodily harm, but won easily
enough against Leto’s stolid style.
Ins and Outs
“Cassandra’s Husband”: Looking over
the Australian Sixteen on the eve of its
departure it is hard to avoid a feeling
of pessimism, especially when it is com-
pared with its predecessor. None of the
newcomers can be said to replace Pons-
ford and Woodfull. Indeed, in 1934
Ponsford had as much to do with win-
ning the rubber as Bradman, while
Woodfull’s solidity and skilful leading
were other assets. We shall have reason
to be grateful if Badcock, Barnes or
Hassett can measure up to the perform-
ances of either. Bradman? This season
his only Bradmanish scores have been
made against third-class Queensland
bowling. Of the others, given recovery
“I appeal against the light, umpire !”
of his 1934 form, Brown should prove a
batting asset; but Fingleton is not really
in the Test-match class.
A glance at the bowlers is depressing.
O’Reilly’s success on the last tour was
due as much to the support of Grim-
mett at the other end as to his own great
ability. Neither F.-Smith nor Ward can
replace Grimmett. In minor matches
Waite should do well enough, but indi-
cations are that he is to be called on to
vary the Test bowling. The best one can
hope is that he will attain the moderate
success of Ebeling on the last tour. White
has shown more than once that he can
bat above a bit. His left-hand bowling
is his chief asset, however.
O’Reilly’s bowling needs no commen-
dation. In batting he is a joint in a hor-
rible tail; others are Fleetwood-Smith,
McCormick—who has to be “nursed”
because of a tendency to crock up, a
dangerous one in a fast bowler—Ward
and Walker. Yet Smith, Ward and Me-
Cormick will have to be relied on to
help O’Reilly in the Tests. That being
so Australia will have to tackle Eng-
land with only seven batsmen of any
wort h-
4 . * t „ * * *
Aigburth : According to Neville
Cardus, there is to be a return in Eng-
land to “natural” wickets, whatever they
may be. There has been no such thing
as a natural grass pitch since cricket
began to deteriorate into a public spec-
tacle some time in the ’seventies. Much
burble is heard about elaborate prepara-
tions with which some pitches are treated,
but most of these exist only in imagina-
tion. In 99 per cent, of the wickets the
preparation consists in close shaving with
a scythe and heavy rolling until the pitch
becomes a concrete-like surface of soil
bound together with grass-roots. On a
natural pitch the turf would not be inter-
fered with beyond turning a flock of
sheep on to it to keep the grass cropped
and manured at the same time. Such a
pitch would put the bowlers well on top,
and the modern cricket public, which only
wants to watch huge batting scores, would
stay away. Then there would be no
gates, and cricket would again become a
mere game and not an international ob-
session.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The attempt to revive
the sport of throwing the cricket ball
at the S.C.G. during the sesqui match
was a dismal flop. Entries were poor
and the throwing feeble —97yds. 6in. was
the best. Years ago there were dozens
of men who could top the 100 yards.
Royalty holds the Australian record—
King Billy, of Queensland, who threw
140 yards at Clermont in 1872. The
world’s best, 140yds. 2ft., stands in the
name of Percival, of England; year,
1872.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Yet another promising
Australian cricketer has been absorbed
by the Cahn’d goods industry—V. E.
Jackson, of N.S.W., who has been signed
up for three years to play with the private
team maintained by the Leicester million-
aire. Jackson is a most promising all-
rounder, and early in the season was
rated well in the running for a trip to
England with the Eleven.
Like Lush and Jackson, Graham Wil-
]jamS) the tall S.A. all-rounder, will go
to Eng i and anyway. On the staff of
Goldsbrough Mort, and already holding
the certificate of Adelaide School of
Mines for woolclassing, he is leaving at
once for a year in Bradford to complete
his study of the subject. Any casual
cricket that comes in his way will not
be declined.
* * * *
t
P „S. P ?“ '’ IT refusals, Lan-
® „. s a £ e eea °?
Grimmett. Since he is hardly likely
to a f ain f. or Australia the much-
travelled Maorilander might do worse,
Gregory, who has been angled for by the
Cahn interests, has definitely decided to
sta Y at home,
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: The English counties
have recommended to the M.C.C. that
the eight-ball over be given a trial in all
first-class matches during the 1939
season. For a long time there was a
strong prejudice against the Australian
innovation, but the fact that it has been
used successfully in League cricket for
some seasons, together with the fact that
G. O. Allen has spoken warmly in favor
of it after his experience of it in Aus-
tralia, seems to have turned the tide of
opposition.
Among other items put forward for
Marylebone’s consideration is the build-
ing up of a £20,000 fund to help hard-
up first-class counties, with the alterna-
tive that gate-money from trial games
and Tests be distributed sox that county
grounds where they are not played shall
get a larger whack. The proposal to cut
the first-class counties from 17 to 15 was
thrown out. No one seems to have
thought of trying the Soccer scheme of
divisions, with the winner in the lower
division supplanting the holder of the
wooden spoon in the first at the end of
each season. In Soccer the rivalry


B I
—Diesel-
tnqineer
Diesel Expert*
Our Chief Engineer will
show ijou the wayf
INTAKE.
•tor]
INLET & EXHAUST
VALVES
[GOVERNOR
IeXHAU&TER
O/eSEL
7U
°Omn
OF
TO
DAY
% FREE m
YOUR CHANCE
Whether it be a stationary Diesel or a transport Diesel, it is essential that the
Assembly, Repaii, Care, Driving, and Maintenance must be in the hands of experts
Men who know the “whys” and “wherefors” of the mechanism, and who can
quickly locate faults and effect repairs promptly and effectively. Diesel is at the
DOOR OF AUSTRALIA, opening up steady and well-paid positions for qualihed men
SO BE PREPARED!
THE AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
(Established 1923), Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney,
offer a COMPLETE HOME STUDY COURSE of training in DIESEL Engineering at
reduced rates, under an easy' enrolment plan—Pay as you learn!
FROM ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA
We are daily receiving letters of appreciation from technical students in all parts of
Australia and New Zealand, thanking us for what we have done for them. Here are
1. “I*have* thorough knowledge of the Diesel Engine, and am pleased I chose your
Diesel Engineering Course.” . . .
‘I am pleased with the Course, and recommend it to anyone wishing to learn
engine driving.” . .
‘r must thank you for helping me. Since getting my Certificate my wages have
over £ 8 per week.” .
‘I must thank you for putting me where I am to-day. I am receiving £6/6/- per
week. You have my gratitude.” ... ~
5. “The Course has made a difference of £4 a month in my wages.
2.
4.
IT TELLS YOU HOW YOU CAN
LEARN DIESEL ENGINEERING
IN YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME...
DIESEL ENGINEERING THE WAY WE TEACH IT IS NOT A
DRUDGERY. We deal with the practical applications. The actual
work is illustrated with hundreds of diagrams and charts. A student
has not to wade through lesson after lesson of theory or higher mathe-
matics. The very first lesson is on the engine itself.
SHCI/ll 30 DAY OFFER
Each student is supplied with Instruction
Papers, Lessons and Diagrams, and Illus-
trated Reference Books. We are, how-
ever, making a wonderful special offer
for one month. You owe it to your future
to get the facts for yourself . . . NOW !
One grateful student wrote, “It was a
lucky day for me when I chanced upon
your advertisement.”
POST THE COUPON and get the facts
for yourself. This may also prove to be
the turning point in YOUR career.
** (
MANY TECHNICAL COURSES.
Other worth-while Home Study Courses besides Diesel Engineering: are:
MOTOR MECHANICS. Shire Engineer’s and Local Government Electrical
Engineer's Exams., all Enginedrivers’ Exams., Practical ETectricity (with
Free Working Outfit), Refrigeration, Electric and Oxy-welding.
POST THIS COUPON a g n e d i FREE BOOK
N.B.—Write the Name of the Course favoured
BENEATH Coupon ! ! !
THE CHIEF ENGINEER, < B - L )
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
Assembly Hall, Jamiesson Street, Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your Free Diesel Book, and
tell me about your special offer of Home Study Training and how
I can qualify.
Fame •• ••
Occupation Age ••
Address
(Write Plainly)
aroused by this has proved m°st success-
ful in improving the standard of play m
the lower clubs and in increasing the
gates.
Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Many have been in-
clined to look on Gene Sarazen as some-
thing of a blowhard and to scoff at some
of his suggestions for improving golf.
One, however, made in a Singapore inter-
view, will rally to his side millions of
golf addicts from all quarters of the
globe. Gene says that, instead of making
the game harder for the mug golfers who
constitute 75 per cent, of the world s
players with elaborately trapped courses,
bunkering should be curtailed and the
hole enlarged to Bin. diameter— nearly
double its present size! This last revolu-
tionary suggestion deserves to be re-
ceived standing and with- two minutes
silence.
* * * *
“Prestwich”: British and American
amateur golfers meet at St. Andrews on
June 3 and 4. Four of the American
team that beat Britain pointless at Pine
Valley in 1936 are in the 1938 side, in-
cluding Johnny Goodman. Another is
Fischer, who downed Jock McLean in
the 1936 American amateur champion-
ship final.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Yet another amateur has
been swallowed by the dragon of pro-
fessionalism —Wanda Morgan, the Eng-
lish golf champion. Wanda has lost her
amateur certificate, as the racing folk
say, by taking a job with a firm of golf-
ball makers. Not to wanda from the
subject, it is worth noting that nowadays
pre-eminence in nearly every amateur
sport is just a stepping-stone to the pro-
fessional variety.
Racquet and Bawl
“Brass Addler”: The visit of the Ger-
man and American teams has put the
N.S.W.L.T.A. on velvet. The association
had not shown a profit since 1934, when
it came out 4s. 2d. ahead. In the two
following years £472 and £269 was
dropped, but 1937 put a clear £lOl4 in
the sock, all of which, bar £75, came
from the international matches. The
State show lost £335 as its share of the
last Davis Cup debit.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The Japanese have made
a final revision of their Davis Cup team,
which now consists of Abe (capt.), Yama-
gishi, Nakano and Kuramitsu. Yama-
gishi is the most widely known of the
quartet, and it is rather surprising to find
he is not leading the team. The original
arrangement was that the Nipponese were
to meet Canada for a start in the Ameri-
can zone. It is now doubtful whether
Canada will enter a team.
* f: ** ♦
“Old Q.”: Miss Hartigan, of N.S.W.,
though passed over by the Australian
tennis selectors, is to go to Wimbledon
provided the A.L.T.A. gives permission,
which, as it will cost nothing, it is cer-
tain to do. Miss Hartigan is to be con-
gratulated, and not least in the posses-
sion of a proud papa who broke the
news to her that she was bound for
Wimbledon by saying he had booked her
steamer passage. I consider my fellow-
Queenslanders a dopey lot in not raising
a fund to send Mrs. Westacott and Miss
Hardcastle to England. Both defeated
the American and Australian champions
in Brisbane.
$ * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide City Council has
had a brisk discussion on its own dead-
headedness. The Oval, the Adelaide
Racing Club and the S.A. Tennis Asso-
ciation are all tenants of the council,
and the various leases include a right
for it of free admission to everything.
To the first two bodies this does not
matter much, but the tennis people were
reported as grudging about 60 seats out
of their limited pavilion. The coun-
cillors took various views, ranging from
“a proper privilege” to “absolutely inde-
fensible,” with a half-way standpoint
that tickets might be gracefully accepted,
but should not be legally enforced. How-
ever, a motion to have the clause knocked
out of the leases was lost by 13 to 5.
ifc Jfc H*
“Kooyong”: The Australian women’s
team sails from Melbourne for Europe
on March 8 and will play first in the
hardcourt championships at Bourne-
mouth. The side has been offered £lOO
appearance money by the Bournemouth
promoters, and Wimbledon is forking out
£250. Germany is driving a hard bar-
gain. At first it offered free travelling
and housing expenses. This being re-
fused, £5O was tendered on condition that
the brass should all be spent in Ger-
many. That offer did not appeal either,
and if we hear Hitler has approached
Chamberlain for a loan we will know
what’s behind it.
Miscellaneous
“Spike”: Capel Kirby, an English
writer on sport, tips that the Sydney show
will be the last of the Empire Games.
Funds for sending teams away are in-
creasingly hard to get, while many first-
class athletes —Wooderson, the English
holder of the world’s mile record, is an
example— cannot find the time or refuse
to jeopardise their business and profes-
sional careers through long absences.
This is true of many sports to-day. It
explains the gradual exit of the amateur
from English cricket. Unless a player
has private means, six - days -a - week
cricket for five months on end is impos-
sible, however complacent employers
may be.
# % * *
“Ride Off”: Cabled that R. Skene, of
N.S.W., stands a good chance of being
picked to play with the English polo
team against America. Skene, who was
taught his polo by his almost-equally-
clever dad, made a great impression in
England with the Ashton brothers’ team.
American experts recently rated him
number five of the world’s best polo-
players, a compliment indeed when we
consider the Americans are well ac-
quainted with the finest form of Euro-
pean and Indian polo. Skene, who
recently played in India with the
Maharajah of Bhopal’s team, fills the
difficult possie of No. 1 in the.field.
* * * *
Dead untimely at 33, C. V. Morrissey,
as fine an all-round athlete as was ever
grounded in the Sydney G.P.S. He won
his Rugby football colors at St. Ignatius
College in 1918, and played with the
Combined G.P.S. side in 1920-21-22. He
went into the N.S.W. fifteen in 1925, and
played that year and in 1926 against
the All-Blacks. Of splendid physique,
Morrissey was a centre three-quarter of
distinction. An all-round cricketer, he
represented N.S.W. in three Sheffield
games.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The International Rugby
Board has issued a formal invitation to
Australians to tour Britain in 1939-40.
A list of match dates is also forwarded.
Internationals will be v. Scotland,
November 25, 1939, at Murrayfield ; v.
Ireland, December 9, 1939, at Dublin ; v.
Wales, December 23, at Cardiff; v. Eng-
land, January 8, 1940, at Twickenham.
The sinking fund to meet the expenses
of the tour now tops £llOO. N.S.W.
has thrown in £731, Queensland £3OO
and Victoria £75.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The footballers are stir-
ring. N.S.W. Rugby Union has released
the inter-State programme for the season.
N.S.W. and Victoria meet in Sydney on
June 11 and 13, another Ma side play-
ing Queensland, also in Sydney, on the
latter date. A return match between Ma
and the Maroons is down for June 18,
and Brisbane will see two matches be-
tween the States on April 30 and May 2.
The three matches with the All-Blacks
in N.S.W. have not yet been fitted in.
The N.S.W. club competitions begin
on Easter Monday (April 18) and end
on September 24.
* * * *
“Spoiler”: N.S.W. Rugby League is
full of woe these days. The pass the
code has come to is seen in a motion
before the meeting of the League general
committee advocating the playing of im-
portant club games on Sundays, in Syd-
ney as well as in the country. The pro-
poser pointed out that sailing bodies
charged admission prices; but saw his
motion thrown out.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne League foot-
ball club’s annual meeting was marked
by scenes of what the press calls “intense
enthusiasm.” For the first time for 25
years the club ended the season with a
credit balance —amount not disclosed.
That it has continued to exist in spite
of a generation of debit balances is ex-
plained by the fact that the wealthy Mel-
bourne C.C. has played the part of fairy
godmother to it.
* * * *
“Pat-a-cake”: Two more Hungarian
table-tennis players are to descend on us,
Barna and Bellac. The first-named has
won about every championship in sight,
including the world’s (five times), the
American and the English (four times).
Bellac is a famous stroke-player and a
master of trick shots.


Positions Vacant.
“ENGINEER.”—We have a vacancy on our
staff for a well-qualified mechanical engineer,
preferably with University and Works train-
ing.
Good prospects for suitable man. Apply by
letter only, giving full particulars of age, edu-
cation .and previous experience. Address en-
velope
“Engineer,”
Nestle and Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Com-
pany (A’sia), Limited,
G.P.O. Box 161988, Sydney.
The following events were won by Axemen
PLUMB AXES at Hobart Regatta, 19th to 22nd
Wdrld’s Championship 15in. Standing Block: W. Johnston. Time, 38
World’s Championship, Underhand Block: M. C. Parker. Time, 38
Tasman Centenary Cup, 42in. Standing Chop, First Prize £80: D.
Time, 40sec.
PROVING PLUMB AXES ARE SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS.
using
Feb.
2-
3-
Jet son.
For Sale.
FOR SALE. —Complete sets of unobliterated
Coronation stamps of New Guinea (Mandated
Territory), ss. per set. New Guinea pennies
6d. each. W. R. Thomas, P.O. Box 117,
Rabaul.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
'Film Quota Shindy.
With Australian film concocters just
beginning to turn out good competitive
productions—“A Nation Is Built,” at
.Sydney Prince Edward, and “Lovers and
Luggers,” at Sydney State, are their best
yet and quite good entertainers —amend-
ing legislation has gone through the
House of Commons which threatens to
exclude Australian films from the bene-
fits of Britain’s Quota Act.
The legislation isn’t aimed at Aus-
tralia, but at Canada, where American
producers have been making films and
wangling a showing for them in Britain
with Quota Act protection. The Com-
mons move is fair enough in scotching
that sort of racket, but it is tough on
Australian producers, some of the leaders
of whom see in the new legislation the
k.o. to film-producing in this country.
They are probably right. Though
Australia takes three-quarters of its films
from America, it has no market what-
ever there. Nothing offers in America
even for such a film as “A Nation Is
Built,” which, with the synthetic romance
shorn off the beginning, could conceiv-
ably hold a film audience’s interest in
any country in the world.
Outside Australia no market offers foi
the Australian production except in
Britain. This is at present recognised in
the Australian legislation which lets Brit-
ish productions into this country at bar-
gain rates compared with what Holly-
wood has to cough up. Retaliation —which
is what the Commons legislation seems to
ask for —would have the disadvantage of
being right into the hands of American
interests, which have a formidable
enough grip on Australian film-exhibit-
ing as it is.
Up to time of writing Canberra was
leaving the job of pushing the Australian
producers’ case in London to the N. S.
Wales Government, but it is a Com-
monwealth matter. If London won’t
consider Australia, the Commonwealth
Government should certainly do so.
Better than suiting Hollywood by any
reprisal rates against British producers
would be increased assistance for the
Australian product on its own home
market.
In the present shindy some interests
have been sniping at the N.S.W. Quota
Act, but it’s certain that without it the
local article would get an even more
shabby deal than it’s had hitherto. With
good pictures now being made here the
industry has great promise, and it de-
serves the full protection other indus-
tries have had until it gets soundly set up.
“Lovers and Luggers.”
Reviewed here from a preview screen-
ing a month or two back, this Cinesound
romance set against a background of
Thursday Island pearling stood up to a
second inspection miles better than
present film-taster had expected.
It had been regarded as pretty good,
and a big improvement on previous Aus-
tralian efforts, but putting it on as main
attraction at a big theatre like Sydney
State had seemed to be asking too much
of it. As presented, it went over very
well, holding the interest of a crowded
house all the way, and to a working
film-taster it seemed even more attractive
at this second inspection than when first
sighted—a pretty stiff test.
Seeing it the second time makes a cor-
rected impression or two necessary. The
leading lass, Shirley Ann Richards, im-
proves on further acquaintance. Her
part is that of innocence with a touch of
minx in her make-up, and she mostly
acts it very easily and naturally. She is
also so easy on the eyes that the hero’s
change of heart in her favor is much
more feasible than in most films which
ask that sort of thing of their heroes.
On the other hand, Elaine Hamill did
not seem to come out of the further ac-
quaintanceship so well. She has the
handicap of a false part, but she seemed
rather stagy in the little theatre
dramatic art manner. A further handi-
cap she suffers is that she is one of the
worst treated in regard to dialogue.
Garbo would flop trying to make some
of her lines seem natural. As the
London society sophisticate whose send-
ing of two men —a leading artist and a
leading pianist—out to prove their man-
liness by personally finding her a price-
less pearl, she is too hard and chill alto-
gether. Still, the film, shorn of its finely-
photographed beautiful scenery and such-
like, is pure melodrama, and for melo-
dramatic purposes her representation has
its points.
Without exception the men in the cast
improved a lot at second inspection.
“LOVERS AND LUGGERS, AT SYDNEY STATE.
Campbell Copelin (on hearing that Elaine Hamill is going to her pearl-diver lover
at Thursday Island ): “Then digging for rubays in the Ural Mountains won’t do
me any good at all!”
Imported Lloyd Hughes goes very
well as a hero, and James Raglan is extra
good as the other pearl-seeker. Comedy
is plentifully provided by Sydney Wheeler
—his Wallace Beeryish interpretation of
a Thursday lugger-owner pretty well runs
away with the show —Campbell Copelin
and Alec Kellaway, with a good spot of
villainy provided by Ronald Whelan.
Frank Harvey kept himself only a small
part, which he manages with his cus-
tomary excellence.
Photography, in the hands of Frank
Hurley, is, of course, first-rate, the under-
water scenes particularly effective.
The film altogether is competently-
done, pleasurable light entertainment.
Australian audiences should find it thor-
oughly agreeable, with a personal interest
attaching to the players which is at least
one special advantage that these local
products have over imported films. The
plot, though melodramatic, has the wood
on most film plots, and the directors have
exploited the romantic aspects of pearl-
ing quite as entertainingly as they did
that of timber-getting in “Tall Timbers.”
“Prescription for Romance.”
Support to “Lovers and Luggers” at
Sydney State, this is a lightly amusing
stretch of typical American comedy,
thickly syruped with lurv interest.
Most in its favor is that it gives Mischa
Auer, one of the funniest of prevailing
funny men, a part more up to his merits
than he has had in recent appearances.
It’s a part he has done often enough
before —that of a penniless Central Euro-
pean aristocrat —but the mere intimation
that Mischa is about to be a penniless
count is a laugh in itself.
Like dozens of other American efforts
on the same lines, the film fails to be a
great deal better than it is through the
inability of its makers to decide whether
the weight of emphasis should go on the
comedy or the romance. The result is a
botched job, with interest continuously
having to switch from one sort of appeal
to the other. Even so, it’s entertaining
enough.
A feature of it is the very frequently
encountered elevation of the prig, as
represented by Kent Taylor. The Holly-
wooden prescription for romance is the
greater the prig the surer the conquest.
“Varsity Show.”
Dick Powell.
Film-fanciers who may have been
lulled into the idea —or had it rammed
down their throats — that football, all
football and nothing but football is the
order in Amurrican universities should
drop in to view this support at Sydney
Mayfair.
In the process of having their thinking-
boxes drained and refilled they will be
treated to the edifying impression that
these seats of learning can supply 100
or so songandance speshulists in three
weeks, an orchestra fit for Broadway at
even briefer notice and a couple of hoof-
tapping darkies apparently wasting their
talents as janitors.
Furthermore, such is the mettle of that
assortment that it can light out for
N’Yark, commandeer a theatre and offer
a sample helping of froth sufficient to
demoralise the intentions of police, the
flying squad, National Guard and sun-
dry others sent to throw it out.
Pretty good, even for an Amurrican
university.
Excuse for it all originates when Mr.
Powell, down-and-out producer, return-
ing to his old college to lend a hand in
staging its annual songandance affair,
retires before heavy opposition from the
faculty. That much occupies most of
the running time, during which the film
staggers around the starting-line explain-
ing the wherefore and whyfore of every-
thing, while slight heart interest and an
occasional burst of comedy—mainly
from Ted Healy and Walter Catlett—
struggle to keep it on its legs.
At the last moment it gets away to
finish in a flurry of frothiness much better
than earlier sequences promised. A
couple of spectacular stage set-ups, some
snappy hoofing from Lee Dixon and a
toasting number wherein voices echo and
re-echo into silence with very pleasant
effect arouse sufficient interest to trans-
form a rather boring stretch into idle
entertainment.
“Love from a Stranger .”
■ Basil Rathbone, Ann Harding.
In this, at Sydney Capitol, the diffi-
cult task of conveying in a film the finer
shades and imaginative details of a short
story is left entirely to Rathbone. That
his excellent performance nearly suc-
ceeds is a remarkable achievement, par-
ticularly as failure to quite do so is due
to amateurish adaptation, jerky direction,
irrelevancy of incident and general shal-
low artificiality of the supporting cast.
Miss Harding offers most assistance as
the typist who wins a lottery and inno-
cently splices herself to a stranger with
Bluebeard tendencies, but her perform-
ance has a curious vacancy until the last
few scenes, when she and Rathbone to-
gether supply a sample of the drama
which apparently was supposed to season
the whole film.
Suspense is practically absent through-
out and supplanted by lurvly slush,
after which the dramatic climax has
a synthetic flavor and strikes a discor-
dant note. Altogether the film leaves an
impression that it is a blind swipe at
bellerdrammer.
“The Return of Jimmy
Valentine”
Roger Pryor, Charlotte Henry.
Earliest reference this commenator can
find to Jimmy Valentine is in O. Henry’s
yarn of a romantic safecracker who
tossed aside his profitable profession for
lurv and a boot store.
According to present offering at Syd-
ney Capitol he has since concealed his
personage from public view and leads
a blameless existence while the nefarious
exploits of his youth provide material
for broadcast programmes and raise him
to the standard of a national hero.
Mr. Valentine remains safely incog,
until 5000 dahlars hanging to a news-
paper contest to reveal his whereabouts
sets reporters, crooks and half of Gahd’s
own country on his trail.
There follows the usual “pick-the-
lady” idea, with Roger Pryor as the
Hollywood variety of an ’ell-for-leather-
lurvanstory newshound hurtling here,
there and everywhere to find Valentine,
mop up a bunch of crooks, and then
throw in the towel for a clinch with
Charlotte Henry.
“There Goes the Groom.”
Burgess Meredith, Ann Sothern.
First point to attract notice in this
support to “Dead End” at Sydney Plaza
is Meredith managing a piece of fun-
making in sharp contrast to his handling
of dramatic tragedy in “Winterset.”
The story is a trite sort of thing
elaborating on a wealthy young person’s
attempts to pick a wife from a couple
of sisters and dodge an issue of wildcat
schemes, sassiety aspirations and pocket-
dipping habits of future brother- and
ma-in-law. Dished out as straight
comedy, it’s much better taken as farce.
Cut to the bone to make a racy nar-
rative the film still lags in places, but
Mary Boland’s realistic high-pitched
nagging at every opportunity is distress-
ing enough to be responsible for that.
Occasional situations and one or two
characters, however, are sufficiently
original—though not overcredible —to
alleviate boredom, and something may be
said for direction when a carelessly-
thrown football rebounding to smite the
thrower provides a genuine patch of
humor and the best laugh of the film.
“Blossoms on Broadway .”
Edward Arnold.
Impression from the title and first few
scenes is that this film was meant for a
musical with a tenuous story holding it
together; it turns out to be a piece of
lightheartedness expanded into a weighty


m
/■
is
fcii»
9 for 18 for i/*
Corlc Tipped or Plain
mm
m
IDENTICAL WITH THE CIGARETTES
CHOSEN BY Mr. RICHARD CROOKS
fd
ALSO BLACK AND WHITE FINE CUT —THE FINEST HONEY CAN BUY
length of honest slapstick with a few
ditties thrown in.
Plot, such as it is, concerns a country
goil who, aspiring to a place on Broad-
way, shoots off at an angle and teams
with a con. man to relieve a wild
Amazonian of her goldmine. With each
reel that becomes more and more in-
volved, necessitating introduction of
several characters and lurv-interest to
keep it moving.
When the theme has been doggedly
pursued to the last and all threads are
seemingly tangled beyond repair, every-
thing is explained or dismissed by half
a dozen whoppers and by everyone
bursting into song to imply that nothing
really mattered after all.
Arnold, of course, is the swindler,
and good enough until he tries to hurdle
his years and poundage in a few spots of
sentimentalism; Shirley Ross is the goil
and John Trent —a very mannish and
pleasant personage—her accessory to
clinching.
Brighter moments include John Arthur,
of “Our Gang” series, and Rufe Davis
with his entertaining line of humor.
Weber and Fields, two stage funnymen,
seem out of place in front of a camera.
Previewed at Paramount Theatrette.
“She Asked for It”
William Gargan.
Idea of this burlesque, now doing the
rounds, seems to be an indifferent dig
at anything that crops up, and without
being anything outstanding it raises
several laughs by occasional touches of
originality.
When a rich uncle passes on without
a will his oof goes to the wrong person,
leaving Gargan and wife, hitherto leading
a luxurious but parasitic existence, stony.
The penurious one turns to dictating
“thrillers” as fast as his stenog. can take
’em down, and in restoring the family
fortune he creates Dwight Stanford, a
public figure a la Sherlock Holmes in the
fiction world.
A commercially-minded opportunist
brings the character to life by exhibiting
curios associated with the Sherlockian
gentleman’s feat of detection, so when in-
spiration fails him Gargan crashes in as
Stanford and sets up as a freelance flat-
foot.
Naturally, he becomes involved with a
bunch of crooks, and proves among a lot
of other things that the rich uncle was
murdered. Fadeout finds him back
where he started preparing to liquidate
a heap of unexpected debts by churning-
out another batch of “thrillers.”
Neatly done and carefully polished, it
strikes a mild note of comedy, gives
Gargan a break from bellerdrammer and
introduces a promising blonde called
Orien Heyward.
Close-up of a Dragon.
Apparently it was a wonderful affair
the Chinese community put on at Sydney
Showground last Thursday night.
Next day’s papers had glowing ac-
counts of it: how China’s Consul-
General, Dr. Pao (pronounced “bough,”
or, per loudspeaker, “bo”), said the
Chinese community regarded it as a
pleasure and a joy to show their high
admiration and esteem of Australia ; how
Mr. Dunningham expressed the Celebra-
tion Council’s deep appreciation of the
magnificent display ; how a ’plane lighted
in red flew over the ground ; and all
about the fireworks and floats and
elephants, tigers, bears, horses, goats,
peacocks, doves and other birds and
animals, all lighted inside, which made
a procession round the dirt-track whereon
the Speedway motor-cyclists on other
evenings risk their honorable necks.
Apart from the testimony of the
papers, this Showman gathered plenty
other evidence that it must have been a
marvellous affair. His contribution to
the honorable coffers involved him
in standing in two overcrowded, rattling,
jerking and leapfrogging troglodytes
of transportation over a distance of
about five miles, and then having ribs
staved in, feet stood on, lungs compressed
and nostrils insulted in as merry a mill-
ing mass of happy humanity as it’s ever
been his pleasure to fall foul of.
For the last mile the tram hurtled at
some 60yds. an hour, past cars jambed
12 abreast across the whole roadway.
Dumped out eventually with the other
few hundred passengers, the next job
was to get within coo-ee of the turnstile
gates, at each of which, it became ap-
parent in time, a whopping big John
Hop, besieged by the pressing thousands,
was pinned red-faced against the brick
wall, sweating and blowing and wishing
to heaven he was merely out somewhere
after a few bloodthirsty gangsters.
Through the gates, and then another
charge—financial as well as physical—-
towards getting into the stands. Passing
in through these portals, the next part
of the Chinese festival encountered was
a powerful body of vigorous, not to say
blasphemous, members of the honorable
Australian race fighting like bearcats to
get out again, meanwhile calling to the
powers in a loud voice that they wanted
their remarkably versatile money back.
Nothing to do here but give way grace-
fully before their onslaught and very
rapidly be projected outside again. Oath
taken instanter for no more of that, fire-
works or no fireworks.
In these circumstances —the papers put
the crowd at 40,000, a masterpiece of
understatement—the only way to see any-
thing of what was going on was to dodge
along at the back of that congregation
of cracker-worshippers and do an occa-
sional high jump as long as condition
held out.
From the perhaps imperfect, and may-
be prejudiced, view thus obtained, it
appeared that a lot of colored lights were
bobbing around the ring on stilts, and
it was heartening to hear from the loud-
speaker—it was really a lovely show to
listen to —that these bobbing lights were
in reality the elephants, tigers, bears,
goats and what not, all lighted inside.
The ’plane lighted in red, which flew
overhead from time to time, had the
words “Penfolds Wines” prettily outlined
beneath it, and from somewhere seem-
ingly as remote —probably in the ring—
honorable drums gave forth throbbing
sounds akin to the barbaric tom-tom.
That, however, wonders were going on
within that those without could wot not
of was evident from the applause, which
couldn’t have been heartier.
Still, in time, though the heart remained
willing the ears became sated, and there
would be no more to add here if, in
beating a retreat, the dragon’s lair had
not been discovered in an outlying
pavilion. And presently, sure enough,
home the honorable monster came, his
140ft.-long body a shimmer of golden
light, with little blue lights all along his
back fins. His whopping great eyes roll-
ing, his tongue darting out, his nostrils
almost spitting fire, his huge head lung-
ing out for what it might devour, he was
a sight to win the most hopeless case to
the cause of temperance.
Winding through a back lane of the
Showground’s exhibits township, he was
probably being seen much as he would
be in many a China street. By now he
was a bit gone in his hundred or two legs,
and a stiff breeze coming round the
second corner past the Mixed Pickles
stand took him fair in the poop. For a
moment it looked as if he’d go chasing
Penfolds along the Milky Way, and his
myriad of cross-gartered legs with him.
But he made the pavilion at last, entered
with grand dignity, and went to his hon-
orable bed, having bitten nobody and
delighted scores of thousands.
Archibald and Wynne Prizes.
The crop of portraits submitted in com-
petition for the Archibald Prize this year
is as large as ever ; the average of quality
is lower than in any year of the last
seven.
The judges seem to have had a difficult
task. The work put in by Australia’s
leading portrait-painters is as proficient
as ever, but lacks distinction. Nothing
stands out palpably beyond its rivals. So
the decision has fallen upon what is un-
doubtedly the most sincere effort of the
lot —Normand H. Baker’s self-portrait.
It lacks grace and harmony. Pose
there is none; the subject stares straight
at the camera (beg pardon, at himself)
with a palette in his hand. On his head
is a red baglike headgear; encompassing
his form a purplish gown which is not on
speaking terms with the Oriental tam-
o’-shanter. The face is painted with
almost terrific intensity. The rest is
partly broad, partly labored. All this
admitted, it is one of the most individual
and most striking pictures in the show.
Longstaff’s portrait of a lady is not one
of his happy efforts. W. B. Mclnnes, so
frequently a winner of the Archibald, sub-
mits several canvases, all good, none out-
standing. Ernest Buckmaster and H. A.
Hanke are represented merely by com-
missions that pass muster. Will Rowell,
whose work in portraiture is steadily im-
proving, can be credited with some of
the most vigorous and clever painting
in the show, and John Rowell puts in an
interesting self-portrait. J. Quinn, Jerrold
Nathan, Fred Leist (whose work in this
genre suggests some inspiration from
Augustus John) and Dattilo Rubbo are
worthily represented.
The three best portraits in the show in
this commentator’s ranking are Max Mel-
drum’s version of Professor Agar, a
satisfactory symphony in scarlet, yellow
and black (academic robes supply
all the bright color); Lyall Trindall’s
cleverly-composed picture of still-life
painter Albert Sherman (an exceptionally
good likeness), and A. D. Colquhoun’s
portrait of a girl, No. 15, which has
charm and directness.
For the Wynne Prize, which is always
associated with the Archibald, like bread
with butter, there is better competition
than usual in the sense that there are
more well-known names in the catalogue.
Streeton, Syd Long, J. R. Jackson, Robert
Johnson, Howard Barron and Will
Rowell are among the also-starteds in a
race won by Elioth Gruner. There isn't
an outstanding landscape in the lot.
Gruner’s quiet, restful, delicately-painted
scene has most in it, but its virtues are
unobtrusive.
Adelaide Reps>.
Adelaide Repertory, forced to return
from the big Tivoli to its old home in
the Australia, played for safety by open-
ing its season with a “Mr. Pirn” revival,
produced by Alex. Foster.
Milne’s artificial but effective Bouci-
cault-Tempest humor was cleverly caught
by Jack Ham and Thelma Baulderstone,
with Fay and Fraser as stolid husband
and manly lover.
The chance was taken to give younger
players a run in Sladen Smith’s “Poison
Party,” where the fatal tartlets of the
Medici lady are turned to harmless fun
by the introducing of a live and hungry
rabbit.


*
V
<s>
<ss
<o
/
CO
xv
CaV
P
# Everyone likes good cara-
mels . . . made from pure
cane sugar and selected in-
gredients. They're a health-
ful and delicious confection
for young and old.
All confectioners stock
Columbine Caramels
Per packet
6
d.
QUALITY CHOCOLATES
tytaju
VISITING LONDON ?
Then stay at the
PALACE HOTEL
Bloom shurv Street, W.C.I.
Centrally situated for West End Theatre 0
and Shops. 250 Rooms, H. & C. water,
’phones and gas fires in all bedrooms.
Licensed. En Pension terms from 5 gns.
weekly or 15/- per day. Ulus. Brochure
from Bulletin Office, 252 George St., Sydney.
Tlie Richardson Chain Hotel
&
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
A lone woman wandering among the
exhibits at the Electrical and Radio Ex-
hibition in the Town Hall shrank almost
to nothingness as she reflected that soon
we wouldn’t be able to think to our-
selves. If the Government doesn’t put
a stop to it some wretch will develop a
ray that will expose our thought pro-
cesses. The “Lie Detector” at the British
General Electric stand blazons a warn-
ing. On every hand are appliances to
make housework easy, and give the
home-maker more leisure to enjoy her-
self, presumably, in a world of radio,
electric trains and electrically air-condi-
tioned theatres and restaurants. If, how-
ever, she comes of the old diehard stock
and likes to cook the family meals, here
are electric stoves and gadgets to take
the drudgery out of grilling chops and
slicing vegetables or fruit. As for wash-
ing and ironing and such, here are in-
ventions, dozens of slave-power strong, to
do the job.
Intrepid is the word for them. These
girl aviators showed the invincible stuff
they were made of at the Anniversary
Air Pageant. Take Esther L’Estrange,
of Queensland. On Friday she had the
judges nearly blinking their eyelashes off
at her display of aerobatics; “almost
flawless” they declared her flying. She
is a slender, attractive girl, light on her
feet, judging by appearances at the Aero
Club’s ball on Saturday. Then there
was Jean Burns, bright-eyed and smiling.
This teen-old parachutist took her 1500-
feet jump as though dropping through
terraces of air was nothing out of the
ordinary. Jean’s aim is to buy a ’plane
of her own. Another of the brightly
courageous was Freda Thompson, of
Victoria. There was quite a sprinkling
of girl fliers among the thousands of
watchers at Mascot on Saturday, Mar-
garet Adams among them.
Lord Wakehurst was at the display,
and a large-size official group "was enter-
tained by the president of the Aero Club,
Flight-Lieut. Norman Mulroney, and
Mrs. Mulroney.
On Saturday night members of the
Aero Club of N.S.W. taxied along to
the Anniversary Air Pageant Ball in
David Jones’s. Of course, a whirling
aeroplane was the sign of the official
table. Air Force blue and scarlet were
stressed in the decorations. The dress-
ing was very good and all feminine
chiffons and rustling taffetas. Mrs. Mul-
roney’s ninons were a deep blue ; powder
blue the taffeta frock worn by Jean
Burns. Freda Thompson’s black taf-
fetas were brightly patterned. Esther
L’Estrange was all white softness. White
and silver mingled in Elizabeth Bronner’s
frock. Wherever you looked there were
women fliers or the wives of flying men.
The dragon that had pranced about
at the pageant in the Town Hall, look-
ing so playfully ferocious, was at the
Showground last week. He was about
twenty times more active, as though in
competition with his big-brother dragon,
the pride of the Chinese Festival, which,
it is claimed, brought 40,000 spectators
to fill the stands and a last-minute
crowd of 10,000 which had to be turned
away. There was 140 ft. of this dragon,
its scales glittering with many colors. Its
appetite seemed to be whetted by the
balls of light which were tossed in front
of it.
One of the lovely sights occurred
when the lights were dimmed, and fish
and bird, flower and fruit floated about
the vast arena. This was the procession
of the lanterns. There was a bright
crystal Chinese pagoda. There was the
Sydney Harbor Bridge, a train running
across it, a ship passing below. Add
waves of gleaming and richly embroid-
ered silk costumes and the strumming of
many instruments. In the principal
stand, the Consul-General for China, Dr.
Pao, and Mrs. Pao received the official
guests, who included Minister-in-charge
of-Celebrations Dunningham and Mrs.
Dunningham.
This is Phyllis Brunt, one of the first
girl dancers to be seen by television
audiences in London. Phyllis, who has
brought a portfolio of certificates for danc-
ing to our shores, including those for
classical, ballet, ballroom, Greek and tap,
explains that there is a special technique
for televised dancing ; for instance, you
dance a curve when you want your audi-
ence to see a straight line. Fast move-
ment, such as in folk-dances, gives a
better result than slow tangoes. The
artist has to suit her steps to a tiny stage
all marked off in squares. Her face
wears an ochre coating, her lips are
purple, her eyebrows red. A black frock
televises better than light colors. In addi-
tion Phyllis is principal dancer in the
films ‘Lilac Domino” and “Glamorous
Nights,” and has had cabaret engage-
ments at such fashionable West End
hotels as the Dorchester.
The right setting for a soldier’s
daughter to celebrate her coming of age
was provided by the Small Arms School,
Randwick, when Dawn Jackson reached
the age of voting. Dawn now lives with
her parents, the Colonel Jackson couple,
in Melbourne. But, as the family is all
in Sydney for a holiday, the party was
on the spot. Sea-green organdie was
worn by the just-twenty-one, and there
was a knot of lily-of-the-valley in her
hair and on her frock. Gardenias were
Mrs. Jackson’s flowers, black satin her
frock. Lieut. Donald Jackson, who
graduated from Duntroon with the
Sword of Honor last year, helped enter-
tain the guests, among whom were the
Brigadier-General Hardies and Betty
Chapman, who was at her first dance.
Just as this Letter was getting into her
pink mittens, the A. C. Godhards’ late-
afternoon party was in full swing. It
really was a grand affair, in the sense
that it was full of cheer and that every-
body knew all of the other 70 or 80 guests.
The lounge and balconies of the big
Edgewater flat were crowded with
people who all seemed to have just re-
turned from travelling the seas over.
The host and hostess are only a month
or so back from Ceylon. Mrs. Godhard s
frock, incidentally, was rustling and full-
skirted, was of brown taffeta, and was
flecked with silver spots. Admiral
Feakes and his wife (they’ve been touring
all around the Dalmatian coast), the
Stuart Doyles, just home from travels
in Europe and America, the Frank
Chaffeys and the R. W. D. Weavers were
others. On Saturday youth is to have
the run of the harbor-front flat, and
Sylvia and Bertha Godhard will preside
at a swimming and tennis frolic, fol-
lowed by supper.
The Kindred Associations pealed their
150th birthday chime at the Paddington
Town Hall. Their symbol of rejoicing
was a ball. Each of the States and
Maoriland had a table, where the presi-
dent of the particular association and his
wife entertained. A map of Tasmania
outlined in pink roses, a black swan and
a cornucopia spilling fruit and vegetables
were noticeable among the decorations,
which were, of course, symbolical of the
various States. There were five debs., all
daughters of Westralia, and they were
presented to Mrs. Hubert Fairfax and
Maoriland’s Trade Commissioner W.
Taylor. These two locumed for the
Minister in charge of the celebrations
and Mrs. Dunningham, who could not
be present.
The Julius lady made the presentations,
and her frock of soft grey lace har-
monised nicely with the gold and rose
lame worn by Mrs. Hubert Fairfax. Mrs.
Foster Mattei’s mulberry laces had silver
shoulder clips. Very handsome was Mrs.
W. Parsons in lilac chiffons. Her ostrich-
feather fan was in the same shade. Mrs.
Goodisson’s chiffons were a deep Floren-
tine blue. Black and silver were worn by
Mrs. W. A. Robbins. This was a happy
affair. There were rather more than 300
present, just large enough to be a suc-
cess, and not large enough to become
strained and conventional. Afterwards
the flower decorations were placed on
the Cenotaph.
In Phillip Park to-night Mrs. Norman
Nock, the city’s Mayoress, will open
Sydney’s first open-air children’s theatre.
This is an offshoot of the Children’s
Library Movement, and has been in-
spired by the enthusiasm of Mrs. Mathe-
son, whose work for children’s libraries
is widely known. The has two
planes, the higher a grassy knoll that has
been levelled, the lower, reached on each
side by two or three stone steps,
a large semicircle. On the lawns at
the side and immediately in front of the
stage there is room for quite a large
audience. To-morrow, this is expected
to be all grown up, but on Saturday
afternoon the same programme will be
presented for the neighborhood children.
The prologue of Shaw’s “Androcles,”
ballet scenes, and a Noel Coward play
will be on the first bill. Here is vivid
Gertrude Guiterman, who will be
Megaera in “Androcles.” Raymond
Sawyer photograph.
The O’Sheas, Pat and sister Miss Ella,
are back in Australia after six months’
stay in the U.S.A. They had been in
the States several times before, but this
was their first real discovery of the con-
tinent. First they visited their friends
the T. Healys in Kansas City, where
hospitality is a stream that flows for ever.
On the first night of their arrival their
hosts gave a dinner party for them.
There were 76 guests. And each guest or
pair of guests had come with some out-
ing or special bit of entertaining for the
Australians already planned.
The luxury of the country clubs with
their rolling acres, the comfort of the
atmosphere-regulated houses, shops and
theatres, the novelty of a champagne
breakfast, a first night at the Metropoli-
tan with Kirsten Flagstad singing the
lead, Chicago all beauty and not a gun-
man in sight—these are so many Viva-
cious little etchings when Ella talks of
them. Pearl, too, comes into the picture.
Pearl is a colored masseuse of billowing
bulk, with hands like a lullaby. Pearl
loved to talk about singing, but when
Miss O’Shea asked her if she sang
Pearl replied: “Me, ma’am? Why Ah
couldn’t carry a toon in a basket!”
Here’s another angle to the mother-in-
law story. One day while the traveller
was waiting in a fruit store to be
served, a young man came in, leaned
over the line of customers at the
counter and said to the girl assistant:
“Lady, serve me first. I’ve got my
mother-in-law waiting for me!” A
champagne breakfast doesn’t mean
cracking a gold top with your breakfast
egg. It is what we would call a lunch,
and the one given in Ella’s honor was
timed for 12.30.
Dorothy Helmrich, the singer, who
recently toured Australasia under the
wing of the A.8.C., sends greetings
and interesting theatre news from Lon-
don. Dorothy, not long returned from a
successful tour of Scandinavia, Poland,
Germany and Austria, was barely able to
go through her contract with the 8.8. C.
owing to the cold. It was the coldest
winter she has experienced in her life.
Mrs. Hamilton Lewis, who is assistant-
secretary for the Legacy Ball, is feeling
complacent over the success of the first
meeting of the committee. A crowd of
Legatees and their friends gathered at
the Carlton one morning last week and
listened intently while knight Henry
Braddon spoke of the work of the club
in helping the soldier’s orphan. Since
1930 more than 7500 children have been
helped and placed in positions through
Legacy ministrations, and this year the
ball committee hopes its treasurer will be
worked overtime. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst will receive the debs., and Mayoress
Nock is one of the patronesses. The
Trocadero has been booked for April 21
for' the great night.
Arrived in the Orontes Mrs. Duthie
from Aberdeen, whose forebears founded
the Duthie line of clippers that used to
race between England and Australia in
the brave days of sail. Mrs. Duthie,
in Sydney for ten days or so, has had
a bewildering rush of South Coast
scenery, Bulli Pass, Palm Beach, historic
bits of Parramatta and Windsor, Blue
Mountains, and the surf carnival at
Manly. That was the most “different”
sight of all. Old friend Harry Tighe has
been introducing Mrs. Duthie to literary
and musical Sydney.
Two more works of art will beautify
the National Gallery. They were ac-
cepted last week by the trustees, and
presented to the Gallery by John Lane
Mullins. They are a view of Sydney
from Potts Point by Sydney Ure Smith
—one of the artist’s most delicate pieces
—and a portrait study, the gift of
Howard Hinton.
The Australian Test team was fare-
welled at Mark Foy’s last week, and the
combined cricket clubs are quite right
in believing they made a success of the
ball. Two treasured bits of luggage the
team will take to England—they are the
ashes of a stump carefully tied in a small
green-and-gold bag and an Australian flag
given by Anthony Horderns’. The ashes
were Mrs. Fingleton’s (cricketer Jack’s
mother) inspiration, and they were the
powdered remains of a stump from the
last Test match. Vice-captain Stan Mc-
Cabe took charge of both, receiving them
from the hands of Syd Smith, president
of the N.S.W. Cricket Assoc. Mayor
Norman Nock and his pretty wife were
importants. Her beflowered gold lame
frock had a short matching coat with a
flared basque. Mrs. Sydney Smith’s gold
lame frock was patterned in roses. There
were as many green-and-gold paper caps
as dancers bobbing along. A huge kan-
garoo dominated the official table. A
duck glanced slyly from another. Chief
Secretary Chaffey and Mrs. Chaffey were
among the dancers.


Make your own money-saving
family remedy for quickly curing
CHEST
NOSE & THROAT
AILMENTS
WITH
HEEN
m
IP 88 ***^
M
HEIMfI
w
m
a ■ am
made up
||s| YOUR
qVYN home
fd
Save lots of money by making
your own family remedy for
nose, throat and chest ailments by simply adding a two-shilling
bottle of concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water. Then you
will have a supply equal to up to £l’s worth of the best ready-
made-up remedies for catarrh, sore throats, coughs, colds, croup,
bronchitis and influenza. For catarrh and colds in the head
you put a few drops of made-up HEENZO in each nostril
night and morning. Remember, HEENZO does NOT contain
any poisons. (Poisons can eventu-
ally destroy the delicate mem-
branes.) As a gargle for sore
throats, HEENZO gives instant
relief and, because of its purity,
can be used whenever distress is
felt. As an internal remedy for
coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis
and influenza, the goodness of
HEENZO is universally known.
Because of its purity and freedom
MADE UP
IN YOUR
111
ms
iill
gS&jS
11111!
t
from poisons, there is no danger
of overdosing with HEENZO, and
it will not upset the digestion of babies or
adu.ts. HEENZO is equal’y good for
people of all ages. All chemists and stores
in Aust.alia sell HEENZO.
! HEENZO,
Should be used in every home
m
mA OE op in y 0
OWN HOMf


Overseas visitors to
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
GREAT CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.I
Cables: Centellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.I
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per day.
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
“The Bulletin,” Box 252188,
Sydney.
rTiMUMIII
mmw
55 aw» coVtßlwC
. Guaranteed
jlotkprooft frot Juife
For samples and illus. folder post
free write to Dept. 5, Box 3281
PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
Mellbourne
Chatter
The weather for Saturday’s races had
the last trick up its sleeve, and, as usual,
the laugh on anybody who tried to dress
for the afternoon in accordance with the
look of the sky in the morning. After
lunch away went the clouds and the rain
and out came the sun in such good form
that furs, even brand-new ones and con-
sequently a thrill to their owners, were a
little too heavy on wool-clad shoulders.
But the 'Newmarket gave a chance to
the interesting autumn frocks to come
out and be seen —a little later and they
won’t get the opportunity, their destiny,
out of doors at least, being under thick
coats. Mrs. Harry Whiting wore such
a frock in black woollen sheer with much
shirring and a couple of embroidered
bows up high on the sleeves. Monica
Grantham’s black suit had a finger in
the Spanish pie with spotted scarlet
blouse and matador hat. Mrs. Roger
Henderson’s black suit buttoned down
the front from a chou bow of white
organdie under the chin. Just returned
in the Mariposa were the Gordon John-
stons, both showing a partiality for
green, for Mr. Johnston’s pork-pie head-
gear was an echo of his wife’s frock
and hat with its knot of red ribbon
under the turned-up brim. Grey suits
were chosen by the Law Smith twins
and by Mrs. Chester Manifold, the twins’
accessories being navy blouses, Mrs.
Manifold’s a white cap and shoes.
The younger folk had their good time
at Government House last week ; in fact,
they have never enjoyed themselves more
under the vice-regal rooftree. At G.H.
balls and garden parties of Cup Week,
traditional fixtures for parents, it’s the
folk with the beautiful white hair (or
perhaps no hair at all) who are the
guests. The children, with their regular
partners missing or lost in the crowd,
are inclined to take a subdued back seat.
Last week’s party was given by the
Governor and Lady Huntingfield for
their niece Hermione Pott. Captain Wil-
braham, who introduced the guests,
knew most of them personally. Lady
Huntingfield presented each arrival to
Hermione, standing beside her in a jade-
green gown of lace over satin, with a
cluster of scarlet roses to echo the color
of her sash. Dancing took place in the
drawing-room, and supper was served as
a buffet in the dining-room at long tables
shaped like a capital I (or perhaps a
double-ended T). From supper time
onwards till round about 3 a.m., when
the band turned on its good-night music,
champagne flowed. The frocks were
charming, and in most cases very ex-
pensive—a great number of them will
certainly appear again this week at the
Polo Ball. The Old World inspiration
of Pamela Armstrong’s quilted frock was
repeated in its tiny fanciful bows. Mar-
garet Brookes was in iridescent silver.
Mrs. Fred Gilder wore iceberg-blue lace
—the same soft shade which was chosen
by Marjorie Carney for her gown. Rose-
mary Wright’s silver metal dress had a
pearl bauble attached to the zip fasten-
ing ingeniously fitted to the front panel.
There was a full moon after all for the
Stratheden Ball for St. Vincent’s —not the
one in the sky, sliced in half and shrink-
ing every night, but a lovely yellow lamp
made- of silk, swinging high over the
dancers’ heads on the top deck. Up
there it was cool and never congested,
a perfect evening for dancing, but on the
deck below the crowd moved round en
masse —if another sardine had been
pushed in something would have burst.
Supper was in relays in the dining-
room, and kegs of beer were tapped
(until they were exhausted) at a buffet
on one of the promenade decks. Guests
of the evening were given the run of
the ship, and occupied all the chairs and
divans in the various lounges, where
stewards were kept busy running hither
and thither. Passengers who didn’t feel
like coming to the party sought sanctuary
in their own cabins, the library and the
tourist class smokeroom.
Among those present were Com-
mander and Mrs. J. C. McFarlane, Mrs.
McFarlane wearing mushroom chiffon.
Mary Emmerton was in figured satin,
and Deb Staughton wore white organdie,
rustling with black spots the size of a
penny, and frills from hip to ankle.
Among brothers and sisters noticed were
Monica and John Starke and Peg and
Peter Tronson; and among pairs of
sisters glimpsed were Lorna and Mar-
garet Horsfall, Judith and Erica Burston
(Judith with blonde page-boy bob and a
black belt around her figured dress, and
Erica in blue-and-white maypole stripes),
Jean and Betty Wallace Mitchell (Jean
with a circular wisp of tulle upon her
head—a useful idea for guests at wed-
dings), and Audrie and Evelyn Lightfoot,
who with Neil Campbell and Nevil Stuart
found a loudspeaker going to waste and
enough space on one of the tourist decks
to do “The Big Apple.” A glitter of
sequins belonged to Katie Weir, who
wore such iridescence upon the sapphire
coatee which accompanied her pastel-
green frock. Beth Appleton’s green lame
gown looked like Paris with its concentra-
tion upon crossed shoulder-straps and
bouffant backward sweep of skirt.
In the Eve Ray portrait is Gwen
Hughes, an enterprising young woman
who can afford to smile when the cynics
suggest that domestic toil makes cab-
bages. Miss Hughes had her domestic
training at the Emily McPherson Insti-
tute, and her skill with mixing bowl and
cooker has given her five years of travel
and a job in life which she enjoys. She
was the first person to think out the idea
of dramatising cookery (she’d had
dramatic experience with amateur groups
in Melbourne before she left for England),
and has such a vivid imagination that she
was able to write and produce her own
plays with kitchen settings. A gas-stove
company in England saw the value of
such publicity, and backed the originator
of the scheme for continuous demonstra-
tion tours.
In the early stages Miss Hughes pro-
duced modern playlets and travelled
through England with a small company
unpretentiously by train, going abroad for
her holidays to collect folklore and cos-
tumes. Later with a talented band of
eight or ten amateurs, versatile folk who
didn’t complain if they were asked to
shift scenery, she commenced pro-
grammes of illustrated lectures and the
telling of folk tales with music and danc-
ing, also the production of full-length
folk plays, the materials for which she
had gathered in Czechoslovakia and
Yugoslavia. More recently she has re-
vised her modern group, and has been
producing them with sophisticated and
sometimes musical-comedy settings (but
still in the kitchen). This development
proved such a success that she was
allowed a limousine and a private secre-
tary, also a luxury piece of furniture
that looked more like a refrigerator than
a cooker.
Miss Hughes has brought to Australia
her interesting collection of peasant cos-
tumes and pottery. She has to go back
to England some time, but it’s going to
be hard to leave the family after such a
long absence. She is the daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Hughes, and a sister
of Dr. Marjorie Hughes, otherwise Mrs.
Maurice Belz. Miss Hughes will play
Lady Hemingway in the Power House
Dramatic Club’s production of “The Un-
p’larded Hour” at the Apollo on March
12.
A pair of very able emissaries in the
cause of China are Mrs. Fabian Chow
and Mrs. Elsie Lee Soong. These two ■
cultured women speak English fluently,
for they were both born outside their
own country. Notable things about them
are their youthful demeanor (neither
would be taken for the mother of “big
children” back home in Shanghai)
and their peaceful attitude. They show
no sign of bitter feeling against the
Japanese. These Chinese women have
been guests in Sydney for the sesqui. cele-
brations, and are now concerned in rais-
ing money for Chinese relief.
Among receptions for these Chinese
visitors was a gathering of the League
of Nations Union held at Dr. and Mrs.
Ringland Anderson’s home in Linlith-
gow-road, an evening party to which the
guests of honpr came in beautiful Chinese
ceremonial robes. Pink flowers were
placed in their dark hair, which is soft
and fluffy as a result of a Western style
of hairdressing and shampooing.
Another party at which Mrs. Chow
and Mrs. Soong were guests and speakers
was at Mrs. Essington Lewis’s home ; a
monthly afternoon meeting of the
Y.W.C.A.’s Malvern auxiliary. The Y.W.
is Mrs. Lewis’s favorite good work, and
she’s been so interested in its progress
that during her eight years of office as
president there has hardly been a month
when the meeting has not been held in
her home. At each of these meetings
there is a guest-speaker who gives an
address on a subject of interest to
women.
In the Dickinson-Monteath picture is
Mrs. Arthur Goodwill, who is one of
the ticket secretaries for the Polo Ball
to be held next Friday. Mrs. Goodwill
is the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Charlie Lyon.
Two small girls were present when
Norman Macgeorge declared open
Danila Vasilieff’s exhibition of pictures
at Riddell’s Galleries. The children were
fascinated at the view from the window
of an electric shovel levelling with its iron
jaws a city site for a new building. When
anyone spoke to them they piped up
with the information that their names
were Margaret and Betty, that they lived
in the same street in Fitzroy as Mr.
Vasilieff, that he’d painted their pictures
and “Would you like to see us?” with
which they proudly led the way on a
tour of inspection.
Among those who looked on at the ex-
hibition was Dora Wilson, who envies
Vasilieff’s intimacy with Fitzroy. She
has longed to paint some old buildings
in the district, but hasn’t plucked up
enough courage to test its reaction to a
woman artist and her camp-stool. Miss
Wilson was accompanied by her sitter-
of-the-morning, Mrs. Arthur Waller.
Among others noticed was Mrs. Colin
Macdonald, wearing a white sponge crepe
coat over a spotted navy frock, who was
accompanied by Florence Mitchell in a
pearl-grey suit. Nell Fenton was there;
also Mrs. Ramsay Moon and Mrs. Russell
Gourlay in Air Force blue with a fly-by-
night bow across the front of her toque.
Mrs. L. R. Thomas was accompanied by
her daughter Jan. Youngest daughter
Judy is sticking to her job in a Sydney
shop, for living in Sydney means
keeping near to things that are doing in
Australia’s infant film industry. Titian-
headed Judy cherishes ambitions in that
direction.
Innovations at the International Club’s
party last week were a gramophone and
an amplifier. The Consul for France,
M. Claudon, gave an address upon his
native country, which he followed with
French records played on a portable
gramophone. An interesting song was
“My Unknown Hero,” words by Sacha
Guitry and sung by Simone Simon as a
duet —Simone’s voice being heard in both
parts. The amplifier was a boon to every-
body, for it meant that no one had trouble
in hearing the speeches and that all the
windows need not be tightly shut, as in
the past, to exclude the rumble of
Collins-street traffic.
M. Claudon was very flattering in re-
spect to members’ French. He took it
for granted that everybody would under-
stand all the songs, because “the words
are quite simple.” He is permissibly
proud of the cooking in his country ; only
in China, he considers, are more inter-
esting and better-cooked dishes produced.
Among those present at the party were
Phyllis and Beverley Balfour, who leave
for England in the Anchises in April.
They are travelling with the minimum
amount of gear, two suitcases apiece—
rather a wonderful achievement. Phyllis
speaks good French and Spanish, and
because she is keen to learn German she
hopes to get a “living-in” job with a
German family.
Mr. and Mrs. H. Warne Nichols leave
this week by the Mariposa for their home
in Fiji. Their family is scattered at
present. Len, who is with the C.S.R.C.,
follows his parents at the end of his leave,
in the Aorangi in March. Hugo, also
with “The Company,” is studying engi-
neering in Sydney. Timmy, whose pas-
sion is for drill and camps in connection
with the militia, is with Kodak in Mel-
bourne. Dove, with her husband John
Potts and small daughter Margot, is at
present holidaying from Fiji in the Blue
Mountains.
Mr. and Mrs. Nichols, who saw the
international tennis in both Sydney and
Melbourne, spent a couple of weeks with
friends at Castlemaine and enjoyed a
motoring tour along the Ocean-road to
Apollo Bay and Warrnambool. A new
experience was “going to the dogs,”
where, having taken the tip of Mrs.
Nichols’s coming face to face with a
ladder earlier in the day, they plunged to
their advantage on an animal called Silk
Stockings. Mr. Nichols says that getting
round and about in Fiji is much easier
than it used to be. There are inexpensive
bus services, and in six months’ time a
road will be completed right round the
island of Viti Levu.
Mary Cecil Allen was among friends
who welcomed Jessie Brookes when she
arrived in New York recently to com-
mence her studies in social science. Jessie
travelled with Dr. Emma Carr, whom
she found a perfect chaperon. When
Dr. Carr went to stay with friends in
Texas Jessie was not along but had
company in Professor and Mrs. Bernard
Heinze for her journey across America.
The Magnus Cormacks, who live on
Koijak, four miles from Apsley, over
near the South Australian border, have
been finding their new home a cool spot
during the summer. It’s built of pise, is
painted cream and green and is wired
against the invasions of the winged
world. There’s a long lounge and dining-
room, and the sun-room, built as it is in
a central position, can be pleasant in
both summer and winter, depending on
the time of day and so the position of the
sun. Period furniture gives to the house
a feeling of solidity and lived-in com-
fort. The garden surrounding it is a
blaze of flowers.


Trains like hotels, every
new service for comfort.
Scenic wonders of the
Canadian Rockies. Go via
Canadian Pacific for new
experiences. Moderate fares.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
Canadian Pacific Rly • Co., Inc. in Canada
He’s happy because his
savings are safe and earned
over 6% last year.
YOU, too, can be happy and secure by
investing your savings in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES
which are backed by the shares of 20 of
Australia’s leading Companies, held by
the Custodian Trustees of the Trust:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write or ’phone to-day for Descriptive
Free Booklet No. I to the Managers of the
Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Listen in to the “Romance of Industry”
session each Wednesday might at 9.30
from 2 UE,
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes* become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
-being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“A.I.M”
“X.T.”: Central and North Austra-
lians have good reason to know the five
faces on this page —the general staff of
the Australian Inland Mission.
John Flynn is the pioneer and founder.
He began his work when travel-
lers on the O.T. line were still politely
asked to carry arms between telegraph
stations. There is no inch of the N.T.
where there is a white man to be suc-
cored that John Flynn doesn’t know. He
has travelled it by camel, horse, donkey,
dray, motor-car and aeroplane. He has
written about it, lectured about it,
equipped it with cottage hospitals, travel-
ling nurses, flying doctors and two-way
radio. He thrives on the job, and
is still the same old John Flynn, patient,
kindly, looking more like a successful
grazier than a minister of the kirk.
Of his staff, C. T. F. Goy is patrol
padre for North Australia. He inched
out gradually into the Never-Never from
charges at Cootamundra and Lake Car-
gelligo (N.S.W.). He is the nearest ap-
proach possible to an Admirable Crich-
ton —motor mechanic, musician, humor-
ist, the comedian mainstay of settlement
concerts and a man who can always be
depended on to pick up a faulty circuit
in an ailing radio set. His day’s work
never ends when he is on the trek.
FLYNN
OF THE INLAND
AND
SOME OF HIS MEN.
(1) C. T. F. GOY. (2) K. F. PARTRIDGE. (3) C. B. HUGHES. ( 4) J. F. McKAY.
J. F. McKay tends a vicarious flock
along the Gulf of Carpentaria and in
western Queensland. Last year he travelled
24,000 miles by ’plane, car and horse.
He is a bushman whose skill commands
respect, and a great worker for western
children. Hundreds owe him their holi-
days in the south.
Next comes K. F. Partridge, whose
parish is a few thousand square miles in
the dead centre, where spinifex spines are
used for spear-heads and the local black
sometimes digs up the local frog and
drinks out of him when the native wells
run dry. K.F.P. needs no other reference
than that he is one of the most popular
men both in the mining camps and with
the hermits of the Burt Plain runs.
C. B. Hughes is the general secre-
tary. He keeps the wheels oiled in
an industry of mercy in which money
is always needed to meet the needs
of the sick, the injured and the isolated.
A human dynamo, Hughes. In his job
he has to be.
And there would be no A.I.M. hos-
pitals but for Ben Hargreaves. Ben is
the mission’s builder.
“E.S.”: There seems a likelihood that
Newstead House, which is about Bris-
bane’s oldest residence, will be preserved
as a Historical Museum. Already it
houses the library gleaned by the His-
torical Society, but funds should be
available to pay the salaries of officials
so that the place might be open to the
public daily. No more fitting place could
be found in Queensland for the purpose.
Built for Administrator Wickham, and
later owned by Pat-
rick Leslie, the house
came into possession
of the late Mr. and
Mrs. George Harris,
grand father and
grandmother of R.
G. Casey, Federal
Treasurer. It was
during their occu-
pancy that George V.
and his brother, the
Duke of Clarence,
were entertained
there. The Gov-
ernor, who has urged for some time that
an attempt should be made to preserve
the historical records of the State, favors
the move, and a meeting has been called
by the Lord Mayor to set the ball rolling.
* * * *
“Tropik”: The news that Pilot
McDonald, of North Queensland Air-
ways, is sending a ’plane to the aid of
Pilot Crisp is yet another service added
to his long list. (Crisp came down at
Weymouth Bay, about 300 miles north
of Cairns, with a broken propeller.) For
years Pilot McDonald has been servicing
N.Q. with his ’planes, and has answered
ambulance calls by the score. On these
calls he has flown all over the York
Peninsula and met some of the worst
grounds in Australia. A good many
northerners owe him their lives.
# * * *
“M. Turlutu”: Jerome K. Jerome
pointed out that the villain in melodrama
would never have been caught had it
not been for his idiotic habit of revisit-
ing the scene of the crime. He put it
down to probable attraction by cheap
excursion fares. In a recent Brisbane
case a false-cheque artist was copped in
the act of trying it on again with a firm
he had swindled in the same way nine
years before, but, at Queensland rail-fare
rates to-day, Jerome’s explanation is
simply impossible. Maybe, though, as
the offender had only recently returned
after a long spell in gaol in N.S.W., he
may have dodged the vigilance .of
Queensland’s Transport Strangulation
Board by a motor trip. That is the only
possible method of getting reasonably
cheap transport over any considerable
distance in Queensland nowadays.
"Australia Jane's" Budget.
Earl de la Warr had a busy few
days in Brisbane. He looked in at Lone
Pine to be introduced to the koalas,
attended a dinner given by the
R.5.5.1.L.A., lunched with the members
of the Cabinet at Parliament House, and
crammed a lot more visits and enter-
tainments into a brief few hours before
boarding the airliner for Darwin.
Miss M. T.
Treweeke, mem-
ber of a family
prominent in pas-
toral circles, has
donated another
four pictures to
our Art Gallery
—a couple of
Lionel Lindsay
woodcuts, a
pencil-drawing by
Thea Proctor and
a painting by
Lloyd Rees. That
brings her dona-
tions up to 27. Queensland never has
had the help that the southern States
have had in adding to their Art Galleries,
and Miss Treweeke is one of the very
few priv.ate citizens who have contributed.
The bridge party organised by the
young folk of the Lady Mayoress’s stall
for the fete to be held at Government
House in aid of the Bush Children’s
Health Scheme and Red Cross peace-
time activities was a huge success, both
financially and socially. Over 50 tables
were occupied.
Paddy Bergin, who is to marry Scotty
Walker, of Glenlyon, shortly, was guest
of honor at a pre-wedding tea at the
Belle Vue, given by Mrs. Val Howard
and Mrs. L. Tyrell. Decorations were
huge bowls of tinted bullrushes and
Christmas-bells in the lounge and flat
bowls of pink roses nestling in green
tufle on the tables.
Greta Fox, an English lass who has
been the guest of Archbishop and Mrs.
Wand at Bishopsbourne for some
months, left in the Orion. Dean Barrett
and his wife are travelling to England
aboard the same boat } so she will have
company. There was a large gathering
of church folk to see the travellers off. •
When Betty McDonald and Bruce Reid
were married at Longreach, the bride-
cake was decorated in the colors of Gee-
long College, the ’groom’s old school.
The knot was tied in St. Andrew’s kirk,
and Ida and Lucy Rule ’maided. Betty
was a charming bride, all in white, and
the ’maids were clad in blue.
Betty, only daughter of Mrs. F. Carr,
Toowong, is engaged to Leslie, younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. A. V. Dodwell. The
engagement was announced at a party
at the Belle Vue in honor of the birth-
day of the bridegroom-elect.
Ivy Penny has left for England to.
marry Bob Tregenza, of the Liverpool
Pilot Service. Her new home will be in
Cheshire, but it will have a Queensland
touch, for she carried with her a multi-
tude of gifts from friends scattered be-
tween Cairns and Brisbane.
St. Andrew’s kirk was crowded with
guests for the wedding of Dr. Shirley
Lane to A. J. P. Crawford, of Alexandria
(Egypt). Rev. Norman Millar tied the
knot, and knight Raphael Cilento escorted
the bride to the altar, where her mother
gave her away. One of Brisbane’s best-
known and greatly-liked women medicoes,
Dr. Shirley is the daughter of Mrs. C.
M. Lane, Newcastle. The Cilento lady
was matron of honor, and the reception
was at the Belle Vue. Bridegroom, who
hails from Scotland, is a son of the late
J. W. Crawford and of Mrs. Crawford, of
Edinburgh.
Later in the day, at the same church,
Dr. Roy Helmsley and Elsie Eberhardt
were married. A. W. Eberhardt
gave his sister away, and Barbara
Ellis, a niece of the bride, was the
only ’maid. After a reception at
the National, the newly-married
pair left by car for Sydney.
A number of Queenslanders went
down to Sydney for the marriage
of Bruce, son of Mr. and Mrs. P.
D. Rylance, of Ascot, Brisbane, to
Ouida, youngest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. H. Delaney, of Glen-
irie, Bundarra, which took place
ai St. Mark’s, Darling Point. The bride’s
sister, Mrs. Alan Ball, was matron of
honor, and Barbara Westgarth, of Scone,
was ’maid. There was a reception at
the Pickwick Club before Bruce and
Mrs. Rylance left for Tasmania.
A crocodile-skin handbag, a black
evening-bag and a gold pencil were
pressed on Mrs. J. W. Davidson, who
goes abroad with her husband, by a
group of friends who arranged a farewell
tea-party for her at the Belle Vue. A
floral ship floated gaily in the centre of
the long table, and streamers led to the
seat reserved for the guest of honor. Mrs.
C. A. Murton and Mrs. J. Dash were at
the head of the group who arranged the
party.


ULTIMATE RADIO
There are still available a limited number of the latest seven-
valve all-wave console and table model battery sets at specially
attractive prices.
Don B. Knock, of “The Bulletin,” has written of them in his
Radio Page: “I consider the Ultimate seven-valve all-wave
battery superhet, recently submitted for a week’s test, outstand-
ing proof of what radio engineers can do in the interests of
battery users ... If stars and other tokens of merit were awarded
by this page, this receiver would be well tabbed.”
YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF TO POST THIS COUPON
TO-DAY.
GEO. BROWN & CO. PTY.,
LTD.,
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: M 2544 (4 lines).
Please send me without obligation
details of the special Ultimate
offer on battery sets.
NAME
ADDRESS
Personal and Missing Friends.
THE issue of any of the marriages of MRS.
ANNE HEGGARTY, whose last place of
abode was 41 Thornley Street, Leichhardt,
and who was variously known as Anne
Howard, Anne Brown and Anne Robertson,
are invited to communicate with the UNION
TRUSTEE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD., 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney, when they
may obtain information to their advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1739 of 1937.
BETWEEN SARAH ISABELLA CONLON
Petitioner
And THOMAS EDWARD CONLON Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS EDWARD CONLON late of
Coorabell in the State of New South Wales
Dairy Farmer.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SARAH ISA-
BELLA CONLON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of May 1938 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned Solicitor free of
charge.
Dated this Eighteenth day of February, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
McINTOSH & BEST, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, Molesworth Street, Lismore; by their
Agent, PERCY R. WATTS, 9 Bligh Street,
Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1972 of 1937.
BETWEEN STELLA GLADYS VINCENT
Petitioner
And OWEN ELLIS VINCENT Respon-
dent.
TO OWEN ELLIS VINCENT late of Perth.
TAKE NOTICE that the said STELLA
GLADYS VINCENT has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the Six-
teenth day of May One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-eight and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
"DATED this Fifteenth day of February,
1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. W. NICHOLL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 2015 of 1937.
BETWEEN EDITH LILIAN McMANUS Peti-
tioner
And TERENCE EDWARD McMANUS
Respondent.
TO TERENCE EDWARD McMANUS.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
LILIAN McMANUS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixteenth
day of May one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit will
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 18th day of February, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. E. BARKELL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
TO ROBERT FRANCIS RONALD HANNA.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Napier citing you to appear and answer
the petition of CHRISTINA NORMA HANNA
of Tangoio in the Provincial District of Hawke’s
Bay in the Dominion of New Zealand wherein
she prays for a dissolution of her marriage with
you on the grounds of separation for three
years under an order made in the Magistrate’s
Court at Napier aforesaid on the Thirteenth
day of December 1934 and such Citation in-
timates that in default of your so doing the
Court will proceed to hear the said petition
and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence Now therefore take
notice that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within sixty days after the date of this publica-
tion to attend in person or by your Solicitor at
the Supreme Court Office at Napier aforesaid
and there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of
the said Citation and petition will be supplied
to you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Napier aforesaid.
DATED this 21st day of February, 1938.
P. MARTIN,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing ad-
vertisement.
WILLIAM /ENEAS McLEOD is the Solici-
tor for the petitioner, whose address for ser-
vice is at the office of MESSIEURS HUM-
PHRIES & HUMPHRIES, Solicitors, Shake-
speare Road, Napier.
THE LITTLE SISTERS.
WESTRALIA.
Mrs. Ralph Crisp was responsible for
the arrangement of varied fare on the
Kylie Club menu at its first meeting of
the year. Owing to the ravages of ’flu,
president and founder Mrs. W. H. Vin-
cent was not at her usual post of greet-
ing. Trixie Shepherd used the concert
grand to good effect in an arrangement of
Bach’s Organ Prelude and Fugue in A
Minor, Len Hancock roamed in Wag-
nerian fields with “Lohengrin” and “Die
Walkure,” Alice Mallon lifted a lyric
soprano in airs by Handel and Quilter,
and Delius’s Third Violin Sonata was
ably fiddled by Margaret Sharp. An un-
usual but highly entertaining item was a
15-minute talk by Ida Roberts, Mus. Bac.,
on her musical experiences in London
during the last year.
Celtic Club members had perfect
weather and a full moon for their ladies’
night. Mrs. E. Needham, girt with black
satin with silver lame, stood
at the elbow of her M.L.A. husband, who
extended presidential greetings to the
hosts of guests. A concert in the lovely
gardens occupied the first part of the
evening. Festoons of miniature-colored
globes were interlaced in the trees sur-
rounding the lawns, with flowering
shrubs and creepers, lit from ’neath their
branches, making bright splashes of color.
Tables and chairs were dotted about the
lawns, and the cup that cools was dis-
pensed between items. Dancing in the
jarrah-panelled lounge and hall of the
clubhouse wound up the proceedings.
Members of the Karrakatta Club
rallied in full force at a farewell party
for Mfs. Bowes-Kelly, who is exchanging
secretarial for matrimonial duties—-she’s
to marry Martin Woodward. The ball-
room of the club was massed with gor-
geous-hued dahlias and zinnias, and the
president, Mrs. W. H. Vincent, swathed
in black ninon and large magpie mil-
linery, had vice-president Mrs. Birchley
and Phoebe Holmes to help do the
honors. The guest of honor’s mulberry-
blue crepe tailorings were belted and but-
toned with cerise to match the suede
band on her blue headgear. Eulogistic
speechifying and a presentation preluded
tea and chatter and the exhibition of a
beautiful wedding cake made and pre-
sented by the staff of the club.
Quite an outbreak of engagements has
gladdened jewellers’ hearts. Marjorie
Lukies, niece and ward of Mrs. George
Ridgway, of Mount-street, has decided
to become Mrs. Reg North in the not-
too-distant future. The Nelson Pearses’
elder lass, Betty, will forsake station life
at Mingenew for that of the Far North
with Bill, one of the J. J. Holmes twins.
Ernest Tomlinson, of Mt. Lawley, has
slipped a sparkling token on Bernice
Coleman’s third finger, and Marjorie Mc-
Millan, of South Perth, will buckle on
double harness with Douglas Helsham.
The Dean of Perth forged the matri-
monial link at St. George’s Cathedral
when Rita Kershaw became Mrs. L. R.
Blowes. The bridal draperies were of
white marquisette broidered with white
satin water-lilies, and buds of the same
flower anchored the clouds of tulle veil-
ing. A duo of ’maids, Kathleen Moyle
and Joyce Burt, followed in swirls of
pink ninon and topknots of tiger-lilies to
match. Congratulatory magnums were
drunk at the Y.A.L. hall, and Singapore
was the honeymoon destination.
Something new in lace-making has
been evolved by Mrs. A. H. C. Higgins,
of South Perth. The Mitchell lady said
admiring things about her work when she
opened a display in Newspaper House
Gallery. Mrs. Higgins will be armed
with stacks of beautiful exhibits when she
sails for England a month hence to patent
the process.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
There was a civic reception for the
commander and officers of the U.S.A.
cruiser Louisville, and the pretty
reception-room of the Lady Mayoress
was crowded to overflowing. Captain
Matthewson and the American Consul
received with the Mayoral couple.
Cocktails and tea were handed round.
An amusing feature of a party in the
cruiser the same afternoon was the ex-
pression on the faces of guests when
they discovered that the only liquid re-
freshment was orange cup, the Louis-
ville being a dry ship. The jazz band
was worth watching ; the man with ’cello
twanged the strings with his hand, not
using a bow at all. There was dancing
on the main deck, to slower time than
we favor.
Two hundred guests attended a cock-
tail party given by American Consul
Mr. Charles A. Hutchinson and his wife
at the South Australian in honor of
Captain R. W. Matthewson and officers
of the Louisville. The Consul and his
wife received in the lounge upstairs,
which was beautifully decorated with
pink and red gladioli and blue del-
phiniums in huge brass bowls. The Pre-
mier’s wife, Lady Mayoress Barrett and
the Ritchie and Bruce ladies were among
the guests. The American officers were
amazed to find the Outer Harbor was 15
miles from Adelaide. They found two
or three taxi rides in a day came rather
expensive. . Many of the officers wore
the type of gold ring which shows that
they graduated at the U.S.A. Naval
Academy.
About 50 fellow-students of Dorothy
Kennedy in her Elder Con. days gave
her a party at Birk’s Piccadilly, the
tables decorated with pink and mauve
asters. The guests were received by Mrs.
E. Shoebridge.
Dame Maria Ogilvie-Gordon was the
guest of honor at a dinner at the Adel-
aide Women’s Club arranged by the
N.C.W., at which there were also present
Mrs. David Lyall (C.W.A.), Mrs. A. L.
Da we (Y.W.C.A.), Mrs. Sam Gild
(Women’s International Zionist Organi-
sation), Mrs. H. C. Herbert (W.C.T.U.)
and Winifred Howie (Australian Nursing
Federation). Mixed flowers in amber
and pink matched the candles and shades.
Mfs. A. Roy LeMessurier, of Fitzroy,
who with her husband and son will leave
shortly on a trip overseas, said good-
bye to 170 friends at a cocktail party
at Mount Osmond Country Club. The
huge lounge was a mass of vivid color
—zinnias, dahlias, asters and phlox.
Dorothy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. L. McDonald, of Torrens Park, mar-
ried Graham Allen-Jones at Scots
Church, North-terrace. The bride was
the fourth in succession to carry the
Honiton lace handkerchief which had
been used by her great-grandmother, her
grandmother and her mother on their
wedding days, and she wore a pearl and
turquoise brooch that had been her
father’s gift to her mother on their wed-
ding day. White satin clad the bride.
The tulle veil, embroidered in silver,
was held in place by a halo of orange-
blossom. The matron of honor, Mrs.
J. R. Dagger, of M.L., and the brides-
maids, Gwynneth Allen-Jones and Janet
Henderson, were frocked alike in white
satin, with Juliet caps of small red velvet
flowers. The bride is a well-known
horsewoman and show-ring competitor,
so the wedding-cake was decorated with
tiny sugar horses.
TASMANIA.
Blue skies and ideal breeze conditions
helped to make a huge success of
Hobart’s centenary of the regatta. Thou-
sands thronged the Domain, and the
water was alive with craft, including
Australian, M.L., Dutch and Italian
warships, with H.M.A.S. Canberra as
flagship. Overhead, ’planes roared all
day, almost drowning the megaphones
of the sideshow barkers. His Ex. and
Lady Clark, with Lady Gowrie, were
present. J. G. Turner, who has been
president of the regatta for umpteen
years, had a pro,ud and happy day. The
illuminations at night were grand.
The French sloop Rigault de
Genouilly, before entering the harbor
proper at regatta-time, stopped off
Gordon, where a memorial to the
French navigator and explorer Bruni
D’Entrecasteaux, who in 1792 discovered
the channel now named after him, was
unveiled by the Governor. The com-
mander, officers and men of the ship
attended the ceremony, with a big crowd
from Hobart and the surrounding district.
Ann Page’s last weeks before marriage
are being filled up with parties in the
north. Mrs. A. E. Brodribb and
daughters Nancy and Betty had a big
tennis party for her at Longford, where
guests bought handkerchiefs for the
bride-to-be. Nan Mackinnon, who is to
be a bridesmaid at the wedding (Roy
Catenby is the happy man), gave a lunch
party.
Mrs. Sam Cox blew in from Sydney
to park her young son Jimmy with his
grandmother (Mrs. Thos. Lyons) while
she and her husband take a trip to Eng-
land via the U.S.A.
Dr. and Mrs. Fagan gave a cocktail
party in their own flat. They have
Esmey Burfitt, of Elizabeth Bay,
Sydney, staying with them. Prof, and
Mrs. A. L. McAulay chose the same
type of entertainment to welcome Dr.
Sholts Douglas and Miss May Douglas
(South Aust.).
Naval wives came ahead of their hus-
bands to find bed and board while the
ships are in. Mrs. Patten-Thomas, Mrs.
J. W. A. Waller, Mrs. H. H. Palmer,
Mrs. Cook, Mrs. P. J. Ward, Mrs.
Denny, Mrs. Esdaile, Mrs. Fogarty, Mrs.
D. A. Pritchard and Mrs. Buchanan
are among them. Mrs. Wilbur Jackson
(Peggy Dick) is staying with her mother,
Mrs. Ronald Dick, Sandy Bay, and being
welcomed by all her old friends.
About 300 guests packed into the
Royal Yacht Club’s premises at the cock-
tail party given to welcome the yachts-
men visiting Hobart for the regatta.
Commodore and Mrs. G. H. Evans re-
ceived the visitors, the lady in a green-
and-cream frock and big green picture-
hat. In the evening the club gave a
dance at the Continental. His Ex. and
Lady Clark were present, and the rooms
were gay with dahlias and gladioli.
Partly to mark the P. and O. Co.’s cen-
tenary, and also as a jumping-off event
for Regatta Week, the P. and O. Hobart
agents entertained a big throng of guests
at a cocktail party in the Stratheden.
His Ex. and Lady Clark were there.
Guests were received by Captain Har-
rison and Messrs. E. H. Webster, D. E.
Hopkins and H. R. Neilsen, representing
the P. and O. Co.
Dr. and Mrs. Tom Giblin’s cocktail
party was in their own charming house
in Davey-street. The drawing-room
is entirely period (early-Victorian), the
other rooms modern. The fair little
hostess was in a green-and-gold flowery
frock. Zell Goodman (Adelaide) is
staying with her for some of the season’s
gaieties.
Mrs. Arthur Procter, visiting the north
from Scotland, returned hospitality before
leaving for home by giving a luncheon
party at the Brisbane Hotel, Launceston.
Zinnias and phlox made gay table
decoration, and the hostess’s navy floral
frock was topped by a wide hat with
touches of petunia and green in it.
Tassie retains the Forster Cup, to the
satisfaction of all good Speckites. H. C.
L. Batt was the successful man at the
helm.
Hobart was alive with tourists and
visitors and sailors from the ships in-
port during the aquatic carnival. The
church parade on the Sunday was an
impressive one. More than 1000 soldiers
and sailors marched out to the North
Hobart Recreation Ground, where the
service was held by the Bishop and the
chaplain to the Royal Australian Naval
Reserve. His Ex. and Lady Clark were
present.


HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday four to this
world of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports with
additional calls at Saigon and
Sandakan. The m.v. "NEP-
TUNA" sails regularly from Mel-
bourne and Sydney. Excellent
cuisine and service sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILP
a CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
332 Lambton Quay. Wellington, N.Z.
>■
I * p
m
m
mm
mm
,!,n '
A Self-contained Sanitary System.
NO WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
Approved by Board of Health.
HYGIENIC. INNOCUOUS.
dfd
f
df
No odours, flies,
germs or noise.
Provides one
amenity of Citv
life. Over 650
in use. Shell Oi,
Co., 59 repeat
orders; Bank
N.S.W., 15. In-
stalled by Com-
monwealth Govt.,
Hotels, Hospitals,
Schools. Private
Homes, Theatres,
etc. Can be installed where Septic Tanks are
impracticable. Simply installed. Cheap to run.
Automatic. Price £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney. £l6
other States. Write for free pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BIG JOBS
9
&
J
v_.
A-
cci
OJ
foi
vow
TRAIN
atHOME
Now is the time to prepare for Aviation.
Trained men are essential. The indus-
try is expanding faster than men can
be trained. A.A.S. HOME STUDY
methods will prepare you AT HOME
for a highly-paid position. Ground
Engineers and Aircraftsmen are
ALWAYS in demand. A.A.S. has helped
others to a career in Aviation. Let
A.A.S. help YOU.
Write TO-DAY for Particulars.
i\YI\TIO\ SCHOOLS
WSAABIFY HOUSf RAHWAY SO SYONf Y-
Jfist. 1934. ’Phone: MA4642.
The Long White Cloud
“Stoo”: February, which this year
saw 21 deaths in a flood at Kopua-
whara, is a black month for Maoriland.
Storms prior to the Kopuawhara visita-
tion had already caused the loss of three
lives in landslides; there were severe
gales during the month last year, and in
February, 1936, one of the worst floods
M.L. has known destroyed bridges and
property throughout the country. The
disastrous Napier ’quake, too, was one
of February’s efforts. Kopuawhara >s
the second Public Works camp to be
wiped out in the last 12 months, an ava-
lanche, accompanied, fortunately, by
much smaller loss of life, having obliter-
ated an outpost at the Homer Tunnel in
the South Island early last winter.
* * * *
“Whanga”: Maoriland’s Labor Govern-
ment, which showed its good manners by
offering sanctuary to Mrs. Freer, is show-
ing both tolerance and good sense by let-
ting Von Luckner roam the coasts with-
out even a dictation test in Pushtu. When
his trip was first mooted there was a
rumor, which stretched in Australia to
a screaming certainty, that he was com-
ing as a Nazi missionary, but as soon as
he touched land he gave that furphy the
lie. His main reason for visiting M.L.
seems to be his sentimental attachment
to the prisons where he spent the latter
months of the war; and, if his pilgrim-
age is “propaganda” for anything, it is
for peace and good sportsmanship.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Like Australian dailies,
M.L. newspapers will have to somersauit
pretty thoroughly to keep in line with
the new British foreign policy. Anti-
Italian propaganda in M.L. never quite
reached the peak of imaginative vitu-
peration touched in Australia, but nearly
all the dailies favored sanctions, howled
for Hoare’s downfall, and regarded Eden
and the League as the saviours of the
world. Turning a sudden flip won’t
worry newspapers very much, but the
Labor Government, with its uncom-
promising and uncomprehending ideal-
ism, is going to find things really awk-
ward. Support of the League is a major
policy point with the Government, and
W. J. Jordan at Geneva occasionally em-
barrassed even Mr. Eden with his en-
thusiasm for the impossible. Foreign
policy may yet play a big part in the
elections this year, as it did in Australia.
* * * *
“F.A.J.”: Co-ordination of adult edu-
cational activities in the Fielding district
round a real folk school of the Danish
type was promised in a recent statement
by Education Minister Fraser. Fielding
Agricultural High School will be the
centre, and the scheme will be super-
vised by Maoriland’s best brains in rural
educational matters —some of them just
back from overseas study. Physical train-
ing will be an important part of the edu-
cation of the younger students ; equip-
ment will be provided for this purpose,
and on the theoretical side attention be
given to physiology, anatomy and
dietetics. In outlying districts it is pro-
posed to form classes in drama, domestic
science and kindred subjects.
* * * *
“Whangamomona”: Elimination of such
railway crossings as are death-traps for
motorists was an election promise which
Labor has been carrying out. Critics of
two kinds are making themselves heard
now, the first lot complaining at the cost
of the work, and the others saying that
the new overhead bridges are almost as
“I fished ’er out , didn' I?”
“Y airs, but you was usin' my bait."
dangerous as the crossings were. To
Works Minister Semple’s reply that it’s
worth spending money to save life it’s
difficult to object, but there are good
grounds for the second complaint The
approaches to nearly all the bridges slope
so steeply up from the level of the road
that it’s impossible to see a car approach-
ing from the other side, so that, even if
the careful driver is safe, the lunatic who
passes on a rise is still going to strike
trouble. And it wasn’t the careful
motorist who got caught at the cross-
ings in the first place.
* * * *
“S.A.D.”: “Waitot’s” par. about the
desecration of Maori cemeteries and the
trade in stolen weapons recalls the fact
that deceased natives were one of M.L.’s
earliest exports to Sydney. Collectors
of such objects of art were enthusiastic
about the facial tattooing of the natives,
and a trade in mummified heads sprang
up. At first there was no need for a
coroner —if one had been available —to
sit on the bric-a-brac, as the heads were
either of those who died from natural
causes or were else exported as a pleas-
ing and legitimate revenge on enemies
killed in battle; but later a practice
sprang up which makes it extremely un-
likely that carved heads will figure in
the new trade agreement with Australia.
Traders would indicate to the chiefs what
pattern they required, the chiefs would
have a slave carved to order, and then
calmly chop his head off and deliver the
goods.
* * * *
“Tham”: Looting of Maori burial-
grounds (B. 23/2/’3B) was a common
practice all over M.L. Only a few years
ago the natives at Thames were incensed
with tourists who pinched the bones of
their ancestors. I made my one and only
raid as a small boy at Onaero on the
Taranaki west coast, where, crawling
timidly into an ancient Maori war-pit
on a hilltop, I fled in terror from a com-
plete skeleton glinting in the darkness.
Excited elders with a torch found the
innocent bones of a sheep which had
fallen into the hole. Most gruesome
trophy from such hunts I’ve seen is a
jawbone that would have fitted Goliath.
A dentist who fell in love with the gigan-
tic molars owns it, and used to flourish it
as a note of cheer before he started with
the drill.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Dr. A. J. Harrop, whose
England and the Maori Wars (B.
23/2/’3B) has just been published, is
known by repute to Maorilanders visit-
ing London, for he edits the excellent
little “New Zealand News,” which
mingles statistics about butter and sun-
shine with tourist gossip. Among other
things, he’s representative in England for
the N.Z. University. England and the
Maori Wars was published at his own
expense —which shows that in the fog
he hasn’t forgotten the M.L. literary
tradition.
* * * *
“Boots”: If Australia is suffering a
dwindling of interest in cricket, there’s
no backsliding on this side of the Tas-
man from the national religion of Rugby.
Five months before Southland is due to
defend the Ranfurly Shield against Otago
a party of Dunedin enthusiasts have re-
served hotel accommodation
at a Winton hotel for the
match. The Rugby bug
seems to have bitten the South
Island even more desperately
than the North, and every
Shield match sees an inva-
sion from the visiting team’s
city of a special train loaded
with brass bands, beer and a
few thousand fans willing to
sleep out the night for the
chance of seeing the um-
brellas and bristly necks in
front of them. It would be
Dunedin men getting in now
before hotel rates go up!
* * *
“R. Wort”: Lands Minis-
ter Langstone has announced
that the Government is going
to develop large areas of land
in the King Country and
Hauraki Plains, and hopes
not only to bring back into
cultivation a lot of land that
should never have been
allowed to slip, but to reduce
the registered unemployed by
another 400. There is good
country under tea-tree in
North Auckland that would
yield a profitable return
under a similar scheme. M.L., inciden-
tally, was going to try out collective farm-
ing. What’s happened about that?
* * * *
“S.”: Except for educated Maoris liv-
ing as Europeans, you never see a Maori
handling any printed matter apart from
newspapers which they read for the
Rugby comment, and yet the British and
Foreign Bible Society has released the
astonishing information that it has issued
171,474 copies of Maori scriptures. It’s
taken them over 100 years since the first
Biblical extracts in Maori were printed in
Sydney to distribute that lot, and every
Maori Bible is sold at a loss of ten shil-
lings. Providing Bibles for bedsides at
country pubs is another job the society
did.


mnmss
if'jdL
a."
&
r*
Hi
'All the
World for
24 gns."
|HE Twelve Fifty Two is a new Philips
Dual-wave Radioplayer with Audio-
scopic Reproduction, "Twilight" Dial, dis-
tinctive Lowboy console, and many other
unique features. Hear it for yourself.
Terms available.
PHILIPS
TO
SOLD ONLY BY PHILIPS
ACCREDITED RETAILERS
Fill in this coupon and post to
PHILIPS RADIO, SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE or PERTH
Please arrange free demonstration of
a Philips Radioplayer.
Name
Address
also"send" 8-pace''statTon^book'
’’RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Sydney's 1938 Radio and
Electrical Exhibition.
The exhibition of the radio and elec-
trical industries open at Sydney Town
Hall till March 5 is a worthy contribu-
tion to the sesqui. displays.
Radio receivers this year have gone
“push to tune.” There are still the com-
paratively effortless wide-vision tuning
dials, but leading makers have adopted
the American self-tuning dials. One
merely presses a button marked for the
desired station, and automatic mechan-
ism silently does the rest.
Automatic tuning is only one of the
features of 1938 receivers. Vastly im-
proved reproduction has been achieved,
and the long-distance capabilities on
short waves are astounding. The Aus-
tralian manufacturer can now show over-
seas competitors a point or two.
The exhibition is full of scientific
stunts —the Ever Ready Co.’s concealed
Tesla outfit (a large replica of a torch
cell gives off crackling sparks when a
finger is placed near it without any sen-
sation of shock), the lie detector, syn-
thetic lightning, almost human speaking
robots, the flying metal ring, an invisible
electric-ray gun, an electric salesman.
The latest developments in transmis-
sion are to be found on A.W.A.’s stand,
where are displayed broadcast, shipboard
and aircraft stations with associated re-
ceivers.
The component-parts side of radio is
represented by the Radiokes Co., which
shows all the latest gadgets. Some excel-
lent coil units and Trolitul insulated
midget condensers are to be seen here.
The Radio Inspectors’ Department of
the P.M.G. has a stand dealing with the
causes and cures of interference with
radio reception, and another P.M.G.
exhibit displays teleprinters in action, and
shows just what happens in the auto-
matic exchange when one dials a tele-
phone.
Amateur radio from the experimental
transmission side is not a part of this
exhibition, Australian amateurs having
their hands full with the coming conven-
tion in April.
D. B. K.
Battery-powered Portable
Transmitter.
The Australian National Field Day
for experimental transmitters inaugurated
last year is likely to arouse considerable
interest for portable work. Field days
have been held at fairly frequent inter-
vals in the past few years, and on such
occasions the designs of portable sta-
tions have shown much ingenuity. Here
is a suggested design for a battery-
operated telephony or C.W. portable
transmitter from A.W. Valve Co.
The valves used are three 19’s and one
IK6. The first 19 is used in two sec-
tions as a crystal oscillator and doubler,
NB L1 TUNED TO CRYSTAL FREQUENCY.
L 2 TUNED TO 2ND. HARMONIC
L 3 TUNEO to FUNDAMENTAL OR HARMONIC
Circuit diagram of the battery-operated portable transmitter.
and the second 19, with both sections in
parallel, comprises the final stage. This
is plate-modulated by the third 19, work-
ing as a Class-B modulator and driven
in turn by the IK6.
A high-output carbon microphone is
used in conjunction with a 1/15 step-up
transformer, and by this means there is
no difficulty in obtaining sufficient gain
for full modulation. When C.W. opera-
tion is required the modulator may be
switched out of circuit, and only two
valves are then used in the transmitter.
It is capable of radiating either at the
fundamental of the quartz crystal or at
the second harmonic, depending upon
the coils used for L 2 and L 3.
Power supply need only be a 135-volt
B battery, a two-volt accumulator and a
4i-volt C battery. All the equipment
can be built compactly into a carrying
case, with batteries internal or external
as desired.
The input to the final stage at 135
volts is 15 milliamperes, or two watts,
and the equivalent load is 9000 ohms.
The plate-to-plate load on the modu-
lator is 20,000 ohms, and the modula-
tion transformer ratio 1.5 to 1, primary
to secondary. For those who may wish
to construct their own modulation
transformers, a butt-joint core of fin.
square section is used with a window
area of i sq. in. The primary has 7500
turns of 40 S.W.G. enamel, and the
secondary 5000 turns of the same wire.
V. c.
Radio in the Rabaul
Earthquake.
In B. 12/1/’3B appeared the observa-
tions of a radio amateur in Rabaul
during last year’s volcanic upheaval.
“Another Operator,” also of Rabaul,
writes:
It will interest your correspondent to know
that Rabaul Radio, VJZ, was not off the air
at the time Vulcan Island erupted. Approximate
time 4.20 p.m., 29/5 /’37, VJZ broadcast the
news to all stations on 21, 32 and 600 metres,
adding that it was likely the station would be
put out of action. This information was picked
up in Australia, the U.S.A. and elsewhere.
The Rabaul-Sydney circuit was in operation
up to a little after 5.30 p.m. on that Saturday
and exchanged radiograms and other informa-
tion with Sydney. Rabaul Radio then went off
the air temporarily, but the operators main-
tained a watch from the Golden Bear and car-
ried out instructions regarding assistance and
the recall of the Montoro, and were in touch
with Townsville Radio.
Rabaul Radio was operated throughout the
night of the eruption on the emergency gear,
and the normal short-wave schedules between
Rabaul and Sydney appear to have been main-
tained throughout the whole eruption period.
56-Megacycle DX Reports.
From W. M. Conklin, W9FM, ultra-
short-wave editor of “Radio” (U.S.A.),
comes this list of happenings on 56mc.
recently:
“Signals have again been put across
the Atlantic. WIKH —George Bailey,
vice-president of A.R.R.L. —was heard
in England on 12/12/’37 at 16.09
G.M.T. on 56.2mc., using C.W. The
report was QSA4 R 7-5, slightly chirpy.
Transmitter input was 250 watts, crystal
controlled, feeding a vertical aerial.
“W9SDJ, of Slater, lowa, heard some
peculiar five-metre signals for a few
minutes on several days in the first week
in January. They were fading slowly
and were too low in pitch and slow in
variation to be from a television source.
Three to five such signals were heard.
“There is plenty doing on 56mc.
around Pittsburgh. The band has opened
up for 100-mile contacts, and a ‘Tri-
State Five-metre Network’ is being
organised in this area, including
WBNQM, WBGRX and a number of
crystal-controlled stations.
“lonosphere reports show that condi-
tions in January for very-long-distance
reception were not nearly as favorable
as those of November and part of De-
cember, but it was anticipated that Feb-
ruary and March should be better. At
least in U.S.A., transmission should
again be possible over distances of from
400 to 1100 miles, repeating the records
of the previous summer.”
It is with the object of finding out
when corresponding periods occur in
Australia that pleas for consistent 56mc.
work among VKs are put forward. But
of the 1800 experimental transmitters in
Australia, only a handful are seriously
concerned with 56mc. possibilities.
W9FM says, regarding 56mc. possibili-
ties in Australia, “Why wait for U.S.
DX next summer? That will be sporadic
E Layer, just as yours with ZL, and
won’t have anything to do with really
long DX. What is needed to work be-
tween Australia and U.S.A. is winter F 2
Layer in the hemisphere in which the
east-west part of the path occurs. That
means between January and April, and
possibly until early May. In June there
should be a chance with ZSIH, ZS2A
or someone in South America. Add to
this any path into the Northern Hemi-
sphere that has a north-south path north
of the Equator.
“This 56mc. DX work is probably all
below 10 degrees above the horizontal,
so vertically stacked aerials should do
the trick. If signals can be heard in Aus-
tralia on 28mc. these days at 300 or
400 miles, it should be worth while try-
ing 56mc. at 800 to 1100 miles with some-
one in the same direction. Such work-
ing should be possible in Australia dur-
ing your summer.” Which is what the
writer has long contended, but getting
co-operation at such points is a different
matter.
VK2NO.
Awatea's DX Radiophone.
The radio-telephone equipment in the
trans-Tasman liner Awatea was designed
by A.W.A. primarily to give reliable
speech communication with Australia
and M.L., but it has been found to cover
great distances. Recently the operator of
another ship 7500 miles distant heard the
Awatea calling a land station.
Although he could hear the initial call-
ing, nothing would be intelligible after
the conversation commenced, since
speech inversion, or “scrambling,” is em-
ployed on private conversations. The
shore stations are equipped with special
“unscrambling” apparatus for this pur-
pose.
Amateur Chatter.
Latest 56mc. information is that Eric
Trebilcock (BERSI9S) is turning his
attention to the ultra-highs. His loca-
tion until 1940 is Powell Creek, N.T.,
and once he has a sensitive C.W. receiver
on the job southern 56mc. men can rest
assured that this competent observer will
miss nothing on the dials. In order to
start BERSI9S off with correct calibra-
tion, the writer will construct his re-
ceiver with a 56 acorn in the T.R.F.
stage. Trebilcock reports that his re-
ceiving conditions are ideal, but that
appears to be the case wherever he goes.
He has now logged 151 countries, and
has had acknowledgments from 120; this
without having yet listened on 28mc.
and 1 56mc. His job in the N.T. is that
of P.M.G. telegraphist, and in between
traffic with Darwin, Alice Springs and
Tennant Creek he listens to what goes
on all over the world on amateur bands.
Eastern VKs are still complaining
about the “poor conditions” on 20
metres. On the contrary, DX is excel-
lent on that band. After neglecting it
for some months, the writer decided to
brush the dust off the TX and see what
was what. Starting one evening last
week at 5.30 p.m. and working until
10.30 p.m. and again from 5.30 a.m.
until 7 a.m. next morning, W6AMG,
VK4DO, SM7YE, XZ2EZ, U4AL,
IIMH, FD3GA and G3BS were worked
on ’phone and C.W. —ample proof that
the DX is there for those who want
something other than U.S. contacts.
These were casual contacts, with long
breaks between for listening.
The last station worked, G3BS, pro-
vided a particularly interesting contact
for over an hour, with good signal
strength, and VK2XC on the key at that
end. This was the first G 3 worked by
the writer. Although there are G2’s,
3’s, s’s, 6’s and B’s in England these
figures don’t .relate to districts. A G 8
is quite likely to be living next door to
a G 2. The only indication of locality
in the British Isles is that the Scots have
the prefix GM and the Welshmen GW,
but 2’s, 3’s and 6’s are jumbled together
in those parts.
Those who frequently work Continen-
tals find that in many cases the QSO
takes a stereotyped form. It usually
reads “GE OM, tks fr rprt, gld QSO.
Ur RST 559, pse QSL, wl do same. QRU,
tks QSO, hope cuagn GB, 73 SK.” Not
all are like this, of course, and many
Europeans can put us to shame in their
wide knowledge of the English language.
To the average VK, French, German,
Dutch, etc., are a sealed book. But


df
Somebody's getting
a Better Radio now!
MASTER RADIO
Prirt»s Srttnt
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AM has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State—so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
wA
awn
MOTORISTS !
The Set you’ve been looking for,
THE “CROYDEN”
Bakelite Universal Mantel Model.
Works off a car battery or off 240 volts A.C.
£lB/18/- Retail.
Particulars from
ECLIPSE RADIO PTY., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
For Radio Constructors.
A limited number of issues of “Aus-
tralian Radio News” (formerly published
by The Bulletin) is available at The
Bulletin Office.
1933 and 1934 issues contain a large
amount of useful short-wave and broad-
cast constructional articles.
Get a Sample Copy Now.
3d. each, including postage.
"RADIO DIGEST"
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office. 252 George Street,
Sydney.
Nobody blames their shoe
when the sole wears through,
so why blame your radio
when the valves wear out—
just . . .
I [-VAIVE with
■
THE WORLD'S STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
AMALGAMATED
WIRELESS (fifth (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIAN
GENERAL ELECTRICS
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL
& ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
amateur radio is rapidly making English
the universal language.
An unusual feature of DX conditions
on 20 metres in the early mornings just
now is that South Africans can be worked
as late as 6 a.m. with good signal strength.
A new station reported worked by
VK2BQ is CSIOZ, reported to be in
Timor. The assumption that Ws are
scarce on 20-metre ’phone is by no means
correct. Around 2 a.m. they are there in
full force and are easily workable. In
U.S.A. there is always at least one signal
on 160, 80, 40, 20, 10 or five metres all
through the 24 hours. There are over
50,000 licensed amateurs!
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-
wave Four, described in B. 28/4/’37 ;
location, Richmond, Queensland.
Some great changes have been noted
in reception since the last report, the
main difference being that GSO now
comes in well in Transmission 4, and is
the best of the three Daventry stations
at 8.30 a.m. At 6.15 p.m. GSO and
GSF are both excellent, but GSO fades
a lot in the latter half, whilst GSF
remains at full strength. GSD is not so
good as formerly.
Sixteen metres: Have had DJE nicely
soon after 5 p.m., with DJB and DJQ
slightly weaker. GSG is better now at
6.15 p.m., and is good until midnight,
usually better than DJE.
Nineteen metres: In Transmission 2
both GSO and GSF often fade right out,
and the others are all weaker, except
YDC, which is, if anything, better than
formerly. In the mornings the 19-metre
band shows W2XAD, WBXK, GSO and
DJQ coming in well about 8 a.m. The
two Americans have been heard as late
as 10 a.m., when DJQ and GSO are not
audible. On 25 metres GSD, DJD,
W2XE, TP A 3 and a strong foreign sta-
tion (25.6 metres) can be heard until
7 a.m. On 31 metres are noted CMAS,
COCQ, 2RO, W3XAU, WIXK, KZRM,
GSC, GSB, a Japanese, a Dane (closing
at 7 a.m.) and a strong foreigner above
GSB. Berlin is good at 7.50 a.m.
Forty-nine metres: RWS9 is audible
on 50 metres, and on 13/2/’3B ZRH
(South Africa) was like a local broad-
caster. This station began to weaken
after 7.30 a.m. and closed at 7.45. The
transmission was noted for the clarity
and excellent tone. DJC was very good
and clear, but not quite so strong as
DJD on 25.5 metres.
On about 49.6 metres is a very strong
foreigner which closes at 7 a.m. by
playing “The International.” This is
definitely not a Moscow station. GSA is
only fair just now, and several other
stations lower down in the tuning range
have not been identified yet. CSW on
27 metres is never much use here. Close
to 29 metres is a station which ceases
transmission at 7.5 a.m.; on one occa-
sion I heard a female announcer say, in
broken English, that this was “Radio
station Salamanca.” The reception
strength is fair.
In the afternoons TPA4 has been weak
during the few occasions it has been
tuned in. This station closes now at
4 p.m. TPA3 opens at 5.15 p.m. and
has been received here from 5.30 p.m.
with excellent programmes at good
strength. The Japanese and Javanese
in the 31-metre band have been very good.
On 49 metres WBXAL is often the
only one to override the static, this
station having a very strong signal. On
13 metres GSJ is strong and very con-
sistent, but GSH is weaker and varies
a great deal. After midnight GSD is
not nearly so good as a few weeks ago.
On Sundays VK2ME is excellent at
4 p.m., and the only place where this
station has failed to produce a strong
signal has been Mt. Isa. VLR can be
heard at any time, even when a northerly
wind is blowing, though it has been
noticed in various localities that signals
are better when the wind comes from the
south. On the last two Sundays at this
location, VK2ME has been stronger than
VLR has ever been heard at 4 p.m., and
the direction of the wind does not appear
to affect reception from VK2ME.
On 12/2/’3B the description of the
Empire Games in Sydney and the two
A recording room in the B.B.C.’s auxiliary studios at Maida Vale,
London, in which many of the Empire programmes are electrically
recorded. The engineer on the right is adjusting a machine in which
the programme is recorded magnetically on steel tape wound from the
left-hand spool on to the right-hand spool through a “recording head.”
Through the soundproof window another engineer can be seen controlling
the volume of a programme and checking the quality as it is recorded.
On the left are the programme amplifiers and switching equipment.
races broadcast was heard clearly on
the T.R.F.
From observations it would appear
that summer conditions are rapidly
waning.
K. B. G.
New Radiotron Valves.
A.W. Valve Co. announces four new
valves. The 6KB is an all-metal triode-
hexode frequency changer with advan-
tages over existing types. It incorporates
a separate triode oscillator and a hexode
(four-grid) mixer valve in the one
envelope. The oscillator is capable of
giving stronger oscillation, particularly
on the short-wave bands, than valves of
the pentagrid type. The oscillator grid
of the 6KB is internally connected to the
third grid in the mixer so that no addi-
tional coupling is required in the circuit.
The 6IBG is in many respects similar
to the 6KB, but it has a glass bulb on
an octal shell base. Also the mixer sec-
tion incorporates an additional grid,
making it a triode-heptode.
The 6CBG is a twin triode with a 6.3-
volt 0.15 heater, with the cathodes
brought out to separate base pins. This
type is intended to be used only where
low heater current is necessary, or where
it is essential that the two cathodes be
used independently, as when cathode
loading is employed.
The 6GBG is a 6.3-volt 0.15 indirectly-
heated power pentode, intended for use
with battery- and particularly vibrator-
powered receivers. It is not recom-
mended for car use, and the heater volt-
age should be maintained correct within
10 p.c. Power output is 0.6 watt on a
load of 12,000 ohms. A self-bias resistor
of 440 ohms is recommended, and maxi-
mum plate and screen voltage of 180.
Under these conditions a power output
of 1.1 watts is available with a plate
current of 15 milliamperes and screen
current of 2.5 milliamperes.
Latest Eddystone Receiver.
Very few overseas receivers are avail-
able in Australia, and the arrival of the
latest Eddystone receiver from England
is of particular interest. This model is
the E.R.A.-7, described as a “Four-band
Chassis Receiver.” Australian agent is
R. H. Cunningham, 1449 High-street,
Glen Iris, 5.E.6, Vic. Previously, the
Eddystone receivers obtainable in Aus-
tralia have been of the battery type,
mainly for short-wave reception, but this
new model is a power receiver for
200-250 volts A.C. at 40-100 cycles.
The wave-ranges include from 13 to 550
metres.
That the job is well engineered is evi-
dent. Where the average receiver uses
separately-constructed R.F. and inter-
mediate coil screens, these are' die-
cast as integral units. This pro-
cess gives extreme rigidity to the
assembly, and the construction ensures
complete freedom from alignment drift.
Full attention has been paid to the
short-wave ranges, as the R.F. amplifier
ahead of the mixer is in action on all
bands. Including this stage there are
nine tuned circuits in all. Frequency
drift is taken care of by the use of a
separate oscillator valve, and a Magic
Eye is fitted for accurate tuning.
The tuning dial is unique in design.
The wave-change switch rotates an illu-
minated cylinder lOin. long, and pro-
vides a separate scale for each frequency
Top view of the Eddystone E.R.A.-7
receiver, showing the die-cast chassis.
The I.F. units are at the back and coil
unit to the left of the tuning condenser.
range. Calibrations are in megacycles
and metres for the short waves and in
metres and station names for the broad-
cast band. Five watts of audio power
come from the output pentode stage, in
conjunction with a 12in. auditorium
model speaker fitted with a bell
diaphragm.
The receiver should stand up to many
years of hard work. It can be obtained
from VK3ML complete and ready for
service.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) In the Companion Portable (B. 6/8/’36),
which ends of the spider-web coils for the
broadcast range are connected to G, E, B and
P, looking st the socket from the top? (2)
What are the connections for the 49 valve
looking at the top of the socket? (3) I have
on hand a Brown H 3 2000-ohm speaker. Would
it be possible to use this when at home if the
plate voltage is increased to 45 volts? (4)
Would a sheet of galvanised-iron, 6ft. by 2ft.,
buried about one foot, make a good earth ?
645.
(1) This is a matter for individual choice.
Connect the coils according to the way you wire
the socket used for the coil mounting into the
circuit. (2) Starting with the left-hand filament
connection of the five-pin socket and working
clockwise, the connections are: Filament,
screen grid, control grid, plate and filament.
(3) No better results can be expected by in-
creasing the plate voltage to 45 volts owing to
the space-charge method of using the 49. The
magnetic speaker might give weak reception
on a strong local, but that is about all. (4)
Yes, but it should be buried at least 3ft. deep,
and the ground kept moist at intervals.


VITA-LICK
PAYS
Mr. A. P. Gardiner, “Nangwarry,”
Casterton, Vic., writes, ?4 j7j’36:
“The season in this district has been,
a very bad one; almost as bad as 1914.
We mated 2209 ewes with the rams for
the lambing in May-June, and put 2190
ewes through yards at marking, a loss
of only 19, and marked 1763 lambs —
79 p.c., which I think is a great advertise-
ment for the constant use of Vita-Lick.”
VITA-LICK AGENTS IN ALL
SHEEP & CATTLE CENTRES
Vita-Lick. Ltd.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney
YOUNG STOCK.
“Old Friend”: Of course I pay atten-
tion to my young stock. It’s my invest-
ment for future production, isn’t it?
There’s no need to tell me about a
balanced ration ; I’m giving my growing
stock Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, and that is
balancing the mineral ration for them.
They’ve got strong bones and teeth, sup-
pleness and vitality, and generally good
all-round condition. In fact, I’d back
mine against yours without seeing them
—what are you using? By the way, Tri-
cal-os is the most economical mineral
supplement I know of. I wrote to Davis
Gelatine (Australia) Pty., Ltd., G.P.O.
Box 35835, Sydney, for information.
Old Farmer.
' w
J-. 1 .
fli fiFSisa
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Classers and' Experts.
“Murrawong”: It is unfortunate that
the shearing season in most States is far
too short to offer steady employment.
The bulk is carried out in two hectic
months, and it is little wonder that
shearers prefer to land a steady job in
the city even if the pay is only half that
in a shed.
This is particularly so in the case of
staff men —overseers, classers and experts.
It is essential to have men of a good
type for these jobs. They have to run
the sheds, to handle shearers and shed-
hands —not the most tractable material
.in the world.
Every grazier knows that the success
of a shearing depends largely on the
board boss. A team of good shearers
will go to pieces under a weak boss, but
a strong, tactful overseer will hold a
team of “snaggers” together and make
them shear. Similarly, a classer may be
the best woolman in the world, but if
he cannot control his shedhands, instruct
them in picking-up, skirting and-piece-
picking, and see that they do it, half the
clip may drop Id. per pound through
careless preparation. Apart from ability
to run any make of shearing machinery
and every type of engine, a machinery
expert should be able to shear well
enough to prove to any tiring, cranky
shearer that there is nothing wrong with
his machine.
There are vacancies for good men in
these occupations, but with increasing
subdivision of the big estates the demand
for the specialist is diminishing. The
average shed to-day employs only four
to six shearers, and the boss of the board
is expected to be capable of classing the
clip, experting and keeping the books.
In the Arbitration Court last year Judge
Dethridge declared that “only excep-
tional persons could carry out the com-
bined duties,” but nevertheless graziers
insist on one man doing the lot, and
there is little doubt that in future the
man who wants regular work during the
shearing season will have to be a jack-of-
ali-trades.
Suffolk-Southdown Cross.
“Hortus”: The Southdown ram is
supreme as .a sire for export lambs. His
main fault is that his 401 b. lambs are
often too fat. London butchers don’t
like excess fat ; their final test of quality
is nice, even distribution of fat and lean.
Big growths of wool spring from deep
beds of fat. Fatty, woolly ewes should
be mated with a short-woolled, bare,
pointed ram in order to produce lean
meat.
The shortest cut to ideal meat quality
is by the Suffolk-Southdown cross.
In England and Scotland the Suffolk
is considered the outstanding large lean-
meat sheep.
Get one or two good Suffolk rams and
mate them with Southdown, ewes. The
ram progeny will beat all-comers as sires
of super-quality lean-meat lambs from
351 b. upwards. The ewes will establish
a good stud flock, too.
The Suffolk-Southdown is a pure Down
sheep. The Suffolk came from crossing
ihe Southdown with the old Norfolk
Down ewe.
One more cross toward the Southdown
produces a medium-sized and medium-
fatted sheep.
Blowflies and the C.S. and I.R.
“G-H.”: The fourth pamphlet
(“Chemotropic Behavior of Sheep Blow-
flies”) issued by the C.S. and I.R. shows
no advance towards conquering fly-blow,
yet is claimed to be giving a “deeper
understanding” of the problem. I
wonder.
The 55 chemical baits tested in the
137 tests, covering an aggregate of 485
days, gave 44 tests claimed to be posi-
tive, but caught only 166 blowflies, or
roughly one blowfly in three days. The
best chemical caught seven-eighths of a
blowfly per day.
The results were even worse when the
by-products of sheep were tested. The
“Reckon I'll ’ave t ’ send the wheat down in bulk, Ma—she don quite
make up a bag."
swint, wax, urine, dung, fleece, keratin,
etc., took 94 days to catch 25 flies, or
approximately one blowfly, in four days.
Every practical* sKeepbreeder knows
that blowflies are > attracted to bacterial
decay and hardly anywhere else.
The activities these various blowfly
pamphlets represent are so roundabout
that the simple direct objective, which is
the elimination of fly-blow, becomes lost
in the welter of data.
Seddon demonstrated that water-rot in
fleece preceded fly attack, and he started
the plan of eliminating from flocks the
more susceptible grades of sheep. Mules’s
idea was to eliminate susceptible spots on
sheep by his fold-removal operations. It
is open to the grazier to introduce simple
measures, copying the tactics of modern
preventive medicine, under which would
come any scheme that would isolate
water-rot bearing (i.e., diseased) sheep
from the clean (i.e., healthy) ones through-
out droving, mustering, crutching and
shearing.
Given favorable conditions, one in-
fested sheep in a confined flock would
spread water-rot as fast as an influenza
epidemic; and the flies would do the
rest.
As the departmental > plans for con-
trolling blowfly activities through traps,
jetting, dipping, swabbing and parasites
are all proving equally unable to arrest
fly-blow, it is about time the council in-
sisted upon the following-up of research
aimed to eliminate or arrest water-rot in
fleece, in the absence of which bacterial
activity the blowflies are well-nigh
powerless to strike effectively.
Price Comparisons.
“Geelong”: On an irregular market,
well-classed clips have a big advantage.
At one sale a certain type may be in
demand, and at the next another. Wool
of mixed types fails to command full
rates at either.
Growers sometimes question the value
of classing. Price comparisons of wool
from neighboring properties are often
misleading. It takes an expert to detect
a difference of 4 p.c. in yield,-but'at
34d. per pound, clean, scoured the dif-
ference in price amounts to about
per pound in average yielding wools.
Type has a greater effect on price
and may result in an apparently inferior
wool selling well, according to demand.
An example was provided at recent Mel-
bourne sales when good-length Lincoln
sold to 19|d. per pound while good
merino was realising about 18d.
Again, the appearance, of wool in the
shed is misleading, as it opens up far less
attractively on the show floor, particu-
larly when carrying dust.
Well-classed wool shows its greatest ad-
vantage in a weak market, when buyers
inspect with extra thoroughness. The
offending fleece in any mixed lot is often
dragged out and placed conspicuously on
top.
Stampeding Woolgrowers.
“Marsh”: In advocating a minimum
wool price, Nock, M.P., is reported as
saying that the commission which in-
quired into the industry some time ago
declared the cost of production to be
on the average 14d. per pound.
If 14d. is correct, why weren’t 99
p.c. of woolgrowers forced to carry their
swags, after selling at around Bd. per
pound a couple of years back?
Tinkering with the woolmarket is
dangerous. Any atterfipt to boost values
would boomerang and give an impetus
.to. the manufacture of synthetics. And
further, a minimum price would merely
be a reward for growers of inferior
wools. It would not help flock improve-
ment.,
, To give some degree of security to
growers, Governments will have to re-
duce freights, rents and taxes. Cost of
production does need lowering to allow
growers to improve their sheep and pro-
duce more and better wool per acre.
Sheep Vaccination Hints.
“Corriedale”: Faulty technique causes
many deaths, immediately after vaccinat-
. ing, from black-leg and
gasrgangrene inf ec-
tions. If animals die
within , four days of
inoculation, germs
pushed in with the
needle can be blamed.
It is best to have a
jar of needles, previ-
ously boiled, standing
in alcohol or. 2 p.c.
dettol, hexol, carbox,
etc. Swill each one
out before use with
boiled water in a boiled
container. Retained
antiseptic kills the vac-
cine.
The loose skin where
injection is made can
be cleaned by brisk
rubbing with a pad of
cotton-wool soaked in
methylated spirits. This
is quite enough usually,
but an extra hand may
well be. kept dabbing
the site with 2 p.c.
iodine as well. .
A piece of tape tied to the barrel or
handle of the syringe and then looped
over the wrist saves many a breakage
when the sheep kicks unexpectedly.
' To keep vaccine clean is not easy. Only
small lots should be poured from the
bulk : bottle at a time. It is a good scheme
To have a few pieces of boiled thin
rubber sheet handy. One of these can
be tied over the open neck of the jar
of vaccine, and the needle pushed through
the rubber at every filling. This does
not slow the operation down.
Picking up a fold of skin and pushing
the needle into it at the angle it forms
with the flesh is the best method. Do
not squirt the vaccine in. Let it go
gently.
Hygienic vaccination will prevent seri-
ous losses, such as those which have
occurred in Riverina and Victoria this
season. Blackleg in particular is largely
a post-inoculation disease.
(“Land” continued on page 44.)


THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
FOUNDED 1886.
The M.L.C. maintains its high Ordinary
Branch bonus mtes
Examples: Whole of life policy, age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus
for first year £2—s—o per cent,, increasing to £4—2—o per cent,
for the 30th year.
Endowment Assurance policy, maturing at age 60, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year at £ I—l B—o per cent., increasing
to £3—2—o per cent, for the 30th year.
REASONS WHY THESE RESULTS ARE POSSIBLE:
BUM Bill llll'
" '. - ' *, ■ ‘ . % ;. ' - y . , i
The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets covering them are
unsurpassed for strength in Australia. 80 per cent, of the
assets of over £26,000,000 consist of Government, Municipal
and Local Body Loans and Loans on Policies.
9. The mortality experienced, due to careful selection of risks, is
extraordinarily light.
3 The Company is managed efficiently, and always has been. Last
year the Ordinary Branch expense rate was 10 .per cent, of
the total income.
A The rate of interest earned on the funds and reserves is 5 per cent.
* p.a. The rate assumed in valuing the Company’s liabilities
is per cent., leaving a margin of 2X per cent, for profit.
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £3,700,000
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS EXCEED £34,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E., Managing Director .
Temporary Head Office (during rebuilding):
Hosking House, Hosking Place (off Castlereagh Street), Sydney
or off 86 Pitt Street, Sydney.


W/}>-
V'
u\f\
IF YOU’RE WANTING COMFORT.
4408.
Not just good fitting, but soft, roomy, cushionlike comfort. Try this new Abbey
Capless Boot.
When you feel the soft wallaby-skin upper mould around your foot, and your toes
spread naturally in their easy-fitting fronts, you realise what comfort really is.
An Abbey model in Black Wallaby Skin, made in full and half sizes, and also in wide
and extra-wide fittings. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS •
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager:
C. DARVALL. '
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office:
18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay's. Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia.
And at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS
TRANSACTED
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
—THINK OF
BY ns
S 9 \
tk
m
M
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
jTie^'allelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
Last Year’s Meat Exports.
“Zedo”: The Australian beef trade
showed a little development last year,
though chilled meat made a con-
siderable advance —from 195,697 cwt. to
456,316 cwt. The total beef and veal
export was 2,422,000 cwt., against
1,803,000 cwt. the previous year. Queens-
land provided 81.5 p.c. of the export,
against 83.4 p.c. in 1936.
The mutton and lamb increase was
from 1,522,000 cwt. to 1,843,000 cwt. Of
this, 53.3 p.c. went from N.S.W. and
32 p.c. from Victoria. There was a slight
advance in pork from 102,000 cwt. to
113,725 cwt., but the bacon business fell
off slightly.
Nevertheless, the grade quantities leave
a lot to be desired. Victoria sends out
61 p.c. of all lamb carcasses, and its first-
grades represent 40.47 p.c. of the State
total. N. S. Wales first-grades are only
26.1 of the State trade, and the Common-
wealth average is 36.65 p.c., while 43.68
p.c. is second-grade and 19.67 p.c. third-
grade. *
All the firsts do not comply with
“super” grading conditions, and the
Commonwealth vet. complains that
“super” grading tends to depress the stan-
dard of ordinary first grades, making
them an intermediate grade between true
firsts and seconds.
“Super” grading is not universal among
British importers, which makes the posi-
tion doubly awkward, as some buyers
recognise no difference. Something needs
to be done in the way of standardisa-
tion, and there must be a general raising
of Australian qualities if we are to con-
tinue to compete successfully with M.L.
and foreign exporters.
The Next Crop.
“Nabawa”: In long-fallow N.S.W. dis-
tricts the land should get a hit with the
combine before mid-March, preferably
after rain, but without if necessary. In
medium to heavy soils the ideal is a
fairly fine mulch over a firm seed-bed,
kept moist by good workings at appro-
priate times. On lighter soils a very
fine mulch might blow away if dry, hot
weather continues.
Weeds on fallow should be got rid of
now. If there has been any rain most
of them (including black oats) will have
shot. Some like sheep to get the best of
the weeds before the implement goes in;
others hold that sheep trample the seed-
bed too compactly. I favor a quick
graze with a big number of sheep, then
the cultivator or harrows, according to
the thickness of weed growth.
A good working now, with another
about the end of the month, should
put the paddock in good fettle to receive
seed in April or May. Rain, or lack of it,
is a big factor ; adapt the programme to
suit district conditions.
In the short-fallow areas of n.-w.
N.S.W. many believe in ploughing the
stubble in, holding that it binds the soil
and adds to fertility. That’s all right
where the preceding crop has been 100
p.c. healthy. If there has been any disease
the spores are ploughed in with the
stubble, and are thus ready for the next
crop. Burning makes for healthy crops.
Choice of seed should be made now.
If using home-grown be sure the grain
is plump and healthy, and treat it with
dry copper carbonate or other proved
bunticide. If buying elsewhere, look up
local crop competition records and select
from the men who gained high scores
for freedom from disease with crops of
pure seed standard (18 points or better)
that measured up well for type and
purity, even if it is dearer.
Be careful of new varieties; experi-
ment with small plots before sowing
large areas. Don’t confine yourself to
one or two varieties. Choose several
to meet various probable seasonal con-
ditions. There’s been a lot of contro-
versy between flourm filers and depart-
mental experts about certain wheats, but
sow the wheat you know wifi fill the
bags with f.a.q. grain in a normal season,
with some strong-strawed stuff in case of
wet, and some drought-resistant seed also.
Try some of the biscuit wheats if
sure of a market beforehand.
You can budget for 4s. a bushel,
present indications being for a strong
demand by next harvest.
Hints for the Farm.
“Werrimee”: An elderberry stem
makes good handles for rasps and files.
Also, a hold on the wire handle of a
kerosene-tin. It has a pith centre, which
is easily poked out with a piece of thin
wire.
“Bluey”: When boring posts carry a
small file to sharpen the cutting edges
of the bit occasionally. Hard timber
burrs the edges and makes the bit hot
and hard to turn.
“Salmon Gums”: When boring a hole
for a mallet-handle, enlarge it inside by
working the bit or auger about. Split
the end of the handle to be inserted, and
place a small wedge in the split, pro-
truding so that it drives home as the
handle is hammered in.
“M.L.W.”: Sheep will eat one wilga-
tree and not another. Cut a limb off
some trees ahead, then lop the trees from
which the limbs have been eaten.
“Bert”: It’s easy to equip the run with
rain-gauges. Collect a few tins of the
same diameter as the homestead gauge
and an equal number of small bottles
with wide mouths that are easy to pour
water into. These are easily calibrated
from the standard gauge-glass. Mark off
into five-point divisions with a file. Cut
out the tops of the tins and stand them,
held in a circle of large nails, on top of
posts at different points. Leave a cali-
brated bottle beside each. Then you’ll
know whether the four-inch storm that
went across the top paddock yards really
held four inches or five —or merely 40
points.
“Twenty-Seven”: Since the recent con-
demnation of Baringa, a Sydney flour-
miller is urging the N.S.W. wheat-farmers
to keep to a few varieties of proven
quality. In the last few years W.A. has
released for export only four varieties,
and these have gained better prices ar.
Liverpool than the wheat from any other
State. Seventy per cent, of the Canadian
crop consists of one variety, but condi-
tions there are far more uniform than in
Australia. Experiments are not to be
condemned because they cannot guaran-
tee success every time.
“Bluey”: When suckering rung timber
the best kill is from suckers knocked
when the sap is well up in the stumps.
If cut when the sap is down the stumps
sucker thickly again when the sap rises.
March, April and May are the best
months to do the job. This gives the
frost a chance to kill suckers that shoot
early. When the suckers are high up
on the stumps it is quickest to cut them
with an axe. A light mattock is best for
those close to or in the ground. Wethers
should be put on suckers as soon as they
shoot. Once suckers grow about a foot
sheep chew off only a few leaves.
“Nothung”: The Australian tobacco
industry still has opportunities for expan-
sion. Maoriland, with about 1500 acres
under tobacco as compared with Aus-
tralia’s 10,000 acres, produces one-third
of its requirements, while Australia pro-
duces barely one-fifth. The Australian
industry was helped with protective duties
in the 1932 season, when 10,000,0001 b.
was produced. The industry slumped,
however, in the next two seasons, owing
largely to blue mould. The C.S. and I.R.
did good work at this stage, and the
£20,000 a year for research in disease,
smoking qualities and field investigations
has been well utilised. There’s still a lot
to be done, however. Maoriland manu-
facture increased threefold between 1928
and 1934. and imported leaf fell from
3,000,0001 b. to 1,000,0001 b. Australia
gets 15,000,0001 b. a year from abroad.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Why the difference between the high
London quotes for Manitoba and Australian
wheats, when freights are quoted forward at
from 4s. to ss. from Australia ? (2) What is a
cental ? —58476.
(1) Manitoba No. 1, a hard red wheat of
high strength, and Australian wheat (soft white
wheat of low strength) have different uses,
and their market prices are governed by supply
and demand. Generally the former commands
a higher price on the London market. In the
last year or two, the advantage of Manitoba
No. 1 over Australian has been about 2s. to
ss. per quarter. Since October last, the dis-
parity between these two types has widened,
and is now about 18s. per quarter in favor of
the Canadian. This is mainly due to a sharp
rise in price in Manitoba No. 1, brought about
by reduced supplies caused through drought
scarcity in Canada in 1937. Freight does not
enter into the question of London price, which
is quoted for wheat landed on that market
c.i.f. Freight, however, and other items, such
as exchange, affect the price in the country ot
origin. (2) A cental is 1001 b. weight.


u HH€R€ S TO
_ • _ /m
t 4ft Wt MB ' /JOk
km m SZ .
lilHillliimSlllllilsii^iisSiilSlllliillsis-l^liSllllS^miilii
sSK&*S;s<!S4isSiSWS<S4S!3psigB^^
——i M^—ll
mi It
: ::
m
m
(Z
■'. S :■ 'V
*
e
i
ill
o
w 'wm
\, , ' "f ,
m
Ml
m
11
m
D
wmm
wmm
m
m
m
m
■ - : '- ; y :
Si®
15
.-.*'..< ...i
. i
■* - f
A, I
, *...
X*
\w
mm ■
J t.
Si
%fc!
Ik
u
s
■
I
M
1
4. 1
■
w
n
1
’X
■
m
sm
Igft
.C:-: : V"
a
■
■ ;
B H
my
*.A* •'
':. . : :.
M 3
--■■
: '
IHB
* , £
M
BB
HI
54
■i'' ; J ’•
•: '
-■
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training everwrittcat
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
hou) to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
df
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.'
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. AU you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. 4
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
wants typing work; used to handling authors’
MSS.—B7S2.
Gentleman wants seat lh car Melbourne to
Sydney and return, any time, short duration.—
8726.
Young man (26), Sydney, good appearance,
wants position as traveller for office equipment.
■ —8756.
Station carpenter and windmill man, Vic.,
would like a change to Queensland or northern
N.5.W.—8689.
Teacher, 18-25 years of age, for four children,
subsidised school. (Apply Mrs. C. Mahoney,
Canwell, Dennawan, N.S.W.)
To buy Such Is Life, by Tom Collins, first
edition. —8698.
To buy The Bulletin’s History of Botany Bay,
published 1888. —8753.
Uncle of Sidney John Mitchell, son of George
Mitchell, ticket-writer, of 13 Bridge-street,
Bristol 1, is asked to communicate with Sydney
Howard Mitchell, 17 West-street, Bedminster,
Bristol 3, England.
Hiking club, Sydney, desires members. —
8742.
Title, author and publisher of a poem com-
mencing “When you were a tadpole and I was
a fish.”—B72s.
Words of verse containing the lines:
Where’er she walks pure g-ales the air invade;
Trees where she sits do crowd into a shade.
—8573.
Words of verses entitled “The Man Who
Takes My Place.” —8704.
Information Sought.
(1) Did wicketkeeper Oldfield bowl during
the tour of the Australian XI in England in
1934 ? (2) Who was the ’keeper in that fix-
ture? (3) What were Oldfield’s batting figures
with the A.I.F. team (1919) ?— 8767.
(1) Yes. Against Durham, played at Sunder-
land, July 25-26. Oldfield bowled one over for
no runs. (2) Barnett.
(3)
In. N.O. H.S. R. Av.
In England ..19 7 80* 382 31.83
In S’Africa ..10 3 47 220 31.42
In Australia .. 4 1 12 15 5.00
* Not out.
* * * *
(1) What is the new law regarding “bodyline”
bowling in Test cricket? (2) Will it be effec-
tive during the matches in England this year?
—8745.
(1) Law 488 (the new law) reads: “Any ball
delivered which, in the opinion of the umpire
at the bowler’s end, is bowled at a batsman
with intent to intimidate or injure him shall be
considered unfair, and ‘no-ball’ shall be called
and the bowler notified of the reason. If the
offence be repeated by the same bowler in the
same innings he shall be immediately instructed
by the umpire to cease bowling and the over
shall be regarded as completed. Such bowler
shall not again be permitted to bowl during
the course of the innings then in progress.”
(2) Yes.
* * * *
(1) What is the best total of runs for the
first-wicket partnership by England in Test
cricket ? (2) How were the players dismissed,
and their scores? (3) Where ims the match
played, and the captains? —B7s4.
(1) 323. (2) Hobbs, c. Carter, b. Hordern,
178; Rhodes, c. Carter, b. Minnett, 179. (2) At
Melbourne, February 9-13, 1912; Hill (Aus-
tralia) and Douglas (England) were the cap-
tains.
* * * *
Number of public servants in Australia ?
8758.
Government employees at June 30, 1936,
were as follows: Commonwealth 66,325, N. S.
Wales 104,790, Vic. 64,653, Q’land 36,382,
S. Aus. 23,284, W. Aus. 26,095, Tas. 8504;
total, 330,033.
* * * *
(1) What is a Nazi? (2) A Fascist? (3) A
totalitarian State? —8655.
(1) A member of the Nationalsozialistische
Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (National Socialist
German Workers’ party), the only political
party permitted to function in Germany. (2)
A member of the Partito Nazionale Fascista
(National Fascist party), the only political party
permitted to function in Italy. (3) To quote the
Statesman’s Year-Book, in reference to Ger-
many, a State in which all activities of the
country—political, economic, industrial, com-
mercial, cultural, etc. —have been brought under
the control of the State, and in which freedom
of speech and of the press is abolished.
*** * •
(1) How long has Australia been represented
at the League of Nations? (2) How much did
we contribute to the upkeep of the League
last year? (3) What mandates do we hold?
—8755.
(1) Australia has been represented at each
Assembly of the League from its inaugura-
tion in 1920, and at nearly all of the confer-
ences of the International Labor Organisation.
(2) Australia in 1937 paid 749,874 Swiss francs,
or approximately £44,000. (3) Australia holds
a mandate, issued through the League of
Nations, for the former German territory of
New Guinea, and by agreement with Great
Britain and M.L. administers the Mandated
Territory of Nauru, for which a mandate was
issued to the British Empire.
* * * *
(1) From what Commonwealth Act does the
Commonwealth censorship of imported films
derive its authority? (2) On what grounds
are both imported and local films censored?
(3) How many Commonwealth film censors are
there ?— 8761.
(1) and (2) The censorship of imported films
derives its authority from Section 52 (g) of the
Customs Act, which gives power to prohibit the
importation of goods. Under this section regu-
lations have been issued prohibiting the im-
portation of films and relative advertising
matter except under certain conditions and with
the consent of the Minister. The regulations
provide, inter alia, that no film shall be
registered which, in the opinion of the Censor,
is ( a ) blasphemous, indecent or obscene, ( b )
likely to be injurious to morality or to incite
to crime, (c) likely to be offensive to the
people of any friendly nation, ( d) likely to be
offensive to the people of the British Empire,
or (e) depicts any matter the exhibition of
which is undesirable in the public interest. The
regulations governing the exportation of Aus-
tralian-made films are similar, with the addi-
tion that no film may be exported which, in the
opinion of the censorship, is likely to prove
detrimental or prejudicial to the Commonwealth
of Australia. (3) The censorship consists of
a Censorship Board of three persons and an
Appeal Censor, the headquarters being in
Sydney. Importers also have the right of
appeal to the Minister.
* * * *
A few details about the proposed university
at Canberra ? Is there a university college
there ?— 8764.
The question of the establishment of a uni-
versity at the Federal Capital is still under con-
sideration, and in the meantime a University
College has been established under the Can-
berra University College Ordinance, 1929-36.
By virtue of a temporary regulation of the
University of Melbourne, which expires on
December 31, 1940, the college is empowered
to provide approved lectures in the subjects of
the arts, science, commerce and law courses in
preparation for certain degrees and diplomas
of that university. Lectures commenced
in 1930 with the aid of several part-time
lecturers, and 30 students were enrolled during
the year. The curriculum has since been ex-
tended, and three full-time and eight part-time
lecturers have been appointed. In 1935 and
1936 the students numbered 75 and 81 re-
spectively. The examinations are conducted by
the University of Melbourne.
* * * *
(1) Is it difficult to become a radio an-
nouncer ? (2) Is training absolutely necessary ?
(3) To whom should application be made at a
commercial station? (4) Salary? —B64s.
(1) Competition is very keen. (2) Training
is mostly a matter of actual practice. Qualifica-
tions other than experience are a good broad-
casting voice, clarity of diction without affec-
tation and plenty of life in the voice. Bari-
tone to bass voices are better suited for the
microphone than the tenor type. (3) Studio
manager. Apply in writing. (4) No accepted
standard, but metropolitan stations would not
pay less than £7 per week to a full-time male
announcer.
* * * *
(1) Educational qualification for entry to Air
Force ? (2) Age of entry ? (3) Qualification
for commercial flying? (4) Cost? (5) Age ?
8576.
(1) Intermediate certificate. If a candidate
has the leaving certificate his chances would be
improved provided he has qualified in the re-
quired subjects. A pass to at least intermediate
standard in physics (or elementary science) and
mathematics is essential. (2) 18 to 22. (3)
“B” license, issued by the Civil Aviation De-
partment. (4) Particulars obtainable from the
Sydney Aero Club. (5) Not under 19.
* * * *
Would hawking drapery in N.S.W. be a
profitable business, and where would be the
best place to get drapery of good quality? —
8686.
A lot depends on a smart appearance,
pleasant selling manners and a tidy turnout:
you would require a good horse and covered
van, or a motor-van, a hawker’s license, stock,
and sufficient capital to last until the business
began to pay. Distances between likely buyers
are long in Australia, but the prospects are
fairly attractive for a suitable person. Consult
the directories under “warehousemen” in the
capital cities, and write to a few for price lists
of the lines you can sell; if you explain your
project and the territory you propose to work,
these- firms will often give valuable advice re-
garding stock to carry, etc.
* * * *
(1) Overseas suppliers of stainless steel? (2)
Overseas manufacturers of small aero engines?
(3) Price and weight of different makes of small
aero engines, and do all such engines carry
a certificate of airworthiness by the Air Minisr
try? (4) Literature regarding air navigation
regulations in Australia ? —-8724.
. (1) Samuel Fox and Co. and Thos, Firth
and John Brown, Ltd. —both Sheffield,
England; and United States Steel Products Co.,
New York, U.S.A. (2) British Anzani En-
gineering Co., Kingston-on-Thames, London;
Chilton Aircraft, Hungerford, Berkshire, Eng-
land; Coventry Victor Motor Cp., Cox-street,
Coventry, England; Scott Motors (Saltaire),
Ltd., Shipley, Yorkshire, England; and G. and
J. Weir, Ltd., Cathcart, Glasgow, 5.4, Scot-
land. (3) Data in regard to price and weight
of engines can be obtained from the manufac-
turers. It should be noted that all aero engines
made have not necessarily been awarded a cer-
tificate of airworthiness by the Air Ministry.
Unless it has such a certificate and is fitted with
dual ignition, no engine will be awarded a cer-
tificate of airworthiness in this country. (4)
Legislation relating to aviation is contained in
the Air Navigation Regulations, obtainable from
the Civil Aviation Board, Melbourne, 2s.
* * * *
What is “white gold" and what is
platinum ? How do they differ from yellow
gold, and which of the three has the greatest
wearing qualities? —B494.
“White gold” is an alloy the composition of
which is varied by different manufacturers.
Some use an alloy of gold with palladium,
iridium or other platinoid metal, whilst others
favor mixtures of gold and nickel. The plating
of yellow gold with a film of rhodium is
sometimes resorted to. Platinum is a white or
greyish metal found in its native form in
several parts of the world. Native gold is softer
than either platinum or white gold, and is too
soft for use in jewellery. To improve the
wearing qualities of pure gold, both copper and
silver are added before making into jewellery ;
the proportion of gold in the finished alloy is
denoted by the carat number, 9-carat gold
containing 9-24 of pure gold and 15-24 of
added material. The wearing qualities of white
gold are dependent on the particular alloy used.
Certain white golds tend to assume a yellowish
tint Platinum does not change color on wear-
ing, but owing to its softness tends to lose its
polish and becomes dull and grey-looking.
* * * *
Any particulars of the locomotive at present
in Mart in-place, Sydney? —B723.
It was built by Stephenson and Son, of New-
castle-on-Tyne, England, at a cost of £3083,
and was used in the construction of the first
railway line between Sydney and Parramatta
Junction (now Granville) from May 15, 1855.
It was used for hauling passsenger trains be-
tween Sept. 26, 1855, when the line was offici-
ally opened, and May 15, 1877, during which
period it had covered a distance of 386,636
miles. The first driver was W. Sixsmith, and the
first fireman W. Webster. The engine is nor-
mally housed in the Technological Museum,
Ultimo, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Are coins two or three hundred years old
valuable? (2) If so, would one be able to sell
them in Australia ? (3) Name of firm or firms
which purchase old coins? (4) Value of (a) golden
guinea, George Ill.’s reign; (b) golden half-
guinea, George Ill.’s reign; (c) florin, dated
1679; (d) pennies and halfpennies of 1707-
1829 7—8611.
(1) Not by reason of their age but only by
condition or rarity. (2) Dealers and collectors
in Australia are few, and prices offered would
be low. (3) James R. Tyrrell, 281 George-
street, Sydney; Lyster Ormsby and Co., 78
Hunter-street, Sydney; the Royal Gold and Cur-
rency Exchange, 40 Martin-place, Sydney. (4)
(a) About £2, (b) about £l, (c) four shillings.
These prices only if in absolutely new con-
dition. (d) These are probably wrongly de-
scribed —the date 1707 is apparently 1797, with
the tail of the 9 worn off. No copper pennies
were issued in England before 1797. Would re-
quire better description or rubbing to estab-
lish definite collector value, but if they are
at all worn they are worth not more than three-
pence each.
* * * *
Description of nut grass, and how can it
be eradicated from a lawn? —8641.
Nut grass is perennial, with a creeping root
stock which forms small dark-colored tubers.
Leaves are narrow, with the mid-vein prominent
on the underside and glossy-green in color. From
the root “nuts” shoots are sent to the surface.
Only by repeated cultivation can this weed be
eradicated; in gardens the hand fork may be
used, taking care to remove all “nuts.” Suc-
cess has been obtained by the growing of sod-
forming grasses. Should land be flooded for a
few weeks when the plants are in full growth
the plants will perish and the tubers rot. The
use of tan-bark, fresh stable manure and the
sterilisation of the soil will help get rid of the
weed. There is no effective way of chemically
treating.
« * * *
(1) What are the Melbourne retail prices
of sulphate of potash and of muriate of
potash ? (2) Is there a sales tax on potash
manures? (3) Since they mostly come from
Germany, why should they be so much dearer
here than in England? (4) Can agriculture be
carried on successfully without them ? —8355.
(1) £l5 7s. 6d. per ton and £l3 7s. 6d. per
ton, exclusive of freight, for grades of 90
p.c. and 80 p.c. purity respectively. (2) Not
when used as fertilisers. (3) First of all there
must be a common basis for comparison. Aus-
tralia suffers a 25 p.c. exchange disadvantage
which must be considered when comparing Aus-
tralian and English prices; also, there are the
additional freight costs, which, since January,
1937, have added the 7s. 6d. to the per-ton
price of each potash as retailed in Melbourne.
Another consideration is that England and
European countries use so much more potash
manures than Australia that bulk purchases
mean cuts in retail prices. (4) Yes, but per-
haps not indefinitely. At present, Australia uses
comparatively little potash; fruitgrowers are
the chief consumers.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal word Murrum-
bulga 7—8711.
Brief Answers.
J.F.T.: Yes, the matter must be obscene,
indecent, libellous or grossly offensive....
F.J.T.: No; the Board of Control will not
permit players to describe Test cricket to the
press... .J.R.M.: Write Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, 233 George-street, or Chamber of
Manufactures, 12 O’Connell-street —both Syd-
ney SJ.W.: Nearly every stamp dealer has
second-hand 1936 or 1937 catalogues in stock
from time to time. Try A. C. Campe, 50
Sydney Arcade, King-street, Sydney; W.
Stewart, 362 Forest-road, Bexley, N.S.W.; S.
Zelenko, Mt. Waverley, Vic.; C. J. McDonald,
326 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, C.l
E.D.: Application for treatment at the Dental
Hospital of Sydney should be made on the
forms provided by the hospital. For informa-
tion concerning dental treatment for returned
soldiers inquiries should be made of the Re-
patriation Department, Sydney W.R.P.:
(1) Yes. (2) Yes; Marconi School of Wireless,
163 Queen-street. (3) No. (4) An intermediate
certificate is desirable but not essential. (5) Can’t
forecast conditions; they have been generally
good in the past J.R.M.: J. B. Chandler, Ltd.,
52 Carrington-street, Sydney. When writing,
state voltage of your electricity supply, whether
A.C. or D.C. and, if the former, the fre-
quency. .. .T. 8.: Answers to 1001 Questions on
Dry Cleaning, Wet Cleaning, Bleaching, Spot-
ting, Finishing, Etc., published by the National
Cleaner and Dyer Publishing Co., New York;
245. (post 6d.); and Practical Dry Cleaner,
Scourer and Garment Dyer, edited by W. T.
Brannt; 18s. (post Bd.) T.A.: Write Dis-
trict Naval Office, Beach-road, Edgecliff, Syd-
ney... .L.J.C.: Prepared to give a brief criti-
cism if manuscript is forwarded. No reading
fee is charged... .P.R.P.: See article “Dra-
matic Rights,” by G. H. Thring, published in
the Writers and Artists’ Year-Book, 1938
M. 0.8.: Figures, too lengthy to tabulate here,
are given in Whitaker’s Almanack for 1938,
available most public libraries... .G.H.K.: No
available data in Sydney F.H.H.: (1) Yes.
(2) Election to Parliament qualifies them for the
privilege... .K. 8.: You might make inquiries
at the Public Library of N.S.W., Bent and Mac-
quarie-streets, Sydney L.W.F.: Write Tech-
nological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney, for
pamphlet on the subject... .D.H.W.: A 1
Capone is Italian-born A.A.: Aldinga,
“plenty of trees and water”; Billeroy, “run-
ning creek”; Bundaleer, “among the hills”;
Cobbadah, “place on a hill”; Coolamatong,
“water near a hill”; Ingenup, “a thicket sur-
rounded by hills”; Mulgourie, “place for
water”... .G.F.: (1) *The N.S.W. Income Tax
Acts specifically disallow capital expenditure
as a deduction for income-tax purposes. (2)
The Acts provide that, notwithstanding any ob-
jection or appeal, taxes assessed must be paid
when due. A refund is made if it is subse-
quently found that tax has been overpaid
J.W.M.: Try Moreland Metal Co., 3
Market-street; Broomfields, Ltd., 152 Sussex-
street; Paul and Gray, Led., 82 Sussex-street—
all Sydney; and Scrap Metal Co., 8 Pyrmont
Bridge-road, Glebe, N.S.W M.G.: To
find the weight of a cubic foot, multiply
62.3211 b. by the specific gravity of the sub-
stance. To find the number of cubic feet in
one ton, divide 35.943 by the specific gravity.
C.S. : No F.J.0.: Full particulars may
be obtained on application to the District Naval
Officer, Edward-street, Brisbane F.H.:
Billiards Guide and Rules of Games, by Roberts
(Is. 6d.); Billiards, by Young (3s. 9d.); and
Billiards, by Lindrum (3s. 9d.) P.H.P.:
The Australian Writers’ Annual was published
in 1935 by the Fellowship of Australian
Writers. No issue has been published since,
nor is a further issue contemplated... .AJ.:
Curtis Brown, Ltd., 6 Henrietta-street, Covent
Garden, London F.M.: The Leather Dress-
ing and Tanning School is located in John and
Botany streets, Waterloo. Students desirous of
securing a complete technical training in these
two branches of study must take maths. I and
11, inorganic and organic chemistry and
physics I at the Technical College as part of
the diploma course G.1.M.: Figures, too
lengthy to reprint here, are given in detail in the
Commonwealth Official Year-Book, available
Melbourne Public Library... .G. 5.8.: (1) A
full list will be found in the Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook. (2) Miss Doris Fitton,
112 King-street, .Sydney, may do so D.L.:
The Bank of England was founded in 1694.
As in the case of some of the earlier Conti-
nental banks, a loan to the Government was
the origin of its establishment. The loan, which
was £1,200,000, was subscribed in little more
than 10 days. The subscribers appointed Sir
John Houblon governor and Michael Godfrey
deputy-governor. The clearest account of its
early days is found in Thorold Rogers’s History
of the First Nine Years of the Bank of Eng-
land. .. .Z.L.: As with other crimes, the prose-
cution would be undertaken by the Crown....
H.F.: Best Australian One-act Plays, edited by
T. Inglis Moore and William Moore (Angus
and Robertson; 65.)... .E.M.A.: (1) The
Bulletin grants a separate right of republica-
tion to authors provided that acknowledgment
as to source of publication is made (2) Honesty
demands that the fact that it has been pub-
lished previously should be stated when submit-
ting. (3) Would have to see that list of maga-
zines before answering... .A. 8.8.: Early in
1826 the Sydney Turf Club secured a site on
the Parramatta-road, in the vicinity of Grose
Farm (where the university buildings now
stand). The work of forming the face track
was so heavy that racing had to be postponed
till June 14, when 2000 people witnessed Junius
win the opening event —Brisbane Cup, heats,
twice round, weight-for-age. Junius won the
Brisbane Cup in April of the following year,
but lost to Scratch in 1828 J.S.: Write
W. H. Paling and Co., 338 George-street,
Sydney R.H.: Get in touch with Col. L. M.
Cosgrave, Canadian Govt. Trade Commissioner,
Box 3952 V, G.P.0., Sydney... .J.K.M.D.: It
is not possible to determine the crystal from
the description given. A specimen should be
forwarded to the Curator, Mining Museum, Syd-
ney, for identification... .M.C.: You have
entered into a contract and must take delivery
of and pay for the machine or pay damages
for breach of contract M.E.: If payment
in advance is asked for, they are quite en-
titled to refuse to appear for you.


n 2
V
\
A HOLIDAY
THAT'S DIFFERENT
Conte fa ♦ ♦ ♦<
Ctivopesf Happiest Holiday £aud
where both the welcome and
hospitality from the people, the
unique individual beauty of scenery,
and a wide choice of different
surroundings will bring health,
happiness and lasting memories to all.
The 60% reduction in rail fares and
special Travel Mark exchange facilities
help to give the greatest comfort
at very moderate charges. Thus a
visit to Germany by rail or road,
air or sea, will prove a fitting
climax to your European travels.
For full information and free descriptive literature, apply:
> GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU <
(Dept. 0.V.), 19 Regent Street, London, S.W. lor recognized Travel Agencies.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Tariffs, Quotas and Trade Pacts
Outlook for Industrials
Banking Position
Wool—Tin—Rubber
What to Buy and Sell
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY. OR £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability 'is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS: will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.F.C.: Breeze too light... .P.J.L. and
E.V.A.: Sesqui efforts unsuitable A.McI.:
River rushing back to its source 5.8.:
Theme needs stronger treatment J.Q.: And
yours... .H.J.R.: News that hell is frozen over
broke Religious Editor’s heart... .G.R.C.:
Nothing new in your “original sonnets”....
T.E.McC.: Bath songs... .M.L.: Try a woman’s
paper P.8.W.: Very daring, as you say....
A.E.S.: You’re trying to goose-step on
crutches... .R.E.P.: Yes, but we’re tired of
mountains on sentry-g 0... .E.L.E.: Too
sugary G.A.W.: Stick to your “Beethoven”
vein, and stop saying “anon” P.H.D.: Ad-
vise you turn that ancient buckjumper out to
graze J.G.: “Is there the slightest possible
chance there may be a column in your very
highly-regarded journal where this little sketch
may find a resting-place?” Afraid this is the
only one... .A.D.T.: That pickpocket will have
to improve a lot if he’s to lift anything here.
. ...C.R.M.: Whispered a few words of advice
to the flapper and sent her home till she mends
her ways K.T.: Try it on a daily
L.C.: Nicely enough done, but it is too-gentle
romance of the machine-made type... .R.G.:
Yours makes the seventh victim of revenge
this week to be tied down to await the on-
coming train... .Wanderer: Humor not strong
enough in “Wot’s in a Name”; and unrhymed
verse doesn’t hold interest R.T.: Its merit
lies in its sincerity, but treatment falls short.
J.C.T.: We almost gnashed our teeth at
that juicy villain of bellerdrammer J.J.D.:
Fair study in sociology, but plot is weak.
. ...H.A.C.: Too few grins to the square
foot E.W.: Lotteries are off G.L.H.:
That “Bush Champion” ran his last race
several years ago... . R.T.P.: We made
three conscientious plunges but couldn’t get
to the bottom of “Deep Blue Sea” M.D.F.:
Nicely done, but why? ... .T.P.G.: Rehash it
and cut out a few unnecessary characters, then
send it along for another once-over 8.L.D.:
The tears of “Audrey Anne” are flooding the
w -P-b G.F.D.: You should hit the mark
if you study our needs A.D.F.: If there is
The Bulletin” welcomes sugges-
tions for humorous drawings. Only
original jokes will be considered.
A minimum payment of 7s. 6d. each
on acceptance.
an idea in any of that batch you’ve hidden it
very successfully L.G.R.: “The Count”
is out... .K.G.L.: We read the whole 15 from
start to finish, but it was wasted 1ab0r....
G.H.S.: Cut in half and try again... .L.F.G.:
Half a dozen fowls could make a better job
of “A Bag of Wheat” J.D.C.: A few
pages of slang don’t make a yarn N.M.S.:
Nor does a stretch of fine writing H.L.F.:
It’s been done much better on several occa-
sions. .. .M.A.: Might make a par J.F.D.:
Send along a brighter specimen G.H.T.:
Your resurrection of that corpse fills us with
dark forebodings R.W.T.: Hits the mark,
but doesn’t stick; polish and return it for
another reading C.V.Y.: “Pride” fell before
the second page... .C.McL.: You’re not only
paddling in another man’s pool but using his
boat, too... .G.T.O’B.: Possibilities badly
handled.... L.S.T.: Horrible... .D.V.: Try it
on a flapper mag K.S.T.: Afraid “Urchin”
is destined to go homeless T.L.: And
there’s no nest here for “Early Bird”
F. A story with a moral is best left
to someone who knows the game Q.S.:
Theories of that sort need facts to back them
up T.W.N.: It’s an old idea, but with
drastic cutting you might interest a daily
G. : An early music-hall favorite ex-
pressed a similar sentiment in a more pleasant
manner....H.C.T.: Don’t like either of those,
but wouldn’t mind looking at some other
samples... .H.L.D.: Long-haired Victorians
hawked that idea without success J.F.:
Sorry, but none of them click L.V.T.:
Reads like something from the pulpit.
M.D.C.: Yarns involving extensive scientific
knowledge are not much use to us.
TO ARTISTIC fAND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
•
J.T.S.: A jumbled array of misplaced lines
and a humorless gag A.P.K.: Drawing calls
for burial; so does the jest F.F.: Yellow
Peril cartoon is the week’s most ambitious
effort —and the worst T.R.: You’re improv-
ing; but it’s very slowly W.H.: No demand
here for colored drawings P.J.: The young-
ster shows talent; take him to a teacher
A.R.: One look at that necessitated a visit
to the nearest optician J.B.: Use Indian
ink and a good class of drawing paper... .F.P.:
A distorted and scratchy batch... .H.S.T.: Not
a smile among the half-dozen... .P.J.T.: An-
other artist hit upon the same scarecrow gag
a few months ago....W.A.: Looks well as a
piece of decoration, but there is no room for it in
our pages B.R.: The vessel doesn’t resemble
a warship and the sailors look like escapees
from an old men’s home.... J.S.: The same prize
rooster has crowed in our columns before....
A.H.: Crayon drawing shows a good free line,
but the gag lacks punch E.M.D.: You
“dashed it off in five minutes” and we hurled
it out in five seconds W.B.: Gags must be
original L.S.: Would be glad to know why
King Billy is floating on an iceberg T.S.:
Not out of that bunker yet? R.S.: Take
lessons J.B.H.: Sorry, but your cartoon
throws no light upon the situation in the Orient,
... .N.H.: You can just about manage a straight
line... .R.R.M.: “The Bush Wedding” might
have been usable if you had remembered to for-
ward the joke L.K.L.: Caricatures need to
be endorsed as to likeness by somebody well
known to us S.A.: The postman will be
bringing them back to you... .G.G..: We have
met that fat lady and her skinny escort out
boating before F.S.: Still undecided as to
which is the worst M.C.: Mistook the fencer
for one of the posts he was erecting J.T.:
The dragon might have passed, but not St.
George and his decrepit nag F.B.: Whoever
told you it was “good enough for The Bulle-
tin” cannot be a very careful observer of this
paper C.W.: Among the also-rans.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Argot”: As “Slangster” says (B.
16/2/’3B), a lot of so-called “modern”
American slang derives from old English
expressions. “Mizzle” certainly does.
Reading Harrison Ainsworth's Jack
Sheppard lately I came across the word
used in its sense of “depart” by the
thieves and gay ladies who make up most
of the personnel of that edifying tale.
Ainsworth was an acknowledged author-
ity on thieves’ and Romany slang, as he
showed in that other underworld story
Rookwood.
* * * *
“Rev. Pons”: The Red Page note on
the new Bible (B. 19/1/’3B) recalls some
odd facts about the printing of the Word.
The Revised Version is (or was) the prop-
erty of Oxford and Cambridge, while
the copyright of the Authorised Version
is vested in the Crown, which permits
both universities to publish the books
under charter. Few alive now remember
the run on the Oxford University Press
in 1881; on May 17 that year it issued
the Revised New Testament. The sales
would have made Edgar Wallace turn
green—a million copies were sold in a
day. And when the first copies reached
New York the contents were wired, word
by word, to the Chicago “Times,” coming
as a special supplement to that journal.
A guinea awaits the man who finds a
printer’s error in the Oxford, editions (a
hundred or more, in all), and the Cam-
bridge Press dangles the same lure be-
fore its biblical readers. Nobody can
hope to make even tram fares out of the
hunt, of course; but the editors often
get claims from people who for the first
time have struck such words as “bason,”
“astonied” and “bewray.”
# * *
“M.C.”: Jack Todd must have been a
welcome sight to Barbara Hitchens when
he found her with her disabled ’plane in
New Guinea. Jack is a most per-
sonable rescuer. He’s in his early
twenties, is tall, with beautiful white
teeth, and is always handsome, even when
hidden behind the Viking beard he leaves
unpruned when in the bush and shaves
off when he comes into Wau. Like some
other pilots, he finds it’s a protection
against sun- and windburn while piloting
open ’planes. Jack has been in New
Guinea since last May flying for
Stephens Aviation, Ltd.
* * * *
Bridges, the Australian-born leader of
the Pacific Slope seamen, seems to be
booked for deportation at last. Appa-
rently the Roosevelt Government would
like to save him, especially the lady
Minister whom critics of the Administra-
tion delight in calling “Madam” Perkins,
but Democratic, as well as Republican,
feeling against him is too strong. It is
so virulent among the Republicans that
one of their soberest publications dived
into what it alleged was Bridges’s medi-
cal history to have a go at him.
... * * * *
Associated Press had the gall to
cable the “news” that Professor Laski
believed the yarn about the Italians send-
ing another 50,000 men to Spain. Laski
had it “on excellent authority”—Stalin’s
perhaps. He is a hero to parlor Bolshies.
It seems to be the ambition of every
whipster in the Mile-end-road to write
a book that will be praised by Laski,
published by Gollancz and distributed
by the Left Book Club.
* # * *
In London’s eight pantomimes and
many legitimate shows friends of Aus-
tralia and Australians have been promi-
nent. Cyril Ritchard at the Garrick
(“A Bedtime Story”); Judith Anderson
at the New with Laurence Olivier in
“Macbeth”; Naughton and Gold at
the Palladium; Fred Conyngham with
Stanley Lupino at the Kingsway, and
Lewis Casson (“I Have Been Here Be-
fore”) at the Royalty. Anthony Holies
(out here with Ren6e Kelly) scored
heavily in “I Killed the Count.” Barry
Barnes, who played opposite Margaret
Rawlings in “The Barretts of Wimpole
Street,” was hailed as a star in “The
Return of the Scarlet Pimpernel,” with
Francis Lister, at the Tivoli. Jack
Waller has been at the Palace in “Oh,
You, Letty”; Levante, billed as “The
Great Australian Illusionist,” went big
at the Kingsway.
* * * *
There died in Jersey, Channel
Isles, on Feb. 11 Alice Rawson, only
daughter of Sir Harry Rawson, who was
Governor of N.S.W., 1902-1909. Father,
mother and daughter, three of the jolli-
est people that ever occupied Govern-
ment House, Sydney, are now dead. One
remembers them in a week of gaiety—or
was it only four days and nights?—in
Tumut, when the pretty town of poplars
and hawthorn hedges loudly proclaimed
itself the coming Federal capital and a
bellman ran through the main streets cry-
ing “Oyez, oyez, know all of ye that
this will be,” etc. On the Rawson staff
were two of the finest dancing men who
ever gave the Tumut girls a sample of
their prowess in the ballroom —the then
Captain Wilson, A.D.C., now Governor
of Queensland, and Captain Robertson
Clark, who sleeps in France.


:
i
-r''.
i . i. i
Drawing after thef\
Style of an Engraving
of the Period.
MMM
PT
JL
The English Grand
National, one of the
greatest steeplechases in
turf history, calls for
extreme courage and
stamina in horse and
rider. This race was first
run in 1839 . . . eighty-
nine years after Vickers
Gin commenced its race
to popularity.
Today, as then, Vickers is
famous for its strength,
its purity and its quality.
Always call for Vickers.
Vickers
GIN
jftmixruA- UM ce 1750
Distilled from the original recipe under licence from J. & ■/■ Vickers & Co. Ltd.. L° n<^_
Twelve Thousand Miles from Tipperary
BY JOHN EDWARDS.
111.
-r hr.a mot h-jv •
Two other viators Terry hadtha.day
before returning to camp Pat had told
his mother to admit only the three. One
was Mulhooley, the trainer.
Mulhooley came to inquire whether
the bhoy hachhad a good rest an’ was
aisier in his moind an’ able to ate his
scran. Satisfied on thes£ points, Mul-
hooley departed to carry the good news
to Mrs. Mulhooley and the six little Mul-
hooleys, to all of whom Terry was a
hero
The other caller was Molly Finucane,
Terrv’s “eirl ”
~ , . •
Molly is a thoroughly charmmg spec -
men of the Sydney shopgirl. She is tall
and well-proportioned and has fair hair
and blue eyes-inher,ted perhaps, from
some Danish forefather who survived the
disagreement with Brian Boru Her so
voice she may owe to the Celt in her ,
she has a captivating manner which can
become energetic when energy is re-
quired.
Miss Finucane s face and so much of
her neck and chest as her neat blouse
reveals ate richly tanned, the result o
much surfing and sunbasking. At Bondi,
where she bathes, it is no mystery that
her legs and arms have suffered the same
sea-change of color.
Those legs, and thousands of other
pairs, have greatly exercised the minds
cf pious editors. The. pious editors
aver that girls who show their legs in
two-piece costumes that rarely descend
below the knees show them in the pres-
ence of men “who study their points as
they would those of cattle,” and are on
the road to perdition—all this without
the slightest effect on the owners of the
] egs
It is not yet fashionable to exhibit knees
in the street, but an expanse of stocking
can be seen between the hem of Molly’s
skirt and the tops of her buttoned boots,
ha|f to the knee .
The Russian steamrol|er has been en .
gul £ ed in a Masurian lake, but the war
reporters insist that it rolls inexorably
on SOj there being a shortage of leather
£ or tbe arm i eSj a ll the women are wear-
j ng “Russian” boots—otherwise “sol-
diers’-allotment boots.” The young object
to the buttoning, and would rebel against
it if the young ever did rebel against the
fashions. The not-so-young don t mind,
for the boots give an appearance of
plumpness to lean calves.
After the war ’ wben leatber becomes a
drug on the market, there will be a craze
g shoes with wafcr so|es and u rs
are merel strf
Mq jn and hose a ,
Moloney’s. She is a year older
than and (wjce as smart an assistant as
p crkms> t | le young man in the collars
and sbirts wbo Qg | es ber wben Terry is
ppt about; but under the wage-fixing
which js one Australia . s con .
tributions to the wisdom of the ages, her
js Uu|e more than half of p erk j ns ’ s .
The presumplion of the gen ,i emen who
tbe wages —nearly always lawyers—is
be wornan wb o works for wages has
oni y herself to keep and will not have
t 0 do j t f or i ongi whereas the young
man is saving up to marry and bring
U p a family,
This is true of some young men, but
not of Perkins. Perkins is a nasty little
beast. If any girl is foolish enough to
become Mrs. Perkins he will probably
die in the early forties of dipsomania oi
8-P; 1 - „ T
You werent there last night, Try
said.
“No,” the girl replied. I told you
I’d never go to any of your horrible
fights again. But I rang up the Coliseum,
and I read the report in the Sunday
Times/ You poor thing!” She kissed
him. “I didn’t think it’d be as bad as
this.”
“It might have been worse.”
“Yes, you might have been killed,, as
Bryan was. Or that little fellow Menzies.
Or been carried to the hospital three
parts dead, like young Thomson, who’s
never been the same since. Bryan and
Menzies were married, and Thomson
kept his mother —now she’s keeping him.
I know all about these accidents, as I
suppose you’d call them, though not
from you.”
“It’s all in the game.”
“Game you call it? What a game!
Terry, you’ll have to give it up before
it gives you up.”
“I’m going to give it up.”
“Do you mean it?”
“Honest.”
“That’s splendid. And does your
mother know?”
“I’ve told her. Mr. Minogue’s prom-
ised me a job on the Coliseum staff.”
“What sort of job? I don’t want you
to have anything more to do with the
Coliseum. If they give you a job they’ll
expect you to fight. As an understudy,
perhaps, when one of the boxers they’ve
billed can’t appear.”
“No, nothing like that. I’m to help
with the matchmaking; and I s’pose I’ll
have to call on the boxing reporters, ajnd
be on hand in case the sports chuck
bottles into the ring or try to set fire
to the place —as the mob from Newcastle
did when Durkin lost the decision first
time he fought there. It’s a good job,
too ; four notes a week. But I mayn’t
want it for long.”
“Why not?”
“Mr. Minogue says he’s going to make
a politician of me.”
“A politician? That’s glorious! But
it’ll take time, won’t it?”
“It may. Still, you know Mr.
Minogue ; at least, you’ve heard of him.
He’s an influential man.”
“And what will you get for being a
politician?”
“I don’t rightly know, but the money’s
good. Seven or eight notes a week if
I become a State member and more if
I get into the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment. And a gold pass for the trams and
trains ; and I’m told it’s good for any-
where in Australia. And a pass for Mrs.
Mac Sherry when Mr. Mac Sherry’s duties
take him to Lismore, or Brisbane, or
Melbourne, or any of them places. And
free tickets for the races, and theatres,
and receptions and anything that’s going.”
“Marvellous! But you’ll have to learn
to speak first, Terry. You’ll have to prac-
tise on me. ‘Unaccustomed as I am to
public speaking’ ”
“Don’t laugh at me, Molly.”
“I won’t, dear.” She kissed him again.
“But you had to study and practise be-
fore you went into the ring, and it will
be the same before you can go on a
platform. And I can help you there. I
can be a sort of sparring partner.”
“How?”
“By getting you to read to me, and
to talk as you would talk to an audience.
And by going with you to hear the best
speakers in Sydney, just as you went to
see the best boxers when you were a
novice. Let’s do that for a start.”
“I’m on.”
“There’s a lady just back from Bel-
gium lecturing on the war. I’m told she
speaks beautifully. What about going
to hear her to-morrow night, if you’re
well enough?”
The war was now in its seventh month,
and the Australian people had received
a great deal of information about it, all
designed to make them believe what most
of them wanted to believe.
They had been told nothing about Tan-
nenberg or the tremendous defeats of
the French that. preceded the retreat to
the Marne ; and, although the American
mail had brought newspaper photographs
of H.M.S. Audacious sinking, they were
spared the shock of seeing them repro-
duced in Australian newspapers.
Regrettable incidents which had to be
mentioned were so described as to sug-
gest that they were, or would be, more
regrettable to the enemy than to the
Allies. A dashing chronicler of the
Coronel affair managed to convey the
impression that the Good Hope, at least,
might reappear any day.
People read the war reports in the right
mood. One feature, the profusion of
foreign place-names, bewildered them.
What could they make of the news that
the Russians, moving from Kopycznce
and Monasterzyska, were threatening
Uscieczko and hoped to take Ealeszczzki
in their stride, or (as one journal an-
nounced) that the Germans had been
driven back from Tete du Pont to Point
d’Appui? But they could, and did, grasp
the central facts of the situation. Ger-
many could not hold out much longer.
Austria was almost at its last gasp.
True, the enemy seemed to be occupy-
ing a lot of French, Belgian and Russian
territory ; but that was where he would
fall in. French, Joff-er and the Grand
Duke Nicholas were letting him occupy
it; it was part of their plan for settling
his hash. They had been luring him on.
The farther he was enticed away from
his bases, the more thoroughly he would
be smashed when they chose to strike.
Suppose the Huns had got over the
frontiers, weren’t they three to one? And
hadn’t they been preparing for this war
for 40 years? Forty years —fifty, more
like it! And their spies were everywhere,
even in Australia, though mugs in the
Defence Department wouldn’t believe it.
Submarines had been seen popping up
in lonely inlets. “Whales,” the depart-
ment suggested. A Zeppelin flew at
night over the Blue Mountains. “Falling
star,” those idiots explained. Morse-code
signals were regularly flashed from the
Dandenong Ranges. “Hurricane lamps
in rabbiters’ camps,” was the tale.
Just as well the soldiers weren’t all as
silly as that.
There was a woman who taught danc-
ing in Randwick —or was it Willoughby?
She went back to Berlin every year with
the information she collected, and re-
ported direct to the Crown Prince. She
had grown so fat that, before the military
arrested her, she was heard to say she
would have to give up teaching ; but it
was all a blind. She had been proved to
be a dangerous spy, and if she were a
man she would have been shot.
Sauermitz had been shot. A wire-
less outfit had been found on the roof
of his shipping office ; it was he who
warned the Bismarck to make for Java.
Shot he had been, and good enough for
him! Everyone knew that the Kaiser
had started him in business and was his
sleeping partner.
Of course, it was hard to believe that
Germans who had spent most of their
lives in Australia were like Sauermitz.
Jolly people they used to be at singsongs
in their clubs, and hospitable in their
homes. And good farmers, too ; one
had to admit that —none better. And
wonderfully fond of their Fatherland. It
used to be funny to get some of the old
boys, veterans of the Franco-Prussian
War, to beef out their “Watch on the
Rhine.”
But that was the trouble with the Ger-
mans everywhere. They were so fond
of their blessed Fatherland that they’d do
anything for it, even to crucifying
prisoners of war. And so thick in the
head that they believed every lie their
rulers stuffed them with, instead of recog-
nising the justice of the Allied cause, as
demonstrated in a thousand leading
articles, and refusing to fight for Might
against Right.
But Belgium had checkmated them.
Gallant little Belgium! When ordered
to get out of the way, the Belgians had
said “No ; you may tear up your scrap
of paper, but we shan’t.” And, though
outnumbered fifty to one, they stopped
the whole German army for weeks. No,
not weeks ; months.
The Huns tried to take Leeje first.
After three weeks of horrible slaughter
their general committed suicide. As the
120 per cent. American poet Pfennighaus
had sung, “Leeje barred the way.”
There had been a grand picture in the
paper of King Albert and the Kaiser.
The Kaiser, who seemed to be ten feet
tall and to have a moustache a foot long,
said sneeringly to King Albert, who
looked fifteen feet tall, “Well, you have
.lost everything now.” “No,” replied
King Albert, with his hand on his sword
—“not my soul.”
Not his soul —great! All the other
Allies had souls ; Britain, France, Russia,


SHE WAS AFRAID TO
SHAKE HANDS
Rheumatism in Joints
Caused Her Intense Pain
Rheumatism affects its victims in many
curious and inconvenient ways. In the case
of this woman, she dared not shake hands with
people because of the pain it caused her as a
result of rheumatism in the joints. This con-
dition lasted for several years, until she hit
on the right remedy —Kruschen Salts. Read
her letter:
“For several years, I suffered with rheu-
matism of the joints, especially in my hands,
and this caused me intense pain. I was even
afraid to shake hands with anyone, for it made
me suffer terribly. I began taking Kruschen
Salts regularly, and after a little while my
pains disappeared completely. I am naturally
delighted with Kruschen.” —(Miss) K.
The pains and stiffness of rheumatism are
caused by deposits of uric acid crystals in the
muscles and joints. The six salts in Kruschen
stimulate your liver and kidneys to healthy,
regular action, and assist them to get rid of
this excess uric acid which is the cause of all
your suffering.
Who pays
them
after
youre
gone ?
d
fd
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
• . . . whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EOUITABLE
PRO BATE ah,
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R- V- PERKINS, General Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via "The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
II lIH Wi.il
W> 1
J*
1
li
life-
iiiiiilhrr .Jml
SYDNEY
caan„
\dVt(
RUCKLfIND
UIUONGTO
THE NEW
UNION
LUXURY
LINER
“AWATEA”
CROSSES THE
TASMAN IN
2i DATS!
This 23-knot express liner has set
a new standard in Trans-Tasman
travel.
Notable modern features include the Gymnasium, enclosed Promenade and
Observation Deck, Men's and Women’s Club Rooms, Verandah Cafe and Dance
Room, as well as the Library and Writing Room, Luxurious Lounge, Music
Room, etc.
The “Awatea” carries First and Tourist Class Passengers.
Regular Service maintained between Sydney, Auckland and Wellington.
• For all Particulars apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Japan, Serbia and Montenegro; and so
had their protectorates, dominions,
•colonies and dependencies. In the case ot
South Africa there had been some initial
difficulties, but they had been overcome.
And, although there had been no recent
additions to the register of souls, there
were high hopes of Italy and great expec-
tations of Greece.
Italy, they said, would find its soul
as soon as it got its price. Greece also
demanded payment for being soulful —at
lease, King Constantine did.
Hideous portraits of Constantine and
Venizelos were hung in all the Greek
fish-shops as proofs of their owners’ de-
votion to the cause for which so many
of their customers had volunteered to
fight. Before long it was deemed pru-
dent to remove Tino, but the Cretan re-
mained—to scowl defiance at Prussian
militarism and to make the fish-and-
chips trade safe for Demetrius.
It was even believed that the U.S.A.
might discover it had a soul when it was
sated with the money it was making out
of the war.
Mrs. Todhunter, the lecturer from Bel-
gium, had obviously been a pretty little
woman. She was still attractive in a
matronly way, though the cruel lines
which middle age etches on the female
neck could be detected above her lace
collar. She was enormously dignified in
manner and voice. She conveyed the
notion that she considered herself far
above her auditors, and would count the
night ill-spent if she failed to impress a
sense of their inferiority upon them.
She was introduced by Mr. Moggs, a
patriotic draper who had lived down the
aspersion that he had laid in a stock of
miniature Union Jacks, at tuppence a
dozen, for Empire Day, 1914, and sold
them for half a crown apiece when war
broke out.
After a few incoherent remarks, Mr.
Moggs called for three cheers for gallant
little Belgium, and they were given
heartily. “Another for gallant little
Serbia,” shouted Mr. Moggs. It was
furnished—not so heartily; and Mr.
Moggs sat down.
He bounced up before Mrs. Tod-
hunter had spoken more than a few sen-
tences. “Hold on a minute, missus,” he
interposed in tones which could be heard
in the remotest seats. “Ladies an’ genel-
men, we forgot something. One more
for gallant little Montenegro.”
Faint cheering, mingled with laughter
and cries of “Sit down!”
If looks could kill, Mr. Moggs would
have dropped dead on the spot. But he
was used to dealing with infuriated
ladies, and he was quite unperturbed.
Somewhat shaken by this interruption,
Mrs. Todhunter entered upon her de-
scription of the war in Belgium as she
had seen it. It was, in some respects,
an unusual war, and the behavior of the
civilian inhabitants was odd, to say the
least. They seemed to regard the in-
vasion as a vast free show got up for
their entertainment.
Belgians in the cities and towns visited
by Mrs. Todhunter spent a good deal of
their time waiting for Zeppelins to come
over. Even after the thunder of burst-
ing bombs and between the groans of the
wounded, Mrs. Todhunter heard such
gratified expressions as “Zey are chic,
les Zepps !”
Belgian methods of warfare differed in
no important respect from those of
Picton and Ney. This Mrs. Todhunter
could testify from her own experience,
for before circumstances obliged her to
leave Belgium she had witnessed a vic-
torious cavalry charge. The time and
place of the combat were obscure, but
Mrs. Todhunter’s account was thrilling.
“In the cold, grey dawn,” she said,
slowly and impressively, “I saw the Bel-
gian squadrons form up. They were
few and the Huns were many; they had
only their Swords against all the weapons
in the fiendish armory of the twentieth-
century Attila; but what cared they?
The roar of the German shells was deaf-
ening. A soldier stepped out of the
patriot ranks and lifted up his voice in
song.”
“Can’t follow that,” Terry whispered
to Molly. “What’s the good of singing
if nobody can hear you?”
“Be quiet!” the girl whispered back.
“He sang the ‘Brabanfonne,’ ” Mrs.
Todhunter went on. “His comrades all
joined in, and I could picture the Huns
cowering in their trenches. As the last
strains died on the shell-tortured air, a
general rode up on a white horse. In-
stantly every sword was out and flash-
ing in the atmosphere. He was a giant, a
hero, every inch a king. Albert of
Belgium! ”
“Three cheers for gallant little Bel-
gium!” Mr. Moggs’s enthusiasm had got
the better of him again.
“Another for King Albert,” shouted
Mr. Moggs, having received sufficient
encouragement.
For a few tumultuous moments Mrs.
Todhunter regretted that she was a lady
and that hatpins had gone out. She had
been working up to a climax calculated
to extort all the admiration of which an
audience of obvious imbeciles was cap-
able, and this foul creature had spoilt it.
She moistened her lips and swallowed
hard before she proceeded.
“The patriot soldiers wheeled into line.
The King put himself at their head.
Bugles sounded the charge. And, cheer-
ing madly, they galloped over that
Flanders plain—on towards three times
their number of Huns armed to the teeth,
on towards trenches protected by belts
of wire and bristling with machine-guns.
I saw them disappear into the smoke of
battle. I heard Belgian shouts of triumph
and frantic appeals for mercy.
“Presently the smoke lifted. Victory!
Victory! Enemy dead lay in heaps.
Prisoners were coming back. A sun-
beam shot through the murky heavens
and fell on the marble brow of the hero
of the day. His devoted troops were
gathered round him. They were singing,
singing the ‘Brabanfonne.’ He was beat-
ing time with his plumed helmet, which
he held in his good right hand. King
Albert! Still on his white horse.”
“Three cheers” Mr. Moggs began ;
but this time the gallery and the back
seats were ready for him. “Shut up!”
they yelled. Mr. Moggs shut up.
There was polite applause for Mrs. Tod-
hunter from the genteel part of the audi-
ence. She acknowledged it icily, and,
turning to leave the platform, cut Mr.
Moggs dead.
“I s’pose she’s a good speaker,” said
Terry to Molly on their way home in
the tram ; “but I don’t think I can learn
much from her. Anyhow, I’m to be a
politician, Mr. Minogue says, not a war
lecturer. Parliament, he tells me, is not
sitting, but there’s a meeting of the City
Council to-morrow night; and he wants
me to go. He says I can meet some of
the aldermen —of course, I’ve been intro-
duced to one or two —and I’ll hear one
good speaker at least. Will you come?”
“Of course I will! What a trick Mr.
Moggs was, wasn’t he?”
“A fair break-up!”
Mr. Moggs survived the war, and on
Armistice Day did a roaring trade in
miniature flags of all the allied and asso-
ciated nations. On Armistice Night
he blithely wandered about the city, and
wherever he could get a knot of people
to listen to him he called for cheers for
gallant little Belgium, gallant little Serbia,
gallant little Montenegro, gallant little
Greece, gallant little Portugal and gallant
little Siam until he lost his voice. He
was knighted for these services to the
Empire.
{To be continued .)
“Smack”: Doubtful whether it was the
same Jimmy Hill who has been figuring
in The boxing articles, but
there was one of that moniker in the
A.I.F. unit in which I drew my rum
issue in France, and he was unquestion-
ably a pug of some talent. He boxed
beautifully on the grass and was there
to oblige any up-and-coming youngster
in a go with the gloves, an old pair of
which could somehow always be pro-
duced when we were out of the line. A
long suit of this Jimmy’s, when funds
and the estaminets were functioning well,
was to approach some unsuspecting wight
perched on a bundle of hay mooning
about the land he’d left Dehind him, and
unloose a frightful uppercut that would
almost literally have knocked the vic-
tim’s block off had it ever connected.
As it was, whooshing up past the face
like a 9.2, it was a startling experience
that no average peaceful-minded Digger
wanted repeated. In beating a retreat
from an estaminet it was always a com-
forting feeling to have Jimmy in the party
when Jacks were encountered, and he
was no bad company up in the thick of
it, either. He had—anybody in that
crowd would have been prepared to bet
—the most atrocious “singing” voice in
captivity. He took it with him on a visit
to relations in the North of England,
and when in the sitting-room one even-
ing he was persistently invited to sing,
he took the floor and obliged, thinking,
as he subsequently explained, that they’d
laugh at him “the same as the mob did.”
Instead, they achieved a miracle of
polite behavior, listened to the frightful
effort in approving silence, and then
applauded him. He came back to France
a changed man; it was a good two
months before he had regained sufficient
confidence in himself even to insult a
superior officer.


ELEGANT EXTRACTS
WHEN IN ROME
Shean to-day denied that he had been
spoken to by the stewards before the
race. “I observed the rule because I
think it was the fair thing to do,” he
said. “Control is strict, and racing is
clean in Melbourne. When in Rome
the wisest thing is to do as Rome does.”
— “Telegraph” (Sydney).
THE SUPREME TEST
“Why did you kill that man?” asked
my informant, who had watched the
whole performance.
“He would not work for us,” was the
aggrieved reply, and when I heard the
story my heart acclaimed that proud spirit
of old Cathay defying conquest even
unto death. — Woman writer describing
Japanese “war atrocity” in “S. M.
Herald” (Sydney).
GOOD NEWS FOR LYSAGHTS
Mussolini puts corrugated-iron pants
on nude statuary.
—Letter in “Workers’ Weekly” (Sydney).
CAUSE AND EFFECT
Australian girls are careless in their
choice of perfumes and cannot tell the
good from the bad. Unlike French
women, they are not out to “get their
man.” — “Sun” (Sydney).
Just two sailors’ sweethearts were at
the quay in Sydney to say good-bye to
the French cruiser Jeanne d’Arc when
she sailed. — “Argus” (Melbourne).
ENDLESS FUN
Speaking of the drastic isolation out-
back and of the difficulty of travel along
miles of boggy road, Mrs. F •* said
that it could, however, be endless fun
when there were plenty of strong men
“and if you have a car.”
— “Sun” (Sydney).
THAT’LL LARN YUH!
Does not the average American citizen
proudly believe that James Monroe, the
fifth President of the United States, actu-
ally conceived and drafted the famous
Monroe Doctrine? But every little Eng-
lish schoolboy (Australians are included)
knows that it was drafted by George
Canning, and handed over to Mr.
Monroe one night after a dinner party at
No. 10 Downing-street.
— “Courier” (Brisbane).
ELEMENTARY, MY DEAR WATSON
BUCHAREST.
A sinister atmosphere begins to sur-
round the disappearance of Theodore
Butenko, secretary of the Soviet Legation,
who was last seen entering a flat build-
ing at 7.15 p.m. on Sunday by a
chauffeur, who drove him from the Lega-
tion.
M. Butenko did not arrive at his flat
on the second floor and police found
blood on the marble staircase.
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney), Feb. 9.
BUCHAREST.
The Soviet legation has announced that
all its offices, including the Consulate,
have been closed until the disappearance
of the Soviet Charge d’Affaires (M.
Butenco) had been explained.
M. Butenco was last seen by a
chauffeur, who drove him from a picture
theatre. Drops of blood were found on
a staircase leading from his apartment
to the street.
— “Argus” (Melbourne), Feb. 10.
MOSCOW.
The Russian Government has in-
structed its Bucharest legation to
strongly protest to the Rumanian Gov-
ernment regarding the disappearance of
M. Butenko, the legation secretary, be-
lieved to have been murdered.
The Soviet views it as a political crime,
organised by the Fascists.
— “Age” (Melbourne), Feb. 11.
LONDON.
A high Soviet official told the “Daily
Herald” that there was no doubt that M.
Butenko, secretary of the Soviet Legation
there, who is missing, had been mur-
dered. “We have information,” he said,
“that the Germans organised the affair,
and that the Rumanian Fascists carried it
out, for the purpose of creating a difficult
situation between Soviet Russia and
Rumania.”
The mystery has been deepened by the
discovery that supposed bloodstains on a
staircase at his flat are red ink.
—“S. M. Herald” (Sydney), Feb. 11.
ROME.
M. Butenko, Soviet Charge dAffaires,
missing from Rumania, has been located
in Rome.
He told Italian journalists that he left
Bukarest when he received a summons
to pay a short visit to Moscow.
He said that he knew if he returned
to Moscow he would not survive the
present purge.
— “Telegraph” (Sydney), Feb. 17.
ELEVATED
The other day, in the Commonwealth
Bank building, we were asked to get out
of the elevator so that the Prime Minis-
ter could ascend alone. Maybe we com-
moners were not of the same “caste” as
our representative.
—Letter in “Telegraph” (Sydney\
EXCELSIOR!
The “Times” Vienna correspondent re-
ports that a young Austrian, who crossed
the Czechoslovakian frontier on a visit
to relatives, was arrested because his nail-
studded boots left Swastika imprints.
This apparently is the latest method of
spreading the Nazi symbol in forbidden
territory.
The correspondent recalls that earlier
devices included the burning of a Swas-
tika sign into fields of grain and clip-
ping it into the coats of dogs.
— “Age” (Melbourne).
OR, SAY, GIRAFFES?
Pigs would have to become amphibians
before it would be fair to put a pig 1
market on the South Kensington swamp,
the Premier (Mr. Dunst.an) was told by
a deputation which waited on him yes-
terday to object to the proposal.
“Perhaps,” suggested the Premier, “we
might be able to cross them with ducks.”
— “Argus” ( Melbourne ).
WHAT, NO UKELELE!
Rowing a leaking dinghy, she took the
message to a seaplane which was moored
in the harbor, and delivered it to the
pilot. On the return journey from the
seaplane, the dinghy filled with water,
and Miss L bailing and rowing
alternately, reached the shore just before
the boat was swamped....
This message was taken out to the
moored machine in a leaking dinghy
rowed by Miss L . On the return
journey from the seaplane, the dinghy
filled with water, and Miss L , bailing
and rowing alternately, reached the shore
just before the boat was swamped....
Soon after she started rowing out to
the plane the dinghy began to open in
the seams and leak. She delivered the
message, and started the return journey.
Miss L was forced to bail and row
alternately, and she reached shore just
before the dinghy filled. — All from one
report in “ S. M. Herald” (Sydney),
17/2/’3B.
LET US REJOICE
When we enlisted for the Boer War
in 1900 the men were provided with
free beer in camp by the breweries
around Adelaide, but there was no
drunkenness there, nor has there been
in any other camp having a wet canteen.
—Letter in “Advertiser” (Adelaide).
COLORFUL
Colorful Scene.
200 Girls Collapse.
— “S. M. Herald” (Sydney).
Making "A Nation” Film
THE sundry hands responsible for
the Australian film “A Nation Is
Built” should be preening their
crowing feathers at the moment.
The film has been the box-office winner
of the Sydney Prince Edward Theatre s
bill, cashing in somewhat, no doubt,
on the wave of 150th Anniversary
sentiment, but deserving the applause
accorded it at each showing on its own
merits as one of the finest films so far
made in Australia, and as a fresh,
clearly photographed, very effective docu-
mentary film judged by the widest
standards.
It has already been reviewed in The
Bulletin (16/2/’3B), and certain points
which puzzled have since been explained.
For instance, the Blue Mountains —which
section was found rather “forbidding”—
were done by. photographer Frank Hur-
ley as thoroughly as he did other parts
of the Australian scene, and anyone who
sees the film and knows the subject will
agree that ihany aspects of that scene
have been magnificently turned in. Also,
this part, as photographed, did include
the Jenolan Caves, an omission that was
noted as rather odd ; but these sections,
with much other fine stuff, had to be
cut for theatre purposes.
As it is, the film takes the best part of
an hour to run off, and, since the bread-
and-butter line of the film-entertaining
business consists ordinarily of 84| p.c.
twaddle (some rate it higher), that would
be considered by most film exhibitors
quite long enough for what is almost
straight documentary film.
Plenty Caves material was available,
for Captain Hurley also extensively
photographed the Yarrangobilly caverns
near Tumut (N.S.W.). He has, he says,
rarely seen anything so magnificent as the
Yarrangobilly Caves, which have been
splendidly lighted to show them off at
their best.
Captain Hurley spent six months rang-
ing over N. S. Wales taking in these scenes.
He set out from Sydney in winter with
his Cinesound gear and no one but his
car-driver, and the whole of the State
ahead of him. He covered 12,000
miles and used up some 20,000ft. of film.
With the wool industry to figure as
a leading item of the film, he headed first
for Bundemar, near Narromine, one of
the world’s most famous studs, whereon
resides the one that sheepmen, at least,
would insist is the film’s hero Coro-
nation Charles, finest sire of the world’s
flocks. Charles is the product of breed-
ing through generations of sheep, the
glory of the stud and the pride of his
breeder, who carries on the tradition of
sheepbreeding established there by his
father before him. To Captain Hurley
Charles represented a photographing job
beside which showing off Greta Garbo at
her best would be in the amateur class.
Charles stars in the film for a whole
three-quarters of a minute. To get him
to the satisfaction of all Captain Hurley
one day focused on him for three hours,
when it was considered that Charles must
be feeling the strain, would be a little
tired, might not renew his contract or
something unless he was given. a rest;
perhaps it would be best to leave him till
next morning. So next morning there
were 20 miles to travel and another ses-
sion, in order that Charles might go forth
to the world —as he’s duly going ; the
film is booked for widespread distribu-
tion —and no sheepmen anywhere be able
to fault either his royal quality or his
histrionic ability.
Captain Hurley holds it to the credit
of the breeder that he should have been
meticulous about the screening of
Charles. On this stud and wherever else
he went in the State all hands gave him
the greatest possible help in the making
of the picture, and had the same craft
keenness. On Windy station, near
Quirindi, where the massed sheep pictures
FRANK HURLEY.
were taken —they are among the most
effective in the film —a mob of 10,000
choice merinos were got together for him,
and no bones whatever made of the job
ahead in sorting them all out again.
Any sheep in that huge flock which
were in any way imperfect were drafted
out; these sheepmen have something they
know is worth showing, and they were
keen on its being w©ll shown. As Captain
Hurley puts it, they are not carrying on
a business merely in a business sense, but
with a pride of craft in keeping their
flocks the world’s best. He insists that
any representing of them in the old Dad
and Joe manner is simply giving a false
picture. A different race now inhabits
the bush and the outback.
He was particularly struck by the sons
of the Diggers there. As former official
photographer with the A.1.F., he has a
wide Digger acquaintanceship, and he
photographed now the sons of men he
had photographed in France. He was
struck by the father-complex of many of
them whose fathers he had known. They
felt that their fathers had given them
something to live up to, and it seemed
to him that in their own sterling char-
acter and in what they are doing they
are living up to it very well. Their
fathers stand for them as heroes to emu-
late. These young men of the present
day, it seemed to this observer, have in
that an ideal and, living up to it, are as
good as, if not better than, those from
whom they had it.
Captain Hurley sums up on the present
bush generation as wonderful types of
virile men. He regards it as a privilege
to have known them, and most interest-
ing to see the way they are taking over
the land from their fathers.
It is a theme for novelists, and the out-
look implicit in it indicates the spirit in
which the “Nation Is Built” film was
made. Though the material was pretty
well all gathered in N. S. Wales, the film
can quite well go forth as representative
of Australia. As well as the main wool
industry, it depicts other leading national
wealth-makers very well —wheat and
mining especially—and it gives an excel-
lent idea of what Australia looks like.
Better still, the Australian outlook em-
bodied in it and in the commentary that
goes with it reveals something about
which the Australian is not notably arti-
culate —his pride in his own country.


STORY WRITING
Bernard Cronin’s Course.
The Value of Personal
Advice.
IT is the personal nature of the advice
given by Bernard Cronin to his pupils,
added to the detailed and construc-
tive criticism of their work, that makes
it possible for anyone with “the urge
to write” to succeed quickly under his
direction.
The Bernard Cronin Story Writing
Course is a masterpiece of expert
practicality. It contains ten Lessons.
The Course deals not only with the
architecture of Story Writing—Com-
ponents, Theme, Plot, Openings, Dia-
logue, Characterisation and Descrip-
tion-—but also with the Marketing of
stories. The exercises on each Lesson
include the writing of original stories
to be submitted to Bernard Cronin for
personal criticism and advice.
It is this personal contact between
Bernard Cronin and his pupils
and the individual treatment
given that make for the early
and consistent success of Bernard
Cronin pupils.
His object is to save each pupil
much of the wasted effort and the dis-
couragement that try the strength of
every writer who has to find his own
way amongst the pitfalls in the path
that leads to publication.
In addition to teaching Story Writ-
ing and Writing for Radio, Bernard
Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers
who have had only a limited success.
This critical service has proved of
great value to many whose work
sometimes, through minor faults of
construction or presentation, has failed
to make the grade.
Many new and promising writers
are certain to appear in 1938. Those
of them who are to succeed quickly
will require sound training and ex-
pert, sympathetic guidance. This is
available Young writers, or writers
who are. discouraged, from whatever
reason, are invited to write fully and
freely to Bernard Cronin. Address:
BERNARD CRONIN,
398 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Cl.
Story writing is best taught
by one who has himself
succeeded in the art in
which he undertakes to in-
struct others.
fd
H.R.H.
Prince Charles of
Sweden
fd
Lieut. -General
Lord Baden-Powell,
K.C.8., K.C.V.0., LL.D.,
F.R.G.S.,
“The Chief Scout,”
f 4
Mr. E. V. Lucas,
Asst. Editor of
London “Punch.”
w
Sir Max Pemberton,
the Well-known Novelist.
Pelmanism smoothes away all
difficulties . . . I rr^
(D ame Sybil Thorndike)
The Signatures
The signatures in this announce-
ment are reproduced from signed
letters of appreciation received by
the Pelman Institute.
We are sure that readers of “The
Bulletin” will be interested in these
signatures of well-known Pelman-
ists.
DR, F. W. NORWOOD, D. 8.,
“The World’s Evangelist,”
recently of the City Temple,
London, who describes Pel-
manism as
“The Key to a Man’s Career.”
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute:
Liege ...
Geneva ..
. 1930
. 1933
> T ancy 1932
I’aris 1933
The more important personal qualities
and attributes developed by Pelmanism
Concentration
Observation
Judgment
Decision
Self-Confidence
Initiative
Social Ease
Course
and a Reliable Memory
for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices, arguments and useful data of every
kind.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these 39,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, (3.1,, where
it has been established for 30 years.
The Effect of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is scientific training of Mind, Memory and Personality. It is a
working course in Practical Psychology directed to needs of the average man
and woman.
The obvious effect of the Pelman Training, observable very early in. the
Course, is a quick and accurate memory for faces, names, facts, figures, business
conversations, for what has been said and what has been read, for what has been done
and what is to do, for cards, languages, and the general material of work or study-
There is a quickening of the natural perceptive faculties reflected in increased
ability to concentrate, greater powers of decision, and much greater confidence, so
that we find Pelmanists in all walks of life accepting cheerfully, inside and outside
their occupations, responsibilities that_ they were once afraid of.
They seek and get better positions, they are able to speak without notes, they
meet others on terms of equality, they accept office in Lodge, in Council, in
Parliament, and acquit themselves creditably.
In short, Pelmanists carry within themselves a wider range of consciousness,
greater aptitudes, and justified self-confidence, qualities which give personality and
mark their possessors for advancement and progress.
Pelmanism is for anyone who has aspirations
and ambition
The Chain of Personal Reference
Accompanying the textbooks of Pelmanism, containing information and
graded mental exercises of great practical value, there are Progress Work Sheets to
be submitted to the Institute. These Work Sheets are carefully revised by qualified
Examiners and returned with letters of advice.
Progress Work Sheets and Letters combined constitute a chain of personal
references in which the full scope of the Pelman System is brought to bear cn the
development of the student and on his personal difficulties. This thorough revisional
work is an outstanding feature of the Pelman training.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin’’ a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” T 6
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
418
fd
The late
Mr. Edgar Wallace,
Author and Dramatist
l
Sir Herbert Barker,
Eminent Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
&7<r/c
Sir Harry Johnston, G.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., D.Sc., Governor of the
London School of Economics.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
fdfd
TO “THE BULLETIN ”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy o c Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
v; *?>> j>'o**
<o* %
3^
. <tr.ysr <\>
,< t^ V # e% <, °> „ &,'€&
W^"S^ rt ” &
fX i\\®
■C 0 ’ 6 V*, ,
>
*V
»*
£
(S 6
-
v^'
0<
s$
,afc*
.-•*
••' , 6 «o vV o<
.-• Svel
..* 0 w) \0 \^ S lV e *
.-**


3
5 : a)
"3
: :
□:
Li
SB
LI
Collins Street
O
MELBOURNE ci
s
6
■■■■■§. j
<
/v
LJJ
O
O
s
MJ
s
L 7
O
<*
o
£
m
4
a
*
mm
TO stay at “Scott’s”
A is to show that
same sound judgment
that has been exer-
cised by generation
upon generation of
discerning people.
Scott’s is—and always has
been in the forefront in
hotel accommodation and
a service that combines
everything desired in com-
fort, convenience and en-
ticing cuisine.
Whether on business or on
a social visit, you will find
that you are in an atmos-
phere of homeliness when
you stay at “Scott’s.”
Inclusive Tariff—
or Room Only
as desired
Breakfast,
~ Luncheon,
Dinner
a la Carte
OUT/TANDING SERVICE
Telegrams and Cables,
“ ScottsotelMelbourne.
’ Phone:
Cent. 9010
(Twelve Lines).
f
