

HUGE ASSETS
HANDED OVER
Proof of Sound Management
Bondholders in N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd. (now shareholders in their own Company,
N.Z. Forest Products, Limited), will now more than ever be able to appreciate the
value of their investment. During the short period of 13 years there have been
established over 100 million trees of various softwood species on
170,000 Acres
The growth of these plantations has been remarkable. Competent observers describe
the work done by N.Z. Perpetual Forests,, Ltd., as a magnificent achievement.
This Company, by its sound policy and prudent administration, has done more than
merely carry out its obligations to bondholders. In the terms of the Compounding
Agreement, which has just been ratified by the Bondholders Incorporation Commission
N.Z., there will be transferred to the bondholders’ Company, N.Z. Forest Products,
Limited, not only the valuable planted forest of I 70,000 acres, but in addition cash
and assets exceeding
£1,300,000
of which approximately £1,000,000 is in cash and liquid assets. This major transaction
will enable N.Z. Forests Products, Limited, not only to maintain and further develop the
plantation, but also to commence the work of cutting and marketing the forest. With
continued prudent and progressive management, investors in N.Z. Forest Products,
Limited, can view the future of their Company with every confidence.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS LTD.
Registered Office, Auckland, N.Z.
Head Office for Australia, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand, and Agencies at London, Bombay,
Singapore, Shanghai.
The Bulletin
y/furtT Jffiy Ch+AfafflSkt • $ fo.
Vol. 59.—N0. 3059.
Wednesday, September 28, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transra ssion by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
A SYDNEY "VAUDEVILLE."
Some Sydney printers having declined the honor
of publishing Ronald McCuaig’s poems, he bought a
hand press and ran off a limited edition of 150 copies
himself. With good paper and good (professional)
binding, the book is a pleasing job, with only a few
minor scars chused by the hand-printing, and they’ll
be treasured by book-collectors.
Some of the poems have been published in The
Bulletin, some in other journals. A few wouldn’t
suit newspaper publication, but those who consider
Huxley or James Branch Cabell inoffensive would find
this book very mild. McCuaig has taken Pope to
heart—“the proper study of mankind is man” —and
has found, not without amusement, that occasionally
that’s an improper study.
Vaudeville was a highly appropriate title: not
only does it signify that the poems are about people
rather than about things—a series of comedy turns by
contemporary types—but it indicates his intellectual
attitude: he sits aloof in his box while Sydney kicks
its heels for him:
The world is a disreputable theatre;
I am a critic of it
On bad terms with the manager
Because of my wit.
I shall go on speaking my mind,
Forcing him to the vague:
“Miss Jones, try to be kind
To Mr. McCuaig.”
And, seduced by her weary agility,
I shall grow into a grin;
I shall sign my name to futility,
And be taken in.
That couplet, “I shall sign my name to futility
And be taken in,” is typical in its humorous pessimism
of very much of the book. There is “A Meditation”:
Or you have her tagged on to you
For the term of your natural life,
And have to say, “This is my wife;
This is the best I could do.”
Like something or other; like a red crystal
Dropped into the pellucid cup
Of a man’s life; time melts it up,
And the lying purple permeates all.
I have seen how many a match
Has gone this way; how an honest man
With a clean mind can
Turn slowly to a lovely purple patch.
In this section of the programme the performers
are “The Old Girl,” “The Commercial Traveller’s
Wife” (an interesting attempt at a short story in verse),
“The Artist’s Model,” “The Banker’s Daughter” and
a few other such identities. There is “The Proposal,”
with its exquisite “insufficiently affable”:
I explained about my income,
Went into the question
Of woman’s place in the home
And my chronic indigestion;
Which could not but appear
Insufficiently affable;
The answer to the Maiden’s Prayer
Should be more congenial.
There are two less coldly cynical poems, “The
Art of Love” and “Music in the Air,” where young
talkie-going Sydney is the clown:- —
Her boss was a beast;
He kept her late;
Jack got a headache,
Having to wait.
There was music in the air
And the moon shone bright
When she came at last
On Friday night.
All the dilapidated mountebanks of Vaudeville
are presented for ironical but essentially sympathetic
applause, and among them there are half a dozen
very fine artists. There is the spinster of “The
Cheque,” for instance: “Young enough in wives, But
very old in virgins’ lives,” she writes the cheque for
her insurance so that when she is 53 or so she will be
assured, if not of the fullness of life, of the continu-
ance of living.”
In the company are two or three excellent singers.
McCuaig at his best has a pure, cold lyrical quality
that accords perfectly with his intellectual clarity:
You’ll sleep till sunrise
And we’ll rise early
And through each other’s eyes
We’ll see things clearly,
And never be dismayed
To find them shoddy,
And never be afraid
Of anybody.
As we talk scandal and
A kind of wit
We alone understand,
Or maybe just sit
Quiet while the clock chimes
Patient to-morrows
And smile sometimes
At old sorrows.
There is “Beauty and the Beast,” an icy, glitter-
ing poem, ending:
On whom the moon shines with the wan
Wavering smile of a plain woman
Who feels that love is not enough
And knows she has no more than love.
And there is “Betty by the Sea,” where he uses the
classic approach—no fancy thoughts, no fancy words
- —to get a quiet effect that any romantic might envy.
The kindly sun has drained away
Her lifelike suds on washing day,
And left her in this chair on the sands,
Clasping her flowers with laundered hands:
As though a storm of breeding-pains
And work and worry, which scoured her veins,
Had passed, she opens tired eyes,
Like still seas, to vacant skies.
This verse is something new in Australia: it is
urbane verse for an urban civilisation, in direct oppo-
sition to the early balladists or the contemporary
“pastoral” poets. There is plenty of room and ample
justification for both varieties. .
It’s far from a new thing in the world. C hinese
poets were observing the manners of their day in
800 b.c. :
Common people are not good;
They turn their backs on one another, each his own way.
He who has got the cup won’t pass it on
Until there is nothing left in it.
In English letters there are the Elizabethans and
Pope ; and, of course, in approach and in technique
McCuaig has learnt much from Pound and Eliot. I
shall grow into a grin” is very much “I shall wear
white flannel trousers and walk upon the beach.
McCuaig’s lady whose beauty is “a lazy razor” is
sister to Ezra Pound’s friend, “like a skein of loose
silk blown against the wall.” In Erench poetry, on
which Pound and Eliot drew heavily, there are Bau-
delaire and Laforgue ; and Verlaine’s “Fetes Galantes
are a romantic’s vaudeville.
Though the poems have little resemblance to
Auden’s obscure turbulence, McCuaig is, like Auden,
a post-Eliot social satirist; and, again as with Auden,
his verse has its own validity. Its sources are unim-
portant ; every poet has to learn his trade somewhere.
He shows, particularly in the delicate lyrical pieces,
that he is an original and skilled craftsman.
A Cynic Surveys Europe.
For his survey of European affairs viewed from
a foreign correspondent’s vantage points, Douglas Reed
picked a cynical title —Insanity Fair (Cape). It is a sound
signpost to Mr. Reed’s state of mind. He has been
through an apprenticeship that couldn’t be bettered
for turning out a complete cynic.
Leading up to his main business he has a few
chapters of autobiography in which he describes a
boyhood lived in “a grey vista of ugliness and repres-
sion,” a school-teacher who forced him to lie and
then flogged him for it, a term of war in which, the
’plane he was in being attacked by a German fighter
from below, he was wounded in a most undignified
sector.
Any of those schools alone might have turned
out a cynic ; for a finishing academy he drifted into
journalism. He was a temporary secretary to North-
cliffe ; then, in 1928, went to Germany as a news-
paper correspondent, spent the next seven years there,
reported the Reichstag Fire trial, saw the end of
Hindenburg and the rise of Hitler, and since has been
in Russia—with Anthony Eden’s mission—Austria, the
Balkans and elsewhere in Europe where things have
been moving.
On p. 68, which is where he begins to get into
his stride, he makes a statement in the light of which
the rest of his book might best be read:
I went to Germany without knowledge, but with
prejudices, born of the sinking of the Lusitania, the
execution of Nurse Cavell, the shooting of Belgian
civilians at Louvain, the bombardment of Paris, the
bombing of London.
The indignity of the sort of wound he received
would also be hard to forgive, but he overlooks it.
One thing, he is frank, and he gives the impression
all through that he is being as fair as his state of
mind will permit. From time to time, for example,
he makes such statements as that after his seven years
there an enormous admiration for Germany had taken
place in him. He produces very little support for
such statements, however, while crowding his book
with observations and opinions which, in their general
effect, amount to an exceptionally savage and biting
attack. He believes Germany should have been
crushed militarily, instead of the war being ended
when it was. He becomes more and more cynical as
the German scene works on his mind—bitter against
Nazi Germany; contemptuous of Britain for not
crushing Germany in the first place, and apparently
for not taking opportunities to do it since.
He first went to Germany in 1928, yet at that date
he “began to look for the crushed and starving and
desperate and bled-white Germany.” Failing to find it,
he is satisfied there never was such a Germany. Had he
not delayed his first visit till 10 years after the war he
would have found plenty of evidence that there had
been such a place. Then he could have walked the
hospitals and seen such sights as the hundreds of
children suffering from starvation madness. Doctors
who visited Germany at the end of the war would
testify to that awful spectacle if Mr. Reed interviewed
them, but it may be doubted if their say-so, or the
well-attested independent statistics and other docu-
mentary evidence of the state to which the war, and
especially the blockade, reduced Germany, would alter
Mr. Reed’s convictions, fixed by what he saw 10 years
later.
He could have learned that in Berlin the death-
rate of children between two and six years of age
rose by 49.3 per cent, between 1913 and 1918, and
that of school-children of from six to 15 years by
55 per cent.; that in German Austria 100,000 out or
the population of 7,000,000 died of starvation up
to the end of 1917. He might also easily have
acquainted himself with the contents of such docu-
mentary evidence as Professor Starling s Report on
Food Conditions in Germany, published in 1919, con-
taining this sort of information:
We found no spirit of resentment among the work-
men we spoke to, but simply a condition of dull depres-
sion and lassitude. Nor was there any sense of shame
at defeat or feeling for national honor. The men
wanted more food, especially fat, and all other matters
seemed of little or no importance.
In a great city such as Berlin it may be stated that
two-thirds of the population are living on a low level
of vitality; they are much wasted, and, when stripped,
they are seen to have no fat, the necks being hollow and
the ribs distinct. They move slowly and are dull and
apathetic.
That was Germany in 1918. Mr. Reed could
further easily have learned from similarly independent
eyewitnesses that the condition of children in the
Cologne hospitals after the Armistice, but while the
Allied blockade was still being maintained, was com-
pletely appalling. Instead, this smart and comfort-
ably-situated journalist goes 10 years late to the scene
and smugly puts himself forth as a witness.
He believes just what he wants to believe. To
give another instance, he describes the funeral of
Northcliffe:
Many thousands of people had part in it. The
funeral procession was miles long, the wreaths were
innumerable. He had felt himself a man without
friends.
It is a nice journalistic touch. The reader feels,
“Ah, and he had all those friends, after all!" That
is what Mr. Reed wishes him to feel: it might or
might not have anything to do with it that North-
cliffe hated Germany. That is on p. 60 ; a dozen pages
later Mr. Reed records the funeral of Stresemann.
Here again there were large crowds, but
Real mourning was little in the public mind.
To Mr. Reed Dimitroff figured as hero at the
Reichstag Fire trial; revisiting England, Mr. Reed
dropped in on the Commons, and the only speech
worth hearing was made by Mr. Maxton ; and, of
course, Stalin is the “greatest of the dictators. Mr.
Reed adds that, while political prisoners are herded
by tens of thousands in German concentration camps,
in Russia they are thus herded in hundreds of thou-
sands, so that may be his guide to comparative great-
ness He further states that Stalin “seems to be more
of a tyrant in his own right” than Hitler or Musso-
lini and “less the instrument and prisoner of power-
ful groups.” His version of Hitler is that the Fuhrer
is merely the instrument of the army, big business
and big landlordship; he also believes that Hitler will
eventually restore the monarchy. Generally the figure
of Hitler he sets up is of a weak leader ; anybody who
wishes can swallow that, but if many of Mr. Reed’s
readers do so it will be damaging to his further idea
that it is the Germans who are singularly gullible.
Mr. Reed gives out on p. 132 that “not much
more than one German in every three ever voted, or
ever would have voted, for Hitler at any free election.
On p. 136, when his purpose is not, as in that state-
ment, to discredit Hitler, but is to glorify Dimitroff,
he pictures his hero as “a lone Communist entirely
surrounded by seventy million Nazi Yes-Men, all itch-
ing to kick him”—that is to say, the entire population
(or a bit over) of Germany at the very time when
not more than one in three would have ever voted
for Hitler.
Mr. Reed is not, of course, singular in that sort
of thing. It is the natural output of a mind trained
and practised in modern journalism, wherein views
have taken the place of news, and the journalist
habitually writes to produce an effect at all cost, i
accounts for the bulk of contradictions and incon-
sistencies which have made a byword of Australian
cable news'. In day-to-day journalism it doesn t matter
much, so long as the journalist gets effects, but it
disastrously damages the impressiveness of a booK.
Other things are damaging in Mr. Reed s case, sucn
as his engagement with omens. It is duly set down
as an “omen” when the champagne bottle with which
Hindenburg is christening a ship fails to burst; it is
ominous for the Nazis when at a festival a bridge
collapses and about a score of people are drowned.
Such matters help to enliven Mr. Reed’s account and
make it all the more readable, but the noting ot them
does not indicate a mind quite up to the vast job to
which Mr. Reed’s mind has been put.
Still, prejudice and the journalistic habit allowed
for, Insanity Fair is a capital book to read, me
author has been in the thick of European doings oyer
a most interesting decade, and has vividly writ en
chapters on all the outstanding occurrences me
shooting of Rohm and other leading Nazis in me
1934 clean-up (he puts the total wiped out Mll/o,
the official figure given out at the time was 77), t
taking-over of Austria; anti-Jew activities (as ne
depicts it, Jews had pretty well complete control oi
the professions and business in both Berlin ana
Vienna). The book has sold well in England; it wa
already in its twelfth impression when a copy reacnea
the Red Page. It has the flavor of Pinkness which is
popular in England just now: that curiously incon-
sistent political outlook which detests Nazis ana
Fascists as “dictator-led” people but admires the Rus-
sians, and which yet puts its hope in a Conservati
Government for Britain—preferably, Mr. Reed seem-
to imply;, one led by Mr. Eden.
An Eighteenth-Century Literary Gent.
This year is the 160th anniversary of the death
of Voltaire. It would be interesting to hear what ne
would have had to say about present-day Europe.
Playwright, satirist, historian, he was born ai
Paris in 1694, was not expected to live and was bap-
tised privately. He could easily have imagined himsffl
a supernatural phenomenon, for, although at no u
in his life would an insurance company have taken
out a policy on his account, he lived to 84 and enjoyed
every experience except boredom. Always ill a
often dying, he did the work of half a dozen averag
literary men put together. His correspondence a<.
* aS Arfematiated as a corpse, from fifty onwards he
looked like a skeleton, out of whose mouth,
poured a continuous stream of satire, raillery a
o Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE.
fg
A<S>'
Z
1
3
,»>«
8&
Kto&m.' <
I k’;tw
■m
k\
mi
ft
1
....
■ ■■■
- ; :
?
(
#
;• *&
Jy#**-:
A > : *
..
r\
77/
M
...
10
A
HpP
; r
\\
=7^
’’AERTEX" SPORTS SHIRTS
1. —Soft, absorbent cotton "Aertex" Sports Shirts for
ho! days. Made with collar attached. Fawn, Grey.
.Saxe, Bottle and White. Half sleeves. Sizes 14l
to 17 inch neck. At Anthony Horderns' PRICE. 7/6
DRILL BEACH SHORTS
2. —Cut for comfort. White or Khaki Drill Beach
Shorts. One hip pocket,; adjustable buckle sides.
Sizes 34 to 44 inch waist. At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE , i - - 3/11
Also an a stouter drill, with 2 front and 2 back
PJWCE .... .. 5/11
"MERITAS” SURF TRUNKS
3. —All wool, ribbed knit adjustable belt with rust-
less buckle. Marone, Green, Royal and Black, with
contrasting side stripes. Sizes 34 to 40 inch waist
At Anthony Horderns' PRICE 10/6
GY M PIE ■'"AERTEX" SHIRTS
4. —"Aertex" Sports Shirts in fancy self shades of
Blue, Grey, Green and Fawn. Half sleeves. Sizes
14| to 17 inch. At Anthony Horderns' PRICE, 12/6
"LUSTRE" ART. SILK UNDERWEAR
6 .7T C ,° 01 ? n i d comfo , rtab le Men sAn Silk Undershirts
athletic styJe, no sleeves White ox Sky Blue. Sizes
34 to 44 inch chest At Anthony Horderns' PRICE, 3/6
Also with short sleeves, button front PRICE ' ' 5/6
••bustre” Art Silk Trunk Drawers White or Sky Blue
front 3 PRICE 44 mCh WdiSt ' Wi,h band al waist, button
Also with elastic band at waist. PRICE *4/5
• Mercery—Ground Floor—George
all railicny stations in N.S.W. and
wealth.
Street. Freight paid to
seaports tn the Common■
QUALITY TIES AND SOCKS
7 —Fancy Half Hose in a wide range of striped and
check designs All wool, except ornament Sizes
,10 to llj inches At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, pair .. _ 2/6
8. —Smart and fashionable Neckties. Many dressy
designs. Blue, Green, Grey, Fawn and Marone
effects. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 2/6
9. Fancy ' Half Hose. "Hordura” (Regd.) make
Latest striped, check and diamond effects. Grey,
Marone, Blbe and Green All wool, except orna-
ment. Sizes 10 to lli inches. At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE 2/11
10. —Neckties in stripes, checks and figured designs
All the latest colourings. Double warps and silks
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE _ 4/3
s.—Men's Pyramid Handkerchiefs. Assorted fancy coloured
borders and. allover designs in a hundred different effects.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each. 1/3. Half doz.. 7/3
Also- in ' plain White Pyramid. Each, 1/-. Half doz., 5/9
And Fancy White Pyramid Each, 1/3. Half doz., 7/3
Anthony
FAMOUS
Horderns’
LOW PRICES
'PHONE M 2401. DAy OR NIGHT
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


£100
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £70
Second . . . £15
Third £10
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Stagnant Waters in Sydney
GUNPOWDER
TREASON
BY J. B. BLAIR
DRAWINGS BY UNK WHITE.
.... watched an
invisible smoke-
ring drift idly
towards the ceil
ing.
“IT must be a practical joke,” said Alderman
Mealymouth. “Why should anyone want to
I blow us up?”
He shuddered. Not alone, for at the sug-
gestion a simultaneous shiver passed through the stout
aldermanic frames of Sydney’s City Council.
“You never know,” cautioned Councillor
Upstreet. “They’re blowing up people everywhere
nowadays. Why not here?”
“Rot!” retorted Alderman Fishproof. “A lot of
nonsense. As Mealymouth says, it’s just a silly joke.
Someone’s pulling our legs. Tear the letter up, I say.”
“Well, gentlemen,” said the Lord Mayor, “I take
it you wish me to ignore this communication alto-
gether. You don’t consider it worth mentioning to
the police.”
Most of the councillors grunted assent. Coun-
cillor Eyewash, however, did not grunt assent. He did
not even grunt. He rose to his feet and bellowed a
protest. “Your Lordship, I object. This matter should
be treated seriously. It’s a threat not only to our-
selves but to the whole community. It is our duty not
to disregard it.”
“Tommyrot!” snorted Fishproof.
“Order!” begged the Lord Mayor.
“I ignore the remark,” said Eyewash. “I treat it
with disdain. This letter is probably part of a deep-
laid plot, and I consider the police should be
informed.’ ?
The letter which was responsible for Councillor
Eyewash’s concern was not the type of communica-
tion the council was accustomed to receive, and it was
no wonder that the city fathers were at a loss how to
deal with it. It could not in the strictest sense of the
word even be called a threatening letter. “Sinister”
would describe it better, and that, in fact, is the very
word that Councillor Eyewash used.
“It’s a sinister letter,” he said. “ ‘Sinister,’ that’s
what I call it.” He read it aloud, although his col-
leagues were already familiar with its contents.
Dear Lord Mayor, —
Don’t think me inquisitive or interfering,
but how does it feel to be sitting on top of a
volcano ? I know it’s no business of mine, but
what would you do if suddenly the Town Hall
was blown to smithereens while you and the
aldermen were in council ?
It would be a great sensation for the papers
if the whole council were blown to bits in one
big bang, but would you be there to read
about it?
Yours sincerely,
A Well-wisher.
“All right, all right!” said the Lord Mayor.
“P’raps we’d better let the police have it. Though I
still think it’s a lot of rot. ‘Sitting on a volcano!’
Ridiculous.”
"THAT afternoon the “Star” gave considerable
1 prominence to the letter. “SENSATIONAL
BOMBING THREAT—FASCIST PLOT FEARED”
shrieked its headlines. Next day the morning papers
were not behindhand in following the cue. The
“Trumpeter” supported the Fascist theory, and saw
in it a menace to democratic government in Australia.
The “Wigwag” professed to be equally alarmed, and
savagely attacked the Police Commissioner for having
failed to make an arrest.
Several days passed by. Councillor Eyewash
made lengthy statements to the press; the “Wigwag”
published lengthy state-
ments about the police;
the police sent brief reports
to the Town Clerk; and the
Town Hall remained intact.
"Just as I told you,” said the Lord Mayor. “A
silly practical joke. Volcano!”
That was five minutes before he received the
second letter. Briefer than the first, it read:
The Town Hall rumbles. It shakes and
shivers. The next rumble may mean destruc-
tion. The next shiver may be its last. Who
knows ?
The aldermen might certainly be excused for
paling a little on hearing this message. Even the
Lord Mayor was thrown off his guard for a moment.
Councillor Eyewash was quick to seize the oppor-
tunity.
“It’s genuine,” he said. “ ‘The Town Hall
rumbles.’ Why, we’re rumbling now.”
“Speak for yourself,” grunted Alderman Fish-
proof.
“The building, I mean. You know it rumbles.”
“That’s only the electric trains passing under-
neath.”
“Yes, but the note says ‘The next rumble may
mean destruction.’ Suppose someone set a bomb on a
train timed to go off when the train was due to pass
under the Town Hall. What would happen?”
“It’d probably blow up the Harbor Bridge, if I
know my trains,” replied Fishproof.
T'HE second letter was also given prominence in
1 the papers, and at question time in Parliament a
member asked whether the Government was doing
anything to investigate the threatening letters. The
Minister for Justice replied that the police were carry-
ing out full investigations, but they considered the
letters the work of a harmless but misguided practical
joker.
This reply brought from the Leader of the Oppo-
sition a demand for a royal commission to inquire
into the matter. An impartial inquiry, he said —if
such a thing were possible under the present Govern-
ment —would show them to be the work of a promi-
nent public man, not unknown to the Premier, and
one who stood to profit from the building of a new
Town Hall to replace the one destroyed. This was
the sort of dastardly plot, he concluded, which was
the logical outcome of years of exploitation and graft
in public life in New South Wales.
No royal commission was appointed, but Coun-
cillor Eyewash arrived at the next council meeting
with the gleam of battle in his eye.
The subject was raised very early in the meeting.
“I’m afraid it’s getting serious,” the Town Clerk
reported. “Two concert bookings and a monster
bridge tournament were cancelled to-day, and nearly
all the staff have put in applications for their annual
leave.”
“Getting the wind up?” said Alderman Fishproof.
The Lord Mayor interposed. “The matter isn't
worth discussion. A couple of silly letters, some
tommyrot in the papers and everyone expects to
find a bomb under his chair. We’ve more important
business to deal with.”
“But,” said one of the councillors, “I noticed
as I came in to-day that people seemed to be avoid-
ing the Town Hall. There were crowds of people
walking along the other side of the street and hardly
a soul on this side.”
“Well,” said the Lord Mayor, “the matter’s in
the hands of the police. There’s nothing more we
can do.”
Eyewash and several other members seemed to
be of the opinion that quite a lot more could be done.
Eyewash had a plan.
“The police are all very well,” he said, “but
their methods are stereotyped. We need a private
investigator—a man with a mind above routine. I’ve
thought of just the man. Stagnant Waters, the fellow
who cleared up the Cabinet murders in Canberra last
month.”
“Why not Sherlock Holmes?” It was Fishproof
again.
Eyewash turned on him. “Of course, we can
all understand why you don’t want a detective called
in.”
“You little rat!” spluttered Fishproof, suddenly
angry.
“Order, order,” implored the Lord Mayor.
“I agree with Councillor Eyewash,” said one of
the councillors. “The thing should be investigated.
This man Waters is probably the best available. Why
not try him?”
Lengthy discussion followed, and it soon appeared
that a majority was in favor of putting Stagnant
Waters on to the case.
“Well, you know what I think of it,” said the
Lord Mayor. “Still, if that’s your wish we’ll have
to go ahead.”
EDEFORE Stagnant Waters arrived in Sydney two
*—'more letters had been received. One spoke in
parables:
Vesuvius slumbers for centuries, but it
always awakens. And what follows ? Destruc-
tion ! A smouldering fuse may take a long
time to reach the gunpowder, but when it
does
The other was more direct:
The hour is at hand. To-night the clock
strikes twelve, but will it strike again ?
If the earlier letters had caused people to give
the Town Hall a wide berth the publication of these
later epistles had the same effect as proclaiming that
portion of the city a plague area would have had.
Shops in the vicinity closed for lack of customers,
and pedestrians and motorists alike made detours to
avoid the danger zone. Railway- and tramwaymen
held a stop-work meeting. Trams ceased using that
part of George-street, and all the Central to Wynyard
underground trains were diverted to St. James station
on the other side of the city, causing endless con-
fusion and congestion.
After Stagnant Waters had met the council.
Councillor Eyewash took the Great Master of
criminology in hand.
“I don’t think you’ll have any trouble,” he said.
“You’ll probably put your fingers on the culprit right
away. As a matter of fact, I think he’s got the wind
up or he would’ve struck before this. I believe”
“Are you sure he intended to strike?” asked
Stagnant Waters, blowing an invisible smoke-ring.


“Oh, absolutely. There was something in what
Mr. Whang said in the House the other day. You
read about it, I suppose?”
“I read everything,” replied Stagnant Waters with
a touch of asperity.
“Of course.”
There was silence for a while. But not for long.
“You know,” said Councillor Eyewash, “I’m not
one to speak behind a man’s back, but as you’d be
sure to find him out before long there’s no harm in
putting you on his scent now. I’m sure Fishproof
is the man.”
“Fishproof?”
“Yes, you know. The tall chap with the”
The detective interrupted him somewhat hastily.
“Yes, yes. You forget I was introduced to all
the council. I never forget a face or a name, Mr.
Eyewash. You might get someone to show me to my
room.”
A COUPLE of hours later Eyewash returned to the
■'* fray. Accosting the Great Detective as he left
the hotel he fell into step beside him.
“Well, Mr. Waters,” he began, “is it too soon
yet to ask whether you’ve formed any hypothesis?”
“I don’t form hypotheses,” replied Stagnant
Waters. “They’re a waste of time. When I form a
hypothesis it is no longer a hypothesis; it’s a
solution.”
“We were discussing Fishproof. You know, if
the Town Hall was blown up and had to be rebuilt
his firm would probably tender for the contract and
make a whole lot of money.”
“What reasons have you for suspecting Fish-
proof?” asked Waters.
“First of all, there’s his motive. Then the way
he's been ridiculing the whole thing—obviously with
the intention of diverting suspicion from himself.”
Stagnant Waters did not appear convinced. Eye-
wash played his trump card.
“Finally,” he said. “There’s evidence in one of
the letters. That one about the smouldering fuse. In
the letter Fishproof—er, the person who wrote it —had
first put ‘match,’ then he’d crossed it out and sub-
stituted ‘fuse.’ ”
“Match,” murmured Stagnant Waters, showing
interest for the first time.
“Yes,” said Eyewash, feeling that he was getting
somewhere at last. “Match. Fishproof is very finicky
in council letters about getting the exact shade of
meaning. What I think is that after he’d written
that letter he read it through and said to himself,
‘Tch! Matches don’t smoulder; I’ll change it to
fuse.’ There’s many a man been betrayed”
“ —by habit,” completed the detective.
“You think there’s something in it then?”
“I certainly think you’ve stumbled on something.”
By this time they had turned into George-street
and were approaching the Town Hall corner. At this
point all through traffic was turning left into Park-
street in order to avoid passing the doomed building.
Ahead for a distance of two hundred yards was an
absolute desert of bitumen and concrete. No tram
or car, not even a bicycle or pedestrian, sullied its
surface.
Stagnant Waters stepped into the danger zone,
and after a momentary hesitation Councillor Eyewash
followed.
“Hey! ” A policeman called them back, but they
ignored him.
“Gee! ” said the policeman. “Look at those crazy
fools going into no-man’s-land!”
Those near him looked in amazement at the
intrepid pair.
“Why,” said one excitedly, “it’s Stagnant Waters!”
“Who?”
“Stagnant Waters, the chap that cleared up the
Canberra, murders!”
~~ y ¥h& word ran back through the crowd. “That
tall bird crossing the street. Didn’t you see him?”
“No, where?”
The crowd thrust forward, and in their eagerness
to get a close view of the Great Detective they were
soon surging across no-man’s-land. Across the
road they poured close in the wake of Eyewash and
Waters. Cars and taxis, caught in the surge, struggled
on as best they could, and in a few minutes the for-
bidden area looked like any normal city corner in the
midst of a traffic jam. Additional traffic coming up
from lower George-street, instead of turning into
Park-street as had become customary, merely followed
those in front.
Seeing no-man’s-land crowded, people seemed
to assume that the danger threat had passed, reason-
ing that otherwise the place would have still been
deserted. After a while, even a tram ventured through.
Others followed. Finally, the news being communi-
cated to the Railways' Department that George-street
was back to normal, the Underground resumed its
ordinary schedule.
Reporters were early on the scene, but could glean
nothing more substantial from the crowd than that
Stagnant Waters had been responsible for the public's
change of attitude.
The “Star’s” front page that afternoon proclaimed
STAGNANT WATERS LI FIS TOWN HALL
HOODOO.
It is understood that Mr. Stagnant Waters, the
famous detective, has arrived at a solution to the
mystery surrounding the threats to destroy the town
Hall. No arrest has yet been made, but citizens may
rest assured that the civic headquarters are now sate.
It will be remembered that Mr. Waters recently solved,
etc., etc.
WHEN the Great Detective and Councillor Eye-
wash at last escaped from the clutches of the
former’s admirers and were safely back in the Metro-
pole lounge, Eyewash resumed his pumping. “You
agree with me that Fishproof is the most likely suspect
then?”
Stagnant Waters sat back in his chair and watched
an invisible smoke-ring drift idly towards the ceiling.
“I will not exactly say that,” he replied ; “but
since you have taken such an interest in the case I
shall give you an idea of the correct line of reasoning.
You were right in assuming that the threats weie not
inspired by political motives but for personal gain.”
“Fishproof,” murmured Eyewash.
“You were wrong, however, in assuming that
there was ever any intention actually to carry out the
threats.”
“Then where does the gain come in?”
“What has been the result of the letters so far?"
Eyewash thought for a moment. “Well, traffic
has been disorganised and”
“Exactly. Now, where has this traffic gone?”
“Most of it has been diverted into side streets,
and the underground trains have gone to the St.
James line.”
“Doesn’t that suggest anything to you? Could
anyone be the gainer from that? Anyone near St.
James station that would profit by the increased
traffic?”
“By Jove! You don’t mean Wayward Bones?
Their store is right opposite St. James. That’s it!
Good heavens, yes! I see it all now. Fishproof has a
large wad of shares in Wayward Bones. Why didn’t
I think of it before?”
Stagnant Waters smiled. “Meet me outside
Bones’s at ten to-morrow and I’ll show you our man.
Good-day.”
“I knew it! I knew it!” Eyewash triumphed to
himself after the detective had left. “It’s Bones’s
annual meeting at ten to-morrow. He’s going to pick
Fishproof up as he enters the building. What a
victory!”
AT a couple of minutes to ten next morning Coun-
cillor Eyewash approached Bones’s corner with a
light, springy step. The Great Detective was already
there, apparently filling his time talking to a crippled
match-seller. Scarcely had he greeted Eyewash when
the tall figure of Alderman Fishproof approached.
“Ah, good morning, Mr. Waters,” said the latter.
“How goes the investigation?”
“It’s over,” replied the detective.
“Good! Got your man?”
“He’s not far from here. I’ve sent my report to
the council. You’ll hear all about it in due course.”
“Smart work.”
Eyewash stood by expectantly. A couple of men
turned into Bones’s. Fishproof, with a “See you later,”
followed them.
“Well, we’ve just time for a drink before 1 leave
for the airport,” said Waters. “Come on.”
“Aren’t you going to have the scoundrel
arrested?” asked Eyewash as they moved off.
“Good heavens, no! He’s harmless enough.”
“Harmless! Fishproof, that scoundrel!”
“Oh, Fishproof’s all right. He didn’t have any-
thing to do with it.”
“But you said Wayward Bones’s”
“I didn’t; you did. I merely asked you to think
of someone who would gain by the rail traffic being
diverted to St. James. Bones’s would certainly profit,
but there is a strong reason why they wouldn’t be
guilty.”
“What is it?” asked Eyewash sullenly.
“A question of taxation. A demolished Town
Hall would mean a big bill for rebuilding. Increased
council rates, towards which Bones’s, as big city land-
holders, would have to pay heavily.”
Eyewash thought a moment. “But you said there
was never any real intention to blow up the Town
Hall. You said it was only a bluff.”
(<Continued on page 7.)
Ahead for a distance of two hundred yards
was an absolute desert of bitumen and con-
crete. No tram or car, not even a bicycle
or pedestrian, sullied its surface. Stagnant
Waters stepped into the danger zone.


To Sea in Ships
ALL
CLEAR!
BY STEVE BENNETT.
DRAWING BY SUCH.
MURDERERS don’t always deserve hangin’. I
sailed with one thirty-five years ago who
should have got a gold medal!
I’d been stayin’ at French Jake’s for a
fortnight, and after a merry little party he’d arranged
for us one evenin’ I woke next mornin’ in the fo’c’sle
of a windjammer, in time to hear the lads chantyin’
up a tops’l and the Old Man hollerin’ a hearty good-
bye to the skipper of the returnin’ tug!
Slim Couell, another of Jake’s boarders, was
sittin’ at the table lookin’ pretty white about the gills
an’ revivin’ himself with a mug of coffee.
“For the love of Mike, give us a swig,” says I.
“And where’s this box bound for?”
He let me gulp a few mouthfuls before he
mumbled: “ ’Frisco, I guess.”
“ ’Frisco, hell!" I snorted, climbin’ out of the
bunk. “Jake was to get me a ship for Falmouth! ”
“Well,” says the Yank very dismal, “if you’re for
Falmouth and I’m for ’Frisco this limejuicer’s prob-
ably headin’ for Kamchatka!”
I took a squint along the deck and found she was
a barque. “What’s her name?” I asked.
“God knows,” he groaned ; then stepped out to
look at the bell on the fo’c’sle-head. “Orelanna.”
“Might have been worse,” I told him more
cheery. “She’s been waitin’ on a crew for Auckland.
Where’s my sea-chest?”
“Along with my bag, I reckon,” growled Slim.
“Jake’s takin’ care of ’em!”
“By the livin’ God!” I swore, “if it’s the last
thing I ever do I’ll slit the gullet of that frog-eatin’
thief!”
With no blankets and no clothes but what we
were wearin’, we coiled up in our bunks to sleep off
the last of French Jake’s dope.
'"T HE crowd were scramblin’ in for dinner when I
* woke again, and Slim was already settled down.
He was laughin’ at the sight of an old-timer who’d
been kickin’ round the port longer than we had.
“Say, Billy Barnet,” he was askin’, “did you come
aboard by the same route as me and Scotty?”
“I came aboard just two hours ago, sober an’
with all my gear,” says Billy, grabbin’ a couple of
spuds. “I know my way about too well to be caught
by a buzzard like Jake Loreune!”
“Loreune?” pipes up a young chap sittin’ beside
the Yank and openin’ a newspaper. “What do you
know about Loreune, anyhow?”
“I’ve known ’im for the dirtiest sneak this side
o’ hell!” Billy shouted pretty fierce. “Eighteen
months ago ’e dumped me aboard a German barque,
with no more clothes than these two fellers ’ave got,
an’ ’im pinchin my advance note for a month’s wages
after some rat signin’ my name! Crimpin’?” says he.
“The worst port in the world for crimpin’ is Newcastle,
an’ the worst crimp in Newcastle is French Jake!
Now, young feller, you know!”
“And now you know,” laughs the youngster,
fillin’ his mouth and foldin’ the paper back, “that your
old friend won’t do no more crimpin’. Last night
he was throttled!”
I looked hard at Slim as I hopped out of my bunk,
but he was leanin’ over anxious to read the news.
A cluster of heads was gatherin’, when the Yank
suddenly stood up and snatched the paper, crumpled
it to a ball, rushed outside and chucked it overboard.
“Wot’s bitin’ that blighter?” snarls a bloke who’d
been stretchin’ his neck over Slim’s shoulder. And
the young feller says, very low: “He was runnin’
his finger under the headin’ Description!”
When Slim came in again everybody watched
him, but nobody spoke for a long time. Then old
Billy Barnet got snappy.
“I’d ’ave done it long ago,” says he, “if I’d been
game l ”
He glared round, noddin’ to us all, and we took
the hint. “So vould I!” shouts a Dutchman at the
end of the table, with others backin’ him up.
“Whoever had the guts
to kill French Jake,” I
chimed in, “ought to be dealt
with pretty severe for allow-
in’ the swine to live ten years
too long!”
“If ’e ’adn’t been choked
last night,” old Billy decided, grinnin’ across very
pleased at me, “it would ’ave been done later by the
’angman!”
We got to laughin’, and the youngster started
in with a little tale about the daughter where he’d
been bpardin’. By the time dinner was over most of
the crowd were spinnin’ yarns and forgettin’ French
Jake.
D ARNET was picked for the skipper’s watch, and
'— } Slim came into the mate’s with me. The old-
timer got very friendly with the Yank ; and I reckoned,
by the urgin’ he seemed to be doin’ in their confi-
dential confabs, that he had the same trouble on his
mind as I had. So I came at it one evenin’ while
him and me paced the deck together.
“I wouldn’t be surprised, Billy,” says I, “to be met
outside Auckland by the police.”
“Neither would I,” Billy said quite casual. “It’s
been done before.”
“A feller might swim ashore if the Old Man was
to edge in close enough roundin’ the North Cape,” I
hinted.
“I’ve thought o’ that,” he whispers. “It’d be
better, anyhow, to drown than to ’ang!”
We talked over a few little schemes, and next
evenin’ in the second dog-watch I kidded the Yank
to take a turn on the deck with me.
“Old Billy and me have been plannin’ things,” I
told him. “Could you swim a mile?”
“Not a darned yard! ” says Slim ; and my heart
dropped.
Neither of us spoke for ten minutes, and my
brain was buzzin’ around in so many directions that
I nearly collapsed when he stopped and grabbed my
arm.
“Say, Scotty!” he whispered, all excited, “what-
ever happens, can you keep your mouth shut?”
“Yank,” says I, grippin’ his paw, “in anythin’
to help you I’m an oyster!”
Old Barnet joined us then, and I put an idea to
him.
“Billy,” I said, “do you think we could get a
boat lowered one night if we quietened the mate some-
how?”
“Pinchin’ a boat from this lousy company,” Billy
snorted, “would be a worse crime than ditchin’ the
skipper ’imself!”
“Well,” I told him, “I’m willin’ to do that if it’s
necessary! ”
“I’ve just told you, Scotty,” growled Slim, “that
you’ve only got to keep your mouth shut!”
CO I did, pretty well; but I still noticed the old-
timer maggin’ to the Yank every chance he got,
tryin’ to pump a little courage into him ; and I felt
a bit narked.
My scheme, anyhow, was blown to the devil by
the gale that blew us a hundred miles off our course
and nearly turned the ship inside out. I’ve seen the
Tasman in nasty moods, but the dustin’ that blow gave
us for a few days had me wonderin’ if hangin’ would
be worse than goin’ to pieces on the Three Kings.
And after buckin’ our way through it we rolled
round the North Cape at midnight in a sea that a
good oarsman in a ship’s boat might have beaten for
five minutes.
Down the coast at daylight the wind eased to a
calm, so we hung out every rag. Then in the
evenin’ we got it light from the south’ard which
started the Old Man on a rampage!
He set that crowd workin’ at the braces like
bullocks, heely-hauleyin’ right through the first watch ;
and he stood in so close on some stretches that X
was jumpin’ joyful at the certainty of pilin’ up! But
the old dog knew that coast better than a Greek
prawner knows Sydney Harbor; and each time he
roared “Lee, ho!” and we came round with our stern
almost on the beach I felt like bawlin’ back at him
“Closer, blast you, closer! The Yank can’t swim!”
Just before midnight the wind dropped again,
and I went below with the watch, dog-tired. I had
dozed off with my pipe on the piller when the call came
for “All hands!”
The cursin’ of that bunch tumblin’ out again
made the lamp-wick splutter! Old Billy was rousin’
the laggards with spray from his wet oilskins and
chasin’ everybody out like a farmer shooin’ his
chooks. And Slim was laughin’ like an overgrown kid
who had never seen anythin’ funnier.
The ship lay over to a westerly, buryin’ her
rails ; and we let halyards and sheets fly, draggin’
at downhauls and clewlines till we had enough canvas
off her. Then we crawled aloft to make it fast.
I crept out on the fore-to’gallant yard. I knew
Slim was follerin’ me, but I couldn’t see who else
was there. We got our side snug, and I was leanin’ over
the yardarm guessin’ our speed by the foam splashin’
white from the bows when the Yank suddenly scared
me almost into the ditch.
“Man overboard! Man overboard! ” he blared
like a sick cow. “Man overboard on the port side!”
He was movin’ in toward the> mast, and I hopped
after him along the footrope like Blondin’s clown,
shoutin’ for information. But he seemed to have lost
his nerve, because all I got was old-fashioned Yankee
abuse.
“Down from aloft!” the mate yelled ; and as we
hit the deck, “All hands lay aft!”
We mustered and answered to our names —except
Billy Barnet.
“Don’t hang around like stiffs,” shouts someone
pretty game. “Let’s get a boat out!”
The mate was willin’, but he cooled off with the
rest of us when Slim began to moan: “No use, boys,
no use! Billy can’t swim a stroke!” And then the
skipper chased us back to our work, sayin’ that one
of such a small crew was enough to lose.
SLIM was very downhearted about the old-timer,
and it was only natural that I should be more
anxious than ever about Slim. We were in the gulf
early next mornin’, and I asked him at breakfast if
he didn’t think there were worse deaths than drownin’.
But he wouldn’t look me in the face, and I pitied him
for a chicken-hearted greenhorn!
The police met us, sure enough, off Rangitoto.
Their launch steamed alongside, the Jacob’s ladder
was lowered and three of ’em climbed aboard. Then
the order came: “Muster aft, all hands!” But I had
slipped into the fo’c’sle, puzzlin’ my brains to sort out
the best of God knows how many queer tricks, when
in bounces Slim himself.
“You’d better go along with the crowd!” he
snapped, bustlin’ to the little forepeak hatch and
fumblin’ at it like a frightened kid.
“Might as well go yourself,” says I. “A blind
idiot could find you down there!”
“Lay aft, damn you! ” he snarled very savage. So
I left him to it.
The dees eyed us up and down as we toed the
mark on the main deck, and I was feelin’ very shaky.
Then I spotted the Yank, tightenin’ his belt and
lookin’ all flustered, strollin’ aft to join us!
They watched him close till he had stood last in
the line, as dismal as a wet hen ; then one of them
turned on the skipper a bit grumpy. “The man we
want, captain, signed on your articles as William
Barnet! ”
“Good God!” gasps the Old Man. “Suicide!”
And the whole crowd suddenly found so much to
tell that the dees just got annoyed and took the
skipper below for a written statement. Then we
started clewin’ up sail, with the tow-boat in sight.
That evenin’ Slim kept me yarnin’ in the fo’c’sle
fill the other lads had gone ashore all dressed up.
Then he took a few biscuits from the barge, raised
the forepeak hatch a little, and dropped them down
as he whispered: “Below there! But the time you’ve
chewed that lot, old shippy, you’ll find ‘All clear ! "


Stagnant Waters frowned. “How do you expect
me to explain things if you keep interrupting? You
don t think a big organisation like Bones’s is going
to descend to practical jokes?”
“But if”
“The obvious person to look for then was one
who would gain from the traffic diversion but would
not be liable for council rates”
“Look here,” broke in Eyewash. “You promised
you’d show me the man at ten o’clock. All this
talk”
“You’d better take these,” said Stagnant Waters.
"I don t smoke cigarettes. The only person who
answered that description was that crippled match-
seller you saw me buy them from. He’s the man, all
right. He’s been simply coining money the last four
days.”
Eyewash was dumbfounded as he took the packet
of cigarettes the detective held out to him.
Waters continued. “That explains your clue of
the altered word. I saw it immediately you men-
tioned it. He scratched out ‘match’ and substituted
‘fuse’ immediately he thought it might give him away.
It’s all in my report to the council. You’ll hear all
about it at the meeting this afternoon.”
T' HE Town Clerk had just finished reading Stagnant
Waters’s report. Councillor Eyewash sat back
exuding importance—the detective in his report had
paid him a neat compliment, and, although he was
disappointed at the failure of his Fishproof theory, he
felt that he was at least entitled to the council’s thanks
for his assistance in solving the mystery. But his
satisfied look soon vanished.
“A match-seller,” chortled Alderman Fishproof.
“Can you beat that!”
The Lord Mayor was not amused.
“We can’t prosecute a match-seller,” he said.
“And a cripple at that! Whose idea was it calling
in a detective? Nice lot of fools we look now. Hiring
a famous detective to trace a match-seller! I said all
along it was a practical joke.”
“It’s no joke,” protested Eyewash. “The fellow
was in earnest. He stood to make a lot of money.
He”
“We understand,” said the Lord Mayor. “You
made us put Stagnant Waters on the job, and you’ve
made us all look a pack of fools. Match-seller! A
practical joke those letters were, and”
“They were not!”
“They were, and you can have the lot, and here’s
another to add to them. It arrived just now.”
Eyewash took the letter. It read:
Dear Lord Mayor of Sydney, —
I hope I haven’t put you to any incon-
venience. It wasn’t your Town Hall / wanted
to blow up but another one. My wife addressed
the letters wrong. She is very sorry. Hoping
you are the same.
A Well-wisher.
“The next item on the agenda,” said the Lord
Mayor, “is the attitude we are to take this year regard-
ing the lighting of bonfires on Guy .Fawkes Night.
You will remember that last year”
Alderman Fishproof sprang to his feet. “I move,”
he said, “that Councillor Eyewash be appointed a
committee of one to deal with the matter.”
The motion was carried with one dissentient.
WATER
BY LES ROBINSON
DOCTORS advise us to use more water, while
the Water and Sewerage Board has been
threatening to cut off the supply unless we use
less. It is far easier, I have always found,
to carry out the Water Board’s instructions. No one
on bitterly cold mornings is less likely to incur the
displeasure of the Water and Sewerage Board, or of
the Soap Board either, if there should happen to be
one and the supply of that commodity ever runs low,
than I am.
Although it has tried to drown me a few times
I by no means hate water. I am not in the least
vindictive. I bear it no ill-will. I have, on the con-
trary, always endeavored to be unstinting in my
praise of it, though there have been occasions—as, for
instance, when my feet slipped from under me on
saturated clay and I found myself floundering
in a deep and muddy pool—when the temptation not
to praise it has been almost irresistible.
My life has been so closely, so intimately asso-
ciated with the active principle of so many other and
less insipid fluids that a job in a laundry or an
aquarium would not in the very least, if indeed at
all, be a novelty to me. I think I must have been
born under a constellation that at the Weather Bureau
would be regarded as indicating that dampness of
indefinite duration was inevitable. Certain people
undoubtedly attract it, much as others do dogs, blights
of one kind and another, lunatics or fleas, and I am
one of them. So many of my outings, so many of
my innings and belongings too, particularly when the
roof leaked or when floodwaters invaded my abode,
have been ruined by moisture that I refuse to attri-
bute these far too frequent and copious sousings to
errors of judgment on my part, misconceptions regard-
ing the weather, or to mere coincidence functioning
blindly and without intending to be a nuisance to
anyone in particular.
Water, water everywhere, in, upon and all round
me, gushing, glupping, gurgling, glucking, dripping,
swishing and swirling. I should be invited, at the
public expense, to spend a week or two in drought-
stricken localities. Water conservation would then be
unnecessary; divining and firing cannons at the clouds
superfluous. The Water and Sewerage Board should
hire me to stand alongside its reservoirs next time
they’re nearly empty, and I’d take my mackintosh,
umbrella and goloshes with me, too.
“Whenever you arrive it rains!” friends exclaim
jokingly; and enemies snarl when they see me—wet
through or very damp indeed usually—squelching and
plootching towards them. “There you are! What
did I tell you? The water’s subsiding!” or “It’s going
to be fine at last,” they say when I am leaving.
| HEAR water-hens clucking in the early morning
A to their broods, and wild ducks quacking. Water-
nymphs are to be heard and seen disporting them-
selves or reclining on a not-distant sandspit. Frogs
quark, blip and make curious squeeging noises. Water-
spiders skate, water-beetles skim, tadpoles waggle, eels
and leeches wriggle, shrimps dart, fish splash, bitterns
boom, curlews wail, cranes and herons wade all round
and, after torrential and continuous rain, even under
my abode, which is perched precariously on stilts,
though why, as there is plenty of perfectly dry land
within a stone’s-throw of where the back fence, before
it was washed away, used to be, I have never been
able to find out.
I have a pump of course, a lifebelt, several life-
buoys, a towrope in case the services of a tug should
at any time be needed, a hawser or two for potential
mooring purposes, an enormous sponge, a large quan-
tity of blotting-paper, an anchor and chain, a harpoon,
a water-spaniel, a water-pistol, a water-bottle, jug and
strainer (water-beetles and tadpoles aren’t, except to
fish, nourishing in the least), a semi-submerged forest
of watercress upon which and memories I subsist for
the most part, a pet tortoise that, when there are no
slow flies about, subsists upon them too, a waterproof,
watertight boots, a bowl of water-lilies and a water-
melon vine—at least I had the night before the last
flood.
Is it any wonder, in such an ambient, that water
and its denizens should penetrate my very dreams?
What do these dreams mean? That you have water
on the brain, the knee or a floating kidney, perhaps,
you will answer drily. My dream-book, however,
omits to mention anything of the kind. All it does
say is that “To dream of bathing in water at a tem-
perature of less than forty degrees Fahrenheit shows
that the heat you have experienced on the previous
day has affected your mind slightly, but the matter
is not serious. For people who have no minds of
their own this dream may show that somebody else
has been affected by the heat.”
Although dwelling on the edge of that marsh or
morass, I have not as yet joined the Waterside
Workers’ Union. This may seem to indicate that I
do no work there. Well, of course, one of the few
advantages of living half in and half out of, as you
might say, and every now and then entirely surrounded
by water is that, apart from any Herculean or half-
hearted attempts at water-exclusion you may or may
not keep on making from time to time, there isn’t,
unless you possess a dredge or a diving outfit, any
work of a manual nature, at all events, you can do.
All communications addressed to the secretary,
Grand and Ancient Order of Oozy Oolies or Water-
drinkingonlyites, will receive my prompt and un-
divided (even by aqueducts, creeks, waterspouts, tidal
waves or waterfalls) attention.
PAID-OFF
BY G. MUNRO TURNBULL.
Gilbert Munro Turnbull, dead recently at
Bellingen (N.S.W.) after a brief illness, had
been known as a Bulletin short-story writer
for nearly 20 years. Born at Llandudno, North
Wales, in 1890, and trained as an architect,
he followed the profession in U.S.A., Canada,
Mexico and the South Seas. In 1914 he entered
the Papuan civil service, and upon his retire-
ment four years ago had reached the job of
Government Architect.
His work took him through the length and
breadth of Papua. His observations found expres-
sion in numerous first-class stories, many of
them being for The Bulletin, others for Eng-
lish and American magazines. He wrote two
serials especially for The Bulletin, “Paradise
Plumes” in 1929 and “Alien Corn” in 1931.
Both were issued in book form by the London
publisher Stanley Paul, the latter under the title
of Disenchantment. Three years ago the same
firm published Mountains of the Moon, and a
fourth novel, Portrait of a Savage, is on the
press at the moment.
Turnbull was a sincere and conscientious
craftsman. Modest and unassuming, with few
leisure interests apart from his writing and big-
game fishing, he could be persuaded on his
infrequent visits to Sydney only to listen to the
stories of a few journalistic cronies.
This little sketch of Papuan plantation
workers he submitted only a few weeks before
his death.
A GANG of paid-off plantation laborers, each
man clutching a fistful of greasy paper money,
descended upon Charlie King’s trade store at
Kaputari. They fingered the trader’s stock, mak-
ing audible and unflattering remarks on the quality of
his sheath-knives, the tinniness of his mouth-organs,
the color of his cotton prints, and the shoddiness of
his stock in general.
No man of discernment, they declared loudly,
would disfigure himself with Sali’s glass beads, nor
wear his rubbishy belts, nor smoke his mildewed
tobacco. No woman, they assured one another, would
be tempted from her lawful lord by Sali’s vile-smelling
scents. They hawked and spat and eased their itch-
ing hides against the verandah posts. They squatted
on their hunkers, combed their frizzy mops and
rattled their lime-gourds.
They were fools of very large size, they asserted,
to waste their good money when, at Port Moresby,
there were palaces overflowing with kaikai, knives that
opened and shut, camphor-wood boxes with enchanted
bells that tinkled musically when one turned the key,
white man’s tobacco in handsome tins, packs of cards
that made men rich in a night.
Ai-eeJ They would buy this white man’s cutter
and sail her to Port Moresby, and spend their wages
in a manner befitting men of wealth.
Charlie King, blind, deaf, dumb, leaned over the
counter and smoked his pipe. This was an occasion
when he feigned complete ignorance of any native
language. A couple of tame and virtuous store-hands
from Hanuabada, in white loincloths and singlets,
draped themselves over the counter at each end. Their
faces expressed a lofty scorn.
The hubbub died down. A curious embarrass-
ment descended upon King’s prospective customers.
They fell to elevating their eyebrows at one another
in mute interrogation, poking one another in the ribs,
making sucking noises expressive of encouragement,
waiting for some bold spirit to take the initiative.
Charlie King beamed at them benignly over his
spectacles. “Well, my boys?” he inquired genially in
pidgin. “You fella want buy somet’ing?”
One of the older men advanced to the counter.
He critically inspected the shelves, the tinware-
festooned rafters, and scratched himself thoughtfully.
His eye alighted on a large ham, bought for the use
of the trader’s household, which hung under a rat-
guard from one of the tiebeams. “How much that
fella, taubada!”
If Charlie was surprised he made no sign. “One
poun’ fipteen s’ilin’,” he answered.
“Orright, taubada. I buyum sikkis [six] fella.”
“Ia !” his friends ejaculated in voices of extreme
disgust. The ice, however, had been broken. From
then on there was a rapid depletion of the trader’s
stocks. There were steaming cauldrons of rice in the
compound, store of tinned bullimakau, ship’s biscuits
and villainous “trade” tea. About the fires was a
ceaseless movement —a motley of gaudy loincloths
decorating the persons of King’s customers, a couple
of village loafers in patched trousers and deplorable
felt hats ; women with hibiscus blossoms in their hair,
their eyes sly with invitation, and police in the red-
braided blue serge of authority.
While the trader counted his takings, his guests
fell to with rousing cheers. “The white man Sali,”
they told one another through full mouths, “is, in
truth, a Number One taubada.”


bitter epigrams. When he was seriously ill he let him-
self off by writing verse instead of prose. He suffered
from extraordinary changes of temper, giving way
readily to an antagonist, only to hurl himself at him
from another direction. Yet he kept his friends all
his life and his mistress for most of it. He was the
only distinguished member of his middle-class family,
which was rising to prosperity as drapers, tanners and
lawyers. His chief passion was a hatred of persecu-
tion. He found more fuel for his emotion than any
other Frenchman.
He left college at 16, determined to be a literary
man, though his father wanted him to be a lawyer
and sent him to a law school. He refused to take the
slightest interest in the law, and his father got him a
junior diplomatic position.
At 19 he fell in love with a Protestant, and
got his first taste of persecution when the French
Minister at The Hague interrupted the match by having
him arrested and dispatched back to Paris. He im-
mediately joined in the sport of lampooning the
Regent, Philip of Orleans, who symbolised all the
self-indulgent vices of the period, and he was banished
under suspicion from Paris. This punishment was
light for the times. A poet who satirised the mean-
ness of Louis IV. was kept in an iron cage for six
years on Mont St. Michel. All Voltaire had to do
was to live as a guest in the magnificent ducal palace
of Sully, write when he wished and make love to the
ladies.
But he boasted of his authorship of some of the
libels on the Regent, was charged with writing one
he had not written and sent to the Bastille. Here he
had his own books and dined at the governor’s table,
where the company was better than outside, for poli-
tical prisoners were generally not the dullest part of
French society. While he was in exile he made him-
self the most popular of the French playwrights.
In 1725 he was set on by the bullies of the Cheva-
lier de Rohan and severely cudgelled. It was neces-
sary for him to fight a duel to save his reputation,
but an aristocrat could not fight with a commoner,
even if he were a genius. The Rohan family had him
arrested, and back he went to the Bastille. A few
weeks later he was set at liberty on condition that he
left the country, and he embarked for England. There
he became enamored of British institutions, and on
his return wrote the Lettres Philosophiques to enlighten
his fellow-countrymen in regard to English ways of
living. The book was burnt by the public executioner,
and the author was obliged to seek safety from arrest
in Lorraine.
Meanwhile his authority in literature had been
rapidly extending ; he received a seat in the French
Academy, and was invited to Berlin by Friedrich of
Prussia, his friend and correspondent. There was an
academy at Berlin of which Friedrich was naturally
proud and which Voltaire as naturally held up to
ridicule. A diatribe he wrote was burnt by the public
hangman, and he was driven to escape to Paris. The
hostility of the clerical party was now thoroughly
aroused, and he finally sought refuge in Switzerland.
For the next seventeen years he remained the patriarch
of Ferney and the most interesting man in intellectual
Europe.
From Ferney Voltaire conducted a defence of
the Calas family which caused as immense a stir in
eighteenth-century Europe as Zola’s defence of Drey-
fus did in the nineteenth. In 1778 he was invited back
to Paris, entered it as a national hero, was welcomed
by princes and people and nearly choked to death
with roses. His late success in life probably killed
him off as surely as his early failures had preserved
him.
It is how the fashion among literary gents to
complain of the restrictions on freedom of expression,
especially in dictator countries. But nobody has been
able to prove that there are more restrictions now than
there were in the days of Voltaire. And nobody has
been able to prove that there are fewer individuals
proportionate to population expressing themselves in
the dictator countries than there are in a democratic
country like Australia. A complaint is a very different
thing from a criticism, and the suspicion arises that
the complainants’ trouble is that they have nothing
to express, rather than that the obstacles to expression
are insuperable.
The career of Voltaire shows that the resistance
he had to meet in the eighteenth century was as great
as the resistance he would have had to meet in the
present, even in those countries where the mass-
production of opinion has become a Government
monopoly, or where financial syndicates control
almost all the organs of enlightenment. The resistance
offered to Voltaire was what enabled him to fly, just
as air does to an aeroplane. An aeroplane could not
fly in a vacuum.
F. S.
"Winter in April."
Robert Nathan’s new novel, Winter in April
(Constable), is thinnish, but it has delicacy and charm.
It is written in the progressive present —like a diary.
The story moves forward but the time is always now,
a flexible device that brings the action as close as
possible to the reader.
Not that there is much action, for this is a sub-
jective study of a very young girl’s first love, told by
her grandfather. Ellen is 15, a child and a woman,
and her grandfather has brought into the house a
young, unhappy secretary, a fugitive from Germany,
Eric von Siegenfels. She falls in love with him with-
out understanding what has happened to hen “It
is the time of innocence, for which we shall do our
mourning later.”
Ellen is very sympathetically drawn. Eric, too,
stiff, romantic and homesick —“Poor Eric, he is a
liberal; if there is still a home for him anywhere in
the world I do not know where it is”—rings true.
He feels the call to go and fight in Spain, and very
gently, as he came into it, he slips out of Ellen’s
life. “I guess maybe I don’t want to grow up so
hard,” she said. “But I guess maybe I’d better.”
This story is treated with a tenderness that is
very attractive. It is adorned with some beautiful
descriptions of New York, some apt witticisms, such
as the description of a certain kind of modern novel
-—“lt seems to me to begin at the bottom and then
go still further down.” There are a few neatly-turned
incidents and a limpid stream of poetic prose.
On the debit side is a rather overwhelming pawki-
ness. There is such a sweet old gentleman, a 24-carat
grandfather, and he takes far too much trouble to
let the reader know it.
Nathan’s earlier novel, The Enchanted Voyage,
reviewed on this page some months ago, was a fan-
tasy, a string of charming impossibilities. Winter in
April sets out to be something very different, an inti-
mate psychological study, but Nathan lapses occasion-
ally into his former manner to the detriment of his
present subject. An intrusion of fantasy, as when the
grandfather commits a quite elaborate burglary to
get Ellen a party frock, undermines the reader’s con-
fidence. It is a pity that the author has not been
able to resist these sugary whimsicalities; they jar.
The War on Disease.
Paul de Kruif, an American publicist who reports
the latest advances in medicine and surgery, contends
in The Fight for Life (Cassell; Angus and Robert-
son) that most of man’s sufferings from disease could
be cured or prevented if only sufficient money were
available to apply the remedies already worked out
by science.
De Kruif tells the history of four great battles
against death, and they are all community struggles.
They are the efforts to secure safety to mothers in
childbirth, the scientists’ battle against infantile para-
lysis, Detroit’s crusade against tuberculosis and the
campaign to wipe out syphilis. To these is added in
the prologue a brief outline of the virtual stamping-
out of pellagra in the southern States of America.
Pellagra killed all whom it attacked. It was
believed to be the result of some parasite or microbe,
and very little notice was taken of it. It was confined
to the cotton-pickers’ cabins till the Mississippi floods
of 1927, driving the sufferers into the relief camps,
made it a public scandal. The Red Cross organised
against it. Doctors de Kleine and Goldberger led the
battle.
Pellagra was discovered to be no microbe sick-
ness but to be due entirely to faulty and insufficient
diet. Good food was the only medicine needed or
of any use. Simpler and cheaper, an ounce of yeast
a day was enough to keep the cotton-pickers in good
health and to bring those actually dying of pellagra
back to health. By this means, and by encouraging
the negroes to grow vegetables for themselves, the
scourge was practically wiped out in a year or two.
In the far more detailed account of the struggle
to lower maternal mortality, De Kruif tells the story
of the Chicago Maternity Centre. It was founded by
Doctor Lee and run practically out of his private
purse. It is manned by two highly-qualified doctors,
Beatrice Tucker and Harry Benarou, and a number
of Dr. Lee’s students who work for the experience.
There is little money but endless care, alertness and
discipline.
The great majority of the babies are born, not
in hospitals but in slum homes, dirty, overcrowded
and without even the most ordinary conveniences;
yet out of 9370 births in succession not one mother
was lost from childbed fever, which in the nation at
large takes one out of every 400. Their deaths from
any cause whatsoever averaged out at one in 1282
cases in 1936. It is argued that if these results can
be obtained among the poorest, the most ignorant
and the most careless section of the community, work-
ing with students and without expensive plant, there
must be a great deal of preventible mortality else-
where.
The story of “Men Against the Maiming Death”
is one of medical pioneering. Infantile paralysis
presented what looked like an insoluble problem.
It was a disease that appeared to be wholly
capricious, striking down strong children and pass-
ing over the weak ones; mild cases often ended
fatally, yet children sometimes recovered completely
from violent attacks. For a long time it was a mys-
tery how the disease was transmitted, and it was
through experimentation with monkeys that it was
discovered that germs found their way to the brain
through the nerves of smell and that they returned
to menace others also down the nose.
The paralysis can be controlled in monkeys by
the simple method of sealing the roots of the nerves
high up the nose with a 1 per cent, solution of zinc
sulphate. The question now is will the treatment that
makes a monkey immune also protect a child? The
problem is how to try it out. To get results it will
mean spraying the noses of all the children in a threat-
ened city. It is a delicate operation which must be
performed by skilled and experienced people. It must
be done at frequent intervals. It causes headache and
distress, and the children fight all out against it. It
is a very delicate problem in community organisation,
but it offers hope where before there was none.
In turning to tuberculosis, the author attacks
differently. He describes how Detroit staged a twelve-
day campaign in the Detroit “News” and over the air
against this disease, which was on the up-grade in the
city. The cry was, “Taxpayers, save your money!”
Every advanced case of consumption that came to
the city hospitals cost the city about 3000 dollars to
cure —or perhaps not to cure —and before admittance
the sufferer had had endless opportunities to infect
others.
To cure an advanced case —and most could be
cured by the new technique of lung-rest—took at least
18 months of hospital care, while an early case could
be cured in nine months at less than half the expense.
The scheme was to get money to open clinics through-
out the city, to persuade the citizens to offer them-
selves for examination and so to weed out and send
for treatment all those infected. The campaign was
successful. The money rolled in, the clinics were
established, and it was the poorest and supposedly
most ignorant people, the negroes, who showed them-
selves the most willing to co-operate by coming volun-
tarily to be examined. The extermination of the
disease in this one area seemed probable.
The last section of the book proves that syphilis
even in its last stages is curable, and tells how the
technique of induced high temperature—“machine
fever” —was beaten out and perfected, at first by in-
fecting the patient with malaria, then by the aid of
short-wave wireless generators, and finally by a
cheaper and safe method of air-conditioning.
The prose style of The Fight for Life is rather
gluey, full of hyphenated words, such as “good-
doing,” substitute words such as “microbe-hunters”
for bacteriologists, “birth-helpers” for obstetricians,
“death-fighters” for doctors and frank coinages such
as “happenstances.” The sentences are often clumsy
and involved, but there need be no doubt about the
intrinsic merit of the book.
Gerhardi's Comedy.
William Gerhardi goes to considerable pains to
explain to his readers that his new novel, My Wife’s
the Least of It (Faber), is a comedy.
Jn the preface, called “A Letter to a Reader,”
he explains the nature of humor and elucidates the
general character of the book. In another prologue,
called “Prelude and Genesis,” which purports to be
an interview between Gerhardi and the principal char-
acter, Mr. Baldridge, he justifies, at length, the choice
of title.
Baldridge had once, round about 1904, been a
successful author, and his novel Dixie made a con-
siderable splash in the world. Then he went out of
fashion and his fortune declined rapidly. He tried
everything, from salacity to piety, without being able
to please. Then a great new hope arose in his life.
He turned Dixie into a scenario and offered it to the
motion-picture industry.
The bulk of the book is taken up with his efforts
to sell the script. He acquires an agent who is as
bright as a boiled fish, a patron who subjects him to
every humiliation, a host of friends who make idiotic
and self-interested suggestions. He alters his story a
hundred times to suit everyone, introducing the coro-
nation, earthquakes in Japan, Mary Queen of Scots,
night clubs, Ruritania and even, final sacrifice, a black
heroine.
No one refuses the script, but no one accepts it.
The film world gives wherever he touches it; he is
welcomed blandly, encouraged, and then he finds he
has been cultivating the wrong man, or the company
is undergoing reconstruction, or the fashion has
changed. All the time the fruitless negotiations are
going on Baldridge’s fortunes sink lower and lower.
He is put to every desperate shift to live. At last, in
a fury of exasperation, he steals a film magnate's
wallet and goes to gaol for it.
There he learns the art of spiritual healing from
a high-minded fellow-convict, and when he is dis-
charged makes a modest livelihood giving treatments,
plus massage. This brings him into touch with Adel-
aide Crossland, a rich and foolish woman, whom he
marries on page 483. It is the custom in the Cross-
land family for the money, about eight millions, to
pass to the next of kin whenever one of them either
dies or goes mad. The family has dwindled to Adel-
aide and a cousin, Adelaide being the possessor of
the fortune. Both ladies are failing in mind. Fortu-
nately the cousin is certified just before Adelaide, and
so Mr. Baldridge retains the property.
The point of the title is that, though Mrs. Bald-
ridge is insane, her affliction, considering the far
greater madness of the whole world, is scarcely worth
mentioning. The whole book presents a picture of
inconsequent idiocy that would be hard to better.
Baldridge’s salvation is as preposterous as his suffer-
ings, and they both go to the tune of a repetitive
gibber—the conversation of Marigold, a prize idiot;
the charitable enterprises of Lady Barnstaple, “The
Home for Victims of Charity” ; the recurring visits
of the handsome young man trying to sell insurance ;
the agent for vacuum-cleaners who always appears
when Baldridge is at his lowest, and the irrelevant
advertisements of a concrete corporation.
While the film motif occupies the major part of
the book, a second interest, the charity racket, is added
toward the end. This is a very badly-made novel, but
it is full of brilliant flourishes, and some of the scenes
in it are inimitable. The whole book is a labyrinth
of twists and turns, hidden quips and concealed jests
and satires within satires.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
Murder in the Hurricane: Eustace L. Adams
(Methuen). One of a series of entirely new thrillers
for sixpence. New York to the Caribbees in a run-
ning fight with gunmen.
Dakota Marshal: Lynn Westland (Nicholson and
Watson). Trouble that arises when Panhandle Griffith
shoots an old man who turns out to be the father of
Johnny Stanford, U.S. marshal in the Dakotas.
Twenty-four Tales: Gerald Bullett (Dent). Light,
bright and pleasant, most of them. Magazine style.
The Last Express: Baynard H. Kendrick
(Methuen). Good gangster thriller with a blind sleuth
and a German shepherd dog.
“P.P.”: Mervyn Skipper’s Meeting Pool and
White Man’s Garden, favorably reviewed by the Red
Page some years ago, have since been translated into
Czech and Finnish. Now the Nazi Literary Bureau
has passed German editions of the two.


DON CUTLERY
Made by Cooper Bros. & Sons, Ltd., Sheffield.
REGENT.
42-piece Canteen, containing—
-6 only each Dessert, Soup and Tea Spoons
6 „ „ Table and Dessert Forks
6 „ „ Table and Dessert Knives
Spoons and Forks DON Guaranteed pure White Metal.
Knives Mirror-finished Scimitar Blades.
PRICE 75/-.
Can also be obtained in Sterling Silver Plate
At 100/-.
DON SALAD TONGS.
SUMMER TIME IS SALAD TIME.
Don Salad Servers. Guaranteed Stainless. Attractively Boxed.
PRICE 10/6 Pair.
Name of nearest supplier given on application.
Sole Agents: T. W. HEATH PTY., LTD., Box 1389 J, G.P.0., Sydney
Tea Sets, Dinner Sets,
After-dinner Coffee Sets and Electric
Table Lamps to Match.
DAINTY SHAPES
EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS
Write for beautiful illustrated Catalogue and name of nearest
distributor. Enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost of packing and
postage.
*Sole Agents:
T. W. HEATH PTY. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 1 389 J, Sydney.
Perfect non-drip
Easy to fit
Long life
CC3O
Registered No.
9425.
Slightest pressure
cuts off water supply
6d. per card containing two washers
If unobtainable locally, two washers on a card, giving instructions, will
be mailed on receipt of six penny stamps. State size of tap, tin. or jin.
HOLDTITE, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney, N.S.W.


An appropriate Yuletide Gift to friends in England
a case of
FAMOUS
AUSTRALIAN
WINES
SEPPELTS ARRANGE DELIVERY... No freight charges to pay !
Mil
1
; ■£<
WM
• ■
': It:,
' >, . . . i " .
W&
mMMmm
mm
. //to'/
*>**r
■ . ir—
MoTu>:<4
; g- • ~
tmMm.
Westminster A bbey
at home and abroad, Seppelts
Wines enjoy a wide reputation for
excellence and purity. They are always
welcome . . . especially are they appre-
ciated on any festive occasion. What
finer or more appropriate gift could
you choose for friends or relatives in
Britain? A gift of a case of Seppelts
assorted wines carries with it the cor-
rect atmosphere of good cheer and
fraternity that symbolises the spirit of
Yuletide.
yHE cases are assorted, containing
dry, still and sparkling wines to
your selection. Delivery is made from
Seppelts London House; thus you have
no freight charges to pay. To each
hamper will be attached a card or letter
bearing your personal message.
Prices commence at 36/- and full
details can be obtained from any of
Seppelts Houses.
For full information ring or Write to
B. SEFFELT & 50NS LTD.
King William Street, Adelaide; Collins Street, Melbourne; Sussex Street, Sydney;
Queen Street, Brisbane; Packenham Street, Fremantle; Crystal Street, Broken Hill.
London Office: Australia House.


“EQUALITY OF SACRIFICE.”
“Why aren’t you Empire guys away fightin’ for poor little Czecho?”
“Why aren’t you?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ams.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
CHAMBERLAIN'S TASK.
The chorus of praise for Mr. Chamberlain was
drowned by an orchestra of objurgation. This started
even before the Anglo-French proposals for the pre-
vention of a frightful war to maintain an untenable
position had been published. The loudest local
performer was “S. M. Herald,” which beefed out
something about “Macbeth, as he nerved his hand
to plunge the treacherous dagger into Duncan.”
Duncan is, of course, Dr. Benes ; Macbeth is—well,
the old girl never deliberately forgets that she is a lady.
Mr. Churchill’s contribution was “They had to
choose between dishonor and war, and they chose
dishonor.” Mr. Churchill’s anguish is understandable :
as in 1920, he had proposed a Grand Alliance, like
Marlborough’s, with himself leading it—against the
Nazis this time, not against the Bolshevists.
The American section of the band also blared
at full strength. The British Empire is familiar with
solo performances of novelists like Mr. Dreiser and
Mr. Upton Sinclair, demanding that it should go to
war in Spain or China ; and no doubt on this occasion
the Dreisers and the Sinclairs and Hemingways encored
themselves. But reporters of the American uproar
refer only to newspaper brasses and their thunderous
variations on the theme that Britain and France
“funked” it and have entered on their decline and fall.
This is champion humbug and champion cheek.
The position reached this month had been working
up for years. During those years the Washington
Government did nothing but fold its arms, and now
and again issue feeble threats from a far-away fence.
The U.S.A. shares the responsibility for the
creation of Czechoslovakia. When Masaryk was
working for the dissolution of the Austrian Empire
he was supported by American influence and money.
In September, 1918, the American President issued
a. declaration recognising the existence of “the
Czechoslovak nation.” On October 27 the dying
Austro-Hungarian Government also recognised it and
addressed a request for an armistice and peace
negotiations to President Wilson.
In the meantime the German members of the
Austrian Reichsrat had declared themselves “the
Provisional National Assembly of German-Austria.”
They set up the Republic of German-Austria, the
unfortunate Emperor Charles having accepted their
bloodless revolution. On October 29, 1918, they were
joined, the Encyclopedia Britannica says, by “the Ger-
mans of Bohemia and Moravia.”
On the day following the attainment of Czecho-
slovakian independence the Germans of Bohemia and
Moravia —the so-called Sudetenland Germans—declared
the districts where they predominated a province of
the new Austrian State. It was not until the treaty of
St. Germain was concluded, on September 10, 1919,
and the Austrian Government released the Germans
from the oath of allegiance they had taken to the new
Austrian republic, that the Germans desisted from openly
fighting against incorporation in the Czechoslovak
republic. Their claim to self-determination was rejected
by the Peace Conference.
Rejected, that is to say, by President Wilson, who
was then the most powerful man in the world.
Rejected in spite of his own principle of self-determi-
nation, conceded to the winners and those who sided
with them at a fortunate moment, and denied to the
losers. So if the Americans thought the precarious con-
tinuance of the Synthetic Republic worth another world
war —a republic including, against their will, 3,500,000
Germans and smaller minorities of Poles, Hungarians
and Slovaks —their Government should have made it
known that they would be in the war if it came.
Their Government did nothing of the kind.
Though its ambassador in Britain was a constant
visitor to the Foreign Office, it refused all responsi-
bility for Czechoslovakia. When things were approach-
ing a crisis, and when the crisis arrived, it never once
mentioned the subject.
The French, for their part, shrank from a war in
which they could gain nothing and might lose every-
thing. If Russia came in it would be, for France, a
war on at least two fronts and in all their colonies,
with a dismal prospect of invasion from the Pyrenees
as well. And French doubts about the Mighty Soviet
War Machine could not have been allayed by Lit-
vinov’s belated and scared collective-security speeches
at Geneva. Meanwhile the Czechs’ Rumanian and
Yugoslav “allies” shivered and busied themselves
with their own concerns; in colloquial Australian,
the Little Entente, put to the test, “wasn’t worth a
cracker.” And, so far from pitching into Germany,
as Australians have been assured they would do, the
Poles and Hungarians showed every sign of a deter-
mination to grab pieces of Czechoslovakia. On all
these points the Australian public has been ignor-
antly and wickedly and dangerously deceived.
No doubt Mr. Chamberlain had a lively sense
of the plight to which war would reduce Australia
and Maoriland, with skeleton armies, few and slow
fighters and bombers, rudimentary anti-gas and anti-
aircraft defences and not enough warships to protect
their sea-borne trade. Being a statesman, he must
think of such things, although they elude the minds
controlling newspapers published in Australia. He had
to consider also that British offensive action would be
restricted to the Royal Navy, and that one of the
inevitable forms of retaliation would be the bombing
of Britain itself. He had to decide whether the im-
perilling of the British Empire and the possible useless
sacrifice of its young manhood and its treasure would
be a fair price to pay for a temporary maintenance
of Czech ascendancy. Very possibly he read the
Encyclopedia Britanrtica in search of historical paral-
lels. If so, the subjoined passages must have come
under his notice.
The Congress of Vienna fixed the boundaries of the
Kingdom of the Netherlands, and the Constitution was
promulgated on August 24, 1815. From this date until
1830 the history of Holland and Belgium is that of two
portions of one political entity, but in the relations of
those two portions were to be found from the very
outset fundamental causes tending to disagreement and
separation.
The difficulties might have been smoothed away in
the course of time had the Belgians felt that the Dutch
were treating them in a fair and conciliatory spirit.
This was far from being the case. Belgium was
regarded too much in the light of an annexed territory.
The idea that Holland was the predominant partner
naturally provoked the feeling that Belgium was being
exploited for the benefit of the Dutch.
The grievances of the Belgians were very substantial.
The seat of government was in Holland; the king was
a Dutchman. The great majority of the public offices
were filled by Dutchmen. In 1830 of the seyen members
of the Ministry only one was a Belgian; in the home
department out of 117 officials 11 only were Belgians;
in the ministry of war three were Belgians out of 102;
of the officers of the army 288 out of 1967. All the
public establishments, the Bank, the military schools,
were Dutch.
In his choice of measures and men, the king’s aim
was to secure prosperity by a policy of unification. This
was the object he had in view in his attempt to make
Dutch the official language for all public and judicial
acts and a knowledge of Dutch a necessary qualification
for every person entering the public service.
Substituting “Czechs” for “Dutch,” “Bohemia”
for “Holland,” “Sudetenland” for “Belgium,” “Sudeten
Germans” for “Belgians” and “president” for “king,”
all those paragraphs could be applied to the situation
in Czechoslovakia. Indeed, the equivalent of every
reference to the exclusion of the dissatisfied minority
from the Ministry, civil offices and army posts and the
interdicting of its language has appeared of recent
months in the London “Times”: that and more. The
Belgians were comparatively prosperous *, the Sudeten
Germans have had to endure a prolonged depression.
The handing over of the Belgians to the Hol-
landers was a post-war settlement. That settlement
the British Ministers of the period had to alter ; and
alter it they did, even to the extent of joining with
the French to expel the Dutch from Belgium by force.
A corresponding duty, without the need for employing
force, had, in a far more dangerous situation, to be
accepted by the present British Government, and it
proved equal to the emergency.
In March Mr. Chamberlain refused to give the
Czech politicians a “prior guarantee” of “military
action to resist interference with Czechoslovakia’s
independence and integrity,” on the ground that such
a guarantee would allow them to drag the Empire into
war at their own sweet will. For this refusal he was
blackguarded by the pack of fools, knaves and ruffians
who have been warmongering for years, and howling
for a longer period that the British Empire needed
only shadow armies, navies and air forces, since
shadows, speeches and “collective security” would dish
all the dictators if applied in the proper proportions
in perilous hours.
The events of the present month, culminating in
the Czech mobilisation order, have shown how wise
Mr. Chamberlain was when he declined to let Dr.
Benes and his associates vote the Empire into war. He
was equally wise when, in an effort to prevent an
imminent and irresistible German march into Czecho-
slovakia, he decided to see Hitler. His two visits to
Germany have at least gained precious time at a season
when a gain of even a day is a contribution to peace.
But when his second visit was made the situation had
deteriorated. Blood had been shed in Sudetenland,
if not in the Polish part of Teschen ; and when blood
flows reason departs.
Although at the time of writing no express official
statement had been made at London, Paris or Berlin,
it is taken for granted that the Anglo-French pro-
posals provided for the cession of Sudetenland to
Germany and that Hitler agreed to stay his hand till
October 1. If the Czechs resist him in Sudetenland —
they having notified their acceptance of the Anglo-
French proposals —it will be no affair of ours. If he
goes beyond Sudetenland the British Government may
be obliged to break off relations with him, but that
need not mean recourse to arms.
Mr. Chamberlain’s great efforts for peace may
yet succeed. If they fail he can still save the Empire
from the black disgrace and peril of an alliance with
the anti-God Republic. With the Czechs’ arrange-
ments with the anti-God Republic the Empire is not
concerned. For the Empire an alliance with the anti-
God Republic would mean division and the alignment
of Italy, Japan, Poland and Hungary on the other side.
Australian Foreign Policy.
What leaders and other members of Oppositions spout
is not a trustworthy guide to what with a change of
places they would do; but accepting that those in
Britain have been speaking sincerely of recent months,
it is certain that had they been in charge the British
Empire would to-day be fighting for its existence,
It is possible that the responsibilities of office
would have prevented that. The Attlees, the Archi-
bald Sinclairs and the rest can hardly be quite the
complete asses their warmongering utterances indicate.
A shorter road to disaster was laid down by Mr. Eden.
Mr. Eden left no cause for doubt on what was his
conception of British foreign policy or where it was
leading. His idea of the British Foreign Secretary’s
job was that of being a dictator to dictators. He
brought to it that insular superiority which exas-
perates foreigners and leaves mere “colonials” in a
mixed state of confusion and contempt.
It was given out at the time of Mr. Eden’s resig-
nation and afterwards much protested that no change
in British foreign policy was to be read into his down-
fall. That was one for the marines. It has become
progressively evident since that Chamberlain foreign
policy is the active pursuit of peace, while the Eden
variety led positively to war. With his undoubted
sincerity of purpose, his so-called idealism, his in-
capacity to accept realities, his inexperience and his
shortcomings in statesmanship, it is certain that, had
the resignation of Mr. Eden not been enforced when
it was, the world dogfight would now be on.
It is a staggering thought that any such power
as that should reside in the one who happens to be
holding the job of Britain’s Foreign Secretary. Mr.
Menzies, in a striking speech in London in June—
unreported in the Australian press—said that, “in
spite of theorists, the foreign policy of the British
Commonwealth is to a large extent in the hands of the
Foreign Secretary” in London. Yet throughout the
term when Mr. Eden held that position and power
Australian foreign policy could be summed up in a
word —-Yes. Consistent, if nothing else, Mr. Lyons has
never deviated from that policy. At his first election he
called it “Tune in with Britain,” at the next “Imperial
co-operation.” By any name it comes to the same
thing: Australia is committed in advance to what-
ever British foreign policy may lead to, whether that
policy happens to be in the hands of a Chamberlain
or in those of an Eden or an Attlee.
Mr. Lyons has had the excuse that since he has
been Prime Minister a clear-cut foreign policy for
Australia has been something especially difficult to
formulate. Fie took over a simple ready-made policy:
support of the League of Nations.
Australian public opinion, wholly misled about
the efficacy of the League, is still suffering from the
shock caused by its collapse. The position has not
been made any clearer by the efforts to save the
League or’the still-lingering pretence that the League
is not dead at all, but is a live and valuable organi-
sation ; or, if you can’t swallow that one, with the
rush of members to desert it, that it is worth pre-
serving in a pickle of good hard cash for resuscita-
tion at some unspecified time in the future.
The plain truth is that, whatever value it may
have in dealing with general social problems and as
a museum, the League is conclusively dead as an
instrument of any nation’s foreign policy. Therefore
Australia at the moment has no foreign policy. It
has only Mr. Lyons’s Yes.
The issue of a national foreign policy has not
been put to its vote. At Mr. Lyons’s first election
“Tune in with Britain” was combined with “Support
the League of Nations, the cornerstone of British
foreign policy.” The “Imperial co-operation” of the
last election was on the issue of defence alone. The
isolation in defence which was all Labor could think
up as a national foreign policy was simple imbecility,
and got its deserts. But it was in the matter of defence
only that Mr. Lyons was given a mandate for Imperial
co-operation. He received no mandate for his Yes
to any direction that British foreign policy might
happen to take. Imperial co-operation there must be,
in more things than defence, but Yes to everything
is not good enough.
Mr. Lyons insists on all occasions that there has
been consultation. As Mr. Menzies pointed out, and
as he has repeated since his return, there is no consul-
tation with every Dominion “at the right moment and
with a mind which is open until that Dominion has
spoken.”
Mr. Menzies pleads for the strengthening of Imperial
co-operation by the one certain means by which it can
be strengthened. Both Mr. Lyons’s Yes and* a Labor
section’s isolation are mere evasions, and neither is
worth a hoot in the test of a crisis. Mr. Lyons’s poor
substitute for a foreign policy could well lead to the
disruption of Empire unity after the event. The Labor
imbecility simply negatives all idea of Empire unity
in advance, leaving Australia to its own defence.
Those other would-be arbitrators of Australian
foceign policy the daily newspapers, especially the
Sydney sheets, can be searched in vain for any con-
sideration of Australian interest whatever. They are
still bemused by the so-called “ideals” of the League
of Nations, still engaged with the fantasy of “col-
lective security,” still obsessed with the vision of
the British Commonwealth as the world’s policeman,
of Britain’s Foreign Secretary as busybody-in-chief
in European affairs. Australia is to them a State of
Europe. In all the ranting and warmongering ovei
Abyssinia, over Spain, over China and over Czecho-
slovakia there will not be found one sentence in
which Australian interests are considered.
It is time these would-be leaders in foreign
policy and the Australian public mind altogether gave
some thought to Australia itself, as a nation with
defence, White Australia, foreign trade and other
problems of its own. It is time there was some
return to realisation in Britain that the British Com-
monwealth extends beyond Europe, and that there
are sections of it which are only remotely concerned
with Europe’s internal problems, while having press-
ing and increasing problems of their own.
If there is to be Imperial co-operation the impli-
cations of it will have to be faced now. The section
of Australian Labor which puts its concept of a
national foreign policy into “isolation” can be written
off as hopeless. Mr. Lyons’s feeble colonial Yes is
equally no answer. Empire unity will not be found
along either of those roads. It can come only from
a true appreciation of the British Commonwealth as
a partnership.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Taxes Are Up Again.
Like its immediate predecessor, the Government at
Canberra, in fatuous reliance on Geneva, neglected
the national defences, and it has found itself obliged
to spend a lot of money on each arm of the service
at a time when every requisite is dear. It has been a
freehanded spender in less worthy directions, State
Governments and excrescences like the “National”
Travel Association having, in particular, found it a
good mug. Now, with national income slumping, it
has decided to go in for what it is pleased to call
national insurance, though nobody asked for the thing,
medical men are hostile, and wage-payers, salaried
and wages men are nervous of the effect on employ-
ment.
According to the custom of politicians, the people
will have to pay for the Government’s fancies, and its
sins of commission and omission. So 15 per cent, is to
be put on income tax, 1 per cent, has been added to
sales tax —making it 5 per cent —land tax is to go up
11.1 per cent, and tobacco is to be made dearer than
ever by increased excise duties.
The price of wool is down, largely because of
idiotic Government meddling, and drought has light-
ened the clip, particularly in N. S. Wales. Many
woolgrowers would be hard put to it to pay land and
income taxes on the old scale, let alone the new.
There could scarcely be a worse time for raising taxes.
The additional sales tax and excise duties will make
the cost of living dearer than ever for people with
small purses, and will very likely inspire old-age
and invalid pensioners to demand more.
On old-age and invalid pensions, which cost
£5,424,000 in 1923, the astonishing amount of
£15,800,000 was spent last year, and an increase to
£16,150,000 is anticipated for 1938-39. It is alleged
that national-insurance payments will relieve this
strain on the taxpayers in the dear and wished-for
years.
Budget Day in Canberra.
Note from a tourist:
It is a good job that some land-hungry dictator did not
see Canberra early on the day Parliament opened. He might
have mistaken it for a valuable but forgotten city, and
pinched it. At 10.30 a.m. Parliament House, as I judged,
was inhabited by three lady tourists, some messengers and
one independent member. The lobby of the Hotel Canberra,
supposed gathering-place of legions, sported a forlorn dele-
gation of two who had flown from the New Guinea goldfields
to talk about a road.
I sat in the shopping centre of Canberra for half an hour
observing the . state of trade. The shops on one side of a
,civic centre block were, during that period, entered by 11
customers. Somewhat depressed I inspected the Tourist
Bureau, and noted down a list of the contents of its windows.
Window No. 1: Top row of five big folders illustrating the
beauties of Western American trains. Second row, pamphlets
illustrating Switzerland and California as tourist resorts and
more U.S.A. wonder-trains. Then across the window is a large
picture of a train, the Matthew Flinders; the only indications
as to where it belongs are the letters “V.R.” on its front.
Below are two Swiss, one Czech, one Germafi, one Irak, one
S. African, one Brazil and three U.S.A. train advertisements,
with five small, unobtrusive N. S. Wales ones in a Corner.
In the foreground are a large and dominating map of Switzer-
land and 15 more U.S.A. and Canadian pamphlets.
No. 2 window is given over entirely to the advertising of the
Greyhound buses which span U.S.A. from side to side,
together with a big map of U.S.A. At the corners it has been
possible to crowd in two almost illegible cut-outs about dis-
trict Canberra bus services. And pasted on the glass is a
copy of a queer but complicated letter which is supposed to
describe Canberra and which is offered for sale at 3d. per
copy, including the stamped envelope to hold it. Nobody
seemed to worry about the Tourist Bureau. Yet at this time
Canberra is full of tourists, the countryside a glory of
blossom and the air like old wine.
The first impression of Canberra at present is that it has
been captured and monopolised by women. At the hotel 80
p.c. of the guests are women. In the buses—which are always
full—a census on four trips to-day gave only six men and
138 women. At the opening of Parliament a count showed
that women in the galleries were eight to one against the men;
but it was scarcely a scene which a strong man could look
on without reacting with violence. Even the spectacle of
W. M. Hughes sitting side by side with Dr. Earle Page, the
destroyer of his Priministerial career, lost its humor in the
general air of lassitude. As in the Commons always, in the
Commonwealth Parliament Budget day formerly was the most
important of the Parliamentary year. Other business tradition-
ally was curtailed; every member attended and listened.
Decorum was maintained even by ordinarily rowdy Houses.
This is how the most important Budget for years saw the
light on Wednesday; For two hours or so members delayed its
delivery with a bombardment of questions, all trivial, mostly
political, nearly all answerable by departmental officers, and
some merely ribald schoolboy humor. Nothing was asked
which could not have waited a week.
Then Mr. Casey advanced to the table, leant his elbow
on a dispatch box and, with his back to the chairman, read
his speech rapidly and conversationally. The Speaker, wigless,
carried on an animated and apparently humorous conversation
with Mr. Lyons within five feet of the talking Treasurer. Then
he had a chat with Mr. Menzies, which ended in his handing
over his wig. Mr. Menzies tried it on and handed it back.
Gradually Ministers and occupants of the public and press
galleries left the Chamber. Among those who remained was
a Government supporter, who yawned, picked up the “S.M.H.”
and read it conscientiously throughout the speech.
It is time that a few Budget sessions were held in the
larger State capitals, so that this slovenly Parliament could
be made to feel the impact of public opinion. It is no wonder
that younger and lesser members of the Opposition sometimes
lose their poise and get out of hand when they see such
exhibitions as were given last Wednesday.
"To Extinguish Debts."
On June 30, 1938, the Australian public debt had
reached £1,275,026,000. On June 30, 1927, it amounted
to £1,043,481,000, of which £672,120,000 was owed
by the States.
By virtue of the Financial Agreement, the Com-
monwealth undertook “to contribute from revenue
2s. 6d. p.c. p.a. and the States ss. p.c. p.a. into a
sinking fund to extinguish existing debts in 58 years.”
“Future debts raised after July 1, 1927” were to be
“extinguished in 53 years from dates of issue by the
establishment of a sinking fund to which Common-
wealth and States each contribute ss. p.c. p.a.” Yet
with “over £41,000,000” applied to State debt-redemp-
tion “since State sinking funds were established in
1928,” we owed at the end of the period £231,545,000
more than at the beginning.
Like the second Pitt, Dr. Page has “not been
happy in his attempt to conjure away the debt by-
establishing a sinking fund.” He is no reckless
borrower himself, but he and other Commonwealth
Treasurers have been surrounded by State politicians
who were and are reckless borrowers, and to those
gentry they have yielded. One consequence is that
the interest savings effected by conversions on- the
Australian and London markets are being fooled away.
A sinking fund is a good thing when it is honest.
The advantages are questionable when —as in Aus-
tralia —it is made an excuse for “vigorous” borrowing
and also for extortionate taxation and riotous expen-
diture. The truth about sinking funds has been pithily
stated by Goldwin Smith;
Only out of surplus revenue can a public debt be
paid. When there ceases to be a surplus, the sinking
fund must be kept up by borrowing, perhaps at a higher
rate of interest than that paid on the debt. Upon the
first pressing emergency, the savings box is broken open
and hands are laid upon the sacred stoic.
Compound interest is not a vegetable growth; it is
an accumulation of interest reinvested. In the case of a
sinking fund, the nation which receives the interest on
one hand pays it with the other and gains nothing
by the transmission from hand to hand. For an indebted
nation, there arc only three courses: to bear the debt;
to repudiate it; to remain at peace, save and pay.
Goldwin Smith is almost forgotten. That passage
of his writings deserves to be remembered.
Sir lan Hamilton Foretold It.
References to the European situation published in
the “S. M. Herald” editorial columns last week have
startled the Australian journalistic world. The gist
of them has evidently been cabled to London as repre-
sentative of Australian opinion; actually they
represent only the cockeyed views of Mr. Somebody-
or-other, behind whom stand an ill-informed univer-
sity professor and a few old ladies of the League of
Nations Union. The articles were such as might have
been written at Geneva by Mr. Litvinov and Mr.
Jordan; the grave position in which war for the
Czechs would immediately place Australia was never
once glanced at.
The “new” “Herald” is such a fanatic Leaguer
that it can seriously ask its public to believe this;
The desertion of Czechoslovakia now would shake
to its foundations every small State within and without
Europe Is not Australia just such a small State,
reared on assurances of protection through collective
security?
No, it is not such a small State. It is part of
the' British Empire, with a history of 150 years of
British settlement and of 37 years as a Commonwealth
—a Commonwealth which had been engaged in two
wars before collective security was thought of. Of
a piece with the fustian quoted were these further
passages:—
Czechoslovakia is not an Anglo-French condominium,
but a virile republic, about to celebrate proudly the
winning of a long-sought independence. It lias
developed that independence in the confidence inspired
by long-standing treaties of alliance with France and
Russia, treaties devised to meet just such perils as now
threaten to overwhelm it.
The Czech leaders have maintained consistently that
their concessions must respect the territorial integrity of
the republic and that their people will fight rather than
permit that integrity to be destroyed.
Well, “the territorial integrity of the Republic”
has been destroyed —and in the last phase the diffi-
culty is to prevent “their people” from fighting them.
From the inception of the republic the Czechs
were in a minority, and their only hope of maintain-
ing it was to give the numerically superior Germans,
Hungarians, Poles and Slovaks —the Germans being
decidedly superior in quality as well —no cause for
uniting against them. In this they failed, and their
“long-standing treaties of alliance” availed them no-
thing. Communist penetration weakened them, as it
weakened the French, and the alliance with Russia —
whose Government is still “liquidating” its old pals
so that it may keep going—merely hastened the dis-
solution of the republic.
The “Herald” and other papers have published
a lot of rubbish about the frightful consequences that
will ensue from the cession of the frontier mountains
to Hitler. Sir lan Hamilton knows those mountains,
and, writing in 1923, he ridiculed the notion that
Czechoslovakia had in them an impenetrable barrier.
The Czechs, he said, had “no Alps to encircle them
with protective arms.”
The Giant Mountains on the northern frontier-
mountains I have climbed with much sweat —are in-
habited by their own old masters the Germans. The
Germans hold the passes over the mountains? Rather
awkward, but perfectly true!
As for “the virile republic, about to celebrate
proudly the winning of a long-sought independence”:
At the battle of the Marchfield, fought on August 26,
1278, Kaiser Rudolph knocked King Ottokar and his
Bohemians endways, and the German-Hungarian com-
bine has carried on since then without a break, save
certain incursions and alarms. Now we have artificially
reversed the results of Marchfield, and we have also
artificially stimulated the Czechoslovakian and Polish
languages as against the German.
Sir lan had taken part in military mancevures
among Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians and Poles—“none
of them like one another ; none of them like us.” And
the Czechs were bullying their Germans (“you must
not speak German in Prague if you want a civil
answer”); and to the contempt of the Czechs the
Slovaks prefer the cruelty of the Hungarian outsider.”
In Masaryk the Czechs had a statesman of the first
order, with “the far-famed Dr. Benes as their second
string.”
He is proclaimed in their newspapers as a wonder.
I wonder! When Masaryk goes west Benes won’t last
long—nor Czechoslovakia either.
So even in 1923 Sir lan Hamilton had cleared
his mind of the cant that has made the “S. M. Herald”
ridiculous. Every word he wrote then on Czecho-
slovakia —it can all be found in his bdok The Friends
of England— has been borne out by the events of
the present month.
Have They Forgotten?
“Dick Tafone” : Before re-oiling their typewriters to
dash off another spot of war propaganda, the bright
lads of the calamity-press should stop and think of
what the last one did for humanity. And how simply,
insidiously it began!
The Archduke Ferdinand was killed on June 28,
1914. By July 28 the first Austrian shell fell in Bel-
grade; a week later six European countries were at
war, and before the end of August ten countries.
Four years and three months from the first
cannon-shot, the death-roll was 8,246,471, with
42,119,273 casualties. If the killed could march past
night and day in column of four at regulation British
quick-march pace, the ghostly army would take more
thain four weeks to pass the saluting point. If the
wounded followed in the same formation they would
take 16 weeks more.
The war-bred diseases which followed the Armis-
tice slew another 15 millions. Finance and industry
have never recovered ; civilisation was set back incal-
culably ; the whole progress of the white race received
a check from which it will take generations to recover
even if a fresh madness is avoided. Fascism and
Communism alike have grown and flourished in its
track, nurtured by the fears and feuds which it origi-
nated, and budding forth in new and greater ones.
There came from it nothing of good for* man, but
only illimitable harm.
Yet thousands of fools are prattling to-day on
paper, radio or platform, stirring up that same un-
thinking fear and greed which enabled the monster
to break loose 24 years ago.
Parents and Children.
“Pawang” on some queer cases
An extraordinary case was aired in a Victorian court
recently. The father of two children, a boy and a girl,
became appalled at their propensity for stealing. He sent them
to stay with relatives; they were sent back. He took them
to a police station to see if the police could do something
about it. The headmaster of a school wrote a letter to the
father; he received a reply forged by the boy.
All this convinced the distracted man that if their unfor-
tunate tendency was not checked they would develop into
criminals. Eventually the father found the children with some
swe'ets which they admitted having stolen. He threatened to
burn their fingers if they stole again. The boy dared him
to do it; he seized the youngster’s fingers and thrust them
into the fire; the girl’s fingers, too. He told them to go to
the bathroom to wash their hands. Then he discovered that
they were burned more seriously than he had imagined.
All the witnesses praised the father’s character and testified
that he had given the children a good home. There was no
doubt about his motives or that he had been driven desperate
by his children’s behavior. The Bench adjourned the case for
26 weeks, and there the matter apparently ended.
It does not require a profound knowledge of human nature
to see that a policeman or an ignorant, though well-meaning,
father could not cure a case of this sort. The psychoanalysts
have produced plenty of evidence to show that stealing can
come about as a reaction against the kind of education which
checks the normal curiosity of a child concerning matters
which such individuals would themselves regard as reprehen-
sible ; and there could be other causative circumstances.
There was a case in Melbourne of a boy of six who started
stealing neighbors’ watches and giving them to his mother.
It turned out that the father was in the habit of bringing home
a weekly present to his wife—flowers, chocolates or some
wireless gadget. Observing the delight with which the mother
received these presents the child became jealous. He
to occupy the same position in his mother’s affections as his
father, and to get it went about it in the only way he knew.
The father decided that the child was congenitally wicked
and was on the highroad to becoming a criminal. The mother
took the boy’s side, and the havoc that was being produced
in that family would eventually have disrupted it. After a
little explanation both parents began to see the situation in a
different light. A policeman could have done nothing but
reinforce the terror of the parents.
Strathfield to Canberra.
Henry R. Gough, of Strathfield (N.S.W.), has
addressed the following letter to members of the Par-
liament at Canberra :
Did not the referendum taken on March 6, 1937, clearly
show that the people would not agree to Government-controlled
home-consumption prices? Is any Government justified in
flouting the will of the people then so overwhelmingly
expressed?
Is the wheat-farmer to receive a minimum home-consump-
tion price now and a higher home-consumption price when
world wheat prices rise above the minimum price? In other
words, is the farmer, in good years, to be allowed to make as
much profit as possible from the home market, and immediately
on adverse conditions operating is he then to be given
assistance while all other industries have to take the good
years with the bad?
Does not the wheat-farmer now receive absolute tariff pro-
tection, and in addition have a 25 p.c. exchange advantage
added to the sterling export price of his wheat?
Since only about one-fourth of the wheat grown is
used in Australia, is not the home-consumption price idea
a rather futile way of helping any necessitous farmer? Eco-
nomically speaking, if Australia’s land-produce wealth has to
be boosted by internal manipulation, have not things come to
a sorry pass? Would it not be more prudent to seek a sounder
remedy, by facilitating the readjustment of cost-production
factors, than to go after fundamentally erroneous palliatives?
In what way does the home-consumption-price scheme
differ from a flour tax? Is it not the same wolf in other
clothing? If so, is the scheme not in effect the placing of a
tax of a penny or more per loaf on the worker’s bread? Is not
this the last straw in taxation principle?
If the Government accepts the Royal Commission’s
report as justification for the proposed action, why is it not
also prepared to carry out the recommendations of the report
regarding the bread industry? Why should there be a minimum
home-consumption price for the product produced by one
section of the community and a maximum without any such
minimum for the other? Is this democratic principle in action
or consistent with the elements of British justice?
Strathfield is a home of realists—the local council
gets along without going into debt —and if Mr. Gough
is one he should not exnect to receive any correspon-
dence from Canberra. Without distinction of party,
members dislike the sort of conundrum he propounds.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Drivellin' ijut, yer've put the port of register in the Wrong place.”
“ Well, won't it be all right when she's goin' the other Way, skipper?”
“D.E.”: A German description of the
new Czech Ministers as “a Cabinet of
criminals” awakened memories. Long
ago in Perth I was cub on a Sunday
paper edited by Tommy Walker, name-
sake and contemporary of the Walker
whose £450,000 estate is now being
scrambled for in Sydney by the entire
Scottish race. An election was coming
on, and Tommy, in fervent champion-
ship of the Labor Opposition, wrote a
withering indictment of the Liberal Gov-
ernment, heading it “Cabinet of Cunning
Criminals.” Members of the staff, who
were being paid in cheques not to be
presented till further notice, protested
that it was a bit hot, but the proprietor
thoroughly approved—his favorite re-
mark at the time was “I want a libel
action,” and he went on making it till
I got him one, and then he sacked me.
Anyway, the article appeared, heading
and all. It shocked even Westralians,
case-hardened as they were in those days
of robust journalism, and it would have
been the end of the paper if the Premier
hadn’t chanced to be—unique combi-
nation! —a prince of good fellows and a
magnanimous lawyer. He mentioned the
attack on the platform, and dismissed it
in one cheerful sentence, “Who takes any
notice of a Sunday gutter-rag?” There
was a wrong-’un in the Ministry—a gold-
fielder, who, after a blameless career till
middle life, suddenly went off the rails,
having probably gone off his head, and
was to wind up in gaol—but the Premier
didn’t know that, nor did Tommy
Walker.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: There breezed into a Sydney
musical shop a young man who said he
would like to look at a mandolin. He
was shown several, listened to their
notes, and selected one. “And now,”
said he to the astonished young woman
in charge, “just show me how to play
it and I’m set.” It was some seconds
before she realised he had an impression
that you just turned a knob and the
mandolin worked. His disappointment
was extreme when he learned the truth.
“Well, what instrument have you that
I can play right off?” he asked. “I’m
going to a party to-night!” So she sold
him a portable gramophone.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: A maiden who is con-
demned for all eternity, or so long as
there is an up-to-date post-office depart-
ment in Vic., to say “Number engaged—
number engaged” has started on her job
at the exchange in Melbourne. On the
day of her advent so caressing was her
voice that some hearers were moved to
ask her name and if she had a boy
friend. They got .no response. She is
a phonographic record automatically
switched into the transmitting circuit
when occasion demands.
* * * *
“Nakh”: There is at le'ast one man
in Melbourne who has a vast respect for
Australia’s natural resources in the
culinary line. He is a French chef of
international reputation. He and a
friend of mixed Irish and Continental
parentage experimented in tasty dishes
confected out of what grows in their
neighborhood. To start with the friend
served up a salad whose foundation was
wild fennel picked in his paddock ; the
chef declared it to be delicious. A few
weeks later he returned the compliment
with a dish he described as veal and
which his guest admitted was excellent.
The chef then mentioned it was fox,
which he had shot in the paddock where
the fennel came from.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: A new Fleet Order per-
mitting the wearing of spectacles by sea-
going branches of the Navy must have
caused many an ex-admiral of the do-
or-die kind to revolve rapidly in his
sepulchre, inquiring loudly what the
daggers the asterisked service is coming
to. Engine-room and ordnance ’tiffies,
electrical workers, stokers, sick-berth
stewards, telegraphists and photo-
graphers not only may enlist in specs,
but if need arises after entry they will
get a free issue. Even signalmen are per-
mitted to use glasses temporarily on the
order of an official eye specialist, to re-
lieve symptoms of strain or deterioration.
And, after all, why not? They work
under shelter from spray, and spares are
available in case of breakages. Nelson
himself got on quite well with only one
working glim for many years, and on a
certain historic occasion found the dud
the more useful of the two.
* * * +
“S.T.S.”: Woodville, an Adelaide
suburb, has added a Bradman-street to
its previous thoroughfares dedicated to
Grimmett and Collins. To show absence
of bias, it has a Gilligan-street, too.
* * * #
“Dick Tafone”: What has happened
to the Rev. Aimee Semple McPherson
Hutton, founder of the Four Square
Gospel, and sole proprietor of the mil-
lion-dollar Angelus Temple in Los
Angeles? It is nearly two years since
a rival ballyhoo lady claimed a million
dollars damages from her for slander,
and much more since she was last re-
ported to have married or divorced a
husband. Her world-famous kidnapping
stunt and return after 31 days to a
riotously emotional welcome took place
in 1926. Mr. Hutton, last of three hus-
bands, an 18-stone vaudeville singer, was
divorced five years ago. Canadian by
birth, the handsome, magnetic, red-haired
Aimee was a schoolteacher, missionary
in China, rural evangelist, spruiker,
widow, divorcee and mother of two
children before she started preaching
on a Los Angeles street corner with
neither friends nor money to help her.
Within five years she had a following
of 50,000 people, and millions of dollars
at command. Surely Sister Aimee can’t
be getting middle-aged?
“F.S.”: Literary societies and peda-
gogues have begun to mould the late
C. J. Dennis into the usual plaster saint,
as they have done all previous Austra-
lian writers of any distinction. “We are
too close to Dennis to realise his true
worth,” J. Mcßae, former director of
Vic. education, told the Australian Litera-
ture Society the other evening, amid
murmurs of reverential approval. Having
made that sound statement, Mr. Mcßae
then proceeded to contradict it. “Dennis
was a great philosopher and a great
craftsman. He had a worth-while philo-
sophy of life and a skill and power and
genius in using words.” If I knew my
Dennis he would have let out as loud a
guffaw if he had heard this estimate of
himself as Henry Lawson would if he
heard the pious orations delivered at the
annual pilgrimage of respectable Melb.
citizens, many of whom wouldn’t have
Shaken hands with him while he was
alive.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Bandits turned up at a Caul-
field (Vic.) dairy, intent on making off
with the week’s takings. They reckoned
without their host, the family being
double-dyed Scotch and hefty withal.
Father and son were forced into the back-
yard at revolver-point, with hands up in
the orthodox manner.' There they were
put up against a wall and bombarded
with threats. But son observed a waver-
ing look about the eyes of the chief
bandit, and when father was ordered
back into the house to reveal where the
boodle was hidden, two guns pressed
tightly into his backbone, son followed
the procession. Mother had barricaded
the room in which the money was situated
and was banging with a chair on the
wall to attract the attention of the neigh-
bors. Bandits’ eyes became more irreso-
lute than ever. With one sweeping
movement of his arm son deflected the
gats, from father’s vital regions. Then
father and son sailed in, fists flying, and
mother climbed her barricade waving the
broken chair. She brought it down
smartly on the nearest occiput. When
the patrol arrived the family was sitting
triumphantly on the head of their
prisoner; the other young man had
skedaddled.
*N* * *
“Tired Tim”: Not Rabbie Burns (B.
14/9/’3B) but William Douglas, of Fing-
land, Dumfriesshire, was the lad who
lost Annie Laurie and made a song about
it. One hundred and thirty years later
(approx.) Lady John Scott wrote the
music, revised the words, elongating the
lassie’s neck a lang Scots fut, and added
the verse that commences “Like dew on
the gowan lying Is the fa’ o’ her fairy
feet.” Anna, fourth daughter of Sir
Robert Laurie, of Maxwelton, was born
on Dec. 16, 1682, married one Fergus-
son, of Craigdarroch, in 1709, and died
in 1761. A highly-respectable body, not
likely to collogue with hussies like Helen.
* * * *
“V.D.”: That lifeguard who actually
got into a bathing costume in anticipa-
tion of rescuing Lord Gifford at Biarritz
(B. 7/9/’3B) must have been smarter than
those we knew at Cayeux, in Normandy,
where the post was regarded in the light
of an old-age pension for superannuated
fishermen. Cayeux boasted two guards,
neither less than 80, also one ancient
boat, kept upside down well above the
beach level, meant for rescues, but for-
tunately never needed during our stay.
The guards would totter slowly up and
down the plage, blowing warning toots
through a (in trumpet as the tide came
in, while the French bathers held hands,
to prance adventurously in knee-deep
water. My daughter created a sensation
among the onlookers by diving through
the waves and swimming! Had she used
a surf-board there would probably have
been a riot.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: To settle the question of
when the London “Sporting Times”
passed out of John Corlett’s hands and
lost its punch with its staff about
which “S.T.S.” and “Vieux Marcheur”
and “Junior Turf Club” all seem a trifle •
hazy—a single extract from Old ‘Pink
’Un’ Days, by J. B. Booth, will suffice:
One Wednesday evening in 1912 Walter
Dickson came up to me in the Empire
with “I hear John has sold the paper....
Young Fenton is here in a box with a
crowd toasting him in champagne as the
editor and proprietor of the ‘Pink ’Un.’ ”
And so it proved. The paper, it will be
seen, not only outlasted Victoria but
Edward VII. as well.
* * * *
“Komediak”: “Ellenvale’s” sow-
soothing housewife (B. 10/8/’3B) re-
calls Tiger Johnson’s wife Noreen,
whose voice had an equally calming
effect on cattle. Tiger’s home was situ-
ated across the road from the sale-
yards, and on the night before the sales
the uproar was deafening. After his
missus had delivered a few coo-ees and
sung a few bars of “Kathleen Mavour-
neen,” however, silence would descend
on the night air, and an irate Tiger
would smooth away his wrath in sleep.
* * * *
“Vernon”: Here is my list of Shak-
spearean references to motoring:
“I will remedy this gear before long.”
—“Henry V 1.,” Part 11.
“The dust hath blinded them.” —
“Henry V 1.,” Part 11.
“I like the new tire.”—“Much Ado
About Nothing.”
“As horns are odious, they are neces-
sary.”—“As You Like It.”
“I’ll show you the best springs.”—
“The Tempest.”
“Marks upon his battered shield.” —
“Titus Andronicus.”
“Had it been all the worth of his car.”
—“Cymbeline.”
“And you, sir, for this chain arrested
me.” —“Comedy of Errors.”
“Humbleness may drive into a fine.”—
“M e i' c hant of Venice.”
“How quickly should you speed.”—
“Hamlet.”
“I am out of the road of rutting.”—
“Pericles.”
TIME, GENTS!
A land of freedom, ours! Yea, verily,
Where forthright politicians seldom lose
Or fail to seize the opportunity
To demonstrate they’re absolutely free
To add a modest trifle to their screws.
A country where, ’tis known, we’d scorn .to
stand
Dictators’ ukases or tyrants’ tricks,
Yet, inconsistently enough, a land
Where Bungs must put the shutters up at
six!
Granted they haven’t quite as hard a row
To hoe, at set of sun or close of day,
In Tassie, where the spuds and raspberries grow,
Or where the rugged miners spend their dough
In even easier-going W.A.,
What would men think on banks of Thames or
Trent,
Or where the Cambrian colliers ply their
picks,
About conditions in a continent
Where rub-a-dubs must close their doors at
six?
Let patriotic poets smite their lyres
And recapitulate in tuneful rhyme,
With all the gusto that the theme inspires,
How most of life’s requirements and desires
Await the comer to this sunny clime.
Though Nature’s gifts are dealt with lavish hand
There’s always something in the throat that
sticks
About inhabiting the fairest land
When taverns cease to operate at six.
“The cruelty of these hard-hearted men!”—
Thus did the sanctimonious Stiggins bleat
In genuine exasperation when
The rum dispensed in any boozing ken
Proved unobtainable inside the Fleet.
A negligible hardship his, for sure,
A disability that goes for nix
Beside the trials customers endure
When honest Bungs must clear their bars ai
six.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Exdig”: Victoria’s prohibition poll
reminds me of another plebiscite on
liquor that happened 20 years ago. In
our divvy there was an argument as to
whether, if hop-overs or other nervy
stunts had to be uhdertaken, rum should
be given before or after the event. It
was put to the boys. A sergeant-major
held that the rum ration did a man
much more good, assisting to restore
him to normal following tension, after
the combat. Quite a lot were inclined to
agree with him until our platoon’s
“Stiffy” put in his commonsense view.
“Supposing a man’s killed?” he asked.
The vote went in favor of pre-stunt
rum.
“Willie”: Tell “Jacko” (B. 14/9/’3B)
that the Kiwi emblem at Sling Camp is
maintained by the London branch of
the Kiwi Polish Co., of Melbourne, and
has been ever since the emblem was
registered as a Military Encroachment.
* * *
“Cauboy”: Pauline Frederick, just
dead at 53 in New York, visited Aus-
tralia in 1925, in the full tide of her
silent-screen glory. She was described
by “Snowy” Baker as the greatest actress
in the world, and Sydney rose to the
occasion. A huge multitude assembled
on the wharf, sirens hooted, banners
flapped and a long line of decorated cars
followed her to the Town Hall, where the
mayor of the period gave her a civic
reception. One excited pressman de-
clared that it was the Prince of Wales’s
visit over again. She subsequently made
appearances in Frederick Lonsdale’s
“Spring Cleaning,” in “Madame X” and
in “The Lady,” but failed to live up to
her screen reputation, and her departure
was comparatively quiet. She continued
to mix stage with screen appearances up
to a couple of years ago. She was
married five times.
SP * *
“Si Anu”: The bottle of digitalis sold
to a Melbourne woman in mistake for
cough medicine reminds me of a hap-
pening in Borneo. The cable mess was
entertaining officers of a French warship.
Sherry ran short, and one of the hosts
went into a colleague’s bedroom,
emerged with a bottle
—sherry bottles car-
ried no labels and
poured out a fresh
issue to the Frenchmen.
They each drank it
appreciatively ; but the
next moment an ex-
traordinarily thoughtful
expression came on
their faces. An alert
member of the mess
applied his nose to the
bottle and the bouquet
didn't resemble even
English sherry. A
frenzied rush was then
made for the owner of
the bottle, who was on
duty. He dashed into
the quarters, took one
look at the bottle and
explained that it was a
solution of mercury
which he had been
using to treat swamp
sores. Three of the
officers turned as green as their native
pastures, and promptly brought their
souls up. Emeties were applied, but by
the time the ship’s doci.turned up
“Are they all your children?"
"Lord, no! Some are me 'usband's!"
with a stomach pump the gallant Gauls
were to all appearance in extremis.
After the medico had assured them that
the amount of mercury in the mixture
wasn’t sufficient to hurt anybody they
recovered.
* * * *
“Ex-Mister”: It is a matter of only
a very few years at most when the last
of the world’s windjammers will sail over
the horizo.n of things. In 1921 there were
68 of them in each S. Aus.-Europe Derby.
This season only 12 were listed, one the
now-missing Admiral Karpfanger. There
are probably not another half dozen in
the whole Seven Seas. The only reasons
for their survival thus far into time are
that they were all bought dirt cheap and
length of loading-time matters little in the
trades in which they are engaged. Ericksen
bought the Herzogin Cecilie for £4250,
and she carried a £7OOO wheat lading
home, until she left her bones off the
Devonshire coast. The last British square-
rigger, Garthpool, stranded in the Cape
Verdes nine years ago. One bottle of
champagne was used at her launching
many years before, but 100,000 bottles
were in her holds when the delighted in-
habitants did some enthusiastic and un-
authorised salvage.
* * * *
“Rawene”: A Maoriland girl and her
boy friend have become believers in the
direct intervention of Providence in
man’s affairs. They took a dinghy out
on Maiora Bay, the island-studded mouth
of the Waikato, and the damsel was
amusing her swain with her efforts to
propel the craft. When she suddenly
lost one oar and the boat was swept into
a swift current it was not quite so funny ;
one oar would not control the craft, and
they were on their way to a wild bar
and certain overturn. Suddenly the girl
screamed “There’s the oar. Catch it!”
and the youth managed'to grab the object
floating by. By a big effort they reached
calm water. Then awe smote them when
they realised that the salvaged oar was
an elaborately carved Maori paddle of
great age that had appeared from no-
where and saved their lives.
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The African
negro is a convivially-minded lad, as befits
his essentially artistic temperament, and
ingenious withal at producing the
materials which enable such tempera-
ments to get in their best work. Until
white interference interrupted an idyllic
life, several Basuto and Zulu peoples,
at least the males thereof, spent their
whole time making and drinking beer.
Their wives grew the materials and such
few other foodstuffs as were needed, and
everyone was happy. The tendency is
evidently still there, as some native booze-
genius in Natal has discovered how to
make a highly potent cocktail from
brown-sugar treacle, and the police have
had to get busy in an endeavor to sober
up local labor. Cwayi-cwayi is the name,
and it’s cwayite easy to take, too, from
all accounts. A couple of quick ones
are guaranteed to knock ’em limp even
if they’re as big as Jack Johnson and
twice as ugly.
* * * $
“Pawang”: A Bath (Eng.) woman, by-
operation, got her. sight back at 22, after
being blind from birth. She found her-
self hopelessly at sea in a world which
she had previously negotiated success-
fully. She fell up- and downstairs be-
cause she could not judge heights ; dis-
tances meant nothing to her, and she
walked into people and buildings; she
had no sense of direction, and thought
all cars were coming straight at her ;
a brick looked as light as a ball until
she touched it; faces all looked the
same, and, while she could distinguish
color and tone dimly, the shapes with
which they were connected took a long
time to materialise. She had imagined
bears to be as big as elephants, though
cats and dogs, since she had often
touched them, appeared quite normal.
“Discussing Czecho, are you?"
“ 'Oo's ’e? The new 'and?"
After a few months her new sense had
developed sufficiently for her to hold
down a factory job
at 19s. weekly and
to play football.
Helen Keller de-
scribed landscapes
in her books and
claimed to be able to
distinguish between
the scenery of
Sweden and
America. Remark-
able woman as she
was, she could not
perform miracles,
and all she was
doing was remem-
bering descriptions
she had read in
Braille or had had
given to her.
* *
“Lachesis”: There
is a flaw in
“Pawang’s” story of
that Spanish prince-
let dying of htemo-
philia (B. 14/9/’3B).
The doctors say that
death was due not
to the hereditary
bleeding from which
he suffered, bu t
from severe shock
and other injuries received in a motor-
ing accident. There is no reason
to dread haemophilia now. The Bul-
letin described in detail two years ago
the discovery by two experimenting
medicoes at St. Thomas’s Hospital, Lon-
don, that the poison of the vipers, with
its extraordinary power of clotting the
blood, banished the dread of haemophilia
once and for all. No elaborate serum
preparation was needed, one part of the
venom in 100,000 of water proving quite
efficacious. The Americans, with Dit-
mars at their head, followed suit, and
there should have been plenty of blood-
thickener available for the Spaniard, for
the stuff is far cheaper than serums.
Russell’s viper is found in India, and
is very common. There are specimens
in most zoos. The other great branch
of snakedom, the coluber, kills, not by
clotting the blood but by paralysing the
nerve terminals. Colubrine victims die
practically of suffocation.
* ■* *• *
“C.Q.”: Victoria has a secret treasure
hoard which is locally as famous as the
one at Cocos Island and just as elusive.
It is the £2,000,000 (sometimes stated at
£20,000,000) of Spanish doubloons and
the life-size Golden Virgin (or four of
them according to some legendists)
which Benito Bonito buried at Queens-
cliff 150 years ago after a flight from
S. America. One syndicate after another
has burrowed and blasted the landscape
without finding a brass copper or a toe
of the Virgin, and several fortunes are
said to have been lost in the endeavor.
Now the mayor suggests importing 1000
pieces of eight from Madrid, planting
them on the foreshore and inviting week-
end trippers to indulge in treasure-hunt-
ing. Incidentally, there is not the faintest
credible evidence to show that Ben was
ever near Australia, and he cut throats
(if any) in the middle of the nineteenth
century, not the eighteenth.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “Mahlstick’s” suggestion
(B. 7/9/’3B) that when an artist’s work is
resold at a profit the artist should receive
a substantial proportion of the incre-
ment raises all sorts of general questions
in equity. Here’s a case in point: In
his struggling days an Australian painter
sold a picture to a wine merchant who
went broke before the cheque was paid.
He suggested to the artist that, as he
couldn’t be paid in cash without bringing
down the wrath of the official receiver,
he’d better take the value out in wine
before the stock was checked by the
liquidator. The artist took delivery of a
nice assortment and had most of the
stuff walled up in his home. It wasn’t
broached until the artist’s return after
wanderings that included service in the
Great War, by which time the long pro-
cess of maturing had trebled its value.
Now, if the artist is entitled to receive a
proportion of the increment on his paint-
ing whenever it is resold, isn’t the wine
merchant entitled to a share in the in-
crement of the value of his wine?
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Australia’s old friend
Krishnamurti is expected back in this
country shortly. When he pays his next
visit he will find some changes at the
Balmoral (Sydney) Amphitheatre, built
for the inauguration of the Millennium.
I met a native prince in Java who had
booked a front seat for the occasion, and
the subscribers ranged from Footscray,
Vic., to Scandinavia. Nowadays Krishna
contents himself with the title of “philo-
sopher,” and lectures to American audi-
ences ; it is as a lecturer that h$ will come
to Australia.
CAPTAIN COOK.
“The• watermark portrait of Edward VIII. on it
notes has been replaced bv a watermark portrait of
Captain Cook.”
Here’s a tribute, just, if tardy,
To the navigator hardy,
The intrepid, indefatigable chap
Who will live in song and story
For the credit and the glory
Of having put Australia on the map.
Deep your name has long been written
On the honor roll of Britain,
And at last we have the chance to take a
look
At your dial (as someone knew it
Once, presumably, and drew it)
On a one-pound-note, Cap. Cook.
We were parties to the pillage
From that humble Yorkshire village
Of the cottage where your parents used to
dwell,
Though if you were ever in it
For a day or for a minute
Is utterly impossible to tell.
But what odds, when round it cluster
Tender memories of the lustre
That surrounds your name for all you under-
took?
Still, I’ll say you cut a bigger
And a more imposing figure
On a onc-pound-notc, Cap. Cook.
1 for one shall feel a better
And a far more mindful debtor
Of the gratitude you’re owed by this fair land,
Sense a livelier contentment
If your counterfeit presentment
On the currency is always to my hand.
Though l never lack adherence
To the seamanlike appearance
Bestowed on you by many a travel book,
I’ll be better pleased to meet your
Estimable form and feature
On a one-pound note, Cap. Cook.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


w
v
You'll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
M A
SPECIALLY
3D
PREV E N T
EK
mk.
10 for 9d...20 for Ix 61 x 6
E 1866
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia has a trade agreement with
Czechoslovakia. It was introduced by
Mr. Gullett on October 29, 1936, with
the assurance that it would mean selling a
lot more wool, rabbitskins and pearlshell
(“Czechoslovakia is noted for its large
button manufacturing”) to the Czechs ;
also a lot more apples, “provided they
are picked from the tree within three
months.” Friends of Gullett declare that
he will some day be baqk under the plum-
tree as Prime Minister. His chance is
equivalent to that of Eden and Britain —
as remote as the century after next.
Joe Cook, who as a Peace delegate
and a Geneva man feels that he is one
of Czechoslovakia’s guarantors, was dug
up last week to protest against its dis-
solution, and it is confidently expected
in Hunter-street, Sydney, that war will
find Joseph in the front line along with
Mr. Warwick Fairfax and the editors of
three dailies. Joe declares that “no word-
of discontent by the Sudeten Germans
ever reached Geneva in my time.” Joe,
who is nearly as old as the Encyclopedia
Britannica, had better argue it out with
that publication. The Encyc. Brit, has
placed it on record that the Sudeten
Germans implored the peacemakers to
let them join Austria, and were handed
over to the Czechs against their will.
If ■ Grants Commission recommenda-
tions are adopted—and of course they
will be, Canberra’s practice being to give
such recommendations the force of law —
S.A. will get £1,040,000, Westralia
£570,000 and Tasmania £410,000 from
the Commonwealth this year. The Tas-
manian gift is down £165,000, which
means, for the taxpayer, that the Speck
got far too much last year. Treasurer
Dwyer-Gray is growling horribly; but
his taxation is less than the average for
the States and his expenditure on super-
fluities—Ministers, for instance —more.
Although there are more men than
women in nearly all country and indus-
trial districts, Victorian rolls for the
prohibition poll show a majority of
33,785 for the ladies —they number
592,524, gents 558,739. Subbubs give
the sex its preponderance—of 26,027
electors in Toorak, 15,980 wear skirts. In
Nunawading the figures are 13,538 and
11,527; in Boroondara, 18,224 and
14,098. Those are the districts that
went Dry in 1920.
Not only its own contributors but its
own cables contradict “S. M. Herald.”
Granny announced in an excited anti-
German leader that “after Czechoslovakia
it would be the turn of Poland, which is
exhibiting signs of nervousness.” Next
day it had to admit that Poland had re-
signed from the League Council, and
a day or two later that Poland was shap-
ing up to Czechoslovakia.
How wrong these English and Aus-
tralian newspapers have been about
Czechoslovakia, and how right old lan
Hamilton was!
It was neither the Poles nor the Czechs
who gave Teschen its prosperity; they
were not capable of doing so. The Ger-
mans ran Teschen and ran it marvellously.
....Czechoslovakia is like some silkworm
into whose body an ichneumon fly has in-
serted its deadly egg.
And it was written in 1923.
Admiral Sir Howard Kelly has come
out with the suggestion that the Aus-
tralia and the Canberra should be ex-
changed for a British battleship—one of
the reconditioned ones until a new
battleship or battle-cruiser can be spared.
It will be a great thing if Britain will
swap. Australians have never felt quite
comfortable since their one battle-cruiser
was sunk in deference to Washington,
and in expectation of favors which
haven’t materialised.
During the year to June 30, 600
persons were killed on the N.S.W. roads.
It gives a ghastly new significance to
Tennyson’s lines:
On through the Valley of Death
Rode the Six Hundred.
Number of road accidents was 12,575.
Compared with the previous twelve-
month accidents were up 9.7 per cent.,
deaths exactly the same, and injured
(8615) 12.1 per cent. Minister Bruxner
suggests that his speed-limit experiment
hasn’t really failed, but the deadly facts
are against him.
The French counterpart of the Diggers’
League has thanked Chamberlain for his
efforts to save its sons from the hell
“You tell anyone what I’ve got in this pram and I’ll crime you!”
-through which the survivors among the
fathers passed. In France, as in Britain,
the Dominions, Italy and Germany itself,
old soldiers’ organisations have been a
force for peace. During these three
troubled years not a warlike word has
come from any of them, and in Europe
there has been a regular interchange of
visits. Nearly all the war talk has pro-
ceeded from people who wanted to quit
in the Great War, people who did quit,
novelists, newspaper writers, Ellen Wilk-
insons, wicked old men and whipsters
of the “We-will - not - fight - for-King-or-
country” breed. And the whole boiling
wanted Britain to disarm.
Concluding lines of a bit of jingle
printed on this page on June 23, 1921:
And thus an ancient pact was smashed,
And “reconstructed Europe” crashed,
Because some ass in some oration
Invented “Self-determination.”
The writer was one “Wodgil.”
With unusual fatuousness, Lyons said
that 4s. Bd. a bushel in the home mar-
ket would not involve a rise in the price
of flour or bread. Millers and bakers
laughed loudly. One of the former men-
tioned pityingly that flour would go up
£6 a ton, and one of the latter that the
two-pound loaf would be a penny
dearer. Strange that a man who has
bought so much bread in his time should
have fallen into such a blunder.
Millers and bakers, commenting on
Lyons’s announcement that 4s. Bd. a
bushel for wheat in the home market
won’t make bread dearer, point out
cynically that Joe could have undeceived
himself by dipping into the Gepp Com-
mission’s report. Though in one way and
another it cost Joe’s Government and
Stevens’s the best part of £50,000, the
P.M. has obviously never read it.
Ex-Senator Bob Elliott, who went to
Spain as a neutral, returned to Australia
convinced that Franco could take
Madrid, Valencia and Barcelona by
assault at any time. Mr. Sam Aarons,
of Sydney, is equally positive that “the
forces of democracy will be victorious.”
The “Labor Daily” certifies that Mr.
Aarons has been “fighting for the
Spanish Government in the transport sec-
tion of the famous International
Brigade.”
Justice Rich has decided that the Com-
monwealth Taxation Commissioner was
right in charging income tax on £86,000,
paid by Mr. Hugh Denison on behalf of
Sydney “Sun” to Mr. Theodore and
associates for not bringing out a paper
designed to spring from the ruins of
the “World” as a penny competitor of
the “Sun”; and the public will agree
that his Honor and the Commissioner are
right. The “World” remains a bitter
memory for A.W.U. men, the money
raised for it having, in the first place,
been collected or extorted from mem-
bers of the union all over Australia when
Theodore was a rising hope of the organ-
isation, and lost —save for what the ruins
fetched —when he was a Federal politi-
cian about to be beaten, and when there
was not the slightest chance in the world
of making the thing pay. But, all things
considered, it must be a comfortable
memory for Mr. Theodore.
Minister White having refused permis-
sion, live koalas will not be an Australian
exhibit at the ’Frisco Exposition, so
the “National” Travel Association will
have to think up something else to justify
the grant of £20,000 for “advertising”
the country. Perhaps the six State
Agents-General and the flock of Trade
Commissioners could be put on show in
a suitable enclosure.
A Government saturated with the
old colonial spirit decided to get
what it calls a Director of Physical
Education for N. S. Wales at £950
p.a., and has made what it con-
siders the perfect appointment. The
gentleman was born in Canada, educated
in the U.S.A. and finished off, as it were,
by becoming “secretary of the Empire
Games trials.” And he is 33 —too young
to be one of those returned soldiers who
irritate Governments' by asking for
preference.
The Lyons Government has been dis-
tracted by demands for a bounty on
newsprint from a group of Great Dailies
interested in the manufacture of that
commodity, and by demands for a
refusal of the bounty from another group
of newspapers not so interested—the
Tariff Board had recommended that the
bounty should be paid out of duties on
imported newsprint. After deep thought
the Government has decided on a
bounty, but it is to be charged up to the
general taxpayer. That sort of thing is
regarded at Canberra as True Statesman-
ship.
Maoriland’s first Labor Government is
to go up for judgment at Maoriland’s
first Saturday election, Europe permitting.
Australia’s first Labor Governments were
nearly all defeated when the electors got
a chance to deal with them, but Savage’s
party expects to reverse Australian
precedents. Per head of electoral popu-
lation it has distributed a great deal more
money and “benefits” than any pioneer
Australian Labor Ministry was able to
do, and that should make a difference.
Already recipients of the bounties are
being told that they mustn’t shoot Santa
Claus.
Canberra has deigned to admit that
it is paying the new Inspector-General
of the A.M.F. £3647 p.a. —£257 more
than the Australians Lavarack and Jess
share. Lavarack is Chief of the General
Staff; Jess is Adjutant-General. The
new Inspector-General is English, of
cburse.
The Maoriland financial year begins
in April. Revenue for five months to
the end of August was £10,540,000 and
expenditure £12,511,000; deficiency,
£1,971,000. Mr. Gnash says “this fully
justifies me in stating that the finances
are in a very healthy condition.” Mr.
Gnash is Minister of Finance.
Of the three chronic applicants for
easy money from Canberra, the Grants
Commission says that the Government
at Adelaide has made no real effort to
collect debts due to it by clients with
votes ; the Government at Perth is spend-
ing “a big proportion of its loans” on
“partially reproductive and non-repro-
ductive objects,” and the Government at
Hobart has gone in for “increases in
personnel and expenditure on salaries and
wages” at a “much higher rate than the
other States,” which, “in face of the large
losses incurred, cannot be justified.”
There is nothing like that sort of thing
in Afrikanderland ; but then Afrikander-
land is a union with, instead of State
Governments, inexpensive and business-
like provincial councils.
Cooper, the new Treasurer, has ad-
mitted that on June 30 the State of
Queensland owed £125,781,500 gross, and
had guaranteed municipal debts to the
extent of another £22,000,000. When his
Government took charge, the gross debt
was £110,000,000, and guaranteeing of
municipal loans and overdrafts was only
beginning. What did Forgan Smith say
when he introduced his State Develop-
ment Bill? Oh, yes: “The birth of the
Queensland Labor Government in 1932
heralded the dawn of a new era for
Queensland and Australia.” And the
modest man repeated it in a “Courier-
Mail” article.


LOUD LAUGHTER.
“Eight kookaburras, ‘trained to burst into laughter when wanted,’ are to be sent to the ’Frisco Exposition, if Canberra is blind and deaf.”


TO MELBOURNE
You enjoy a family holiday at the
Victoria in a family atmosphere.
The surroundings are dignified,
cuisine excellent, and special ar-
rangements have been made for the
accommodation of children. "Room
only" tariff: 4 /- to 7/6 singles; 8/- to
16/- doubles. Illus. booklet from
DEPT. 9"
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hall) MELBOURNE
■!!•
ii|i
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES OF WAR
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK IN AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET AND TAXATION
MINES AND METALS
October Issue On Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
\J
; £5/10/
Throw away your brush
and blades and shave the
Schick way. Over 2
million Schick shavers
in daily use, saving time
and money. Schick can-
not cut the tenderest
skin. It leaves the face
smooth and flexible.
Obtainable all stores.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Some October birthdays:
Q’land Home Secretary Hanlon, 51, on Ist;
Defence Minister H. V. C. Thorby, 50, on 2nd;
Chas. P. Smith (“West Australian”), 59, and
Justice Richards (S.A.), 69, on 3rd; Justice
Lowe (Vic.), 58, and Justice Gore (Papua), 50,
on 4th; P. C. Spender, M.H.R. (Warringah),
41, on sth; ex-Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 77,
on 7th; painter Hans Heysen, 61, Harold
Burston, 49, knight Sam Walder (former Lord
Mayor of Sydney), 59, on Bth; Speck Attorney-
Geneial E. J. Ogilvie, 46, on 9th; Bishop Riley
(Bendigo), 50, and H. C. Barnard, M.H.R.
(Bass), 48, on 10th; poet Dr. C. H. Souter
(Adel.), 74, and Lieut.-Col. A. C. Blacklow
(Tas.), 59, on 11th ; knight Harry Budge (Syd.),
65, Bishop Dwyer (Wagga Wagga), 69, Ted
Grayndler (gen. sec. A.W.U.), 71, Rev. P. J.
Hartigan (author of -Around the Boree Log), 59,
and Prof. Wilkinson (Syd.), 56, on 12th;
novelist Jack McLaren, 51, C.J. (and Lieut.-
Gov.) Jordon, 57, on 13th; Prof. Henry Alcock
(Q.), 52, Rev. James Green (author and war
chaplain), 72, Vic. Senator Leckie, 66, and
former Senator Arkins (now M.L.A., N.S.W.),
49, on 14th; Dr. G. P. Darnell Smith (formerly
Director of Syd. Botanic Gardens), 70, knight
John McLaren (formerly of Australia House,
London), 67, on 15th; N.S.W. Hon. Minister
Athol Richardson, 41, and E. R. Pitt (Vic.
Public Library), 61, on 16th; J. M. Drew,
M.L.C. (W.A.), 73, F. W. Eggleston (Melb.),
63, Vic. Closer Settlement Commissioner Aird,
46, L. C. Robson (headmaster C.E.G.S., Syd.),
44, on 17th; former N.S.W. geologist E. C.
Andrews, 68, and Lionel Lindsay, 64, on 18th;
A. W. Lacey (ex-M.H.R., now M.H.A., S.A.),
51, Nina Murdoch and novelist 'Hilda Bridges,
on 19th; A. H. Gaze (British Phosphate Com-
missioner, Melb.), 53, on 22nd; Bishop Thomas
(Willochra), 57, on 24th; H. S. Dettmann (Syd.
Grammar School), 63, Prof, knight Barraclough
(Syd.), 64, and Judge Richardson (Vic.), 59, on
25th; Archbishop Killian (Adel.), 66, and H. K.
Nock, M.H.R. (Riverina), 59, on 26th; Vic.
Hon. Min. G. J. Tuckett, M.L.C., 65, and
Lieut.-Col. J. T. H. Goodwin (Canberra), 73,
on 28th; N.S.W. Min. for Social Services
Hawkins, 62, and Prof. Edwin Pitman
(Tas.), 41, on 29th; Q’land Min. for Transport
Dash, 56, knight Hubert Wilkins, 50, Prof. Wad-
ham (Melb. Uni.), 47, and knight W. R. Car-
penter (Syd.), 61, on 31st.
Senator Joseph Silver Collings, leader
of the Opposition in the Senate, was one
of the founders of the Labor party in
Queensland and had two years in the
Q. Leg. Council before that body was
abolished. He entered the Federal Par-
liament in 1931. Born at Hove, near
SENATOR COLLINGS.
Brighton (Eng.), 77 years ago, Collings is
one of the pillars of the boot manufac-
turing industry.
A Melb. Show record was put up by
Captain A. E. T. Payne. He gained two
championships, 22 firsts, two reserves,
13 seconds, six thirds, a cup and enough
ribbons to stock a city bargain counter,
totalling 49 awards in all on 29 exhibits.
He farms in Nellie Melba’s district, Lily-
dale, and learned some of his farming
lore in Denmark.
Lionel Oscar Lukin, Federal Judge
in Bankruptcy, is by no means so mild
as Frith’s plastic impression would con-
vey. When he was actively a Judge of
the Federal Arbitration Court (he still
holds that commission) striking timber-
workers burnt him in effigy, and in later
JUDGE LUKIN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
days bankrupts who have flouted the
authority of the Court over which Lukin,
J., presides have had a lot of secluded
leisure in which to regret their contu-
macy. The Judge was born at Conda-
mine (Q.), son of a police magistrate.
After a spell as a civil servant, he was
called to the Q. Bar in 1890, and became
a Judge of the Q. Supreme Court 20
years later. For the four years 1926-30
he dispensed industrial arbitration, and
has since been the Commonwealth’s
highest judicial authority in bankruptcy.
Presiding genius of the Chemical In-
dustries Exposition which opened in Syd-
ney on Monday is Rupert Boswood
Scammell. Born in Adelaide 41 years
ago, he was educated at Sydney C. of E.
Grammar and Sydney Uni., where he
graduated B.Sc. He’s managing director
of F. H. Faulding and Co., a firm which
was acquired by his father and uncle in
1889, and president of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Australian Chemical In-
stitute.
A few years ago Tom Challon, a young
Melbourne artist, was playing first violin
in a chamber-music trio. A Nat. Gallery
pupil, he was divided between music and
painting, but some of his cartoons began
to appear in “Table Talk.” The spirit
of adventure pushed him towards Lon-
don, where he landed without any repu-
tation. Now he has been handed the
pencil that Death took out of the hand
of Will Dyson, the London “Daily
Herald” being apparently fond of Aus-
tralians.
Any doctor giving evidence on prac-
tice matters in goldmining towns will
have a well-informed hearer in J. Bowie
Wilson, one of the two counsel assisting
the Royal Commission on Doctors’ Re-
muneration in National Insurance. For
18 years before he was called to the Bar
he was a mining engineer, much of the
time underground manager at Mt.
Morgan (Q.), and part of the rest in
charge of cyaniding operations at Eids-
vold (Q.). What he doesn’t know about
the manners, customs and financial con-
ditions of such communities may be dis-
regarded.
Bill Keast, ex-Lang member for Ash-
burnham (N.S.W.), passed out the other
day at 60-odd. He got into Parliament
in ’3O and went out when Governor
Game sacked the Auburn Calamity in
’32. Bill played no favorites. He turned
up in Forbes one Sunday, attended every
church in the town at different sittings,
and went to a football match in the
afternoon wearing both sides’ buttons.
“Honest Bill,” they called him. Mayor
of Parkes and Hospital Board presi-
dent, he clung to a pathetic hope that
Ashburnham would recall him some
day when N.S.W. realised that it had
misjudged his revered leader.
In the public eye most of his time
but more especially in Show Week is
Francois Robert de Castella, Vic.’s
leading viticulturist. At 71, the veteran
wine authority has become the leading
light of the Wine and Food Society, of
which he is president. De Castella re-
gards the best of Australian wines as
equal to the best of Europe’s, but, as
a dietitian, a cook and trencherman, he
hasn’t a good word to say for the
Australian egg. De Castella comes of
a Swiss family which immigrated in
1852. He was educated at Xavier,
and returned to his native land to
study natural science at Lausanne and
vinegrowing and winemaking at the
most famous French vineyards. He
got his knowledge of Australian wine
on his father’s vineyard at St. Hubert’s,
at his own estate of Tongala and on
Chateau Dookie. The Vic. Government
has sent him on missions to Europe,
and his name is heard wherever the
grape is under discussion.
Frederick Richard Jordan, Chief Jus-
tice of New South Wales, succeeded
Philip Street in that office, and now suc-
ceeds him as Lieutenant-Governor of the
State. Born in London, but educated in
Sydney, the new Lieut.-Governor had a
promising scholastic career. Called to
LIEUT.-GOVERNOR JORDAN.
the Bar in 1907, he took silk 22 years
later and became C.J. in 1934. Plays
golf, enjoys swimming and can handle
a foil. He’ll be 57 next month. A
K.C.M.G. came his way in 1936.
It seems unlikely there are many Aus-
tralian-born twins to equal the combined
age of Joel and Laz Blashki, of St. Kilda
(Vic.). It was 160 years on September
21. Mark and James Turnbull, of the
neighboring suburb of Elwood, are in
their eighty-second year, but they came
from Scotland. A peculiarity of twins,
both the couples have spent their whole
lives together.
Leonard Clifford Hoffman isn’t very
tall, but he can tell a tall story with the
L. C. HOFFMAN.
best of them. This energetic American,
who is vice-president of the Pepsodent
Co., Chicago, is having a look at Aus-
tralasia for the first time, with special
reference to the tooth-brushing proclivi-
ties of these parts.
Admiral Sir William Archibald How-
ard Kelly (retired), just now in Aus-
tralia, who has been advising this country
to swap two of its cruisers for a battle-
ship, had 50 years in the Navy, joining
in 1886 and retiring two years ago. He
was a captain when the Great War broke
out, and in succession commanded the
eighth light cruiser squadron and the
British Adriatic force, after which he
headed a naval mission to Greece. He
hoisted his rear-admiral’s flag in 1922,
and was Admiralty Representative on
the League of Nations from 1927 to
1929. His last important command was
the China station, which brought with
it a K.C.B. and rank as admiral.
The selection of C. T. White, Govern-
ment Botanist of Queensland, for two
years’ research work at Kew Gardens,
London, is a well-deserved honor for an
able Australian scientist. Brisbane-born,
he has been in touch with botanical
matters since childhood on account of
family relationship with the Baileys.
Frederick Manson Bailey, F.L.S., was
Director of the Brisbane Botanical Gar-
dens and Government
Botanist for many years,
and was succeeded as
Director by his son, the
recently-deceased J. F.
Bailey, later Director of
the Adelaide Botanical
Gardens. C. T. White was
trained under the elder
Bailey, and worked with
both. Kew experience will
bring him into touch with
most of the world’s lead-
ing botanists, and an im-
portant part of his work there will be
to collect information regarding tropical
and sub-tropical plants likely to be of
economic value to Australia.


THE DIEHARD.


ABORIGINALITIES D
“Bahmahuta”: The cables mention
that terrorist Arabs in Palestine have
been using the ordinary spring rat-trap
to set off land mines. It recalled an
“Blow y'r old man! You don't need his consent."
experience of mine in British New Guinea
years ago during an expedition into the
interior with that famous explorer and
autobiographer Bunkum. While in
Samarai I had noticed a great accumu-
lation of these traps in Billy Whitton’s.
No one seemed to want them, and they
were left on his hands ; I secured some
500 gross at 2d. each, a bright idea having
dawned on me. They were light to carry,
and in due course we came to one
of those ferocious cannibal districts dis-
covered by Bunkum. In accordance with
my idea, we planted these set traps by
the hundred round the camp. In the
night a most terrible hullabaloo arose.
As was his usual custom, Bunkum
ordered his men to spray the darkness
with Snider bullets. At dawn natives were
seen writhing outside the camp. Inves-
tigation showed that one was Bunkum’s
batman and the other Bunkum’s sergeant
and trusted factotum. Each had hand-
cuffed to him a beauteous maiden—ac-
cording to Papuan standards —and they,
like their escorts, wore anything from
three to half a dozen rat-traps on their
feet. It appears Bunkum had sent bat-
man and sergeant out early in the even-
ing to spy out enemy dispositions in the
mission village near by, first stripping
them of their uniform. The presence of
the ladies was never satisfactorily ex-
plained to me, a new hand, though Bun-
kum and his other A.R.M. remarked
that you never could trust a Papuan, and
there was no good putting it in the report.
How the lot got among the traps was
another mystery, though 1 fancy the
native corporal, who was after the ser-
geant's job, put in some good work.
However, Bunkum’s story of the fear-
some attack and its repulse in his auto-
biography has the battle of the Wazir
gone a million.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Anyone who wants to
find out why a black billy boils quicker
than an unblackened one (B. 14/9/’3B)
need only put on a black shirt, stand
in the hot sun for 10 minutes, change
into a white shirt, again stand in the
sun 10 minutes, and then note the dif-
ference. That’s why.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Durable tim-
ber, is it? I’ll back salt-water tea-tree.
At Robe (S.A.) posts no bigger in cir-
cumference than a jam-tin have been
standing for 70 years. Ironbark? The
Adelaide Electric Supply Co. used it for
poles; its average life was 15 years.
Now steel and concrete poles, which
cost little more than wooden ones, and
will stand for a century, have replaced
them.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Maoriland’s 40-
hour week has not yet penetrated to the
great outback. On a general store in
the Hawke’s Bay district I observed the
following notice: “This store will be
closed for stocktaking on Sunday,
August 28.”
* * * *
“Marsh”: Big dampers (B. 24/8/’38)?
In our mustering camp on the Georgina
(s.-w. Q.) the babbler found his supply
of camp ovens inadequate to keep the
dodger up to 42 hungry white and black
stockmen: he overcame the oven diffi-
culty by baking his sods in the ashes.
Daily three fifties of flour were emptied
on the mixing sheet, a tent-fly, and after
dynamite and water had been added and
the mixture worked into an elongated
roll it was assisted into its bed of gidya
ashes. Baking took the best part of
three hours, but the star turn came when
the sod had to be relieved of its ash
overcoat. With one end on the ground
and the other resting on his knee, the
cook scraped away from bow to stern
with a shovel. Those daily efforts were
on deck throughout the muster, a matter
of seven weeks.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: On the rare occasions
when city friends persuade me to recall
from my misguided youth wild tales of
animals, birds and reptiles encountered
in the Australian bush, they invariably
sigh with disappointment that there are
no such things in their lives. Yet both
Sydney and Melbourne are astonishingly
populated by bush creatures in a wild
state. In the parks about Vaucluse
there are native cats, rabbits and snakes ;
Mosman environs have their possums ;
there are lyrebirds near Lindfield ; foxes
and native cats raid the poultry yards
of Epping and Baulkham Hills ; and I’ve
seen wallaby round Liverpool. There
are, or used to be, rabbits, snakes,
kookaburras, and possums about the
river above South Yarra, hares at West
Footscray, and blue-tongues and
goannas in the wilds of Essendon.
* * * *
“Notaden”: In a sheltered opening
near the creek bank an irregular ring
of mushrooms comes with every spring,
in a wider and wider diameter each year.
Within the ring the couch grass is darker
and more luxuriant than around it.
Fairies, lightning, the orgies of witches
and warlocks, have figured amongst
popular explanations of how such rings
are formed, but the cold insight ol
science rejects romance. As the mush-
rooms grow they permeate the surround-
ing ground with root-threads which
absorb certain constituents of the soil.
Young mushrooms will not grow in soil
which has been deprived of these
elements, and when the spores come
to be shed only those will develop which
reach the fresh soil outside. Thus does
the ring widen with each sporing season.
But, although the threads make the soil
unsuitable for spores, they enrich it for
grass, so that the ring is always lusher
of growth than its surroundings.
* * * *
“C.C.C.”: Our C.Q. district has wit-
nessed some freak flashes of lightning,
but none more freakish than one which
recently abolished 20ft. of our telephone
line. It wasn’t burnt or melted or merely
broken —the wire was neatly chopped
into sections an inch-and-a-half long;
they needed only a point at one end and
a bump at the other to be nails.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A bull in a china shop is
a proverbially destructive animal, but
Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.) realised recently
that a wallaby in a sports-store window
is a sound performer in the smash line.
Chased by dogs from the scrub near
the aerodrome, one came full speed
down the main street and, apparently
taking the reflection from a large plate-
glass window for the way to safety,
jumped clear through it, followed by
several excited dogs. What little re-
mained of the window disappeared when
it jumped out again and, pursued by
every dog in the town in full tongue,
put up a new speed record along the
footpath. The chase ended in a baker’s
yard, where onlookers beat off the ex-
cited pursuers and rescued the quarry.
It is not long since another of the same
species, dazzled by the headlights of a
car, took a flying leap on to the bonnet
and balanced there till the car stopped
and it was able to hop off in comfort.
•*■.***
“Old Camp”: “Push (B. 31/8/’3B)
raises a smile when he speaks of the
newspapers of the day ignoring the wheel-
barrow feat of “Russian Jack.” Actu-
ally the incident happened on the rush
to Hall’s Creek in 1886, Jack trundling
his barrow along the track from Derby.
Coming on the exhausted wayfarer he
first carried his swag for him ; next day,
and to the end of the journey, he had the
man also on top of the load. But as for
the papers recording the matter —well,
what does “Push” imagine W.A. was like
in those days? Well over 1000 miles to
the south three small papers struggled for
a bare existence —the “West Australian,
the “Perth Inquirer” and the “Victoria
Plains Express” (Geraldton). ' And so
meagre was the news service that quite
often murder in the Kimberley country
went unchronicled. However, Russian
Jack (Ivan Fredricks was his right name)
got any amount of word-of-mouth pub-
licity ; when as a kid I struck early Cool-
gardie I found his feat one of the stan-
dard campfire yarns. And I heard it
scores of times after that, right up to the
Nullagine.
* * * *
“Komediak”: Adopting the Yankee
lingo (B. 17/8/’3B) isn’t the least of the
modern bagman’s faults. In a Mel-
bourne milkbar I saw two tattered wan-
derers dump their ’Tildas on the floor
and climb awkwardly on to stools. The
thought that an Aussie swaggie could
sink so low put me off my grub for days.
The only consolation was that poor old
Harry Lawson wasn’t there to see the
degrading sight.
* *
“Froth”: 1 introduced my brewer to
that keg which grew until it held a gallon
more than in the beginning (B. 31 /8/’3B),
and he remarked that if it could be
patented it would be worth a mint of
money. Away from the realms of
romance beer-kegs actually grow smaller.
The new barrel, staves wrought from
bone-dry wood, absorbs liquid at its first
filling. The. staves swell, but, bound to-
gether with inelastic hoops, are unable
to expand. The pressure thus crushes the
wood fibre along every edge. Left to
dry such a barrel at its next filling would
leak slightly. So every now and then the
hoops on returned empties are driven
down, tightening up the staves. The
process goes on, alternate swelling, crush-
ing, tightening, until finally a long-lived
keg becomes too small to contain its re-
puted measure. It is to minimise this
process of swelling, crushing, etc., that
beer kegs are made of such thick timber.
This means cost. So if “Toto’s” pal has
plans of a barrel with inch-thick staves,
and it keeps on becoming bigger—well,
as my brewer says, there’s money in it
* * * *
“First Blue”: The imported deer is
usually regarded as the shyest of
creatures, and yet when drawn by curi-
osity it exhibits a disregard for con-
sequences equal to that of a yellow-
press reporter. Recently at Gembrook
(Vic.) a tired agriculturist, returning
from a morning’s survey of his demesne,
heard weird sounds coming from his
kitchen. Investigating, he found a huge
buck trying out his antlers on the cook-
ing utensils. The invader took to his
heels with a tea-cosy draped over one
antler. The irony of the incident is
that the cocky had as a boarder a retired
schoolteacher who had been trailing the
creatures unsuccessfully for the past six
months.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: The coconut, carried by
ocean currents, established itself on prac-
tically every central Pacific island. Glass
balH, used by Japanese fishermen as
net-floats, have been found both on the
Barrier Reef and the Californian coast.
Therefore “Coir’s” contention (B.
31/8/’3B) that winds and currents would
have prevented the baobab nut reaching
Australia amounts to little. Anyway,
present-day conditions are no criterion of
those of even a thousand years ago.
Trade winds certainly blew then, but
ocean currents alter with every change
in the formation of the sea bed. A sub-
marine upheaval may produce changes
felt hundreds, even thousands, of miles
away. And what do we know of currents
in the practically unexplored Indian
Ocean? Now, here’s the real argument:
if the baobab is indigenous to Australia,
as is the banksia and the eucalypt, why
has it produced no diversity of type, so
strongly evident in the recognised in-
digenes? Count the varieties of banksia ;
grow tired of counting those of the euca-
lypt. But there are only two barely dis-
tinguishable varieties of baobab; one
produces a lemon-shaped nut, the other
a more spherical-shaped one, proving the
tree to be a comparative newcomer and
not yet subject to that struggle for sur-
vival which has produced such diversity
among the true indigenes.
* * * *
“Granova”: Sheep that jump when
emerging from a yard (B. 17/8/’3B) do so
because of the nervous fear that they are
not completely free, and this is aggra-
vated by poor sight. Freshly-shorn
sheep, which have an open view of the
world, pour out of a gate like water,
but heavily-woolled sheep, many of which
are partly wool-blind, act as though a
dozen dogs were in the way. Our new-
chum, who tried to find out why they
jump by lying down just outside the gate
to observe more closely, was nearly a
martyr to science. By the time the mob
had finished jumping on him he was
covered with dust and bruises, and his
clothes were fit only for the ragbag.
CAPE STIFF.
From Schouten’s ship, the clumsy Horne,
It took its name. And bleak, forlorn,
For ever smitten by the hands
Of wind and wave, it darkly stands,
A dreaded landmark southward thrown
'Fore wastes forbidden, waters lone.
The Dutchman passed, and in his wake
Came English rovers led by Drake,
And tough sea-robbers fierce and bold.
Who sought their loot of Spanish gold,
Of silks and silver, pearls and plate
And food and fabric, pirates’ freight.
To round the Horn the famous craft
Of clipper years, swept fore and aft
By foaming seas, fought league by league;
Their growling crews in chill fatigue
By bawling captains, bucko mates,
Hard-driven at Gehenna’s Gates.
For ever smitten by the hands
Of wind and sea, the Black Cape stands
Where oceans meet. Its risks and fears
Have lesser grown; but down the years
In record still they stand away—
“ Cape Horners” of a vanished day.
Their fighting mates and skippers wise
To all the signs of seas and skies
Are outward bound. Revolver wrists,
Belaying pins and knuckled fists
Prevail no more, for in the Deep
Of Time their crews no watches keep; *
Nor even at their loud commands—
“ All hands aloft! Aloft all hands!” —
Come groping from their bunks to light
Some sudden danger of the night,
The long black night, the night forlorn,
That falls for ever on Cape Horn.
VICTORIA.
E. J. Brady.


“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat was fencing
on a Victorian road when a man drove
up in a car and asked, “Jer see a young
lady ride along here?” Mat looked
blank. “Good-looking,” prompted the
other, “in a green dress. She’s red-
headed, good figure. Oh, a fine all-
round girl?” Mat shook his head slowly,
thinking hard. The motorist started his
engine. “Say,” said Mat, dropping his
crowbar, “has she got a blue dawg with
two white hind feet?” “Yes.” “Aw,
she went past ’bout 20 minutes ago,”
Mat declared with conviction.
* * * *
“Jae”: Drought-breaking methods?
Two old sailormen breasted the bar of
a Port Adelaide hotel and called for
pints, explaining that a bet was on, the
loser to pay, Bung himself to adjudicate.
When duly refreshed they nodded for
him to step outside, where Bill pointed
to a red-brick chimney-stack with a
considerable southerly lean in the disused
works of the E. and A. Copper Co. “Joe
reckons it’ll fall to sou’-west,” he said.
“1 say sou’-east. Jist let’s know which’s
right an’ the drinks’ll be squared.” The
stack was still there when local option
closed the pub.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “Must be somethink wrong
with city people,” Old Bob said. “Me an’
Tarry Tom wuz runnin’ a store up at
Binnaloo onct. Some’ow we got inter
’olts with the Income Tax Orfice, an’
they sends one uv them ercountin’ fellers
up ter ’xamine our books. An’ did ’e
go crook when ’e sees ’em! ‘Yer sys-
tem’s outa order proper,’ ’e roars, an’ ’e
says we gotter use wot ’e calls the double-
entry system. Me, I can’t git the ’ang uv
it a-tall, but Tarry does, an’ ’e reckins
it’s a rattlin’ idea. ‘But,’ ’e says, ‘is it
legal? ‘O’ course it’s
legal,’ snaps the ercountin’
bloke. ‘All the big city
joints uses it, an’ some uv
’em goes in fer the triple-
entry, too.’ ‘Double-
entry’ll do us fer a start,’
says Tarry, an’ we ’ops
right inter it. Well,
double-entry might work
in Melbin, but it’s no
blasted good in Binnaloo.
The cockies kicked like the
devil erbout it. It's no
good Tarry tellin’ ’em it’s
all legal an’ sergarnio;
they takes their flamin’
oath they ain’t payin’ their
bills twice over.
“Puffinus”: I hope I’m wrong, but it
seems to me that the lyrebird is doomed
to extinction before the century ends.
The big domed stick nest at ground
level is still the fashion, although an
occasional innovator gets above fox and
dog level, even to 100 ft. or more. Mrs.
L. is no flyer, and has to climb most of
it. Only one egg is laid at a sitting, and
it requires 40 days of incubation, in the
winter, too, with all the risks of cold and
damp. Junior has a terrific appetite,
Dad’s only contribution to the infant
menu is vocal, and Mother has to hustle
for both during the six weeks of nur-
“Not much good playin' Wagner to this audience, Bert. Let's give
'em a bit of Mozart."
sery days. During another couple of
months also Mother has to look after
the lanky youngster and collect most of
its food. Dad still sings, and doesn’t
mind pinching a bit of the kid’s tucker
if he happens to be round at the time.
That’s the time that foxes, cats, dogs or
hunting owls get Junior, who’s a lot of
a fool, though good at hiding if Mother
sees the danger in time and gives the
alarm. Mother is certainly a hard-
working heroine, but Dad’s a loafer.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Fish in the Murray River
have learned to climb ladders —in fact,
they have to acquire the accomplish-
ment in order to get by the locks.
European fish have had centuries in
which to learn the art, but the Aussies
are getting the strong of it with true
national adaptability. The bream and
perch types negotiate the channels be-
tween the pools on their sides when
the water is too low to take their full
draught. The ladder begins in the rough
water at the foot of the weir, and goes
up in a series of pools connected by
channels, to emerge at the top of the
weir. The climbers rest in the pools
before tackling the next step. S.A.’s
Fisheries Inspector Moorhouse has in-
terested the Murray River Commission
in taking a fish census at some of the
locks by means of traps at the ladder
tops, and results to date look like the
basis of a possible fresh-water fish in-
dustry of the near future.
* * * *
“Heresone”: Not only “country”
radio plays slip on harvesting time (B.
31/8/’3B). D. McKee Wright in “In
the Moonlight” makes “Orion swing with
his belted lights low down in the western
sky” while “They’re thrashing out of
the stook to-night.” That times it be-
tween the end of January and the begin-
ning of June. Hatfield also gets Orion
wrong. When Ginger Murdoch was
engaged in stealing a traveller’s horses
“it was getting towards June, cold,” and
when he got back from hiding them and
covering his tracks “Orion was half-way
across the heavens.” Rider Haggard is
the classic example of taking liberties
with astronomy. He makes the crescent
moon rise just after sunset; a few days
later he stages a full moon, and a couple
of days after that he eclipses it. You
may look it up in King Solomon's Mines.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: Let me tell “Valencia Creek”
(B. 14/9/’3B) that the jew’s-harp he
knew and loved in his youth has migrated
to British New Guinea. So has the harp’s
rival, the concertina (German), though
not in such quantities. In the days of
my youth every flash stockman in W.Q.
used to come back from his holiday in
Rockhampton —oh, yes, they used to get
there in spite of the lambing-down frater-
“How did you enjoy the sermon, Mr. Trezamble?"
“ Splendid, passun. I always think tha's one o' Spurgeons best."
nity—with a new concertina, always, for
some reason or another, wrapped in a
magenta-colored silk hanky. Sometimes
it was an English concertina —not often,
for this was a much more elaborate in-
strument and harder to play. Accor-
dions were unknown in the outback then.
* * * *
“Cicada”: I’ve tried delicacies in many
parts of the world, including roast goanna
that tasted like veal,
frogs’ legs, fricassee of
bear, snake, cockatoo
and what the Innisfail
Italians refer to as the
ha-ha pigeon, but for
nice clean, white, firm
flesh give me cat, curried
for preference. When in
India I stopped with a
friend in the Central
Provinces. The native
cook one day asked my
host what sort of curry
we would like for dinner.
My friend, who was
busy, testily replied
“Curry anything the
blanky cat, if you like,”
and dismissed him. At
dinner we had a superb
curry which tasted like
chicken. The cook was
sent for, and my friend
commended him on his
culinary art, and asked
what he had curried. The
revelation seemed to
affect my host, for he
turned a queer color and
tottered to the door. He
seemed entirely ungrate-
ful for the excellent repast, as well as for
the cook’s effort in ridding him of the
vermin-ridden streak of agony that
alway got under his feet.
* * * *
“McZiff”: As a rabbit-trapper (pro
tem.) I use whatever paper I have on
hand in the setting of the traps. During
the last week I used a different paper
each night and the same number of traps.
Here are the results: “West” (U.S.A.)
“Argus” (Melb.) 25, “Humour” (Sydney)
42, “Age” (Melb.) 23, “Weekly Times”
(Melb.) 31, Bulletin 44, “S.M.H.” 19.
Evidently Bunny appreciates a good
joke, but isn’t keel! on either “Granny’s”
cables or Yankee muck.
* * * *
“Burr”: A great flock of galahs feed-
ing on the ground towards sundown (B.
14/9/ ’3B) is one of the finest sights in
the world, and one that in a less benighted
country would attract hordes of tourists.
When one of these vast congregations is
alarmed it rises as on one wing. For
a moment it almost disappears against
the bluish-grey background of the sky.
and then, with a simultaneous wheel,
floods the welkin with the warm rose of
the breast feathers. On the ground at
these times the galah is a heavy punisher
of the seed-bearing weeds like bindi-eye
which are such a curse to the wool-
grower. Yet I can recall a party in some
outback N.S.W. town, which included
a State Governor, murdering the beauti-
ful birds out of pigeon-shooting traps.
* * * *
“Kinky”: Though the South African
Bushman may be classed by the unthink-
ing as among the lowest of human races
(B. 14/9/’3B), just as the Australian ajbo.
once was, there are doubts about it. For
one thing, he is an accomplished artist
whose work leaves that of the aboriginals
and the rock-painting of other primitive
peoples standing. It was my luck in the
n.-e. of the Orange Free State during the
Boer War to come across a splendid gal-
lery of paintings on the weather-protected
wall of a deep, overhanging kranz, which
these people always chose for their splen-
did work in black, red and blue on the
white limestone wall, which had first
been rubbed smooth. The pictures were
all of the chase and battle, and the life
and fire of the action and the splendid
drawing of the figures —in silhouette, of
course —were astonishing. It was on a
little kopje barely quarter of a mile from
the township of Ficksburg, where I was
one of a batch of the S.A.C., but though
they had heard of it I could never interest
a Dutchman or indeed one of my own
pals—all Englishmen —to pay it a visit.
“K.R.”: The hubby-eating female
spider (B. 31 /8/’3B) has a counterpart
in the female praying mantis. Like the
male spider, the male praying mantis is
often both husband and wedding break-
fast; the female kills him by gnawing
through the back of his neck, the wings
being the only part of him she does
not eat. At this point Fabre, the French
naturalist, experimentally introduced an-
other male. He was also eaten, and in
the course of two weeks seven males
were thus treated by the one lady mantis.
THE DANGERS OF SPEED.
“This age that we live in,” drawled Joe the
Slug, “it’s nothin’ but blasted speed.
Why, stiffen the lizards! they put on pace when
even scoffin’ a feed.
It’s nothin’ but rushin’ ’ere an’ there with
never a bit of a rest;
The ’uman race is gittin' like ants when some-
one disturbs their nest.
“Y’ll see coves tearin’ around the place be
motor-car or be ’plane,
An’ when they git to some silly joint they
start to go ’ome again.
To chop ’all an hour orf a run be train a
fortnight’s wages they’ll spend;
‘Faster an’ faster’s’ their motta, but where do
they get themselves in the end?
“Ah, the world’s gone batty; no wonder that
everyone’s gettin’ or goin’ crook;
It’s whizzin’ around like a scalded cat that gives
’em that ’aggard look.
1 was gittin’ that way nieself one time, an’ I’d
’ave bin dead no doubt
De now, except fer a lucky chance that caused
me to cut it out.
“It musta been seventeen year ago. I’m workin’
for Steve Maguire.
’E sends me one mornin’ to town with the
trap to git some fencin’ wire.
Well, what with the swayin’ an’ drowsy ’eat I’m
snoozin’ away pretty soon.
W’en 1 opens me eyes I’m outside the pub an’
it’s late in the afternoon 1
“1 ’ops down quick .an’ rushes in an’ swallers a
flamin’ beer;
There’s a toffy lookin’ bloke in the bar, an’
’e looks at me reel severe.
'E's a quack, it seems, an’ ’e comes across, an’
these are the words ’e said
‘lf y’ keep up that pace, young man,’ sez ’e,
‘one day y’ll be droppin’ dead!’
“Well, that was a warnin’ enough for me. I
don’t need tellin’ again,
So I chucks the possy an’, spare me days! I
ain’t ’ad another since then.
It don't pay yer, son, to git flyin’ round an’
burn up y’r life with pace;
If the world slowed down to the speed I’ve set
it’d be a sensible place!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


A DAM S ' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET
8/ « Per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte,
bingle and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.unch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m )
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Phone, M 4601.
A Compact and Highly Efficient Drive
ivor onivt^
Wherever the Ludowici Short Centre Pivot
Drive has been installed—and there are thou-
sands in constant operation throughout Aus-
as proved its superiority.
With the Ludowici Pivot Drive, belt slip is
eliminated, space is saved, and much longer
belt life is assured. Why not investigate the
Ludowici Short Centre Pivot Drive ?
Made and guaranteed by :
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York St., Sydney -- - 20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
ONE
FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATE gives you :
1. An interest in 20 of Australia’s lead-
ing companies.
2. Liberal income yield.
3. High margin of Capital security.
For as little as £22 (approx.) you can
secure an interest in 20 sound enter-
prises, known throughout Australia.
Income is paid twice yearly. Custodian Trustees for investors.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
Write for Free Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
au
20
AN' tS
rOM p
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney)
Not To Rc- Re-
•luly, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 117,570 9 p.c. = 07.494 50,076 343,610
1925.. 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1926.. 147,915 9 „ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 108,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541.040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ ~120,000 50,294 591,334
1030. . 148,184 !) „ „ 108,000 40,184 031,518
1931.. 78,050 61 „ „ 78,000 50 631,568
1932.. 72,027 0 ~ „ 72,000 27 631,595
1933.. 72,659 6 ~ „ 72,000 659 632.254
1934.. 84,426 6J „ „ 78,000 6,426 638,680
1935.. 92,751 7J.,, „ 90,000 2,751 641,431
1936.. 108,819 S „ „ 96,000 12,819 054,250
Share premiums, £IOO,OOO .. .. 754,250
1937.. 120,136 9 p.c, = 112,453 ) „ „„„
Staff fund, £SOOO .. ..j 2,083 756,933
Share premiums, £70,000 .. .. 826,933
1938.. 151,973 9 p.c. = 131,905 f , , n , ;s ~n i
Staff fund, £SOOO . . .. j 1,,>068 842 ’ 001
For the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1936, Tooheys obtained
most of the additional finance it re-
quired (£791,000-odd) through its asso-
ciate, Tooheys Standard Securities, Ltd..
at a cost of 5]- p.c. But this practice,
having served its purpose during bad
times, has been discontinued for
the present, at any rate —thus adding
to the investment possibilities of the
parent’s scrip. In April, 1937, the parent
issued 250,000 new 16s. ords., one for six,
at a premium of 50 p.c., and in February
last a further 175,000 ords. were put out,
one for 10, also at a premium of 50 p.c.
lo enable 9 p.c. to be paid on these two
lots of new share capital, the capital and
premium moneys combined need net only
6 p.c.
The £510,000 of fresh capital and share
premiums gathered during the last two
years, together with extra £73,999
from sundry creditors, has been used
mainly to buy hotel properties and
further extend and modernise the brewery
and plant, book value of all of which has
increased by £1,359,052 since 1929.
There is no price-cutting in the trade, all
but a fraction of which in N. S. Wales
is shared by this co. and its big com-
petitor, Tooths; competition takes the
lorm of buying hotel properties, thus
widening and anchoring turnover. Now
consider these figures:
1929. 1934. 1937. 1938.
. & £■ £ £
Capital .. 1,200,009 1,200,000 1,400,000 1,540,000
Sundry
creditors .. 497,220 245,933 387,476 437,761
Loans* .. 325,773 790,916 791,574
Brewery,
hotels, etc. 1,593,197 1,891,053 2,708,825 2 952 249
Stocks .. 161,886 77,354 ' 94,257 ’102,592
Book debts 584,413 437,784 - 549,010 577,760
Cash, etc... 24,059 7,146 7,128 13 082
Shares in
other cos. 39,050 39,560 39,500
* Advances by subsidiary.
Last year’s net addition to the book
value of fixed assets was £243,424, to
debtors’ balances £28,750, stocks £8335,
and cash, etc., £5954. To meet the out-
lay £50,285 was added to the outside
debt; the share and premium moneys
and surplus earnings provided the bal-
ance. Leaving loans from the subsidiary
and shares in other cos. out of the
reckoning, more or less liquids exceeded
the amount coming to sundry creditors
by £255.673 (down £7246) when the
books closed.
Over the last half-dozen years the
Government Statistician estimates the
consumption of beer, spirits and wine in
N. S. Wales and the expenditure thereon
as follows:
, —Expenditure— ~
Ended p e r Head
Dee. , 'OOO Gallons Total, Popu-
-31, Beer. Spirits. Wine. £’ooo. lation.
1932.. 18,042 610.4 1271.3 10,620 £4 2 4
1933.. 18,925 617.4 1473.0 10,740 4 2 7
1934.. 21,573 716. S 1559.5 11,750 4 9 7
1935.. 28,764 761.4 1619.2 12,800 4 16 9
1936.. 26,218 785.9 1641. S 13,040 5 2 3
1 1937.. 28.881, 824.1 1663.9 14.570 5 10 4
The consumption of beer in 1937 in-
creased by 2,663,000 gallons, and was
594,000 gallons short of the 1929 figure.
There was a marked increase in consump-
tion during the first quarter of 1938,
over which Sydney’s sesquicentenary
celebrations extended.
For the 12 months to the end of July
the spring in the co.’s gross earnings was
£113,143. That was after allowing
£32,753 (up £820) for depreciation, and
providing an unspecified amount for bad
and doubtful debts, etc.:
1929. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Gross earnings £782,921 £615,283 £067,744 £78Q,887
Exes. . . 612,627 506,464 547,608 628,914
Net profit. . £170,294 £108,819 £120,130 £151,973
Exes, took £81,306 of the increase, leaving
the net result £31,837 better at 10.3 p.c.
on average capital as against 9.6, 9, 7.7, 7,
6,6, 6.5, 12.3 and 14.1 p.c. back to 1929.
The div. was kept at 9 p.c., making the
average 1\ p.c. over the last decade.
Considering the amount of new money
in the business that has not yet had a
chance to develop full earning power,
last year’s performance was very en-
couraging.
As for the current term, there will
be a 15 p.c. increase in taxation, other
costs are still rising, and it is doubtful
whether any substantial increase in con-
sumption need be looked for. At 30s.
(325. 9d. a year ago) the scrip returns 4.8
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis—a very satis-
factory yield from a sound brewery stock.
Visibly, the cover is 245. 9d. in net
tangibles.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship Cos.
To Rc— Rc—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
3929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
1930.. 19,695 7 „ „ 19,713 12,262
1931.. 14,168 5 „ „ 14,081 87 12,349
1932.. 18,651 5 „ „ 14,081 4,570 16,919
Surplus on liquidated subsidiary, £23,556.. 40,475
1933.. 15,984 5$ p.c. = 15,489 496 40.970
1934.. 23,411 7 „ ~19,713 3,698 44,668
1935.. 29,491 8 „ ~ 22.529 6,962 51,630
1936.. 22,575 8 „ „ 22,529 46 61.676
1937.. 37,617 8 ~ „ 22,529 15,088 66,764
1938.. 33,071 8 „ „ 23,428 9,643 76,407
This co.’s ferries, .which carry passengers
from Circular Quay across the Heads
to Manly, provide the cheapest and one
of the most efficient transport services
in the State. Because of this, the Harbor
Bridge has not disturbed the co.’s virtual
monopoly of passenger traffic between
the points mentioned.
During the last term the number of
seasonal tickets issued continued to in-
crease, while there was marked expan-
sion in the number of trippers carried,
thanks to seasonable weather during the
summer months and during the two in-
tensive periods of Sydney’s sesqui-
centenary celebrations. After being re-
conditioned at Cockatoo Dock, the Bel-
lubera, one of the co.’s Diesel craft,
resumed running in October, 1937 —she
had been burnt to the waterline in the
previous term, and the damage was
apparently covered by outside under-
writers. Also, the service was further im-
proved by maintaining the summer time-
table during the winter months, which, of
course, added to costs. After paying all
working exes., maintaining the fleet and
plant in thorough repair, and providing
£20,531 (up £5391) for depreciation, the
board figured net earnings £4546 short of
the previous year’s at £33,071, equal to
11.2 p.c. on average capital as against
13.3, 8, 10.4, 8.3, 6.2, 6.6, 5, 6.9 and 11.8
p.c. back to 1929. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., and £SOOO was sent to the
plant-renewal reserve, which the “Wild
Cat” believes to be genuine profit, and
treats accordingly.
Early in the term 36,768 new 10s.
shares were issued, one for 16, at par.
The £18,384 of fresh capital that came
in, together with an extra £21,218 of
outside money and more besides, was
used to meet progress payments on the
new ferry, South Steyne, which is
equipped with all the latest maintenance-
saving devices, and is claimed to be the
fastest ferry in the Empire—she arrived
about a fortnight ago. The net addition
to the book value of ship property was
£63,819:
1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £281,016 £281,610 £281,616 £300,000
Liabilities .. 3,511 6,083 13,819 35,037
Ship property 185,683 ] 185,723 249,542
Freeholds, plant, 1 328,635
etc 50,972 | 76,245 73.410
Investments.. 04,138 J 97,442 87,691
Stocks .. 5,941 7,113 8,118 9,288
Cash, debtors,
etc... _ 7,203 14,846 5,986 3,513
Investments were drawn upon for £9751,
reducing them to £87,691 when the
books closed. How much was then
owing on the new steamer is not men-
tioned, but shareholders aren’t likely to
be asked for more. The year’s con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£65,455) was only £32,222.
Despite the wide margin between
recent earnings and distributions, the
market looks upon the co. as a public
utility and therefore an 8 p.c. propo-
sition. The div., however, is not sub-
ject to statutory control, nor are there
any sound grounds for legislative inter-
ference at the moment. At 17s. the
JOs.-paid shares return 4.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. distribution. Visibly, the cover
is 12s. 6d. in net tangibles, mainly fixed
assets, which appear to be well worth
their book value under present con-
ditions.
Wilcox, Moffiin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. .. 3.453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
1930.. 164,575 Nil 180,138
9s. a share ( £180,000) struck off capital.. 138
1931.. 19,705 Nil 19,843
Profit.
1932.. 1,447 Nil 1,447 18,396
Reserves.
1933.. 24,504 Nil 24,504 6,108
1934.. 39,276 5.1 p.c. = 20,000 19,276 25,384
1935.. 30,128 0.8 „ „ 15,000 15,128 40,512
193 G. . 35,680 9.1 „ „ £O,OOO 15,680 56,192
Contingency reserve, £13,500 .. .. 69,692
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. - 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil 3,686
This co.’s scrip is one of the most
speculative industrials on the market, as
the “Wild Cat” has frequently pointed
out. That is because the co. buys wool,
hides, furred-skins, etc., in all the Aus-
tralian States, largely on its own account,
and sells them overseas. Among other
things, this means heavy stocks, and the
time factor makes earnings very vulner-
able to price fluctuations. Although good
profits are gathered on a rising market,
when a burst of liquidation or other cause
reverses the price trend it is difficult for
the management to avoid substantial
losses, as the figures for 1921, 1925, 1929
and the two following years and 1938
show.
The last decade, covered by the table,
has been the most disastrous in the co.’s
history. For four out of the ten years
losses aggregating £287,781 were re-
corded, while profits for the other six
totalled £176,420, leaving a balance of
£111,361 on the wrong side. In 1930
the books were cleared of intangibles, in-
cluding £130,000 of goodwill, by lopping
9s. per share (£180,000) off capital, re-
ducing it to its present figure of £220,000
in 400,000 shares fully-paid to 11s. each.
After paying a run of four divs., averag-
ing 8.5 p.c., £95,077 of reserves had been
accumulated at the close of accounts in
1937 ; but all but £3686 of the lay-by
was swallowed by the loss on last term's
trading.
The board sums up the year’s opera-
tions in this way: —
The sudden fall in investment values in
the U.S.A. created a lack of contidence,
which not only started a curtailment of
business but also a slide in commodity
prices which affected some of the lines in
fyj 11C * 1 l ' ie co - trades. The price decline was
35-40 p.c. wool, 40 p.c. sheepskins and 45
p.c. each rabbitskins, hides and tallow
Inese losses were accentuated because
while prices were declining it was almost
impossible to find buyers. A further con-
tributing factor was the almost total loss
ot Japanese and European markets for
hides, skins and tallow, owing to monetary
restrictions and the growing policy of
national self-sufficiency, both of which seri-
ously affected turnover.
The net result was a loss of £91,391 as
against a profit of £45,385 for the pre-
ceding term, and for the sixth time in the
last 10 years shareholders were passed
by.
Since January last the price of the
scrip has fluctuated between I Is. 3d. and
5s. 3d., Ihe figure last week-end being
5s. lOd. The return at 5s. 9d. would be
6.5 p.c. on a 3.5 p.c. div. basis. Over
the last decade divs. have averaged 3.4
p.c. The backing is 11s. 2d. in net tan-
gibles, and when the books closed there
was 20s. Id. ol outside money at risk in
the business for every pound belonging
to shareholders.
Here are balance-sheet figures: —
ism. 1086. 1 SKI 7. 1038.
Paid capital.. -£220,000 £220,000 £220.000 £220.000
Overdraft 1 m 7n „ on f 1HMG2 102.088
Creditors f -200*593 j () , , m u2,n:{n
Fixed assets. . 180,o:,4 177,102 170,21)4 183,812
stocks .. 89,870 167,451 216,020 171.870
Book debts . . 48,701 100,860 150.840 78
Cash.. .. 080 1,287 1,502 1.555
Shares other cos. — — 12,851 12,851
To reduce the amount coming to sundrv
creditors by £39,039, add £8518 to the
book value of fixed assets and cover the
year’s loss the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £42,626 and reduced the book
value of stocks by £44,047 and debtors’
balances by £72,219. Excluding shares
in other cos., the shrinkage in the more
or less liquid surplus (£27,041) was
£119,890.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
T , Pref - To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £, £ £ £
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 p.c. = 18,929 — 20,588
1929.. 25.931 3499 7 „ .. 19.010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 — 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil — 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil — 12.880
„„„„ Loss - Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil — 1261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil — 22,374
_ , Reserves
Capital written off, £27.101 .. .. 4,785
Assets written down, £4787 .. .. —
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 G250f Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1930. . 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2,713
1937.. . 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
1938.. 9,386 2500 21 p.c. = 6,111 775 5.522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. .. 6,257
* Half-year, f Includes arrears.
This drapery co. hasn’t met with much
luck since the tide ran out in 1930. The
shop fronts Queen and Adelaide streets,
a 52 p.c. interest is held in Stuparts (paid
capital £52,595), Maryborough, and a
large mail-order connection has been
developed. The business expanded by
absorptions and otherwise, and share-
holders averaged a shade over 7 p.c.,
with little to spare, for the half-dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1930.
For the next four depression years the
net aggregate result of trading was a
loss of £34,609. Then the tide turned,
and, to clear the way for the resumption
of ord. divs., 2s. per share (£27,161) was
snipped off ord. capital, and the pref.
div. was lowered from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c.
But keen competition from chain and
other stores has since stood in the way,
and the management has been unable to
squeeze much profit out of the business.
Last year’s result was the best since
1930. The improvement in gross earn-
ings (£133,994) was £7959, of which exes.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 24.)


W !
"Hi 1 ■
i i
h
i it mi . 1 1
i 1
i ,n ;. ii. i
i.iii 1 I
'•j h > i 1 Him
mm
I i
<1 Li '• n i 1 1 | i , '
1 V 1 V ,| i , |ihi 1 i
i • i
• i ■
< i i
, i
i i
i ' i
. 1 1
l |» ’
i l li . I 1 ,I I i
iW:C.#>to
i
LI 1 Ii 1 . r 1 1
1.l I ■
I I I I I • I I 11 ‘l 1 1 I
I" M
ll ill’ll I "■ 1
11 r, i
i
1 . i ',i'
i
VI
i < i
i i I 1
11 i
1 N Mil i • 1 1
in i h i
.
i 1 1
l ■
, i..
i i
«
'l.i'
I"
> i I
i t
I I •
!
i* i t .i
'll
Mill
Ul
1
(A
i’ll
Ml
i i
'• 'V ll
I
I M l
I i," I l
iillllfllli
i «
mil II
litimmiii
\S\
S3BS
- \
- \
- - -_\ K
In the
Red Packs.
Time for a
CAPSTAN,
/ wLMf MM


8% :i
mi
m
m
H
mm
m
• %&
m
MM
Km. s
H
Your family is happy and
well-cared-for now! How
would it stand if any-
thing should happen to
you?
THROUGH the A.M.P. you can arrange to have a regular income
payable to your wife on your death. The arrangement will stand
even if you should die within a few months of making it. As an
alternative, you can arrange that the income will be payable to you
and your wife commencing at any age you choose.
Tell the nearest A.M.P. office that you want to talk this matter
over with a representative of the Society. An experienced man will
be sent to you at once. If you prefer, a copy of Investing in
Happiness” will be sent to you.
AMP. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon. F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth anc
Hobart.
* District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, liassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, .Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask O T
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT is used on
all Railway Bridges in New South Wales! Suffi-
cient proof of its quality. For all wooden surfaces
also. Sole Agents, William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street. Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Plior.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
(£124,608) took £3107, leaving net profit
£4852; better at £9386, or enough to pay
the pref. div. and show 2.8 p.c. on the
£244,453 of ord. capital, as against 0.8,
2.3 and 2.2 p.c. for the three preceding
years. The ords. received 2j p.c., mak-
ing a total of A\ p.c. since 1930. That
leaves out of the reckoning a surplus
of £735 received on the surrender of
life policies. This lifted reserves to
£6257, which isn’t a very stout prop for
capital.
Balance-sheet movements were en-
couraging :
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £321,615 £294,454 £294,454 £294,453
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 86,993 91,587 67,032
Sundry creditors 52,467 37,851 39,205 47,647
Premises & plant 231,972 220,886 214,546 213,841
Stock.. .. 162,977 131,342 145,830 138,598
Shares other cos. 21,290 21,546 21,516 21,546
Investments .. 550 550 550 550
Book debts .. 62,063 41,727 40,877 40,921
Cash, etc. .. 4,042 0,803 7,892 1,295
To lop £24,555 off mortgages, etc., and
carry an extra £6044 of book debts, cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £6597, stocks
were reduced by £7232, and £8442 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, which includes provision for
taxation. Excluding shares in other cos.,
which represents the holding in Stuparts,
the more or less liquid surplus (£72,685)
was £B3IB stronger than at the previous
balance.
Stuparts netted £2987 (up £812), or
enough to pay its pref. div. and show
5.9 p.c. on its ord. capital. It paid 3
p.c. in 1937 ; the ’3B distribution had not
been announced when the parent’s sheet
was sent out.
At 10s. (9s. 6d. a year ago) the ords.
return 5 p.c. on a 2\ p.c. div. basis.
Buyers offer 18s. for the prefs., at which
figure the return would be 5.5 p.c. The
net tangible backing is £6 os. 3d. prefs.
and 18s. sd. ords.
Renong Consolidated Tin Dredging
A Burma-Malay float of 1927, this co.
commenced digging two years later. To
help pay for the dredge, which cost more
than budgeted for, the board raised
£3o,ooo of debenture capital. The debt
stood in the way of distributions to share-
holders until repaid in 1933. Annual
distributions have been maintained since,
the average to the close of last accounts
being 3s. 6d. per share, and, “while the
price of tin remains at a low level and
the restriction release is lower than was
hoped, continuance of payment of regu-
lar dividends is anticipated,” chairman
Moxham says.
The property is at Renong, West Siam,
the co.’s nominal assessment being 673
tons t.o. p.a. At Dec. 31 dredging reserves
comprised 385 acres, containing around
24,000,000 C.y. of J 2 lb. dirt, all tailings,
which should mean easy dredging and
at ; costS- Treating 250,000
monthlv that ii ahnnt pioht wars’
C -J* mommy, mat is about eignt years
work tor the Diesel-powered plant. In
additi °"’ negotiations are proceeding for
acquisition of an adjoining block which
would add a further 18 months to the
co . e - , , . , ,
During the last term, because it had
been unable to secure a quota lor the
a J; ea ’ b9 ard disposed ol its 1 halang
com P nsin g
1--500,000 c.y. ol 0.71 b. wash, at an un-
stated profit lor £-0,000 cash. Transler
0 * l and titles had not been ellected at the
OSe accounts, and the transaction
does not show up in the p. and 1. figures,
, the b f St 2?’
wash dug contained less than
tw °- thirds the previous year s values:-
Dec Income> Outgo A^ Pl sto^e! ande jX?
1934.. £46,243 £22,266£28,977 2/11 2/6£20,000
1935.. 41,801 21,881 19,920 2/6 2/- 16,000
1936.. 59,809 24,085 35,724 4/5 3/6 28,000
1937. . • 81,556 30,400 51,090 6/4 7/- 56,000
The improved result reflects increas ed
output * better prices Net ore sales> jn .
c ] ud j n g £1214 surplus from realisation of
buffer stock, turned in £80,479. Other
income contributed another £1077, and,
after meeting all exes., including a nomi-
nai £B2B for general depreciation, the net
result lifted £15,366 to £51,090. That was
after taking metal stock in at a figure
£7432 lower than it has since realised,
Total divs. were doubled, though the 7s.
per share handout called for £4910 more
than the profit claimed.
During the year the dredge, “which
has been given every attention and is in
excellent order,” was fitted with an extra
jig, and a start has been made with in-
stallation of another, making 14 primary
jigs in all. This and the easier ground
dug account for the big increase in last
term’s turnover, with consequent benefit
to unit costs:
1935. 1936. 1937.
Cubic yards dug.. 1,559,500 1,103,000 2,242,500
Kecovevy to., tons 314.4 499.5 615.4
Av. yield c.y.,
pounds .. .. 0.45 1.01 0.61
Mine costs per c.y. 2.64 and. 4.00 and. 2.80 and.
Price realised, t.o. £123/6/- £ll4/10/- £124/3/6
London average
metallic tin .. £225/14/4 £204/12/8 £239/7/6
Since the close of accounts the dredge
has been in wash more closely approach-
ing the average of the property, yields
averaging 0.441 b. t.o. For the eight
months to the end of August a mine sur-
plus of £23.128 is shown on production
of 352 tons t.o. Two shillings a share,
requiring £16,000, has so far been sent
out.
Capital is £160,000 in £1 shares, on
which the market puts a value of 30s ;
each. At balance day, liquids, including*
stores, totalled £59,463, and the co. had
liabilities of £16,508. Liquids include a
holding of 20,000 ss. shares in Briseis
Tin (Tas.). The report contains no hint
as to whether proceeds from sale of the
Thalang area are to be distributed among
those on the register or not when re-
ceived.
Electrolytic Zinc
In a preliminary statement of opera-
tions for the year to June 30, Electro-
lytic Zinc (Tas.) reports a profit of
£459,529 (down £77,089), equal to 17.7
p.c. on the £2,600,000 of capital as against
20.6 p.c. for the previous term. That was
after allowing £145,000 (same as for the
previous term) for amortisation, and
£125,000 (down £5117) for taxation. The
2| p.c. bonus sent out in 1937 was
dropped, leaving the div. at 15 p.c., which
called for £390,000. The slip in the profit
was due chiefly to the fall in metal
prices, which affected returns from the
co.’s Rosebery mines, on the Speck’s
West Coast, most severely. Here produc-
tion of concentrates over the last three
years compares as follows:
f—* —Year Ended June 30 v
1936.* 1937. 1938.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Zinc concentrates .. 16,791 49,538 51,817
Lead concentrates .. 3,547 10,249 12,369
* Productive operations begun February 18.
The lead concentrates are sold overseas,
and the zinc concentrates are mostly
treated at Zeehan (Tas.) and Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.), and the calcines, together
with those from concentrates bought
from the Barrier cos., are treated at the
big electrolytic mill at Risdon (Tas.),
where production compared with previ-
ous years as follows:— :
Year Ended June 30 * —■,
1935. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Zinc, tons .. 58,889 72,122 70,082 69,718
Lead, tons .. 1,983 2,403 2,260 2,772
Silver, oz. .. 207,400 247,500 389,480 360,450
Last term 364 tons less zinc, 29,0300 z.
less silver and 364 tons-more lead were
produced. The average London price
of spelter was £l6 13s. 4d. (down
£3 Bs. 9d.), lead £l7 9s. 6d. (down
£5 13s. 2d.), and silver was practically
unchanged at Is. 9d. an ounce. Last
week-end the figures were lead £ls 2s.
6d., spelter £l4 2s. 6d. and silver Is. 8.6 and.
The ords. at 395. 7d. (555. a year ago)
return 7.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. On
the same basis the prefs., which partici-
pate with the ords. beyond 8 p.c., yield
6.9 p.c. at 435. 9d. (555. 9d. a year ago).
Working one shift, South Virginia, one
of the promising lesser lights on the
Bendigo (Vic.) field, has crushed 1020
tons over the last four months for an
average yield of 9.sdwt. The co., which
has around £2OOO cash in hand, is
earning enough every three weeks to
cover monthly working exes. —roughly
£SOO. Sufficient ore appears to have been
opened up in the various working faces
to justify erection of a battery. Four
years ago a site was purchased f-miie
from the mine, but the co. continues to
crush at the 31-mile-distant Sheepshead
mill, paying 7s. 6d. a ton, or Is. 6d.
above the Government battery charge,
plus 2s. a ton cartage. Crushing at its
own mill, which might also serve the ad-
joining North Virginia, there should be
several shillings a ton saving in treatment
and haulage costs, which would go a long
way towards repaying the outlay involved
and/or meeting further development of
the property.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Although Wilunas have lately
suffered from London selling, the August
progress report was better than some of
the earlier ones issued this year. True,
exposures in the main workings were
nearly all below payable grade, but in
the Happy Jack lease, away to the north,
a diamond drill operating from the sur-
face cut 41ft. of ore averaging 6.9dwt.
per ton at a vertical depth of 930 ft. An-
other diamond drill, boring horizontally
from the 1200 ft. level of the Bulletin
lease, also to the north, passed through
23ft. of formation averaging 3dwt. A
third drill, operating from the 1400 ft.
level of the same lease, stabbed a small
body of s.Bdwt. value. The management
still hopes to find new enrichments as
valuable as those on which the mine was
floated, and from which the bulk of the
gold so far produced has been obtained.
The mine’s impoverishment at depth was
quite unexpected.
* * * *
Spargo’s Reward (W.A.) claims that
unexpected mineral content of ore from
the oxidised zone caused the percentage
extraction of gold last year to average
only 50 p.c. Metallurgical tests carried
out by the Kalgoorlie Chamber of Mines,
however, disclosed a 90 p.c. extraction
from 17,800 tons of stored residues by
fine grinding, agitation and cyanidation.
About £IO,OOO is needed to cover the
cost of proposed plant additions and pay
off a £IOOO creditor. The board hopes
to raise this amount by the issue of
10,000 £1 12|- p.c. debentures, redeem-
able one half in 1939 and the other half
in 1940, and secured by a first mortgage
charge on the co.’s assets. Accounts
show (1) that the value of gold won
during the year was £13,577 ; (2) that
cash assets on June 30 amounted to
£3400 ; (3) that the working surplus was
£932, which was swallowed by further
cost of development and shaft-sinking.
* * * *
“Overton”: Apart from those of
Great Boulder and Yellowdine, share-
holders in De Bernales’s Westralian gold
group haven’t been lucky, but sellers
of mining plant and supplies, a number
of the previously unemployed and the
State have benefited. Before production
started on the properties, other than the
two mentioned, hundreds of thousands
of pounds were paid in wages and in
settlement of bills for machinery,
requisites, etc., and for transport of
goods over Government railways. In
the aggregate between £20,000 and £30,000
is now being taken out of these shows
monthly. Including Great Boulder and
Yellowdine, the value of output from the
whole group for the expired eight months
of this year is just a little short of a
million in Australian currency.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.8.M.: (1) Doesn't look like ever being
anything better than a 5 p.c. proposition; every-
thing depends upon the course of competition.
(2) Outlook anything but bright H.L.R.:
H01d... . 8.H.F.: It is a proprietary co., and
does not publish its figures S.V.S.: Highly
speculative. If safety of capital is important,
keep out... .F.U.F.: (1) and (2) Gambles. (3)
and (4) H01d....J. MacG.: (1) The debts were
paid into a trust fund controlled by the Gov-
ernment, and subsequently used as part-pay-
ment of reparations. There was, of course, no
one to enforce payment. (2) Yes, but it
cannot be enforced by an enemy, not until
after cessation of hostilities, at any rate.


SMOKE-OH!
“If the dahlia desire seizes you try the little
pom.” —"Sunday Sun.”
And let the little wretch scratch all
the bulbs up?
•i 1 4* 4* 4*
“Sunday morning in Vienna is pastry or
cake time.” —"Sunday Sun.”
And Sunday night is tart-time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Sydney Municipal Fish Market is to
be remodelled.” —News item.
There’ll be plenty of chips flying
around then.
•J*
“Employment should be provided for re-
turned soldiers and married men who are not
soldiers on a 50-50 basis.” — "S. M. Herald.”
We take it that “married men who are
not soldiers on a 50-50 basis” refers
to married men who are fighting a full
iOO p.c. of the time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Scotchmen usually are not regarded as very
good tourists.”— Women’s paper.
All they spend is their holidays.
,
“The fish seemed to know- when he was
coming. They were always plentiful about the
spot he chose.”— “D.T.”
He dropped them a line of course.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some of those who determinedly live on
charity obtain help from half a dozen organi-
sations ” — "Sun.”
Well, you’ve got to hand it to them!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When I was nurse in South Africa, I had
20 offers for my hand.”
—Writer in a women’s paper.
That was in her palmy days.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Defendant, a Greek, was fined for having
failed to keep his cafe free from cockroaches.
He stated that he had vainly tried to get rid
of them.”
But had he tried giving them some of
his fish?
Let’s Be Breezy.
“Certain questions of law were argued, his
Hon requesting that the argument should not
be published.”— "S. M. Herald.’’
Hurrah! Granny, who has been show-
ing a tendency lately to make up like a
flapper, seems bent on going the whole
hog. We may now look forward to such
bright contractions as “his Maj.,” “the
Bish.,” etc. And then:
“Resulting from some stoush in the
Great Australian Bight (George-street,
opposite the Town Hall), Chiller Bulls-
wool and Tommo Bangwell faced the
Beak at Central yesterday morning, and
were mulcted of a frogskin each as well
as a few deeners for costs. Beak Wagjaw,
reviewing the circs., warned that if the
nutty pair did their blocks again they
might find themselves in the jug.”
“ ‘Pneumonia-lane’ (Rowe-street) occu-
pied the think-boxes of the Town Hall
Bingies last night, when Alderman Thug-
watt bounced a bomb by opening his
Film Star Guessing Comp. P.l2a
(See New Announcement )
Half a million and fourpence
ha’penny must be won!
trap to denounce the sardine-like parking
{Continued on Page 7.)”
Filled up like that, Granny should
soon catch up with her flapper rivals.
H. M.
4* + *3*
Payment.
It was her sweetness won my heart;
The devil there’s to pay;
With all my sugar I’ve to part
To keep her sweet to-day.
P. P.
.T. .J. ,T. .J.
Federal politicians seem to think that
nothing succeeds like recess.
"I'm mindin' 'im while the missus is at the pictures."
“It is claimed that bagpipes were first played
in ancient Rome.”
Probably to turn on the Christians
when there was a shortage of lions.
4*
“The favorite came raving over the hill well
clear, but fell atjhe next jump.”
— Melb. "Herald.
Then it was the punters raved.
•1* 4* *i*
“The wonderful old lady claims to have 189
descendants.” — Women’s paper.
A gran’ total.
*l* ***
“At 80 a man knows what he is doing, and
it is a most sensible age for a man to be
married.”—“ D.T.”
But if a man knows what he is doing
he’ll never get married!
•J* 4* *i* *4*
Breakfast-table Talk.
Those who find conversation difficult
in the early morning might consider
these opening gambits:
Who’s the Infant Prodigy to-day?
What was the barney in yesterday’s
international sport?
What’s the latest crisis in Europe?
Who’s been shot in Russia?
What professor of archaeology is dis-
cussing world affairs on the air this
morning?
What star was divorced yesterday in
Hollywood?
What’ll win the 3.30 at Ascot?
Roly.
4* •F 4* •b
“A goods train in Victoria was delayed
through thousands of snails being on the line.”
It is understood that it caught up with
them going down an incline.
“Rubber made from sunflowers.”
News item.
What of it? Old maids have been
made from wallflowers!
“Already we can see fond mothers treating
their children for sunburn.”
Pouring oil on troubled daughters.
* * * *
His Openness.
“One of his main characteristics was his
openness.”
In fact, he was famous for the way he
opened bottles, bazaars, jackpots, poli-
tical meetings and conversations with
women to whom he had not been intro-
duced. His enemies found he was open
to scandal, and that opened up inquiries
that led to the gaol opening to receive
him.
Now he is working in the open on a
prison farm.
H. M-
•F *
A Hoilvwoodener
,7™, *.
Aliev"— roHfe hl!rb y comc Tm ' p ‘ m
"Say, you gotta change your poo song,
•I Threw My Heart in the Ashcan."’
“H rome?”
“It ain't real. A guy can’t throw his
heart in an ashcan.”
“Listen, the guy don’t really sling his
ticker in the ashcan: them words are
sorta symbolic.”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah,' this egg falls for a dame and
she ices up on him, see, and he can’t take
it. Gets all burnt up, and his heart ain’t
no use to him any more, and he throws
it in the ashcan.”
“I’m telling you a guy can’t throw his
heart”
a dim bulb. You ain’t gotta
take that song literally. I got poetic
license : I can say one thing and mean
another.”
“Yeah, but you gotta be real.”
“Ain’t that song real? Listen, if the
guy could tear his heart out and still live
he’d do it. He sorta feels that way when
the dame slips him the freeze.”
“Yeah, but he can’t. No guy can
throw his heart in an ashcan and keep
on living.”
“Aw, what’s the use? The trouble with
you is you ain’t got no culture.”
Leon.
A v
Piebald Parable.
The fatted calf is coming home,
So kill the prodigal son.
For why should he have all the joy
And the bloated bovine none?
Rip.
Mystery.
We’ve come across myst’ries at times
rather puzzling:
Just what the components of ham-
burgers are;
The drinks that the evening before we
were guzzling;
The age of the blonde who presides at
the bar;
The way politicians—except when they’re
snoozing,
Of course —fill in time when enjoying
recess ;
Why punters just hate to admit that
they’re losing ;
But one’s got me properly floored, I
confess.
So, in re the woodpile which harbors
the nigger,
Can someone this cardinal question
resolve :
Just who are those “well-informed per-
sons” who figure
In fanciful cables which dailies evolve ?
Bo.
Query.
“Refined young woman seeks position as
mousemaid-waitress, hotel, town or country ;
references.” —“West Australian.”
Some girls would like this job perhaps,
And deem it very nice
To make a living setting traps
Or feeding cheese to mice :
But will some noble mind expound —•
Would this young lady "rat”
If, in her latest job, she found
The missus was a cat ?
DOUGAL.
I Was a Legionnaire.
11.
On leaving the Paris recruiting depot
I was given an iron ration of one army
biscuit and a railway ticket to Mar-
seilles, where I was to report at the
Fort St. Jean barracks. Luckily, the
train made only 442 stops, so that we
made a quick 2} days’ journey, otherwise
I might have perished before making
my first parade. Every time the train
slowed down I would leap out and put
my biscuit under the wheels. This
caused several derailments, but, except
for a slight dent in it, the biscuit retained
its original shape. I finished up by eating
the railway ticket and keeping the biscuit
for identification purposes.
At Fort St. Jean the sergeant was
even more wolfish than the one in Paris.
His evil face expanded into a horrible
grin as I presented myself.
“Welcome into the web, little fly!”
he said cynically. “So you want to
become a soldier, eh?”
I told him no, that I had joined in
the hope of getting honors in fretwork
and perhaps later becoming proficient
in knitting canvas underpants.
“Silence, corruption!” he bellowed.
“Name of a name! Did I ask you to
speak? Another word and I’ll tear your
polluted tongue out by the roots!”
As he seemed in danger of becoming
annoyed I contented myself with remind-
ing him, in the calm and dignified manner
I adopt when speaking to foreigners,
that France was a democracy where
free speech was permitted, and that if
he persisted in his unreasonable attitude
I would be compelled to write to
Madame Two-Blues and get her to
defend this inalienable right by person-
ally taking up my case.
At mention of that magic name, which
is dreaded in all the Chancelleries of
Europe, the sergeant a deathly pale
beneath—or on top of, I’m not certain
which—the deep tan of his leathery face.
With a sickly grin he attempted to square
off.
“Th-that was just a little joke of mine,
mon petit bleu,” he stammered. “I hope,
no, that it is that monsieur will not take
the offence, yes? Now will you join
me in an absinthe?”
After that it was easy, and when a
couple of days later I sobered up and
sailed for Oran with a batch of other
recruits on board a mule transport such
was the influence the sergeant wielded
that I was given the privilege, of a bunk
to myself in the fodder refrigerator
instead of herding in the coal bunkers
with the rest of them. Moreover, I was
even allowed the use of a mule blanket
on condition that I washed it before
handing it back.
On arrival at Oran we immediately
entrained for Sidi-bel-Abbes.
Determined to get into good condition
for the rigorous training which I under-
stood was the rule in the Legion I
hopped off the train when the corporal
was not looking and sprinted alongside
in the sand for mile after mile with a
heavy greatcoat on, pulling up only when
I had got so far ahead that I was out of
earshot of the engine’s whistle.
On reaching the great yellow barracks
at Sidi-bel-Abbes, that clearing-house of
the Legion in Algeria and last outpost
of civilisation on the eternal desert’s
rim, we were each given a litre of bread
and four cubic inches of a dubious fluid
that looked like anaemic coffee and
tasted like old cabbage water seasoned
with flyspray and sulphuretted hydrogen.
A blond giant named Hans Undfeete,
who claimed to be a Georgian and the
original murderer of Rasputin, was soak-
ing his bread in it and ingurgitating the
mess with evident delight. I remarked
to the man next to me, Giuseppe Zgon-
batti, a Dutch cheese musterer who had
asphyxiated his faithless wife with an
old cheese he had deliberately ripened,
that it seemed a queer thing to soak
bread in coffee.
“Coffee? Dot der goot choke is,
nein ? Dot soupe iss! ”
Soupe! No doubt that is what had
tricked me. Legion soup had an “e”
in it. and that appeared to be its most
nutritious ingredient. The meal also in-
cluded half a gallon of vin ordinaire, but
after one swig I kept the rest in case
the dormitory lamp should run short of
fuel during the night.
After the meal was over and while I
was meditatively picking my teeth with
a borrowed bayonet (I hate the feeling
of soup between my teeth) a bugle
sounded, we were ordered to form into
an escouade, and we were then paraded
before the most villainous-looking man
I have ever seen.
He was a sergeant, of course. Iron-
jawed and steely-eyed, his face, burned a
copper color by the African sun, be-
spoke the diabolical ferocity for which
he was notorious throughout the Legion.
His menacing voice had a metallic ring.
He was, as may be surmised, a hard
man.
Bending on us recruits a terrible look,
he threatened to open the veins and
drink the entire blood supply of any
apology for a man who so much as
twitched an ear at drill; informed us
in a bellow that in the town there was
only one thing lower than the most
scrofulous of pariah dogs, and that was
a recruit. Then he marched us off to
the fourrier-sergent to get our kit.
S. W. K.


gf
“QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
I 16in. cut,
Ir n d u
drives o.s
I it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualeast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 1 (tin.
“Qualeast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to (ho Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, West i'ootscray,
Melbourne, W. 12, Victoria.
Australasian Paper, 28s.
In view of the favorable results
and prospects of A.P.M., the
operating co., mentioned else-
where, ord. shares in Australasian
Paper, the principal holding co.,
give an attractive return at 5.8 p.c.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Atias Portland Cement
A new Sydney flotation, in which the
100,000 ord. shares to be issued for cash
have been allotted to Churchills, Ltd.
(sharedealers and underwriters), Atlas
Portland Cement proposes to start off
with a paid capital of £293,000 and a
manufacturing capacity of 60,000 tons
of cement p.a. The co.’s reason for enter-
ing an already overcapitalised industry
appears to rest in its claim that with
manufacture in the metropolitan area
costs can be cut, in the promoters’
opinion, very substantially, and that
initial capital outlay can be kept down.
The public is offered 85,000 71-10
p.c. cum. par. prefs. ; with the ord.
issue (underwritten) the cash-paid capital
should be £185,000, less brokerage (not
to exceed 10 p.c., £18,500), which works
out at £166,500 net. Out of this the co.
has undertaken to pay £20,000 cash for
a factory property at Granville, £1250
(and 12,500 shares) for the Wollondilly
colliery in Burragorang Valley, and
£BOOO cash (6000 shares) for leases and
lime-burning plant at Marulan. That
makes £29,250 cash (and £18,500 in
share’s) to go out under these three
heads. Also, 89,500 f.-p. ord. shares
are to be allotted to Arnold S. Taylor,
Atlas’s managing director, for “certain
plans, rights, processes, leases and/or
rights undetr mining agreements.” These
items include “unlimited deposits of
high-grade limestone” two miles from
the Macleay River, near Kempsey. As
regards the Marulan property (apparently
a lime-burning sideline, or “reserve”),
“in excess of £BOOO has been expended in
plant, buildings and development in the
past 18 months,” the prospectus states.
Provided all the money comes in, the
co. at this stage should have a paid
capital of £293,000 and about £137,250
in cash. Out of that a Maig (German)
cement-making plant is to be paid for;
including expenditure on land already
mentioned, an outlay on the Granville
tactory of £136,150 is contemplated. On
storage bins at the Burragorang colliery
£lOOO is to be spent; £8250 is earmarked
for stores and £10,500 for working capi-
tal and formation exes. That would
absorb the proposed capital. No power-
plant is to be erected ; “supply of power
has been offered at a satisfactory price
and free of capital expenditure.”
The proposed sources of supply for
the raw material —principally limestone
(Macleay River) and coal (Burragorang)
—are widely separated, thus differing
from the conditions operating at Kandos
and Portland, where the greater part of
the N. S. Wales cement output comes
from. At Portland, for instance, the lime-
stone is treated with coal from the
same area, and the cement railed to
Sydney—at, admittedly, a stiff freight
cost. Atlas proposes mining its lime-
stone from the Kempsey district, on the
N. S. Wales North Coast, shipping and
lightering it to Granville, and there
treating it with coal-hauled from Burra-
gorang.
Apparently banking on anticipated
cheap water transport for limestone from
Kempsey,
After a most thorough examination it is
estimated that the cost of bagged cement
ex bagging-conveyor at works will com-
pare with that of all existing cement
works, including normal provision for re-
pairs and renewals, but to the output of
other companies forwarded to the metro-
politan area has to be added rail freights.
The prospectus puts average freight to
Sydney for other cos.’ cement at 19s. a
ton. Also,
Economic layout, cheap power, favorable
coal cost and comparatively low costs of
assembly of raw materials to sales situation,
and also stores and low' capital charges,
contribute largely to the low cost figure.
The prospectus goes on to say that
There is definite evidence that this co.
can easily dispose of its initial output,
especially in view of the fact that it can,
if necessary, sell in the main markets at
prices very much below the price at which
cement is sold to-day.
Obviously, any enterprise with the requi-
site plant, management (Atlas’s Mr.
Taylor used to be manager of Southern
Portland) and raw materials can manu-
facture first-class cement. Therefore,
assuming that the Atlas co. will possess
all these things, its success will largely
“ Remember , now—no drinking or smoking !”
depend on its financial position, its costs,
and the prices it can get for its product.
The Atlas prospectus makes a further
big claim on the point of costs:
Without going into any lengthy technical
descriptions, the layout of the works
will halve the operation and labor costs
as compared with the costs involved in
operating other cement works in the State.
If it can be done, and the co. can give
the public cheaper cement, so much the
better.
But at the present juncture it is pros-
pective investors who are concerned, and
they will study what is put before them
in the prospectus under the headings
of financial outlay and costs, and a„k
themselves, firstly, whether the co. can
equip its plant with the money called
for (after paying substantial brokerage)
and, secondly, whether this revolution in
costs can be achieved.
“For obvious reasons,” the pros-
pectus says, it is inadvisable to enter
into details of estimated costs and profits.
However, such details are “available to
any genuine. prospective investor at the
office of the co., or any office of
Churchills, Ltd., the underwriters.” Net
earnings on a turnover of £200,000 p.a.
(if 50,000 tons p.a. comes out of the
60,000-ton plant that would represent a
selling price of £4 a ton), allowing
£105,000 for manufacturing costs and
£31,000 for other exes, and taxes, are
put at £64,000 a year, equal to .21.2 p.c.
on the proposed capital, pref. and ord.
Although Atlas states -that freight to
Sydney on cement from other NiS.W.
manufacturing centres averages. 19s. a
ton, it is not stated at what figure the
co.’s own limestone can be transported
from near the, Macleay River to ■ Gran-
ville, though “the co.’s estimates in this
regard have been confirmed by offers
already received from reliable shippers.”
Since more than 1000 tons of limestone a
week will have to be shipped from 20 or
30 miles up the Macleay River, with per-
haps little backloading, some more pre-
cise details wouldn’t be amiss.
The claims in the prospectus are very
favorably disposed towards the success
of Atlas’s own operations in comparison
with old-established and financially-
strong cement concerns; the prospective
investor should make himself perfectly
satisfied on the point of what costs basis
the concern can manufacture at. That,
together with the question of what facili-
ties can be guaranteed for the essential
job of bringing limestone from the Mac-
leay River, represents the crux of the
position.
Extreme jitters affected the share-
markets last week as a result of the deli-
cate and indefinite state of the inter-
national situation as reported in the daily
press. Sydney and Melbourne saw some
of the worst prices of the year, though
London quotes were rather firmer until
Friday. New York showed a tendency
to relapse after firming.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, which
is controlled by Australasian Paper and
Cumberland Paper, earned a record
profit of £240,055 for 1937-38 (up
£21,876), after providing the big sum of
£119,224 for obsolescence and deprecia-
tion of fixed assets. In the preceding
year £85,394 (up £8578) had been set
aside for depreciation : some of the latest
allocation may have been on account of
closing the Broadford (Vic.) mill follow-
ing the starting of the big new Botany
(Sydney) board-making plant. The co.
in 1937 raised a million of 6 p.c. pref.
money, and in the latest term this called
for £55,477 of the net earnings, leaving
£184,578 available for divs. to the two
holding cos. Actually £159,000 was
handed on to these; it is ample to cover
their all-round 8 p.c. div. requirements.
In a number of respects the outlook
of A.P.M. for 1938-39 is brighter than
for the year just closed. For some time
the co. has had to earn profits big
enough to pay divs. on large sums of un-
productive as well as productive capital.
The huge Botany board-mill, in process of
construction for a long period, is now
well run-in ; in April or May next year
the Maryvale (Vic.) pulp mill, for which
most of the million of pref. capital was
raised, will begin commercial produc-
tion, and should contribute its Share to
earnings. Besides making the whole
enterprise independent of imported wood-
pulp, the new mill should bring eco-
nomies in manufacture and help to off-
set any decline in trade through our re-
duced national income. During the de-
pression, however. A.P.M. held its turn-
over remarkably well.
r * * *
Arthur Cocks and Co., inter-State
optical and jewellery co. with Sydney
headquarters, is doing handsomely by its
shareholders. Profit for the year to July
31 came out at £22,283, up £4203, and
equal to 17 p.c. on ord. capital, com-
pared with 13.3 p.c. in 1936-37. Ord.
div. goes up from 8 p.c. tolo p.c., pay-
able in a lump (2s. a share) on Sept. 29.
Finances have improved during the year,
and though stocks (£92,270) are £14,028
higher, in view of possible restrictions
on imports later if the trade balance
doesn’t improve this may prove no han-
dicap to 1938-39 trading. The board
wrote down the Melbourne freehold by
£10,657 during the year out of contin-
gency account; properties now stand at
£60,855, less £20,000 mortgage. The co.
has a snug little business, and the ord.
shares have been advised here more than
once.
* * * *
Canberra has decided to grant a bounty
on Australian-made newsprint rising from
245. a ton when the price is £l6 6s. (as at
present) to £4 a ton if the price drops to
£l2 a ton. If the price falls to £l5-£l4
a duty of ss. a ton will be allowed also ;
10s. a ton if below £l3 is reached.
* * * *
The cushion effect in rising and falling
metal prices of Electrolytic Zinc’s re-
turning-charge contract with . Barrier
mines is seen in the co.’s earnings for
1937-38. In spite of the direct effect of
slumped lead and spelter prices on out-
put of the co.’s own Rosebery (Tas.
West Coast) mines, net earnings from
all sources in the latest term were only
£77,090 lighter at £459,524. The div.
was lowered from \l\ p.c. to 15 p.c.,
making the average 14.1 p.c. over the
past three years. The ords. keep around
405., after a “low” of 335. 3d. this year
and a “high” of 695. 3d. in 1937.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
The sharemarket generally was in a state
of pessimism. Turnover ip investments was ex-
tremely small.
Myer Emporium announced that for its term
to July 31 last turnover was a record. Net
profit about £3OOO higher than in the previous
term at £379,369 ; taxation provision (£60,000)
took an extra £5OOO out of this. Ord. distribu-
tion was maintained at 9 p.c.
Davies, Coop pref. rights sold at Is. 3d.
Yellow Cabs shares, a speculative favorite
of six months ago, receded to Bs. 3d. in the
dull market.
North Kalgurli shares were firm at 225. 3d.
Great Boulders sold at 9s. 6d. Rothsays
were weak at sd.
Cocks Eldorado, an interesting Reedy Creek
gold-and-tin show, held well at 17s. 6d. in the
sharemarket.


19
•37
—1938-
March
April
Oct.
Nov.
Jan.
Mar.
July
Sept.
Sept.
16.
29.
26.
26.
13.
18.
25.
2.
24.
Hank of N.S.W. ..
£37.9
£38.5
£34.2
£33.1
£33.7
£31.7
£31.6
£30.8
£30.4
National Bank ..
£8.0
£7.9
£7.6
£7
£7.2
£7
£6.7
£6.6
£6.5
Carlton Brewery ..
64/-
63/6
65/6
61/6
66/6
65/-
65/-
63/9
62/6
C'.-Perkins
26/-
26/9
26/6
25/6
26/-
24/6
23/-
23/9
22/3
Tooth
57/-
58/3
54/9
52/9
55/9
54/6
55/3
55/3
52/3
Goldsbrough, Mort 39/6
39/-
34/6
30/9
32/6
30/9
28/6
27/6
37/-
Winchcombc
36/6
36/6
33/6*
30/6
32/6
39/6
28/-
26/6
26/-
Adelaide Steam ,.
32/6
32/6
32/6
30/9
33/3
33/-
34/6
34/-
33/3
Q'land Insurance 60/9
nil/ -
56/-
57/6
57/6
50/-
55/-
56/6
55/-
Aus. Gas “A” ..
£7.2
£7.3
£7.5
£7.3
£7.4
£7.3
£7.4
£7.2
£7
Associated News ..
24/3
23/7
23/6
23/-
23/3
21/6
21/6
21/6
20/3
Australian Glass ..
93/6
90/-
92/6
85/-
94 1-
93/3
96/6
93/-
92 1-
Australasian Paper
39 /-
35/-
33/6*
31 -
33/3
31/3
28/6
28/3
Australian Cement 31/6
31/6
31/6
32/-
337-
32/-
33/6
33/6
33/-
British Tobacco ..
53/-
50/-
48/6
49/9
50/3
48/3
49/6
48/-
47/
Broken Hill Prop.
91/3
81/3
66/3*
60/-
64/6
60/6
61/6
57/6
Burns, Philp
80/-
73/-
58/3*
54/-
55/9
55/-
53/9
52/-
David Jones
44/6
45/-
42/6
41/-
41/9
43/-
38/9
38/9
37/-
Electro. Zinc ord.
66/6
57/6
52/3
45/-
50/3
44/6
44/9
42/-
39/6
Fairymead ..
39/3
37/6
32/6
32/6
36/-
34/9
32/3
32/-
31/6
G. J. Coles
£5.3
£5.2
;
£3.9
£4.3
£4
£4.2
£4
£3.8
Gordon and Golch
52/-
52/6
M/6
52/9
53/-
54/3
53/6
53/-
H. Jones
46/-
46/9
50/ J
48/-
49/9
50/-
48/6
50/-
48/6
Melb. “Herald” ..
74/6
71/-
66/-
61/-
67/6
63/6
62/9
58/-
57/6
Mauri Bros.
75/-
74/-
68/6
68/-
68/6
70/-
68/-
65/-
62/-
Mycr (Melb.)
38/-
37/-
34/6
31/-
35/-
32/6
31/6
29/6
28/-
Yam Falls
43/-
42/-*
40/-
38/3
39/3
37/3
38/6
38/6
38/
North Broken MM1 89/3
70/9
57/3
50/3
57/6
50/-
51/-
44/-
44/3
Broken Hill South 58/-
46/9
41/-
35/6
37/6
32/3
34/-
30/-
28/9
Mount Lycll
52/6
45/3
38/6
31/9
34/-
29/6
30/3
27/—
26/6
foldi/Asysumoney
LOW FIRST COST. Ford offers the lowest-priced,
full-size closed cars on the market. For any other
V-8 powered car you must pay at least £2OO more.
Ford V-8 brings smooth, silent ,balanced V-8 power
previously associated only with expensive cars.
LOW OPERATING COST. Petrol consumption, in
recent tests by motor editors of leading Australian
newspapers, showed an economy of up to 28 miles
per gallon! (Ask your Ford Dealer for the booklet
describing these tests). Oil consumption between
periodic changes is nil. 15,000 to 18,000 is the
usual tyre mileage.
HIGH RESALE VALUE. There is a strong and
constant demand for V-B’s traded-in on new
models. The Ford Dealers’ R. & G. Used Car
Plan guarantees extra value in used Ford V-B’s.
Ford Dealers therefore offer a high trade-in value
to Ford V-8 owners. Ford V-8 is a better motor-
car investment.
NO EXTRAS TO BUY. Ford V-8 standard equip-
ment is complete, and includes: Oil bath air
cleaner; choice of 8 body colours and optional
interior ensembles; foot-control headlight beam
switch with pilot light on instrument panel. De
Luxe Sedan has dual screen wipers; two sun visors;
ashtray in instrument panel and each arm of rear
seat; robe-rail, footrest and assist cords; 2 interior
lights; clock in lockup glove compartment door.
ACCEPT YOUR DEALER'S INVITATION. Let your
local Ford Dealer demonstrate Ford V-8 to you.
Drive Ford V-8 and be sure of more good car
for your money. Easy
terms.
(Optional in all models
at £24 extra is the Ford-
Tasma car radio. Price
includes aerial and instal-
lation at Factory).
ps/as
COUPES»!32S
SEDANS *£347
<fV.~» PJQM- Plat. ft—iatmToxX
iSS
\
ESs, De Luxe Sedan
i
1
I
|LW
|ji|jip V '' ' j
wmmm ■
y^-i
mmMsg ■>-.
..
A
A BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
THE CAR IN A CLASS OF ITS OWN
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F294K.27V
Malcolm Newman, A. W. Fadden,
M.P., and W. J. O'Sullivan are standing
for the Mt. Morgan board at the next
annual meeting. They have been asked
to do so by a group of shareholders.
There will be three seats to fill; one
vacancy was caused by the retirement oi
Eric Campbell a few weeks back, and
two occur in the ordinary course of
rotation. These latter seats are at present
occupied by O. F. J. Wolff, a well-
known Sydney sharebroker, and Tom
Owen, metallurgist and mining engineer.
Owen is a director of New Occidental
(N.S.W.); incidentally, he is on the
board of a number of Malcolm New-
man’s dredging flotations, including
Alluvial Prospectors and Tableland Tin.
Newman should prove an asset to any
mining board ; he has had a very long
experience in the game, and, though his
interests have been mainly in dredging,
early in his career he had a four years’
association with the old Mt. Morgan
Co. He is decidedly a live-wire ; and
he has extensive Queensland interests.
Those shareholders who feel they have
a grouch against the present board could
hardly do better than back Newman. They
may, however, regret that the whole
board is not standing for re-election in
order to give them a wider choice in
regard to who is to be left out.
Mt. Morgan's present board —G. A.
Crawford, Adam A. Boyd, E. Byron
Moore, E. J. Morgan, T. M. Owen and
O. F. J. Wolff —is supporting the two
retiring directors, plus R. J. D. Richard-
son, of Austral Malay, in place of Eric
Campbell.
Much good work has been done at
Mt. Morgan by the present co., but
this page in the past has found not
infrequent grounds for criticism. There
was the question of smelters ;• very large
sums were spent annually in realisation
of concentrates, but until shipment dif-
ficulties arose little was done about it.
Smelters are now being erected. The
opencut problem, rendering ore-dilution
inevitable for the past 18 months, came
as a sharp shock to the market, and
prompted a heavy fall in the scrip. Now
some shareholders feel rather in the dark
about results of the low-grade treatment
plant.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Papua, near Cuthbert’s
New Misima on Misima Island, has to
date been a sharemarket disappointment.
There are 540,000 shares of ss. each
issued. In November, 1935, it was
“confidently anticipated” that blocking-
out would show more than 400,000 tons
of ore above drainage level. On later
development this was defined as 250,000
tons oxidised ore going about s.7dwt. and
150,000 tons sulphides. Of the oxides,
120,000 tons was said to have been com-
pletely blocked out in October, 1937. Re-
coveries of 90 p.c. (41s. a ton) and work-
ing costs of 21s. a ton were then men-
tioned. On the basis of treating 3000 tons
a month “the annual profit should be in
the vicinity of £36,000 Aust.” However,
though the plant was started up this
year, capacity hasn’t been reached (2500
tons is expected to go through in Sep-
tember), nor have values been anything
like those mentioned in the 1937 annual
report. During the two months to Aug.
15, 4067 tons ore was put through with
a head value ranging from 2.7dwt. to
3.2dwt. ; towards the end of this period
the plant was getting a highly-efficient
extraction of 92.7 p.c. These head values
were determined by engineer D. F. Scott
after a two months’ visit to the mine, the
method he used being that of “solution
basis plus residue value.” Battery
sampling, which showed head values
ranging from 4.95dwt. to s.osdwt. during
the same period, was described by Mr.
Scott as unreliable owing to the mixed
size of the ore. The proposition is a bit
of a conundrum to the layman. Mr.
Scott mentions the “spotty” occurrence of
the metal content, and by that he would
seem to mean “patchy.” A recent de-
velopment in the northern section of the
co.’s leases, “assessed by the usual method
of sampling and assay,” is reported to be
very encouraging. This seems to have
given the sharemarket fresh heart last
week.
* * * *
Tableland Tin (Mt. Garnet, Q.) ex-
pects to have its smaller dredge ready
for production before Oct. 31. The move
after that will depend on how much water
happens to be in the dams, one of which
now has a capacity of 150,000,000 gal-
lons. Ground ahead of the dredge has
been close-bored up to a year’s supply,
and values are averaging well over a
pound a yard, some bores showing 21b.
ground. Making what he believes a
liberal estimate of expenses, Malcolm
Newman anticipates satisfactory profits
from this smaller dredge alone.
* * * *
J. and A. Brown and Abermain Sea-
ham Collieries, Ltd. (the name might be
conveniently changed to Brown’s Aber-
main-Seaham Collieries), is paying a 3
p.c. div. (7.2 d.) for the year to June 30.
The strike started after that. In ’36-37
2\ p.c. went out; the two years before
that were bone-dry for shareholders.
The market prices the £1 shares at
Bs. 6d. They are interesting from a
long-term aspect.
* * * *
W. Bruce Rainsford, a Sydney accoun-
tant, has written to the Stock Exchange
suggesting that it keep a register of com-
pany meetings, and that listed cos. be
allotted dates and times that don’t clash
in order to allow a shareholder in several
cos. to attend the meetings of each. Mr.
Rainsford points out that this year Stand-
ard Cement and William Adams both
held their annual gathering on September
18 at 11 a.m.; on September 12 Aus-
tralian Guarantee, Cement Mortars,
Claude Neon, Thorpes and Traders’
Finance all opened their meetings be-
tween 10.30 and noon. On September
23 Bebarfalds and Gartrell White held
their meetings at 11.30 and noon respec-
tively. If annual gatherings of share-
holders are to be considered anything
more than a mere matter of form, there
is a good deal of point to Mr. Rains-
ford’s request.
* *■ * *
The drop in the price of rubber dur-
ing 1937-38 (it represented about 3d. a
pound compared with ’36-37) has shown
up in the earnings of Australian-con-
trolled rubber-producing cos. Koitaki,
operating in Papua, turned out 449,3021 b.
dry rubber (against 441,7311 b.), and
showed £3555 of profit, compared with
£10,425. Ord. div. dropped from 10 p.c.
to 5 p.c., pref. from 19 p.c. to 14 p.c.
Ord. shares have come down from above
30s. to around 18s. Port Swettenham
Rubber (F.M.S.) produced 351,6001 b.
(351,7001 b. 1936-37) at a cost of 6.8 d. a
pound ; sales averaged 9.2 d. a pound,
against 11.6 d. Net profit was shown at
£2009 (£8555 ’36-37). An interim pref.
div. of 4 p.c. was paid ; no final is recom-
mended. Pref. arrears amounted to 23
p.c. at balance day.
Jalan Kebun Rubber showed £2420 net
profit in its latest term, compared with
£4304 in the preceding year. Div. has
dropped from 14 p.c. to 7 p.c.
* 'l‘ >!< !|t
Austin Distributors (Melb.) shares are
around 375., returning above 8 p.c. One
of the sounder motor-agency con-
cerns of Australia, this co. will never-
theless be subject to the rise and fall in
demand for motor-cars; and whatever
kind of times we are in for there must
be a slackening in the motor-car industry
before long. A number of people who
made profits on ’Change bought new
cars during the past five years ; wool- and
wheatgrowers were another mainstay of
the trade. These people are thinking less
to-day of buying cars than they are of
saving their capital and making ends
meet. A passing phase, it is to be hoped.
But it is partly responsible for the high
return offering on Austin Distributors
scrip and the low ones from tobacco,
brewery and Australian Glass scrip.
Wat-scare Jitters.
* Ex rights.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
1.0. U., U.S.A., L.S.D.
[Caustic leader comment in “Saturday Evening Post”
(3/9/’3B) on a little matter still hanging over from the
last war, just one of* a number of things that never
enter into the reckoning of “S. M. Herald” leader and
professorial writers, radio Voicers and frantic yelpers
for a repetition of 1914-18.]
There are signs that Great Britain is about to
set in motion anew propaganda for the partial can-
cellation of her war debt to the United States
Treasury ; and lest it be received in this country at first
with a kind of weary silence, which might mislead the
British mind, we take leave now to suggest to the
British Government that it conserve the money such
propaganda would cost and either post it anonymously
to the United States Treasury’s conscience fund or
spend it on armaments.
Thus we should be spared the embarrassment of
again beholding the British mind in fatuous behavior.
The explanation we think of is that it is without experi-
ence in the unpleasant business of defaulting and has
no face for it. The French do it much better ; but in
the case of Great Britain it involves a contradiction of
character.
We lent to the Allied Governments, separately,
more than ten billions of dollars. In each case the
Treasury was very particular to say that as soon as
possible formal bonds should be substituted for the
lOUs, and that the bonds should bear the same rate
of interest as the Liberty bonds the American Gov-
ernment sold to the American people to raise the
money in the first place.
When the war was over, the United States
Treasury held more than four and one half billions
of Great Britain’s IOUs, and Great Britain let them
lie there —all our other debtors waiting to see what
she was going to and the United States Treasury
began to ask for a settlement.
Then Mr. Lloyd George wrote a letter to Presi-
dent Wilson to say that the British Government was
not unmindful of its IOUs nor forgetful of its obliga-
tions to substitute in place of them its interest-bearing
bond. Not at all that. The only thing was that a
hasty settlement according to the contract might
prejudice a beautiful scheme they were all working
out together in Europe, one he was certain would make
the altruistic American people very happy. The
scheme was that the war debts of the Allied Govern-
ments to one another and the debts of all the Allied
Governments to the United States should be wiped
out all around, in order that the Allies might make a
favorable settlement with Germany. This was nothing
less than a scheme to make the United States pay
German reparations.
President Wilson answered Mr. Lloyd George
very sharply. This country was not going to pay
German reparations. And he added that the failure of
the British Government to take care of its IOUs at
the United States Treasury was beginning to be a
matter of serious misunderstanding.
The effect of this was to release the Shylock
propaganda. British newspapers, British statesmen,
British propagandists and the British people, all with
one voice, began to say America was the Shylock of
the world ; the American Government was demanding
its pound of flesh out of prostrate Europe. This was
supplemented by the intolerable theme that it was
our war from the beginning, that we were late to
come in because we wanted first to reap the profit,
and that now we ought to be made to pay for it.
Thus, British stupidity killed what cancellationist
sentiment did exist in this country, and it had been a
great deal at first.
They did nothing at all but this about their debt
until the time came when they wanted to restore their
pound sterling to a gold basis, against the American
gold dollar. They couldn’t very well do it with an
open debt like that in utter default. So they came
over to settle. The settlement was in this wise: We
said, “How much can you afford to pay?” They
said, “So much.” We said, “All right. Give us your
bond for that much and take back your IOUs.” And
the settlement was at 83 cents on the dollar, payments
to be spread over 62 years to make it easy.
But no sooner had this settlement been made,
freely and sincerely as we supposed, than the British
began to attack it in a treacherous manner. The
British Government sent a note to its own war debtors
saying it had been obliged to settle with the United
States and for that reason, and for that reason only,
Great Britain was under the painful necessity of ask-
ing her debtors to pay, as she had never intended to
do. It was a human shame. To make finance out of
blood and sacrifice was horrible. Nevertheless, the
United States would have it so. The British Gov-
ernment said it would ask its debtors to pay only
enough to enable it to pay its debt to the United
States, and after that all people might see what was
happening and reflect upon it—a stream of gold
going continually out of ruined Europe, across the
Atlantic, to the richest and most selfish nation in the
world.
That was the infamous Balfour Note. The intent
of it was to raise feeling in Europe against the United
States, and it had that effect. It was written at a time
when we were lending Europe at least five dollars for
each dollar we received in payment of war debts. We
were lending Germany the money to make her repara-
tion payments to the Allies. Indeed, roughly stated,
the only reparation money the Allies ever got out of
Germany was American money, and we lost it.
A few years later came the great depression.
Great Britain stopped her payments. Recovery came
and she did not resume them. She has defaulted on
her bond. There the history rests.
Against Any Czech Pledge.
[Let alone opposing the folly of risking the British
Empire and sacrificing the cream of its youth to sup-
port Czechoslovakian rule over that artificial State’s
minorities, London “Sunday Express,” in this (con-
densed) article, attacks the proposal that Britain should
pledge itself at all to maintain the Czechoslovakia
which will remain when the pending frontier adjustments
have been made.]
A real issue, far removed from some of the base-
less fabrications of terror which are driving us from
one panic to another, is not far off. That is the com-
ing pledge to Czechoslovakia.
Great Britain is sure to be asked to join in this
pledge, which will take the form of a guarantee to
maintain the frontiers of Czechoslovakia after that
State has been re-formed.
Colleagues in the proposed guarantee will be Ger-
many, France and Italy, all three deeply concerned in
European affairs. And if Britain enters into that
guarantee she will be foolishly mixing herself up in
matters which should not involve us at all.
The results of guarantees like this always take
one of two forms. In the first case they involve us in
war. In the second they plunge us into disgrace.
The last war offers a complete example of the
first form. Britain, France and Germany pledged
themselves to safeguard the integrity of Belgium and
to protect that country if she were invaded. Germany
broke her pledge. And Britain was called upon to
spend four years draining herself of blood and treasure.
We have still to recover from the effects of our pledge
to Belgium.
The alternative result of such pledges is default.
The very event which the pledge was given to prevent
takes place without any of the guarantors making any
effort to stop it.
An example of that is Austria. In 1934, Sir John
Simon arose in the House of Commons and in the
most precise terms said that Britain, together with
France and Italy, would preserve the independence of
.Austria. In 1938, Germany marched into Austria and
nobody in France, Italy or Britain, Sir John Simon
included, buckled on his armor to prevent her.
These facts must be remembered and considered
when the suggestion of a pledge to Czechoslovakia
arises, as arise it will. No pledge of this kind can be
given without a liability. If the pledge is to be effec-
tive you will have to fight for it. If the pledge is to
be ineffective you will have to blush for it.
Sir lan Hamilton’s German Visit.
[Only the barest fragment of Sir lan Hamilton’s
comments on Germany and Hitler after his recent visit
and interview was reported in cables. Sir lan spoke for
the many thousands everywhere who 20 years back were
fighters by the compulsion of circumstances and are now
the most ardent of strivers for peace. Against that, it is
a curious fact that the most bellicose rantings are written
and spoken (sometimes from radio stations) by men who
never saw the 1914-18 shambles, though of an age that
would not have prevented their doing so. Sir lan’s com-
ments are condensed from London ‘ Sunday Graphic. J
In 1928 there was a meeting at Luxembourg
between representatives of the Allied and enemy ex-
service men, presided over by an ex-enemy genera .
Since then the bonds between the British Legion and
organisations in Germany have grown stronger and
stronger. Recently, I came back from Germany,
where my party of 40 British ex-service men had been
entertained by their old enemies. The visit has far
greater significance than that of 10 years ago.
The members of my party will tell you what they
think of their reception —the kindliness, the warmth of
friendship shown to them by one and all. And they
were good, honest, average Britons. They came back
convinced that Germany as a nation is solid for
peace.
It doesn’t end there. Eight hundred men are
coming from Germany at my invitation. They will
be able to go home and tell their people that, instead
of trumpeting for war, the British people shudder at
the thought of it. So, through the efforts of the fight-
ing men, former enemies are getting to understand
each other, and they will not rush into a war out of
the mistaken idea that the other fellow means to get
there first.
There are a great many people in Britain obsessed
with the bogey of Hitler. Herr Hitler invited me to
visit him at Berchtesgaden. 1 found him quiet,
reasonable. He told me that whenever he wanted to
think things out and decide an issue he came to
Berchtesgaden, where he could get the seclusion he
craved. With a smile, he admitted he has sometimes
made vehement statements, but never there with his
birds (he has a bird sanctuary with 800 nests), his
trees and his flowers. In that case, I said, the more
he was there with his birds and trees and flowers the
better we should be pleased.
Hitler has a profound admiration for Britain and
a sincere and earnest desire to be at peace and in
friendship with her. There is no doubt in my mind
about that. And lam certain that the Hitler I saw
—the quiet, reasonable Hitler —is the Fiihrer as he
really is. And that —and not because of his vehement
outbursts —is why the Germans trust him.
The bogey of the fire-eating Hitler is the great-
est danger to peace to-day. It is dangerous in its effect
on us ; it is dangerous in its effect on Germany. But
the ex-service men of the two nations are helping to
lay it. We are increasing the will for peace. And
we are the men who know what war really means.
Nowhere I went in Germany did I find that the
man in the street wanted war. He doesn’t want it.
And the woman in the home doesn’t want it. How
women regard war is of first-rate importance, for
throughout the world’s history it is they who have
frequently spurred on their men to fight. But through-
out Germany, wherever I went, I found that the Ger-
man women dreaded the very idea of war. They hate
war. I send this out to the world ; that the German
women stand solidly for peace.
But we have got to realise, whatever our convic-
tions, bias or predilections, that the German nation,
including the millions of peace-lovers, are wild with
anger at the position of the Sudeten Deutsch. Of
course, there is a war party in Germany. There always
has been. But never before has it been so sternly
controlled.
The man who is controlling it is Hitler. Without
his restraining hand I think it is possible, despite the
present will of the German people for peace, that the
war party might stampede the public. In fact, if Hitler
fell 1 think there would be war in a fortnight.
Hitler holds the balance ; Hitler stands for peace.
His is no easy task.
Visits such as our British ex-service men have
just paid and the 800 German ex-service men are about
to pay do more to clear up misunderstandings than
any amount of high diplomacy. This Is the work that
the soldiers are doing. They are killing bogeys. The
real big work of fraternisation goes on —the soldiers’
way to peace.
I have been a soldier all my life and have loved
my profession. But for years after the war I unveiled
a war memorial almost every week, and the people who
were given the best seats were the widows and orphans,
the mutilated, the blind and the parents who had lost
their sons. It was this that brought about my change
of heart and enlisted me in this new and greater
campaign.
Labor Rejects a Soviet Ultimatum.
[The British Trade Union Congress at Blackpool on
September 9 was told by Mr. George Hicks, M.P., why
the International Federation of Trade Unions rejected
the U.S.S.R. as an affiliated member. The British Mine-
workers’ Federation challenged the dropping of the
attempt to secure Soviet affiliation; put to a card vote,
this challenge was repudiated by a representative British
Labor majority of 1,100,000. So the “workers’ para-
dise” stays out, for the reasons given by Mr. Hicks in
this digest of the “Times” report. The Labor “Daily
Herald” headed its less complete report “Russian Unions
Would Have Smashed 1.F.T.U.” The important signpost
to the solid sanity of British Labor was overlooked in
Australian dailies’ cables.]
Mr. George Hicks, M.P., gave the history of the
long-continued efforts of the British trade unions to
draw the Russian trade unions into the International
Federation of Trade Unions (1.F.T.U.), efforts which
began soon after the revolution in Russia. He said
that coexistent with these efforts the Red International
of trade unions made many hostile declarations as to
the bona fides of the I.F.T.U. and its various national
elements. Other national centres of the I.F.T.U. were
highly sensitive to the Russian criticism, and resentful
of Britain’s efforts to bring in Russia in this way.
After a meeting of the I.F.T.U. at Warsaw,
the Russians stated that they were desirous of dis-
cussing international unity, and asked for a delegation
to be sent to Moscow. At a meeting in Moscow last
The Empire Trades.
About time tile war urjters, whose aims, in the
startling; estimate of New York *‘Heral<l Tribune,”
ipigrlit lead to “a cost of 1,000,000 dead soldiers, and
would perhaps cost Britain her dominions and terri-
tories in the East,” spared a thought for both
Empire and Australian interests.
Tlie Empire at peace is still a happy and useful
enough family, combining for mutual benefit, as tills
(of course, uncabled) extract from London “Daily
Express” indicates: —
Empire countries bought more goods from
Great Britain than all foreign countries put
together in the first six months of this year.
This is the first time on record that the Empire
has maintained its place as Britain’s best cus-
tomer over a complete half-yearly period.
An analysis of Board of Trade returns issued
last night shows that exports of United Kingdom
goods for the first half of the year were: To
Empire countries, £117,200,000; to foreign
countries, £116,000,000.
Britain continues to buy more from foreign
countries than from the Empire. In the first
half of this year imports from the Empire were
valued at £191,200,000, and from foreign
countries at £278,400,000.
Compared with the first half of 1937 sales to
foreign countries fell by nearly £16,000,000, and
to Empire countries by £2,100,000.
“This shows,” says the Empire Industries Associ-
ation, “that during a period of trade recession
our Empire markets are much more stable than
our foreign markets.”
Britain’s best customers so far this year have
been South Africa, who bought goods valued at
£19,800,000; Australia, £19,500,000; India,
£18,200,000; Canada, £11,300,000; and New
Zealand, £9,200,000.
Continuance of that, not the destruction of it
and of another generation of young manhood in a
futile crusading war, is an ideal that might com-
mend itself to thinking people, even if not to arm-
chair fire-eaters.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
82881
f'
X *
•I %
U i
- f* 3.
n
i f
%wf J.
a
sf^y^pjxv*
:r - ; - .
YEARS OF WEAR IN ALL WEATHERS.
An imported Shetland Pony Skin upper gives this American style capless
Oxford exceptional wearing qualities.
Made with stout sole and soft calf back lining.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Brown. Price Price 63/-.
Write for a Catalogue.
"If it's an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe.’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
November the I.F.T.U. representatives were presented
with a set of conditions preliminary to the general
discussion of the Russian affiliation with the I.F.T.U.
Those conditions were (1) intensification of the
fight against Fascism and war; (2) working-class
“sanctions” against Germany, Italy and Japan ; (3)
refusal to transport goods to those countries; (4)
restrictions against the manufacture of war material
for any of those countries ; (5) effective aid to China
and Spain ; (6) trade-union unity in the United States,
Canada, Czechoslovakia and elsewhere ; (7) approval
of the United Front and the People’s Front where it
existed.
The Russians also demanded changes in the con-
stitution of the I.F.T.U. and three presidents, of whom
one was to be a Russian, with his own secretary and
assistant secretary. The effect of that would have been
to give the Russians a large measure of control.
Another condition was that neither the Russian
Government nor its trade unions should ever be
subjected to criticism of any type.
The executive of the I.F.T.U. rejected these terms,
and the General Council of the T.U.C. endorsed that
action, but, nevertheless, sent representatives to the
Oslo conference of the I.F.T.U. in May of this year,
who were instructed still to support Russian affiliation
but only in accordance with the rules, regulations and
policy of the I.F.T.U.
At the Oslo conference it was found that other
countries were unable to accept even the British view,
and there came from the other countries a very defi-
nite challenge. There was anxiety lest, if the Russians
came in on the basis proposed, other countries’ trade
unions would find themselves unable to continue any
longer in their association with the I.F.T.U. The
British delegation had to pay attention to what they
said. They felt that they would not be justified in
disregarding the opinions of the other national centres
concerned, but that they would be justified in voting
that the negotiations with the Russian trade unions
for affiliation in the I.F.T.U. at the present time should
be discontinued.
If by bringing 22,000,000 of Russian trade-union-
ists into the I.F.T.U. they only forced so many
millions from other countries out, they had to con-
sider whether if it would be a wise step to create such
conditions, and whether it would not strike a blow
against instead of for unity, and diminish British influ-
ence in the International.
“If Russia is really anxious for unity,” Mr. Hicks
added, “she must evolve a healthier mentality and a
more reasonable behavior towards other national
centres, and must win their confidence through show-
ing confidence herself. In their own country the
Russians have done a tremendous work, but if the
trade unions there wish to associate themselves with
trade-union organisation elsewhere they must realise
that other peoples are as capable of understanding
these matters as they are ; and Russia must behave
to other countries as she expects us to behave to her
country.”
(Condensed from London “Daily Herald.’’)
Mr. George Gibson, a representative of the
General Council at the I.F.T.U. discussions, said it
was impossible to expect a discussion at Oslo in which
prejudice was not imported by the extraordinary and
stupid conditions laid down by the Russian unions.
The terms laid down meant the secession from
the I.F.T.U. of the United States, Finland, Holland,
Switzerland and Belgium.
The Duke as Peace Ambassador.
[ln an article written 1 as an epilogue to the London
“Sunday Dispatch” serial publication of The Windsor
Tapestry Compton Mackenzie strongly pleads that
Britain should employ the Duke of Windsor in the
capacity indicated in this extract.]
In the Duke of Windsor we have the most potent
individual influence for peace in the world to-day,
and we allow that influence to be wasted while we
watch Mr. Anthony Eden’s political activities or read
Lord Baldwin’s speech to the miners of South Wales
excusing himself for being too busy to visit them when
he was Prime Minister.
Last autumn the Duke visited Germany for the
purpose of studying experiments there in housing
reform. He told the press the object of his visit, but
we have become so accustomed to the expedient lies
of politicians that we can no longer recognise the
simple truth in the mouth of an eminent man.
We had to find in this visit confirmation of the
slander that he had allowed himself to encourage Nazi
intrigue through the persuasion of his wife. We had
to detect an interested move on behalf of Fascism.
Every resource of propaganda was employed to
destroy in advance any chance left for the triumphant
success that his visit to the United States should have
been —and would have been, if political prejudice
had not interfered and attributed a political signi-
ficance.
The cancellation of the American visit was fol-
lowed by a jobation from Mr. Herbert Morrison, in
which the Duke was advised to withdraw entirely from
any possibility of public notice, to become indeed as
self-effacing and ineffective as most of the members
of the Labor party’s shadow Cabinet.
There is a fast-growing inclination to realise that
the Duke’s superlative gifts of royal leadership are
being foolishly neglected, and that the greatest am-
bassador of peace, in the world of to-day is without
a job
The Balkans Change Their Ways.
[Major Yeats-Brown, in the article here condensed
from September “Nineteenth Century,” describes from
first-hand knowledge the changes which are going on
in the Balkans and which were well on the way Jong
before the Czech rearrangement.]
In Central Europe, and further north (in Danzig
and Memel), problems exist whose solution may
render peace precarious. Not so in the Balkans. Dis-
satisfied peoples there are, of course, but they are
united as never before on certain points of view.
First and foremost, each country has a genuinely
pacific programme of reforms —in agriculture, develop-
ment of roads, railways, industries and educational
systems —which would be interrupted by war. General
staffs may have their plans, but the military are in
the background ; and the emphasis is on peace and
progress everywhere.
Secondly, there is the growing commercial influ-
ence of Germany, a country regarded with respect
rather than affection. There is a fear —I believe un-
founded—that the Swastika flag will follow the path
of trade. Further, and in spite of the distrust of
German aims, there is a current leading away from
democracy and the League of Nations. Lip service is
paid, here and there, to Parliamentary institutions, but
in practice all the Balkan States are governed by dic-
tatorships. Finally, there is a rising tide of athleticism
and female emancipation.
So much, and it is a great deal, the nations of
South-Eastern Europe have in common. The Little
Entente and the Balkan Alliance are both concerned
with finding points of agreement with their neighbors,
and are concentrating on practical questions of trade,
which emphasise their common interests, rather than
on racial and territorial ambitions, which lead to
bitterness. Pre-war ideas of conquest are almost com-
pletely in the discard. No one in Tirana, Sofia.
Bucharest, Ankara or Athens imagines that war will
solve any problem ; nor are the statesmen of Belgrade
of a different opinion.
The prestige of Britain has risen enormously since
Mr. Chamberlain came to power. The Balkan dictators
are all friendly. In Albania the shrewd King Zog
encourages his subjects to learn our language, and the
Herbert Library in Tirana is always packed with stu-
dents. Prince Paul, the First Regent of Yugoslavia,
has many ties with England, and his able Prime
Minister, M. Stoyadinovitch, loses no opportunity of
showing his friendship. King Boris, without ques-
tion the most popular man in Bulgaria, is trying to
steer his country back to the party system: he detests
being an autocrat, but for the moment there is no
one to take his place. In Rumania, on the other hand,
King Carol enjoys the role of a reformer with all the
enthusiasm of his Coburg ancestry.
In all the Balkan capitals Germans are in evi-
dence. After the 1931 crisis Germany was compelled
to buy her raw materials from those who bought from
her, and the countries which before this date were
being developed with French capital have now become
German spheres of action. Yugoslavia exports 36
p.c. of her goods to Germany, Bulgaria 47 p.c.,
Rumania 27 p.c., but the proportion of Germany’s
relative imports is only 3 p.c. or 4 p.c. Obviously she
has the whip hand. But I do not myself believe in
the danger of a German hegemony in South-Eastern
Europe for the reason I have already given: national-
ism is in the ascendant in these countries.
In Yugoslavia a small Nazi party has appeared,
and has been promptly suppressed. Bulgaria, being
more Slav, is immune, although I believe that Ger-
man influence is strong in the army. Rumania is still
a comparatively free country, except for members of
the Iron Guard.
The aims of these dictators are identical. One
of the cleverest of them (who asked me not to quote
him in person) said to me: —
“We are a small country, and have suffered ter-
ribly in the Balkan wars and in the Great War. We
must have peace, to build up the ruins of the past.
Certainly we would like our frontiers rectified, and
we wish that our people living under foreign domina-
tion were better treated, but we have no intention of
risking a war to put these matters right. We know too
well what war means. Nothing but direct invasion of
our territory would induce us to fight.”
“Nothing?” I asked. “Suppose a war breaks over
Czechoslovakia, don’t you think you might gain some-
thing by taking sides?”
“No. We should remain neutral as long as pos-
sible.”
The Balkan nations have drawn together even
more closely since the Anschluss. They see breakers
above them, in the waters of the Upper Danube, and
are determined to possess their own river in peace.
Their future belongs, not to Germany or any Great
Power, but to themselves alone. And in each capital
there is a pride in national destiny, an eager self-
confidence, a resolution to effect reforms by brow’s
sweat rather than by bloodshed, which is utterly
unlike the sullen plotting of 1910-14.
Fingers in the Spanish Pie.
[“Spain,” a weekly published in London with the
object of informing British public opinion on the Spanish
Civil War from the Franco viewpoint, prints this list
of armaments captured by the Nationalists from the
beginning of the campaign to August 1, 1938.]
Russian Material : —
Tanks .. . . .. .. 84
Guns .. .. .. . . .. .. 71
Mortars and Minethrowers .. .. 275
Machine-guns .. .. .. 577
Automatic rifles . .. .. .. 561
Rifles 35,912
Shells 91,000
Cartridges 60,425,000
French Materia! : —
Tanks .. .. .. .. 24
Guns .. .. .. . . .. .. 85
Mortars . . .. .. .. 89
Machine-guns .. .. .. .. 112
Automatic rifles .. .. .. .. 465
Rifles 29,370
Shells and grenades . . .. .. 22,400
Cartridges .. .. .. .. .. 9,127,479
British Material :
Guns .. .. . .. .. .. 4
Machine-guns . . .. .. .. 47
Automatic rifles .. .. .. .. 410
Rifles.. . .. .. .. .. 3530
Shells.. .. .. .. .. .. 1500
Cartridges* . . . . . . .. .. 9,427,479
American Material
Tanks .. .. .. .. .. 17
Guns.. .. . .. .. .. 33
Machine-guns .. .. .. .. 630
Rifles.. .. . . .. 3430
Shells 11,700
Mexican Material : —
Automatic Rifles .. .. 21
Rifles 3100
Cartridges .. . . . . 11,250,000
Enemv aeroplanes brought down since the begin-
ning of the campaign up to June 30, 1938, included:
French .. .. .. .. .. 139
Russian .. .. .. .. .. 809


Sporting
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With vivid memories of the crowds that
Gloaming and Beauford drew to Rand-
wick in the spring of 1922, the A.J.C.
would have loved to get Ajax for the
weight-for-age races at the meetings be-
ginning on Saturday ; but the owners had
other views. However, there will be
Nuffield, Avenger and Nightguard from
Victoria, Royal Chief and Stretto from
Maoriland, Spear Chief and Thurles Lad
from Queensland, and the best of the
N.S.W. horses in training, headed by
Gold Rod. That chestnut looks in ex-
cellent shape, and there are some who
think that he would have proved more
than a match for Ajax in the Craven
Plate, if not in the Colin Stephen
(formerly Spring) Stakes on Saturday.
That doesn’t seem likely, but it is true
that Gold Rod has rehabilitated his repu-
tation, sadly tarnished in the autumn, by
recent performances.
Unfortunately the A.J.C. Derby can
scarcely be expected to furnish thrills
such as Randwick experienced a year
ago, when Avenger, Hua and Ajax strove
for supremacy, or in 1924, when Heroic,
Spearfelt and Nigger Minstrel battled out
their finish. Nuffield looks a good colt,
but the Sydney three-year-olds, judged
on their performances as three-year-olds,
are not up to much. Windbag’s son
Respirator may justify his parentage and
his handsome appearance by proving
himself a stayer, and the owners of Limu-
let and Petruchio and the trainer of
Aeolus have hopes. But, though Nuffield
was off the tracks for a few days as the
result of a mishap, he should be forward
enough and of sufficient quality to ac-
count for his Sydney opponents.
Nightguard is favorite for the Fpsom,
and on his three-year-old and early-four-
year-old achievements is nicely handi-
capped. He has Bst. 61b. With 81b. more
in the Hill Stakes at Rosehill he finished
very close to Young Idea, who had 9st.
31b., and will have to carry 9st. 71b. in
the Epsom. In that Rosehill race Stretto,
who beat Nightguard by inches, was re-
ceiving 21b. from him ; in the Epsom
she will have to concede him 12lb. The
decided advantage in weights should en-
able Nightguard to account for that pair.
Mohican has proved himself a good
miler. His Epsom burden is 9st. lib. ;
with the same, he won the Tramway
Handicap at Randwick. He gets 31b.
from King’s Head, who is in fine form
and is no stranger to substantial weights.
Spear Chief, who can scarcely be
ready, has 9st. Buzalong, with Bst. 101 b.,
is well handicapped, but may be reserved
for the Metrop., in which he has Bst. 51b.,
or for the Caulfield Cup.
Thurles Lad (Bs. 41b.) is an interest-
ing candidate. As a three-year-old, in
receipt of 31b., he ran second to Night-
guard in the Batman Stakes at Fleming-
ton ; and there can’t be much between
them now. Thurles Lad has shown a
tendency to go off after a race or two,
but when he hits the front early he takes
some catching, as he has shown in Mel-
bourne as well as Brisbane ; and he has
filled out a lot since last year. The £1
horse St. Constant (Bst. 31b.) is another
to be respected.
Publicity (7st.) looked the pick of the
handicap till he was badly interfered with
in the race that Mohican won on Sep-
tember 10 and nearly fell. At the be-
ginning of last week it looked as if he
had thrown off the effects. A day or
two later his veteran trainer, MtGrath,
had a worried look, but the chestnut gal-
loped well on Saturday, and McGrath
became his old confident self. Publicity
has been in training a long time* and a
let-up should not really destroy his
Epsom chance if there is nothing wrong
with his pins.
Rodborough’s public trial for the
Epsom was done in the Camellia Stakes
at Rosehill, and was very satisfactory. He
goes up from 7st. 91b. to Bst. 41b., a sub-
stantial rise ; still, as a two-year-old he
showed ability to carry weight. This
Veilmond horse has a decided chance.
Denis (7st. 71b.) was rather disappoint-
ing in the Camellia Stakes. He was a
bit sore beforehand, and though well
up all the way showed no dash at the
finish. However, he has not run a really
bad race this season, and he might sur-
prise.
Royal Chief (Bst. 131 b.) and Cooranga
(7st. 41b.) are the Metrop. favorites.
Royal Chiefs position is attributable
to his defeat of Avenger at level
weights (9st. 71b.) in the Chelmsford
Stakes. He certainly finished well, and
bore out his Maoriland reputation, but
it is doubtful whether Avenger was at
his best that day.
Cooranga, on the other hand, has in
recent handicaps decisively beaten horses
for none of which any excuse could be
made. At Warwick Farm and at Rand-
wick she came right away in the last
furlong—at the Farm, from Tuckerbox,
who is supposed to have a Caulfield Cup
chance, and at Randwick from Perimond,
whose record in previous starts was two
wins and a third. Cooranga may fail
to run out a mile and five furlongs, but
if she does it will be rather surprising.
Whether the Metrop. distance will suit
Perimond is questioned by some judges,
but the Veilmond horse may prove them
wrong. He certainly is an improving
four-year-old, and, like Cooranga, has a
feather weight—7st. 31b.
Gold Rod (9st.) is handicapped as a
non-stayer, though he won the A.J.C.
St. Leger and is by a horse (Chief Ruler)
that has sired stayers. If he comes
through his Colin Stephen Stakes impres-
sively he may displace Royal Chief and
Cooranga in the Metrop. betting. His
admirers would be wise not to back him
till the day of the race ; he is not much
good in heavy going, and if it rains on
Sunday and Monday he may be
scratched.
Young Crusader (Bst. 81b.) looks un-
commonly well, and with 61b. or 71b. off
his back would command a lot of sup-
port. In the case of Sir Regent (Bst. 31b.),
last year’s winner (with 7st. 21b.), the
question is whether he will condescend
to race seriously. Silver Standard (Bst.
71b.), second to him in the 1937 Metrop.
and fit again, will meet him on 151 b.
better terms.
Buzalong is almost up to w.f.a. form,
but there remains that question whether
he will start. Bristol (Bst. 41b.) was this
Page’s early choice, and it still thinks he
will do better at 13 furlongs than at 10
or 11. In Silenus (Bst.) Kelso has a good
second string, and other four-year-olds
with fair credentials are Highborn (Bst.)
and Bourbon (7st. 111 b.).
* * * *
Buzalong was the outstanding per-
former at Hawkesbury on Saturday. The
former Queenslander had 9st. in the
Grand Handicap and was favorite. He
lobbed along at his leisure until the
home turn was in sight; then he took
the lead in a few strides. At the con-
clusion of the journey (1| miles and 100
yards), he seemed to be travelling at half-
pace, yet he finished lengths ahead of
Gold Spark (second) and Billy Boy
(third), and the clock showed 2min.
10|sec. His price had fluctuated re-
markably. It opened at 3 to 1, short-
ened to 7 to 4 and then eased to threes
again.
There was heavy support for Red Sails
and Sidcup. The latter ran badly, but
there was some excuse for him, as he
was cut off at the start and never got
out of the ruck. Red Sails was fourth.
Previous winners of the Quality Han-
dicap have run well in the Epsom.
Mohican, King’s Head and St. Constant
were in the Quality Handicap on Satur-
day and monopolised the betting, King’s
Head being at 7 to 4, Mohican at twos
and St. Constant at 7 to 2—eights early.
St. Constant, corning from last at the
half-mile, beat King’s Head in the last
stride, Mohican being a poor third.
King’s Head should probably have won ;
thinking his job done, he paused after
hitting the front a furlong from home.
A cunning old stallion, he has done that
on previous occasions.
Bobby, another Epsom candidate, was
a hot favorite for the Rowley M;ile.
Though he had No. 12 position at the
barrier, he jumped away well, but was
forced to cover a lot of extra ground.
It contributed to his defeat in a rousing
finish ; Rosante, who stuck to the rails,
beat the pacemaker, Nebraska, by half a
head, with Bobby a neck away. Bather
and Rdd Rosebud followed the placed
horses. Although he drifted in the bet-
ting—from 5 to 2 to fours —Rosante was
well backed. He and Buzalong were
Bulletin selections.
Pantler (4 to 1), who is owned by a
Sydney businessman, “M. Lundern,” out-
stayed his opponents in the Encourage
Highweight. A good type of colt by
Pantheon from a once-useful sprinter,
Lile Queen, he soon settled the pace-
maker, Fortcello, and Leander. Pantler
may make a useful middle-distance
horse.
Backers were well on the mark in divi-
sions of the Three-year-old Handicap.
Despite his 9st. 111 b., Royal Prince (3 to
1) proved too good for Adios and Ben-
burb in the first division. Adios was
troubled by the small track. The second
division went to Sir Diac (4 to 1), who
carries the colors of Claude Moore, the
Moorefield committeeman.
Goliath (5 to 4) had to be ridden right
out to hold off The Cork in the first
division of the Maiden. The Nineteenth,
trained by Jim Pike, won the second divi-
sion, at 6 to 1 ; the favorite, Robin Adair,
one of George Young’s team, missed a
place. Log Cabin (evens) was never off
the bit in the third division. He is a
lightly-raced four-year-old by Heroic-
Letitia, and will win in better company.
Hc * * *
This Page selected Footmark or
Manolive to win the Tullamarine Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley on Saturday last.
Footmark didn’t accept. Backed down
to twos in a field of eight Manolive won
gamely by half a neck from Temple
Coyn, with Son of Aurous a length away.
Manolive (Manfred-Sister Olive) and
Temple Coyn (Pantheon-Coinage) are
owned in W.A.. So, too, is Footmark.
Horses from Groperland are almost cer-
tain to perform prominently in big handi-
caps at the spring meeting in Melbourne.
When she led into the straight Temple
Coyn looked a sure winner, but Man-
olive put in a paralysing run along the
rails. He won the Perth Cup of 1937.
Footmark ran third and Temple Coyn
fifth in that event at the beginning of
the present year. Manolive will have to
concede the Pantheon mare 61b. in the
Caulfield Cup ; there was 31b. between
them in the Tullamarine Handicap.
Winterset followed up his maiden vic-
tory three days before on the same course
by annexing the Merri Trial, for which
he was a 7-to-2 favorite. This may not
appear much of a feat on paper, but
actually it verged on the miraculous.
Winterset lost 10 or a dozen lengths at
the start, and finished with a whirlwind
rush after experiencing a bad passage.
The \\ miles occupied 2min. 6|sec.
Later in the afternoon Manolive covered
the distance in 2min. 3|sec., but allow-
ance must be made for what happened to
Winterset. He is handicapped at 6st.
101 b. in the Caulfield Cup. His stable-
mate. Brethren, also three years old, has
7st. 21b. Both belong to Sol Green and
are trained by R. J. Shaw. The manner
in which Winterset has struck form re-
calls the suddenness with which Strephon
came into the limelight before crediting
Green with the Victoria Derby of 1928.
With Ajax a non-acceptor, Pamelus
and Ena shared favoritism for the Quality
Handicap at 7 to 2 in an exceedingly
good betting race. Aurie’s Star, Beech-
wood, Stoic and Cassio all had strong
support; but Evening Mist and Regular
Bachelor were at long odds, and it was
a case of “write your own ticket” with
Veneration, a surprise aspirant from
Wagga.
Ena took charge on the home bend and
had a clear lead from Beechwood as they
faced for home, but she had to be pushed
right out to score by a head from Regu-
lar Bachelor (33 to 1), whose terrific
finish was on a par with the manner in
which he broke Winooka’s Flemington
record for six furlongs at the V.R.C.
autumn meeting.
His owner-trainer, R. F. Trihey, is
overjoyed to know that Regular Bache-
lor has recovered from the physical up-
set of a train journey to Adelaide in
June. Though now seven years old, the
Queensland-bred stallion has a bright
future this spring. Unless his Valley
form was all wrong, the same cannot be
said for Pamelus, but Evening Mist was
an encouraging fourth in the Quality
Handicap.
David Quex (5 to 2) and Brightello (7
to 2) were prime fancies for the Pascoe
Hurdle and Lindsay Gordon Steeple
respectively, and duly won. David Quex
is trained and partly owned by W. Burke,
who landed the Ailsa Handicap with his
own horse Elmdale, a Rossendale
gelding.
Elmdale (fives) may have been lucky
to beat Prince Sion, who started at simi-
lar odds. Tailed off at the back of the
course and still last at the half-mile,
Prince Sion swept to the front in the
next furlong. He tired when challenged,
which wasn’t to be wondered at in view
of such remarkable riding tactics.
The Sydney punter called “The Bull-
fighter” plunged on Prince Sion —he took
£lOOO to £2OO in one bet after asking
for £l5OO to £3OO. Cousens, trainer of
Prince Sion, was the original owner of
Malurys (second to Salitros in the A.J.C.
Derby of 1920). Another horse that he
sold at a high figure was Dunwil, whose
colors were lowered by Beauford in the
Epsom of 1921.
* * * *
“J. Armstrong”: Bar an occasional
accident, jockeys usually live to a green
old age. Victoria furnishes a couple of
instances. One is William Murphy, who
has passed out in the Austin hospital
at 84. In his heyday Murphy rode for
some of the big owners, including James
White, and among his best wins were two
Champion Stakes —on Wellington in
1879 and Coriolanus in 1882 —the New-
market on Aspen in 1881 and the Stand-
ish Handicap on Middlemarch. He also
rode Tom Kirk into second place in the
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
A. P. Wilson, appointed chairman of
the Durban T.C. stipendaries, is a mem-
ber of a well-known Sydney racing
family. As steward or handicapper he
has had a long connection with clubs
in N.S.W., M.L. and Queensland. A
brother, G.F., is the A.J.C. handicapper.
A.P. succeeds at Durban another Queens-
lander, N. B. Darcy, who recently re-
signed from the Natal club.
(Continued on page 32.)
“Tenth Slip”: As a result of a vetting
by experts there will be no play on
Sydney Cricket Ground until the end
of December. The grass doctors say
that years of rolling and watering have
made the soil on the cricket-pitch square
as hard as flint, while the grass has gone
sour through years of watering.
* * * *
“Swansea”: Some Australian cricketers
manage to do well in England. Play-
ing for the Cahn XI against the strong
Glamorgan side, Walsh, once of Sydney,
took 9 wickets for 101, and would prob-
ably have got the tenth if the batsman
hadn’t been absent injured. In his last
three matches Walsh has taken 36 of
the 45 wickets available, and Leicester-
shire, for which county he is qualifying,
sees golden visions of the future.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: A case which came
before the N.S.W. boxing heads is a
useful illustration of the manner in which
the strict laws of amateurism as laid down
by the International Federation are being
pushed on one side. An entrant for a
boxing competition was objected to on
the ground that he had played profes-
sional football. He admitted this, but
brought evidence that he had never re-
ceived money for doing so. The law is
that if a man competes in a declared pro-
fessional sport or with professionals it
does not matter a hang whether he is
paid for it or not. His entry was ad-
mitted.
(i Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Derby: Nuffield, 1; Respirator,
2 ; Limulet, 3.
Epsom: Publicity, 1 ; Rod-
borough, 2 ; Nightguard, 3.
Metrop.: Cooranga, 1 ; Bristol,
2 ; Perimond, 3.
Colin Stephen Stakes: Avenger;
next, Gold Rod.
Trial Stakes: Oration; next,
Will Rogers.
Kensington Handicap: Corona-
tion Day ; next, Mosaic.
The Shorts: Thurles Lad.
Centennial Park Handicap: Bon-
heur de Pere.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
Melbourne Stakes: Ajax; next,
Ena.
Stand Handicap: Footmark ;
next, Queen of Song.


/
3SV
n
k
4V,
T h'k *
s.
£
7,
>
y
{/*
V
*
?
1
$
Jr
Having something on the big
race? Here’s hoping your
luck’s in!
But, win or lose, have some-
thing in a glass. Make it
“Johnnie Walker.” That, at
least, is a “ certainty,”
always smooth, mature
and heartening as
only the very finest
Scotch Whisky can be.
1
m xmm.
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
Bom 1620 ~ Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS LIMITED
LONDON KILMARNOCK - SYDNEY
m
'A
A


you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
to REDUCE THE COST
OF MOTORING
Incomplete combustion results in
wasted fuel, carbon formation and un-
satisfactory engine performance. Put
in a new set of Champions and enjoy
the power,speed,acceleration and fuel
savings that come from complete
combustion. They will soon pay for
themselves.
An Empireproduct—made
in Windsor, Can.
%
%
ml
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
2 1
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YQU CHANGE OIL
■or
-*s
years of hard
service. Pays regular
dividends in time and
labour-saving.
AIR by the FOOT
You can ease through the job of tyre-inflation in next to no
time with a Kismet Foot Pump. Just tread on it- the patent
double-cylinder (supercharger) action does the rest ■. twice as
easily and twice as quickly as an ordinary pump. And the built-in
Kismet Gauge tells you the exact pressure in each tyre.
PRICE 95/-.
Remember, a perfectly-balanced car gives more comfortable riding
and safer driving.
in Sheffield. England, by WM. TURNER & BRO., I.TD.
KISMET
2 CYLINDER 2 STAGE
FOOT PUMP
Factory Representative in Australia:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Under the Whip
Oaklands Hunt Club meeting at
Moonee Valley on Wednesday was the
last of such fixtures in Victoria for the
present year. Chief event, the Victorian
Hunt Club’s Cup, went to Rhymster
(Ronsard-Lady Sarrasin), who shared
favoritism with Niello at 7 to 2. Rhym-
ster, trained by F. W. Hoysted, belongs
to “Mortimer Alson,” head of a big
Bourke-street butchery, who took third
place in the Grand National Steeple of
J 934 with Copperfield, also trained by
Hoysted. This was the gelding’s first
effort over fences in public. He was
going away from Dulla Dulla and Collier
at the finish, and success in open com-
pany at an early date is likely.
“Mortimer Alson” has been known
mostly as an owner of jumpers, but he
holds a half-interest with E. A. Under-
wood, proprietor of the Warlaby stud, in
Swettenham, for whom there was heavy
support in a division of the Arundel
Maiden Handicap. Swettenham didn’t
gain a place, but should improve with
racing. His brother, Panto, to whom he
bears a strong resemblance, ran second
to Manolive in the Perth Cup of 1937.
Winner at 7 to 1, Winterset (Son o’
Mine-Winter’s Dream) was bred at the
Underbank stud of Sol Green, whose
colors he carries. Green imported both
sire and dam ; he gave 2000 guineas for
the latter, a mare by Golden Myth (son
of Tredennis) from a half-sister to Neil
Gow, Traquair (sire of Woorak) and
Chersonese (dam of Heroic).
The favorite, Gladstone, had to be con-
tent with second placing. An hour after-
wards his stable-companion, Lady Mon-
tague, registered an excellent perform-
ance by beating Hathersage on the post
in the Glendewar Welter. Both Glad-
stone and Lady Montague are by Liberal.
Their owner, A. E. Kimpton, a Mel-
bourne flourmiller, has a partiality for
progeny of the son of Windbag. Lady
Montague may prove the best three-
year-old filly in Victoria.
Biggest surprise of the afternoon was
when Cumulus (Brazen-Silver Cloud), a
three-year-old filly from L. J. McCann’s
stable, annexed the first division of the
Springbank Handicap. Quoted at 50 to
1, she paid £l7 4s. 6d. for ss. on the tote
Night Gang, one of the fastest sprinters
that have come from South Australia,
carried 9st. 121 b. Yet the field looked
so weak that he touched odds-on, easing
to 5 to 4. He isn’t himself by a long
chalk ; after disputing control with Miss
Burn he faded completely away near
the turn.
Putting in a remarkable finishing effort,
Cumulus smothered Miss Burn at the
half distance and won, running away.
He is trained by the younger McCann,
whose father prepared Harvest King for
an Australian Cup victory. There is no
reason why Cumulus ought not to be a
really good galloper. Her dam is by
Silvius from a half-sister to Manfred’s
dam. v
Munificent (tens) beat the heavily-
supported Quicksilver and Pibroch in the
second division of the Maiden Handicap,
and Peggy O’Neil took the Gowrie
Handicap at sixes. The crowning dis-
appointment for punters was when
French Gem (6 to 4) lost the second divi-
sion of the Springbank Handicap.
With ordinary luck, the little filly
would have won. Badly away, she was
last at the end of a furlong and fully
12 lengths from the leaders. Yet she
swept through the field from the home
bend, and in another stride would have
beaten Leporis.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: For the third successive
year Dr. Alan Robertson has been
elected chairman of the Board of Cricket
Control, a sufficiently sound answer to
The Sensitive Wrestler.
the snarls levelled at him and the Board
by Sydney flapper papers over cricketers'
wives and other all-important matters.
Frank Cush, treasurer to the Board for
the last four years, was also re-elected.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Some cricket heads show
themselves singularly lacking in know-
ledge of the game. The Queensland
association wrote to the Board of Con-
trol asking whether the score should be
four or five when a batsman had com-
pleted a run and the ball was overthrown
to the boundary. Its Victorian cobber
wanted to know if a batsman was out
if a piece flying off his bat knocked the
bails off. For longer than writer can
recall the answer to the Queensland ques-
tion has been “five,” and that to the
Victorian one in the affirmative.
* * * *
“Moore Park”: At last the Australian
Board of Control has made up its mind
to give M.L. cricket a hand by sending
along a touring XI. It has been years
since one got so far, and it is to be hoped
that the Board will this time send some-
thing able to earn its expenses at least.
In any case, the side won’t go until 1940,
and by then anything may have hap-
pened.
* * * *
“Flamborough”: What in the name
of the Prince of Flies is the matter with
Australian cricketers nowadays? The
men of the earlier elevens seem to have
“scratched” for nothing less than small-
pox, as Sammy Jones did. Teams of a
dozen or so never reported a casualty.
Much is made of O’Reilly’s wonderful
endurance without much support. What
of Turner, who in 36 matches in England
bowled 2590 overs, with only Ferris (2222
overs) giving any substantial assistance?
That was in 1888, and in 1890 the same
pair bowled 1700 overs each, with only a
youngster —Hugh Trumble, who took 53
wickets —to help. In those two seasons
Turner took 314 and 220 wickets and
Ferris 220 arid 215. Neither was worn
to death, and one of them told me that
the cut-up among the team was under
£2OO apiece.
* * * *
“Five Towns”: It is interesting to
compare some of the old-time cricketers
to the dainty darlings of to-day who
rush off to the beauty specialist if a
permanent wave is disarranged by a
bumping ball. Sid Barnes, whom some
of us still remember in Australia, is 66,
yet plays six days a week with the
Bridgenorth professional club. In 18
games this season Barnes has taken 102
wickets at 6.8 runs.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: The V.C.A. and the
trustees of the Melbourne C.G. have
decided to bury the hatchet. Originally
the V.C.A. paid the trustees 10 p.c. of
the takings and footed the bill for cer-
tain cleaning operations. Then the
trustees asked 15 p.c. Now, after threats
of depriving the M.C.G. of big matches
and bestowing the Melbourne Tests on
other States, the difference has been split
—the V.C.A. pays 12£ p.c. and the trus-
tees do the cleaning.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: In the absence of special
attractions the Sheffield States report a
poor box-office for last season. N.S.W.
was down close on £3OOO, and Queens-
land and S.A. report the loss of £464
and £276 respectively. And it wasn’t
altogether the public’s fault. The Q.C.A.
reported a profit of £1125 on the match
with South Australia in which Bradman
played, and another £429 for the Q.-
Victoria game. Expenditure is heavy,
coaches, country and colts eating up a
lot of cash.
* * * *
“Prosit”: Another momentous visit to
Germany which seems to have escaped
the notice of the cable fiends is that of
the Somerset Wanderers to Berlin. As a
result, Herr Felix Mensel, who seems to
be the Fiihrer of German cricket, has
appealed for the formation by the Mary-
lebone club of an international cricket
tourney on Davis Cup lines. Marylebone
would give a cup, and this would be
played for annually in the different
countries interested. The contest would
be confined to Continental teams, and the
form of the Continental players, poor
at first, would be sure to improve with
time.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Sir Julien Cahn will
have his tame team of cricketers touring
Maoriland next season. Most of the side
will travel via U.S.A., but the Australian
contingent, Mudge, Lush, Jackson and
Walsh, will come through Australia. As
they will have a couple of weeks’ spell
here before going on to join their mates,
George Garnsey, of the Ma State C.A.,
is trying to fix up a match in which they
and others will engage a good Australian
side in Sydney for the benefit of the
Veteran Cricketers’ Fund.
Footbrawl
Truly Melbourne is football-mad. In
the League semi-finals, Collingwood v.
Footscray drew 67,556 people, Carlton
v. Geelong 65,332 and ’Wood v. Geelong
60,971. At the Carlton v. ’Wood final
96,834 persons managed to find room at
the Cricket Ground, and thousands were
turned away ; takings were £6788.
Carlton won a grand game, 15-10 to
13-7. It is 23 years since Carlton last
flew the premiership pennant.
* * * *
Randwick won the Sydney Rugby
Union premiership decisively. Western
Suburbs opened the scoring with a
penalty goal, but Randwick got all the
rest of the points in the first half (13-3),
and at the last bell it was 26-12 —four
tries, two converted, two penalty goals
and a field goal to two tries and two p.gs.
Randwick forwards and backs combined


QUALITY CUTLERY
80? —STAINLESS steel tomato
KNIFE, saw edge, 3/3 each.
o
U 1
615—THE VOYAGER MANICURE
SET. Grained Calf Leather Case,
fitted with 1 Nail Clipper, 1 Nall
Scissor, 1 Tweezer, and 1 File. 21/6
HUUSEWJREIS SCISSORS OUIEIT
S-
ti
i
JUQ
004—FOUR-PAIR SCISSOR CASE.
Case made as No. (102. Size about
8,1 In. x Sin. when folded. Fitted with
4 best-quality Sheffield-made Scissors
—1 7in. Cutting-out. 1 51n. House-
hold, 1 Embroidery and I Nail.
37/6 Complete.
POST FREE FOR CASH
WITH ORDER.
0000—TURKE-BLADE STOCK, with
Castrating. Slieep and Lons, Skinning
Blade, 4ln. Smooth Horn Handle.
H/o each
VtJIIO
RubitKkife
HO— HABBIT KNlt'K, H} In., Smooth
Horn Haft, 5/- each.
dJ
Made in Sheffield, Kngland.
352C —Best Quality Nickel-plated Eas.v
Bow GUTTING-OUT KCIHSOBK. Length
overall, <iin.. fl/-; Tin. (as illustrated.
7/0; Sin., 0/0 each.
402—Light pattern, similar shape to
No. 332(1. Scissors. OJin. overall. For
Silks, Cottons, lta.vons, etc., 30/- each.
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
c A CLUSTER of BEES
by
TARLTON RAYMENT, F.E.S.
With Introduction by Professor E. F. Phillips, D.Ph.,
Cornell University, U.S.A.
A remarkable monograph of 750 pages in which
every genus of Australian Bee is delineated in a
manner never before attempted. The book contains
65 plates, which have necessitated hundreds of
microscopical dissections, and 150 text figures. Over
130 new species are described.
An authoritative work on the many hundreds of
bees indigenous to Australia which no library,
museum or nature-lover can afford to overlook.
Only a limited edition, beautifully bound.
PRICE, £l/1 /-; plus 6d. postage.
Post This Order Form To-day.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward to me cop of "A Cluster of
Bees,” by Tail ton Ray meat, for which l enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
well, and the veteran skipper Towers
played a great game. Barnes’s six points
raised the record for a season to 189 ;
it’s a wonder the selectors don’t pick him
in representative sides.
* * * *
Australia took the fourth Soccer Test
5.4. It was the same story as before: the
home men solid, the Indians sparkling.
Down 3-1 at one stage, the visitors came
again, and were unlucky not to make it a
draw.
* * % *
The Indian Soccer players added an-
other win to their credit at Woonona
(N.S.W.), where they beat Combined
lllawarra by 6 goals to 4, after being
down 4-2 at half time. But injuries are
worrying them ; the team is finding dif-
ficulty in mustering its best eleven.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: On the eve of the
fourth Soccer Test Granny “Herald” pro-
tested that previous games, in which the
Indians had displayed marked superiority,
had annoyed “the many Soccer followers
who wish Australian sides to give India
every chance of displaying the attractive
qualities of its own Soccer, but do not
want, in the process, to see Australia’s
play reduced to complete negation.” The
squeal is due to the insistence of the
Indians on playing under Olympic rules,
which ban the body-charging that gives
the heavyweight a big advantage ov6r the
lighter and more skilful man. This has
crept into the game of late years through
its adoption by English professional
League teams whose object is to win at
any cost.
Nineteenth Hole
“Oaklands”: Harry Williams was
struck out of the Victorian amateur
championship at Victoria club by Gard-
ner, a junior making his bow in big golf ;
the lad won 1 up. Williams seems
strangely lackadaisical about the game. He
is apt to turn out for championship events
—for example, the Australian title at
Adelaide —without bothering to practise.
It appears he has some foolish notion
of putting his future career as a money-
earner before proficiency in golf—a de-
cided heresy, as many will be ready to
tell him.
“Sandringham”: The Victorian ama-
teur championships kicked off with the
foursomes, won by Jackson, of Kingston
Heath, and Edgar, of Commonwealth.
The pair returned a card of 147 (Jackson
73, Edgar 74) to 151 by the runners-up,
Gillies and Higgins. The winners were
runners-up in 1936-37, while Jackson has
been in the winning Australian foursomes
pair no less than four times. Both
players also have held the Victorian
singles title.
Left-hander W. A. Edgar carried off his
second Victorian amateur golf title by
beating the youngster R. R. Buxton at
Victoria club by 12 and 10. Outdriven
consistently, Edgar’s short game took him
through easily enough. Buxton won £5O
which his dad had promised him if he
got to the final. Purists are sure to sniff
a professional taint in it.
* * * *
Jim Ferrier kept his N.S.W. amateur
championship by downing D. H. Davies,
8 and 6, on the N.S.W. club’s course.
The big fellow has had a great year.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: The U.S.A. amateur golf
championship has gone to one Turnesa,
a 23-year-old lad from Westchester.
Turnesa beat Pat Abbott, of California,
described as “an actor-golfer,” 8 and 7,
though bunkered 17 times. He got out
of these traps without trouble, using a
club known as a “sandwedge,” to which
strong objection was taken. It is de-
scribed as “new,” but St. Andrews
banned one of the breed a couple of
years ago. One or two specimens were
then on view in Sydney. Turnesa is the
youngest winner save Bobby Jones, and
is one of seven brothers, six of whom
are professionals. He will probably
make the seventh.
* * * *
Hoylake”: Alfred Perry, open cham-
pion of Britain a couple of years or so
ago, won the Dunlop Metropolitan com-
petition at Wentworth club, Surrey, with
a card of 273 for the four rounds—69,
68, 67, 69. Henry Cotton was runner-up
with 279, which included a 64, a course
record. Perry, curiously enough, shares
with Cotton (1934) and Sarazen (1932)
the record for the British open, 283, made
when he won in 1935. Sydney experts
are comparing the figures with some Aus-
tralian performances. This sort of thine
is a waste of time unless it were possible
to play all events on the same course at
the same season and in similar weather
conditions.
* * *
“Marino”: One result of the Aus-
tralian championships will certainly be
the institution of the automatic draw for
players. This amounts to a seeding of
the first 16 qualifiers for the amateur and
professional championships, which would
place the first and second qualifiers in
opposite halves and so on. At Adelaide
in amateur and professional events
champion players were drawn against
each other in the opening rounds, and
much interest vanished from the tourney.
The idea of the seeding is that the two
best players are almost bound to meet in
the final.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Harder to kill than nut-
grass or plantain weed is that old night-
mare of golfers the stymie. America has
abolished the obstructionist for 12
months, and if results are satisfactory
will wipe it out altogether. In Britain
St. Andrews has been considering doing
the same thing, and will no doubt reach
a decision in another 10 years or so.
The Australian championships at Adel-
aide were marked by several bad cases,
notably when Rymill, in a semi-final with
Terrier, tried to jump a stymie laid by
the N.S.W. player and knocked Ferrier’s
ball in. He thus lost the hole, instead
of winning it, as he would have done had
he holed his own ball.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australians played disappointingly
in the U.S. national singles at Forest
Hills. Quist disappeared at an early
stage ; footfaulted, he dropped his bundle
again. Bromwich got to the semi-finals,
and was then beaten by Mako in straight
sets. Mako was “pie” for Budge—now
champion of Australia, France, England
and the U.S.A. —in the final.
Miss Wynne did well to reach the
final of the ladies’ singles, but was then
overwhelmed by Miss Marble in 22
minutes: 6-3, 6-0.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The jingle of the guinea
can be relied on to heal the hurt that
honor feels, and the news that the Davis
Cup games in the States will show a
clear profit for Australia of £2500
should go a long way to bucking up
the Australian tennis heads. While on
the subject, it is most unlikely that Sabin
and Riggs can visit Australia, the U.S.A.
desiring them to refrain from too much
tennis in view of Budge’s almost certain
change-over to the professionals.
Miscellaneous.
“Hotham”: Henley-on-Yarra is trying
to get the G.P.S. crews to compete in a
Ladies’ Challenge Cup for fours. If
eights are preferred the committee is
willing. Henley-on-Thames has such an
event, open to public schools and the
colleges of Oxford and Cambridge. Few
schools compete, and Eton has had prac-
tically a monopoly in this class, save for
one year since the war, when Eton was
beaten' by Shrewsbury.
* * * #
“Blue Chalk”: When Marshall, the
Empire Billiards champion, won the right
to represent Australia in the 1936 Empire
tourney in South Africa, Victorian dele-
gates to the Amateur Billiards Council
raised the question of whether he was a
pro., and the British controlling body was
called on to decide. It found in Mar-
shall’s favor when the Westralian pointed
out that, though his dad—since dead—ran
a billiard saloon, he himself owned a
hairdressing business by which he sup-
ported himself. The objection has
cropped up again. It seems mean.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The speedsters are still at
it. Wisely leaving the breakneck land
business to Eyston and Cobb, Malcolm
Campbell now runs the risk of drown-
ing. On Lake Hallwill in Switzerland
he . broke his own speedboat record,
averaging 130.91 m.p.h. for a two-way
spin over the measured mile. This is
Close on a mile and a half better than his
previous figures.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: An American paper
says Olympic sprinter Jesse Owens, who
turned professional, is now broke and
earning a humble living in a garage
washing cars. It is the journal’s com-
ment that interests me particularly. “If
Owens had remained an amateur he
would probably have been quite well off.”
* * * *
“Spike”: The Finns have fixed the
official programme for the Olympic
Games which begin there in 1940. The
opening day is July 20, and the curtain
goes down on August 4. Athletics will
take from July 21-28 and swimming
events from July 26 to August 3. Re-
ported that some of the “contentious”
contests will be cut out, and milder ones
are mentioned, including basketball.
According to American sporting papers
this has become one of the dirtiest games
in the States, the Yanks seemingly hav-
ing a talent for developing a harmless
game on those lines—witness football and
ice hockey.


CrtLTV^
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily-230-Q
AT THE
TIVOLI
V
EMILE
BOREO
PEG LEG
BATES
ROY
RENE
And 10 Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
THURSDAY, 29th SEPTEMBER,
NEW OVERSEAS STARS.
WILL MAHONEY,
Plans Theatre. ’Phone:
Famous
Comedian
>1(5835.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Melbourne’s Annual.
The Bulletin man made his annual
pilgrimage to the Show and, being only
an ignorant, unskilled, incompetent lay-
man who doesn’t know a bee from a
bull’s foot, agriculturally speaking, he
failed to discern any improvement in the
condition of the pigs, the weight and dig-
nity of the Clydesdales, the succulence
of the saveloys from Sale or the vitamin
content of the wheat from Whittlesea (if
wheat grows at Whittlesea). That there
has been improvement in all such things
he is prepared to take for granted.
He was meditating departure when he
stumbled on something totally unex-
pected. This was a celebrated Australian
poet who was seated lonely in a stand
gazing into the arena in a state of com-
plete passivity and yogi-like detachment
from worldly cares, taxation increases,
European crises, Government crises,
domestic crises, economic crises and the
deplorable difficulties of publisltlng
books of poems in Australia. The Eng-
lish poet Wordsworth described this
condition very aptly in a poem about
daffodils, which was easy, daffodils being
universally accepted as respectable
objects for poetic contemplation. His
Australian brother was doing something
much more difficult, inasmuch as he was
endeavoring to remain on the level of
pure sensation while contemplating a
Carlton and United Breweries wagon
with four horses and a motor engine
inside it which had just been awarded first
prize in the decorated vehicle section
and was being driven round the ring by
its proud owners trailing an odor of
burning oil behind it.
Not being capable of the same degree
of abstraction, The Bulletin man im-
mediately thought of something. The
poet came out of his trancelike state with
surprising alacrity, succumbed to his
associations and helped The Bulletin
man to sink a couple. The poet then
suggested a visit to the sideshows.
Mr. Monod has improved this section
out of recognition. The decaying dugong
masquerading as a mermaid has gone and
in its place are such attractions as the
pinhead Chinaman; a very good and
amusing Chinese juggler; the Largest
Married Couple in the world, who weigh
54 stone between them, and are on their
honeymoon tour presumably with the
Largest Double Bed in existence; the
Tailed Boy from Borneo, who the poet
said shouldn’t have been allowed; no
less than two headless women ; Mexican
Rose, the fat girl; Übangi, the tree
woman; Jim Sharman’s boxing and
wrestling establishment; the Hindoo
Mystery, described as a “Most Mys-
terious Performance” ; and a woman who
is turning into a man and has gone so far
in' this direction that she can display a
right leg which would do credit to a Col-
lingwood follower, and so forth and
so on.
The Tattooed Lady was too much tor
the poet. According to her own story,
she had had herself tattooed all over as
a permanent means of livelihood.
Having spent a lifetime of effort in put-
ting his inspiration on paper and having
gained thereby a regard so inconspicuous
as to be almost invisible, and being
obliged to earn his living in the mundane
walks of commerce, he bitterly resented
a human being turning herself, so to
speak, into a living manuscript with a
large and continuous circulation.
“Hollywood Hotel.”
Best of this revue at Sydney Royal is
Willie Howard, comedian. Willie is one
right out of the bag. He is a comedy
man with brains ; a satirist, witty and
subtle. In that, it must be said, he
differs strikingly from the bulk of the
rest of the show’s offerings in jokes. The
show has a crude side to it.
Howard is at his top in an old-wood-
cutter item. By the polish of his act
the half-felled tree he attacks has prob-
ably been half-cut through for donkey s
years ; by his style as an axeman it 11 still
be half-cut through indefinitely. A more
sorry figure of a backwoodsman than it s
possible to imagine, he stands there hold-
ing his axe with all the grace of mount-
ing a horse on the offside and dissertates
on the attractions of his calling and the
manifold uses, proper and improper, to
which the wood from that tree is going
to be put —that is, if he ever gets it down.
Another rich bit of Howard is as a
Communist orator on a soapbox, with
an audience of one Comrade. In all his
appearances he lifts the quality of the
show out of reckoning.
Next to him on the individual merit
side is a duo of balancers. In one part
of this turn the corded muscles of one
of the pair’s legs are among the most ex-
traordinary sights present onlooker has
ever seen in any such item.
The show also carries a notable
collection of ladies in insufficient cloth-
ing, and effective use is made of them in
spectacle scenes, some of them very
pretty in a romantic style. There’s a
Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, with Edward Everett Horton
keeping a foster-fatherly eye on the doings, in "Holiday,” at Sydney
Century.
preponderance of lovelies to common or
garden males that would please the criti-
cal eye of Abdul a-Bul Bui Amir, even
though some of the fair one’s voices
would ruin his eardrums.
The production altogether is on the
noisy side, a performance of the Big
Apple slatheranwhack dance by eight
cullud pussons being one of the noisiest
ever heard. Against that it is, like the
show as a whole, as fast and lively as a
nest of infuriated snakes.
Priestley “Time” Play.
A refugee German professor of mathe-
matics and physics arrives at the Black
Bull Inn, Grindle Moor, North York-
shire, at Whitsuntide. He shows an un-
canny knowledge as to what is going to
happen. Certain expected guests don’t
turn Up, and in their places, as predicted
by the professor, come a wealthy manu-
facturer and his young wife, who has
ceased to love him. She falls in love in-
stantaneously with the master of the
grammar school which the manufacturer
has founded. They decide to elope, and
the manufacturer decides to blow his
brains out. They are prevented by the
professor, who analyses the situation.
He tells them that this has already hap-
pened in a previous cycle, and that the
last thing the lovers got was the happi-
ness they were after. The intervention
of the professor creates a new situation,
however, and the triangle is resolved by
the manufacturer voluntarily giving up
his wife and all of them starting a new
life.
This is more or less the theme of J
Have Been Here Before,” the second of
J. B. Priestley’s “time” plays, brilliantly
produced by Gregan McMahon at Mel-
bourne Comedy. A student of philosophy
might say that, if the manufac-
turer, the wife and the lover were
doomed to repeat their triangle an in-
finite number of times, so was the pro-
fessor his intervention; but a packed
house was less inclined to concern itself
with Priestley’s philosophic peg than
with the drama of love and hate which
the playwright hung on it. This was so
well conceived and acted as to provide an
absorbing evening, all the more so be-
cause reality constantly threatened to be
engulfed by unreality, escaping by the
skin of its teeth on one or two occasions.
McMahon used all his polished art
to fuse the psychoanalyst and the
philosopher into a human figure,
Frank Tarrant looked and acted the
part of the manufacturer to perfec-
tion, Gilbert Price was hopelessness
incarnate as the neurotic schoolmaster,
Lynette Dickenson made the emotions
of the wife convincing, John O’Con-
nell was the keeper of the inn who
was satisfied with the idea of Eternal
Recurrence so long as he could eternally
repeat his attendance at county cricket,
and Patricia Isles was admirable as a.
daughter who regarded the professor as
a meddling magician.
The Dangerous Age.
Adelaide Repertory took a gamble in
staging the Stuart play “Sixteen” the
near-tragedy of a girl still a child on
her 16th birthday, but becoming a
jealous woman when her mother pro-
poses to marry again!
The gamble was getting two youngsters
to play the chief parts ; but the Rep. had
discovered in Jean Marshall and Joan
Wallace two great “finds,” who, under
the coaching of Mimi Mattin, not only
looked but lived the parts. The elders,
few, but all-important to the story, were
in the safe hands of Beryl Kook, Flor-
ence Brown and Phyllis Simpson, with
Fay and Foster.
Sargent Orchestral Concert.
Malcolm Sargent charmed a packed
house at Melbourne Town Hall with the
first of his series of farewells.
The rendering of the Cesar Franck
symphony which he drew out of the
orchestra enchanted his audience. Much
depended on the skill of the flute, clarinet
and horn, and they were in the best
form heard for a long time. The
Clementi symphony was equally accept-
able, as was also the “Figaro” overture
of Mozart.
Australian composer Miriam Hyde
made a sufficient figure of her concerto
for piano and orchestra, No. 2, to be
favorably noticed even in the company
of giants. She had given herself a sub-
stantial role in her opus as soloist; clear,
bright, acidulated passages for the brass
are replied to by the violins, with the
piano conducting vigorous explorations
on its own account.
A Magic Show.
Chang, the illusionist, “half devil and
half man,” having arrived at Melbourne
King’s, the front of that sedate play-
house looks like a josshouse in Canton.
Chang is an ingratiating showman with
a pleasant face who talks in pidgin
English that wasn’t learnt in Canton.
He has a trick of getting the sympathy
and disarming the suspicions of the
public while he takes ducks out of
boxes, extracts rabbits from paper squills,
shoots birds into electric light bulbs,
makes omelets in the hats of members
of the audience and causes young ladies
to disappear. He destroyed the cor-
poreal essence of so many personable
young females on his opening night that
the country will be threatened with
depopulation if his season lasts long
enough.
He also has an extensive ward-
robe of dazzling Chinese gowns which
he peels off one by one. He turns water
into beer, beer into wine and wine back
into water again, and altogether he has
a startling sleight-of-hand which leaves
conjecture as to how he does it panting
in the rear of his bewildering succession
of turns. Waving a dab net round his
head he snaps live, pigeons out of the
air. These feats have been seen before
but seldom performed so well.
A bevy of girls whose bodies came
out of niches in the Parthenon and whose
dancing came straight from a theatrical
academy save Chang from becoming
monotonously magical by rushing on at
frequent intervals in costumes which are
scant but original. In the final scene the
theatre is blacked out and ghosts, spooks,
phantoms, skeletons and apparitions rush
gibbering about the auditorium. This
spectacle would be liable to give the
kids fits if they hadn’t been long since
immunised by horror films.
Beatrice Tange.
Among A.B.C.’s studio orchestral
broadcasts in Sydney last week was an
outstanding short programme conducted
by Percy Code.
Principal item was a very spirited per-
formance of Ireland’s Piano Concerto.
Beatrice Tange, the pianist, entered well
into the spirit of the work, negotiating
the bravura passages with clarity and
vigor, and giving a very impressive read-
ing of the mostly unaccompanied slow
movement. Orchestral playing was well
judged.
The band also gave a fine performance
of Elgar’s “Cockaigne” overture and of
a dance suite on archaic themes,
“Capriol,” by Peter Warlick.
“Holiday."
Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn.
It must have been Columbia’s title-
smith who was having the holiday when
this interesting comedy was being bap-
tised. The title’s a poor signpost to a
thoughtful film.
Seen at Sydney Century, it is worked
out amidst U.S.A.’s snobocracy, rep-
resented to be as futile as the Eng-
lish prototype, as projected in scores of
both satirical and slavey novels. But
this is not fierce satire. The American
uppah-crustahs are shown as good
American democrats, as far as wealth
which enables them to live in an enor-
mous mansion will permit.
Despite pillared halls, marble stairways,
lifts to the four or five floors of their
palace, butlers and what else, there’s no
strong objection when the elder daughter
brings in a young fellow she had met at
a pleasure resort, and proposes to marry
him. Stern father doesn’t boot the young
chap, who appears in the personable
presence of Grant. Son of the house,
who’s industriously drinking himself to
the cemetery, accepts him as a matter
of course. Younger daughter (Hepburn!
sees him as something real come into her
artificial and repressed life.
There’d be no trouble at all if the
young fellow hadn’t ideas of his own.
He could marry the girl, be given a
house on Umpteenth-avenue as a
wedding present, be taken into the bank
where the family’s millions have been
amassed, and eventually have control of
those millions. Though he’s hitherto
earned a crust with his hands, he shows


Limericß
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prizemoney
Fourth Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize
Ten Other Prizes
£4O
£1
Closing Date October 14.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 4”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than October 14.
Results of this Fourth Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin” of
October 1 9.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin” of October 5, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
FOURTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A rebellious young person of Bright
Flung his ledger and pen out of sight,
Saying “Ah! it's the spring!
I could dance, I could sing —
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Third Limerick Competition,
which closes on September 30, will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin’’
(October 3).
Also in the October 5 issue, to give
readers in distant parts a fair chance to com-
pete, the Fifth of this series of Limerick
Competitions will be announced. It will close
on October 28, and the same prize-money will
be offered.
he has the proper American aptitude for
making money into more money.
But he’s represented as having an ideal.
As a toiler he had intended working
for a certain time, then knocking off to
see what it was all about —see why he
worked and what was the purpose of it,
anyway. He clings to this idea. - He
doesn’t mind going into the bank, but
after a year or so he will knock off to
figure it all out.
On this curious point the proposed
marriage eventually breaks down, leav-
ing the way clear for what the audience’s
mind has been conditioned to prefer all
along—a match without conditions be-
tween the decent young fellow and the
much nicer other daughter.
Grant gives a pretty good perform-
ance. The Hepburn, as a sort of human-
ised Ophelia, gives a much better one,
save only for the discords she frequently
strikes with her unusual voice. Produc-
tion is excellent, and the film in all a
genuinely engaging entertainer.
“White Banners.”
Claude Rains, Fay Bainter.
From a story by Lloyd C. Douglas,
author of the story on which “Magni-
ficient Obsession” was based, this Sydney
Embassy offering is miles above that
earlier film.
Most of the action takes place in one
house, there is scarcely any resort to
photographic effect, and the whole film
is conceived, acted and directed about
as unpretentiously as possible. That,
together with the nature of the story,
calls for a pretty fair degree of histrionic
skill, and allows plenty of scope for a
good cast.
Rains is an ordinary everyday school-
teacher ; he leads a humdrum existence,
lectures in chemistry, potters about with
experiments in the kitchen at home, and
is impractical about everything else.
Some day he hopes to invent something
that will make his fortune.
His wife (Kay Johnson) is nervy with
trying to balance the domestic budget,
she haggled with tradespeople for credit,
and wonders where it will all end.
They have two children, a baby and
a daughter (Bonita Granville) who is ex-
periencing a stretch of calf-love for
Jackie Cooper. The calf-love business
is pleasantly handled and nothing like the
sticky business it usually is. Cooper is
a pupil and a thorn in the side of Rains ;
he is an irresponsible young devil with
too much money to spend and an over-
lenient parent. Without knowing it, he
is illegitimate, belonging to his present
parent only by adoption.
Enter Fay Bainter ; she arrives hawk-
ing apple-peelers or something, and stays
as a servant in the Rains household. Her
advent marks the balancing of the budget
and a better state of domestic affairs in
general. Rains brings Cooper home to
work with him on a refrigeration pro-
ject, and together they perfect the idea
(the period is 1920). Miss Bainter is
Cooper’s mother, but the film makes no
secret of the fact nor uses it to create
any suspense until all characters, includ-
ing the boy’s father and foster-father,
are brought together to provide a climax
touching on whether Cooper shall know
his real identity or not.
Miss Bainter is the central figure and
a tragic one, and the part is well sus-
tained by the story and by herself. Rains
vies with her for acting honors; given
the opportunity he can, like Spencer
Tracy, make an acted part seem very
human. Miss Johnson as his wife is
just about perfect; and the two young-
sters, Cooper and Bonita Granville, know
a deal more about acting than a good
many of their elders.
Film is a Warner Bros, production
and one to see.
“Prison Break.”
Barton Mac Lane, Glenda Farrell.
Despite the familiarity of its set-up,
scenery and situations, this offering at
Sydney Capitol rates as f.a,.q. beller-
drammer. Plot deals with a rugged tuna-
fisherman who goes up on a man-
slaughter count to shield his prospective
brother-in-law. After serving a few years
he is released on parole, and there fol-
lows the usual business of trying to shake
off a prison reputation and land a re-
spectable job. He slides into crookdom,
but makes a timely recovery to take the
primrose path with the Farrell lass.
Mac Lane is well suited to the main
part, and makes a virile and convincing
job of it; Miss Farrell is easy on the
eye as the long-waiting but patient bride.
There is a spot of tuna-fishing, an at-
tempted gaolbreak, a stoush or two and
a couple of moiders for good measure.
Twenty Melbourne Painters.
Exactly what the Twenty Melbourne
Painters, who are holding their 20th
exhibition at the Athenaeum, now stand
for it is difficult to discover. Nobody
who does not know their history would
imagine from their current performance
that they once regarded themselves as
the vanguard of realism.
John Hennessy, with his admirable
portrait of his father, P. Hurry, with her
still-life, and Alma Figuerola, with a
couple of portraits, are fighting a des-
perate rearguard action with the bombs
of the modernists exploding all around
them, while H. B. Harrison, E. Kimp-
ton, Edgar Finlay, George Colville and
Carl Hampel continue to man their
private trenches. In “Silenus, with Some
Perfect Ladies of Phrygia, Gave a Cock-
tail Party,” Rupert Bunny tosses into
the conflict a bit of obsolete ammuni-
tion.
Buckmaster has a portrait of Bunny.
A. E. Newbury continues to look at the
Australian landscape more or less through
the eyes of Corot, and the Rowells, John
and William, concoct slick dishes of
scenery according to much the same
recipe.
Signs of Spring in Melbourne.
Vic. Artists’ Society’s spring poems in
paint are, as usual, a mixed collection,
modernist vers libre being more in the
ascendant than last year.
“Evening,” by Aileen Dent, and the
“Farm House” of W. Hayward Veal,
while not in the first flight of impression-
istic painting, have the merit of not trying
to be more unusual than their next-door
neighbor. James Quinn, the society’s
Old Master, has painted a pleasing girl
in “The Chinese Coat,” but forgotten to
give her air to breathe in ; his portrait of
Wilkins is as bleak as the icefloes the
Australian explorer visits.
Rollo Thomson’s “Jeanne d’Arc” is
too highly finished, but striking; E. R.
Jones’s “Crucifixion” and “Interval” are
curious pieces, though in a good tradi-
tion. George Bell, high priest of
the local modernists, has a painting like
an Italian primitive ; another suggests the
latest National Gallery graduate. Nancy
Moffatt shows technical proficiency in her
portrait of Jean Mclnnes.
The largest and least pretentious
canvas and the one which gives the most
immediate impression of light and shade
is the portrait of a girl by Gwendolyn
Grant, which the selectors have relegated
to the staircase balcony, where it is almost
impossible to see it.
Some clever zoological drawings by
Dorothea Keeling are worth honorable
mention in the black-and-white depart-
ment. Sculpture is insignificant.
Goodchild Water-colors.
Good drawing, understanding of the
strengths and weaknesses of the medium,
and a nice pictorial sense belong to the
water-colors by John C. Goodchild at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney.
For the most part this artist eschews
familiar subjects, but the excellence of
his work is most apparent when he
tackles one. His version of the old
church at Cobbitty (N.S.W.) very grace-
fully conveys the spirit of a peaceful
scene, and at the same time pays respect
to the sturdy architecture of the building.
A glimpse of Mosman Bay says some-
thing new about that well-known part of
the Sydney waterside.
Goodchild has a clever knack with ex-
panses of sea or river, and his coastal
scenes, such as “Moreton Bay,” “Petrel
Cove” and “Nambucca Coastline,” are
delightful.
Art in Adelaide.
The spring show of S.A. Society of
Arts is unusually good, though without
any dominating feature.
Goodchild, Ragless, Trenerry, Webber
and Whinnen challenge comparison with
the younger landscapists anywhere in
Australia ; “with them,” as lawyers say,
Gwen Barringer and Leila McNamara.
Figure-painting is, as usual, less good.
The Melrose Prize, given expressly to
encourage figure work, goes to a sculp-
tured bust by Orlando Dutton. Max
Ragless wins the landscape award with
a bold study of far-northern ranges, now
(since Hans Heysen set the example) a
favorite resort of both painters and
tourists. In seascape, the judges, Heysen
and McCubbin, make no award.
Inter-State work brightens the show.
Jerrold Nathan has a charming double
portrait of girl-with-mirror, and Fred
Leist and Hofferman score in figure
work.
Travis Webber has a one-man show
at Bayly’s gallery, good clean color,
largely the result of his far-northern
tour, with some gentler scenes from
the Eastern States.


FLUSH ACID
POISON OUT
OF KIDNEYS
Flush Out Your 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter,
the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters be-
come clogged with poisonous waste and the
danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition, brought about by poor
kidney function, is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg
pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
pufflness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
people watch their bowels, which con-
tain only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect
the kidneys, which contain 15 miles of tiny
tubes and filters. If these tubes or filters be-
come clogged with poisons, it may lay you up
for many months. Don't run any risk. Make
sure your kidneys empty 3 pints a day.
Ask your chemist for DOAN'S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They Sire
quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
Missing Beneficiaries.
IF GEORGE WILLIAM POULTER and JOHN
CHARLES POULTER or the latter’s next-of-
kin communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Greymounth, New Zealand, they
will learn information to their advantage.
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Following the death of Lieutenant-
Governor Philip Street, present Chief
Justice Frederick Jordan has been
appointed Lieutenant-Governor of N. S.
Wales. The new L.-G. is interested in
languages and is fluent in both Italian and
French. His wife is a garden lover and
a persistent conccrt-gocr. The new
Jordan home is in Gilliver-avcnue,
Vaucluse.
Delegates to the British Common-
wealth Relations Conference were
lunched last week by the Royal Empire
.Society. And late the same afternoon
in their honor the International Society
got busy with cocktails and savories at
the Pickwick Club. All the guests were
embellished with name tags. Mrs. Donal
O’Sullivan Wore her rcd-and-black pat-
terned crepe suit with the right air of
smartness. Her straw hat was black and
worn back off the forehead. Her black
hair was becurled. Grace Adams East
added the fashionable touch of glitter to
the sleeves of her black coat. These were
thickly sown in varicolored sequins.
Lesley Corbett was another attractive
visitor. Dr. Auslander, Mrs. Auslander
and the Snowden lady did the honors.
The conference of the Federated and
State Council of Catholic Women is now
under full sail in the association’s rooms,
King-street. On Monday there was an
evening reception to the visiting delegates,
when the Federal president, Miss Kate
Egan, acted as hostess. Music and talk
kept the company gay. To-day papers
from Queensland, M.L. and S.A. are
being read and discussed. Sandwiched
in between the serious layers of the con-
ference will be motor and harbor outings,
a garden party at Mrs. Greg McGirr’s
and evening entertainments.
A group of musical Sydney, headed by
Dr. Bainton, of the Conservatorium, met
at the Carlton last week to clasp a plati-
num-and-diamond watch about the wrist
of Mrs. Ferrari Passmore. This was a
tangible but quite inadequate (as the
speakers pointed out) “thank you” for
all the work this energetic music-lover
has put into Music Week since its incep-
tion. Ethelwyn Kirk, Roland Foster,
Charles Philip and other keen workers
for the week were there to clap hands.
Margaret Chalmers not only applauded,
but played with dash the national Halle-
lujah : “For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
A.B.C.’s general manager Moses and his
wife arrived in time to join in the chorus.
Mrs. Passmore’s frock of black sheer
glittered with a light-gold pattern ; her
furs were silver fox.
Sister Kenny, on her way back to Aus-
tralia, would have been pleased to see
the dancers in Hordern Brothers’ ball-
room one night last week. They were
dancing to the furtherance of her scheme
of helping child victims of infantile
paralysis. Their direct concern is the
Kenny Clinic Hostel Fund, and this is
the third yearly dance for the cause.
President Mrs. E. T. Ball’s rich black
laces threw into relief her presentation
posy of jonquil and violet and other
spring blooms. At her table sat the
guests of the evening, each woman among
them pleased to find a special flower
offering waiting for her. < The E. N.
Barracloughs and Dr. and Mrs. Fletcher
were in this party. Also among the
officials were the Frank Grose couple
(he is “Uncle Frank,” of 2GB, the sta-
tion which is giving the Kenny method
much publicity). Her frock was of
amethyst crepes.
Mrs. Geoffrey Slade’s white satins wore
a blithe black-and-red design. Her
ermine cape wore a knot of field flowers.
Leonie Bond, secretary, for love, of the
dance committee, was cigarette-slim in
satins, gold-threaded and flower-pat-
terned. Mrs. R. H. Bond’s black satins
declared it was tulip time, and blossomed
in blue and gold. In the Bonds' party
were Colonel and Mrs. Meredith —her
moires were of hyacinth-blue. Mrs.
E. M. Terry was the treasurer, helped to
correct additions by sea-green laces. The
junior committee, formed about a month
ago, surrounded a long table. Here
were lots of fun. President Hazel Sweeney
looked neat and sweet in black velvet fin-
ished with a white Peter Pan collar. Sec-
retary Joyce Archer wore black taffetas
to the merry-making. Mrs. G. Tosi, Mr.
and Mrs. D. K. Otton, the A. Winns and
Jeanette Lang, fluttering rainbow tulles,
were others.
The Pink and Black Ball is headed
straight for success. Somebody on the
committee picked up a horseshoe on
the day of the first meeting. Horseshoes,
plus hard work, are great luck-bringers.
The subject of this picture is one of the
luck-bringers to the cause. She is Mrs.
W. S. Bennett, whose husband is one of
Dalgety’s very special keymen. Mrs.
Bennett, who is working very hard for
the Pink and Black Ball, was also presi-
dent of Dalgety’s staff dance at the Went-
worth last week ; and through her the
proceeds from this will swell the profit
side of the appeal for Sydney’s Indus-
trial Blind Institute.
The dresses at the P. and B. Ball will
feature net —this does lend itself to the
pictorial. Mrs. Roy Buckland is splashing
sequin dazzle on shoulder strap and
spreading skirt of her black nets. Black
organza with a deep hemline bright with
flowers will be worn by Mrs. Bennett.
Falk photo.
Lewisham Hospital is celebrating its
fiftieth birthday. To-morrow night the
yearly ball will celebrate this jubilee in
David Jones’s. When the little company
of nuns first arrived in Sydney it num-
bered six. Their first home was in Wil-
liam-street, their first hospital held four
beds. With greater demand on their
labors they moved to Lewisham. Here,
too, their beginnings were modest. Now
the hospital occupies five buildings, in-
cluding the general and private hospitals,
an out-patients’ department and a hand-
some chapel. In the 50 years from this
mother-house branches have extended to
Christchurch (M.L.), Wagga, Brisbane
and Melbourne. The work at Lewisham
now keeps almost 200 nuns busy; and
in the recent outbreak 40 of them were
at one time down with the ’flu.
Early last week there were 500 book-
ings for to-morrow night, and there were
numbers of entries for the table decora-
tions —the most artistic and the most
original. The ball president is Miss Kate
Egan, the secretaries Mrs. Guiney, Mrs.
Herlihy and Mrs. O’Neill.
Brisk figures carying mysterious
parcels arrived at the Hockey Associa-
tion’s last monthly meeting. For instance,
president Dr. Marie Hamilton came in
clutching flowers and eggs, some of the
council members brought home-made
jams and preserves, and those who fan-
cied themselves as cooks brought in
cakes, small and large. The idea was
not a midnight gormandising, but a ten-
minute market, when the commodities
brought by each were bought by some
of the others. The money helps the fund
for the 1942 conference of the Inter-
national Federation of Women’s Hockey
Associations. Delegates will come from
all countries, and it is expected that small
beginnings such as the foregoing will tot
up in the four years to a handsome sum.
If any hockey enthusiast wants to drop a
cheque for a thousand or so in the hat,
a spring model will be provided to
catch it.
Last week, just when spring has
touched her garden at Glen Roona in
Penkivil-street, Bondi, to richer fragrance,
Mrs. Alfred Lee died. For a great num-
ber of years she had been one of Syd-
ney’s personalities, and she was a foun-
dation member of many of the city’s
movements. The Red Cross Society was
one of these, Mrs. Lee being a member
as far back as 1913. Except, for an in-
terval of two years, she was a member
of its executive till 1929. She was for
many years an untiring worker for the
Lady Mayoress’s Clothing Fund, was on
the executive of the Victoria League and
was one of the earliest members of
the Queen’s Club. Daughter Mrs. W.
Butter, who had gone to England as a
delegate to the International Red Cross
conference in London, came home within
the last two or three weeks to find her
mother stricken with her final illness.
Donal O’Sullivan, of the British Com-
monwealth Relations Conference, and
James Meagher probably remembered
meetings in Sackville-street when they for-
gathered at the Royal Empire Society’s
lunch. James used to be a solicitor in
Dublin, and he and Mrs. Meagher, who
was present, had known the O’Sullivans
there.
Mrs. O’Sullivan, who might be one
of the girls mentioned in the old song
that tells of Dublin’s fair city where the
girls are so pretty, was at a lunch given
by Mrs. Charles Regan at the Macquarie
Club. Mrs. Charles Duval was another
at the party. The O’Sullivans, who have
made countless friends and admirers
here, sail away in the Comorin.
Women Pioneers were amused and
delighted with the puppet show that was
the star event at the society’s evening re-
ception. The newly-decorated rooms in
Shirley House were bright with flowers,
and the miniature actors and actresses
seemed happy in their surroundings.
They were directed by Mr. and Mrs.
Treuthardt de Sevres. Mrs. de Sevres
has painted the scenery of the tiny theatre
and moulds and dresses the puppets. New
president Mrs. Wentworth Grayson was
hostess for the first time since taking
office, and former president Mrs. W. A.
Lingham, in black lace frocking, sat back
and enjoyed the party. The Kelso King
lady and Olive King were in the audi-
ence, and Hazel King was one of the
singers. Other singers were Dick
McLaughlin and Geoffrey Collins. Lute
Drummond was at the piano.
Loane Lindeman has left country joys
behind her in the cause of art. Loane
is a daughter of the R. S. Lindemans, of
Farley, Merriwa, and she is now living at
Vaucluse with aunt Mrs. Salwey in order
to study art at the Technical College.
Photograph from Falk.
The P.E.N. Club doesn’t often burst
into late-afternoon parties, dinner among
its fellows being its usual sedate gambol-
lings. But spring being in the air and
the races around the corner a sherry party
in honor of Commonwealth Conference
delegates is set down for Friday. The
Forum Club is the chosen spot. On
Saturday, after the races, the Australian
Club will welcome women within its
portals, and on the following Wednesday
the Union Club will go all gala for the
ladies. This spring meeting, if Europe
doesn’t interfere, promises to be beaded
with gaieties. Shops, too, say they have
had record sales of hats and summer
finery, so Race Week should hatch out
a fine display.
In spite of the Equinox, or whatever
brought the gale, Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst went to St. Joseph’s College at
Hunter’s Hill last Friday. The Gov-
ernor unveiled a tablet to old boys of
“Joey’s” who had served in the Great
War. Later he handed out sports caps
and trophies, and he probably has not
heard a more thrilling God Save than
that given by the choir of 1000 boy voices
—the singers all picked from the Marist
Brothers’ schools. Lady Wakehurst's
quick smile won schoolboy hearts as she
accepted, at intervals, her presentation
bouquet in the school’s cerise and blue,
a programme and a silver powder bowl
from Kevin Murphy, James Mulcahy and
Noel Fitz Gerald. The college fete, which
started in the grounds, ended up indoors.
The society splash of the week will be
the wedding of Pamela Laidley Dowling
to Blake Pelly, A.D.C. to Lord Wake-
hurst. The wedding itself is going to be
quiet, rather than splurgy, but all the
arrangements will be rather plus —just an
aura of unpretentious wealth. St.
Michael’s Church, Vaucluse, will give
its blessing on Thursday. On Tuesday
of this week, as this Letter put on
its rouge, teacups for 300 were being
clicked into place at Government House.
This was for Lord and Lady Wakehurst’s
afternoon party in honor of bright-faced
Pam Dowling and her young man.
How musical, meaningful or decisive
words can be is recognised by those who
hear Reginald Besant. Reginald is a
nephew of the late Sir Walter Besant,
novelist and London historian, and he
comes to Australia as examiner in elocu-
tion for Trinity College, London. He
began his stage career with Beerbohm
Tree, then he played in the provinces
for two years with the Edward Compton
company. He has appeared in the Lon-
don productions of George Alexander,
Charles Wyndham, Hawtrey, Granville
Barker, Barry Jackson and Marie Tem-
pest. He has played Bernard Shaw in
New York. The Teachers of Speech
Association, of which Marie Boyers is
secretary, is giving the visiting examiner
a welcome at the Carlton to-night, when
Mr. Besant (he’s an 0.8. E.) will speak
on the drama.
The most touching incident at last
week's Val Sullivan scholarship-fund
meeting was the reading of a letter from
an invalid at Wentworth Falls. He had
heard Val playing over 2SM, and had
listened to the publicity about her testi-
monial concert in the Town Hall. His
letter wished her success in her studies,
and enclosed in the letter was a postal
note for three shillings, the price of a seat
at the concert. He will not be able to
be present himself, so he has given his
ticket back to the radio station. There
was applause like a hailstorm when Mrs.
Bates modestly mentioned the result of
her choir’s concert for the fund —£90.
The death of Mrs. Cyril Shepherd,
widow of Dr. Cyril Shepherd, of Sydney,
recalls the days when the old Sydney
Hunt Club was at the top of its form.
Then such districts as modern Belmore,
now all bricks and stucco, supplied a run
across open fields and country fences.
Mrs. Shepherd, then Angel Merivale,
was one of the best riders, following the
hounds with her father, George Meri-
vale. Pretty as a magazine-cover girl on
horseback, her trim figure and beautiful
complexion made her a notable addition
to every hunt meet. Lord Dick Neville
and the then juvenile Tennyson boys were
among the “regulars” of the S.H.C.
Though there was a slice of cold wind
to every layer of sunshine, the Girl
Guides’ Flag Festival was crowded and
cordial. This filled the gardens of Elaine,
the Hubert Fairfax home at Double Bay,
with beginning Guides who are Brownies,
and every degree of Guide. Then there
were the grown-ups, and Dame Enid
Lyons, who made the opening speech.
As usual she spoke well. She was grave
and gay—grave when she referred to the
overseas situation, but ending with a
dimple and a cheery story. Mr. Lyons
would have been with her, but had to
stay away, presumably for fear the Euro-
pean boil would burst. The Guides, hold-
ing high the flags of all the nations where
Guides have their being, made a fine
display as they formed a guard of honor
for Dame Enid. A tall cane, the head
of which was a globe of the world, was
presented to the visitor. On it the centres
of the movement were marked by small
figures and bright ribbons. It was topped
by a small Guide pennant.


a
B
%
ij
/>
-
7
•fe
Ji
■if
< vv ■•:
Is “Good Health” carrying
your Good Money ?
See them thunder into the straight—a score of magnificent
animals each striving for the advantage that spells victory.
The race is on, and the judge’s verdict will go to the soundest
in wind and limb.
So in Life’s Race. Success to him who stakes his all on
"Good Health”; nothing but rigid adherence to sane habits
of living will serve to win the day for. you. Placed high up
amongst the essential rules conducing to mental and
physical fitness is this, "Drink Wolfe’s
Schnapps for your health’s sake.” Wolfe’s
Schnapps stimulates and invigorates, and
it aids the entire system to function as
nature intended.
WOLFE'S
c z^omatxSxJlimlam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
OLFE
ESBRODUCT OF HOLLAND.
Ea
-II
■T-T- THIS \
»g«AT»C ALCOHOLIC * j
«xdu»lvetf in k XSS .
E s a@o*«l not only pure frotP i
ni*-4uupfrty end Wuk 7
pwibie . |
attention «f AwelwiH Au * 5
LunliaL /V ;
ftOtVER
_xn and —«*■? «ttrw»r>
g.VS'T^brnUniWand U*j in/rregw
1 WlTl FI. OZ!
Wolfe’s Schnapps is
obtainable at all race -
course booths, or in large,
half and quarter size
bottles at all hotels.


/., \
/ '\
You’ll be full of life and energy
. . . bubbling over with fresh ac-
tivity ... if you get the daily
Golcryst habit! Golcryst keeps
you “in the pink.” At all
Chemists. 4d. . . . Bd. . . . 1/3.
QQCDtN CXYST/}ls VF HEALTH
g
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street)
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
VITA-VIGOROSO lOR MEN AND WOMEN
“VIGOKOSO” (tablet form) definitely
“STANDS ALONE” as a German Scientific
Hormone or Gland Preparation. Its use will
RECHARGE THE BODY with Physical
Strength and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity, Strength and Vitality, even in
advanced years. “VIGOROSO” tablets are well
recommended and prescribed by Dr. E.
Schubert, M.D., of Munich. Dr. Ludwig Kris,
M.D., and Dr. S. M D of Vienna,
who attest the efficacy of VIG KOiO w
used and prescribed by them. EULL PAR-
TTrULARS OF INGREDIENTS of
OSO” Will be supplied to any Bona-fide Medical
Practitioner. Price of “VIGOKOSO J-aoiets.
50 Tablets 12/6, D°uble Quantity 21/-. JOHN
t Dent. V .V., P.O. Bos. 18oo», 0.r.u.,
Sydney', N.S.W, Distributing Agent for Aus-
=. \
'
'V
h
\
N:
<:
i
When
a MAN
tells you:
that he has used
Calvert’s nearly all
his life,
that Calvert’s has
kept his teeth per-
fect when most
men of his age
have parted with
theirs—
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth 1
t yitAßfr
Co^ 1
J c
SS*SSF
Melbourne
Chatter
Last week the Show opened, and not
even special editions of the newspapeis,
Hitler and all the to-do over Czecho-
slovakia could shoulder blue-ribboned
grand champions out of the public in-
terest. Superior bulls, smug sheep, yap-
ping dogs, snorting, snuffling pigs, even
roosters that got mixed up in the
timetable and crowed all day long, the
birds that twitter, the cats that just cat
and sleep, and of course the horses, proud
and in the pink of condition, demanded
ten days of attention and admiration, and
they started off well with good weathci
and record attendances.
Artists, designers and others who study
or experiment with color would have
been interested in visiting the Australian
bird section at the Show, where a
Gouldian finch occupied the cham-
pion’s cage in his section. He’s a small
bird but a masterpiece of magnificent
coloring. A narrow fringe of pale
blue separates his red head and
green back. Underneath he is orange,
and the top of his wing is a splash of
purple-grape. As a contrast, % the cham-
pion budgerigar is an all-white albino.
This year the talking birds, who had been
swearing and chattering all day, wouldn t
play up to the judges. For some reason
at the critical moment they were struck
dumb, and the prize went after a long
patience-provoking silence to the first
bird who opened his bill with a feeble
“pretty cocky.” Among the delinquents
was last year’s winning conversationalist,
part of whose repertoire is “Come along,
judge, give this cocky a chance ; first
prize for this boy,” etc.
The Show produces a mixed assort-
ment of modes of making a livelihood.
There are the usual fat girls, tattooed
“beauties,” jungle women, tumblers and
wrestlers, and a boy from Borneo who
apparently has a real tail. There are also
dwarfs, jugglers, a “mind-reading lady”
and a buxom lass w'ho knows a spot of
jiu-jitsu and won’t be kissed by any ven-
turesome lad in the audience. The head-
less woman is a disappointment, for she
refuses to walk about without her head,
but lies on the ground with her head in
a box. She shares a tent with a St. Ber-
nard dog whose owner says he is the
largest dog in the world, that he’s won
hundreds of prizes and made £lOOO at
the Sydney Show.
That variable factor fashion is noticed
from year to year among the women's
industries at the Show. In the nineteen-
twenties the eyes were dazzled with
dozens of silk lampshades with dangling
fringes and silken tassels. The present
Show produces only one entry in the
lampshade class. Another small piece of
space goes to four shopping bags. Quilt-
ing is gradually becoming more popular ;
so are weaving and tapestry, and hand-
made flowers are' creating a lot of in-
terest. Articles made from sugarbags
always have a large appeal. There were
only 28 entries for a frock costing not
more than 10s., which was somewhat sur-
prising considering the number of clever
amateur dressmakers. Mrs. Louis Monod
was pleased with the interest taken in
the doll section. She never ceases to be
amazed at the calico aprons upon which
such beautiful embroidery appears.
Among the cooks marmalade seems to
be marking time; there were only 13
entries for this standard item of the
British breakfast table. Twenty-seven
rich fruit cakes were narrowly defeated
in numbers by 30 Victoria sandwiches,
each one ready to prove by touch and
weight that it had been confected by light
hands. Knitters seemed to have had
their thought running towards breakfast
in bed, for 37 boudoir jackets were sub-
mitted. All women’s exhibits at the Mel-
bourne Show are the work of amateurs.
The committee which works for the
Toorak, Prahran and South Yarra Creche
and for the D.N.A. has given itself a
man-sized job in selling some 1900 tickets
for a matinee at the Regent, South Yarra,
on October 13 —but the charities are de-
serving and the programme is a talkie
preview which will not be available to
the general public for some time to come.
Seats for the matinee are priced at Is.,
25., 3s. and 55., and tickets are already
selling satisfactorily.
A meeting to discuss the plan of cam-
paign took place last week at Mrs. E. F.
Harrison’s house in Lansell-road, where
propaganda was agreed upon embracing
everybody’s friends, acquaintances, hair-
dressers," etc. Among those taking part
were Mrs. Harrison (who played upon a
cheerful note with her daffodil jumper
and cardigan), Mrs. Maurice Sloman
(who had the same thought in yellow for
her gloves, scarf and posy of primroses),
Mrs. W. Flintoft (who with Mrs. V.
Dimelow is ticket secretary), Mrs. Harold
Shackell, and Iris Connolly and Betty
Fogarty, a couple who may be seen in
the near future doing some door-to-door
canvassing of tickets. Bowls of peony-
roses and flowering branches plucked
from the pink-and-white clouds that are
blossom-trees in the garden gave Mrs.
Harrison’s lounge an air of joyful spring-
time. In the hall long branches of deep-
pink plum-blossom were arranged in
what must be the tallest glass vase in
Melbourne —it’s even taller by a foot or
so than Colonel Harrison.
In the future South Africa will be the
home of the R. W. Fincham couple’s
daughter Sue, whose photograph is by
Broothorn. She and her mother have
recently returned from a holiday SDent
in Africa, where she became engaged to
Ward Gant, of Paarl. Sue and her
fiance met in Melbourne when Mr. Gant
was last visiting this country.
The Czechoslovakian party for the
Keele-street Free Kindergarten held in
the Mutual Stores luncheon room one
afternoon last week was a product of the
friendship between Gwen Hughes and
Miss E. L. Notcutt, who travelled to-
gether for five weeks in Czechoslovakia
last year (it was Miss Notcutt’s first but
Miss Hughes’s fifth visit to the country).
For several years Miss Notcutt has been
on the Keele-street committee, and her
interest takes such a practical turn of
mind and hand that she attends the
kindergarten regularly as a voluntary
helper. It was she who persuaded her
sister, Mrs. R. G. Russell, to join the
committee three years ago.
Among those who helped with the
Czech party were Mrs. Russell and
Miss Notcutt and another pair of
sisters, Mrs. N. C. Harris and Mrs.
D. Dare. Their mother, Mrs. I. H.
Moss, was among the spectators of the
programme, which included a talk
by Miss Hughes, Czech songs and dances,
tea and the exhibiting of Miss Hughes’s
complete collection of Czech costumes
and embroideries. One exhibit, a Detvan
peasant costume which was not unlike
a linen bolero and embroidered culotte,
was placed on a figure near the lift.
Those who, not knowing about the ex-
hibition, met it face to face paused to
examine what they imagined was some-
thing elaborately dilferent in beach
fashions.
Among spectators who will watch the
Ballet with a technical as well as an
aesthetic appreciation will be Clair
Aytoun, who returned to Melbourne re-
cently after eight years spent abroad.
She studied the Cecchetti method of
dancing with several well-known teachers
in London and was appointed an
examiner. She went to Adelaide last
week to conduct Cecchetti examinations.
Miss Aytoun also studied Greek dancing,
and has been chosen as organiser and
examiner for the Greek Dancing Asso-
ciation in Australia.
She says that this type of dancing
interprets rhythm and the meaning
or rhythm and is the natural comple-
ment of physical culture, being ideal
for students who take lessons only
once a week, for the concentration neces-
sary is less intense than that required
for ballet. Greek dancing also provides
many useful remedial exercises for pos-
tural defects. Miss Aytoun was a mas-
seuse before she went abroad, and is
particularly interested in remedial work.
She has scope for this pursuit by work-
ing at the East Brunswick After Care
Clinic, where little “polios” on the road
to recovery attend regularly for muscu-
lar re-education exercises. Photograph by
Broothorn.
News of the Hugh Devine family is
that its four members are expected home
on November 11 after eight months
abroad. The girls are having a grand
time, for, although they were away before
in 1930, that trip included a space of
summer-term schooling in England, in
which their brother John, now a doctor
at Royal Melbourne, also shared. Mary
and Joan were presented at Court in
July, and with their parents were guests
at a long round of parties given by Eng-
lish surgeons and their wives in honor of
their father, who is an honorary member
of the British Association of Surgeons.
The girls played golf on innumerable
perfect courses, Mary upholding the honor
of her country with her usual sparkling
game. A movie camera was part of their
luggage, so they are sure to have an in-
teresting pictorial diary of their travels.
After staying some time in Heidelberg
they are now continuing in leisurely
fashion a motor trip across the Con-
tinent to catch the Orion at Naples. Their
mode of European travel is in the car
which they took with them from Aus-
tralia.
Other Melbourne folk who are making
tracks for home in the Orion are the
Stephen Morells, but without daughter
Sheila, who quite recently and all in one
breath announced her engagement and
the date of her wedding this week in
London to Geoff Armstrong, son of the
late A. A. Armstrong and Mrs. Arm-
strong, of Sydney. He and Sheila met
on board ship bound for England six
months ago.
“There’s my old friend M. J. McNally”
was heard many times at the Sedon Gal-
leries on the opening afternoon of
Charles Wheeler’s exhibition. Mr.
McNally is materially in Adelaide, but
he was present in spirit and on the point
of stepping out of the canvas with a
twinkle in his eye and all ready to say
“Wait till I tell you this one.” Another
portrait shown was of the jovial Ernest
Joske, LL.B. Among artists present who
congratulated Mr. Wheeler on his work
was English painter Peter Bousfield, who
recently held an exhibition at Hogan’s
Galleries.
The Orthopaedic Hospital is never far
from Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s thoughts.
When she saw Miss May Downes’s pupils
perform their “Revels of 1938’’ a couple
of months ago she visualised the show as
a benefit for all her adopted boys and
girls at Frankston. As the thought was
born so the idea materialised, and the
“Revels” enjoyed a repeat performance
in a well-booked Princess Theatre on
Saturday evening. Among busy com-
mittee people in the foyer were ticket
secs. Essie Fraser, in black velvet, and
Mrs. H. A. Youlden, in black, white furs
and diamente bracelets. Jean and Betty
Wallace Mitchell collected a bunch of
attractive girls to sell programmes,
flowers, sweets and baskets of chocolate
frogs at a penny a pop for the gods.
Among them were Lois Robinson and
Marjorie Davis, both in long white coats :
Marie Pitt, in a puffed-sleeved black
velvet frock ; Wilma Kirkland, in white
organdie with bands of cherry and blue
velvet ribbon upon the skirt ; Jos£ Shmith,
in blue ; and Shirley Carroll, who had had
the sort of afternoon that only comes once
in a lifetime, of sideshows at the Show
followed up by a motor horn that blew
all the way home and defied everybody's
efforts to kill it.
Another helper was Pam Fleming
Dunstan, whose last letters from her
mother and sisters, who have been living
in Italy for the last year, contain the
news of Val’s marriage a month ago to
an Italian army officer. In the “Revels”
audience were the Harold Lathams, Mrs.
Tom White and her daughter, and Dr.
and Mrs. Douglas Galbraith, who came
up from Frankston for the occasion. •
Irina Baronova, wearing a skunk cape
and a black lace gown with a train much
longer than we have been accustomed
to see here for the last few years, made
a first public appearance on Saturday
evening, when with her husband and
Arnold Haskell she paid Corrie Lodders
and George Carden the compliment of
attending their “Dance Divertissements”
in the University Union Theatre. Baron-
ova took a look behind the scenes
accompanied by Jennie Brenan during the
interval, about the time that Mr. Haskell
and Laurel Martyn suddenly found them-
selves face to face in the aisle. Their
pleasure was mutual, and they expressed
it unself-consciously with a kiss. Mr.
Haskell has seen Laurel’s work in Lon-
don and is delighted to find her, for she
is one of his thousands of friends, in the
dancing world of Melbourne.
Corrie Lodders and George Carden
presented a programme of interest and
originality, including a picture ot
practice-class routine, a group of
national dances and several examples of
their own choreography as contained in
“Cocktail Party” (for which Hal Stead
arranged the music), an “Episode of
Ballet” (music by the accompanist Alma
Palmer), and a “Strauss Idyll,” a
romantic drama about a nymph and a
faun. Corrie’s solo was from “Carnaval"
and George’s a fast-moving fire dance,
his own creation to Da Falla’s music.


fH
m
you start
the day tired
Q)rink delicious
OVALTINE
> every night
-and note the difference!
TRIAL SAMPLE: A generous trial sample* of
‘Ovaltinesufficient to make four cupsful, will be
sent on receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover cost of
packing and postage.
Prices: 1/9, 2/10, 5/-: all Chemists and Stores.
A. WANDER LTD., 1 YORK STREET NORTH, SYDNEY
)
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Coal Strike and Mt. Isa
“T.”: The coal strike has hit Mt. Isa,
and 120 men have been put off. “Per-
mission” has been granted for 3000 tons
of mined coal at the Bluff (Emerald dis-
trict) to be taken to the mine. Mt. Isa
uses 3000 tons of coal per month in
normal times, and, even though produc-
tion can be restricted and men dismissed
to cope with limited supplies, sufficient
fuel must be found to provide power to
drive the pumps.
The mine spews out water at the rate
of 1000-1500 gallons every minute. Pro-
longed cessation of pumping might result
in its closing down indefinitely.
If that happened the population of
Isa would dwindle from 5000 to a few
hundreds, and rail-freight on coal, lead
bullion, zinc concentrates and normal
commodities for 5000 persons, as well as
passenger traffic, would be lost. It would
also mean the end of facilities provided
by the company, of value to surrounding
stations and even to those on the Barkly
Tableland (N.T.).
Mt. Isa is one of those settlements
which mark the advancement of industry
into poorly developed parts of Australia,
and its failure might have the same effect
on the district as successive failures of
various enterprises have had on the N.T.
“Phildort”: Settlement of Jewish
refugees (B. 21/9/’3B) in Australia has
interested J. B. Cramsie, and Cramsie
has suggested to the League for Jewish
Territorial Colonisation in London that
Melville Island could accommodate
100,000 Jews, or about 44 to the square
mile. If Melville has' such possibilities
it’s a marvel the native-born haven’t dis-
covered them. “I have read with interest
the views expressed by Mr. McEwen as
to the wonderful potentialities of North
Australia,”, said Cramsie. If McEwen said
that —and I don’t think he did—he was
talking through his hat. Payne and
Fletcher estimated that with a careful
developmental policy the population of the
whole N.T. might possibly reach 45,000
within 25 years.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: The Forgan Smiths have
done something quite definitely useful
towards mineral and pastoral develop-
ment in far-north Queensland by build-
ing the 810 ft. jetty at Portland Roads and
a good trafficable road connecting it with
the hinterland over the range. The deep
levels of the Coen and Batavia country
have always looked promising, but
hitherto have been beyond any practical
private effort. Now they are being tackled
in earnest. The Blue Mountains for-
mations, too, are now readily accessible,
and results, so far, have borne out the
forecasts of a generation ago. Pastoral
possibilities are of even better perma-
nent value than the mineral ones. Towns-
ville provides a ready and ample market
for chilling and freezing export beef,
and with refrigerated space now avail-
able on Burke’s steamers a good local
market, Cairns, as well.
* * * *
“M. Turiutu”: Brisbane’s daily traffic
jams at the Petrie Bight bottle-neck are
unique in Australia. Four principal city
streets pour the whole tram and vehicular
traffic to and from the northern suburbs
and wharves through the narrow Adel-
aide-Queen-street junction. The problem
could be solved cheaply and for all time
by rounding off the two northerly cor-
ners, sending all Adelaide-street traffic
along Wickham-street, all Queen-street
traffic along North Adelaide-street into
Ann-street, Valley, with a round-off at
Boundary-street corner, and connecting
Ann-street South with Barry-parade by
a wide curve in front of City Electric
Light’s building. If the City Council
waits till the considerable area of vacant
land is built on, or old buildings are
replaced by new, there will be a tidy bit
more on the municipal debt in the next
few years. The disorganisation and
delays during the August Show traffic
demonstrated what must soon be a
regular thing as the city grows.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: This summer thou-
sands of children in south Queensland
and northern N.S.W. will miss a good
friend now that Thomas Edward Martin
has died in Brisbane, aged 69. As “Mar-
“Lucky I mended that leak in the gutterin', Ma."
tin Hambleton” he had for 18 years con-
ducted the “Courier-Mail” and “Sunday
Mail” sand-garden beach competitions,
and also the children’s page in the “Sun-
day Mail.” He came from England in
1914 as one of a group of school-
teachers brought to introduce new
methods in Queensland’s Education De-
partment, and up to his retirement was
at the East Brisbane State school.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The new unattended
tower light to be placed on North Point,
Moreton Island, will be a useful help to
vessels entering or leaving Moreton Bay,
particularly at night. With the Cape
Moreton light in line it will lead clear
of the many dangers southward of the
present course for big ships. Up to 1921
there was a small light on North Point
which lined up with a secondary on the
Cape to indicate Smith’s Rock, but they
were replaced by a gas-buoy at the rock
itself. The Yellow Patch white-flash, red-
sector, 500 yards or so from North Point,
will be removed when the new light is
completed in December. There has been
a light at the Patch from 1868.
* # * *
“Notaden”: For 20 years a good car
track wound among the stunted scrub
at the back of the low dunes fringing a
S.Q. ocean beach. For several farms
it afforded a direct outlet which saved a
long roundabout through swampy coun-
try, and it was also much in favor among
local folk as a picnic and beach-fishing
resort. Then a city-living trailer-tourist
built a campfire against the butt of a
beach oak-tree, and left it burning. The
tree fell, set light to the undergrowth
and burned a 10ft. track through to the
dune top. Through it the south-east
wind drifted the beach sand; impercept-
ibly but unceasingly an intruding white
tentacle crept further and further in
among the trees. The farmers noticed
it, meant to build a brush baffle across
the opening, but put the job off. A gale
came up, and two days later the drift
stood 3ft. deep across the track and 50
yards inland. The dune was cut out for
50ft. They baffled it with stakes and
brush, but it was too late. Now there is a
100-yard-wide drift, impassable by cars
and reaching to the swamp.
Sf * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Brisbane claims to
possess the first soul-clinic in Australia.
Its purpose is to provide sympathetic
and understanding hearing and advice for
persons faced with individual problems
in their daily lives. Over a decade ago
an enterprising Brisbane man hung out
the sign “Advice Given On Any Sub-
ject.” As it remained there for several
years he must have had some success in
his rather ambitious line of business.
“Capricorn”: If they really are build-
ing up a library in Darwin (B. 31/8/’3B)
it’s rather a pity that they can’t incor-
porate the rather fine collection of books
that lie nowadays unread at Borroloola
(that’s if they haven’t by this time fallen
a complete prey to the ever-hungry ter-
mite). Back in more cultured days the
provision of some sort of library for
even the outbackest of the outback camps
was regarded almost in the light of a re-
ligious duty. All over the W.A. gold-
fields all sorts of odd camps could be
found with a Mechanics’ Institute or
something similar, the most prominent
feature of which would be the library.
And not full of tripe either: solid litera-
ture was what the invariably argumenta-
tive digger yearned for. Kanowna was
an example: it was there that I had my
first encounter with Marx’s Das Kapital,
Tom Paine, Henry George, Adam Smith,
Spencer, Huxley and a score of other
“heavies” weighed down the shelves.
Incidentally, the Borroloola books were
presented to that now-diminutive burg by
the late Lord Hopetoun, one-time Gover-
nor of Victoria and later our first G.-G.
* * * *
“Dorret”: Speaking as a tourist, I
was more impressed by the Devil’s
Marbles in the Davenport Ranges in
Centralia (B. 14/9/’3B) than when I first
inspected Our Bridge over Our ’Arbor.
Imagine a youngster building dozens of
pyramids with marbles ; visualise some
Goliath doing the same with boulders
20-30 ft. in diameter. The mammoth
clusters are scattered about for miles
and dwarf even the big seven- and eight-
ton lorries which punch through on their
way to the Tennant. Spheres of granite
which balance precariously on outcrops
in other parts of Australia receive a
fair amount of publicity ; on the Marbles
there are scores of these balancing rocks.
Some of them have ap-
parently grown top-
heavy, but instead of
rolling off their perch
they have split in two,
sending one half rum-
bling to earth and leav-
ing the other still
balanced and bearing a
grey face as though a
giant knife had sliced
through the stone. The
Marbles are impressive
enough by day; on a
moonlight night they
are a hundredfold more
so, and take on an air
of fantasy and ghostli-
ness.


*OR Tft£
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
fg
W£M M£N AND WOM£N
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
ml
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
You can’t
ignore 6AM
It is the ONIiY STATION
that can give yon com-
plete coverage of Western
Australia.
The ONIiY STATION that
will sell your goods to
the farmer.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Kadio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
London Television Service
Area.
Some idea of the coverage of the B.B.C.
television transmitter is afforded by the
accompanying map. Certainty of good
reception of the television programmes
is assured where the receiver is inside
the black circle, which represents a 25-
miles radius. If the receiving location
is within the shaded circle, representing
a 50-miles radius, reception is so near
certain as to make little difference. Those
outside the 50-miles radius are considered
lucky to get good reception. But there is a
surprising number of them, as shown
Television coverage map which shows how far from the heart of London, where
the Alexandra Palace transmitting station is located , a television receiver will work.
by the black triangles in places as far
afield as Birmingham, Malvern, Nor-
wich and Ipswich.
A great deal depends upon the type
of aerial used. What may be a signal
c . . . . im
of little or no .ntensity can be bu.lt up
to a strong signal by the use of a high-
gain beam aerial array for reception.
It is estimated that the cost of upkeep
of a television receiver adds about a
penny for five hours to the home elec-
tricity bill. Radio costs on an average
a penny for 15 hours. Television re-
f fonn
ceivers range m price from £2O to £2OO.
The interference problem, especially
from motor-car ignition systems is acute
outside the 25-miles area, but that is a
man-made trouble, which some day will
be fully taken in hand. The extension of
, • • • r> i
the television service over Britain is slow,
but stations have been planned for Bir-
mingham and Manchester. These will
probably be relays, using the special tele-
vision cable which is now being installed.
D. B. K.
New Dry-cell Valves in
U.S.A.
Two volts has been for some years
the standardised rating for the filaments
of directly-heated battery valves, the
four-volt and six-volt types having long
been discarded. The two-volt filament
corresponds with the output of a single
accumulator cell.
Most battery receivers using the two-
volt directly-heated valves work from a
two-volt accumulator for filament supply,
but there have in the past been many
designs where, in small receivers, dry
cells have been used for the purpose.
Three volts are necessary in these cases,
and the life of the large-sized “bell-type”
cells can be considerable, especially
where several are used in series-parallel.
There is some wastage of current, for
the voltage must be dropped to two volts
at the terminals of the valve filaments.
Now from U.S.A. comes news of an en-
tirely new series of valves designed for
use with dry cells, in which the fila-
ments are rated at 1.4 volts at .05
ampere. Thus the valves are designed
for operation from a single dry cell with-
out any filament circuit resistance.
Whether these valves will be widely
adopted remains to be seen, but at
present they are produced by only one
manufacturer, and the particular make
of valve is not seen in any quantity in
Australia. It seems likely, however, that
prominent manufacturers will not be
slow to tackle the question. Technical
considerations are no different from prac-
tice with long-established types.
The range includes a heptode fre-
quency changer, type IA7G, rated for
operation at 90 volts on the plate and
oscillator plate, with zero control grid
bias. The screen is fed through a 70,000-
ohms resistance from the 90 volts. Cur-
rents for plate, screen and oscillator plate
are respectively 0.6, 0.65 and 1.1 milli-
amperes. Plate A.C. resistance is 0.6
megohm, and the conversion conductance
is 0.125 ma.-v. The R.F. pentode is the
INSG, and is rated at 90 volts plate and
screen, with zero grid bias. Plate cur-
rent is 1.2 ma., with screen current of
0.3 ma., and mutual conductance is
0.75 ma.-v.
A diode-triode is included in the range,
the IHSG, intended for resistance-
capacity coupling, with no grid bias
needed. There are two output pentodes,
the IASG and the ICSG, the latter tak-
ing 0.1 ampere instead of 0.05 ampere.
Automatic grid bias is recommended, with
4.5 volts negative
for the IASG and
seven volts negative
for the ICSG. Plate
current is 3.5 ma.
and screen current
o.7ma. for the
IASG, with an out-
put of 100 milliwatts
at 10 p.c. distortion
into a load of 25,000
ohms. The ICSG
gives an output of
200 milliwatts for 10
p.c. distortion into a
load of 9000 ohms.
This valve takes
7ma. plate current,
with I.6ma. for the
screen.
As the letter G
denotes, all these
valves are fitted with
the now standardised
octal base, and the
dimensions are par-
ticularly small. Not
only would such
valves be of great
value in portable re-
ceivers, but they
would have a de-
finite place for re-
ceiver applications in
the Australian in-
land, where dry-cell
operation is in many
instances of primary
importance.
D. B. K.
Modulation Hum.
Modulation (or tunable) hum often
presents a difficult problem where mains-
operated receivers are to be used for
short-wave listening. A set which per-
forms perfectly on broadcast wave-
lengths may exhibit bad modulation hum
on short waves, the trouble growing
worse as the tuning reaches higher fre-
quencies.
Power transformers should be fitted
with electro-static windings to minimise
primary-to-secondary capacity; “static”
windings should be earthed. Next, hum-
bucking condensers may be applied to
various points; between rectifier fila-
ment and one plate, one from each plate
to centre-tap, two in series across the
power transformer primary with the
centre point taken to earth. Condensers
in these positions should be of reliable
make and mica dielectric, capable of
withstanding the high voltages impressed
across them and of capacities between
.OOlmfd. and .Olmfd. Smaller values are
likely to be ineffective and larger ones
will pass needlessly high values of A.C.
Filament windings, particularly that
wired to the detector valve, should be
placed at earth potential. Generally, a
c.t. resistor is sufficient, but in extreme
cases a 100- or 200-ohm potentiometer
may be necessary, placed as close to the
detector socket as practicable and wired
across the heater terminals with the mov-
ing arm going direct to earth. The setting
giving lowest hum may not be the dead
centre of the resistance strip. On the
other hand, simply earthing one side of
the filament winding may be sufficient.
Experiment alone will show, and simplest
methods should be tried first.
Where a c.t. resistor or pot. is found
best yet hum persists some relief may be
had by connecting two .OOlmfd. mica
condensers in series across the heater
and taking the mid-point to ground. In
bad cases (usually instances of bad trans-
former design) it may be necessary to
treat all filament windings this way before
a cure is found ; normally, though, the
detector winding is most important.
Where electrolytic condensers are used
for filtering, a non-inductive condenser
of high-voltage rating and not less than
.Olmfd. capacity should be wired across
the last electrolytic. These filter con-
densers often possess relatively high
r.f. “resistance” and do not properly by-
pass any r.f. which may find its way to
them. Hence the small non-inductive
capacitor.
Finally, it will help materially if, in the
design, the tuning coils and r.f. and
detector grid-leads are kept away from
dial-light wiring, filament wiring, the
rectifier and the power transformer.
R. H. A.
Round the Ultra-Searcher
Dial.
The Ullra-Searcher (B. 3/8/’3B) was
designed by Don B. Knock as a receiver
for general coverage of the more useful
ultra-short waves between 12 and four
metres. It is a three-valve affair with
acorn R.F. stage using a tuned 956, re-
generative 76 detector and 41 pentode for
headphones. The original receiver is in
use at Powell Creek, N.T., in the capable
hands of Eric Trebilcock, of the Tele-
graph Station there, and the following
observations come by air mail:
“The receiver has been built into a
portable carrying-case, and is now all
fitted out. I have logged over 100
different calls located in 15 countries
and five continents on 10 metres. South
America alone is missing. Recently l
have been listening on this band from
daylight to dark. Until last week-end
(3/9/’3B) I had heard only seven coun-
tries, but last Sunday brought in the
other eight. According to the gang the
band is just returning to normal—then 1
should have no trouble in hearing my
100 countries on 10 metres!
“In about 12 hours’ listening on
4/9/’3B 73 different calls were logged,
and from the time I heard ZL2FY at
0646 until I landed VS7MB at 2122 I
was completely occupied. The band was
open here over a period of 14| hours.
K4SA was heard on ’phone early in the
day, this being my first K 4 on 10, but no
new stations were noted until 1922 hours,
when I got G6QX calling ‘Test Ten,’ and
almost on top of him PAFB in Holland.
Others were ZSIBH, YRSCF, FBKJ,
D4GXF, ZS6EF, PAAZ, ZEIJZ, VU2FS
and GSEH. There was a lull from 2040
until 2122, when VS7MB came in with a
fine signal and was then the only station
audible.
“FSKJ and GSEH were R 6, whilst the
rest were R 5. I heard both Dutchmen
calling or working with Australians
VK4BB and VK4HR.
“There was no sign of any Australian
signal after 1730, VK7BQ being the last
10-metre VK to be heard. FBKJ called
VKSHR, and the German D4GXF called
VK4SR, so it appears that VK4HR was
not getting out too well. The VK and
ZL stations were fine copy all through
the daylight hours, and the W6’s and
K6’s were very powerful. The latter
have been coming in strongly every day
during the last two weeks, and last from


Australasian
RADIO WORLD
Is Australia’s leading technical radio monthly.
Full constructional details of all types of
receivers are. featured—superhet and t.r.f.,
battery and a.e., broadcast, dual-wave and
all-wave, portables, amplifiers, communica-
tions type receivers for amateurs and short-
wave fans. Latest world short-wave news.
Official organ All-wave All-world DX Club.
Price 1/- at all newsagents, or send penny
stamp for free sample copy.
A’SIAN RADIO WORLD,
214 George Street, Sydney.
soon after sunrise until midday. K6CLV
comes in here at R 9 plus on ’phone, as do
several others, including K6GQF,
W6MSQ, WSGBS and W6PMB.
“W6NWK operating portable on a
steamer bound for Brisbane from New
York has a fine ’phone signal every day
from 7 a.m. From his conversations with
VKs on 10 he plans to get around sta-
tions in Sydney a little.
“The receiver has been calibrated as
nearly as possible by using commercial
harmonics to check over readings. W6XI
was heard on C.W. on about 31,000 kc.,
but this may be fundamental or a har-
monic. On about 32,000 kc. is a very loud
carrier which is never keyed, and a second
carrier can be heard emitting a series of
short dashes. [Evidently an aircraft-
beacon transmitter; the same signal is
heard day and night at VK2NO. —
D.B.K.] On 28,900 kc. a- harmonic is
heard of a 3LO transmission. It would
be interesting to know the station from
which it originates.
“No signals have been recorded on five
metres yet, but anything may happen
during the summer. Commercial har-
monics have been heard as high as
34,400 kc., but beyond there is a blank as
yet. Many harmonics are heard from 20
metres, including such DX as K6BUA,
K6LPZ, JSCC, J2KG and a large number
of VKs and ZLs. VK2ADV is the most
consistent harmonic station of the lot,
and VK2KZ is another with a loud 20-
metre signal on 10 around sunrise. VK
calls logged on 10 fundamental since
18/8/’3B are: ’Phone, VK2AGU,
VK2AHM, VK2AFR, VK2GU,
VK2ADT, VK2YQ, VK2IP, VK2JQ,
VK2WJ and VK2LZ ; on C.W., VK2FY,
VK2UD and VK2WK. Further obser-
vations on the ultra-shorts will be
reported.
“This little receiver has far exceeded
my expectations. The smooth and even
tuning is one of its finest features.”
BERS19S.
Amateur Chatter.
The report in “QST” that the writer’s
station was heard by W9CCL in
Nebraska, U.S.A., on five metres
strengthens hopes of the DX possibili-
ties of the band. It is expected that
details of the report will be sent shortly.
This report, following on those from
North Wales, is of great importance.
At present the writer is making obser-
vations of frequencies between 28mc. and
40mc., using the new all-wave T.R.F. re-
“ Hey , there! Ami anywhere near Sydney ?”
“Wot street are y' lookin' for, lady?"
ceiver recently completed. During the
mornings the amateur 10-metre band
is lively with signals often reaching R 9
between 7 a.m. and midday, and many
American ultra-short-wave stations can
be heard strongly at intervals around the
nine-metre mark. Aircraft beacons are
noticed also at higher frequencies with
heavy fading, and are probably of over-
seas origin. Some of the American
police-control stations reach excellent
strength, and frequently the patrol cars
can be heard in reply. Commercial tele-
graphy harmonics are increasing in
strength as high as 35mc., and indications
are that at any time now during the
summer season the 56mc. band should
be good for DX in Australia. If, as
appears likely, an American has heard
VK2NO during the DX period in U.S.A.,
it is not unreasonable to suggest that
the corresponding period in the Southern
Hemisphere may bring similar condi-
tions, with the much better chance of
hearing something of Americans, who in
many cases are using higher power.
A recent addition to the 56mc. band
in Sydney is VK2AFQ, of Burwood, who
has appeared with a crystal-controlled
’phone transmission. Results have been
excellent, although low power is used
at present. Doubling in the 809 final of
the 28mc. transmitter is responsible for
(he signal, and, as another final stage is
planned with push-pull 809’s and a beam
array, a strong signal is expected in the
near future.
News comes from Europe of the first
international QSO on 56mc. On July
2 an English amateur, GSMQ, and an
Italian, I-IRA, were in direct communi-
cation on ’phone between 15.00 and 15.45
B.S.T. At the same time an English ama-
teur using a portable station in Switzer-
land heard a test call from G2HG in
London at RSTS69. During a contact
on 28mc. with Italian I-IER, G2XC, of
Portsmouth, suggested that the Italian
change to 56mc. This was done, and the
Italian station was logged at RSTSS9.
Direct communication on the band would
have been certain but for the fact that
the Italian had no 56mc. receiver. Keen
observers of 56mc. conditions in Eng-
land believe that communication between
Great Britain and many Continental
countries would be certain on 56mc. if
only there were stations on the band in
those countries at times when conditions
are favorable. There have been many
occasions in Australia when similar work
could have been done, as indicated by
short skip conditions on 28mc. The
56mc. band has a long story of missed
opportunities outside of U.S.A. Success
has been achieved there for the simple
reason that hundreds of experimenters
are busy on the band all the time.
VK2NO.
New American U.-H.-F. Stations for the DX Searcher
This list indicates recent American additions to the ultra-high-frequency
ranges. It should be possible on occasions to hear many of these stations with a
receiver such as the Ultra-Searcher, described in B. 3/8/’3B. The stations are of
three types, general broadcast, general relay and general police.
Broadcast.
WrvSN per- M° Catl \f' ♦i • xt t Frequency. Power.
W2XbN P. F. Godley, Montclair, N.J. 41.8mc 1000
Relay Broadcast.
W4XGO Isle of Dreams, Miami, Fla. Gen Re Old.
WSXHU WDSU, Inc., Ardmore, Okla. Gen. Re ois
WSXO Carter Pub., Ft. Worth, Tex. Gen! Re
WBXRZ WJR, Inc., Detroit, Mich. Gen. Re. ISO/8
W9XMK Peoria Brdcstg., Peoria, 111. Gen. Re! SO/9
WIOXIO & WIOXIQ Yankee Network, Boston, Mass. Gen. Re! 10/a
Forestry Service
WIXOA to WIXQF Mass. Dept, of Conservation Gen. Br. /I
W3XMP Maryland Dept., Brandywine Gen. Br. os.
W3XMQ Maryland Dept. Gen. Br! 10/3
Police Broadcast.
WIXLI Boston, Mass. Gen Po 10/1
W2XSI & W2XSJ New York City Police Dept. 33!lmc 10/2
W2XSK Rockland County, N.Y. Gen. Po. SO
W2XOZ Lakewood, N.J. Gen. Po. 10/2
W2XPS Lakewood, N.J. Gen. Po. SO *”
W2XQG Hempstead, N.Y. 40.1 me. SO
W2XQH, I, J, K, L, M Hemp Stead, N.Y. 40.1mc. 15/2
W2XRX Haverstraw, N.Y. Gen. Po 10
W2XSL New York City Police Dept. Gen! Po! IS/2
W2XSM Englewood, N.J. Gen Po 10/2
W2XSO White Plains, N.Y. Gen' Po' 25
W2XSP to W2XSX White Plains, N.Y. Gen! Po' 5/2
W2XSY Elwood, N.J. Gen. Po. 12
W3XLJ to W3XLN Wilmington, Del. Gen. Po. 15/3
W3XMC Bound Brook, N.J. 33.1 37.1mc. is
Bound Brook, N.J. 33.1, 37.1mc! 12/3
W3XML Staunton, Va. Gen Po 25
W3XMM to W3XMO Camden, N.J. Gen Po 15/3
W4XGD Sanford, Fla. Gen. Po' 25
W4XGG & W4XGH Wilmington, N.C. 33 i mc S/4
W4XGP to W4XGT Tampa, Fla. 30 lmc 16 4
W4XGU & W4XGV Miami, Fla. 30 1 33 lmc 5 4
Wichita Falls, Tex. S Po '« 5
WSXFA 4 WSXFT Austin, Texas Gen. Po. 10/5
Las Vegas, Nev. 30.1mc. 20/6
W6XUP National City, Cal. Gen. Po. 10/6
wSnn? a Alameda County, Cal. 37.1mc. 20/6
& W6XUY Long Beach, Cal. Gen. Po. 10/6
wayw 40 W6XXL Los Angeles, Cal. County Gen. Po. 15/6
wayvf wcvvr Watsonville, Cal. Gen. Po. 10/6
w7Ynn pos An S eles > Cal. Red Cross
W7XDW * WTYnv Portland, Ore. Gen. Po. 15/7
& W7XDX Multnomah County, Ore. 30.1mc. 15/7
w7YFr »„ W7YCI £ ierce Count y> Ore- 33.1, 37.1mc. 5/7
W7XU Butte, Mont. 40.1mc. 5 7
wsyoy Wayne County, Mich. 33.1mc. 25/8
vvsYßr Royal Oak, Mich. 30.1mc. 15/8
wsyrf Oneonta, N.Y. 30.1mc. 10/8
vvsYßf Ottawa Hills, Ohio Gen. Po. IS
Ottawa Hills, Ohio Gen. Po. 12/8
W™* Midland, Mich. Gen. Po. 15
WBXRT in WSYRW Wierton, West Va. 33.1mc. 5
UXRY A wmv Wierton, West Va. 33.1mc. s/8
WBXRY Fremont, Ohio 30.1mc. 15 8
WBXSF & Wsyqf Indian Hill, Ohio 33.1, 37.1mc. 50
WBXSE & WBXSF i ndian Hill) ohio 31.!, 37.1mc. 15/8
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-waver
(B. 28/4/’37).
Reception of American stations has
been clear and quite comparable with
some of the English and European stations
recently. From 7 a.m. onwards W3XAL,
W2XAD, W2XE and WBXK, of the
high-frequency brigade, are putting over
nice signals with music, talks, news, etc.
W2XE on 19.64 metres seems to con-
tinue until after 8 a.m. with a news
sessioq dealing first with foreign affairs.
A Dutch station has been noticed in
the 13-metre band, on the same fre-
quency as GSH, at 9.15 p.m. Moscow
gives an English session on 19.66 metres
at 7.30 a.m., and at this time Rome is
often very good on 19.62 metres. The
Delhi station can now be heard daily
on 19.8 metres at 1.10 p.m., at which
time an English news session is given.
On 56 metres most nights I can hear
some VKB stations, and the Birdsville
station has been heard in communication
with B’s on 34 metres. In the lower-
frequency band stations that can be
heard nightly at good strength are PMY
(58 metres) YDE2 (62 metres) and RVIS
(70 metres). The 49-metre band is also
very active at night. Several unidentified
stations have been heard in the 60-metre
band, one of which appears to be an
Indian, probably in Calcutta.
Daytime reception is not nearly so
good as formerly; the Berlin stations
on 19 metres are the best at 3 p.m.
Night reception is very enjoyable, especi-
ally on the higher frequencies. The
Empire station oh 13 metres is increas-
ing in strength each night.
K. B. G.
What's What in Radio.
“D.8.K.”: Radio has been used for
many years in lifeboats, though the dif-
ficulties of handling equipment under the
conditions likely to be encountered in
such craft can well be imagined. The
noise of wind and waves and, in the
modern vessel, the additional noise of
the engine, together with the necessity
for protection of delicate apparatus from
sea-water, present difficult problems.
Recently lifeboats of the cabin type have
been designed in England, and 26 life-
boats stationed at points around the
English coast are now fitted with radio-
telephony. The Lifeboat Institution has
been experimenting with a watertight
receiver for use on vessels of the open
type. For this phase of radio communi-
cation, ultra-short waves should provide
an ideal medium.
* * * *
Radio licenses in force in Australia
at the end of August totalled 1,082,641.
Experimenters now number 1916.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Can you recommend a receiver suitable
for listening to overseas short-wave Morse
stations and amateurs? Receivers for sale in
Melbourne seem to be suitable only for broad-
cast reception. —722.
The type you need is not manufactured com-
mercially in Australia. Probably Price’s Radio
Service, Angel-place, Sydney, could supply your
needs.
* * * *
A Sydney coil manufacturer has recently
placed on the market an iron-cored tuning unit,
both for broadcast and short waves. I have
been told that iron-cored tuning coils are not
much use for short waves, since the resistance
increases with the increase in frequency. Is
this so? —721.
Experiments by Don B. Knock with a new
design of T.R.F. receiver covering all waves
from eight metres to 1000 metres proved that with
the Sirufer type of iron-cored coils there was
no apparent loss at frequencies as high as
10,000 kc. Theoretically there must be loss,
but generally speaking coils can be made for
effective use in modern receivers to cover even
the 20-metre band. It would be inadvisable to
use iron cores at higher frequencies than
14,000 kc. Conclusive evidence as to the
effectiveness of such coils could be obtained by
use of a Q meter. If the coil kit under con-
sideration is designed around the Sirufer type
of core it should be capable of giving good
all-round results.


The Richardson Chain Hotel'
fg
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next -Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
Worms in Sheep.
“Tri-cal”: You've been farming long
enough to know that your sheep will
withstand the ill-effects of worms only if
they have been well fed and have had a
good mineral lick before them always.
I suppose to save money you left off the
lick; now you’re moaning. If you want
a good mineral mixture and one that
sheep will find palatable, use that Tri-
cal-os Bone Flour. The bigwigs think
a lot of the stuff; say it keeps the sheep
in tiptop condition. What more do we
want?
A note to Davis Gelatine, Sydney, will
bring a folder to you. You’d better
write before you lose any more sheep.
Old Farmer.
V*
■
M
£•9
BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
f
For use where Power Is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 661 b.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated folder with full particulars
obtainable from:—
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
New Pastoral Award.
“Bungaree”: The new pastoral award
—it came into force on September 19 —-
makes shearing slightly dearer. Increases
in rates are fairly general, although
slight in most cases. The chief points
to be observed are changes in conditions,
rather than in rates, and care will be
needed in making up shed tallies..
There is an advance of 6d. per 100
for shearing sheep with machines, but
it will be easier to use last year’s ready-
reckoners for calculating tallies at 355.
per 100, and add 6s. per 100 as fly-blown
sheep allowance. Rams still count as
two for one ; the extra 6d. applies to
rams singly. If the entire flock with
rams doubled is calculated at 355. 6d.
per 100, there will be an overpayment
of 6s. per 100 for rams included. This
extra 6d. per 100 does not apply to
Tasmania.
Blade shearers get an advance
of Is. per 100, making their
total 365. 6d.
Crutching rates are unchanged.
Pressers engaged at a weekly
rate lose 6d. per week, and this
reduction also applies to the
minimum guaranteed wage for
contract pressers. A slight in-
crease has been made for
pressers in W.A. Where pressers
are paid by contract it will no
longer be necessary to keep track of in-
dividual bales weighing less than 2|cwt.
In the past it was necessary to credit the
presser with the difference between the
actual weight of such light bales and
2-Jcwt. According to the new award, the
extra allowance need only be paid if the
average weight per bale of the whole clip
is less than 2-j Cwt.
Cooks get 6d. a week extra per
man (except in W.A.), bringing them
up to Bs. 9d. per man; their guar-
anteed minimum earnings and weekly
rate have been increased to £5 14s.
per week (£5 6s. in W.A.). The cook
has to be paid the extra rate for staff
men who are served at a separate table,
irrespective of the distance of their table
from his galley.
The award leaves out all mention of
hut accommodation, so that shearing
operations are now under the
modation Acts of the various States.. In
N.S.W. it is the Rural Workers’ Accom-
modation Act, one clause of which re-
quires the employer to provide a hut-
keeper where there are 20 or more
workers accommodated in one group. No
provision has been made for his rate
of wages. The employer must now
supply kerosene or whatever lighting is
used in the huts, dining-rooms, etc.
Adult shed-hands (W.A. excepted)
receive £4 14s. per week, a rise of 35.;
youths 18 to 21 years £2 19s. 6d., a'rise
of 25.; and boys under 18 years £2 11s.,
a rise of Is. 6d. These rates are all for
shed-hands on a “found” basis. In West-
ralia the new rate is £4 15s. a week with
keep, £6 6s. 6d. without, a decrease of
ss. 6d.
Shearers who fail to report serious
injuries to sheep during shearing may
now be charged. 10s. .in respect of each
sheep injured.
Where the tail-end of a mob of ewes
and lambs is left on Saturdays at
knock-off time (12 noon), the employer
may order shearing to continue for a
further 30 minutes in order to cut. the
flock out. This also applies to a similar
number of sheep being left over on the
day of the cut-out. Previously this was
a matter for arrangement between em-
ployer and shearers.
The definition of “cut-out” is now
stated as the time at which the shearing
of the last sheep is completed. The
definition hinged on the time at which
payment to shearers is commenced. The
old award stated that payment should
start within two hours of the cut-out.
The new proviso is that payment must
start within three hours of the time that
the last sheep is shorn.
A shearer must turn up by midday on
the day of starting shearing or his pen
may be filled ; previously he was allowed
24 hours’ grace.
Rates for station hands remain at £3
7s. without keep and £2 ss. 6d. with keep
in all States except Westralia, where they
"Too late, missus—sold me last cocklail-shaker C the gent, goin out.
are 3s. lower in each case. There, too,
rates for crutching and wigging and ring-
ing have been reduced by from 2d. to sd.
per 100.
Entero-toxsemia Control.
, “Corrie.dale”: “Bungaree” (B. 7/9/’3B)
errs in advising larger doses of vaccine
than are usual for lambs.
Vaccines set up a severe local reaction
at the site of injection which knocks the
lamb about and marks it permanently.
Commonwealth Serum Lab. vaccine in
the stated doses of 2ml. and sml. keeps
this local abscess within reasonable
bounds. Single-shot vaccines don’t.
Vaccination is useless if losses are
already occurring. Only when deaths
are expected from three weeks to three
months after the date of inoculation
should a vaccine be tried. The first three
weeks are required for any immunity to
be built up after vaccination.
The only method of control when sheep
are dying is to lower the level of nutrition
sharply straightway. Only fat sheep
of British breeds and crosses sutler
severely, and the precipitating factor foi
e.-t. is usually rich green pasture. Put
them on to dry straw or poor native grass
at once. Exercise does no harm.
This treatment will stop losses and is
probably cheaper than vaccination, the
only catch is where fat lambs are wanted
without check. Here treat, as “Bungaree
says, by vaccinating ewes two to tour
weeks before lambing, and the lambs
three weeks after they arc born. But use
the right doses if you want unmarked
lambs.
Werribee Cattle.
“R.M.Y.”: The “ban” on beef from
the Victorian Board of Works sewage
farm at Werribee (B. 14/9/’3B) is con-
tained in a four-year-old amendment,
to the Health Act which excludes
from sale all beef produced on areas
fertilised by untreated sewage. The
sewage farm is subjected to seven or
eight inundations of wholly untreated
sewage a year. The sewage is spread over
the blocks to a depth of from Bin. to
l()in. at each inundation, making a total
of approximately six acre-feet per year.
The farm is thus the biggest night-soil
depot in Australia.- Countrymen well
know the penalties for allowing stock to
graze on municipal. night-soil depots ;
yet “Bulago” considers that the board
should be able to sell its cattle for human
consumption.
“Bulago” is sadly astray when he
hazards the guess that Smithfield
wouldn’t worry about beef measles and
that Werribee chillers would enhance
■ Australia’s reputation abroad. Austra-
lia’s reputation suffered appreciably four
years ago as a result of the export of
measly beef.
The board is still at liberty to export
its beef direct, but efforts to find anyone
willing to handle the .meat in London
have so far proved fruitless. Inquiries
made overseas convinced the board that
no one wants sewage-farm beef, and so
there is constant agitation to let it be
sold in Melbourne. But no one there
wants it, either.
“A.E.D.”: “Bulago” says Smithfield
won’t worry about beef measles—“their
vets, know their job.” A few years ago
a shipment of Werribee beef was sent to
Smithfield; not long afterwards beef
measles was “discovered” at Werribee
farm. It looks as though Smithfield vets,
do know their job.
“Taxation Before All.”
“Wodgil”: What to do with sandplains
has baffled Westralian farmers since the
dawn of settlement in their country. If
the sandplain problem could be solved
there would be a substantial increase in
land population as well as in wealth-
production, for the worst of the sand-
plains are in a most favorable geographi-
cal situation, and the climate is magni-
ficent.
Many have tackled the problem, and
many are still tackling it. Now a new
and probably- fatal obstacle has arisen.
It was ■ mentioned in the Assembly re-
cently by P. D. Ferguson, the member
for Irwin-Moore.
There is a great stretch of sandplain,
several million acres of it, between the
Midland railway and the Indian Ocean.
Much of it is perhaps useless; most of
it is idle; and one would think experi-
menters who are prepared to spend their
own money in testing it would be warmly
welcomed even in Perth departments.
But read on.
A man applied for 10,000 acres for
experimental purposes. “Right you are,”
said the Lands Department ; “we’ll let you
have the grazing rights for five shillings
per thousand acres per year. If, after
a while, you’d like it under conditional
purchase, the price will be a shilling pet-
acre.” “Good on you!” said the Road
Board ; “rates will be 9s. Id. a year.”
Then the Taxation Department was
heard from. It coldly said that land tax
would be £7 1 Is. 6d. per year.
“What?” roared the would-be settler.
“Fifty bob a year for the lease, nine and
a penny for rates and seven pounds
eleven and six for land tax? No thank
you!”
So, as Ferguson put it, he “promptly
forfeited the block, which reverted to the
Lands Department, and the State was
the loser.” It’s a perfectly mad develop-
. ment of Australian taxation “policy.”
Better N.S.W. Wheat.
“A.A.D.*’: Separating the
grain by hand-picking the f.a.q
sample collected by the Chamber
of Commerce shows that last
season N.S.W. produced 25 p.c.
of hard wheat and 75 p.c. of
soft. The dry gluten content of
the bulk f.a.q. was 10.7 p.c., and
of the soft and hard 10.3 and
12.8 respectively.
Both the protein and gluten
content were superior to the
previous season’s sample. A high per-
centage of flour of excellent color indi-
cated first-class milling quality. Baking
tests confirmed the results of the chemical
analysis.
Farmers have this assurance —that they
are progressing on right lines in the
choice of varieties, and can safely follow
the evolution of stronger types of accept-
able yield capacity. The improvement in
N.S.W. wheat is attributable to the in-
creasing proportion of hard varieties
grown and the elimination of officially-
condemned weak-flour types.
Reports from the London and Liver-
pool grain exchanges commend the
higher standard of the season’s export
English millers, it is stated, have given
preference to Sydney cargoes in buying
Australian wheat for their standard
blends.
{“Land” continued on page 44}


Age 40!
Starts health’s steep downward slope. About
40 life’s fight begins. Danger symptoms
show —Weak, Dizzy, Depressed Spells; Back-
aches, Rheumatism (often affecting heart);
attacks from Kidney Germs, Acids and
Poisons.
AVERAGE LIFE ENDS ABOUT 55
Due to Rheumatic, Kidney, Bladder ,
Acid or Associated Disorders.
Medical science proves “Life-
line Decline” starts near 40.
Then “ middle-age ” troubles
cheat great numbers of men
of health; while KIDNEY AND
BLADDER BREAKDOWN
afflicts about 65 men and women
in every 100—though many
never know why they ail!
Seventy-five per cent, of poison
wastes and uric acid deposits
are filtered by the kidneys in too
concentrated a form. The over-
burdened cells cannot stand the
strain. Congestion occurs, fore-
ing back into the system poisons
which should be expelled. Germ
attacks start. Here is where
health starts to fall off. Back,
groin, loin, muscular and
shoulder pains occur; swellings,
headaches, blurred vision, loss
of vitality; perhaps inflammation
of the bladder and urinary tract;
excessive or painful urination;
shortness of breath; palpitation
of the heart, puffiness under the
eyes, nausea and many quite
alarming signs of future trouble.
LIFE CAN “BEGIN” AT 40
And GO ON Comfortably Long After 55
Strengthen kidneys, restore the
bladder, kill uric acidity—last-
ingly—properly—and Life can
be more full; can be extended
by five, ten, even twenty years,
For this purpose, Harrison’s Pills
—offered under authority of Dr.
Wm. Harrison, member of the
Royal College of Physicians— are
remarkably effective. Harrison’s
Pills are compounded to the most
perfect prescription known for
safely, surely, quickly overcom-
ing most middle- and old-age
weaknesses, pains and ills.
{ 'sl\
i.>M> . « •-' ■. -. l •'•
*. t
f
„■ N
'■>><
s&i-s
8S8S»
•:w:<
1
m
mm
mm
m:V : •• '•:>
S|c® t V ‘.
mmm
SSi
mm
SPS3
■
m
msmm
SSS&S
m
kxswKSk
-
*>X
'%ysssßS
sbcwc
; : : ■ ■: .
Vf.i.
URIC ACID Crystals Like Splintered Glass
TEAR NERVES & MUSCLES
REMOVE
THESE HARM-
FUL ACID
CRYSTALS
with
HARRISON’S
PILLS.
smmm
mmWm
m
V.
gf
Diaqram shouuinq Tqpes of
Needle-point Uric Acid firgstals
With every movement—TOßTUßE! Tiny painpoints that with every
move make you gasp and lim|> —weaken you, and spoil life. Rheumatism
is deadly. It starts with kidney failure. Cleanse your system of the
trouble-causing: crystals; heal your raw, weakened kidneys—by taking;
Harrison’s Pills. This remedy reaches the spot. In quick time sufferers
from Kidney-Hladder-Aeid Ills who have failed to get benefit from other
remedies find Harrison’s Pills bring grateful ease.
“Unless I can end these pains and get bach my strength
1 feel I cant go on
So say thousands. The Remedy is Harrison’s Pills —producing a
rapid change from despondent weakness and pain to sparkling health.
WEARY BODIES REVIVE YOUTH Returns
as Harrison’s Pills Conquer Causes of Decline
Harrison’s Pills strengthen the
Kidneys and Bladder, Expel
Uric Acid, Kill Germs and
Revitalise all the Vital Organs.
A short course of Harrison’s Pills produce
surprising improvements in health and vigor.
See the end of limb weariness, of haggard
appearance and despondent outlook. Note
the end of constipation. See a betterment in
your vision. Feel yourself become a good
ten years younger as Harrison’s Pills kill the
causes of ageing ills and instil new power
into every nerve and sinew; say good-bye to
your rheumatic aches, pains, inflammation
and stiffness. Feel your step gain new youth-
ful elasticity; hear your friends remark at the
vast improvement in your spirits and your
bearing.
HARRISON'S PILLS NEVER DISAPPOINT.
Harrison’s Pills provide the most effective
general method known of prolonging useful,
healthy, pain-free life. And, in the added
years you gain, who knows what further
astounding marvels of rejuvenation science
may devise?
Future will be so Interesting
—LIFE MAY HOLD SO
MUCH
A REAL
Women Get Splendid Results
“Dear Sir?, —My daughter has suffered a lot from
swollen feet. She tried many, other remedies, but
obtained no until taking Harrison’s 'Pills. They
gave her relief straight away, and we cannot speak
too highly of them—they really are wonderful. She
has had no recurrences of the trouble.
(Signed) O. E. McKeli.au.”
MADE HIM A NEW MAN!
“Dear Sirs, —Due to uric acid and severe rheumatism, I
was practically dead at 77. In spite of the severity of
my trouble, Harrison’s'Pills have made a-new man of
me, and I feel not a day older than 50. 1 liave never
known any remedy act in such a remarkably beneficial
manner.—(Signed) B. Jacobson."
ANOTHER USER SAYS:—
“Harrison’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are the only pills
that do me any good . . . they saved me going to the
Hobart Public Hospital week after week. I suffered
from splitting headaches, giddiness, and I was bent
over like a half-shut penknife with my back. Last
August I was in bed five weeks—thanks to Harrison's
Pills 1 am out of bed now. You can use this to let
anyone else know.—(Signed) J. Taylor.”
(Suax&nU
Wm
IMMEDIATE RESULTS
OR NO COST.
Simply get a package of Harrison’s Pills from tlie
nearest chemist. Take as directed, and if not freed
from your aches and pains—if not more than pleased
with the improvements in your health, strength and
general bearing—your money will be returned. This
guarantee protects you in making a trial —if Harrison’s
Pills succeed at once in your own case, they are worth
the cost. If the first bottle fails—it is free! Tiree
sizes: 2/-, 3/-, 6/-. If any difficulty, order direct from
the Distributors, Amalgamated Laboratories, Baking
House, Sydney.
END AGEING KIDNEY,
Eladder and Acid Ills—With
gf
g


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish to succeed
THINK OF
%
LUIW fa
l
k
eiff
A^i
IF
5
PERSONAL
ATTENTION
From your nearest branch of the Colonial Sugar Refining Com-
pany, the famous Masonite hard boards, and semvhard boards,
are immediately available. A copy of the 48-page, 10 colour.
Masonite Book, giving complete details of this important con-
tribution to Australian building, will be mailed on request.
Pft&B'D WOOD
"The Wonder Board of 1,000 Uses/' combining all the advantages of
wood with sheet-steel strength and smoothness. For walls# floorings,
concrete forms and all functions demanding extreme durability. White-ant proof.
PKESDWOOD
Properly applied, will not chip, crack or warp. Can be painted any
colour or used exactly as supplied. Like other Masonite Boards it
can be sawn, nailed or glued, and is white-ant proof.
QUASTKBOASD
A semi-hard board for attractive interior panelling. Can be used in
natural colour or sized and painted any hue. Properly installed it
will not chip, crack or warp. Moisture-resistant and white-ant proof.
TEMPRTILE
A hard, tough board scored into four-inch tiles of exceptional beauty.
Lends itself to fascinating colour schemes for kitchens, or bathrooms.
Properly applied, will not crack, chip or buckle. White-ant proof.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane
M 3-8 Adelaide . . Perth
wANt-irt, the 100% cane fibre insulat-
ing Board, is also available for immed-
iate delivery. Two finishes . three thick-
nesses, and a wide range of sizes.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
fgfg
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.n.
JTuTfeallefzM,
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
f
• A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
• TOTALLY ENCLOSED. Fully pro-
tected from dust, etc.
• LISTARD (Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
• Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
<?' LAND:
Norman Bell & Co.
Pty. Ltd., 403 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell 6 Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., S 8 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD., STAMFORD, ENG.
Broom Millet.
“Ager”: Now’s the time to sow
broom millet. In N.S.W. 90 p.c. of the
crop is produced on rich alluvial lands
of the North Coast. Any land yielding
40 or more bushels of maize gives good
profit. Sandy or gravelly soil will do.
The essential thing is drainage. Millet
must not suffer “wet feet.”
Use only seed that has been treated
for the prevention of kernel smut.
Cost of control runs to less than 3d.
per acre. Dust the seed with copper
carbonate at the rate of 3oz. to the bushel
(481 b.). Mix thoroughly by shaking in
a kerosene-tin, but don’t inhale the dust.
In general rotation, whatever suits
maize suits this crop. Don’t grow it
continuously. It does best after a legu-
minous crop—field-peas, for instance.
Get the soil weed-free. Plough deep
a month or so before sowing. Plough
shallow later, then use harrow and roller.
Don’t sow until frosts are over. It can
be sown up till the end of January on
northern rivers.
Open up drills 4in. or sin. deep with
a double mouldboard plough, 3ft. or 3|ft.
apart. Seed 31b. to 61b. to the acre.
Watch thinning out. When 6in.
high thin out to sin. or 6in. The quality
of brush depends on the thinning out.
Too much space gives a coarse brush
unsuitable for market. Too little space
results in very fine and weak brush.
After thinning out keep the surface
loose and friable with the cultivator.
Harvest in warm, dry weather. When
baling, most satisfactory type is a box-
press, like a wool-press. This keeps the
butts even, and is simple to operate.
Usual size is 24cwt.
The yield ranges lOcwt. to 15cwt. of
clean marketable brush, and 25 bushels,
to 30 bushels of seed per acre.
Watch the smut. Smutted millet heads
have a very inferior fibre. They are dis-
colored and of no market value.
Furthermore, the spores become scat-
tered over good brush during harvesting
and hackling, causing discoloration and
lessening the market value.
Don’t go in for broom millet unless
it’s intended to grow it for a number of
years. The necessary apparatus is rather
expensive. But it’s worth while. Last
year two consignments of broom millet
realised £67 10s. 3d. a ton at the opening
sales.
Seed and Fertiliser.
“Hortus”: Don’t mix pasture seed
and fertiliser days before it is required.
Some do it to save time, but stand to
lose by doing so. Mix seed with fer-
tiliser in the paddock just previous to
sowing.
Recent tests go to prove that even after
only 36 to 48 hours’ mixing germination of
lucerne was detrimentally affected ; and
after six days’ mixing reduction of ger-
mination capacity was 21 p.c.
Peculiarly, with white-clover seed
there were no ill effects after contact with
the fertiliser for seven days. But ger-
mination capacity of perennial rye after
contact with super, for seven days was
reduced from 69 p.c. to 22 p.c. The
same grass mixed with sulphate of
ammonia suffered no reduction. After
being kept in contact with super, for 16
days only 3 p.c. of perennial-grass seed
germinated.
When grass seed is mixed with fer-
tiliser before entering the paddock the
trouble starts if it rains and sowing is
held up. The mixed seed and manure
may have to stand in the bags for several
days.
Hints for the Farm.
“5.8.”: “Bundalinga’s” lick for im-
paction in cattle (B. 7/9/’3B) has too
much salt. Cattle would not eat enough
to get any aperient effect from the
molasses and Epsom. A better distri-
bution is Epsom-salt four parts, molasses
four parts, salt one to two parts. Place
the lick out daily to avoid individuals
getting more than a fair share.
“Jayem”: During the average working
season (August to April inclusive) one
fairly populous hive of bees will pro-
duce about 30s. worth of honey and
beeswax, will pollinate an acre or more
of fruit-trees every three weeks as each
species flowers, and will strip and fer-
tilise several acres of lucerne blossom
to produce seed. An apiary in a quiet
corner of the farm is worth while.
“Merino”: For footrot use a dressing
of lpt. spirits of turpentine, |pt. white
wine vinegar, 4oz. verdigris, 2oz. blue
vitriol and lOoz. butter of antimony.
Thoroughly mix and allow it to cool
before bottling. The sheep’s feet should
be carefully washed, pared and any
putrescent matter removed before apply-
ing it. Daily treatment for from eight
days to 10 days will effect a cure. Clean
straw or dried grass should be provided
as a walkabout during treatment.
“Yarri”: Old planting hoes make good
top hinges for gates. If the blade is too
shor-t to nail on top of the post, draw
it out into a spike.
“J.J.H.”: The decrease in this year’s
wool clip is shown by figures compiled
by the Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing from
107 sheds in north-west N.S.W. and the
Riverina:
Weight of
Sheep Shorn. Wool Cut.
1937 .. .. 1,651,365 14,329,5041 b.
1938 .. .. 1,469,084 11,406,4161 b.
Decrease .. 182,281 2,923,0881 b.
(11.03 p.c.) (20.39 p.c.)
The Riverina has had a particularly bad
year. There sheep numbers dropped
36.79 p.c., and the wool cut 40.69 p.c.
Although a fairly substantial decrease in
the Australian clip was forecast at the
beginning of the season, it looks as
though the actual number of bales will
be lower than was anticipated. Later
sheds should show up better.
“Milo”: Japanese millet is the best
summer crop for wheat districts in times
of low wheat prices. Fine in the leaf
and stalk, it makes first-class green feed
or hay. Unlike Sudan grass, another
summer stand-by, it is not poisonous
at any stage of growth. Millet has a
wide range of climatic conditions, but
does best in districts of summer rainfall.
There is no shortage of seed.
“Mt. Boppy”: Dairy cattle breed
societies should give more consideration
to production. A show champion, judged
on type, might not be able to produce
enough milk to pay for the food she
gets. In Denmark, before a cow can
be registered as a purebred, she must
produce at least 4401 b. of butterfat in
a lactation. The average annual yield
per cow in Denmark is 3501 b. of fat.
No cow should be called champion
unless she has at least earned an official
certificate for production, while cham-
pionships should be awarded only to
bulls that are out of certificate-hold-
ing cows.
“J. Want”: C. E. Cowley, wool lec-
turer at Sydney Technical College, told
a gathering at Moree (N.S.W.) that
claims made on behalf of artificial wool
were “extravagant and exaggerated.” The
artificials, he said, were not substitutes
for wool. The crimp was not the same
as in real wool; neither had the chemical
products the lasting qualities of the sheep-
grown article. He added sensibly that
the best way to combat rayon com-
petition was by improving wool quality.
“Marija”: Pigs for the Australian
porker and baconer carcass competitions
must be at the works for slaughtering
on October 15. Entrants may send any
number of pigs for slaughter, afterwards
submitting up to five carcasses, from
which—if they’re up to first-grade export
standard —the three best will be accepted
for the competitions. Heads must be
included in carcasses and the dressed
weight of porkers be between 601 b. and
,901 b., of baconers 120-1601 b. Sires must
be from a litter recorded by the Austra-
lian Stud Pig Breeders’ Society. Entry
forms can be had from the society, from
the Australian Meat Board, or from meat
and bacon factories handling export pigs.
The judging will be done in London in
December, and the Meat Board is offer-
ing £25 and a trophy as prizes in each
class.
“Jachris”: it’s Dr. W. L. Waterhouse
who has been experimenting with rust-
proof wheats at Sydney University, not
Dr. Hindmarsh (B. 14/9/’3B). Water-
house is Reader in Agriculture at the
University and the first Farrer scholar.
This year he delivered the Farrer address.
“Namoi”: Eureka, the rust-immune
wheat produced at Glen Innes (N.S.W.)
Experiment Farm, is showing up well
in the north-west. A cross between a
Kenya (East Africa) variety, Florence
and Dundee, it is short and strong in the
straw, and in recent storms has stood
up when tall varieties such as Ford have
gone down. This is important for har-
vesting in a season like the present, when
crops make rapid soft growth. So far
it has not been possible even artificially
to infect Eureka with stem rust.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to control hawk moths which are in-
festing my sweet potatoes? —Slo33.
Spraying with arsenate of lead (lib. to 40
gallons of water) is recommended. Have the
spray pump fitted with an extension rod and an
angle nozzle to enable both surfaces of the
leaves to be sprayed. Where the foliage is thick
the nozzle should be drawn among the leaves
to ensure a thorough application.


We£F PcUel Po4itCoH& For Thauted M&H
Ife . ' ’’Jlllll
Op M
ftmmm
v :
; ':
: .....>
Yr
I
y
YOU CAN TRAIN
AT HOME!
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power users in
every industry are changing to Diesel, the modern,
highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
home study course . . . See how YOU can fit
yourself for a position in this new industry of
to-day and to-morrow, by qualifying for the
D.E.C. Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING KNOWLEDGE NEEDED
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1300 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student, and to whom
students may write about any problem connected with the Course.
Be In On The Ground Floor In This New Field
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the »two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TRACTION DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA'S
LARGEST DIEiEL SCHOOL
Over 1300 Successful
Students Testify to the Value
of The Diesel Engineering College Courses.
"7. 11 n r
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL, (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
gf
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 28/9/’3B.
diesel
SYDNEY
ENGINEERING
MELBOURNE BRISBANE
COLLEGE
NEWCASTLE


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and tarn
in Spare Time!
The most thorough and practical
Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to Write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C.S. School of Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 144 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy Might Is Right, by “Ragnar Red-
beard.”—looB.
Information Sought.
I propose to pay a visit to Australia. How
long should I be permitted to remain in Aus-
tralia without becoming liable for income tax
on my full income? I already derive a small
income from Australia on which I pay absentee
tax. —733.
There is no liability to Commonwealth or
State taxes on income derived from sources
outside Australia by a person who is not a resi-
dent of this country. While you are visiting
Australia you will not be liable to Common-
wealth or State taxes on income derived by
you from sources abroad. But there is no fixed
period after which a visitor is regarded as a
resident and liable to tax as such. The question
whether and when a visitor becomes a resi-
dent of Australia is a question of fact to be
decided after a consideration of the circum-
stances surrounding each case.
* * * *
(1) Average Italians per hundred in Queens-
land as compared with South Australia? (2)
Birthplace of G. O. Allen, captain of last tour-
ing English cricket team? (3) Is the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia privately controlled?
—B2l.
(1) Queensland 0.47 per 100, South Australia
0.18 per 100. (2) Sydney. (3) The Common-
wealth Bank of Australia is owned by the
Commonwealth and is under public though non-
political control.
*****
Is there such a thing as a straight line?
That is to say, if what we call a straight, line
were produced infinitely would it remain straight,
or would it curve before it reached infinity? —
1027.
Euclid’s definition of a straight line is that
it “lies evenly between its extreme points,”
which presumably excludes any curvature, and a
straight line is so understood by geometricians.
Mathematicians, however, have an abstraction
of which they are fond. They say that parallel
lines may meet in infinity. Certain Einsteinian
equations suggest that the shortest line between
two points in stellar space, both moving, may
be curved.
* * * *
A Victorian boy doing his leaving certificate
wishes to take up industrial chemistry. Is there
any scope for this sort of work, and what would
be the best way of getting such a position ?
919.
Chemists are employed by manufacturers of
iron and steel products, paint manufacturers,
manufacturers of food products of all kinds,
sugar manufacturers, breweries and cordial
manufacturers, gasworks, etc. As to possibili-
ties of obtaining employment, get in touch with
the Melbourne Technical College, Latrobe-street,
Melbourne.
* * * *
What subjects would a young girl have to
study besides shorthand and bookkeeping to sit
for the exam, for the Commonwealth Public
Service ? —844.
Subjects at examinations for permanent
appointment in the Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice which are open to girls are: —(1) Typist,
Grade 1 (ages between 16 and 26 years): Type-
writing, (a) speed test, (b) confused manuscript;
shorthand, 100 words a minute; spelling, judged
from transcription of misspelled paper; Eng-
lish, meaning of words, punctuation and detec-
tion of errors and omissions in a printed paper;
and arithmetic, first four rules, simple and
money. (2) Telephonist or assistant (female),
Grade 1 (ages between 16 and 19 years): Spell-
ing, judged from transcription of' misspelled
matter; arithmetic, first four rules, simple and
money; and handwriting, judged from spelling
paper. It is suggested that you get in touch with
the Commonwealth Public Inspector’s office,
Commonwealth Bank Building, Martin-place,
Sydney.
* * * *
Was Madame Curie the sole discoverer of
radium ? —784.
No. In 1896 Henri Becquerel published his
observations on the radio-activity of uranium, a
property manifested in a still higher degree
by the compound known as pitchblende. The
Curies immediately subjected pitchblende to
fractionation, hoping thereby to discover some
hitherto unknown substance which must be
radio-active to a still greater extent than
uranium. Their hopes were realised in the dis-
covery of radium and its transformation pro-
duct, polonium. But it was Madame Curie who
carried out the many experiments necessary to
determine the atomic weight of radium, the
element she and her husband had jointly dis-
covered.
* * * *
What are the wages of enginedrivers in
Vic. butter factories? —737.
Depends on capacity of the engines tended
and ranges from £4 4s. 6d. to £4 10s. 6d. per
week. Copy of factory enginedrivers’ award
is procurable from Vic. Govt. Printer for 3d.
* * * *
(1) Does the Government of Great Britain
make a subsidy to the Anglican Church ; if so,
to what extent? (2) Does the Government of
Australia subsidise the Anglican Church; if so,
to what extent? —916.
(1) All Consolidated Funds belonging to the
Church of England arc the result of private
bequests of land and property. The tithes are
collected by the Government in some instances,
and by the rectors in others, but the church
derives nothing from any public taxation. There
is, however, the Queen Anne’s Bounty Fund,
established in the reign of Queen Anne (1704)
for augmenting small church livings and aiding
rebuilding schemes, parsonages, etc. Its income
is derived from tithes, Parliamentary grants and
private gifts. (2) The Church of England in
Australia is not an established church, and
therefore receives no subsidy from any Gov-
ernment.
* * * *
/ wish to make a coat-of-arms and other de-
signs out of a privet hedge. How should l go
about it? —lol7.
Set the plants in good soil to .encourage
quick growth. For a coat-of-arms all the low-
growing shoots should be cut off to make the
legs for the figures; then keep the top growth
cut to make the body. When this is com-
pact allow some of the growth to grow tall to
make the head. You will need sharp shears
and secateurs and a lot of patience, since the
job will take up a great deal of time. For
other designs wire-working firms construct de-
signs through which the leaf-growth will grow,
and it can then be trimmed off. Many attractive
designs can also be made by using the purple
and brown and orange lantana, the blooms
adding a bright touch, especially where it is
desired to cut out the flowers to make a pat-
tern.
* * * *
What are the habits of the Cape honeysuckle
shrub ? Is it suitable for a cold highland dis-
trict ? —1039.
Cape honeysuckle ( Protea mellifera) is rather
a difficult shrub to handle, especially in the first
year. It is evergreen, and is particularly suit-
able to cool districts where shelter is afforded
from strong winds. It thrives best in loamy soil
without manure, and sometimes attains to Bft.
The blooms of pink and pale yellow are about
the same size as (and similar to) the waratah.
* * * *
(1) Would my age (30) be a serious handicap
when seeking employment as an architectural
draftsman? (2) Is it considered necessary to
have served an apprenticeship in a drawing
office ? (3) What are prospects of employment ?
—BBB.
Service in a drawing office is necessary. A
man of 30 without experience would have great
difficulty in securing employment. Call at the
Technical College, Ultimo, and have a chat
with the Lecturer-in-Charge of the architecture
department.
* * * *
(1) Particulars concerning the new Fie won
street signs? (2) Is fleuron a newly-discovered
gas ? (3) Name of the firm handling them ?
—935.
(1) “Fleuron” is the trade name given by
Messrs. Claude Neon to a fluorescent tubing em-
ployed in street signs in conjunction with the
gases normally used. (2) No. (3) Claude
Neon Lights, 2 Alison-road Randwick, N.S.W.
* * * #
Can tiles be made from sawdust; if so, how ?
—951.
Tn one method, .soft wood sawdust is boiled
with a solution of glue and waterglass, and a
further quantity of sawdust is then added and
well mixed by kneading so that a plastic mass
of the consistency of dough is produced. This
is pressed between iron plates, then dried and
cut up, yielding slabs of any desired size and
thickness which, in a dry state, are very hard
and fairly resistant to damp. By adding pig-
ments such as vermilion, umber, etc., colored
tiles are produced.
* * * *
How to polish cow’s horns? Is the same
method applicable to bone? —.937.
Elbow grease is the chief factor in horn-
polishing, as the heat generated by friction
assists glossing. Clean the horns with soap and
hot water, then rub thoroughly with a flannel
dipped first in neatsfoot oil and then in emery
powder, working from the tip of the horn back-
wards to the base in long lines. Polish until
a good surface is obtained, clean off thoroughly,
polish again with a fresh flannel and oil only:
finish with a silk cloth, when a high lustre
should be obtained. It will take some time and
should not be attempted at one sitting. Bone
should be well washed and scoured with a
kitchen cleaning powder, and then rubbed
briskly with whiting mixed with very soapy
water, finished with a silk cloth. It is not
easy to polish by hand: a small power-driven
buffer will do the work better.
* * * *
How to make flypaper which is to be soaked
in water? —954.
Assemble 100 parts quassia chips powdered,
15 parts molasses,, 5 parts alcohol (methylated
spirit will do) and 575 parts water. Macerate
the quassia in 50 parts of the water for 24
hours, then press out the liquid. Mix this with
the molasses and evaporate to 20 parts. Add the
alcohol and the remaining water and, without
filtering, saturate absorbent paper with it. To
use, set out the saturated paper on a plate with
a little water: the flies are killed by partaking
of the liquid so formed. It scarcely pays to
attempt to make this at home in small quan-
tities.
* * * *
How to remove rust or mildew stains from
an antique silk table runner? —898.
Rust is usually removed with the juice of a
lemon and common salt made to a paste,
applied to the stains, set in the sunshine and
sprinkled with water to keep moist; mildew is
treated with limewater, and extended bleaching
in the sunshine. Both of these treatments would
probably damage your runner. If it is valuable,
take it to a professional dyer and cleaner, who
may be able to apply a vapor treatment.
* * * *
A few details concerning the old Woolgarlo
station and the old Woolgarlo copper mine
situated in the Burrinjuck (N.S.W.) district ?
—938.
The earliest settlement in this district seems
to have been on the Woolgarlo station. In
Bailliere’s Gazetteer of N.S.W. for 1866, the
occupier of this station is given as Thomas
Robertson, its area 7680 acres, its grazing capa-
bility 500 head of cattle. In the publication en-
titled Back to Yass Celebrations, issued in 1927,
there is the following statement: “In the valley
of the Yass River is situated the Woolgarlo
estate, and the site, now under water, of the
old Woolgarlo copper mines. A monument of
these works will probably be noticed in the
shape of the old chimney stack projecting from
the water.” The Copper Mining Industry, by
J. E. Carne, 1899, has the following concern-
ing the Woolgarlo mine: “This mine is situ-
ated directly opposite the Good Hope mine.
Mr. Argyle McCullom states that several lodes
of copper and lead occur on the Woolgarlo
property of 1248 acres; but beyond shallow sur-
face work nothing has been done to develop
them....ln 1870 a crushing and smelting plant
was erected on this property; but being placed
too close to the river bank it was washed away
in the first flood. Prospectus of Woolgarlo
Lead-mining was issued on 16th March, 1867.”
The present township of Burrinjuck grew up
as a result of the construction of the dam.
* * * *
When was the gaol at Trial Bay built, and
when closed; what class of prisoner was sent
there, and when did transportation of convicts
from England to Australia cease? —9s9.
The first contract for Trial Bay prison was
Jet in 1877, and the first wing completed in
1879. The first batch of prisoners arrived in
1886, and the prison was closed in 1903. The
prisoners were all locally tried, transportation
to N. S. Wales having ceased in 1840. W.A.
was the last colony to receive convicts from
England, and the system was finally terminated
in 1868.
*****
Names and addresses of a few of the photo-
graphic agencies (both Australian and Ameri-
can) which distribute photographic prints to
newspapers, and also a rough idea of their
usual terms —percentage laken, work done by
the agency on photographs, etc.. ? —895.
The principal agents handling photographs in
Sydney are the Yaffa Syndicate, Kosmos Press
and Special Press Photos. They represent
several English, European and American dis-
tributors and handle local photographs for sale
throughout Australasia, Great Britain, Europe
and the United States at a charge of 25 p.c.
Overseas houses would distribute any matter
sent to them direct. Their usual charge is
50 p.c. An arrangement could be made by
for local press agents such as those men-
tioned to have negatives retouched and prints
made from submitted negatives, but this would
be charged up against the account. No charge
is, however, made for postage, and the photo-
graphs or negatives would be returned to the
sender if unsaleable. Two American agencies
are Globe Photos, 33 West 42nd-street, and Key-
stone View Co. of N.Y., Inc., 219 East 44th-
street—both New York.
* * * *
(1) When were the first Test cricket matches
played between Australia and South Africa?
(2) The result? (3) Members of the Australian
team ? —974.
(1) In 1902. (2) First Test at Johannesburg,
Oct. 11, 13, 14, drawn—S. Africa 454 and 4
for 101, Australia 296 and 7 for 372 (closed);
second Test at Johannesburg, Oct. 18, 20, 21,
Australia won by 159 runs —Australia 175 and
309, S. Africa 240 and 85 ; third Test at Cape
Town, Nov. 8, 10, 11, Australia won by 10
wickets —Australia 252 and 0 for 59, S. Africa
85 and 225. (3) The Australian team comprised
Darling (capt.), Hill, Armstrong, Duff, Trumper,
Noble, Hopkins, Trumble, Kelly, S. Gregory,
Howell, Saunders and E. Jones.
* * * *
Particulars concerning the I.b.w. decision;
also, is it possible to obtain an I.b.w. decision
bowling around the wicket? —946.
Cricket Law 24 states: “If with any part of
his person (except his hand) which is between
wicket and wicket he intercept a ball which, in
the opinion of the umpire at the bowler’s wicket,
shall have been pitched in a straight line from
the bowler’s wicket to the striker’s wicket or
shall have been pitched on the off side of the
striker’s wicket and would have hit it, the bats-
man is out leg before wicket.” The notes on
Law 24 issued by N.S.W. Cricket Association
state: “A batsman may be out 1.b.w.,
although the bowler is bowling round the
wicket, if the case comes within this law
It is sometimes only possible for a bowler bowl-
ing round the wicket to obtain a I.b.w. with a
breaking ball.”
* * * *
A bowler, after delivering the ball, ran across
the matting covering a concrete wicket and
tore it with the spikes on his boots. When
attention was drawn to it, and he was warned
by the umpire that he must not do it, the bowler
questioned the umpire’s right. What is the
cricket law on the subject? —lo3o.
In 1936 the Australian Board of Control made
the following addition to the Laws of Cricket
for Australia: “If a bowler, upon appeal from
the batsman to either umpire, is considered by
such umpire to be damaging the wicket during
the delivery of the ball or the follow through,
such umpire shall direct the bowler to cease so
damaging the wicket. Should the bowler fail
to obey such direction such umpire, on the
further appeal by any batsman during the then
current innings, may order that such bowler
shall not bowl again during the course of such
innings, and the over then in course shall be
deemed complete.” Although this law was
made for turf wickets it is equally applicable to
matting.
* * * *
(1) Was it Bob Fitzsimmons or Jim Corbett
who invented the solar-plexus punch ? (2)
Where and when did Corbett and Fitzsimmons
fight for the world’s heavyweight champion-
ship ?— lOlB.
(1) General impression is that Fitzimmons in-
vented it, but, according to reports of old
London prize-ring fights, Jack Slack used such
a blow to’ knock out Jack Broughton in 14
minutes when they fought for the world’s bare-
knuckle championship just outside London on
April 11, 1750. (2) At Carson City, Nevada
(U.S.A.), on March 17, 1897.
Brief Answers.
A.J.: The inscription on the monument at
Watson’s Bay, Sydney, at the end of Old South
Head-road, records the fact that the road was
completed in 10 weeks from March 25, 1811.
... .J.D.: Without further information it would
not be possible to express a definite opinion.
If contribution to such a fund and acquiescence
in the condition as to forfeiture were part and
parcel of the terms of employment between the
bank and the employee then, apparently, no
action by the employee for the return of his
contributions in the event of dismissal would
lie. Otherwise, he might have a claim. Cannot
conjecture how a Court hearing all the evidence
and arguments would look upon the matter....
P.L.S.: (1) Under the Local Government Act
(N.S.W.) shires and municipalities are given
wide powers with regard to the construction
as well as the erection of buildings within resi-
dential areas, and builders have to conform
therewith. In view of the close proximiity of
your building to the dividing line the require-
ments referred to appear to be reasonable. (2)
and (3) Before erecting any buildings you
should obtain the approval of the council....
A. 8.: (1) Having delegated to the associates a
comprehensive power to manage their own
affairs you cannot now interfere with their
legitimate actions. (2) The associate body must
act strictly within the limits of the powers
delegated to it D.E.: Write to him saying
that you hold his letters containing a promise
to apprentice the lad should he return to his
service; on that undertaking he did return,
and unless the promise of apprenticeship is car-
ried into effect you will have to put the matter
in the hands of your solicitor... .T.T.: You
should write to the Registrar-General, Lands
Titles Department, Queen's-square, Sydney,
placing the facts before him, giving full par-
ticulars of the land in question and asking for
instructions as to the steps to be taken to
have a certificate of title issued E.R.8.:
In the Small Debts Court (N.S.W.) you may
recover any debt or liquidated demand not
exceeding £5O, but where the sum exceeds £5O
jurisdiction can be exercised only by a stipen-
diary or police magistrate. To recover sums
over the amount stated you would have to go
to the District Court... .J.T.: (1) The Benevo-
lent Society of N. S. Wales has administrative
offices at Thomas-street, Sydney. (2) Consult
Child Welfare Department, Education Buildings,
Bridge-street, Sydney J.C.: Always ready to
consider contributions submitted..-. .J.V.H.:
We know of no correspondence course in the
subject. Only way to qualify is by graduation
through a university which furnishes such a
course J.M.L.: (1) The correct proportions
for the laying of bricks would be one of cement
to four of sand, with the addition of l-sth part
of hydrated lime to make the mortar more
workable. (2) Silicate of soda is used to seal
the pores of concrete floors. Can’t say if this
would have the effect of making concrete abso-
lutely impervious to lactic acid, which is the
cause of milk attacking concrete if allowed to
lie around on the concrete floor. You should
have no difficulty with milk attacking good con-
crete, provided the concrete is washed down
daily... .M.F.H.: The secret of preventing
crazing in artificial marble work and terazzo
work is that a dry mix should be used and
curing should be properly done. The making of
artificial stonework, marble work and terazzo
work is a highly specialised operation, and for
that reason anyone undertaking it should have
some practical experience. Copy of a specifica-
tion dealing with the making of terazzo work,
the principle of which can be applied to the
making of artificial stonework, etc., has been
posted D.S.: Approximately 74 p.c. of the
slaughtering of stock in the County of Cum-
berland (N.S.W.), including sheep, lambs and
pigs, is carried out at the Homebush Abattoirs.
Figures in relation to the other establishments
are not available W. 0.: (1) Apply Repatria-
tion Department, giving husband’s regimental
number and other particulars. (2) Write Legacy
Club for assistance... .A.W.: “Ah, Sweet
Mystery of Life” was published in 1910, and
“Coming Home” in 1914... .E.G.S.: Know
of no correspondence school teaching it.
“Hohner School of Piano-accordion Play-
ing” in 26 books; complete £lO 10s
G. 8.: Suggest that you make the inquiry of
the Aberdeen and White Star representative in
Sydney or of the Customs Department, which
has the shipping records for the ’eighties
T.F.P.: The Ancient Order of Foresters Ap-
proved Society, Queensland, has been provision-
ally approved by the National Insurance Com-
mission ; the address of its secretary is:
L. Birt, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
George-street, Brisbane J.J.H.: A person
engaged in clerical work whose salary is
£340 per annum, plus living quarters, light,
fuel and water valued at £26 per annum, would
not be regarded as an insured person, as his
rate of remuneration exceeds £365 per annum.
....M.A.R.: A married woman aged 58 would
not be eligible to become a voluntary con-
tributor. One of the qualifications for a person
to become a voluntary contributor is that she
has been employed and insured as an employed
contributor for a period, whether continuous or
not, of not less than 104 weeks since her last
entry into insurance. As a woman now aged
58 years would reach the maximum age of 60
years within two years it would be impossible
for her to become a voluntary contributor
M. : The ages of some species of trees can
be obtained by a study of the annual wood
increment, which can be measured from the
annual rings shown in the wood. Only certain
species of Australian trees show this regular
growth, and the age of the tree can be calcu-
lated in these cases. As regards Australian
teak (Flindersia australis ), the growth is irregu-
lar, and the age of the standing tree cannot be
determined without information concerning date
of germination or establishment.


HAD TO SLEEP
PROPPED UP IN BED
Too Fat to Breathe Properly.
A year ago she was so fat she could not
get her breath properly, and had to be propped
up in bed. To-day she runs a house and busi-
ness. What is the secret of this amazing change?
Her letter tells you:
“Just over a year ago I was ill in bed.
1 weighed 15 stone. I was so fat that I could
not get my breath and had to sleep propped
up in bed. The doctor said my heart was fatty,
and put me on a diet. When I was able to get
up, I was very weak, with no energy. I
started taking Kruschen Salts, and when the
first bottle was finished I found I had lost
over a stone. I continued the treatment, and
lost another 17 lbs.—making 31 lbs. in all.
To-day l do my own housework, and run a
business. Everybody says how well l look, and
it is all due to Kruschen.”—(Miss) A.M.
Kruschen stimulates the liver, kidneys and
digestive tract to healthy activity, so that poisons
and waste matter are regularly cleared from the
system. As these poisons go, fat goes too.
You gain new strength and energy—feel years
younger—look better, work better.
g
EARN AN EXTRA INCOME WEEKLY FOR LIFE
—WRITING FOR THE PRESS!
Thousands of STORIES and ARTICLES are wanted annually by Australian Editors.
If YOU have THOUGHTS, why not turn them into CASH and make a regular
EXTRA INCOME weekly? Send for STOTT’S New Free Booklet: “How to
Write for Profit.” Simply cut out this Advertisement and mail it with your full
Name and Address to Uept. 8.53, STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 100
Russell Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
cl, GOOD
SMOOTH SHAVE
BEST
BRITISH
BLADE
fg
Sole Agents: JOUBERT &- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
Veedol Motor Oil has earned its world-wide reputation from years
of successful service in every corner of the globe. It has
placed at the command of motor users a permanent
lubrication ... an oil that cannot drain away
from the working parts of the engine
because it clings to the
surface.
o>
\ v
AND NOW COMES THE NEW EXTRA MILEAGE VEEDOL.
Whether you ore hustling through a 1,000 mile trip or
stopping many times during the day . . . either below
freezing or over boiling point your engine stays 100%
lubricated with the New Extra Mileage Veedol Motor Oil
There's no eorbon, gum or sludge formers in the New Extro
Mileage Veedol . . . after using it you will never let any
other oil go into the crankcase of your car. There is no
motor oil in the world today to compare with the New
Extro Mileage Veedol Motor Oil.
100% PURE PENNSYLVANIA AT ITS BEST.
Obtainable at all leading garages and at no greater cosf
than any other oil.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY
P T Y. LTD.
V. 58
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.A.W.: Sugary A.M.S.: Damp Words-
worth J.T.: It was painful but necessary
J.H.M.: You’ve been reading “We Are the
Music-makers”....Jß : Afraid it’s a mechan-
ised monster inn hh • non’t like
•Wod?! ih w , u
pagodas on the Waikato.... PC: That bell
aS to ° ( Oft en ..-.G.8.: A bittosporum.
. On the Way” 15....C.M.: A
most venerable pun J.H.H.: Not much use
repeating it....F.8.: Amusing, but we've heard
Picture of Artist waiting for
Joke Ideas.
Send ’em in and get 7/6 a time.
too much of that topic WJ.: Insipid
E. Very rugged... .J.L.H.: Butterflies....
A.F.G.: Wrong shop for popular songs.
....A.N.: They’re in reverse gear....
H.M.H.: A jogtrot... ,M.H.: Off season for
prose-poetry... .E.D.: Not so far away.
....J.F.: Seem to have read poems called
“Sunrise” once or twice before E. 8.:
It might make a song... .1.G.: Moralising....
A.McD.: Will read any you send, but samples
don’t seem vastly original P.S.: Still misses.
....V,C.: Don’t like “attractive male animals.”
J.G.: Neat enough, but not quite up
T.R.: Doesn’t stick... .H.H.H.: Nearly....
T.V.G.: Thin K.T.: No, but try again
M.C.V.: Not up... .E.K.: 0ut....A.F.:
Borderliner... .0.E.W.: You’ll place it—else-
where. .. .R.G.H.: Hardly a smile... .J.8.D.:
Whoa! .D.G.: Much too long-winded....
P C.: Not for us S.C.: Well off the track
F. Write on one side of the paper only.
. .i.1.8.C.: Still a long way short R.J.S.:
Not funny—any of them A.M.: N 0..;.
E.R.Y. (England): Article on English reed
thatchers hardly in our line C.J.R.: No
nearer what we want W.C.: Something there,
but you’re not up to handling it W.R.L.:
Same for you J.L.: Try it on a flapper mag.
....P.L.S. and J.T.0.: Off our beat... .J.F.:
No! D.J.McL.: Almost illegible M.T.:
We think as you do F.C.M.: Four murders.
Out! W.J.H.: Slight.... H.C.: “Ever been
had?” Yes, but not by yarns of that ilk
G. : “Would you?” N0....F.F.: Not
much there... .G.M.8.: Raised a tentative
chuckle P.C.: “His Temptation” not ours.
A.C.: Making its return journey E. 8.:
You might hang it on another h00k... .L.C.C.:
Suggest you burn it N.S.P.: Sweet —sac-
charine, in fact H.G.: Not bad, but not for
u5....D.H.: Gory specimen on its way home.
. ...W.H.C.: Elsewhere perhaps... .Z.V.W.,
G.B.G. and L.G.8.: Three gloom mates
. —E.A.S.: Mush... .D.N.G.: Not much
better... .S.P.: Not what we want... .F.W.D.:
Slim E.C.A.: Might make a par
L.W.C.: Why? ... .E.M.: Touched up it might
find a roost with a daily... .K.L.S.: Not that
one T.8.D.: Those downy birds won’t
feather your nest T.N.: Insurance gent.
thrown down the office stairs L.8.R.: Send
it back to Amurrica H.T.S., M.T.P., G.L.
and P.C.D.: Missed R.F.: That one a long
way away.. . .A.C.: Just a stretch of gloom.
H.S.: Nothing new about it.... J.H.: Sorry
to have misjudged the Hammond, brother.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.P.: Still in the kindergarten class
A.M.L.: You won’t get far merely copying
another man’s style F.M.: Smudged draw-
ing and anasmic joke K.D.: That drunk
has been brushed off our doorstep before
T.M.: Promising, but you’ve still a lot of tricks
to learn... .M. 0.: Where did you get your in-
spiration—from a cactus bush? P.G.:
You’re a heavy-handed artist and a dull jester.
C.S.: More like dead trees than people
A.W.L.: Neat drawing, but the gag doesn’t fit
it P.S.: A crude and labored effort
N.M.: The wings look all right, but the man is
certainly not Chamberlain H.M.W.: Pug with
the stovepipe legs was counted out R B •
Your lopsided hikers are footing it home..!.
P.L. ■ A third-rate illustration of a very tame
gag... .J. 8.: Take away those queer little
gnomes with balloons tied to their lips FS •
Didn’t like your first attempt, but try again
in two or three years’ time A.R.H.: That
class of paper does not suit charcoal BG •
About as understandable as a half-completed
jigsaw puzzle....K.D.: South Pole sketch re-
ceived a chilly welcome... .E.W.: Lines should
flow more smoothly, and gags be crisp and to
the point... .H. 8.: There’s an idea in it, but
you didn’t bring it to light F.R.M.: Effort
to construct a human figure out of swastikas
was a lamentable failure C.R.D.: All your
llgure ? havc the appearance of having been run
over a steam roller L.T.: Surf picture
P rovcd a dumper....L.B.L.: Nicely done, but
wc don - t want colored drawings /. . . W !w. :
Can’t see you endorsing a Bulletin cheque for
many a long day to come... .N.C.: Nibbled
at the bait, but finally decided that it was not
tasty enough... .R.L.: F.a.q.; keep on trying.
“Gryllus”: Curious how utterly
groundless superstitions recur in spite of
the alleged cumulative increase of human
knowledge and understanding. The
astrological dope served up in the flapper
press is one example. Another is the
recently-revived myth which ascribes out-
breaks of epidemics to sunspots. It is
traceable back to early Egyptian times,
and recurs at wide intervals in Greek,
Roman, medieval and post-Renaissance
European records. Fifty years ago it
was the subject of a careful English in-
vestigation which showed that, on the
well-understood cyclical behavior of sun-
spots, no connection existed in England,
or ever had existed over historical time.
Nor, incidentally, that there was any con-
nection between sunspots and weather.
But the stunt-pullers of Old England are
wearing out their typewriters with hair-
raising prophecies about the living not
being able to bury the dead when the
latest combination of sunspots starts to
get in its best work.
* * * *
“Spike”: M.L. Universities are asking
a visit from Australian ’Varsity athletes.
The Australians will have to pay their
own transport, but kumara, dried shark
and smoked eels, together with the
necessary whares —be careful and don’t
print that word “wahines”—will be pro-
vided free of charge. The tour is set
down for January, exam, time for many,
including Jack Metcalfe, who, for one,
will be unable to go.
* * * *
“Fudge”: The inhabitants of Tinsley
Green in Sussex, who have held a world’s
marbles championship every Good Fri-
day since before the Armada, have been
stung to fury to read that the world’s
marbles championship has just been
concluded at a place called Battlefield,
in Tennessee. At Tinsley, the Lord’s of
the game, special concrete courts are
laid and the vyhole is presided over by
the British Marbles Control Board. A
challenge has been issued to the Ameri-
cans, impugning their claim, and inviting
a team of six to come to Tinsley. Fail-
ing that, the 8.M.C.8. will send a team
to America. While on the subject, can’t
Australia consider a series of Tests?
Anything to get away from that cricket
nightmare.


EVERY year at their Newcastle
and Port Kembla works Ly-
saght's use 130,000 tons of Austra-
lian steel and 20,000 tons of
Australian zinc for the production
of over 10,000,000 sheets of galvan-
ized iron. To all parts of Australia,
the railways and steamers bear
Red Orb Galvanized Iron, every
sheet carrying with it Lysaght's
guarantee and an assurance of
quality and service to every user.
FREE —a copy of Lysaght’s Referee, full of useful
information for ironworkers, storekeepers, and
the man on the land. Write for your copy to
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.. Box 196 D„
G.P.0., Sydney.
The Despatch
Yards at
Lysaght's
Mills.
LYSAGHT
dig)
AUSTRALIA
RED ORB
Galvanized Iron
for Roofing and
Walling.
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY - BRISBANE - MELBOURNE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
L 6
°o° O
V
WHAT'S YOUR BLADE
COLLECTION WORTH ?
Two a week ? 104 per annum —not a bad bag.
Those bits of steel cost you a pretty penny
too. Unless you’re a born collector why not
give it up and go in for real shaving comfort
and economy. A Wilkinson Razor and lour
hollow ground blades will see you through a
whole year because the Wilkinson uses full
hollow ground blades which are mekanised
stropped in the razor itself. And if the saving
doesn’t interest you the extra shaving comfort
certainly will.
RA7OR In
Oak Can
with two
Hollow
Ground
Bla d e s
sys/ 6
In Nickel-
plated Case 19/6
InChromeCase.
three Blades
and Strop. 27/6
7 -D AY' set
with a blade lor
every day ol the
week ■ - 37/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
WILKINSON
jgg^'HAZon'^
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
i( Obtainable from all Storee ★
ipm
't'
m
'THm-
c
tIILAC
tc
New Guinea
& Papua
m
m
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Five weeks’ tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
burns, philp
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
- Telephone: 87901
Mr. Roberts and Mr. Hitler
BY "M.E.W.J.”
HITLER should be no mystery to
those who have read Carlyle. He
is part mystic, part fanatic, as
Cromwell was, and he knows his
Cromwell and his Carlyle: he has obvi-
ously soaked himself in Cromwell’s Life
and Letters.
The professorial Roberts, who writes
so much for “S. M. Herald,” has the low-
est opinion of “.the Fuhrer,” as Mr
Roberts calls him in the “S. M. Herald’
of 19/8/’3B. To Mr. Roberts he is a
liar:
Hitler says that he wrote Mein Kampf
in the anguish of his soul during his in-
carceration in Landsberg fortress after the
abortive revolt of November, 1923. This is
not true. Originally the book appeared in
two volumes. The first, with 406 pages,
appeared in 1925, and was said to be largely
written by Rudolf Hess.
“Said” is not evidence, nor does Mr.
Roberts’s English produce the impression
that he has given days and nights to the
study of Addison:
The book is now in its third millionth.
... .There we may leave this confused
taradiddle [s/c] No reasonable man
would have been sorry to have written it
0ff....
One hopes that the professor’s Ger-
man is better, and that his copious quota-
tions from Mein Kampf are correctly
translated. Of that book he that
“it is only two years ago that” (“only
two years since” would be an improve-
ment) “Hitler refused to delete the dero-
gatory references to the French nation.”
Two years ago! Yet in the same year,
1936, Hitler addressed a powerful appeal
for mutual understanding and friendship
to the French. Chapter and verse for
that assertion, please, professor!
If The Bulletin will stand it I propose
to reprint a report of that 1936 speech,
properly translated, and condensed by an
unbiased hand. It throws a flood of light,
not only on German policy, but on the
present attitude of the French, which has
so astonished leader-writers, lady poli-
ticians and professors.
“Germany holds 136 persons to the
square kilometre They are not less in-
telligent than other Europeans, but their
will to live is also not a whit less strong
and they are no more ready than the
Englishman or the Frenchman to allow
themselves to be shot down as heroes tor
the sake of some dream or other....
They have already been drawn into a war
in which they believed just as little as
other Europeans, and for which they
were just as little responsible.
“The German who is 25 years old
to-day was three years old at the out-
break of war... .Even the youngest Ger-
man who could possibly be held re-
sponsible was 25 years old at that time ;
because that was the youngest age at
which Germans could vote. AH this
means that the great majority of Ger-
mans now living were forced to share in
the war whether they desired it or not.
“They fulfilled their duty in so far
as their age obliged them to do so, just
as every decent Frenchman and English-
man did The Germans are just as
rich in good qualities as any other people,
and naturally have quite as many faults
and failings.
“The provision of livelihood for Ger-
many is first and foremost the business
of the German people and need not
awaken any interest in the world. It
touches the interest of other nations only
in so far as the German people by the
solution of this question would thereby
resume trade relations with the rest of
the world as buyers and sellers.
“The world should realise that the cry
for bread on the part of a nation of
67,000,000 people is not a deliberate evil
engineered by the regime or by certain
forms of government; it is the natural
assertion of the urge to live. And it
ought to be clear that contented people
are more reasonable than hungry people
....and others ought to see that this
is a question which affects neighboring
States and peoples.
“The effort for self-sufficiency can be
made only if the German nation feels
itself on a footing of political equality
with other nations, and thus politically
secure.
“In 1932, Germany stood on the verge
of a Bolshevik collapse. I was able to
master the crisis The man who wished
to save Germany from Bolshevism was
necessarily bound to make the question
of Germany’s equality of status a de-
cisive one and solve it. By preventing
the inrush of a Bolshevik wave, others
as well as Germany were saved from the
terrible experiences which would have
followed our break-up, and which would
have brought ruin to Europe such as can
hardly be imagined.
“The re-establishment of German
equality of rights has had no harmful
effect on the French people ; but the Red
revolution and break-up of the Reich
would have shattered the social and
economic order of Europe.
“Each European nation may feel that
it has made the greatest contribution to
our Western European culture. On the
whole we would not wish to be without
anything which individual nations have
contributed. The special character of the
continent is, after all, the diversity of its
various civilisations. For that reason it
is a necessary condition that there should
be free and independent national States
... .and a spirit of reason.
“We feel it unpleasant that access to
the sea accorded to a nation of
33,000,000 [Poland] should cut through
former territory of the Reich; but we
realise also that it is unreasonable, be-
cause impossible, to dispute the question
of sea access for so great a State.
“The European nations form a family
... .sometimes a quarrelsome family. In
spite of everything, the members arc re-
lated to each other in diverse ways. Cul-
turally and spiritually and economically,
they are indivisible. In fact, their break-
up is unthinkable.
“In these three years, I have again
and again endeavored—unfortunately too
often in vain—to throw a bridge of
understanding across to the people of
France. The further we leave behind
the bitterness of the World War and the
fears that followed it, the more do evil
memories fade from the minds of men,
and the more do the beautiful aspects of
life and knowledge and experience come
to the fore.
“Those who once faced each other as
bitter opponents honor each other 10-day
as men who fought bravely in a great
struggle that is passed and gone, and
regard each other as the depositories and
trustees of a great and common cultural
inheritance.
“Why should it not be possible to
put an end to this useless strife which has
lasted for centuries and which has never
been and never will be finally decided
by either of the two nations concerned?
Why not replace it by the rule of reason?
“The German people have no interest
in seeing the French people suffer. And,
on the other hand, what advantage can
come to France when Germany is in
misery? What boon can the French
peasant expect because the German
peasant is in misery, and vice versa?
What blessing could it bring to Germany,
to the German laborer and to the Ger-
man middle classes or the whole of the
German people if France were over-
whelmed with misfortune?
“I have followed the principles of
commonsense in trying to solve questions
which arose from the mischievous preach-
ing of class war among the German
people ; and I have been successful 1
once swore that I would fight boldly and
steadfastly for Germany’s equality and
obtain it but at the same time my
earnest desire has been to increase the
feeling of responsibility for the necessity
of mutual consideration and collabora-
tion in Europe.
“If my opponents reproach me that I
refused this co-operation with Russia, I
make them the following declaration: I
do not and did not reject co-operation
with Russia but with Bolshevism, which
lays claim to world rulership. I am
German.
“I know this nation can be happy only
when it can live a life in accordance
with its own nature and in its own way.
The German nation has not only wept but
has laughed heartily throughout its life,
and I will not see it descend into the
gloom of international communism and
the dictatorship of hate.
“I tremble to think what would
happen to this old and overpopulated
continent if this Asiatic concept of the
world, which is destructive to all our ac-
cepted ideas, should bring upon us the
chaos of the Bolshevik revolution
With the Bolshevik group of nations we
desire no closer contact than ordinary
political and economic relations.
“During the past three years, I have
worked steadily for a Franco-German
understanding.... On one occasion I did
not hesitate to support a concrete pro-
posal for limiting the German army to
200,000 men.... but even a fresh pro-
posal by me to limit French and German
armies to 300,000 was rejected by France.
“A sense of realism led an English
Government to accept my proposal for
establishing a permanent ratio between
German and British navies, which is not
only consonant with German security,
but takes account of the enormous over-
seas interests of a great world Empire.
The Reich is ready to supplement this
treaty by further qualitative agreement
with England.
“I have expurgated from the German
press expressions of hatred against the
French people. 1 have endeavored to
instil into our youth an appreciation of
the ideal of an understanding with
France.”
This speech was made a month after
“S. M. Flerald” discovered a “sensa-
tional war plan by Germany.” Holland
was one of the countries to be attacked.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a Queenslander for a novel suggestion—impracticable,
perhaps, but striking and spiced with humor.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
Put ’Em All in Uniforms
I believe that Australians would be
greatly helped to comprehend how their
taxes and rates are spent if all people
whose livings are derived from the public
purse were compelled to wear appropri-
ate uniforms.
The regulation would apply to all paid
servants of the public, from the Gover-
nor-General down to the humblest mes-
senger employed by a council or a
board. I suggest that the number of
uniforms would be such a shocking eye-
opener to those left in mufti that a
bloodless and beneficial revolution would
be completed in three months. —A. W.
(Q-).
“A.W.” (Arthur Woolley, Amiens,
Queensland) gets the weekly prize of £3
35., plus space rates.
“No Family”
He is married, employed and earning
five pounds a week. His wife conducts
a shop that returns about three pounds
a week. There is no family.
This would describe an increasing num-
ber of Australians. Life for them is with-
out any real responsibility, as the prob-
lems and difficulties encountered are
purely personal ones. They do little for
the good of the community, as service
that counts can come only through the
medium of a family. Without a family
life is selfish and useless, for when life
ends so will the effects of worth-while
achievement.
When the need arises, as it surely will,
to protect and retain our civilisation and
culture, will these people be as able and
as willing to spend their efforts, and per-
haps lives, for refrigerators and radios
as they would for their own flesh and
blood? 1 think not. —D. A. W. (Vic.).
Australian Jobs for Australians
When it is found necessary to fill a
position of any importance the rulers of
this continent scour countries overseas.
Why are Australians passed over?
Would not our legislators be wiser if
they emulated the attitude of the Pope?
1 n recent years he has appointed priests—
Australian-born lads —to high and re-
sponsible positions. Time enough to send
overseas when the Australian falls down
on his job ; when he does, hand the coun-
try back to the blacks. The legislators,
having fallen down on theirs, apparently
measure other people’s abilities by their
own standard of inefficiency. —Fairview
(Q-).
Arbitration and Industry
Industry is not working in harmony
with the Arbitration Courts, and the fault
lies in the failure of the latter to keep
pace with rapid changes in industrial
conditions. As at present constituted,
the Courts are doing all that could be ex-
pected, but this is far from sufficient.
A Court cannot possibly comprehend
the difficulties of a craft by visiting a fac-
tory and watching men at work. Often
the most highly-skilled operation looks
easy till you try it. The diversity of
trades a Judge is expected to understand
also adds to his confusion. When arbi-
tration was first established the number
of occupations was relatively small, and
by comparing one with another a work-
able scale was arrived at. For instance,
motor-bodies. Then, two men built the
body on to the chassis, part by part.
They did the whole job. But now they
call it “one man, one job.” It may be
only putting one piece into position, but
that is cal ed an operation. Soul-searing,
but a livelihood.
The Arbitration Court’s paramount
functionis to see that a man’s rate of
pay is adequate compensation for the job
he docs. It seems to be accepted that
cann °t fulfil adequately even
*his all-important item,
Fhe Court has by now developed some
measure of contact with the woiking-
an - Ff om this nucleus a Department of
Industrial Regulation could be built up
,‘ nto a / lod Y whose functions would cm-
brace the whole sphere of industrial leg.s-
lat,on - Everyone to-day realises that our
present society is outmoded by the ad-
vance °l mechanisation and spec.ahsa-
llon > and that something must be done
to protect the human element from the
mechanical. J. M. P. (Vic.).
“Not mush traffic on shilly ole bridgesh to-ni' .”
National Insurance
The apparent lack of interest in the
subject of national insurance is remark-
able. This scheme has been foisted on
us without ascertaining the feelings of
the people, nor has any explanation of
it been offered. Except for reports con-
cerning doctors’ protests about fees and
the wrangling of Parliament on the
scheme or some aspect of it, very little
has appeared in the newspapers.
Many of the workers will know no-
thing about it until they find Is. 6d.
docked from their weekly pay, and then
they will growl.
Eighteenpence is far too much to
deduct from the pay of a worker earning
from 30s. to 50s. a week. —Mac (N.S.W.).
Coal Strikes
So soon as employment becomes plenti-
ful there is a “strike-complex” in the air.
The years here stated are merely illustra-
tive, and not guaranteed as correct: —-
1886 —N.S.W. coal strike for higher
wages; China trade lost.
1892. —N.S.W. coal strike for higher
wages; Japanese trade lost.
1895 —N.S.W. coal strike for higher
wages; S. American trade lost.
1902—N.5.W. coal strike for higher
wages; oil fuel proposals made.
1908—N.S.W. coal strike for higher
wages; oil fuel in operation.
And so through our history. All these
strikes were “won” ; i.e., higher wages, on
paper, were obtained. But as coal trades
disappeared, and with them shipping
trades, the weekly wages were less, even
if the daily wages sounded greater. A
time came at Newcastle when many
mines were closed, and in other mines
the miners could only obtain one shift a
week. The shift bore a good wage, but a
week’s wage in, say, 1902 or 1908 would
have been far better.
How would it be to pay portion of the
wages on the market price of coal? Such
a scheme was for about 25 years in
operation without any strike at the Wal-
laroo and Moonta copper mines in S.A.,
and each man felt he had a proprietary
interest in the welfare of the industry.—
F. T. C. (W.A.).
What’s Wrong with the R.A.A.F.?
The Ellington report has confirmed
what several aviation authorities have
been saying—the blame for the dreadful
list of air fatalities in the service is due,
not to the types of machines used, but
rather to bad flying.
I hope I may be excused if I suspect
that the real trouble with the Air Force
is that it is suffering from swelled head.
All the symptoms of the malady are
present. Members of the Air Force
depreciate the ability of pilots outside the
service ; they blindly insist that their own
methods are beyond criticism, and they
adopt a childish “hush-hush” policy con-
cerning all accidents. The Defence
authorities cultivate this stupid aloofness
by endeavoring to make the R.A.A.F. a
select band of ex-public-school boys.
They insist upon a standard of education
that the workingman’s son has little hope
of attaining.
The appeal for a closer co-operation
between airline pilots and the R.A.A.F.
is a sensible one. Only snobbishness pre-
vented this being already an accomplished
fact. When the idea of forming a reserve
composed of airline pilots was first
mooted, a pilot in a company whose
machines had flown a distance of
a million miles without a single
forced landing offered his services.
Civil aviation authorities regarded him
as one of the finest pilots in Aus-
tralia. He had had experience in
America, and was piling up a thousand
flying hours annually in multi-engmed
aircraft running to three-miles-a-minute
schedules. The R.A.A.F. showed its ap-
preciation by offering him the rank of
sergeant, which, had he accepted, would
have placed him under the command of
men whom he could literally fly rings
around.
There is not a shadow of doubt that
airline pilots could successfully take
command of large bombers.
The most valuable men in the last
war were not those devil-may-care gentle-
men who had short meteor-like careers
but rather the cool, calculating fliers who
went aloft with a full understanding of
the dangers they faced and accordingly
reduced them to a minimum.— Melton
(Vic.).
Losses to Professions
Ever notice how, when a man rises
high in his profession, the attributes
which have carried him to the top are
often no longer used? Take a school-
teacher. By skill in class-teaching he
gains promotion and becomes head-
master of a largish school. His teaching
powers are at their peak, and his experi-
ence has specially fitted him for guiding
the cultural and scholastic destinies of
his pupils. But what happens? He
gets little opportunity for actual teach-
ing. His time is taken up with organisa-
tion (for which perhaps he has no apti-
tude), shaking hands with parents and
keeping records which any petty clerk
could do for a few bob a week.
Similarly with a doctor who rises to
being medical superintendent of a hos-
pital. From that time forward he is
so occupied with administrative work
that the medical or surgical skill that
has earned him the position is largely
lost to mankind.
And so it is in other professions as
well. Seems absurd to me.—W. J. H.
(Maoriland).
Is It Worth While?
We hear a good deal about the
modern Australian preferring town to
the good old battle in the bush.
It is pretty hard for the working man
with a wife and children to be too
idealistic about this.
Back in 1932 I went with others from
a W.A. country town to a relief road-
making job. I rented a shack from a
settler and brought my family there.
When the job petered out I decided to
stay on and try to make my own way.
I tried mallet-bark stripping for a
couple of seasons fairly successfully,
but that gave out. Also did shearing,
and got some casual navvying at times
with the local per.-way gang. But it
wasn’t constant work.
Then I took on a sleeper-cutting con-
tract that was a real washout; it left
me pretty heavily in debt in spite of
hard graft.
So I moved to town, and now am on
relief work again. But I have a lot to
make up.
Others that were on the road job
with me made for the nearest big town
and went on the dole if relief work was
not available. By keeping in the eye
of the powers that be, some of them
have done pretty well —getting per-
manent jobs in the railways, for instance.
So it seems I was the mug.— Trydit
(W.A.).
Different “Memorials”
The unveiling of the Villers-Bretonneux
memorial reminds one that many
Diggers are in dire need of what is
lavished on useless mounds of stone that
serve merely to keep fresh old sorrows
and hatreds. It would be far better if
the money were set aside to provide
travelling scholarships for students in
international affairs —preferably Diggers
or their sons —so that funds raised in
memory of one catastrophe would be
used to bring about a condition of inter-
national understanding that would go a
long way towards preventing another.—
L. W. Muir (Q.).
Unofficial Opinion of Rabaul
Now that the Federal Government has
again changed its (for want of a better
word) mind about the site for the
future capital of the Mandated Territory,
perhaps it will consider a detail hitherto
ignored—the interests of people whose
capital and enterprise are invested in
Rabaul. They are being ruined.
After the eruption these people re-
turned to the dusty town, determined
to make the best of a bad job. This
they have successfully done, and the town
is almost normal again.
But consider the other section of the
white community, the civil servants.
These, with some exceptions, returned
to their duties under thinly-veiled com-
pulsion, uttering threats. They had
nothing to lose, and the agitation against
Rabaul was started soon afterwards —
by civil servants.
Then come the two commissions of
inquiry, most of whose recommenda-
tions were ignored. Rumors went into
circulation; confidence and values in
Rabaul started to ebb. Finally we had
Mr. Hughes, who confirmed the victory
of the civil servants over their so-called
masters. —F. A. (New Guinea).
Life on the Basic Wage
I have been wondering how people
with families are living on the basic
wage. To-day I was partly answered,
being visited by a friend who is a mother
of five, with the expectation of raising
it to six in two months’ time. Her hus-
band earns £3 15s. a week. They pay
255. rent, ss. fares.
She is looking for sewing to do, as the
family has gone without fruit and vege-
tables for weeks. I asked her how she
could find the time for it, and she said
that beggars can’t be choosers.
Next year out of that wage Is. 6d.
will be taken by a munificent Govern-
ment to pay for any pension that man
is entitled to —though if the payments
are not consecutive for a certain period
before payment of pension, then he is
not entitled to anything, though he may
have paid for many years into the fund.
As it is a very rare phenomenon for a


Good Cooking
Depends on Your
Stove
Every housewife will agree that
the stove she uses plays a big
part in her cooking. That's why
it is all important to make sure
that the next stove you buy is a
good one. How ? That's easy...
get it from Danks.
John Danks and Son carry a full
range of types and sizes to suit
every need and every purse, in-
cluding the famous 1.X.L., from
£5/15/-; the Andrews and the
Lux.
pSpwE
FUEL STOVES
for every home and purpose
There is a comprehensive
range, too, of gas and
electric stoves for you to
select from in many types
and sizes, and in various
colors to match any decora-
tive scheme.
Also
GRATES
COPPERS &
FRAMES
CLOTHES
BOILERS, &c.
Everything for the Home & Farm
“ Billabong” Pumps & Mills, “Keratin” Sprays «
“Coo-ee” Mills, Tools & Garden Implements,
Paints & Varnishes, Wallpapers, Bath Heaters,
Electric Appliances, Piping, Galvanised Iron &c.
W*DAmS&
P *T V"
391 - 403 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE. M 2381
MM®
fO 4
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service .
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in K.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
f
man on low wages to find consecutive
employment from the age of 55 to 65
years, it will be like winning a ticket in
Tatt.’s. Also, the cost of living will rise,
as on every article sold the manufacturer
and the retailer must get the extra to
pay for their Is. 6d. per person em-
ployed. So what will be the plight of
a hardworking family?—A. Geary (Vic.),
Grateful
~ , . , , • , .
Our home is wedged in between
the railway line and the main
*° u £e™ road beyond Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). My husband is a fettler, and
we get more callers for food than we can
leed. One day when it was getting dark
two young fellows called and asked me
to let them come in out of the rain. 1
told them to put then swags in the
kitchen and sit by the stove. 1 gave them
a meal and let them stay lor the night.
Next morning attei breakfast they went,
and a fortnight later 1 received £1 from
them by post. The letter said that it was
or what I had done lor them, and that
before they came to our place a farmer
had chased them away m the tain when
they asked for food. And now they
potato-digging. A. W.
(N.S.W.).
_
National Education
Our present educational system must
be scrapped and a new one created to
counteract the vast and growing cloud of
ignorance threatening Australia. The
educationist must fight opponents on
all sides, and his strongest opponent is
the mass mind created by the present
educational system, which sets out to
teach all the children the same things,
irrespective of their natural and individual
aptitudes.
Thirty years ago the educationist
had strong allies in press, pulpit and
theatre. Newspapers (for the most part)
prided themselves on the truth and accu-
racy of their news, on the outlook of
their editorial writers, on their service to
the public. Their columns were closed to
anything doubtful, silly or salacious. To-
day the popular press caters to the
lowest elements in human nature with
vapidity, distortion, assumption, sensa-
tion, “hooey” and propaganda. Even
our solid little country papers are being
infected. No person under 30 reading
this trash can have any idea of reality,
To most of them, and to many older
people, life centres round the doings of
people with names like Robert Taylor,
Greta Garbo, Bing Crosby, Bradman,
Budge, etc. They regard world figures
like Hitler as arch-fiends,
Their ambition is to win a lottery, their
national outlook ranges from bathing-
trunks to tin-hares and Test cricket, they
ape dance-band leaders, crooners, under-
dressed (or overdressed) “stars” and pub-
licised morons. Anyone dreaming of a
really great Australia will have a night-
mare when he realises that, unless their
m i nds are inoculated against this poison,
our y oun g S t e rs will grow up to lead their
fellows along thc same old paths of
jg norance> The p U ipj t once played a
part . to . day it has ]ost t he young. The
theatre educated. Shaw, Shakspeare,
]bsen> Moli6re Barrie , were charged with
rcaHty and informed by , ife . To _ day we
bave — tbe talkie! Incredible as it may
seC m, the majority of Australians know
jj tde thdr country’s geography, less of
j ts b j S ( oryj nothing of its national eco-
nomy
state education is strangled in red-
tapC) throttled by conservatism, crippled
by bureaucracy. Free libraries have been
mentioned, and would be a partial anti-
dotCj but what is wanted is a Federal
com mittee of education composed of
brains like Walter Murdoch, George
Mackaness, Norman Lindsay (yes,
him /) and others. Not necessarily all
professors (some of Uhem need educat-
ing), but men conscious of their own
shortcomings and determined that young
Australia shall grow up with some idea
of the truth of things.— Three R’s
(N.S.W.).
# :
Forbidden Sleep
Many sick persons, particularly
women, refuse to enter hospitals when
advised to do so because of the practice
of waking sufferers to suit the hospital
regime. At home they may get less skil-
fui washing, but they are not r.oused
from healing slumber at some autocrat’s
will. Many a sick person, too, leaves
hospital earlier than the doctor approves
to escape the senseless cruelty,
Hospital matrons say that patients are
washed in the small hours so as to give
plenty of time for tidying the rooms
before the visiting doctors arrive. 1 have
made a practice for years past of asking
medical men if they are responsible for
the silly excuse. Not one has expressed
himself in favor of waking patients.
A capable nurse in a children's hos-
pital recently told me that she was giv-
ing up her profession because of the
“heartbreak” it gave her to wake suf-
fering children at dawn. Nature takes
a hand with curative sleep, but the poor
infants are brought back to their pain
and sickness because of an antiquated
system. Why do not the doctors them-
selves take up the question?— Ada A
Holman (N.S.W.).
Children and Firearms
So many injuries and accidents ate
caused by the careless use of firearms,
especially in the country, that it would
be a good idea if the Education Depart-
ment made it compulsory for all chil-
dren in the schools to be given a weekly
or fortnightly “drill” in the proper way
to handle ammunition and weapons.
Girls as well as boys should learn
how to carry a gun when getting through
a fence ; to “break” it when not actu-
ally stalking game; and, above all, to be
quite sure to unload before putting the
gun away. Such knowledge never comes
amiss, and may save many a life. —Ida D.
(N.S.W.).
A Sit-down Strike
That efficiency is only acquired by
being uncomfortable seems to be the idea
that governs the laws made by some of
the antiquated heads of affairs. For in-
stance, shop assistants must not sit down
during working hours, and, just to make
sure they, don’t, employers see that no
chairs are left round to supply tempta-
tion.
Nurses must maintain the dignity of
their profession, and seemingly this can’t
be done in a sitting posture.
It seems that a greater standard of
efficiency could be achieved and the
health of workers benefited if they were
allowed to relax when the stress of work
permitted.
Tired and aching feet are not con-
ducive to efficiency or cheerfulness, and
there must be moments when the worker
could sit down and still capably carry
out her work.— Coll (Q.).
Work for the Navy
Matthew Flinders made charts of our
northern coasts that were very good, as
far as they went ; but that was rather
a while back. Would it be too much to
expect our Navy to cease fooling about
the Tasman Sea, visiting shows and races
in the south-east corner of our continent,
and instead get to work in the north, the
part they are most likely to have to
protect?
The Navy’s job must be to defend the
coasts and to try to keep invaders from
landing, but how is it going to do that
if none of its men has personal know-
ledge of northern waters and there are
no adequate charts to guide them?
Pilots of a naval flying-boat recently
found a new channel near Mackay ; none
of the charts showed it, but the Japs
were suspected of knowing all about it.
How many more such useful passages
remain to be discovered?
Who should do this patrol work? Who
should be hard at work making charts
of all our coasts and islands? Who
should be on the spot to protect and
succor, if need be, our important over-
seas air services? Who but our Navy?
—Aerogenes (Q.).
Comfort in Cinemas
When we visit the cinema the most
important point for everyone is to be
able to see the screen comfortably and
clearly. Some picture-houses have the
floor gradually raised so that every row
has a fair opportunity of looking over
the one in front of it. Some places
don’t comply with this, and a small man
or woman sitting immediately behind a
huge person has practically no hope of
a decent view.
In Adelaide all the seats are exactly
behind one another, but I noticed in
a Brisbane theatre that the seats are
alternate in the rows. This lets one look
between the people in the seat before, and
it is a great convenience.
If a man wore his hat in a picture-
show he would be considered ill-bred ;
but a woman’s hat often excludes the
view much more than any man’s head-
gear. If a notice were shown on the
screen before the start of the session
saying plainly, “All ladies will kindly
remove their hats during filming,” it
would likely bring results.
New cinemas are going up. Could we
hope that these three points will receive
attention from those responsible?—Vic
(S.A.).
Local Preference
“Local preference” on large country
construction works finds very little sup-
port among engineers in charge. The
local man is generally inexperienced, and
a great proportion take the job as a
stopgap between harvest and shearing ;
those who see it through find difficulty,
after the job has finished, in readjusting
themselves to the longer hours and
smaller pay of the rural laborer.
It isn’t fair to these men or to those
who have spent years in acquiring ex-
perience in piledriving, concrete work,
winch-driving or the like.
As it stands in N.S.W. at present, if
those men who have followed the game
for years apply for work they are told
to get on the roll and wait for three
months, or possibly twelve months. The
engineer sympathises, but can do nothing
without the police O.K.
Reduction to, say, 50 p.c. local prefer-
ence would assure some of the trades-
men fairly constant employment, lessen
expense and, at the finish of the work,
leave behind no unwelcome additions to
the local unemployed.— Exess (N.S.W.).
Reading
We Australians pride ourselves on our
culture, but the reading we do reflects
little credit on our education. It is a
rarity to open a newspaper without see-
ing a bloodcurdling mystery story in its
pages.
Recently I read the opening chapter
of a “thriller” that contained eight mur-
ders. Isn’t there enough horror and
bloodshed in our cable news without
reading it in fiction?
Poetry-reading is now a forgotten art;
are our delightful Australian stories to
suffer a similar fate?
If our newspapers must print serial
stories, why not publish writings like
The Fortunes of Richard Mahony,
Landtakers and Coonardoo ? — A. Daly
(S.A.).


HOW JACK SEYMOUR CHANCER FROM A
PUNY WEAKUNC TO A REAL HE-MAN
r OUT OF MY WAY SKINNY-A
SWIM WILL DCL.YOU THE WORLD
v OF GOOD HA!^
POOR ICKLE MAN
DIDDUMS GET SO
TERRIBLY WET ?
n
YOU
BULLY, }—
!OF V
: DAYS s
BE SORRY
ONE
ESE
HES A LOT BIGGER
AND STRONGER THAN
AM, DORIS- WHAJ
CHANCE WOULD
I HAVE AGAINST
THE BIG BRUTE ? >T
COULD HAVE CRIED
WITH SHAME
EVERYONE IN THE
CLUB SAW WHAT
HAPPENED - I'D Nl
DARE GO AGAIN
EVER
£
■Vi
'Vm sorry jack, but^
UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES
IT WOULD BE BETTER /
m
*
SEE YOU
AGAIN !
WHAT TIME V|
SHALL I CALL A/
FOR YOU \
DORIS ? THE
1 DANCE STARTS
AT 8 0 CLOCK ,
DN
\ /
f/)
<\
£
a
CONFOUND IT - I'M FED UP
TO THE NECK OF BEING CALLED
A SKINNY WEAKLING -
ALFRED J. BRITON SAYS
HE CAN GIVE ME A
REAL HE-MAN BODY/
-I'LL SEND FOR /Mi
his free
BOOK NOW
OH BOY - LOOK
AT THOSE RIPPLING
MUSCLES NOW-
BLESS THE DAY
I SENT FOR
Bft/TON'S FftßE
BOOK - I FEEL
GREAT !
JUST LOOK AT THAT
THERE'S THAT BIG FELLOW
SHOWING OFF AGAIN IN
FRONT/gfe> OF DORIS AND THE
CROWD - WELL
IT'S MY TURN
NOW
» a *A» t , a AP mn
i\
m.
TED
W A
LONG
ND
FOR
RE
NOW
C K
ACK
PROU
YOU
SO
ARE
REA
SSS*
AFTER
ALL
ik
•
M
WOMEN want He-men for their Husbands and Sweethearts; none of this chorus-
** man stuff for the real girl. She wants to be proud of his physical make-up—
proud of his figure in a bathing suit. She knows that it’s the fellow that is full of
kick and vitality that gets ahead in this world. He’s got the physical backbone to
back up the mental decisions he makes. He’ll win out every time. This FREE
BOOK will show you how to be a man she’ll admire!
I BUILD STRONG, HANDSOME, HEALTHY BODIES!
DEOPLE call me the Muscle-maker. I make men’s bodies strong and healthy. My
1 list of over 38,500 wonderful successes includes doctors and lawyers, bookkeepers
and clerks, grandfathers and grandsons, fat men and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of scientific body-building, I go all over your body,
strengthening your internal organs, broadening your shoulders, cutting off fat, and
turning you inside out until you’re a healthy, handsome, fighting he-man any woman will
be proud of.
I will add one whole inch of live, flexible, steely muscle to each of your arms, and
two full inches of rippling muscular strength across your chest. Your legs will become
straight and strong, your head snap back and large lumps of red-blooded muscle
will begin to stand out on your broadening shoulders. What a hit you are going to make
with that girl of yours! How proud and happy she will be!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. L.
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WHAT THIS AMAZING
*•«*
BOOK TELLS YOU!
• How to Add Inches to Your Chest. • How to
Cultivate Personality. • How 7 fo Strengthen Your
Back. • How to Treble Your Strength. • How to
Get Great Strength. • How to Develop a Muscular
Body. • How to be Successful. • How to Attract
Friends. • How to do Feats of Strength. • How to
he Always Well. • How to Gel
Endless Endurance.
FREE BOOK COUPON/
ALFRED J. BRITON, DEPT. L,
107 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.B.W.
Dear Mr. Briton,
I want to look like this chap in a sw r im suit. Please
send me, under plain wrapper, your Free Book, ‘‘How 7
to Acquire Muscular Strength and Development.” This
obligates me in no way whatsoever.
NAME
ADDRESS
28/9/’3S. |
ALFRED J. BRITON
107 PITT ST., -SYD N E Y.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
gfgf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
{Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
Obtainable
only
from
fH- -
ifii
k\& »qV
c o/
* e >‘'
„»
t»v
✓
#
#•’
s '
' v°
,•
cv.iVo^ 0


%
:
&
GREETINGS ARE ALL
THE GLADDER EOR A
COUPLE Of GILB£YS
* When old friends meet, a spot
or two of Gilbey’s is the natural
sequence; the sensible as well as
the sociable drink for all times
and occasions.
NOW COSTS NO MORE f
THAN ORDINARY GINS;
Von't (fin,6cu/ —
*** CrL %
Gx l3t,
'Vc. h
►H'C'C-
iv;- ; .
m
«-.V>
i-:svwy
'l";-:*&2®
mm
\ %
«HP
••iff
m
m-
zg;:e&
y
*• v/.* •• •* 5g
a^S/-.^g.-'vig
H
%7£
«erf
*£s*'%j£*Z A
V''*>•« r«**3s;
***#
r
THE GIN OF GENERRTIONS
