

IN THE MAKING
■ '
:
m
.
, :
as
ijil
..,7
a as
:
gHj|l
" : - .
.
f. ■&
KS?
£!?•. -■
m
l —as
■
mi.
IIIIBIIHIIJ
m
•5-S:
«&>
HI
i®:?*
.
■ ■:
:
iEkfi
■m
m
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the master metal
which gives life to the nation’s industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000r
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
industry.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS - - - - NEWCASTLE. N.SW.
The Bulletin
Limerick A Jo. 8: The Prizewinners
Vol. 59.— No. 3070.
Wednesday, December 14, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera! Post Office, Svdney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S ILLUSTRATED CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE
of Books and Stationery will be forwarded to
any address post free on application to
Dymock’s Book Arcade, Ltd.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
SIDELIGHTS ON QUEENSLAND.
If a ferocious sub-editor with a big blue pencil
had been let loose on Frank Clune’s Free and Easy
Land (Angus and Robertson) this very free and easy
book would probably have been half the size. When
Ml Clune is describing his experiences as an able-
bodied seaman on the Ormiston on an early trip to
Queensland, he is both interesting and entertaining.
But present commentator, with the greatest goodwill
in the world, can’t work up any interest in the hour at
which authors go to bed, or in their perambulations
among anonymous tombstones.
There is a curious passion for tombstones and
such in Free and Easy Land. Including monuments,
marked trees, plaques, signposts, cafe signs, grave-
stones and loving cups in glass cases, somewhere
around a hundred are described in detail, and in most
cases the lettering is reproduced. There are, however,
photographs of cairns which, like the trees marked
by the explorers, are historically exciting.
The breezy good humor of Free and Easy Land
is infectious, but some paragraphs are pure padding,
and there’s enough solid meat to make the trimmings
wholly unnecessary. Facts and figures about the
sugar industry, for instance, are presented informa-
tively, amusingly and dramatically. The industry and
its champions struggle, grow and live before the
reader’s eyes. The tale is told as a drama of persons,
and as a work of importance to Australia socially and
economically.
Better still are the stories of bushrangers, blacks,
convicts and rogues of the early days. Clune has the
journalist’s “nose for news” and the patience and care
of the historian in unravelling his facts. He makes a
fascinating yarn—“the full and true story here told
for the first time” —of the bushranger Starlight, hero
of Boldrewood’s “false and fantastic fable” Robbery
Under Arms.
Clune’s story opens in 1867 when Bill Butler,
overseer of Bowen Downs station, bought a big pure
white stud bull named Whitey:
Just as Whitey was settling down to domestic
felicity a villain appeared on the scene and Whitey’s
wanderings recommenced. The villain was Henry
Redford, a stockman, with two mates and large ideas.
Redford and company lurked in a gully on the
Thompson River, near Mount Cornish. ’There they
built stockyards and gradually accumulated a herd of
over a thousand cattle, including hundreds of cows
and heifers from Whitey’s harem. The stockyard
builders had formed the tremendous plan of lifting
a thousand cattle and droving them a thousand miles
to South Australia, where they expected to sell them
for £5OOO. They planned the biggest cattle steal in
the world's history, something to make the Wild West
desperadoes of Yankeeland seem softies by com-
parison.
Redford, of course, was Starlight. Clune follows
him across Australia, follows Butler fuming on the
trail and meeting Whitey just over the South Aus-
tralian border, and follows Judge Blakeney in pro-
claiming, when a jury acquitted Redford, “Thank
God, Gentlemen of the Jury, the verdict is yours,
not mine.”
Next in interest to that story is an account of
the exploits of Bully Hayes. Clune, who says he got
his information from original research and from a
booklet written by A. T. Saunders, of South Aus-
tralia, Bully Hayes, Barrator, Bigamist, Buccaneer,
Blackbirder and Pirate, makes the barrator and bucca-
neer amazingly colorful. There are so many swash-
buckling episodes that it. is difficult to believe they all
really occurred, but Saunders’s booklet was well docu-
mented. Hayes would make a magnificent subject for
a film ; all the blood, thunder and beautiful native
girls that the scenario could wish for genuinely belong
to his career.
Clune has a score of yarns such as the two men-
tioned to make Free and Easy Land well worth a visit.
There is the story of that stupendous liar “Count.
Louis de Rougemont,” and some grim, fantastic, but
true accounts of escaped convicts and white women
living among the blacks. The story of one of the
women, who Was escorted to safety by an escapee
and then drove him back to the blacks, refusing to
get him the pardon she had promised because it would
have hurt her socially for- the story of her privations
to be known, is one that would have interested the
author of “King Lear.”
Rex Ingamells's Poems.
With the method he learned from the Imagists
but has modified into traditional form, Rex Ingamells,
a South Australian writer, can sometimes nail a land-
scape down with a sudden gleam of words like the
flight of a spear, “Garchooka, the Cockatoo,” which
appeared in The Bulletin, is the best example in his
Sun-Freedom, from F. W. Preece, Ltd., Adelaide:—-
Though the waters, wind-stirred and red-glowing,
shadowed by the evening-gloom of gums,
bend in their banks the way the dusk is going,
while a dusk-gold haze of insects comes
over the ripples in their colored flowing,
Garchooka, beating from high branches, screeches
discord up and down the river-reaches.
That is authentic landscape. It has an inner inten-
sity which raises it above mere description, and a
precision which distinguishes it from the galloping,
poster-style landscape of the balladists. “Garchooka”
and one or two more of the poems have much the
same quality as the more striking of Edmund
Blunden’s landscapes. There is, for instance, Blunden’s
“Water Moment”:
The silver eel slips through the waving weeds
And in the tunnelled shining stone recedes.
The earnest eye surveys the crystal pond
And guards the cave. The sweet shoals pass beyond.
The watery jewels that these have for eyes,
The tiger streaks of him that hindmost plies,
The red-gold wings that smooth their daring paces,
The sunlight darting about their airs and graces,
Bum that strange watcher’s heart. Then the sly brain
Speaks, all the dumb shoal shrieks; and by the stone
The silver death writhes with the chosen one.
In the preface to his collected poems Blunden
made the mistake of apologising for writing landscape.
Ingamells makes no apologies for his Australian land-
scapes, but in much of the work in another book from
F. W. Preece, Ltd., Jindyworobak Anthology, edited
by Ingamells, there is a self-conscious sophistication
that amounts to an apology. A naive use of psycho-
analytical imagery in imitation of the worst of Law-
rence is a poor substitute for accurate landscape.
Max Harris, the most interesting of the Jindy-
worobak contributors, spoils a good cow-cocky dawn
with this false modernity. He has a “Spanish Lullaby”
with words used for sound rather than sense-—“the
lullaby will lull swell... .sleep wi11....” The young
Dylan Thomas is doing the same thing in England
to-day. Swinburne did it too ; and Tennyson made his
onomatopoeia coherent.
Ingamells, in his own book, is not greatly con-
cerned with experiment. When he is not concerned
with Australian landscape, he is concerned with the
Australian black. He has a hard job ahead of him if
he is going to introduce native words into the Aus-
tralian tradition. But when he can make the abo-
riginal into a universal symbol the poem is highly
effective:
This bone, the flesh of which has been
eaten by my enemy,
I cover with grease and human hair
and day from the roots of a river tree.
Sec how I gut it firmly now
to the leg-bone of a kangaroo
for burning, so that the man I hate,
one-souled with it, may perish too.
ft spits and sputters in the fire;
it cracks and crumbles to blackened bone.
Never again shall they name his panic,
and I shall delight in my deed alone.
Sassoon Continued.
For years Siegfried Sassoon has been telling the
story of his life. The Memoirs of a Fox-hunting Man,
The Memoirs of an Infantry Officer and Sherston's
Progress were all books begotten of the war ; the first
an idealised pattern of the world the war shattered,
the second a picture of the war itself with a bitter
writing-down of his own part in it, and the third the
story of his retreat from war.
In his new book, The Old Century and Seven
More Years (Faber and Faber), he has retreated still
further. It is the story of his childhood and early
youth, born out of “my queer craving to revisit the
past and give the modern world the slip.” He escapes
back into a dear lost world that perhaps never existed
quite as he sees it, where the golden light falls with
a bloom of ineffable sadness on events that are all
happy.
The actual story is slender. Siegfried was born
in September, 1886, in a quiet corner of Kent, the
middle one of three brothers. His father was a Jew,
and the family, at some remote time, had come to
England from Russia. His exotic strain was offset by
the obstinate Englishry of his mother, one of the red-
haired Thorneycrofts of the famous engineering
family. His parents were estranged and lived apart
for years before his father's early death. That was
the only shadow in the garden where the boys grew
up, living free and imaginative lives.
On his third birthday his mother gave Siegfried
a copy of Coleridge’s Lectures on Shakspeare. She
believed already that he would be a poet, and he, too,
came to believe it. Lying in the garden during a
long convalescence when he was ten he discovered
ecstasy, and never quite lost it again till the war. He
went to school late, suffered the torments of an inept
and nervous boy, lived them down, went on to Cam-
bridge, became a classical scholar and at 21 was in
love with life. The book ends there —though a book
like this cannot end, it can only stop.
There are portraits of visiting aunts, of the
German governess, of the meek and precise tutor,
Mr. Moon, “whose false teeth were an object of
sympathetic interest,” of Mrs. Mitchell, their nurse.
“She was, as it were, a sort of nursery Jehovah. She
was the Old Testament, and my mother was the New
Testament.” In the garden was Joey the tortoise, who
died of being dug up one winter to see how he was
getting along hibernating. The descriptive passages are
throughout very sensitive and beautiful.
The Old Century is not one man’s childhood but
a rarefied image of childhood common to the sensitive.
The Indestructible Englishman.
H. W. Freeman’s Andrew to the Lions (Chatto
and Windus) begins with a funeral in Italy. Andrew
Hascot, a Greek scholar, mild and gentle but a con-
dottiere at heart, had been Elvira’s lover for seven
years when she fell dead of heart failure as she was
grinding coffee one day.
He had put his savings into her leatherwork
shop, rescued her from a dishonest foreman and been
a good father to her little daughter Marisa. Her
husband, who had deserted her for 10 years, returned
for the funeral and took the chief mourner’s place.
In vain did Andrew assault him in church ; he was
the husband, he had a corner in grief and sole owner-
ship of the shop. There was nothing for Andrew to
do but return to England with the few pounds he had
left and look for a job.
He hadn’t the knack of it. There was. for
instance, the member of Parliament who had asked
him, as prospective secretary, if he was interested in
affairs, and he had said no ; there was the company
director who asked him if he knew anything about
commercial art, and he replied, quite innocently, that
Greek sculpture was as far as he had got; and there
was a headmaster who would have engaged him as
classical master had not Andrew remembered a
hilarious but rather improper episode of the dominie’s
undergraduate days and proceeded to rally him
about it.
Andrew was forced to return to a small cottage
in Suffolk left him by his father and eke out a tiny
living with village crafts and leatherwork. Here
Freeman lives up to his publisher’s description of
him as “the Suffolk novelist,” and there follows an
orgy of dialect, dart matches and rustic hilarity.
Eva, the comely widow at the inn, was making
it plain to Andrew, just as Elvira had, that she was
willing to share her all with him, but word came to
him from Marisa, married at 16 and in Spain, begging
him to come and help her. He found Marisa with
her unsavory gun-running husband, whom she had
married to get away from her unspeakable father, and
she begged Andrew to rescue her.
While they were debating ways and means (he
civil war swooped down on them. With the help of
a lion-tamer Andrew managed to smuggle Marisa
over the border into France. She tells him that she
has been in love with him since she was a child, and
they have a happy interlude before the husband catches
up to them and shoots Marisa dead. Andrew dis-
patches him with a wine carafe. Recovering from
shock and despair Andrew has to decide whether he>
will sink his sorrows in the Spanish War or become a
lion-tamer. He chooses the lions.
This is a brisk tale divided into three parts ; the
first and last are filled with action, while the middle
panel is a rustic idyll of safe and merry England.
It is just a little like a sampler designed to show off
the author's different styles. He has determined to
get his characters to Spain even though it meant the
rusty old trick of (he forced marriage and the quixotic
rescue. The character of Andrew holds the book
together. This Englishman is well known to fiction ;
the gentle, pedantic, absentminded fellow who always
muddles through. Really, he is the youngest prince
in disguise.
Fairies and Eton.
An equal affection for fairies and the old school
tie makes Shane Leslie’s autobiography, The Film of
Memory (Michael Joseph), an odd mixture of magic
and gossip.
Leslie says that a motor accident was the first
cause of his writing the book. Through concussion
he lost his sense of identity, and as he lay in hospital
struggling to return to normal his past life floated
before his eyes like a disconnected film. Afterwards
he made notes of what he had “seen.” Scenes of his
childhood are most powerfully evoked : the rest of
the book seems an ordinary effort of the memory.
His Ireland is the Ireland of Yeats’s poems, of
the landed gentry surrounded by their birds and fish,
their obedient, humorous tenants, their horses and
their ancestral ghosts. There is his grandmother who
always talked in church, addressing the rector or her
family “with a freedom which I attributed to divine
dispensation” ; there is the parson known as “Skip-
fhe-Litany” Pratt, because when his clerk began the
Litany he whispered so that the congregation could
hear it, “Damn you, didn’t I tell you to skip the
Litany?”
The Leslies lived at Glaslough House, in County
Monaghan. It was the last word in Irish country
houses and had “the first bathroom built in Ulster.”
Neighbors used to be taken to see the bath working,
but when the novelty wore off “it was soon relegated
to the use of dogs and children.” Near by was the
Bog of Donagh, from which had been recovered the
skeleton of an Irish elk, a buried Celtic Cross and “a
mummied woman with golden hair.” Presiding over
the house and the countryside was Leslie’s grandfather,
for whose comfort the butler ironed the “Times”
every morning before he read it.
Among the retainers was the faithful washer
woman who, when she first saw Leslie’s father playing
golf, made the excellent observation “That I should
live to see the Colonel himself playing ball like an
innocent child! ” And there is the story of the new
cemetery which the villagers refused to use until a
doctor who had met with an accident buried his ampu-
tated leg there and so popularised the ground.
From that charming and fantastic world The
Film of Memory moves to London, Eton, Cambridge
and literary life in Rome and Paris, and its matter
is a series of anecdotes about notabilities. One, of
Leslie’s meeting with Tolstoy, gives an enchanting
picture of the old man. Tolstoy, disconcerting enough
already with his fame, his black flashing eyes and his
gnome-like air, at once demanded of Leslie: “Was I
a Christian? Was I pure towards women? Was I a
vegetarian?”
Wild Patagonia.
Pedro Rubio is a Norwegian land surveyor who
twice visited Patagonia with professional intent;
Patagonian Year (Methuen; translated by Arthur G.
Chater) is a record of his second visit.
Slowly, steadily, rhythmically, he portrays the
genius of that strange land with its monotonous plains,
its bony mountains, its drab, close-bitten vegetation,
its salt lakes, its meagre population—“ Seventy per
cent, known and thirty per cent, unknown criminals,”
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —in all sincerity.
"THE SENIOR STORE'
/CttosS
r.:\
vX;X;
m
NN>.
■a
IHnS
m
Gloves . . always the acceptable gift.
Why not make yours a pair of 12-
button length Art. Silk Gloves in
Navy, Beige or White. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair 4/ 11
Simplex Fabric Gloves. Here we
offer 12-button length in best
quality, with a selection of Beige,
White, Brown, Chamois, Navy and
Black. At Anthony Hor- c/11
derns'. Price, pair 0/ H
Art. Silk Bengaline Gloves are a de-
lightful gift . . and such a suitable one
for the summer months. Choose from
Beige, White or Navy. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, pair A A
A quality Christmas gift! 6 button
length, 1 button at wrist. Simplex
Fabric Gloves. We have White, Cham-
ois, Pastel, Beaver, Brown or Navy
shades. At Anthony Horderns'. . ... 1
Price, pair 4/11
• Ladies’ Gloves—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.IV. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
.
A gift that will bring a flutter to the heart
of any feminine recipient. Very nicely
woven wicker Workbaskets on stands, with
oeautifully lined interiors, j r //> 1-17 /q
At Anthony Horderns', each &D/O1 O//O
m
Something totally different.
Give "Him" a gift to add to
his comfortl Chromium and
plastic stand . . revolving ash
tray. Table provides ample
room for decanter, cigars, etc.
28ins. high. At Anthony
Horderns'. PRICE, each bb/b
V,
z
■
So useful.. so accept-
able! Smart picnic
baskets containing 2
vacuum flasks, 1 sand-
wich tin of ample
size, 4 Sellex ware
cups. At Anthony
Horderns'. IC/II
Price, each 10/xl
•/
:v
S : ii i'l
Another bright idea for your gift to "her" is a
compacto Manicure Set which contains 12 articles
in charming two-tone effects. Complete in Mor-
occo grain case with top han- -17
die for carrying. At Anthony Horderns' w// D
<r
T
«tr *
l: £.
\h
A gift which will receive a lively recep-
tion! Chaste enamel flapjacks, fitted
with a locket-backed lid in which you
may insert your picture; also an adjust-
able mirror. Very unusual. At . c /■« 1
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, ea.
A distinct noveltyl
The "Night Cap" de-
canter representing
an old fashioned lan-
tern -with'electric lamp
and battery. Port and
starboard colourings.
At Anthony Horderns'
PRICE, each —21 A
Fancy Goods—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free
only within our delivery area.
\ ted
j
§ /j
Zipper fastened Writing Cases for fashionable gifts.
Smart Morocco grain leathers. Contents include writ-
ing tablets and envelopes.
At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each 18/11
0
(
}
A
*
«««
* *
IBQE
H
A gift for her convenience . . very useful for
travelling. Cretonne covered case containing
four coat hangers which fold up into the in-
terior of the case. Very compact. At .
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each */®
\ /
m
v
ĵ
j
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
•Phone M 2401
Day and Night


A Man and His Boat
THE BARGE
By Russell J. Oakes
DRAWING BY PHILLIPS.
THE ugly flat-bottomed old barge was loaded
with twenty tons of building materials for the
job on the island. A stack of bricks began the
load, then came frames of fibro-cement and
bags of cement, while surplus space was filled by
lengths of thin Baltic timber. For a launch it was
only a hop, step and jump to the island, but for the
wallowing barge it was a three-hour crawl.
The day was dull. The ocean might have been
a vast opaque grey river. The barge tilled the sea
as one tills heavy soil with a blunt plough, the old
oil-engine thumping like a racing heart in a feverish,
fleshy body. There was no other sound until a slow,
creaking groan came from somewhere down near
the keel.
The barge, apparently deserted until then save
for a boy at the stem tiller, showed life. A grey-
haired, thin-featured man with a grey moustache sat
up where he had been dozing behind the vast closed
hatches that comprised most of the barge. Another
man, young and huge, stepped out of the tiny cabin
forward and grimaced a wordless question at the old
man. They both looked to the tiller where the boy
was stopping the engine. The tiller, a great horizontal
bar pointing like an index figure from the stern, had
been lashed lightly in position. The boy was un-
decided whether to release it or not. He looked at
the sour old man defiantly, a boy of fifteen with a
man’s body, his clothes shapeless and begrimed, his
bare head tousled.
After that one groaning creak there had been
nothing but the sound of the engine again. For
a while the old man said nothing, straining his eyes
astern, watching the lazy whirlpools of their wake as
though searching for something. “Didn’t you know
about the reef?” he snapped angrily.
“I didn’t know there was a reef there,” said the
boy. “You didn’t warn me. How was I to know?”
“We only scraped it,” said the big young man.
“There won’t be no damage.”
“There’d better not be.”
Two more men appeared at the cabin door, one
with a newspaper and the other with a half-rolled
cigarette.
“What’s it all about?” questioned the man with
the newspaper. He was a powerful little man with
curly hair and a nut-brown face. His self-assurance
amounted to belligerence. His companion looked like
a jovial Swede, and his face was like a bronzed and
cratered moon. “Nutting wrong, eh, boss?” he asked.
They returned to the cabin, while the boy went to
the old-fashioned tiller again. The old man and the
other sat side by side on the battened hatches and
watched the grey sea slide by like oil. The old man
sat nervously, the other as though alone, ignoring
the old man’s concern. “Worrying!” he grunted to
himself. “Every little mishap worries him. Thinks
too much about himself and not enough about us.
It don’t worry him if he’s late with our pay.”
The barge wallowed on. The old man went to
the stern again and watched the wake. Several slivers
of wood raced up, jigging, from the depths and
shimmied away astern; short, black pieces of wood
that showed the yellow of fresh wounds on their
undersides. The old man went back to the other.
“We’d better take a look at the ’atches, Mick,” he
said. “There’s a few splinters coming up.”
IT was a purposeless task. They had to call on
* Steve, the Swede, and Harry, the overconfident
midget, but even when the heavy hatches were
slithered aside like two lids on a wooden pencil-box,
and the area below was revealed chock-full of build-
ing materials, they had no way of telling whether any
damage had been done. The cement bags were on
top, stacked closely and evenly.
“How far out are we?” the old man asked fear-
fully.
Mick snarled without evil intent at the island.
“An hour and a half,” he judged. “We should do
it easily enough.”
They began to heave cement bags
away from the dipping side. Once
the old man stopped, his moustache
bunching up against his nose. “I can hear
water,” he said.
“If anything happens, I’d lose the contract.” The
old man listened at the uncovered hold, but its silence
was sepulchral.
The barge crept on its sluggish way and the un-
easiness passed. Though the crew relaxed, the old
man was like a wild dog that, once disturbed in the
night, will not be still. Mick eyed his concern with
contempt.
Suddenly, like a drunken man lurching, the barge
slumped several inches over to one side. Below, in
the hold, heavy objects thumped and rolled. The
barge remained lopsided, wallowing. The old man
had scuttled to the hatches like a startled rock-crab,
leaning far over the darkness, listening intently. The
crew popped into view again and looked at the tilted
deck resentfully, swearing luridly in their surprise.
“That damn’ fool reef,” said the Swede. “We
move the stuff, eh? What do you think?”
They scattered around the edge of the hold, lean-
ing over to look down into its great oblong mouth.
While the boy stood at the tiller-arm watching wide-
eyed, they began to heave cement bags away from
the dipping side. Once the old man stopped, his
moustache bunching up against his nose as his lips
tightened. “I can hear water,” he said.
They worked on while the sweat started out on
them, jewelling their faces and smearing their arms
and hairy chests like thin oil. Gradually the barge
righted itself.
The old man looked at the grey oiliness of the
ocean that was spread out like gently-heaving linoleum.
Water would not harm the bricks, but it might rise
to the fibro. He would have to keep the cargo intact.
The contract depended on it. He had heard the
whisper of the water deep down amidst the loose light
Baltic timber to one side of the bricks, but it had
been only a light sound like the gurgle of the barge’s
wake. Nothing to worry about really.
“Try the pump,” he said to the Swede, and Steve
lumbered aft to where the pump-handle stood at right
angles to the tiller near the uncovered hold. He
began to work the frail handle, the quick little pump-
ing movements quite out of proportion to his gorilla-
like strength. To the sigh of the sea and the heart-
thump of the engine was added the vomiting gurgle
of the hand-pump. Water rose and flowed off the
deck. “Water there, eh, yes?”
The Swede pumped on and the old man looked
at the island. “We’ll have to keep pumping,” he
said, “but it should be all right.”
waddled on through uncertainty. The sun
* came out of grey cloud and sat on the island as
though about to roll down the hills and across the
darkening ocean like a red-hot cannon-ball. For a
few moments the barge swam in the blood of the
dying day. Anxiously the old man watched the deck.
“She’s listing again.” His terror rose like a
startled bird.
“You take this,” said the Swede to the boy, and
he stopped pumping.
The old man, the Swede, Mick and Harry climbed
over into the hold and began shifting more cargo.
The island drifted to meet them until its low hills were
very close, rising across a path of water. In the
main bay the jetty showed in soft outline like a river
landing-stage, the water around it marked in clouds
of dark-brown weed and smoky, bottle-green shallows.
On the jetty a group of workmen watched its crippled
approach across the bay. The old man heaved sighs
of relief as he saw the jetty swinging into position
against the old truck-tyres that the barge used for
buffers.
“Twelve men,” he counted, looking at the jetty,
“and four of us, not counting the boy.” Again he
was gloomy, weighing his chances of saving the cargo
and the contract. Supposing the men on the jetty re-
fused to help him? Surely they would. They were
good fellows, really. Yet the doubt persisted until the
men actually began to help.
The winch-motor was under water by now and
would not work ; six men laid hands on the wheel
and began to force it around, but it was a slow busi-
ness. The others stripped themselves to the waist.
Men worked the winch or lowered themselves into
the flooding hold till the water was above their
middles. While some roped loads ready for the
winch, others passed the cement bags and Baltic
timber up by hand. After five minutes, the rise of
water forced them to stop and turn to bailing.
Dusk had slipped by and night had settled in. The
jetty began to resemble a junk store. Each time the
hoist heaved up a load and swung it across to the
jetty, the barge listed still further until the water lapped


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
at the very edge. Then, when it seemed the water
must spill over and flood the hold, the lightened winch
would swing back and the barge would rise a little.
The men fought to empty the hold and at the
same time keep the water down. When they returned
to the unloading, the water crept higher. When they
pumped and bailed they could not unload.
It got to such a stage that one more load swing-
ing on the winch would have dragged the side of the
barge right under. “We rope some stuff on the winch
and hang it on the opposite side so it will drag the
barge upright a bit. Then we all bail like the devil
for some while,” suggested the Swede.
A load of cement bags in a great rusty winch-
bucket was hoisted up and hung over the undamaged
side. Then everyone bailed solidly for ten minutes.
They got the water down sufficiently for the winch to
resume the unloading. The work went on, bodies
glistening in the starlight and the light from hurricane-
lamps and torches. Husky voices .cursed the wet,
obstinate ropes or the jerking, spasmodically-laboring
winch.
At about ten o’clock a little pale-eyed man from
the construction camp, wearing a cook’s apron very
much the worse for wear, appeared on the jetty with
two black billies of steaming tea and a boot-box of
corned-beef sandwiches that looked like paving-stones.
The men ate and drank with crude gratitude. Some
cement bags had burst on the jetty, showering their
grey contents over the boards. Crates of fibro-cemcnt
were piled up like torture-racks. Baltic timber was
stacked hurriedly and unevenly wherever there was
space for it.
T'HEY were down to the bricks now, and the sharp
* click of the bricks arose as they were tossed and
caught on a chain from the hold to the jetty. The
men were exhausted. Those at the winch wheel felt
as though their arms were being dragged out. It was
no joke playing donkey-engine to a clumsy winch
that hung slanting in the hold like a falling telegraph-
pole. Most of the cargo was out of the hold. The
bricks and oddments remained, and they were under
water. Several racks of fibro-cement peeped above
the surface.
“They won’t be no good,” Steve declared. “You
can’t use fibro wetted.”
“I must get down to block the hole,” protested
the old man, his fear of losing the cargo replaced by
his fear of losing his barge. If he could get the water
level below the hole he could patch it in no time.
He told them so, but the men hesitated. Saving
twenty tons of cargo from a foundering barge in a
hurry was not easy. Especially when it was some
one else’s cargo.
They all climbed to the jetty and looked down at
the old man while the water crept higher. The old
man stood alone in the hold, a bucket in his hands,
and the water moved around him in gentle dark
whorls. He had as much chance of bailing it out as
he had of moving the beach with a teaspoon, yet he
lingered. “Won’t someone help me empty it so I can
plug the hole?” His voice, accustomed to querulously
bossing men, would not soften.
They looked back at him sullenly. “I’ve had
enough.” It was one of the men from the winch. He
turned away into the darkness and several others
followed.
“Mick! Steve! What about youse? Don’t yet it
sink while we can save it. It’s only a matter of ten
or fifteen minutes more.”
“Liar,” Mick thought. “It’s an hour at least.”
“The dirty tub,” Steve thought. “Better she go
under and stay on t’ bottom.”
“Why should we help him?” Mick thought. “A
damn’ lot of consideration he gives us.”
Mick wiped his wrist across his face, sniffling, then
looked at the others. “What about it?”
“Maybe we give him fifteen minutes, eh?” said
Steve. “No more. Just fifteen.” He lowered his great
body from the jetty and dropped to the tilted deck
by the stern. Others followed him, eight or ten of
them, and wordlessly they began to bail. More than
once they would have given it up, but whenever one
stopped the others always seemed to be hard at it.
They worked on, filling hand-buckets in the hold,
emptying them over the high side until the movements
took on a mechanical routine. The pump coughed
and gurgled ceaselessly. An hour went by, and another
had almost gone before the leak was clear of the
water. The toilers crowded around, eager to see the
extent of the damage. The reef-torn hole was choked
by masses of greasy brown seaweed. It gave the crew
an odd feeling in the stomach. But for that tangled
brown mass jammed in the hole and the calmness of
the sea they might have been down in the channel
with a cargo of twenty tons on top of them. They
were too exhausted to do any more now. They left
the old man wrenching at the hole with a crowbar
and tools.
“Much obliged to you fellows,” he said as they
climbed out. “I don’t know what I’d have done
without you.”
Mick muttered between his teeth: “You’d have
sunk, you silly old beggar.”
They tramped wearily along the jetty. “The
stingy old hound,” Mick said bitterly. “He didn’t even
promise us a drink to-morrow.”
They could hear the old man hammering at the
hole. The sound of the strokes came dully, hammer
strokes against water-sodden wood. The ugly flat-
bottomed old barge would finish the contract at least.
LUCK, IS IT?
BY CON DREW
VOU birds don’t need to be whales on history
to know who won the battle of Trafalgar. If
Nelson hadn’t brought his ships into action at
the psychological moment things might have
had a different ending, and by the same rule if I
hadn’t met Mosh Miller in Pitt-street one mornin’
I’d have saved myself a deal of unpleasantness.
Mosh was a wrestlin’ crank, so when he lum-
bered me over to the side of the pavement I knew
there was goin’ to be talk about grapplers.
“Come up to my gym.,” says he, “and I’ll show
you the finest wrestler that ever looked over the
ropes.”
“I don’t want to see no wrestlers lookin’ over
ropes or under them,” says I. “I’ve given the grapplin’
game a pass.”
- “For why?” asks Mosh. “There’s money in it,
ain’t they?”
“If there’s money in it,” I come back, “it finds
its way to Greece, Bohemia, Czechoslovakia and the
United States of Armenia. None of it ever stuck to
me when I was managin’ grapplers.”
“This bird that I’ve got under rny pinion,” says
Mosh, “is a Swede, and he won’t be goin’ back
to Norway. You’d better come up and have a look
at him.”
“Some other time,” I says, and I went to move
away.
“Aw, you ain’t goin’ to ditch your old chum like
that?” says Mosh, catchin’ me by the arm. “Listen to
me for a jiffy.”
[ IKE a goat I did listen to him, and inside five
*— minutes I was on my way to his gym., which was
located above a wood-and-coal joint in Surry Hills.
When we lobbed there I seen a huge gorilla of a bloke
throwin’ bar-bells up in the air as if they was made
of cardboard. After a bit he dropped them and
picked up one that must have weighed three hundred
pounds. He yanked this above his head, dropped it
on the back of his neck and let it slide down his
back to the floor. The noise it made when it landed
could have been heard in Bermagui.
“I’ve christened him Tarzan,” says Mosh. “What
do you think of him?”
“I’ve seen all them strong-man stunts before,”
I chips him. “I thought you was goin’ to show me
a wrestler.”
“You’ll see him wrestle in a second,” says Mosh.
“Hey, Yaggo,” he yells to another gorilla who, with
nothing on him but a pair of scarlet vees, was sittin’
on a form at the other end of the room; “I want
you to give Tarzan a run round.”
The big monk, got into the ring and fooled
around for a couple of seconds. Then he made a
grab for Tarzan’s legs and missed. Like a flash Tarz.
caught him around the body and heaved him clean
over his head. He lobbed on top of his melon and
would have broken his neck if he’d had one. Instead,
he just rolled over on to his back and stayed there.
“Tarzan does that to all of them,” explains Mosh,
“only some lasts longer than others. He don’t know
his own strength.”
“All right,” says I, “I'll fall for it. What have
you got on your mind?”
“I want you,” says Mosh, “to provide the
mazuma to keep this bird in tucker and wrestlin’
partners till we match him with someone. My idea is
to flitch him up with a real good second-rater first.
He’ll put the skids under some of them would-be
champs, and then we'll get in among the big money.
Do you get me?”
-“I get you,” says I. “But where do I come in?”
“You come in,” says Mosh, “in the chop-up of
the rake-off. Fifty-fifty with me.”
“After,” says I, “I have been reimbursed for the
mazuma I spend on the original outlay, of course?”
“That goes with me,” agrees Mosh.
“Right,” says I, “I’ll take it on, but I’ve never had
no luck with wrestlers.”
WELL, we put Tarzan into trainin’, and apart from
his appetite, which would have put to shame a
Turkish sword-swallower, he didn’t cost us very much
to keep. After four weeks’ solid work we matched him
with another boa-constrictor who called himself the
Armenian Wolf. He had bumped off a few good
men in Melbourne, but, like Tarzan, he was practically
an unknown quantity in Sydney.
After a deal of trouble we arranged for the match
to be staged on the followin’ Saturday week. This
gave us time to tune Tarzan up to concert-pitch, and
when we landed him in the ring on the night of the
bout he was right at the top of his form. There was
a fair crowd, and they gave us a real good hand.
Soon afterwards the Wolf stalked into the ring,
a chesty gent, with enormous arms, and he looked
like a bloke who could take care of himself. As a
memento of past battles he had a scar on his dial
which ran from his cheek to his chin, but I knew
what our bloke could do and I wasn’t worryin’, so
I got a bloke I knew called Lanky Bob to invest
twenty quid on Tarzan at even money.
Just before the wrestlers went in to bat Mosh
leans over the ropes and says to Tarzan: “What
you’ve got to do is to slap this bird on his back as
soon as you can grab hold of him. Keep right on
top of him all the time, and don’t give him no peace,
and if he tries to put any rough stuff over give it to
him back proper.”
Just then the ref. gave the signal to commence
hostilities and two baboons went into the fray.
The Wolf was a stone or two lighter than Tarzan,
and I expected him to stand off for a bit. He did
nothing of the sort. The pair had hardly met
in mid-ring when the Wolf backslammed our bloke.
Tarz. crashed to the floor like a ton of pigiron, but
he got to his feet again before you could wink.
Almost immediate the Wolf dashed in again, but
our gorilla was ready this time. Grabbing the Wolf
by the waist he pitched him across the ring. The
Wolf bounced back off the opposite ropes like an
indiarubber ball, and the pair were soon in holts
again.
It was a willin’ go all right. Tarzan was bleedin’
from a cut above the temple, and the Wolf had a
lump on the side of his jaw as big as a drawin’-room
doorknob.
As the battle progressed the grapplers got still
more willin’. In a rally near our corner the Wolf
ripped in a jolt under Tarzan’s chin what nearly
tore his head off. Tarz. replied by bangin’ his knee
into the Wolf’s breadbasket. The ref. cautioned both
of them, for the rules was extra strict in them days,
but they was too intent on the business in hand to
take notice.
“The pace is too fast to last,” says Mosh to me.
“Somethin’ will have to break soon.”
He was right. A couple of seconds later the
Wolf dumped our bloke heavy on the canvas, and
Tarz. got to his feet lookin’ a wee bit rattled. The
Wolf reached over to dump him again, but our
bloke ducked and secured a crotch hold. Then he
lifted the Wolf at arms’ length above his head and
took a couple of steps towards the ropes. With a
mighty heave he threw him but of the ring. The
Wolf lobbed somewhere in among the audience, and
must have liked their company, for he stayed there.
The bout was over.
“Well, that’s that,” says Mosh to me. “I thought
you said you never had any luck with grapplers?
We’d better take Tarzan to the dressin’-room.”
1 T took us some time to get there, for the crowd was
* makin’ a move for home, and the people were
blockin’ the passageway. We’d hardly got Tarzan
ready for the shower when in comes Lanky Bob, the
bloke who had done the commission for me.
“I’ve got bad news for you,” says he. “The Wolf
landed on top of a bloke and hurt him pretty bad.
He’s been taken home in a cab.”
“I’m sorry,” says I, “but the news is bad for
him, not us.”
“Oh, ain’t it?” says Bob. “He’s got forty quid
of ours in his pocket. He was the bloke who held
the stakes, and I don’t know his address.”


About Trial Babies and Irresponsible Men
HUMAN NATURE IS NOT
INFLAMMABLE
BY HAROLD MERCER.
DRAWING BY ARIA.
it“T"O my way of thinking,” said Mrs. Parsley, “all
this talk about trial marriages is so much
fiddlestrings. As far as I can make out, all
marriages are trials ; sometimes they are worse
trials to the people next door and their landladies than
they are to the couples themselves. If people want to
do things like that, why can’t they do it respectably
and pretend that they are really married?”
I knew then why the “flat-to-let” notice was
standing outside the entrance to the residential, why
Mrs. Parsley was rather late in arriving to do my
room, and why I had just seen the young couple from
No. 14 removing their luggage.
Mrs. Parsley, after a few moments of intensive
activity, paused ; and it was obvious that she had
drifted from thought of the No. 14’s. There was a
reminiscent gleam in her eye.
“I suppose a trial baby is in another catalogue,”
she said. “I must say I don’t think it quite the right
thing; it places the reputation of other people in
Picardy, as the saying is, what with everybody want-
ing to know who was the baby’s father.”
“A trial baby!” I exclaimed. Mrs. Parsley’s face
showed the satisfaction of the fisherman when the
fish has swallowed the bait. She definitely abandoned
her work.
“Well, I suppose you could call Mrs. Hapsting’s
baby a trial baby. Everybody was sorry for Mrs.
Hapsting over her troubles, poor soul, but when she
told me that she had made up her mind to have a
baby—that was the way she put it —it knocked me all
of a heap.
“ ‘Why, Mrs. Hapsting,’ I says, ‘I thought you
said you wouldn’t marry again, not if it was the best
man under the sun.’
“ ‘I don’t intend to marry again, Mrs. Parsley,’
she says, as cool as a concubine. ‘l’m just going to
have a baby, and it won’t have any father.’
“That made my head whirl. ‘You pore dear,’
I says, ‘going to see them daughters has upset you.
You’d better have a lie-down.’
“ ‘I mean, Mrs. Parsley,’ she says, ‘that, me not
bein’ married to its father, he will have no claim over
the child. I’ve had three children, and they’ve been
taken away from me ; I intend to have a child that
will be all my own.’
“ ‘Not in my residential you won’t, Mrs. Hap-
sting ! ’ I gasps. I was all flappergasted, as well I might
be. Mrs. Hapsting was a most respectable woman,
even if she had been divorced; but all this didn’t
sound at all respectable to me.
“And I wouldn’t have permitted it either, only
I didn’t think Mrs. Hapsting could be serious, talking
like that; and then, before I knew where I was, there
was everybody saying that Mrs. Hapsting was a very
courageous woman.
“‘ I T’S a social aperient.
* She’s doing a sensible
thing,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘I,
for one, intend to give her my
support. So will most people
who know the circumstances.’
“ ‘Not Mr. Proppanger,’ I
says.
“ ‘No, Mr. Proppanger
wouldn’t,’ says Mr. Slompack.
‘But, personally, I think that
Mrs. Hapsting is a game little
woman for defying the con-
vents.’
“When people spoke like
that, all I could hope was that
Mr. Proppanger would succeed
in turning Mrs. Hapsting from
her fell purpose, as the Bible
says. Mr. Slompack said that
Mr. Proppanger was one of
them frantics ; he had been a
clergyman before he had given
cheek to a bishop for being
rich, but now he ran a mission
of his own and paid his rent in
thrippenny bits. Everybody
had a great respect for Mr.
Proppanger; and I thought, if
anyone could get Mrs. Hap-
sting not to be foolish in defy-
ing the convents, he could.
“ ‘That poor Mrs. Hapsting,’ he says to me once
when I mentioned her. ‘Human nature is not inflam-
mable, Mrs. Parsley. I can see her point of view,
but the laws of God have to be obeyed.’
“And I am sure if Mr. Slompack had seen the
trouble that was coming he would have hoped Mr.
Proppanger would have succeeded. But, there! He
went on patting the foolish woman on the back, not
knowing that he was rushing to destruction like them
gadderin’ swine in the Bible oracle.
“Mrs. Hapsting’s husband had divorced her, and
he got the right to give the custard to the children,
which is the silly way them Courts have of putting it.
I’ve no patience with them, using all them ambidex-
trous terms. Mrs. Hapsting always said she was inner-
cent. It was because of her jealousy, which, as every-
body knows, is a green-eyed lobster and causes a lot
of trouble. She said that he knew she was innercent,
and she only did it, whatever it was she did, to make
him jealous, too. .
“When he died he was still nasty. He had those
three children kept at school, and he made a derange-
ment that she was only to see them there once every
three months. Every time she’d seen them she came
home with a heart bowed down by weighted woe, as
the poet says. It was a cruel shame, people said.
Mrs. Hapsting could take the children herself, but
if she did the trusty wouldn’t pay her the money she
was given every week, and the children wouldn’t get
any money either till they was twenty-one. Mr.
Slompack said there was something of the make-a-
valley about the derangement. It certainly made a lot
of trouble.
“That’s why Mrs. Hapsting wanted to have a
baby that was all her own, so that she could get over
her sorrer about the others ; and all the people—
except Mr. Proppanger —kept on saying it was quite
right that she should, until it seemed quite respectable.
(■ < J ’M sure I never really thought that Mrs. Hapsting
' would actually do such a thing, but she did. It
must have been the way everybody said she was right.
Even Major Porthack, whose chief interest was whisky,
said by gad, she had pluck, that woman ; and that
Miss Perry seemed to think it would be a good idea
if fathers was abolished. Mrs. Hapsting started to
be proud instead of ashamed ; you know the old say-
ing about fools rushing where angels fearful tread.
“She said she was going to devote her life to
giving him special training to make him the puffect
man ; puffect in mind and puffect in body was how
she put it. And, happy as a bird, she pays money
down to get some land where she can build a house,
so that the baby’ll grow up with plenty of ground to
play in.
“So there it was, happening under my eyes, and
what could I do? There was all the women starting
to make baby clothes already, and the men making
jokes about who was the father ; but nobody could
say. Mrs. Hapsting said that nobody but herself
would ever know who the father was.
“And then, if you please, that Mrs. Hapsting
started crying again, moping about just as she used
to do about them other children of hers.
“ ‘I thought you were so happy about defying
the convents,’ I says.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley, I have been worrying whether I
have done wrong,’ she says. ‘Oh, 1 wanted the baby ;
but it’s a terrible thing, I sometimes think, for a pore
helpless mite to come into the world without having
a father. I made a mistake over that.’
“ ‘Well, Mrs. Hapsting,’ I retortoised, ‘you wanted
it all to yourself, but if you’ve changed your mind
you know who the father is. Tell him about it!’
“‘I couldn’t do that. It would be breaking an
agreement,’ says Mrs. Hapsting.
“Before I knew where I was, all the women in
the place and some from outside were taking the
matter up. There was Mrs. Hapsting always crying
now and women comforting her ; and there always
seemed to be indigernation meetings of women on the
landings.
“‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mrs. Cummings, ‘have you
any idea —any idea at all—who is the man who is the
father of Mrs. Hapsting’s coming child?’
“ ‘She’s the only one who knows,’ I says.
“ ‘And she won’t say,’ says Mrs. Cummings ; ‘but
the pore thing is moping. He ought to come forward
like a man and do the right thing. I intend to find
out who he is, an’ I’ll make him do what is right.’
a T J P to that time nobody had worried very much
about who the father was ; but now it made
all the men in the house uncomfortable. You see,
they knew it might be thought to be any of them.
“There was a lot of people on the lounge at the
top of the first stairs one afternoon, an’ they was all
talking about the same thing like two minds with
not a single thought, as the Bible says.
“ ‘I must confess,’ says Mr. Slompack, ‘that I
am disappointed in Mrs. Hapsting. I thought she
was a woman of courage—her plan seemed a very
good idea, in her circumstances. But she seems to
have forsaken her own ideas.’
“‘Why not?’ asks Mrs. Cummings. ‘lt is, after
all, a sad thing for a child to be born into the world
without anyone it can call father.’
“ ‘But supposing,’ says Mr. Wassail, ‘that it was
a married man?’
“I make no complications about anybody —nor dispersions. All I say is that the man who is irresponsible
should do the right thing."


“ ‘Ho! Now I wonder what put that into your
head,’ cries Mrs. Wassail, looking at him queer. ‘Do
you happen to know, by any chance, that it is a mar-
ried man?’
“‘My dear!’ cries Mr. Wassail, looking very un-
comfortable. She still glared at him.
“ ‘Oh, I’m sure Mrs. Hapsting isn’t that type of
woman,’ says Mrs. Coleman. ‘She’s too respectable.
By the bye, Mr. Slompack, I think you were one of
the foremost in saying that Mrs. Hapsting was right in
doing what she proposed?’
“Mr. Slompack looked suddenly angry.
“ T hope, ma’am,’ he says, ‘that you are not mak-
ing any complications about myself.’
“ ‘I make no complications about anybody—nor
dispersions,’ says Mrs. Coleman. ‘AH I say is that
the man who is irresponsible should do the right
thing.’
“Mr. Slompack got very annoyed ; he says he is
not going to be consulted and there’s such a thing as a
liable law. After he had gone that Mrs. Cummings
said that she felt convinced, in herself, that Mr. Slom-
pack was irresponsible.
“|T wasn’t only Mr. Slompack and Mr. Wassail.
When young Mr. Craven gave notice that he had
to go because he had been transfixed to an office in
the country, Miss Perry was the first to say that it
looked as if he was escaping ; it showed the guilty
conscientiousness that bleeds no accusers. Poor Mr.
Craven, who was a most respectable young man, never
having missed his rent one single week, was so upset
by the whispers that he left before his notice was up.
That upset the plan of some of the women to hold
him at the door as he was leaving and make him con-
fess and marry Mrs. Hapsting.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Major Porthack to me
one morning, ‘I want it to be clearly understood that
1 will not have people in this establishment saying I
am the father of any children. You might let the
other tenants know that I intend to insult my solicitors
and proceed with the utmost riggings of the law if I
hear any more of it.’
“It was terrible. There was them women getting
more and more determined that some man should do
the right thing by Mrs. Hapsting and the pore inner-
cent unborn babe, and not knowing who the man
was because Mrs. Hapsting still wouldn’t say, although
she moped more and more. The way them women
looked at the men and the hints they gave made it un-
comfortable for all of them. I was afraid that some
of my good tenants would be leaving to get away
from it. Mr. Slompack even said he would go, only
he was afraid that everybody would think the worst.
“And the men made some of the fuss, too. There
was nearly a fight one night because young Mr. Crowe
had been asked by some of the men why he didn’t
own up instead of letting everybody else be expected.
That Mr. Crowe liked to boast about being a ladies’
man ; from the hints he dropped you would think
he had as many wives as a cat, as the saying goes,
which is scandalous. He hadn’t minded what people
thought when they joked with him about him being
the father of Mrs. Hapsting’s child, until there was
this trouble. Then the horse was on a different collar,
as the saying is.
“It was Mr. Slompack who appealed to Mrs.
Hapsting ; but some others were with him.
“ ‘You know, Mrs. Hapsting,’ he said. ‘I have
always stood by you. But the position is becoming
intollable. You might at least tell these women that
no man in this place is irresponsible.’
“Mrs. Hapsting only burst into tears.
“‘Oh, I couldn’t do that!’ she sobbed. ‘lt
wouldn’t be the truth.’
“That was a bolt from the bombshell if ever
there was one. And the way some of those women
looked at Mr. Slompack f
“ ‘Well, for heaven’s sake,’ cried Mr. Slompack,
‘you can at least tell them that / had nothing to do
with it.’
“‘Oh, I couldn’t do that either!’ she wailed.
“And you should have seen them women ; they
thought they had poor Mr. Slompack then. But Mrs.
Hapsting went on to say that, if she started telling
people that this and that man wasn’t irresponsible,
she would be really saying who it was, just as if she
had spoke his name. ‘And I wouldn‘t like to lose
the respect of my child’s father by letting him think
that I would break the sacred undertaking we give
to one another,’ she says.
“A lot of the women said that that was only
Mr. Slompack’s bluff, knowing that Mrs. Hapsting
wouldn’t betray him ; and I had an idea myself that
it might be him.
‘ ‘ UT the silver lining is always darkest before
the dawn ; and suddenly Mrs. Hapsting was
going to be married. The word flew through the
place like wildflowers. It was Mr. Storrie, who was
Number 17, and had been very sympathetic, who was
the man to come to light at the thirteenth hour, so to
speak. The men were all relieved ; but the women
were disappointed, I think, because, Mr. Storrie only
having come recent, he couldn’t be the right man to
do the right thing ; and they wanted to get him, es-
pecially if it was Mr. Slompack. I didn’t think it was
right myself, although I was glad that, as the mar-
riage was going to take place at once, Mr. Storrie, with
Mrs. Hapsting’s money, wouldn’t be owing me any
more rent.
“Mr. Proppanger disapproved most of all. ‘No,
Mrs. Parsley,’ he says. ‘Matters are going from bad
to worse, as they always do when a wrong step is
taken. Human nature is not inflammable, but although
it was all wrong there was something fine in Mrs.
Hapsting’s purport. Now she is throwing all that
away I think I ought to stop it.’
“It gave me a sinking feeling in the heart to
think that he might upset everything and start all
the trouble going again. I felt as if I had been lifted
from the horns of a tenterhook when they actually
left the place to get married.
“A lot of the women went. When they came
back the first one I saw was Mrs. Cummings. She
was all excited.
“ ‘Mr. Proppanger married her,’ she says, breath-
less like.
“‘Fancy him doin’ that!’ I says, relieved to hear
it was over and done for. ‘Why he was all against
Mrs. Hapsting marrying Mr. Storrie ; and I thought
the register was going to marry them.’
“ ‘He didn’t marry her to Mr. Storrie ; he took
Mr. Storrie’s place! Oh, I can tell you there was a
sensation!’
“Of all the nine days’ blunders that never cease!
Before I could do anything but gape like a catfish
out of water there was Mr. Proppanger and Mrs. Hap-
sting, standing together looking very loving. To me
it was Confucius worse, confound it, as them Chinese
say ; I could hardly hear what he said except that he
had married Mrs. Hapsting and after all it was him
really was the father.
“ ‘Human nature is not inflammable,’ he says. ‘I
admit my weakness. I have been tortured ever since
I yielded to it. But I feel now that my celebrate ideas
were small things to stand in the way of my duty.’
“ ‘I wanted the finest man I knew to be the father
of my son,’ says Mrs. Hapsting—Mrs. Proppanger
that was now —looking up at him like one of them
adorning angels.
“Well, there you are! The social aperient worked
out for good by the unscrewable ways of improvi-
dence; but there was a lot of trouble before that hap-
pened. Her money helped him a bit and he ceased
to be such a frantic. He’s become a clergyman again
and them Proppangers are happy. »
“But it wasn’t a boy at all. It was a girl, and they
call her Annie,” concluded Mrs. Parsley, preparing to
resume her dusting.
Two Songs .
N.S.W.
/.
“My lief is faren in londe,
Come hider, love, to me.”
When word, not wave or wind,
Mind walled away from mind,
Or 1 watched lone and late
Outside her sleep’s white gate,
Was naught to do hut wait
Till she came back to me.
“My lief is faren in londe,”
But only time and sea
In drugged white enmity
My dear and me divide.
Since time is long, sea wide,
Fleet from antiquity
1 send this bird, this word
“Come hider, love, to me.”
11.
Sometimes on my despair
Her bird-white voice breaks clear
In raying light more fine
Than that thin gleaming line
That links the eye to star.
Light-year beyond light-year
Strains my despair to her,
But frail, how frail the chain
That dews the dark again,
Then fades in the cold air.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
FUMBLERS
BY LES ROBINSON.
FEW suburbs are without them, and few offices
either. I am one to some and, I fear, an
increasing extent. I may, indeed, end up as
champion of our district, always supposing that
one of its other residents, still more inept and aggra :
vating, doesn’t supersede me.
How the fumbler ever succeeds in getting out of
his own house in the morning is a mystery. His
habit of putting things away carefully and then for-
getting where is one of his outstanding characteristics.
Tidiness, if not overdone, may be a virtue. The
fumbler, however, overdoes it to a maddening extent,
and is more plagued on that account, perhaps because
he suffers from a defective memory, than he would be
if he scattered his possessions about at random.
Suppose he has, for a wonder, managed to find
his pipe and his penknife, he next has to decide what
he has done with the key to the front door. Having
fumbled in all his pockets repeatedly he can at last
unwillingly assert that not only does it seem to be
elsewhere, but in actuality is.
Did he put it under the doormat? No. Perhaps
without thinking he dropped it in that flowerpot in
the fernery? Not there either, Well, where is the dam’
thing then? Hot, flustered, fuming and exasperated,
he mutters, whispers, moans or, with appropriate
gestures, shouts that query at himself in a frenzy
several hundred times on an average every day. Half
his time is spent in putting things just where he thinks
he will be able to find them, though why, when, if
ever, found, they are more often than not in the most
unlikely and unsuitable places, no one, least of all
himself, knows.
His search for the key of the front door may
have been crowned for once with undeserved success.
Wrapping it up in wadding—if the rattling of it annoys
him as much as it does me —and placing it in the
tobacco tin he very likely carries about with him in
lieu of (because he can’t find) his purse, he then gaily
slams the door, the front gate too, and with great
rapidity (he is nearly always running late) strides
towards the tram-stop. When he has gone about half
a mile he suddenly discovers that he has forgotten
an important letter, to bring any money with him, or
something else he would be unhappy all day without.
He at once goes back, of course, for whatever it
happens to be.
I F you ever arrange to meet him anywhere he never
' by any chance arrives at the appointed time, and
without incensing him by asking you always know
why. If you are working alongside him he is all day
long wanting to know whether you have seen his
pen, his pencil, his rubber, his pick, mattock, axe,
hatchet, trowel, fork or shovel; his hat, his cigarette
papers, his pipe, tobacco, matches and goodness only
knows what else besides. He is convinced that if
they are no longer where he can lay his hands on
them it is because you have picked them up or done
something else with them by mistake.
If you go fishing with him the same kind of
thing occurs, only it is much worse, for he is all day
long, or all night long, borrowing your hooks, lines,
sinkers, floats, casts, bait, knife, mosquito-lotion,
lighter, torch, the makings, crab-spear, opener,
matches, etc., all of which, as likely as not, are
destined to share the fate of his own, whatever that
may happen to be.
'T'HE fumbler gives some of his very best perform-
* ances in trams. The arrival of the ticket-examiner
is always a discomfort to him, unexpected and per-
turbing. He awakes, startled, like a horse struck with
a whip, from a daydream, and at once begins fumbling
in pocket after pocket (he always seems to have more
pockets, by the way, than anybody else has) with
swift and frantic movements of his fingers as they
scrabble, rummage and fossick vainly in one after the
other.
He becomes more and more flustered. His face
grows redder and redder. If he has a beard it waggles
in a flummoxed kind of way, unless, of course, kept
inside his waistcoat by means of a sinker or clock-
weight attached to the lower end. His nose, eyelids
and eyebrows wiggle and twitch. He drops various
amorphous brown-paper parcels, and if pigs’ trotters,
prawns, cooked beetroot or pickled onions should
happen to be among their contents nothing is more
certain than that some of them will choose such an
inopportune time to make a slitherish and triumphant
entry upon the scene.
At last the ticket-examiner takes pity on him
and goes away, or, on the contrary, if irascible and
pernickety, unnerves the poor wretch still further and
adds to his discomfiture by seeming to suspect him
of trying to evade paying his fare, in which case the
fumbler, only too willing at such a trifling cost to
end his misery, hands out, when and if he succeeds
in finding one, another small coin. His fellow-pas-
sengers also sigh with relief, for that kind of thing
is not only distressing to onlookers but, just as watch-
ing a person scratch himself is likely to make one feel
itchy, positively infectious as well.
“The apparel oft proclaims the man”—none more
so than the fumbler’s, for as his fingers, except when
he is asleep, are almost without cessation scrambling,
fumbling and scuffling in them, his pockets are out
of shape always, torn, greasy and ragged. Another
reason why he can never find anything is that they
usually have holes in them, too.


-V.
f///
tin
till
m
un
First Blow
for your
Independence
Often five pounds of your very own will enable you to keep your chin up
when "something goes wrong."
Your financial independence is one of the few things worth having.
It's easily won by systematically saving a little every week without fail.
Some day your savings will be your best friend the friend who doesn't
turn you down. Start a savings account to-day one shilling is enough
to start.
SAVINGS BAH
4) E AUSTRALIA
m
m
8S
m
WM-
M A
W 0
LAND OF VIVID
CONTRASTS
Yisit intriguing South
Africa where native cus-
toms, strange animals,
and awe-inspiring scenery
blend together in a world
of adventureand romance.
Travel through this Gol-
den Land where civilized
comforts may be yours
in a setting of nature's
exotic marvels. A modern
transport system has
been developed to afford
yoxi the utmost in speed,
comfort, and convenience.
Obtain full particulars to-day from all offices of
DALGETY & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
ĵ
as their neighbors, the Argentines, obligingly put it.
His first glimpse coming into Santa Cruz from the sea
was typical of the country as he found it:
The land was flat, with slight undulations on both
sides of the bay, and bare as a swept floor. All the
bushes for miles around had long ago been used for
fuel. To the north-west the terraced hills rose above
the plain, pale blue and distant in the sun-haze. A
few miles farther up the bay we saw a dirty-white
cloud of dust. This was the town.
Patagonia was pioneered largely by stockmen.
They lived in patriarchal simplicity, whisky their only
recreation, grazing their flocks on the unfenced plains.
When war raised the price of mutton to spectacular
heights it brought an inrush of new settlers to Pata-
gonia, and disputes between the new settlers and the
old over land boundaries made plenty of work for
surveyors for many years after. Rubio’s clients were
chiefly among the Scots. They tried him out first with
whisky. “When I look back on my stay in these
seaport towns I can go so far as to feel a strong
sympathy for prohibition.”
Out on the job he reverted for months at a time
to primitive living, sleeping under the stars, nothing
to eat but meat, nothing to drink but mate, the herb
tea of the country, nothing to look at but a vast
monotone, no other living creatures outside his party
but an occasional flock of guanacos or of rheas, an
odd red fox, a few silent birds, and the “solar wind”
blowing day after day till the nerves were frayed to
the point of murder. Rubio loathed the country and
suddenly, like other travellers there, he found that it
had got into his blood.
What the traveller sees may appear to him insig-
nificant if he has no eye for the charm of the virgin
pampas. In that case he only takes in what is repel-
lent : its barrenness, its monotony, the scarcity of
animal life, the entire absence of singing birds and
flowers. When he halts to get his bearings he hears
nothing but the tireless voice of the wind whispering
hoarse, incomprehensible words, sees nothing but the un-
changing desert-like plain which ends abruptly at the
ever-blue sky, over which white clouds drift eastwards.
That is all. And his heart shrinks in infinite sadness at
this solitude, which to him is nothing but poverty and not
worth wasting time over. He does not know that the
plain hides both romance and gloomy secrets. But its
treasures are not to be wrung from it by the stranger,
they cannot be found by his indifferent eyes.
But afterwards, when he has served his novitiate,
“What once seemed so ugly takes on a strange and
distant beauty.”
The population, which has three main ingredients,
is united in its lawless independence. There are the
pioneers, mainly Scots, so cut off from home that
their language is changing, not, as Rubio points out,
by an infiltration of Spanish, but, curiously, by rever-
sion to a primitive idiom rather akin to Norwegian.
There are the settlers from Argentina, to whom motor-
cars are what whisky is to the Scots, a vital people
who when they commit murder do it with punctilio,
always polite but frequently deadly.
There are the Indians, the nomadic fragment of
a people who eat nothing but horseflesh and whose
traditions haunt , the country like a ghost from the
fabulous past. The daily life of all these people
appears to be a matter of extremes, extremes of hardi-
hood, courage, fidelity, treachery ; and all shese things
are accepted as commonplaces by them. The universal
basis of good manners is to ask no questions.
Rubio is a close observer, and upon the wide
design of his book are pasted many little pictures. He
has much that is interesting to say about the wild life
of the mesas, his horses and mules. Patagonian Year
is not a travel book in the ordinary sense ; it’s an
impression by a man of acute imagination who has
earned his bread in the country.
A Book of Gum-trees.
Maybe the famous medicinal properties of the
eucalypt have something to do with it; at all events,
Australia is now treated to the interesting occurrence
of the Aus. Medical Publishing Co. putting out a
beautiful tome enshrining choice and familiar examples
of gum-trees, so well done as a book that it might
have been issued by a collectors’ press.
This is Dr. A. W. D’Ombrain’s A Gallery of Gum
Trees. Dr. D’Ombrain, an evident enthusiast and a
knowledgeable one, provides the “drive” of the book —
the introductory and general text. The pictures are
large page illustrations from original paintings and
water-colors by Tydfyl Evans, after studying which
any of the varieties listed will be recognisable on sight.
Further help to that end is provided by Dr.
D’Ombrain’s informative and infectiously enthusiastic
letterpress.
Appreciation of the gum in its 500 different sorts
as a thing of beauty is fast growing. Books like this
one will help that along greatly.
Russia Looks at the States.
Books innumerable have been written about Soviet
Russia, most of them by social explorers with a
moral to draw. Lewis Browne’s Oh, Say Can You
See! (Cape) looks like the first ripple of the return-
ing tide.
In it Ivan Feodorovitch Krassnaumov, a young
Russian scientist, goes to California from Siberia to
study ichthyology at the Baggs Marine Biological
Station. From his early childhood he had known
nothing outside the Communist system, and its ideas
and institutions are truisms to him. In America he is
like a creature from another planet, and sets out on
the exploration of American democracy with enthu-
siasm.
By reversing a well-known situation Browne
creates a novelty and gives readers —American, at any
rate —a glimpse of the world they live in. The book
is written as a novel, but plot is not its strong point.
It is really a piece of dramatised reportage, mostly
dialogue, fluent in its structure, direct in its attack.
At first Ivan is amazed and delighted by the bril-
liant surface of life —street lighting that suggests end-
less festival, Woolworth shopping where he could
buy everything for next to nothing, plumbing, cock-
tails and the twenty-thousand dollar laboratories at the
marine biology station. He finds them all “incredible.”
But then the surface begins to wear. He discovers
unemployment behind the lights, that shoddy doesn’t
wear, that plumbing and cocktails don’t nourish the
spirit and that there is no money to staff the magnifi-
cent laboratory.
His career is short and hectic. He is taken up
and lionised by the local plutocracy, and responds by
falling in love with Carole, who is married to millions
and their drunken owner. His bright blue eyes and
his novelty value take Carole’s fancy for the moment,
but for the moment only. His love and chivalry fall
on very stony ground. At the other end of the social
scale he becomes entangled in the affairs of Gus, a
taxi-driver who befriended him, and is arrested on
suspicion of murdering Gus’s girl. He clears himself,
but the scandal is most unwelcome at Baggs’s, an in-
stitution which exists on cajoling money from rich
and credulous widows, and he is promptly shipped
back home.
Browne is interested in conflict and its satiric by-
products rather than in awarding the palm. There
isn’t a dull moment in this quick and witty book. The
characters are well if roughly drawn, and Browne has
an effective way of striking off a likeness. An untidy
man “looked as if he had got into a stolen suit in the
dark.”
Dent's Aldine Library.
Taking its name from Dent’s London house, the
Aldine Library supplements and within its limits com-
pares well with the other inexpensive uniform editions
of select books published at the same address. The
Aldine series is handsomely got up in royal blue cloth
with gold lettering and design ; fiction is excluded, and
books in it will consist mostly of biography, travel,
adventure, personal experience and the like, all of
fairly recent origin.
Latest additions to hand include Edward Thomas’s
beautiful description of his living near to nature in
Kent and Hampshire, titled The South Country, illus-
trated with engravings by Eric Daglish; Douglas
Pope’s Now Tm Sixteen, an extraordinarily fine piece
of writing to come from a boy ; Men, Movements
and Myself, by Lord Snell, the Labor peer who began
his working life as a ploughboy and in this auto-
biography gives an engaging account of modern poli-
tical England ; Seventy Years a Showman, by “Lord”
George Sanger, one of the most accurate and inter-
esting of books on circus life ; and E. H. Carr’s notable
biography, Karl Marx.
Poet's Corner.
In a quiet corner of London “Daily Mirror,” like
a lonely geranium between the grim walls of war
scares and the latest slaying in a love-nest, flowers the
poet Patience Strong. To the lonely hearts who write
to Dorothy Dix she carries the message that the dark-
est cloud must have a silver lining ; to the world-
weary who read the “Lush Places” column of which
Evelyn Waugh once spoke in delight, she brings the
intelligence that far off, beyond the noise and grime,
the bees of hope still buzz.
Now the publisher Frederick Muller has offered
her Quiet Moments to a wider audience. It would
be selfish not to quote some of these verses, so charm-
ingly disguised as prose. There is “The Pearl”:
An irritating speck of sand gets in the oyster’s
heart—and it secretes a substance like a perfect work
of art —to cover up the tiny wound —protect the tender
Spot—And lo—a pearl is born!—oysters could teach
us quite a lot ! . . .
There is, too, “Impedimenta,” which for all its
rather difficult title is quite an easy poem:
Do we need all the stuff that we pack in our trunks
when we go for a week to the sea? We go laden with
numerous things we shan’t want —when we might go
unhampered and free. It’s the same on the journey
of everyday life. We have too many burdens to bear.
And among the little verses of Nature is:
There’s a tame little robin that hops up my path—
He comes for a feast and a plunge in the bath
The other birds watch from the sycamore tree —
Amazed at such cold-blooded audacity—for they’d be
afraid of my big ginger cat —afraid of me, too! . . .
Fancy being like that!
Fancy!


Teach your children to know the Gum Trees
A GALLERY OF GUM TREES
by Dr. A. W. D’Ombrain.
Twenty-one full-page colored illustrations of
different Gum Trees, from original water-colors
y Tydfyl Evans. With complete descriptions
of each tree.
An ideal Xmas gift book.
17(6 from all leading book stores
or direct from
AUSTRALASIAN MEDICAL PUBLISHING
c COMPANY,
Seamer Street, Glebe, Sydney.
• rjkt
' "M 't -
•• A* L-
H
! >«& X
H
W
w
i,
7*
!
\A
Promenades on
spacious white decks under starry
skies * * * dancing * * * cinemas * * *
shipboard friendships * * * the glamour
and fascination of life aboard a modern
liner • * * are highlights of P&0 Travel .
Pen/ n s ot / ot 7 di Oriental < N (To ( / ncoipoioited in £ngl and )
"IT'S A WM/AWH"
ff«*t THOUSANDS OF NEW USERS ABOUT
PEPSODEHT containing IRIUM
Thousands of NEW users say “Pepsodent’s a
winner!” They know now that brilliance and
lustre CAN be restored to dull, surface-stained
teeth, by the regular use of Pepsodent containing
IRIUM. Because of this wonderful new cleansing
discovery, Pepsodent will do it pleasantly,
thoroughly and SAFELY! Because of IRIUM,
it needs NO SOAP, NO GRIT, NO PUMICE! Try
it yourself today, and SEE how Pepsodent gives
you a naturally sparkling smile!
AU 1038/24J THE PEPSODENT co (aust.) ptt. ltd. (incorporated in victoria?
j
Ml
a
V94MV
OWSVtHp?
\»JPW6
Whiiiiikw*
31SVd
HlOOl
IMlOOSdid
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
The Dragon Book: E. D. Edwards
(Hodge and Co.). Regretting that much
of the old beauty and serene detachment
of China is now hidden under the make-
up of modern civilisation and Western
culture, Dr. Edwards contributes towards
at least a knowledge of the former spirit
being retained, compiling an excellent
anthology of Chinese lore from hundreds
of sources, nicely printed in a handy-
sized little vol.
Farmer’s Creed-: Crichton Porteous
(Harrap). Personal experience with the
quality of sincere feeling and the merit
of novelty. By breaking with his uncle,
a Yorkshire businessman, the author cut
himself off from a certain fortune. He
went working as a farm laborer, and
much preferred it. There is something
very human about his well-written record
of it all.
The Secret: Harold Burdekin (Dent).
Photographs unified by a religious theme,
the author seeking to “portray in pic-
tures truths which are eternal,” and
achieving that object by setting beside
Bible texts appropriate illustrations taken
from the natural scene around him — e.g.,
a baby’s face with an expression of curi-
ous inquiry, “And the Word was made
flesh” ; a poplar bent to the wind, “The
wind bloweth where it listeth” ; and so
on through “comfort,” “simplicity,”
“peace,” “the promise” (of the earth’s
harvest), “the quest” (of science), “free-
dom” (a gull against the sky), “omnipo-
tence” (seascape), “benediction” (sunlight
streaming through trees), etc. A beauti-
ful publication.
Guide to the A ustralian Museum:
C. Anderson and members of the scien-
tific staff. Much more than a guide to
where things are to be found in the
Sydney museum ; a packed brochure of
lively information about mammals,
fishes, birds and so on in their existence
before they became museum specimens.
Australia Outback: All such publica-
tions as this help to map the Australian
scene. Issued by Melbourne “Sun News-
Pictorial” at Is., it is a magazine of
photographs of curious scenes and crea-
tures peculiar to Australia.
Penguins . . .
A topical addition to this capital
paperbacks series is The Air Defence of
Britain, discussed by Air-Commodore
L E. O. Charlton, G. T. Garratt and
Lieut.-Commander R. Fletcher, M.P.,
dealing respectively with “The New
Factor in Warfare,” “Air Raid Pre-
cautions” and “Britain’s Air Strength.”
Other additions are E. F. Benson’s
memoirs, As We Were; Osbert Sit-
well’s Before the Bombardment; Vol.
2 of Edward Shanks’s Queer Street ;
Ralph Straus’s The Unseemly Adventure.
Verse . . .
The Beauties of Bridge: Marmaduke
Dixey (Faber). Contract Bridge “don’ts”
in heroic couplets, reprinted from
“Punch.” Mildly amusing on the sub-
ject of bad players.
“J.H.M.A.”: When John Sandes died
the Commonwealth lost one of the ablest
and most cultured men who have ever
done newspaper work within its borders.
He came from Cork—incidentally, he
always had a high appreciation of the
quaint Australian career of another man
of Cork, Sir Henry Browne Hayes,
founder of the old Vaucluse estate on
Port Jackson—and was always unmis-
takably Irish, both in his humor and his
whimsical outlook on life. At the out-
break of the South African War, one of
his contributions to “The Pa'ssing Show”
column of Melbourne “Argus” attracted
wide attention ; many will recall “With
Death’s Prophetic Ear,” when the old
Boer, dying in the veld with his rifle
beside him, reconciles himself to the in-
evitable. John Sandes left three volumes
of verse — Rhymes of the Times (1898),
Ballads of Battle (1902) and Landing in
the Dawn (1916) —besides several novels,
the latter published under the nom de
plume of “Don Delaney.”


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
—'
1 X •
■
u
:: '' •
• *
: v
mi
mt
2!
J
%
1
...
' ■' :x , ' *. •
1 BP 1
* ',m. '* 'LZ/dtfem. « i
iSSBiMil
m
9
Windsor Castle.
r <£


REJECTED ADDRESSES.
“Representatives of France and Germany have signed a no-more-war declaration.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/t«i.). Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months. £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques■)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Ss.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months. 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places. 4d.
ARE THEY TELLING THE TRUTH?
, First Mr. Hughes: “War is thundering at our gates.”
Then Mr. Lyons: “The bitter truth is that at any
time in the next few years we Australians may have
to resist an attack upon our country. These words
must be weighed carefully by every Australian. Would
that you knew while there is yet time on what a slender
thread peace in Australia depends!” Next Mr. Street,
repeating Mr. Lyons’s “bitter truth” sentence like an
echo from the cavern of Doom.
Mr. Hughes and Mr. Lyons qualified their state-
ments. A day after his “thundering” pronouncement
Mr. Hughes was telling a provincial audience: “I do
not say for one moment that war is inevitable or that
it is imminent. If I thought that it was imminent I
should not be here to-day.” Mr. Lyons qualified his
statement in the course of the broadcast in which he
made it:
Have you considered just what the Munich Agree-
ment means? Surely it shows that for the first time in
history such problems as were surveyed could be
solved without recourse to war. That very fact
ought to rekindle our faith. It shows that even when war
was most threatening—and threatening it was —conflict
on a world scale may be avoided. We saw then, and
know now, that peace can be preserved despite appear-
ances which suggest that the Great War was fought
in vain.
Mr. Street also did his bit of qualifying:
It is an instinctive hope of the Australian people
that the policy of appeasement initiated by the Munich
Pact will succeed.
But the words of these gentlemen are far too
serious for any songandance shuffling. Will Mr. Lyons
. tell Australia now —bluntly, plainly and exactly, with-
out qualification or equivocation—that these most
serious and extraordinary warnings given out by him-
self and his responsible Ministers represent the abso-
lute truth of the situation?
That is not a mere argumentative, critical or
rhetorical question. It is put as seriously as the
position demands. There are the very strongest reasons
in the national interest for asking it.
The alarming words were all uttered before Par-
liament “rose for the Christmas recess.” Mr. Lyons
was jointly recruiting and paving the way for heavier
defence expenditure, Mr. Hughes was recruiting as
directly and frankly as any recruiting sergeant, and
Mr. Street was speaking on the new defence pro-
gramme, now to cost £63,000,000. If allowance for
exaggeration has to be made on these grounds, each of
the gentlemen concerned automatically pleads guilty
to scaremongering in a policy of political expediency.
If the answer is that these gentlemen have been
doing nothing so shameful, but have been, instead, giv-
ing out even less than they actually know —the only
interpretation to be put on Mr. Lyons’s “slender-
thread” statement —then it is equally shameful to
continue for a moment longer with a volunteer
system which needs such platform performances.
They can have it one way or the other. Either
they are behaving as expedient politicians unworthy of
the responsible positions they hold —deliberately scare-
mongering to make a declared preference for the volun-
teer system work —or they are telling no more than
the “bitter truth.” If the latter, they are so regardless
of the national interest that, while calling on young
Australian manhood to do its duty voluntarily, they
have not the simple courage to face up to the duty that
is clearly their own. A Government which, knowing
what it must be inferred its responsible Ministers
know —if they are telling us the truth —still monkeys
about in the prevailing comic-opera fashion with the
man-power item of defence, cannot be described as
anything else but a rotten Government.
If it is in fact the “bitter truth” we are being told,
then a Government whose leader is pledged not to
reintroduce compulsory training is a national blunder
of the worst kind. If the threat of war against this
country is as represented, compulsory training should
not only be reintroduced without wasting another
minute, but its scope should be enlarged to take in men
up to at least 50 years of age —in fact, to take in every
able-bodied man and woman in the land. All indus-
try, too, with any bearing on defence should be
brought under control; imports of oil and other war
material should be instantly and heavily increased ;
the country, in short, should be put on a basis of being
ready to go to war at one hour’s notice.
That is, if the warnings given out are in fact the
“bitter truth.”
There is another consideration. If these gentlemen
have indeed been speaking honestly—even, as they
would seem to imply, modestly—are they right? If
they are right, then the Prime Minister of Great
Britain is wrong, for Mr. Chamberlain, in his latest
utterances and activities alike, continues to hold out
enduring peace as a blessing that we have a very good
chance of achieving.
The British Prime Minister explains his Govern-
ment’s rearmament policy as in no way inconsistent
with the policy of conciliation and appeasement.
Britain was allowed to become shamefully weak, as
Australia has been. Mr. Chamberlain simply holds
that we would not be serving the cause of peace by
unilateral disarmament; he points to the Pact of
Munich as a positive achievement towards a
guaranteed peace, and sees no reason why we should
not look forward “in a spirit of cheerfulness and
confidence.” And his Government is not introducing
conscription ; on the contrary it has “decided” within
the past fortnight that “a compulsory national register
of man-power” is “at present unnecessary.”
Only a halfwit would suggest that Mr. Chamber-
lain is wantonly misleading Great Britain, and the
Empire with it. Then what advice has Australia’s
Prime Minister been given that is not available to
Britain’s P.M.?
The general state of world affairs writes another
huge question mark against the supposition that in
the shocking warnings they are uttering our political
gentlemen are right. On the heels of their most
alarming statements —because of their responsible
nature, the most alarming Australia has yet heard —
comes something that has been anxiously awaited in
Europe for 100 years—the signing of the Franco-
German No-war Declaration.
The French and German Governments, convinced
that friendly and good-neighborly relations are one of
the most essential elements in the consolidation of good
relations in Europe and in the maintenance of peace,
will do all in their power to safeguard such mutual
relations.
Both countries state that there are no more questions
of a territorial kind between the countries, and they
solemnly recognise the present Franco-German frontier.
Both are resolved, without prejudice to their relations
with third Powers, to remain in touch regarding all
mutual problems and to negotiate if these problems lead
to international difficulties.
Coming on top of the Anglo-German Naval
Agreement, the Munich Pact, the Anglo-Italian Agree-
ment, the Anglo-American Trade Agreement and
other Agreements in the Balkans and elsewhere, that
No-war Declaration signed between Germany and
France should quieten the most persistent scare-
mongers, if it were possible to quieten those who have
found that trading on fears is a profitable business.
Then because of threat from what quarter is it urgently
necessary for the Prime Minister to tell Australia
through 116 radio stations: “Would that you knew
while there is yet time on what a slender thread peace
in Australia depends”?
Is it Japan? How has that become suddenly
urgent? Is it not rather the truth that Japan —apart
from its China commitments —is securely held by
America on one flank, Russia on the other and Singa-
pore cutting across the spearhead?
Australian defence is clearly an urgent matter.
It has been disgracefully neglected, and that neglect
must be rectified as an ordinary national safeguard.
Is it necessary on that account to deafen the country
with statements which the recent utterances of the
British Prime Minister, the signing of the Anglo-
German No-war Declaration and other achievements
of appeasement and conciliation, as well as the
general world situation, would seem to brand as mon-
strous sensationalism?
Or —will our political gentlemen tell us? —are all
these indications wrong, and they only right? Is it
the “bitter truth” that we must prepare, not to be
well and strongly defended as any nation ought to
be, but to be armed and ready for a war which our
leaders can see coming? If this is, in fact, the “bitter
truth,” then these same political gentlemen, instead
of doing an obviously urgent national job, are play-
acting, loafing (“Parliament rose for the Christmas
recess”), and should get out.
"Continental Enterprises."
There was an affecting scene in the House ot
Commons when Mr. Winston Churchill invited 50
Ministerialists to vote against the Government, by
way of drawing attention to the crying need for
Britain to restore order on the Continent, or some-
thing like that. Three (3) Ministerialists accepted the
invitation. There are 400 Ministerialists.
Mr. Churchill began politics as a Conservative.
Then he became a Liberal, then a Coalitionist, then a
Nationalist, then a Conservative again. Now, at 63,
he would twist once more if Duty didn’t whisper
“Don’t.”
Through all his vicissitudes he has been sustained
by the thought, the dream, that he would rearrange
things on the Continent to his liking, in spite of those
damned Europeans. Always there has been an Enemy,
who must be put in his place by a Grand Alliance,
with England as the soul of it and Churchill as the
soul of England.
Twenty years ago the Enemy was Soviet Russia.
What if the Western world was war-weary, hungry
and broke? It must struggle out of that condition
and hurl itself against the Bolshies: Light v. Darkness
and Right v. Might again ; with Germany champion-
ing Light and Right. Yes, Mr. Churchill was willing
to lead even the Germans against the Communist
hordes. He didn’t get that for, but as Minister for
War and for the Air he was permitted to back the
Whites against the Reds.
In the index to Lord Riddell’s Intimate Diary.
there is the note “Churchill Russian campaign of,
p. 103.” The Diary itself contains these passages:
January, 1920. —L[loydl G[eorge|: “While wc were in
Paris Winston was very excited about Russia. I had
to handle him firmly. He was most insistent, and pre-
pared to sacrifice both men and money. Now he is
changing his views on Russia.”
March, 1920. —“Much talk by L.G. regarding Win-
ston's proposal in the autumn of last year that he (W.)
should visit Russia. That was when Denikin’s chances
seemed favorable.”
March, 1922. —“Winston declines to agree to the
political recognition of the Soviet, and may resign if
L.G. insists.”
Now, of course, Hitler’s Germany is the Enemy.
Again is heard the thunder of Churchillian invective,
somewhat the worse for wear. Plans for another
Grand Alliance agitate that restless brain. As outlined
during the European summer, the Grand Alliance was
to consist of 10 encircling Powers (unnamed), all
charged with the task of overawing the Germans. The
10 Powers unanimously refused to march.
This ardor for Grand Alliances and European
adventures is inherited. The fortunes of the house of
Churchill were made that very way—by John
Churchill, Duke of Marlborough. Mr. Winston
Churchill has written a set of volumes glorifying Marl-
borough and denouncing his enemies. Although “new
material” has been placed at Mr. Churchill’s disposal
by the family, and although he is no slouch at special
pleading, it is improbable that history will accept his
partial verdict or that the article on Marlborough in
the Encyclopedia Britannica will be substantially
altered.
In that article Marlborough is described as “a
forgiven traitor,” a scoundrel who, “favored above
his fellows,” by James 11. and William 111. “in turn,
betrayed both alike, apparently without scruple or
without sharhe.”
There is no doubt that Marlborough was in close
relations with the exiled king at St. Germains, and
that he even went so far as to disclose, in May, 1694,
to his late master the intention of the English to
attack Brest.
The encyclopaedist and Mr. Churchill agree that Marl-
borough did very well out of his wars. The former
refers to his Garter, his dukedom, “a grant of £5OOO
per annum for Queen Anne’s life” and the gift of the
castle of Blenheim (“£240,000 of public money was
spent on the building”); and Mr. Churchill compla-
cently mentions that the castle thus named was built
in the “royal manor and park of Woodstock, about
15,000 acres, worth about £6OOO a year,” all “conveyed
to the Duke of Marlborough and his heirs” by the
capricious Anne. And “the pay and allowances the
Captain-General was already receiving from British
and Dutch sources certainly amounted to £60,000
a year.”
There was a little matter of 2\ per cent, on the
wages of foreign soldiers in Marlborough’s service.
The total exceeded a quarter of a million, and the dis-
closure, skilfully handled by the Tories, helped to
bring Marlborough down. Mr. Churchill explains
indignantly that it was used as secret-service money.
Meanwhile his hero had received princely gifts from
foreign allies, and his wife got £lB,OOO from Anne
in one haul.
And what did England get? A brief period of
glory, a multiplied national debt and a multitude of
foreign graves. What else has England ever got from
“the policy of Continental enterprises” (Mr.
Churchill’s blithe description)? What else can Eng-
lishmen ever expect to get; Englishmen and Austra-
lians and Maorilanders too? Carlyle, a better his-
torian and a wiser man than Mr. Churchill, wrote 90
years ago:
To fight with its neighbors never was, and is now
less than ever, the real trade of England. For far
other objects was the English people created into this
world.
It is true, and it will remain true for all time, and for
all the nations of the British Commonwealth, whether
the “Continental enterprises” are balance-of-power
wars, crusading wars or Churchill-Duff Cooper wars.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hate in Action.
“Advanced” trade-union bosses hate Germans,
Italians, Japanese, the Chamberlain Government, the
Lyons Government, the Australian army and Broken
Hill Prop. They love Stalin, the Red army, the Red
air force, Chiang Kai-shek, Negrin and Benes —though
Benes is out of action, as it were.
Under the impulse of these hates and loves, and
egged on by good people who demand the gratification
of their League sentiments and don’t trouble to count
the cost, the “advanced” gentry have worked up
another wharf boycott —at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) this
time.
Broken Hill Prop, is hated because it is a very
successful Australian enterprise. One of its many
products is pig-iron, and it has found foreign buyers
for it —no mean achievement considering that iron
and steel production started from nothing a compara-
tive few years ago, and had to struggle against a long
depression, as well as strenuous and highly-developed
overseas competition.
The Japanese placed an order for 23,000 tons oL'
B.H.P. pig-iron, and it was to have been loaded at
Kembla into a British vessel carrying a mixed white
and colored crew. For Australia the transaction was
useful, since it would help to correct a now-unlavor-
able balance of trade. But the “advanced” persons
and their dupes successfully interposed with their boy-
cott, alleging that the pig-iron would be used against
Chiang Kai-shek, and might even return violently to
Australia in the form of munitions.
There is no world shortage of pig-iron. The
Japanese can get as much as they want from a dozen
countries, beginning with peaceful Sweden. If they are
to be refused a bit of pig-iron because they are carrying
on military operations in China —as Russia has done of
recent years and Britain itself did in past years—they
should on the same "principle” be refused supplies of
all commodities they buy from Australia especially
wool, which is worn by their soldiers, and lead.
But to stop trading with a country is to quarrel
with it. No Government worth its salt can allow an
insignificant minority to involve it in such a quarrel.
Hence the Lyons Government very properly, though
very tardily, placed the Port Kembla wharf-laborers
under the licensing system.
Not many of the wharf-laborers are Communists.
Neither were many of the seamen or many of the coal-
miners who obliged the Communist mob by going on
strike. In each case hundreds of good fellows were
left “on the beach,” and it will be the same with hun-
dreds of wharf-laborers if they persist in taking sides
in an Oriental war, endangering their own country
in the process. Communists lose all their strikes and
all their boycotts and all their wars.
The High Cost of Optimism.
In 1921 the R.A.N. had 38 ships, with a total tonnage
of over 90,000 and a personnel of about 5800. The
old Australia and some cruisers had arrived in
November, 1913. Denounced by many as an extrava-
gance, they were on active service nine months later.
In April, 1924, the Australia was butchered to
make a Washington holiday. Retained and recon-
structed as an oil-burner she would still be the most
powerful battle-cruiser in the Pacific. Six destroyers,
which even to-day would be among the fastest in the
world, were tied to buoys in Sydney and remained
tethered till they were dismantled. At the end of
1937, the 1921 tonnage had fallen to 44,000 tons,
including repair ships and sloops.
The Scullin . Government jettisoned the normal
military defence system. The R.A.A.F. was neglected
till a year or so ago.
Now Australians are paying to replace as much
of the damage as they can afford. The latest impro-
vised plan provides for spending £63,000,000 in three
years. When the scheme is complete, Australia will
have two reconstructed 10,000-ton cruisers, four
other cruisers, two modern Tribal class destroyers •
actually fast light cruisers fitted for special work
and 12 motor torpedo boats. Destroyers and torpedo
boats are to be built in Australia.
The Air Force is to be increased to 212 'planes,
and expansion is to cost £2,500,000 for machines alone.
The total three-year air vote will be £16,400,000. Ihe
army vote is to be increased from £11,612,000 to
£19,704,000. Militia is to be doubled in number to
70,000. Coast defences, munition manufacture, gun-
building equipment are to be provided on a large scale.
Taxpayers wince, but the new policy is generally
approved, especially the expansion of planfi for build-
ing ships and guns and making defence machinery
locally. At the same time, seeing is believing.
Files on Parade.
Reports of investigation committees and the like are
almost invariably pigeonholed and forgotten. The
report of the committee that inquired into the Kyeema
crash, in which 18 lives were lost, is of
such a nature that the customary procedure
will not be tolerated. The committee consisted of
Colonel Murdoch. Colonel Herring, Group-Captain
Harrison, Captain Taylor and D. Ross. It found that
the proximate cause of the wreck was an error of
observation by the pilot when approaching Essendon.
It found also that no navigation log was kept (or, if
kept, “the information it contained was not applied or
properly considered”) and that “the procedure set out
in the company’s operations manual for descent
through overcast at Essendon was not adopted ’ on
the Australian National Airways liner. But, it adds:
Had the ultra-high-frequency beacon system, approved
as long ago as March, 1937, been operating, its use by
the pilot would undoubtedly have prevented any error
in navigation or reckoning he may have made from .
bringing the aircraft to disaster.
After the wreck of the Stinson on the Lamington
Plateau in February, 1937, there was a general
demand for the installation of radio beacons. In the
result, the committee says, there was “great activity
in this direction at airports.” On March 3, 1937, the
Minister sanctioned the purchase of an experimental
beacon. By May 26, 1937, 11 beacons were on order.
Yet when the report was written not one of these
beacons was in operation. Lamenting the Suvla Bay
fiasco, lan Hamilton wrote: “The one fatal error was
inertia, and inertia prevailed.” Here the trouble was
“a sad lack of co-ordination” ; but that, too, “pre-
vailed.”
The committee pronounces the Essendon direc-
tion-finding apparatus inadequate and the wireless
operator overworked.
The whole efficiency of such aids as existed at
Essendon depended on this one officer, unaided, whose
task became more difficult and responsible when con-
ditions were bad and assistance was particularly needed
by approaching aircraft.
The Civil Aviation Board is censured for having
allowed the wireless officer to remain “so far away
from the meteorological officer.” The board is censured
also for not having made operations-manual rules
mandatory on companies. And the Controller-General,
Captain Johnson, is singled out for repeated mention.
He was not a “frank witness” ; his evidence was “full
of inconsistencies.” He “set his face against every
effort made by other members of the board to effect
any decentralisation or spread of responsibility.” He
“found board meetings inconvenient and preferred a
system under which he was -able to usurp a control
over all aspects of the board’s activities.”
He told us that many of the decisions of the board
must be found on the files, which are legion, and which
comprise, in a large degree, what amount to letters
written by one person in one room to another in an
adjoining room in the same building. The whole adminis-
tration of the Civil Aviation Board became buried
under these files. More attention to getting things done
and less to getting the files in order was what was really
called for.
It is recommended that the personnel of the Civil
Aviation Board should be “reviewed” ; that the pro-
visions and regulations regarding operating manuals
should be immediately put into operation; that steps
should be taken to hasten the installation of ultra-
high-frequency radio beacons and that there should
be flight-checking officers at all aerodromes.
For “the method of administration” which this
report so startlingly reveals, the Government is re-
sponsible to Parliament and the people. A Parlia-
mentary debate would have interfered with its
Christmas-adjournment plan, so debate there was
none. But Mr. Thorby has set up a departmental
committee “to investigate civil-aviation administration
in the light of the investigation committee’s report”!
At Sixes and Sevens.
Westralian Labor is preparing for a State general
election in a muddled state of mind. The Parlia-
mentary party is at sixes and sevens.
Mr. Collier, who led two Labor Governments,
began a recent speech with the words: “I am sorry
that I find no friends on this side of the House.” Mr.
Johnson, the Speaker, castigated the Government on
the score of its tendency to shirk Ministerial respon-
sibility and shove it on boards. An Assembly debate
which didn’t yield the spectacle of private Labor
members barking at one another would nowadays be
considered a novelty.
Nor does harmony reign among Labor members
in the other shop. The present Chief Secretary is
Mr. W. H. Kitson. His predecessor and leader till
August 27, 1936, was Mr. J. M. Drew—a veteran of
the party like Mr. Johnson and Mr. Collier. Both
gentlemen have had control of the Aborigines Depart-
ment. In a recent speech, which lasted four hours,
Mr. Kitson made some very sweeping remarks about
missions and missionaries, saying, among other things,
“There are in Westralia at least 75 persons claiming
to be missionaries,” and enlarging on “matters that
might amount to charges against certain missions”:
The exploitation of natives, sexual intercourse be-
tween staffs and inmates, homosexuality, impropriety,
flogging, shooting, complete confinement and curtail-
' ment of freedom, forced marriages, expulsion for minor
misdemeanors, the employment of irresponsible and
unsuitable missionaries and workers, and the misuse of
Government supplies.
Evidently astonished at the dust he had stirred
up, the Minister subsequently mentioned to a news-
paper that his charges “concerned a period covering
the past ten years,” during part of which Mr. Drew—
himself “astounded at charges contrary to my experi-
ence as Minister” —was responsible for aborigines
administration. Mr. Kitson refused an investigation
on the ground that there had been one already.
Mr. H. D. Moseley’s inquiry was a comprehensive
and exhaustive one; and anything further of the same
nature would merely be travelling already-covered
ground.
Mr. Moseley is a police magistrate. By an odd
coincidence, he was just completing “a comprehensive
and exhaustive inquiry” in which Mr. Kitson himself
was concerned. Reporting since to the Government,
Mr. Moseley recommended removal of the matron
in charge of the Heathcote Mental Reception Home—
“not necessarily from the service, but from the branch
in which she is now employed”—on the ground that
the lady had “succumbed to the dangers of too great
a friendship with her Ministerial chief.” Mr. Moseley
had “no doubt that the friendship of the Chief Secre-
tary, Mr. Kitson, with the matron did incalculable
harm to the institution.”
Mr. Kitson, Premier Willcock announced to the
newspapers, “desires to be relieved of the administra-
tion of the Mental Hospitals Department.” If he isn't
relieved of all his Ministerial duties, the party may
find him a fatal handicap when it goes to the country,
even though it will start with other advantages —a
favorable electoral distribution and ten safe goldfields
seats.
"Guarantee Your Overdraft, Sir?"
The Australian film-production business is in a bad
way, chiefly because, for one reason and another,
Australian cinema theatres won’t show Australian
films. Years ago the Sydney Government appointed
the usual royal commissioner to inquire and report,
and adopted measures which have failed to answer.
Now it has thought out some more. One has been
outlined by the Chief Secretary, Mr. Gollan, in the
following terms:
A considerable amount of capital has been invested
in the establishment of Australian production units,
and the Government, having considered representations
from all sections of the film industry, considers that it
is justified in making provision to enable it to guarantee
the bank overdrafts of producers, subject to certain
safeguards.
This Sydney Government is a daisy at guarantee-
ing overdrafts. 'To June 30, 1938, it had guaranteed
£8,998,900, £7,922,300 being “to enable co-operative
building societies to make loans to borrowers up to
90 p.c. of valuations of properties.” These operations
have been amplified since June 30, and among the
fruits are two thumping rises in the price of bricks.
Bank loans to settlers have also been guaranteed,
the amount to June 30 being £306,905. The Auditor-
General notes that “the Government was called upon
during 1937-38 to make good guarantees to the amount
of £8173.” The defaulters were 11 farmers, and the
amounts ranged from £521 to £l36B—a Union Bank
account ; the others were State Rural Bank.
In the process of governing 6,900,000 Australians
by means of seven Cocked Hats, seven Parliaments
(with 616 members), seven Administrations (with 74
Ministers), 330,000 Government employees and a
host of boards and commissions, nine-and-ninety ways
of losing the people’s money have been discovered.
Guaranteeing overdrafts is the simplest and surest.
The Trouble-dodgers.
With a doctor’s compliments:
Section 51 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth
confers upon the Commonwealth Parliament power to make
laws with respect to “(xxi) Marriage’ and “(xxii) Divorce and
matrimonial causes; and, in relation thereto, parental rights
and the custody and guardianship of infants.” They arc the
only constitutional powers of any real importance which
remain unimplemented, and no national Government has yet
had the pluck to make even a pretence at the job.
Marriage, divorce and matrimonial causes are vital features
of the whole social fabric. Upon them depends the entire
structure of family life. If there is any one aspect o! coni-
munity life which imperatively demands a uniform legislative
standard throughout the Commonwealth and its dependencies,
it is this. Yet for nearly 40 years successive national Govern-
ments have allowed the ridiculously discrepant and conflicting
State divorce laws to continue.
Politically it is dangerous ground, but when the Australian
people adopted the Constitution they did not do so with the
idea of providing for politicians easy jobs from which to
ignore or evade anything which they considered might mean
trouble. These very sub-sections were the subject of particu-
larly careful consideration by the men who drew up that Con-
stitution, and, illustrated freely from the discrepancies and
injustices of the State divorce laws of the day, formed a
leading argument for acceptance of Federation. Those dis-
crepancies have increased through the intervening years.
The essential difficulty about any divorce law lies in the
fact that it must, of necessity, be an attempt to reconcile
two entirely opposite points of view. One seeks to prohibit
divorce entirely, and bases its most unshakable views on
religious grounds. The other aims at making divorce as easy
as is consistent with the adequate protection of family life,
and regards marriage as a purely social contract between two
individuals. As a legal compromise it has been suggested that
applicants for divorce should be enabled to seek dissolution
of marriage in the State which was their last matrimonial
domicile. It is claimed that this would provide for at least
90 p.c. of the most anomalous cases, but it merely begs the
question and does nothing to remove the discrepancies of the
national situation.
The British Parliament, quaintly enough at the initiative
of a professional humorist, A. P. Herbert, has made substan-
tial and beneficial improvements in the laws governing divorce.
Until some national Government develops an adequate appreci-
ation of its duty to the Australian people, and the courage to
perform that duty, the absence of a uniform Commonwealth
divorce law will continue as flagrant proof of the pusillanimity
which lies behind the imposing facade of Australian national
politics.
From the Patient's Viewpoint.
From “Pawang,” who has a pain in the neck:
Much has been heard from the doctors on the National
Insurance Bill. What about the patient?
For twopence halfpenny per head per week a panel doctor
will have to attend to the fads and whimsies of approximately
1000 people in order to make a decent income. II he
lives in the country he will have to do an enormous amount
of travelling. If he practises in a tourist centre he will draw
sixpence for attending some visitor who may be staying for
a fortnight and from whom he can expect no further advan-
tage. There are hosts of other anomalies which suggest that
his life will not be a bed of roses.
Take the case of an individual who may be developing
cancer. A snap diagnosis would be useless. A long series of
visits might be necessary. Is a panel doctor likely to give
the same careful attention to such a case as he would under
present conditions, or is he more likely to dismiss the symp-
toms as something that a bottle of mixture would iclieve?
New drugs of proved value are very dear. Is the Gov-
ernment, which has to foot the bill, going to look with the
same approving eye on these expensive prescriptions as the
doctor who believes they are essential?
Probably nine-tenths of human ills come from an attitude
of mind rather than from external causes. The panel doctor
is liable to be flooded with patients suffering from imaginary
ailments.
Politicians never did know' much about human nature, and
neither did actuaries. Statistics are no indication as to how
the Act will work.
People who need medical attention and can’t afford to
buy it ought to be given consideration; but under the present
regime they get it for the most part. They can go to a public
hospital and obtain the services gratis of the finest specialists
in the city. Will they be better cared for under national
insurance?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.”: Generally speaking, Mel-
bourne artists, unlike their Parisian
brothers, are indistinguishable in
appearance from their fellow-citizens.
But among them there are a few who
sport beards. One, who is the possessor
of a particularly luxuriant example, went
into a bar near the stockyards for a
refresher after a day of landscape paint-
ing and got into conversation with a
couple of drovers. An atmosphere of
restraint hung over their intercourse
until the third round of pots was put
down on the counter. When the man
of pigment threw his down with the
practised ease of an old campaigner and
called for another, his companions
shook hands with him, eyes shining with
admiration. “Well, you are a oner,” said
one of them fervently. “You’re the first
Seventh Day Adventist I’ve known to
drink on pot, let alone four!”
“Mac”: “Yes,”' said Mrs. Nextdoot
as youthful wails filled the air. “Dad’s
belting Jimmy for pinching the nuts I
hid for Christmas. That young imp’s got
a nose on him like a poinsettia.”
* * * *
“T.”: A queer sign of the times is the
vogue of “Esquire,” the smutty Ameri-
can magazine. Its art is nothing much,
and its stories and articles are inferior to
those of the “Saturday Evening Post” —
price in Sydney, 6d.—but it sells in Aus-
tralia by the thousand copies at 4s. 6d.
Local imitations have arrived, and the
name must have some advertising value ;
anyway, it is bobbing up in different busi-
nesses, a Sydney publican’s among them.
And a Sydney department store runs an
“Esquire” column in its advertising,
for female consumption:
A robe wardrobe, just quietly, is the
secret hanker of many a John Sydney,
Esquire.... He figures every extra gown a
super, super luxury and the very tops in
self-indulgence.
Here’s Where You Shoot to stardom in
his life You pander to his yen
We’ll say he, like “Esquire,” gads about
most places in one of heavy white towel-
ling We’ll also say you add to this
integer a cocktail coat There’s a hundred
and plenty uses he will put it to They’ll
run you, milady, into anything from 7 to
17 guineas. But you can take it.
After a lot more of this American rub-
bish you go “up the escalators to the
First Floor, where from Records is be-
gatted a gift for the wit of your ken.”
“He’s a Twirp”....A ton of fun.
“Shakspeare was a Playboy” on the re-
verse. Some will call it risque. “Esquire”
calls it mild, not even lukewarm, but
nevertheless a screamer.
There is something else for which “12s.
6d. is the setback” ; and at the foot of
the stuff is the word “Esquire.” That
sort of imitation is not even sincere flat-
tery. It is provincialism in the cheapest
and silliest form.
* * * *
“D.E.”: lam addicted to studying the
modern boy— not unkindly, for I remem-
ber what a yob I was when I was young
—but some of his habits puzzle me. In
my school- and office-boy days no snipe
would have dared to carry a comb in a
pocket and do up his hair in public ;
but it seems de rigger nowadays. You
can see youngsters of 13 and 14 combing
each other’s hair—l saw this performance
at Parramatta Park on a recent Satur-
day, the performers having just left a
Sunday-school picnic. Older lads bring
out pocket mirrors and comb their thatch
in trams, and hundreds of them get it
waved. And the hobbledehoy con-
sumption of headache powders seems to
rival that of the other sex. Buying cigar-
ettes at a Digger kiosk at 8.30 a.m. I was
preceded by a boy who forked out three-
pence for a couple of headache powers.
“Surely they can’t be for him?” I said
when he was gone. “Yes, they are,”
replied the ex-warrior with a grin. “I
sell a lot of those powders to kids.” Inci-
dentally, quite half his visible stock con-
sisted of chewing-gum and all manner
of lozenges, and it is the same at other
Digger kiosks. I suppose the gum-chew-
ing and public hair-combing habits are
effects of the pictures, and perhaps the
increasing feminisation of teaching bodies
has had some influence on the adoption
of ways that used to be thought sissy.
* * * *
“Sailor Once”: Rumors that strange
craft were within coo-ee of Australian
shores during the September crisis were
only half denied by Priminister Lyons.
“Boss, dis one streamline model, seven-an -six each, three pound ten a dozen, plus tax."
Newspapers which printed the story
did not mention that a French cruiser
was found to be in Westralian waters
when things settled down ; that was no
coincidence. It may be safely asserted that
there is not a possible hostile move on
the ocean board which our own naval
people have not studied and provided
counters for.
“Vulagi”: “S.” (B. 16/11/’3B) finds
being a unit irksome. I knew a man
who would heartily agree with him. The
term was always applied to native
workers on our plantation in Fiji, and
old Donald, our Scotch plough expert,
never quite got the hang of it. “No
gude at all,” he said one day when asked
how the work was going. “Ah’m five o’
them dom eunuchs shorrt the dee.”
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: A sweet young thing ex-
plained when she became “Grand Cham-
pion Girl in N.S.W.” that she had
achieved merit through exercise, which
had “kept her fit for several years” of
her 18, and that she neither drank nor
smoked “because you can’t if you want
to keep healthy.” Reminds me of my
dear old Queensland friend and mentor
“Doctor” Jack Hamilton, M.L.A., an all-
world champion revolver shot and un-
beaten heavyweight amateur. When Jack
was over 70, not more than 15 stone and
looking as much as 45 in the lamplight,
I heard him interrupted at a recruiting
meeting with a jeering “Why doan yer
enlist yerself?” Pausing in his oratory,
since the age limit in the A.I.F. was a
very sore point with him, he strolled
slowly down the aisle and, picking up the
lightweight interrupter, who weighed only
about 13 stone, hurled him into outer
darkness and resumed his speech. Going
home, I said: “My word, 1 bet that cow
who chipped in will remember you.”
“He will,” said Jack glumly; “he’ll live
to do it. Do you know that, although I
used all my strength, he was conscious
after he hit the ground, and got up.
Seems to be no power in me shoulders
now. I think it must be the drink.”
* * * *
“Wodgil”: If I were dictator of the
Jewish Welfare Society I would insist on
all the young men among those 15,000
immigrants becoming cricketers, no mat-
ter how badly they played, and on all
the older men learning at least the rudi-
ments of the game. No other course of
training would be so likely to make Aus-
tralians of them. Australian-born Jews
take to cricket as ducks to water. At one
time the old Sydney grade club was
mostly composed of the Chosen, and its
slow bowler, Asher, would have rivalled
Mailey but for the claims of bithneth.
The captain (and stumper) was a Gentile.
One day when Asher was bowling the
batsman skied the ball. “Catch it,
Cohen!” the captain shouted. He ex-
plained afterwards to an absent friend
that the chance was dropped because the
nine fieldsmen, rushing hell-for-leather,
got in one another’s way.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I am delighted to hear that
there is serious dissension among the
school-teachers of Canterbury (M.L.)
because the Education Board has put a
veto on corporal punishment for girls
and on its application to boys for all but
the most serious cases of misconduct.
For once I’m on the side of Authority.
I was flogged every day in my South
Australian State school. The more I was
flogged by my teacher the more causes I
gave him for flogging me. If he had had
an atom of psychological astuteness he
would have seen why. It was done pub-
licly, and when I returned aching to my
seat, with a tear trembling in but never
falling from my eye, I got such compas-
sion, commiseration and tender affection
from the girls that my heart positively
swelled with a martyr’a self-pity and
pride ; and I would not have foregone
my floggings for the world. If the fat-
head who caned me had considered that,
he could no longer have believed that
whackings could produce the results he
desired and he would have learnt some-
thing about human nature as well.
* * * *
“Don Crew”: The crop of mugs has
not diminished since Carbine won his
maiden. Sighted a chap in a racecourse-
train some days back playing banker
with a gang of shrewdies. The crooks
used a pack of “longs and shorts” —the
edges of the high cards pared at both
ends so that the low cards protruded
and the banker could cut the low cards
at will. Occasionally they brought the
“strippers” into play. This lot was pared
at the sides. With one swift drag the
banker could capture the high cards.
The mug had just two chances—his own
and Mr. Buckley’s. Not being a hero
of fiction I said nothing. The shrewdies
were big chaps.
„ m * *
“Lao-dah”: Edgar, M.L.C., remarked
in Vic. Leg. Council the other day that
Sunday observance was a divine ordi-
nance of the Almighty, and unless Parlia-
mentarians realised their sacred duty we
should soon have the degrading Con-
tinental Sabbath in Victoria. Edgar
hasn’t the united support of the clergy.
A Melbourne parson told his flock the
other Sunday: “Bring your picnic baskets
to church at 7.45 a.m. Wear any old
clothes ; God does not mind what you
wear. And then you can spend the rest
of the day as you like.” This is what
the grisette and her boy friend have been
doing for generations in Paris.
* * * *
“Dhas”: I had a notion that the pub-
lishers Faber and Faber originally ex-
pected the public to put in the long
summer evenings reading T. S. Eliot or
Ezra Pound. With a strange humanity,
however, they’re now offering Culbert-
son’s books on bridge, and with an even
stranger cynicism they offer this adver-
tisement of one of the master’s tomes
on a new game, “Jo-Jotte”:
Mr. Culbertson himself says: “1. stake
my reputation that ‘Jo-Jotte’ is the most
fascinating two-hand game ever played.
Easy to learn, yet deeply intellectual, it is
equally a boon to married couples and to
experts.’’
The missus and I, instead of sullenly
reading or glumly staring at each other,
now play “Jo-Jotte” for hours and hours
and hours.
* # * *
“S.T.S.”: North Adelaide’s movable
statue has been in the news again. It is
a bronze athlete, presented long ago by
W. A. Horn to the city, and its aggres-
sive nudity, with the unusual fact of a
statue being movable at all, has always
appealed to the larrikin element. Ten
years ago it was found in the river ; this
time, although supposed to be firmly
screwed down, it was left on the cathedral
steps. On other occasions, it was merely
painted or draped.
* * * *
“F.Y.7”: That inquiry for the
“regional cuisine” of Australia (B.
30/11/’3B) covers a lot of ground. In
Arnhem Land the supporter of snake,
goanna, crocodile and birds’ eggs (pref-
erably well matured), marsupials, grubs,
lizards, an occasional grandmamma and
a speared bullock or two would not be
far wrong. On sheep stations (in boun-
dary-riders’ huts and so on) corned
mutton and damper would be the stan-
dard, and on cattle outstations corned
beef instead of the mutton. Never hav-
ing encountered the menu I cannot speak
for the “goat or galah” of Bulletin
humorists. In the cities and townships
the pabulum of the average London eat-
ing house of the lower types could be
accepted as general. “Ros’ beef, ros’
mutton, meat pie, sausages, fry ’n’
bacon,” and, on special days, “ros’ pork,”
preceded by boiling thick soup made
from heaven knows what and wound
up with plumduff or some other dread-
ful concoction.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: An advertisement of
Christmas and New Year telegrams in
The Bulletin reminded me of one I
used to admire in Maoriland which said
something like this: “Acknowledging the
close and cordial co-operation which has
existed between us in the past, and trust-
ing that the same happy relationship will
continue....” It was meant to be
exchanged by business firms, but I was
always strongly tempted to send it to
my Amaryllis.
IT SEEMS AS THOUGH.
' ll seems as though”—how excellent
A formula to indicate
The sort of tolerant assent
That puts a stopper on debate!
You scan the sky and postulate
That rain will fall or wind will blow
And someone answers, slow and straight,
“It seems as though.”
It seems as though, this Christmastidc,
When Peace should be on every tongue
And all ill-will be put aside
Mankind —and nations, too —among,
With fiercer fears we’re racked and wrung
And worse presentiments of woe
Than ever since the world was young,
It seems as though.
It seems as though admit wc must,
Albeit many find it hard,
Not only heathens put their trust
“In reeking tube and iron shard,”
But Christians have no sounder card
Than this to play against the foe,
And therewithal their shores to guard,
It seems as though.
It seems as though—but let me stop.
Whene’er the uselessness is meant
Of contradicting any prop.
That’s palpably self-evident,
How crisp, how tersely eloquent,
What grasp of things they tend to show,
Those four small words of mild assent
“It seems as though!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Lyndo”: The portly gentleman sat
in the corner tram seat reading the paper
and balancing a parcel precariously on
his knees. There was a sudden and un-
expected jolt, the parcel slid floorward,
crashed and revealed itself as a beautiful
gold-topped bottle weltering in its life-
juice. The embarrassed owner signalled
the conductor, handed up a florin, and,
muttering he would have to ask him to
clear up the debris at the terminus, got
hurriedly out. The only person really to
rise to the occasion was the genially-
inebriated citizen strap-hanging along-
side the smash. “ ’Smusn’t be wasted,”
he hiccupped; “1 chrishen this tram
‘Squeenalishabesh’!”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: There is a modern passion in
Melbourne for wiping the slate clean.
Its latest extension is the proposal of
Lud Mayor Coles to sell the present
Town Hall (which, of course, will mean
handing it to the wreckers) and erecting
a new one elsewhere. The Town Hall is
71 years old, and is a fine old grey stone
building, as dignified in appearance as any
city father. It was gutted once and a
mint of money was spent in giving it new
insides. The site is central, and is emi-
nently adapted for the most important
function of a Town Hall, which, even
according to the city fathers themselves,
is not pecuniary but cultural.
* # * *
“Fever de Rideau”: A tempest in a
teacup was aired in Melbourne County
Court the other day. Plaintiff is prin-
cipal of the largest bridge academy in
Melbourne, and possibly in Australia.
It occupies the whole floor of a large
city huilding, and boasts a staff of nine
professors. Plaintiff alleged that one of
his lady pupils spoke and published to
other ladies the statement that “he does
not want us to win,” meaning thereby
that plaintiff, in the course of his busi-
ness, was guilty of corrupt, unfair and
improper motives and practices, so he
claimed £249 damages. It was suggested
in evidence that the trouble started when
the defendant lady was put out of a
bridge team selected to do battle with
a sister-team in Sydney. Plaintiff claimed
that his judgment was vindicated, the
Victorian team walloping its opponents.
Judge Magennis remarked that women
sometimes misunderstood what they
heard, as in a play then on the boards
in Melbourne, and suggested the settling
out of court. But bridge addicts are
made of stouter stuff, and ( the case was
fought to a finish. Judgment went to
defendant.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The mere bursting of a
blown-up paper bag has cost a Thebarton
(S.A.) youth £1 and 15s. costs. The deed
was done in a cinema-show on Guy
Fawkes Night, and ranked as “startling
and disturbing to the other patrons,” and
thus legally “disorderly behavior.”
* * * *
“D. & O.”: Some staggering relief
cases come before the minor Courts now
and then. In Sydney a gentleman was
ordered to vacate a room for non-
payment of the rent to his elderly land-
lady. He owned up that he was drawing
food relief and that with the cards he
bought provisions for his four racing
greyhounds. He hoped, he said, to win
a race soon and pay up his back rent, but
the dole rations didn’t seem to suit his
tykes at all. Where the brutes were
housed was not mentioned, but presum-
ably they will now have to keep him
company in the Domain.
“S.T.S.”: A political libel-suit has
been cut. short in S.A. Supreme Court.
At the last elections a country parson
wrote in the local paper that, as the
M.H.A. standing again had voted for
extension of both liquor and betting
facilities, his address to a Sunday-school
opening was “a goody-goody utterance,
merely vote-catching, and pulling the
wool down over the eyes of church
people. The defence was “fair com-
ment, and in court the matter was
“Let's get out of here, Prendergast—there's that houndah of a caricaturist."
settled: no imputation on personal
character, each party to pay its own costs,
“Very sensible,” said Chief Justice Mur-
ray. “The position seems to be that the
comments were fair on certain facts-
assuming those facts were true, and it is
not necessary to go into that.”
* * * *
„ , .
°X e ls thatTdleTout bv Albert
Wetlen'inMhe Evening Post”
W hta latest co^tC e to B ficdon,
“Water Is Where You Find It,” the vil-
lain of the piece is a crook who, after
shooting a policeman in Colhngwood
and indulging in other homicidal freaks,
W flpfl tn the hear! of the Never Never
has fled to tne heart of the incvci JNever
country, where, taking up with the wild
blacks, he has probably improved his
well-known ability as a bushman.” A
sort of compound, it would seem, of
(say) “Squizzy” Taylor and “Possum”
Lasseter. Can anyone envisage such a-
blend as this?
* * *
“Kwak-prak”: Why will Australian
parents keep on letting their children die
or get paralysed by diphtheria? The
Smith kid had to have a tracheotomy to-
day, and his two sisters also have viru-
lent diph. When I asked their mother
why she hadn’t let them be immunised
when the school was being done, she
replied that she thought it was too dan-
gerous because she’d heard that some
Queensland children had died after it.
That was the Bundaberg accident of 10
years ago, when a 10 c.c. bottle of serum
was accidentally contaminated after
being opened. For years the serum has
been put up in individual glass ampoules
which prevent any risk of contamination.
There is nothing in the inoculation or its
after-effects to disturb the most nervous
child. As for results, among Fondon
schoolchildren the immunised averaged,
over five years, 1.77 cases per 1000 and
no deaths, the non-immunised 9.04 cases,
with all the severe and fatal ones.
* * * *
“Gryl.lus”:’ Seismographs, those deli-
cate instruments whose job it is to record
and measure small and large disturbances
in the earth’s crust, need a lot of con-
sideration and attention. Although the
gadget rests on a heavy concrete block,
sunk deep in the earth, any heavy-looted
or loud-speaking visitor makes it shiver.
It can record a tilt of an inch in 8000
miles of earth surface. The Brisbane
University one develops severe jitters
three times daily, except on Saturdays,
"Joe, I've come up t' tell y' the ladder's on fire!"
Sundays and holidays, caused by the
pupils of the near-by Commercial High
School tramping up and down the steps
to the classrooms. Its record attack ot
nerves was when a tiny “money-spinner'
spider, which had managed to build its
web on the back of the seismograph,
stepped on the pendulum. The outraged
instrument retaliated by recording the
complete and instantaneous destruction
by earthquake of the whole of North
America.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide Court has
made the punishment fit the crime. A
country truck-driver reported a holdup
and robbery of £25 by two men and a'
woman whom he had stopped to help
on an apparent breakdown of their car.
The district was thoroughly “combed''
without result, and three days later came
the not unusual admission, “Well, it
never happened. I owe a few pounds,
and thought if I were to say 1 was held
up I should get more consideration. I
have worried so much since that I can t
eat.” The Court made the fine nominal,
but added £2O to it for police expenses.
* * *
“Bumpkin”: A Melbourne Beak was
recently confronted with the question of
what to do with a woman found guilty of
lifting three handkerchiefs, a tie, a neck-
lace and five brooches worth nine
shillings from a city counter. He
adjourned the case for 12 months on the
ground that a term of imprisonment
Would be ridiculous, the offender being
86.
* * * *
“Pitt-st.”: These radio plays! A lady
of my acquaintance with a bit of talent in
script-writing was asked to do something
on the life of Sir Walter Raleigh. Every-
thing went well until the “producer’ got
to Raleigh’s execution. “Aw, this is no
good,” he said. “Why?” asked my
friend. “Why, the man dies!” was the
shocked comment. “Well, so he did.
the writer said. “Perhaps he did,” ad-
mitted the radio erftrepreneur, “but that's
no good for radio. He’ll have to escape
to France or somewhere.”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Adventurous Austra-
lians? The driver of a Victorian train
saw a small object moving between the
rails as he approached a level crossing
at Yarraville the other day. He pulled
up promptly, got down and examined
the obstruction. It turned out to be an
infant in the crawling stage. A confer-
ence with the signalman in charge of
the crossing failed to explain how the
enterprising youngster had got there, and
it was taken to the police station, where
an agitated suburban mother subse-
quently collected it.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A new fashion is threaten-
ing vaudeville in Australia. It started
with the importation of a one-legged
negro dancer. He was followed by two
young Americans whose story is as re-
markable as their dancing. One lost his
left leg in a railway accident and the
other lost his right in a road crash. They
met by accident in a shoe store. Hither-
to they had each had to buy a full set
of foot coverings and throw one shoe
in the rubbish bin. As they took the
same size it struck them as sensible to
share a pair, and from that they came
to the conclusion that, like the blind
and the lame men in AEsop’s fable, they
ought to go into partnership.
GOOD, BETTER AND BEST.
“I am not sure that a man with a good job is not
better off than a man with property these times.’
—Chief Justice Jordan in a compensation case.
Tis good to have a chunk of real estate,
Houses and lands, I think you’ll all agree,
With rents arriving on the proper date
And sound investments causing you to be
Rightly esteemed a man of property.
The trouble is, the goodlier the stacks
That you accumulate of £ s. d.
The harder you’ll be socked for income tax.
Rather, perhaps, while others toil and drudge
To pile the shekels up, one would prefer
To draw some steady income, like a Judge,
Say, or a Government Astronomer,
Or even a Police Commissioner,
Who’re never more than negligibly hit
In pocket that some thriftless Treasurer
May show a less appalling deficit.
And, happiest of all —the veriest noodle
Will bear me out in this, I’ll take my oath —•
Is he who holds the billet and the boodle
And keeps a good old bulldog grip on both.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Give
CRAVEN A
MU-XmaA-
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
2247
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin, speaking at Peterborough
(S.A.) on November 22, said “The Labor
vote in Wakefield will give the Lyons
Government a shock.” If he had made
it “the Labor vote and the Independent
vote” he could pose as the prophet of
the season. With 5000 or 6000 more
No. 1 votes to come in, ex-Premier
Butler had 17,682, McHugh (Labor)
17,290 and Quirke (Ind.) 10,624. Indi-
cations then were that McHugh would
get most of Quirke’s preferences. In
any case Butler failed of a majority in
an electorate which has never gone
Labor, and which last year gave the ill-
fated Charles Hawker a majority of
13,605.
Butler blames “Cabinet bickerings”
and the flour tax for the poor U.A.P.
poll in Wakefield ; but there were other
reasons. He was up against two returned
soldiers, and he is not one himself. And
he denounced unification, as did his suc-
cessor Playford, who was born and
has a farm in the electorate. Perhaps
unification is what Wakefield really
wants.
Before the Parliament at Canberra
“adjourned for Christmas” and as
much longer as the public will stand —
another “major crisis” surged up in the
Cabinet room. What it was all about
nobody seems to know exactly; but it
has been conjectured that some person
unknown growled that only Casey and
the huge staff already assembled wanted
the national incubus scheme. It was then
discovered that Menzies wanted it. There
was vague talk of resignations. Some-
body suggested that the incubus should
not begin to operate until September;
and all hands and the cook agreed.
Thus was harmony restored and honor
satisfied, or something.
The Alarmists’ Chorus:
War is thundering at our gates.— Hughes.
At any time in the next few years wc
Australians might have to resist an attack
on our country.— Lyons.
It is the bitter truth that at any time in
the next few years Australians might have
to resist an attack upon their country.—
Street, encoring Lyons.
Canberra, Thursday. The Federal Parlia-
ment adjourned to-night to a date to be
fixed, after Christmas felicitations had been
given on all sides.
It doesn’t make sense.
It is winter in Europe, and there can
be no war for three months, nor any
large-scale operations in Spain or China ;
but the Stunt Press is not dismayed. It
is spawning wars: Italy v. France,
Poland v, Germany, Germany v. Lith-
uania, Japan v. Russia, Japan v. France
(in Indo-China), and France v. Franco’s
Spain. Also something violent in
Rumania —a civil war perhaps.
As showing how small the world has
become, New York reports that whales
have been almost exterminated in Shark
Bay (W.A.) by the ruthless slaughter of
suckling females and calves. The in-
formant is a U.S. coastguard officer,
who was an observer aboard American
whalers for three seasons. At his in-
stance the owners of a craft that killed
1200 whales in Shark Bay in the 1937
season (another American whaler killed
2000) are being prosecuted for violation
of the international treaty limiting kill-
ings.
Every European mother with a soldier
son must have invoked the Divine bless-
ing on the Franco-German Declaration
against War, but an exploded politician
named Duff Cooper dashed across the
Channel “and warned the French not
to trust to German promises.”
It is time we made Germany understand
that if it makes war against the combined
forces of Britain and France and other
nations, it will lose, as it lost the last war.
And it is time we of the Dominions
made the Duff Coopers understand that
no elderly British Johnnies will drag us
into a European war without our con-
sent, and unless our own existence is
clearly involved. Menzies has struck a
deeper note: “Real peace can never be
secured by force —only by understanding
and by justice founded on under-
standing.”
December, 1938, will be remembered
by the provincial politicians of three
States for the prominence given to
measures for the promotion of gambling.
The Adelaide crowd “amended” the
betting shop law ; the Perth lot removed
an impediment to more and bigger lot-
teries ; and the Melbourne company
debated night trotting on a bill labelled
“urgent.” More and bigger lotteries are
also engaging attention in Sydney. State
politicians are preparing a dingy death-
bed for their shabby politics.
It was reserved for the secretary of the
Sydney Master Pastrycooks to point out
“Quick, everybody—come and have a look at the war thundering at our gates!"
that, while flour for the people’s food
has been taxed £5 15s. a ton, wheatmeal
biscuits, on which tin-hare hounds are
fed, are exempt from tax. There are
50,000 of these useless brutes in New
South Wales alone. The shameful busi-
ness was mentioned in Parliament before
that institution adjourned “for Christ-
mas.” Lyons asked for “notice of the
question.”
Spence, the N.S.W. Auditor-General,
is not to be one of the four new com-
missioners whom the Sydney Government
is appointing in its damn-the-expense
fashion. That was the Sydney Govern-
ment’s idea, but the Bar Council barked
that “the appointments must be made
from the ranks of practising barristers,”
and so it is to be. What passes for
courage in Macquarie-street oozed out
of the Sydney Government.
Always weak where Reds are con-
cerned, the Government at Canberra has
undertaken to “repatriate” alleged Aus-
tralian members of the Red International
Brigade, which has been doing a bit of
fighting and a lot of skiting in Spain.
The Government at Ottawa has refused
to find passage-money for alleged
Canadian members, and those who find
their way to Canada at their own ex-
pense will be. asked whether they didn't
“renounce British citizenship by taking
an oath of loyalty to the Barcelona
Government or to the Comintern.”
Bishop Moyes, of Armidale (N.S.W.),
who writes ponderous articles for news-
papers, intervened in the Port Kembla
boycott of pig-iron export, to this price-
less effect:
The men can see that the iron ore is for
the massacre of people against whom the
Japanese say they have no war. The Gov-
ernment should try to be sympathetic with
the men and not say, “Do as I say or
there will be trouble.”
In other words, the Government should
let a parcel of wharf-laborers, egged on
by Communists, (1) stop the export of a
very ordinary commodity to a country
with which we now have an unfavorable
balance of trade ; (2) violently alter the
foreign policy of the Commonwealth,
and (3) force a quarrel on a military
Power when Australia is weak in every
arm. There are some very foolish
bishops about, as well as very foolish
professors.
For the year to June 30 value of
Maoriland exports exceeded value of
Maoriland imports by a mere £4,377,300
Maoriland ; and London funds have
shrunk to £4,200,800 Maoriland. Ner-
vous people were assured during the
election campaign that “the position
would right itself,” an importing
boom having been necessary because
“Tory Governments kept the nation
without essential goods,” or words
to that effect. This pretence has
been abandoned: imports and exports
are now controlled so that the overseas
creditor may be sure of getting his in-
terest on the due date. The jig is up
also with “costless credit,” the Govern-
ment having decided to borrow in the
ordinary way “to meet public works
capital expenditure.” But it still believes
that there is magic in the words “social
security.”
Queensland civil servants whose duties
involve travelling are getting restive
about their 15s. daily allowance for hotel
exes, and “incidentals.” They argue that
if Percy Pease, the Minister of Lands, can
draw over £4 per day for such expenses,
and all the year round at that, with a
free Government car thrown in, their
allowance should be raised.
Two Sydney “Sun” editors, whose
concern runs radio stations as well
as newspapers, have gone out of the
broadcasting business. Red admirers of
one gentleman alleged that he was sacri-
ficed to the malignity of the German
Consul-General, whom nowadays Reds
blame for everything except the weather.
The truth is that the alleged martyr is
anti-Chamberlain and the other editor
pro-Chamberlain; and perhaps some-
body called the office’s attention to the
wisdom of Lord Melbourne: “It doesn't
matter a damn what we say so long as
we say the same thing.”
To Roberts, that Professor of Modern
History, it was “indeed doubtful” 18
months ago “if the great mass of Sudeten
Germans would favor a secessionist
movement against the Prague Govern-
ment.” They favored it all the same, and
last week they had a Reichstag election
and voted the Nazi ticket—by 2,152,256
to 27,497. The professor remains
cocksure.
Lang became 25 years a Sydney
Assemblyman on December 6, and was
publicly congratulated by Stevens on his
“long and very arduous services.”
Mr. Lang has been twice Premier, twice
Leader of the Opposition and twice Trea-
surer.
No ; he has been thrice leader of the
Opposition and thrice Treasurer (April
13, 1920, to April 13, 1922; June, 1925,
to October, 1927, and November, 1930,
to May, 1932); and he will be 62 on
December 21. High time for him to
take a rest and give the public one.
His political career at an end, Pearce
has begun writing articles for the papers.
In one he recalls that Kitchener, report-
ing to the Australian Government in
1910, “planned for a fighting force of
80,000 men on a peace establishment.”
The population was then 4,500,000. Now,
with the population just on 7,000,000 and
in a situation declared to be perilous,
the Government “plans for a fighting
force” of 70,000, double the present
number. And it seems astonished at its
own temerity.
The last despairing attempt to collect
a worth-while militia has brought the
lrreconcilables of 1916 and 1917 together.
Dr. Mannix speaking:
I hope the campaign for voluntary ser-
vice, at the head of which stands Mr.
Hughes, will be a success.
Billy’s remarks on this development have
not been reported.
Panton, a suburban Assemblyman, is
Minister of Mines in Westralia, and
Minister of Health also. At a recent sit-
ting he held forth complacently on gold-
mining production and employment in
1937 and 1938, and Ministerialists
nodded approval when they heard him
say “This is the one industry that con-
tinues to be prosperous.” Then a veteran
on the other side of the Chamber got up.
There has been a very definite decline in
public interest in the industry; and the
cause is not far to seek. The boom at the
end of the last century was killed by wild
cats; the Hampton Plains boom was killed
by wild cats; the boom of 1932 was
killed by wild cats. Two members of the
present Government extended a very ill-
advised patronage to propositions which had
no merits at all,
The veteran was Norbert Keenan, who
in the first decade of the present century
was Mayor of Kalgoorlie, its M.L.A. and
a Minister. Ministerialists heard him in
silence.
Before the British wheat preference of
2s. a quarter was removed as a sacrifice
to Uncle Sam India was a welcome
buyer of Australian grain. That trade
incontinently ceased, and Britain has
since made huge purchases of American
and Rumanian wheat, buying more than
20,000,000 bushels of American in one
week. At least portion of the Rumanian
wheat is being carried in Greek bottoms
—operations of Francoist cruisers led to
the discovery—and Conservative papers
have acidly pointed out that scores of
British carriers are unemployed. Liberal
and Labor rags demand “strong action”
against Franco. Their troubles about
unemployed British mariners or stone-
broke Australian wheatgrowers!


THE INVADER.
“During the Christmas and New Year holidays the militia recruiting campaign will be carried on at metropolitan beaches.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT SENT GOLD UP?
WILL PRICE HOLD?
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITIES
MINES AND METALS
December Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
M,
SIZE 12x60'
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lemmon, M.L.A., got up the other day
in Vic. Leg. Assembly and moved that
Bernard O’Dowd should be called to the
Bar of the House and publicity thanked
for his great services to the State. Lest
literary blighters should get it into their
heads that the legislators had suddenly
gone all sissy and wanted to express their
gratitude to the septuagenarian poet fo£
writing Downward, The Silent Land.
Dominions of the Boundary, The
Seven Deadly Sins, The Bush, Alma
Venus and Poetry Militant, it is as
well to explain that Mr. Lemmon wants
to pat Mr. O’Dowd on the head for his
painstaking and tireless work as former
Chief Parliamentary draftsman, particu-
larly with regard to the Companies Bill.
John McCahon, Canberra’s new
appointee in the enlistment campaign,
will work on two fronts. He will be
adviser and consultant to the Federal
Government and act in the same capacity
to the new Secretariat presided over by
General Blarney. Managing director of
the Paton Advertising Service in Mel-
bourne and Sydney, McCahon is also
chairman of directors of Compressed
Medical and Industrial Gases, Ltd., and
a member of the councils of the Red
JOHN McCAHON.
Cross Society, the Melb. Chamber of
Commerce and the Boy Scouts’ Associa-
tion. He was born in Melbourne.
Few Melburnians have sat on more
boards and commissions and attended
more conferences than F. W. Eggleston,
who must run knight James Barrett’s
record pretty close. He was on the staff
of the Australian delegation to the Paris
Peace Conference in 1919, was chairman
of the Australian delegations to the Insti-
tute of Pacific Relations’ conferences at
Honolulu, Kyoto and Yosemite, and as
Attorney-General, Assistant Treasurer
and Minister of various sorts in diverse
State Governments has listened to as
many delegations as he has functioned
on. He started travelling between the
capitals as chairman of the States Grants
Commission in 1933, and is still on the
go. He is 65.
The chair of Political and Moral
Philosophy at Sydney Uni. will receive
its first occupant when Alan Ker Stout
arrives from Edinburgh next March. The
new prof.’s academic career has fol-
lowed closely in the footsteps of his
father, Prof. G. F. Stout, who was Prof,
of Logic and Metaphysics at St.
Andrews Uni. (which once upon a time
boasted Rudyard Kipling as its Rector)
until his retirement two years ago. Son
Alan is an M.A. of Oxford, and has lec-
tured on philosophy and cognate sub-
jects in the Universities of North Wales
and Edinburgh. At the moment he is
special lecturer in social ethics at Edin-
burgh and external examiner in moral
philosophy, logic and metaphysics at St.
Andrews. He’s two years short of 40.
Succeeding veteran W. H. Demaine,
who had given nearly 60 years’ service
to Labor as president of the Queensland
Central Executive of the A.L.P., is
Clarence George Fallon, also president
of the Federal executive of the A.W.U.
In the recent elections Fallon looked
after Labor’s press advertising. He lost
a promising son some time ago in an
Air Force crash.
The Mayor of Canterbury (N.S.W.),
recently re-elected for his eighth suc-
cessive term, hasn’t yet caught up with
Gus Mengler, of Perth’s suburb Clare-
mont. Mengler entered upon his tenth
term unopposed at the recent elections.
A Dane, he represents a people and a
type who know how to appreciate the
good things Australia has to offer real
workers. He was able to retire at an
age when most men are still getting to-
gether that first £lOO ; and in the course
of gaining a competence for himself and
a numerous progeny made no enemies.
A much-travelled journalist was Wil-
liam MacLennan, who has read his last
proof at 67. He was a prominent
musician and sportsman at Rutherglen
(Vic.) till he was 30; but from 1901.
was in turn on Geelong “Advertiser,”
Albury “Border Mail,” Wagga “Adver-
tiser,” Broken Hill “Barrier Truth,” and
Adelaide “Herald.” After the last-named
Labor daily ceased publication Mac-
Lennan had 14 years more in Adelaide
on the literary staff of the “Advertiser.”
Rex Battarbee, the long, lank Aus-
tralian who is sponsoring the show of
water-colors at Melb. Fine Arts painted
by his abo. pupil, Albert Namatjira, first
started exploiting the pictorial possibili-
ties of Centralia in 1929 with his friend
John Gardner. With a caravan the brush-
wielders covered thousands of miles in
search of providing them-
selves with tucker and artists’ materials
by periodical city exhibitions. Their
success started a fashion since fol-
lowed by Hans Heysen, Will Rowell
and others, until the lonely stock-
rider and the wild nomad of the
desert no longer thought they must
be seeing things when they came on a
lonely figure performing queer devotions
before an easel in the Never Never. Bat-
tarbee has stuck to his first love, the
strange purple haze, hard sky and ranges
stained with blood and cut out as if by
a chisel of the Centre, and will make
tracks for the outback after giving a
couple of exhibitions. On his last sojourn
he covered 400 miles per camel.
A picture which missed, so to speak,
with one barrel scored a bull’s-eye with
the other when William Rowell won the
£5O Pincus Prize offered by the Castle-
maine Gallery (Vic.) with his por-
trait of the peripatetic R. H. Croll. It
had previously been sent in for
the Archibald. Rowell, like his brother
John, is a foundation member of
the new Australian Academy, and, like
him again, a great winner of prizes. He
won the Melb. Centenary Prix in 1935
with a landscape and the Melrose Prize
in Adelaide for a portrait in 1937, and
there are works of his in most Australian
galleries. He is a Vic. Nat. Gallery pro-
duct.
The death, at 55, of
M. C. Trotter, Deputy
Town Clerk of Greater
Brisbane, has deprived the
City Council of a capable
and earnest officer, and
many Brisbanites
notably Boy Scouts —of a
friend. Trotter came to
the Greater Brisbane or-
ganisation in 1925, and
did valuable work in shap-
ing it into running order.
War service on Gallipoli
and in Palestine had invalided him home
as a major of Light Horse, badly gassed
and with a lung wound which impaired
his health for years after.
Percy Grainger’s donations to the Mel-
bourne museum named after him —it was
handed over on Saturday to James
Barrett, as Chancellor of Melbourne Uni-
versity—include such relics of the com-
poser-pianist’s childhood as the model
yacht he tried to build but failed, photo-
graphs of his relatives, the last suit of
clothes his friend Balfour Gardiner wore,
the new style of costume he and his
mother tried to design long ago, the
pictures his father painted to show his
love of the sea, the desk he himself used
at school (which, strangely enough, hasn't
got his name carved on it but has the
name of one W. Hughes), the cable Nina
Grieg sent to him telling him of the Nor-
wegian composer’s funeral, copies of the
first editions of his own early works, his
private bookshelf and his pictures, in-
cluding an etching by Norman Lindsay,
and his recent experiments in notation-
less, pulseless, beatless, unmelodic and
unharmonic music, which look like the
graph of a meteorological bureau. In addi-
tion, there are cases of instruments, the
piano he practised on as a boy and origi-
nal scores and other relics of his masters,
Delius and Grieg. Later these are to
be supplemented by wax models of dead
composers clad in the actual clothes they
wore. Otherwise the museum is Percy
Grainger. Its presence in the grounds of
the University will be justified 100 years
hence if its donor’s fame ranks with
Beethoven’s, Bach’s and Brahms’s. It is
a gamble with Fate that surely only a
Grainger would make.
Sir Granville Bantock, Mus. D.,
brought to Australia by the A.B.C. to
conduct performances of his own and
other composers’ works, is perhaps the
best-known of living British composers
now that Elgar has gone. He was in
Australia once before, in the middle
’nineties, when he conducted for a musi-
comedy co., returning to England to
resume a more academic career as con-
ductor and adjudicator at great festivals.
“The Sea Wanderers,” the orchestral-
choral work performed at Sydney Con.
recently, was his first great success as
a composer. In 1908 he became prof, of
music at Birmingham Uni., and he is
now an emeritus prof, of that seat of
learning. He is also chairman of Trinity
College of Music, London. His doctorate
was conferred by Edinburgh Uni. and his
K.B. dates from 1930. He is best known
to Australian music-lovers through his
delectable works for violin, viola, ’cello
and pianoforte.
This year is Jack Cain’s twenty-first
as a member of the Victorian Parlia-
ment ; he celebrated his majority by suc-
ceeding Tom Tunnecliffe, now Speaker,
as Labor leader. Born in the Goulburn
Valley, Cain has been a Labor worker
since 1907. He was in the Prendergast
Government and the two that Hogan
led.
Colonel G. B. W. A. Meredith, who
makes a serial appearance on this page.
Frith having thought it necessary in some
way to indicate that he stands 6ft. 4in.
in his socks (and more with his spurs on),
commands the first Heavy Brigade on
George’s Heights, Sydney, and would
have a busy day were the city to be
threatened by a foreign foe. He’s been
a professional soldier for 28 years, sports
the biggest moustache in the Australian
Regular Forces, and before coming to
Sydney was O.C. in Westralia.
“Zedo”: The retirement of Tommy
Hunter after 28 years as secretary at
Yeerongpilly breaks the last link with
the days when Yeerongpilly was the only
club in Brisbane. It had 400 members,
of whom 120 were regular players. In'
those days it was harder to get into the
golf club than into the Ministry—indeed,
the formation of a second club came
about only after Ministers of the Crown
who wanted to play had been shown
plainly that it would not be safe to offer
themselves. Brisbane golf will miss
Tommy. A busy solicitor, he played a
wicked stick in a style which it was worth
coming from Salt Lake City to watch—
with his club held below the grip and
his eye, if not literally on the ball, at
least within a measured foot of it. His
tact was as steady as his play.
The Quick lady died in Melbourne
the other day. She had been six years
the widow of one of the most remarkable
Victorians of his age. John Quick began
work in Bendigo as an illiterate foundry
boy. All the education he got he gave
himself, but it gave him the passport to
Melb. University, out of which he
emerged as a law graduate with an LL.D.
A State politician from 1880, he became
one of the strongest advocates of Federa-
tion, and when that event took place he
became a member of the House of Reps,
and then P.M.G. From 1922 to 1930 he
was deputy president of the Arbitration
Court. He died with a title in 1932 and
was given a State funeral.
COLONEL MEREDITH.


WHITE HORSE
convey your
Christmas Message _
••
o
f'lVv
1 #
vi
S Njii
■aim
f ,,
I /
mz *
. .
> i —y
ssa»
k
\\
\li
|W It A
ME
im
HA -«
m
f»
*•. »**.»»
liiilli
V
The Old Bleivd
VjSSV_._ WKisKy
m
l '\
m
Tf
'\X
A\\'\
Cellar
\\w \ \\
.; X'\' \ V\
fVi¥\\
i ■ > Vi *« \
i', \ \\ \\ * 1
Ongu\M Recrpe
17-4 6
■W\v
\ V
i. \
\ , 1
M 1 . l
I . i ’ ‘
\ I
in . STAGE COACH Mo«o*t
F«jo*t which perform the whote fonmr
»i W 1 P* nw ' JI * Drt^
AJIowinj Mch i* pound* wifht
*■ \\
*
' '
Siy^r'*
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS
\
I V 1
\ ' '
, V. ,»
r \'
m
Wills. L-U&Oii/
W
|\\1
\V|V
I
*W
\\V
\\\
K
?
>!-
n
»
a
iV
i>’ i>
\M\
£
JP» V
‘1\\
'\\Vw- 1 - U",}
t \ v
1%, U ’,\:'\\M\
55
\W
w\
W\\\\
w%. v#
ME
- '■
'f 1 Jif
I
l\l\'\
\v.»»
'\\\V:
. *\ • is
V>
• o
Give your friends a bottle of this
REAL OLD SCOTCH-specially
packed in an attractive gift carton
at no extra cost —a gift in the
right spirit and a practical message
of goodwill and good cheer to all
who partake of it.
WHITE HORSE
Equal to a fine liqueur


ABORICINALITIES
“Thank goodness you've come, Madame —I can't fix this curling machine."
“Bull-ant Bill”: “Them flamin’
mortgage-frogs kep’ me awake ’arf the
blasted night,” Old Joe complained. “It's
the rain starts ’em goin’, an’ if they’d
any flamin’ sense they’d take a tumble
that a good drizzle like that’s just wot
we want ter freshen things up. Wot’s
mortgage-frogs? Where was you brung
up, Bill, an’ you a bushman? Meanter
say yer don’t know the green blokes wot
sits in the tank gutter an’ one of them
sings out, ‘Broke —broke —broke,’ an’ the
other chips in, ‘Too right—too right— too
right,’ like a flamin’ bank manager tellin’
yer the bank’s goin’ ter grab yer bit uv
a place?” I’ve known the noisy brutes
all my life, but it’s the first time I ever
heard that dismally correct wording of
their melancholy song.
** w * *
“Oonts”: Out on the Georgina (W.Q.)
when camels carried most of the load-
ing they were a curse once the stuff was
delivered and the cheque drawn. There
were two ways to hunt the ’Ghans. One
was to refuse to let them bleed a bullock
when it was killed for meat; the other
was to warn them about whitewood.
Cattle, horses and sheep do fairly well
on whitewood, but at certain times of
the year, and under certain conditions, it
is poisonous and sudden death on the
oont. Hardest swearing I ever heard was
from a Ghan out on the downs as he
gazed at the bodies of nine camels that
had eaten not wisely but too well.
* * * *
“Atrax”: “Rain Belt” (B. 16/11 /’3B)
slips a few degrees in limiting the ageless
cycads to Tamborine (which, permit me
to point out, does not contain any “u” in
its correct rendering) and the Finke
Valley. There are parks of them in the
Carnarvon Ranges (C.Q.), some at least
equalling the Tamborine ancient which
fell to the axe of a vandal in 1936, but
which, replanted, is again showing signs
of continuing a life which began when
the European savages could still walk
across what is now the English Channel
to hunt mastodons on the present site
of London. Other curiously limited trees
are the giant beeches of the Macpherson
Range on the s.-e. Q. border, some of
them at least 3000 years old. Neither
they nor the cycads live in the true vine-
strung rain jungle belt, but on its edge.
* * * *
“Ploto”: The wise farmhand chooses
an employer who plays football, tennis
or golf; one who runs his car into the
nearest town for an evening at the pic-
tures, or one who is not too feeble to
shake a leg at the usual weekly “in aid
of.” Even the less exciting pastimes are
not to be despised. Took a job cutting
40 tons of mahogany into 15in. blocks
with a single-handed crosscut at 10s. a
day. The cores were rotten, the saw
jammed, and the logs had to be jacked
up and the cuts wedged, but by the end
of the first day I had a cord stacked and
the old man nodded approval. That
evening I found that I was a fair match
for him at chess. Lunch-hour on the
second day lasted two hours before he
called “checkmate” and let me go back
to my saw. On the third day an un-
finished game from the night before drew-
the breakfast hour out until 10 o’clock,
to be followed by another two-hour lunch
interval. On the fourth day the old man
saw a small cloud on the horizon at
breakfast-time and he decided that it
might rain, so we remained at the board
all day, only moving for meals. Unfor-
tunately it was that kind of job where
you must show results. Next day he
offered me 10s. a cord, with tucker.
* * * *
“Beat”: A London "Observer” cor-
respondent claims that eight out of 19
Australian slang words which were re-
cently the subject of discussion by the
paper’s readers are almost pure Hebrew
or Yiddish : “Gliner,” “cobber,” “furphy,”
“guiver,” “ribuck,” “shick,” “smoodge"
and “yakka,” “Guiver” and “diner” are
rarely heard nowadays. Almost every
overseas writer puts “ribuck” into our
mouths, but the word is never used by
dinkum Aussies. “Righto,” “too right”
and "my oath” have put the kibosh on
it.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Up our S.Q. way that
billy-whirling ceremony which gave
“Skull Creek’s” horse a flying start when
the handle came off (B. 16/11/’3B) is
supposed to cool the tea down to drink-
ing temperature. Every bushman knows
that, to make the tea-leaves sink, the
proper way is to place two twigs cross-
wise over the top directly the lid is off.
I once gave an American professor his
first view of a Queensland scrub, and,
desiring that he should miss none of the
romance of the wild, whirled and crossed
in the best accepted style. He had pre-
viously been rather apologetic about
having mistaken my offer to bring a billy
for one of fetching along a police-baton
wherewith to beat off wild abos. But
when I crossed the sticks he regained his
superiority complex immediately and de-
livered a long homily on the survival of
medieval witch notions among other-
wise intelligent Australians.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: Thirty years ago a lad
captured an injured curlew on the Dar-
ling Downs (Q.). Some little time later
another volunteered to assist it in father’s
garden. Three more have since been
induced to board with the originals. At
last census all were going strong; no
twinges of rheumatism to report and the
grubs still up to standard. They asked
me to submit their claims to Council
for the issue of service stars, as they
maintain they are good scouts; also,
pere Curlew requests me to refute the
oft-repeated assertion that only cockies
reach the sere-and-yellow stage.
* * * *
“D.Mc.”: Joe Staggers, bush-lawyer
and philosopher, spat with derision and
accuracy into the eye of the mong at
his feet. “You blokes give me a pain
when you start talkin’ about cold
climates,” he said. “I’ve known it that
cold down Monaro way that we ’ad to
’old blowlamps in front of our dials when
talkin’ so’s the words wouldn’t git froze.
I’ll never f’get the winter that Monaro
Mick got spliced to Kate Rogan. When
I gets to the ’ouse for the weddin' Mick’s
missin’ an’ old Rogan’s ragin’ round the
place with a shotgun swearin’ to blow
Mick’s lights out. ‘l'll teach ’im that a
Monaro man's word’s ’is bond. The
lousy coot promised me that blue cattle
pup of ’is if 1 let ’im "ave Kate!' e roars.
Well, I ’eads fer the ranges where Micks
place is to find out wot 'ad appened.
Nearin’ Mick's 'ut 1 ears bloodcurdlin’
yells. I makes a dash fer the back door.
'Struth! Wot a mess. Just because it
wos 'is weddin' day the silly cow ad
decided to 'ave a bath in an old cask
’e kept fer saltin’ beef in. A sudden
freeze come on an’ Mick’s trapped in a
solid block of ice up to 'is neck! Ow
did I get 'im out? Simply rolled the cask
to the edge of a deep gully an’ let 'er
go. It made Mick a bit dopey for the
weddin’, but after all ain’t that ’ow a
cove ought to be when 'e’s gettin’ is
freedom took orf ’im?”
* * * *
“Mundowie”: Reports still come from
Australia's Far North of the existence
there of tigers, monkeys and the inevit-
able wild white-woman. Yarns concern-
ing the last started in the early IB7o's.
A N.Q. paper then commented: “Some
exceedingly cunning fellow at Rock-
hampton has been taking a rise out ot
the reporters for the local papers by
relating to them a story of a white
woman who had been discovered among
the blacks of Keppel Bay. It turns out
that the ‘white woman’ was a ship’s
figurehead.” The figurehead was washed
ashore from a wreck, and was carried
away by the blacks as a curiosity. Maybe
some tribe still has it. As for the animal
scares, the “tiger” is the tiger cat, which
attains a large size in the North ; and
the “monkey” is the cuscus and a species
of tree kangaroo. The latter at a short
distance resembles a spider monkey.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: Big Bob, the
shearer, had hair on his chest that would
gap an axe. He always toiled stripped
to the waist, and every morning before
commencing he would grab the cook’s
salt-shaker and generously dredge his
chest fungus. “What good does the salt
do?” the new babbler wanted to know.
“Well, lad,” boomed Bob, “if you’d been
barbering as long as I have you’d know
that there’s nothing like a tasty salt-lick
to keep jumbucks sitting quiet while you
fleece ’em.”
% * # *
“Sou’-west”: There’s a lot of virtue in
one of those old Digger overcoats! A
few midnights ago in a W.A. .fishing vil-
lage an aged night-blind angler walked
off the end of a low jetty into 20ft. of
water. Yells for help aroused a not-
distant tearoom proprietor who, being
unable to swim, sprinted 100 yards up
the road and obtained the assistance of
an all-night garage attendant. Said at-
tendant, although only a weak swimmer,
promptly plunged in to the rescue. In
the meantime, while the drowning one
and the rescuer fought against a fairly
strong current, the tearoom prop,
launched a boat. Reached the two in the
water, but the boat promptly upset owing
to the efforts of drowning one to
clamber on board. Finally other help
arrived, and everyone was got safely
ashore. Altogether, the original drownee
was in the water over a quarter of an
hour, yet didn’t sink once. He was wear-
ing an old military overcoat, the thick
wool of which billowed up and acted like
a lifebuoy.
# * * *
“Centre”: That flying-foxes are partial
to pawpaws (B. 16/11 /’3B) is a new one
to me. 1 grew the fruit for years up
in N.Q. but never had any trouble with
the big fruit-bats that raided other fruit-
and berry-trees all around me. One old-
timer informed me that it was the smell
put the hairy devils off it.
*****
“Gryllus”: Where the cliff-edge juts I
can any fine morning watch or hear a
hundred birds all busily engaged in the
art of living. From a dead tree the dollar
birds launch their tumbling swoops after
insects ; fantails announce their sweetness
and prettiness amid dainty air-pirouettes ;
a nest of young butcher birds squawks
raucously for more and more food ;
scores of tiny sprites hunt and hop about
the leafy shades and open ground. Sud-
denly the whole busy throng halts and
in a moment disappears. The dollar birds
dive into the dense foliage of a scrub
fig, the fantails flit into the lantana, even
the hungry nestlings cease their clamor.
For a space of minutes all is still, then
comes gliding over the treetops a chicken-
hawk, its fierce yellow eyes searching for
un unwary straggler. It slides slowly
round the hill shoulder, a minute later
the all-clear sounds for the hidden
feasters, and immediately the concert
begins again. How do they sense the
killer’s presence a mile or more away ?
How do the nestlings know of the danger ?
THE THIRST OF YANGA JOE.
One year when all the tanks went dry,
And only erows were fat,
And willies danced their waltz of death
Across the saltbush flat,
Calico Ted and Yanga Joe
Were lopping scrub for sheep;
A glancing axe laid Calico low—
J'he cut was wide and deep.
Joe tied the leg with strips of shirt;
then saddled their only horse,
Lifted his fainting mate aboard
And struck a southward course.
Twas eighty miles to Euston town,
Two waterbags they had;
But firm the voice of Yanga Joe,
Who muttered, “Courage, lad!”
Forty miles to Gilalbee tank
Under a blazing sky;
J'he wounded Calico must drink
And Yanga Joe go dry.
Forty miles through the whipstick scrub-
A sandhill to the mile!
The hot stars showed Gilalbee’s bed
Bare as a roofing tile.
Down to their second waterbag,
Some for the thirsty prad.
All night long cried the injured mate,
“Water —or I 'll go mad!”
Joe doled it out; each burning star
Watched with a leering eye
The tempted bushman in the camp,
But Yanga Joe went dry.
From hobs of hell arose the sun
And glared its red surprise
To see the burdened horse being led
Across the Gulthul rise.
' The cracking lips of Yanga Joe
Set in a twisted grin—•
Jen mnes made in tne cool of dawn
And thirty more to win.
They’ll tell you still in Euston town
Of that undying day
When Yanga led the Waler in
From eighty miles away.
Of how, when someone mentioned thirst,
The crowd gave out a cheer;
And Yanga, grinning, slowly said:
“I saved it for the beer.”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Wang”: “Y’ can’t never berlieve half
of what yer see, an’ the other half’s
pretty doubtful at times, I’ve found,” said
Dan. “On the tramp one time I struck
a fair-sized town early one afternoon.
It’s stock-market day, an’ the place is
full of squatters .an’ cockies. So I make
me way up to the saleyards, thinkin’ t’
pick up some odd job there. I’m standin’
watchin’ the crowd round the auctioneer
when a little sandy-whiskered bloke
comes up t’ me an’ ses, ‘Lookin' fer a
job, young man?’ I ses, ‘Yes, know
where I can get one?’ ‘Yes,’ he ses, ‘I can
give yer one meself, I reckon!’ He
didn’t look much like it; but ‘yer can’t
judge a book be its cover’ is another
sayin’ I’ve often proved the truth of.
‘Come on,’ he ses, an’ I foller him to a
great flash motor-car. ‘Hop in the back,’
he ses, ‘an’ wait till I come back. An’
don’t let any of the kids get monkeyin'
about the car. It’s new an’ cost a thou-
sand. See yer later,’ an’ off he trots. Well,
I sit there for about two hours wonderin'
when the little gcoot will turn up, when
up comes a tall, well-dressed chap, ac-
companied be a woman got up like the
Queen of Sheby. He glares at me sittin’
there, an’ then raps out, ‘What the devil
are you doin’ there?’ I tells ,’im I’m
waitin’ fer the owner. He nearly busts.
The owner,’ he yelps, ‘l’m its owner,’
an’ glares around him. ‘Where’s that
.damned little whiskery runt 1 gave five
bob to to look after it?’ No, things ain’t
always what you think they are.”
* * * *
“Ploto”: Add another to the number
of Australian paradoxes. In the district
between Wangaratta (Vic.) and Albury
very dry weather conditions are prevail-
ing. In some of the outlying towns the
rainfall is below the record minimum.
But in spite of this springs that have been
dry for periods up to 18 years are now
beginning to run, and it isn’t unusual to
hear a grazier remark that “the spring
up at my place is running—it will be a
wet summer.” Why?
* Jjc * H* ,
“Salmon Gums”: Somewhere about
60-70 years ago Westralia went into the
road-building game in a manner that
affords a lesson in resource, initiative and
patience. The locality in question, north-
wards of Perth through the swamp dis-
tricts of Osborne Park and Wanneroo, is
pure sand separating fertile patches
around the swamps. There were none
of the orthodox ingredients of roads
available the limestone hills either
passed unnoticed or were considered un-
suitable —but the timber was thick and
heavy and suggested a way out. Rounds
about a foot long were sawn off the
trunks and sunk side by side on their
flat in the ground. The result wasn’t a
speedway but it stood up to heavy traf-
fic. As late as 10 years ago eight- and
ten-horse wagons drew four and five
“You can't stop him swankin' since he got them skates."
cord of banksia over them. Jarrah and
white gum were used, and of dozens of
blocks of the latter examined I haven’t
struck any sign of termite-infestation. Yet
the surrounding country is riddled with
the insects, which have even attacked
fallen jarrah, and the sunken blocks
should have been pie for them. As far
as I can ascertain no chemical deterrent
was employed to preserve the blocks.
What is the secret of their immunity?
* * * *
“Baby Snatcher”: Is that fraudulent,
chicken-stealing, nestling-scoffing Stiggins
the kookaburra really laughing when he
utters that purposeless chattering of his?
“How far away was I when he fired? Oh, just within earshot."
No other bird is known to laugh, though
some have been suspected of a sense of
humor by people who are without it.
The hideous noise of the kooka has no
note of mirth, or indeed any expression
in it save a strong suggestion of acute
mania. I can only recall one beast which
makes the same senseless noise, and a
very similar one, for no apparent reason
on earth, and that is the African hyena.
* *, * *
“F.Y.7”: No doubt about Australia’s
birds knowing when to dodge drought
country (B. 23 /11 / ’3B) and find better
conditions hundreds of miles away in
astonishingly short time. Have known a
well-grassed station in s.-w. Queensland
absolutely turkeyless, and then found the
big grasshopper-chasers hard at it sud-
denly one morning. Marsupials are much
the same, kangaroos especially, but how
they get the office that there is food and
water many miles away in a particular
direction is something writer has never
been able to find out.
“Western”: Who said bees can’t think?
When old Sam Smith’s truck took fire
and burnt to cinders on a bush track,
the scene of the conflagration next day
was swarming with bees. The tyres
hadn’t exactly burnt, but they were nicely
fried, and the honey-gatherers were busy
biting off lumps and carting the stuff
away. And they kept at it until little
was left other than the fabric. Again,
J was painting my bush residence with
a pigment mixed with linseed oil, and
was tormented with bees pinching my
paint. Consulted a bee expert on this
idiosyncrasy of his pet insect, and he
reckoned they manipulated such sub-
stances into a kind of cement which was
used for stopping up cracks in the hive
through which predatory ants, etc., might
enter. Normally the bees used gum, col-
lected from trees and flowers, but they
made no bones about using these sub-
stitutes when the opportunity offered.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Life in a petered-out
mining town is not as dull as sundry
novelists would have us believe. One
never knows, f’r instance, whether one’s
next step is to be on solid ground or thin
air. Up at Parkes (N.S.W.), once famous
lor its gold, but now a wheat and sheep
town, this truth was borne out the other
day when, poking at a lawn in front
of a private house with a stick, one
Gordon Padey was astounded to see that
part of the lawn vanish into the bowels
of the earth. Soundings revealed a hole
70ft. deep. A few years ago portion
of a lawn in another part of the village
performed the same caper, a large orifice
opening on the opposite side of the road
at the same time. Old shafts, of course,
are the explanation; but 1 envy the
Parkes paterfamilias who, this weather,
can boldly face the missus and say, “Well,
seeing both lawn and mower are gone
for ever, think I’ll slip down town and,
have —er —an ice-cream or something.”
* * * *
“Piscator”: Have heard of the Maori
hero who pulled up M.L. from the
bottom of the ocean on his hook, but
what sort of fisherman is “Dickie Beech,”
who talks airily of shallow fishing for
snapper in 20 fathoms “and more” (B.
23 /11 / ’3B). We know the fish are down
there, for the trawlers get ’em as well
as the bottom-dwelling flattie “D. 8.”
claims to have caught in similar shallows.
But as one who has done a lot of snap-
pering round Brisbane at least, 1 have
always been taught to regard 20 fathoms
and over as quite deep fishing.
* * * *
“J. Roo”: Abos. up here at Wave Hill
(N.T.) will, unlike those from other parts,
kill anything of the animal kingdom they
see moving. I have seen Binghi throw
a boomerang into a mob of galahs
(which bird, apart from what cattle they
filch, forms their staple tucker) in the
“wet,” knock a couple, pick up the
bopmerang and leave the goulies to the
flies. This was, of course, when he was
working in the stock camp. One “boy”
skittled a goanna, and when asked was
he going to eat it replied, “No more ;
that pfeller him bin too poor.” The
proposition was put to him that he could
have let the go. get fat. “Mightn’t never
bin seen him again,” was the answer.
Against that coon logic, from which he’ll
never shift, of what avail is the white
man’s arguments?
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Long Bill had a dance
with the visitor from the city. “A good
dancer, but no conversation,” he com-
plained, “an’, Lord knows, I give ner
plenty of lead-ups. Talked to her about
milkin’ and tree-failin’ —even tried to get
her goin’ on ferritin’; but she never
showed no interest in nothin’. What’s
more, she’s real iggerant in other ways.
Asked me didn’t I have time to shave
before I come to the dance. Shave, mind
yer—think a man was doin’ himself up
for a weddin’ or somethin’!”
* * * *
“Pinto Pete”: “The smartest tyke 1
ever clapped eyes on,” said Whistling
Jim, “was a terrier me wife had when
we got married. When she went ’ome
a bit after that to see her people she left
me all the instructions in the world about
the dawg. I clean forgits to feed it, an’ a
coupla days later it comes down to the
paddock where I was workin’, grabs me
by me trouser-leg and starts pullin’ me
towards the ’ouse. I couldn’t make out
what he wanted, so I let him tug me up
to the garden, where he leaves me and
dives under a little bush. I grabbed a
waddy, thinkin’ it might be a snake he
was after, but there was nothin’ there. He
just lay there and wouldn’t get up. All
of a sudden 1 looks at the bush and
wakes up. It was a flamin’ forget-me-
not!”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Awaiting solving by orni-
thologists is the puzzle of the chestnut
teal. Does the gaily-apparelled drake of
that persuasion take for a mate an ordi-
nary grey teal, or is his partner a species
altogether distinct from that variety of
duck? To all appearances, down to the
last detail, she is identical with the female
of the grey teal, yet the male ducklings
of her brooding all come chestnut drakes,
while the females develop into apparently
true grey teal. It’s a pretty problem.
What do the councillors make of it?
* * * *
“CDI”: Someone should patent
python as a good road-surfacing material.
Out by the Boulia-road (Q.) six months
ago a 10ft. Joe slithered down off his
rocky hillside. As he crossed the wheel-
tracks one of the local Hell-fire Jacks shot
up ; and Joe departed this life, his mortal
remains extending across the roadway.
For two months a couple of mail lorries
went out and back across him every
week; but they hardly made a dent.
Neither did the rest of the Winton-Boulia
traffic, and there was quite a lot of it.
Then shearing started ; and for the next
three months or so trucks of every de-
scription from six-wheelers downwards
carted the dusty coats of hundreds of
thousands of woollies in loads of up to
seven tons, every one of which ran over
Joe. Flattened he may be, but otherwise
so little impression has been made on
him that he has become a landmark.
Maybe another year or two will see the
end of him, but we’ll still reckon these
rock pythons are tough.


7°7°
w
w uou Cstn'e
your will is valid ?
Home-made wills, printed will forms, neglect of
regular will revision, all contribute to the defeat of
the will-maker's intentions. Therefore, it is wise to
engage a solicitor in drafting a will.
Many thoughtful men and women appoint THE
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY
LTD. as Executor. At a fixed and moderate charge
the Company places at your disposal over 60
years' practical experience in estate adminis-
tration.
If unable to call, we suggest you write for
explanatory booklet without obligation.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits, £959,810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS, 401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir . Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
W.R. 4-16-38
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Uote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms tor Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.unch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.43 p.m.), Dinner from 3.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and .Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
tnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Xel
Business Dividends. Written
•June, Profit. 124 p.c. ' Oil. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 588,832 375,000 148,500 3.370,978
1929.. 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930.. 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931.. 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932.. 142,720 150.000 3,479 854
1933.. 214,327 150,000 50,000 5,494|181
1934.. 210,500 150,000 50,000 3,510,747
1935.. 238,580 150,000 50,000 3,549,327
1930.. 247,460 150,000 75,000 8,571,787
7 P'°-
1937.. 200,120 171,935 80.000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 108,875 85,000 3,602,697
It is a brighter Christmas than it might
have been for the Australian trading
banks. Certainly there has been a drop
in export income, and imports have
remained at a high level, the banks
having had to draw heavily upon their
liquid resources to finance the require-
ments of local trade and industry. Still,
whatever they missed on the swings they
picked up on the roundabouts, though
their earning power remains far lower
than it used to be and continues to ex-
hibit a stubbornness long since overcome
by most other traders. However, the
Federal Government appears to have
shelved—for the present, at any rate —
such ideas as it might have entertained
about interfering with the trading banks’
deposits, which are the credit base of
the Australian financial structure, while
creation of a Long-term Mortgage De-
partment of the Commonwealth Bank
won't do the other banks any harm.
Nevertheless, the market for bank
scrip lacks confidence, because it is un-
certain as to what the future holds for
private banking in Australia. Since the
beginning of 1938 the price of the E., S.
and A.’s £5 shares paid to £3 has fluctu-
ated between 110 s. and 975. Last week-
end the figure was 108 s. 6d., at which
the return is 4 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
That is after allowing for English in-
come-tax of 3s. 7d. in the pound and
for exchange at the current rate. Visibly
the net tangible backing is £6 125., or
235. 6d. more than the market price, and
the inner strength is believed to be sub-
stantial. It is plain, therefore, that the
market considers that the banks are not
earning a reasonable return on their
total funds.
After making an unspecified provision
for contingencies, the spring in last year’s
gross earnings was £87,132:
1930. 1937. 1938.
Cross earnings .. £1,587,758 £1,181,480 £1,208,012
Fxes 827,941 772.544 823,800
Taxation .. .. 227,081 132,810 104,158
Net profit.. .. 542,736 276,120 280,594
Exes, were up £51,316, owing mainly to
wage lifts, and the taxgatherers made off
with an extra £31,348, or with only £4720
less than was paid to shareholders. The
net result was £4468 better at 9 p.c.
on the £3,000,000 of share capital as
against 8.8, 8.2, 7.9, 7.2, 7.1, 4.7, 8.7,
17.7 and 19.7 p.c. back to 1929. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the return was only a wink
over 4 p.c. In addition to its own funds
the co. has £1,872,966 of perpetual de-
benture stock, a reminder of the ’nineties,
costing it on the average a shade over
3| p.c. The div. was kept at 7 p.c., and,
after whisking away £50,000 for contin-
gencies and openly striking £35,000 off
the book value of premises, the £16,719
that remained lifted the visible lay-by
£602,697 higher than paid capital.
Outstanding feature of balance-sheet
movements is the way the co. has come
to the assistance of clients at a time when
money was needed :
Liabilities.
1932. 1937. 1938.
Notes .. .. £1,028 £l,Oll £l,Oll
Bills, etc. 1,878,911 2,768,900 2.790,612
Fixed deposits. 19,403.405 20.937,315 20,552,478
Free deposits.. 9,908,820 14,345,344 14,630,133
Total . . £31,252,224 £38,052,630 £37,986,234
Assets.
Liquids .. £14.196,155 £18,576,117 £10,209.099
Advances .. 24,702,780 27,350,619 29.089.100
Premises .. 711,103 701,404 744.886
Total . . £39,670,044 £40,688,200 £40,043.085
A net growth of £2,338,481 in advances
was accompanied by a contraction of
£94,048 in total deposits (there was a
growth of £290,789 in current accounts
and a reduction of £384,837 in those
bearing interest), liquids being drawn
upon for £2,367,018. Still, when the
books closed, depositors and oihers could
see 42.6 p.c. of their money in liquids,
advances amounted to 84.3 p.c. of de-
posits, and the bank was holding
approximately £4 9s. 7d. of the public's
money for every pound of its own, in-
cluding perpetual stock. It is a very
strong position, but it means low earn-
ing power.
Unless there is a further substantial
reduction in the demand for drafts to
finance imports, appearances are that the
banks will tighten up a bit more on
advances early in the new year. Still,
provided there is no further drop in
export prices, the tightness in money con-
ditions is not likely to become very
marked.
The T. and G.
These are the initials by which the Aus-
tralasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd., is
known throughout Australia and Maori-
land, where it has been writing policies
for the last 62 years. It is one of Aus-
tralia’s five big mutual offices, and is a
sound, healthy and progressive institution,
paying regular and satisfactory bonuses.
It continues to gather more Industrial
than Ordinary premiums, and the busi-
ness in each department has stepped along
in this way over the last decade:
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 1,480,462 240,043 030,073 710,346 6,817,430
Written off premises, £4900 . . . . 6,812,630
To contingency fund, £730-0 . . . . 6,806,230
’3l 1,701,929 281,880 759,152 660,897 8,133,911
Written off premises, £49,327.. .. 8,084,584
To contingency fund, £29,597.. .. 8,054,987
’32 1,652,870 306.866 784,224 561,790 8,616,777
Written off premises, £24,776.. .. 8,592,001
To contingency fund, £24,776.. .. 8,567,225
’33 1,716,881 304,768 759,425 052,088 9,219,913
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,194,913
To contingency fund, £5OOO .. .. 9,189,913
’34 1,855,750 284,463 789.567 781,720 9,971,633
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 9,976,633
Written off premises, £12,500., .. 9,964,133
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 9,951,633
’35 2,048,039 304,532 791,521 951,986 10,903,619
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,160,744 12,054,363
’37 2,455,024 380,343 817,855 1,256.826 13.311,189
’3B 2,672,551 381.388 867.986 1,423,177 14.734,366
Written off premises, £10,000.. .. 14,724,360
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
’29 2,143,427 662,369 799,008 682,050 7.292,507
Written off premises, £5lOO .. .. 7,287,407
To contingency fund, £7700 .. .. 7,279,707
’3l 2,188,137 661,797 929,514 596,820 8.355,748
Written off premises, £50,6,73.. .. 8,305,075
To contingency fund, £70,403.. .. 8,234,672
’32 2,108,142 677,116 893,413 537,613 8,772,285
Written off premises, £25,224.. .. 8,747,061
To contingency fund, £25,224.. .. 8,721,837
’33 2,135,912 679,276 743,168 713.468 9,435,305
Written off premises, £25,000.. .. 9,410,305
To contirigencv fund, £45,000.. .. 9,365,305
’34 2,257,022 077,400 632,513 947,109 10.312,414
From Accident branch, £5000.. .. 10,317,414
Written off premises, £12,500.. .. 10,304,914
To contingency fund, £12,500.. .. 10,292,414
’35 2,436,215 709,995 555,123 1.171,097 11,463,511
’36 2,627,311 755,398 857,907 1,014,006 12,477,517
’37 2,824,455 798,805 1.070.236 955.414 13,432,931
’3B 3,010,170 836,831 1,224,800 948,539 14,381,470
Written off premises, £lO,OOO. . .. 14,371,470
There was a sharp contraction of
£2,267,862 in the amount of new busi-
ness (£14,661,184) put on the books in the
Ordinary and Industrial sections com-
bined last term. The amounts written
were Ordinary £8,764,838 (down
£1,552,404) and Industrial £5,896,346
(down £715,458). In the Accident branch
policies assuring £6,295,875 (down
£656,796) were written. The proposed
introduction of national insurance prob-
ably affected the writing of new business
to’some extent, especially in Maoriland,
where there is no certainty that the Gov-
ernment’s social experiments will not
ultimately damage the value of the cur-
rency. But appearances are that the con-
traction in last year’s new business figures
was mainly the result of policy, which
aimed at reduction of the expense rate
and improvement of the surplus available
for division among policy-holders.
In the three departments combined
£4,545.862 (up £302,408) of net premiums
was gathered, and £1,297,077 (up
£115,653) came in in interest and rents.
Total income was thus £418.061 better at
£5,842,939, of which £2,384,737 (the big-
gest amount yet) was added to funds,
raising them to £29,252,711 —Ordinary
£14,724,366, Industrial £14,371,470 and
Accident £156,875. In addition there is
a fidelity and contingency fund of
£564,559 (up £6O), returns from which
also help to swell the surplus available
for distribution among policy-holders—
there are no shareholders.
The surpluses available in the two life
departments over the last four years
compare as follows:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Net surplus:—
Ordinary . . £437.176 £465,129 £469,895 £535,511
Industrial .. 317,199 344.972 378.174 410,551
Total . . £754,375 £BlO,lOl £848,069 £946,062
The growth in last year’s total net surplus
was £97,993, compared with an improve-
ment of £37,968 in the 1937 figure. The
difference is accounted for mainly by
the improvement in last year’s Ordinary
figure. After reserving £25,000 in each
department for actuarial contingencies,
and after making provision for interim
bonuses, etc., the balance is to be dis-
tributed in reversionary bonuses (rates
not mentioned in the report) to all par-
ticipating policies. On whole-life Ordi-
nary policies, temperance section, bonuses
ranged from 465. p.c. on contracts one
year in force to 745. p.c. on those 25
years old or more in 1936. In the general
section bonuses were 2s. p.c. less, and on
endowment assurances they were 10s. less
than on whole-life policies.
Another heartening feature of the
latest accounts is that exes, (excluding
taxes) took only 16.5 p.c. of the net pre-
miums, including consideration for annu-
ities, in the O.D. as against 18.2 p.c. lor
the previous term. In the I.D. exes., less
taxes, took 33.6 p.c. on the net premiums
as against 34.3 p.c. in 1937.
The office assumes that its funds will
turn in only 3 p.c. Actually the gross
return on mean funds, including the
fidelity and contingency reserve, was
£4 12s. Bd. last year, or £4 65., about
the same as for the previous term, after
deducting taxes, etc. (£92,300, up
£17,965); so there is a satisfactory
margin there.
'Assets now total £30,321,757, up
£2,350,769 over the twelvemonth: —-
Public ’1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
securities ..£17,387,605 62.2 £17,882.793 59.0
Loans.. .. 7.809,523 27.9 9.430,332 31.1
Freeholds . . 2,322,203 8.3 2,547,028 8.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 451,656 1.6 461,004 1.5
Loans (up £1,620,809) are largely assist-
ance given to policy-holders and prospec-
tive policy-holders to enable them to ac-
quire their own homes. On freeholds
(the co.’s own premises) £224,825 more
was spent than was written off. No
account has been taken in the sheet of
agents’ balances, undue interest, etc.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 125,869 121 p.c. = 62.500 63,369 651,416
1929.. 102,508 12| „ ~ 62,500 40,008 691,424
1930.. 62,299 10 „ ~'50,000 12,299 703,723
Payment to reinsure American
risks, £75,000 .. .. .. 628,723
1931.. 75,467 10 p.c. = 50,000 25,467 654,190
1932.. 89,353 10 „ „ 50,000 39,353 693,543
1933.. 103,358 10 „ ~ 50,000 53,358 746.901
1934.. 105,067 10 ~ ~50,000 55,067 801,968
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 . . 551,968
From hidden reserves, £50,000 .. 601,968
1935.. 102,837 8 p.c. = 60,000 42,837 644,805
1936.. 130,648 10 „ .. 75,000 ) rn
Staff bonus, £5OOO J 00,G48 690,453
1937.. 126,284 8i p.c. = 63,750 62,534 757,987
1938.. 150,506 91 ~ ~ 71,250 79,256 837,243
The board's Christmas-box to share-
holders was a lift of 1 p.c. in the div.,
making 9 \ p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a., which
was more than twice covered by the
year’s net earnings. The market notes
this, together with the fine pile of reserves
and the fact that £675,000 of the £750,000
of paid capital has come from surplus
earnings, and prices the pound shares
at 555. Since the beginning of 1938 the
price has fluctuated between 575. and 495.
The return at 555. is 3.4 p.c. on a 9\ p.c.
div. basis, or 3.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. dis-
tribution. The investor who looks for
4.3 p.c. on his money counts on the dis-
tribution being lifted to 12 p.c., which
would call for £90,000, or £60,506 less
than was netted last year, and only for
three (1930, 31 and ’32) out of the last
21 years has less than £90,000 of profit
been claimed. Still, the cautious board
has never been in a hurry to hand out
benefits, a fact which has added to the


'J liis abridged prospectus does not fully comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1928 of Victoria* or of the Companies Act 19114 of bouth
Australia. Applications for shares will be received only on one of the forms of application issued with the full prospectus, dated November 18, 1938,
copy of which has been filed in the offices of the Registrar of Companies at Adelaide, and at the Registrar of Companies, Melbourne.
Residents of New South Wales should not consider this advertisement an invitation to subscribe for shares. Applications will he received only on the
form accompanying the full prospectus, as'stated.
Abridged Prospectus of
d. H. PEEK & CO. LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1934 of South Australia.)
OBJECTS FOR WHICH THE COMPANY IS ESTABLISHED ARE:—
1. To acquire the building and trading assets of Peeks, Limited, Adelaide.
2. To carry on the business of drapers, outfitters, soft goods and general merchants, and
manufacturing and retail tailors and* clothiers in any part of the Commonwealth of Australia.
Nominal Capital, £lOO,OOO
DIVIDED INTO
30,000 7 per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each; 280,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each.
15,000 PREFERENCE SHARES
are now offered for subscription, payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment, and the balance in calls
of not more than 5/- each at intervals of not less than one calendar month.
140,000 ORDINARY SHARES
are also offered for subscription, payable 1/- on application, 1/- on allotment, and the balance in calls of
not more than I/- each at intervals of not less than one calendar month.
3aaa Preference OO nflfl Ordinary
,UUU shares and 40,VUU shares
are to be issued fully paid to Peeks, Limited, as part purchase consideration as set out in the prospectus.
The balance of 12,000 preference shares and I 12,000 ordinary shares will be held in reserve.
DIRECTORS:
Lieut.-Col. Frank Charles LLOYD, of Adelaide, Company Director.
Clifford Trevelyan COCKS, of Kent Trfwn, Company Director.
Arthur Leslie SLADE, of Adelaide, Chartered Accountant (Aiist.).
Edward Kenneth HUGHES, of Adelaide, Company Director.
James Henley Harry PEEK, of Adelaide, Company Director.
HANKERS—National Hank of Australasia, Limited.
ACDITOIts —C. A. Sullivan & Ellis (C.A.’s), 40 Waymoutli Street,
Adelaide.
SOLICITORS : I’ovey & Waterhouse, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY and REGISTERED OFFICE—A. G. Mutton, 180
North Terrace, Adelaide.
FLOTATION MANAGER—J. N. SMITH. LL.H., 186 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
VICTORIAN BROKERS—McCarthy & Kirwan, 100 Queen Street,
Melbourne, C.t.
Safety of Capital
Assets are to be purchased at a figure
which permits the immediate creation of a
reserve of £12,000. Preference shares are
covered for capital more than 3f times,
and there is a substantial margin on the
ordinary shares.
Income
The estimated income provides for the divi-
dend on the preference shares six times
and leaves sufficient to pay 8 per cent, on
ordinary shares and still increase reserves.
Free Market For Shares
Application will be made for listing the
shares on the Stock Exchange. The com-
pany is sufficiently large and the shares
sufficiently attractive not only to secure a
free market for the shares, but to indicate
an appreciation in value.
Minimum Subscription
The minimum subscription on which the
directors may proceed to allotment is
£20,000. The minimum subscription has
been underwritten.
Trading Policy
The company commences business with a
clean stock, capital and facilities for buying
in the best possible market and pursuing a
sound and vigorous trading policy. From
the background of 12,000 customer ac-
counts, the company will extend its opera-
tions into all general drapery and clothing
lines.
Management
The management and the executive staff
have had extensive training and experience
in the business. The services of Mr.
J. H. H. Peek are being retained by the
company.
Directors
The directors are well-known business men
of ability and integrity, who have had
many years of successful experience. Each
director has agreed to take shares of a
minimum par value of £250 to satisfy his
director’s qualification.
Dividends
The interim dividend on both classes of
shares will, as far as possible, be declared
payable on the first day of September of
every year, and the final dividend on the
first day of March following.
Opportunity for Small Investors
While it is necessary for a considerable pro-
portion to be raised in larger sums, it will
be the policy of the directors to encourage
the small investors to acquire an interest
in the company. By spreading the capital
over a large number of shareholders in-
creased business will result.
FAVORABLE PURCHASE
The Company will purchase the land and buildings (subject to
mortgage of £25,000), plant, stock and sundry debtors of Peeks,
Limited, for £35,000 plus £lO,OOO in Shares.
On a reliable estimate of the value of the assets to be purchased
there is a surplus of £12,000 above the purchase price, and the
surplus will be placed to a Reserve Account for the benefit of all
shareholders.
ft is proposed to take the assets into the company’s books at the
following figures:
Land and Buildings
Less Mortgage
Plant, fixtures and Fittings
Stock
Book Debts ..
.. £45,000 0 0
.. 25.000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
2,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
30,000 0 0
£57,000 0 0
Copies of the full prospectus and application forms may be obtained from the Flotation Manager, Adelaide, Messrs. McCarthy and
Kirwan, 100 Queen Street, Melbourne, or from any members of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide or Melbourne or through any
member of any other recognised Stock Exchange in Australia or New Zealand.
The directors reserve the right to close the subscription list at any time, to reject any application in the event of over-subscription,
or to allot the whole or such less number of the shares applied for as they think fit. Priority of allotment will be given to
applicants applying for parcels of both classes of shares in the same ratio as the total issue.
VICTORIA STATE ACCIDENT INSURANCE OFFICE
Revenue Account tor the Year ending 30th June, 1938.
Claims £121,330 7 4
Provision for unadjusted
claims .. .. 67,802 0 0
' £189,132 7 4
Less Claims recovered .. 716 13 9
„ Provision for unadjusted
claims, 1937 .. .. 38,345 0 0
£39,061 13 9
£150,070 13 7
Net revenue carried down .. .. .. .. 49,776 12 8
£199,847 6 3
Premiums for year .. £208,697 5 6
Less Re-insurances and
Rebates .. 7,916 10 5
£200,780 15 1
Provision for unearned premiums, 1937 98,197 15 3
£298,978 10 4
■ Less Provision for unearned premiums,
1938 99,131 4 I
-£199,847 6 3
Profit and Loss Account for Year ending 30th June, 1938.
Administration Expenses, Act 3806
Agents’ Expenses and Commission
Expenses of Management (including Salaries)
Net profit
200 0 0
9,419 4 4
10,031 7 6
35,002 1 6
£54,652 13 4
Net Revenue brought down .. .. .. .. £49,776 12 8
Interest on Investments and Funds at Treasury .. 4,876 0 8
£54,652 13 4
Appropriation Account for Year ending 30th June, 1938.
30/6/’38 To General Reserve Fund
„ Bonus Reserve Fund
“Transfer to Consolidated Revenue,
Act 3936“ Account
£10,000 0 0
20,002 1 6
5,000 0 0
£35.002 1 6
30/ 6/ ’38 By Profit and Loss Account
£35,002 i 6
£35,002 I 6
Balance Sheet as at 30th June, 1938,
Liabilities
Unearned Premiums
Outstanding Claims
Sundry Accounts unpaid—
On account Agents
Others ..
General Reserve Fund
Plus Appropriated, 1937-38
Bonus Reserve Fund
Plus Appropriated, 1937-38
£99,131 4 1
67,802 0 0
2,452 9 10
106,560 0 0
45,412 4 6
£321,357 18 5
Assets.
Amount of Funds at Treasury ..
Premiums due and Agents’ Balances
Less Bad Debt Reserve
Treasury Interest accrued
Stamps on hand
Furniture and Office Machines (at cost,
tion)
General Reserve Investment
Bonus Reserve Investment
Transfer to Consolidated Revenue. Act
3936
Less amount written off ..
Less Appropriated. 1937-38
£12,356
306
£50,000
25,000
£165,397 17 2
less deprecia-
12,050 5
986 2
46 10
906 19
96,560 0
25.410 3
25,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
£321,357 18 5
(Signed) E. A. PEVERILL. Auditor-General. 13th Sept., 1938. (Signed) W. H. HOLMES,-Insurance Commissioner. 9th Sept., 1938.
attractiveness of the scrip as an invest-
ment. The net tangible cover is 425. 4d.
per share.
The spring of £24,222 in last year s net
earnings was due mainly to improvement
in the underwriting result, despite the not-
very-satisfactory nature of motor-car and
marine business. The spring in net
premium income was £80,792:- —
Net Loss Expense
premiums. Claims. Expenses.t Rate. Rate.
1895.. ,1,40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c.
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81,098 49.0 „ 33.6 „
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 „ 39.8 „
1931.. 516,397 295,828 217,492 57.3 „ 42.1 „
1932.. 435,649 223,587 190.021 51.3 „ 43.6 „
1933.. 435,679 208,207 188,643 47.8 „ 43.3 „
1934.. 453,718 221,893 189,818 48.9 „ 41.8 „
1335.. 497,893 245,325 203,809* 49.2 „ 40.9 „
1936.. 541,736 268,948 200,908* 49.6 „ 37.1 „
1937.. 610,979 324,500 221,573* 53.1 „ 36.2 „
1938.. 691,771 364,631 239,487* 52.7 „ 34.6 ~
Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments
-£10,577, 1935 ; £BO9B, 1936; £8593, 1937;
£0 0,938, 1938.
t Including 1 contributions to staff fund.
Although claims were up £40,131 and
exes, were £17,914 heavier, they respec-
tively took Bs. and 325. less of each £lOO
of net premiums. The drop in the ex-
pense rate, which was easily the lowest
for over a decade, is particularly heart-
ening. The underwriting surplus was
£22,747 stronger at £87,653, or 11.68 p.c.
on capital. Interest and rents brought in
£62,853 (up £1475) net, or 8.38 p.c. on
capital, making the net return from all
sources 20 p.c. on capital as against 16.8,
17.3 and 13.7 p.c. for the three preceding
terms.
Although the tendency of trade gener-
ally to slacken its rate of advance does
not favor much, if any, further expansion
of underwriting results during the cur-
rent term, there is nothing in sight to
suggest a sharp contraction of earnings.
Policy-holders and shareholders are
well protected, as they always have been:
, 1937 r- 1938 ,
p.c. |>.c.
(iov. securities ..£1,037,445 53.0 £1,089,690 52.0
Municipal sec’ties.. 77,620 4.0 62,929 3.0
Deposits, cash, sundry
debtors, etc. ..' 701,924 37.8 780,211 37.3
Premises .. .. 140,060 7.2 160,088 7.7
Last year £52,245 was added to Govern-
ment securities, £78,287 to cash, etc., and
£20,088 to premises, while municipal
securities were reduced by £14,691. When
the books closed, policy-holders could see
net tangibles equal to 229 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is
usually considered adequate.
Hume Steel, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 10 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
1928.. 21,348 5567 Nil 15,781 69,025
Reserved for depreciation,
etc.. £19.400 88,425
1929.. 23,362 5567 Nil 17,795 70,630
1930.. 15,281 5567 Nil 9,714 60,916
1931.. 977 Nil Nil 977 59,939
1932.. 2,535 Nil Nil 2,535 67,404
1933.. 7,787 5567* Nil 2,220 55,184
1934.. 12,682 6124 Nil 6,558 48,626
74 p.c.
1936.. 13,400 6531 Nil 1 IA ,
New share issue exes., £350 f ' 4^,107
1936.. 8,704 7500 Nil 1,204 40,903
1937.. 40,312 7500 Nil 32,812 8,091
Reserves.
1938.. 41,703 7500 Nil 34,203 26,112
*Met by issue of fully-paid B prefs
This co., which turns out concrete-lined
steel pipes from plates fabricated by
8.H.P., was formed in 1923, when it
handed the parent (Hume Pipe Co.) and
W. R. Hume 165,000 and 85,000 f.-p.
£i ords. respectively for rights. To help
finance the business the public put up
£94,433 of pref. money, and a further
5567 pref. shares were issued in payment
of the 1933 div., making total pref. capi-
tal £lOO,OOO, now carrying a fixed cumu-
lative 74 p.c.
Chief source of earnings is public
expenditure on water-supply schemes,
etc. Until about three years ago it was
doubtful whether the business would ever
be worth much to the vendors of the
rights. Then improvements to plant, etc.,
greatly reduced costs, the order-book
continued to swell, and so did net earn-
ings, which went up with a rush in 1937,
when they were enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 13.1 p.c. on ord. capital.
During the last term the co.’s plant in
Australia and Maoriland was fully occu-
pied, and, after providing for contin-
gencies, an extra £1391 of profit was
claimed, or enough to give the prefs.
their £7500 and show 13.6 p.c. on ord.
capital. No ord. div. was paid, money
being wanted to finance further expan-
sion of the business. A 10 p.c. div. from
this Steel co. would be equal to 3.3 p.c.
on the parent’s half-million of ord.
capital.
Balance-sheet figures reflect steady
expansion of the business:
, 1932. 1935. 1937. 1938.
I’Hid capital. . £305,670 £350,000 £350,000 £350,000
Sundry creditors 106,987 70,470 154,756 184,888
Freehold and
leasehold .. 14.814 15,500 16,484 17,979
Mant.. .. 87.510 102,305 131,990 143,055
Stocks .. 27,508 32,091 49,628 69.569
Contracts „. 20,473 39,064 50,478 52,409
Book debts . . 45,814 37,101 97,661 90,724
Cash and de-
posits . . 9,239 15,817 28,698 36,423
Shares in other
cos. . . 174,528 174,528 179.528 194,528
Last year £1495 was added to freehold,
etc., £11,065 to plant, £19,941 to stocks,


j
FINANCING
EXPORT TRADE
•
From the land of the New World
to the markets of the Old, the Bank
of New South Wales provides the
finance for Australia's products.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED IN THE YEAR 1817
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
409 C. !?33
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited.
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH -
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE. OF
INTEREST
ll not you owe it to yourseH and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE,
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
P. E. Bryant (Chairman): Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., iI.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.}
£7725 to cash, etc., and £15.000 to shares
in other cos. To meet the outlay the
board went outside for an extra £30,132
and reduced book debts by £6937. Ex-
cluding shareholdings (mostly scrip in
the Steel Pipe and Lining Co.), the con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£64,237) was £7472.
To lighten the outside debt —£96,117
is coming to Hume Pipe, £35,389 to the
bank and £53,382 to sundry creditors —
shareholders are now offered 50,000 new
£1 7j p.c. cum. prefs. at par. When all the
money on that lot is in, paid capital will
be £400,000 in 150,000 prefs. and 250,000
ords. The pref. div. will then call for
£1 1,250, which was over 3J times covered
by last year's net earnings.
As for the current term, the board
anticipates satisfactory trading results.
The future of the business will, of course,
depend largely upon public expenditure
here and abroad. The co. sold its foreign
rights to Steel Pipe and Lining Co. for
£500,000 in l'.-p. ords., and took 20,000
8 p.c. cum. prefs. for cash. It took the
ords. into its own books at £154,428,
reducing the patents item (now £100,900,
not treated as an asset herein) by
£152,824 net. The patents are now being
operated in Britain and India, and nego-
tiations are proceeding concerning their
operation in other countries. But it is
difficult to say when, if ever, these rights
are likely to turn in anything for Hume
Steel.
At 225. the prefs. return 6.8 p.c. In-
cluding the new issue, the net tangible
cover is £2 16s. 9d., mostly in plant, etc.,
worth what it can earn.
Sungei Bidor Tin Dredging, Ltd., a
Malayan venture in the able Prattens’ and
other experienced hands, has launched
its pontoon, and hopes to be in produc-
tion by the middle of next year. Addi-
tional finance will be necessary. At June
30 the co. was committed to a further
outlay of £lOO,OOO-odd on its dredge
(estimated cost, £129,000), against which
it had cash and uncalled capital of
£68.867; liabilities figured at £4031. The
property, on the Bidor River, some 15
miles from Kampar, has been thoroughly
tested. A. C. Perry estimated 420 acres
to contain 29,000.000 c.y., averaging
o.Bllb. t.o. A. H. Flowerdew checkbored
the area to go 0.771 b„ and later W. F.
McKenzie selected 510 acres, containing
32.000,000 c.y., estimating recoverable
t.o. content at 0.5171 b. Boring revealed
traces of fine gold, which should prove
a useful sweetener. Nominal assessment
is 525 tons t.o. p.a., and an increase is
expected. The big electrically-powered
plant will dig well over 300,000 c.y.
monthly. Issued capital is £lBO,OOO in
240,000 15s. shares
* * * *
“If the corner has not yet been
turned it is clearly in sight”—Chairman
Agnew, speaking at the annual roll-
up of Wiluna Gold Corp. on De-
cember JO. Grounds for the statement
are (1) anticipated saving of 3s. to 3s.
6d. a ton in. treatment if experiments in
large-scale roasting are successful, and
(2) developments in the Bulletin and
Happy Jack blocks, where recent dis-
closures have been well above mine
average. In the Bulletin section 350 ft.
of 6.2dwt. stuff has been exposed over
9-}ft. in the bottom 1200 ft. level, and ex-
tension of the western shear to the same
horizon and south of the shaft proved,
while in the Happy Jack, which is being
unwatered, the drill has indicated 600 ft.
of 7.6dwt ore, width 33ft. In the main
workings a borehole has stabbed a new
ore-body, 184 ft. wide, west of the west
lode. Ore reserves are set down at
1,920,000 tons, grade 4.3dwt., as against
2,310,600 tons, going 4.74dwt., in March,
1937. That excludes all new discoveries
in the main workings, and takes in only
a small portion from the Bulletin lease.
Profit of the working co. for the year
to March is put at £109,614 (down
£158,232), all of which and £49,937 be-
sides was absorbed by sundry writings-
off, reducing the carryforward to
£121,657. No div. is to be paid; last
distribution by the holding co. was 2s.
per share in June, 1936.
* * * *
“O.B.”: In 1935 shareholders in Lady
Shenton (W.A.) were officially assured
that 50,000 tons of lfoz. positive ore
and 7623 tons of 18dwt. broken ore
were visible and that 36,000 tons of
probable ore was partly visible. Twelve
months later, after some 5000 tons
had been extracted and treated for
a return of £A25,000, official estimate
of positive and probable ore combined
was 3300 tons of 11.5dwt. value, and
possible ore was calculated at 2300 tons.
According to the. board, a former
manager’s inaccurate computations were
the cause of difference. For year ended
June 30, 1937, the co. treated 6730 tons,
and ore reserves were then given as 1900
tons of 10.5dwt. ore, and probable ore,
"hard to estimate,” was guessed at 2797
tons of 9dwt. value. According to reports
issued during the last year or so, discovery
of 3ft. of 30dwt. ore at the 725 ft. level
augured well for persistence of the ore-
body at depth; the board claimed that the
ore position was quite sound, and that
developments, following a vigorous work-
ing campaign, were expected to place
the mine well ahead of the mill. More
recently positive ore reserves were esti-
mated at 4000 tons, averaging Bdwt.;
the probable reserve is impossible to esti-
mate until further development has been
done. Chairman McCallum Smith’s
statement to half a dozen shareholders
on December 6, after the annual meeting
had been postponed owing to the lack of
a quorum, was to the effect that the board
didn’t know how long the co. would be
able to carry on, since it was living from
hand to mouth and had no reserves worth
talking about.
.* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) hands share-
holders a div. of 16 2-3 p.c. (6d. a share
sterling) this year. Those on the' Adel-
aide register will be paid in Aus-
tralian currency at the current rale of
exchange. Last year’s distribution was
2d., or 5 5-9 p.c. The co.’s cash and
investments at present equal about 2s.
a share. For some time past the co.
has been re-treating on an equal profit-
sharing basis with Gt. Boulder the old
tailings dumps on the latter mine. It has
now made a similar arrangement with
Lake View and Star in regard to half a
million tons of residues on the Ivanhoe
lease.
* * * *
The market for Yellowdine Areas
(W.A.) recently fainted on reports that
the shoot had gone wrong at shallow
depths on its new Yilgarn option ; now
it has swooned on the declaration of a
threepenny call and announcement that
others will follow. The co. has £ll,OOO
in hand, but the board considers the
interests of shareholders will be best
served by calling up more capital to
help provide for further prospecting
and to pay off the vendors if the option
is exercised.
* * * *
Shares of Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance—4,B4B,l32 fully paid to ss. are
issued—have fallen to Bd. in London
following the board’s decision to effect
a capital reconstruction “in due course.”
The co. acquired the issued capital of a
string of Westralian properties and
options over others, most of which have
been abandoned, from De Bernales in-
terests in July, 1935, paying £666,000 —
£155.000 in cash, the rest in scrip. Chief
interests now are the Comet (four-ninths),
Yellowdine (one-sixth) and Gladiator
(wholly-owned), which has just reached
production. After writing £49,760 off
for development, the Finance co.
balanced £23,557 on the wrong side for
the year to June 30, increasing the p. and
1. deficit to £24,951. Investment revenue
amounted to £36,416. At balance date
there was £9644 in the cashbox, and
£3395 coming to outsiders.
* * * *
First Hit, Lady Shenton’s next-door
neighbor at Menzies (W.A.), earned a
profit of £21,524 for the year to October
31, compared with £14,494 for the pre-
vious 12 months. Shareholders received
three divs., each of 3d. a share, which
absorbed £13,982, while £5553 was
charged to development and £2446 to
depreciation, leaving a balance of £6191
in profit and loss. At October 31 the
cash balance was £13,641, compared with
£8434 a year earlier. Positive and prob-
able ore reserves are estimated at 22,975
tons, averaging lldwt. Possible ore is
calculated at 10,950 tons.
* * * *
For the 12 months to October. 1937,
Norseman, Norseman (W.A.), showed a
mine surplus of £129,792, and net earn-
ings of £99,697 alter charging £16,020
for taxes and £9576 for depreciation. For
the latest year a profit on working account
of £124,515 is indicated by monthly
returns. Since milling commenced in the
middle of 1933, the present co. has ex-
tracted some 303,000 short tons ore and
re-treated approx. 215,500 tons of old
residues (now almost depleted) for a
gross return of £907,000-odd. Last
term's figures were 86,414 tons of ore
and 23,088 tons of sands for 28,8720 z.
gold, worth £250,475. Ore treatment,
doubled in the 1936 term and further ex-
panded in 1937, is now again to be
doubled—to between 15,000 and 18,000
tons a month. Most of the additional
tonnage will be drawn from the Iron
King block, where the ore is low-grade
but cheaply mined, and from the sub-
sidiary Norseman Developments’ hold-
ings. The extent to which the increased
throughput is expected to lower unit
costs has not been broadcast.
* * * *
North Kalgurli is one of the few West-
ralian goldmining stocks that the
London financial papers are inclined to
praise. The co. has paid two interim
dividends totalling 66 p.c. sterling, minus
3s. in the £1 on its 2s. shares during the
current term, and a final 371 p.c. is
reckoned to be assured. The ore-reserve
position is sound, and recent fortnightly
progress reports indicate that current
results from development work in the
co.'s three main holdings (North Kal-
gurli, Kalgurli and Union Jack) are
steadily putting the mine well ahead of
the mill.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T. 8.: (1) Walter Reid worth consideration.
(2) Write secretary, Stock Exchange, Brisbane.
. ...J.A.D. and D.McS.: No Inquirer: (1)
No open market for scrip. Write secretary and
ask at what price he can find a buyer for
you... .E.M.1.J.: See “‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
July, 1938... .John : About 7d.


The “STETSON”
A new shipment has just arrived
featuring the latest shapes and
shades in 2g, 2£, and 2§ inch
brims. Silk Lined 63/-
Unlined 59/6
PIKE BROTHERS. LTD..
OUE c N STREET. BRISBANE.
SMOKE-OH!
“The girls who idle about our beach promen-
ades would be better off if they had the care
and responsibility of motherhood.”
— Women’s magazine.
From prom, to pram, as it were!
4 4 4
“A woman will shield her dearest enemy,”
declares a novelist.
Yes! No one must attack her old man
but herself.
4 .j. -i* »i*
“The latest type of Hats are now built with
soundproof rooms.” — Builders’ magazine.
Bathrooms, too, we hope.
t ♦
“I've met the girl of my dreams after having
given up all hope of doing so,” writes a corre-
spondent.
His Juck deserted him at long last, it
appears.
+ 4* +
“My wife loves dancing, but 1 can’t stand it.
What should 1 do?” asks a correspondent.
Learn to like dancing.
4* 4* 4*
Probably the most irritating thing in
married life is the way our wives forgive
us when they are in the wrong.
4 4 * 4"
“Most Australians have an ear for music.”
—News item.
And another for race results.
4* 4 4* 4*
“Songwriter finds inspiration at parties.”
—Musical magazine.
That’s where lots of people get fresh
ideas.
4 4 4 4
“Woman’s place is in the home.”
— Women’s magazine.
Provided it’s her own home.
4 4 4 4
“A prize of £5 ss. will be awarded for the
best-decorated table.” — Social column.
Many a cynical husband thinks the
most novel decoration would be food.
4* 4 4 4
“Car took dive into bar of hotel.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Perhaps to get oiled.
4 4* 4 4
“The newspaper which never makes a mis-
take hasn’t been printed yet.”— Sydney weekly.
Of course not; but it’s been misprinted.
4 4 4 4
“You can’t be unhappy if you sing,” says
a musical magazine.
But the people next door can.
4 4 4 4
“Nothing looks worse than a wisp of blonde
hair hanging on the shoulder.” — Fashion item.
Particularly if the wife is a brunette.
4 4 4 4
Breaking Their Hearts.
“The bankrupt denied that he. had attempted
to defraud the Income Tax Department. He
had personally interviewed the Commissioner
and offered to pay more than he really owed;
but on his next visit the Commissioner was
away, ill.”— Law report.
That is how it happened to me.
“You will have to pay every penny
you owe,” said the Commissioner, almost
savagely.
“My dear sir,” I said, “what I came
to see you about is that you have assessed
me at too low a rate. I overlooked put-
ting in a return ; the assessment is really
not half what I should pay.”
He looked at me queerly. The sweat
stood on his forehead.
“You have allowed me deductions in
regard to three children who are all over
age.”
He was rapidly becoming more agi-
tated. Obviously he regarded me as a
madman —possibly dangerous.
“That amount allowed for deductions
for business expenses is outrageously
high,” I continued.
He drooped as I talked. He under-
stood now why half a dozen officials
whom I had interviewed, before he
had decided to take me in hand person-
ally, had had to take holidays for health
reasons. He choked for a moment; then
he burst into tears, a broken man.
Away ill? The Commissioner with
whom I dealt has taken three years’ leave
and a trip round the world in the hope
of recovery, but it is rumored that he
will never resume duty: some of the
shocks are too, too terrible to face, he
says.
In the meantime, I am not paying any
tax. Mindful of the fate of others, the
taxation people are leaving me severely
alone.
H. M.
+ * 4* +
“He liked children, but was afraid of the
disturbances in his life babies might create.”
— Women’s paper.
The yeller peril.
+ 4* 4 1 +
“Honesty pays,” declares a writer.
Very likely! There’s little competition.
4* 4* 4*
“Indulgence in liquor undoubtedly shotens
the span of life.” —Sydney temperance paper.
But many men believe in a shot life
and a merry one.
“See if you can hook on to some stout, Tom; We've got enough beer."
Shirt Lore.
“Research workers at Pennsylvania (U.S.A.)
have undertaken a scientific study of the life
of a shirt.”
After a long and exhausting study of
the habits and inhibitions of my own
shirts I think I am in a position to pro-
vide some important data on the subject.
Firstly, it is important to know the
hereditary background of a shirt —
whether it was made from last year’s or
the previous year’s sheets —if one is to
ensure for it a long and useful life.
Don’t have too many shirts. They
last longer if you have only a couple to
look after; also, the wife has to keep
them in the pink of condition, and shirts
treated kindly will often outlive their
collars. Again, shirts which are given
plenty of exercise stand up to the rav-
ages of silverfish and laundries better
than those left to atrophy in the bottom
drawer.
At present I am endeavoring to breed
shirts without buttons, and hope to
develop a strain capable of withstand-
ing the wear and tear of modern con-
ditions and presenting a stiff front to
the world for many years.
To get the most out of your shirt
don’t get out of it too often. The
frenzied putting on and taking off of
shirts weakens their powers of resist-
ance considerably. Give your shirt con-
fidence by making it part of yourself.
Finally, if you would have your shirt
continue into a ripe old age, wash it
yourself—preferably without removing
it. This is much more natural than tear-
ing a shirt off and then beating and
wringing it in a washtub. In your every-
day-or-so ablutions don’t wash the neck
with soap. This leaves the skin rough
and leads rapidly to the disintegration of
the neckband of the shirt.
Angus O’Cohen.
By Deputy.
“Violet: If, as you say, you are 13st. 71b.,
slacks would hardly be suitable.”
—Women s paper.
O’er blushing violets may bards
A t times poetic wax;
The shrinking quality they praise
My Vi. distinctly lacks.
1 have to blush for Violet
Now she’s adopted slacks!
H. M.
Anchored.
Thish wicked spree, 1 grieve to shay,
Beyond all boundariesh hash gone !
I shtrongly deprecate the way
These people — hie —are going on !
The hostess, tipsy as can be,
Is quite dishgushting! What is more,
How drefful — hie—it ish to see
Fat men unconscious on the floor!
It makes me yearn to haste away,
To shcorn them and their festive cup.
Indeed, I’d go without delay,
But trouble ish I can’t shtand up !
T.W. NATHAN.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XIII.
To be caught on the wrong side of the
fort walls alone, with a hundred yelling,
bloodthirsty Arabs bearing down on one,
is, even for an intrepid spirit such as
mine, no enviable experience. My first
thought was to make a dash for the
great barred gate of the fort.
I rejected the thought when I realised
that, before I would have had time to
give the um-tiddley-um-tum—tum-tum
rap which signifies at all Legion outposts
that a Legionnaire seeks admittance,
and wait for the guard to fill in a form
in duplicate and get both the O.C. and
adjutent to countersign it and authorise
him to apply to the fourrier-sergent for
the keys with which to open the gate,
the fierce nomadic warriors would have
cut me down. For even I couldn’t hope
to surround and capture singlehanded a
harka of such overwhelming numbers.
That it was no idle boast when I said
that in a crisis my brain, even in the
Saharan heat, remains ice-cold and works
at top speed was proved by my handling
of what must be admitted was a terrible
predicament. As the Arabs tore down
from the near-by hill my brain examined
various schemes.
Of these the one I liked best was the
daring one of swiftly changing clothes
with the Arab spy whom I had shot and
impersonating him. But though / was
partial to it my brain quickly fastened
on to the one possible weakness in it —
that I knew no Arabic beyond Imsh
Allah and salaam bint, a limited vocabu-
lary which may well have betrayed me.
Another stratagem I momentarily
toyed with was to unscrew the barrel
from my rifle, and, imitating the abori-
gines of Cochin China, submerge in the
oasis, breathing through one end of it
while the other end was pushed through
into the air. Fortunately—as it turned
out —I had left my screwdriver inside
the fort; in any case, the rapidly expand-
ing circles as I hopped into the water
would have given my position away.
At long last—though actually my men-
tal processes had taken no more than a
few seconds—l hit upon the idea which
1 was confident would spell checkmate
to the savage Touregs. I would mount
Mustapha and pretend to escape by
galloping away from them. Once around
the back of the fort I would allow the
leader of the band, who would naturally
be in the lead, to almost catch up with
me. Then, swiftly turning, I would take
him unawares, throw him from his mount
and, holding him as a buffer between
myself and his men with my bayonet-point
held against his Adam’s apple, threaten
to disembowel him forthwith if his fol-
lowers refused to give me a solemn
promise that I could go unmolested. After
extracting that 1 would deal with events
as they cropped up, my ultimate object
being to lead them into an ambush— not,
however, with my back to them, for 1
had heard tales of Toureg treachery.
With me decision is ever followed by
instant action. Leaping up on Mus-
tapha, I put my two lingers in my mouth
to give him the particular whistle I em-
ploy when 1 desire high speed from a
standing start. But not a sound came
except one like air escaping from a punc-
tured tyre. Then I remembered: I was
without my top set of teeth, and without
that whistle the camel certainly wouldn't
obey.
But I was not yet beaten. I could
distinctly hear the awful whistle of the
Arabs’ huge double-edged swords as they
made practice cuts while bearing down
on me. But I was not intimidated.
Calmly I buckled on a pair of spurs with
extra large rowels. As I drove them
home the brute gave a peculiar high-
pitched squeal and leaped several camel-
lengths sideways. Then the weirdest thing
happened. As if by magic the enemy’s
camels, which by then were so close to
me that I could feel their hot breaths
between my shoulder-blades, stopped
magically, turned and, despite furious
tugging by their riders, galloped madly
in the direction whence they had come.
But Mustapha’s blood was now up
Trumpeting loudly, he gave chase, nor
could I rein him in. Then I saw a new
danger. He might carry me beyond sight
of the fort and leave me at the mercy
of the Touregs when all the camels were
spent. It may sound ungrateful, but 1
did the only possible thing—banged Mus-
tapha over the head with my rifle-butt.
As he fell and I slithered off him, 1
offered silent apology to the gallant
animal. It was with mixed feelings that
1 watched the enemy harka disappear-
ing over the hill, for I was disappointed
that 1 hadn’t captured them.
1 was to learn later, when out of curi-
osity I looked up Mustapha’s pedigree
in the Legion’s Camel Studbook, that
my charge, who had once been a bull
leader of wild brumby camels, had aristo-
cratic blood in his veins. Lord of life
and death over his herd, he had exercised
his undisputed sway until he had fallen
to a snare set by an Arab goum, who
had sold him to the Legion. His sub-
jects must have been captured by the
Touregs who had descended on Fort
Baksheesh, and when he had squealed
at my spur they had, recognising their
old tyrant master, incontinently fled. It
was to this fortuitous circumstance that
1 owed my life.
S.W.K.


Are You About to Travel?
TI J o)i are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
tn A,? cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, limited.
, .1 as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs, it can arrange to make regular
ST L 0 / 0 );. 111 an / P ar ‘ of the wo . rl(1 - Vou are invited to make an appointment
uith a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. Vou might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
-r tt r- „ ™ DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. ,T. Playfair, M.L.C., E R Knox
K. de L. Cudmore, 11. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H . ouglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, M a nager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
. 33 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10
0
0
0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales,. Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
MANLY
Queen of Pleasure Resorts
“Just Across Sydney’s Famous Heads.”
Sixty Miles of Scenic Wonder
The Dress Circle view of Sydney Harbour, embracing over sixty miles of
magnificent harbour views, is obtained from a Manly Beach Steamer, the
finest and cheapest of all harbour trips.
Manly’s Free Wonder Pool
The largest enclosed Free Bathing Pool in Australia affords endless fun
and enjoyment Water Wheels, Slippery Dips, Diving Towers, Spring-
boards, Crazy Floats, Rolling Logs and Horses—and many other aquatic
novelties are in the WONDER POOL. Remember—it is free!
Why Not Stay at Manly?
TRAVEL BY STEAMER.
It’s Safer—Quicker —Cheaper.
Season Tickets Cost Per Day: Gents’, 4|d.; Ladies’, 3|d.; Children, lid.
Daily Fares: Adults, 6d.; Children (up to 14 years), Id.; 5 years and
under, Free.
THE PORT JACKSON & MANLY STEAMSHIP Co. Ltd
No, 2 Jetty, Circular Quay. ’Phones: 83221, 83783.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Economic Weather
Last week’s wool sales in Sydney con-
tinued to record disposals at an aver-
age of 1 Id. per pound, which shows little
variation on the experience of the past
month or more. Clearances have been
excellent, and with a clip now estimated
at 2,920,000 bales a brief selling season
is clearly indicated. Continental demand
on the whole has been good, making up,
to some extent, for the reduced buying of
Japan.
The business outlook in Australia re-
mains mixed, and reports from overseas
are on the depressing side. However, in
spite of it all, a large amount of money
seems still to be circulating, and the
demand for motor-cars especially shows
little sign of slackening in this country.
The story in Britain is different ; there,
there has been a very sharp drop in both
local sales and total manufacturing output.
Efforts are being made to induce steel-
manufacturers to meet motor-car makers
with cuts in prices that can be passed on
to the pubjic, steel being particularly sub-
ject to Britain’s “rearmament inflation.”
It is inflation of this and other varieties
that is Britain's principal bugbear at the
moment. American manufacturers, in
spite of their New Deal problems, their
strikes and their losses, continue to main-
tain their exports, particularly of motor-
cars and the like. But the States presents
an amazing spectacle to the businessman.
Although share prices showed sharp re-
covery there for a while, and though last
week’s Dow-Jones index was firmer,
business recuperation, if definite, isn’t as
yet anything to write home about. Un-
employment is still a colossal problem,
and many essential industries, like steel,
are showing losses. In fact, business in
the U.S.A. isn’t even “fair” from an in-
vestor’s point of view. Perhaps, like the
eight-cylinder automobile, it is designed
to work in a big way rather than on an
economical basis. The huge consuming
power of the States in good times and
bad, however, makes even comparatively
small rises or falls in its economic
activity of considerable importance to
the rest of the world. And at the moment
it can be definitely said that there is a ten-
dency for activity and outputs to increase.
Metals have been on the dull side in
London, a clearly-defined trend for prices
to cease climbing being evident for a
couple of weeks. The depreciation of
the pound sterling in terms of gold may,
however, produce a steadying or even a
firming before long. While Britain con-
tinues to spend extensively on new arma-
ments some inflation is inevitable, and it
is likely to be reflected in the status of
sterling. The flow of capital from Britain
and France to New York is probably hav-
ing its influence on the price of Wall-
street investments. It isn’t likely that
funds leaving London and Paris are being
"I'll take these, young man. They're the mos ’ comfortable of the lot."
left in cool store in New York. They
would more likely be laid out to earn
something in the way of interest or capi-
tal accretion, and therefore have a de-
cided influence on the Stock Exchange.
In Australia inflation hasn’t got out of
hand to the extent that it has in European
countries and America, or, for that
matter, to the extent that it has in Maori-
land. Prices of living necessities have
shown a steadying lately—excepting, of
course, the price of bread following the
introduction of the clumsy flour-tax. But
the projected heavy outlay on defence is
viewed with uneasiness in some quarters,
the fear being that it will increase interest
rates. On the other hand, the expenditure
may give a fillip to our manufacturing
industries. Cockatoo Dock will em-
ploy more men by reason of the naval
construction it will handle, while our
embryo aircraft industry should steadily
increase its payroll. Out of this seem-
ing emergency, in fact, some lasting
industrial good may arise.
Maoriland Government has got its
country into a pretty financial pickle.
Confidence has departed, although the
Government was lately returned to
power at the polls, and with confidence
is going the nation’s credit. Shorter
hours, higher wages and increased living
costs, as well as partial socialisation of
banking and some industries, have upset
the investment applecart; and for three
years or more (even while Maoriland
was having a remarkable run of pros-
perity in 1936 and 1937 owing to buoyant
exports) M.L. investors have been getting
their money out of the country. Funds
have been flying to Australia, U.S.A. and
London, and (shades of other days!)
Maoriland’s cost of public borrowing has
become more expensive than in Aus-
tralia’s case. The fat export years hav-
ing vanished almost overnight, funds in
London have become depleted by reason
of the raids of exporters of capital and
importers of goods ; so last week some-
thing of a state of emergency was
declared in Maoriland. Exporters of
wool, lamb, butter, etc., will have to
hand the proceeds due to them from
London over to one or other of the
trading banks, where the Government
will keep an eye on it; the present lavish
expenditure on imports will be restricted,
though the exact direction and extent
of the restrictions aren’t clear at the
moment. The Government’s action in
garnisheeing exporters’ sterling money
and crediting them with M.L. currency,
as well as curtailing imports, has been
forced on it in the final issue by the diffi-
culties arising in servicing interest pay-
ments on the M.L. overseas debt.
* * * *
Port Jackson Steam shares (B. 7/12/*3B)
Tallied quickly last week, with a rise of
lO'd. in one day. Apparently the pres-
sure of estate-scrip selling eased off, and
prospects of another summer’s buoyant
revenue stimulated demand for the
shares, which steadied at 17s. 3d., up
Is. 9d. Sydney’s northern beaches have
been crowded during the hot week-ends
lately.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week: —•
United Provisions ords. were quiet at 6s.
Bd. and looked interesting as a long-term
proposition. ,
Yarra Falls shares were considerably firmer
at 375., the best price for several weeks.
Australian Cement ords. regained 355. in
the. market, the highest quote for at least 10
years.
Australian Glass shares remained buoyant
at £5 2s. 6d. (each).


United Provisions, 6s. Bd.
The ords. in United Provisions
at ,week’s quote of 6s. Bd.
seemed particularly interesting as
a long-term investment.
NOTICE
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District, and
every other Fire District in the State o!
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby-
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1938.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1939; subject
to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day for every
day of default. /' ■
Note. —Returns are required only of ,the
proportion of the premiums properly
able in respect of the Fire Risk during' the time
such property was in any Fire District under
the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB.
213 Castlereagh Street, Secretary.
Sydney.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required'to send to the board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st Decem-
ber, 1938, within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of New
South Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1927, applies; less any part of such pre-
miums actually paid by way of reinsurances to
any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1939; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds
for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of, Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB.
213 Castlereagh Street, . Secretary.
Sydney.
AU FRIENDS
ASHORE •
)>
/
P A
/
- b '
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY LIMITED
I N
INCORPORATED
ENGLAND
The 68s. 6d. touched by Carlton
Brewery (Melb.) in last week’s market
equalled the record price paid during
the boom of 1936-37. As mentioned here
many times, Carlton is one of Australia’s
most promising brewery investments.
There have been no bonus issues for 14
years, and at 68s. 6d. per Carlton share
market valuation in round figures is
£2,780,000. Carlton has a 32 p.c. interest
in Carlton and United Breweries ; deduct-
ing the value of Carlton’s other assets
(breweries and hotels) at their book figure
of £267,533, the market price of Carlton
shares indicates a valuation of just under
£8,000,000 for the whole Carlton and
United enterprise. The Tooth concern in
Sydney is valued at £16,693,000 on a
545.-a-share basis. Victorian beer con-
sumption in 1937 was about four-fifths
of that in N. S. Wales ; Vic., however,
has a substantial export trade. C. and
U.B. showed £493,668 of net profit for
the year to June 30 last ; Tooth disclosed
£841,839 for the 12 months to .Sept. 30.
C. and U.B. and Tooth are the largest
brewers in their respective States.
* * * *
In spite of the climbing price of gold,
all base metals except tin showed a set-
back on the London market during
November. Latest quotes for tin are
higher than those for October, but down
on November averages. The following
table shows movements since the begin-
ning of June: —
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June .. £39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 1415. ; 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 1475. 7d.
Dec. 10 49.2 14.9 13.4 213.5 1495. Od.
Copper has recently been granted un-
restricted production ; tin is still subject
to control by the buffer pool, and is
likely to keep steadier than other metals,
especially spelter and lead. lin shares at
present are, as a class, the most interest-'
ing of base-metal stocks. V
* * * *
Barriers were down again last week ;
even Zinc Corp. shares slipped to 925.
Norths at 475. compared with Souths at
275. 9d.; the sharemarket seems sud-
denly to have taken the view that the
South mine is in the twilight of its days.
Actually, its measured span is as much
as most of our goldmines ; but in com-
parison with other Barrier enterprises its
time is running out comparatively fast.
Eleven years of life was mentioned by
Colin Fraser at South’s annual meeting.
That will very likely be increased, but
the chances of substantially prolonging
operations beyond 11 years aren’t as
bright as in the cases of Zinc Corp. and
North, which already have longer proved
lives ahead of them than South. The
South has been a great mine in the past.
It is still a rich company.
* * * *
Saxon Montana Silver Lead, one of
the Zeehan (Tas.) outbreaks of 1937, has
gone into voluntary liquidation. Chair-
man Ambrose Pratt expects that a return
of about 11.9 d. per 2s. share will be
available for shareholders, which shows
that the board acted promptly when faced
with the position of struggling on with
metal prices low and much development
still to be done, and an uncertain goal
ahead at that. In July last the board be-
lieved the properties to be “potentially
valuable” under more favorable silver-
lead prices.
Shares in Montana Silver Lead, which
led the way in the latest Zeehan boom,
are down to 4d. in Melbourne. Ihe
shares of Montana Western Extended,
before it reconstructed into the present
co., soared to around 12s.
* * * *
While Austin Distributors shares in
Melbourne have been soaring (to 41s. last
week), John McGrath scrip in Sydney has
remained dull at 365. McGrath’s have
the N. S. Wales and Brisbane agency for
Hillman and Humber cars, and the Hill-
man at the moment is selling very well;
it is most popular in the 10-h.p. saloon
model, the panels being English,
assembled in Australia (like the 12-h.p.
Morris). Victoria is a great supporter of
the light car, and Austin Distributors has
had a very successful career. Earnings,,
including those of a used-car subsidiary,
lifted from 15.7 p.c. on average capital
in 1935 to 32.1 p.c. last term; for the
past two years the div. has been 15 p.c.
p.a. Net tangible assets amounted to
295. 7d. a share last balance day. There
has been a new one-for-two 6 p.c. pref.
issue since then, making paid capital
£112,500.
John McGrath has an issued capital
of £225,000, a small portion of it un-
called. Though last year's earnings were
disclosed at only 12.5 p.c. on average
capital, the 12 p.c. div. was repeated.
* !(! * *
In the five months to Nov. 30 Aus-
tralian wool sales totalled 1,161,526
bales ; September turnover fetched 9.6 d.
per pound, October 10.4 d. and Novem-
ber lid., the five months’ average being
10.4 d. Sales to November 30 totalled
rather more than a third of the clip, and
the all-in revenue was £15,411,674. If
November prices are maintained for the
rest of the season the total cheque may
be £40,000,000, as against £44,045,000
in 1937-38.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Sidelights on War Propaganda.
[These extracts are from Sidney Rogerson's book
Propaganda in the Next War, one of the first of a
remarkable series edited by Liddell Hart under the
general title “The Next War,” published by Geoffrey
Bles. “Captain Rogerson,” says Hart, “is not only an
expert in propaganda’s practical application —having for
years managed the publicity side of one of the greatest
business enterprises in Great Britain, or the world —
but is a keen student of war with a distinguished fighting
record.” These extracts from his book are to be read
not as a consecutive statement, but as separate com-
ments.]
T confess I find it difficult to understand how a
tragedy so fraught with disastrous consequences for
the world, but so certainly disastrous both to Ger-
many and to the British Empire [as another war
between these nations], can ever be allowed to come
about.
On the contrary, I hope that frank discussions
may help to open the eyes of people in Germany as
well as in England to the utter stupidity of ever
allowing normal and inescapable points of friction
between the two countries to be fanned into flame.
* * * * *
Ardent propagandists lashed the British public
into a fury at the work of German Zeppelin and
aeroplane raiders raining death and destruction on
defenceless women and children. The total casualties
from air raids in England during the four years of war
were no more than 4830, of whom 1414 were killed.
The carnage caused by Allied airmen in German towns
has been kept very quiet, but two instances will be
enough to show its quality. In June, 1916, British and
French pilots bombed Karlsruhe during the Corpus
Christi procession, killing and wounding 26 women
and 124 children. In a second raid in September
they caused 103 casualties in the same city.
* * * * *
As a generalisation l should say that Mr. Atkins,
whether regular or “for the duration,” found he could
get on more easily with a “Jerry” prisoner than with
any French civilian. In 1917 1 heard the observation
that “we were fighting on the wrong, side. We ought
to be with Jerry. Then we’d whop the world,” made
publicly by the comedian in my divisional concert
troupe. It was applauded to the echo and got me
into trouble for not having had the script of the pro-
gramme censored!
* * * * * \
The Germans were guilty of no act of injustice
in shooting Nurse Cavell, but merely of a gross error
of judgment. They had not then, nor am I certain that
they have yet, learned the unwisdom of making
martyrs, however surely the victims may have qualified
for the death penalty. Nurse Cavell’s statue stands, cere
perennius, a monument to the world of German
brutality. Yet it is a matter of history that not long
after she was executed the French authorities shot
two German nurses for similar offences! Not a hint
of this leaked out, nor was the fact, which must have
been known to the Germans, proclaimed from the
housetops in every organ of German propaganda.
Why? Because the Teutonic mind is strictly logical,
especially the military mind, and soldiers were at the
time in control of German propaganda. They could
not appreciate why there should be any fuss made
because the French authorities in the execution of
their duty had taken the obvious and prescribed
action against two spies who had been duly found
guilty; any more than they could then appreciate the
fuss that the Allies made over the shooting of Nurse
Cavell. I should like to emphasise the word “then,”
because German propaganda is no longer in the hands
of the Junker officer caste, and they have learned
much since that time.
* * * * *
The “effect of” similar propaganda [to that
worked up over Nurse Cavell and others] over peace
and foreign policy has seriously embarrassed succes-
sive Governments in their efforts to extract harmony
from the concert of Europe. The paradox has been
witnessed of an important clique of idealists—one
must give, them the benefit of the highest motives,
otherwise their action is definitely anti-social and sub-
versive—working up a propaganda for international
peace by encouraging disarmament at home and by
being challengingly insulting to the most likely and
powerful enemies abroad. It is an extraordinary
course of procedure, the most extraordinary aspect
of which is the thoroughness with which intelligent
and, many of them, travelled men and women have
hypnotised themselves by their own propaganda.
It would be laughable if it were not so tragic that
the hundred per cent, idealist and the soi-disant expert
on foreign affairs should have set out to convert the
masses to their point of view, and ended by them-
selves believing what they manufactured for the con-
sumption of the masses. But because they are
immensely active and overwhelmingly articulate they
have for some years filled many of the organs of
propaganda with their solicitations and laments. It
is an education to consult the files of newspapers and
see the proportion of letters to the editor which
appear over the same set of signatures. There is a
coterie whose names are well known, and seldom a day
passes without letters from one or more of them
appearing in the more important papers. Occasion-
ally they put into practice the “collective security”
which they ideologically pursue, and combine to sign
ietters over ten to fifteen signatures, the joint import-
ance of the signatories affording a better chance of the
letter being published! Propaganda activities of this
nature have been and are a danger because they
amount to approaching the man at the wheel of the
vessel of State, engaged in a delicate piece of naviga-
tion, and, in the words of Humpty Dumoty, “I said it
very loud and clear. I went and shouted in his ear.”
In democratic English this is referred to as the
liberty of the individual. In war-time it would be an
actionable offence.
* * * * *
We are inclined to assume that the German work-
ing man is bullied, browbeaten and kept on half-
rations and that the Japanese peasant is even more
wretched, struggling under a relentless persecution to
endure an aching poverty ; and to argue therefore that
neither will support his rulers if he can be brought
to realise how much more prosperous the individual
is under the democratic system, how much better fed,
how mpch freer to do and say, particularly to say,
what he wishes. They will in short be ready to desert
their leaders in response to our propaganda of hope
expressed in glowing terms. To indulge such illusions
is to believe what we wish to believe, a belief which is
as ill-founded as it is dangerous.
* * * * *
In the event of war Communism would certainly
help to undermine Germany with propaganda and
sedition, but it would be doing precisely the same
thing in our own country, for the aim of the political
Communist is not the victory of one side or the other
but the disorganisation of both, so that they shall be
ready to accept the world revolution.
)|C , j]t * *
As this is an age of propaganda, it is one of
labels. Everything that is to the left of the centre,
from British Liberalism through Russian Commu-
nism to Spanish anarchism, is “democratic.” To fight
for any or all of these ill-assorted bedfellows is to strike
a blow for “liberty.” This is the Popular Front. Every-
thing to the right is “Fascist,” to dare to support
which is to be labelled a “Reactionary. The labels
admit of no centre, only two extremes. That is only
one of the penalties of labels. They divide everything
into two irreconcilable halves. This misuse of labels,
it has been said, is a pernicious substitute for thought.
* * * * *
Atrocity propaganda will be less effective with
neutrals in the next war. They have been sated with
it in peace. _ *
* * * * *
While by their overemphasis the press may be
blunting the edge of anti-German feeling at home,
it is inflaming anti-British feeling in Germany
and elsewhere. The most scurrilous and insulting
references are made to leaders who, though no doubt
accurately described as dictators, are equally heads
of sovereign States ; references which can only exacer-
bate an already strained situation. This sort of thing
passes as a gesture for “Democracy’ or Peace, I
am not clear which. .
It is difficult to escape the conclusion that a
measure of control will be necessary before the hour
strikes. The papers are inviting it, and indeed seem
to expect it.
“A Marriage of Convenience.”
(Condensed from London “Daily Express.)
A secret marriage bureau run in London to pro-
vide British nationality for wealthy German women
refugees has been discovered by Scotland Yard.
Because of the discovery, Albert William Fordham
was sentenced at the Old Bailey to four months im-
prisonment for bigamously marrying a German Jewess.
Agents of the bureau have been approaching
laborers, lorry-drivers and unemployed men offering
sums of money to persuade them to marry German
women. The organisation is centred in an office in
High Holborn, W.C., where “bridegrooms” go in their
shabby clothes to be interviewed.
The fee offered is usually £6O and expenses, in-
cluding a new suit for the ceremony. One stipulation
is made—the bridegroom must sign a pledge not to
approach the bride after the ceremony.
At the Old Bailey, Mr. Maxwell Turner, prose-
cuting Fordham, 54-year-old tunneller, said it was
clear the ceremony was a marriage of c ° n I ve '? ie ! ic ?f;
Fordham was legally married in 1913, and had eight
children. He left his wife in August, 1932.
On October 12 last he met Mrs. Emma Meyer, a
German Jewess, and went through a form of mar-
riage with her two days later at Chelsea register
office. They separated immediately afterwards.
Fordham told the police, “I have not done any-
thing wrong. I got £35 for marrying her, and a new
su it.”
Gilbert Patrick McGowan, unemployed lorry-
driver, told the “Daily Express”:
“I was finishing work with a firm. Another
driver said, ‘What are you going to do now, Mac ?
I can put you in the way of £6O, but it means youi
marrying.’ Over a drink he told me I would have
to marry a German countess and sign a paper not to
see her again, as she only wanted to get her money
into England and have British nationality.
“Next day he took me to an office in High Hol-
born. We were shown into a small bare room. There
was no furniture —just bare walls and floor. A little,
black-haired man shook hands with us. We were told
to call him the ‘doctor.’ Two other men were with
him. They all spoke with German accents.
“They gave me 10s., told me to get two copies of
my birth certificate and a passport, and come back
the next day for the ‘countess’ to approve me.
“That evening I met the ‘doctor’ and Fordham in
a public house, and told them i was not going on
with it. Fordham said he would go in my place.”
France, Italy and Tunis.
[On its evidently dedicated mission to provide its
readers with at least one international “situation” a day,
the Stunt Press has been playing up the demonstrations
in Italy demanding Tunis, etc., from France, though
such demonstrations are old familiars ol many years
standing. At the worst, the matter is no concern ol
ours, but one between France and Italy, with the Arabs
also there to have a say in it, as indicated in this
(condensed) “Sunday Times” article by William Teehng,
dealing with Italian and French colonisation in North
Africa generally.]
Twenty thousand Italian Christians transferred in
a most spectacular manner to Mohammedan Libya, a
country of Arabs in North Africa —that is a bold
stroke with possible repercussions. Libya is from
now on to be part of Italy, one of the most national-
istic States in Europe, whilst Mohammedan Arabs
recognise no boundary for their race and religion.
They spread from independent Egypt through Libya,
its next-door neighbor Tunis, then Algiers, and on to
Morocco, and of course through many other parts of
the world as well.
Can the experiment be a success? It is possible
but definitely not certain. From Tunis to Morocco
the French are paramount, and they have tried coloni-
sation already. In Tunis, where they have held a Pro-
tectorate for nearly 60 years, they have tried many
colonisation schemes, also in Algiers, which to-day is
part of France, as Libya is part of Italy; and lastly
in Morocco, which has been a French Protectorate
for only 27 years and is still in part under military rule.
Long before the French enforced a Protectorate
on the Bey of Tunis in 1881, the Italians had been
pouring into this subject province of Turkey. The
Bey had been in financial difficulties, and Italians
could get good land along the coast for next to nothing.
They poured in, especially from Naples and Sicily,
in their thousands, and they have been protected by
special Treaty.
Tunis is next to Libya, and as a result of the
intensive breeding of the descendants of those nine-
teenth-century Italians and the intensive propaganda
for years of the local Fascist leaders, many of whom
are Jews, there are to-day as many Italians in Tunis as
Frenchmen. And in spite of the fact that most of them
have never been to Italy anc] that only 700 of them
volunteered to fight in Abyssinia, they are fervently
patriotic and usually anti-French.
There is no doubt that these 100,000 Italians have
made a great success of their olive groves and their
vineyards. They work much harder than the French,
who are not by nature colonists. They look down
on the Arabs, who, in return, hate them, but since the
Italians are protected by the French and by the
Treaty, the Arabs accept them in a fatalistic spirit.
Moreover, the young Arab politicians find the local
Italians useful in their agitation against the French ;
they feel they can use the Italian bogey to win many
concessions.
The religion of Islam is far from dead, and the
20,000 Italians going to Libya must remember that
Islam despises Christianity. It is all very well to recall
the times of the Roman Empire when all these terri-
tories were peopled by Roman citizens, but those
days were many hundreds of years before the
Mohammedans swept over Africa, and Libya is only
a part of the Mohammedan territories. The Libyan
colonist, if his relatives in Italy can protect him against
anti-Christian riots, has one bright possibility before
him—to develop, like the French colonist of Algiers.
In Algiers the majority of colonists have lived
there two and three generations, and some for 100
years. They have led a freer life than the average
Frenchman, and their children no longer like going to
France for their holidays. They prefer the open spaces
and the freedom of the life of Africa. They are far
more extravagant than the ordinary Frenchman, and
they breed large families, so that their numbers have
increased to such an extent that there is now not
enough scope for them in Algiers. They are spread-
ing to Tunis and above all to Morocco.
In Morocco you will find a number of wealthy
French colonists such as Prince Murat and some
members of the House of Orleans; you will also find
less successful settlements and you
will find colonisation schemes initiated by the French,
but filled almost entirely by Spaniards or by Algerian
French. These latter can be distinguished from the
Frenchman from France because they seem lazier and
With a Strange Device .
Sydney “Labor Daily” changed its name
the other day and celebrated the event by (a)
uncovering a wilder lot of local mare’s-nests
than had been sighted since those recorded in
Professor Scott’s engaging chapters on the per-
formance of hysterical alarmists in Australia
during the last war; and ( b ) hyphenating its
new name with this astonishing device : —
Thus “News” is made by ingeniously, not
to say recklessly, twisting the compass—a
symbol so apt that it is downright niggardly to
restrict it to only one shining light of the New
Journalism.


An Ideal
XMAS PRESENT!
f
Nothing would please “him” better than
a Plum Razor, which gives a clean,
comfortable shave. . .always. Then, for
the man who prefers a 'safety razor,
there’s the Guard, which can be clipped
on immediately. Plum Razors are fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two
years, free of charge.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety
razor, 3/6 extra. Fits | and | blades.
Selected steel, black handle .... 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo handle. . 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle .... 21/-
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
Pair of razors in leatherette-covered hinged
ease.
Black Handles 25/- per set
Xylo Handles 81/- per set
Ivory Handles •-. • 42/- per set
j
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service —to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
I!
■
EVERWEAR FLOORING
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffecfed by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents:
BRISBANE : Asphaltes & Allied Products, Ltd., P.O. Box
1139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford & Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken & Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
more given to the habits of the Arabs. There have
been moments when I have been reminded of the story
of China—how she absorbed her conquerors after a
few generations. Is it possible that the Algerian
French and the Libyan Italians will one day have all
the characteristics of the North African and may even
break away from Europe?
These Algerians speak the language of the in-
habitants to perfection and so are invaluable in the
official services ; but for political reasons their coloni-
sation schemes have been stopped, and now they are
asking that the French colonies of West Africa shall
be made ready for their overflow.
Such successful merging of European and North
African may be the optimistic future for the Libyan
Italians, people already accustomed to very much
harder work than the Arabs. But the Arabs of Africa
hate the Jews because they work too hard and accu-
mulate property, and the French have stopped Euro-
pean colonisation in Morocco because the Arabs want
and need the land. The French have feared the start-
ing of a Holy War against the Christian squatter.
The Italians are doing something that is construc-
tive and to be admired, but they are moving into a
very religious and a very conservative world. If they
become too successful there will be a danger, not
necessarily for to-day, but for to-morrow. To obtain
the land they must have dispossessed some Arabs or,
at any rate, have overridden some grazing rights. The
individual Libyan Arab may not be in a position to
complain, but his brothers in other parts of Africa
will hear and will surely remember, and may even vent
their anger on other European colonists.
Russia for the Refugees?
(From a London ‘‘Times” letter by Professor John
Harvey, Leeds University.)
Nobody, it is to be presumed, wishes to per-
petuate suspicion between Britain and the U.S.S.R.,
just as nobody wishes perpetual suspicion between
Britain and Germany. And there is no more sovereign
way of removing suspicion, whether between indi-
viduals or nations, than the way of co-operation in
some work of humane service.
When we are searching our atlases for a territory
in which the Jewish refugees might find a home it
appears to be very easy to forget the vast territories
of the U.S.S.R. That Government had at one time,
I believe, a semi-autonomous Jewish community oc-
cupying land in Siberia—and if Siberia suggests to
some of us arid and desolate deserts we have to re-
member that under the present regime the resources
of these immense regions have been very largely
developed and the land transformed.
At any rate, the U.S.S.R. is in a position to
assist in a large-scale scheme of colonisation. Might
not our own and other Governments take this oppor-
tunity to invite its frank co-operation, undertaking to
assist in the expenses of transport and equipment?
All this assumes, as of course any plan to help
the Jews of Germany assumes, that the German Gov-
ernment really wishes to be rid of them as dangerous
aliens, as recent speeches of Dr. Goebbels seem to
suggest. In that case anything really effective which
can be done to extricate these unfortunate people will
be a direct contribution to the cause of European
appeasement, because it will help to remove from the
body politic of the Reich what is too well proved to
be a continual source of irritation and inflammation.
State Barriers Go Up in U.S.A.
fHow inter-State Freetrade is being circumvented by
individual States in U.S.A., as described by John T.
Flynn in “Collier’s Weekly.” Asked to vote the prin-
ciple out of the Constitution, Australian voters less
than two years ago threw the proposal out on its
ear, but attempts to circumvent that emphatic No have
been made in provincial-minded States, and superfluous
State politicians have not lost hope yet.]
America has gained forty-eight new frontiers—
one for every State. For the States have gone in for
protection of home industries and have been busily
building tax barriers around themselves to keep out
the hated merchandise of their sister-States.
The Constitution says the States cannot impose
duties and imposts on products from other States.
But that doesn’t prevent the State of Kansas from
having sixty-six ports of entry —more custom-houses
than the Federal Government has around two oceans
and a Class-A gulf. And it doesn't prevent about
seventeen other States from splitting themselves off
into as many little economic republics surrounded by
border patrols to keep out salesmen, trucks, gasoline,
liquor, cigarettes and other merchandise of
“foreigners.”
This parade began about 1933, when Kansas
found that a lot of bad bootleg gasoline was flowing
into the State and was being sold free of the Kansas
tax. It was found that the idea could be used to make
difficult the entry of all sorts of competitive products.
Then the railroads discovered that they had a
neat weapon with which to swat their hated enemy,
the automobile. The truck that wants to go through
Kansas must now pay a tax. On entering some States
trucks and even private cars are compelled to pay a
tax on the gasoline in the tank. This is to force
“foreigners” to buy gasoline within the State.
In other States, like Oklahoma, the out-of-State
car is stopped at the State border, and the driver
must declare his cargo of cigarettes, beer or gasoline
—all subject to a State lax. The whole movement
marks one of the most dangerous drifts in business
that have appeared in U.S.A. in years.
The isolationist States do not stop at the port-
of-entry laws. California is a great wine State. But
if her citizens drink beer, she wants them to drink
Californian beer. So California imposes a special tax
on beers made outside California. Wisconsin is a
great dairy State, so she adds a special tax to the
Federal tax on oleomargarine to keep out butter’s
greatest rival.
In 1935, Washington State adopted a 2 p.c. sales
tax. Whereupon Washingtonians went outside the
State to do their buying. To offset this, Washington
devised the “use tax.” Now, if you bring an article
into the State, you will have to pay a 2 p.c. lax tor
the privilege of using that article in Washington.
At least eight of the twenty-four States with sales
taxes have gone in for use taxes, and no doubt most
of the others will. For nothing can come into style
so fast as a new tax.
And now a new and dangerous idea makes its
appearance —a by-product oi the minimum-wage
battle. The proposal is that once a State adopts a
wage standard for its factories it shall be permitted
to exclude the products of factories in other States
which have lower wage levels. Thus, South Carolina
would not be permitted to ship into Massachusetts.
Alabama would not be permitted to ship into Michi-
gan. In turn, Michigan might be prohibited from
shipping into Massachusetts.
This, of course, is the protective tariff principle
applied to the States. And it would mean, if adopted,
the creation of forty-eight independent States, each
nestling behind a wall of embargoes and trade restric-
tions.
The development of the U.S.A. has been built
on several forces. But certainly one of them has
been its vast, free market. If Americans are now to
turn back the clock 150 years and are to break the
country up into forty-eight small markets, and even
hundreds of smaller markets, the end of American
progress is in sight.
Japan’s Workers and War.
(Condensed from a "Survev Graphic {U.S.A.) article
by Ernest O. Hauser, included in November ‘‘Readers
% Digest.”)
In observing people who read newspapers, smoke
cigarettes and go to the movies, we naturally think
they are like us. And we are baffled when we realise
they are quite different underneath. Commentators
who predicted Japan's collapse after a few months
of war overlooked these differences.
Consider, for example, Japan’s much-discussed
low-wage scale. While the idea of selling commodi-
ties is familiar to the Japanese mind, the idea of sell-
ing one’s labor has never really been accepted. The
system under which work was done in ancient Japan
consisted of mighty lords and obedient subjects. The
subjects were given protection, food and shelter by
their lords, and they, in turn, were expected to do
the necessary labor. Work was never given in
exchange for money. The only difference is that money
is given by the modern lords instead of protection
shelter. There is no proportion between wages and
the amount of work done.
The war has brought a nearly intolerable increase
in working hours. The Japanese apparently have no
idea of the relationship between recreation and
efficiency, in the last year, many offices have can-
celled vacations altogether and people work at their
desks many hours after dark. On their way home,
men and women fall asleep in the street car. Offices
are reluctant to enlarge their staffs ; they extend their
working hours instead, and the effect is low efficiency.
However, with war-time conditions straining
human endurance, the Japanese Welfare Ministry
has promulgated a decree ordering stores to close at
10 p.m. This will cut the salesgirls’ working day
down to 11 hours. (Women have been working 13 to
15 hours a day.) These new regulations affect only
larger establishments. Conditions in the smaller places
are worse; rules for them .will come later.
Wherever one goes, in field, office or factory, hard
work and extreme poverty emerge as the outstanding
features of war-time Japan. In a recent survey I
found appalling conditions in Tokio. Mukojima Ward
is inhabited by some 80,000 people. Here many low-
priced commodities typical of Japan’s foreign trade
expansion are manufactured, not in factories, but in
homes. This is probably the cheapest industrial pro-
duction in the world, controlled by middlemen who
furnish the raw materials and own the finished
products. The work is usually done in one badly-
lighted room in which the members of the working
family sit on the floor in a circle. Some families
make toys; others brassware, pencil caps, machine
parts, etc. ; others produce salt shakers, fountain-pen
barrels, aluminium caps for radio tubes ; others knit
cotton gloves or finish raincoats.
Apprentices of 14 enter the “profession” and
usually stay until they reach military age. All they
receive is food, lodging (in the crowded family sleep-
ing quarters above the workroom) and poverty
“wages.” Working hours are long, sometimes .15 a
day, and the work is exhausting and often dangerous.
With the war-time shortage of raw materials, the
shrinking of export business and the rise of prices,
misery and the danger of starvation increase. Fatal-
ism and inertia are the result. The Government has
nothing revolutionary to fear from these people.
Great catastrophes, such as earthquakes and
Hoods, have often reduced the populace to more acute
misery. The present war, with all its expenditure and
bloodshed, seems just another link in this chain of
catastrophes. In silent, utter resignation, people
shoulder their burden and send their sons and horses
to the front.
To-morrow Japan will be mistress of Asia or a
hopelessly beaten country. Neither result promises
any relief to Japan’s silent millions.
Ukraine Under the Soviet.
(Brendan A. Finn, in New York “Commonwealth,”
here condensed from London ‘‘Worhl Review.”)
Writers of articles and reviews concerning
Ukraine now appearing in the world press practically
ail approach their subject from a single angle, com-
pletely disregarding the most pertinent factors in the
situation. Their views practically coincide with the
insidiously detrimental Soviet propaganda about
Ukraine.
Almost without exception these writers describe
Ukraine as a desirable “south-western Russian coun-
try” which is the particular object of Nazi scheming
and upon which the covetous eyes of other European
Governments are constantly focused. That is pre-
cisely the view which Moscow has taken so much
pains to impress upon the world.
They do not explain that there are formidable
numbers of Ukrainians in Poland, Rumania and
Czechoslovakia, more than 4,000,000 in Poland alone.
They very carefully omit to state that there are, all
told, 50,000,000 Ukrainians, and that nearly one-
quarter of these live outside the Soviet. Nowhere
do they tell us that Ukraine is a national entity, that
there is a definite and most articulate movement for
freedom among the Ukrainian people, and that
Ukraine is virtually an empire in itself.
The Ukrainians, in spite of their subjection by
the Soviet and in spite of the shameful treatment they
receive in other countries, or -perhaps because
of it, are definitely a factor when one considers the
future of Europe. Fifty million people cannot for
ever be kept down. In a general European melee, or
even during a period of lesser trouble, this land will
quite probably come to the fore.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Bodley Head was an acceptor, for two
races at Warwick Farm on Wednesday:
the Flying Handicap, six furlongs, and
the Farm Welter, seven furlongs. He had
7st. 91b. in the Flying and 9st. 21b. in
the Farm Welter (minimum weights were
7st. and Bst. respectively), and, being a
gross fellow who might be all the better
for more racing, it was thought that he
would be started in both. He was
scratched for the Flying and reserved for
the Farm Welter, in which, favorite at
9 to 4, he beat Red Thespian, Beau
Cheval and eight others handily.
Strange that the old custom of giving
a horse a couple of runs on the same
afternoon has gone out of fashion with
owners and trainers. It never did Car-
bine any harm, nor Hopscotch—almost
forgotten now, but a dashing horse who
40 years ago won the Caulfield Stakes
and Toorak Handicap on the same day,
and, if anything, galloped better in the
second race than in the first. And, 11
years ago, Vaals won a double at Rose-
hill—distance, seven furlongs each time
—a fortnight before he took the Epsom
at Randwick ; and rarely has an Epsom
been won more easily. One would think
that experience would have been kept
in mind ; but contemporary racing people
have other notions.
The Flying Handicap at Warwick
Farm went to that good mare Delmestor
(5 to 2), whose 9st. 51b. didn’t seem to
trouble her a bit. Second place was
divided by Fakenham and Rodborough.
Both are likely to improve.
The Milperra Handicap was easy for
another favorite, J. T. Jamieson’s chest-
nut gelding Improvement (Chief Ruler-
Nasselle), who was in front all the way.
Oration tried to make a race of it in the
straight, but that horse seemingly can’t
get over his bad habit of running second.
Cid —still without Munro’s services,
though Munro will be back in the saddle
presently—was third. Improvement car-
ried Bst. 71b., but Billy Boy, the top
weight, had 9st. 31b. Improvement stays
a bit, and may have to be reckoned with
in the Summer Cup, in which he has
7st. 81b.
Saturday at the Farm was unpleasant
for horses and humans alike. The course
was swept by what the papers variously
described as “a gale,” “a hurricane” and
“a cyclone” (it certainly wasn’t that), and
(hough fences weren’t blown over or
roofs carried away, as happened in other
parts, hats and caps went sailing through
the agitated air, and animals labored
painfully. More than one jockey, asked
what had caused his mount to lose its
position, blamed the wind, and said he
rather wondered it had remained on four
legs.
Nature was almost in her wildest mood
while the Kirkham Stakes, five furlongs,
was being run. There is not much of
Merry Smile, and, though she was third
to the home turn, the wind that smote
her as she entered the straight blew her
out of her course and nearly off her feet.
Waireka, the favorite (at 5 to 4 on), is a
big strong filly, but even she shifted in
her tracks. “It was like galloping into
a stone wall,” McCarten, her jockey, said.
But Waireka plugged on and won in
really excellent time considering the con-
ditions —lmin. lsec. Waikare’s daughter
must be a high-class young lady. Three
wins out of four starts is now her record.
Waireka stuck to the rails throughout.
Esperanto got his head in front at the
home turn, but near the judge’s box the
filly was holding him. Bonny Loch went
wide at the home turn. Straightened up,
she again lost ground through lugging
out.
Bradford has only 7st. 101 b. to carry
in the Villiers Stakes, and he is now
favorite, as he deserves to be. He made
his opponents in the Camden Handicap
look like a mob of brumbies. Though
he carried 9st. 51b. —the limit was Bst. —
and in the straight had to battle against
a still-powerful wind, he ran the six fur-
longs in lmin. 13|sec. He had been
backed from 5 to 2 to 7 to 4, and for two
furlongs he wasn’t in the picture. Then
he made a fast move, shot away at the
top of the straight and won by three
lengths from an outsider, Diamond Wed-
ding, who was half a length in front of
the pacemaker, Eastern Maid—fast, but
squibby.
Several Summer Cup candidates, Im-
provement among them, sported silk in
the December Handicap. Improvement
did most of the leading, but retreated
when the head wind struck him, and an
exciting finish saw Panrose (5 to 2) beat
Sal Volatile by half a head, with Osculum
a length away and Oration and El
Senorita close up. Panrose has 7st. 51b.
in the Summer Cup. A solidly built son
of Pantheon-Rose Dance, he is improv-
ing with racing. But he got a lucky run
on the inside, while Sal Volatile was dis-
appointed, and the little mare may turn
the tables on him in the Cup. Osculum
ran his race in patches. Oration, after
looking a winner at the furlong post,
petered out.
Red Sails has 6st. 91b. in the Summer
Cup. A four-year-old by Pantheon-
Sweet Land, and a stablemate of St.
Constant, he looks a good sort. A run
"Yes, mister , We've bin mechanised now."
on the rails helped him to win the Welter,
for which he was favorite at 3 to 1, but
Sailmaker and Troy made the finish
interesting. Perimond, looking burly, ran
well while his condition lasted, but
Cathartes, another Summer Cup candi-
date, will have to improve a lot if he is
to win the Cup. *
Radio Queen (7 to 1) made no mis-
take in the first division of the Farm
Novice. Another E. J. Watt filly, she
had the race won at the furlong pole.
Timsah, owned and trained by former
pony jockey Arthur Kuhn, and ridden by
his son, took the second division, and
landed some nice wagers —she had been
backed from tens to fours. Twenty-five
years ago Kuhns were very prominent
in the saddle, and Timsah’s jockey looks
like making a name for himself.
* * * *
In answer to inquiries, this paper likes
Bradford for the Villiers and Red Sails
for the Summer Cup.
* % * *
At the Randwick yearling sales in 1937
the Victorian trainer P. B. Quinlan paid
1550gns. for the colt by Melfort-Regal
Fleur and llOOgns. for the colt by Fox-
earth-Bambina. They were respectively
registered as Fort Regal and Belvoir.
Fort Regal was successful at Williams-
town in February and showed high
promise by finishing third to Pandava
and Nuffield in the A.J.C. Champagne
Stakes. He has been unaccountably out
of form this season. Though Belvoir
also scored once as a two-year-old he
fell from grace so greatly that 10 to 1
was offered against him in the Summer
Handicap at Kyneton on Wednesday.
Even the fact of Elliot, the leading
jockey, being in the saddle didn t tempt
Kyneton punters to make Belvoir more
than fourth choice in a field of four.
Actually he was the sole candidate at a
double-figure quote. Elliot squeezed him
home by half a head from Padale (7 to
4, favorite), with Poldean (twos) a head
farther off.
This victory does not reveal Belvoir
as a galloper of much account, and his
stake winnings may never equal the pur-
chase outlay of llOQgns.; but Quinlan
would derive some satisfaction from his
having “broken the ice.” And, of course,
the Kyneton success may lead to others.
Belvoir carries the colors of A. M.
Buckley. His more impressive stable
mate, Fort Regal, has been raced by
Quinlan in conjunction with “F. N. F.
Lansdown.” Apparently ' Belvoir has
benefited from being gelded. Since his
spring failures Fort Regal, too, has been
“added to the list.”
Quinlan was in luck at Kyneton. He
followed up the Belvoir coup by taking
the Novice Handicap with Khamseen,
and again Elliot was to the fore with a
10-to-l winner. Stay-at-home punters
who consistently support Elliot’s mounts
at starting price must have rubbed their
hands with glee.
Khamseen, a three-year-old filly by
Eastern Monarch-Perspective, is jointly
owned by Quinlan and his Fort Regal
partner. Gidgee (7 to 2) was second and
Burragin (fives) third. As in Belvoir’s
race first and second favorites filled the
minor places. Perspective, dam of
Khamseen, won the Oakleigh Plate of
1926 and was runner-up to Heroic in
the Newmarket Handicap.
Fred Hoysted credited H. E. Spry with
the first division of the Maiden Plate
through the agency of Fort Haven
(Simeon’s Fort-Love Nest), the only
favorite to catch the judge’s eye during
the afternoon. His price was 6 to 4.
The second division went to French
Descent, who, quoted at 7 to 2, led all
the way. Feathertop (5 to 2) gave a
miserable display.
Another horse that Hoysted trains for
Spry—and a far better galloper than
Fort Haven—is Pageant, who has won
in metropolitan company. D. J. Price
did well for H. E. Spry and his late
brother with Flail (Comedy King-
Switch), one of whose best efforts was
a third in Sylvandale’s (1935) Australian
Cup.
* * * *
Punters lost their money at Ascot (Vic.)
on Saturday, and many of them lost their
hats, which hats catapulted through dust-
laden air. But, for the most part, the
loss of hats was only temporary.
The Ascot people continue to give
liberal stakes ; distribution on Saturday
amounted to £2050. Two events —the
Lincolnshire Handicap (six furlongs) and
Ascot Handicap (H miles and 40 yards)
—were each worth £5OO. Ever enterpris-
ing, the management has installed five-
strand barriers at all starting points
Jakin beat Hautboy pointless at
Moonee Valley on November 28. A
week later Hautboy beat Young Idea and
Buzalong pointless in the Epsom Cup.
In the Ascot Handicap meeting on the
same relative terms, both were beaten
pointless. Jakin was favorite at 7to 4;
Hautboy receded from sixes to eights.
When he ran up to Princess Pam at
the home turn, Jakin seemed sure of
success, but he tired, and was only sixth
at the post. Carra Rice (fives) came at
the right end to carry Harold Badger
to easy victory. Princess Pam beat Great
Divide by a length for second.
Carra Rice had started favorite and
failed signally in the race won by Great
Divide at Moonee Valley on November
26. In the following week she ran second
to Bell Buoy in the Ballarat Cup. She is
a five-year-old mare by Carradale
(runner-up to Phar Lap in the Victoria
Derby of 1929) out of Patrice, a sister
to the 1922 Maribyrnong Plate winner,
Lady Reynard.
The other £5OO event at Ascot went
to Finch, selected by this Page to win.
Although her owner-trainer, Bill Burke,
reckoned that Finch couldn’t miss a place
and would probably win, she actually
drifted from fives to tens, starting at
eights.
Gay Dell (20 to 1) tried to lead all the
way. After a splendid tussle she lost to
Finch by half a length, with Miss Burn
a moderate third. Master Motley (7 to 4,
favorite) failed to show up, and the
strongly-supported Baryta did even
worse.
Divisions of the Pembroke Trial were
captured by Roundabout (20 to 1) and
Aerostat (fives). Reason for Roundabout
receding from fours to such long odds
was that a novice apprentice was in the
saddle. Beginning slowly and forced to
go wide at the turn, Roundabout finished
brilliantly to defeat Brazen Duchess,
from the Pamelus stable, by a head.
Roundabout is by Verbius from Bind-
weed, the marc off which C. J. Boyd
was killed in a hurdle race at Caulfield
many years ago. He belongs to and was
bred by “A. Wooliscroft,” who won the
Australian Cup of 1918 with Defence.
Best progeny of Bindweed is Spinilex,
winner of the V.R.C. Lawn Handicap
and other races.
Erato (Constant Son-Cabaret Girl)
won the race for two-year-olds at
fours, Black Robin (2 to 1, favorite)
being beaten into third position. The
Melbourne K.C. who races as “G.
Ornong” and won a Williamston Cup
with John Wilkes last year owns Erato.
She was ridden by Box. Box completed
a double when Aerostat romped home in
the second division of the Pembroke
Trial. Half-way through the race Belvoir
(3 to 1, favorite) led by six lengths or
more, but this costly thoroughbred
knocked up badly.
Jack Fryer, of Wotan fame, had a win-
ning turn in the Berkeley Welter with
the M.L. mare Namakia, backed down
to 7 to 2 and in nearly as good request
as Gold Token. The latter ran last.
The only first choice to score was
Flying Drake in the Trial Hurdle at 2 to
1. Minor placegetters, Wild Son and
Boongarry, will improve with experience.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: Papyrus, the 1923
Derby winner, who has earned £90,000
in stud fees and in his prime was in-
sured for £75,000, has been sold at New-
market for 750 guineas. Papyrus was
sent across the Atlantic for a match with
the American champion, Zev, at New
York. He was caught out of condition
and beaten. One ignominy which over-
took many a good thoroughbred of the
past will be spared him —he will not be
required to draw a hansom cab.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on
page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Dundas Handicap: Rodborough ;
next, Gold Rod.
December Handicap: Sal Volatile
or Perimond ; next, Bristol.
Carlingford Handicap: Perimond
or Troy ; next, Sailmaker.
Corinthian Cup: Milantheon ;
next, Toriwa.
FOR ASCOT (MELB.).
Chesterfield Handicap: Finch;
next, Master Motley.
Sandhurst Welter: Fancifort;
next, Dazzling Star.
Inverness Handicap: Jakin ; next,
Demotic.


7fi
for
/7
ft
m
m
m
m
v//..
/////£
\■: \ w#
H
V///1
For Holiday Safety and Mileage
fit GoodyearTyres
THE BEST TYRE
MONEY CAN BUY
I,
R-l
A QUALITY TYRE
AT A LOW PRICE
LOWEST TYRE PRICES
EVER OFFERED
Double Breaker Strip Construction is non;
standard in all Goodyear Car and Truck Tyres
YOU’LL travel safer and
further on Goodyear Tyres
because of Double Breaker
Strip Construction. This double
protection right under the tread
increases safety and mileage
three ways:—
(1) Greater protec-
tion against
bruises and
fractures.
(2) Greater protec-
tion against
tread separation.
(3) Greater protec-
tion against
carcass cuts.
Before starting on your holiday
give yourself and your family
the maximum protection against
road hazards and delays. Fit
new Goodyear Tyres now.
s
r*
MORE PEOPLE RIDE ON GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER TYRE
5-Cl5-3S,


Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
you can depend on
CHAMPIONS
for SPEED
Speed, properly used, increases
the pleasure of motoring. To get
the best speed from your car
without sacrificing economy, in-
stall new Champions. These are
the plugs racing champions use
with constant success on land, a
in the air and on the water.
INVINCIBLE
since
1906.
1
ĵ
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1039 Models: 3 to 100 Horsepower. 1. 2,4,
6. 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years'
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Palmer-Lesnevich Battle
Fought in the open-air Sports Ground
ring under an overcast sky, this was a
display over 12 rounds of the Noble Art
at its finest. Each of them tipped the
beam at 12st. 51b., and they were just
as well matched in fighting quality.
Palmer was the faster and better boxer
and the heavier hitter. Lesnevich was
the more dogged, was in better trim and
far the more aggressive, hitting twice to
Palmer’s once, though more lightly, and
wasting a vast number of punches on
Palmer’s defence. The American fought
on the upright stance, square on, beau-
tifully balanced, shooting out his left
in continuous piston-rod action, and
giving his right vigorous work. Palmer
crouched, weaving, bobbing, ducking,
but seldom retreating, and frequently
leaping in with a lunging movement to
land staggering left hooks.
Lesnevich made the fight, forcing it
nearly all the way and completely
dominating in the last three of the 12
rounds. Palmer’s superior craftsmanship
won in the early stages very easily ; but
these days he fights under a heavy han-
dicap.
The Victorian’s left eye has been so
badly damaged across the top in past
battles that his right hand is wholly occu-
pied with the job of guarding it. He holds
it with the arm up diagonally across the
body, the glove sawing the air across
the vulnerable spot. It would be very
hard to use the hand with any effect
against a good man from that position;
anyway, Palmer makes no attempt to
do so. In the in-fighting of the early
rounds, at which he was incomparably
the better, he employed the right in good
body punching and on the work with
which Richards scored so heavily against
Lesnevich—the right uppercut. But even
in this part of the fight the Australian’s
right was mostly dedicated to its now
accustomed job, and after the inevitable
had happened in the sixth, when the
American crashed a right cross on the
sticking-plastered eyebrow and opened it,
Palmer fought one-handed, never once
letting the right off duty, except for a
couple of desperate and ineffectual swings
in the twelfth.
Without his eye trouble Palmer would
have won- by from here to Bourke, and
that despite yet another handicap—he
was clearly short of a gallop. It was not
damage inflicted that made him so in-
ferior over the last three rounds. His
condition gave out; in consequence he
slowed down, so that Lesnevich had him
almost at his mercy, and completely so
in the final term. Then, though Palmer
fought desperately and wildly, the
American’s darting straight lefts and jolt-
ing right crosses scored at pretty well
every second of the three minutes, and
the Australian was a lucky man not to
have suffered ten times the damage.
Judged by the popular accord when
ref. Lacey held Lesnevich’s glove aloft,
any other verdict —even a draw—would
have been howled down. But there was
really mighty little in it. In fact, on a
strict academic assessment of points over
the full distance, Palmer won it. His
in-fighting was incomparably superior ;
his fewer punches were heavier and
cleaner to the mark ; he wasted few of
them against the opposition defence and
only very rarely missed. On the other
hand, the American missed the Austra-
lian’s weaving head frequently, and a
great many more of his punches landed
on forearm or glove. But regarded not
as a boxing match, but as a fight—on
the plain unacademic ground of who was
the better man on the night—then there
could be no question that the verdict was
as right as it was popular.
How Good Is Stewart?
Opening Sydney Stadium’s offensive in
what promises to be the most interesting
season of stoush for many years, the
Ossie Stewart v. Syd Brown encounter
had a quick, abrupt and extraordinary
ending.
It was over early in the second round,
when Stewart drove a clean and power-
ful right down on the area between cheek-
bone, ear and lower temple of the opposi-
tion phiz. It sent Brown to his knees.
At first, kneeling there, he didn’t look
"But, my dear chap, I'm only carrying out captain's orders”
much damaged. Then, about “four,” he
looked like sagging. As the count pro-
ceeded he made an effort to rally his
fleeting wits, all but succeeded, and finally
lost track of ’em completely as the count
reached nine and out. He was taken to
his corner out to the world, the left side
of his face, jaw and neck evidently para-
lysed. His seconds worked hard on him
for minutes before the glaze left his eyes
and he showed signs of interest in worldly
affairs.
Stewart is only a middleweight, but
he will trouble the light-heavyweights
before the season is over. Already he
could command substantial backing that
he would beat any of them.
Ins and Outs
A raging “norther” took the keen
edge off the Melbourne C.C. centenary
match between the Australian XI and
“The Rest.” Bowlers sometimes had
to struggle with the gusts when running
up to the wicket, and the batsmen had
their share of trouble from the grit borne
on the gale. Batting first, The Rest
took their time in compiling 151 for 4;
at 3.45 p.m. the haze compelled
abandonment of the game for the day.
On Saturday the innings ended for 215.
Rigg had batted very solidly for 48, but
the best shot of the innings came from
Barnes, a masterly 63. Bromley, after
a shaky start, reached 34.
Fleetwood-Smith (4-79) and O’Reilly
(5-75) got the wickets. McCormick and
Waite also bowled.
Brown and Fingleton began for the
XI. Both batted well but were troubled
by the fine bowling of left-hander Christ,
who showed excellent length and varia-
tion in spite of the gale. Fingleton (23)
departed first, caught by Sievers off
Eyres ; the Westralian, who has a nice
style, had troubled him sorely. Brown
was looking good for a century when
he misjudged the pace of one from Christ
and was caught and bowled for a sound
67.
That ended the day for the bowlers,
for Bradman (83 n. 0.) and McCabe (39
n. 0.) were in possession at stumps with
the score 220 for 2 wickets.
Christ’s figures were 1 for 60 off 18
overs. Eyres bowled 11 overs and took
1 for 36. Five other bowlers were tried
without success.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: Included in the Queens-
land Sheffield team for the southern tour
is Ellis, a youthful bowler who is said
to be really fast and with a nasty kick
off the pitch. Ellis has been playing with
the Colts team since he was promoted
from the junior ranks earlier in the
season. Leaving out Gilbert, Queensland
has not had a real fast bowler since 1912,
when McLaren won his way into the
1912 Australian XI. Mac had the bad
luck to strike a really wet season, and
was seldom utilised. All the same, he
took 27 wickets —one in a Test—at 22.96.
Ellis will have a great chance of showing
what is in him. Australia is looking for
a real speed merchant.
* * * *
“Jolimont”: Victoria has picked a
strong side to meet Queensland in Mel-
bourne this week. Barnett, McCormick,
F.-Smith and Hassett are in, Rigg is
skipper and the others are Gregory,
Sievers, Bromley, Ledward, Lee, Pearson
and Sides. Bromley’s reinclusion may
be the forerunner of better things.
% * * *
“Senex”: The passing of Harry Moses
in Sydney, at 80, removes one of the
last of the great cricketers of the
’eighties. He was the best left-hand
batsman Australia produced until the
coming of Ransford, Hill and Joe Dar-
ling. He was a stylist, but a slow mover,
even according to modern standards.
In Test matches in Australia —he re-
fused all invitations to go to England—
he averaged 19.70 for 10 innings. His
highest score was 297 for N.S.W. v.
Victoria in 1880-81. Moses was for 31
years a Sydney C.G. trustee. In his later
days he became a bowls champion.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Objecting to the light is
nowadays one of the favorite means of
working a point on the other fellow if
things are going against the objectors.
The Q.C.A., which is getting quite lively
these days, is to try a locally-invented
device for mechanically measuring the
intensity or otherwise of the light. No
hint of how it works has escaped, but it
is said to be only 4in. by so can
easily be carted about by the umpire.
**' * *
“The Bluff”: Natal made the best
showing to date against Hammond’s
side, holding the Englishmen to a draw.
Steady and solid batting gave the
province the highest score yet recorded
against the tourists, 307 ; Harvey made
92 and Wade 56. Verity and Wright
took 3 wickets each.
The Rooineks came back with 458.
Hutton was run out for 108 and Edrich
followed him with 98. Hammond made
a rattling 144. Dalton, another whom
the Australian side will recall, added
to his score of 47 in Natal’s first innings
by taking six English wickets for 116.
The three star amateurs, Yardley, Bart-
lett and Valentine, all failed with the bat.
Natal had 30 up without loss when
stumps were drawn.
Nineteenth Hole
“Yarra Yarra”: The A.G.U. has
decided that the Australian open, ama-
teur and professional championships will
be played from August 19-31.” Royal
Melbourne is the selected course.
Apropos, the union has received a letter
from St. Andrews stating that the
number of clubs to be carried by any
player after May next will be limited to
14.
* * * *
“Lakeside”: One of the minor nuis-
ances of golf is the rule compelling
players to carry on a game to a finish,
no matter how bad the weather, unless
special permission is obtained from the
controlling authorities. Observance of
this rule in severe electrical storms has
more than once led to fatalities. Ameri-
can P.G.U. has now passed a rule per-
mitting players to knock off and seek
shelter during severe thunderstorms, with
the proviso that play must be resumed
immediately after the passing iof the
storm and from the spot where it was
temporarily abandoned.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Shankland, quondam
N.S.W. and Australian Rugby League
three-quarter, has been appointed pro-
fessional at the Templenewsam Golf Club
in England. Shankland played for some
years with an English Rugby League
club and took up golf as a summer job.
He did well, and made a creditable show-
ing in the last British open. At Temple-
newsam he succeeds Percy Alliss, who
first made golf popular in Germany.
There were 77 applicants for the job,
including several players who have rep-
resented England in the Ryder Cup
matches.
* * * *
“Oakleigh”: Locke finished off his golf
tour of the Eastern States when,
partnered by Ernie Wood, he beat Ryan
and A. W. Jackson in Melbourne 3 and 2.
He will have a match in Westralia before
he sails for South Africa. Thence, after
a spell, he goes to Britain for the open,
and then to the U.S.A. Australia should
see him again in 1940. Locke rates King-
ston Heath (Vic.), La Perouse (N.S.W. )
and Kingston Beach (Tas.) as the three
best golf courses in Australia.


This is how the
NEW FORDSON
can increase your income
Fordson does the work of an 8-10 horse team in the field
and is designed for use as a stationary engine as well.
Under all conditions it will work for you day in, day out
with a minimum of attention. The new Fordson has
improved worm and sector truck-type steering (illustrated
at right), making it exceptionally easy to handle. The new
dual-type oil-bath air cleaner ensures steady running and
longer engine life even under the dustiest conditions.
Fordson is not only the lowest-priced tractor per horse-
power, but is also purchasable on the easiest of terms under
the Fordson finance plan. Even when primary produce
prices are low the purchase of a Fordson is easy. And it
is when prices are low that Fordson's adaptability, speed
and economy are a real asset. Remember, too, that Fordson
is priced well below tractors using low grade fuel. The
saving in purchase price alone will buy sufficient power kero-
sene to work approximately 4,000 acresl
Get in touch with your local Fordson Dealer. He
can supply you with the facts and figures of
Fordson owners to prove that Fordson will lower
your working costs and increase your income.
m
-, r
>•
> *.*■
1
■:<oZ&
NEW EASY STEERING (worm *nd soctor truck-typo)
m
sis
tsxM
4
The NEW English Fordson
DISTRIBUTORS:
South Australia:
POWER PLANT LTD., 98-100 Currie
Street, Adelaide
Western Australia:
LYNAS MOTORS LTD., Hay Street,
Perth
F24.27T
New South Wales:
MOTOR TRACTORS PTY. LTD.
Corner Bridge and Young Sts., Sydney
Queensland:
BUZACOTTS (QUEENSLAND) LTD.
443 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Victoria, Riverina and Tasmania:
MALCOLM MOORE LIMITED,
City Showrooms:
601-603 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. < INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA'
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
I hIOSIiL mum , jununis Hi/te and Revolver Shot,
I mid acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Hallistics, is attached to the staff oj the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
j
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in.
round barrel, pistol grip, bead
front and adjustable rear sight.
Weight, about 4^lb. Itc /
Price il/lb/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front „
sight; weight, about 4lb. 4//D
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 46—COOEY “MOHAWK.”
—.22-cal., single-shot, for short,
long or long-rifle cartridges.
2 7in. barrel, walnut stock,
pistol grip, convexed, elevating
rear and silver bead .~ »
front sight; weight, 61b. ”
Postage 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 32 —BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel;
handles 22 short', long
or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open
front sights; length
overall 39in.;
weight, 4£lb. //O
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top
action, 32in. steel barrels,
rebounding locks, crossbolt,
end, half-pistol grip, walnut
stock
RELIABLE”
lever bar
both choke,
snap fore-
£l6/16/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 —FOX STERLINGWORTH
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, I2G,
30in. steel barrels, left full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2§in. cartridges. « /- /
Weight, about 7Jib. XI 1/15/“
Carriage Paid.
SPECIAL CLEARANCE!
COMBINATION D.B. GUN AND RIFLE
— I2G., top lever, 30in. gun barrel,
choke, 32 W.C.F. rifle barrel, three-leal
rear sight, bead front sight, pistol grip;
weight, about 8 fib.
Originally £12/12/-. N'
£7/17|6
Carriage Paid.
WESTLEY RICHARDS D.B.B.L. HAM-
MERLESS GUN —1 2G., top lever 32in.
steel barrels, full choke, crossbolt, pistol
grip, chamber for 2|in. cartridges;
weight, about
Originally £22/10/-.
Now. .
£18
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all B ranches.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Whatever other benefit
accrues from Davis Cup tours, there is
no doubt young players taking part in
them come back greatly improved. A
case in point is Schwartz, who gave
Quist a hiding in South Australia’s
match with Victoria in Melbourne.
Hitherto Schwartz has had a poor
“press.” He has made for himself a
fair claim to public notice now, how-
ever.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The question of the
amateur’s allowable “expenses” is again
to the fore in Britain. One party to
the barge goes all out for “the true-
blue amateur status,” whatever that may
be, while the other wants out-of-pocket
expenses paid. But expenses are very
liberally interpreted by tennis amateurs.
Whereas genuine amateur concerns like
the Rugby Unions and the Amateur
Rowing Association pay housing and
travelling costs only, your tennis star
includes every possible item in his bill.
Many desire to see the “eight weeks
rule” passed by the International L.T.F.
a couple of years ago adopted in Britain,
where it has always been ignored. This
allows a player on tour eight weeks’
“expenses,” with an extension of time
for far-off places like Australia and
M.L. Whether that is done or not, crack
amateurs will continue to shove in their
bills for as much as they think their
backers will stand. Only the institution
of open tennis, ignoring the distinction
between the nominal amateur and the
professional, can cure that.
* * * *
“Milton”: The L.T.A. has opened its
heart and its sock and promised the
Queensland body a grant of £lOOO
towards building a new grandstand, pro-
vided the locals can dig up £1660. Also,
it is lending the Queenslanders £5OO
towards a new clubhouse, payable over
five years at bank rate of interest. This
is good news to others than tennis-
players. Firewood contractors will be
forming queues with fistfuls of tenders
for the old woodheaps.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: According to Crawford
the coming into professionalism of
Budge will be a godsend to Vines and
Perry. They have played so much to-
gether now —188 matches —that in trying
to give the crowd something fresh they
are going in for flash and fancy shots
instead of playing good tennis. The
result is that the matches are being lost
and won on mistakes, and the players are
likely to have some trouble regaining
their real form.
Miscellaneous.
The opening round of the Dunn Shield
athletic tourney at Sydney Sports Ground
was marred by a raging wind, which, in
the case of the sprints, blew right in the
face of the runners. As expected, Brian
Dunn, of Uni., carried off the blue ribbon
of the meeting, the A Division 100, but
he look JOtsec. to do it. Normally he
could almost be relied on to equal that
time running backwards. So far, Uni.
leads with 804 points, W. Suburbs, in
second place, recording only 4.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Young Dunn, now at
Sydney Uni., may develop into the track
champion we have been looking for.
From the beginning of the season he has
put up a string of local records, and at
the club match between Uni. and St.
George capped all his previous perform-
ances by running the 100 in 9.6 sec. Un-
fortunately a following wind will prevent
the run going down as a record. Dunn
is essaying broad-jumping and the hop,
step and jump. These should be cut out
and the lad’s attention concentrated on '
the 100 and 220 sprints, at which he has
a sporting chance of becoming an Olym-
pic champion.
* * * *
“Gloom”: There is some optimism left
in this world after all. Britain has an-
nounced it will ask for the 1944 Olympic
Games to be held in London. The
Olympic Federation will give its verdict
in June*—more optimism—and the British
A.A.A. is putting its weight behind the
request. It is 30 years since an Olympiad
was held in London.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: Eddie Tolan is anxious
to come to Australia again and defend
his “world’s championship” title. Though
a bit long in the tooth now for a sprinter,
Tolan is said to be fitter than ever. The
trouble will be to find someone to pit
against him. Professional sprinters to-
day are not a very classy lot, and in addi-
tion the mild boom that was worked up
a couple of years or more ago in Vic-
toria shows signs of passing out through
malnutrition.
* *■ * *
“Stretcher”: The Sydney women’s club
claims the N.S.W. heavyweight champion
fours, the heavyweight maiden fours, the
novice pairs and the ex-members’ fours.
By the way, what constitutes a heavy-
weight maiden? A heavyweight in men’s
rowing runs from list., say, to 15st. or
more. If there are many rowing maidens
like that they keep out of sight.
* * i\i *
“Shrewsbury”: Australian oarsmen
bulk big in the Cambridge trial eights.
Three hail from Geelong, a remarkable
contributor to Light Blue rowing, and
the fourth, Gosse, from Adelaide. The
Geelongans are Massy-Greene, Turnbull
and Holden.
* * * *
The first of the British season’s big
Rugby matches, Oxford v. Cambridge,
was played at Twickenham, the Light
Blues winning, 8-6. If any Australians
were in the game the cable does not
mention them.


cmnv
g
AT THE
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
“SNOW WHITE” in the Flesh.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
J5 lans Theatre. ’P'>nne: Tent. 928-92!).
“SWING IT”
with Larry Adler
and Bis? New Company of Stars.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: MfiB3s.
j
FREE £lOO PRIZES COMPETITIONS.
EVERY SENDER GETS A PRIZE.
INTERPRET THIS PICTURE, OR UNDERLINE KORRECTING
MIS-SPELT WURDS.
RE-NU LIQUID NU-METAL.
Just deposit thru thee plug oppenings. Reconditshuns any engine wile it is
tuning. Saves Reboare, Nu-Rings, ens Piston Slap, Rattles, 101, Petrol
Waste, Etc. Anyone can use Nu-Metal. Trial tube G/6. Guaranteed good
for 10,000 miles. Harmless to Finest Engine. We send C.O.D. anywhere.
Rite, Wring, Cal four Free samples. Re-Nu Co., Oppusit Richmond Stn..
Melbourne. J 4797. (Kst. 1932.) Agents required. 25 other lines. Just male reply with stamps
six pence, cost Free samples, postage, etc. This gives you opportunity to win £lOO prizes.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
More Ballet.
The ideal audience for the third week’s
programme of the Ballet at Sydney
Royal would have been some gallant
gent, of the old school, capable of sigh-
ing through whiskers rouged with port
“The ladies—bless ’em!” The pro-
gramme might have been deliberately
arranged to show the number of en-
trancing types the Ballet can portray.
It began with the laughing, playful,
witty lasses of “Les Femmes de Bonne
Humeur”; then there were the exotic
slave-girls of “Scheherazade” ; then the
exquisite young girl dreaming in “Le
Spectre de la Rose”; and finally the
Lady Gay of “Union Pacific,” a bad
wild gal with red hair. Any filling of
slippers with champagne by the gent.,
however, besides being out of date,
would have been unnecessary; for in
“Les Femmes de Bonne Humeur” they
sat at table and ate and drank nothing
at all with complete satisfaction.
“Les Femmes,” which has rather the
atmosphere of a Shdridan comedy, really
was amusing—which is more than can
be said of a great deal of the comedy
attempted in ballet. Perhaps it was the
sparkle of the nobleman in powder and
patches that did the trick ; or it might
even have been Lazovsky’s waiter, pos-
sibly the only man ever really to “dance
with impatience” and nervous ob-
sequiousness—while he was waiting for
the customer’s order. Baronova was in-
credibly light-hearted and light-footed.
“Scheherazade,” with Dolin and.
Grigorieva in the limelight, was like a
gallery of Norman Lindsay’s oils com-
ing down from their frames and behaving
as one would expect them to behave.
It exists, of course, for the suave passion
of- the dances, but “Scheherazade” is
also a very clear-cut drama: the king
goes off to the wars ; the youths are let
into the harem ; the king comes back ;
there’s the devil to pay ; the devil is duly
paid. It is very much more effective
than the complicated ballets where story
is sacrificed to spectacle.
Something seemed lacking from “Le
Spectre de la Rose.” Riabouchinska, as
the young girl dreaming, gave a subtle
and beautiful performance; Petroff
danced the spirit of the rose as it should
be danced ; and yet it just missed. The
hard lighting and the hard blue back-
ground were probably the trouble. Pet-
roff’s lyrical leaping would have looked
all the better through an effect of mist;
the delicate white curtains had the right
touch, but the hard walls and hard land-
scape through the window were not
suited to the tenderly-sentimental little
ballet.
Last on the list was “Union Pacific,”
the railroad-building ballet that has the
dreaded moment when some of the com-
pany are carried in to represent sleepers
and rails. Prepared for that by the
anguish of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic, present commentator accepted it
as comedy, but still doubts if it’s legiti-
mate for the “rails,” after being laid
on the “sleepers,” to settle into position,
nailing themselves on as it were. Fur-
thermore, Lazovsky wasn’t nearly as
good a barman as he had been a waiter ;
he was made up to look like Charlie
Chaplin, but he really looked more
like a seal. However, Osato was a
delectable red-headed gal, and the vigor-
ous doings of the rival foremen made
most interesting ballet.
Introducing an Abo. Artist.
Until his 42nd year Albert Namatjira,
a pure-blooded Arunta with a wife and
seven children, knew no more about
crimson lake and burnt sienna than he
did about the League of Nations. He
was a man of unusual talent, however ;
was the champion runner and the strong-
est man in the Arunta, and excelled in
the making and decorating of the tribal
weapons after the native tradition.
Then Rex Battarbee, the Melbourne
artist, set up his easel in his vicinity.
Albert fell at his feet, metaphorically
speaking, and the next time Battarbee
turned up at the Hermannsburg Mission
Albert was there with a writing-pad and
some bits of cardboard and an offer to
act as the artist’s camelboy in return for
instruction. Within two years he had so
completely absorbed Battarbee’s view-
point that even the artist admitted that
he could learn something from his pupil
in the matter of rendering the sharp,
acrid contours and almost vicious sharp-
ness of color of his native habitat.
Albert developed a passion and a
capacity for work that would put to
IMPRESSIONS OF THE BALLET
shame most city gallery students, and
now, when, with his family, he joins in
a tribal walkabout, he gets left behind
painting some landscape while his friends
wander away hunting.
The latest news concerning him is that
he is a metropolitan exhibitor, whose
show at Melb. Fine Arts is under the
patronage of the Anthropological Soc.
of Vic. and had vice-royalty to open it.
Nobody would know the difference if
his work were presented as that of a
white Australian artist, which shows how
completely one tradition can oust an-
other. Judging by his photographs
Namatjira is a man of powerful intel-
ligence, but it is perfectly certain that if
Fate had ordained that he should run
against a Heysen, a Will Ashton or a
Streeton, instead of a Battarbee, his
talents would have flowered on Heysen,
Ashton or Streeton lines.
“Gangs of New York ”
Addicts of gangster fare should find
appetites well sated by this husky melo-
drama at Sydney Capitol.
On its own plane of highly-improbable
and just as highly-pretentious fiction it’s
quite a good film—well cast and well
acted and directed to keep attention
running along nicely on what’s-going-to-
happen-next lines. The yarn is trimmed
down to the bare essentials and worked
out to finish at the fadeout without
appearing to have been stretched or cut
to fit the distance.
It’s all about the popular Amurrican
pastime of racket-busting. A particu-
larly violent opponent of law and order,
having completed a five-year stretch be-
hind the bars, is suddenly slung into
solitary, while a hireling of the law
his exact counterpart in everything ex-
cept vocation —is set loose among the
racketeers. He’s accepted without ques-
tion ; then much trickery, sleuthery and
hairbreadth evasion of detection, until
all the city’s gangsters are gathered under
the one roof, real gang leader breaks
prison, ’tec.’s identity stands revealed,
and police save the bacon in time-
honored tradition.
“Room Service ”
Marx Bros.
With all due respect to the illustrious
gents of this Sydney Mayfair opus, we
— i.e., our typewriter and ourself —can't
get our mind off us.
Like film people, illustrious and other-
wise, we have a job to do, which is to
fill a certain amount of space on this
page—just like the Great Perdoocers
making a film so long to fill so much of
the prog. Only the Great Perdoocers never
let on. Instead, they put out their pro-
duct as a Masterpiece, a Stupendous
Miracle, a Colossal Achievement. And
you go along and find it’s only a leg-
pull—just so much grimacing, so much
posturing, so much running about, all
photographed with the bawling accom-
paniment of raucous voices, as will fill
out a preordained length of funning
time. You must have seen films like
that.
Well, we’re doing the same thing, only
we’re not pretending that this is a
Masterpiece of Critical Judgment or
Great Literature. Here is our allotted
space on the prog, and we’re going to
fill it.
That wouldn’t be so bad if only we
were in good form, but we have to admit
frankly that we’re not. Hang it all, you
can’t always be in good form, as anyone
who goes to the talkies must be well
aware.
There one day you’ll see an actor, or
maybe a bunch of actors, doing a job
that has a touch of genius. Another
day you go along and see the same
actor, or maybe bunch of actors, doing
a mere clodhopping job. Instead of the
bright and clever performance you know
them capable of, they’ll be clumsily
turning on old stuff —those old grimaces,
that old trick of making the eyes per-
form on swivels behind the hornrims;
old familiar antics and jocular antiques.
But if you read the ads. and posters and
things you’ll have them served up to
you as a Riot of Originality or some
such wild boloney.
Anyway, we’re a bit above that sort
of thing. And so, with only this little
bit more space to fill, we can say, as
we have no doubt a lot of actors must
say when they’ve turned out what they
must know is a poor job for them.
Well, thank heaven, that’s over.
“Brother Rat," at Sydney Mayfair,
causes the second thought that the Marx
Bros, mightn’t be quite as bad as all that.
Though thin stuff and old antics, there
are flashes of the authentic moonstruck
idiocy that is the speciality of the trio
that used to be a quartet. But it would
need to be a masterpiece to lift the mind
out of the Slough of Despond into which
such a support as “Brother Rat” inescap-
ably plunges it. This miracle of inanity
is set in the Virginia Military Institute,
and is credibly stated to be based on an
original play by graduates of that centre
of learning.
“Mother Carey’s Chickens,” a distress-
ing brood, roost at Sydney Century, and
are said to have incubated from the
“happiness and heartbreaks of a book
loved by millions.” Possibly something
went wrong during the incubation process.
“Gun Law,” at Sydney Cameo, has
Mr. George O’Brien mopping up the li’l
ol’ town of Gunsight by masquerading
as a mounted cahp masquerading as a
bandit masquerading as a mounted cahp
and finally in danger of lynching for
being a bandit. Some gun-totin’ and hoss-
ridin’, and then he has to unmasqueradc
to save his skin and persuade the parson's
daughter he really was Mr. George
O’Brien all the time.
Melbourne Tivoli.
As the Voice of Snow White Adriana
Caselotti has been listened to by millions,
and as the Voice’s physical vehicle she
is being looked at and listened to by
thousands at Frank Neil’s Bourke-street
emporium.
An unaffected damsel, she displays no
more stage talent than the average in-
telligent girl at a school break-up con-
cert, but she was presented with Albert
Chappell as the prince in a fairy scene
which is excellent sauce to the Christmas
pudding for the kiddies. Chappell’s
baritone deserves an appreciative adjec-
tive.
Also on the bill are Osaki, and Taki,
male and female Japanese acrobats and
jugglers, who play with death in a way
that suggests they want to save the man-
agement the trouble of paying them
their salaries; the three contortionist
Ardinis; Sylvia Sefton, the Beautiful
Broadway Blonde ; and Billy Nelson, an
able comedian. O’Donnell and Blair
wreck a building in one of the neatest
knockabout acts that have been seen in
Melbourne for a long time, and the
Tivoli ballet look as delectable as what
they do looks idiotic.
The show is guaranteed to be as clean
as a new pin and is certainly easier to
sit through than the usual Christmas
pantomime.
“Love on the Dole.”
Admirably cast by Gregan McMahon,
this play by Ronald Gow and Walter
Greenwood presented a full house at
Melb. Comedy with a picture of an
English lower-class family awash in the
sea of industrial strife and desperately
manning the pumps to make life safe
for British respectability.
Better leads than Margaret Reid.
Maud Coughey and John Ormiston it
would be difficult to find, and H. N.
Gregory had a part right to his hands.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
A cartoonist’s rough-out often looks
livelier and fresher than his finished
drawing, and the “art” of the children
collected by the “Herald” proprietary and
now hanging at Melb. Athenaeum looks
for the most part nicer and jollier than
a critic usually sees in grown-up ex-
hibitions.
To read anything more into the
infants’ show at the Athenaeum is
superfluous. From this point of view
the work of the abo. children of the
strangely-named Bad Tribe of Lorn-
badina, 150 miles north of Broome, sent
by the fathers of the Pallottine Mission,
is no different from that of the white
kids of East Malvern, Melbourne.
The more sophisticated work shows
traces of academic training, and a cast
o Continued in next column.)


Notice to Authors.
AUTHORS invited submit MSS. of all types
(especially Fiction and Poems) to Publishers of
40 years’ standing. Advice and Catalogue free.
STOCKWELL, LTD., 29 Ludgate Hill, London,
England.
'fiffeuiletia
Limerick Competitions
TENTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The announcement of the Tenth
£5O Limerick Competition appears
in this issue on Page 41 (Radio
Page).
Particulars of the Ninth Competi-
tion are repeated.
?-V.
tM
jpunchbom^
s
EY
BAR
IM
«.r
LL
ST
«s
MLU
■yMti
v'V
; *Sps«« >
gig
1
The
su>»
St
i
«arhey
k
(B sgsraS'j ß
J
3B
Sws£v
“as-sfijS
1
TH
AL
E.
D
E
■
jm
ACCO
TO
B
3
“SSS*
m,
m
. . . THE FRIENDLY
SATISFYING CHARM OF BARNEYS
Men talk about Barneys almost as if it were human, as though it had being ... “friendliest
of all Tobaccos,” one smoker called it. One enthusiast got close to the heart of things
when he said: “There are times when a man needs not exactly a companion but a
sense of companionship . . . and Barneys supplies this need.”
How true this is can only be realised fully by those to whom the need is greatest . . .
amongst them those Barneys smokers in the lonely places of the earth! Just ponder this
. . . from a Barneys smoker exiled in the Arctic: “Up here in the far North comforts
are few and far between, and for me at least Tobacco ranks ‘number one’ —and only
the best is good enough.”
If you have found the Tobacco which takes
the place of friends—and sometimes, if needs
be, of food and drink ... be thankful . . .
don’t think of changing. But if you are still
seeking the Tobacco which measures up, in
goodness and smoking satisfaction, to all that
a good Tobacco can . . . try cheery, chummy,
honest Barneys. There are three strengths,
all equally good. No other Tobacco has won
such praise from smokers well qualified to judge.
Barneys
(medium)
Parsons Pleasure
(mild)
Punchbowle
(full strength)
c At all good tobacconists .. . ask for
jjSarnefis
The Ideal Tobacco
Each is sold in
the patent “Everfresh”
tin. 2 ozs. for 2/7.
2203
by J. Cummings (17), of Scotch College,
looks like an honest attempt to under-
stand form. Graham Thorley, of Swin-
burne College, wins a scholarship for a
girl’s head and a landscape, “Pony Rides
for Children,” and rightly so.
Eight murals designed and executed by
students of the Melbourne Technical
College under the direction of Murray
Griffin and George Allan were lately in-
stalled in the vestibule to the Vic.
National Museum. They are attempts to
adapt abo. technique and native form
and color to a white man’s building, and
they have been carried out in linoleum,
carved and painted according to the
Stone Age man’s pigmental limitations.
According to their sponsors, they are
expected to form the basis of a distinc-
tive Australian school of decorative de-
sign, but, to present critic’s way of think-
ing, the real Stone Age art, of which
there are abundant examples on spears,
dillybags and boomerangs inside the
museum proper, is much more lively and
refreshing.
Sydney
An out-of-the-ordinary one-man show
is that of Peter Martin Lampel at the
Grosvenor Galleries.
Lampel, a Dutchman, has been travel-
ling through Java, Bali and Sumatra, and
has painted the picturesquely , attired
natives of those parts with vigor and
sympathy.
The paintings, ail of which are done
on wooden panels, and in some cases are
framed with bamboo, are Very robust in
coloring. In some cases the grain of the
panel forms an effective background.
Metallic paint is used in at least one pic-
ture, that of a Bali girl. There is one
landscape, “Village in Java,” so well
done that one wishes there were more.
At the Macquarie Galleries is a show
of Lionel Lindsay’s works —tinted draw-
ings of Spanish scenes, etchings, Austra-
lian, Italian and Spanish in subjects, and
woodblocks, including four of this artist’s
inimitable studies. Most of these pic-
tures have been seen before. All comply
with the very high standard Lionel
Lindsay sets himself.
At David Jones’s Market-street store
Kay Ambrose, an English artist, shows
sketches of the Russian Ballet currently
touring Australia, made at Covent Gar-
den in recent seasons. Miss Ambrose
wields a vigorous, sensitive pencil, and
has achieved the difficult feat of crystal-
lising the most effective moments of
rapid dance movements. Jottings of
dancers resting or chatting in the wings
are less successful. Miss Ambrose’s pic-
tures are prized, so the public is told,
because of her understanding of the
ballet technique, but that’s irrelevant.
Botanists don’t scoop the pool in flower-
painting.
EIGHTH LIMERICKS .
There was something about the
cricketer of the eighth Limerick that
aroused as fine a frenzy among the com-
petitors as the motorist up a gum-tree
did a few weeks ago. Mrs. H. R. Baird,
of 1 Darling-road, East Malvern (Vic.),
who took a £1 prize, added to the open-
ing four lines —
A cricketer fielding at Cue
Was the worst at a catch that I knew,
For when offered a “sitter”
He’d nervously titter
the wail of terror
“I’m right on the spot where it’s due!”
A. P. Drummond, of 224 Centre-road,
Bentleigh, S.E. 14 (Vic.), had him crying
“It’s coming! Oh, what will I do?”
C. Beavis, of Quilbone, Quambone
(N.S.W.), combined terror with sarcasm,
suggesting that he’d titter
And prepare for the worst —which he’d
do.
And Miss Olive Dunlop, of Brisbane
Clinic, Wickham-terrace, Brisbane, com-
bined terror and lunacy in the line
And, all of a jitter, say “Shoo!”
There was something of the same feel-
ing of the full moon in the remark of
R. G. Clarke, of Hawkesbury-road,
Springwood (N.S.W.),
“He’ll only be out if I do,”
and an obvious call for two doctors and
a magistrate if the cricketer really uttered
the strange exclamation submitted by
Mrs. H. C. Henderson, c/o Bank of Aus-
tralasia, Bright (Vic.):
“My hands are so small and so few!”
As golfers do, Mrs. J. Low, of
Girrahween, Strathdichie, Proserpine
(N.Q.), “addressed the ball”:
“Don’t come close, I’ve a dose of the
’flu.”
P T. Kennedy, of Pleystowe, Mackay
(Q.), observed neatly
“This pill’ll be bitter to chew.”
Still on the subject of the “sitter,” Mrs.
A. A. Bower, Box 36, Queenstown (Tas.),
expressed with vigor a thought held by
many other competitors:
“It shot like a bolt from the blue.”
Like Mrs. Bower’s line, that of Thomas
Lake, of Travancore Psychological
Clinic, Flemington-street, Flemington
(Vic.), portrayed the fieldsman gazing
dumbly into the blue:
“If only I knew when it’s due.”
H. V. Fitzharding, of Reid, Canberra,
said he’d titter
And carefully study the view,
and R. H. Hay, of 10 Sydney-road, Artar-
mon (N.S.W.), had the splendidly vague
And appear to have nothing in view.
L. G. Black, of 371 Hay-street, Perth,
summed it up with a pun:
“I can’t grasp what I’m put here to do.”
Among the sprightlier lines, there was
that of E. G. Yeomans, c/o Shell Co.
of Australia, Ltd., Brisbane:
“Here it comes! There it goes! How it
flew!”
Miss I. Pocknall, of Pinecliffe, Forbes
Line (N.S.W.), had a similar notion:
“It’s coming! It’s going! It’s through!”
All the foregoing took £1 prizes, die
rest of the twenty going to:
M. Byrne, Public School residence,
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), for the line
“It won’t stop for my signal. It’s through.”
C. W. Judd, of Huntingdon, Holbrook-
avenue, Kirribilli (N.S.W.):
“It’s a chance—if they try to run two.”
A. Thompson, 81 Oriel-road, Clayfield,
Brisbane:
And pretend to be tying his shoe.
J N. Wilson, Lyons-terrace, Windsor.
Brisbane, N. 3:
“It’s more often I don’t than I do.”
N. Marks, 142 Phillip-street, Sydney:
And omit to collect what was due.
The second prize of £lO went to A. L.
Ratf, c/o Q.N. Bank, Ltd., Queen-street,
Brisbane, who had a touch of Lord’s at
its politest with
And recite, so polite, “Apres vous!”
M. Hardy, Box 444, Townsville (Q.), sent
in a picture that will be familiar to tennis
enthusiasts as well as cricketers ; the com-
plete Limerick, with the last line for
which he received the £2O first prize,
reads: —
A cricketer fielding at Cue
Was the worst at a catch that I knew,
For when offered a “sitter”
He’d nervously titter
“It’s for you; no, foi* me; yes, for you!”


FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, pufliness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by mill’ons of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
BUSINESS COLLEGE
FOR SALE in New Zealand City of 100,000
population, Business College which has been
established for over seven years. Sickness in
the Principal’s family is the sole reason for
selling. The purchase is £650, which, if suit-
able security is offered, may be spread over
a period.
Those genuinely interested in this successful
Business College may obtain further informa-
tion by communicating with
“EDUCATION,”
Care W. B. FITCHETT, LTD.,
Advertising Agents,
Box 617, Wellington, N.Z.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No.' 1664 of 1938.
BETWEEN CHARLES EWAN HYDE Peti-
Anf 1 LAVINIA ALEXANDRA HYDE
Respondent. „ , ,
TO LAVINIA ALEXANDRA HYDE late of
West Wyalong in the State of New South
W^ICS
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHARLES
EWAN HYDE has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a Divorce on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on of before the Twenty-fourth day of Febru-
ary 1939 and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this fifth day of December, 19a8.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
R. W. FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 51 Castlereagh Street, Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney is still trying to brush the
dust out of her hair. Last Saturday
a wind ferocious as some prehistoric
•monster trampled and lashed the city
and surrounding districts from morning
till night. Temperature rushed up to
98.3, and there was a sort of brassy
haze over the world. This was the
effect of fierce sun burning through the
curtain of dust, and of smoke from bush-
fires.
Suburbia lost its tiled roofs, fences
crashed, trees were torn off leaf and
limb, the weaker ones often uprooted.
Fires broke out everywhere, and nearly
500 calls in the metropolitan area sped
brigades into action during Saturday and
Sunday. Orchardists face a thin Christ-
mas stocking ; the plum that would have
been in it, the cheque from good crops,
is now indeed gone with the wind. Bush-
fires raged, walls crashed, factories
burned, a torn transmission wire near
the Harbor Bridge tunnel delayed train
services on that route for over three
hours, and the lighting and power ser-
vice in many suburbs was disorganised.
Launches and dinghies were like cockle-
shells on a harbor that threatened every
minute to tear up Fort Denison itself.
Ballet nights—languorous music, crisp
music, romantic music! Scenes that are
all fire and vigor and blazing color or
just quiet beauty, as elusive as a dream.
And you don’t have to be millionaires,
stockbrokers’ affianced, or permanent
deadheads, like press people, to enjoy it.
Students of all sorts are eating it up night
after night, for lots of the seats aren’t
prohibitive in price. This Letter finds
that “Symphonie Fantastique” appeals
more to the men than to the women of
her acquaintance; that the latter agree
they could enjoy “The Good-humored
Ladies” over and over again. Perhaps
the burning greens, blues, rose-and-gold
of the brocades that spread out in the
hooped skirts of the dancers make par-
ticular appeal.
The entrance to the Theatre Royal and
the back of the dress-circle on first nights
have an air of intimacy. The same men
and women stream in to take their accus-
tomed places. Robin Eakin with her
sparkle, Jessica Chard with her dark
curls, Joan Sterling Levis in lagoon-blue
taffetas and Stephanie Edye in white are
young frequenters. So are the Salenger
girls. Mrs. E. Wunderlich’s petunia
chiffons (worn last Friday night) were a
nice contrast to her fair coloring. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfaix came flounced in black
and-white.
The two Mrs. Walter Burfitts were to-
gether. A great cluster of yellow cow-
slips was fastened in the black lace frock
worn by Mrs. Burfitt, senior. Daughter-
in-law was in white brocade. Miss
Jobson and Miss Wilson, of Hopewood
House, are regulars. Mrs. Roy Buck-
land’s taffeta coat was long and wine-
colored. Visitor Mrs. John Simon’s white
mandarin coat was worn with a black
sequin frock ; her father-in-law’s Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. Mrs. Bertie
Kelly’s satins were Parma violet. Con-
ductor Antal Dorati’s wife, Mrs. Erik
Fischer, V. Dandre, Arnold Haskell, Syd-
ney Ure Smith, Wal Taylor and the
mouth-organist Larry Adlers were other
ballet fans. Among other nice people,
let this Letter mention the girl-attendants
of the Royal.
Relief-workers in Czechoslokavia will
be able to spread a little more comfort
because of the informal concert arranged
by Mrs. Norman Macleod, wife of the
Consul for Latvia. The Little Theatre
in Phillip-street held an audience that
came down from the heights of North
Shore, from the Rivers and from the
Points on the way to Vaucluse. Joan
Mackaness Holmes was a colorful figure
in full Czechoslovakian costume. She
sang folksongs while other girls in bright
costume swung into dance steps. Then
there was a puppet show, a sprightly
company of small actors presented by
the Treuthardt de Sevres couple. There
were songs by Fraser Coss, whose very
fair wife, in pearl-grey satins, was an
applauder.
The Francis Anderson couple were
there; so was Claude Plowman, who
later distinguished himself by buying at
auction and handing back large boxes
of chocolates. Pianist Charles Philip, his
wife (her white crepes bright with
flowers) and a small daughter in leaf-
green organdie helped the success. So
did small Anne Knox, who helped sell
the gardenias that before saiAage-time
were pinned in every woman’s hair.
Dr. George Mackaness proved an
absolute artist in helping serve round
the studio supper. Mrs. Mackaness wore
blithe raiment, and Linette Grayson's
black satin had its decolletage heart-
shaped at the back. Pretty dark-haired
Pat Burge, Margaret Ruthven, Mrs. Nor-
man Lowe, her black lace frock cut off
the shoulders, miniature style, Mrs..
Florence Taylor, Annis Parsons, Mrs.
Sauer, Mrs. Murphy, of Trinity Gram-
mar, and Charles Nicis, with hosts of
other well-knowns, were there enjoying
a good four-shillingsworth of entertain-
ment. The Consul-General for Czecho-
slovakia and Mrs. Kveton held quite a
reception at the end of the programme.
The girl with the direct gaze is Betty
Coller, who plays the erring but heroic
granddaughter Mollic in “The Sea
Chest.” This Australian play will be
presented for the first time on December
17 at the Conservatorium in the cause
of the British-American co-operation for
world peace. Photograph by May Moore.
Gone with the whalebone corset is the
idea that it is vulgar to talk about food.
It is never vulgar to talk of such food as
was served at the Walter Swinsons’ party.
The food at the banker A. C. Davidsons'
afternoon, too, is still a topic of converse
when the guests meet. Mrs. Waltei
Swinson set her reception in the Queen’s
Club, and the flower compositions were
as graceful as the groupings in “Syl-
phides” or any other romantic ballet. On
the mantel in the big drawing-room the
pink spikes of gladioli, erect as the spire
of St. James’s opposite, pointed heaven-
wards. In the same grouping were those
little golden lilies and a gleam of hibiscus-
red. On the tables were Victorian posies of
hydrangea and roses. No wonder the
guest of honor, Sir Granville Bantock,
likened the flower arrangements to his
symphonies. The composer greeted old
friends and made new ones standing be-
tween the host and hostess. Not much
of the comedy of human nature escapes
that kindly, considering eye of his —just
the right man to interpret the music of
the Hebrides.
Up at one end of the room A.B.C.’s
chairman Cleary talked to many. The
tall Minister for Health radiated manly
charm: the Bertie Kellys came, her
sweeping lame frock gleaming rose-
and-gold. Mrs. Charlie Philip, very trig
in white tailorings, was with pianist hus-
band and tenor Benson's wife. Mrs.
Vern Barnett sparkled in pink flower-
patterned crepes ; the David Maughans
were there, and the Mtrk Sheldons the
Sheldon lady’s white hat brought in the
dove of peace. It nestled confidingly on
the crown. One of the largest hats was
worn by Faith Macarthur Onslow. It
was black, like her frock. Anemone-pink
was Clarice -Faithfull Anderson's frock ;
Beulah Bolton was in black-and-white.
Mrs. Beresford Grant’s frock was sum-
mery as the day. The Harry Budge lady
was attractive in black-and-white. And
now for Mrs. Swinson’s frock. This was
of black lace, gracious, full-skirted and
girdled with velvet. Her flowers were
gardenias. Her small black hat had one
side upturned to hold a catch of white
hyacinth.
The current attraction of the Indepen-
dent Theatre studio nights is “Shadows
in the High Place.” This is a drama
with a Polynesian setting, and the author,
Mrs. Laurel Mills, is pictured here by
Raymond Sawyer. The play drew a big
audience last Saturday, and it will be
repeated to-night at the theatre’s Pilt-
street address.
Wal Taylor came back last week by
way of the U.S..A. He is once more
supervising the Grosvenor Galleries, and
two of his happiest memories are that
of being in the guard of honor at
Villers-Bret. and of his visit to Saint
Ouen. This is the village near Amiens
where Wal and his battalion were
billeted when the Armistice was declared.
Everything was just as it was in the war
days. He took the bus from Amiens,
sitting between two elderly women, one
with a basket, of cackling fowls, the other
with a basket of cabbage.
At Saint Ouen he found the people
he had lived with had died, but some
relations of 1 theirs arranged to put him
up. In a flash the news went through
the village that an Australian had re-
turned to visit the place. He was the
first to do so in all the years. The cure
of the village church came to greet him.
Wal took a little wander down the vil-
lage, mostly one long straggly street, an
estaminet at each end, picturesque with
its whitewashed houses, its rustling
poplars. Every door was flung open.
He had to go in and have coffee with
one, cognac with another. He was told
all the news of the years between, and
he returned to the house where he was
staying with half the children of Saint
Ouen chattering around him. When,
the next day, he bought a wreath for
the grave of his war-time host and
hostess, the entire village could have
been his for the asking.
Mrs. H. G. Hassock is brimful of the
children’s party that will fill the Troca-
dero with fun, balloons and fairies on
December 19. This, of course, is in aid
of her pet Scarba, the seaside home for
children, and some of the Scarba young-
sters will be among the merrymakers.
A Shirley Temple cat, a Shetland pony,
giants and clowns have all promised to
be present.
The William G. Buckles have a house
set in tall trees in Whiting Beach-road,
Mosman. The doors were flung wide
last week in honor of the Gordon Rus-
sells, newly-returned from world travels,
and of Wal Taylor, who was their fellow-
adventurer. Smart was the word for
Mrs. Russell’s cornflower-edged toque,
her dark-blue frock, its bodice strikingly
scrolled in white braid. The hostess wore
a sweeping frock of black satin, and
poured iced drinks for the parched (it
had been a blister of a day) before serv-
ing a buffet dinner. The long lounge is
almost entirely hung with Grtiners; and
there are bits of loveliness, too, signed by
Heysen and other names among the art
elect. Picture-makers and picture-lovers
made up the company. The S. A. John-
stons, who buy pictures, were there ; so
were the artist Robert Johnsons. John
Brackenreg, John Buckle, Lloyd Rees
and Adrian Feint were others. Children
of the house, Anne and Bill, helped with
the entertaining.
The Sydney that comes to life at 8
p.m. has a new place to go stepping, if
not Lambeth Walking. Prince’s, the new
and glittering, opened its doors last Wed-
nesday. Set in a polished oval, one step
down from the surrounding stretches of
strawberry carpet, the dance floor of
Canadian beechwood, satin-smooth and
seemingly seamless, appears small to
Sydney eyes, it is, however, authorities
declare, the precise size of those in the
best night clubs of London. A crown
and Prince of Wales’s feathers, beige in
tone, are woven into the red carpet. The
crown and feathers are on all the plate —
impossible to get away with one entree
dish. Lounges and erect chairs cushioned
in blue and ivory will supply an easy
background for multicolored frocking.
Lighting (worked from close to the
bandstand) has been specially thought
out, and complexions will glow under
roseate beams. Brilliant electrics ring
the dance floor; tall-stemmed flowers
rise shoulder-high from pottery jars and
troughs ; about the walls are panels made
up of sports gear ; the arts, too, are en-
couFaged—the implements of music and
painting cry, in plaster, Excelsior! Amid
the kitchen's shining avenue of stoves
and platters chefs from various corners
of Europe don their caps. Even the
bread rolls are baked on the spot.
To the uninitiate there’s something
almost like black magic in watching a
radio announcer at work. At the touch
of a finger different colored bulbs flash
across the subdued light of the studio,
where sound cometh not but only
departs. Two queens of the air this
Letter linked up with last week were
Myra Dempsey, of the warm speaking
voice, and Hilda Morse, who has just
married Frederick Gardner Hales,
nephew of “Smiler” Hales. After doing
newspaper work in the Argentine and
New York, Mr. Hales is now settled in
Sydney as machinery manager of Alex.
Cowan and Sons.
Sheila, eldest daughter of Priminister
Lyons, is so airminded that once she
thought of going for her pilot’s certi-
ficate, or at least becoming an air hostess.
Now, however, she is booked for a flight
into matrimony with William J. Lacey,
of Devonport and Vacuum Oil.
The Arabian Nights splendors live
again in the pictures of Peter Martin
Lampel now, showing at the Grosvenor
Galleries. Officers of the Sultan’s body-
guard in scarlet cloth or impressive
sarong are among the subjects. The
artist’s work is of Java, Bali and such
places where color is still vivid. Reds,
greens, yellows tell of more exotic tastes
than prevail in cooler climates. An
actress in her robes and veils of multi-
colored but delicate shading is an
attractive work. The Consul for the
Netherlands, J. Van Holst Pellekaan,
opened the show, which contains portraits
of two of his children. Two more small
citizens of the Netherlands are present.
They are children of the Consul-General.
The Robert de Burgh Persse couple
flew down from Brisbane after their wed-
ding in St. John’s Cathedral, Brisbane,
to catch the Mariposa for the U.S.A.
The bride was Beryl Mary .Collins, of
Beaudesert (Q.). The Persse and the
Collins families have quite a taste for
matrimonial linkings. Mrs. Robert's
sister is Mrs. Dudley Persse.


“Ardath Specials are
Grand Cigarettes 99
Says
LAWRENCE
TIBBETT
m
/
AT
ur>
dr
.
On
o
o
X
&
Qd
o
O
TV
'so'
-•
$
r*&
n
y
4 for Pure enjoyment
It’s smart to smoke them and it’s smart
to give them ... Ardath Specials in their
gay Christmas packings.
Pictorial Gift Cartons of 5 0 Ardath
Specials, as illustrated .... 3/9
Pictorial Gift Cartons of 100
Ardath Specials 7/6
Also handsome bakelite boxes in special
Christmas Cartons.
9053 C-11-8


A Present with a
FUTURE
f * i
X ’
'
tes&m
5 . x..' . » >«•
if No wood
to chop
if No fires
to light
if Burns
continuously
day and night
AGA
MASTER of FOOD
MISER of FUEL
This year, and for at least 20 years
to come, give yourself, your fam-
ily and your guests, the luxury of
meals cooked by an AGA Cooker.
The AGA Cooker introduces a
new era of modern luxury, com-
fort, cooking ease and perfection.
Food flavours are greatly
improved, meals can be kept hot
indefinitely without spoiling, over-
night cooking costs no more, and
the kitchen is constantly air-
conditioned. - •
Consider: Model "C" illustrated,
cooks for a guaranteed maximum
fuel cost of £4 a year (with coke
at £2 per ton), and like all AG A
Cookers, is guaranteed against
faulty workmanship and material
for 20 years.
Can you equal such economy?
Can you afford not to own an
AGA?
If you would like a useful house-
hold present which will be a con-
stant joy and a gilt edged invest-
ment, an AGA Cooker is ideal.
Write to-day for illustrated booklet l’-l 2 no obligation.
LEVIN & GO., LTD. Inc. in N.Z.
45 KING STREET, STDNET and at CLARKE’S SLOGS., 432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
Melbourne
Chatter
Mrs. Laing-Hay welcomed Mary
Saenger and her father back from the
U.S.A. on Saturday with cocktails at
Cresswell, her parents’ home. The
travellers were away only three and a half
months, but they covered a lot of U.S.
and Canadian territory by railway dur-
ing that time. To the party Mary wore
black sheer, with a mask of a mischievous
jade-green Chinese as a brooch and gar-
denias tucked into her belt. Oriental
implications were also sounded by Mrs.
Sverre Lie, whose black frock was deco-
rated with rows of Chinese characters
(or perhaps pseudo-Chinese, for she has
up to date discovered no irruption upon
Celestial contemplation at the tote
windows when she waits her turn in the
queue in front of any placid Chinese in-
dulging his passion for gambling). For
her party Mrs. Laing-Hay wore orchids
pinned to a frock of gaily-figured silk
crepe. Among several guests present with
mild coats of wind-tan after an afternoon
in the open air were Fritz Frankenberg,
once again a veteran triumphant from
Kooyong in the “old fellows’ ” doubles.
Chas. Hartman also had a well-spent
day behind him, his profits being three
golf balls from 36 holes of golf.
Next year the Kyarra nurses will make
their annual dinner a silver jubilee, and
husbands and “followers” are, as a great
honor, to be invited. The party is always
on December 5, for it was on that
date in 1914 that the first hospital ship
to leave Australia sailed down Port
Phillip Bay. This year the dinner was as
jolly as ever, held at the Australia, with
the band bursting into “Mademoiselle
from Armentieres,” Miss Kendall lifting
up her voice in occasional verses of senti-
ment, with the table decorated in scarlet
and grey streamers, a prominent red
cross and gorgeous flowers, and patrons
of oysters and grills at near-by tables
casting benevolent eyes upon the pro-
ceedings. The only speeches were made
by Miss Evelyn Conyers, who was
matron-in-chief of the Australian Army
Nurses’ Service, and by Miss Ida
O'Dwyer, who recently retired from Caul-
field Repat. Hospital, and is off to Eng-
land for a holiday in January.
Among the 30 ex-nurses present (all
of whom sailed on the Kyarra in 1914)'
were Mrs. Ted Milne, of Sydney (who
used to be Sister Wyse), who was making
her twelfth trip to Melbourne for the
reunion. From Brisbane came Mrs.
John Pine (who used to be Sister
Madeleine Wilson). From Kyneton
there was Mrs. J. Downing (in the old
days she was South Australian Elsie
Marsh). Mrs. H. Talbot Hamilton was
a Tasmanian representative ; she trained
among the apple-trees as Elsie Gibson.
Mrs. Roy Chambers was a Perth Hos-
pital representative; she trained there
when she was Maud Baker. Among
other enthusiasts present who seldom
miss a Kyarra reunion were Mrs. Harold
Walker (a Queenslander for the even-
ing, at least), Miss Grace Douglas, Mrs.
B. T. Zwar, Mrs. Hume Turnbull and
Mrs. McCardie White.
Mary Dees was 100 per cent, glamor
girl when she opened the Christmas ex-
hibition of etchings, new oils and water-
colors at the Sedon Galleries. Very
cleverly she did the trick in toning her-
self down instead of up with a simple
color scheme of high-waisted beige frock
made with fully-flared skirt and worn
with a black belt laced at the front, black
bag shoes and gloves and tall black en-
velope hat. She brought support with
her from “The Woman” co. in the shape
of Marjorie Crossland, in black, with
beaten silver necklace. Miss Crossland,
as offsider-in-chief, was also presented
with a rush fan, water-lilies attached.
Also accompanying Miss Dees were
Suzanne Jackson, in black, with a load
of white veil, and Athalea Siddons, also
in the picture with black frock and hat
and quantities of veil. Among those
present at the opening were the Bob
Crolls, pleased at the career in front of
their only son Robin, who all in two
days heard of his success in final exams,
for an Agricultural Science degree and
his new job as field officer for the Agri-
cultural Department. A couple of days
later they were also passing on congratu-
lations to friend Will Rowell, whose por-
trait of Mr. Croll has just been awarded
the Max Pincus Art Prize.
Telephone lines to Tasmania were
humming last week with felicitations for
Sheila Lyons and William J. Lacey.
Sheila, who is the eldest of the Prime
Minister and Dame Enid Lyons’s brood
of 11, is well endowed with domestic
virtues, with a quiet, charming manner
and a pair of beautiful eyes. She has
found that being the eldest has its pros
and its cons, but her tastes are on the
whole simple. Her Coronation visit and
presentation at Court were exciting ex-
periences, but she was also quite happy
running a flat in Melbourne for her sister
Kathleen and brother Desmond (who is
in the 1.C.1.), or looking after the
children while her parents, with Kath-
leen and Enid, were away in Queensland
Mr. Lacey, who is the only son of the
M. Lacey couple, of Woollahra, N.S.W.,
is one of Vacuum Oil's outdoor represen-
latives in the north-west of Tasmania.
The wedding’s to be quiet, and will take
place some time next year. Miss Lyons’s
portrait by Spencer Shier.
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson had interests
drawing her in two directions one after-
noon last week. She organised Travis
Webber's show at the Centenary Club,
and also had a soft spot for the opening
of Albert Namatjira’s exhibition at the
same hour at the Fine Arts Gallery. Mrs.
Richardson had a finger in some of
Albert’s first paints and sheets of draw-
ing paper. At one. of his own one-man
exhibitions in Adelaide Rex Battarbee
placed some of Albert’s kangaroos along-
side his catalogues, which were free. The
painting of the ’roos caught Mrs. Richard-
son’s eye, and she suggested that those
who felt so disposed might pay for their
catalogues, the contributions going
towards materials for this unknown Black
Brother to paint more kangaroos, gnarled
trees, orangy mountains and other abos.
out hunting.
Travis Webber’s exhibition was opened
by the Lady Mayoress, and Mrs. Richard-
son gave tea to those who came on the
first afternoon to study the colors of the
Grampians, the Dandenongs, the green
valleys of Heidelberg and the red hills of
Oraparinna. Up there in “The Centre”
the Webbers, a personable couple, she
very slim and very blonde, he tall and
handsome, went camping on “tin dog
and damper,” fresh eggs (for fowls live
and lay up in that locality) and fresh
vegetables bought en route. Painting No.
5, “Boundary Rider’s Cottage” near
Oraparinna, was occupied by the Webbers
for a fortnight of what they called “soft
living.” Throughout their trip flies were
their only real hardship and caused an
amount of irritation in spite of Mrs.
Webber’s invention of veils and covers.
Artist Rex Battarbee is responsible for
the first one-man exhibition ever held in
Melbourne by an Australian aborigine,
Albert Namatjira, now to be seen at the
Fine Arts Gallery. Battarbee, who has
visited “The Centre” four times, made
Albert his camelboy, rifle-carrier and
recipient of some brushes and tubes of
paint. Together they shared a bit of
hardship and adventure and at least one
memorable thrill on meeting a tribe of
wild blacks. Battarbee wasn’t keen about
their teeth and the glitter in their eyes,
and was glad when they were safe on
their way to another waterhole. Albert
was quivering in every limb, not through
a “yellow streak” but out of respect for
the spells of the Kadaitcha (medicine-
man). Albert and his lubra belong to
the Arunta, and they have populated the
great open spaces to the extent of seven
piccaninnies.
Wisely Mr. Battarbee decided not to
bring Albert to Melbourne for the exhi-
bition. Lady Huntingfield opened the
show, at which more men than usual
were noticed. Among them was H. R.
Balfour, vice-president of the Anthropo-
logical Society. He and his wife visited
“The Centre,” and, like all others who
meet the Arunta, contracted nicknames
from them. Mrs. Balfour was “Mrs.
White Lubra,” and her better-half earned
the flattering panegyric of “Happy
Cheeks.”
Those who organised the Mercy Hos-
pital Christmas party at Menzies were
strong-minded in the matter of the
Christmas-tree. It attracted several
nibbles from likely buyers, but had
already been set aside in thought as a
Christmas surprise for the young folk at
the Mercy Orphanage in South Mel-
bourne. The organiser of the party was
Mrs. Clarence Halleur, who, like these
tried and true auxiliary members, is not
discouraged at the thought of an over-
draft, the “nightmare” for this particular
hospital being £lOO per week interest on
borrowed money.
Lord and Lady Huntingfield are plan-
ning a fresh-air and back-to-nature week
down at Wilson’s Promontory. They
will travel by the fast, convenient method
of aeroplane to the Promontory ’drome
used as a base for Air Force manoeuvres.
Thence they will motor a couple of miles
to the Chalet, a comfortable spot pro-
vided too many demands aren’t made for
the softer luxuries of life. There are
hot showers, but, candles light the bed-
rooms, and there is just one matey fire-
place for everybody in the living-room,
which is all in one with the dining-room.
The Chalet accommodates about 40
people who like the smell of adventure and
getting off the too easily accessible track.
The Promontory attractions were
(up to a few weeks ago) its isolation, its
impressive scenery, big stuff in the way
of surf, the ranger’s horses and the
chance of meeting emus, wombats, koalas
and foxes on a morning’s walk. Fish also
are partial to the locality, and can be
caught, so the fishermen say, at the rate
of 80 per hour. The youngest inhabitants
of the Chalet are the Russells’ small
daughters Judith and Gail, aged five and
three respectively. The new road as far
as the Chalet is already in use, and will be
opened officially very soon, so motorists
need no longer study the tides and carry
a spade for emergencies along the beach
route. The present Chalet will eventually
be used as bachelors’ quarters. Building
of the new wing commences in February.
When Boneitta Smith (Eve Ray photo-
graph) plays Victoria in “Battles Long
Ago,” one of the provocative plays to be
produced at the Little Theatre for a
three nights’ season commencing on
December 17, she will wear a gown that
belonged to her great-great-aunt. The
period of the play is 1870, and the dress
fits into the era of fashion between the
crinoline and the bustle. Miss Smith is
particularly interested in this one-acter,
for while she was abroad last year she
met the author, Clifford Bax, at a late-
afternoon party given by Elsie Fogarty
in her London studio, where guests were
all of or near to the stage. Miss Smith
describes Bax as tall, thin and interesting,
with a little goatee beard and a twinkle
in his eye.
Melbourne’s chronic state of crisis
with regard to its hospital accommoda-
tion is likely soon to be forgotten. Royal
Melbourne’s pew premises on the Pig
Market site, after years of argument and
discussion, will begin arising in the new
year. It will cost £BOO,OOO, and will be
one of the most modern sickbays in
Australia. Prince Henry’s 13-storey
building being erected in South Mel-
bourne, which hasn’t the building re-
strictions of Melbourne proper, will soon
dominate the city. The central block
will run away with a quarter of a mil-
lion, and another half a million goes into
a new diagnostic and research block and
other extensions to the Alfred. The
Women’s Hospital is to have a new
pathological and research block and the
Austin, the first intermediate hospital for
cancer and chronic diseases in Australia.
The State Cabinet is also handing out
£150.000, mainly for country hospitals.
Total expenditure from loans and private
collection will exceed two millions.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
HEBDEN HARE, formerly of England, but
for a number of years resident in Victoria,
kindly communicate with the undermentioned
firm of solicitors.
WM. BROCKET, NEYLON & CO.,
108 Queen Street, Melbourne.
FEDORA AGNES SLEE.
IF FEDORA AGNES SLEE (wife of Clarence
Slee), formerly of Jamestown and Adelaide,
South Australia, and last heard of in New-
market, Sydney, New South Wales (or, if she
be dead, her personal representative), com-
municates with the undersigned she will hear
of something to her advantage?
JOHNSTONE, OLSSON & BLEBY,
Solicitors, Steamship Buildings,
Currie Street, Adelaide.
FAHEY, MICHAEL —aged about 52 years, a
painter, last heard of about 16 years ago in
Queensland —will hear something to his advan-
tage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
HEALY, JAMES, deceased, latp of Ballintlea,
Cratloe, Co. Clare. His stepsister Bridget
Healy or her children are asked to communicate
with LAWSON & JARDINE, Solicitors, 123
William Street, Melbourne.
BRANDALER r S
at
nt
gu
ara
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BKAXDADEK * CO. Ud- BIKIILNGH AM. ENG
GW
PENS
f ame is
Z7L/?,
(DCallum’s
r yjie(/I/iisk
h
I X
fj
on
1L
0°
y»
iav^
ip
ScP
(. - : v
V,—
38*-2
Distributors for tht
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.
Adelaide
louse of McCallum:
Laonel bamson & Son - - - Fremantl
Macfarlane Bros. & Co. - - - - Hobart
°o° n
*
WHAT'S rout BLADE
COLLECTION WORIH ?
Two a week ? 104 per annum—not a bad bag.
Those bits of steel cost you a pretty penny
too. Unless you’re a born collector why not
give it up and go in for real shaving comfort
and economy. A Wilkinson Razor and four
hollow ground blades will see you through a
whole year because the Wilkinson uses full
hollow ground blades which are mekanised
stropped in the razor itself. And if the saving
doesn’t interest you the extra shaving comfort
certainly will.
*a/or In
Oak Cast
with two
Hollow
Ground
Blades
v d 15/6
Strop '
/it Nickel-
plated Cate 21 /-(
InCbromeCaie.
three Blades
and Strop. 17/6
7-0 A t set
with a blade for
every day o) the
week - - ?7/6
HOLLOW GROUND BLADE
WILKINSON
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
if ObtainabWJrom all Sloret ~k
WORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The McEwen Plan
“K. 57”: A few hours before the
Federal session closed, Minister McEwen
gave particulars of the “far-reaching
changes” he has planned for the N.T.
The 1903 (S.A.) mining laws are to be
brought up to date. “Vigorous mining
administration and reasonable direct
assistance to the industry” are promised.
Persons engaged in it will be exempt
from income tax, and loans and subsidies
will be granted to companies and small
miners. The Westralian scheme of super-
vised prospecting is to be tried on a
smaller scale, and prospectors will be
assisted with subsidised carting to Gov-
ernment batteries.
“A vigorous land-settlement policy."
to be administered by a “trained land-
administrative staff,” aims at opening up
pastoral country by the introduction of
a five-year plan of stock-route construc-
tion and road-building, and by direct
Government assistance to settlers. Assist-
ance to convert cattle runs into sheep
runs will be given after leases have been
surveyed. Rates of road-construction
and assistance to. lessees will be governed
by other Government expenditure.
Railways are to be “more fully con-
sidered,” but subsidies to Gulf shipping
will cease. Stations on the Barkly Table-
land and in the Victoria River district
will be served, during the dry season, by
the Government road train, working in
conjunction with the Darwin-Birdum
railway and the shipping service to Dar-
win. Transport costs are to be “substan-
tially reduced.”
Primary industries are to have income-
tax exemption for 10 years ; and petrol
prices in inland areas are to be reduced
by the equivalent of petrol tax.
The value of these proposals will de-
pend mainly on the speed and thorough-
ness with which they are carried out. The
N.T. establishment has, for the most
part, been transferred to Darwin, and
Mr. McEwen will need to make sure that
his lieutenants have a sound working
knowledge of the Territory and its
problems.
“Zedo”: Gordon Thomas, of the
Rabaul “Times,” is one of the few advo-
cates of a unified language for New
Guinea natives. Something of the sort
is needed, though the Motuan of Papua
would scarcely meet the case. Thomas
contends that there can be no civilisation
of the native until he acquires an ability
to appreciate values and ceases to accept
the wonders of the world as “something
belong whiteman.” On the part of his
charges he would cultivate a little of
the thinking spirit of the old Samoan
chief who was shown a map of the world
so that he might be impressed with the
insignificance of Samoa. “Yes,” said the
old man sceptically, “it looks right. But
who made the dam’ map?”
* * ¥ *
“J.W.”: Exit Don Friedman, whose
bare head and scantily-clad torso and
overloaded bike were known on outback
tracks. The old fellow picked up work
here and there. His later wanderings
were hampered by the carrying of a
cargo of newspaper cuttings about him-
self. Sunstroke got him on the blistered
track between Barclay Downs and Ml.
“That’s no Way t' fix a nosebag, blast yer!"
Isa, and they buried him under what has
been locally christened “Friedman’s
Tree.”
* * * sic
“XT.”: Ten young fellows from
Gordonvale (N.Q.) and Aloomba went
fishing off Franklin Island, not far from
Cairns. A heavy sea swamped their boat.
After six hours in the water nine out of
10 landed on High Island something
like a record in such tragedies, surely.
Ronald Blair, 28, was the only man
drowned. The rest settled down to a
diet of green mangoes and oysters until
they were rescued by the Tinana after
having been marooned from Saturday till
Tuesday. And then, though the men
had discarded their clothes, only three
needed to go to hospital after the ordeal,
and that merely for sunburn and oyster
cuts received when landing.
* * * *
“Tim’s Ghost”: Time was when it was
a proud and noble thing to be a copper
on the Darling Downs. Any broth of a
bhoy who couldn’t juggle a couple of
Maranoa teamsters in one hand, while
he kept off the mob after the shearing
cheques had filtered down, would have
been retired by sheer force of public
opinion. The lad whose cry, “Are ye
cornin’, ye omadhaun, or will ye be
tuck?” couldn’t be heard a clear couple
of miles off against the wind, so that
supporters of the prisoner might have
warning, was reckoned a sissy. And when
nothing else was doing there was always
work for a strong, energetic man in
removing some mounted sprig of Eton
from a bar by force majeuff. As for
arrests for language, in the days when
Toowoomba was called The Swamp a
constable would as soon have gone catch-
ing yellow-bellies with cotton and a pin.
And they always used the sergeant’s
helmet to draw raffles from. But how
have the mighty fallen! I see that a
fellow has been fined two quid in Too-
woomba on a charge that “he professed
to tell a fortune by reading a teacup for
gain—to wit, sixpence.”
* * * *
«r?: ». a D • > •, j
jn nitrates again the need for
nationa , dj ]egid | tion on modern
, ines o£ humanity and commonsense .
The petitioner alleged misconduct on
the wife’s part. She alleged desertion,
Judgment: Misconduct proved, peti-
tioner’s wilful neglect and conduct hav-
ir|g conduced to it; desertion was not
Proved. Both petitions were dismissed,
The P ar [* es had been separated for eight
years, there were no children, and no
ehance of reconciliation. Each wanted
to marr y again,
* * * *
“Si Nyde”: Tennant Creek field has
yielded the N.T.’s record nugget—3l loz.,
spotted about 40 miles west of the town-
ship, and evidently somewhere near , the
alluvial field where Harry Smith picked
up a 15oz. slug last year. The 31|oz.
nugget was part of 190 oz. found during
five months’ prospecting by Albert Lane
and Jack Noble. Both were pioneers
on the field. Noble prospected the
Wheel Doria. He held on when the
township fell on lean times, and took up
the Rising Sun with Bill Weaber, a blind
cattleman from the Kimberleys. Weaber
has. since made a small fortune from that
show.


<of>
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
1
R
O
DOMINANT COVERAGE
of the Entire West!
OAM’s new power of 1000
watts carries it into the
farthest outback farm and
into the busy city.
Do you realise that OUR
listeners are YOUR cus-
tomers?
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terraee,
Pertli,
Western Australia.
«**««»./
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
ĵ
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month: 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
IMPORTANT RECEIVER DEVELOPMENT FOR COUNTRY
LISTENERS.
The modern battery receiver has for some time been equal in per-
formance to the electrically-powered outfit. A good measure of economical
operation has been attained, but of necessity design has been restricted to
the use of two-volt valves. A big step forward was the introduction in
Australia of the Ever Ready Air Cell as a source of filament power alter-
natively to the accumulator, and the nuisance of battery recharging outback
disappeared. With 135 volts of Superdyne B battery and an Air Cell, a
five-valve dual-wave superhet can be operated for the best part of a year
with no other attention required than topping the Air Cell up with water
occasionally. Now new 1.4-volt directly-heated battery valves, with
amazingly economical operation, have been introduced.
These valves were referred to briefly
in B. 28/9/’3B as having attracted atten-
tion overseas; now a complete series is
available in Australia. One might be
inclined to be sceptical about valves
calling for only 1.4 volts on the filaments
and no more than 90 volts on the plates,
but any doubts are banished by examin-
ing a receiver designed with these types,
such as the experimental Tasma dual-
waver the writer has been privileged to
test. It is a five-valve superhet, powered
with only two heavy-duty 45-volt B
blocks, and can be used at a pinch with
the smallest single torch cell as the fila-
ment supply with perfect broadcast and
short-wave reception!
It is not suggested that this is the way
to use a receiver employing these valves,
The new Tasma five-valve d.-w. battery superhet,
designed for the 1.4-volt valves. The power supply on
the left consists of the new Ever Ready filament cell
and two Superdyne 45-volt blocks.
but the fact remains that it can be done.
It means that the country listener need
not fear the loss of a wanted programme
owing to filament-supply failure, for, if
after many months of operation the regu-
lar filament cell should peter out at an
awkward time, recep-
tion can be con-
tinued by connect-
ing up a small cell
of the U 2 type,
available in the re-
motest outback
store.
The receiver illus-
trated here was
made by the Tasma
factory to the order
of the Ever Ready
Battery Co. in order
to put the valves
through their paces
with various types
of batteries. It is a
five-valve dual-wave
model, covering the
regular broadcast
range and the short
waves from 15 to 50
metres. An R.F.
stage is provided
with the INSG R.F.
pentode. That this
stage is in action on
the short waves is evident from the re-
markable performance and complete
absence of double-spotting on stations.
The mixer-oscillator valve is the new
IA7G. A converter valve of excellent
characteristics, it does its job with only
90 volts maximum on the plate of the
mixer and oscillator sections.
The intermediate amplifier stage at
460 kc. is handled by another INSG R.F.
pentode, and the transformers are of the
new Tasma design, similar to the special
1600 kc. types recently made by this
factory for ultra-short-wave application.
The primary and secondary windings are
on trolitul formers with variable per-
meability tuning. The second detector
is the IHSG diode-triode, and the audio
pentode feeding a Rola type 8-21 permag.
speaker is the ICSG.
For the initial tests a standard 1.5-
volt dry cell was used for the filaments,
with 90 volts on the plates from two
Superdyne 45-volt blocks. An indoor
aerial, about 20ft. in length, was used,
and broadcasting stations
were tuned with ease,
despite particularly heavy
static. Of chief interest
to the writer were the
short waves, and from 9
p.m. onwards the Daven-
try 16- and 19-metre
stations and Berlin were
enjoyable at full volume
with remarkable clarity
and good reproduction.
The new Rola speaker
used in the design contri-
butes considerably to these
results. For purposes of
the test a liberty not
recommended by the valve
designers was taken, that of increasing
the plate voltage from 90 to 135. Under
these conditions it was surprising to note
that very little increase in volume or
sensitivity resulted, the only effect being
that of the necessity for a slight' re-
Connecting up for a field test of the new receiver. Charles
Hart, Queensland manager of Ever Ready, connects up the
filament cell held by sales manager G.K. Herring.
tuning adjustment. The large trans-
mission aerial, 137 ft. long with 50ft.
feeders, was then connected, but such
is the excellent design of the receiver
that very little advantage was gained,
stations being heard quite as well with
less static on the small indoor aerial.
So much for the listening results. No
test on a battery model would be com-
plete without a current-drain check, and
it is this that is of real importance to
the country man. On the filament side
the meter showed the A-battery drain to
be just over .3 of an ampere, and the
plate current read 11 milliamperes only.
It means that at a pinch anything in the
nature of a small single cell can be used
to carry on temporarily, and that 45-
volt batteries of the heavy-duty type are
all that are needed for many months of
good service. To try the effect of a
small filament cell, the cell was taken
from a pen-torch and the filament leads
held against the connections. The re-
ceiver sprang into
life just as if the
larger cell were con-
nected.
A new 1.5-volt
cell specially made
for receivers using
these new valves is
now being manufac-
tured. This Long
Life cell consists of
a large number of
small cells paralleled
in the container, and
has such capacity
that the life works
out at 970 hours on
a four-valve set and
860 hours on a five-
valver such as the
Trying out the “answer to the bushman's prayer.”
model tested. It will be available at 15s.
The valves also open up a new field in
portable receiver design, and American
engineers report that they are robust
enough to stand knocking about and
vibration. At the present time, the new
valves are not available in sufficient quan-
tity to enable receiver manufacturers
generally to get into production, but the
types used in the Tasma receiver as tested
included Radiotron and Raytheon. Ken-
Rad and Brimar makes in the series are
understood to be available. An interest-
ing feature of the valves is that, even with
a partially discharged A cell, it is still
possible to obtain satisfactory broadcast
reception at only 1.1 volt, but at this volt-
age the oscillator begins to kick out of
oscillation on the short-wave side. A
reasonable performance can be expected
at 1.2 volts. Microphonism with the new
valves is no greater than with the older
two-volt valves.
Characteristics of the types are as
shown. At the present stage there is no
Class-B valve available, but manufac-
turers should produce this type in the
near future. Filament ratings are not
shown in the tabulation as these are, with
the exception of the ICSG, 0.05 ampere,
which takes 0.1 of an ampere. It is
emphasised that, although the valves are
nominally 1.4 volts, no harm whatsoever
will result from the use of the 1.5 volts
from a' fresh A cell, the filament being
sufficiently “flexible” either way.
INSG, R.F. PENTODE.
Plate voltage 90v. (max.)
Screen voltage 90v. (max.)
Grid voltage 0 (F —)
Plate current I.2ma.
Screen current o.3ma.
Plate resistance I ,smeg.
Amp. factor 1160
Mutual cond. (zero grid) .. . . 750mmhos.
Mutual cond. ( —3.2 v. grid) .. 50mmhos.
Mutual cond. ( —4v. grid) .. .. smmhos.
Pin numbers according to standard R.M.A.
system. Pin 1, no connection; Pin 2, fila-
ment +; Pin 3, plate; Pin 4, screen grid;
Pin 5, no connection; no Pin 6; Pin 7, fila-
ment —Pin 8, no connection; Cap, control
grid.
IA7G, FREQUENCY CONVERTER.
Plate voltage ... 90v. (max.)
Screen voltage 45 volts*
Anode-grid voltage 90v. (max.)
Control-grid voltage 0 (F—)
Osc. grid resistor o.2meg.
Plate current 0.55 ma.
Screen current o.6ma.
Anode-grid current I.2ma.
Osc. grid current 0.035 ma.
Total cathode current 2.4 ma.
Plate resistance o.6meg.
Conversion cond. (zero grid) .. 250mmhos.
Conversion cond. ( 2v. grid) .. 50mmhos.
Conversion cond. ( —3v. grid) .. smmhos.
Osc. mutual conductance .. .. 600
* Screen should be fed from 90v. through
a 70,000-ohm dropping resistor and suitably
by-passed.
Pin numbers according to standard R.M.A.
system. Pin 1, no connection; Pin 2, fila-
ment + ; Pin 3, plate; Pin 4, screen grid;
Pin 5, oscillator grid; Pin 6, anode grid; Pin
7, filament ; Pin 8, no connection; Cap, con-
trol grid.
IHSG, DIODE-TRIODE.
Plate voltage 90v. (max.)
Grid voltage 0 (F —)
Plate current 0.15 ma.
Amp. factor 65
Plate resistance o.24meg.
Mutual conductance 275mmhos.
A single diode plate is provided, and this
is located at the negative end of the filament.
Pin numbers according to standard R.M.A.
system. Pin 1, no connection; Pin 2, fila-
ment + ; Pin 3, triode plate; Pin 4, no con-
nection ; Pin 5, diode plate; no Pin 6; Pin 7,
filament ; Pin 8, no connection; Cap, con-
trol grid.
lASG, OUTPUT PENTODE.
Plate voltage .... 85 90v. (max.)
Screen voltage .. 85 90v. (max.)
Olid voltage* .. .. —4.5 —4.5 v.
Plate current .. .. 3.5 4.oma.
Screen current .. 0.7 o.Bma.
Plate resistance . . 0.3 o.3meg.
Mutual cond 800 850mmhos.
Amp. factor .. .. 240 255
Load resistance .. 25,000 25,000 ohms
Power output .. .. 100 115mw.
Tot. harm. dist. .. 10 7 p.c.
* From negative filament.
NOTE. —Use of the ratings in the first
column will usually be most convenient, as
these correspond to self-bias operation with
a resistor in series with the B negative lead.
Under these conditions, grid voltage will be re-
duced accordingly as the B voltage drops with
battery life, and consequently a longer period
of useful B battery service will be obtained.
ICSG, OUTPUT PENTODE.
Plate voltage .... 83 90v. (max.)
Screen voltage .. 83 90v. (max.)
Grid voltage* .. .. —7.0 -7.5 v.
Plate current .. .. 7.0 7.5 ma.
Screen current .. 1.6 I.6ma.
Plate resistance .. 0.11 o.llsmeg.
Mutual cond. .. 1500 1550mmhos.
Amp. factor .. .. 165 180
Load resistance .. 9000 8000 ohms
Power output .. .. 200 240mw.
Tot. harm. dist. .. 10 10 p.c.
* From negative filament.
See note under type IASG regarding self-
bias operation.
Pin numbers according to standard R.M.A.
system. Pin 1, no connection; Pin 2, fila-
ment + ; Pin 3, plate; Pin 4, screen; Pin 5,
grid; no Pin 6; Pin 7, filament ; Pin 8, no
connection.
In order to show the possibilities of
such a receiver as that tested, and the
advantages of these valves, the writer, in
company with G. K. Herring, of the
Ever Ready Co., and A. Earl Read, B.Sc.,
editor of “Australasian Radio World,”
visited Brisbane radio traders. A large
number of Bulletin readers in Queens-
land are interested in this' new develop-
ment.
D.B. KNOCK.
Amateur Chatter.
A. W. Pearson, VK2KD, of Temora
(N.S.W.), protests that he knows nothing
of any station heard using that callsign
on 14mc. ’phone. QSL cards from
listeners reporting VK2KD have been
arriving, but Pearson has worked on no
other band than 3.5mc. for some consider-
able period. Piracy of any kind is bad
enough, but to appropriate another


&
&
ml
sf
1 happy
Bring to your home greater enjoy-
ment from radio this Christmas and
throughout the ISew Year by - - -
fie- Valving with
H IMMllfllTft
llfiui u i n ull u
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Ninth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date December 21.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided for the
purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 9,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than December 21.
Results of this Ninth Limerick Competition will be
announced in “The Bulletin” of December 28.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or she
wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are open
to all, free of any entrance charge.
NINTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS :...
A fisherman old and sedate
Once fished for three Weeks without bait.
When they questioned him Why,
He Would gravely reply
Tenth Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 4.
For the Tenth Limerick Competition the prizes are: First
Prize £2O; Second Prize £10; and 20 £1 prizes.
It will close on January 4 and results will be announced in
“The Bulletin” of January 11.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin” of
December 21 and December 28, and coupons may be filled
in from those issues or from the present one.
For the Tenth Competition, add a last line to the Limerick
in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and post to
reach
“Limericks No. 10,” Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 4.
TENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
An eccentric old person named Deare
Remarked, “/ will start the new year
By giving up shaving
And cycling and saving
The Eighth Limerick Competition Results are announced on Page 35.
fellow’s callsign is contemptible. Scant
consideration will be given such offenders
by the authorities.
Heard a VK4 saying that considerable
interference was being caused to local
B.C.Ls when using a single-wire-fed
half-wave antenna. Further remarks re-
vealed that the feeder was connected
directly to the tank coil in the trans-
mitter final. Such operation constitutes
direct coupling, and is something akin
to the use of “plain aerial” in the old
spark days. Logical method of using
the s.-w.-f. system is through a coupling
coil and condenser tuned to the desired
frequency, and link-coupled by several
feet to the final stage. Shock excitation
to V.C. receivers and harmonic radiation
are greatly minimised.
Nothing was heard of South Aus-
tralian 56mc. signals in Sydney during the
test day organised by the Fifth District
of W.I.A. on 27/11/’3B, though constant
listening and calling watches were kept
by VKs 2NO, 2AZ and 2EM.
VK2NO.
Round the Ultra-Searcher
Dial.
This receiver, designed to take in wave-
lengths between four and twelve metres,
was described in B. 3/8/’3B. The original
receiver is used by Eric Trebilcock
(BERSI9S) at Powell Creek, N.T., and
these observations come by air mail:
“During the flight to Australia of the
R.A.F. bombers I logged them on my
lower-frequency receiver on 45 metres
from the time they crossed the Equator.
Heard all three of them, using callsigns
GEZHV, GEZHW and GEZHX. The
28mc. band has been of chief interest
with the Ultra-Searcher; 1 have now
logged a total of 40 countries in all con-
tinents. I have heard stations in all con-
tinents on ’phone but not on C.W.
YVIAQ is the only South American I
have heard yet, although I have noticed
others calling several LU and PY stations.
“Some of the best DX heard on ‘ten’
in recent weeks has included KSAN,
K4EZR, VE4BF, VE4ALO, G6DH,
G2HK, G2ZV, GBDM, GBUJ, PKIVY,
PK3WI, J3FJ, KAIER, PAFB, TI3AV,
TI2RC, YVIAQ and ZEIJZ, all on
telephony. Stations logged on C.W. in-
clude GM6XW, GMBFR, EISF, XZ2DY,
J2CE, J2JJ, J3FJ, VS6AF, VS6AG,
FBBAA, KAIER, D4GXF, D4AFF,
D3DSR, YRSCF, YRSML, IIMH,
VR4BA, YL2CM, YL2RB, SP2LM,
CTIKH, ZSIZ, ZSSU, ZS6EG, VU2FZ,
VU2LK, VU2AN, VU2FS, ZEIJZ,
ZEIJG, UK3AH, U3BM,
OH3NP, OHSNI, OHSQD. HB9AQ,
HB9CE, ON4FT, ON4NO, IIIT,
SMSWJ, G2CR and many others.
“Three new stations logged are
ZB2OXVC, ZC4EB and ZE2JB, but
these cannot be claimed until verified. A
QSL from VQ2RE brings the total of
verifications up to 132 countries. Many
letters and cards are received from Eng-
land asking me to listen for signals, and
possibly this is due to the fact that this
district comes under VKB.”
World's Biggest Valves.
The picture shows a 8.8. C. engineer
wheeling one of the C.A.T. 14 s.-w.
water-cooled valves into place in the
final power amplifier of a high-power
transmitter. As the filament current of
one of these valves reaches nearly 500
amperes, even the filament leads are
water-cooled. Forty gallons of water
are required per minute to keep each
valve at a safe temperature.
“Dewey”: Recently I came across two
old dry cells —Hellesens, with the date of
manufacture stamped on the side, Sep-
tember, 1910. Someone had noted, too,
the date they were put into use, January
11, 1911. I borqd a half-inch hole down
through the thick layer of pitch that
sealed them and let as much water soak
in as they would hold. They were so
dry that for the whole of the first day
there was no result, but by the second
the water had brought them to life. At
present they are equal in performance
to new cells of similar type. The idea
should be worth remembering in con-
nection with the new 1.4-volt valves and
the receivers which are rumored to be on
the stocks.


m
MTS
LYS
£
PHOor
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Fencing Wire
■
X*
&
■M
-
» - fV-
igfef s^
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S” WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool Stays Firm.
“Ghanam”: Wool sales towards the
end of November were heartening.
At Brisbane well-grown wools brought
keen competition, which would have been
brighter but for restricted, French buy-
ing, a result of the “crisis'.” Yorkshire
and Germany clashed at ■intervals!' /Italy
was a regular buyer of suitable types.
U.S.A. widened its operations, and Japan
bought sparingly—rhos’tly bfoad'-stapled - .
high-yielding fleeces. Australian mills
were in the market, and the result was
, a fractional price rise which brought the
average to about 11.7 d. per pound.
At Adelaide the demand was keen
except for burry, and carbonising wools.
Japan bought carefully—over 1000 bales
---and a total, of over 36,000 bales out
of 38,378 offered were sold, the average
being 9.2 d. against 10.76 d. average at the
corresponding sale in 1937.
Albury’s third series with 15,000 bales
brought a full roster of buyers, and Aus-
tralian bidders helped to hold prices at
high levels, as did the Japanese, whose
purchases of medium to coarse crossbreds
sent the market up 5 p.c.
At Sydney’s December auctions prices
were firm at best with all major
countries buying.
It is significant that German'buying —
it was prophesied -that artificials would
keep Germany out of the market—has
been consistent and substantial at all major
sales. British exports of worsteds to Ger-
many increased this year, and Germans
have bought lops, yarns, noils and
wastes freely. The country stands at
the head of the list as a purchaser of
British home-grown wools. It appears —
as I have suggested before —that arti-
ficials allow manufacturers to use more
wool in blends. If the exchange posi-
tion could be righted both Germany and
Italy would be big buyers.
Merinos did well at the London sales
late last month, but there were persistent
withdrawals of poor lots. Bad-quality
wools have beeri the bugbear of the
Australian market since the beginning of
the depression. Although certain types,
because of climate and drought, must
always be below par, some of the energy
now spent on “buy-more-wool” propa-
ganda could be profitably diverted info
a “breed-better-sheep” campaign.
The wool position is better than
seemed likely at the beginning of the
season. The average till November 30
on the Sydney market was 10.5 d. per
pound, or £l3 7s. 9d. per bale, and the
return for wool sold £7,084,000. Novem-
ber showed a marked improvement over
other months, and 190,000 bales were
sold for £2,644,691, at an average of
11.2 d. per pound. Last year, till Novem-
ber 30, the return was £8,285,000,
but despite the drop this year’s selling
might have been far worse. In 1934-35
the Sydney return to November 30 was
only £4,565,000.
All conditions favor a firm market and
further rises. Wool tops are steady in.
London. U.S.A. figures show a decided
improvement in mill turnover, which
augurs well far heavier buying.
has a long way to go to fill her buying
quota. Germany looks like continuing .
to buy. Improvement in political con-
ditions in France would lead to heavier,
trading. After Christmas there will cer- ■
tainly be no backslide, unless something
very- unexpected occurs.
Sheep Handling Economies.
“Bungaree”: So much has to be done
to sheep at this time of the year—drench-
ing, dipping and inoculating for black
disease—that they are mustered and
yarded oftener than is good for them.
Drenching and inoculation could be
‘combined. The ;sheep should be run into
tfie,race and drenched first. If on fluky
country, carbon tet. (double strength)
will clean up stomach worms and fluke
together. It is a mistake to rush drench-
“ Here, take your daughter back! The price was one-pig, not a dozen!"
ing or inoculating. Don’t hold the
sheep’s head too high when drenching
or the carbon teti will go into the lungs
arid choke the animal. Similarly, when
inoculating, the sheep should be held so.
that it can’t jump or buck about when
the needle pricks. Lack of care here
means broken or lost needles. If the
needle, enters the tissue instead of dis-
charging the vaccine just under the skin
an abscess will form and lameness may
result.
After drenching start at the back and
.inoculate for black disease then'empty
the race and fill up again. There is no
need to turn sheep over to inoculate in
the thigh. Pick up the skin-on the
shoulder and inoculate just under the
skin there. There is no need, either, to
clean the spot with methylated spirits or
iodine —wool growth prevents am efficient
job.
One man-should hold .the sheep by the
head while it is being inoculated ; then
it is passed behind the operators and so
on till all ,the sheep in the race have
been done. ;
It is -better not to dip and inoculate
at the same tirne. If sheep have to be
brought long distances to the dip inocu-
late two or three 'days before dipping.
On no account should sheep be inocu-
lated immediately after dippirig.
Canary Stain in W.A.
“Ghanam”: Canary stain in'wool is
almost entirely a Westralian problem.
The stain varies according to the region
on' the- fleece and in individual fleeces,
but it always resists ordinary scouring
methods.. It has not yet been chemically
analysed.
According, to a recent report of the
Australian Wool B.oard, the stain usually
appears as a'band. It develops between
January and March in summer rainfall
areas, and cuts an average of about 2d.
per pound off values. Its incidence is
severe in most districts, though it is
almost unknown in the Murchison. Some
graziers connect it with spinifex, but
many affected districts have no spinifex.
In experiments with 120 sheep on
Warralong and Mulyie in the Piibara
district, sheep which were rubber-rugged
developed stain prematurely, suggesting
that humidity and temperature in the
fleece have a good deal to do with the
trouble. The season was one of heavy
rain and plenty of feed, and develop-
ment was rapid when sheep were in their
best condition in the normal infection
months, January and February. January
shearing had a distinct effect in reduc-
ing stain, apparently through reducing
sweat products and bringing down tem-
perature and humidity.
The general conclusions arrived at
were that after the rains and in high
temperatures the sheep take in an abnor-
mal quantity of water with succulent
feed. This leads to heavier sweating,
and, wind being absent in the bad
months, the fleece remains damp with
perspiration, and a high temperature pro-
duces a capillary effect which tends to
bring yellow yolk pigments to the sur-
face. After that there may or may not
be a chemical fixation of the hue. So
far laboratory tests suggest an abnormal
suint content in stained fleece sections.
There is no evidence of bacteria affecting
the coloring of the fleeces.
Obviously no satisfactory solution can
be found for. staining- on the live sheep.
But it should'be possible to find a way
of treating the shorn wool when the
composition of the stain is determined.
“Proper Insurance.”
“Ek Dum”: R. W. Gillespie, chairman
of the Bank of N. S. Wales, suggested
at the annual meeting of the bank that
mixed farming provided the best method
whereby a farmer might insure himself
against the effects of a fall in prices. He
believes this type of farming should be
encouraged rather - than the expansion
of any one industry, which system leaves
•the grower at the mercy of a perhaps
limited market for one commodity.
But, rinder present water-supply con-
ditions, large areas are necessarily re-
stricted to one or two lines of activity.
Most of them, at the worst, can be made
to raise the safest of all products, wool,
with mutton and, perhaps, pork as side-
lines; the growers’ search for variety on
such areas need not be limited.
The grazier who is expanding his
varieties of pasture and extending his
methods of storing and utilising it does
as much for his own safety, as the coastal
farmer in a good rainfall belt who mixes
his dairying with other industries, or the
graingrower of .the sub-coastal belt who
sandwiches in stock with a diversified
agriculture. Good stock, well-tilled land,
regular fertilising, pasture improvement
and silage are the basic essentials.
Beef for the World.
“Mookau”: The Queensland Bureau
of Industry has issued a summary of the
world beef situation which every breeder
(Continued on.page 44.)


xifeaA,
,417.—Brown Calf foot-form
Sandal leather-lined through-
out, made in full and half sizes,
leather sole and heel ... 16/VI
j
LSI 168. Imported Czecho-
slovakian White Suedette I bar
Shoe, punched right through
for coolness. Made in full and
half sizes 15/11
ĵ
L 58066. Imported Czecho-
slovakian String Linen I bar
Sports Shoe, natural colour.
Made in lull and half sizes.
Pric* t *l2/11
427.—81ack Calf foot-form San-
dal leather-lined throughout,
leather sole and heel. Made
in full and half siies. Price, 16/11
j
U 1238. Brown and White
Sports Sandal, covered sports
heel made in full and half
sizes 13/11
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a Good Shoe
ABBEY SHOES
31U Georg* Si. 224 Pi" *»•
SYDNEY.
See
urn vm
it
YOURSELF
BECAUSE
No country in Europe has the same wealth of varied natural beauty, such fascinating contrasts
between Past and Present, or a like profusion of entertainment and recreation, to show her
visitors. Austria and Bavaria afford the finest winter sports facilities there are. Rothenburg
and Nuremburg are the only flawless specimens of medieval cities yet extant. Dresden s
Zwinger gallery contains master works from every school of European painting. The history of
Opera would be a slender volume without the contributions made by Vienna, Berlin, Leipsig,
Salzburg and Bayreuth. Modern Germany is nationally addicted to every form of sport, game
and exercise. The opportunities for engaging in them are, accordingly, manifold but inexpensive.
The castles of the Rhine, the cities of the Hansa League, the Baltic coast resorts and the majestic
Alps in the South are, one and all, linked up by a system of motor roads which has no equal in
any continent. There are spaa of every kind whose waters alleviate and cure suffering humanity
from aU over the world. The recluse wffl find peace In the solitudes of the mountains. The
gregarious will find delight in watching the ebb and flow of the human tide
surging past the cafe tables on the gaily lighted streets. Whatever your
personal tastes may be, they will find new gratification and new stimulus in
a German holiday.
60% reduction io Rail Fares
40-50% saving by purchase of Travel Marks
GERMAN RAILWAYS INFORMATION BUREAU
19 RECENT ST., LONDON, S.W.I.
or recognised Travel Agencies
RAILWAY EXCURSIONS
For the XMAS and NEW YEAR HOLIDAYS
From the Country to the City
From the City to the Country
To All Holiday Resorts
and
Within the Metropolitan Area
GREATLY REDUCED FARES FOR ALL
RETURN TICKETS .
(Except for very short journeys ).
Printed handbills, showing timetables, concessions
and privileges are obtainable at all stations and at
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
SEVEN - DAY TICKETS IN HOLIDAY AREAS
Available between Springwood and Mt. Victoria or between
Mittagong and Bundanoon
ON ISSUE NOW
May be obtained on any day and used as often as desired for
seven days.
FIRST CLASS SECOND CLASS
7/6 Children under 14, half-fare. 6/-
A great saving and convenience for sightseers, hikers,
sportsmen, photographers and picnickers.
- W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways.
(24)
x-
U X
X
X
m
\
X- '
/ .
M ■■
Illustration shows the popular
lightweight Snap Brim Hat.
By
appointment
the late King
George V.
Tastes in hat styles may
differ among men, but in
the latest shipment of
Woodrows there are
shapes and colours that
appeal to the most
fastidious.
WOODROWS are English
made, with the Old
Country tradition of
quality in every detail of
manufacture.
WOODROW
Unlined 35/- HATS Silk Lined 37/6
AT ALL FIRST-CLASS HATTERS AND STORES


M B B
■Nhi
ffyP*'' am
Brp Cw
illll
■JJ? m
PI JR
8
•••
5 i
:xxx : xxxx
IK
■PP • • PMP
•x'x^xx-
mrrT p “
C
pipv
’• k
'mm-
• at % Vi : .
888
<
■ «
&&&$
M;|
x?i
ajcs
mm
£l*
■»w»v • ■■vivi' r •' v ■■«'• Mi
m
ĵ
DUNLOP SILENT “90”
The longest-lasting tyre for owners of
big cars, and motorists who drive long
distances over rough roads giving
MILEAGE, SAFETY and SILENCE.
Dunlop Silent “90” Heavy Duty 6-ply.
Weftless ,Cord Tyres are available in
41 different sizes.
'//
DUNLOP SILENT “90” Stmdtrd
This sturdy tyre, made with 4-ply.
Weftless Cord Cover, has all the
qualities of the Heavy Duty Silent
“90”. Giving extra-ordinarily long
MILEAGE, certain SAFETY and
SILENCE, it offers the finest value
obtainable. Available in a range of
54 different sizes.
FROM 32
DUNLOP 9-T-l
A money-saving tyre at every turn,
Dunlop 9-T-l is priced below
Dunlop Silent “90.” In its price class,
9-T-l offers greatest mileage, non-skid
safety, and silence without loss of
safety. Availably in 20 different sizes.
A TYRE FDR 1
EVERY PURPOSE
AND PRICE!
j
FROM 27'b
DUNLOP FLEXIFORT
Dunlop Flexifort, for many years a
popular tyre, is now the lowest priced
quality tyre ever offered in Australia.
With Dunlop Flexifort offered at these
record low prices, there is now no
reason why any motorist should risk
running on smooth, dangerous tyres.
Available in 24 different sizes.
'Ouft
DUNLOP PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA* F7J44*
THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH EMPIRE MOST PEOPLE RIDE ON DUNLOP TYRES
might paste in his hat as showing how
entirely he must be governed by British
tastes. Outside Britain, practically every
country in the world is self-sufficing in
meat-production.
The greatest meat-eaters in the world
are the Argentinos. Uruguay comes next,
followed by Maoriland and Australia.
Then there is a big drop to Canada, fifth.
Here there seems to be room for expan-
sion in some lines which Australia can
produce. The Dominion eats only 60.91 b.
beef, 6.81 b. mutton and 76.51 b. pork per
head each year ; but it must be remem-
bered that the Canadians have an abun-
dance of fish and make use of it.
Britain ranks after Canada with 1411 b,,
all meats, including 64.21 b. beef. Ger-
many might offer a market for Australia
if currency conditions allowed. To-day
a pound of beef costs a third of an aver-
age day’s wage. The average eating of
mutton is only 1.41 b. a year and of beef
37.81 b., most of it being veal; but the
German disposes of 711 b. of pork a year.
The lowest countries on the meat-eating
scale are Russia, where the allowance is
91b. beef, 31b. mutton and 91b. pork and
bacon, total 211 b.; Japan, with 5.51 b. of
all types ; China, with 41b.; and India,
with 1.51 b.
The tendency in almost every country,
including Australia, has been towards a
reduction in beef usage, largely because
of smaller families, which call for smaller
joints, and sometimes, apparently, because
of the improvement in mutton and lamb
quality. The Queensland figures on this
phase are not a fair comparison, being
for the years 1925-29 and the depression
period 1930-34, but they illustrate the
trend.
On the face of it there does not seem
to be much chance of expansion with
the countries which are lowest on
the list of meat-eaters. In Japan
the average wage is about lOd. per
day, and the average retail price of
beef per pound is equal to two days’
wages. The only countries which seem
to offer fields for propaganda outside Gt.
Britain are. Canada and U.S.A. at present.
And the British market can be had only
by beating the Argentinos at their own
game.
It is time somebody began to recog-
nise that the demand for smaller joints
calls for smaller types of cattle, apart
from baby beef. Years ago somebody
in Queensland imported an Irish Porter-
bred Shorthorn bull which was sneered
at as a “pocket edition.” The type should
be worth its weight in gold to a breeder
these days.
Wheat Quality Problems.
“Yarrunga”: A wide variation in the
flour strength of standard premium
wheats produced in n.-w. N. S. Wales
this season has caused disappointment
to millers and farmers, and has left tech-
nicians puzzled.
Pusa 4 has ranged from ordinary f.a.q.
to strong white quality, and commanded
up to 6d. premium, leading to many
mistakes in buying. In instances full
premium price has been paid for lots
of no better than f.a.q. value, while, in
other cases, farmers entitled to the high-
est quality rate have received only cur-
rent market price.
The idea that certain varieties of
medium strong to strong flour class have
a definite scale of premium value no
longer holds. Gluten content is the main
factor, and in that there has been no
stability, though gluten quality is more
or less constant.
It is thought that the variation in
gluten content is attributable to damage
to the grain by rain after maturity and
during harvesting, but it is more likely
that conditions which are conducive to
high yields reduce the gluten content.
The season’s yields in the north-west were
abnormally high, especially of the strong-
flour varieties.


TTuf'fyulle&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
TOBACCO, TOBACCO, TOBACCO
Smokers , Look —
No Increase in Prices.
DO YOU WANT GOOD VALUE
AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half -the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
COMBINED GROWERS'
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
For Inflame Eyes and Eyelids
H A pncr 5 EVERYWHERE
BOSE & CO- ltd.. Kino St.. Sydney
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the selling of your CLIP on the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST organisation for the sale of
WOOL.
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL. STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO. Box 484aa, G.P.0., Sydney.
I
4
*
4
;/
■
p
»♦
ili
M
■■C.s
;
■" s
H
f , >< *
0
£
D
■ i '\
On the basis of a 6 bag yield, your working costs
for producing a bushel of wheat with a LANZ
BULLDOG IS ONLY 1 jd. at the most, including
all fuel, oil, grease, etc., for six workings. This is
not merely an assumption, but can be hacked by
the 2,000 odd LANZ BULLDOG OWNERS in
Australia.
You cannot increase the
price of wheat, so bal-
ance your budget by
buying a LANZ BULL-
DOG and reducing your
cost of production .
ĵ
7?-0 < ¥ r %)
aomina,.
DISTRIBUTORS:—
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street
Sydney
Victoria:
K.L. Engines & Tractors
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd..
134 Albert Street.
Brisbane
Western Australia:
K.L. Engines & Tractors
(W.A.) Pty. Ltd.,
William & Forbes Streets,
Perth
Hints for the Farm.
“Werrimee”: An old motor-car, useless
on the road, can be handy on the farm,
providing power for cutting chaff, sawing
wood, and working the separator. Only
the mudguards are removed, the hind
wheels raised a couple of inches off the
ground to carry the belt, and the engine
kept running at the equivalent of about
20 miles an hour.
“Karaway”: An ever-set mouse trap!
Stand a bucket or kerosene-tin half filled
with water close to a box, and strap a
beer bottle to the box, with the neck,
holding a piece of cheese or bread, pro-
jecting over the water. The mice run
along the neck and slip off. In a plague
spot dozens can be caught in a night.
“Kooragai”: The best wood in Aus-
tralia for axe handles is the mountain
water gum, a tough eucalypt that grows
along the creeks. It is considered by
many experienced axemen to be superior
to American hickory. But confusion often
arises through other trees being known
as water gums. One (Eugenia fancisii),
is not a gum at all but one of the myrtles.
“Karaway”: For warts on cows’ teats
try the “milk” ooze from the milk thistle.
Dab it on with the broken stalk after
milking but see that the teat is dry. After
a few applications the warts disappear—
provided the cow has no calf running
with her.
“Dimon”: When flies are bad a little
clean axle grease rubbed round the eyes
of working horses will keep them free
of the pest. Castor oil is also good.
“Mookau”: N.S.W. sheepmen are
warned to watch for sour sorrel, which
is suspected of having caused deaths of
sheep in the Narrabri district. The
largest number killed in a single batch
was 170. Sour sorrel is a very green,
round-leafed plant, with a deep-reaching
taproot. It hugs the ground closely. It
has not done much damage in N.S.W.
hitherto, but in S. Australia it is on the
regular list for graziers to note.
“J.W.”: The Kentish branch of the
Tasmanian Producers’ Association has
established a community dip to clean up
itch and other affections in horses, which
are to be subjected to a couple of 20-
minute immersions. Other districts might
well follow the example.
“Seek”: Tasmania had ideal blossom-
ing and general pollination conditions for
apples this year. Good rains fell at the
end of October, and most of the season
has been dry and warm and equable.
The official estimate places the probable
yield at 4,250,000 cases of apples and
300,000 of pears. There is also promise
of a heavy crop of berries, and of all
stone fruits of importance except
cherries.
“Zedo”: E. M. de Mestre and C. W.
H. Massy, of Eubindal, Binalong
(N.S.W.), have reason to be proud of
B. Noakes, who has been with them 17
years earning a salary and a share of
the profits on their property. Last season
he had one man as help, and with two
horse teams put in 550 acres of wheat
and 150 acres of oats, besides fallowing
900 acres for* the following season. A
crop of Waratah netted him the Boorowa
championship in the R.A.S. competition
for the second time. The plot had been
cropped only four times in 12 years.
Opened up with a mouldboard in Sep-
tember and combined over in November
and February, it was seeded down with
a bushel of dusted wheat put in with
701 b. super, in mid-May. Then it was
grazed till mid-August. The yield worked
out at 14 bags to the acre, and the crop
was almost free of weed.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
In rolling a fleece should it be rolled from
the breech to the neck or vice versa? (2) Has
the method changed during the last 40 years,
and, if so, about when did the change take
place? —Sl 697.
(1) As the shoulder wool is recognised as
the best in the fleece, the fleece should be
rolled to expose this portion—from the breech
to the shoulder. A regular method is desirable
in order that classing can be done properly.
A fleece with the shoulder exposed—a good
type of wool—may be put into a certain class.
The next, with the breech showing, appears a
rougher and stronger type. The classer does
not bother to open the fleece, so puts the
fleece into a lower line. The next fleece may
have the back wool exposed, and on account
of its wasty appearance would be put out of
the top lines. The simplest way to expose the
shoulder is to skirt from the breech towards
the head, folding in the edge only of this side;
thert turn in the neck wool, skirt the other side,
bringing it right across to meet the other edge,
and then fold the same side over again. The
back wool is now on top, and by rolling from
the breech end this back wool, which may
show a slight wastiness, is put inside and the
shoulder wool is shown. (2) Know of no
change.
* * * *
How can 1 preserve freshly-picked olives ?
—SI 723.
Pick the olives when they are turning from
green to purple. Fully-ripe olives may be used,
but they are not so attractive and require a
longer time in processing. The fruit should
be graded and all foreign matter and stalks
removed. Place the fruit in earthenware jars.
Make a solution of 2oz. of Greenbank's
caustic soda and 3oz. salt to the gallon of
water; boil it and, while still warm, pour it
over the olives, completely covering them.
Leave them for from 24 to 48 hours till all
bitterness is removed. Rinse the olives
thoroughly and replace the lye solution with
fresh water. Change water twice a day until
the potash has been removed, judging by taste,
then steep the olives in brine containing 4oz.
salt to each gallon of water for another 24
hours. Next leave them in fresh brine con-
taining soz. salt to the gallon of water for about
three days; in fresh brine containing 6oz. salt
to the gallon of water for about seven days,
and finally in fresh brine containing Boz. salt
to the gallon of water in the cans or jars in
which they are to be stored. If cans are used
they should be placed in warm water and
brought to the boil for five minutes, then ex-,
hausted and finally soldered. Jars, too, should
be brought to the boil. It is preferable to use
small jars or cans rather than large ones in the
final pack. All solutions should be boiled
before being used, and the olives always kept
well submerged.


Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
mapleton hotel,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Baehflat, Lesquare, London.
The BENGALI. Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
ivith a lifetime's ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGAL,!. BLUE STEEG RAZOR.
Sizes, Jin., fin., 2in., Black Handle .... 12/6
u „ „ „ Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
I his page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
leaders.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier (47), no pension, unable to
do hard work, wants light job in return for
good home, small remuneration, Q’land pre-
ferred. Office exp.—l 677.
Man (30), sound general education, know-
ledge of bookkeeping, small capital, wants posi-
tion or working interest in country business. —
1699.
Accountant-bookkeeper (50), N.S.W., wants
position country town or station, good manners,
university education, returned soldier. Refs.
1767.
Woolsorter and -classer, Vic., married, six
years with one firm, foreman woolsorting de-
partment, fair knowledge of sheep and cattle,
desires position on sheep station or outside
work. Refs.—l77s.
Seeds of the following wattles, Acacia fairn-
siana, A. diffusa and A. armata. —1772.
To buy cheap copy of Pollock’s Course of
Time. —1781.
lo buy words and music of old comic mono-
logue, “Alfonso Spagoni.” State price.—l 747.
To buy copy of Bushman and Buccaneer:
Harry Mor ant: His ’Ventures and Verses, by
“Frank Renar,” published by H. T. Dunn and
Co., Sydney, in 1902.—1739.
•To buy Pastures New, by Billis and Kenyon.
1801.
To exchange (Melbourne) 16mm. Kinegraphs
and studio lamps for typewriter.—l7ss.
Words of verse “My Brother Ben and I.” —
1778.
Words of verse “Ode to a Potato,” “Melba
and the Flea,” and another to do with the con-
fiscation of Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph’s
estates. —1726.
Words of recitation “The Wedding.”—l7s4.
Words of recitation “Please Give Me a Penny,
Sir.”—l76s.
Words of poem “The Old Bark Hut.”—l77o.
Words of verse entitled “Wire.”—l733.
Words of war-time poem “The Stop Press
Battery.”—l69s.
To communicate with anyone knowing the
early history of Bathurst district, especially the
Fish River section. —1674.
To hear from any Norseman (W.A.) friend.
Reply to F. A. Kilminster, 4 Camera-street,
Manly, N.S.W.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Charlotte Alice Mc-
Gregor Chong, who is entitled to an interest in
a deceased estate. (Reply to A. S. Boulton,
Lane, Rex and Co., Solicitors, 12 O’Connell-
street, Sydney.)
Information Sought.
(1) Did European navigators visit Maoriiand
before Tasman ? (2) Who discovered Norfolk
Island, and was it inhabited at the time of its
discovery ? (3) Who discovered Lord Howe
Island 3—1780.
(1) It is possible that Maoriiand was sighted
by Portuguese or Spanish navigators prior to
Tasman’s advent; but there is no proof. (2)
The island was discovered by Captain Cook on
October 10, 1774, and named by him “in honor
of the noble family of Howard.” It was un-
inhabited ; Cook and his men were probably
the first to land on it. (3) Lieut. Henry Lidg-
bird Ball, commander of H.M. tender Supply,
on February 17, 1788, during a passage from
Port Jackson to Norfolk Island.
* * * *
(1) When did the kuri or Maori dog become
extinct ? (2) Was it indigenous to Maoriiand ?
(3) What was its breed? —l777.
(1) It is difficult to fix an exact date, because
for many years wild dogs, probably a cross
between the Maori dog and dogs brought by
Europeans, infested several districts in both the
North and South Islands, and were confused
with the Maori dog. It is probable that the
pure Maori dog became extinct about 1885.
(2) It is believed that the animal was brought
by the Maoris from Hawaiki. (3) It was small,
with a pointed nose, pricked ears and very
small eyes. In color it was white, black, brown
or parti-colored; and it had long hair, short
legs and a bushy tail. It did not bark, but
could emit a loud whine.
* * * *
(1) What is monetary “exchange,” and how
did it originate? (2) Is it now “fixed,” and
by whom ? (3) Is the ruling 25 p.c. between
here and England an advantage or disadvantage
to Australia, and why? —l73o.
(1) Exchange is the rate at which two classes
of money (such as pounds and dollars) ex-
change for one another. Exchange “arose”
as soon as different countries trading with each
other adopted different systems of currency.
(2) The exchange rate of converting Australian
pounds to English pounds is fixed by the Com-
monwealth Bank in co-operation with the
trading banks. (3) The fixing of the 25 p.c.
“premium” on English money when compared
with Australian currency represents an admis-
sion that the buying power of our pound is
not equal to that of the pound sterling. To
producers in Australia of things that have a
world price, such as gold, this 25 p.c. ex-
change has represented 25 p.c. more income.
On the whole, lifting the exchange seems to
have been of national benefit.
(1) Is it legal for a N.S.W. employer to
make deductions from an employee’s wages or
salary of the value of goods supplied by the
employer to the employee ? (2) Could an em-
ployee recover such deductions ?—1523.
(1) and (2) Section 49 of the N.S.W. Indus-
trial Arbitration Act, 1912, as amended, pro-
vides that, where an employer employs any
person to do any work for which the price or
rate has been fixed by an award or by indus-
trial agreement, whether made under the re-
pealed Acts or this Act, he will be liable to
pay in full in money to such person the price
or rate so fixed without any deduction ex-
cept such as may be authorised by any award
or industrial agreement. Such person may
within six months after such money has become
due apply in the manner prescribed to , the
Registrar or to an industrial magistrate for
an order directing the employer to pay the
full amount of any balance due in respect of
such price or rate. Such order may be made
notwithstanding any smaller payment or any
expressed or implied agreement to the contrary.
The Registrar or magistrate may make any
order he thinks just and may award costs to
either party and assess the amount of such
costs.
* * * *
On what ruling did N.S.W. Governor Sir
Philip Game rely when he dismissed the Lang
Government in 1932 without reference to higher
authority ?— 1785.
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, then Secretary for
the Colonies, laid it down clearly in a com-
munication to the Governor-General of Canada
in 1879 that the Governor of any British colony
“has an unquestionable constitutional right to
dismiss his Ministers if from any cause he feels
it incumbent upon himself to do so.” That
doctrine was not challenged while N.S.W. was
a colony, and there has been no alteration of
the State’s Constitution specifically removing the
implied power.
* * * *
(1) Who composed “Rule Britannia”? (2)
When and where was the song first given? —
1799.
(1) Dr. Arne. (2) At Cliefden House, then
the residence of the Prince of Wales, in 1740, as
part of. the masque “Alfred.” Six years later
Handel introduced the theme in his “Occasional
Overture” as a compliment to Arne, which
later led to an easily-disproved theory that Arne
stole the theme from Handel.
* * * *
(1) Can the natural numbers from 1 onwards
be arranged in a "magic square” so that each
row and each long diagonal have the same sum
and the numbers in the long diagonals are in
arithmetical progression ? (2) What are the
mathematical expressions for the sum of each
row and the sum of the whole series? —lB3o.
(1) Yes; in the case of all series of numbers
in excess of four terminating with a square
number. Here is the arrangement in the
case of the series 1-16:
1 15 14 4
12 6 7 9
8 10 11 5
13 3 2 16
(2) Sum of whole series, n (n 4- 1) divided
by 2; sum of each row, n (n + 1) divided by
twice the square root of n.
* * * *
Particulars regarding a rare marsupial (Calo-
pyrmnus campestris), rediscovered about six
years ago on the Diamantina ? —lBOO.
Calopyrmnus campestris, a species of rat kan-
garoo, was considered to be practically extinct
until in March, 1932, H. H. Finlayson, of Adel-
aide, collected specimens on the Diamantina.
This small marsupial is known as the plain rat
kangaroo or oolacunta. Its range probably ex-
tends into the far south-western border of
Queensland. The South Australian Museum,
Adelaide, could give additional details.
* * * *
(1) Does the P.M.G. regulate the transfer
of unofficial post offices ? (2) Has any fidelity
or other such bond to be given as security to
the department? (3) What amount as an
allowance is the highest given to an unofficial
post office ? (4) Would an ex-sorting clerk
and telegraphist ( English ) have preference in
securing such an office? —1683.
(1) A non-official post office may be trans-
ferred from one person to another only on the
approval of the P.M.G.’s Department. (2) A
person appointed to such a position is required
to make the usual declaration of secrecy re-
garding the transaction of business connected
therewith. (3) The allowance paid for this class
of office varies considerably, and payment is
made in respect of the actual business trans-
acted. (4) In making such appointments pref-
erence is given to Australian returned soldiers.
* * * *
1 live in a Sydney suburb and I am often kept
awake for three or four hours every night by
opossums. Can I obtain a permit to destroy
them ? —1689.
Opossums are protected under the N.S.W.
Birds and Animals’ Protection Act. Applications
for licenses to kill these animals should be
made to the Under-Secretary, Chief Secretary’s
Department, Sydney. The reasons for de-
siring to kill the animals and the total number
to be destroyed must be stated.
* * * *
Does amyl acetate in any way affect a person
using it, either by breathing the fumes or the
hands coming in contact with the liquid ? —l6Bl.
The vapor of amyl acetate, when inhaled,
irritates the throat, and causes coughing, head-
ache, slight stupor and giddiness, feeling of
heat in the head, stomach disorders, nausea
and palpitation of the heart. Dermatitis (in-
flammation) of the skin is not uncommon,
but workers who use the substance soon be-
come habituated.
* * * *
Method of staining unfaced bricks light
red? —l692.
The wall should be well rubbed down with
a brick to make it as smooth as possible.
If the bricks are rough or very porous, the
rubbing should be done with cement water,
made by mixing fresh cement in water until the
water is the color of the cement. This is freely
applied to the wall during the rubbing with
the brick, and acts as a filler, making a smooth
surface for painting on. Any good prepared
oil paint should be suitable.
* * * *
In what way do seven-gilled sharks differ
from other sharks? Are they to be found in
Australian waters, and are they dangerous to
humans ? —1793.
They have only one dorsal fin instead of
the usual two, and six or seven instead of five
gill openings. The teeth of the upper jaw differ
from those in the lower. A species, Heptran-
chias perlo, commonly taken in moderate depths
off the south-eastern coast of Australia, is not
distinct from one that occurs in European
waters; it is grey in color, with a striking green
eye, and its snout is pointed. Another, Noto-
rhynchus pectorsus, occasionally captured in
shallower waters, is light-grey color, with small,
dark spots, and is distinguished from H. perlo
by its broadly-rounded snout. Both species
are of small size and quite harmless to man.
* * * *
How to eradicate fleas from a house? —1599.
The chief sources of fleas in houses are (a)
want of cleanliness, particularly in allowing
dust, etc., to gather; (b) proximity of out-
houses, stables, etc., where fleas can breed un-
checked, and (c) free access of flea-carriers —•
cats, rats, mice, dogs, etc. —to the living-rooms
of the house. To get rid of fleas one must
control their hosts and destroy their breeding
centres. Rats and mice must be banished; and
cats and dogs should be washed with a soap
containing some insecticide. In the house itself
a thorough washing of floors should be made
and as many cracks as possible filled up. If a
room is badly infested, a good plan is to scatter
flaked napthaline over the floor and shut the
room up tightly for 24 hours. The floor may
then be swept, when the fleas will be found
dead. Another method is to shut up the rooms
and spray all carpets and similar breeding-
places once a week for a few weeks with any
brand of fly-spray. It would also be worth
while to consult the Victorian Department of
Agriculture at its Burnley laboratory.
* * * *
(1) Is a man earning 35 5. per week, plus board
and residence, in N.S.W.. liable for income tax ?
(2) If not, does he have to send in returns?
(3) Is it necessary to have a passport to travel
to England? (4) Does a married man have to
secure his wife’s permission before he can leave
the country? —lsol.
(1) and (2) The estimated value of board and
residence provided by the employer should be
added to the actual wages received. Unless the
result exceeds £3 per week no income tax or
wages tax is payable, and no returns need be
furnished. (3) and (4) A passport is necessary
for travel to the United Kingdom, and it is
usual for a married man to produce in connec-
tion with his application for such a document
the consent of his wife. In any instance where
such consent cannot be procured the full facts
should be communicated to the Customs De-
partment.
* * * *
Formula (wet or dry) for the prevention or
extermination of cockroaches in drains? —1691.
To kill cockroaches the N.S.W. Department
of Health advises: Mix 1 tablespoon borax
with 3 tablespoons fine oatmeal and place the
dry mixture on floor or in cupboards. Near
each heap put a tin-lid full of water. The
cockroaches eat voraciously, get thirsty, drink
the water and die of acute indigestion. A good
trap: Bait a honey-bottle with some stale fat
and put a slat against it so that the ’roaches
can climb up.
* * * *
(1) Method of laying a verandah floor (earth
foundation), using river sand and coal tar?
(2) Any better method? —lsoB.
(1) Scoop out sufficient earth to make a
mould to hold the mixture or build up low
walls of rock or stone to desired height; mix
sand and tar equally to make a very thick
mass, and ram into place. Tar should be heated
if possible. Sprinkle sand over top and allow
to dry. (2) Make a rock or stone bed inside
low walls or excavation, tamp down very
hard, strew finer rock or gravel over the top
and roll or tamp hard. Pour over hot tar,
and sprinkle thickly with sand or fine gravel
screenings. Roll or smooth to dead level and
allow a week to dry.
* * 4 *
How to remove grey or mildew-colored spots
from the case of a 128 -year-old grandfather
clock? Any other hints on care and mainten-
ance ? —1564.
Use prepared wax (for furniture) on a flannel
and apply polish sparingly to discolored spots;
rub firmly and clean off. Clean all the case
by this method, then repeat to polish, finishing
with a silk cloth. Wipe out the interior of the
case with pure turpentine applied very spar-
ingly, the base and back of the clock will
benefit from the wax treatment, and the works
should be overhauled occasionally by a com-
petent clock-repairer.
* * * *
(1) Can an air-compressor, rated at 120 cub.
ft. per min., be safely and efficiently driven by
an A.C. motor? (2) Would an electric motor
have a greater capacity for doing work than an
internal combustion engine of the same rated
h.p. ?— 1654.
(1) Yes. (2) Two machines of the same
brake-h.p. (power delivered at the crankshaft)
will both be capable of doing the same amount
of work during a given period of time pro-
vided they are run at their correct speeds.
Due consideration should be given to the rela-
tive costs of fuel and electricity before making
a decision.
Brief Answers.
G.A.: Broadcast English (8.8. C.) 9d., post.
Id.; Write It Right (Bierce) 6s. 6d., post. 6d.;
obtainable from England through Angus and
Robertson, Sydney D.S.F.: Direct your in-
quiries to London J.F.S.: Words and music
of the song are copyright. Full copy obtain-
able for 2s. Id. posted from W. H. Paling,
338 George-street, Sydney.M.W.T.: The
institute was established about six months ago.
Financial assistance unlikely, and a membership
fee is charged. No history yet....A.W.: (1)
Yes. (2) 737 New South Head-road, Rose Bay,
Sydney. (3) 296 members. (4) Not available at
the moment, as alterations in the constitution
are being considered H.P.H.: The Uni.
does not enter into any arrangement or con-
tract of the nature suggested... .J.M.: Write
to Fowler Vacola Co., Crewe-place, Rosebery,
Sydney... . W.W.P.: A Book of Australian
Verse, in cloth ss. 3d., post. 4d.; in imitation
leather 7s. 6d., post 6d.; in limp morocco 13s.
6d., post. 6d; from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .M.C.: James I. of England was
James VI. of Scotland. The death of Queen
Elizabeth seemed likely to open up the ques-
tion of succession to the crown, but it passed
without difficulty to the Scottish king....
G. 0.8.: Depends on the form of title. If
under the Real Property (Torrens) Act it would
amount to about £7, if under the old system
of title it would probably be about £9. In the
case of Crown land, not possible to say....
P.K.: The parties’ rights depend on their agree-
ment. If A was not relieved of the liability
for the balance of the purchase money when
the furniture was returned, B is entitled to sue
him for it. Unless some arrangement was
made at the time, A is not entitled to deduct
anything from the proceeds of the subsequent
sale, no matter what the furniture was sold for.
. ...E.R.M.: If the tree is creating a nuisance
you can be compelled to abate it. Your
neighbor is entitled by law to top the branches
back to the dividing fence but no further.
Should this be done and the nuisance still con-
tinue he has a remedy in law by suing for
damages and in equity by applying for an in-
junction C.W.G.: (1) Yes. (2) No. (3) No.
Not unless he has held himself responsible to
persons with whom the debts are contracted.
H.E.J.: You should look at the terms of
your lease. In the absence of anything to the
contrary, the garage would, being fixed into
the ground, be a landlord’s fixture and could
not be removed without his consent... .T.T.:
Inquiries might be made at the Lands De-
partment and at the Lands Titles Office, but the
most satisfactory and practical course would be
to place the matter in the hands of a solicitor
to have the necessary searches made for you.
Impossible to estimate cost Tom R.: (1)
Yes, under the Commonwealth Electoral Act,
Sections 119, 123, 124 and 128 a, it is illegal
to place a purposely informal vote at a Federal
election. (2) Yes, under the Commonwealth
Electoral Act, Sections 154, 156, 159, 162 and
171....A,5.: Can trace only three. “Sunshine
Susie” was a Gainsborough production, with
Renate Muller, Jack Hulbert and Owen Nares;
“Heritage of the Desert,” Paramount, Ran-
dolph Scott, Sally Blane and J. Farrell Mc-
Donald ; “The Ghost Train,” Gainsborough,
Jack Hulbert, Cicely Courtneidge J.T.A.:
No record... .M.L.: Author unknown....
E.H.D.: Most chemists make a preparation
containing equal quantities of glycerine and
rose-water... .G. 0.8.: Person mentioned for-
merly had a loose connection with the Mc-
Garrie Smith Institute, producers of anthrax
vaccine,. but he went to Centralia some years
ago and is said to have died there G.A.8.:
Suppliers of the plaster would assist; otherwise
secure the services of a builder F.N.W.:
Consult any patent attorney whose advertise-
ment appears in this issue P.G.: Robert
Blatchford, Horsham, England, should find
him.... R.W.8.W.: Information not available.
. ...H.E.W.: Write to the Chamber of Manu-
factures in each State T.W.M.: Yes
R.P.H.: Call for tenders... . D.H.: Consult
an architect or write to any responsible timber
merchants... .F.M.C.: Write to the University
at Hobart... .A.W.: Write to the Department
for External Affairs, Canberra J.A.M.:
“National income” estimates are to some ex-
tent guesswork. In Queensland a larger pro-
portion of lower-income earners than in other
States is roped in for State tax purposes, and
this helps to inflate the taxation per head.
Queensland State wage awards are highest in
the Commonwealth M.L.R.: Tasmanian
infant mortality for 1936 in deaths per 1000
births was 50 children under one year.... J.J.C.:
If a legacy be bequeathed to a person to be
paid at the age of 21 years and the legatee
die before that age be attained the legacy lapses
and falls into the residue of the testator’s estate.
... .H.F.T.: (1) A refined angle. (2) Refinement
of an angle. (3) A notation in which polar co-
ordinates, as destinguished from cartesian co-
ordinates, are used. (4) A branch of algebra
in which matrices (as in logarithms) are em-
ployed in the arithmetical processes. (5) A
reference to Hegel’s system of logic, sequence
of processes being thesis, antithesis, synthesis.
. ...J.W.D.: The further from the centre the
greater the speed G.M.P.: Cannot prescribe
a remedy for headache without knowing its
cause J.K.: Impossible to answer compre-
hensively in this column; send name and
address... .W.L.H.: Internal medicines are no
good; trouble is relieved by injections. Con-
sult locql doctor H.P.8.: No cure yet, but
the tremor and stiffness it produces are re-
lieved by injections of hyoscine hydrobromide,
in small and carefully-increased doses, given
under strict medical supervision... .J.A.: By
means of its ultra-violet light a quartz mercury
vapor lamp stimulates production of certain *
protective substances in the skin and other
organs. Amount of ultra-violet radiation from
a tinted globe is infinitesimal and of no practi-
cal value W.M.S.: (1) Yes. (2) Paragraphs
published in The Bulletin are paid for on re-
ceipt of a claim giving date of publication,
etc. (3) It will be paid for if you forward
your claim J.L.S.: Bjelke-Petersen, Pearce,
Ltd., 360 Little Collins-street, Melbourne, C.l,
is as good as any.


Prevent pyorrhoea
and gingivitis with
C -IN-ONE
U DENTAL CREAM
“5-IN-ONE for Everyone”
MOTHER OF FIVE WHO
WAS ALWAYS TIRED
Now Awakes as Fresh as
a Daisy.
A mother of five has a lot to do, espe-
cially a country mother. And this one was
“always tired.” But Kruschen ended all that
—now she gets up, feeling fresh, at five o’clock
in the morning! She writes: —
“I find Kruschen Salts the best thing money
can buy for my health. I am the mother of
five children, and before taking Kruschen I
was always feeling tired and run down. Now,
I am glad to say that I get up feeling fresh —
and I get up at five o’clock in the morning.
I do my housework, see to my children, and
leave home at 6.30 to start my work in the
fields.”—(Mrs.) B.
Tiredness and that run-down feeling can be
traced to one root cause. That cause is in-
ternal sluggishness; failure to keep the inside
free from poisonous waste matter.
Kruschen Salts is Nature’s recipe for main-
taining a condition of internal cleanliness.
The six salts in Kruschen stimulate your internal
organs to smooth, regular action. Your inside
is thus kept clear of those impurities which,
when allowed to accumulate, lower the whole
tone of the system.
Give Saddlery Presents
This Xmas.
j
THE
“KEMP
JUNIOR”
CHILD’S
SADDLE,
£6/17/6
(MOUNTED).
Made of Best Quality
Kip Leather, the seat
has no seams and
the panel has leather
pojnts down sides.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid for
Cash with Order.
No. 419—Pony Snaffle Bridle, with
sewn-in ring bit 6/9
Postage 1/-.
WALTHER i STEVENSOM r?Z:|
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY 1
ER
7k
And
STILL
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
ĵ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
R.A.J.: Do you really believe that a swaggie
“never growls when things go wrong”?....
A.M.W.: Weaklings... .J.L.: “Awe” and
“war” is an awful rhyme... .E.R.1.: Don’t
like “lessons”... .8.C.: A tin whistle... .G.M.:
No push in that “Crowd”... .J.G.: You'll need
to step out to follow those footsteps... .H.F.J.:
Interested to see the “self-addressed” envelope.
B.J.R.: Not at all “a priceless joke”
E.E.: Glad you’ve lost the battler... .R.G.8.:
Make a par. of it J.V.W.: It sounds very
young ...F.A.T.: No answer here G.A.H.:
“Nil Desperandum” was an excellent title....
G.A.L.: Agreed R.V.C.: Can’t help you
to “clasp his hand”; but you’re welcome to
wish him “a merry Christmas” in this column.
D.B.: Returning lady who, “had she been
a monthly magazine, would have been banned.”
H.G.L.: Not that E.D.: Just another
of the “six-months-to-live” school J.R.G.:
You’re not getting any nearer... .T.D.L.: Re-
inter the corpse “at dead of night in the Stygian
gloom beneath the apple-tree”... J.W.S.: Con
Drew has long tilled that field... .J.M.: Lost
interest in your killer after the fifth murder....
R.L.: A borderliner... .M.E.8.: “Man with
Yellow Eyes” on his way home R.R.: Too
long for what’s in it....D.C.: “Canned
Death” sealed and returned... .A.M.M.: Slight.
....W.F.C.: Struggled through it J.S.:
Hardly a yarn... .0.E.A.: Neither of those hit
the mark... .H.G.R.: A relic W.S.McW.:
Clear as mud....L.L: And the only lucid
thing about that was the bright green shorts.
....Z.V.W.: Try a daily... .W.D.: It’s not a
yarn... .C.O’C.: “Dead Man’s Shoes” not for
our doormat 8.H.: Might make a par
R.H.: Doesn't get there 8.V.: Bcller-
drammer S.R.: Needed better handling
G. : A week-end supplement might look at
it R.C.: Thin 0.5. F.: Prospectors’
ghosts have been haunting us for years
P.J.W.: You’re out of your depth K.N.:
Timeworn... .J.G.: A par. perhaps.... P.C.C.:
Some of it’s fair, but the whole misses....
H. Amateurish E.T.: Stick to
familiar subjects and keep trying E.F.A.:
A very old acquaintance... .R.H.A.: That, too.
....C.A.8.: Fell to pieces at the finish....
L.C.D.: Gentleman with permanent wave and
colored nails was booted out... .G.D.R.: “I
can take it.” Few others could... .H.T.:
Punctured on the first page G.H.L.: Might
interest a broadcasting station... .8.F.D.:
You’re wasting stamps C.D.S.: Sorry for
the chap with fleas in his beard, but can’t air
him here G.L.D.: “Hoping to hear from
you soon.” We’re not... .J.N.D.: Clean your
typewriter keys and get a new ribbon.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.M.: Merely copying... .8.L.: Tree not
so bad; can’t say the same for the deadbeats
resting in its shade... .L.L.: Yes, we’ll con-
sider gags apart from drawings... .N.J.: David
Low got in ahead of you by about 20 years....
C.M.D.: “Good enough for The Bulletin!’
Who told you that?... .E.P.: Received out-
size drawing of Man in the Moon, plus 100
words of explanatory text... .W.K.8.: An art
school will do him the world of good T.T.:
Admired the ornamental border, but not what
it contained... .A.P.W.: You should thank us
for not exposing your masterpiece to the public
gaze N.D.: Whenever there’s a colored
champ, overseas the “white hope” abo. boxer
is resurrected... .E.G.: Neat and tidy, but en-
tirely lacking in humor... .C.H.E.: Pay a visit
to the Zoo A.S.: Subject was covered by
Frith weeks ago W. 8.: You have a curious
idea of humor and little knowledge of per-
spective F.J.T.: We’re quite willing to agree
that you drew that atrocity unaided 8.M.:
Let us have crisper jokes, and take more pains
with your work... .A.J.T.: Not enough body
in the cartoon, and the gags aren’t funny.
F.P.D.: Just a collection of scratchy lines.
O.H.; If you can find mirth in things like
that, you must enjoy life... .E.C.: Some merit
in the belltopper A.R.: Joke is out of
season, and drawing is out of alignment.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Hamilton Fish, M.H.R., who represents
the Republicans on his House’s Foreign
Affairs Committee, has notified all and
sundry that King George’s visit to Wash-
ington will be no smoke-screen for an
alliance, if he, Fish, can help it.
The time has come to serve notice on all
nations that we propose to maintain a
policy of neutrality, non-intervention and
peace. Sweden, Norway, Holland and
Switzerland can keep out of Europe’s and
Asia’s wars. We propose to do likewise.
This is very different from the rubbish
that comes to Australia from New York
and is used as material for excited
leaders to the effect that the Americans
will be with us in any crusading war;
but beyond all doubt it expresses the
sentiments of four-fifths of the American
people.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: One of the
finest euphemisms ever perpetrated was
the work of Henry Gullett, not in his
present-day capacity of arch-annoyer of
Mr. Lyons, but as historian of the Light
Horse. Speaking of their clean-up methods
in the post-Armistice Egyptian rebellion
he remarks: “The Egyptians lost their
nerve at the sight of the horsemen, and
soon most of the leading spirits were in
prison, while others, at the firm bidding
of the soldiers, were strenuously mend-
ing the broken railways, and generally
were as emphatic in their expression of
loyalty as, a few days before, they had
been turbulent in revolt.” That “firm
bidding,” both in Palestine and Egypt,
made such an impression that, after
more than 20 years, Arab mothers still
scare their kids into obedience with
threats of the “Fathers of the Feathers,”
and high British military authority has
suggested that an Australian contingent
would flatten out all the Palestine
trouble in a few weeks.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Gabriel Pascal, the Hun-
garian producer, made such a success of
Shaw’s “Pygmalion” that he has now
been given a free hand to prepare
“Caesar and Cleopatra,” “Candida” and
“The Devil’s Disciple” for the screen.
What an impressive demonstration of the
apparent indestructibility of Shaw! When
he first started writing intellectual dramas
theatre people were sure the public
wouldn’t stand it, but they not only stood
his earlier and lighter plays, but the
gigantic “Back to Methuselah,” which
bore the same relation to the contem-
porary theatrical fare as Wagner’s
“Ring” does to a musical comedy. Now
it looks as if Shaw is going to create a
renaissance of the screen in his old age.
* * * *
“T.”: Why has Italy suddenly turned
against its Jews? Knowing their own
Jews for a valuable element of the
nation, Australians can’t understand it.
The explanation that it is a measure of
retaliation for a Jewish financial boycott
of Italy doesn’t seem to go the whole
way. But Nazi Germany’s indictment of
the German Jews has been on record for
nearly five years:
The part they played in every profession
was out of all proportion to their total
number. They carried on usury and cor-
ruption on a vast scale; they were primarily
to blame for the crime of the inflation;
they pitilessly strangled their economically-
weaker German hosts.
And all these counts, and others, were
prefaced with the words “It is not merely
that.”
Our chief accusatioh against the Jews is
that it was they who provided the Marx-
ists and Communists with their leaders;
and it was they who occupied the editorial
offices of those subversive and defamatory
newspapers which besmirched with their
venom and hatred all that to us Germans
was sacred.
Goring wrote all that in Germany Re-
born, addressed to “the English-speaking
peoples,” and published in February,
1934.
* * * *
“Locksley”: Darts has so taken the
English proletariat by the lug that there
is talk of forming a professional asso-
ciation with registration of clubs, signing-
on of players and institution of transfers.
Indeed, Lancashire has already started
the transfer system with the idea of
keeping a player with one club for the
season. If he changes his club—which
means his pub, since the game is purely
a public-bar one —he has to pay a trans-
fer fee of 10s. Professional touring clubs
are also being formed and should do
well. The backing the game has is seen
in the fact that over 10,000 people
attended the English championship finals
this year, though these were necessarily
held in comparatively small halls. One
match at Brighton where there was plenty
of room drew 3000 people.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Tennis addicts are
making much of the fact that the game
is now permitted in the English Great
Public Schools, most of which had
banned it for years. Press critics blame
prejudice for the ban. The real reason
is that cricket, the very core of public-
school sport, is, as Mr. Jorrocks said of
“huntin’ and shootin’,” “incompatible”
with tennis. If you doubt it consider the
tremendous falling-off in English ama-
teur cricket since tennis became a national
obsession, and try to think of one first-
class cricketer who is in the No. 1 grade
at tennis. Golf has no such effect.
Dozens of high-class batsmen are on the
plus mark in golf.


seat kiui these
0
•mi.
s
ft
f::
Is;
MS
SIM
■
P&b^l
as
IS
(rvJ'
tU
QJ$
m
m
&**
frfjj**')
CUT'^
' a LU«^l
%M*
He sent
ken. this!
du MAURIER
THE EXCLUSIVE FILTER TIP CIGARETTES
Special Christmas Packings containing Box of 50 ♦ 2 boxes of 50 7'6 * BoxoHOO 7'6
ISSUED BY THE MANUFACTURERS OF DU MAURIER CIGARETTES
j
MC7
SS
si
ft**
V:
i
New BETTER WAY
TO CLEAN
FALSE TEETH
‘I really think in all my experi-
ence that ‘Steradent’ is the finest pro-
duct I have used,’ writes a Dentist.
This is typical of the professional
opinion of hundreds of dentists now
recommending ‘Steradent’ to their
patients as the finest preparation ever
produced for keeping dental plates
clean and hygienic. Simply fill the cap
of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and pour the
powder into a glass containing suffi-
cient warm water (not* hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir well. Leave your
dentures in it while you dress, or over-
night. Just rinse, and teeth and plates
are fresh and clean—clean where the
brush can’t reach.
‘Steradent’ cleans away the blackest stains,
film and tarnish. Makes dull teeth and dis-
coloured gums look like new. Makes them
ssssasa,
fresh, cool, comfort-
able. Use ‘Steradent’
and you will enjoy a
denture comfort and
cleanliness heretofore
unknown. Price 2/-
and 3/6 at all chemists.
IMPORTANT:
Be sure you get
‘Steradent’. Dentists
recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept. ), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
MACMILLAN BOOKS
for Christmas A Selection
Prices advertised are those at which the books are
published in London. Prices outside the British
Isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
New Novels
(Overseas Library.)
THE JOYFUL DELANEYS
Hugh Walpole.
GROWTH OF A MAN
Mazo de la Roche
ACE HIGH
G. March-Phillipps
ROOTS IN THE SKY
Sidney Meller
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A
CAD
A. G. Macdonell
GONE WITH THE WIND
Margaret Mitchell
THE YOUNGER VENUS
Naomi Royde Smith
Illustrated Books
BIRDS AND BEASTS IN
AFRICA
Lord Baden-Powell, 4/6
THE SERVANT A DOG
and Other Dog Stories
6/- and 7/6.
SALAM THE MOUSE DEER
A. Hillman and W. W. Skeat,
7/6.
Ask your bookseller for fuller particu-
lars of these and other recent books.
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
THE FACTORY
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE governance of New South Wales
in the first fifty years of the pro-
vince’s existence had many prob-
lems to solve—such as the commis-
sariat, cultivation of the soil and the
welding together of a social fabric out
of elements essentially unsocial —but not
many of them were harder of solution
than those which had to do with female
convicts.
These women were always a puzzle to
harassed viceroys. Though young girls
were frequently adorned with hempen
necklaces there was a popular prejudice
against whipping women. It wasn’t done.
Authority had to manage as well as it
could in other ways. The surprising
thing is that it didn’t on the whole make
a mess of the job.
When a transport carrying female
prisoners arrived in Port Jackson, the
ladies were carefully inspected by the
Governor’s secretary and the Principal
Superintendent of Convicts, and assigned
as far as possible to the private service
of settlers. Those for whom employment
of this sort could not be found were
sent up the harbor to an establishment
called The Factory at Parramatta.
The Factory stood where the Girls’
Industrial School is now, close beside
the present site of the Hospital for the
Insane at the north end of Parramatta
Park, and from beginning to end seems
to have been the queerest of queer estab-
lishments. When Mr. Commissioner J.
T. Bigge reported to the House of
Commons in 1823 on the condition of
New South Wales he had little good to
say of its functions, and when a Select
Committee took evidence relating to
transportation in 1837 it didn’t hear many
kind words said about it by people who
knew it. The inmates were wretchedly
housed and were employed for the most
part in picking wool, scraps of which
afforded them the only bedding they
could get. A visitor told the committee
that most of the women he saw there
were expectant mothers.
But it was from this place that the
ancestress of many a good Australian
went to the hut of the man who had
chosen her to be his bride and his help-
mate in the conquest of the wilderness.
Indeed, Australia owes much to many
of the women from The Factory whom
emancipated prisoners took to wife be-
cause they could get no others. Most of
them valiantly pioneered the new, wild
country with their men, and played their
parts nobly. Many a splendid “Hawkes-
bury Native” whose manhood helped to
make the Commonwealth could look back
with loving pride to the woman whom
The Factory had provided him with as a
mother. In what she did after she had
left it she generally gave abundant proof
that even The Factory couldn’t keep a
good girl down.
Britain is much in advance of Aus-
tralia in many things; its new “share-
pushing” legislation, for instance, pro-
vides for the imposition of criminal
penalties where a share-salesman is
found guilty of “the reckless making of
any forecast which is misleading,
false or deceptive.” Under the new law
it will not be necessary to prove intent
to defraud ; but “recklessness” and “de-
ception” will probably have to exist in
an extreme degree before a Court will
convict.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Some of the most thoughtful contributors to the Other Fellow’s Mind Pages are
South Australians, and this week an Adelaidean wins the First Prize of £3 3s.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., in addition to A.J.A. rates—paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Wrong Values
A vital need of to-day is a return to
the simple pleasures—witty conversation,
music and singing, reading, debating,
walking, cycling and gardening. Tasks
in a home workshop and smoking a quiet
pipe bring great joy and satisfaction.
If people looked back over their child-
hood days they would discover that the
most lasting and happy memories were
of pleasures which cost them little in
material goods. With home-made kit,
kites, darts, bows and arrows, a child
often gets better toys out of a dust-heap
than from-a huge emporium.
People to-day have their values wrong,
and difficult times are helping to put
them right again. To me wealth consists
in the human personality. The realm
of the cheapest pleasures is the most
enduring and most satisfying.—R. Jones
(S.A.).
Mr. Jones (his address is 59 Hanson-
street, Adelaide) gets £3 35., plus 2|d. a
line, for the foregoing.
Make Governments Business Partners
When Government goes into business
it makes a botch of it, as many State-
run enterprises have demonstrated.
Yet Government, by taxation, is so
increasingly going into business as to
be termed the silent partner that collects
whether the business wins or loses, whilst
the wasteful overlapping and numerous
taxation departments drive business
crazy with multifarious, complicated and
ever-increasing demands.
Government must have its taxes. Why
not start afresh? Admit Government as a
49 per cent, partner into every business
in the Commonwealth (somewhat on the
lines of Amalgamated Wireless and Com-
monwealth Oil Refineries), Govern-
ment agreeing in return to abolish taxa-
tion of business and to scrap most of the
taxation departments. This short cut will
retain for the nation’s benefit the drive
and efficiency of private enterprise, and
Government will still get its cut. Some
will say too much of a cut. — Leslie F.
Gill (Solomon Islands).
Immigration
I arrived in Australia 16 years ago,
aged 16, sans relatives, sans money ; and
never having been on a farm. I have sur-
vived so far without being a debit to the
country of my adoption. Ninety per
cent, of the Pommies of my acquaint-
ance have also done every bit as well.
Those who have a grouch usually lack
enterprise or are just lazy and would fail
anywhere. Any system of checking out
this class while still in England (B.
9/11 /’3B) would prevent many a
“Choom” from becoming a good Aus-
tralian merely because of his appear-
ance. Many of us were far from
robust when arriving in Australia, but
hard work and sunshine soon altered
that. The most suitable age for migrants
is about 20. They are still young enough
to acclimatise easily, and are mature
enough to have some idea of what is
necessary for future success. —H. E. G. W.
(N.S.W.).
The Jews and Money
We are receiving reports of a gigantic
pogrom in Germany, and in the reports
stress is laid on the brutal treatment of
the weaker sex, especially of pregnant
women among the persecuted.
All this has the effect of rousing first
our indignation, then our sympathy, and
lastly our support to suggestions of
opening wide the doors of Australia to
receive these people. But are these re-
ports truth, or propaganda used to
obtain for these people a new country
at our expense? It isn’t too late yet to
learn from history that in whatever
country the Jews have been domiciled
they have annexed the role of task-
masters. Never have they been con-
spicuous among the manual laborers or
peasants, both necessary to the develop-
ment of a new country. Moreover, the
Jew is not necessarily held in check by
any patriotic feelings. He is cosmopoli-
tan.
While the Gentile people of the world
have been content to work improving
land for the benefit of their country and
fellow-men, the Jew has been a dealer
in money and gold. Gold has long been
the standard of measurement of our
money, and Jews have worked hard to
gain control of it. And if the stand-
“Knock 'n down 'gen, boay, 'fore un got time t' get up."
ard were to be changed to iron to-
morrow Jews would become scrap-iron
collectors. These people, by their con-
trol over money, have at times usurped
the power of kings.—R. O. Jones (Q.).
Lesson May Be Learned
“Whole World Arming!—Deadly New
Gas! —More Powerful Weapons! —We
Have No Gas Masks! —Australia Now
Within Bombing Range! —War Will
Come!”
Newspapers and radios scream the
chorus. Film and still photographs show
the horrors of wars already broken out.
Additional taxes are levied for defence.
And the people talk—and ponder.
Getting on for this time next year I
shall (God willing) be a most interested
observer of our birthrate. —J. B. J. (W.A.).
Tough, but Beneficial
During the depression, a topic that
occupied the minds of the thoughtful
public was, What will become of the
young men roaming the country? There
were fears expressed that they would not
be assimilated into industry.
After some years of prosperity I think
one can answer that question. In the
industrial town I work in one meets
several of the rattler-jumping fraternity,
and they seem to be settling down into
good citizens.
Their depression experiences have
helped their initiative, and their know-
ledge of the continent has been broad-
ened. There are exceptions, of course,
but generally speaking the tough experi-
ence they had has been helpful.— Mount
Wills (N.S.W.).
State Administration
Now that the Duke of Kent is to be
our Governor-General, and the Federal
Government is contemplating expenditure
on improved accommodation, etc., the
occasion seems ripe for the removal of
our superfluous State Governors. Surely
the King will be sufficiently well repre-
sented in this country by his own brother
without any other assistance.
With the removal of State Governors
the field would be cleared for the dis-
solution of our State Parliaments, with
their huge batch of useless politicians.
It is surely unnecessary to have seven
Parliaments to rule a handful of people
when one Parliament is sufficient for
Great Britain.
The only persons likely to have any
objection to the changes are the politi-
cians who will be displaced and persons
afflicted with a decidedly parochial out-
look. The rulers we want are those who
put “Australia first, self last.” —G. T.
Meehan (N.S.W.).
The Kindly Word
If the other fellow happens to be a
woman is she allowed to have her say?
How is it that so few people form the
really worth-while habit of saying the nice
thing and leaving the nasty one unsaid?
To do this it isn’t necessary to be insin-
cere. There’s good in the worst of us.
It is, or should be, a well-known fact
that both men and women respond to a
pleasant word, a kindly thought. Other
people give us just what we expect from
them. It pays in every way to expect the
best. “How nice you look! ” “How dear
you are! ” —simple words, but they’ve
made many a wife’s or husband’s day.
And, since days make up a lifetime, what
a far-reaching effect it would have if we
systematically stifled the ugly thought
and voiced the gracious one! —O. M. F.
(Vic.).
Life in a Country Town
The most pitiful sight to be seen in
our capital cities is the Sunday pro-
cession of cars that leaves town shortly
after midday. It rolls along, bumper-
bar to tail-light, until each unit gets as
far as its limited time or petrol will carry
it. A little later the tide turns and the
procession rolls home to its evening meal
and its minor duties. Its week-end of
relaxation is over.
The units of this procession are trying
to give their families a taste of Australia’s
beauty.
They live in flats and cramped houses
and they believe that anyone who dwells
outside the 10-mile radius is a “hayseed.”
They wear out a track from house to
office or shop. They lap up their news and
views from pictorial papers and “inspired”
radio talks until they have none of their
own. Few of them ever see a play, and
their reading is confined to the latest
puffed novel.
Yet there is escape for some of them ;
many inland towns provide everything
that these unfortunates are seeking. Take
my town, Albury (population 12,000).
Here is a river in which to swim or
fish. Here are hills to be climbed, and
more distant snow-clad mountains for
winter sport. A reservoir running back
into the hills for 30 miles is a paradise
for yachtsmen and speedboat maniacs.
Here are air-conditioned clubs with
squash, bowls and tennis courts for all-
weather and night play. Cricket, tennis,
croquet and golf clubs abound. Think
of golf at 10s. a year!
The average wage-earner who is in-
terested in all these things is just as
happy in his home. The ice-box is giving
way to the refrigerator. Fuel stoves are
becoming a memory. With gas and elec-
tricity at fd. a unit many of us never
chop a stick of wood. Homes are built
on large blocks that give ample flower
and vegetable gardens.
There may be other countries which
have all these things to offer in their
provincial life; I have travelled exten-
sively from Paris to Peking, Cologne to
Cape Town, and I have found nothing
like it. That’s why I regret that I did
not spend my childhood here.— Hayseed
(N.S.W.).
Defence or Dalliance?
General Monash considered that the
essential components of an Australian
army were a qualified staff, an adequate
equipment and a trained soldiery in that
order of importance. With the compe-
tition of other services and the arrears
which must be made up, it seems im-
possible to secure all these components
simultaneously with the limited funds
available. The army has therefore to
face a rejuvenation programme by stages
and must give priority to the most urgent
needs.
When it comes to consideration of
trained soldiery it must decide whether
the money available can
best be spent on com-
pulsory training or
some alternative
scheme of providing
for this component.
Experience in Spain and
elsewhere clearly shows
that the requirements
of modern warfare are
imperfectly met by
militia, however raised,
and,that regular troops
must be looked upon to
provide a substantial
backbone to a national
land force.
The Defence Act (of
pre-1914 vintage) does
not allow for raising or
organising permanent
military forces such as
units of infantry,
cavalry and armored-
car or tank formations.
This absurdity lingers
on in the statute book,
making necessary such
masterly strategic ex-
pedients as the enlist-
ment of personnel for
these arms under the
guise of Army Service
Corps or Royal Aust.
Artillery. Meanwhile
citizens are being urged
to do their bit by political leaders
who are depressed by the “difficulties”
of making any legislative change for the
better “at this time.” If this is not the
time it never will be, and those who seek
for concerted effort and deplore criticism
must give some token of sincerity by
sweeping aside petty obstacles to logical
progress.— Trackpin (Tas.).
Quack Healers
It is fashionable, particularly since
Cronin’s novel was published, to mis-
trust doctors. Scepticism is no bad thing.
Doctors are human and fallible, and
their calling puts great temptations in
their paths. Nevertheless, their profes-
sion is based on science. It may be a
science in its infancy, largely empirical,
largely (as yet) experimental. But it is
certain that, if an apparent cure is found
for any disease, medical science will test
it thoroughly and approve of it if it is
found to be genuine.
Doctors may be conservative towards
new ideas. It is better to be that way
than to exude the false optimism and
wicked, lying assurance of most quack
healers. These rogues often claim cate-
gorically to be able to cure cancer, t.b.,
anything and everything. They cash in
on the deadly fear of ill-health and death
that is in all of us in some degree. They
prey unscrupulously on the terror of those
who have loved ones who are ill. They
foster fear, then turn it to profit.
And if they fail to cure? Ah, they
never fail! If the sick person becomes
worse or dies, the quack easily exonerates
himself from blame. His particular


brand of healing suffers no setback, for
he has always the alibi — the patient did
not have enough faith.
It is a cruel, a damnable racket, and
should be rigorously stamped out. —
W. J. H. (Maoriland).
His Majesty the Baby
Perth seems to be one of the few cities
giving the merited attention to the en-
couragement of more babies.
Here the baby-transport problem is
studied by shops, where prams are given
precedence in lifts ; in a chain store there
is also an easy flight of stairs, with
electric bell at top and bottom which
instantly summons an attendant to help
up or down the stairs with the pram.
Other shops have wooden lines for the
pram to run down.
In picture-shows the entrance usually
has a parking area set aside for babies
and prams, and the attendants are most
considerate in every way, rocking off a
wakeful infant, etc. The backs of buses
have great iron hooks which carry prams
and push-carts, and even ferries take
prams on top. In trams when four or
five push-carts and prams are “on” the
iron grille is closed, and traffic has to go
the other way. So his Majesty the Baby
reigns supreme in one corner of the
Commonwealth! Molly Asphar
(W.A.).
War—or Scare?
In the enthusiastic recruiting of 70,000
soldierboys for Australia, supporters of
the Defence League and like organisa-
tions discount one important factor. The
1914-1918 struggle may not have proved
“the war to end war” ; but it did prove
the war that ended war’s glamor. Twenty-
five years ago it might have been possible
to scare Aussies with bogeys of 300-mile-
an-hour bombers and fire-eating Nazis.
To-day, when Billy Hughes goes on the
rampage, he’s a voice wailing from
another world.
There’s been too much claptrap, too
many treaties, too much backsliding.
Australians have come to believe in a
twisted adage: “Drink and be merry,
for to-morrow we mightn’t die.”
The only reply that remains to politi-
cians—if they are really as scared as they
say—is the reply of dictatorships: Com-
pulsory training! Otherwise, our un-
ready Anzacs will stick to yachting and
swimming at week-ends and let 70,000
other mugs do the drilling. Why not ?
O M. A. (N.S.W.).
The “Man in the Street”
A feature of the stunt press is
its possibly unintentional but very con-
sistent attempt to belittle the intelligence
of the man in the street. How often
do we hear the expression “Of course
you can’t get the man in the street to
take an intelligent interest in anything.”
Obviously each individual must lose
faith in democracy if he thinks that
most other individuals are morons. Such
a view is certainly fostered by the stunt
press.
Newspapers which print scare-monger-
ing articles of the most transparent fal-
sity, “50-word lecturettes” obviously con-
tributed by a minority of half-wits and
boy-struck flappers, astrological pre-
dictions about Wednesday being a
bad day for eyebrow - plucking, the
latest “news” about celluloid sheiks
and sirens, and illustrated strips de-
picting the adventures of muscle-
bound morons marooned on Mars are
clearly belittling the intelligence of the
mass in the eyes of each individual who
falls into the trap of thinking that most
people want such rubbish. Quiz
(N.S.W.)!
Why Pet Murderers?
Can anyone really explain this modern
and almost fierce objection to any
murderer’s being put out of the
world? The old argument for execution
is as strong as ever, thus: We are all
battling against Death ; a life-and-death
matter is enough excuse for any risk to
be taken. Yet somebody, for purely
private and selfish ends, turns blackleg
on us all and strikes another out of
existence. He is thus a traitor to the
whole human race, and should be put
outside the camp.
So what? Growth of humanitarian
feeling? Rubbish! In every other direc-
tion life is actually held cheaper now.
It is certainly not that we are in the least
learning to shudder at bloodshed. Motor-
cars and level-crossings are now taking
their regular daily toll, with nobody
worrying much. Why, any constable may
shoot a mere thief dead for just running
away—conceivably even a man innocent,
though scared. Only murderers, however
brutal, must be treated with a considera-
tion hitherto unheard of. Why?
Any man coming on some of these
human gorillas at their foul work would
be highly commended for striking them
dead on the instant. And yet, if that
doesn’t happen, they are likely to be
merely gaoled; and still more likely to
be quietly released after a few years by
some “humane” Minister. Again, why?—
S. Talbot Smith (S.A.).
School Doesn’t Teach Everything
One type of letter recurring frequently
in the “0.F.M.” pages calls for challenge.
I refer to the suggestions appearing week
after week that this or that should be
taught in our schools.
Why is there such a persistent belief
that everything can be learned in school
and nothing out of it? In their teens our
young people are herded into secondary
schools, in blind pursuance of an “edu-
cational” system that was built up in
colder climes, where the age of adoles-
cence is much later than in our own
warm continent; and we have the sad
spectacle of young men ripe for social
and business responsibility wasting their
time, while young women old enough to
become mothers bend their shoulders
over textbooks instead of treasure cots.
Finally, our young people turn out to
face the world with a smattering of many
subjects they don’t need to know, and
ignorant of so many things they ought
to know.
If every thinking parent would count
up the actual number of hours that each
child spends in school, would inquire
into the duration of specified lessons and
the frequency thereof and the amount of
work done by the child itself, would cal-
culate the total time devoted to any par-
ticular subject in a school year, then
there would be less demand for additions
to the curriculum, but rather a swing of
the pendulum back to “the good old
three R’s.”
I may be regarded as a disillusioned
reactionary, but 20 years of experience in
State schools has left me with two firm
convictions: That parents should resume
their one-time responsibility for the
moral, religious and social training of
their children, and provide for them such
intellectual elegancies as their future
position or career calls for ; and that any
child of normal mentality who can read,
write and perform mathematical calcula-
tions intelligently holds the key to all
culture. —H. Love (N.Q.).
Give the Specialist His Chance
Private enterprise is quick to realise
the worth of the specialist; Government
enterprise is not so quick. Commissions
and boards set up to control vital mat-
ters such as public health, town-planning,
civil aviation and broadcasting seem
overburdened with administrative as
distinct from specialist-creative—ability.
The expert may not know how to run
an office full of clerks and typists, but
he does know the fundamentals of his
job. Government-appointed bodies are
far too preoccupied with stifling matters
of routine and procedure ever to achieve
anything really great in their respective
spheres. The specialist is disliked be-
cause he is “temperamental”—he is some-
thing of a tyrant, knowing exactly what
he wants and impatient alike of blun-
derers, red-tape and jacks-in-office. He
wants things done—the right way.
Australia has had great pioneers in
every sphere now controlled by well-
meaning laymen aviation and broad-
casting particularly. Where are the ex-
perts to-day? Those still alive and in the
country are either employed in private
industry or have turned to some other
pursuit through lack of suitable oppor-
tunities in the work nearest their hearts.
Give the experts their chance and let us
exchange muddling mediocrity for
planned progress!—R. H. A. (W.A.).
Australia Is Not C 3
Medical pessimists and political alarm-
ists of late have been harrying the public
by statements regarding the physical fit-
ness of Australia’s male population. One
gets the impression that this great island
houses a nation of tubercular, rickety
weaklings, and that the “bronzed sun-
gods” of the beaches are really C 3 in-
dividuals.
May I, as a third party from industrial,
smoky Scotland, beg leave to refute the
assertions of these poor-mouths? We do
not consider ourselves weaklings at home,
or aught but tough, hardy fellows, but
I must confess to a feeling of somewhat
awed admiration when I view your taller,
suntanned, strong young men.
It has been my good fortune while in
Australia to spend as much time in the
country as in the cities, so that I have
seen most types of Australians ; and I
cannot call to mind more than a very
few men who could be classed as other
than magnificently healthy. Everywhere
I have gone I have been struck by the
general tallness and hardness of the
population. I myself am on the small
side, and at many gatherings I have been
rather embarrassed by the immense size
of the other men present. My eyes have
so often ached with beholding great,
bulging shoulders, and my hand with
enduring the vast grip of fists like small
hams.
You have only to think of your young
men who battle cheerfully in the surf,
your farmhands, sheep-shearers, sheep-
hands, your cattlemen, to realise that the
Australian people as a whole are splen-
didly healthy. Think of your tall, strong
and lovely lassies. They do not produce
weaklings.
Consider, too, your schoolboys. I have
had a lot to do with schoolboys since I
came to this country and I must say that
I have never met a tougher bunch. The
G.P.S. athletic records, for instance, are
every whit as good as the English Public
Schools’ records, and they represent no
mean performances.
It is a good thing for the authorities
to keep an eye on health —in fact, it
is their duty. And general physical cul-
ture schemes are to be applauded. En-
courage sport, organise health. But why
turn to an obviously healthy people and
say it is unhealthy? Outsiders at least
will regard such a statement as I do —
as a foolish pandering to fashionable
pessimism. H. W. Fitzroy Smith
(N.S.W.).
Political Intelligence
I doubt if there’ll be any political re-
form, certainly very little national pro-
gress, in Australia until every candidate
for Parliament is compelled to pass a
simple intelligence test. Anybody, pro-
vided he has the front and is willing
to vote with the party, can win a good
job in one of our seven Parliaments, irre-
spective of whether he knows how many
blue beans make five or not. Survey the
political scene in any State or at Can-
berra to-day and tell me if you can get
any politician to answer concisely even
a fair proportion of the following ques-
tions :
Why are seven Parliaments necessary?
Where is Lake Albacutya?
Can Australia rehabilitate its wheat in-
dustry?
Can motor-cars be manufactured here?
Why does a Federal concern like the
Post Office charge extra rates on telegrams
going inter-State?
What is the annual loss on Australian
railways?
Into what sea does each of the Barwon
rivers flow?
What was the effect of the Punic wars on
British history?
Just what was the Munich pact?
What is your argument against the in-
itiative, referendum and recall?
Do you honestly believe that you are a
big enough man to guide the destiny of
Australia?
There’s plenty more, but try that lot on
’em.— Nark (N.S.W.).
Brighten Baby Sales-talk
The drumming for babies has become
insistent on the ears and mind, but the
sales talk, if applied commercially, would
not bring in enough to carry the sales-
man to the nearest service station for an
issue of free air.
I am not of the sex that has babies,
but there are three young women in my
household, and I am not ignorant of their
anti-baby psychology and the causes of
it. AH males would be of the same mind
if given the same morbid literature and
warnings to swallow.
Consider the propaganda fed to the
potential mother. As soon as the infant
girl becomes aware of the fact that she
is of the sex that has babies and as soon
as she is able to read she finds in all
periodicals about the home references to
maternal mortality or “making mother-
hood safe,” either or any of such head-
ings fixing in the immature and impres-
sionable mind the idea that having babies
is a very risky ordeal fraught with painful
deaths and dangers. In fact, a fear com-
plex is built up in an age that makes it
most difficult to remove later on in life.
Consider also the hardness and threats
in the language surrounding conception.
“Pregnant” is a hard, evil-sounding word
never associated in its present-day use
with the bright and happy things of life,
but always with dark and threatening
portents. What more natural than that
a girl should carry the generally accepted
and wider meaning of the ugly word to
her condition as a coming mother
enough in itself to cause a fear or anxiety
complex!
“Conception” does not help much,
either. Though a softer word, it only
conveys the suggestion of a dream to be
rudely shattered before realisation, and
it has to face its opposite—“contracep-
tion” —which means, as a result of adver-
tising, relief from and removal of the
causes of anxiety.
Take the words surrounding birth
“birth” itself telling of the beginnings of
struggle, not the happy ending of it. Or
consider an alternative —“confinement
locked up in a small place, imprisoned,
restriction of liberty or movement. Or
another, and the hardest-sounding of the
lot—“labor”—meaning, in the generally-
applied sense, hard and exhausting work
with little or no reward. Compare it
with the too-infrequently used “delivery”
-—something awaited in pleasurable anti-
cipation brought to you at your door
without self-effort —and you get the sense
of all that I mean.
Then realise all the adverse effect of
all the propaganda concerning child-
rearing. Instead of making baby a tough
and happy little mortal with an almost
inexhaustible will to live, he is made to
appear a frail little creature anxious to
slip away immediately any one of a long
and formidable list of do’s and don’t’s
is neglected. The mother is told, in fact,
that she has been burdened with a trained
and long-experienced nurse’s job of bring-
ing through a difficult patient in a seri-
ous condition. And the only purpose of
it all, when she reads why she should
have babies, is that there shall be an
inexhaustible supply of cannon fodder.
The road death-roll is an appalling
one but the car salesman does not quote
its figures—he boosts the car’s braking
power and safety build ; he does not
quote garage costs but talks about dura-
bility and low running costs ; he does not
refer to the roughness of the roads but
tells of the comfort, convenience and
shock-absorbing qualities of the car, and,
above all, enlarges upon the health, hap-
piness and pleasure such a car as his
can give.
Brighten the outlook on maternity and
the baby and we shall yet save ourselves
from being a race of old men- and
women. — Happy Complex (N.S.W.)
Children of an Idle Brain
The influence of the headlines on our
little Hitlers is amazing. Their little
minds are inflamed by a journalistic re-
port of a foreign relief scheme to ease
the lot of the parents of an overlarge
family, and they jump into prominence
with a ready-made theme —with extra
pants and two free fittings.
They tell us we are a lot of slackers.
We must “populate or perish.” We who
live in 1938 are told to get busy and
make up the leeway that our grandparents
lost. Because the British Empire, all of
it, has only increased its white popula-
tion by 25 millions since 1881, whereas
Japan has added 65 millions in the same
time, starting from the same mark (and
that without foreign dilution), we are
told that we are a mob of pleasure-
seekers deliberately avoiding our duty.
The Commonwealth Year-Book tells
us that we are holding our own ; our
annual birthrate compares favorably
with that of most European nations ; yet
these little blowhards say that we must
“reproduce, reproduce.”
It is a pity that they cannot experience
the agony of mind that almost every
wage-earner’s wife undergoes as she faces
another period of toil, illness, hardship,
debt and the constant shadow of unem-
ployment.—Ploto (N.S.W.).
The Creative Urge
Amidst all the discussions going on at ,
the present day as to the cause of social
unrest, I think the fundamental one has
been entirely overlooked. It is the deeply-
implanted instinct in the human race to
build something, and we do not even
need a psychoanalyst to tell us that
frustration leads to trouble. Owing to
man’s physical make-up he is confined to
building in what might be termed the
external world ; he invents, explores,
builds houses, bridges, railways and all
the other myriad things we use in every-
day life ; and the important point is that
he does not do this for money but be-
cause of an urge over which he has no
control. He doesn’t actually need all
these things ; he would be just as happy
living in a tent —if he did not have this
urge.
Now we come to the women, and I’m
about to step in where angels fear to
tread. They satisfy their instinct to build
by creating life itself and fitting it to take
its place in the world. Does it not follow
that when this implanted form of creative
ability is abandoned in favor of an arti-
ficial one, something will go wrong?
Man’s urge is to build for the future,
but no children means no future, so their
urge is frustrated, too. I am not sug-
gesting that women are the culprits;
man and woman are two halves of the
same thing. Both are to blame, and what
is needed is a change of heart.
Incidentally, it is significant that in
Germany and Italy women are going
back to their old job and men to theirs,
and in spite of the cronk press I do
believe they are happier. Certainly there
is plenty of building going on! —J, N.
Rookledge (N.S.W.).


HIGH LIVING
at Xmas Time
Results in Biliousness and
Bad Heads
At this period of the year most of us are
inclined to over-indulge in both food and
drink. This, coupled with the lack of usual
exercise and other methods of living, upsets
the system. There is no need to describe the
symptoms, which are known only too well.
For disordered systems arising from such
conditions Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are invaluable. They act directly, though
gently, on the liver, increasing the digestive
secretions, thus assisting nature to cope with
the surplus food. Upon the first indication
of bilious symptoms a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills should be taken, or, better
still, if used regularly they will keep the
digestive organs in proper working order.
Dr Morse*
PILLS
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by 1 he
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, musculai
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(,Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
No. 2 BOOK NOW ON SALE
The PHANTOM
A PICTURE-SERIAL FULL
OF ADVENTURE,
MYSTERY AND
THRILLS.
68 Pages for 6d.
(Postage 2d.
extra.)
vo»
V
\S $
.qV
r\.
C *
.•••■’^s< ce |5 0
• (tf v°
J, °


..
mmi.
m
■
■ •
• •
'■ : --;x
:; : S'" :
• : .1, ! ; . •■:•'■-
I!
Pi
1
If
ws
1!
k
\
: ■
l &$ M§i.
*• 4 S#* .JP V*£ * p&'
'
WES. /lv
f -':
i§ : > = " •«;',, 3 ''/
; ; J 1 ~
m . Jr i?' : 'k'»
■m%
li®
;> /'•■:
$T I
MSI
5. j 1
m
:
i
l»
ip !
-
*
m-gmgmif*
f^.:
r.».
M*
i
in
.
'
■ !||
; ,
| ; Jjj.y,y ■ ' 1 y|| ' ‘
«i
%
■
I*
:• - ••/.
llil
!||S
4
.Mi
S
i/" -«<j
|§SH
M 1
■* -:
11
its
a
x ; til *. 11»-
®Ss|
m&mmm
a& IHSIt # 111
:
gmi '
'WJ I v -
iiaiplip!
iiiili
' Vplp :> 'TP W Wp i
w
■mo :
MUSIC
m
The
Sensational
. - . So you may
learn the thrills and
pleasures of
1939 CAR RADIO!
Here’s your big chance! Whether you are a
Ford owner or a prospective Ford purchaser
you are entitled to 7 days’ FREE TRIAL
of the most up-to-date and successful car
radio in Australia to-day . . . the TASMA
AUTO RADIO, designed especially for Ford
cars and approved and recommended by the
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty., Ltd.
There is no charge for installing the set for
trial and no obligation at any stage of the
trial.
NO OBLIGATION ... NO INTERFERENCE WITH
MOTOR ... NO HOLES TO BE DRILLED!
The Tasma set will be installed in your car without
any holes being drilled. Neither the body, roof nor
engine of your Ford will be interfered with in any
way. You simply go along to your Ford or Tasma
Dealer and ask him to have your car equipped with
a Tasma . . . the job is completed in one day.
The exclusive Klipon aerial (Stainless steel, telescopic
and practically invisible) clips neatly on to the centre
pillar of the windscreen. Immediately you tune your
Ford-Tasma < • „ the set which requires no spark-
suppression or special batteries . . . you’ll realise that
a new peak has been achieved in car-radio perform-
ance. You’ll get a new and pleasant thrill when you
hear the smooth, clear performance of this ultra-
modern set. With a Tasma you are never out of
touch. Go and see your Ford or Tasma dealer NOW!
NEW 4-DIMENSION NOISE FADER
Just a touch of a finger and background
noise fades out! Instant tone control! And
this is but one of the many exclusive Tasma
innovations which make this the most
sensational car radio of modern times. Go
and see your Ford dealer! Have your Car
Tasma equipped for 7 DAYS’ FREE
TRIAL!
Cash Price £25. Aerial and Installation extra.
A PRODUCT OF THOM & SMITH PTY.,
LTD.. 29-39 BOTANY ROAD. MASCOT.
TASMA
FORD RADIO
DESIGNED EXCLUSIVELY FOR FORD CARS
AND APPROVED AND RECOMMENDED BYTHE
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PIY. LTD.
(Inc. in
Vic.)
