

w
\\
'/////>\
w/tm
m, i//i I
y
WA
%
er
'/Ayy
/A
yy
/ /
z,
Vt
7/
T^St
"A**
=53&: ix
fs^tk
'S'
M n, ll!
O
V.
ri
-X
SUPEBPUIMf
BR EAT*ffi
2^
•y-
-r/,/\
wyy
•tr/A:
V'
m.
VAM
mif
5Sf
a»r>
5T
■■■■;.
m
wy
Mi
Bn
Sffi
m
wvi
::
\\\«S&s
Si
For Starting, Getaway, Power and Mileage
IT’S AUSTRALIA’S BEST PETROL
T
IjErHYUAttUM '
l COVPORAnON /'
WMM
The Bulletin
v/furf~ sftfaj • fair ftfyo.
Vol. 59.—N0. 3057.
Wednesday, September 14, 1938.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
for 1938 is now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
LEGENDS AND FACTS.
The scientific and literary status of aboriginal
folklore and legend in Australia is something that
badly needs looking into. Through the years there
has accumulated —apart from white literature using
aboriginals as subject-matter—a considerable library
whose books purport to contain stories told by the
blacks around their campfires.
Some of the stories are primitive natural history,
such as why the kookaburra laughs at dawn and
sunset; some, such as how the kangaroos punished the
people for cruelty, have moralistic motives ; others are
products of the tale-teller’s unfettered fancy. Generally,
these books contain a blanket guarantee that the stories
in question are pure aboriginal creations ; others present
themselves as reconstructions based on fragments the
author has heard at first-hand from the blacks or has
been told by other white people. Neither are satisfac-
tory. Aside from a “feeling”—something in the rhythm
of the prose and the rounding- out of each “legend”—
there are frequently naive blunders that make the
legends, even if true, ring false. Too often, as well,
the degree of knowledge revealed accords more with
the sophistication of the white mind than the dim
speculations of the black.
There is always, in the justifiably sceptical mind,
a conviction that the author has built far too much
on too little ; that, like the scientist, he has attempted
to construct a full skeleton from a scrap of unearthed
bone —but without the scientist’s justification in know-
ledge.
The Mitchell Library lists 77 items under the
heading Aboriginal Folklore. They range from poems
and stories which do not pretend to be anything more
than white men’s fiction, to anthropological data, and
include several volumes of what purport to be native
legends. Few of these produce even slight evidence
of their authenticity ; some none at all.
The best of them, recognised as classic in this
particular genre, are three volumes by Mrs. Langloh
Parker, called Australian Legendary Tales, published
about 40 years ago. They are very interesting, but
they share the general character of their kind in that
no particular story is supported by an account of how
it came to the white narrator’s knowledge. The locale
of the stories—the author explains—ranges from the
Riverina, where she was in contact with the blacks, to
the Gulf country—which she never visited. The
material for these was supplied by correspondents.
The notes in these letters would be of greater interest
than what the author constructed from them.
It is noticeable how much more satisfying
are the author’s prefaces as compared with her
“legends.” In the former she gives scraps of
circumstantial detail, what a native told her when
she went to break a piece of pink fungus from a tree-
trunk, what her native house-girl told her one night
when the lamplit room was suddenly invaded by a
number of extraordinarily large moths. In the much
more elaborate “reconstructions” the reader has to
take the writer’s word for everything.
Other writers, even some from whom a more
scientific approach to the subject might have been
expected, are not more satisfying. Ramsay Smith,
of Edinburgh University, who has seven letters after
his name and who is the author of several books with
resounding titles, also contributes a volume of legends
with no evidential support and with some interior
evidence that makes it seem that he is overcredulous.
One story begins, “According to the Narrinyeri legend
the crow set out from the north of Queensland on
his travels and struck the Darling River. He followed
its course, and by-and-bye he reached the Murray.”
The North Queensland blacks may have known the
geography of the southern part of the continent, but
it is unlikely.
J. W. Gregory, author of The Dead Heart of
Australia, shows commendable scepticism iri one place
and an overweening faith in his own imagination in
another. In respect of a legend, he says, “This was
told me by Mr. Kempe, of Peak Downs. Mr. Kempe
emphatically rejected my suggestion that the resurrec-
tion part of the story may perhaps have been a modem
introduction due to missionary influence.” Yet. else-
where he speculates at length on a primitive people’s
notions of the cosmos with nothing more to build on
than a wholly speculative foundation. “If they have
any theory of the limited universe known to them
they probably believe ”
It is remarkable that Spencer and Gillen, in The
Arunta, an outstanding anthropological work, devote
no space to these legends. They deal at great length
with the totemic myths, the aboriginal’s theory of his
origin, the cult of the churinga, the ceremonial corro-
borees ; but “popular” legends, stories of how the koala
lost his tail or why the emu has small wings, if the
Arunta had any, are overlooked. It is possible that
Spencer and Gillen failed to realise the interest and
scientific importance of these beginnings of creative
literature. The scientific mind has its blind spots, and
some color is lent to the supposition by Spencer’s work
in Wanderings in Wild Australia. He reproduces
photographs of aboriginal drawings of fabulous
creatures which he groups as “gnomes,” and he tells
two or three stories of the legend type—his manner
in each case suggesting the scientist in his lighter
moments.
It is by no means certain that the best efforts of
those interested will succeed in preserving any section
of the aboriginal race in a primitive condition ; and
once detribalisation comes —even under the most
humane auspices—the native spiritual content of their
lives falls away. Their legends—such as really existed
—are part of the very slender legacy these primitives
are likely to leave with us. Apart from their high
intrinsic interest, they are possibly valuable as a root-
stock from which a branch of Australian literature
might spring—something distinctive of the soil.
It is necessary if any value at all is to attach to
books of “legends” that the authors treat their subject-
matter with proper literary and scientific regard. If
the stories are reconstructions each should carry with
it a reference back to its original source in accredited
anthropology. If it is something which the author has
gathered at first-hand he should give the circumstances
under which he came by it: the place, the season, the
personality of the black narrator or narrators, as
nearly as is practicable in the aboriginals’ own words.
One genuine fragment so presented would be of far
greater interest —in the popular as well as the scien-
tific sense—than a volume full of unauthenticated
“reconstructions.”
F.D.D
Debunking Helen.
The only literary ladies of note who have had
much to do with swans are Helen of Troy and Annie
Laurie, Helen having been begotten by Jupiter in
one of his poultry disguises, and Annie having been
endowed by Burns with the neck of the bird.
Though they’re thus girls of a feather, poets
don’t seem to have cottoned on to Annie so enthu-
siastically as they have to Helen. Even Shelley’s sky-
lark has had better publicity. Possibly the reason is
that if her neck was really “like the swan,” white
and bendy and a yard long, she’d have looked like a
giraffe ; or perhaps it’s her name that’s the trouble.
Rupert Brooke, who wrote so charmingly of Helen,
would have found it difficult to say
High sat white Annie, lonely and serene.
Jupiter’s chickens, on the other hand, have come
home to roost in droves. There’s hardly a poet since
Homer who hasn’t borrowed Helen as a symbol. Mar-
lowe asked the lady to make him immortal with a kiss,
and she did make him immortal with a couplet;
Was this the face that launched a thousand ships
And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?
Shakspeare trotted her out in sonnet and play
more than 30 times, but was cad enough to set up a
tradition of decrying her that has persisted as reso-
lutely as Marlowe’s tradition of adoration. In the
sonnets Shakspeare has “On Helen’s cheek all art of
beauty set,” but that’s only to prove how much more
lovely was his own problematical lady. In the plays,
it’s not her beauty but her cuckolding of Menelaus
that stings him deepest:
The ravished Helen, Menelaus’ queen,
With wanton Paris sleeps.
It worried him, and he called her a “hilding,”
which is presumably something derogatory. W. B.
Yeats, always a gentleman, and a great Helen-fan,
reproves him:
Yet we, had we walked within
Those topless towers
Where Helen walked with her boy,
Had given but as the rest
Of the men and the women of Troy,
A word and a jest.
Brooke’s first sonnet on the subject looks as if
he had taken the reproof to heart, for he pays Helen
the prettiest of compliments. Menelaus, sword in
hand, rushes after vengeance through Priam’s smok-
ing palace, but:
High sat white Helen, lonely and serene.
He had not remembered that she was so fair,
And that her neck curved down in such a way;
And he felt tired. He flung the sword away,
And kissed her feet, and knelt before her there,
The perfect Knight before the Perfect Queen.
But Brooke was always afraid of himself as a
perfect Knight—which is why he wrote that dreadful
poem about seasickness —and he followed Helen into
the privacy of her old age. She is “a scold, haggard
with virtue,” Menelaus “waxes garrulous,” and
Brooke waxes caddish:
Often he wonders why on earth he went
Troyward, or why poor Paris ever came.
Often she weeps, gummy-eyed and impotent;
Her dry shanks twitch at Paris’ mumbled name.
So Menelaus nagged; and Helen cried;
And Paris slept on by Scamander tide.
After this blasphemy, Humbert Wolfe displays
a very fine chivalry in his relations with the lady.
Instead of infusing her with unpleasant reality, he
presents her, symbolically and properly, in a glass
case:—
Her beauty’s a wraith,
and the boy Paris
muffles in death
his mouth’s cold cherries.
Aye! these are less,
that were love’s summer,
than one gold phrase
of old blind Homer.
Not Helen’s wonder
nor Paris stirs,
but the bright untender
hexameters.
In spite of that valiant effort, the infamous de-
bunking of Helen continues. “It ain’t all jam, this
symbol-racket, Annie,” she tells Burns’s lass as they
stroll about the banks and the braes of the Styx.
“Maybe, as you say, nobody cares a hoot for you
except people like Harry Lauder who can t even speak
English; but take a gander with that long white
neck of yours at what Lord Dunsany did to me lately
in the ‘London Mercury’ ”:
“And were you pleased?” they asked of Helen in Hell.
“Pleased?” answered she, “when all Troy’s towers fell
And dead were Priam’s sons, and lost his throne?
And such a war was fought as none had known;
And even the gods took part; and all because
Of me alone! Pleased? I should say I was!”
The Super-dwarf.
Minimum Man, by Andrew Marvell (Gollancz),
is set in England in 1950 during the rule of a dictator
with the inspiring name of Jellaby.
A reporter named Swan —in whose person the book
is written —was sacked from his paper for exposing a
building scandal, the jerry-builder being of some im-
portance in other ways. He began to look round for
a scoop as an introduction to another billet, and found
it in a mysterious motor-truck smash. The driver
had disappeared, and witnesses said they saw a flock
of monkeys leave the truck and disappear in the dim
light.
Swan found one of the alleged monkeys asleep
in the back of his car. It was a miniature man, one-
foot high, naked but covered in golden down. He
said his name was Napoleon, and persuaded Swan by
threats and cajolery to take him home. On the way
Napoleon, using Swan’s razor, murdered a policeman
who caught him stealing apples. Swan is suspected,
and it looks as if the book were going to turn into a
regulation detective story. But Napoleon. obligingly
commits another identical murder while Swan is under
police observation, and Swan is released.
He ferrets out the secret colony from which the
dwarfs came, and the novel now takes a Wellsian
trend. The dwarfs are a nation in themselves. The
original pair were the twin children of a respectable
Welsh widow, addicted to drink, who worked at a
poison-gas factory. They were the extraordinary
result of an obscure conjunction of gin and the fumes
of poison gas. They attained maturity within a few
weeks, reproduced themselves three times a year, and
were intellectually greatly superior to man. They
did everything men did, trained armies, conducted
scientific experiments and practised the arts.
The author seems unable to make up his mind
whether the dwarfs were a Good Thing or a Bad
Thing, and alternately presents them as malign and
beneficent beings. They intended to conquer the
world, and were secretly preparing to do so. Their
leader was called Solomon, a super-dwarf. Funds
were necessary, and the novel rises or descends once
more to the detective level when Swan takes a troop
of these mannikins to London to rob a wicked mil-
lionaire of a priceless jewel.
The book now becomes quasi-political. By the
aid of the dwarfs the dictator, Jellaby, was assassinated
and the Government overthrown. Solomon is last
seen being carried in triumph on a silver salver by a
waiter.
A Disciple of Joyce.
Malcolm Muggeridge’s In a Valley of This Rest-
less Mind (Routledge) partakes intermittently of the
qualities of the novel, the essay and the book of
thematically-linked short stories. In music it would
probably be called a symphonic poem.
It is the sensitive picture of one man’s journey
of despair through the jungles of modern panaceas.
Everyman looks for life and finds death with joy and
relief. He states the theme:
And I found that these two conflicting passions—
to separate myself and to merge myself—tormented and
bewildered me; and sometimes I abandoned myself
to one and sometimes to the other, or comprehended
both, but never had them, except momentarily, in one
embrace, on one exquisite June evening when I wept
and wept to see the earth so lovely.
In style it is a wild jumble, dealing with com-
plexity in terms of complexity, and changing from
moment to moment to suit the changing subject-matter
after the manner of Joyce.
Bizarre images are scattered thickly, as this
young man taking polite farewell of his hostess, “I
ejected words as a slug ejects slime, to ease my passage
away.” Muggeridge believes in shock tactics. There
are passages of trenchant frankness and bitter, angry
disillusion.
Death of a Stag.
The Survivors (Allen and Unwin), by Ren6
Behaine, is translated with great‘skill and sympathy
by Edward Crankshaw and prefaced with a fanfare
by Ford Madox Ford.
It is certainly a notable book, suave and brilliant,
with a line as classic as Flaxman’s, but it is a museum
piece, a frieze illustrating a section —now nearly
extinct —of French society.
A family of the petty nobility, the De Laignes,
through three generations, beginning in 1890 and
moving toward the present, is faultlessly portrayed.
It is a triptych composed of three stories lightly woven
together but incapable of standing alone.
The first and most lively is of Antoine de Laignes,
the oldest son, whose education consisted of piety 7
and hunting as a prelude to living aimlessly on the
shrinking family estates which he no longer even
visited.
The second tells the story —almost devoid of
events —of the childhood and youth of Marie-
Armande de Chappes in a provincial town. She grows
up cut off by her caste from every practical aspect of
life, surrounded by piety of the most stereotyped kind,
to become the wife of Antoine. The third and most
detailed is the picture of their daughter Catherine,
(Continued on page 8.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—aIways.
“THE SENIOR STORE."
ox for
sdf
WEAR RESIST
HALF HOSE
All wool, except the ornament!
These designs in Grey, Blue,
Brown or Navy. Sizes 10 to
12 inch. At Anthony Horderns'
per pair !/ll
Or three pairs for 5/6
ALL WOOL
HALF HOSE
In a better make Smart and
durable wear. Of all wool,
except ornament. Grey, Blue-
Grey, Brown or Navy. Sizes
10 to 12 inch. At Anthony
Horderns’, per pair 2/6
Or three pairs for 7 /3
m
Hi
■
k
ill
m
1
8 ■
m
H
z
m
1
ss
V
n
■
i
m
mm
m
i m
■
.A****,
V
m
TT-lr
"Stylryte" Half Hose
: Oris of Australia’s best in qualify
sox. Included are sense . o: the
smartest designs for new season's
Colours are Grey, Green,
Blue-Grey, Brown or Navy. Sizes
10 to 12 inch At Anthony Hor-
derns'. per pair • - -
Or three pairs tor 13/ ~
"BURLINGTON" SOX
Plain Al! Wool," with'* embroidered
cl ox to tone.. A popular make.
Grey, Green, Brown or Navy.
The elox are hand*embroidered in
silk. Si2es 10 .to 12 inch.
At Anthony Horderns', pair 4/6
Or three pairs for . 13/-
GARTER TOP SOX
"Stylryte" make. One needs no
garters with this popularmake.
hecks, spots or jacquard 'designs
in Grey, Green, Blue, Brcv/n or
Navy tones. ' Size 10 to 12 inch
At Anthony Horderns', pair 4/6
Or three pairs for 13/-
*****
mmi
mi
HKMSS
&
vmi
HS&:
><; ;f .
ill
V P
i
ENGLISH "JAEGER"
Fully lashiomq quality Sox. 6-3
ribbed finish. Assotied stripe and
fancy designs in Grey, Brown or
Navy tones. Sires 1C to 12 inch.
At Anthony Horderns’, pair . ... 8/6
Or three pairs, for 24/3
HOLEPROOF"
Super quality Pure Silk Half Hose
with lisle tops, ices and heels.
Smart new wrap stripes and fig-
ured effects. In Blue, Grey or
Brown tones. Sizes 10 to 11-| inch
At Anthony Horderns’, pair 4/6
Or three pairs for . . . _ 13/-
"HOLEPROOF'
S;tk Halt Hose by Holeproof.
Pure and Art. Silk mixture; -with
lisle toes, heels and tops: New
check or stripe effect. In Grey,
Blue or Brown tones. Sir.es 10 to
11 J inch. At Anthony Horderns',
per pair . ........... 3/6
Or three pairs for 10/- -
“Hordura" (Regd.) HALF HOSE
''Hordura'' (Regd.) Half Hose. All wool, except
the ornament. Guaranteed and recommended
•by Anthony Horderns'. We have- thirty dif-
ferent designs to tone with all the new
suitings. Let us know the shade of your
suit, and we will be pleased to select for you.
Sizes 10 to 11| in. At Anthony Horderns', 2/11
Or three pairs for ; 8/5
Sizes 12 and 13 in. At Anthony Horderns', 3/6
Or three pairs for ; jg/_
Size 14 in. At Anthony Horderns’, pair, 3/11
Or three pairs for U/3
• Men’s Mercery Ground Floor George Street.
Freight paid to all railway stations in M.S. IV. and
seaports in the Commonwealth.
ANTHON
FAMO
<Tr
RDERNS
PRICES
I LIVE l'UGßOw}^^
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for *‘The Bulletin s Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second .. . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
Of F ear
“I KILLED CHARLIE MATHEWSON”
BY RENEE FEATHFRS TONE
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
IN the late afternoon we sat on the fallen tree,
Bernice and I, watching the smoke from our
cigarettes drifting up into the clear, hot sunshine.
And, sitting a little to one side, I could see the
velvet sweep of her cheek where it merged softly
downwards ; and I followed the line and saw how the
olive skin lightened to the palest of ivory against the
column of her throat. She was sitting slightly for-
ward, with her chin cupped in one hand, her elbow
resting upon her knee. I saw her like that, and though
she wasn’t looking at me I knew her eyes were soft
and warm. But I didn’t speak to her of love. Not
then. I still had that last thing to do. Once that
was done, I was free.
“B-Bernice,” I said. She turned and faced me so
that I saw her eyes. I knew then for certain that she
not only loved me, but that she pitied me as well.
“Yes, Stephen?”
I didn’t want her pity. I looked away, over the
bracken fern, towards the cottage that had belonged
to Charlie Mathewson. The forest claimed it now,
laciqg its bare walls and gaping thatched roof with
wild clematis.
“B-Bernice,” I said, “will you wait f-for me?”
She knew that I was going to Charlie Mathew-
son’s grave, and that I wanted to go alone.
“Yes, Stephen.”
She spoke my name gently, because she was sorry
that I stammered, and she wanted to help me . . .
I hadn’t always stammered. I could remember
the time when I hadn’t. But I was very young then,
maybe six years old. We lived in the valley below,
and the creek girded us on three sides.
I used to sit on the sapling bridge that my father
had built and dangle my feet in the icy rushing water.
I never did later on. My father caught a monstrous
eel in the creek one day ; and when he’d disentangled
his line he said: “Hi! Stephen, catch!”
I remember his laughter and my mother crying
“Oh, you coward, to frighten the child like that.” And
my father saying he could do as he pleased ; and
later on, after lunch, saying that my mother was no
use to him any more.
Sometimes my father would go away for a time,
and then my mother and I would be happy. We’d
go for long walks together down the red, dusty road.
Sometimes we’d walk right to the township and get
the mail. My father never wrote ; but sometimes we
got a letter from my Aunt May.
I remember when my father hurt his foot and he
could hardly get about. My mother had to bathe
and dress it for him. She was kept on the run all
day. Then he said that I’d have to go for the mail.
It was three miles to the post office, and though I
enjoyed walking with my mother I was frightened to
go alone.
“I’m sorry, dear,” my mother said to me. I could
see that she’d been crying. “But if my boy hurries
he’ll be all right.”
I knew she was thinking that it would be dark
before I could get back, but she didn’t want to say
that.
My father came out into the kitchen then. My
mother said: “Arthur —let me go for the mail. He’s
only a baby; he oughtn’t to be out in the night air.
Let me go.”
My father had been drinking. He was all right
to me and mother when he didn’t drink ; but when
his face was swollen and red I was frightened and
stayed away from him.
“He’s going for that mail,” my father said. He
turned to me then. “Get the mail, Stephen.”
I saw him walk to the fireplace and get his gun.
My father knew I feared and hated the noise of the
gun.
“Get the mail, Stephen.”
I went then. I ran down the path and out on to
the road. I heard the gun go off, and I fell. It was
the noise of the gun that made me fall. Nothing else.
I heard my mother cry out, and my father laughing
as if he’d never stop. When I got to my feet I saw
that he still had the gun in his hand. I heard my
own voice screaming “D-d-don’t.” And then the
gun roared over my head.
When I got to the post office the sun was dip-
ping down behind the hills and the blue dusk was
clinging to the boles of the trees. There was a letter,
the only one for our end of the valley. It was
addressed to Charlie Mathewson. I placed it in the
breast pocket of my tunic and began the long walk
home. Sometimes I ran in the middle of the road,
but the echo of my footsteps frightened me. I walked
for a spell then on the soft grass edging the road.
My mother had often told me about God. I
believed in Him. But I couldn’t think of Him that
night. I could only think of dark things and evil
things waiting for me round the bend in the road.
When I got home my mother was lying down. She
told me she was sick. I leaned against her bed for
a while until my father called me.
“Stephiemy mother said, “don’t say anything
about me to your father. Be a good boy, won’t you?”
I couldn’t see her in the dark, but I knew that
she was crying I went into the kitchen and gave
Charlie Mathewson’s letter to my father. Then I
went round and sat on a box in front of the fire. I
was cold and hungry, but I didn’t say anything about
that to my father. Presently he looked at me and said:
“Take it up to Mathewson’s.”
T „ t tUmVW of the
lonely walk up-hill to Charlie Mathewson’s. But
I S-Hay anything. I couldn't. I just stood there
with the letter in my hand, until my father shouted:
“Get out.”
I went then, out into the night. I went down
the road until I reached the fork that led up the hill.
And, standing there, I could see the light from our
kitchen window like a small, yellow eye among the
trees. I could hear the noise of the creek brushing
against the stones and snags in its bed. I knew the
water was cold and black as ink ; I knew that just
below the bridge it was blacker still, and that some-
where below the bridge, perhaps coiled round its sup-
ports, the fat, slimy eels were waiting.
I walked a little down the path, until I could go
no farther. I tried to force myself to cross the bridge.
I thought if I waited my legs would move forward of
their own accord. I waited as long as I could ; I
waited until I could feel nothing else but cold, slimy
things crawling up my legs and up my back —then
I turned and fled back down the road.
T DIDN’T see my mother that night or the next day.
I My father had driven her into the township in the
sulky. He brought back a lady with him. She was
like my mother. She was pretty, though her hair was
dark and straight, and mother’s was fair and curly.
My father was saying to her: “But who’d have
thought he’d do that?”
She looked at me. There were tears in her eyes.
“Anyway,” my father went on, “maybe it had to
be like that.” He didn’t look happy to see her cry ;
and I thought how strange that was, because he didn’t
seem to mind how much mother cried.
“You weren’t in love with him, were you?” he
asked her.
In the afternoon a lot of people came to our
place. They drove up in buggies and sulkies. Some
of the people I knew. They filed into our best room,
seating themselves stiffly, as people do when in church.
Their eyes were on a little man who was seated at a
table. He was asking everyone had they known
Charlie Mathewson. I heard him call for Miss Rose
Sheely, and when she was standing in front of him
he said: “You were engaged to the deceased?”
I saw her nod.
“Right,” said the little man. “Now, Miss Sheely;
tell me —had the deceased ever talked of suicide? Or
hinted at it?”
We all looked at Rose Sheely. The room was
so quiet that I could hear the beating of my own heart.
And when she whispered “Yes” the crowd sank back
into their chairs, breathing noisily.
“You sent a letter to the deceased, did you not?”
“Yes —last night.”
“Would you mind telling the Court what was in
that letter?”
The people craned forward again. I could hear
my father’s voice saying “It’s a damn’ shame.”
Rose Sheely made no answer. I thought how
pretty she was, standing there, her big, sad eyes
wet with tears and her mouth quivering.
“Put it this way,” said the little man. “Was there
anything in your letter that would, say, influence
the deceased in any way to take his life?”
“No,” she said. “Oh, no ; quite the reverse.”
“Right. One more question. Was there any truth
in the rumor, which I understand the deceased circu-
lated himself, that you were not faithful to him? Or,
rather, that you were having an affair with someone
else?”
“No,” she said. “It was a lie. There was no
truth in it at all. It was a wicked lie.”
“Right.” The little man stared round the room
for a moment until he saw me. Then he beckoned
me and smiled. He said to me: “Aren’t you
Stephen?” And when I nodded he rubbed his hands
together. “Why,” he said, “you’re the very chap I
want to see. Tell me, you took a letter up to Mr.
Mathewson last night, didn’t you, Stephen?”
I couldn’t say anything. I just looked at him.
“Right,” he said. “Now, Stephen, what did
Mr. Mathewson say when you gave him the letter?”
I couldn’t say anything. I tried to, but my tongue
wouldn’t work. I was going to tell him about the
letter, but I couldn’t say anything. I knew then that
I was to blame for killing Charlie Mathewson.
The little man said to me: “I don’t suppose he
said anything. Is that it?”
I nodded.
“Right,” he said. “Well —all right. You just have
a look at my horse and see if he’s all right, will you,
Stephen?”
I went and had a look at his horse. And while
I was standing there my Aunt May drove up in her
little trap. She called out to me, very softly, as if
she were afraid someone might hear. “Stephen,” she
called. “Stephen—hurry.”
I got into the trap and we drove down into the
township. We went down to the station and there I
saw my mother. We got into the train. My mother
kept on looking anxiously through the window. She
was glad when the train started, glad as I; for we
were both escaping.
WHEN I met Bernice I was twenty-seven; and
after a while she introduced me to a public-
speaking class. She thought that, if I could get on a
platform and speak in front of a crowd, it might cure


my stammer. It never did. But I tried, and maybe
the class helped a lot; but it never cured me. I re-
member Bernice’s lips moving, as if she were trying
to form the words for me, and that helped me more
than anything.
We went driving into the country often of a
Sunday. Bernice liked the country ; but I was always
glad to get back to the city. I told Bernice pretty
well everything about myself, but never anything
about Charlie Mathewson, or Rose Sheely, or about
the letter.
I used to think about that letter a lot. It made
me depressed thinking about it. But I thought about
it just the same. In the early days I carried the letter
wherever I went, because I was afraid my mother
might find it. I hid the letter on top of my wardrobe
when mother died. I put it into a large envelope and
addressed it to myself. I was living with Aunt May
then. Aunt May was never curious, so I knew the
letter was safe.
When I met Bernice I got to thinking about the
letter again. One day I got it down from off the
wardrobe and held it in my hand for a long time. I
was trying to make up my mind to destroy it. In the
end I didn’t; I put it back on top of the wardrobe.
That night Bernice and I drove out into the
country. I drove past the house where I had lived
with my father and mother. The old red dust road
was now a hard, shiny ribbon of asphalt.
I parked the car among the trees edging the road.
I said “L-listen, B-Bernice” But when she said
“Yes, Stephen?” I couldn’t somehow go on.
I smoked four or five cigarettes while I tried to
make up my mind to tell Bernice that I loved her. I
couldn’t tell her. I seemed to see myself as a child, a
child whose voice went whimpering down the road
ahead of him, and who was carrying a letter in his
hand.
I knew then that I couldn’t speak to Bernice until
I’d delivered that letter. I couldn’t think how I was
to do that. I couldn’t think of anything save that
because I hadn’t delivered it Charlie Mathewson had
blown his brains out . . .
A week ago it came to me suddenly how 1 could
be free of the letter. I thought if I could find Rose
Sheely and give it to her I wouldn’t be any longer
to blame for killing Charlie Mathewson.
I went to an inquiry agency and asked them to
trace her. I had it all planned out. I would tell
Rose Sheely the truth. I would tell her that I had
been too frightened to take the letter to Charlie
Mathewson. I would say I was sorry for having
spoilt her life. I had it all planned out what I was
going to say.
Yesterday the inquiry agents told me where she
was living, that Rose Sheely was married now, that
she was Mrs. Halcombe.
J WENT away then. That was yesterday. And
* to-day, as we sat on the fallen tree, Bernice and I,
watching the smoke from our cigarettes drifting up
into the clear, hot sunshine, I knew that I had that last
thing to do ; and that once that was done I was free.
“B-Bernice,” I said, “will you wait f-for me?”
“Yes, Stephen,” she said.
So I walked up the hill, past the laced clematis
on the hut, past the fallen fence, until I came to the
mound of earth. I took the letter from my pocket
and crumpled it slightly, so that when I set the lighted
match to it it would burn more easily.
And as it burned its thin paper mushroomed out.
I saw lettering black upon the charred grey fragments.
They were lies, the lies of a deceitful woman. I scat-
tered the ashes so that not one fragment was left
on the grave. I didn’t rest until the rich, warm fra-
grance of the new earth replaced the mouldiness of
the old rotting moss and leaves.
I thought of Charlie Mathewson lying there
below. I wondered whether or not he approved of
my actions. I thought of Rose Sheely giving evidence
before the coroner. I saw her sad eyes and quiver-
ing, lying lips.
I thought of Bernice then. I thought of her love
and pity for me. And I felt rotten, because I kept
on thinking of that other, different love of Rose
Sheely’s.
I walked down the hill and stood beside Bernice,
And, standing there, a little to one side, I could see
the velvet sweep of her cheek where it merged softly
downwards. I saw how the olive skin lightened to the
palest of ivory against the column of her throat and
into the line of her breast.
“We’ll go now,” I said.
We walked down, into the violet dusk of the even-
ing. I heard things rustling in the grass. I heard
the birds settling down for the coming night. When
we came to the sapling bridge that my father had
built, I remembered the night when the yellow light
from our kitchen window was all that stood between
me and the slimy things in the creek,
But I wasn’t afraid of the creek any longer, nor
of the bush. I was afraid of myself. We were walk-
ing down the road now. The bridge, the creek and
Charlie Mathewson’s grave lay behind me. I wanted
it always to be so.
“Bernice,” I said. I took her in my arms. I spoke
quickly and urgently. And it wasn’t until a long time
afterwards that I recalled that I hadn’t stammered,
“Bernice, will you marry me?”
’“Yes, Stephen,” she answered,
And later, as we drove home, Bernice said softly:
“Stephen, won’t it be strange to hear myself being
called Mrs. Stephen Halcombe?”
I didn’t say anything. There was still a rem-
nant of fear in my mind.
HOLIDAY
BY G. C. B.
RIGHT from the start me ’oliday looked like
bein’ a proper washout. Not satisfied with
pickin’ on a lonely boardin’-’ouse about ten
miles from the nearest pub, Mrs. Raggles
makes us unpopular with the other boarders by actin’
as if she was used to bein’ waited on all ’er life.
The first meal we ’ad there me and ’er was the
only ones dressed decent, the others lookin’ very cool
and comfortable ; but after Mrs. Raggles ’ad ’ad ’er
say, very loud and dignified, about dinin’ with ’arf-
naked savages and shameless ’ussies they was lookin’
quite warm and uncomfortable. Of course, there was
one or two arguments, but by the end of the third
day she ’ad everyone eatin’ under ’er thumb, as the
sayin’ is, and dressin’ proper at dinner so they could
eat in peace.
Wot with dressin’ up respectable and paradin’
about ’aughty with Mrs. Raggles and ’avin’ a thirst
wot wasn’t no good to me, I was ’avin’ a terrible
miserable ’oliday, and then to make matters worse
she starts gettin’ restless and talkin’ about fresh air
and ’ealthy exercise.
At first I thought she was goin’ to turn it into
wot they call a postman’s ’oliday and go trampin’ all
over the country, and when she comes bustlin’ in
after dinner and says we’re goin’ drivin’ in the old
trap I gets quite a pleasant surprise ; but I gets a dif-
ferent sort of surprise when we pulls up at a little
creek about five miles away, and she gives me a cos-
tume and tells me we’re goin’ swimmin’.
“Swimmin’!” I ses, ’orrified. “And ’ere’s me
wonderin’ why I didn’t bring me overcoat on account
of the cold breeze.”
“Well, I ’ope it don’t get no colder,” she ses
sharp ; “because we’re cornin’ ’ere for a swim every
day regular. I’ve arranged to borrer the ’orse and
trap every afternoon.”
“Wot’s wrong with the swimmin’ ’ole near the
’ouse?” I ses, starin’.
“Don’t be ridikerlus,” she snaps. “I ain’t goin’
to expose me body in front of all them ’ussies. I
’ope I ’ave some modesty and dignity, Ernest.”
“But, Emma,” I ses, “even with your figger you
wouldn’t look too”
“And I don’t want none of your remarks,” she
snaps, walkin’ away. “If you ain’t changed by the
time I get back there’ll be trouble.”
\\ 1 ELL, there wasn’t no trouble, but
after I ’ad crawled out, ’arf-froze,
I couldn’t ’elp wonderin’ whether a bit of
trouble wouldn’t ’ave been no worse
than that swim. ’Owever, Mrs. Raggles
seemed to enjoy it so much,
flounderin’ about like a ’appy
’ippopotamus in a yeller cos-
time, that I decides to let ’er
I heard my own voice screaming
“D-d-don’t” And then the gun
roared over my head.
’ave ’er own way, thinkin’ that after all it was ’er
’oliday, too, in a way.
There was a bit of trouble next day when she
blames me for ’er own carelessness in puttin’ ’er
clothes too near a ant-’ole, causin’ ’er to do them
arithmetic dances when she puts ’em on ; but it wasn’t
till the follerin’ day that the real unpleasantness ’ap-
pened.
Bein’ naturally kind-’earted to animals I ’ad
undone the pore old white ’orse and tied ’im to a tree
a bit down the river; if I ’ad tied the trap to another
tree there wouldn’t ’ave been no trouble, but as it was
all we could see of the trap when we comes out was
the tips of two shafts stickin’ out of the water.
Mrs. Raggles performs disgustin’, but it wasn’t
nothin’ to wot she says when she starts to ’unt for ’er
clothes.
“Good ’eavens!” I ses. “I put ’em in the trap
away from them ants. ’Ow unfortunate.”
“Unfortunate!” she ’owls. “Wot am I goin’ to
do? I can’t go back like this. You’ll ’ave to get me
some more clothes.”
“It’s too far, Emma,” I ses, shakin’ me ’ead. “It’ll
be dark by the time I get back, and you know wot
the bush is like at night—snakes and dingoes and
everything. ’Ow would I feel if I come back and
found you ’arf eat by a wild dingo?”
Mrs. Raggles ’ad somethin’ to say about ’ow she’d
feel, but all the same she was quite sure she wasn’t
goin’ back in front of them shameless ’ussies like she
was.
“There ain’t no reason why no one should see
you, Emma,” I ses, after thinkin’ a bit. “It’ll be dark
by the time we get back, and you can wait up the
road while I sneak in and get your clothes. I’ll lead
the ’orse and you can sit on ’im to save your feet.
’Ow’s that?”
She cools down then, and after I ’ad near strained
meself permanent gettin’ ’er on the 'orse we starts off,
keepin’ a bit off the road. It was rough goin’, and all
the way Mrs. Raggles complains very bitter about
people wot starves their ’orses and wonderin’ whether
it was worth while savin’ ’er feet, seein’ ’ow much she
was sufferin’ otherwise ; but we gets back at last and
I leaves ’er while I slips in very quiet.
There wasn’t no one about the front of the ’ouse,
and everything would ’ave gone all right if it ’adn’t
been for the water-jug gettin’ in me way as I’m creepin’
out with a armful of clothes ; but wot with the crash
and the commotion when everyone comes rushin’ in
shoutin’ to see who was robbin’ the place I gets that
excited and flustered that I ’ardly knew wot I was
tellin’ ’em.
’Owever, wotever I told ’em
must ’ave been more than I in-
tended, because when I ’urries
away at last to where I ’ad left
Mrs. Raggles I found ’er shoutin’
very bad-tempered at about ’arf
a dozen of them shameless
’ussies wot was standin’ around
makin’ remarks about ’er figger
and ’er yeller costume and sayin’
wot a picture she looked on ’er
white ’orse in the moonlight.
It was a terrible blow to
Mrs. Raggles’s pride, but all the
same I ’ad to admire ’er pluck,
because for two ’ole days she
tries to act up dignified, although
’andicapped severe by ’avin’ to
walk about slow and uncom-
fortable and listen to them silly
’ussies sniggerin’ and callin’ ’er
Lady Godiva; but in the end
she decides that the company’s
too iggerant, and we shifts to a
nice little pub and finishes our
’oliday quiet and restful.


A Remarkable Opportunity
ROBERT
McANIC,
ESQUIRE
BY SHCOURTIER
DRAWINGS BY SUCH.
BEING the promoter of Robert McAnic Films,
I was naturally more concerned than most
1 when the studio went into sudden and involun-
tary liquidation. The passage of time has
somewhat assuaged the bitterness of the blow, but
nothing will reconcile me to the fact that, having
wealth and position fairly in the grasp of my fingers,
1 saw both fade out like a dream.
As it happened, I also had to fade out. It was
this way. Some tirqe ago the Repertory Society
played “As You Like It.” It was quite a tony per-
formance, and as stage and screen critic of the
“Ague” 1 had to report on the affair. I went along
in a rather pessimistic frame of mind, for I had seen
the Repertory Players in action before, but I was
more than pleasantly surprised.
Not often does it fall to a critic to hail the advent
of a new actor of magnitude, but such was my good
fortune that evening. The production was notable
for a magnificent rendering of the part of Charles
the Wrestler. At his entry, I grabbed my programme
excitedly to find that Charles was being played by a
young man unknown to me, Robert McAnic.
He gave a masterly display. As I stated next
morning in the “Ague,” Shakspearean drama had
rarely been raised to such heights ; further, the young
actor undoubtedly transcended even the author’s con-
ception of Charles. For the first time in my life I
wanted to kick Orlando off the stage. I formed the
immediate opinion that Robert McAnic was destined
to go far and fast. I might not have been so eulo-
gistic had I known that, because of Robert McAnic,
I myself was destined to go farther and faster still.
At the final drop of the curtain I went around
back stage to present my personal congratulations to
Mr. McAnic. I found him in his dressing-room in
the company of a small, alert man who was clearly
in the throes of a terrific pride. I was entirely in
sympathy with his emotion.
“I’m Bull-Smith of the ‘Ague,’ ” I began. “I
want to say, Mr. McAnic, how much I enjoyed your
work to-night. It may interest you to know I think
you are the greatest stage event since Irving.”
Robert —as I soon came to know him —thanked
me in modest terms. He was without question the
most strikingly handsome man I have ever met. Six-
foot-three and fourteen-and-a-half in his socks, he
was certainly the complete answer to the maiden’s
prayer.
“Meet my manager, Mr. Eddie Pellet,” Robert
said, indicating his companion.
Mr. Pellet said the privilege was his and warmly
shook my hand.
“Your appearance, Mr. Bull-Smith,” he said, “is
more than opportune. Robert and I are in a bit of a
quandary. We have been discussing his future career.
You are just the man to set us right.”
Though somewhat surprised, I replied that I
would be delighted to do what I could, but first I
wanted to know where Robert had developed his
mature technique.
“That’s easy,” Mr. Pellet smiled. “Robert is a
professional wrestler. And to show you his ability
all I need say is that he’s been disqualified in
his last four matches.”
I gazed at the remarkable young man in
wonder.
“Yes,” Mr. Pellet went on, “disqualified
four times. The last time was against Chucker
La Dert. You know Chucker?”
I nodded. Chucker was declared to be the
most horrible grappler exported from U.S.A.
in the last hundred years. He looked like an
old-man buffalo just hounded out of the herd,
and he acted worse.
“Well,” Mr. Pellet elaborated, “nobody’s ever
been disqualified against Chucker till Robert stopped
his trot. What Robert did to Chucker would have
made a Tibetan torturer turn pale. The crowd went
silly cheering him.”
This was very illuminating. It explained Robert’s
grand histrionic ability.
“Robert,” I said, “is a gifted man.”
“You’ll have reason to say so when I tell you
everything about him,” Mr. Pellet asserted. He ac-
companied his words with mysterious actions. Tip-
toeing to the door, he peered up and down the pas-
sage. Then he shut the door, turned the key and
pulled his chair up against mine.
“Mr. Bull-Smith,” he said gravely. “Robert has
a secret. I want your solemn promise you will never
reveal it without my consent.”
More than intrigued, T gave the required assur-
ance.
“Good,” said Mr. Pellet, leaning closer towards
me. “This is Robert’s secret. He’s nothing more or
less than a robot.”
| LOOKED at Mr. Pellet and Robert as though I
1 doubted their sanity. I shook my head sceptically.
“Break it down, Mr. Pellet,” I said.
“It’s an absolute fact,” Mr. Pellet stated vehe-
mently.
“What!” I demanded, pointing at Robert, who
was beaming at me affably ; “do you want me to
believe he’s only a piece of machinery?”
“It’s difficult, I know, but that’s what he is,” Mr.
Pellet retorted. “Even though Robert is my own
creation, I find it hard to realise he’s only a thing of
duralinium and gutta-percha and invisible rays.”
“ ’Struth! ” I ejaculated.
“Come,” Mr. Pellet said, “I’ll show you.”
He seized Robert’s right ear, gave it a twist and,
to my amazement, pulled it off. As Robert grinned
widely, Mr. Pellet beckoned to me to look into his
head. I did so and was thoroughly staggered. I saw
a complicated arrangement of coils and valves and
springs and antennae. Robert was definitely a robot.
“Some time ago,” Mr. Pellet said, replacing
Robert’s ear, “I visited an exhibition of Modern
Wonders of Science and Engineering in the Town
Hall. They had a mechanical man there. A poor
thing, though. .He could only talk about the weather
and drink a glass of water. I determined to make the
perfect robot, and,” waving his hand at Robert,
“there he is. Robert, Mr. Bull-Smith, is fully equipped
mentally and physically. Motivated by electricity, his
invisible-ray outfit is conditioned to provide the re-
sponse to each and every situation. He will talk
about anything, and, as for drinking, he’s the perfect
example of taking your liquor like a gentleman. Now
try him out, Mr. Bull-Smith, and see what he can do.
I was not known as the “Ague’s” crack man
for nothing, but I must confess that, at the moment,
I was just about stumped. However, I started off by
asking Robert a number of difficult questions in his-
tory. So far as I could tell, he did not make a mis-
take.
“It’s his memory,” Mr. Pellet explained. “Hav-
ing instead of a brain a very efficient sight- and sound-
recording apparatus, he can never forget a fact.
I then proceeded to interview Robert on the sub-
jects of modern woman and the National Insurance
scheme. Robert, it appeared, did not think much of
either. Still, it was not so much his views that
astounded me, but his wealth of language and pic-
turesque expressions. He talked like a book.
“So he should,” Mr. Pellet said. “His neck con-
tains the latest edition of Roget’s Thesaurus electrically
recorded in strip form. Try his mathematical powers,
Mr. Bull-Smith.”
“What is 567,342,087 multiplied by 639,827,594,
Robert?” I asked.
“363,001,122,500,148,678,” Robert promptly
replied.
“By cripes,” I said, “he’s right! ”
“He couldn’t be wrong,” Mr. Pellet said. “Not
with the calculating machine I’ve installed in his
chest. It’s the best on the market.”
Having now recovered my normal mental bal-
ance, I was able to put a daisy over Robert for the
last test. I asked him to repeat “Peter plans painting
plain pot-plants pale plum” six times at high speed.
Robert was not distressed. The manner
in which he accomplished this feat was
a tribute to the dynamic speaker con-
cealed in his larynx.
“And that’s not all,” Mr. Pellet
claimed. “He can chop wood with any-
body, and digging the garden’s like
shelling peas to him. Moreover, I have
so carefully trained him in etiquette
he can mix with distinction in any grade
of society. He can kiss the hand of a
duchess or his own foot with equal
facility.”
I surveyed Robert with the greatest
admiration while I considered his attainments. Athlete,
tragedian, litterateur, lightning calculator, honest work-
man, dilettante, he seemed to me to be the finest all-
rounder out of Wisden.
“Lastly,” Mr. Pellet said, “his simplicity of con-
trol is amazing.” He took Robert’s right hand. “His
third knuckle joint is his main switch. Put out of
joint, it dislocates his entire electric system. Watch.”
He twisted Robert’s knuckle and Robert suddenly
collapsed, apparently dead.
“Very handy when you’re putting him to bed,”
Mr. Pellet went on, “or when you want a night out
on your own, or in case he should run amuck. Not
that he is ever likely to get over the odds, for he’s a
very good-natured chap, Robert.”
Mr. Pellet snapped the knuckle into place. Robert
sat up and again took an intelligent interest in the
conversation.
“What are you going to do with him?” I inquired.
Mr. Pellet pointed out that was the question on
which he required my advice.
“At first,” he continued, “I had an idea of put-
ting him on show at the Town Hall and charging a
zack a time to view him. But one day we were
having a quiet spot and a fellow in the pub got
abusive and picked on Robert. The easy way Robert
kicked him into the gutter suggested wrestling. But
I want to edge him into society—the real thing, where
he can meet his equals in intellect and breeding and,
at the same time, earn a competence that will remove
all my fears of old age. Now, Mr. Bull-Smith, what
do you think?”
I put some time into thought. Robert was cer-
tainly fraught with possibilities. For instance, there
was, as I told Mr. Pellet, nothing to prevent him from
one day becoming Prime Minister. He had all the
qualifications. I did not, however, recommend that
job, mainly because of the unattractive screw attached
to it.
Mr. Pellet was glad to see that I put a high
value on Robert. “Look here, Mr. Bull-Smith,” he
cried effusively, “think up something really good and
you’re on half the profits.”
It was just what I needed to whip my enthusiasm
up to white heat. I began to think in earnest, and sud-
denly I got it. Robert’s handsome face, his godlike
form, his marvellous smile all pointed in the one and
only direction —Robert was a born film-star. Robert
and brimming box-offices were natural affinities. It
was, on my part, an inspiration. Mr. Pellet was quite
as delighted as I and said so.
“There’s only one thing,” I said. “Can Robert
croon?”
“Can he what!” Mr. Pellet gurgled. “Just
listen.”
In a moment, Robert’s unctuous tones were raised
in droning about a goldmine in the sky.
“As good as Bing Crosby, if not better,” I opined
at the conclusion.
“I don’t know about being better,” Mr. Pellet
said. “But quite as good—as he ought to be. He
has all Bing’s records filed in his abdominal cavity.’
I grasped Mr. Pellet’s hands. “I’ll do it,” I
exclaimed. “I’ll star Robert till he looks like the
Galaxy. Just leave it to me.”
"FO become a film-star is not as simple as it may
J sound. Mr. Pellet, for example, had the idea that
all we had to do was to march Robert into a studio
and demand our own price.
Of course, we could have done that, but I was
after something bigger. My first task was to have
Robert screen-tested. This did not worry me, for
being the perfect robot Robert was naturally the
perfect actor.
The result of the tests bore me out. The Austral
Films, after giving Robert a stiff trial, said they had
never before encountered a screen-aspirant with his
promise. He would be, they said, the joy of any
director’s heart, and they prepared a very satisfactor}'
contract on the spot. To Mr. Pellet’s astonishment, I
declined to permit Robert to sign it.
“Why,” I said in explanation, “should Robert be
used to make fortunes for other people? Why not
for us?”


“Yes, but how?” Mr. Pellet objected.
“Easily,” I replied. “We’ll make our own studio,
Mr. Pellet, the Robert McAnic Studio, and we’ll make
our own pictures. All the profits will come to us.”
Again Mr. Pellet saw difficulties. He under-
stood it took a lot of money to run a studio, and
what about officials, such as director, scenario-writers
and so on?
I smiled. “Listen, Mr. Pellet. As a screen-critic,
I’ve seen so many pictures I’m quite qualified to
write anything we want. And also to direct them.
You needn’t worry on that score. As for the money, I
have a very simple scheme to obviate that trouble.
All we’ve got to do is to boom Robert.”
And that is what I immediately set about doing. In
my capacity of the “Ague’s” dramatic writer, I inter-
viewed Robert and wrote him up. I invented a thrill-
ing and romantic past for him and I prophesied a
brilliant future in films for him. I plastered the
country with his photographs. These depicted him in
evening-dress, in bathing-costume, in wrestling-tights,
at the races, reading his horoscope, speaking at the
Constitutional Club. In a few weeks’ time, his features
were the best known in Australia and his fame was
spreading overseas.
The result was that when I approached some
friends of mine I had no trouble in raising the £50,000
I wanted merely on the security of Robert’s per-
sonality. They saw, with me, the fortunes to be made
out of Robert’s pictures.
We were now able to arrange such incidentals as
the purchase of equipment, our location and securing
a suitable feminine lead to play opposite Robert.
The last-named was no easy matter. Mr. Pellet
and I personally examined thousands of youthful
beauties in the quest. We found our ideal at length
in Gloria Glove. She was just the glamorous blonde
who would be so effective in clinches with Robert.
Her only drawback was an interfering old uncle who
appeared to be her sole relative. Because of him, we
had to give her £5OO a year more than we
intended.
Even Robert was impressed by Gloria. “Some
girl that,” he said, after we had signed her up.
I unhesitatingly agreed, happily unaware that
the time would come when I would curse the day I
had set eyes on her.
We were now ready to embark on our first pic-
ture, entitled “Love’s Reward” or “Call It a Night”
and written by myself. It was the story of a raw
bush lad (Robert) who goes to the city, gets a job as
a flunkey at Government House and plays his cards
so well that he is appointed aide-de-camp and marries
the Governor’s daughter (Gloria). It was undoubtedly
the most original theme ever attempted in Australia,
and gave Robert and Gloria splendid opportunities
for emotional acting. That this opus still remains to
be presented to the public is one of my most painful
regrets.
C OR a month or so, the Robert McAnic Studios
* were a happy hive of industry. Then crashed the
bolt from the blue. One day Mr. Pellet burst into my
office, wildly waving a newspaper. “Take a look at
this,” he roared, shoving the paper into my hands.
The first thing I saw was a photograph of Gloria
and Robert. It was a close-up of one of their soul-
stirring embraces and was nothing to be alarmed at,
for I had authorised the publication of hundreds of
similar things. Then underneath I read:
ROMANCE OF FILM-WORLD.
We learn that Miss Gloria Glove and Robert McAnic,
the famous McAnic stars, will be quietly married this
afternoon at a registry office. The happy event is being
kept a close secret from their friends and ever-growing
public, and will not be revealed till they have returned
from their honeymoon.
I read no more. I felt as though I had swallowed
a double-strychnine. I stared dumbly at Mr. Pellet
and he stared savagely at me. “Bull-Smith,” he said
sternly, “this is Gloria’s doing. It can’t go on.”
“Can we stop it?” I asked despairingly,
“Of course we can,” Mr. Pellet retorted. “Robert
must be stricken with a sudden illness.”
“g u t how on earth”
“Have you forgotten Robert’s third knuckle?”
Mr. Pellet barked. “Copie on, quick, we’ve got to
get a taxi.”
On the way to the registry office, Mr. Pellet out-
lined his plan of operation. Provided we arrived in
time, he would, he said, put Robert out of action so
that the wedding would have to be postponed. “And
while he - s covering,” he went on, “we have to
think up a way of busting the affair properly.”
T ~ , ■ ,
a • u v n i+• • +
J h f. dr f lver b «* e all Rations m getting us to
° ur Only twenty thousand people blocked
? e ThV T® well the secret of the wed-
din * had kep i We pUshed throu S h the thron 8
an n^ re e ° ce '.
Robert and Gloria looked veiy happy. Mr.
Pellet immediately rushed on them. He was wasting
no lime.
“ You nau B ht y children,” he cried. “How could
you?”
He § rabbed their hands and pressed them together
ln an iron S ri P- 1 distinctly heard a click. Robert
dro PP ed without a kick. But what was our amazed
horror wh en Gloria keeled over and went down as
well.
1 thou g h t at first she had swooned out of sheer
sympathy. Then I saw that her third knuckle was also
out of i° int - The ter rible truth burst on me. If only
we had known! Gloria was a robot, too.
. 1 dived at Mr - Pellet > standing stupefied, to get
b * m to rev i ve them, but I was too late. Several doctors
were already on the scene. Sadly they pronounced life
extinct.
The post-mortem was the most tremendous sen-
sation in the history of the coroner’s court,
Robert and Gloria are now the attraction in the
Technological Section of the National Museum. But
Mr. Pellet and I are not among their frequent visitors.
We were quickly speeding from the city. We have
never returned. With writs for obtaining £50,000
by fraudulent practices out against us, we daren’t.
As Robert grinned widely, Mr. Pellet
beckoned me to look into his head.
THE MAN IN THE HUT
BY DOUGLAS STEWART.
THE bush on the skyline where the moon was
rising was rough with light, and behind him, on
the wavering crest of the ridge, O’Halloran’s
house with its lighted window rode the darkness
like a ship. Trudging down the black valley beneath
his load of stores, scraps of conversation, remarks
about sheep and weather he had made to O’Halloran,
floated in the shepherd’s memory and drummed mean-
inglessly over and over again. Down the long hill,
and over the swing-bridge and along the track that
stumbled with the stream into the hills, he strode
steadily, the rhythm of his pace breaking momentarily
at times as his boots thudded against last year’s wheel-
ruts already stiff with frost.
Without stopping he shifted the heavy sack with
its week’s supply of stores from the right shoulder
to the left, and once, when he heard wild pigs grunt-
ing and squealing softly in the darkness, he slowed to
fix the locality in his mind. After a time he swung
away from the noise of the water, and then he saw
the iron roof of the whare, glistening as the frost gave
back the moonlight. The chips littering the woodheap
were white, and the axe-head glinted. The dogs,
lonely and hungry with the long day on the chain,
broke into a frenzy of welcome. He went straight to
the hut, unlatched the door, peered into the shadowy
interior for a moment and went inside with his load.
The lamp, when he lit it, shone on the chipped
crockery on the shelves, and dimly on the pictures
cut from newspapers which covered the walls. His
breakfast dishes, untidy with breadcrumbs and cold
fragments of meat, lay on the table where he had left
them. Some ashes from the open fire had blown to
the floor, and with a sock that had been left to dry
he swished them back to the hearth.
His boots sounded loud on the floor as he walked
from the room, and loud again as he came back with
an armful of wood. The paper rustled, and then
streams of flame leapt up around the blackened kettle
and camp-oven and iron pot, swinging on their chains
above the fire. Sparks settled and glowed for a
moment on the sooty wild pig snouts hanging in the
chimney. He took the kettle to the tank, filled it, and
then, leaning over the blaze, poured some of the water
into the saucepan, afterwards throwing into it a few
potatoes.
Each time he left the shack for wood or water
the dogs greeted him noisily, and when at last he
went to the safe among the trees their clamor filled
the valley. But when he threw each one its piece of
high-smelling meat, it was silent, and dragged the
prize stiffly to the shelter of its kennel. Lass, the old
yellow bitch he used for pig-hunting, was missing
again. Gone, chain and all. He threw her meat on
to the white dust, and stood still, watching the others
eat and thinking about the bitch. One day that bitch
would turn into a worrier, he thought as he walked
back to the whare.
The firelight was leaping about the room, and the
lid of the pot was rising and falling as the steam
escaped. He felt hungry. He gathered the dirty
dishes, put them in the bowl and swept the crumbs
from the table with his hand. The warm water felt
good. He sang a few notes in a deep, shambling
voice. The lamp behind him as he worked threw his
shadow huge and black upon the wall, and without
emotion he watched the careful clumsiness of its
movements. It went with him to the fire to see if the
potatoes were cooked. Dancing oddly as the firelight
joined the lamp in the game, it watched him eat. Cold
mutton and potatoes, piled like the hay on a pitch-
fork, disappeared into its darkness ; from a shadow
pannikin it drank often and deeply.
He lit his pipe, and sat staring into the fire. The
words he had spoken to O’Halloran were still fixed in
his skull, static and insistent. “Killing a wether to-
morrow.” To-morrow he would kill the wether, and
then over to the back burn to see how the hoggets
were doing. He wound the clock slowly, made sure
the alarm was set for five and put it beside his bed.
“Auckland Weekly,” he muttered.
He took the illustrated paper from the store-sack
and, pushing the dishes aside, spread it out on the
table. He looked at the pictures first, then the farm-
ing advertisements, and then the film section. A
photograph of a woman in peasant costume caught
his eye, and he cut it out with his sheath-knife and
sat gazing at it, meaning to paste it on the wall. But
he felt drowsy, his head nodded and the paper slipped
to the floor.
A log collapsed in the grate, and, thinking he had
heard the whine of the bitch at the door, he awoke
and went outside. Though he could see no sign of
the bitch, he heard the dogs baiting the mad wether
in the yard, but they fell-silent when they saw him
framed in the doorway between the red warmth of
the whare and the night in which they barked.
He growled “Sit down, you curs! ” closed the door
and banked up the fire for the night. Again he
thought he heard the bitch whining, but he remem-
bered she never came back till daybreak. He took
off his boots, turned out the lamp and lay in bed
thinking about what he had said to O’Halloran, and
what he had to do to-morrow, and hoping that the
bitch was just hunting pigs over the back of the farm,
not tearing the throats of the sheep, until he put aside
his half-finished pipe and fell with slow warmth into
unconsciousness.


11l
mu
*4/
'to
besth
BRITISH
BLADE
d
I Sole Agents: JOUBERT <5- JOUBERT PTY. LTD. |
■H
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
HOW SHOULD DEFENCE EXPENDITURE BE
FINANCED?
PROBLEM OF THE WHEATGROWER
OUTLOOK ON STOCK EXCHANGE
MINES AND METALS
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Publishrd by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
brought up in the family tradition in a crumbling and
degenerate world.
Every detail in these stories is beautifully turned,
the writing is exquisite, but in the eyes of the charac-
ters there is only blankness. There is character draw-
ing, but no character.
The finest thing in the book is a description of a
stag hunt. It is a class ritual described in great detail,
the meet, the costumes, the ceremonies:
And almost invariably the same things happened
now as in any other hunt—the hounds were at fault,
the stag had rejoined his herd, or, alone before the
hounds, he sought to escape by those unchanging rules
common to all his kind and employed by generations of
stags before him—ruses so unvarying that the whole
thing seemed like a' game, all the moves of which were
regulated in advance, though these ineffectual and easily-
foretold feints were in each case the final and supreme
efforts of a creature at bay; and when at last the stag,
worn out with running, turned to face the hounds, it was
hard to realise that beneath the heaving tawny flanks
of the beast now brought to stand there throbbed an
individual anguish.
At last comes the kill:
And as in the finale of an opera the tenor, supported
by the chorus, will launch into an aria celebrating his
own valor and the happy ending of the drama, so the
Duke, standing there erect, a tall and dominating figure
above the heap of bloody flesh, put his horn to his lips
and very seriously and proudly sounded the Morte,
which the others then took up. And in this theatrical
scene, following on a victory so disproportionately tame,
there was something a little shabby, which rendered still
more striking the fanfare sounding over those poor
remains in celebration of a heroism so facile, a triumph
so inglorious.
This and the companion picture of the governess
driven to death by the cold enmity of Madame de
Laignes mark the emotional climax of the book. The
author continues to say the same thing over and over
in different ways,.but never again quite as successfully.
Music, Love and Mexico.
In Serenade (Cape ; Angus and Robertson), James
Cain has turned off one of those new- old-fangled
melodramas that are America’s latest literary develop-
ment. The theme is love and music. It sounds soft,
but he shows both to be among the toughest and most
exacting things on earth. It is a sample of the utterly
preposterous plot linked to sanity of treatment.
John Howard Sharp was a baritone who lost his
singing voice. He had given up his whole life to
learning to sing. It was all he could do. When some-
thing went wrong, the life went out of his voice. He
sank in the musical world. He ended up in Mexico,
and even Mexico wouldn’t have him. Down to his last
three pesos in Tupinamba, he met an Indian girl,
Juana.
He liked her at once and she liked him —till she
heard him sing. With his last money he bought her a
lottery ticket. She won a motor-car and a sum of
money. She offered him a partnership in a business
venture, a house in Acapulco, and they set out in the
car, grotesquely piled with pots, pans, sleeping mats
and food, for the new establishment. They were
caught by floods and took refuge in an old church,
living fortuitously on iguanas and other oddments.
Sharp pressed his courtship.
It was both grotesque and idyllic, and they man-
aged to be ecstatically happy amid a deluge of anti-
climaxes. Sharp’s voice came back, as true and velvety
as ever it had been. After q. little trouble with a
politico in Acapulco they fled, with the help of an
Irish sea captain, to the United States. Juana had to be
smuggled in without a passport. Here Sharp got his
chance again, broke into pictures, got back into opera.
Everything was magnificent, and Sharp and Juana
just went straight ahead being happy, till Sharp met
again a man, Hawes, who had been his patron before.
Hawes spent a fortune on music, and thought he could
own it and the performers into the bargain. It was a
war between Juana and Hawes till one night, when she
heard the fatal flaw in her lover’s voice again, she
killed Hawes.
She escaped back into Mexico, and Sharp fol-
lowed, throwing away his career. In hiding, and con-
stantly afraid for one another, their relations became
embittered. They sank lower and lower. One day,
the politico of the first act of the drama took his
revenge by shooting Juana in the street. Sharp knew
that indirectly he was himself responsible for her
death.
The story is mad, but the book isn’t. It is alive
and true, bursting with vigor, moving with poetry
under its rough surface. It is written in the first
person and with the greatest economy.
This particular kind of vigor is typically Ameri-
can ; it differs in quality from the no less real vigor
of, for instance, James Hanley. It is not coiled
strength, but uncoiled strength, in action, unafraid of
sensation, buckets full of it if you like.
Serenade doesn’t defend itself, it never covers up,
admits of no conventions or boundaries. The style
is to match, colloquial, vivid, snatching up the first
word that comes handy—and fortunately it is the
right one.
Happy Endings in Russia.
Nikolai Gubsky writes Russian novels in English.
The latest is Mara the Gipsy (Heinemann ; Moore’s
Bookshop), a success novel.
Mara, the posthumous daughter of Count Sablin,
was a wild gipsy creature taking after her spendthrift
father and very unlike her aristocratic mother and
sister Olga. She was a very small child when the
revolution broke out, and her family, stripped of its
wealth, was driven frorm town to town seeking a
refuge.
One day, when she was about ten years old, Mara
quarrelled violently with her sister, broke her favorite
doll and ran away. She disappeared completely, and
after months of searching her mother was forced to
give her up as dead. But Mara was not dead ; she
was with a troupe of gipsies, leading a life that suited
her much better than the genteel poverty of her home.
Years after, Olga discovered Mara dancing in a
cabaret in Moscow.
Mara is the very personification of survival. She
bounds through the new Russia, getting married, get-
ting divorced-, scoring big successes as a dancer, an
actress, a film star, making money, spending it, get-
ting into debt, dragging her family up hill and down
dale with her. At last she finds the right man, an
actor like herself ; and the book’s end leaves her
famous and happy, rejoicing in her first baby. Olga,
quieter and gentler, also adapts herself to the revolu-
tion and carves out a place for herself in life, marry-
ing a promising young scientist.
Full as the novel is of events and characters, it
yet manages to be a heavy piece of work. Humor
it has none, unless it is in the portrait of one of
Mara’s captive poets: “When they asked him to recite
some of his poetry he struck a defiant posture,
churned up his mane' and produced a poem, ‘The
Lobster,’ which was obscure but strongly revolutionary
in spirit.”
The picture of daily life in Russia is interesting,
and now and then there is a touch which throws a
ray of oblique light on our own world. A “Ford
girl” in Russia, for instance, is a smart typist who
wears silk stockings. Galsworthy’s novels were never
banned by the Government, and continued to circu-
late freely in Russia during the revolution because
they were looked upon as a biting caricature of the
English bourgeoisie.
Another significant thing about Mara the Gipsy
is that, although the new Russia is insisted on, the
rewards, of which Mara reaps an extravagant share,
are all of the old “bourgeois” variety—money, acclaim,
happy marriage and the crown of respectability. Mara,
just like thousands of other heroines, gets over her
wildness and settles down. The reader is tempted to
ask “What was all the fuss about?” To those who
expect a Russian novel to be a Russian novel, Mara
the Gipsy offers very little.
Tragicomedy in Movieland.
John O’Hara, whose sixth book, Hope of Heaven
(Harcourt, Brace), is to hand, is one of the perenni-
ally-young American novelists of the school of Carl
von Vechten ; bitter and gay, studiously disillusioned.
He appears to skate along just for the pleasure
of the exercise. Sometimes there doesn’t seem to be
any story at all—only a minute-to-minute description
of Hollywood life, bright and breezy, going nowhere
but travelling very comfortably.
James Malloy wrote scenarios, received a lot of
money for it and didn’t seem to be expected to work.
He was a good deal older than Peggy Henderson, but
they were dallying with the idea of getting married.
Peggy had a father somewhere or other doing she
didn’t know what, and a young brother at college,
Keith, whom, in her undemonstrative way, she loved
best in the world.
One day a young man calling himself Don Miller
telephoned Malloy, told him that he was from his
home town and that he was in a jamb. The boy, out
of work and living on his wits, had picked up a book
of traveller’s cheques for a large amount, made out
in the name of Don Miller; he forged the signature
and began to live royally on the money. Everything
went well, but he couldn’t help worrying. It was all
too easy.
Malloy didn’t see why he should be bothered, but.
the old school tie stood the strain, and he tried to
help the boy out. Then Peggy’s long-lost father
appeared and settled without explanation in his
children’s home. Acute friction arose between Keith
and his father. Peggy, worried and miserable but
still wisecracking, decided that she would marry
Malloy and step out of the situation. Before this
could happen, however, Henderson shot his son dead.
The tragedy finished Peggy in a quiet sort of way.
She began drinking. She could no longer bear the
thought of marrying Malloy, for he reminded her of
both her father and Keith. “I guess we were ail
washed out.” That sentence finishes the book.
The two stories, Miller’s and Malloy’s, are linked
together at one point. Henderson was a detective
employed by the travel agency that issued the book
of cheques. If he had not been put on the job he;
would not have come to Hollywood and nothing would
have happened. The shooting of Keith was an acci-<
dent, but one that would not have happened but for'
the tension between father and son. It was, in a;
way, a bitter sort of joke. The author sums up Holly-
wood as “incredibly ordinary.”
“Fantastic. It’s in a semi-tropical climate. It has a
Spanish name with religious connotations. A rather
large Mexican and Oriental population. The architec-
ture is Mexican and Spanish and a little Moorish. And
yet, Malloy, consider this: the really fantastic thing
about it is that it’s the crystallisation of the ordinary,
cheap ordinary American. The people. The politics.
The cults.”
Looking back along the book from its end the
reader sees how bitter was the author’s intention for
all his surface gaiety and how cleverly he has con-
veyed that intention without ever once stating it.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . . .
No Spring Till Now : Henrietta Leslie (Robert
Hale). Light feminine study. Judy was first pupil,
then stepdaughter and finally rival in love to Caroline,
brilliant, lovely and modern.
The Long View: Hilda Morris (Michael Joseph).
American family saga from Quaker days to the 1929
slump. A sound-enough job ; but sagas—unless the
attack is very fresh —are now at a discount.
The Blackbird: Basil Creighton (Bodley Head).
The eternal triangle in a circle of extremely well-bred
and hypersensitive people in war-time England.
No Middle Way : Jeffery Marston (Michael
Joseph). Political repercussions among a middle-class
English group. Stock topic and rather stale attack.
Journeying Wave: Richmal Crompton (Mac-
millan). English Midlands. Family hother-pother over
a man’s affair with strange female. Calmness is
restored after the usual stir-round. Old stuff revamped.
Shark Gotch Shoots It Out: Albert Richard
Wetjen (Master Thriller). Shark is a Deadeye Dick
of the South Seas and a terror to evildoers. He pops
’em off in bunches.
The Mysterious Valley : G. W. Wicking (Angus
and Robertson). Harry Dexter, caravanning in the
bush, narrowly escapes being murdered, turns detec-
tive, untangles a twisted skein of mystery and crime
and wins a charming wife. F.a.q.
General . . .
Son of Rembrandt: Theun de Vries (Harrap;
translation by H. E. Kennedy). Described by its
title. Not a masterpiece, but quietly and competently
written; pleasing pictures of seventeenth-century
Amsterdam.
In Defence of Letters: Georges Duhamel (Dent).
Distinguished Frenchman bombards radio, talkies,
newspapers. Portrait of a fine mind, but assumes too
readily that people have stopped reading.
So What ?: Charles Landery (Dent). He’s sold
fish, refrigerators ; sewed buttons on spats ; slept in
dosshouses; roamed America, England, Scotland.
Terse, humorous and excellent of its kind.
Ken Barratt: A Cargo of Parrots (R.P., 31/8/’3B)
is not R. Hernekin Baptist’s first novel. His first was
Four Handsome Negresses, describing the coming of
the slave-traders to Africa, a book not unlike High
Wind in Jamaica. His second novel, The Wild Deer,
told of the return of a great negro singer to. the land
of his forefathers.


f
V
of
v
Si
V*
raw
j&gg
SM
<os
C-*}"H i V». ..
-' > .’P*l «•«.*'
' ,‘ i .>
Wl
Ww#
C.'Y 5-V-*
SligS
<*sr?<4fc
*? JEA
*K
ii
hri
*he
h
ASfiSS^
As,
•:V
USE
&
A't? ■*t‘»;Tf.'£k
s■* %
sT
THE
«£
.^.f£
<4o* 3
", % \%il i ,f / # y
~ "s, \ v\\l s jt / 4 y >#
KXN
? I
ml
fc£
The engineers who specify what lubricating oil to use on the longest
commercial air routes know what they’re doing. They have to.
They specify Shell Lubricating Oil. You are absolutely safe in following
such an example. No other oil is so good for your car as the drag-free
oil, Shell.
It cuts out the fluid friction or sluggishness which makes engines stiff
when starting: cuts down wear: reduces petrol and oil consumption:
cuts out sludge: and cuts out carbon.
4\
ft
MOTOR
“So—when yon change to Sammei Oil, say ‘SHELL’!”
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated in Great Britain)
L.O. 38/22JX.


*
.- : n
• /
fttft-y.--- ,-r
\~A
1
.
. ■
m
■
, y
* >. I-’
/ * -v
■■■■ ■. . ■■■
r
■ ■
mm
<s\\.
mm i
,
-
'V
HHf
i 3
a
■j
) .
\ s.
m
ms m
l r - ■’*, v''- " .
■■■ ■s /V
Bt
. ' ■■: ■ ■ .■■' .
■MBjwffiriiaiiaMM
v.
«


THE LOAN-PEGGING COMPETITION.
“Ignoring the imminent conversion operation and the greater Defence expenditure, State Premiere are going the Loan Council with demand, for lot, more ea,, money.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/4«5.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street. London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4a.
NO TIME FOR COSTLY FADS.
With national income down and defence expenditure
up, the Government of Australia is going in for what
it calls health and pensions insurance, and the Govern-
ment of Maoriland for what it calls social security.
In drafting their measures they took the goodwill
of medical men for granted, but in both countries
medical men are hostile. At the moment a commis-
sion headed by the Chief Arbitration Judge is inquir-
ing into the objections of practitioners in Australia.
The Maoriland proposals have been put to a B.M.A.
vote, and 95 per cent, of the members of that body,
declared that they had no use for them.
For different reasons, the leader of the Common-
wealth Labor party and the president of the Council
of Trade-unions have informed the public time and
again that they have no use for the Canberra plan.
That, of course, was introduced by a Nationalist (or
U.A.P.)-Country-party Government. In Maoriland
a Labor Government gave birth to “social security,”
and Nationalists are opposing it.
Nobody knows exactly, though a good many
people have tried to guess, what either scheme will
cost over a term of years. The one thing certain is
that there will be a thumping addition to annual
expenditure, and that on the administrative side a
massive staff will be required.
Yet the capacity of the people in either country
to bear fresh burdens, over and above what is obvi-
ously required for the strengthening of neglected
defences, is open to doubt. In spite of the fall in
the national income, £118,700,000 was taken from the
pockets of the Australian people during the 1937-38
year; and in the third month of the new financial
year 1937-38 income-tax assessments were still going
out. Tax-yields from all sources, incomplete as they
were, averaged £l7 6s. sd. per head of population.
Maoriland exactions were still more severe. For
the year to March 31 they amounted to £36,050,100,
just on £24 per head of European population. Maori-
land companies pay as much as 7s, 6d. in the £ in
income tax alone ; and, if the Labor Government has
its way, that is only a beginning.
When considering their new frills, each Govern-
ment imported English experts to prepare financial
estimates ; and Canberra is sending to England for
a Government actuary at £1750 a year. The English
actuary who advised the Government at Wellington
estimated the first year’s expenditure on social security
at £17,850,000. Mr. Nash, the Minister of Finance,
said this was excessive, and that “only” £15,000,000
would be required. How he arrived at his calculation
has baffled the critics, but it is admitted that he
deducted £1,790,000 for war pensions and did not
include unemployed-relief expenditure. War-pensions
and unemployed-relief money will have to come out
of general taxes ; and on unemployed-relief £4,239,400
was spent last year.
Mr. Nash contends that in a country with such
“amazing resources” production of wealth is so sure
to increase that Maorilanders will carry war pensions,
unemployed-relief, social security and the rest with
the greatest of ease —do it on their heads, as it were.
Over the years it is inevitable, with the knowledge
we have of the amazing resources of this country,
that there will be a further increase in production. We
cannot attempt to measure that increase with accuracy,
but there is more than enough inside the productive
capabilities of this country to provide the necessary back-
ing for everything which the Government proposes. We
can only anticipate the future by measuring the past.
The resources can’t be so “amazing” when, after
nearly 100 years of European settlement, the white
population is only a trifle over a million and a half.
Anyway, the Census and Statistics Department has
been doing a bit of measuring of greater immediate
interest. Touching the export season, which closes
in June, it notes that a comparison of 1937-38 and
1936-37 figures shows a reduction in quantity of wool-
production and “a sharp fall in wool values” • expressed
in Maoriland currency, value of exports of this com-
modity declined by £6,444,888, Altogether, value of
exports fell from £64,138,700 to £61,371,800. ( Excess
of exports over imports was only £4,377,300 ‘as com-
pared with £14,545,000 in 1936-37 and £14,150,600 in
1935-36.” The £4,377,000 converted into sterling was
not nearly enough to meet the overseas interest bill;
overseas interest on Government debt alone is over
£6,600,000 sterling.
Expenditure from the Public Works Fund soared
from £1,748,400 in 1935-36 to £6,118,000 in 1937-38 ;
and an increase to £6,887,000 is proposed for this
election year. Public Works employees numbered
15,551 in June, 1936, and 21,553 in June, 1938. The
Government railways, now worked on a 44-hour-week
basis, earned £7,591,800 in 1937-38, and working
expenses took 96.05 per cent, of earnings, £7,291,700.
The difference didn’t go far towards meeting interest
on £65,000,000 or so, £10,400,000 of which was
“written down” in the humorous political fashion in
1932.
The second Roosevelt started the social-security
fad, and in no time he had another depression on
his hands. Social security wasn’t the sole cause of the
depression, but by increasing wage-payers’ burdens at
the worst possible time, and giving many of them the
“What’s-the-use?” feeling, it was a factor in it. Exist-
ing social services in these countries are very costly,
as taxation is very high ; and no worthy person would
suffer any hardship if social security and health and
pensions insurance were withdrawn till the clouds
clear away from the international sky and the
economic situation settles down. In the difficult times
ahead both Governments will have enough to do to
attend to the public safety and look after their
finances and their industries.
The Forgan Smith Plan.
When on September 16 the Queensland Government
transfers to ration relief all single relief-workers and
half the married ones, pending their absorption in
full-time work, a scheme will be commenced which
has no parallel, past or present, in Australia. Designed
on a seven-year basis, the State Development and
Public Works Organisation Act vests in a Co-ordinator-
General immense powers to control all public or
semi-public works and constructional services in the
State, with the object of organising them into a defi-
nite programme of systematic development. Simul-
taneously, a Rural Development Act concentrates
under one, authority a variety of loan and credit
systems for financing extra-metropolitan undertakings,
previously administered by several different Govern-
ment departments and sub-departments.
The first essential outcome of the new plan is to
centralise in the Government of the day most of the
powers for provision and management of public works
and utilities hitherto exercised by local authorities.
Further, it removes a great volume of public-works
expenditure from control by Parliament itself. Cabinet
can, through the fiction of the G.-in-C., order local
authorities to carry out public works approved by
the Co-ordinator-General, and, if necessary, recover
the cost from them. In other words, it is now in the
position of being able to reach the pocket of the rate-
payer direct.
A dragnet clause authorises issue, through the
same fictional medium, of orders, directions and rules
“calculated to safeguard the requirements and well-
being of the people and to give full effect to the
objects and purposes of this Act.” Under it, anything
whatever might be given the force of law during a
long Parliamentary recess, with no remedy by appeal
to any Court.
The reduction of unemployment-relief taxation
means that so much less tax-money —£1,250,000 p.a.
perhaps will be available to meet expenditure that
will obviously increase. A borrowing corporation is
provided for under the Rural Development Act,
evidently as a second string to the financial bow should
the Loan Council refuse or cut down Queensland
applications for “works” loans. The astute Mr. Forgan
Smith considers that if the Loan Council’s one-year
policy can be stretched to suit national-defence needs
it should be equally elastic in matters of planned State
development, and the argument is sound in principle.
Practice will be another matter if Queensland ever
comes up against all-in competition for cheap money.
Part of the preliminary ballyhoo has been an appeaL
to private industry to help. So far no definite men-
tion of the extent to which the Government is pre-
pared to go in the way of tax-relief has been forth-
coming. A statement by the Director of the State
Bureau of Industry to the effect that industrial and
financial conditions in Australia may be expected to
deteriorate on account of economic recession abroad
has not encouraged optimism in private industry, par-
ticularly as Queensland’s exports have been on the
down-grade for 12 months. Nor will the immense
Commonwealth commitments, in national health and
pensions and defence, do anything to stimulate busi-
ness enterprise in the State.
One definitely satisfactory feature palliates the
gloom with which the average Queensland taxpayer
is likely to regard the Forgan Smith Plan. It will
have as its Co-ordinator-General J. R. Kemp, the
Commissioner of Main Roads, Australian-born and
-trained, of first-rate professional ability and unim-
peachable integrity and purpose.
Unity of Defence Control.
Discussions in Parliament relative to the overloading
of the Defence Department have given rise to sug-
gestions that the British method of multiple-Minis-
terial control might be adapted to Australian needs,
and there is a danger that the thing will be tried.
Canberra is “following Britain” more slavishly than
ever, except in one field in which it would profit
Australia to follow Britain. It never suggests that
Australia could do with one Parliament and one es-
tablishment.
Unity of Defence administration was adopted
by the Commonwealth in 1921; in that year control
of the three fighting services was vested in one
Minister. To these were added three civilian branches,
dealing with rifle clubs, civil aviation and munitions
supply. The Council of Defence, a non-permanent
body, presided over by the Prime Minister, has the
responsibility of advising on questions of broad policy.
It has no executive power, and Cabinet is free to
reject its advice. The Defence Standing Committee
is the active adjunct of the Council. It consists of the
three Chiefs of Staff, and meets frequently in order to
co-ordinate and harmonise service opinion and policy.
Each of the other Dominions has a single Defence
Ministry similar, in major respects, to that of Aus-
tralia. The Air Corps of Maoriland, South Africa
and Canada are integral portions of the Army —not
a separate service, as in Australia and England. Civil
aviation is controlled by Defence, except in South
Africa.
France followed Britain in the creation of a
separate air service, but has now reverted to a single
Ministry of Defence, whose adviser is General
Gamelin. In the last French Government there were
three Ministers of State dealing with Defence, but
Daladier was the only one who mattered, as regards
higher policy. In the present Cabinet he merely added
Premiership to his National Defence functions.
In pre-war British Cabinets, Defence representa-
tion was shared by the Secretary of State for War
and the First Lord of the Admiralty. Co-ordination
was effected by the Committee of Imperial Defence,
a non-executive body. Unlike its Australian counter-
part, the C.I.D. had a permanent secretariat and met
regularly.
During the war divergence of policy and com-
peting interests manifested themselves, despite the
activities of the C.I.D. and its secretarial genius, the
Australian-born Sir Maurice Hankey. Growth of the
Air arm (then the R.F.C. and the R.N.A.S.) and com-
petition for control led eventually to a review of the
situation. Strangely enough, the creation of a third
Ministry, that of the Air, was preferred to unifica-
tion. There may have been much to justify this step
and the formation of a Ministry of Munitions—in
fact, the pros and cons have filled volumes. Unfavor-
able results were increased demands on the C.I.D. and
more frequent references to the War Cabinet, factors
inimical to swift inter-service executive action.
Since the war select committees have examined the
case for unification. Duplication has been reduced
and obvious absurdities, such as separate service
branches of meteorology, have been abandoned.
In process of time the scope of the C.I.D. was
enlarged and a sub-committee (Chiefs of Staff) was in-
augurated, with the object of eliminating the evils of
divided Ministerial control. Rearmament so badly bent
the co-ordinating machinery that the C.I.D. was rein-
forced by the appointment of Sir Thomas Inskip as
Minister for Co-ordination of Defence.
The complexity of the present situation is evi-
denced by the fact that three service estimates are pre-
sented to the House of Commons and debated as
separate entities. Four Ministers answer questions on
Defence policy and expenditure. Sir Thomas Inskip,
despite his high-sounding title, is not a Ministerial
overlord. His most important function is to preside
over the Chiefs of Staff sub-committee and act as chair-
man of the C.I.D. He has not the executive authority
of his Ministerial counterpart in France. Mr. Winston
Churchill has recently suggested a fifth Ministry, that
of Supply. No informed observer can doubt the
wisdom of the Prime Minister’s action in refusing to
countenance such an expedient in time of peace.
In two of the services unofficial opinion has
always favored a single Ministry. The Navy, after
20 years of effort, has virtually wrested control of the
Fleet air arm from the R.A.F. Present Air-Ministry
control of Army co-operation squadrons is not entirely
satisfactory in peace, and might be dangerous in war.
The Air service clings tenaciously to its separate de-
partmental status. A single Ministry of Defence would
help to harmonise divergent views.
Excuses for continuance of the present British
system are: —-
(1) Single Ministerial control calls for a superman
who would overshadow the Prime Minister. (2) An
Air Ministry is essential for the of London.
(3) Existing machinery for co-ordination is adequate.
The first reason is based on the erroneous idea
that a Minister should have expert knowledge. The
real expert is seldom a political success —witness
Kitchener; and the “near-expert” is a menace.
Modern military history from the American Civil War
to 1914-18 is a record of tragedies attributable to
amateur strategy and interference of Ministers aspir-
ing to generalship.
A statesman’s worth, like that of a cocktail,
depends on blending and balance of characteristics.
Commonsense and unbiased vision are the base, with
administrative capacity and spiritual courage as in-
gredients. The super-vintage variety is produced by
a dash of genius in selection of subordinates, and a
sixth sense in assessment of expert advice. This type
will not neglect an essential function, such as Air
defence, and will be loyal to his Prime Minister.
The efficiency of the co-ordinating machinery is
admitted; but the effect of the recent retirement of
Sir Maurice Hankey has yet to be seen. This key-
man was Secretary to the C.1.D., Secretary to the
Cabinet and Clerk of the Privy Council. He has
three successors.
The unified Defence organisation of the Common-
wealth is fundamentally sound, despite minor blem-
ishes and the luxury of a separate Air service. It is
to be hoped that any change necessitated by the
march of events will be based on a study of the
defects as well as the virtues of the British organisa-
tion ; and that the genius of the French in Defence
administration will not be ignored because of weak-
nesses in their Parliamentary system.
NANDEWAR.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Wolf! Wolf!"
Mr. Chamberlain returned to London from his
salmon-fishing to face “the blackest week-end since
1914.”
The “Cronk-News,” the “Daily Dillygraph” and
the Manchester “Garbagetin” had issued an unbroken
succession of alarming bulletins. Madame Two-
Blues—who is admitted to the confidence of Hitler
and Mussolini so that she may reveal their foulest
plots—had excelled herself. And Mr. Herbert Morri-
son, M.P., felt that he had to speak or burst. “The
only hope now of preventing an attack on Czecho-
slovakia,” thundered Mr. Herbert Morrison, “is for
the great peaceful nations to tell Hitler ‘y° u mustn’t
do it.' ”
A Mr. Hicks, M.P., took up the parable:
Britain, France and Russia, with the moral support
of the United States, should be able to make it clear
that if Czechoslovakia is invaded they will defend its
frontier. I believe that we speak for the whole British
people.
“We” are a few Labor politicians and trade-union
delegates who issued a manifesto. The “whole British
people” are presumably the inhabitants of the British
Isles. The Dominions, who among them possess at
least a third of the able-bodied white men in the
Empire, might conceivably object to being dragged
into another World War to preserve the ascendancy
of a few million Moscow-“protected” Czechs over
their dissatisfied minorities of Germans, Slovaks,
Poles and Hungarians ; but if such considerations ever
occur to the bellicose pacifists of Britain they are
airily dismissed.
Loud as was the chorus of scaremongering and
threatening, a jarring note was heard. It came from
the London “Times,” which suggested that it would
be a good thing if the dissatisfied minorities, “alien
fringes,” were permitted to secede from the Czechs.
The whole pack immediately turned on the “Times,”
and that newspaper defiantly replied that the pack’s
pose of “righteous indignation” was “grotesque.” Then
a significant admission was made by Prague in “an
unedifying official report”: Sudeten Germans placed
under arrest by Czech police had been “beaten, chained
up and kept without food.”
“The blackest week-end since 1914” was a Sydney
“Morning Herald” expression, communicated from
London by Our Special Representative. The force of
it was weakened by an item from Canberra, printed at
the foot of the column.
The Prime Minister said that reports from Great
Britain on the international situation were not of a
nature that demanded an immediate meeting of the
Federal Cabinet.
Worse “news” arrived on Sunday: the British
Cabinet had “decided at midnight”—on Friday—“to
inform Germany in precise terms that Britain will
not stand aside if Czechoslovakia is attacked.” This
appeared in London “Daily Mail” on the authority
of its “Diplomatic Correspondent.” It was taken so
seriously in Australian newspaper offices that staffs
were assembled to prepare special editions.
No special editions were required. “An official
in Downing-street” was quoted as saying that “no
such statements should be regarded as authentic.”
The British Ambassador was at Nuremberg, where the
Nazi Congress was drawing to a close: “Sir Nevile
Henderson,” Nuremberg announced, “has authorised
denials of reports that he has seen or will see Herr
Hitler.” And Prague reported “a general air of con-
fidence among the public, no excitement,” and re-
sumption of the negotiations between the Czecho-
slovakian Premier and the Sudeten Germans.
Mr. Lyons was heard from again. He said his
Government was “keeping in close touch with the
British Government,” and, “while the position is
serious, it is not nearly so alarming as many published
reports suggest.” And a reassuring review of the situa-
tion, based on personal observations and discussions
in Germany, was given by the Attorney-General at
Melbourne.
Mr. Menzies is convinced that “the state of Europe
is in reality more balanced than it was six months ago.”
Nevertheless, “there are explosive elements which
may easily be touched off at some moment of hys-
teria.” This is only too true. Liars and lampooners
have done much mischief; louts and loons, unre-
strained by “cool heads,” may do more.
Coal and Labor Politics.
The signatures of the leaders of the Miners’ Federa-
tion are on an agreement touching rates of pay, fort-
nightly payments, overtime, contract labor and hours
of employment in N.S.W. coalmines. The date is
August 16, 1937, and the agreement “contains the
terms that all then-existing customs and conditions,
except in so far as they were abolished or expressly
modified, should continue” and “remain in force for
two years.” So said Judge Cantor, of the N.S.W.
Industrial Court, at Newcastle on Thursday. His
Honor added, in effect, that the Miners’ Federation
made no reservations.
Before the agreement was 12 months old, how-
ever, the leaders of the Miners’ Federation had though!
up many more “demands,” and the day after Mr.
Cantor pronounced it a binding agreement the N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victorian coalminers were ordered to
strike. The miners at Collie (W.A.) were graciously
exempted, possibly because it was thought they might
not come in.
J™ eems a | mos 1 t as bad a time for a coal stoppage
as 1929 proved to be. In that year the miners broke
no agreement, and they met with sympathy in quarter*
which are now hostile. In any case, according to
their leaders, the 1929 stoppage cost them and their
sympathisers £BOO,OOO, and it left them broke and
many of hem workless. The Federation bosses now
boast that th ey are prepared to spend £250,000 on
their strike. With that amount of money they could
acquire for the union substantial interests in N.S.W.
coalmines, nearly all of which are quoted at depres-
sion prices on the Exchange. Labor troubles brought
the industry to a pass from which it has never
recovered.
The Victorians who obeyed the strike order are
employed in a State Government mine on which
£290,000 has been lost in the last two years.
The present infliction differs from most of the
others in that Labor factional politics have been
dragged in.
Reds now shape Miners’ Federation policy, and
they are after Mr. Lang’s scalp. Not because of his
crazy performances in 1931-32, but because, in his
stubborn way, he has become an obstacle to Mr.
Dimitri’s United Front. With likeminded associates
Miners’ Fed. Reds control the “Labor Daily,” which
was Mr. Lang’s for so many years, and are stridently
championing the Heffron group. Neither manoeuvre is
prospering ; even Broken Hill, when the faction leaders
visited that supposed home of extremism, was dis-
tinctly cold to Heffron and disconcertingly cordial to
Lang. Many of the coalminers themselves are for
Lang—so many that no coalmining member has joined
the Heffron group.
Whatever the effect on the community, no section
of political Labor opinion would dare to oppose a
coal strike. So the order to down tools was doubt-
less figured as “good” United Front and Heffron-
group policy, and in its bearing on “capitalists” and
Governments —some of the “demands” were served
on Governments —a “good” bluff.
The general secretary of the Miners’ Federation
boasts that “we can maintain ourselves longer than
the country can do without coal.” At the week-
end efforts were made to induce Mr. Lyons to buy
temporary immunity from this form of war on Aus-
tralia by appointing a special tribunal to deal with
the “demands.” If he is wise, he will refuse to do so,
as he refused to interfere with the existing system of
arbitration in the aircraft-factory strike. That
lamentable affair is now over.
If Victoria Went Dry.
Victoria is spending the best part of Mr. Dunstan’s
surplus on another State-wide licensing poll; and it
could find many better uses for the money. The ques-
tion to be put to electors is: “Are you in favor
of the abolition of licenses?” In 1930 the formula
was: “That licenses be abolished.” The voting was
Yes, 418,902 ; No, 552,339.
No-license had on October 21, 1920, been carried
in the district of Boroondara, and the position there
deserves examination.
The inhabitants of Boroondara are fair average
specimens of Melbourne citizenry who wish the best
for themselves, their wives and their families. Having
voted the publican and the barman out of their dis-
trict, they must have generally believed that they were
going to bring about the millennium. But after so
many years of no-license, the quickest way of making
a competence in Melbourne by any form of labor
would be to get a bottle-oh’s monopoly in Boroondara.
If Victoria went dry it would be only an enlarged
Boroondara. In proportion to area, the State has
longer land and sea frontiers than any other, and
there would be a strong inducement for N. S. Wales
and S.A. to erect public-houses as near the Victorian
border as possible. The value of pub leases in the
vicinity of Boroondara has risen out of all proportion,
and a pub on the right bank of the Murray would
be in a similar favorable position if Victoria took to
prohibition. The facilities for getting bottled stuff
into the country and disposing of it would be just
as numerous as they are in the case of Boroondara.
The Victorian who likes a drink would be no more
disposed to give up drinking than his brother in the
limited area of Boroondara; and with the whole State
under the ban the tendency to treat getting a lethal
dose of something from a bootlegger as a great and
glorious adventure would embrace most of the popu-
lation.
But Victoria is not going Dry.
"Wear More Wool."
Reference in the Sydney “Morning Herald” to wool
and wool substitutes prompted Dr. Clunies Ross, the
Australian representative on the International Wool
Publicity and Research Secretariat, to write to that
newspaper warning Australians not to take artificial-
fibre competition “as though it were an abstract or
purely potential danger.”
The danger and its effects exist here and now. In
totalitarian countries such as Germany, Italy and Japan,
a serious and, it is to be feared, a permanent reduction
in the consumption of wool has already been experienced.
In Germany production of staple fibre has
increased from 46,000 tons in 1936 to something like
160,000 tons last year, and 200,000 tons is the estimate
for 1939. And Japan’s production during the past
three years has “increased proportionately far more.'’
In effect, “serious substitution has occurred.” And
mixtures of staple fibre and wool “can be processed
on standard woollen machinery without difficulty,” as
“Courtaulds are only too willing to demonstrate” in
Bradford iself.
What is to be done about it? For one thing,
“Australians must be as solicitous for wool as they
have been in the past for any other section of primary
or secondary industry.” Then “it must be recognised
that the totalitarian countries will buy more wool
and use less staple fibre if wool is available.” Wool
is “still definitely superior to staple fibre,” and coun-
tries deprived of it “would gradually take more at a
price if they could.” For them, “the problem is largely
a political one, and political remedies must be applied”
—by, among other things, “striving, as our Govern-
ment is doing, for general appeasement.”
“Our” Government is the Chamberlain Govern-
ment. Almost alone among secular Sydney news-
papers, The Bulletin has supported the Chamberlain
policy; three dailies in particular have been bitterly
hostile. In all the dailies and some of the weeklies
there have been persistent and virulent attacks on
Germany, Italy and Japan, attacks in which the inven-
tions and ravings of Red and Pink foreign journalists,
of unknown or too-well-known antecedents, have
been quoted and repeated as if they were Gospel
truth. It is now clear that Australia is paying for
this long-continued campaign of mudslinging, and
the woolgrower, who is guiltless, is the worst sufferer.
Incidentally, Dr. Clunies Ross, who is an able
young Australian, has sponsored a fashion parade at
Claridge’s at which it was demonstrated that wool
can be “camouflaged to resemble fur, silk and velvet,”
“made up into evening gowns and country-house
clothes”; in short, “used for all types of clothing.”
It would ease the position in the Commonwealth if
Australian women could be got to realise this. If
they were living in Tudor or Stuart times they would
have no choice in the matter; Charles 11. himself
recognised that wool was the foundation of the
national fortune, and banned the use of other
materials, even for shrouds.
A Sydney flapper paper took the views of women
and girls on this subject, and the general reply was
that they wouldn’t wear wool on any account. “Why,”
one young woman said, “if a typist wore woollen
stockings she wouldn’t get a job or keep one.” But
surely they don’t type with their legs?
"Debauching Public Opinion."
Dear Bulletin, —In B. 8/6/’3B there was an extract
from Across the Frontiers, by Sir Philip Gibbs. In
the extract the following passage from Herr Hitler’s
Reichstag speech last February is quoted:
“What can we say,” he asked, “when Reuter
discovers attacks on my life; when English newspapers
publish stories of a large number of arrests in Germany
and the closing of the German frontiers; when other
newspapers say that the Crown Prince has fled from Ger-
many, that German generals had marched with their
regiments to the German Chancelleries, that the entire
German industry had received mobilisation orders for
war, that 14 generals with the body of Ludendorff had
fled to Prague, that I had lost my voice -and that it would
be imitated by someone else so that I could in future
speak from gramophone records?”
The reference to Reuters is extremely misleading. The
facts were as follows:
On February 21, the day after the speech, Reuters’
head office in London circulated a statement to the
British press explaining that the remark about Reuters
appeared to have been based on a misapprehension.
“On Tuesday, February 8, and again on Friday, Febru-
ary 11,” the statement said, “telephone inquiries were
received by Reuters from all parts of England about a
rumor that an attack had been made on Herr Hitler.
On each occasion Reuters’ Berlin office was asked to
investigate, and the rumor was quickly proved to have
been false. The rumor itself was never issued by
Reuters, but to allay any possible anxiety and as a matter
of courtesy Reuters published the German denial on
February 11.”
This is all that Reuters did. You will note that it is
very different from what in his speech the Ftihrer said
Reuters did. —Yours etc., A. E. Wearne, general
manager for Australasia.
Sydney Fashions.
“Lord Luvus” has a go at them:
I have just returned to Melbourne after a visit to Sydney
and I like Melbourne better. I like it better because it looks
more human.
The thing that struck me about Sydney was that it had
lost its personality. A wall has a personality. If an architect
of intelligence wants to preserve the beauty of the wall he can
preserve what is there and use it and develop it. But if he
covers it with a coat of whitewash he destroys its personality.
He obliterates what was there and produces something different.
Sydney had a personality which was given to it by old
buildings with beautiful carvings, cornices, windows, doors and
proportions. Sydney has made almost a clean sweep of these
old buildings. There are a few here and there, and some of
them were in process of demolition when I went to look at
them. Elizabeth Bay House is still in existence—not because
the authorities recognised its beauty but because some enter-
prising individual found it commercially profitable by making
it fashionable for wedding breakfasts.
The personality of Sydney, which everybody admired and
nobody wanted to see obliterated, has disappeared as com-
pletely as if some Old Master had been given a coat of kalso-
mine. In its place is not a new personality, but a fashion.
The old girl now wears a porkpie hat, and pastes herself with
lipstick. She would never say that she looks more beautiful
than Old Sydney, but she feels that she is in the fashion.
She would never say that her new fashion made her look more
beautiful than the Parthenon or Rheims Cathedral, any more
than a typist who has just been to a beauty parlor would say
that she looks more beautiful than Cleopatra. But nobody,
not even a visitor from Hollywood, could say that she is not
in the fashion.
Sydney’s architectural fashions are not a development, any
more than the girl’s porkpie hat is a development. The
porkpie hat may look as incongruous on her head as a milk-
jug. She wears it, not because of any conscious idea that it
is beautiful, but because every other girl is wearing one.
Sydney architecture isn’t a conscious development on some-
thing that has gone before —it is simply a following of a
fashion. Architects have not consciously designed their build-
ings because they liked the look of them, but because every
other country is designing buildings like them. And although
my experience was somewhat limited, I detected fashions in
Sydney thought as unconsciously conditioned as the fashions
in hats and in buildings. Every citizen I met had a set of
notions about peace and war, Hitler, Mussolini and Eden,
Czechoslovakia, Japan, China and Abyssinia which, except for
unimportant variations, was as like the set of notions of every
other citizen as one porkpie-hatted and lipsticked young woman
in Pitt-street was like another. And each set of quaint notions
held by each citizen I talked to was exactly like the set of
quaint notions that were printed in the daily newspapers the
citizen was reading.
I did not go up to the University for light and reading.
I had no need to. I got it over the air from sundry professors
who broadcast sets of notions which are as like the sets of
notions of their listeners and of the newspaper writers whom
the professors would regard as their intellectual inferiors as
Cronulla is now like Coogee, Coogee like Bondi and Bondi
like Manly. (I did not go to Palm Beach, but I heard they
had concreted the surf there, as well as the foreshore.)
I won’t try to put it over Sydney by asserting that Mel-
bourne is to be congratulated on being so unlike Sydqey. Every
Melbourne man yearns to make Melbourne as fashionable as
Sydney. That he hasn’t yet succeeded is due to lack of energy
or money rather than of good intentions. So Melbourne still
looks human.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Not too bad; but it don't come up to the flood We ’ad in our districk in ninety-nine.”
“Dick Tafone”: I’m as good an f.a.q.
Australian husband as the next bloke,
though I say it myself, but why in blazes
should I, as a Queensland taxpayer, have
to contribute to the support of 17 other
Queenslanders who dislike their wives
sufficiently to go to gaol instead of sup-
porting them? I wouldn’t mind if my
share of the £43 2s. 4d. yearly which it
costs to keep each of them there was
any help to the deserted wives, but the
law leaves those neglected ladies to fend
for themselves and offspring. They can’t
even take another ticket in the matri-
monial lottery because the marriage holds
even if the defaulting husband chooses
to stay in gaol for the rest of his life.
I offer to Queensland’s legislators a free
suggestion as to how to make the punish-
ment fit the crime revive the old
assigned-servant system, and assign them
to their wives, with power to tune them
up in the good old way if they still
won’t work. Or, annul the marriage after
a year in quod.
“5.8.”: Following the exposure by the
Victorian Drys of what was called
Wet duplicity in using an Oxford
Group magazine cover to emphasise the
prospect of unemployment after a “No”
win (B. 24/8/’3B), the Wets now allege
that the Drys have similarly stolen. Full-
page ads. declare that a poster, “Stop
This Killing,” is copied from one issued
by the American Legion during its High-
way Safety Campaign. It depicts an
American policeman standing in front of
a car radiator holding the dead body of
a child in his arms. The Wets claim that
this poster was “stripped from N. S.
Wales hoardings by direction of the Gov-
ernment in deference to public protest.”
* * * *
“Native”: If by Poulteney’s Hotel
(Sydney) “K.N.” (B. 31/8/’3B) means
the Pulteney Hotel, he is off the track.
It stood on the ground now occupied
by Dalgety’s. Built for John Edye
Manning, it was opened in 1834 as a
family hotel by Solomon Levien (grand-
father of R. H. Levien, solicitor, who
died recently), and conducted by him
until the Australian Club acquired the
property in 1838. When the club
moved to the Macquarie and Hunter
streets site in 1891 the old premises
were used as quarters for Sydney Hos-
pital nurses until demolition some years
later.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Gearless motorcars,
stated to have recently been perfected in
the Cold Land, are not new to Mel-
bourne. In 1921 an Australian produced
a gearbox which drove a car in an
infinitely variable gear forward and re-
verse by means of a multiple pump. The
engine did 140,000 miles before it was
superannuated, and it is still on show in
Melbourne. I drove up and down Collins-
street in 1927 in a gearless car invented
by a young Austrian. The inventor’s
sponsors expected to become millionaires,
but frictional problems cropped up that
couldn’t be solved without more time for
research than the inventor could afford.
The car had no progeny, and its parent
became a garage mechanic. But a tough-
minded financier and a Federal Govern-
ment with foresight might have made the
end of the story a lot more cheerful.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “F.Y.7” tells us that “the
phrases which make up rhyming slang
are invariably of three syllables” (B.
7/9/’3B) —a palpable understatement of
the resources of that allegedly Cockney
vernacular. Actually, the preposterous
words often run to four or five syllables.
Take, for instance, G. A. Sala’s delight-
ful verses on the subject, where the
heroine, sitting in front of the “Anna
Maria,” hears a knock at the “Rory
O’More” and runs to the top of the
“rabbits and hares” to investigate. A
table is a “Cain and Abel,” and in a
Bulletin short story of nearly 30 years
ago I remember reading of a mailboat
steward turning hot water into “mother
and daughter, ’ot.” Later than that, a
London “Punch” contributor described a
visit to Govent Garden market and a
dialogue he heard between two porters
Where one, after courteously, inquiring
after the health of the other’s “bother
and strife” and “Gawd forbids” (trans-
lation unnecessary), related mournfully of
a co-worker that he hadn’t been “first for
a bubble” —abbreviations which hardly
need elucidation for “First of October
for a bubble-and-squeak.”
* * * *
“Dhas”: Though I am deeply at one
with the reviewer who bombarded Bever-
ley Nichols (B. 7/ 9 / ’3B), I found one
patch of his News of Englund of interest.
He was good on the ballet, and had kind
words to say for an Australian dancer,
Robert Helpman, who has frequently
starred at Sadler’s Wells:
As a small boy he was regarded as a
monstrosity. For here was an infant who
not only preferred to dance with leaves in
the wind, when he ought to have been play-
ing football, but stoutly proclaimed his
intention of continuing to do so .when he
grew up. It was all the more noticeable in
Adelaide, Australia, than it might have
been in a more sophisticated city. For
Adelaide, Australia, from my recollection
of it, is about the heartiest town in that
very hearty continent, the sort of town w!here
men catch hold of bulls by the horns as if
they were playing a parlor game.
Roar, Adelaide! But it was interesting
to hear about Helpman, and interesting
to learn that the Sitwells are writing the
music and composing the themes of new
ballets.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: I nominate wrecking
as the Big City’s most dangerous trade.
And yet there are fewer serious acci-
dents among the gangs who, so to speak,
are lifting the faces of Melbourne and
Sydney than in factories, where safety
devices are the rule. Even slight
abrasions are rare, though the wrecker
works at top speed with apparently a
fine disregard of his own and his cob-
bers’ skins. True, the leading wrecker
in Melbourne has lost a leg ; he broke
it on a demolition job by falling 50ft.
But it was mending fine when he tripped
over a step at home and broke it again.
The rarity of accidents in a trade that
draws the awed attention of passers-by
whenever some old edifice is being
tumbled down is due to the fact that
reactionary individuals are quickly
weeded out. There is no place in the
wrecker’s game for persons with
psychological tendencies that might
endanger another s life. That is the
explanation of the teamwork of a
wreckers’ squad. The other day a
wrecker dropped a brick on the head
of a new hand. The novice looked up
with an indignant face, expecting an
apology. “That will teach you to keep
out of the way,” grinned the man above.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The career in these parts
of an American gunman who was de-
ported after an inglorious career in Syd-
new, which he regarded as his oyster
when he arrived nine years ago, empha-
sises that the Australian psychology is
not favorable to American criminal
methods. The visitor spent practically
the whole of his stay in gaol, having
promptly received a 12-year sentence
for armed attempted robbery and shoot-
ing with intent. He chose a suburban
bank in a slack time for the first exhibi-
tion of his holdup skill in Sydney. But
the two members of the staff (he had
expected only one) didn’t obey the
“hands-up” order; on the contrary, they
became so unpleasant that he had to
shoot them to get away. And then, as
he ran out of the bank, revolver in hand,
a mere baker’s carter tackled him, to his
undoing. Americans seem mesmerised by
the fear of the gun. In Australia the
man who shouts “Put them hands up!”
is regarded as a bad joke.
* * * *
“A.W.”: My friend Gentone, unlike
the barrister cited by “Sixenate” (B.
31 /8 / ’3B), met with defeat for his client
after each of a series of clashes with a
District Court Judge who had a fiery
Irish temper. But at last he got a bit of
his own back. Arriving late in a case
about which he knew very little, he went
on a fishing excursion with the first wit-
ness. “When I was at the Bar, Mr.
Gentone,” reprovingly commenced his
Honor, “I always studied my case and
came prepared.” Meekly came the
reply: “But your Honor had plenty of
time.”
* * * *
“Char”: “H. Hardupp’s” gas-meter
man (B. 24/7/’3B) wasn’t so very clever.
He had three pennies to travel on, one on
each side of the correct amount —and
pennies weigh fairly heavy. Postal
officials and letter-sorters can detect a
fraction of an ounce when they come on
a slightly-overweight letter among the
thousands passing through their hands.
My butcher can cut an exact pound of
steak from any part of a carcass. I’ve
known a newspaper shipper, rushing out
tens of thousands of a morning daily to
hundreds of small agencies, who didn’t
need to count. He could pick just the
exact number required off the stack.
* * * *
The office historian writes:
A hundred and twenty years ago, and for
centuries before that, the King of Spain was
king in Florida. In Florida on September 6
the eldest son of a king of Spain, riding in a
car driven by an American cigarette girl “after
an all-night ■ party at a casino,” was picked up
in a bad way after the car had had an un-
successful argument with a telegraph pole. He
was a bleeder, like the third of his four brothers,
who himself figured in a motor accident in 1934,
and like that brother he died in hospital. One
of the surviving brothers is deaf and dumb.
The news was broken to the unhappy mother
—the ConsortEna someone called her in hap-
pier times —and to her octogenarian mother,
Queen Victoria’s daughter Beatrice, in Caris-
brooke Castle.
What an ill-starred marriage was Ena’s! On
her wedding day a bomb was thrown at her and
her Alfonso as they were driving to the
cathedral, and she arrived there with blood on
her gown. Her husband pursued women as
wildly as he drove his car over the roads of
Spain; for one of these practices he was fpr-
given by his people, it being an old Spanish
custom, but the other sowed the seeds of the
unpopularity which was to end in his losing his
throne. Long before 1931 he had lost his Eng-
lish wife’s affection, and after the abdication
they parted.
The son dead in Florida was his mother’s
first-born, named Prince of the Asturias till he
renounced the title. In her English retreat she
learned, with feelings which may be imagined,
that he had married a “beautiful Cuban,” had,
in spite of his religion, divorced her, and had
gone through a civil ceremony with another
lady. The other lady had once been an
“artist’s model in New York”; after a few
weeks she announced that she was divorcing
him.
Carisbrooke Castle has its place in history.
There is was that Charles the First sought refuge
from Cromwell. There Harrison arrested him,
and gave him the grim assurance that he
wouldn’t be assassinated on the journey to
London, since whatever was to be done would
be done according to the forms of law.
“Pawang,” on a scourge of royalty:
Haemophilia, from which two dead sons of the
ex-King of Spain suffered, follows Mendels
law. It appears almost entirely in males, but is
carried by females and transmitted to their
sons. A male haemophiliac’s sons are free, but
half his daughters are transmitters and half
the daughters’ sons will be bleeders; the other
half will be normal.
When an ordinary person cuts himself the
bleeding stops in a few minutes. A bleeder
cannot have a tooth pulled out without run-
ning into grave danger, and an internal haem-
orrhage is usually fatal. Not more than 12
p.c. of haemophiliacs live beyond the age of
puberty. It was the belief that Rasputin had
magical power to stop the heir apparent’s bleed-
ing which gave Ras. his enormous sway over the
last of the Tsars and Tsarinas.
* * * *
“Perry”: Though Sydney place-names
don’t offer much of a problem even to
strangers, there are some who manage
to get tied up. I met a worried in-
dividual in the vicinity of the Stadium
who asked me if I knew of a place
called Woodchoppers’ Bay. He accepted
Rushcutter as a substitute gratefully. A
resident of Woolloomooloo in the days
when it was a fashionable suburb
assured me she had seen an envelope
that safely reached the right man
addressed to him at Hullabaloo! And
quite recently an overseas visitor wrote
in her home paper a glowing account of
Sydney Harbor and its islets, most in-
teresting of which was “the historic
Catgut.”
SEPTEMBER.
“Grey winter hath gone”—as the shop-fronts
With their vernal displayment; .
Spring poets awaken refreshed from their rest
And start to be clamant;
The songsters in feathers are filling the bowers
With the lingo of lovers,
And highways will soon be resounding tor
hours
With the honking of “shovers.
“September, the maid with the swift, silver
feet” —
Resembling the paces
Of steeds that are tipped to be equally fleet
At the seasonal races.
“Sweet month,” ere the “collar-’ from tankards
one blows,
And a liking still lingers
For whisky—a “second mate’s nip,” I suppose,
Or a “pilot’s three fingers.”
Our leaders still bicker, at outs and at grips
In their usual fashion,
Bert Stevens with platitudes smooth on his lips,
Jack Lang in a passion.
1 care not how noisily factious they be,
Who only remember
Amenities you are forecasting for me,
“Resplendent September.”
The picnics and jaunts in the gold of the noon
By cool river reaches;
The couples in “Spooners” who frivol and
spoon
'On the bights and the beaches,
And—fruitful incentive to lyrical rhyme—
The pleasant emotion
Produced in our ultra-salubrious clime
By girls in the ocean.
“O season of changes, of shadow and shine”
So aptly commended
In Kendall’s supremely melodious line,
“September the splendid,”
You’re still the forerunner of halcyon days,
The same as he knew you.
And, breaking away from Parnassian ways
To close with a vulgar vernacular phrase:
“Old darling, here’s to you!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ This'll do, Mary. We won't have so far to chuck it.”
“T.”: Intent on gaining Broken Hill
for his Labor “party,” Lang and a lot
of his Parliamentary satellites travelled
to the Barrier by the train that bore
Heffron, Lazzarini, Davidson, Horsing-
ton and the fortunes of their Labor
“party,” the Heffronites being bound on
a like mission. A fellow-passenger assures
me that the factionists didn’t fraternise,
didn’t even pass one another the time
of day. Members of warring Labor
groups are much more liberal-minded in
Westralia —at least, they were when I
was there. I accompanied a Parliamen-
tary party that “did” the wheat belt at
the end of 1918 or thereabouts. Con-
scription had split the old Labor party
into Official and National groups, but it
had not sundered friendships. Before
our train reached the Darling Ranges two
Officials and two Nationals had made up
a four at bridge, and, except when they
were asleep or the pilgrims took to the
road, they played bridge nearly the whole
time. “I thought you fellows were at
daggers-drawn?” I said to one of the
Officials (in later years a Federal mem-
ber) after a round of drinks. “Not a bit
of it,” he replied—“never were, even in
1917.” How could anyone have it in
for a good fellow like Jack Mullaney—
one of the Nationals? And Mullaney
was a good fellow, and a martyr to
principle withal —the only politician I
ever knew who voted for a redistribution-
of-seats bill that wiped out his electorate,
with nothing else in prospect for him.
* * * *
“Vieux Marcheur”: Tell “S.T.S.” (B.
7/9/’3B) that I referred to the late “Pink
’Un” as “Edwardian” because in the
’nineties the soldiering type, junior club-
men and racing people of the better
class who formed with the “County”
people the chief support of the famous
journal looked to the elderly viveur in
Buckingham Palace and not to the Old
Lady at Osborne as their social leader.
“S.T.S.” errs badly when he says that by
Edwardian days the “Pink ’Un” had
changed proprietorship. As late as 1909
it was still under John Corlett.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “Ex-Cabby’s” memory
slipped a cog when he implied (B.
31 /8 / ’3B) that Sydney cab fares were
assessed solely on a time basis. Within
the city radius the standard rate between
any two points was a shilling. The boun-
dary ended at Macleay-street, and it wa.
because the archbishop insisted upon his
ride being extended, without extra pay-
ment, the hundred yards or so to his
residence that the cabbies’ feud with him
started. Outside the city radius cabby
was entitled not only to time taken on the
journey, but half-fare back to point of
hiring. “Ex-Cabby” is right about tips
being prolific. Old Dan, whose cab with
its polished fittings was one of the dazzling
sights of Sydney, thought nothing of £2O
a week, which would be worth £4O to-
day ; but he had a list of special engage-
ments.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The bodies of four
Chinese which had been buried for 10
years in the West Terrace Cemetery,
Adelaide, were lately exhumed accord-
ing to custom to be transported to
Canton. Recalls the case of the late
Lew Kung Youey, of Melbourne. Lew
was one of the richest merchants in
Little Bourke, and his compatriots wanted
his removal to the tomb of his ancestors
to be done with all pomp and circum-
stance. A magnificent coffin, which Lew
had bought many years previously
and which had graced his sitting-room,
contained his embalmed remains, and a
window had been inserted in the side
so that his relatives in Hong Kong could
see his dignified countenance. Here the
quarantine authorities came into the
piece. The regulations required that
such cargo as Lew could be classed
under must be labelled “Natural history
specimens,” and it was as such that Lew’s
mortal relics started off for their ances-
tral home.
* * * *
“Jacko”: “Spare Corp’s” Australian
badge (B. 17/8/’3B) has its parallel in
the huge kiwi the Maorilanders cut out
above Sling Camp; on Salisbury Plains,
during their occupancy. It is a landmark
visible for miles around, almost equalling
the huge white horses cut out on each
side of a Wiltshire hill. A shoe-polish
firm (not the Kiwi concern) has under-
taken maintenance of the sign.
* * * *
“Avon”: A quaint little journal, the
“Jacobite,” keeps alive a long-lost cause
in Maoriland. It is the organ of the
Legitimist Jacobite League, which has
its head office in England and branches
in the U.S.A., Westralia and M.L. Accord-
ing to the L.J.L.-ites, we are at present
ruled not by George of Wind but bv
Rupert of Bavaria, who has had a long
and healthy reign of 19 years. His coro-
nation, like that of various predecessors,
was omitted for reasons over which he
had no control. In the Jacobite view
Britain took the wrong turning in 1685,
when the second James vamoosed. Wil-
liam of Orange was a usurper, and the
wrong was not righted by crowning
Jamie’s daughter Anne. James 111., the
second James’s son, really reigned—and
it was a record reign, extending from
1701 to 1766, covering the period of all
the Georges up to the fourth. Good
Queen Vic., though perhaps she didn’t
know it, flourished through the reigns of
Victor and Mary 111., of Sardinia, and
Francis and Mary IV., of Modena. It is
cheering to read that the movement has
friends in France—one of them a lady
who, disdaining the republic, calls her-
self the Princess Beatrice de Bourbon Y
Bourbon Massimo.
* * * *
“Greenhide”: The school of bush
thought which contends that all fires are
started by cigarette-butts gets a setback
by an occurrence at One Tree Hill, near
Auckland (M.L.). A fire broke out in a
house at 10 in the morning on August
22 last, and the brigade had to be sum-
moned to put it out. Brigade turned up
its records and found that a similar out-
break had occurred at the same time and
on the same date in 1932. The cause was
found to be the focusing of the rays
of the sun upon a curtain through a
medallion in a leadlight window, con-
ditions for which apparently occurred
only for a few minutes each year. The
misses in the intervening six years were
put down to cloud or an alteration in the
angle at whiqh the window was opened.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: That Tas-
manian farmer who developed a fan
mail after broadcasting his matrimonial
eligibility through a letter inserted in a
carrot is no innovator. Proposals, honor-
able and otherwise, were ordinary experi-
ences of stage ladies in the naughty
’nineties and long before. One enterpris-
ing actress lass achieved a title by re-
turning to a disappointed noble suitor a
postal bouquet which the tempestuous
leading lady had cast haughtily to the
stage floor, and being really nice about
it. The war simply oozed feminine ad-
miration of our brave boys, inside every-
thing from underpants to Lewis guns.
But there are limits. An unromantic
American surgeon, whilst replacing what
was left of some unfortunate’s small-
goods, was handed a gauze pad. Feel-
ing something crackle in it, he demanded
another, and when the job was done
discovered that the first contained an un-
disinfected note from a man who wanted
a nurse to reply, view mat. The surgeon
sued the suitor, on hygienic grounds, and
was awarded nominal damages.
* * # *
“Ex-Mister”: August 31 seems an un-
lucky date for Japan. This year it
brought the worst typhoon since the one
which strewed the shores of the Inland
Sea and the Shimonoseki Strait with
dead seamen on the same date in 1905. It
tore the P. and O. Chitral from her
moorings, flung her 15,000 tons upon a
docked Japanese freighter, and littered
the shores of Yokohama Harbor with
battered craft of all descriptions. On
August 31, 1923, an earthquake levelled
Yokohama and most of Tokio, a vast
lire followed, driven by a fierce gale,
and more than 60,000 lives were
lost.
* # * *
"Koura”: Maori land’s Jessie Mackay,
whose death was lamented in B. 7/9/’3B,
took the cause of Prohibition with tre-
mendous seriousness. Her last book of
poems, published by Whitcombe and
Tombs, was called Vigil, and the title
poem was a 100-line effort on the sub-
ject of the night of April 10, 1919, the
date of the first Prohibition poll in M.L.
Like everything she wrote it had passages
of great beauty, but it lost some of its
appeal when she asked the wind and the
river to pray with her for a successful
Dry vote:
O trees far a-quiver,
Low wind and low river,
Pray with us —pray!
* * * *
“Shorus”: I’m expecting some day to
see a holocaust as a result of a collision
with one of those huge tank-lorries that
dash round the city replenishing bowsers.
I was in a traffic jam at Sydney’s
“Death-trap Corner” (Phillip-Hunter-
Elizabeth-streets) in the midst of which,
wedged between a tram and several cars,
stood one such lorry, leaking merrily
and almost asphyxiating the company
with petrol fumes. It needed only some-
one to light a cigarette to start a blaze,
which would have certainly ended in a
mighty explosion.
* * * $
“F.S.”: The trustees of Vic. National
Gallery are to be given £5OOO of the
taxpayers’ money to make the front of
the beautiful edifice in Swanston-streel
as commonplace and ordinary as the
worst type of suburban garden. 'The
long flights of stone steps which are
an integral part of the architecture of
the building are to be replaced by stiff
gravel paths, and the magnificent
Moreton Bay figs by skimpy shrubberies.
The two war figures and the equestrian
statues are to be arranged on the plan
of a child’s ideas of artistic composi-
tion. As the decision appears to be
irrevocable I suggest that the best might
be made of a bad job by taking the
stuffed animals out of the museum in
the back premises and distributing them
about the Swanston-street entrance. The
monkeys should be put up the trees,
along with the bearded saki, the ornate
teetee and the boa constrictor, while the
rhinoceri, the elephants and Phar Lap
should be put out to graze on the lawns,
and a few lions and tigers could be con-
cealed in the shrubberies. A fishpond
large enough to contain the sharks,
dolphins, walruses and sea-leopards
would give an additional note of variety.
“ Thai’s not where we came out last time!”
COME BACK!
“Cocky, conic back; start afresh. All forgiven
liridget.”— “S. M. Herald” agony advt.
It’s old as the cry of CEnone
When Paris went off on a whiz;
Will it flutter a heart that’s less stony,
A conscience more tender than his?
Though the road you must travel be rocky,
What waits at the end of the track
Is worth it. Come back to her, Cocky,
O Cocky, come back!
Return, well assured that you’ll never
Have need to explain or placate,
For all that has happened (whatever
It was) is expunged from the slate.
Tis mended, the lute that was riven,
Restrung is the bow that was slack.
In short, you’re absolved and forgiven.
So, Cocky, come back!
Can you hear it —the call from the farness
Of an aching and desolate heart
That craves the resumption of harness
For a fresh matrimonial start,
That pleads for a speedy renewal
Of blessings grass-widows must lack?
Then don’t be so callously cruel
But, Cocky, come back!
What though you were goatishly giddy,
She’s done with her pique and her pip;
She’s waiting to greet you, is Biddy,
With a smile on her kissable lip.
The wrongs you have wrought are forgotten,
Consigned to oblivion’s pack;
This stubborn aloofness is rotten,
O Cocky, come back!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


o
10 for 9d. 20 for I^6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
mm
ESPEC I A L L Y
POLITICAL POINTS
To the disgust of Australian airmen,
R.A.A.F. and civil-aviation lads alike,
Canberra is getting more Avro-Anson
bombers from Britain. Some of them
are “used machines.” The appointment
of a British officer to command the
R.A.A.F., as the R.A.N. and the C.M.F.
are commanded by British officers, is
expected at any moment. Perhaps he,
too, will be a “used machine.”
Sydney “D.T.,” direct from London:
From moment to moment the people of
every nation expect to learn that the zero
hour has come.
By contrast, “S.M. Herald” mentioned
on the same day that “the European
athletic championships” had been com-
peted for at Paris.
The German athletes were the most suc-
cessful with seven firsts. Finland had five
firsts and Britain four.
So with zero hour approaching the pick
of the German athletes were placed at
The Enemy’s mercy. Rotten staff work
or something.
“The Czechs have preserved admirable
calm and practised remarkable restraint
in the face of provocation and a relent-
less pressure.” Thus “S. M. Herald” in
a leader on Friday. The now-customary
cheek-by-jowl contradiction was made
by “Our Special Representative,” re-
porting Captain Cazalet, M.P.: “The
Czechs have been stupid, tactless and
irritating to their German minority:
stupid about language, finance, police,
property, public works and Government
services.” And Granny had to
acknowledge next morning, Prague itself
having admitted it, that Sudeten Ger-
mans under arrest had “apparently been
beaten and then chained up without
food.”
Broken Hill Prop., which is hated by
a sort-of-a-kind of Labor politician and
trade-union official, chiefly because it
is efficient and successful, hit back to
some purpose on the day the coal strike
broke out. In a plain statement it said
that in its three Newcastle mines num-
ber of employees had, in six years, in-
creased from 801 to 1286 (“and there
are no cavilled-out men”) and in the
three South Coast mines it took over
from Australian Iron and Steel not two
years ago number of employees had
increased from 423 to 914:—-
If it is an offence against the best in-
terests *of the Commonwealth to find re-
munerative employment for its people, we
plead guilty. Rates of pay are the highest
in the world and hours worked the shortest.
The only reply Reds could make to this
challenging statement was that it was
“propaganda.”
The “Italo-Austraiian” objects to a
Bulletin remark on alien immigration:
The Minister’s own statements raise
doubts whether the central Government
can be relied upon to keep undesirables out
or local Governments to protect Australian
standards when undesirables are let in.
Says the “Italo-Australian”:
It is particularly offensive to non-British
residents to be thus grouped indiscrimi-
nately under the term “undesirables.”
A grotesque misinterpretation of a plain
statement expressed in plain English.
Statement repeated ; objection dismissed.
In Sydney on the same day a Maltese
was found guilty of trying to poison his
wife with arsenic while she was a hospital
patient, and a Greek was fined £4l 10s.
for flagrant breaches of the award for
restaurant employees—a waitress’s work-
ing week was 70 hours, the pay 305.,
and the fellow had had “between 50 and
60 employees” in a year. Attempted
poisoning is a deportation matter, but
sweating, however atrocious, is not. It
should be, and perhaps it would be if
law and law-enforcement were under
Commonwealth control.
What Stevens and Gollan call their
Gaming and Betting (Amendment) Bill
had a swift passage through the Leg.
Council. One of the few objectors was
Alam or Balaam, who asserted that a
handful of Sydney jockeys win nearly
all the races, and said it was a matter
for a select committee. Jockeys reply
that Alam or Balaam was talking through
his hat; and seemingly they wouldn’t
mind going before a select committee
if it were also asked to discover how
Alam or Balaam became an M.L.C.
In the case of a Narrandera (N.S.W.)
man placed on trial for wife murder, the
Crown tendered an alleged statement to
the police. It was admitted that this had
been made after the accused was shown
“the skulls of his wife and child.” Justice
Milner Stephen very properly rejected
the statement, and the jury brought in a
“not-guilty” verdict without hearing the
defence. There has been no mention in
Parliament of the startling feature dis-
“M. Avenol, Secretary-General of the League of Nations, said that the forthcoming meet-
ing of the League Assembly would not only be the most important in the history of the
League, but would be most vital to the peace of the world.”
“Ve mus’ let ze vorld see how vital ve are, Tonee!"
closed, and the least the Government can
do is to call for a report from Commis-
sioner Mac Kay, now back on the job.
Two of Premier Forgan Smith’s sons
are in the Queensland public service. An
Opposition member having insinuated
that they didn’t get in by the examination
route, their father took the unusual
course of calling for their departmental
dossiers, which showed that they had
not only passed their examinations, but
had done “very satisfactory” work. One
of the young gentlemen is a Wallace and
the other a Robert. Parliament agreed
with Foggy that “it would be entirely
wrong, simply because those two lads
are my sons, to deprive Queensland of
the advantage of their services”; and
perhaps Scotia will regard his triumph
as another Bannockburn.
The price of flour dropped to £7 10s.
a ton in Sydney last week, and the sec-
retary of the Master Bakers repeated
the old tale that if it remained at that
figure for a month the 21b. loaf would
be a farthing “cheaper.” Canberra ought
to have farthings minted. A farthing
issue would put an end to a very bad
joke.
Randolph Bedford, M.L.A., still harp-
ing on his defeat in Federal Maranoa
(Q-):
I was a Catholic in one place and an
atheist in another, and where it could not
be denied that I was by the accident ot
birth an Anglican, they put round the
story that my father and mother were good
Anglicans but that I had been converted to
Rome.
And then he morosely quoted a Brisbane
“Telegraph” ad.:
Wanted, a Protestant man, with vehicle
to sell home-made jams and pickles.
The other side says Randolph was licked
in Maranoa because he wasn’t young
enough at 69.
A few years ago Tasmania got along
with four Cabinet Ministers. Under the
Ogilvie regime it has six and two assist-
ants. Except when Parliament is sitting
—and Parliamentary sessions never last
long—full Cabinets can rarely be col-
lected, although on one occasion the
six Ministers assembled for a meeting
in Sydney. To Sydney last week came
D’Alton, the Chief Secretary, who has
“just returned from a seven months’
world tour.” Being employed to attend
to provincial matters, Mr. D’Alton held
forth on foreign affairs, and expressed
a qualified approval of the Chamberlain
policy. „
Where are those British immigrants
that Australia was going to get in droves
when the “new policy” was adopted?
July figures were almost as bad as ever:
arrivals of aliens exceeded departures by
775; departures of British-Australians
exceeded arrivals by 40.
For the 12 months to July 31 there was
a gain of 7310 persons by immigration, but
a loss of 582 British.
Melbourne recently furnished the spec-
tacle of Slavs deserting from a Yug
vessel so they might remain in the
country and Britons taking their places
to get away from it.
S.A. legislators have taken the lead
in the campaign against government by
regulation, and it is certainly more credit-
able to them than taking the lead in
betting-shop and five-year-Parliament
legislation. A joint committee represent-
ing both Houses—three members from
each —is to examine and report on all
regulations made while Parliament is in
session; those issued while Parliament
is in recess are to be considered as
“soon as convenient.” A member’s
reference to officials who issue regula-
tions by the furlong is significant:
We have given them many large powers,
and once given they cannot be taken away.
A Minister could be defied by his own
officer.
The remark is quoted by the “United
Australia Review.”
Tax-revenue per head last year was
highest in Queensland (£8 11s. 7d.) —
N. S. Wales (£7 11s. 5d.) was next—and
lowest in Victoria (£6 ss. Bd.). It is no
mere coincidence that Victoria is the State
which has made the steadiest and solidest
industrial progress —though cost of gov-
ernment is excessive even there —and is
in the best position to meet the “reces-
sion” of which Curtin talks repeatedly
and the possibility of which Casey as
repeatedly denies.
A representative Victorian pastoral
worker’s opinion of the C.P.-Labor alli-
ance would be worth having, especially
if it were limited to, say, four words.-
A union witness in a Commonwealth
Arbitration Court case said, that, while
many portable showers are installed for
shearers in N.S.W., he couldn’t name one
Victorian shed which has one. As for
sleeping quarters, fairly good in the
Riverina, the provision in the Victorian
Hut Accommodation Act for 240 cubic
feet of air space results on different
stations in many men sleeping in one
room —16 in one case, 22 in two others,
24 in two more, and in the worst ex-
ample 35. The allies have had upwards
of three years to alter things.
South Australia is extending the bar-
closing hour from 6 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.
and permitting lounge trading between 8
p.m. and 10 p.m. Alteration of war-time
restrictions which should have ended
with the war would be more to the taste
of Victorians than the prohibition poll
which is being inflicted on them, with
much expense of bad argument as well
as good money.
There are Rhodes scholars in these
countries who are enthusiasts for Russia
and a Russian alliance. Not so young
Moller, a Maoriland Rhodesian of the
1935 vintage, who went to the Red
republic after his three years at Oxford.
He says “Russia has graduated from
something very bad to something that
is still bad,” but he allows that things
might improve in 20 years.
Hollywood, which is rotten with Com-
munists, has made a Spanish-war film,
and Mr. F. Ehrenfried Baume, of Syd-
ney’s “Sunday Sun,” joyfully reports
that “Australians applauded as though
the characters were real”:
That gave some indication of the average
Australian’s hatred of Fascism, General
Franco .and the butchers of babies.
Italy banned it. No wonder, when II
Duce’s pawns were sent to fight in the terri-
tory it covers. Dictator Europe sneered
at it as trash.
One thinks Suddenly of the well-fed Chief
Huntsman of Germany, of caviar and gold
swords, as a Spanish mother dies of hunger.
Or does a Franco submarine not deal in
hunger, but only in dictator’s glory?
We who live like ostriches in this peace-
ful place have dodged, for too long,
deep consideration of Europe’s problems.
All the same, Australians are not going
to war merely because Ehrenfried feels
like that.


THE PLANT OF PREY.
“According to a Seattle botanist, the 'grisly cobra plant,’ which lives on insects, should be fed on pieces of hamburger or raw meat during the winter months.”


The Richardson Chain Hotel
t . r 3
S 3
m
IIH 111
ft-iv
pi
?S'3i
iBHHU
ill
MELBOURNE’
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 I 4 I (10 lines).
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. , By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO3IPANY, ITD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’3B.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
NO SOAP
NO WATER
NEEDED.
Schick Electric Shavers are fine! No
more raw faces and no shaving
preparation. Jnst plug into electric
socket A.C. or D.C. and shave faster,
smoother and more comfortably with
Schick.
High-class stores and tobacconists,
£5/10/-
Factory Representatives:
E.T.C. INDUSTRIES, ETD.,
470 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
SCHICK
ELECTRIC
DRY
SHAVER
PERXONAL ITEMS
Philip Whistler Street, dead at 75, en-
joyed in his Australian sphere—he was a
fifth-generation Australian the ideally
well-balanced and successful legal career.
The ambition of his father, John Rendell
Street, g.m. of the Perpetual Trustee
Co., was that his son should become a
Judge, and the destiny thus mapped out
was abundantly fulfilled. The son was
called to the Bar at 23. Twenty-one years
later, after acquiring an enviable reputa-
tion as a barrister, he was elevated to
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench. He
was for six years Chief Judge in Equity,
and for nine years Chief Justice. The
late jurist took a keen interest in art;
attended almost every private view in
Sydney and was for the last 15 years
a trustee of the National Gallery. For
eight years he had been Lieut.-Governor,
and for 23 years on the University
Senate. He was knighted in 1928. One
of his sons is Justice Kenneth Street, of
the N. S. Wales Supreme Court.
Westralian goldfielders who have been
celebrating—a bit belatedly—the 45th
anniversary of Hannan’s find would have
liked to have E. G. (“Dryblower”)
Murphy among them ; indeed, no visitor
would have been more welcome. Unfor-
tunately Murphy is ill in Perth and
couldn’t go. For 36 years or so he has
been writing the “Verse and Worse”
column for the “Sunday Times,” and for
eight or nine years before that his rhymes
and quips brightened the Coolgardie
“Miner” and the Kalgoorlie “Sun.”
Tom Glover, the caricaturist, came
to The Bulletin from Maoriland,
where he had been a “Freelance” man.
His drawings were rough, but jolly;
though some of his characters had an
odd tendency to bend at the knees, and
others to go about with both feet off
the ground, they were alive. Having
completed his Bulletin contract, he got
TOM GLOVER.
a job on the Sydney “Sun,” and for
that paper he did a pow'er of useful
work until he was found dead at his
desk. When the pen had slipped out
of his hand two dull parish-pump
politicians, Stevens and Lang, suspended
their feud long enough to blither that
in him Australia had lost its greatest
artist. Glover would have enjoyed that;
he never took himself seriously. He was
buried on September 7, 16 years to the
day after the appearance of his first
full-page Bulletin cartoon, “A Maori-
lander’s first impressions of Sydney” ;
he was the Maorilander, and the draw-
ing herewith reproduced was a self-
portrait.
James Matthew Dillon, here for the
British Commonwealth Relations Con-
ference, is a son of the John Dillon
who became leader of the old Irish Par-
liamentary party on the death of John
Redmond. The “Matthew” is derived
from his grandfather, Sir James
Matthew, who sat on the English High
Court Bench for many years, and it also
records kinship with Father Theobald
Matthew, of teetotal fame. In private
life James Dillon looks after the business
affairs of Monica Duff and Co., a sort of
miniature Selfridges at Ballaghadereen,
Mayo.
N.S.W. District Court Judge Sheridan,
dead at 69, was Sydney-born and a gradu-
ate of Sydney Uni. Due for retirement
in a few months, he kept going in spite
of failing health and representations that
he should take things easy. The Judge
in his youth was a keen cricketer, and
he enjoyed watching big cricket From the
Sheridan stand —named after an uncle—
at Sydney C.G. But not when Larwood
was bowling ; he it was who wrote that
piece in the paper maintaining that the
Notts express had rendered himself liable
to prosecution for assault and battery.
“Baker and Rouse, Photographic Sup-
plies,” the sign used to read, “and Philan-
thropy” might have been added if the
partners had not been as modest as they
were generous. Rouse —John Joseph
Rouse, head of Kodak (Australasia) —died
in Sydney last week. He was born at
Port Melbourne 77 years ago, and in
1887 joined Thomas Baker in partner-
ship. Twenty years later Baker and
Rouse amalgamated with the Eastman
Kodak Co., and Rouse became manag-
ing director of the new concern. As
trustee for his late partner, Rouse
for many years administered the Baker
Institute of Medical Research, attached
to Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, and his
own benefactions were multitudinous.
The first Dominion graduate to get
the Nuffield award of a three-year term
research scholarship at Oxford is Dr.
Wilfrid Talbot Agar, 27, who has already
made a .local name for himself in insulin
research at the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories. He graduated M.D. and
B.S. with first-class honors in medicine,
surgery and pathology at Melbourne
Uni. in 1934. He is a son of Prof.
Agar, whose work in zoology is well
known. After his three years abroad
W. T. Agar is pledged to return to
Melbourne and give five years to the
research he undertook.
An American who had a distinguished
part in the establishment of Australian
metal industries was Herman Henry
Schlapp, dead in Melbourne at 84. Born
at Fort Madison, lowa, he was brought
to Australia in 1886 by B.H.P. as metal-
lurgist, and built the first smelters at Port
Pirie. Seven years later he joined Robert
Knox as a partner in Knox, Schlapp and
Co., consulting mining engineers. Schlapp
was one of the three honorary members
elected by the Society for Distinguished
Achievement in the Mining Industry of
Australia, the others being Lord Cadman
and the late G. D. Delprat.
Louis Monod, a good Australian with
a Swiss name, who joined Vic. R.A.S. as
typist and shorthand writer in 1912, and
has secretaried the concern since 1931,
is the man mainly responsible for keep-
ing the annual frenzy of beef and brawn
abreast of the times. This year’s arena
events will be graced by Daredevil Frank
McFarlane, who hails from Tombstone,
Arizona, and will jump motor-cars in the
daytime and burning hurdles at night,
assisted by the “only lady Roman rider
in the universe.” Last year the re-
ceipts handled by Monod were seriously
depleted because of the infantile-paralysis
epidemic. This year the only enemy,
fortunately, is the Government, which
has abandoned the 25-year-old practice
of closing the State schools at Show time
in favor of leaving on the parents the
onus of taking or not taking the family
to the Show. There will be no prosecu-
tions for non-attendance.
E. A. Peverill, Vic. Auditor-General
since January, joined the old Federal
Home Affairs Department as a youngster
E. A. PEVERILL.
and has grown up in the public service
tradition; his dad was Vic. Under-
secretary of Lands for many years.
When the younger Peverill came back
from the war with the 7th Field Am-
bulance he was transferred to the Com-
monwealth Taxation Office, but became
a State public servant overnight in 1923
when tax-collecting became a State job.
He was Deputy Commissioner of Taxes
for Vic. when he stepped into his
present job.
John Saxon Barton, chairman of the
Maoriland Commission that has achieved
an amicable solution of various knotty
problems in connection with the
Dominion’s leading forestry co., is a
stipendiary magistrate when not a com-
missioner, but of late years seems to
have done more comishing than beak-
ing. Born in Melbourne, son of a Con-
gregational parson, he qualified as an
accountant in Melbourne in 1900,
crossed over to M.L. and in six years
was president of the N.Z. Society of
Accountants. He then studied law, and
practised for a few years in Wellington,
meanwhile lecturing on accountancy at
Victoria College. His appointment to
the Bench came in 1918, and in 1931
the Napier earthquake gave him his big
chance. As senior of two managers
appointed by the Government he gov-
erned Napier and district with a fine
combination of firmness and tact till the
debris was cleared away and the com-
munity was back to normal.
George Bell, the Melbourne painter,
learnt his artistic pothooks at the Nat.
Gallery School. Then he went to Paris
and exhibited in various exhibitions,, in-
cluding the R.A., London. After an inter-
lude painting war pictures as official
artist to the 4th Division, he returned to
Melbourne, still a faithful follower of
academic traditions. Bernard Hall, who
was then director of the Nat. Gallery,
used to declare that if a “modern” work
of art ever entered the portals of that in-
stitution it would be over his dead body.
According to George Bell, the trustees
have consented to the first exhibition of
the society of modernists he has formed
being held in the sacred precincts.
At a meeting in Melbourne publica-
tion of a collection of C. J. Dennis’s verse
as a memorial to the late Sentimental
Bloke was proposed by R. H. Croll. Croll
retired from the chief clerkship of Vic.
Education Department four years ago.
He nromptlv made tracks to Central Aus-
tralia, and his Wide Horizons and a spate
of articles on the habits and customs of
the wild abo. resulted. When he is not
on the open road he is to be found some-
where in the vicinity of artists. He did
the spadework for the recently-formed
Australian Academy of Art, organ-
ised the exhibition of Victorian pictures
for the Melbourne centenary, edited Tom
Roberts, Father of Australian Landscape
Painting, and lectures breezily on abo.
art. He’s a life member of the Melbourne
Walking Club, his books on the joys of
foot-slogging in Victoria earning him the
title of the Isaak Walton of walking. He
will be 70 next January.
Adelaide has lost yet another sports-
man by the sudden death, at 66, of
Sidney Rymill. One of the widespread
S.A. pastoral family, he was with Elder
Smiths for many years, and later a
director of Bagot’s Trustee Co. He also
did good work as a committeeman for
Morphettville racing and Seaton golf.
After making a pot of money at
bookmaking in the boom days of
racing in Victoria, Sol Green dropped
out of the game, as many of his pre-
decessors had been wise enough to do,
and turned his attention to investments
in various fields. He became a sheep-
station owner in Queensland, and owns
the splendidly-equipped Underbank stud
at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.). He continues to
race horses, and thought he had a Mel-
SOL GREEN.
bourne Cup horse in Actor, but Actor
has been retired. Green won the Mel-
bourne Cup in 1910 with Comedy King,
brought out from England as a foal.
“Ike Hollar”: The estate of George B.
Vickery, head of the second generation
of N.S.W. millionaire Ebenezer Vickery’s
family, panned out at £435,825 ; in the
will the son followed his father’s lead
in recognising Methodist charities.
Ebenezer was a patriarch who asserted
his authority over all his family; the
Community Hospital, Waverley, now
stands where he established a sort of
Vickery village: a gated avenue off
Birrell-street where, in houses side by
side, the members of the family lived
under the eye of the patriarch. His most
notable public act was the purchase of
the old Lyceum Theatre and its presen-
tation to the Methodists.


Cj '■ ' /■'■'''//'iW'rt? A
-
mm
W.H.IIA.
“I can tell
White
Horse
#
f”
#
fds
Judge by the aroma: White Horse has its own.
Judge by the softness: White Horse has grown old and gentle. Once
you have known this whisky you can say with assurance, “White
Horse, of course!”
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices.
“Equal to a fine liqueur”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Blue and Dutch had
jumped the rattler between Condo, and
Ivanhoe (N.S.W.) and were sleeping in
a truck of chaff when awakened by the
guard, who threw a light from his lamp
on them, and demanded, ominously,
“Tickets, please!” Dutch was silently
preparing to make a jump for it when
Blue lifted both his feet into the light,
displayed the badly-worn soles of his
boots, and said, “Punch these!” The
guard looked at them grimly, then
“ Heigh-ho, heigh-ho , it's off to Work u'e go" ...
dropped back. “Be missin’ by sun-up,”
was his farewell.
“Ellenvale”: Scaling trains, is it? A
party of us were bound for a country
race meeting when an unpopular ticket-
inspector boarded the train. Immedi-
ately Big Phil dived underneath the
carriage seat and made sure that
his feet were showing. Phil was dragged
out, paraded before the station-master
at the next stop and was about to be
charged with travelling minus a ticket
when, looking surprised, he produced the
necessary pasteboard, remarking that as
far as he knew there was no regulation
forbidding a passenger to crawl under a
carriage seat. The inspector was fairly
floored for the rest of the journey—he
lost all zest for inspecting—and the
member of the party who was travelling
without a ticket had no difficulty in get-
ting through the enemy lines.
* * * *
“Hanko”: When I presented Snow-
drop with a very unreliable tin clock
his mud-colored eyes flipped over with
delight, and he padded away at a gallop
in case I should change my mind. At
sunrise next morning he was sitting de-
jectedly before my hut. “By cripe,” he
moaned, “dis pfeller bin up harp it dam’
night. Bin set it ’larm for seben an’
him clack go orp tring-a-linga at harp-
par-tree. Baal dat pfeller clack.” “But
why get up at that time?” I asked. Snow-
drop glared: “Dam clack won’t stop
tring-a-linga till I put it pance an’ boot
on, blart him.”
“Salmon Gums”: It isn’t only the age
at which timber is cut (B. 24/8/’3B) that
determines its durability or termite-resist-
ing properties. Where it’s grown counts,
too. Thus, jarrah gets the reputation for
being a fraud, whereas it’s the hills jarrah,
i.e., grown in the W.A.’s Darling Ranges,
that takes the termite ; plains jarrah is
virtually immune. And the insects aren’t
the only ones to note the difference.
Time hasn’t softened the memory of the
first woodcarting contract I tackled. The
boss, an old woodman with a scorching
temper, told me to leave the wood on
the high ground to dry out while' I
pulled in the longer-cut jarrah from the
bottom. Travelling through sand with
a heavy load wasn’t profitable, so, strik-
ing a patch of dry wood in the better
going higher up, I slipped a load in. It
took him approximately three seconds to
size it up, but he hadn’t finished telling
me about it when I’d unloaded half an
hour later. And yet to my eye it was
all the same.
* * * *
“V.A.G.”: “Bull-ant Bill” (B. 24/8/’3B)
must be some relation to a defendant in
a horse-stealing case who stated that
when breaking-in the moke he had cut
his initials in the equine’s hoof and now,
six years later, they were still there,
proving ownership. But a practical jury
convicted without bothering to look at
the novel brand. It wasn’t until he
studied veterinary science at the gaol
library that he learned why it was im-
possible for the initials to remain.
“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow, tran-
shipping on the S.A. railways, was help-
ing the mob work the Port Augusta ex-
press at Terowie one night, and became
very busy manhandling the luggage of
a comely young woman passenger who
appeared to return Mat’s interest. She
fluttered around him as he transhipped
her baggage, chattering brightly about
nothing in particular, until at last she was
seated in her new compartment. Mat,
standing by, was pitching a good tale
when, just as the guard raised his whistle,
the lady shrieked, dived out of the train,
raced to the empty carriages across the
platform, and returned carrying a soft
bundle. “My baby!” she gasped in
mighty relief, cuddling it close. It took
three straight pints to revive the big bloke.
* $ * *
“Tom Willie”: I pass from the spider
(B. 31/8/’3B) to the emu. At the Sir Colin
McKenzie sanctuary (Vic.) a female emu
was mistaken for a male, even by experts.
It was christened Eddie, and the name
sticks, in spite of attempts to change it
to Edna. The chick test is not always
reliable, because ma will not object to
the family’s being with her if pa has
business around the corner. A sure way
of distinguishing between male and
female is to listen for the love song in
the mating season. The lady drums her
song, but the boy-friend struts about and
makes a guttural kind of grumbling note
as he declares his undying affection. It
was this test that robbed Eddie of her
musculinity. She was hatched in an
incubator, and when the spring came she
began to drum her version of the sweet-
est story ever told.
* * s|t *
“Ebba E.”: Choom had been a plough-
man in England, but he was quite willing
to learn dairy work in Australia, and
Dad was favorably impressed by the
attention he paid to a description of the
different dairying utensils. “Aye, sir,
these be the bookits an’ these be the
feedin’-troughs,” and so on. As they
passed a plough from which the disks
had been removed, Choom’s “An’ where
be the doin’s of?” nearly upset Dad’s
gravity, but he managed to keep a straight
face. “An intelligent sort of cove, if
he is a Pommy,” was Dad’s verdict. Later
in the day Choom rushed up from tus-
sock eradication. “Bring the separator,
sir. Bring the separator!” he yelled.
“The separator?” gasped Dad. “Yes, the
two bulls be fightin’ down near the river,
sir,” explained Choom.
* * * *
“Elfir”: Tell “James W.” (B. 17/8/’3B)
that he doesn’t know his ’roo very well. I
shot a fair-sized male ’roo with a .303
which had had the point filed off the
bullet. Portions of the heart were blown
out of the hole of exit, yet that ’roo ran
over 100 yards at full speed before drop-
ping. I don’t call the .44 a “fearful
shocker” ; it is too slow. And it is the
high-speed bullet that transmits shock ; it
need not be a heavy bullet so long as the
velocity is high enough. The big-game
rifle mentioned, with its 2oz. slug at
about 2000 ft. per second, doesn’t prove
anything, as a modern rifle with a bullet
weighing less than a quarter of that, and
driven at the same velocity as some of
the new small-bores, would drop the big-
gest game in its tracks. “James W.’s”
arguments only hold as between slow-
and medium-pace bullets, which same
bullets were the “fast” ones of yesteryear.
* # ❖ *
“Old-timer”: She was an alien. Cring-
ing against the high wall of the city
building, she glanced fearfully and rather
wistfully into the faces of the heedless
crowd that hurried by in the rain. Her
slim legs trembled as her shapely head
turned from side to side. These were not
her people, this was not her land. One
could imagine her under warm skies, gay
in the sunshine, her teeth flashing and her
eager, brown eyes alight with love of
living. She had it in her to give royally,
to work herself to a standstill for the
man lucky enough to have her love ; but
none in the passing crowd gave her more
than a glance—that distant, cold glance
of the city for the stranger. She whim-
pered a little, crouching there, and
cringed closer against the wall trying to
escape the rain, the poor, alien, lost
kelpie bitch.
* * * •:<
“Wang”: “Lookin’ fer work one time,”
related Dan, “I struck a township where
I heard there wus a chance of a job on
a station a few miles out. It wus kept,
they tole me, by the meanest ole coot
in the district, who dressed like a scare-
crow an’ wus a champeen tobaccer
cadger. But a job’s a job, so I reckoned
I’d give him a fly. Off I go, an’ about
five mile out I see a whiskery ole goat
in scarecrow clobber mendin’ a fence.
I ask him where ole Hungry’s place is.
‘This is it,’ he sez ; ‘there’s the homestead
over there,’ pointin’ to some buildin’s
’bout two mile off. ‘Got a pipeful of
baccy on yer?’ I tumbles to him at once.
‘Yes,’ I sez, handin’ over a new plug I’d
bought in the township. He yanks about
three parts of it off, an’ hands me back
what’s left. ‘How’s it fer a job, boss?’
I sez. ‘Well, I reckon we cud find yer
one,’ he sez ; ‘go on up to the house.’
‘Will I tell ’em yer sent me?’ I sez.
‘Yes,’ he sez. So up I go, an' blast me
if I don’t meet a worse lookin’ scare-
crow. ‘What yer want here?’ he snaps
at me. I ain’t takin’ any of his lip, so
I yells back, sharp: ‘A bit of cervility
from you fer a start!’ Th’ ole coot’s
eyes stick out an’ his whiskers waggle.
‘Get t’ hell outa here,’ he yelps ; ‘l’ll
give yer two minutes ’fore I let the dog
loose on yer,’ an’ he points to a tyke
as big as a calf strainin’ on a chain. I
start t’ tell him ’bout bein’ sent up;
but he makes a move towards the dog,
so I reckon I’d better hop it before the
ole madman got busy. Down on the road
the ole coot I’d spoke to first rides past.
‘Hi!’ I sez, ‘I thought y’ said I’d get a
job up there.’ ‘Didn’t yer?’ he sez.
‘Why?’ I tell him what’s happened. He
flicks his nag on. ‘lt’s yer own fault,’
he sez, over his shoulder. ‘Yer shouldn’t
have spoken like that to the boss.’ And
he gallops off, puffin’ out my smoke like
a volcaner.”
“Trace-chain”: Why are the season’s
first snakes so well nourished? Killed a
black beauty the other day which, while
not perhaps a record size, would have
fed a quarter of the bucks on a mission
station. Experience has taught me that
the good snake dog lives longer when
I stand Bluey off and do the killing of
the August-early-September wrigglers
myself. Every snake-killer of mine, de-
ceased, lost his first fight in early spring,
though two Fellows of the Royal Snake
Society assure me that such is not the
case, really couldn’t be the case. Can
any of the Council explain why it was
the case?
* * =l= *
“Hare-hare”: If “Bogaduck” (B.
17/8/’3B) will introduce me to that good
market for hares in Melbourne I shall be
very grateful; and still more so if he
will introduce me to those visiting Eng-
lishmen who eat rotten game. The time
meat needs to be hung depends on
climate ; mammoth meat has been eaten
by way of novelty in this century, but
that persistent fiction that the English
relish rotten meat belongs to the for-
gotten past, when transport was an
uncertain process. A dip into social
history reveals that in the Middle Ages
fresh meat was almost unobtainable even
in cities like London, and venison and
other game was usually parboiled before
being sent any distance. Transport and
storage problems were answered by the
huge import of spices from the East to
disguise the taste of putrid meat. And
it was coincidental with the better
methods of preserving and transport that
the spice trade in Europe declined. But
fictions die hard.
* * *
“James W.”: “Whaler’s” physics
master would be shocked at him (B.
17/8/’3B). A bright surface is the poor-
est possible radiator of heat, whereas a
black surface radiates heat freely. Con-
versely, a black surface absorbs heat
rapidly, while a bright one reflects it
and consequently takes longer to attain
a given temperature. A bright, new billy,
bombarded with calories by the fire,
hurls back a large percentage of them,
while a blackened one hurls back nearly
none. An old billy is a quicker boiler
because the black surface absorbs the
heat and the bright one repulses it.
“Whaler” should find by experiment that
a black billy also cools far more quickly
than does a bright one.
* * * *
“Huglow”: Mention of “Yuinburra’s’’
grindstone damper (B. 24/8/’3B) brings
back happy memories of one small
damper, roughly 4in. by Bin. and 2in.
deep, that kept a gang of eight of us
royally tuckered for a fortnight. Impos-
sible? Not at all! We were scrub
chopping near a S.Q. tidal creek and had
set Choom to hash up a damper for tea.
The result was disastrous. But Choom
earned his passage for the fortnight by
catching fish with bits of his culinary
creation, which was so tough that one
small piece would last as bait for a whole
day’s fishing.
:|c :Js
“Western”: Indifferent though they
were regarding the lives of female chil-
dren, the aboriginals of central West-
ralia would make considerable sacrifices
to preserve the boys. Sometimes long-
continued rain would, by driving all game
into shelter, completely spoil the hunt-
ing. Hunger then would stalk the camps.
For as long as possible this would be
endured, but in the end, if the rain kept
on, a girl would be sacrificed to feed
the others. Such food, however, was
taboo to boys—for them a special diet
was prepared. From under the bark of
such as the tea-tree soft fibre would be
scraped and rolled into small balls. The
strongest of the men would then open
the veins in their arms and saturate these
balls with blood. The blood provided
nourishment, while the fibre stayed the
gnawing of the stomach.
A BUSH CEMETERY.
This little township grows and grows,
In spite of drought, in spite of dearth;
Here bloom the lily and the rose,
And here the merry birds make mirth.
However beats the summer sun.
Or coldly falls the winter rain,
Here come new neighbors, one by one—
And none complain.
Oh, up in yonder little town
Old buildings fall to disrepair;
Old barns and fences tumble down
With none to mend them, none to care.
The younger folk are faring forth
To valley far, and farther plain,
As Fortune beckons south or north—
But these remain.
And lowly is each little house
Where dwell these neighbors side by side;
Here are no broad and lofty boughs;
Here are no acres proud and wide.
O lovely lily, lonely rose!
Where is the guerdon, whose the gain?
Who knows? But still this township grows,
And shall not wane!
QUEENSLAND.
L. M. D. O’NEIL.


“Valencia Creek”: Nowadays the bush
virtuoso who can “knock out” a tune on
tile jew’s-harp is as rare as a truthful
foreign-newsmonger. Few of the younger
generation have ever heard of that pocket
instrument of frightfulness, the alleged
music from which produced protests even
from hardy souls who could sit out a
rendition of “The Wild Colonial Boy”
without flinching. No one without a
prolific growth of beard seemed able to
get the semblance of a tune from the
thing apparently whisker vibration
helped to produce that reedy melancholy
whine which was its chief feature. Un-
fortunately, it seems to be a case of one
evil replacing another; the jew’s-harp is
gone from the country concert, but in its
place we have the ringleted farmhouse
juvenile who prances on to the
“ ’Mechanics’ ” stage and gives an item
(and several encores, dammit) in the
Miss Temple manner.
* * * *
“Western”: The thing I like best about
claypan water is that, although invariably
milky-colored, it is always fresh. Roam-
ing around the W.A. goldfields I did
many a semi-perish. More than once,
travelling dry-lake country, I came on
pools left by a passing thunderstorm and,
on bending to slake a raging thirst,
found them caustically salt. But the
humble claypan never let me down —
probably because, as I always noticed,
its catchment area is more or less scrub-
covered, the vegetable growth serving in
some way to hold back salt, which on
starkly bare country is washed down into
every hollow.
* * * *
“Flight”: One of the sights of W.Q.
is a mob of up to 10,000 galahs which
feed on the plains at the tail-end of the
year when they have finished with their
domestic jobs and gather together. They
seem to favor the gidya country. Fur-
ther out, where the plains stretch from
sunrise to sundown, the corellas
assemble in similar numbers. An
equally inspiring sight is a mob of those
snowy jokers spread over the ground.
The habits of both lots of birds seem
alike in every respect. Strangely enough,
there’s usually an odd alien in each
flock —half a dozen pink galahs in a
collection of thousands of corellas; the
same number of snowies among the
galahs. They seem to live amicably
together, feeding by day and roosting by
night without worrying about the other
bloke’s color line. Though I’ve seen
thousands of squabbles in flocks, never
yet have I seen a row between one pink
“ There’s no livin’ man fonder of a ’orse than me, William, but We got
t' keep pace with the times.”
and one white ; it’s always two galahs or
two corellas which set about pulling each
other’s feathers. Also, though I’ve looked
for it, I have never seen a suspicion of-
a cross between the two breeds.
4*
“Komediak”: “Some blokes ’as got
power over animals, an’ some ain’t,” old
Ned told us. “Take them cows I useter
milk up at Burrumboola. They got so
useter me milkin’ ’em every night an’
mornin’ they’d go orf their tucker fer
days if anyone else tried to have a go
at ’em. Never had no trouble roundin’
’em up, neither. I just useter stand at
the door and whistle, and the whole ’erd’d
be around the bails in two ticks. One
day I gets a bad attack of appendycitis
an’ ’as ter go into ’orspital in Munga-
willippe, about 12 miles away. I’m just
cornin’ out of the clorryform when I
’ears a commotion in the operatin’ theatre,
and in troops the whole flamin’ ’erd. Yer
see, the missus must’ve been tryin’ ter
milk ’em while I’m away, and the cows,
gettin’ their backs up, must’ve smelt me
out an’ come down after me!”
* * * *
“Der Jong”: South African anthro-
pologists are in a bit of a tangle. There
is a society there for preserving the fast-
vanishing Bushmen people, once plentiful
over what is now the Union, if one may
judge front their rock-paintings; they
have been driven into the Kalahari
Desert, north of Bechuanaland, to make
a living as best they may. They are
hunters, pure and simple, and have never
known any weapon other than a tiny
bow using poisoned arrows. There is
now an international convention forbid-
ding the use of poison for hunting, and
this is what is spragging the Bushmen’s
wheel. Without the use of poison they
must die, since there is no other way of
obtaining the wild game on which they
live. No substitute weapon which they
could learn to use can supplant that to
which they have been inured for count-
less generations, and to allow them fire-
arms is out of the question even if they
could learn to use these. To those who
know him it is questionable if the Bush-
man is worth preserving, for he is the
nearest approach to the ape in appearance
and apparent intelligence on the face of
the earth. Still, he is a human being
and for that reason something should be
done for him. The best suggestion seems
to be to make the Kalahari a reserve for
him on to which no other humans would
be allowed to enter.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: If a wire attached to
the trunk of a tree is carried upwards
(B. 24/8/’3B), then one through the tap-
root might be expected to go downwards,
and the two to grow apart. This is what
would happen, but only to a limited ex-
tent. “Bull-ant Bill’s” wires went up
largely because the tree rose bodily in
the ground. This was caused by the
growth of the root-system, just as his car
rises when he inflates the tyres. The
crown of a mangelwurzel seedling begins
life at ground level and finishes a foot up
in the air. Let anyone who is in a hurry
to be sure experiment with radishes.
“ That's the third time I’ve been thrown out this morning. Wish you’d get something for those hiccups, murn!”
“Arthur R.”: “Little Bill Jobson, of
One-Dog Gully,” said Tracy, “ ’ad an
’orse that could gallop like the devil w’en
it liked. I say ‘w’en it liked,’ but that
was seldum. ‘Barbwire,’ he called the
nag, becos it was full o’ points. Bill
’eared somethin’ about an electric battery
used be these city hickey-hocks to spur
on their mounts, so along goes Bill to
the local postmaster and borrows a bat-
tery, which he fixes on the front of the
saddle, with two wires runnin’ to the
spurs, all ready to tickle up lazy old
Barbwire in the One-Dog Gully Cup. In
the race Barbwire, as usual, was left at
the post, and Bill give ’im a jab with the
electric spurs. The ’orse merely shook
’imself disgustedly. Then suddenly it
tore along the track as if it was batty,
pig-rootin’ all the way. Bill lands on
’is scone, dam’ near insensible. Three
days later they finds Barbwire, weak and
nearly ’airless, standin’ in a mudhole.
No, ’twasn’t the electricity that’d troubled
’im. The postmaster had lent Jobson
one of them acid batteries, and w’en the
horse’d shook ’imself the sulphuric acid
had splashed on his back.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Old Sam stumped in and
found the womenfolk exclaiming in an
excited circle. “Wot’s all th’ gabblin’
erbout?” he demanded. “ ’Ere’s Joe an’
’llda’s weddin’ photer,” Mrs. S. ex-
plained. “It’s good of ’er, but it ain’t
nothin’ like our Joe.” Sam squinted at
the exhibited pasteboard. “Course it’s
like ’im,” he snorted. “Without me
specs I can see that. It’s the dead spit
of ’im. Cripes! ’E’s sittin’ down, ain’t
’e? Ain’t that like ’im?”
* * * *
“Felis”: Nothing extraordinary about
the Sultan of Johore’s tigers rejoicing in
their allowance of valerian —one of the
foulest-smelling drugs in existence (B.
17/8/’3B). Every cat adores smellful
things, and you have only to plant “old
man,” otherwise catnip or tansy, in
your garden to see that. But don’t worry
over nasty-smelling stuff. Next time you
go to the zoo take a little eau-de-Cologne,
pour it on paper and throw it into the
tiger’s cage. You will then see what a
childish ass the monarch of the forest
can make of himself.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: What is the most un-
canny and terror-inspiring sight to a
human? My entry is a big, a really big,
crocodile running in pursuit of some-
thing. In repose the croc, squats, his
belly on the ground, his legs drawn up
beside him ; an attitude distinctly toad-
like. But when he walks or runs the
croc, rises to his toes, his barrel-like
body swinging high and clear. In this
•way, tripping almost daintily, the saurian
can get up speed. But the sight is not
pleasant —it seems to touch a human in
his elementals, probably stirring a long-
forgotten instinct, a relic of the times
when a race for life with dragons and
giant lizards was a commonplace of
human existence.
* * * *
“Williami”: I’ve been looking for a
man who might have known the Hylands
in their small-town circus days. I saw
the second generation learning to ride
on the Mareeba (Q.) racecourse. Young
Tom and his sisters could stick a buck
standing up or sitting down, with or
without saddle. They used to say that
the best performing buckjumper would
wind himself and come to a standstill
in less than 30sec. Did “Breaker-in ’
(B. 17/8/’3B) know the clown who was
killed in Mareeba? Hyland, sen., was
taking the horses to the racecourse for
exercise. He said he would rig the tent
when he returned. The clown, a great
friend of Hyland and liked by all, asked
to be allowed to do it. Hyland was
scared, but he did accept the clown’s
offdr to bet £1 that he could get it up
all ready for the show. Hyland came
galloping back like the wind on a buck-
jumper that forgot to buck. The news
had gone out to him that the clown had
fallen from the pole and broken his
neck. There was no show that night,
but we all turned up to the circus to
hear a memorial service conducted by
Hyland himself.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: It is difficult to work up
hard feelings against that dainty sprite
the mistletoe bird ; but he and his missus
are the chief agency by which mistletoe
is spread. While possums still survived
in fair numbers they kept the pest from
increasing, but with their extermination
in so many areas it spreads unchecked,
killing out forest and other trees at an
alarming rate. As yet its worst effects
are seen on timbered river banks, and
an erosion problem is already imminent
in s.-w. Queensland and n.-w. N.S.W.
Stands of milling timbers are also be-
coming affected, as are windbreaks, shade
clumps, even fruit-trees.
BALLADE OF A BUCOLIC
BUGBEAR.
It isn’t heard, this phrase, where pavements are
And life is just one long disquietude;
But where the wheat is glimmering afar'
And where the gums are waiting to be hewed
And flocks of sheep the grassy plains denude,
You’ll hear it very urgently applied
In tones which any argument preclude:
“C’mon! there’s still some daylight left out-
side ! ”
The words all further lassitude debar;
They scotch that indolent postprandial mood.
Upon the ears of everyone they jar,
Excepting Dad’s, of course. He looks on
food
As cause of one more useless interlude
iFrom work. And so, tea over, he will slide
Out of his chair, then state his attitude:
“C’mon! there’s still some daylight left out-
side ! ”
Futile the youngster’s plea of “Ar, cripes, Par,
It ain’t worth goin’ now!” That squeak is
viewed
As sacrilege. Until the first faint star
Shows up, there’s always yakka for the brood.
The darkness all too quickly will intrude,
So, while the precious daylight’s still descried,
There’ll come those words, with madd’ning
promptitude:
“C’mon! there’s still some daylight left out-
side!”
Envoi.
Let poets sing of that beatitude
Which, so they claim, to rural life’s allied.
There’ll be no peace till cockies have eschewed
“C’mon! there’s still some daylight,left out-
side!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ORIENT LINE
»
\
1
r
*
M
. 'O
L ///
I f r
v\
|§?sV
Jk i
n
r>
»>
c/UijcWnncL and. liJeUinqtjan bt|
ORCADES
23,456 TONS
sdf
include steamer or rail ticket Sydney-Brisbane after the Cruise.
OTHER NEW ZEALAND CRUISES:
Christmas, "ORFORD" • New Year, "OTRANTO" • Late Jan'y, "ORONSAY"
ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION CO.LTD.
Z 97. INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
LUDOWICI LEATHER BELTING
Gives many years of Trouble-free Service
;
Ludowici Leather Belting of all types gives long
life and absolute dependability even under the
most difficult operating conditions.
Made from Ludowici tanned and matched first-
grade leather, and with all joints and plys water-
proof cemented, every Ludowici Leather Belt is
guaranteed replacement free against defective
workmanship and material. Made and guaranteed by
I. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.
POWER TRANSMISSION ENGINEERS
117 York Street, Sydney
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1928.. 37,022 15 p.c. = 36,641 381 77.4‘>°-
1929.. 40,007 15 ~ „ 39,375 632 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 57,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 62,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions, £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 .. .. .. 19,042
1934.. 9,319 2Jp.e. = 7,292 2,027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO .. . . .. 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. .. 20,989
1936.. 30,019 8i p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 „ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 91 ~ „ 28,375 8,496 40,948
To provision contingencies, £3OOO . . 37,948
A vigorous policy of property pur-
chase, largely on borrowed funds, was
responsible for much of the difficulty ex-
perienced by this co. when the boom
burst; contraction of spending and
growth of competition in the tea-room
and restaurant business aggravated the
position, of course. Shareholders had a
steady 15 p.c. for the five years to the
close of accounts in 1929, followed
by 10 p.c. in 1930. Then a three-
year drought was broken with 2\ p.c. in
1934, since when the rate of distribution
has gone up by annual steps to 9i p.c.
for the last term.
The debt was reduced by passing the
Melbourne section of the business, and
with it a £lOO,OOO mortgage, to Lucullus,
Ltd., for 23,000 8 p.c. prefs. and 37,000
ords., and by sale of one of the co.’s
Sydney freeholds to City Property Estates
for £12,000 in scrip. Then, as conditions
began td improve, Sydney ate the co.
out of the rest of its troubles; and the
management hastened the process by
giving a lot more attention to service
and the appearance of the cafes, by open-
ing new branches in busy centres and by
purchase of Tate’s Tea and Coffee
Houses, Ltd., and Pearson’s Fish Cafe,
Ltd. Also the business was extended to
Newcastle, Sargents (Newcastle), Ltd.,
being formed for the purpose with a
nominal capital of £50,000 in £1 shares,
of which the parent took 6000 f.-ps. for
rights and 35,000 shares were offered to
those on the parent’s register.
During the 12 months ‘to June 30 last
subsidiary cos. in the aggregate disclosed
a net loss of £144. The parent’s own
business stepped along briskly, thanks
partly to the management’s progressive
policy and partly to Sydney’s sequicen-
tenary celebrations, which brought a lot
of people to the city ; and so did the
special arrangements made for Anzac
Day. Gross earnings (£234,937) sprang
£25,093. The rise in prices and lift in
wages bumped up manufacturing and dis-
tributing costs, and exes. (£198,066) took
£20,835 of the increase. The net result
(up £3333—there was a small unexplained
addition in the previous term) reached
12.3 p.c. on capital, compared with 11.2,
10, 6.2 and 3 p.c. for the four preceding
terms. The div. was lifted from 9 p.c.
to 9\ p.c., the final being at the rate of
11 p.c. p.a., though a year ago the board’s
declared intention was to strengthen re-
serves, which are none too stout a prop
for capital at the moment.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1929. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £272,050 £291,666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages . . 289,750 130,228 128,378 128,044
Overdraft . . 30.665 21,220 8,030 8,035
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,358 56,724 49,071
Freeholds . . 576,428 297,426 293,620 293,620
Leaseholds .. 12,536 6,861 12,250 13,446
Plant, etc. .. 95,325 94,500 91,300 91,944
Stocks.. .. 29',431 5,788 6,586 6,638
Cash, debtors,
etc. . . 25,788 41,072 41,819 41,188
Shares in other
cos. . . 1,988 77,348 94,372 94,372
* Including provision for taxation.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(down £7653) includes provision for taxa-
tion. The addition of £1196 to leaseholds
reflects the opening of a new branch at
Hurstville. Excluding shares in other
cos., outside liabilities exceeded more or
less liquids by £139,324 when the books
closed, an improvement of £5403 over
the twelvemonth.
Arrangements are in hand for the
opening of three new branches —one each
at Rockdale, Ashfield and Elizabeth-
street, city—and the board has decided
to build a modern shop and cafe on the
co.’s Bathurst-street, city, freehold. No
hint is given as to what the cost is ex-
pected to be or how it is proposed to
finance the outlay.
The market, which notes the keen com-
petition in the cafe business and that
costs are still on the up-grade, prices the
fully-paid pound shares at 265. as against
295. 6d. a year ago. The return at 265.
is 7.3 p.c. on a 9i p.c. div. basis. The
backing is 225. 6d. in net tangibles.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 25,175 14 p.c. = 19,600 5575 112,759'
1930.. 22,447 14 „ „ 19,600 2847 115,606
Profit sale freehold, £13,440 .. 129,046
1931.. 16,099 9 p.c. = 12,600 3499 132,545
1932.. 8,552 6 ~ „ 8,400 152 132,697
1933.. 9,882 6 „ „ 8,400 1482 134,179
1934.. 11,342 6 ~ „ 8.400 2942 137,121
1935.. 12,510 6„ „ 8,400 1 2 110 139 231
To provident fund, £2OOO j /llu
1936.. 13,844 7 p.e. = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ ~11.200 3931 147.206
1938.. 15,204 10* „ ~14,000 1204 148,410
* Including' 2 p.e. diamond jubilee bonus.
Shares in a well-established trustee co.
have much to recommend them as a
long-term investment. Apart from the
chances taken when investing their own
funds, the cos. haven’t got to risk much.
There is always the Court to go to when
any doubt exists about the interpretation
of a will, thus eliminating risk of capital
loss from error in this respect. Also,
the volume of business entrusted to the
cos.’ care keeps an expanding, partly
owing to growing appreciation of the
advantages of the corporate as against
the private trustee, and partly to com-
plications now associated with the ad-
ministration of estates.
The T., E. and A., formed by William
Templeton in Melbourne in 1878, is Aus-
tralia’s oldest and second-largest trustee
co. It has never issued bonus scrip,
the policy being to make new issues at
par as the business expands. The last
issue was in August, 1924, one for three.
That made paid capital £140,000 in
160,000 shares of 50s. each, of which
60,000 are paid to 30s. and the balance
to 10s. each. There is a reserve liability
of a further 50s. per share, callable only
in the event of liquidation. Divs. aver-
aged 12.6 p.c. for the 14 years to the
close of accounts in 1930. Then, just
as the stage was set for further expansion
of earnings—the N. S. Wales Parliament
had given the co. full trustee powers .in
that State—slump arrived, and the div.
dropped to 6 p.c. for the four years to
the end of June, 1935, followed by 7, 8
and then 10 p.c. for the last term. Of the
10 p.c. 2 p.c. was a special bonus to
celebrate the co.’s diamond jubilee.
Still, the 10 p.c. was more than earned,
and the business is stepping along nicely,
as the following table shows:
Gross Exes. p.c. of
Trusts. Income. Exes. Income.
1910.. £9,013,807 £11,814 £6,820 67.7 p.c.
1920.. 13,533,081 41,924 25,638 60.9 „
1930.. 23,574,354 76,260 54,373 71.3 „
1933.. 27,009,070 69,260 58,378 86.0 „
1934.. 27,842,502 72,040 60,698 84.2 ~
1935.. 28,328,553 73,818 61,308 83.0 „
1936.. 28,879,927 76,540 62,696 81.9 „
1937.. 29,399,725 86,672 71,541 82.5 „
1938.. 30,615,311 87,913 72,709 82.6 ~
The net growth in the volume of trusts
on hand was £1,215,586, which augurs
well for the future. Gross earnings
improved £1241, of which exes, took
£ll6B, leaving the profit at 10.8 p.c. on
capital as against 10.8, 9.9, 8.9, 8.1, 6.1,
11.4, 16, 17.9 and 19 p.c. back to 1929.
Early in the 1937 term the co.’s new
building in Bligh-street, Sydney, was
completed, and die available space was
soon let. Last year a new 11-storeyed
building was erected on the site of the
old London Bank Chambers, Collins-
street, Melbourne, bought in 1930. The
net addition to the book value of free-
holds was £49,148, and to fittings £3700:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £140,000 £140,000 £140,000
Liabilities .. . . 623 40,436
Freeholds .. . . 120,000 122,587 171,735
Fittings . . . . 1,100 1,100 4,800
Mortgages .. ..• 21,767 21,717 6,500
Debtors 3,623 3,320 2,069
Gov. sec., cash, etc... 145,385 147,704 155,142
To finance the outlay and add £7438
to cash, etc., mortgages were reduced
by £15,207, debtors’ balances by £1251,
and £39,813 was added to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. There is
nothing there to suggest that shareholders
are likely to be asked for any more at
the moment.
The market, which doesn’t expect the
2 p.c. bonus to be repeated, prices the
305.-paids at 545. and the lOs.-paids
at 20s. 3d. The return at these figures
is 4.4 p.c. and 3.9 p.c. respectively on
an 8 p.c. div. basis, with prospects. The
net tangible cover is 41s. 2d. per pound
of paid capital.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
june, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 6,166 Nil 6,166 109,490
1929.. 12,382 Nil 1 9 582 119 079
Written off, £2BOO .. ) 119,072
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 102,372
1930. . 7,908 24 p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 95,280
1931.. 13,016 3=l p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. .. 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions, £2OOO .. 96,990
1933.. 14.655 54 p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936. . 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 .5,788 111,909
22 ' s ”} w« w»
1M8 "wS« “■'"l >•«*
The outlook for shareholders is less
clouded than at any time since the co.
linked up, in 1922, with J. Boag and Son,
and the pair passed their beer-making
plants to a subsidiary, Tasmanian
Breweries Pty. Shareholders averaged
10.8 p.c. for the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1927, but went
hungry for the next two, because the
operating co. ceased to contribute, fol-
lowing price-cutting and installation of
a new Nathan brewing plant, and because
the board decided to prune some of the
deadwood out of the accounts. The pro-
prietary began to contribute again in
1934, when it paid its first pref. div. for
seven years. Meanwhile, Cascade was
left with returns from its hotel proper-
ties and the cider- and cordial-making
section of the business, etc. Beer con-
sumption stepped up with the improve-
ment in conditions generally, certain
“arrangements were made with some
of the mainland breweries,” and the
operating subsidiary, which recently in-
stalled some more plant, has been able
to clear its arrears of pref. divs. and, for
the last three years, pay the ords. an
unspecified amount, too —the curtain is
kept drawn over the co.’s figures.
The Speck’s beer consumption, which
was 7.2 gallons per head in 1924-25,
fell to 5.2 gallons in 1932-33, rose to
7.2 gallons again in 1935-36, and has
continued to' increase since. For the 12
months to June 30 last Cascade made its
best showing since the merger. Gross
earnings (£60,216) were up £2778, and
exes. (£30,521) took £745 of the increase.
Including an unexplained addition of
£1773 to reserves, the net result was
£2171 better at £31,468, equal to 14.6 p.c.
on average capital as against 14.6, 12.8,
9.4, 8.8, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c. back to 1932.
That leaves out of the reckoning £3806


OTHER CORDIALS
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which.the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet , sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
A. E. BOND
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
C. DARVALL, General Manager.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES AND RECEIVING OFFICES
throughout New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia,
and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
j 7oif^
and you put
MORE POWER
in your car/
(Only C.O.R Petrols Contain BENZOL)
SUPER PLUS ETHYL
( coloured, red )
Gives more power, faster
pick-up. Stops ‘pinking’
—sweetens your engine.
The easiest
starting motor
j spirit in the
world! Con-
tains benzol.
PLUS BENZOL
(tinted blue)
Gives smoother running.
The only petrol-benzol
blend and sold at the
standard grade price.
Assures easy starting and
increased mileage at no
extra cost.
sd
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN PETROLS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane - Adelaide - Perth. C134/27/SP
written off hotel properties in addition to
the ordinary allowance for depreciation.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and a 2 p.c.
bonus (1| p.c. in the previous term) was
added, making 12 p.c. for the year.
During the year £25,000 of new capi-
tal was gathered to “cover the cost of
additions and alterations to the co.’s
hotels” over the next couple of years.
Also, the old debenture debt (£100,000)
was replaced by a loan from the A.M.P.
Society, repayable by half-yearly instal-
ments over the next 25 years —each re-
payment will, of course, strengthen the
co.’s reserves. Most of the new capital
went into book debts, which are mainly
secured by bills of sale:
1931. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits . . 129,124 121,129 115,607 108,348
Other liabilities 10,976 2,433 2,477 4,444
Hotels, etc... 253,847 254,246 260,881 261,914
Plant, etc. . . 103,572 88,228 87,885 90,607
Stock . . . . 7,709 7,339 8,839 10,395
Book debts, etc. 24,801 18,296 16,850 33,740
Cash, etc. . . 312 10,340 14,513 16,907
Shares other cos. 70,809 65,196 64,646 64,646
The addition to cash, etc., was £2394,
stocks £1556 and plant £2722. When the
books closed, outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids, excluding share-
holdings, by £51,750, an improvement
of £26,132 over the twelvemonth. The
floating debt was well covered.
At 395. the 21s. shares paid to 20s.
return 6.2 p.c. on the basis of a 10 p.c.
distribution. It is a very satisfactory
return from a brewery stock which shows
more promise than it has for a long
while. The backing is 30s. 7d. in net
tangibles.
Queensland Cement and Lime Co.
Net ( Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. r —Pref.—Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1928.. 29,885 10% 8% 8% = 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6„ 6„ ~ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 „ 6 „ 6„ „ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 „ 6„ 6„„ 15,601 124 32,572
1934.. 21,078 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,051 3,027 35,599
1935.. 25,963 10 „ 8 „ 8„ „ 20,502 5,461 41,060
1936.. 20,779 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,727 43,787
1937.. 19,715 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 1,663 45,449
1938.. 20,838 9 „ 7 „ 7„ „ 18,052 2,786 48,235
There is £245,061 of capital to feed in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second 6
p.c. cum. prefs. and 18,000 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital, and advance point for point
with the ords. beyond 6 p.c. Although
slump gave turnover a nasty jolt, share-
holders continued to receive satisfactory
divs., the average over the last 10 years
being 9 p.c. firsts and 7 p.c. seconds and
ords.
The co. is the only cement-manufac-
turer in the northern State, where a lot of
concrete has lately gone into new city
buildings, which are rapidly altering Bris-
bane’s skyline, and a lot more has gone
into construction of roadways and bridges
and other public works. At the same
time judicious advertising has further
helped output and sales by widening the
use of the co.’s product, and costs and
selling prices have been reduced, though
the co. continues to meet a certain
amount of competition from British
cement (now imported duty free), es-
pecially in the northern portion of the
State.
During the last term sales further ex-
panded, owing to continued activity in
Government construction and in the
building and allied trades, and for the
first time the whole of the output from
the plant at Darra was made from coral
obtained from the co.’s leases in More-
ton Bay. Also, additional cement stor-
age was provided by the erection of four
new reinforced concrete silos, capable of
together holding 3000 tons of cement,
making total silo storage capacity 7000
tons. Plant was further modernised, and
orders have been placed for a new raw
mill rotary kiln and other equipment, all
of which will “ensure the highest effi-
ciency, and meet the demands of the
State for some years to come.”
After providing for taxation, a heavy
item in the northern State, and openly
allowing £12,000 (same as for the pre-
vious term) for depreciation, the declared
net result was £1123 better at £20,838,
which was £336 more than 10 p.c. to the
firsts and 8 p.c. to the seconds and ords.
would have called for. But the div. was
kept at the minimum pref. rates, with 6
p.c. to the ords., and an all-round 1 p.c.
bonus was added, same as for the two
preceding years.
The following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows that shareholders
aren’t likely to be asked for any more to
pay for new plant:
1931. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £245,061 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Creditors* .. 8,057 15,965 21,303 26,067
Freehold, etc. 28,605 30,710 30,710 20,405
Plant, etc. . . 313,890 321,644 335,741 327,223
Stocks . . 50,816 37,811 66,849' 46,012
Book debts . . 11,082 23,741 21,683 36,841
Cash, etc. .. 17,578 97,491 72,016 98,467
* Including provision for taxation.
Last term a growth of £15,158 in debtors’
balances and of £26,451 in cash, etc., was
accompanied by a reduction of £20,837
in stocks and the addition of only £4764
to the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, which includes provision for taxa-
tion. Freeholds were down £10,305 and
plant £B5lB, despite the extra silos
already referred to. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£155,253) was £16,008.
The market prices the firsts at 305., the
seconds at 265. 6d. and the ords. at
225. 6d. At these figures the returns are
6 p.c., 5.3 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively
on the basis of last term’s distributions.
The net tangible cover is £6 10s. Bd.
firsts, 275. 3d. seconds and £3 13s. 6d.
ords., excluding the depreciation reserve,
now £191,532.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on next page.)


m
mm
■
m
mM
mm
Will your family have shelter and
ENOUGH FOOD?
Even should you die?
Have you arranged that there shall be no shortage of
food and shelter even though you should die
to-morrow?
The arrangement CAN be made.
Through the A.M.P. you can arrange that, in the event of
your death, your widow shall have:
(1 ) Money to pay off any mortgage you may have on
your home.
(2) A monthly income as long as she lives.
(3) Money for your children’s education.
When you enter on such an arrangement with the A.M.P., you pay
down the first premium and the bargain is made. Even though you
should die within a few days, the bargain stands.
The Society pays-out more than £6,000,000 a year to its members.
It is the largest mutual life office in the Empire. Use it. It exists for
you to join and use. It belongs entirely to its members.
An experienced representative will be sent to talk this matter
over with you if you say the word. ’Phone, wire or write to the
nearest A.M.P. office.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt
* # * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies.
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
mffmm
r- . •
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type, with iron
body and gunmetal fittings; also
made of gunmetal throughout.
The ideal valve for Boiler Blow-
off, as it is leakproof, simple,
easily operated, quick acting, straight blow through and no Stuffing
Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No attention required after
being installed, as it is self-grinding in action. All valves tested to
6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our Bulletin and let us
quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Formed by Alluvial Tin, and now in
the Anglo-Oriental team, Kramat has a
noteworthy record. One of the largest and
most economical in Malaya, the co.’s
dredge, capacity 300,000 c.y. monthly, set
in in 1930. A small loss showed up in
the first term, but, despite restriction and
other things, divs. have averaged 18.5
p.c. on capital for the eight years since,
while at the end of March shareholders
could see surplus liquids of £123,614
(£115,081 was held in cash), equal to
3s. 9d. per ss. share.
The property is on the west bank of
the Kinta, Perak. Richest portion has
been worked out, but there is 322 acres,
containing approximately 33,000,000 c.y.
of 0.521 b. wash, still ahead of the dredge,
equal to 10 years’ digging at last term’s
rate of turnover. Ample water is avail-
able, and the wash is mainly free dredg-
ing, though last term timber and decayed
vegetation gave trouble.
Some indication of the co.’s profit-
winning potentialities is afforded by
results for 1936, when, working wash
closely approaching the value of the
property, and on an output, including
quotas purchased, equivalent to 71 p.c.
of assessment (1140 tons t.o. annually),
profits of £63,351 were won with tin at
£212 stg., after allowing a liberal £16,952
for depreciation. Last term, owing to the
poor ground encountered, there was a
sharp £all of £25,041 in the net result:
Year
Ended
Mar., Revenue. Outgo.* Surplus; , —Dividends— N
1935. . £64,246 £30,825 £33,421 25 p.c. = £41,250
1936 i 114 ' 742 51,091 63,651 25 „ „ 41,250
’ ( To reserve bucket-band, £4500.
1937. 5 114,754 77,867 66,877 35 p.c. = 57,750
) To reserve bucket-band, £3OOO.
1938. f 51,288 39,452 41,836 25 p.e. = 41,250
(To reserve bucket-band, £4060.
* Includes depreciation: £8231, 1935 ; £16,952,
1936 ; £32,227, 1937; £7186, 1938.
That was after charging £25,041 less (the
previous year’s provision was abnormal)
for depreciation, but before sending a
further £4060 to bucket-line renewal re-
serve, which, at £11,560, appears more
than ample for the purpose for which it
is earmarked. The dry. was cut back
from 35 p.c. to 25 p.c., absorbing £41,250.
Though recoveries were sharply down,
they closely accorded with bore values:
1936. 1937. i 03 3-
‘-“Sffi 'IS
Average yield c.y.,
As |° uud • • • •
working costs, pence 2.01 2.05 2.50*
Net ore reai’n, ton. £132/18/6 £l3l/3/8 £139/19/2
Si^gpo^ n av - £2ll/19/10 £205/7/9 £219/-/-
* Including provision for new bucket-line.
xhe prov i s io n for new bucket-line has
been taken into working exes, for the
fi rst time; this, together with the diffi-
cuJt wash dug, accounts for the lift in
un j t cos ts. The dredge has been in even
leaner ground since the close of the term,
turning over 1,252,000 c.y. for the rive
months ended August for a recoveiy cl'
only 0.211 b. per c.y. No indication is
gj V en as to when recoveries can be ex-
pected to improve,
The CQ handed out 3d< a share (660 ,000
are i SSU ed) on Sept. 8. At March 31
t h e dredge figured in the books at the
wr itten-down value of £25,000, property
at £65,741 an d sundry fixed assets at
£4956. At 13s. per share market valua-
tion 0 f t h e show is £429,000.
__________
Lead
Last week the world’s chief lead-pro-
ducers—those in the U.S.A., Australia,
c ana da, Yugoslavia and Burma—agreed
to restrict production by 10 p.c. Mexi-
can interests (they are the world’s second-
biggest producers of the metal) were not
P art y to the agreement; but the 12 p.c.
export duty on lead from that country
is expected to effectively limit Mexican
, . T , , a c i j
shipments. Lately production of lead
OUtside the U.S.A. has run from 10,000
tons to 15000 tons a month ahead of
consumption, which shows little sign of
overtaking production—for a while, at
any rate. One result has been that the
London price of lead, which climbed
from £9 2s. 6d. a ton in June, 1932, to
£36 ss. a ton in March, 1937, slipped
back to an average of £l3 19s. 4d. for
June last. On Sept. 3 the figure was
£l4 Is. 3d.; it rose to a shade over £l5
following announcement of the agree-
ment.
At the Barrier (N.S.W.) the North and
South cos. are now producing lead at the
annual rate of about 64,000 tons and
53,000 tons respectively. With lead at
£SIS per ton, a 10 p.c. cut in output
would affect North’s revenue by £596,000
and South’s by £579,500. The effect of
this, however, would be off set by a rise
of £SI 13s. in the London price of the
metal, making the figure £SI6 13s. per
ton. The average for the 12 months
to June 30, 1938, was £l7 9s. 6d., and
North paid 3s. per share (60 p.c.) and
South 2s. per share (40 p.c.).
“Portroads”: Jack Gordon, who dis-
covered gold at Iron Range on a branch
of the Claudie River (N.Q.), has taken
£34,000 from his mine to date. He
has been on the field four years, and
has put back a lot of the money
taken from the mine in the way of
machinery and development. Some
of his stone, 6ft. from the cap of
the reef on a hilltop, has gone as
much as 130 oz. to the ton. The gold is
very pure, and fetches only a few pennies
short of the price paid for Palmer gold
in the Cooktown days. There are about
30 people on the field. Most of the work
is done by tunnel system. One shaft has
been sunk, and another is going down
200 ft. in hope of striking the sulphides.
Gold Mines of Australia is reported to
be nibbling at one or two shows on the
field. A feature of the locality is that
vegetables and fruit grow prolifically.
Hi 4 s ❖ *
Since the close of the financial year in
March, South Kalgurli, the Fimiston
(W.A.) producer, reports discovery of
some “useful ore” on the 1600 ft. and ad-
jacent levels. Values at depth, however,
continue to show steady fractional de-
creases, and “it is to the Hainault lease
that we must look for the eventual con-
tinuance of the company’s prosperity,”
says chairman Marker. During the last
term 3300 ft. of diamond-drilling was car-
ried out, 1450 ft. being in the Hainault
block ; results generally were disappoint-
ing, but a lot more work remains to be
done. Not till the possibilities of the
Hainault area have been fully tested will
the board decide what is to be done with
the co.’s substantial liquid holding. In-
stallation of a regrinding unit, which has
reduced loss in the tailings to 10.2 gr., has
done something to offset declining mill-
head values, but increased wage awards
will cost the co. something like an addi-
tional £3OOO Australian annually from
now on, apart from national insurance.
Appearances are that in the current term
the co. may have to call upon reserves if
last year’s 3s. 3d. a share handout, which
took all the disclosed net earnings, is to
be maintained. According to monthly
returns, mine surplus for the five months
to August on milling of 50,826 tons
averaged 9s. lid. per ton, after charging
development, as against 1 Is. 2d. for the
whole of 1937-38. Costs have been re-
duced, but yields per ton have slipped
4s. 3d. or so. Incidentally, the co. has
done 32| miles of tunnelling in a total
lease area of 34£ acres, bulk of it in the
South Kalgurli section, which has thus
been pretty thoroughly honeycombed.
* >:< * *
During the 12 months to the end of May,
Hill 50, Mt. Magnet (W.A.), crushed
24,960 tons for 6119.82 fine ounces
gold (average approximately sdwt. per
ton), which realised £53,166, or 425. 7d.
per ton of ore. Head value was not
stated, but the recovery was a penny-
weight below estimated mine average.
The stuff was stoped from Nos. 1, 2 and
3 lenses above the 200 ft. level. Mine
and head-office exes. (£41,184) amounted
to 335. per ton. Allowing for minor
receipts (£l2), and after providing for
taxation (£1027), depreciation (£2581),
and brokerage (£637), £7749 per
share) remained. A 6d. div. took £6250,
and the £1499 that remained lifted the
carry-forward to £4lOB. Two winzes be-
low the 200 ft. level show that the lode has
been displaced in Nos. 1 and 2 lenses at
approximately 250 ft. below the surface.
The management’s revised estimate of ore
reserves will be given at the annual meet-
ing next week. When the books closed
the co. owed £BOl3, and current assets,
including stores (£2363), totalled £6233.
For the three months to the end of
Aug. the co. treated 6701 tons for 1440
fine ounces gold, worth £12,620.
$ * * ' *
Wiluna (W.A.) has had a turn-up in
the main workings at depth. Ore above
present milling grade has been stabbed
by a drill at 2800 ft. from the surface,
or about 1000 ft. below where the enrich-
ments which so far have furnished most
of the gold taken out of the mine first
showed a serious falling off in values.
Picking up of the shoot again on the
800 ft. level of the Happy Jack block at
the north end of the property has also
bucked up the market.
* * * *
Comet (W.A.) still shines brightly.
Latest managerial report mentions 19dwt.
values in No. 3 adit, which is in 365 ft.
from the side of a hill overlooking
Marble Bar. Ore of 30dwt. value is
also being broken from a rise about the
adit and from a crosscut at the present
end of it. Gt. Boulder Mining and
Finance, Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, and Anglo-Australian, all De
Bernales cos., hold interests of four-
ninths, two-ninths and one-ninth respec-
tively in the property.
* if * *
Hansel Mundy, one of the most
migratory of migratory mining cos., has
abandoned its option on a venture at
Chewton (Vic.) owing to lack of finan-
cial support from shareholders. The co.
has been hither and thither since 1911,
when it left Bullfinch (W.A.), where it
operated under the name of Chaffinch.
So far its luck has been hard.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest gold find, stated by
some newspapers to be 10 miles square,
is in the Laverton district. Auriferous
deposits “standing out conspicuously
and a dominant feature of the land-
scape” are also said to be there, and
prospects of permanency are spoken of.
The other side of the picture is that
the find is in a place where a little
gold has been specked and where no-
thing has yet been exposed to warrant
any whooping.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Warenda: (1) Tooths. (2) No. They are
two separate cos W.G.: (1) Present sterling
price is about £l9 a ton below the average for
1928. (2) Yes, depending on the nature of the
ore-body and the water supply. (3) No. (4)
Usually gold D.R.: (1) and (2) Both highly
speculative. (3) Long-term prospects appear
sound, but it may be advisable to take your
profit, with things as they are. (4) Should be
to the parent co.’s benefit. (5) Possibly. (6)
Outlook uncertain, but hold pending further de-
velopments at depth.


SMOKE-OH!
“Mr. Crane states that Americans are now
drinking about 15,000,000 bottles of soft-drink
daily.”— “Sun.”
Well, can they be blamed now for
being rather gassy?
b b b b
“Gentlemen, these straw hats come in as
stand-bys.”— Fashion ad.
And go out as lay-bys.
4*
“A fisherman is always permitted a certain
amount of latitude in telling how big a fish
he caught.”— Visiting American sportsman.
Most of ’em prefer longitude.
b b b b
“Grimmett to go to India.”— “S. M. Herald.”
To study the Googli?
b b b b
“The air in the courtroom was electric.”
— “D.T.”
An assault and battery charge? ,
-I* -I- b b
“Unusual Suit. Co-respondent to Pay.
—News heading.
But the cap must have fitted.
b b 4* b
“Bomb-proof Parliament.” — “Truth” heading.
That won’t stop the taxpayers from
blowing them up.
b b b b
“Plan to Make' Fishing Major Industry.”
—“Sunday Sun” heading.
That will be a come-down ; at present
it’s a general hobby.
b b
“Englishwoman names racehorse after hus-
band.”
Now punters complain if he comes in
late.
“Can't he say anything except 'Flatfoot, Flatfoot.'”
“Well, you see, mum, ’e kept nit in, a two-up school.”
■ “Humans cannot compete with Nature in the
construction of unusual rock formations.”
—Geologist in interview.
He’s never slept in our boarding-house.
b b b b
Some men who insist on saying it with
flowers are merely regarded as a bloom-
ing nuisance.
** * *
“Sellers of quack remedies should be refused
the right to broadcast.” — Sydney doctor.
Well, don’t some of the stations give
them the air?
❖
‘‘Home-building in Sydney is being held up
by the high cost of materials.” — ‘‘Labor Daily.”
Everything seems to be going up ex-
cept the homes!
b b
The trashy books some people read
Prove that their taste is overripe,
For if they knew their onions well
They would not read such awful tripe.
4* 4*
“Man returns to Melbourne from South
Africa to share his wealth with relations.”
We wouldn’t mind his going a step-
father to us.
4*
“He did not tell his wife of the racing tips
he received.” — “Sun.”
No doubt working on the principle that
oil doesn’t mix with vinegar.
•5< 4* + +
“The Dictators prefer to back a certainty,
rather than adopt a policy of hit or miss.”
—Writer on foreign affairs.
At last have been revealed to us
The policies of Hit and Muss.
4* b b b
In the drama of war bombs are the
scene-shifters.
“In the summer men lie about sunbakins.”
-— "Sun.”
v And in the winter they lie about the
morning shower.
“A four-year-old boy of Idaho nearly died
after drinking a pint of his father’s whisky?”
—News item.
No doubt his father also did when he
went to pour himself a snifter.
“’E Won't stick 'em up, Joe. Shall I plug 'imp”
The Long and’ Short of Things.
Short days—long nights.
Short hours—long holidays.
Short pay—long strike.
Short dresses —long bills.
Short shorts —long legs.
Short bathing costumes —long letters
to the paper.
Short pockets—long .wait until pay-
day.
Short weight—long argument.
J. F. H.
•b b b b
Some Little-known Facts About
Sweden.
II. —Its History.
In the early Middle Ages the country
was divided between two peoples: Goths
and Swedes. Olaf the Lofa was the chief-
tain of the Goths, who favored paganism.
Swerker the Seaegg was king of the
Swedes, who leaned to Christianity.
Determined to impress upon the Goths
the advantages of conversion to the
newer faith Swerker laid waste
the country of the Goths and
committed several massacres.
Olaf, stung to anger because
several of his debtors were among
those bumped off, gathered an
army around him and fell upon
Swerker in battle. But Swerker
was a little 9st. 81b. runt clad in
the lightest of chain mail (his
armor happened to be at the dry-
cleaner’s at the time for derust-
ing), whereas Olaf tipped the
beam at 16 stone and was en-
cased in a couple of hundred-
weight of half-inch iron. By the
time his pioneer battalion had
lifted Olaf off him Swerker was
pushed right out of shape. There
were 17 more civil wars and eight
crusades before Christianity got
a foothold again in the country.
Eric Edwardsson succeeded
Swerker. Owing to his clemency
in having the Court jester only
clubbed to death instead of
hanged for trying to put over as
his own the old conundrum about
the man looking at his son’s picture, he
became known as Eric the Good. He lost
his title when he tortured a later jester
to death by making him listen, without a
let-up, to a thousand mother-in-law and
forgetful-professor jokes. This was in
punishment for the jester’s dubbing him
Eric the Goody Goody when he refused
to open a contest for bathing beauties.
Magnus, who ascended the throne after
Waldemar the Worthless, was known as
the Great Democrat. He it was who
allowed the peasants when he was pass-
ing to kneel and scrape the dust with
their foreheads instead of prostrating
themselves and licking the dust, as was
the previous custom.
Withal, he was a lover of pomp and
splendor, and it was this weakness that
led to his death. He had conferred on
himself the Grand Cross of the Exalted
Order of the Peewee’s Tailfeather, first
class, and at the investiture he found
there wasn’t a square inch left on his
tunic to pin the medal to. Endeavoring
to pin it on his own back, he impaled
his windpipe on the eighth bar to his long-
service medal.
Magnus’s son Birger also lost his life
by an accident, although the coroner,
who was a friend of the family, brought
in a verdict of “death by natural causes.”
In deep gratitude for the long and faith-
ful services of the statesman Torkel
Knutsson, who had exercised wisdom and
courage as Birger’s guardian since he had
been nine years old, the king had
whipped his head off. Thereafter he was
compelled to depend on the advice of
boneheaded courtiers, one of whom sug-
gested a whoopee party aboard the royal
yacht on the Cattegat. The admiral of
the fleet had warned the king that pirates
from Finland operated there, and to keep
to the Skager-Rack, but the royal dud got
the names mixed up.
Birger was sitting on the. poop-deck
playing patience one day when a naval
attache rushed up to him and hoarsely
exclaimed “Finnish pirates, sire! ” to
which the king, looking up with a sigh
of satisfaction, replied, “Good on you! ”
The next instant the large hairy paw ot
one of the pirates who had just come
over the side wound around his gullet,
and the king described a graceful para-
bola (or, rather, would have if he could
have got his breath) as he flew through
the air to bring up against the bulwark
with his skull. He suffered a lesion
where the brain should have been.
One of the greatest of the Swedish
rulers was Gustavus Vasa. Gus intro-
duced the first racial-purity movement to
Northern Europe. On his accession he
promised the people prosperity, and, find-
ing it wasn’t as easy as it looked,
promptly declared war simultaneously on
Denmark, Scania, Norway and Holland,
much to the gratification of the Society
of Arms Makers. The wars continued
through the 37 years of his reign, and to
finance them he pawned the whole
country. ,
Unable to repay the enormous debt,
the king signed a decree making it an
offence for a non-Aryan to be owed
money by an Aryan. But one of his
counsellors reminded the king that his
royal master’s great-uncle had been
named Isaac Snitchenbaum, and strongly
advised him to be circumspect. The
king, who wasn’t strong on grammar,
mistook his meaning, and, terror-stricken
at the suggestion, fled from Sweden.
His son, Eric XIV., went to war with
Frederick 11. of Denmark because the
latter claimed the same right as himself
to put a crown and anchor on his coat
of arms. Eric promptly adopted the
snakes-and-ladder device, which Fred
took as a personal insult. They met in
personal combat at Stettin, where the
Danish army by a flanking movement
came upon the Swedes in the rear, where
Eric was leading his men. On seeing
Eric Fred bashed him across the nose
with his iron glove in challenge, at the
same time calling for his halberd. When
he came to Eric, who was a bit foggy
on military matters, called for his trusty
berserk. A search failed to reveal the
weapon, which nobody else in the two
armies had ever heard of. But Eric,
who was famed for his scholarship, in-
sisted that it w® a weapon. The battle
was called off while Eric went back to
get one. By the time it was impressed
upon him by the Court scrivener that
berserk was only a noun in the diction-
ary the ski-ing season had commenced
and the war was forgotten.
S. W. K.
Astronomer’s Love Song.
My Venus! When you softly beam,
My thoughts of every other prize
Grow nebulous; l only dream
And moon about your starry eyes.
Your Mars not very sunny, true —
She Saturn me ! But still I vow
I’d love to build a home with you !
By Jupiter, we’ll planet now !
But wait! Before we go too far,
Let’s come to earth. I prithee, say
Would you desire to ban three-star
And keep me on the Milky Way ?
T. W. N.
Good Fishing.
“These girls have chosen to live by the sea-
side for the fishing. They admit that their
catches are not much to boast about, but the
sport is good fun.”— Women’s paper.
Other girls find angling not only good
fun but a profitable pastime. One red-
head at Bondi landed a poor fish who
was considerably poorer the next day.
The fish are biting well along the
promenade. A platinum blonde using a
chic sports get-up near the cabaret
caught a fine flathead with a Rolls
Royce. She has had him on the grill
ever since.
Of course, a lot of the fish caught is
immature and has to be thrown back ;
but, after all, it’s good practice.
Parrot-fish are numerous. They have
a habit of reiterating a cynical “Oh,
yeah!” They are quite valueless for
food, whatever hints a girl may give
about feeling hungry; and after the
satisfaction of hooking them they are
discarded by sportswomen, except those
who want to show that they have really
caught something.
The fish are sometimes scaled by the
feminine anglers, especially when a
furious middle-aged woman is seen
approaching.
H. M.
Finis.
The innings of our tourists ends;
They’re stumped for reasons to remain ;
Run out of matches, at a bat,
They’ll catch an outbound steamer that
Will bring them bowling home again.
H. M.
A Young Man’s Fancy.
Spring’s here again, and balmy grow
The days and milder wax the nights.
Keen August winds no longer blow
And earth’s rebirth the eye delights.
Spring’s come, gaunt winter to expel,
And birds on wires outside my flat
Their mottle-feathered bosoms swell
In song at dawn their joy to tell . . .
But I wish they would go to hell,
Or even farther off than that!
P. O. M. C.


fH*
UNION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
bank
OF
r--
S'
tST
183?
For over one hundred years the Union Bank
has continuously provided a complete ser-
vice in all money matters. Numbered among
its customers are Governments, Banks,
Municipal Councils, Public Corporations,
Primary Producers, Industrialists, Professional
men and women, Housewives; in fact people
from every walk in life testimony
enough to the wide range of banking
facilities it offers—and to one
and all courteous, efficient
attention is extended.
Established 1837
(Incorporated in England)
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
iNOBED
NO BEL-GLASGOW
EXPLOSIVES
7NOBED
GELIGNITE, DYNAMITE,
BLASTING GELATINE, GELATINE DYNAMITE
A 2 MONOBEL, STONOBEL AND SAMSONITE
(Permitted Explosives for Coal-mining)
NOBEL’S THISTLE BRAND SAFETY FUSE AND DETONATORS,
CABLES AND ELECTRIC DETONATOR FUSES, BATTERIES, ETC.
ELECTRIC SHOT-FIRING A SPECIALITY.
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
PERTH. W.A.: Elder. Smith & Company, Limited. -
ADELAIDE. S.A.: Elder, Smith & Company, Limited.
MELBOURNE, VIC.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: R. N. Kirk & Company.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: Dalgrety & Company. Limited.
BRISBANE, QLD.: Elder, Smith & Company. Limited.
DARWIN, N.T.: Federal Government Administrator,
LAUNCESTON, TAS.: W. & G. Genders Pty„ Limited.
ZEEHAN, TAS.: J. S. Mnnro & Company.
HOBART. TAS.: Clias. Davis, Limited.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.: Campbell Bros.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Dalgrety & Company, Limited.
INVERCARGILL, N.Z.: Dalgety & Company, Limited.
SUVA and LAUTOKA, FIJI: Morris, Hedstrom, Limited.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Extravagantly Taxed
Taxation at £l7 6s. sd. a head! That
was the figure for 1937-38, up 28s. Id.
a head for every man, woman and child
in relation to the preceding year. The rise,
when compared with 1932 (a year of de-
pression income-tax and customs revenue),
is £4 Is. 4d. a head. Altogether it called
lor £118,783,617 of taxation in the latest
financial year for Budgets to be more or
less balanced over £10,000,000 more
than was necessary in the preceding term.
It all indicates that Governments
should be able to do with less bor-
rowed money. In the 1931-32 term,
when the Commonwealth and States
collected £86,707,570 in taxation,
revenue fell short of expenditure by
£20,803,000. No public borrowing took
place that year, the banks financing Gov-
ernment deficits. In 1932-33 borrowing
on the open market was resumed, and
with cheap money floating round (3 p.c.
was paid for £15,042,000 in Nov., 1934)
the Loan Council rushed in with its ears
back in 1933-34 and 1934-35, Here is
the taxation, budgetary and borrowing
position, so far as the figures are avail-
able told in tabular form:
Commonwealth and States.
Public
June, Taxation. Deficit. Borrowing.
1932 .. £86,707,570 £20,803,000 Nil
1933 .. 93,471,645 4,408,000 £16,461,000
1934 . . 90,809,729 5,693,000 22,550,000
Surplus.
1935 .. 95,215,779 2,553,500 27,542,000
1936 .. 104,599,129 1,078,600 16,500,000
1937 .. 108,303,392 966,000 15,000,000
1938 .. 118,783,617 18,000,000
In 1934-35 the national finances were, as
a whole, on “Budget equilibrium.” In
taxation and borrowings there was
£122,758,000 for the Federal and State
bodies to play with. In 1937-38 taxation
alone was but £4,000,000 short of that
figure, yet £18,000,000 of loan money
was raised in Australia, and the London
market was nibbled at. The ballooning
of Government expenditure may be put in
another way: While Lang was in power
in 1932, £107,000,000 in taxes (instead of
thp £86,700,000 actually then available)
would have balanced the Budgets, and
no forced borrowing would have been
necessary. In our latest term tax revenue
was over £11,000,000 higher than the
1931-32 public expenditure that produced
a £20,800,000 deficit, yet we borrowed
for “works” and similar items an addi-
tional £18,000,000.
Taxpayers have made it magnifi-
cently easy for Governments to show
surpluses under the conditions of the past
three years. But tightrope-walking is
indicated for the near future. With cus-
tomary clumsiness a start is to be made
by increasing the sales-tax.
Shrinkage in the
U.S.A.’s buying of
raw materials and
other commodities
in the world’s
markets shows up in
its trade figures for
the seven months to
July 31. Though
exports weren’t up,
a favorable balance
of £142,000,000 stg.
has been shown,
as against an
adverse balance of
£32,000,000 for the
same period of
1937. Imports have
been cut by
£172,000,000! No
wonder metals and
such have slumped.
American jitters
have plainly much to
answer for as re-
gards the present set-
back to world
trade. And now, of course, in order
to balance their unfavorable trading
accounts with the U.S.A., many countries
are shipping gold to America, and as
most of this comes from London the
pound sterling has shown a substantial
depreciation. But for “control” selling
of dollars in N’York, the position would
be still more pronounced.
* * * *
Producers on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile will be gathering in the benefit of
the new price of the yellow metal. It
has been as low as a shilling or two
below £7 sterling an ounce in London
of recent years ; last week it rattled up
to £7 4s. 3d. per fine ounce. That rep-
resents from a shilling to two shillings
more per ton of ore (in Australian cur-
rency) for most of our low-grade mines.
It all helps.
♦ # ije %
Rises or falls in lead and spelter prices
after 1938 cannot rightly influence
“No, sir , we do NOT send out clients on approval .”
Broken Hill Prop, shares in the market,
since that wonderful old money-spinner
the Proprietary mine will have been
closed down for good by then. Ore
has given out. B.H.P.’s Newcastle steel
output for August dropped by 4648 tons
to 68,141 tons. But it was still near the
average for the year which closed on
May 31.
The coal strike clouds affected Broken
Hill Prop, shares noticeably last week.
They slipped back to 555. 9d., and at
one stage a buyer offered 53s. —optimis-
tically.
* * *
Australasian Paper ords. showed
recovery last week, lifting to 28s. 9d.
in Melbourne. A final div. is due for
payment next month, and it should be
at the unchanged rate of 8 p.c. p.a.,
representing 9.6 d. per share. If so, it
reduces the market price to present
buyers to about 285., and shows a yield
of 5.7 p.c. The co., through its sub-
sidiary, has q good past record as
regards profit-earning.
* * * *
Davies, Coop ords., cum div. ancf
rights, sold at a record “high” of 295. 6d.
last week. Bonus issue is one for five,
last div. was p.c. p.a., and earnings
were 17.5 p.c. on average ord. capital.
If 7| p.c. is paid for the term now
current, the investor in the ords. at the
present price will, after receiving his
bonus scrip, get a yield of over 6 p.c.
p.a. The co. makes men’s mercery,
but its most interesting activity is the
turning-out of cotton tweeds, denims,
etc. ; this part of the factory has been
responsible for the growth in capital (and
profits) of recent years. The 6 p.c. prefs.,
quoted at 245. now, are being offered a
one-for-one cash issue at par.
♦ % Sfc
In Melbourne last week:
Associated Pulp ords. drifted to 20s. 9d.
as commercial production approaches. The co.
will be manufacturing from imported pulp to
start with owing to delay in the Government’s
switchirig-on of the power supply from Great
Lake. The pulp mill should have a full supply
of power early next year.
Myer ords. showed recovery to 305., after
being down to near 295. This stock has been
unstable in the market ever since infantile
paralysis became an adverse factor in the retail
trade. Parcels of estate scrip on the market
have also had an unsettling influence. Actually
the co. maintained its 9 p.c. div. last year,
and the shares return over 6 p.c. at 30s.
Mr. Morgan shares kept above 11s. A group
of Queensland shareholders is putting up A. W.
Fadden, M.P., W. J. O’Sullivan and J. Mal-
colm Newman for election to the board at the
next annual meeting. Australia knows Mal-
colm Newman as one of its leading mining
authorities, especially in tin. His big dredging
proposition at Return Creek, Mt. Garnet (Q.),
commences production with its smaller dredge
shortly.
Loloma shares kept very firm at 255., the
highest price for many months. Rising price of
the metal is influencing the market price of
most gold producers.
A Word in Season.
People who want an income
better than bank interest are ad-
vised for the present to leave specu-
lative stocks alone and to concen-
trate on shares that have a history
of sound administration and estab-
lished profit-earning behind them.
Breweries, steamships and some of
those well-entrenched manufactur-
ing concerns that have few com-
petitors are the indicated invest-
ments.


Position Vacant.
EXPERIENCED Conveyancing Clerk for office
of Solicitors with large old-established city
practice in neighboring State. Applicant should
give qualifications and experience. Permanent
position. Salary £4oo—No. 289, Advertising
Department, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
“QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
16in. cut,
and it
drives as
it cuts.
f
Price £34/13/-
In Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market by their efficiency dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the 16in
“Qnalcast” Australian made Motor Mower
Write for particulars to any leading
facturersl- 8 ' 6 ° r dU ' ect t 0 tJle Manu -
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY. LTD
Sunshine Road, West Footscrav ’’
Melbourne, W. 13, Victoria. ' ’
INVESTIGATE
BEFORE
INVESTING
Obviously, this is the logical
procedure when your money,
no matter how much, is
involved.
Therefore, you owe it to
yourself to investigate im-
mediately an investment
considered by the world’s
leading financial experts to
be of the soundest.
Write for free Booklet
No. 1 to:
AUSTRALIAN
FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralta
AT 30th JUNE, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,584,187 7 8
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 303,576 0 5
Development Fund .. .. 27,881 7 8
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 85,057,294 11 0
Bills Payable and Other Lia-
bilities .. .. .. . . 6,658,545 16 5
£159,137,600 7 8
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances 1,273,011 1 2
Australian Notes 3,548,343 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 27,076,734 1 4
Investments—
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 18,339,841 10 4
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including
Treasury Bills) .. .. 30,099,060 010
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 3,474,365 16 4
£159,137,600 7 8
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£ s. d.
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund .. .. 82,8X2 14 0
„ National Debt Sinking
Fund 82,812 14 0
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund .. .. 10,315 6 4
„ Development Fund .. 10,315 6 4
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury 392,529 6 7
£578,785 7 3
S. (I.
£
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1938
Banking Business .. .. 165,025 8 0
„ Rural Credits Department 20,630 12 8
~ Note Issue Department .. 392,529 6 7
£578,783 7 3
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,584,187 7 8
£2,584,187 7 8
£ s. (1.
By Balance 2,501,374 13 8
„ Transfer from Froftt and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business .. 82,812 14 0
£-2,584,187 7 8
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SIIFEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th August, 1965.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation ..
Reserve for Notes not Presented
Special Reserve—Premium on
Gold Sold
Other Liabilities
£ s. d.
49,030,124 0 0
23,302 10 0
7,752,900 19 0
1,034,139.14 1
£57,840,467 3 1
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Gold and . English Sterling
Reserve 16,011,058 4 7
Debentures and Other Securi-
. ties • • 39,326,356 19 3
Other Assets 2,503,051 19 3
£57,810,467 3 1
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th August, 1935.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Hustralta
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1938.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Reserve Fund 2,555,332 4 5
Depositors’ Balances .. ..143,433,123 18 3
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 6,721,826 10 5
£152,710,282 13 1
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin. Cash Balances, and
Money at Short Call .. 22,055,221 2 1
Australian Notes 217,034 0 0
Government Securities .. .. 94,981,017 15 10
Securities of Municipalities
and other Public Authori-
ties 31,416,916 18 7
Other Assets .. .. .. •• 3,147,108 5 8
Bank Premises 892,084 10 11
£152,710,282 13 1
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS
Cr.
£ s. d.
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 75,490 19 8
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 75,490 19 8
£150,981 19 4
£ s. d.
By Profit for half-year ended
30th June, 1938, after
provision for payments
amounting to £100,854
3s. lOd. due to State
Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgama-
tion Agreements .. .. 150,981 19 4
£150,981 19 4
Dr.
RESERVE FUND.
Cr.
To Balance
£ s. d.
. 2,555,332 4 5
£2,555,332 4 5
£ s. d.
2,479,841 4 9
By Balance
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits 75,490 19 S
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, Is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant. •
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
' SYDNEY, I.6th ..August, 1935.
•Ihe' usual Certificates of'the of the Commonwealth as to the correctness
of the above accounts have been given.
With bagged wheat on trucks, Sydney,
at 3s. a bushel last week, and silo grain
below 2s. 6d., a bleakness was evident
in the business and financial outlook.
At the wool sales, clearances were good
but prices quiet. Spring opened, finan-
cially, in a wintry mood. The best thing
for Australians to do is to size up the
position, realise that we are in for a
smaller national income this year, and
face the position with commonsense,
not emotion. If our trade balance can
be righted (and there is no insurmount-
able difficulty), if borrowing and
taxation can be kept at sane levels, and
if the people do not get down in the
dumps we can take a lot of the blow
from fallen export prices in our shock-
absorbers, chief of which is a still-high
level of internal prosperity coupled with
a currency that is not yet inflated, even
though there are definite indications of
a trend towards inflation.
The wheat industry is definitely facing
a bad time ; home-consumption price or
no, it is influenced very little by general
spending power of the Australian public.
World prices and Australian seasons
represent wheat’s measuring-instruments
of prosperity. Therefore city and coun-
try businesses dealing particularly with
wheatmen are bound to be affected also,
and less direct shocks will spread among
businesses of a more general nature.
But we have past evidence that, if inter-
nal costs and prices are kept in harmony
and the national finances are reasonably
well administered, Australia by and
large can stand cuts in export prices
for land products without drastic upsets
in employment and general social con-
ditions. For instance, wool, after soar-
ing in early, 1934, slumped heavily a year
later. Averages for 1935 for our two
principal land products were below the
present quotations for wool and wheat,
yet recovery in employment continued
right through 1935. Of course, it must
be remembered it was, in the public’s
mind, a “recovery” period, and that
helped considerably. But we had trouble
with our trade balance then, too ; the
combined result for the two years 1934-
36 didn’t meet the interest bill for the
period in full.
On Sept. 1 Gibraltar Gold Mine
(Adelong), N.L., issued a statement,
under name of. the secretary, that the
Gibraltar board had decided to grant
an option to Bulolo Gold Dredging. On
Sept. 3 a statement was published in
which Bulolo denied that an option had
been taken by it. Gibraltar later
acknowledged that a misunderstanding
had been created, and said that no
option had been taken by Bulolo. It
ali appeared to be an honest mistake ;
there was some confusion between Bulolo
and Clutha Development, and between
the words “offer” and “option.” Last
Wednesday Sydney Stock Exchange
suspended dealings in Gibraltar scrip,
and on Thursday there was a chorus
of growls from the “regulars” who watch
the prices go up in the ’Change foyer.
Why such precipitate action of the com-
mittee in this case, they asked, especially
when suspension has been so slow to
come in some other cases where “mis-
understandings” have affected a far
greater number of active speculators over
(sometimes) long periods? During the 24-
hours or so that it took to clear up the
Gibraltar mistake not one share changed
hands.
* * * k
Wilcox, Mofflin’s £91,391 loss for 1937-
38 more than wiped out the profits for
the preceding two years. Taking into
account the fact that £75,000 in divs.
has been handed out since the slump, the
financial position has slipped back to
where it was at the end of 1933, with
the difference that the co. is at present
carrying £58,436 more stock and £71,263
more outside debt than in 1933. It also
now owns £14,041 of shares in other cos.
In Sept., 1933, the co.’s scrip was at 9s.
3d. Last week it was around 6s. The
fall in wool, hide and tallow prices, of
course, has done the damage, as it has
a habit of doing every so often. An
aggravation of the position has been the
virtual closing of the Japanese and Con-
tinental markets for hides, skins and
tallow.
* * * *
Mauri Bros, and Thomson has dis-
closed net profit at £94,432, up just £1193.
The co. has some prosperous subsidiary
cos., however, which don’t hand on all
their earnings. Ord. div. stays at 15 p.c.
p.a., and more than the amount required
to pay it is carried to reserves. Yeast,
malt, vinegar, bottle-seals and shop-
keepers’ equipment bring in the profits.
The ords. at 655. 6d., cum 2s. div., return
4.7 p.c., with prospects dimmed only by
the general outlook.
* * * *
The costly Brisbane brewers’ strike
notwithstanding, Castlemaine Perkins has
maintained its div. at 8 p.c. p.a. It calls
for £90,100, as against £99,555 shown
as earned in the accounts. In the preced-
ing year a profit of £131,618 was dis-
closed, and a 2 p.c. jubilee bonus was
sent out. The sharemarket was not
pleased with the profit announcement,
and quotations drifted to 235. 6d., sellers.
But the co. should be free from strikes
this year.
'*'.*.'* & *
London “Daily Mail,” referring to
the 40-hour week and other Popular
Front measures in France, said in
August:
This attempt to run a highly industrial-
ised nation on wild-cat Socialistic lines has
been one of the most colossal failures in
modern history.
Yes, one of the most colossal failures.
The New Deal in the U.S.A. has been
another beaut' r
* $ $ *
Protits of James Stedman riender-
son’s Sweets, Sydney, manufacturers of
Minties and numerous other lines, have
suffered severely because “certain raw
materials fluctuated violently” in price
during the year (apparently in the
chocolate section), and because of in-
creased wage awards. The disclosed re-
sult fell from £41,822 to £24,604, and
the ord. div. came down from 5 p.c. to
4 p.c. Stocks are now taken in at
current low levels, and, “given normal
conditions,” the board looks for better
results in the new term.
* * * *
With the lift in Australian Drug’s div.
anticipated here some time back now
a fact, the sharemarket, paying 14s. 6d.,
obtains a yield of 6.4 p.c. on a 4\ p.c.
basis, as compared with 5 p.c. from Drug
Houses scrip at 255. 9d. Australian Drug
expects its holding in D.H.A. to become
more valuable as time goes on, subject
to any changes in the economic out-
look. Australia House at Aug. 31 was
fully let. -This property has been rather
a drag in the past.
* * * *
Hoyts Theatres’ earnings for the year
to June 30 last dropped 25 p.c., from
£81,305 to £61,300. A and B pref. divs.,
calling for £46,500, were paid. Infantile
paralysis in Melbourne during the year
had something to do with the poorer
showing.
* * * *
North Coast Steam shares were selling
in Sydney last week at 38s. 6d. The
div. rate is now 9 p.c., and the yield
offering is £4 13s. per cent. It is a good
stock for times like the present.
* * * *
A correspondent who was sufficiently
interested in the article “Cheating Our-
selves” (B. 3/8/’3B) to get in touch with
this office levels another charge against
the average Australian factory executive.
It is this: He doesn’t train his sales-
men properly; the Americans can run
rings around us in sales organisation. It
is certainly true that we meet with a lot
of raw travellers in a day’s work ; not
raw to travelling perhaps, but still raw
as regards salesmanship. There is no
good reason why, within certain limits
of temperament and tenacity, salesmen
shouldn’t be made by tuition instead of
having to rely on the seventh son of a
seventh son whose grandfather was a
commercial traveller in order to get a
first-class man.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Mad Crusade.
[Digest of a “Saturday Evening Post” article on the
crusaders who would have landed the Empire in wars
over Abyssinia, Spain and China, and who now want a
war about Czechoslovakia.]
The statesmen of Britain and France decided
early in 1938 there was still a chance to prevent
another world war. They knew they couldn’t prevent
all war; but it seemed to them that several smaller
wars, involving a limited number of countries, might
be better than one big war, involving practically all
countries.
So they set out to try to isolate and settle
separately Europe’s principal conflicts. This seemed
to them the only alternative to another world war.
It must have startled them to discover that one of
the most formidable obstacles to their policy was
the international peace movement.
The international peace movement was experienc-
ing a war of its own, between the pacifists, who refuse
to support any war, and the crusaders, who justify
war in a holy cause. The crusading, or “holy war,”
faction is still causing almost as much worry as Hitler
and Mussolini.
At the time of the Anglo-Italian agreement the
Bishop of Durham preached a holy war against
Fascism. If it were merely his own viewpoint he
would deserve slight attention. But he is an active
worker in the international peace movement.
I found out about the International Peace Cam-
paign in Switzerland last December. The campaign
was directing a world-wide boycott against Japan,
organising protests and mass meetings, and petitioning
Governments concerning China, Spain and Abyssinia.
In spite of its name, it was an extremely belligerent
organisation.
The group met at Brussels in 1936 and founded
the International Peace Campaign as a clearing-
house for the international peace movement. They
elected as joint presidents Viscount Cecil, of England,
and Pierre Cot, former French Minister for Air.
Viscount Cecil is an almost fanatical supporter of
the League.
In Britain the Peace Campaign’s committee com-
bines 250 affiliated organisations. In the United States
the number of affiliated societies is smaller, but they
range from the Y.W.C.A. to Communist Browder’s
League for Peace and Democracy.
My interest in the International Peace Campaign
became sharper when I learned that one of its found-
ing organisations was the Communist International,
which has given strong financial and moral support
to the I.P.C. from the beginning.
For the “workers of the world,” Dimitrov has
outlined a “peace programme” as follows: (1) Isolation
of Fascist countries ; (2) economic sanctions against
Germany, Italy and Japan; (3) united action by all
workers not only against Fascist aggressors but also
against their own “bourgeois” Governments, to com-
pel a firmer policy against Fascist States; (4) an un-
breakable pact between workers in all countries and
“the great Soviet people” for the purpose of “smash-
ing international Fascism.”
It is startling, in scanning this Communist pro-
gramme to see how faithfully it describes the conduct
pursued by the International Peace Campaign: (1)
The I.P.C. has done its best to isolate Fascist coun-
tries ; (2) the I.P.C. has organised boycotts throughout
the world against Japan, Italy and Germany ; (3) the
I.P.C. is constantly urging more vigorous action
against “aggressor nations” ; (4) the 1.P.C., through
its affiliation with Communists, has achieved a pact
with the “great Soviet people.”
What is it that can bring together a British aristo-
crat like Cecil and a fanatical revolutionary like Dimi-
trov? Is it peace? Hardly that. Dimitrov’s concep-
tions of class warfare scarcely coincide with Viscount
Cecil’s ideas of peace. They have in common a hatred
for three specific countries, which Dimitrov describes
as Fascist and Viscount Cecil calls aggressors.
But this feeling appears to lead not toward peace
but toward a crusade against those nations. The
International Peace Campaign is inculcating millions
of earnest men and women with hatreds which become
constantly more dangerous as they concentrate more
and more upon specific nations.
The world is undergoing a readjustment among
the great nations. A few countries, not satisfied with
their allotment of territory or power or wealth, are
plunging to improve their positions. They resort to
violence and ignore the rules for international rela-
tionships which they have accepted in the past. The
world has passed through similar periods in the past,
settling down again after conflict.
But motion pictures and radio bring to-day’s
battles to millions in countries still at peace, and feel-
ings are stirred as never before. Thus people become
receptive to notions of waging holy wars. The ten-
dency to divide the world into saints and sinners has
been aggravated by revolutions which have thrown
up dogmatic regimes which have upset their neigh-
bors. These regimes also have inflicted sufferings so
intense that sensitive people everywhere are kept in
a state of indignation, so that they finally decide that
even another world war may be necessary to set the
world to rights again.
It is only 20 years since the last world war ended.
It was the “war to end war” and the “war to make
the world safe for democracy.” Events have not
satisfied most people that these laudable objectives
were achieved.
Nevertheless, it is astonishing how many people
to-day, well-meaning and apparently sensible, are pre-
pared to fight another world war for one or another
such crusading purpose.
Would-be crusaders picture the coming conflict in
the simplest terms. The Bishop of Durham envisages
the “free” section of the world going to battle against
the “totalitarian.” Others follow the Communist lead
more faithfully: Fascists and anti-Fascists. The com-
monest division is that of dictatorships versus democ-
racies. All such oversimplifications are misleading.
The supreme example of the unfortunate attempts
to divide the world into two simple parts was an
editorial in the New York “Times” for June 15:
“In the democracies of Europe —in the little
democracies in the danger zones ; in the more fortu-
nate democracies of Scandinavia ; above all, in the
great democracies of France and Britain —the average
American finds a way of life which he knows in-
stinctively to be the way of life which he himself has
chosen. In any ultimate test of strength between
democracy and dictatorship, the goodwill and the
moral support —and in the long run more likely than
not the physical power of the United States —will be
found on the side of those nations defending a way
of life which is our own way of life.”
But the Scandinavian countries and Switzerland
propose to stay on the sidelines in the next war, as
they did in the last. France and Britain will not
refuse as an ally any dictatorship which cares to join
them. It is difficult to imagine that all the dictator-
ships will be on the same side in the next war, so if
the United States or any other country gets into a
general war it will have to choose between dictator-
ships. I envisage ourselves as fighting simultaneously
on both sides —against dictatorships—and on the side-
lines—with Scandinavia and Switzerland.
It may be better, after all, to try to resolve the
world’s numerous conflicts by a series of smaller wars,
as Britain and France are attempting to do. It may
not be successful. Dictators may push their aggres-
sions too far.
But we hope the international peace movement
will not precipitate such a conflict, under the guise
of a crusade. Some wars of the past may have seemed
to be divided clearly between right and wrong. But
there is no evidence that a world war to-day could
accurately divide the countries on any such artificial
issue as “totalitarianism” or “Fascism” or “dictator-
ship.” In another world war comes the countries are
certain to divide, as in the last world war, on the
basis of self-interest. Those who try to picture such
a war in advance as a holy war are either deceiving
themselves or are deliberately attempting to mislead
their followers.
Czechoslovakia.
[That the situation in Czechoslovakia was, and is,
difficult, is obvious. It was reported last week in the
too-familiar fashion. J. L. Garvin, in this (condensed)
article from London “Observer,” reviews the chances for
peace.]
Through all the turmoil this journal has steadily
advocated a policy which leaves no ideal out of sight
but comprises three practical objects. First, to prevent
world war altogether; second, to postpone it to the
utmost; third, to win it if it comes. We believe
these principles are unanswerable.
In spite of the resounding German manoeuvres—
and we are the last to underestimate that people—we
believe absolutely that there is an end of the war panic
for this year: and that by the end of this autumn
there will be a better chance of establishing world
peace for a generation.
This opinion we state without reserve. First,
because Lord Runciman’s mission to Prague is bound
to make for a working compromise. Second, because
it would be at least as mad for the dictators to gamble
on a challenge to the democracies as for the latter
to provoke war. Third, because Roosevelt’s speech
in Canada is a warning that, strong as the isolationist
forces may seem now, the United States could not
remain indifferent to a conflict profoundly affecting
the future of both hemispheres, but would be com-
pelled to turn the scales as before.
Let us speak plainly about Lord Runciman’s mis-
sion. It is inconceivable that he can fail to seek some
constructive compromise, or that the British Govern-
ment and the British people can ever be brought to
support anything else.
There will be no German invasion. Without it
the Czechs would be forced by the internal condition
of their composite State to grant part at least of the
reconstruction they still refuse. It is by no means
impossible to devise plans in the promised “Swiss
spirit” of racial equality, yet consistent with the main-
tenance of Czechoslovakia. Britain will never stand
merely for helping Czechs to hold down Germans.
America will never stand for it either, if the
Reich as we feel sure Herr Hitler intends relies
this time on peace, not on war. A price has to be
paid for the Austrian Anschluss. The armed method
by which it was achieved never can be repeated with
impunity nor attempted without catastrophe. Less
than a year ago the isolationists in the United States
were in a decisive majority. To-day the growth of
feeling is all the other way, though there is not yet
by any means a majority for intervention. This
change has been caused by the arbitraiy method of
the Anschluss, by the renewed persecutions of Jews,
and by the Japanese onslaught on China.
When Japan was encouraged to her own detri-
ment by the Anti-Comintern Pact, America was for-
gotten. Tokio, in the long run, will be more a liability
than an asset to Berlin and Rome. Mr. Cordell Hull’s
broadcast speech in “moral support” of the democ-
racies was emphatic enough at the height of the Euro-
pean alarms. Roosevelt himself went further in his
pledge to Canada on the soil of Canada.
It is not by long chalks a positive assurance that
in case of conflict the United States would come in.
But it is an intimation to the dictatorships that at the
pinch the United States would not be able to keep
out. In the air-age the world has become too small,
and the future of America’s own vital interests, both
in the Atlantic and the Pacific, would be too closely
affected. This is no charter for the Czechs to refuse
effective concessions to the Sudeten Germans. It does
not mean an indiscriminate crusade against dictator-
ships as such. But it does mean a far-reaching gain
to all the moderating influences that are making for
the return of reason and the saving of peace.
The Hungarian Minority
(i Condensed from London “Daily Mail.”)
To represent the agreement made at Bled as an
adhesion of Hungary to the Little Entente is a travesty
of the facts. It will not become operative until the
Czech Government has bestowed upon the 700,000
Hungarians living under its rule the same autonomous
institutions as those claimed by the Sudeten Germans.
Only when both these subject populations have
been accorded reasonable amelioration of their
exploited condition will Hungary pledge herself to
renounce force against Czechoslovakia. The agree-
ment therefore does not weaken the Sudeten cause
but reinforces it. However, the Czechs, by satisfying
Sudetens and Hungarians, will establish peace on their
southern as well as their northern frontier.
This contribution by the Hungarians to a Central
European settlement is an example of the magnanimity
which is so marked a characteristic of that nation.
The Czechs from the first behaved ruthlessly towards
Hungary, both in their territorial annexations and in
their treatment of Hungarians under their yoke. Hun-
gary’s provisional promise to respect the existing fron-
tiers offers the Czechs an ideal opportunity to go as
far as possible along that path of concessions to
minorities which will alone assure peace to Central
Europe.
Britain’s Naval Strength.
{Condensed from an article in London “Daily Telegraph”
by Hector C. Bywater.)
The long-delayed restoration of the Navy was
tackled in earnest in the spring of 1936. The building
programme for 1936-38 was: Seven battleships, five
aircraft-carriers, 21 cruisers, 33 destroyers, 17 sub-
marines.
Collectively these ships form a powerful and well-
balanced fleet, the last unit of which should be in
commission by 1942. Five of the battleships belong
to the King George V. class, 35,000 tons, protected
by massive armor, engined for a speed of about 30
knots, and armed with numerous 14in. guns, hard-
hitting, long-range weapons with a high rate of fire.
Their anti-aircraft batteries are the most formidable
ever installed in British men-of-war.
The two battleships of the 1938 programme are
to be larger, though they will not exceed 40,000 tons.
They are to mount 16in. guns. Further battleships
will be provided for in next year’s Estimates.
Four of the aircraft-carriers now building are
ships of 23,000 tons; the fifth may be larger. Their
speed is 31 knots, and they have accommodation for
70 aircraft. Together with the 22,000-ton Ark Royal,
which is to be commissioned in September, they will
take to sea 420 aeroplanes, a total that will be con-
siderably increased if, as is anticipated, five of the
older carriers are retained on the active list. Further-
more, at least 100 aircraft will eventually be borne
in battleships and cruisers fitted with catapults.
At the beginning of this year the Fleet Air Arm
had only 230 aircraft, so the magnitude of the effort
to develop naval aviation will be appreciated.
Both before and during the Mediterranean crisis
the dearth of cruisers caused anxiety. Upon cruisers
devolves the responsibility of guarding trade routes,
and in view of the enormous area to be covered it
"Must Have Said.”
When a foreign correspondent is short of real
news, he is apt to consult (or invent) “a Czecho-
slovakian spokesman” or “a high Government
official”; sometimes he chats with “Whitehall”; he
penetrates “authoritative circles.” “The Bulletin”
has pointed out before that the chatter of these
hobodies is not worth listening to.
It has been reserved for the Sydney “Morning
Herald’s” mysterious “Observer in Europe” to give
a new lead to Australian journalism. He frankly
admits that his story is the work of his own fertile
imagination. He has invented “must have said”: —
The German Minister must have said roughly the
following to Litvinoff: “My Government desires to
inform your Government that, in the event that
Lord Runciman’s mission should have no results,
a war would become unavoidable”....
The Commissar for Foreign Affairs must have
replied: “I thank you very much for this un-
pleasant communication, but 1 am convinced that
the mission of Lord Runciman will not fail to
lead to results, provided that Germany has not
yet decided to condemn it in advance to remain
futile... .Should Germany do so then my Govern-
ment desires to inform you that, in the event
of a military attack on Czechoslovakia, Russia has
decided to observe in full the obligations which it
has accepted by treaty” ....
There are endless possibilities in “must have
said.” Applied, say, to law reporting, it would
brighten up the account of any case to report not
the evidence, but what the witness “must have said,”
or might have said, or even couldn’t possibly have
said.
In law reporting, of course, it would lead to
libel actions, which cost newspapers money. In
foreign affairs the field is free, and any sensation-
mongering idiot, imagining what the German or the
Russian Minister “must have said,” can do his bit
to keep the world in the jitters.


SWITZERLAND
for
SPORTS
PLEASURE
HEALTH
EDUCATION.
BERLIN •
• LONDON
VIENNA,
ViF"-
PARIS
• A*
■WH
-4-~.
• GENOA
MARSEILLES
• —►•TOULON-
NICE •
ere
now
• NO VISAS
• NO MONEY FORMALITIES
• PRICES TO SUIT EVERY POCKET
• REDUCTIONS IN RAILWAY FARES'UP TO 45%
huijA.4o /
MORE/
further Information tan be obtained at Shipping Companies and Travel Agenelei or at the
C «2 S c!m»! S < L\ W^!; RLAND CONSUIATE GENERAL OF SWITZERLAND SWISS CONSULAR AGENC
422 Collin, Street. Melbourne ~ 7 p ,„ „ Eaq|e strcet . Brisbane
&
SF
sjf
i
When a WOMAN
tells you
that it is nearly fifty years
since she bought her first
tin of Calvert’s Tooth
Powder,
that she doesn’t want to
boast, hut her teeth are
very white still,
that nothing but Calvert’s
Tooth Powder has been
used on them since she
was twelve
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
RC. CALVERTS CO- _
Jound teeth if,
a u
7
**AR k
05
/ft
y.
y
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
is clear that the present authorised establishment of
60 modern and 10 over-age cruisers is inadequate.
That this total will be increased in the near future
is considered inevitable.
Destroyers, too, are in constant demand. Even
when the programme is completed we shall have only
108 modern destroyers, plus about 60 old boats. The
omission of destroyers from the 1938 plan has evoked
criticism, but a number of these vessels will probably
be ordered next year.
In addition to the impressive new construction,
dockyards are working full pressure on the modernisa-
tion of older vessels.
In spite of the large increase in personnel—from
89,863 officers and men in 1933 to 119,000 in the
present year—the fleet is still undermanned. To cope
with the great influx of entries all training establish-
ments have had to be enlarged and two new ones
established. Except in certain artificer branches there
has been no difficulty in filling up the ranks. Boys
and young men of the best type have responded in
thousands.
The Admiralty is preparing to equip the greater
part of our merchant fleet with the means of self-
defence, such as guns for low- and high-angle fire
and anti-mine paravanes. Defence courses for mer-
chant navy officers were instituted last year, and over
5000 have already graduated.
There is an acknowledged shortage of cargo-
carrying ships—about 2000 fewer than we had in 1914
--but, except for this, Britain is in a far better posi-
tion to-day to meet a challenge to her sea communi-
cations than she was at the outbreak of the Great
War.
The Collapse of Churchill.
[Fireworks from Winston Churchill are a feature
of the cable news every time Europe has a “crisis.”
His speeches, recently published under the title Arms
and the Covenant, are brilliantly analysed by G. M.
Young in this (condensed) article from London
“Mercury.” They show him laughing at the League,
recognising that certain injustices in Europe had to be
settled before peace could be assured, demanding for
Britain an “unassailable neutrality”; then they show
him swallowing the bait of Geneva, and developing the
illogical and dangerous mentality that has won him the
favor of cable-colorists.J
Mr. Churchill is of all living Englishmen the
most eloquent. The remarkable position he has
attained is a good example of the power of coher-
ence: on foreign policy and defence, all his ideas
stand in a systematic relationship with each other.
On these subjects he spoke in 1932, when the
Pacifist Terror was at its height: when a man took
his political life in his hands if he ventured to doubt
the identity of Geneva with the Garden of Eden.
“I have sympathy with, and respect for, the well-
meaning, loyal-hearted people who make up the
League of Nations Union in this country, but what
impresses me most about them is their long-suffering
and inexhaustible gullibility. Why do they not look
down beneath the surface of European affairs to the
iron realities which lie underneath?
“We might find ourselves pledged in honor and
in law to enter a war against our will and against
our better judgment in order to preserve those very
injustices which sunder Europe to-day: which are the
cause of present armaments: which if not arrested
will cause another war.
“The Government’s duty is not only to try, within
the restricted limits which, I fear;, are all that are
open to them, to prevent war, but to make sure that
we ourselves are not involved in one, and above all
to make sure that if war should break out among
other Powers, our country and the King’s Dominions
can be effectively defended, and will be able to pre-
serve, if they desire to do so, that strong and un-
assailable neutrality from which we must never be
drawn except by the heart and conscience of the
nation.”
This speech furnishes the programme of
Churchill’s next six years. The parting of the ways
is reached with the Abyssinian crisis. Churchill in
1935: —
“What is the great new fact about the League of
Nations? Jt is this, the League of Nations is alive.
It is alive and in action. It is fighting for its life.
Probably it is fighting for all our lives.”
The great new fact turned out to be the very
old one, that the man who is ready to fight will get
his way with fifty who are not. From this point onward
Churchill is occupied with two chief causes. One is
rearmament. The other is the building of some
system of collective action in defence of international
order. Churchill speaks with less decision ; his oratory
verges on flocculence. The cause is the baffling per-
plexity of the theme: the extreme difficulty of form-
ing any union not directed against Germany, or
capable of being so interpreted, not by Germany only.
Churchill sees the difficulty, walks round it, and leaves
it where it was. His speech of last March 14 ends:
“If a number of States were assembled round
Great Britain and France in a solemn treaty for
mutual defence against aggression: if they had their
forces marshalled in what you may call a Grand
Alliance: if they had their staff arrangements con-
certed : if ail this rested, as it can honorably rest, upon
the Covenant of the League of Nations, in pursuance
of the purposes and ideals of the League: if that was
sustained, as it would be, by the moral sense of the
world: and if it were done in the year 1938 —and
believe me, it may be the last chance there will ever
be for doing it —then I say that you might even now
arrest this approaching war. Then perhaps the curse
which now overhangs Europe might pass away. Then
perhaps the ferocious passions which now grip a great
people would turn inwards and not outwards in an
internal rather than an external explosion, and man-
kind would be spared the deadly ordeal towards which
we have been sagging and sliding month by month.”
If to promote an “internal explosion” of “ferocious
passions” in Germany is action “in pursuance of the
purposes and ideals of the League of Nations,” I
don’t wonder that the Germans prefer to stay outside.
And how is such policy to be distinguished, morally,
from the subterranean activities of the Comintern?
Spanish Deadlock.
(Condensed from London “Daily Mail”)
Franco’s reply to the plan for Withdrawing foreign
volunteers from Spain puts the non-intervention
scheme back to the point from which it started more
than a year ago. He is willing that volunteers shall
be withdrawn in equal numbers from each side, but
only “on the basis of the prior grant of belligerent
rights.”
Here is the old stumbling-block all over again.
The British plan was first put forward in July, 1937.
There were interminable arguments as to which should
come first —withdrawal of volunteers or the grant of
belligerency. Germany and Italy desired that the two
acts should be simultaneous. Russia flatly refused
to grant belligerency at all.
During many weary months the Non-intervention
Committee debated this deadlock. At length the plan
emerged, belated but triumphant. Its acceptance
depended upon the consent of the opposing sides in
Spain. Did it not occur to anybody to make sure of
that consent beforehand? Such an obvious precaution
would have prevented this new anti-climax.
Franco contends, in a reply notable for its
cordiality, that he is entitled to belligerent rights with-
out conditions. That implies the right to search vessels
for contraband and to impose a blockade. Since
the Burgos Government controls the sea belligerent
rights would be a weapon of immense value in its
hands.
The final paragraph of his reply is a definition of
the war aims of the Burgos Government, and a pledge
that the territory of Spain will remain inviolate.
And now the Non-intervention Committee is to
try again. These negotiations cannot be allowed to
drag endlessly on. The coming into full force of the
Anglo-Italian Agreement depends on a settlement of
the Spanish question. Must this wait on further talk?
The war in Spain is a struggle to the death in
which neither side will make the smallest concession.
They are manoeuvring for position in diplomacy just
as they are in the field, and while both possess friends
willing to pour men and materials into the country
excuses for doing nothing will continue to be made,
as, naturally, neither will make the move to refuse
them. What is the good of expecting one country
to stop sending assistance if another goes on doing so?
Everyone desires to see an end of this terrible
conflict. Is it not feasible to devise some new scheme?
1 he only possible way would be by agreement among
the Powers to appoint a date by which the flow of
men and equipment would cease —and to stick to
that date. Once extraneous aid was denied to Spain
the withdrawal of volunteers would be simplified and
the question of belligerent rights would cease to be
the dangerous international bone of contention that
it is now.
The Unsleeping Army.
(Condensed from London “Daily Mail.”)
Probably no one man knows at a given moment
just how many of Mr.. Thomas Atkins is here or there
on the complex map of the British Empire.
British soldiers are losing their lives in Palestine.
The number of troops in Palestine constantly fluctuates
as reinforcements are drafted there from Egypt and
back again, and as other reinforcements are sent out
from home. In normal times the Palestine garrison
would be two battalions, say 1500 men. But in 1936,
when the Royal Commission was appointed, the gar-
rison was increased to 16,000 men, and later to 24,000.
The number is now more than 7000.
With the infantry are an armored-car company,
cavalry units, units of the R.A.S.C., Royal Corps of
Signals, Royal Ordnance Corps and Royal Pay Corps.
Two squadrons of the Royal Air Force are co-operat-
ing, and in May last one fighter and two bomber
squadrons were sent to the Middle East, where they
are within easy reach. The total R.A.F. strength within
flying distance of Palestine is 11 squadrons.
Increased numbers of machine-guns are being
supplied to the infantry. Three more battalions, total-
ling about 2000 men, will sail in September for Pales-
tine. Later reinforcements will bring the forces in
Palestine up to 10,000 men. In reserve in Egypt are
four battalions of infantry and two regiments of
cavalry, which are now being converted into light-
tank units.
These forces are but a section of the British
Army which is always engaged in preserving order
in British possessions. Last year, of the Regular Army
total strength of 205,440, only 114,000 —slightly more
than half —were stationed at home.
In India, where sporadic warfare has been going
on in the North-West for years, there have been 58,000
troops ; in Egypt the garrison has numbered 9600 ;
and in the Far East —Shanghai and Hong Kong—
-7600 men have been.on duty.
Smaller stations of the Empire are Malaya, with
4000; Malta, with 3500; Gibraltar, with 2670 ; the
Sudan, with 1900 ; Bermuda and Jamaica, with 1070 ;
and 900 men garrison little places like St. Helena, the
Seychelles and the Windward Islands.
These figures do not include the Indian Army,
which totals 141,000 regular Indian troops, the
auxiliary force of 24,000, the Indian Army reserve of
34,400, and the Indian State forces of 45,600. The
Indian and British armies co-operate on the North-
West Frontier in the proportion of about one British
to three Indian soldiers.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Maoriland trainer Fred Jones has a
fine Chelmsford Stakes record. He won
that weight-for-age race three times with
Limerick, and on Saturday he scored
with Royal Chief, who started at 4 to 1.
Jones won’t have it that Royal Chief is
as good as Limerick, but in the latest
Chelmsford Royal Chief proved good
enough—better than Avenger (evens) on
the day.
Bartle rode the Maoriland horse very
cleverly. He waited for a run on the
rails at the home turn, and got it. Darby
Munro, on the other hand, lost ground
by taking Avenger on the outside.
Avenger finished well, but made no im-
pression on Royal Chief, who beat him
by a length and a quarter. Derby candi-
date Limulet was a fair third; Allunga
and Genetout —backed at fours —were
fourth and fifth respectively: they were
never dangerous. Evidently Genetout is
not up to weight-for-age standard. Royal
Chief carried 9st. 71b. He has Bst. 131 b.
in the Metrop., and is now one of the
favorites.
On Mohican in the Tramway Handi-
cap Munro was seen at his best, and in
the result Mohican won brilliantly from
Denis and King’s Head; length and a
half ; neck. Mohican ran the seven fur-
longs in lmin. 23sec., thus equalling
Lough Neagh’s Australasian record. He
had a smooth passage throughout. There
was a lot of interference near the five-
furlongs post, Publicity, Rodborough and
King’s Head being sufferers. Publicity
nearly fell, and his rider —thankful that
both had escaped serious injury—did not
persevere with him. Mohican earned
9st. lib., and has the same in the Epsom.
It is questionable whether he can beat
Denis, whose rider was disappointed
when going for a run opposite the Leger.
Denis galloped most impressively when
he got clear. Buzalong, last early,
finished on solidly in eighth position.
There was no money for him.
The racing equivalent of the hat trick
goes down to Cooranga’s credit. With
nine pounds more than her Metrop, im-
post, 7st. 41b., the little Dunnottar mare,
co-favorite with Bristol (at fours) for the
Spring Handicap, raced from second-last
to first, and was going away from Peri-
mond and Jocular at the end of 10 fur-
longs, run in 2min. 31sec. Half a mile
from home Cooranga commenced to
move up, and she sustained her run most
convincingly. Bristol’s price eased from
5 to 2, and his showing was rather dis-
appointing. He was last to the home
turn, but finished seventh in a field of
eleven.
Three-year-old form improved as com-
pared with Warwick Farm and Canter-
bury. D. U. Seaton’s Derby candidate
Geebung—he bred the colt, who is by
Bold and Bad-Western Lass —is small,
but he lacks nothing in gameness. That
quality enabled him to beat Rosante and
Oration in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap. Geebung started at eights;
it was his first run since the autumn, and
though he may not measure up to the
standard of Nuffield he is a useful gal-
loper.
And Mosaic proved himself a good
miler. Randwick trainer Jim Abbs has
this Maoriland-bred colt, who is by Pos-
terity-Inlaid. Carrying a 31b. penalty
for a hollow victory at Rosebery on the
Wednesday, Mosaic, favorite at 4 to 1,
added the Novice Handicap to his score,
galloping the mile in lmin. 37|sec. Miss
Linbul, a 25-to-l chance, was about
eight lengths clear at the home turn.
Tiring, she ran wide, and Mosaic sneaked
through on the rails ; though his saddle
was slipping he beat her comfortably.
Will Rogers was third. Slanchivar would
have got a place had he left the barrier
with the others; but the well-backed
Strathroy beat only three home.
The Menangle-trained Speardale put
up a capital performance in the Welter
Handicap, in which he had top weight,
9st. 101 b. He settled down in second
place behind Moaenza, and after the
mare had run herself out he scored like
a good one from Micawber and Golden
Chance. For once Sir Regent jumped
away fairly well, but, refusing to gallop,
he dropped back to last. He came again,
and finished sixth. Sidcup disappointed,
but not so badly as the favorite, Kai
Tere —he was second-last.
* * * *
Victories of good Maoriland horses are
always popular at Randwick, and there
was a hearty round of applause when
Royal Chief came in after the race for
the Chelmsford Stakes. It was a most
creditable performance to beat as he did
a horse like Avenger, who looks much
more capable of carrying seven pounds
over weight-for-age than the rather ordi-
nary-looking bay from beyond the Tas-
man. On the other hand, Royal Chief
was obviously more forward than
Avenger, who can be considerably im-
proved. Moreover, nine furlongs is not
by any means Avenger’s best distance.
Really, Cooranga’s Metrop. trial was
more taking than that of Royal Chief,
though at the moment there is no differ-
ence between them in the Metrop. bet-
ting. The mare had two more furlongs
to traverse, and the farther she went the
better she galloped. There is a prejudice
against mares for spring handicaps, but
they did very well last spring. Though,
like Royal Chief, Cooranga is nothing
much to look at, her quality is not now
in doubt, and 13 furlongs should not
bother a mare who finished so fast at
the end of 11 furlongs.
Neither Mosaic nor Speardale is in the
Epsom. A pity, for both would have
made the race more interesting. It is
many years since a three-year-old won
the Epsom, but that is largely because
running three-year-olds in that race has
gone out of fashion ; the Derby is ever
so much more attractive to owners. The
Doncaster is a handicap in which three-
year-olds have shone; and, if all goes
well with Mosaic, he will have to be
reckoned with in the next Doncaster.
»i»
This Page’s faith in Publicity for the
Epsom and Bristol for the Metrop. was
shaken a bit by Saturday’s events. In
the Tramway Handicap Publicity was
knocked about rather badly, and the
experience cannot possibly help him;
then Neale, the boy who was to ride
him on October 1, was held responsible
for the scrimmage in which Publicity
fared so badly, and was suspended for
a month. As for Bristol, h£ showed no
dash. With Cooranga to pace* him up
to the field he should have done better,
even though the distance, a mile and
a quarter, is not nearly as far as he
likes. Judgment is reserved until after
Saturday’s racing at Rosehill.
* * * *
After Mohican’s success in the
Tramway Handicap, Russell the trainer
delivered his usual monologue to news-
papermen. His horse’s showing was a
vast improvement on displays at War-
wick Farm and Canterbury Park, and
it would have been no surprise had the
voluble one been invited to explain it.
The chairman of stipendiary stewards
is no great shakes as a monologue
artist, but he is all there when it comes
to putting questions.
* * * *
Nightguard is at Randwick and look-
ing and galloping well. He is in the
Camellia Stakes at Rosehill with Bst. 131 b.
—Mohican has 9st. 81b. and Stretto
9st. 51b.—and in the Hill Stakes with
9st. That, of course, is a weight-for-age
race; Gold Rod has 9st. 31b. and
Nuffield 7st. 121 b.
* * * *
W. J. Smith, of Australian Glass, has
bought Hua for his Scone (N.S.W.) stud.
Presumably because Hua is Australian-
bred, he was sold for 2300 guineas. A
cheap stallion; in England he would
have fetched five or six times the money.
* * * *
Reward for his enterprise as a buyer
of yearlings is reaching R. R. Thomas,
a Melbourne sportsman. At the Rand-
wick sales in 1936 Thomas gave top
price (1700gns.) for the colt by Heroic-
Desdemona, now known as Othello.
Twelve months later he expended
1300gns. on the purchase of Cassio, a
brother to that thoroughbred.
Othello ran third to Pamelus and
Amiable in the Oakleigh Plate last Feb-
ruary, but let his owner down on several
subsequent occasions. However, this
handsome chestnut was narrowly beaten
by Mutable in the V.A.T.C. Heatherlie
Handicap on September 3, while on
Saturday he finished a highly creditable
third in the Budgeree Handicap at
Moonee Valley.
Cassio is proving more of a bread-
winner than his brother. Following a
surprise win at Williamstown on August
27 he registered another all-the-way win
at the Valley, starting at 15 to 1 and
paying £4 19s. for each ss. on the tote.
The week-end race captured by Cassio
was the Moonee Valley Stakes, worth
£7OO and a £5O trophy. Confined to
three-year-olds, it was run at special
weights, with penalties and allowances.
Punters backed Lord Windburra down
to twos because of his third to Ajax
and Ena in the Underwood Stakes at
Williamstown. Six others were preferred
to Cassio. Leading throughout, Cassio
lasted just long enough to beat Kingdom
by half a head, with Good Boy half a
neck farther off. Second most of the
way, Lord Windburra faded to fourth.
Without doubt Kingdom ought to have
won. Three furlongs from home he and
Good Boy were at the rear of the field.
Kingdom made even heavier weather
than Good Boy, and spectators gasped
with wonder when he swooped down on
Cassio, making the latter seem to be
anchored.
Kingdom (Thracian-Queen Consort) is
certain to be the star member of Lou
Robertson’s team at the spring meetings.
Tactical filled that role in autumn by
landing the V.R.C. Ascot Vale Stakes;
but, making due allowance for a 91b.
penalty, Tactical didn’t acquit himself
satisfactorily in the Moonee Valley
Stakes.
Similar riding tactics were employed
with Othello in the Budgeree Handicap
as with Cassio earlier in the afternoon.
Breasley rushed him to the front, and
looked like remaining there until Barapic
and afterwards Aitchengee joined issue.
Verdict went to Aitchengee by half a
head from Barapic ; Othello a neck away.
Othello was favorite (fours), Aitchengee
at sevens and ‘Barapic at 10 to 1.
Frank Manning, his trainer, considered
that Aitchengee would have been even
closer than third in the V.A.T.C. Memsie
Stakes on September 3 but for being so
well forward early. W. Elliot adopted
waiting tactics on Saturday, and almost
overdid it by being a clear last at the
three-furlongs pole. The finishing effort
of Aitchengee was as remarkable as that
of Kingdom in the Valley Stakes.
Four horses —Pilot, Frill Prince, Iva
and Phildean —fell three furlongs from
home in the Budgeree Handicap. Keith
Voitre, the rider of Frill Prince, suffering
from severe concussion and probable
fracture of the skull, was conveyed to St.
Vincent’s Hospital, where he died about
10 p.m.
The accident occurred in practically the
same locality as where Voitre sustained a
broken leg through a fall off Valiant
Chief two years before. No better light-
weight jockey than Voitre had ever
migrated to Melbourne from M.L. He
had a wide circle of friends and admirers.
Five of the six events at Moonee
Valley were won by half a head —some-
thing that never had happened there
before and may not recur. Impersonator
(7 to 4) was lucky to defeat Clear Recep-
tion, a rank outsider, in the Corroboree
Maiden, and backers had another stroke
of fortune when their first choice, Comic
March, at fours, stalled off late _ chal-
lenges from Brian and Gladstone in the
Nulla Nulla Welter.
This Page selected Kingdom for the
Moonee Valley Stakes and Gladstone
for the Welter. Each should have scored.
Gladstone, a 12-to-l shot, was only two
heads behind the winner. He came on
the scene just too late.
The Boomerang Hurdle went to Shere
Khan (5 to 2) and the Mount Cotterell
Steeple to Firewood (twelves). North
Cape (9 to 4) was unplaced in the Hurdle,
as also was Kashgar (threes) in the cross-
country event. Each had every chance
in running.
* * * *
Keelie (imp.), engaged in the Caulfield
Cup with 7st. 131 b. and in the Mel-
bourne Cup with lib. more, carried Bst.
91b. to victory over furlongs at Ascot
(Vic.) on Wednesday. Always favorite
and starting at twos, the son of
Cameronian established a substantial lead,
but tired in the uphill finish and beat
Hoo Tsai by a mere head.
On paper this does not appear much
of a Cup recommendation, but Keelie is
certain to improve with racing. His sire,
Cameronian, won an English Derby.
Third place in that classic this year fell
to Scottish Union, a son of Cameronian,
and Scottish Union won the St. Leger last
week. As a three-year-old (he now ranks
as five by Australian time) Keelie won
a li miles handicap at Nottingham.
In a field of 14 Ronolive (Ronsard-
Mount of Olives) landed the Cottenham
Handicap at Ascot by half a neck from
the Albanian filly Delvino, with Amplify
(5 to 4, favorite) badly beaten into third
place. Ronolive figured at sevens and
Delvino at 15 to 1. Keith Voitre had the
winning mount
Ronolive is trained by A. C. Ling, who
nearly succeeded in pulling off the V.R.C.
Grand National Hurdle with Wallace
Drake. Her dam won the S.A.J.C. Derby
10 years ago, and is by Lucknow (Caul-
field Cup, 1919) from Sister Olive (Mel-
bourne Cup, 1921). Good breeding this.
The opening event at Ascot, a Trial
Hurdle, went to Trafalgar Bay, who
started at 20 to 1 and returned £7 16s.
for ss. on the tote. Trafalgar Bay was
having his first run over the battens. The
trainer, H. Leek, who bets boldly if the
occasion warrants, allowed him to run
loose.
Equatis (by Equator) and Gaiety (by
Ronsard) fought out an exciting finish
in the first division of the Encourage*
Handicap. Verdict went to Equatis (5
to 2) by half a neck. Gaiety was a 20-
to-1 pop and paid nearly 5 to 1 for a
place. The sire of Equatis was imported
from England by present V.R.C. chair-
man Alan Currie ; Ronsard was brought
out by Alan Currie’s predecessor, the
late L. K. S. Mackinnon. Big things
were expected of Ronsard on the turf
and at the stud. He failed to stand a
preparation, but was tried by James
Scobie to be a high-class thoroughbred.
Elliot, who has headed the list of win-
ning jockeys in Melbourne for two
seasons past, brought Crowsaint from
the rear of the field in the Holyrood
Handicap to pip Miss Burn (twos) by a
head. Fives could beTiad about Crow-
saint.
Bill Burke, now in Sydney with a small
string of horses, was represented in the
Sturt Trial by Monkshead, who sup-
planted Trozene in favoritism. Monks-
head got into hopeless difficulties, but
Trozene relieved the situation for backers
by scoring easily from Route March (a
coming winner) and Rare Avon.
“Spare Pilling”: One of the minor
successes of the Australian team has
been ’keeper Barnett, who has proved
himself as valuable in front of the stumps
as behind them. No less an authority
than the “Times” speaks with august
approval of a record bit of ’keeping by
him which seems to have escaped general
notice. In the Notts Test Barnett allowed
only a single bye in a total of 658, and
at Lord’s another single in England’s
score of 494. Two byes only out of
1152 runs is pretty good going, as the
journal says.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The Marylebone club has
rejected the South African proposal for
the covering of wickets during the M.C.C.
team’s tour of South Africa, on the
ground that “the principle is opposed to
all cricket laws.” A pity this was not
realised sooner. Perhaps the M.C.C.
will stiffen its backbone and apply its
new attitude to Australian matches at
home and abroad and give that poor
devil the bowler a chance to justify his
existence.
Jj! 5*C * *
Claude Jennings, appointed to the
Board of Control by S.A. in place of
Clem Hill (who has removed to Mel-
bourne), was a batsman member of the
Australian XI of 1912, from Queens-
land, where he was stationed at the time.
Hill’s seat as a members’ representative
on the committee of S.A. Cricket Asso-
ciation has gone, after a brisk election,
to Waddy, of the Adelaide Steamship Co.,
who defeated Vic Richardson.
{Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Camellia Stakes: Denis or Night-
guard ; next, Korimako.
Spring Handicap: Bristol; next,
Genetout.
Rosehill Guineas: Respirator;
next, Limulet.
Hill Stakes: Gold Rod ; next,
Nuffield or Nightguard.
Highweight Handicap: Cool-
spell ; next, Lochray.
FOR MENTONE.
Leslie Stuart Stakes: El Golea ;
next, Beechwood.
Mentone Cup: Footmark; next,,
Kingdom.
Dandenong Welter: Dazzling
Star; next, Bustard.
Yarraman Handicap: Lord Wind-
burra ; next, Good Boy.


M
j|| All-Way-
Traction.
Rice Field.
Cane Field.
- ‘
Implement
Rib Tread. Tyre.
SURE-
GRIP
J Tractors 1
fare fitted with
Goodyear
Jyres than with
any other
Now—no matter where your farm, what your
crops or what your soil Goodyear Tractor
Tyres, replacing steel wheels, will make your
tractor more useful —do all your work better,
faster, easier. With Goodyear's increased trac*
tion, your tractor has greater drawbar pull,
pulls heavier loads in higher gear. Goodyear
Tractor Tyres save 25% on fuel, 33% on labor,
33% on oil and grease. They save 50% on re-
pairs and add 20% to 30% to the tractor s life.
GOODYEAR BUILDS THE WORLD'S
MOST COMPLETE TRACTOR
TYRE LINE
with treads specially designed to give maxi-
. mum traction in every type of soil and work.
Let your Goodyear Dealer help you select the
tyre to serve you best, longest and cheapest
in YOUR soil.
ott V*ve°s£d
ItV>g *****
have >
G° odV
%%***'***'
.. -Ttacvoi I**? 1 *»•»«*
r-nO 1
)^r.
A
V.
r\
TRACTOR
TYRES
TO-'C9-’3B.
SEND FOR INTERESTING LITERATURE
on the advantages of pneumatic tyres for tractors and farm
machinery. Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co. Branches in all capita!
cities.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 98.


<Si
SKfi
yffi'fl
you can depend on
CHAMPION hugs
for SPEED
Speed, properly used, increases
the pleasure of motoring. To get
the best speed from your car
without sacrificing economy, in-
stall new Champions. These are
the plugs racing champions use
with constant success on land, /
in the air and on the water. /
\ An Empire product—made in Windsor.Con.^
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
crt’EcV
AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE__OtL,
a
i i
4
6
the oW <<*
,uM fuUtlhetuHe
It’s easier to walk than to work—and using a Kismet Foot
Pump is just like walking! You simply “step on it and the
patent double-cylinder action operates with a supercharger
effect to inflate tyres in half the usual time. No bending
no puffing—no time-wasting! There’s an accurate Kismet
Gauge fitted for correct pressure-checking, too.
PRICE 95/-.
An engineer’s job—built to outlast several cars.
A real investment for any motorist.
KISMET
2 CYLINDER’S STAGE
FOOT PUMP
Manufactured by WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENG.
Factory Representative in Australia:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE. VICTORIA.
sdf
Ins and Outs
The Australians’ innings against War-
ner’s XI at Folkestone was a curiosity in
its way. After a cheap start the middle-
markers came nobly to the rescue and
the rabbits scored like Bradmans. Actu-
ally Barnett and Barnes had saved an
ugly situation with their scores of 82
and 91 ; there was a lull for a bit, and
then a great stand by Waite and O’Reilly,
who made 60 and 40 n. 0., with brief
assistance from Ward, brought the score
to 390.
Levett, the Kent amateur ’keeper,
outed three men (McCabe was one). The
best English bowling performance was
Todd’s 4-97.
But a greater surprise was to come.
Woolley went in with Fagg and de-
parted at Waite’s instigation when the
score was 10 and his own figure 5. It
was not until the tally was 39 and Waite
had claimed Fagg for 22 that Ward
went berserk. Raging like a fire in a
metho. factory, he cleaned up all the
rest of the Britons save A. Pope, whom
Fortune reserved for O’Reilly’s 100th
wicket of the tour. Paynter was
Ward’s first victim, and, except for
Ames, who played a fine shot for 78,
to be caught by the bowler off a red-hot
return, and A. Pope (41), none of the
others could do much with him. The
innings closed at 223.
Five of Ward’s wickets were clean
bowled, his tremendous break and pace
off the pitch gravelling most of the bats-
men. He ended with 7-117, and at the
end of this innings needed but nine more
wickets to get his century for first-class
matches on the tour. A pity he could
not strike this form earlier.
Batting again, Australia had another
pleasant surprise. McCabe came to an
end of his bad trot apparently, and
scored 91 in racing style, this bringing
his total of runs for the tour to over
1000. He went in first with Brown, and
after the latter had been caught by
Levett off A. Pope for 22 McCabe laid
on to the bowling in his best style until
Valentine caught him off Todd. Badcock
showed a return to form, scoring 39
before he touched one from Wilkinson
which Woolley snapped up in the slips.
Hassett (18) and Barnes (15) had an
off-day, and at stumps Barnett was hold-
ing the pass with Waite, the ’keeper
having 6 to his credit, the total reading
5 for 204. Wilkinson took 3-75.
It might have been thought that the
Australian captain with a lead of 371
and five wickets to fall, would have
closed the innings. Not a bit of it; Mc-
Cabe allowed his batsmen to plod on to
lunch at funereal pace until at last he
closed with 7 down for 327. Waite
made a dreary and unwanted 42, and
Barnett raised his overnight score to
29. White was 5 not out with Fingleton,
who had reached 51. Todd, 2-69, and
Wilkinson, 3-86, had best bowling results.
Rain now set in, and Fagg and Woolley
knocked off 38 without loss before the
game was abandoned.
The match created little interest,
attendances being poor and, in the second
Australian innings, highly critical of the
slow batting.
* * * *
“Hove”: The' wearisome Australian
batting in the match with Warner’s team
at Folkestone has provoked some nasty
criticism. Even the friendly “Times”
said: “The Australian cricketers’ conduct
yesterday is scarcely likely to enhance
either their good name or their popu-
larity. The exhibition of pottering to
which spectators were subjected lacked
reason or good taste.” McCabe’s delay
in closing was half the trouble, but this
policy had been laid down by Bradman.
It has become evident that neither Brad-
man nor McCabe will rank with Aus-
tralia’s great skippers.
* * * *
Scarborough, where the Australians
began their -last first-class game against
Leveson-Gower’s team on Saturday, is
an ancient seaside town on a rocky coast
in East Yorkshire, almost opposite Black-
pool. It is on the wrong side of Eng-
land for horny-handed frequenters, and
considers itself quite the swankiest place
“ Herbert , you've forgotten your rabbit's foot!”
of its kind, since most of its patrons are
“county” or moneyed folk chasing that
privileged class. There is a strong old
castle, which had plenty of experience of
the stuff castles were built to withstand
when the Scots used to come south, and
there was a brief German bombardment
of the place during the Great War.
Some years ago it was
the tuna abounds in Scarborough waters.
A dreadful shock for fishermen who had
been fiddling for a few herring and hali-
but while many thousands of good Eng-
lish quids had crossed the world to be
spent in California tuna fishing. The
whole community was stunned for a bit,
but, being typically Yorkshire, has more
than made up for what it may have lost.
Sophisticated tuna fishers who have tried
both places now assert it is almost as
cheap to cross the world and fish at Cata-
lina as to pay the Scarborough charges.
The Scarborough match was originally
founded by C. I. Thornton, a mighty
hitter who never wore pad or gloves.
Nearly as big as “W.G.” —who invari-
ably played in this match —except in
front, he went clean-shaved and un-
hatted. “The doctor,” of course, sported
a bushy black beard and M.C.C. cap.
Leveson-Gower, who succeeded Thorn-
ton, was a product of Winchester and
Oxford and a fine batsman for Surrey
in his day, a day when he called himself,
as perhaps he does now, “Loosen-
Gore.”
Leveson-Gower fielded a strong team
—Gibb, Sutcliffe, Verity, Leyland, Bowes,
Hutton, Hardstaff, Barnett, Nichols,
Fames and Wyatt. Of the men avail-
able for Australia, Hassett, Walker and
White stood down.
The wicket was fast and true, and the
fact that the Australians, batting first,
could knock off only 306 with nearly all
day to work in suggests they are what
over the way in Lancashire they call
“reet stalled” with cricket. Fingleton and
Brown started well, Wyatt working his
bowlers vigorously instead of keeping
them on and letting the batsmen
get used to them. Fingleton departed at
36 for 17, Fames catching him off a
warm one at square-leg off Nichols.
Brown jogged placidly to 29 before
Nichols hit his pad. He had been joined
by Badcock when Fingleton went, but
the South Australian only stayed until
he had made 12, and three were gone
for 64.
The association of McCabe and
Barnes brought results, till just when it
seemed McCabe had spotted one of his
lost double centuries he went for 58, like
the German’s dog that swallowed the
dynamite, “pouf; like dot!” Barnes was
deserted early by Barnett (14), and there
were five gone for 150. Then Waite,
who more than once has shown himself
the right pea for a tight corner, to mix
one’s metaphors, came as Herminius to
Barnes’s Horatius. The pair fairly defied
the bowling. When they went, practi-
cally the last of the side to score —Barnes
(90) and Waite (77)—Ward, who can
score when in the mood, failed, as did
O’Reilly, Smith and McCormick. The
total was 306.
The English bowling leaned hard on
Nichols, who took six for 113. Fames
made his bag 3 for 75.
Sutcliffe and Hutton batted as might
be expected with time close at hand, and
had raised 15 each at stumps ; the total,
with a bye, 0-31.
Hs * * *
“Aigburth”: Czecho-etc. was chucked
out of the news pages last week to make
room for the announcement that Brad-
man is able to walk without stick or
crutch. He will not play again this
tour, however. Other recoveries are
Walker of the perennial broken finger,
F.-Smith of an attack of lumbago which
necessitated a stay in London’s bright
lights, Chipperfield and McCormick.
Bradman, by the way, has issued a
communique stating that on no account
will he accept any offer of a job in
England.
* * * *
“Groper”: Marble Bar (W.A.), the
spiritual home of at least one Bulletin
writer, has made a munificent offer to
the Australian XI. If, on its homeward
way, the team will call in at Marble Bar
and play a match against the locals, each
man will be presented with a case of
beer. This may seem a small thing in
the effete South, but at M. 8., rated by
many as the hottest place on earth, a case
of beer is more precious than a case of
sovereigns.
Footbrawl
As a result of Saturday’s match, Carl-
ton goes into the V.F.L. final on Satur-
day week. Geelong has to turn out
against Collingwood next Saturday, the
winner to meet Carlton. The Carlton
lads always had Geelong’s measure. They
led at the end of each quarter. At the
finish it was 113 points to 81 —16-17 to
10-21.
Port, West Torrens, South and Nor-
wood were the Adelaide Aussie rules
“four.” Port has ousted West Torrens
16-22 to 13-12.
In Perth the “four” are East Fre-
mantle, Claremont, Swan and East Perth.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The old Victorian F.A.
has ended the season jubilantly. The im-
provements in the rules have attracted
record audiences to the games and the
splosh is correspondingly plentiful. This
year the clubs will get a divvy of £6O
6s. 2d., the best for years —in 1934 it
was £4 10s. Charity gets a £3O grant,
and the screw of the secretary, cut in
1936 from £4OO a year to £l5O, will prob-
ably be augmented.
* X * *
Manly, beaten 11-6 by Drummoyne,
drops out of Sydney’s Rugby Union
competition. It’s West and Drummoyne
for Saturday’s so-called “final,” the
winner to go up against Randwick the
following week to decide the premier-
ship.
Towers, considered too old by State
and Australian selectors, was chiefly
responsible for Randwick’s whitewash-
ing West, 17 -nil. Drummoyne should
have had a bigger margin over Manly.
Forward, the Reds got more than a
share of the ball, and the backs ran
hard and straight. Drummoyne half-
back Vincent was everywhere ; he was
stoushed just before the finish.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Though the team doesn’t
depart until the middle of next year,
N.S.W.R.U., on behalf of Australia, has
started early on the “must nots.” No
wives may accompany the side, and no
films or gramophone records are to be
made ; also, none of the team may en-
gage in broadcasting or television. This
last seems looking far ahead for our
dear old R.U., which usually has its
peepers directed backwards. The cost to
Australia will not be great, all this end
has to do being to put the team f.o.b.


REDUCE YOUR
WAIST!
The GOVERN A BEET will
give you a slim, athletic
14 s “PPorts correctly
the delicate organs, and, by
gentle changing pressure,
banishes waistline fat and
bulge with every move
r ouß th ms°K EKNA BELT
OUR RlSK—in seven davs
your waistline will be Sins
smaller—or NO COST. Write
for lEEE TRIAK OFFER
and Illustrated Folder
GOVRRNA BEET CO
Dept. 82, *’
809 a Castlereagh St., Sydney.
sd
THIS FULL SIZED CHEVROLET
GIVES YOU THE BEST UTILITY
■z\
Compare Chevrolet’s
features with those of any other 10-12 cwt Utility!
3 DISTINCT CHASSIS
Chevrolet makes available three
distinctly different Utility Chasses —
the “Standard” and the “Master de
Luxe ” for 10-12 cwt. loads, and the
heavier type “ Commercial ” for
15 cwt. loads. Body styles ; Flare-
board, Wellsides, Open, Panel Van
(Standard and Commercial), Plat-
form, Coaming and Dropsides
(Commercial).
Equipment on all models includes
Front Bumper, Front Shock Absorb-
ers and No - draught Ventilation.
Master de Luxe models have, in
addition, Independent Front Wheel
Springing and Rear Shock Absorbers.
The 15 cwt. Commercial models are
equipped with an All-steel Truck Cab.
UTILITY CHASSIS PRICES from ... £239
Commercial Utility 112 in. w.b. Chassis £239
Standard Utility 112 f in. w.b. Chassis ... £249
Master Utility 112£ in. w.b. Chassis ... £269
Standard Coupe Utility with Open Body £307
Commercial Utility with Open Body and
Truck Cab £3OB
Master Coupe Utility with Open 80dy... £327
(AU Prices Plus Sales Tax)
Complete range of Standard Body Styles
for all Ratings.
Easy Terms Available under Confidential
G.M.A.C. Plan.
GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN’S LIMITED
SMART APPEARANCE . . . With their stylish body lines and
passenger car comfort, Chevrolet Utilities are as useful for pleasure
trips as for a slogging job of haulage work.
ALL-STEEL COUPE DRIVING COMPARTMENT . . . Furnished
with the luxury of a passenger car . . . Seats three people in comfort
. . . Has a flat floor, Safety Glass in windscreen and side windows
and genuine No-draught Ventilation for all-weather comfort.
BIG LOAD SPACE . . . Plenty of room for the most bulky 10-12
cwt. loads in Chevrolet’s rear compartment, with proper weight
distribution.
HYDRAULIC BRAKES . . . Chevrolet is the only full-sized low-
priced Utility equipped with Perfected “Full Contact” Hydraulic
Brakes—the costly system for which Chevrolet discarded the
mechanical type. Chevrolet’s Brakes are automatically equalized
and, with their controlled self-energising action, the safest brakes
known.
ECONOMICAL POWER . ..Chevrolet’s 6-cyl. Overhead Valve
Engine is the most efficient and economical full-powered engine
ever designed for Utility work ... It never needs replacing ... It
is easily accessible for servicing . . . Low cost spare parts and
expert service are available throughout Australia.
HIGH RESALE VALUE . . . Chevrolet’s consistently high resale
value protects your Utility investment. It is a direct result of
Chevrolet’s sound design and engineering.
Your nearest Chevrolet dealer will gladly arrange a demonstration
on your own job—there’s absolutely no obligation !
WH81938
Your Money Goes Further in a General Motors’ Product
I 11 11 t
JL IJL!AJKxJIIJLjLjU
UTILITIES
and TRUCKS
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia
C 636.33
and let John Bull do the rest. John, by
the way, hangs on to all the takings.
jfj
“Maitland”: The South Africans’ win
over Britain in the second Rugby Test
at Port Elizabeth gives them the un-
doubted right to call themselves world’s
champions, since they downed Australia
and M.L. last season and followed up
their win over Britain at Jo’burg with
the Port Lizzie victory. The All-Blacks
go to South Africa in 1940, and the
resulting clash should be too awful to
think about. The team played against
England contained only two men not
seen in Australia.
The third Test was Britain’s, 21-16,
after the Springboks had led 13-3 at
half-time. Ground was wet and heavy.
* * *
“Shabash”: That very sporting lot of
Indian Soccerites won from Queensland
in Brisbane by the narrow margin of a
goal, 7-6. At half-time the tourists led
by 5-1, but strenuous attacking work by
the home team proved once again that
in defence they are not the men they
are in attack, a verdict everyone who
has seen active service with Indian
troops will endorse.
The big crowd for Brisbane —of
16,000 saw Australia dashed lucky to
make a draw of the second Soccer Test
with India: 4 all. Only superlative goal-
keeping by McNabb saved the Austra-
lian side.
Racquet and Bawl
The winning of the Davis Cup doubles
by Australia revived hope in the breasts
of the optimists that the challengers
might yet pull off the tourney. Vain
hope! Quist, who was so easily cut
down by Riggs, could not stand up to
Budge, who made it 8-6, 6-1, 6-2. On
the other hand, Bromwich, stated by the
cables to be the outstanding contributor
to our doubles victory, had little trouble
with Riggs, winning 6-4, 4-6, 6-0, 6-2.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Australia got
a bit of its own back when the Aus-
tralian girls won their first match against
America by 6 rubbers 15 sets to 6 rub-
bers 14 sets. The highlight of the meet-
ing was Thelma Coyne’s defeat of Helen
Jacobs. On the first day at Southampton
the Australians won three of the four
singles and one of the doubles. On dif-
ferent courts at Easthampton next day
the Americans took three singles to one
and two of the three doubles.
* * * . *
“Thairty-fawty”: Quist’s defeat has
been the signal for a flood of that
squishy-squashy sentiment that seems to
attach to tennis. It is claimed that the
young man was so broken up at being
footfaulted that he was unable to play his
game. This is mere squealing. Foot-
faulting is illegal and is properly penal-
ised. Quist has been notorious for it for
years, here and abroad, and though he
has been sharply brought to heel has
never mended his ways. First-class judges
of the game like Willard and others who
have been footfault umpires to him
say they have “called” him time and
again. Dr. McElhone, a player of note
in his time and an outstanding authority,
endorses this, and adds that none of the
famous servers of the past, Patterson,
Vines and Tilden, ever footfaulted.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Davis Cup
result has set critics of all types on the
other side of the water trumpeting like
lovesick elephants. Englishman Wallis
Myers says the only fault he finds with
the footfaulting of Quist is that it was
deferred to a critical stage of the match
against Budge after passing unnoticed
earlier. A beautiful phrase comes from
the American Grantland Rice, who says
the faulting official “chucked the psy-
chological pineapple into the middle of
the show and wrecked the game.” He
adds his opinion that if Bromwich had
beaten Riggs on the first day instead of
being stacked against Budge, Quist, after
his doubles success, would have outed
Riggs in their singles to win the pot for
Australia. Very pretty all of it, but the
plain fact is we were well licked —chiefly
because we underrated one opponent and
sent away a player who has for years
been infringing one of the most impor-
tant rules in tennis in spite of reiterated
warnings.
Miscellaneous.
Australia’s hopes of regaining the
world’s professional sculling champion-
ship were dashed when Bobby Pearce
met Evans Paddon at Toronto. The
champion made it evident that he is
as good as or even better than ever he
was. Paddon had one heavy handicap.
In Australia championship races are
always on a three-mile straight course;
at Toronto the race was run over a
mile, with two turns. Pearce talks of
coming to Australia at Christmas. If
so, the Paddons will be after him for a
straightout go on the Nepean or the
Richmond.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Henley committee’s in-
vitation to “an Australian crew” to come
to London for the centenary regatta of
its club next year has been blithely seized
upon as an invitation to a Sydney crew,
and the Sydney press is already picking
the personnel. If any one State crew can
go it should be from the State which has
been the most consistent and formidable
of them all in its short existence in inter-
state rowing—Westralia.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The opening of the trout-
fishing season in Victoria brought hun-
dreds of cars and more hundreds of rods
to that majestic sheet of artificial water
the Eildon weir. But, although the con-
ditions were excellent, catches were small
amongst the horde of week-enders.
Reason was obvious. The F. and G.
Dept, made Thursday the opening day.
The leisured and well-to-do could close
their offices, post up to the weir and
pick the eyes out of the business. This
is what had happened. When the Satur-
day-nighters turned up the best of the
sport was over.
* * * *
“Woogaroo”: Queensland golfers are
frothing at the mouth over the decision
of the Australian golf heads to add yet
another “championship course” —that of
Kingston Heath to Melbourne’s more
than sufficient list. For years Brisbane
has been trying to get one of its courses
declared “championship,” and it was
tentatively promised a championship
meet for 1941 ; now this Kingston Heath
business has satisfied the northerners
that the Melbourne club will get the
event. Only an infuriated German who
has served in the French Foreign Legion
and then in the Spanish could find
adequate language to express Queens-
land’s opinion of the Melbourne mob.
♦ * # #
“The Gaffer”: The European athletic
championships at Paris saw A. G. K.
Brown take the 400 metres and D. O.
Finlay the 100-metres hurdles for Britain.
Finlay ran the hurdles in 14 3-10 sec.,
a European record. Brown’s time was
47 2-ssec. Hein, of Germany, is said
to have thrown the 161 b. hammer 192 ft.
9fin. If correct, this is a world’s record,
the previous best being 189 ft. 6iin. by
P. Ryan, of NX
* * * *
“Chev.”: A strong southerly kept the
Indian Ocean in occupation of the
Ninety Mile Beach on the day set down
for the Vic. Light Car Club meet, and
all events were called off. The young
English driver Whitehead skipped over
the flying mile at 118.8 p.m.h. in an
exhibition run. To make a new Aus-
tralian record he would have had to
repeat the performance on the return,
but a playful wave tore away the cool-
ing fins on one of the front wheel
brakes, ripped off the oil-filler cap and
flooded the engine crankcase. Never-
theless, his one-way run was sufficient
testimonial to the qualifications of the
beach as a racing track. The four miles
of sand laid bare by the tide will carry
a three-ton motor-truck without any
serious marking.


£5O
FOR FILM SCENARIO
OPPORTUNITY FOR
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS.
A scenario is required for a 3000 feet sound
film to be produced in Australia within the
next few months.
The Electrical Propaganda Film Committee
(representing the major electrical and radio
interests of New South Wales) offers £5O for
the scenario which, in its opinion, possesses
the greatest possibilities from the standpoint
of entertainment and propaganda value.
The Committee may also purchase two addi-
tional and alternative scenarios at fees of £2O
and £lO respectively.
SCRIPTS MUST BE SUBMITTED NOT
LATER THAN 4 p.m. ON MONDAY,
OCTOBER 17, 1938.
IMPORTANT: Writers intending to submit
scripts must, in the first instance, secure from
the undersigned an outline of the conditions
to be observed and of certain essentials which
must be embodied in any scenario submitted.
Andrew F. O. Brown, Hon. Secretary,
Electrical Propaganda Film Committee,
c/o Electrical and Radio Development
Association of New South Wales,
1 Jamieson Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Robin Hood.”
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland.
A predominantly small-boy audience
greeted this elaborate Technicolor pro-
duction at its first presentation at Syd-
ney Regent, and the comments of the
youngsters, heartily audible, made it
clear that the outlaw of the greenwood
and his merry men are as well known
to the coming-on generation as they were
to the boys of 50 or 100 years ago. The
robust old folktale has been treated with
the utmost of respect by the scenario-
writers ; all the incidents this commen-
tator can remember are there—the stave
fight between Robin and Little John
(Alan Hale); the sword battle between
Robin and Friar Tuck (Eugene Pallette);
the rescue of Robin from the gallows ;
the sticky end of Sir Guy of Gisborne
(Basil Rathbone), and just a sprinkling
of Romeo and Juliet business with Maid
Marian (Olivia de Havilland).
Flynn, the most effective screen swash-
buckler since the elder Fairbanks, has
a part that is all pie, and swaggers
through it superbly, and the well-known
character actors who support him —Her-
bert Mundin is one of them, and Claude
Rains (who plays wicked Prince John)
is another —give the romantic story both
humor and substance.
Scenes have been grouped, composed
and colored with an artist’s eye. The
crudities that marred earlier Technicolor
productions no longer obtrude them-
selves. The medieval costumes are worn
with an air, as if the characters were
well used to such garb, and such scenes
as the archery tourney and the inter-
rupted coronation of Prince John are
gorgeously gay.
“Blockade.”
Confronted with the task of produc-
ing a Spanish civil war film that would
give as little offence as possible to parti-
sans of the opposing armies in other
countries, Walter Wanger has adopted a
neutral attitude to the extent that the
contestants have been presented as war-
ring groups of no defined' politics or
creed. Uniforms worn have no resem-
blance to those in Spain, foreigners in
the film belong to no specified country,
and localities have been well disguised.
Consequently the film is little more than
a general indictment of warfare, with
which is blended a spy story.
There have been many better anti-war
films and more thrilling spy films, but
“Blockade” manages to interest and hold
attention despite manifest defects in plot
and acting. Madeleine Carroll never
comes to life as the young foreigner who
is forced to spy for one side and ends
up by selling out to the enemy. Her
eleventh-hour change of mind, attributed
to the spectacle of a town of starving
women and children, is unconvincing.
The emotions she registers are all syn-
thetic. It would have been more feasible
had her betrayal of her employers been
put down to her affection for Henry
Fonda. Henry Fonda, on the other hand,
finds material for a consistent character-
study. A small farmer with a deep love
of the soil, he is forced, owing to location,
to take up arms in a cause which he but
vaguely comprehends. He is bewildered
and bitter in turn, and what verbal out-
bursts he makes are aimed more against
the folly of war than individuals. Most
of his time is occupied in tracking down
spies, and the audience is treated to the
familar spectacle of the seductive adven-
turess testing the loyalty of the young
man in the opposite camp. In this case
loyalty wins, and since Fonda wins
Madeleine Carroll in the end everyone is
happy.
There are some realistic scenes of aerial
bombings of towns, and a long sequence
towards the end which shows the inhabi-
tants of a township starving because the
enemy fleet will not permit the arrival of
a foodship. Fonda’s friends eventually
secure safe passage for a ship laden
with food. Most cheerful slices in the
film are the clowning of Leo Carrillo as
a shepherd with a taste for wine and the
really beautiful pastoral scenes in the
opening.
“Fast Company ”
Melvyn Douglas, Florence Rice. *
Like “The Thin Man,” this opus com-
bines blase domestic comedy with crime-
detection ; thanks to first-class directing,
a foolproof plot and polished acting by
a uniformly strong cast it falls little, if
at all, short of that screen classic.
Melvyn Douglas improves with each
performance. Smooth as silk, with a
voice that is a joy to the ear, he throws
himself into the role of the rare-book
expert turned sleuth with a fine verve.
As a foil for him in the domestic scenes
Florence Rice admirably fills the bill.
When a wealthy and highly-respected
businessman who specialises in the buy-
ing and selling of stolen rare volumes
and phony first editions is bumped off
in circumstances which incriminate a
young friend of the expert-cwm-investi-
gator, the latter decides to get going.
Snappy deduction and preliminary skir-
“ROBIN HOOD.”
Friar Tuck (Eugene Pallette ) getting ready to duck Robin (Errol Flynn), to
the delight of Herbert Mundin.
mishing are followed by dangerous action,
the ingeniobs story moving at a breath-
taking bat, with thrills cropping up every
moment. Throughout there is a crackle
of clever dialogue.
One weakness —and this is a minor
one —is that the indestructibility of the
amateur detective is inclined to be
stressed. For example, one crook’s
marksmanship is so appalling that with
a sitting shot at his victim he succeeds
only in compelling him to carry an
air cushion around for a bit.
A special word of praise is due to
Louis Calhearn as a cultured killer of
ice-cold ferocity. At Sydney St. James.
“Love Finds Andy Hardy.”
Mickey Rooney, Lewis Stone, Fay Holden
and Judy Garland.
With so great a proportion of Holly-
wood’s producers fired with the urge to
tell the world that the U.S.A. is a land
peopled almost entirely by sadists and
racketeers, “swing”-silly morons and
divorce-hunting neurotics, it comes as a
relief to welcome a film which gives a
truer perspective of the American scene.
The vicissitudes of lovable old Judge
Hardy and his family have been the sub-
ject of former films, and this one
measures well up to the standard set.
As a portrait of late boyhood and the
effects of calf-love upon a healthy speci-
men of it it has not been surpassed on
the screen.
Mickey Rooney gives a slashing per-
formance as the youthful victim of Cupid.
It is difficult to believe that he did this
work surrounded by directors and
cameras. He is as natural as life itself.
His engaging grin is infectious, and when
the parental douche falls on his romantic
and other schemes he is the very picture
of utter dejection. He portrays not only
the American, but the world’s,, youth.
Lewis Stone enhances an already fine
reputation. Unerringly he limns the
kindly understanding, whimsical humor,
affection and quiet authority of the old
Judge, and Fay Holden as his wife, dis-
tracted by news of her mother’s illness,
gives a faultless performance. Some of
the most delightful touches in the film
occur in the scenes between father and
son, with the former unobtrusively break-
ing down the barriers to their mutual
confidences.
Judy Garland, Ann Rutherford and
Lana Turner perform capably as the trio
of flappers who speed the pulse of Hardy
junior. At Sydney St. James.
“Passport Husband.”
A fast-movipg comedy in which a
chivalrous, soft - headed kitchenman
(Stuart Erwin) has the principal role.
The quixotic plate-juggler worships from
afar a fiery cabaret dancer from the
Argentine (Joan Woodbury) whose
gangster sweetheart is deported from
America as an undesirable alien. The
gangster’s place in the dancer’s affection
is taken by his rival in the pin-machine
racket. The dancer is also under a threat
of deportation, and so that she may
obtain American citizenship her newest
admirer tricks Stuart Erwin into marrying
her. Erwin, husband in name only,
immediately becomes a target for the
gangs ruled by the dancer’s deported lover
and her new suitor. He narrowly
escapes death on a number of occasions,
and is contemplating divorcing the lady
when it is learned that he has inherited
a fortune. The dancer now endeavors to
establish herself in his favor, and the rival
gangs make plans to secure his fortune.
A tangle of complications follows, and
it is not until Erwin cleverly rounds up
both gangs that peace is restored. Pauline
Moore, a helpful friend and distant ad-
mirer of the muddler from the start, then
looks certain to win him the moment he
obtains his divorce from the dancer.
Stuart Erwin is well cast and the other
actors step into their parts with zest.
Sydney Embassy houses this diverting
film.
“Hollywood Roundup.”
Buck Jones and Helen Twelvetrees.
This back-studio Western pardon,
“outdoor special”—is a patchy affair.
Though in places the plot has more
holes than a rabbit warren in an out-
back paddock, there are occasional
flashes of originality, and there is no
lack of excitement of a sort.
The story revolves around the rivalry
between a powder-puff leading man
(Grant Withers) and his he-man stand-
in for the dangerous woik. Leading lady
is the cause. There are some dir-rty
doings in which Buck is framed. But
does he go to the little cold cell for a
long stretch? He does not! Aided by the
1.1.’s diminutive brother, he rounds up
the bad hombres by pulling the tail off
a speeding ’plane with his lariat, con-
founds the pretty boy, and at the final
fadeout is pondering how much the
bridal bouquet is going to set him back.
At Sydney Capitol.
“Start Cheering.”
Jimmy Durante, Waiter Connolly, Joan Perry.
Yet another cahledge fillum, complete
with hordes of freshers and co-eds neck-
ing in the campus by moonlight, with
the inevitable hidden symphony orchestra
playing “Yew doan wanna get me in
wrahng, bebby” (composed by A 1
Snigglezonk, Eb Gargoyle, Butch
Hootchstein and Ike Tinpan). There are
also —hold your seats! —slices of that
most unintelligible of games Amurrican
grid football, a spate of crooning at
the inexorable radio hour, and, as a
last straw, an exposition of that choice
example of mass idiocy known as the
Big Apple. But, wonder of wonders!
even this collective neckpain goes up in
the air when the combined weight of
Jimmy Durante and Walter Connolly
goes into the opposite scales. Durante’s
clowning especially is a pure joy, and
several one-man skits (one, a conver-
sation he unwittingly carries on with
himself on adjoining ’phones, is a gem)
saves the thing from being a flop.
Walter Connolly is his usual efficient self
in the role of a live-wire entrepreneur,
and Joan Perry just makes up the num-
ber. Charles Starrett in the juvenile lead
is weak and wooden. At Sydney Capitol.
Janette and Her Ingenues.
A particularly neat and well-balanced
little musical show is put on at Sydney
Regent in support of screen fare. Janette
and Her Ingenues are primarily a dance
orchestra, but most of the members
can sing or dance and can show ver-
satility with various instruments. Janette
herself has a voice that is not very
powerful but is very appealing, and the
20 minutes or so these girls spend on
the stage constitutes a variety show in
miniature.
Sargent Orchestral Concert.
The orchestral concert at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night ushered in, ac-
cording to various sanguine observers, a
new era in Australian music, by reason
of the fact that Dr. Malcolm Sargent
waved his baton over an aggregation of
players called the National Orchestra.
The distinction between this band and
others, variously known as the Sydney
Symphony, the A.B.C. and other titles,
seems to be mainly that the latest com-
bination contains some Melbourne and
some Sydney players, and is headed by
two (2) first violins —Lionel Lawson and
a gentleman always referred to by the
A.B.C. announcer as Edooard Lombare.
It is to be gathered, too, that in future
there will be some sort of permanency
about the personnel of the orchestra —
that it won’t just consist of whatever in-
strumentalists can be hired at the time
of a concert. If a permanent conductor
of adequate musical tonnage were to be
chucked into the recipe this commen-
tator would be prepared to take quite a
bright view of future prospects.
However, most of the players who
found their way into Saturday night’s
band seem to have had some experience
of Dr. Sargent’s style, and to be pos-
sessed of sufficient musicianship to catch
some of the life and fire of the works


CruiAe to
Vet* 'Jealand
A delightful 13 clays’ Holiday via Brisbane
calling at Auckland and Wellington and allow-
ing time for the Overland Trip or Special Day
Excursion to Rotorua, The Thermal Districts,
Waitomo Caves, and local sightseeing.
£tratkfltcf , e
leaves Sydney November 11
First Saloon from 21 guineas
Tourist Class from 13i guineas
Subsequent Cruises to New Zealand:
R.M.S. Narkunda December 24
(Christmas and New Year's Day at Sea)
R.M.S. Stratheden February 3
R.M.S. Strathallan ‘ March 3
TO HOBART
—— A Long Week-end Cruise
(Including Anniversary Day at Sea)
R.M.S. Strathaird
Leaves Sydney January 26 Returns Sydney January 31
First Saloon 9 to 11 guineas Tourist Class 6 to 8 guineas
Principal Agents:
MACDONALD HAMILTON & CO.
247 George Street, Sydney. Telephone: 87511
Joint Booking Agents, Tourist Class:
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON PTY. LTD.
S O'Connell Street, Sydney. Telephone: B 670 i
p*o
Pleasure CmtieA
Peninsular and Oriental S.N. Co. (Incorporated in England)
tifjfeuMeUa.
Limericß
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Third Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize . . . £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date September 30.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 3,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 30.
Results of this Third Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin’’ of
October 5.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Other-
wise these competitions are open to all, free
of any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin’’ of September 21, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
THIRD LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
The reason Tm stony to-day
Is not just the taxes I pay :
They called it a “horse” —
Oh, “a dead cert.” of course,
Results, and New Competitions.
Results of the Second Limerick Com-
petition, which closes on September 16, will be
announced in next week s Bulletin
(September 21).
Also in the September 21 issue, to give
readers in distant parts a fair chance to com-
pete, the Fourth of this series of Limerick
Competitions will be announced. It will close
on October 14, and the same prize-money will
be offered.
presented. The salient points of Richard
Strauss’s “Don Juan” overture were well
brought out; Beethoven’s Fifth was
given the best-balanced performance this
commentator has heard in 10 years, and
Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Scheherazade” suite
sounded interesting and delectable
throughout.
If such homoeopathic measures as have
already been resorted to bring about such
pleasing results, what might happen if
Australia really faced the expense of
founding a permanent symphony
orchestra?
Guild Bustabo.
The young violinist continued her
Sydney recitals last week at the Town
Hall. Highlights were her playing of
the Beethoven G Major Sonata and the
well-known Mendelssohn Concerto. In
both iof these —the Beethoven in the
master’s most serene and cloud-free
vein, and the Mendelssohn an eloquent
outpouring of youth—the player was
wholly en rapport. The Max Bruch
Concerto and the Brahms D Minor Con-
certo, though beautifully played, were
too old and full of care to be carolled
by a lark.
Society of Artists ’ Show.
A little bit of history is made at this
exhibition at the Educational Depart-
ment’s Gallery, Sydney, by abolishing
the bays in the big room always dedi-
cated to oils, and showing on a flat wall
which covers them over, not also-rans,
but some of the best work sent in, in-
cluding a panel of Elioth Gruners —all
quiet greens and greys, reflections of a
peaceful poetic soul.
All the big guns of the society’s mem-
bership roll are represented. Norman
Carter has some excellent portraits ; Will
Ashton stages a dashing bit of coloring
in “Morning Light, Sospel,” and goes all
Parisian in “Grey Day on the Seine.” J.
Muir Auld, using impasto'as vigorously
as ever, gets a genial glow into “The
Road,” and an air of fantasy almost
Corotesque into “Moonrise.” Roland
Wakelin, as contemptuous of drawing as
ever, manages a remarkable warm glow
of light in “Circus.” Tasmanian water-
colorist J. R. Eldershaw has taken to
oils, and brought his color sense to the
job. A vigorous impression of Sydney’s
“Berry’s Bay” is one of his best works in
this medium, and “Foreshores” is also
outstanding. Lloyd Rees, of the baffling
style, somewhere between a very old
master and a colored photograph, has
attracted the Gallery trustees’ eye with
“Spring Sunshine.”
Special exhibits in the oils section are
Lambert’s “Lady with a Fan,” in his
best portrait vein; Tom Roberts’s “The
Paris Hat,” one of his best; a lady]s
head by Augustus John, painted in his
usual slipshod style, and a veritable
Picasso —crude splashes of vermilion, blue
and white which may, after prolonged
scrutiny, be recognised as depicting a
female face resting on what is presum-
ably intended as a hand. A Richard
Sickert, “Bonquoi?” could be made the
subject of a profitable guessing competi-
tion.
Among younger members the palm
must go to H. E. Badham. His street
scene, “Wynyard Station,” is a remark-
able bit of realism. Robert Johnson
shows some very undistinguished can-
vases, Dattilo Rubbo is represented by
a vigorous portrait, and the quiet “Low
Tide, Shellharbor,” of Wilfred Peisley
shines with elegance of expression.
In water-colors the principal exhibitors
are president Sydney Ure Smith, whose
delineations of Sydney are as faithful
as ever; Maude Sherwood, who splashes
color about with gorgeous results ; J. R.
Eldershaw, always colorful; Kenneth
Macqueen, who makes some clinking
pictures out of unusual sky effects;
Albert Collins, who started well and
paints better every year; Hans Heysen
(in the bare-hills vein), Lionel Lindsay
(Spanish sketches) and Daryl Lindsay,
whose “Canal, Venice,” goes to the
Gallery.
A fine collection of pencil studies,
many by noted English artists, rounds
off a good show.
Gifts to Adelaide Gallery.
Adelaide National Gallery has had two
unusual gifts. A. O. Barrett, of Mel-
bourne, who has business interests in
S.A., and whose son is now Lord Mayor
of its capital, withdrew Lambert’s
“Bathers,” a well-known study of friends
in the artistic world, from his dispersal
sale, and presented it. The other gift is
a really good copy of the “Cornfield” of
Constable, not represented before in
the collection. It is by Mclntyre, a
Scotchman, and is presented by J. B.
Mather, now 85, a. long-ago “Advertiser”
art-critic and engraver, and still a busy
producer of both landscapes and verse.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys arc the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait i Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
f J
Met Gold-filled
Square Wire
1} roo c h, any
namej 2/6. Lord’s
Prayer Heart
given V r e e,
mounted on
mother - of -pearl
plate, oval shape,
white, 1/ extra.
Write R. G.
Vaughan, Gol tl
Wire King, Box
3053 V, G.P.0., Sydney.
Persona] and Missing Friends.
WILL any person who can give information
regarding the missionary society known as “The
South African Mission, with its head office
in Sydney,” please forward particulars to the
BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &
AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 50 Market
Street, Melbourne?
Alan McNab Main, Deceased.
THE next-of-kin of the above-named deceased,
who died in Western Australia on May 1, 1924,
are requested to communicate with JOSEPH,
MUIR & WILLIAMS, Solicitors, A.N.A.
House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of or any
information concerning GEORGE BICKNELL,
whose last known place of abode was at Sturt
Street, Ballarat, is requested to communicate
with the undersigned.
WILLAN, COLLES & ALEXANDER,
Solicitors,
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
DESCENDANTS OR NEXT-OF-KIN.
TO ascertain if you are being sought to
BENEFIT from estates send FULL NAME.
Search fee 2/-. We record 400,000 names
KING & KING, 46 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Established 1910.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The woman who took heed of the
cloudy morning had the best of it in the
late afternoon at Randwick. But in be-
tween, oh, how the sun did shine! It
was more than enough to justify the wear-
ing of Mrs. Donal O’Sullivan’s cream
straw-boater with its navy band and
Lady Wakehurst’s jaunty little Breton
sailor. Mrs. O’Sullivan’s suit was lobelia
blue, and it went well with her Irish eyes
and hair. Her husband, by the way, has
a speaking voice that’s just made for
oratory. As usual Lady Wakehurst was
one of the most attractive women in view.
Cornelian were her suit and hat. Tatter-
sail’s chairman W. Hill and a pretty
daughter entertained the vice-regal party
at tea. Grace Hadow, a conference
visitor, enjoyed the day in a bronze-and-
green outfit. Sapphire-blues and white
were worn by Pam Laidley Dowling in
honor of the spring day. Valerie Dun-
rich was one of the attractive in black.
Excitement simmered throughout the
Town Hall on Saturday night when Dr.
Sargent conducted the first performance
of the National Orchestra. This orches-
tra, so they say, is made up of 100 of
Australia’s best musicians, and has been
hand-picked from all the States. The
eastern gallery had been turned into a
sort of royal enclosure. Here sat the vice-
regals, conference visitors and representa-
tives of the A.B.C. headquarters. Lady
Wakehurst’s lace frock had a springlike
softness, her long black velvet cape was
fastened with a large coral clasp. The
W. J. Clearys, her profile very attractive
above Florentine blue and silver frock-
ing, the J. W. Kittos, the R. B. Orchards,
and the Charles Moses couple were in
the group. So was Mrs. Edouard Lam-
bert, whose husband and Lionel Lawson
are the orchestra’s leaders.
Miss Kate Egan and Mrs. Leon Lyons
arrived together. Saw Guila Bustabo (her
stiff white silk frock flower-painted at the
hem) and mother (all rosy chiffons) leap-
ing up the marble stairs to the gallery
like young reindeer. Mrs. Claude Couch-
man, of the Commission, came over from
Melbourne. Her cousins, Mrs. Searight
and Miss Nellie Veitch from Neutral
Bay, sat in the same gallery. Mrs.
Himmer’s stiff grey silks were pictorial;
so was Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s wedding of a
deep emerald-green coat with oyster-
grey satin. Scrolled with true-love’s
knots in gold sequins was the bolero of
Mrs. Rupert Scammell’s black frock.
Camellia-pink were Mrs. Ernest Lash-
mar’s chiffons.
Sydney is glad to welcome back
Gladys Moncrieff, who for nearly six
months had lain in Geelong hospital.
Now Gladys is gradually recovering
from the motor smash, which caused
her injuries, and with the aid of
crutches and friendly arms is able to
walk about her flat at Rose Bay. Her
public doesn’t forget Gladys of the big
smile, the many kindnesses and the
rich voice, as witness the masses of
flowers sent to greet her return. It will
be some time yet before Gladys makes
a public appearance, but in the meantime
she intends to answer all the letters she
received during her illness. Among mes-
sages of sympathy was one from com-
poser Franz Lehar, whose music the
Australian has so often sung. His mes-
sage was sent from Vienna with an
autographed photograph.
Holland has enjoyed the reign of good
Queen Wilhelmina for 40 years. The
country has prospered under the sway
of her sceptre, too, so her health was
drunk with great fervor by Dutch resi-
dents in Sydney last week. A great
afternoon party at the home of the
Consul-General for the Netherlands was
the official rejoicing. Bowls of orange
berries and favors of orange ribbon
honored the royal house of Orange,
and nearly 200 guests joined in drink-
ing the healths of the Queen, the
Princess Juliana and the Princess Beatrix,
and in singing the national anthem. Mrs.
Schuurman received in a frock of black
taffeta, its bolero top opening over a
silk blouse in bright Venetian stripes.
Mrs. Percy Bates has done a good
job with her Euterpeans. This choir of
women singers filled the Conservatorium
with harmony one night last week. They
sang such varied works as Elgar’s
“Weary Winds of the West,” Fletcher’s
“Witches’ Carnival” and Boyce’s
“Corinna” with a proper appreciation
of light and shade and a feeling for the
words which was not lost on the audi-
ence. The audience, by the way, was
just about up to house-full dimensions.
The ladies of this choir wear shell-pink
frocks suggestive of the classic in cut.
Mrs. Bates, who conducted, wore a white
satin frock boldly patterned in black.
The concert was in aid of the Valma
Sullivan fund, and Valma played with
brilliance and a* dash of that imaginative
fire so rare the Rhapsody in D minor of
Brahms and works by Debussy and
Barclaire. Constance Monk, Godfrey
Stirling and Margaret Chalmers were
others on the programme.
Fashion parades have been in the boom
this year as money-raisers for well-known
charities. There is still another one
planned for to-morrow afternoon. This
time the Trocadero will see a procession
of good-looking girls displaying every-
thing from beach wear to dinner frocks.
A feature of the parade will be ten lovely
girls in white organza, each frock hand-
painted in a different design. Birds will
swoop and fly on one, flowers will bloom
on another, Some will wear stripes, some
will be gay as confetti with spots. Jessica
Chard, as “Miss 1838,” will present a
posy to the Mayoress of Sydney. Jessica’s
frock is a crinolined souffle of white tulle
and Val. lace. She will wear her glossy
dark hair in the ringlets of the period.
The Benevolent Society will benefit. The
Trocadero’s all-girl band will supply the
afternoon’s music.
This is Betty Mullins, founder of the
Australian Women’s Flying Club. Betty’s
alert brain saw the possibilities of hav-
ing groups of women trained in aviation
to carry on civil activities should neces-
sity arise. Backed up by keen flying girls
such as Margaret Adams, Barbara
Hitchins, Elwy Price and Yvonne Wurth,
she formed her club, of which she is now
organising secretary. Margaret Adams
is its president. The club has already its
full quota for this year, but applications
are being received for next year’s mem-
bership. Members, in addition to being
trained in aviation, also take classes in
physical culture and first aid. Demon-
strations in cooking are to be added.
Lupton photograph.
This Letter is never going to suffer
from those “orchid blues” again. They
are that deflated feeling that comes when
you brush against a woman, bound for
the same concert or dance, against whose
sables a furlong or so of Cattleya orchids
blooms. But orchids aren’t necessarily
the gift of millionaires. One grower
declared them to be “easy to grow and
hard to kill” at the Orchid Society’s
show last week. This filled the Blaxland
Galleries with the descendants of plants
originally natives of Siam, India, South
America, but grown, with the exception
of the Java exhibits, within 20 miles of
Sydney.
Mosman and Neutral Bay sent hand-
some exhibits. Coolly green and golden,
spotted with brown, one aristocrat
seemed to lift its eyebrows at the on-
looker. Some of the flowers were ruby-
red against a background of petals
flecked with pale lavender. There were
sprays of white delicacy, light cascades
of creamy blooms, curiously colored
and boldly marked petals—Nature at
her most extravagant had painted these.
Like a small gallery of dainty miniatures,
tiny colored plates of orchids, large
and small, orchids from the Himalayas,
orchids from Peru, faithful in detail,
and illuminated from underneath, drew
much attention. The show was one of
the most crowded corners of Sydney
on Friday afternoon. N.B.—Some species
take three, some seven years to bloom—
but what’s time, anyway?
Pretty June Chamberlain is just back
from three weeks’ motor tour of Queens-
land in company with father and mother,
the L. W, Chamberlains, of Warrawee.
Before June went holidaying she had been
one of the youngest workers for the en-
tertainment arranged by Mrs. Sterling
Levis and Marie Bremner in aid of the
Anti-T.B. Association. Her star bit in
the tableaux was that of the Lenci
Madonna. When not helping some good
cause, this popular North Shore Line
girl, who has just left schooldays behind,
enjoys tennis, swimming, music and the
study of languages. Photograph from
Dayne.
There was no doubt that Guila Bus-
tabo enjoyed her own party when she
was the guest of the Musical Association.
The violinist arrived in a frock that was
flounces of pink tulle and flower petals.
Around the waist was a blue velvet
ribbon sash that tied in front, its ends
falling below the hem of the skirt. The
coat that covered all this was of white
ermine collared in white Arctic fox. The
gaiety was in the ballroom of the Aus-
tralia, and Guila, who sat in a front seat,
got up and made a little bow to acknow-
ledge the president’s compliments, and
gave a smile and an inclination of the
head when other speakers, including
A.B.C. chairman W. J. Cleary, made ref-
erence to her. She seemed to have the
time of her life, and ended up with two
rosy camellias from the supper-table fast-
ened in her-dark hair.
The whole company caught her gaiety,
and the place was one bright smile when
she stepped on to the stage and said her
thanks. New president Vern Barnett
was introduced by retiring president
Sverjensky. Brightly-flowered parchment
crepes were worn by Mrs. Vern Barnett,
whose flowers were orchids. Mrs. Harold
Bott contrasted a lilac feather cape with
almond-green laces. Like Mrs. Hope
Gibson (president of the women’s com-
mittee) she carried a Victorian posy, the
gift of Mrs. Barnett. Joan Cleary’s chif-
fons were a chant to lilac time. Grace
Adams East made effective entry at
supper-time. Over her long black frock
she wore a coat of silver caught in at
the waist. Two fox furs, as gleaming as
Everest, completed the picture. Singer
Marie Houston was another newcomer.
Her gold satin frock was topped by a
coat of red velvet.
Marjorie Hesse was there with her
young friend Betty Ogilvy. The Van
Holst Pellekaan couple came. Her short
black coat was stiff with Chinese em-
broideries in gold and silver. Mrs. Percy
Bates, Thelma Houston, singer Alice
Prowse, Mrs. McCartney, the Harry
Twigdens, Alice Bryant in lavender chif-
fons, Mrs. Arlom in flowered silks, the
Cyril Monks and Jack Griffiths were
other musical who’s who. Singer Marie
Houston, who has studied with Frank
la Forge, has given 1200 concerts, and
has begun her second half-million miles
of travel this trip, was in Russia this time
last year. She hopes to be able to give
some costume recitals before leaving
Sydney.
The Lyceum Club’s Literary Circle
entertained four Australian women
writers at its yearly lunch. They were
Mrs. Ernestine Hill, Mrs. F. S. Cotton,
Mrs. R. H. Curlewis (Ethel Turner) and
Mollie David, biographer of her father.
Professor David. Other guests were
H. M. Green, of the Fisher Library,
and Municipal Librarian Bertie. The
Spanish Consul’s wife was among the
honored. She was the founder of the
Lyceum Club in Madrid before the civil
war. Mrs. A. G. Thomas was in the
chair, and poet Mary Gilmore renewed
memories, racy of the soil, at the end
of the party.
. Our old friends Anthony Horderns’
are lending their Fine Art Gallery in
the cause of Prince Alfred Hospital.
About 18 of the city’s best-known hos-
tesses are showing what they can do
in *the way of table-setting, and from
half-past ten on Monday, September 26,
the Art Gallery will be a melee of
breakfast-, lunch- and dinner-tables. The
equipment and appointments are all
being lent by the old-established firm,
and the Mayoress will declare the show
open at three o’clock on the 26th. Then
the fun will really start, for the winner
is decided by public vote —at 3d. a vote.
The Prince Alfred, of course, gets the
cash.
Sydney papers are revelling in the dis-
covery that among conference visitors
two at least are related to film stars. Sir
John Pratt, they discovered with delight,
is a brother to Boris Karloff, of
“Frankenstein” fame. Lionel Vincent
Massey (of the secretariat) is a nephew
of Raymond Massey, who played in H. G.
Wells’s ‘Things to Come.” Now, if it
could only be announced that Lord
Lothian is Shirley Temple’s uncle, the
success of the conference would be as-
sured ! The week’s best party for the
conferrers was given by Miss Macarthur
Onslow, who threw the gates of Gilbulla,
her Menangle home, wide to about 200
guests. The delegation, its wives and
daughters, drove over by motor-bus and
-car from the Lapstone Hotel, and many
guests went from town. Music from an
orchestra, tea on the lawn and strolls
through orchard and dairy made not a
bad programme for a spring afternoon.
And the Girl in the Flat Opposite wants
to know why call it the British Relations
Conference. With so many wives and
daughters about, why not just the Rela-
tions’ Conference?
There wasn’t even a crumpled rose-
leaf bump in the arrangements of the
A.LF. Ball. For weeks before a com-
mittee of splendid workers led by Mrs.
Bertie Kelly as president had their
tactics and manoeuvres all planned.
When the night came there was all the
uplift of success about the Trocadero.
Uniforms of the three services made
brave array. Decorations still with
power to thrill the beholder brightened
many a uniform. There was a fanfare
of trumpets to herald the arrival of* the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst. Twenty
debs, in rustling white approached the
official enclosure to make their bows
to the notes of “Advance, Australia Fair.”
After their presentation they floated off,
each with a uniformed partner, in a
gay and graceful waltz.
The letters A.1.F., very high in stature,
stood out amid the bushflower decora-
tions around the vice-regal area. Table
decorations were symbolic of 1914 on-
wards. There were Red Cross nurses
(doll size), Digger hats, and so on. Lady
Wakehurst wore almond-green and silver
brocades.


EFFICIENT SERVICE
NATIONAL
ORGANISATION
Year by year the latest wireless communication facilities have
been made available to the public by A.W.A. The Company
established and to-day operates the Beam Wireless Telegraph
Service, Trans-Ocean Wireless Telephone and the Beam
Picturegram Service between Australia and overseas. A.W.A.
also operates the Australian Coastal Radio Service and the
Pacific Island Services in New Guinea, Papua and Fiji.
For more than 25 years wireless services have been conducted
on ships at sea for the safety of life and for the interchange of
public wireless telegrams between ship and shore.
In the field of aircraft A.W.A. is installing for the Civil
Aviation Board radio telegraphy and telephony equipment at
all the principal aerodromes in Australia, also ultra-high
frequency radio course beacons.
I
Twenty-five commercial aircraft of various Australian airways
companies carry A.W.A. aircraft equipment.
Speed, economy and efficiency are the all-important factors
that have resulted in giving the public satisfactory service. To
this end every new phase of wireless has been scientifically
investigated and developed.
n
n
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(A’ASIA) LIMITED
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


AMAZING NEW TOMATOES!
CLIMBING TOMATO (imported). Amazing
introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis, fence,
netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3£in. x 2|in.)
red, meaty Tomatoes per plant. AMAZINGLY
PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Government
tested seed (93 per cent, germination in 7 days),
2/6 packet, posted.
PURE WHITE TOMATO! (Imported.)
“White Beauty.” Skin, flesh, juice and seeds
PURE WHITE. Amazing new 100 PER CENT.
NON-ACID HEALTH TOMATO (non-injuri-
ous), LUSCIOUS FLAVOUR. Heavy bearer.
Large fruit (s|in. x l|lb.). DISEASE FREE.
Easily grown any locality. DROUGHT-
PROOF! Makes delicious jam. Government
tested seed (germination 85 per cent.), 2/6
packet, posted. SOW NOW.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemi-
sphere :
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1516 of 1938.
BETWEEN HELEN COURTIER BRASIER
Petitioner
And CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE
BRASIER (also known as JAMES CECIL
ROWLAND and JAMES CECIL BRAS-
SIER) Respondent.
TO CECIL ROWLAND BRUCE BRASIER
(also known as JAMES CECIL ROW-
LAND and JAMES CECIL BRASSIER).
TAKE NOTICE that the said HELEN
COURTIER BRASIER has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion by reason of your failure to comply
with the Decree for restitution of conjugal rights
in a suit No. 1599 of 1937 made against you by
this Court on the fourth day of April a.d. 1938
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
First day of November a.d. 1938 and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of September, a.d.
1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
R. C. TISDALE, Solicitor for Petitioner,
8a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1542 of 1938.
BETWEEN ANNIE BLACKWELL Petitioner
And ARTHUR BLACKWELL Respondent.
TO ARTHUR BLACKWELL late of Temora
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ANNIE
BLACKWELL has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a decree of dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixth
day of January One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitor free of charge.
DATED this seventh day of September, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. P. BERNE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
Estate of Hermann Heinrich Schrader,
Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Master of
the Supreme Court of South Australia has,
pursuant to the Trustee Act 1936, directed that
HEINRICH CARL SCHRADER, formerly of
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, black-
smith (son of CARL SCHRADER, formerly re-
siding at Melbourne aforesaid, slater), a legatee
(if he survived the testator) under the will of
HERMANN HEINRICH SCHRADER, late of
Vinrace Street, Adelaide, in the State of South
Australia, gentleman, deceased (who died on the
Ist day of March, 1899, and probate of whose
will and codicil were granted by the Supreme
Court of South Australia on the 29th day of
March, 1899), or his legal personal representa-
tives or any person claiming through him are
to send by post prepaid full particulars of
their claims to EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA LIMITED, whose registered office
is situated at 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
South Australia, the executor named in the said
will, on or before the 21st day of November,
1938, otherwise they will be excluded from the
distribution of the estate of the testator.
HOMBURG, MELROSE & HOMBURG,
Widows’ Fund Building,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Trustee.
Melbourne
Chatter
Give a dog a bone, a man a beer
and a woman a front seat at a fashion
show —recipients’ reactions may be dif-
ferent, but at least they’ll be out of
mischief for the time being. Manton's
show was last week’s crowd-gatherer, at
which, in preparation for summer days
(on any one of which we may expect
as many climatic changes as there are
tails upon an ermine cape), there were
seen playsuits with detachable pleated
skirts, silk and voile frocks, and brightly
figured or two-toned ensembles in any-
thing from the very safe black and white
to the more imaginative Priscilla-pink
and Ophelia-blue.
Among the suits (worn by girls like
Mary Guy Smith, Lorelle Sample, Pixie
Freeman, Jean Kennett and Brenda
Nairn) were those with either hip- or
knee-length coats, plus waistcoats. For
evening wear there were some Winter-
halter necklines to suit beautiful shoul-
ders, and some dark contrasting colors
for sashes and floor-sweeping hems to
accompany pastel frocks. A white gown
had an accessory theme in navy-and-white
stripes ; another white chiffon frock dis-
played clips and belt of bright emerald
hue. The bridal dish, as of marsh-
mallows and honey, was served with a
palest golden wedding-dress, attendants
in white chiffon over deep cream taffeta
and a garnishing of much tulle and
baskets of daffodils.
A piece of news in Cann’s spring
parade was a Maggy Rouff frock, worn
on this occasion by Mary Guy Smith,
who is finding the Edwardians’ view
about coiffures a gift from the gods to
bring about the subjugation of her unruly
locks. This black crepe dress was made
with long tight sleeves, a low heart-shaped
neck and a sheath to the ankles as
narrow as a hobble but for the split up
the front, which revealed an inlet of
black net frills. The accompanying gold
sandals are a new Paris fad, with soles
nearly an inch thick, an idea for small
girls who want to start their dancing
partners guessing over a matter of height.
On the new frocks zippers are every-
where, down the back, front and sides or
upon neck and shoulders. An amusing
belt worn with a sports suit was stamped
with Yes on one side and No on the
other. Another belt, made from suede
vine leaves, was the complement of a
necklace also from the vineyard ; from
its gold chain swung purple-and-green
bunches of grapes. As for printed silks
and cottons that go into the new ward-
robes, the animal kingdom is still there,
but bugs, birds and mammals are gradu-
ally retreating with tails down before
the growth of the garden and jungle as
presented by designers with vivid im-
agination and every possible color at their
disposal.
At one of last week’s Tauber concerts
Mrs. Tauber gave Melbourne a look
at her much-publicised white-and-irides-
cent-green gown that was flown out from
England at the cost of £5, it having been
forgotten in the packing of so many
trunks. With it were worn the white
foxes of almost equal fame and a bunch
of white flowers up and back further
than ever upon the owner’s auburn hair.
All the same, two people did steal a
spot of the Tauber limelight. They were
Mrs, Rudolph Johnson and Jana, mother
in black velvet with alternating layers
of vividly colored feathers around her
neck, and daughter in a genuine crino-
line, hoops and all, the dress of geranium
velvet and an extra soupfon of old-world
warmth in the shape of a sky-blue
knitted shawl. Margaret Cox wore long
black gloves with her short-sleeved white
evening coat, and Mrs. Cecil Raphael
went one gayer with her green gloves.
Anne Williamson wrapped herself in
white cloque, and Margaret Bell chose
black velvet and a lapel posy of daphne.
Mrs. David Morrison’s first visit to
Australia came to a close among several
parties last week, before she sailed off for
India to join her husband, who left
earlier in the year on his return to
Jhansi. During her Melbourne visit Mrs.
Morrison made many friends, was given
frequent opportunities for playing her
skilful game of bridge and heard some-
thing of what Girl Guides are doing here
—she was a Guider before her marriage
in England. Among her good-byes were
a small cocktail party given by her hus-
band’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. R. H. Mor-
rison, and a smaller but very pleasant
dinner party with bridge as the natural
follow-on which was a farewell from the
Noel Puckles in their new flat in Collins-
street. It’s really the Puckles’ first home
since their marriage after a honeymoon
round the world which lasted a couple
of years. Mrs. Puckle has had a superb
time furnishing the flat. All the floors
are covered in mushroom-pink carpet,
and there is some handsome mahogany
furniture which she and her husband col-
lected on their visit to Norway.
In Jack Cato’s photograph is Corrie
Lodders, who won the Royal Academy
of Dancing scholarship (worth about
£100), of which she hopes to take ad-
vantage by going abroad at the end of
the year. Corrie’s father is Dutch, and
she owes him quite a lot regarding her
career, for it was he who took her along
at a very early age to dancing lessons,
and at home he encouraged his small
daughter to practise with various in-
ducements, including 6d. for every time
she touched the lampshade (moved
gradually higher and higher) in her
elevation exercises.
Corrie, who has had good ground-
ing in operatic dancing, has had some
useful stage experience. Her scholarship
entitles her to tuition in London
and to a place in the corps de ballet
at Sadler’s Wells, from which, if she does
well, better chances will eventuate. She
and her team-mate George Carden (an-
other clever dancer who is off to England
in the Orcades in November) will be
dancing in aid of the Keele-street Free
Kindergarten at the Mutual Stores on
the afternoon of September 21, and they
are giving a performance in the Univer-
sity Union Theatre on Saturday, the 24th.
As respective bridegroom and best
man, Tom Alston and Peter Cresswell
will shortly be packing suitcases to leave
by tram for W.A. and Tom’s wedding
on October 4 with Did de Pledge. Several
bachelor send-offs are happening in the
meantime. The bride-to-be is a sporting
girl who likes country life, driving a car,
riding a horse and playing games, and
who, in spite of the isolation, has en-
joyed all of her visits to the lonely and
very large tract of De Pledge country
in the north-west of Westralia. Her
future home will be at Oaklands Junc-
tion.
Even bride Jean Hunter, who is appre-
ciative of most of her bridegroom
Archie Scott’s good qualities, was sur-
prised at the excellence of his speech at
their wedding. He said all the right
things in the right way, and sauced the
lot with enough humor to appeal to the
large number of guests, few of whom
were known to him, for he comes from
Christchurch (M.L.), and has visited Mel-
bourne only on rare occasions since he
first met Jean several years ago as his
partner in a thread-the-needle race in a
ship bound for England.
The afternoon wedding was at St.
John’s, followed by a reception at
the home of Mrs. David Hunter in
George’s-road, where the marquee
seemed to be filled with flowers and
a lovely white wedding cake consist-
ing of hundreds of separately-iced cubes,
one for each person and no bother of
cutting. Another good speech was made
by Dr. Lawrence Stokes (whose wife,
Margaret Jennings that was, is the bride’s
cousin). The newly-wedded Archie Scotts
are taking the air all the way to Eng-
land for their honeymoon. About six
months hence they will be arriving in
Christchurch and getting down to the
serious business of building themselves a
house.
Harry McClelland, who is holding an
exhibition at the Sedon Galleries, used
to entertain a passion for playing the
bagpipes, which seems to have cooled
off as his palette fever increased. (His
portrait in kilts, painted by Mclnnes,
won the Archibald Prize, was taken
to England by Mclnnes, afterwards hung
for some time in the Castlemaine Gal-
lery, and at present has a place in the
Mclnnes home.) Harry McClelland’s
show includes a picture of his personally-
planned home at Frankston, where
gnomes and hobgoblins are half-and-half
with pictures in the decorative scheme of
things.
Among subjects of exhibited portraits
present at the opening were Mrs.
W. McGuire and Valerie Wilson (in
paint “The Girl in Blue”). “Mademoselle
Valerie” (otherwise Valerie Rudd) is in
Tasmania, and there was a fourth por-
trait —of Judith Anderson, the actress.
Among spectators were Mrs. Louis Mc-
Cubbin and her pretty daughter Pat
Spiers Jackson, who returned to Adelaide
later in the week. The end of the holiday
didn’t come too soon for Pat, who is as
effervescent as ever over the high quali-
ties of the South Australian capital.
Whereas a man with a heart of stone
(figuratively speaking) is a frequent
occurrence, the actuality is such a rarity
that it has made Alec Watkins famous.
Alec was welcomed at Station Pier last
week by crowds of friends on his re-
turn from America, where a successful
operation was performed upon his heart
at the Mayo Clinic. He left Australia
last March with his wife by way of
ambulance and stretcher, and although
he was taken aboard the Monterey in
America in a wheelchair he disembarked
at the end of the journey on his own
footpower.
This couple have returned to Mel-
bourne in good time for Alec’s brother’s
wedding, for Larry and Peggy John-
son have decided upon November, with
four ’maids and four groomsmen in
the picture. Peggy’s parents, the Harry
Johnsons, have presented the lucky
young couple with a charming house in
Brighton surrounded by a generous slice
of garden, which will be lived in as
well as looked at, for it is to be separated
from the rest of the world by a high
brick wall. Within doors there will be
the solidity of old furniture, including
some choice pieces, of mahogany.
Eve Ray’s camera made this portrait
of Margot, only daughter of the Albert
W. Ardlie couple of Laceby South, who
is preparing to leave in October for her
marriage in the U.S.A. with Dr. Richard
S. Neff, of Boston. Margot’s engagement,
which was announced only a few weeks
ago, is a romantic one, for her first
meeting with Dr. Neff was on board
ship in Asiatic waters. Some time later
he came to Australia and visited Mel-
bourne, where he and Margot had a
chance to discover how many interests
and tastes they had in common.
The Bunny Hammonds made tracks
for Sydney last week, travelling more
slowly than they have done in their
lives, their new car being in the running-
in stage. After visiting respective and
collective parents in Strathfield they will
go on a flat-hunt in and around King’s
Cross. Sydney may be their temporary
or their permanent home, depending
upon Bunny’s job, once in the clouds
but for the last few years flat on Mother
Earth and concerned with the bituminis-
ing of roads. But he keeps his pilot’s
license alive, and takes a ’plane up now
and then to keep his hand in practice.
Two young lads, Arthur Lindsay and
Peter Cox, are holding an exhibition at
Riddell’s Galleries. Peter has produced
several interesting chalk drawings, deco-
rative panels and a memento of Seaford —
“Trees and Sandhills.” Subject-matter
for Arthur Lindsay’s water-colors was
gathered along the road from South Aus-
tralia. Among his oils is a picture o!
one of his favorite haunts, not Ye Oldc
Mitre Tavern nor yet a Pig and Whistle,
but a St. Kilda coffee lounge, flooded in
warm lamplight on a cold winter night
and pleasantly aromatic of freshly-ground
coffee-beans. Also exhibited were a por-
trait of Margaret Dietrich and a large
picture entitled “Souvenir of Naracoorte"
which had everyone guessing (on such
questions as the positions of the clouds,
should they be in the sky or among the
tree-ferns?). Unconventional or other-
wise, they pleased Mr. Hugh Stewart, a
well-known connoisseur of pictures, who
collects book-plates and is an encyclo-
paedia on things artistic.
In a letter of ballet gossip received by
a dancing teacher in Melbourne from one
of her teachers in London there is the
news that Anton Dolin didn’t sail with
the Ballet bound for Australia and due
to open on September 28. His Black-
pool engagements keep him busy until
the middle of September, so he was
planning to fly out, leaving about the
19th. London ballet audiences were won-
dering how high the voltage will be with
two male stars of such calibre as Dolin
and Lichine in the company.


WORTH ITS WEIGHT IN GOLD
HTA-YKJOBOSO JOK MEN AND WOMEN
‘‘STAxn V 0 A 9 , ,v,l! a,)let forin) definitely
. xanjjs ALONE as a German Scientific
Glan<l Preparation. Its Tise will
RLCHARGE THE BODY with Physical
htrengtn and Energy and promote Long Life,
Activity Strength and Vitality, even in
advanced years. “VIGOROSO” tablets are well
recommended and prescribed by Dr. E.
Schubert M.D of Munich, Dr. Ludwig Kris,
M.D., and Dr. S. : Leibshardt, M.D.. of Vienna
att | St the efflcac y of “VIGOROSO” as
TiriTT at? rlbed them. FULL PAR-
OF INGREDIENTS of “VIGOR-
TPrneH? 11 >e sl ß ) P hed to any Bona-fide Medical
of “VIGOROSO” Tablets :
r°Pm n I '/ 6 ’ Double Quantity 21/-. JOHN
VV - PO - Box 1853 K. G.P.0.,
tralia y ’ >S W ’ distributing Agent for Aus-
Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns—a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd,, Melbourne.
This land of countless attractions awaits you
ancient temples—beautiful scenery —native customs
and colourful bazaars. Your luxury liner visits many
interesting ports along the smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious decks, restful
lounoes, a tiled swimming pool, and talking picture
equipment.
At your request, we shall be
pleased to forward Folder No. 61.
BUMS, PHILP
& CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 7901
' *32?
a.
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
31 GRENFELL STREET, ADELAIDE 332 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
And at TOWNSVILLE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Centralia for Tourists
“Petermann”: I wouldn’t be too opti-
mistic about the Red Centre drawing
many of those tourists from Europe (B.
17/8/ ’3B).
It has a certain attraction. One sees
the earth in the nude, as it were. But it
is rather a depressing nude. A gibber
plain has colof, in its sand-polished
stones; but how frightful to travel over
in a car! Actually the Centre has four
places that should be of interest—Palm
Valley, the Henbury meteorites, Alice
Springs and, far away beyond the rail-
head, the Davenport Range with its
majestic Devil’s Marbles.
But would Palm Valley really interest
the unscientific? Admittedly the palms
are unique, although related to the cab-
bage palms of Arnhem Land. As for
the Henbury meteorites, hundreds of
stockmen and prospectors passed them by
without much notice until Jim Mitchell, of
Oodnadatta, only a few years ago dis-
covered them to be of meteoric origin.
To the unscientific visitor the punch-
bowls are merely uninteresting holes in
the barren soil.
Alice Springs? A place where it some-
times rains, and there are gorges, or gaps,
in the surrounding MacDonnells that in-
vite exploration. But the necessary water-
bag is a burden. And after the Alice,
what covers the over-200-mile stride to
the Davenports? Certainly there are gor-
geous sunsets and brilliant starry nights—
but one gets them everywhere on the vast
interior plateau.
I allow that the U.S.A. has been able to
popularise its western deserts —mere sand
patches compared with our central wilder-
ness. But it has been mostly because
blase movie stars seeking a new sensa-
tion found it in an electrified, refrigerated
oasis such as has been built in the Death
Valley of Arizona —reachable by car over
good roads from Hollywood and other
centres of easy money.
“Dorret”: I must apologise for saying
in B. 7/9/’3B that private enterprise
considered the erection of a really mod-
ern pub in Darwin a job for Canberra ;
in extenuation I can only plead that I
read the correspondence between a pros-
pective bung and Canberra. I have
learned since that an Adelaide syndicate
has an option over one of the Darwin
hostelries and proposes to rebuild it at
a cost of £40,000; that Sydney interests
are after a license, and are willing to
erect another £40,000 hotel, and that
a local contractor wants permission to
build a £12,000 inn. Even though local
publicans are naturally hostile to the
granting of new licenses, some good
should come out of the present rush.
* * * *
“Dorret”: So Minister McEwen is
browsing over the possibility of granting
the suffrage to “selected” aboriginals (B.
24/8/’3B), I suspect in this a move to
establish a complete bureaucracy in the
N.T. by driving its lone Federal mem-
ber into a padded cell and scaring any
future aspirant into the jungles. An
election tour of the N.T. sends the poor
politician off on a tour of something
like 5000 miles. Estimated population
of the Territory at June 30, 1938, was
6708, scattered over 25 settlements and
Lord knows how many stations in an
area of 523,620 sq. miles. Interests to
be catered for include pastoral (sheep
and cattle), mining—of a dozen different
sorts —pearling, peanut-growing, busi-
ness, labor, and, of course, the Sex
and its problems. Practically every
person encountered has his or her own
idea of what should be done in and
with the N.T., and requires anything
from half an hour to a couple of days
to state the case. Added to which there
is always the hazard that buffalo-shooters
will declare an open season on politi-
cians. It must be a relief for the Federal
member to return to Canberra for a
snooze —if he ever does si; ooze.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A Mackay man decided
to put in the eight-hour rail journey back
from Proserpine working out his in-
come-tax details. He needed precise in-
formation on some points, and sought
out the stationmaster. That official
pointed to a large poster, printed on
linen, and emanating from the State
Government Printing Office, displayed by
the booking-office window. The tax-
payer was assured that all requisite in-
formation would be found there, but had
to take the assurance for granted. The
portentous document was printed entirely
in Italian.
"Not there, son, or the white-ants'll get 'im!”
“Captain Pintle” : One hardy mariner,
by last reports somewhere off Northern
Australia, can keep the job so far as I
am concerned. On May 13, 1932, Oskar
Speck, a German of 25, left Hamburg
for Australia in an 18ft. rubber-and-
canvas canoe. He went up the Rhine,
drifted down the Danube, reached the
Mediterranean via the Black Sea, crossed
to Alexandretta, and had the canoe car-
ried to the Euphrates. From the Persian
Gulf he sailed and paddled round the
Indian peninsula and up the Hooghly
to Calcutta. The next leg was to Portu-
guese Timor via Penang, Singapore,
Batavia and Soerabaya, and he reached
the odoriferous town of Dilly five years
and four months out from Hamburg,
having used up four canoes. After being
nearly killed by natives at Lakor,
wrecked four times, and frequently re-
ported dead, he left Koepang in June
and No. 5 canoe to work round the
north side of New Guinea, cross from
Papua to Thursday Island, and run down
the coast, reaching Sydney about next
July.
“A.C.”: Died last month in Brisbane
General Hospital, Theo Price, author of
God in the Sand. His book, described as
“An Australian Mystical Romance,” was
published in 1934; it set down for the
first time legends preserved in corroboree
songs of the natives. Price was born 54
years ago. After a university training he
spent the middle years of his life wander-
ing about Australia. Long periods he
put in with Central Australian aborigines
provided the basis of his book. He leaves
a daughter Rima, named after the heroine
of W. H. Hudson’s Green Mansions.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: During a Federal
Public Service arbitration inquiry in
Brisbane, a witness was asked to state
his precise age. He had to ask for time
to reckon it out in years, and even then
gave the result a trifle uncertainly. A
press-colleague tells me that the happen-
ing interested him sufficiently to try the
same question upon a number of
acquaintances male, of course and
that nearly half had to work the problem
out on fingers, or even paper. He con-
cludes that men aren’t subconsciously
interested in their ages until they get
well over the forties, at any rate, when
they are inclined to understatement. Up
to the forties they simply ignore the
matter. Is it another effect of the
Awful Northern Climate, or are Aus-
tralian males in general similarly con-
stituted? While I listened to his theory
my own age flashed into my mind —a
year younger than the reality!
* * * *
“Notaden”: One of the most delight-
ful gardens on the Darling Downs is
Jew Lizard Farm at Greenmount, be-
tween Toowoomba and Warwick (Q.).
Into it the late Mrs. Scheurele put the
care of an artistic soul, helped by
the expert knowledge of a born horticul-
tural experimenter. The big crops of
fruit and vegetables and flowers were
given away to friends. The nickname
arose when Mrs. Scheurele was casting
about for some means of protecting her
beloved plants against green beetle and
other pests. She noticed a jew lizard
doing good work in that line. The ser-
vices of small boys were enlisted with
gifts of grapes and oranges, plus pennies,
and a regiment was mobilised which for
years did the job with efficiency and no
cost of maintenance.
“T'* * „* c . r.
pre^ecT S
northern housewife condemned to fry
herself in a tropic kitchen. It would be
more to the point to provide information
as to how the average outback kitchen
can be designed or remodelled so as to
make it as cool and comfortable as re-
sources allow. Preferably it should be
on the south side of the house, for shade,
The stove should be in a recess, at least
4ft. 6in. deep and 6ft. wide, with 6ft.
headroom from the kitchen. Two hinged
swing-out flaps, hung the full width of
the outside wall of the recess, should
reach to within 4ft. from floor level, to
give air and light—glazed, if possible,
The stove should be lifted on blocks to
put the top 3ft. from floor level. Wash-
up arrangements should be at a jflap or
window and convenient in height. If
any dark or stuffy parts remain a flap
or oiled-paper window are easy jobs. It
makes a man wonderfully popular with
the strife.
* * * *
“Gain”: That Rabaul is becoming
civilised is suggested by the protests ap-
pearing in the local paper at the nature
of farewell parties, which have always
been a feature of town life. In the Ger-
man time, the sponsors of such occasions
were the Wunderkindchen —a band of
large Teutons arrayed in all the panoply
of the nursery, who performed their vale-
dictory in a beer-garden, though towards
the end of the evening few involved in
the function would have cared if they
had been in the middle of Blanche Bay.
The Australian version partakes of all
the features of the small-town wedding-
night serenade—“young men parading
through the house banging kerosene-tins
till 4 a.m apparently normal citizens
screaming like lunatics.” If a native boy
starts a sing-sing after hours he is run in.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A plucky job was done on
1700 ft.-high Mt. Beerwah, 40 miles north
of Brisbane, by three men of Glasshouse
Mountains township. Two visitors had
climbed it in the morning, heavy rain
came on, and they could not find the
way down again. At 7.30 that evening,
*■ Cronin, saw a fire on the mountain
top and .realising that it was a distress
signal, started up with h;s two neighbors,
the brothers McCosker. The climb began
with a sheer rock wall 20ft. high. They
went up it in bare feet to get toeholds
on its wet face. With two electric-torches
as all light, they negotiated the hundreds
of feet of narrow ledges over sheer
drops, and found the men on a 10ft. rock
fronting an 800 ft. precipice. Both were
starved, wet, bruised and tired, making
the downward trip worse than the ascent
from the necessity to help them. After
hair-raising moments on the wet, narrow
rock shelves, all reached level ground at
midnight.


Tffg
EMPIRES MILLIONS
o
Thousands
of Letters
have been written to 6AM in
appreciation. Thousands and
thousands of listeners tune in
nightly to the Happy Station
of W.A. ...
Listeners from every corner of
the vast Golden West . . .
Potential customers!
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
AVilliam Street,
Perth,
Western Australia.
ecu
itfui
O
Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands am
nerves function well you will be vigorous am
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure reined;
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or writ,
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
T.JONES SCO.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
j^AYMART
C RAFT A CREED
CERAMIC COIL FORMS.
Ceramic grooved
and ribbed coil
forms, llin. dia-
meter with a 2fin.
winding space.
Type BTX.
List Price .... 6/9
Call in and inspect,
or write for full
particulars of the
Raymart “Craft a Creed” bhort-wai
Ultra-short-wave equipment.
E.0.l Cable Now Available.
“The Friendly Wholesale House” stocks
thing radio and electrical at the
Prices in the State.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
re ' and
everv-
Lowest
mu
JOHN MARTINS!
B
PADIO £' ELECTRICAL
SUPPLIES
INM1H Clarence Street. Sydney.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Directive Vertical Array.
Reference has been made recently to
the consistently strong telephone signal
heard in eastern Australia from the Eng-
lish amateur station G6DT, located near
Bournemouth and operating on the
amateur 20-metre band. Day after day
this station has been by far the strongest
of several Englishmen.
A diagram of the aerial arrangement
in a recent issue of the English "Tele-
vision and Short-wave World” shows
that it is a uni-directional type with ver-
tical polarisation. Normally a vertical
half-wave radiator for 14mc. calls for
the erection of a fairly high supporting
structure, if the bottom end of the array
is to be reasonably clear from the ground.
In this case, G6DT has adopted the
simple expedient of folding-in the ends
of both the aerial and what in this in-
stance is a director. The space and direc-
tion available suit the originator’s re-
quirements as to directive transmission.
Many types of long-wire aerials were
tested, but results were unsatisfactory in
comparison with those obtained with
directive systems at another location also
used by G6DT. It was found to be
quite impossible to contact Australia on
telephony with the long-wire systems.
The array used now is quite simple,
just a half-wave radiator, end-fed with
short feeders of the tuned “zepp” type,
and with a parasitic director spaced one-
eighth of a wave-length. Average height
is 30ft., and the ends of both elements
are bent back in order .to get the array
into the space available. Actually, only
19ft. of the radiator and 16ft. of the
director are in the “straight,” but this
does not appear to affect the efficiency of
the system to any appreciable degree.
This finding is substantiated by the effi-
ciency of the Reinartz square-type radia-
tor of the completely folded type, and
also the partially-folded type, plus reflec-
tor. Consistent communication is now
possible with all stations to the n.-w.,
w. and s.-w., when signals from these
directions are audible. Contact with Aus-
tralia now presents no difficulty.
In a uni-directional array of this kind,
maximum gain is theoretically obtained
when the director is self-resonant, but
at this adjustment backward interference
is more in evidence than when the direc-
tor is shortened to a length where such
interference is least. No attempt was
made by G6DT to adjust the director to
this critical length, since the array was
erected purely as an experiment. A 40ft.
mast is to be erected for a similar and
more permanent aerial arrangement, but
with the one-tenth-wave spacing which
current technical practice indicates as
being the most efficient.
A word of warning about the method
of feeding such an array. The centre im-
pedance of the radiator element is much
lower than the usual 70-100 ohms of the
normal single element, owing to the near-
by director element. When the latter is
at resonance the centre impedance of
the radiator is probably somewhere in
the region of 30-35 ohms, but this value
increases when the director length is
shortened. The use of low-impedance
cable of the EOl type may therefore give
rise to unsatisfactory results if the usual
formula is applied.
Zepp feeders are an easy and certain
method of feed in this case, although
centre-feeding can be adopted by the in-
clusion of a special matching section con-
sisting of a quarter-wave EOl line, fol-
lowed by a quarter-wave Q-bar section,
then the usual 600-ohm spaced line. Such
a feed system was recently described in
“Radio,” as was also the method of using
the director with a short stub in the
centre and a jumper bar for resonance.
It would be possible to use a long stub,
up to a half-wave-length, and to adjust
the electrical length by a variable con-
denser at the end. Thus the director
could be converted into a reflector if
desired, with consequent radiation in the
opposite direction. Such a variable con-
denser would need good insulation and
adequate spacing, since high voltage is
present, which is not the case if a quarter-
or three-quarter-wave stub is used.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location, Thargomindah, Queensland.
Receiver, Ideal Battery T.R.F. All-wave
Receiver (B. 28/4/’37).
Morning reception has fallen away,
and nothing except VLR has been of
any use on 31 metres after 9 a.m.; 25
metres is poor until 12.30 p.m., and the
19-metre band alone remains good
throughout the day. At 9 p.m. TPA2
on 19.68 metres is well worth attention.
WBXK is the best of the Americans,
although W2XAF and WIXK on 31
metres, WIXAL and W2XE on 25
metres, and W2XAD and W2XE on 19
metres can be heard plainly. Rangoon
and Panama have been tuned in on the
49-metre band, and CRJX (25.6 m.) and
CRJO (48.6 m.) are heard plainly late on
Sunday afternoons, closing at 6 p.m.
After a little practice with the pre-
selector unit (B. 10/8/’3B) really good
reception can be obtained on the broad-
cast band from crowds of the smaller
B stations. Trouble is that most of
them don’t announce the callsign often
enough. Have identified 2KA, 2HD,
2LF, 2TM, 2AD, 2CA and others.
Duststorm static caused trouble here
the other day—a noise like hundreds of
generators in action. Reception was
possible for intermittent periods and
then the noise would, smother every-
thing. The noise was at its height dur-
ing the stronger gusts of wind. All bands
were affected, the worst being the broad-
cast range. The noise still persisted on
all aerials, and was just as intense with
no aerial connected to the receiver. On
moving the selector switch to the vari-
ous aerials a small spark could be seen,
similar to one produced when testing
an ignition plug with a screwdriver,
demonstrating the amount of static elec-
tricity developed during the storm. When
the air cleared about 4 p.m. reception
was perfect.
W2XE has been heard several times
on 13.94 metres after 9.30 p.m. W2XAD
on 19.56 metres gave information re-
garding various short-wave stations,
among those mentioned being VUC2
Calcutta. A Russian station was referred
to as operating on 15.19mc. from the
Kremlin in Moscow, and possibly this
is the Russian I have heard on 19.17
metres.
K. B. G,
Television at Radiolympia.
Visitors to the annual radio exhibition
held in London were invited this year
to face 8.8. C. television cameras so that
friends could see them on demonstration
receivers in various parts of the build-
ing. A large television studio, fully
equipped for transmissions, was con-
structed with glass walls so that visitors
could see in production the programmes
radiated daily. Between five and six
hours of television programmes were
sent out each day. 8.8. C. mobile tele-
vision units were in use throughout the
period, one being installed at Radio-
lympia to relay programmes to Alex-
andra Palace for re-transmissiop, and
another at Kennington Oval for the final
Test match. More attention has been
paid to television at this year’s radio
show than previously, a.nd public interest
demonstrates clearly that, television is
rapidly becoming popular.
Advertising Australia by
Short Waves.
Australia is well known to the outside
world through the experimental short-
wave A.W.A. stations VK2ME Sydney,
VK3ME Melbourne, VK6ME Perth arid
VPD2 Suva, Fiji.
A.W.A. broadcast over VK2ME the
first British Empire programme on
5/ 9 / ’27, and at the same time the Mel-
bourne station VK3ME was brought into
action with results so satisfactory that
in November that year a regular weekly
short-wave transmission was inaugurated
for reception in Great Britain on Sunday
nights.
Regular weekly broadcasts commenced
on 5/7/’3l. VK2ME’s broadcasts are
transmitted on Sunday afternoons and
evenings and in the early hours of Mon-
day morning:—-
Sundays: Sydney time, 3.30 p.m.-5.30 p.m.
G.M.T., 0530-0730.
Sydney time, 7.30 p.m.-11.30 p.m.
G.M.T., 0930-1330.
Mondays: Sydney time, 12.30 a.m.-2.30 a.m.
G.M.T., 1430-1630.
VK3ME is on the air every night
except Sunday from 7 p.m.-10 p.m.
(0900-1200 G.M.T.).
Westralian station VK6ME, which
operates on 31.28 metres (9590 kilo-
cycles), is on the air from Monday till
Saturday between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m.
Perth time (1110-1300 G.M.T.), and
VPD2 Suva, using 31.45 metres, broad-
casts each night of the week except
Sunday between 10.30 p.m. and midnight
Suva time (1030-1200 G.M.T.).
Amateur Chatter.
Growling about sideband splatter on
’phone signals won’t help. VK2ABD, of
Sydney, decided to free himself from
such troubles, and incorporated the sys-
tem of “automatic modulation control,”
as described recently in “Radio.” The
result is striking. No trace of sideband
splash can be noted on the signal, even
with a receiver wide open less than a
mile away. The A.M.C. takes complete
control, so that it is impossible to modu-
late over about 92 p.c. Additionally,
speech quality improves remarkably. The
system is not difficult of installation, and
seems to be well worth while for those
who operate ’phone stations in congested
areas. Overmodulation troubles, how-
ever, are not limited to the shock area.
They can be noticed at hundreds or even
thousands of miles. The time may well
come when A.M.C. will be as imperative
for ’phone transmitters as crystal con-
trol is for frequency stability.
An unexpected visitor to the operating
room at Melbourne G.P.O. was VRIAM,
of Ocean Island. He called to look up
VK3RJ.
A strong signal on 40-metre C.W. in
Sydney nightly is VK6CC, of Guildford
(W.A.). This station is using lew power,
but the consistently strong signal comes
from a twisted-pair doublet aerial, which
type is, in the writer’s opinion, unsur-
passed for low-frequency working.
VK6CC has worked with Americans on
40, which, with low power and from
Westralia, takes some doing these times.
As yet no 56mc. DX is reported
during week-ends in Sydney. The
writer’s station is in action each Sunday
with the transmission schedules as previ-
ously announced. These will be main-
tained through the summer, so that dis-
tant experimenters can rely on a signal
from VK2NO being on the air between
11 a.m. and midday and 3.30 p.m. and
4 p.m. on Sundays. More Sydney stations
are to make a start on five metres. The
more stations using the band the better,
but it will by no means be a case of just
slapping a box of tricks together and
working the world, as some appear to
G6PC at Aldridge, Staffs, England,
where Cyril Price has recently been
renewing Australian friendships on 20-
metre ’phone.
imagine. Receivers and transmitters are
just as easy for “five” as the lower
frequencies, but “slap-up” jobs will not
give the results expected and will lead to
a false impression of the capabilities of
the band.
A yarn on 20 with W6BKY on
30/8/’3B revealed that this west coast
U.S.A. station is now in operation on
56mc. with 100 watts crystal controlled
to two 809’s. “Johnny” is pleased with
his introduction to the band, having
worked stations in San Diego, 90 miles
distant. W6BKY is co-operating in
schedules with the writer’s station through
the summer, the first of these being kept
during the early morning of 4/9/’3B. A
signal was heard at the low-frequency
end of the band at 7.20 a.m. Sydney
time, and this, an unkeyed T 6 carrier,
was undoubtedly of long-distance origin,
peaking at R 4 and fading rapidly to in-
audibility, disappearing completely in a
period of five minutes. The usual morn-
ing and afternoon test transmissions were
sent out for ZLs and VKs’s, with nothing
to report other than local aeroplane
ignition interference. During the early
evening VK2LZ at Wentworth Falls,
Blue Mountains, appeared on the band
with an R 8 signal, working VK2NO and
VK2WJ. A special portable license has
been acquired by 2LZ for mobile 56mc.
tests. The callsign is VK2AKM, and
will be used mostly from mountain loca-
tions.
A new all-wave receiver nearing its
final adjustment was tested on the morn-
ing of 4/9/’3B. This receiver, designed
and constructed by the writer, covers
everything from eight to 1000 metres by


oLeadenrup m
RADIO INSTRUCTION
Has been maintained for 25 years by
THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
The reasons for its supremacy must interest you
1. The School has up-to-date and comprehensive equipment.
2. Instruction is given by a fully qualified Staff.
3. The Engineers and Technicians' section is under the control of Dr. W. G
Baker B.Sc., B.E., D.Sc. Eng.
4. The demand for graduates from the School consistently exceeds the supply.
5. The School is sponsored by Amalgamated Wireless (A 7 sia) Ltd.—Australia's
National Wireless Organisation.
Do you want to be a Research Engineer, a Broadcast Station Technician, a Marine or Aircraft Operator,
or a fully trained Radio Serviceman? No matter where your ambition lies, we can meet your needs.
CALL, WRITE OR ’PHONE NOW FOR 42 PAGE ILLUSTRATED PROSPECTUS DESCRIBING ALL COURSES IN DETAIL
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
Australia’s oldest and best-known Radio Training Institution
97 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
’Phone BW 2211
163 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
’Phone M 4161
means of rotating coil turrets. It is a
T.R.F. design and is highly efficient. On
nine metres many U.S.A. police stations
could be heard issuing instructions to
patrol cars, and cars could be heard talk-
ing back in some instances. The amateur
10-metre band was alive with American,
Hawaiian and M.L. ’phones, and the
absence of telegraphy stations is in
marked contrast to the pioneering days
on this band. The American ’phones are
as numerous as on 20 metres, and the
QRM problem is almost as acute.
On 20 metres Westralians are making
a good showing. Two with strong ’phone
signals in the east are VK6WZ (who is
Bulletin contributor “R.H.A.”) and
VK6FL. The former is using a
tical doublet fed by 80-ohm Belling-Lee
cable and the latter the Jones s.w.f.
aerial. The results obtained by VK6FL
in Geraldton are noteworthy considering
the power limitations. Plate power is
derived from the 440-volt D.C. mains, ana
in a short space of time an impressive
list of countries communicated with has
piled up. Somewhere around 80 Ameri-
cans have been worked, all on ’phone.
To VK6FL, as to all VK6’s, South Afri-
cans are easy pie; a different state of
affairs from the east.
From New Guinea “J. 5.8.” tells of
amateur co-operation there, and says
that the operators concerned are too
modest to tell their own story. On
29/8/’3B all who knew of the attack on
the Mt. Hagen-Sepik patrol, now in the
wilds of the N.G, territory, were wait-
ing to hear from Pat Walsh, operating
the station signing VHS 9. He had called
on the Sunday saying he had been at-
tacked by natives and was in need of
help and arms. As it was not possible
to get a ’plane out to the temporary
aerodrome before the Tuesday morning it
was an anxious time for him. All through
the Monday night the VK9’s (amateurs)
of the territory took turns to stand by
in case Walsh called. As it happened,
an emergency call was not necessary,
but the value of such amateur service
was demonstrated. VK9DK is men-
tioned as having listened all day Tues-
day as well as the> Monday. About
eight VK9’s, as well as five Adminis-
tration stations, have been maintaining
communication with the patrol through-
out the last four months.
Seekers of “new countries” in the
craze for DX contacts on ’phone should
take heart from the number of VK9’s
and VK4’s who are located in Papuan
territory. New Guinea now has 10 VK9’s
active, and there are six VK4’s in Papua.
As VK4 covers the whole of Queens-
land, the American who might think that
a CQ is “just another VK4” had better
make sure that he hasn’t got a Papuan
on the hook.
VK2NO.
New B.B.C. Director-General.
A photo, of F. W. Ogilvie, Director-
General of the 8.8. C. in succession to
Sir John Reith. Mr. Ogilvie has been
President of the Queen’s University since
1934 ; from 1926 to 1934 he was Professor
of Political Economy in the University
of Edinburgh, and from 1920 to 1926
he was Fellow and Lecturer at Trinity
College, Oxford. He served from 1914
to 1919 in the 4th Bedfordshire Regi-
ment, and was wounded. He was edu-
cated at Clifton College and Balliol Col-
lege, Oxford.
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: An objection to the intro-
duction of television to Australia has
been the high price of receivers. Two
years ago the average price was £lOO,
but the 1938 Radiolympia just concluded
in London showed first-class receivers
priced at £2l. Radio-gramophone com-
binations can be sold in Australia at
120 guineas.
* * * *
“Enno”: The 8.8. C. does not reply
to reports from overseas listeners, the
chief engineer claiming that “it is im-
possible for anyone at the transmitting
end to say definitely that a certain
listener, somewhere on the other side
of the world, has received a certain
programme.... programmes from Daven-
try are frequently relayed by local
broadcasting stations... .programmes are
published in advance, and anyone who
wished to do so could make a guess
at the contents of a programme without
having heard it at all.” The Australian
listener with a well-designed dual-waver
is under no delusion about his direct
reception of Daventry, for he frequently
gets much better reception than he might
hear through a local relay. Daventry
is looked upon as almost a local station.
The only people seeing the advance pro-
grammes are radio-journal editors to
whom such details are mailed. Daily
news reference to Empire programmes
is a mere skeleton of transmission times.
Surely the 8.8. C. can spare time and
postage to keep alive the interest of
short-wave listeners.
* * * *
“Veekay”: Trend of receiver design
in U.S.A. shows the widespread use of
a 1600 kc. intermediate frequency channel
for superhets as being more suitable for
short-wave coverage, and quite in order
for the lower frequencies. So far in
Australia no manufacturer has produced
a receiver with I.F. channel at this fre-
quency, nor are coil kits available. There
is no more to turning out 1600 kc. I.Fs.
than those for 465 kc., and I, for one,
badly need 1600 kc. I.Fs. Is no manu-
facturer at least game to try them?
What's What in Radio.
An ingenious sound-recording and
-reproducing instrument invented in
U.S.A. by J. R. Kiel records sound on
16mm. film stock with 40 sound tracks
side by side and provision for instan-
taneous playback. As each track is
filled the stylus automatically shifts to
the next adjacent space. One 2000 ft.
reel of unperforated cellulose acetate
film base will give 37 hours’ continuous
reproduction of the whole or any portion
of the recording. It is claimed that after
1000 playings the tracks show no sign
of wear or deterioration in sound
quality.
* * * *
According to the International Broad-
casting Union, there were at the end
of 1937 approximately 350,000,000 radio
listeners throughout the world,
125,000,000 of them in Europe.
* * * *
The Turkish Government has installed
two short-wave broadcasting stations at
Ankara. One of these, with callsign
TAP, may shortly be heard testing on
31.7 metres. Power is 20kw.
Trade Notes.
Radiotron 6V6G, 4.25-watt beam-
power tetrode, is now being manufac-
tured in Australia. Types IA4, IDSG
and 687 have also been added to the
list of Australian-made valves. An in-
teresting valve for transmission at ultra-
high frequencies is the 832, a push-pull
beam tetrode power amplifier designed
for operation at maximum ratings on a
wave-length of two metres. In addition
to the 1851 television amplifier pentode
two additional types are announced.
They are the 1852 and 1853, with mutual
conductances of 9000 and 5000 respec-
tively. A new twin Magic Eye tuning in-
dicator is the 6AF6G, and the IGSG
power pentode with two-volt o.l2amp.
filament and up to 750mw. output is
now available ; also the Australian-made
6KBG, the “G” equivalent of the metal
6KB hexode frequency-changer.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I have.a Duplex single receiver, using a type
19 valve. How can 1 add a 32-type valve as a
signal booster? —719.
This receiver is similar to the Little Twin.
A description in B. 16/2/’3B of the Semi-
tuned R.F. Twin was exactly on the lines you
require. A copy can be obtained from this
office.


BEEBE
ALL STEEL
Portable
Winches
With
Holding
Yokes.
. - r
For use where Power is not Practical or
Available. Especially suitable for Log Haul-
ing, Timber Getting and Mill Work.
2-ton capacity, weight .. 661 b.
5-ton capacity, weight .. 1101 b.
Illustrated , folder with full particulars
obtainable from:—
Nelson & Robertson Pty. Ltd.
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
WHAT ABOUT MINERALS?
“Tri-cal”: About those mineral sup-
plements : I like. one that has a mini-
mum of protein and no fat for the
reason that these nutrients (P.. & F.) are
supplied in the ordinary fodders —after
all you are feeding the stuff primarily
■ for its mineral -content. I always recom-
mend Tri-cal-os Bone Flour; it contains
some 73 per cent, tricalcic phosphate,
and an advantage is the absence of fat
and the protein is reduced to a minimum.
My stock held condition well in the
drought, and I give Tri-cal-os all the
credit. Davis Gelatine, Sydney, will
send you particulars of how to feed it.
Tell them what stock, you want it for.
Old Farmer.
m
V
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
Milk Fever in Ewes.
“Corriedale”: That “new” disease (B.
24/8/’3B) has been known in Maoriland
for years.
Big Romney ewes and crossbreds on
good feed are prone to milk-fever after
lambing. The cause is the same as with
cows. There is a sudden drain on the
lime of the blood owing to accelerated
milk production. The lime level falls,
since the blood cannot quickly enough
balance the loss from the bones or food.
The ewe will stagger about, and may
paddle vigorously, even when first down.
Then she becomes sleepy.
Diagnosis is easy. M.f. occurs after
lambing and so is distinct from twin-
lamb disease, which is seen before.
Entero-toxsemia is the likeliest complaint
to be confused with m.f., as it also
occurs on rich pasture when the ewes
should be doing well. < ' .
With e.t., healthy sheep may be
attacked, but m.f. infects only those with
large udders, milking heavily and recently
lambed-down.
If a single ewe is down, seems sleepy,
has little milk, isi recently lambed and
has a big udder,, bet on m.f., and inflate
the udder with an air-pump, l cotton-wool
air-filter and sterilised needle.
The injection of gluconate is best
made into the jugular vein, guarding
against air-bubbles,also getting in. Dis-
solve l-Bth ounce to l-6th ounce calcium
borogluconate in loz. boiled water, and
inject slowly. The solution can be put
under the skin in about 10 different
places. 1
Sheep Troughing.
“Agemark”: The
merino is a fastidi-
ous drinker. Its
trough water must
be always clean, par-
ticularly in dry
seasons.
Most jumbucks
will water as close to
the inlet pipe as pos-
sible, so place it in the trough centre in-
stead of at one end. This will nearly
double watering capacity. Eight sheets
of troughing on each side of the inlet are
ample, any more is simply waste water.
Bank round the- trough with .well-
spaced logs or flat stoned, and- fill ;in with
firm earth. At the, inlet banking, should;
be just high enough to allow-a full-grown .
sheep to water comfortably, breasting
the trough-top. If the banking is too
high at this point, the top of the trough
will catch the sheep about the knees.
Others crowding in will make it take a
header. Banking should rise from the
inlet towards the ends, at which even
young lambs should be able to drink.
The inlet valve and float should be.,
protected with a sheep-proof cover with
both ends closed in. The valve should
be big enough to keep the trough at least
three-quarters full with a maximum of
drinkers.
Before cleaning throw water along each
side of the trough—to keep the banks
hard and firm and help to lay dust.
Lamb Marking.
“Quini”: In Maoriland temporary
yards are used for marking (B. 10/8/’3B)
in preference to the main yards, in,which
the soil may contain many disease-
carrying microbes, no matter how well
it has been disinfected.
The best marking yards are made
with hurdles. Use a made fence as one
side of the pen ; if of the seven-strand
variety fix wire-netting over it. The
requisite number of posts can be driven
in and the hurdles tied firmly on the
inside of the posts.
Make a triangular enclosure at the
end furthest from where the sheep enter
by placing another hurdle at an angle
with the end one. It is more practicable
to catch the lambs in the larger yard and
put them into the marking-pen. Nail a
stout board on the outside hurdle and
everything is complete.
The ewes can be held until all the
lambs have been marked, when they can
be released to help; “mothering up.”
Hurdles and posts are no more trouble
to carry about either in a sledge or in
a dray than wire and. standards.
“But wot are y' goin' to do with the kangaroo when y' catch it?”
Barkly Possibilities.
• “Ekib”: After a trip to Barkly-Table-'
land (N.T.) A. J. Tanner, one of Aus-
tralia’s most experienced cattlemen, con-
siders that the area'has a great future,
if carefully grazed.He does,not agree
that, the country is suited to sheep, which
graze pastures too closely, helping to
cause erosion. He found faults with too
heavy stocking - with cattle and haying
to travel stock too far to water. Around
some bores there was no feed for four
or five miles. The grass had been walked
off to such an extent that, unless it was
spelled for at least two years, there was
not much chance of feed growing.
Often heifers got in calf when far too
young. It took two years for the young
mothers to recover, and the calves were
mostly undersized. There was a tendency
towards excessive inbreeding in some
herds, but where good bulls were used
the stock were as good as any to be
found in the south.
%
Points About Cream.
“Mookau”: It is not the number but
the kind of bacteria in cream which
determines its quality. Choicest cream
often will harbor 200,000,000 germs to
the cubic centimetre, and from this bac-
terialised milk with its slight acidity is
made the best butter on the market.
The bacteria help to flavor cream.
Grading is based on taste and smell.
Choicest, which will grade from 43pt.
to 50pt., is quite free from any unpleasant
flavor. First grade—4opt. to 42pt.—will
have only the faintest taint, and may
sometimes be blended with unblemished
cream to make choice butter. Second
grade, 36pt. to 39pt., has a distinct flavor
or smell. Below that, no manufacturer
considers any cream desirable unless it
can be processed for inferior types of
butter, as it sometimes can be.
The first essential in getting choice
cream is cleanliness both in the dairy and
in the factory. In both, it is a matter
of rigid routine. Regular drill in clean-
ing udders, hands, machines, utensils and
yards pays. In the factory, cream should
always be thoroughly stirred before
grading. It should be tasted only off
glass or special metal scrupulously
cleaned.
Some bad flavors are due to unhealthy
condition in the cow, such as udder in-
flammation, others to wrong cream tem-
peratures and age. Cream should be kept
below 60deg. Fahr. Cream, too, may
acquire flavors from packed fruit, paint,
particularly new types of spray paint, or
fumes'fropi engine-oil or tractor-oil. .Or.
feed may affect the flavor lantana,
penny royal, carrot-weed, Gape-weed, and
melilotus.f Even lucerne, and clover will
affect the taste of milk/ but their taints
can. be removed by pasteurising.
Beef Measles in Victoria.
“Bulago”:-The Board of Works sewage
farm at-Werribee (Vic.) has over 20,000
acres with i frontage to Port Phillip, and
the natural levels of the country render it
ideal for; irrigation. Its - carrying capa-
city is enormous— : 2s sheep to the acre—
and it own? splendid studs of Shorthorns,
Herefords, Aberdeen-Angus,. Clydesdale
horses, Romney and Southdown sheep.
Fats from Werribee have topped the
Melbourne market consistently, and the
quality of the stock grazed there is an
eye-opener. s
Years ago an outbreak of beef
measles among Werribee cattle resulted
in their being quarantined. As a matter
of fact, beef measles is only dangerous
if the meat is eaten raw. It shows up
in the section of beef as small white
spots, and the cooking process nullifies
them completely. However, though now
beef measles has been completely eradi-
cated, the embargo still continues. The
best fat cattle in Australia are being sacri-
ficed —the only market open to them is
boiling down for poultry food, and they
are returning £4 per head instead of £2O.
The unnecessary loss falls on taxpayers,
ratepayers and consumers.
If graziers want the Melbourne market
for themselves, there still remains an outlet
for Werribee fats. Thousands of chillers
for export can be turned off there all
the year round, and Werribee’s natural
facilities enable the farm to market
its stock without loss of bloom and
with the minimum of travelling and hand-
ling.
Werribee constitutes the only parallel
to Argentine conditions writer has come
across. A steady supply of chillers of
Werribee quality would do much to
enhance Australia’s reputation abroad.
Smitbfield won’t worry about beef
measles—their vets, know their job.
What Smithfield Wants.
“Cow Punch”: A Smithfield expert
outlines the ideal beef carcass as:
Animal not older than three years;
quickly maturing; small in bone; fat
evenly distributed, especially inter-
.muscularly, no patches anywhere ; fore-
quarters (cheapest in price) light in com-
parison with hinds; weight 6001 b. to
7001 b.
He is “well aware that, though easy to
advise a model type, it is not always pos-
sible to produce it, ; because of climatic,
feeding, parasite, disease, and other fac-
tors,” but is satisfied that “best type of
animal for Australia and N.Z. is obtained
from best British blood.”
He generally favors the Aberdeen-
' Angus, with a pat on the back for the
“small, select type of hornless Here-
ford.” .
But •- the Argentine mainly sticks to
Shorthorn. r
Forward, Denis!
“Ben Cubbin”: Wheatgrowers who
wonder if the direct market is the only
one for wheat should consider the pig
(B. 10/8/’3B).
There is a big home market for pork
and a bigger export one. The N.S.W.
Government will advance funds to buy
purebred boars.
Wheat is splendid for good pork pro-
duction; especially if supplemented with
meatmeal or skim. It’s not wise to feed
pigs on wheat only, but it has been done
with fair profit. When plenty of green-
stuff is to be had, wheat, as the only
additional food, becomes highly profit-
able.
Tests at Roseworthy. College (S.A.)
showed two years ago that when baconer
pigs had wheat and water only it took
nearly 51b. of grain for every pound of
increased pig weight; when meatmeal
was. added, the baconers gained lib. for
every 3.91 b. of wheat and 1.91 b. of meal;
when they were fed wheat, skim-milk
and green lucerne, they gained lib. for
3.151 b. of wheat, 3.151 b. of milk and
.781 b. of lucerne.
With pigs worth 3d. per pound on the
farm, the bushel value of wheat fed to
them worked out at 3s. 4d. for 4|lb. of
grain for every lib. increased live weight.
3s. for 51b., 2s. 9d. for and 2s. 6d.
for 61b! As the price of pork rose, so
o Continued, on page 44.)


NINE DAYS, EIGHT NIGHTS
ROYAL
MELBOURNE SHOW
1938
22nd September to Ist October.
SYNOPSIS OF PROGRAMME
Judging: Horse and Cattle Sections, etc., Thursday, 22nd Sept.
All Breeds of Sheep, Monday, 26th September.
Poultry and Pigeons, Tuesday, 27th September.
ARENA ATTRACTIONS
From Friday, 23rd Sept., to Saturday, Ist Oct., inclusive.
Seven Grand Parades (four in daylight and three at night)
Twenty-two Trotting Competitions—day and night—with 631 entries.
Exciting Chariot Racing.
High Jumping Contests between Champions of Three States.
Hunting and Jumping Events—Singles, Pairs, Trios and Quartettes.
Military Events; Musical Rides by Mounted Police.
See “DAREDEVIL” McFARLANE
from Tombstone, Arizona, U.S.A., in his dramatic “Cowboy’s Last Ride.”
Roman Riding over Motor-cars and Burning Hurdles.
Races featuring Doris McFarlane—the only lady Roman Rider in Australia.
Gordon Bros.’ Rope Spinning Demonstrations.
Special Demonstrations with International Trial Sheep Dogs recently imported
from Scotland.
Tree Felling, Wood Chopping and Sheaf Tossing Contests.
Demonstrations by Metropolitan Fire Brigade and Military Motor Cyclists.
ADMISSION: Adults 2/-, Children 6d.
NINE DAYS, EIGHT NIGHTS
THE MINISTER FOR EDUCATION
has announced that parents will not be prosecuted if they allow their
children to absent themselves from school for the purpose of attending the
ROYAL MELBOURNE SHOW.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
n
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
001 vino n/M I. incorporated in Victoria.)
gJtg pBOURKESTREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone:
’Phone:
CB3BO.
M 6505.
1888—1938
fsd
THIS COMPANY
OFFERS
FIFTY YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
PLUS
SPECIALISED
ORGANISATION
•
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Rt. Hon. R. G. Menzies, P.C., K.C.,
M.P.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
F. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY, Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
YOUNGHUSBAND LIMITED
ALBURY, WAGGA WAGGA, LOCKHART, HOWLONG,
RAND (N.S.W.), WODONGA, TALLANGATTA, CORRYONG,
WALWA, MILDURA, CASTERTON (VICTORIA).
AGENCIES
for
KYMAC SHEEP DIP,
HARDY’S WEED KILLER
AND ALL STATION
SHEARING SUPPLIES.
We Extend a
Cordial Invitation to All
Visitors to the
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SHOW
To Visit Our Pavilion
CHIRNSIDE STAND.
YOUNGHUSBAND limited
94 KING STREET, MELBOURNE.


BLACKSTONE
DIESEL ENGINES
f
0 A BLACKSTONE for Every Purpose.
Models from 3 h.p. upwards.
0 TOTALLY ' ENCLOSED. Fully pro-
tected from dust, etc.
0 LISTARD (Van de Horst Patent) Cylinder
liners give 400% longer life.
0 Pressure Lubricated throughout.
N.S.W.:
Gibson, Battle & Coy.
Pty., Ltd., 535 Kent
Street, Sydney.
<?' LAND:
Norman Bell Pty. Ltd.,
403 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
W. AUST.:
Blackman & Law, 843
Hay Street, Perth.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Coy. Pty.,
Ltd., West Footscray,
Melbourne.
S. AUST.:
Unbehaun & Johnstone,
Ltd., 58 Gawler Place,
Adelaide.
N.Z.:
A. R. Christian, Ltd.,
45 Tory St., Wellington.
BLACKSTONE & CO. LTD., STAMFORD, ENG.
7LfCtf«
[lso*
utl
ih tb is
m
I
w
Runs on
Cheapest Crude
Oil
One Cylinder
Only
• No Valves
• No Magneto
• No Carburettor
• No Trouble
TheLanz crude-oil engineis saving far-
mers between £lOO and £l5O annually
on fuel alone, according to the amount
of work done! Its fuel costs only s|d. a
gallon! And it does 40% more work than
an ordinary tractor. Fuel is the biggest
item in tractor operation and the Lanz
cuts it down to one-third!
Lanz fuel economy makes wheat farm-
ing pay, even with low wheat prices!
Write for fully illustrated and descrip-
tive literature..
m
Si
■
m
m
m
m
1 f r f?
W?T
m
sdf
BULLDOG
CaaaJz 0-it
DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales ;
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131 Palmer Street,
Sydney
Victoria & S. Riverina :
Geo. W. Kelly & Lewis
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street.
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany, Ltd.,
42 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide
Queensland:
General'Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia:
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William and Forbes St.,
Perth
TJuTtfe'ctllefi/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
sd
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd..,
28 Bridgfe Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
did the bushel value, until, with pork at
sd. per pound, the wheat value was ss.
6|d., 55., 4s. 6jd. and 4s. 2d. bushel
respectively. This was on a pure wheat
ration.
When meatmeal was added to the
wheat, at a cost of .36d. for every lib.
of weight gained, the amounts of wheat
fed were reduced, but the bushel value
increased by sd. on the lowest figure
stated, and l\d. on the highest.
With skim-milk and lucerne (milk Id.
a gallon, lucerne 30s. a ton, both pro-
duced on the farm), the wheat required
was lesser still, and its bushel value was
as high as Bs. 2d. with pork at sd. per
pound, and the amount of the feed for
every lib. of increased weight was 2\\b.
of wheat, 31b. of skim-milk, and lib. of
lucerne.
Of course, management costs would
have to be deducted from these values,
but the wheat so used would still return
the farmer a price far above present
average.
Bacon Pigs.
“Hortus”: The winning pig in the
M.L. national bacon-pig competition
scored 116 points out of a possible 125
—close to a world’s record on standard
measurement judging.
Dressed weight of carcass was 1361 b.
Age of pig when killed was 164 days,
representing an average daily growth of
.8291 b. It was of ideal bacop-weight
at months, and it scored the possible
for shape of the “eye of meat” in the
“rasher.”
If a pig receives a check in growth
the “eye” tends to set. So when normal
growth is resumed the additional weight
is mostly fat only. This results in a
small round “eye” with a thick layer
of fat.
Grow rapidly, then, is the best motto.
If a pig tends to become too fat as it
nears bacon-weight it should be cut
down on rations for the last few weeks.
The winner was a Large White (pure-
bred) —a breed and type which the Danes
use to cross with their native Landrace
to produce the national pig.
Rust-immune Wheats.
“A.A.D.”: Sydney has produced the
first rust-proof wheats to be commercially
grown in Australia. Two crossbreds
evolved by Dr. W. L. Hindmarsh, first
Farrer scholar, in plots within the Uni-
versity grounds, have demonstrated their
“near-immune” character in field trials
near Gunnedah (N.S.W.).
Two varieties, Hofed and Fedweb,
were developed by Dr. Hindmarsh from
crosses of Hope and Federation and
Federation and Webster. At Gunnedah
500 acres were grown last year for yields
ranging to 10 bags per acre. Both were
rust-immune.
This season these wheats have been
widely distributed with farmers in the
N.S.W. north-west. One has sown prac-
tically the whole of his crop of 1200 acres
to these varieties. An official report says
they are behaving quite satisfactorily in
various centres.
Hofed and Fedweb have answered
milling- and baking-test requirements.
Both are very late maturing, but that is
not to their detriment if sown early, as
is desirable in the N.S.W. north-west.
Lucerne and Super.
“Hortus”: Seven years’ tests go to
prove that growth of lucerne on Mur-
rumbidgee Irrigation areas almost en-
tirely depends on phosphate fertiliser
dressings.
Results from four treatments —lcwt.,
2cwt., 4cwt. super, per annum and
one ton rock phosphate as an initial
dressing only—were: A total yield
of 19.43 tons from the lcwt. plot,
varying from 4.46 tons the first
year to 1.68 tons in the last; 31.98
tons from the 2cwt. plot (highest 5.30
tons in the second year to 3.49 tons in
the last); 42.64 tons from the 4cwt. plot
(7.57 tons in its third year and 5.82 tons
in the seventh); and 23.86 tons from the
rock phosphate plot (fluctuating from
2.91 tons the first year to 4.02 tons the
third year and 2.41 tons the last year).
It suggests that 6cwt. to Bcwt. dress-
ings would give still larger yields.
In the rock-phosphate experiment
there was little effect in the first year,
but by the third year and onwards the
rock-phosphate plots yielded better than
the lcwt. plots. The effect of this initial
dressing was still evident after seven
years.
The comparison of all the foregoing
with the no-manure plot is startling.
That yielded a total of 7.48 tons in seven
years—2.3s tons was the first year’s offer-
ing, while the best effort the last year
was a meagre 0.47 tons.
Spread of Sub. Clover.
“Cocky I”: Although s.c. (B. 17/8/’3B)
was given the world by Mt. Barker (S.A.),
a variety of it has long been known in
Europe. A. W. Howard, of Mt. Barker,
first discovered its great fodder value.
For over 30 years he sent seed free to
all parts of the world. When he died in
1930 every State was growing s.c., while
in S.A. there were thousands of acres
of it.
Sandy land, with a sea-shell content,
south of Adelaide, is now being cleared
and is growing the clover well. The
season, however, is short in that type of
country.
The experiments with s.c. and lucerne
of P. Watters, of Minlaton, Yorke Pen-
insula, on his sandy property in an essen-
tially wheat-growing area have been suc-
cessful.
And yet in Europe s.c. was considered
a roadside weed. It was reckoned a
curse in the Adelaide hills at first owing
to the difficulty of machine cutting. If
the grass-cutter were worn in the knife-
board it was almost impossible to get
through the “trifolium,” as it was then
called.
Farmers now have the “hang” of s.c.
Topdressing has given it a prolific growth
which makes cutting easier. The “goose-
neck” on the end of the knifeboard cuts
the swathe clear.
Money in Clover Seed.
“Bogaduck”: High prices are paid in
S.A. for the right to harvest clover seed.
Some landowners have received in a year
more than the cost of establishing the
pasture. Only one clover paddock in a
thousand, however, is suitable for seed
harvesting.
With Mt. Barker strain harvesters need
a stand from certified seed, free of other
clovers and noxious weeds. The soil
must be level, firm-surfaced and free from
pebbles—a hard, red loam is best. The
paddock must be closed to stock from
about September 12 or 14 till the work
is done.
Harvesters provide their own plant,
which is too expensive for the average
landowner to run, and payment is gener-
(iContinued on page 46.)


■wmcmsmt
TRADE MARK
rla
,218 cal. BEE
MODEL 65
Solid frame, lever action, 7-shot repeater, 24in. round
barrel, Lyman gold bead ramp front sight, Winchester
98a rear peep sight, an integral part to breech, fires a 46-grain
hollow point bullet at 2860 ft. per second, over 200 f.s. faster than
the famous .22 Hornet. Price £l3/10/-
V-
MODEL 70
Model 70, bolt-action high-power repeating rifle,
20in. or 24in. barrel. In calibre .22 Hornet and
.220 Swift. Open sporting rear sight or 48w Lyman receiver
aperture rear sight, 26in. barrel.
With Sporting Rear Sight £l7/10/-
With No. 5 7 Lyman Rear Sight £2l
With No. 48w Lyman Rear Sight £22/10/-
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
3-cell, 350 ft.
range.
Price ... 22/6
THE NEW, UP-TO-THE-MINUTE 7YMVCff£JT£&
' - •
r.L:
MODEL 72.
Bolt-action Tubular Magazine .22 Repeater. Military-type action,
firing pin cocks on opening motion of bolt; side lever safety,
positive twin extractors, 2 5 in. round tapered barrel crowned at muzzle,
ramp front sight with detachable cover, one-piece pistol-grip stock with
semi-beaver tall fore-end. Magazine holds 20 short, 16 long or 15 long-
rifle. Quick take-down feature, secured by slotted screw in fore-end. Weight, about 51b.
Price with Sporting Rear Sight .... 95/-. Price with Peep Rear Sight £5
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-cell, 1500 ft.
.22-cal. Rimfire Leader Cartridges. Short,
long and long-rifle. New brass shell and
solid lead bullet. Non-corrosive primer.
Short, Long, Long Rifle,
3/6 4/6 5/3 per 100.
Freight Extra.
Boys’ and Girls’ Extension
Frame Skate with double
ball-bearing steel rolls.
18/6 per pair.
r7/M3!L
-WM
sis|£
SUPIS,
..22-cal. Rimfire Super-speed Cartridges.
Short, long and long-rifle. Nickel-plated
shell and Kopper Klad bullet in both solid
and hollow point.
Short, Long, L. Rifle,
Solid 3/6 4/6 5/3 per 1 00.
Hollow Pt., 4/- 5/- 5/6 per 1 00.
Freight Extra.
fsd
MODEL 21.
Model 21, 12g. double-barrel hammerless gun, chambered for 2fin. cart-
ridges. Available in standard grade 30in. barrels and trap grade single
trigger. Selective ejection. Barrels modified and full-choke.
Double Trigger £22/10/-. Single Trigger
£42/10/-
ea»ct Sturdy /
SLEmm
EACH
As above, 6/- each.
Other Patterns, Skinning Knives, etc., from 3/- ea.
THE NEW FIXT-FOCUS
SPOTLIGHTS.
Heavily Chrome-plated.
2-cell, 750 ft. range, 9/6 each.
©rasmrsßSUMi
3-cell, 1000 ft. range, 11/6 each.
Tucudltifr
mucfftsm
SPOTLIGHT
MABt BY THE MAKEK9 OF MNCH£ST£fI CVHS AND AMMUNITION
No. 6811, 2-cell, 9/6 each
ssSb
MODEL 69.
Model 69, .22-cal. bolt-action box magazine repeating rifle.
2 5 in. round barrel. Standard sporting rear sight or rear peep
sight. Fitted with Winchester 2f-power or 5-power telescope
sight. Price £8
■ :■ *
MODEL 67 JUNIOR.
Model 67 Junior, 20in. barrel, .22-cal. single-shot bolt-action
rifle. Except that it is smaller and lighter, this rifle is identical
with the regular Model 67 with 27in. barrel. Price .... 47/6
COWLES <a DUNN
’Phone: M 3388
71 King Street
Sydney
Telegraphic Address:
“CODUN,”
SYDNEY.


• • /
1328.
He’s the heaviest and strongest of the Abbey Family. Good strong double
sole, willow calf upper, full leather lining, make him fitted for all types of
country work.
Stocked in full sizes in wide fittings. Prices: Black, 39/6; Brown, 45/-.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
“AWATEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
I
From your nearest branch of the Colonial Sugar Refining Com
pany, the famous Masonite hard boards, and semi-hard boards,
are immediately available. A copy of the 48-page, 10 colour.
Masonite Book, giving complete details of this important con-
tribution to Australian building, will be mailed on request.
"The Wonder Board oi 1,000 Uses," combining all the advantages ot
wood with sheet-steel strength and smoothness. For
concrete forms and all functions demanding extreme durability. White-ant pr
DWOOD
Properly applied, will not chip, crack or warp. Can be painted any
colour or used exactly as supplied. Like other Masonite Boards it
ran be sawn, nailed or glued, and is white-ant proot.
A semi-hard board lor attractive interior panelling. Can be used m
natural colour or sized and painted any hue. Properly installed it
will not chip, crack or warp. Moisture-resistant and white-ant prool.
A hard, tough board scored into four-inch tiles of exceptional beauty.
Lends itself to fascinating colour schemes for kitchens, or bathrooms.
Properly applied. will not crack, chip or buckle. White-ant proof.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(BUILDING MATERIALS DIVISION)
Sydney . . Melbourne . . Brisbane
M 3.8 Adelaide . . Perth
CANE-ITE, the 100% cane fibre insulat-
ing Board, is also available for immed-
iate delivery. Two finishes . . three thick-
nesses, and a wide range of_jjzes.
ally by royalty—about £2 per acre for
s.c„ though much higher returns are com-
mon The owner can graze the paddock
about eight months m the year.
Early-maturing Dwalganup can be
sown on loose-textured or sandy soil. The
harvesting is done with a simple horse-
drawn implement—cost about £2s—its
main feature being a drum covered with
a sheepskin with the wool out. The pad-
dock is harrowed to loosen the surface,
then the harvester is run over it. The
sheepskin picks up the burrs. The area
is then cross-harrowed and the harvester
used a second time. The burrs are heaped
*■ ,L m ,' „ „ . , ■ r
for threshing and clraning.
The extra labor of harvesting Dwal-
ganup is repaid by its higher price. There
is a keen demand for the variety in
drier districts.
Given a good season, Dwalganup
makes such a heavy setting of seed that
it often pays to harvest it in the second
year. One man living on Eyre Penin-
sula (S.A.) sowed 41b. of seed and 1501 b.
super, per acre. It came up so thickly
next season that eight acres were set
aside for seed. Just before harvest sin.
of rain sprouted most of the seed. Yet
a home-made plant gathered 14cwt. of
clean seed.
Long-established clover which
has raised soil fertility to the
point at which other plants have
appeared is useless for seed. The
best pasture is usually that
sown three or four years back
on an eaten-out paddock of
native grasses which had never
before carried clover or been
topdressed. .
The really big money is made
on old stands of pure, true-to-
type strawberry clover. The
seed brings Bs. per pound or
more, and £5 per acre is
usually paid for the
right to harvest, the
landowner having
the grazing for seven
months of the year.
The catch is that
strawberry clover
needs ultra-rich soil
and high summer
rainfall or abnormal
surface water.
Lucerne and
Erosion.
“Lion”: Tell
“C.N.S.” that either
a bad season or bad
farming caused his
lucerne failure (B.
24/8/’3B).
It cannot have
been properly estab-
lished if it reacted
to wind scouring,
nor could the roots
have reached sub-
soil to be killed by
“the surface drying
out.” Lucerne is a
deep-rooter. Once
roots have reached
the subsoil and the
plant has become
established, it takes
a severe drought to
kill it.
I have seen lucerne taproots exposed
for 12ft., with crowns hanging over the
bank of a creek, yet the plant was still
alive and prolific. Where properly estab-
lished exposure of the crown will not
kill lucerne.
“C.N.S.” also says that the lucerne
half of his paddock was “scalded and
riddled with gutters, and that most of
the grass- and clover-seed was washed
away with the soil.” That only proves
abnormal seasonal conditions, under
which it is futile to judge any erosion
cure dependent on vegetation.
Lucerne doesn’t kill out everything
else. I could take “C.N.S.” over thou-
sands of acres of lucerne where grass,
dock, and other vegetation would
eventually kill out the lucerne if allowed
to do so.
On my property lucerne is doing good
work in erosion control, and grass and
herbage are growing with it.
When lucerne is in two years, oats or
other suitable grass-seeds can be planted
profitably where the stand isn’t too thick,
but rye won’t always grow anywhere like
lucerne. We tried Wimmera r. for three
successive years, finally under cultiva-
lion conditions, but without good results,
whereas N.Z. perennial r. under the same
conditions proved effective.
Fstahlish lucerne in a good season, and
ter it where the subsoil is suitable,
will do no good if rocky or
wd white clay deposits are a few
Sesmider the y soil, nor if a dry spell
sets in before the plant has subsoiled.
Irrigation at Hay.
“Observer”: Hay (N.S.W.) irrigation
area, which dates back to 1912, is to be
rescued from the doldrums by the joint
efforts of the Irrigation Commission and
the Rural Bank. Until 1935 the settle-
ment supported a butter factory ; dairy-
ing has since dwindled to supplying the
town with milk.
Excessive watering has caused much
of the land to become waterlogged and
unproductive. Water has been applied
at the rate of 4ft. per acre per annum.
It is proposed to renovate old paspalum
paddocks, redesign blocks and lay down
suitable areas to lucerne, pastures and
fodder crops, on the principles adopted
on the M.I.A. It is expected to reduce
pumping costs by 40 p.c.
About half the settlers already have
applied to the Rural Bank for assistance
to carry out these works. Anthony
Hordern is irrigating and successfully
utilising 600 acres under the system at
Mungadal, Hay.
“Quini”: All sheep brought on to
Barrier Island (North Island, M.L.)
become blind for a month. They
do not lose condition, and remain
normal in all respects save sight.
Lambs born on the island are not
affected, nor is any other kind of animal.
“Heart very irregular. Drink much ?”
“ Yeh; but I do it regular .”
Whether the malady is due to pasture or
to variation in climate has not yet been
decided.
“Wanderer”: What is the lamb-mark-
ing record? I have marked 1164 in
4hr. lOmin. Six catchers, one with
pliers and boy tarring. I have heard of
500-an-hour men, but never seen them.
“Veteran”: Forced Russian selling has
been the pivot of the slide in world
wheat prices. Since the end of July
the Soviet has consistently underquoted
every other seller in the U.K. market,
driving the rate for Ukraine shipments
down to 20s. a quarter, equal to 9d. a
bushel less than best Australian. Ruth-
less Russian selling crashed the world
market in 1930, when Sydney sold down
to 2s. 2d., and the average return to
N.S.W. farmers in 1931 receded to Is. 7d.
The Russian surplus this season is esti-
mated at 40 million bushels. This may
be reduced by drought deterioration of
Volga area crops. So far 25,000,000
bushels has been exported.
“Kyamba”: Brands on wool-bales
should be simple. The brand has to be
either typed or written on all relevant
documents, and the use of letters
reversed, on side, conjoined and upside
down is particularly irritating. Special
exception is taken to the use of triangles,
half-moons, circles and similar charac-
ters. Most fancy signs are unnecessary.
It is time there was some general agree-
ment. Perhaps the National Wool Sellers’
Council could help by drafting a few
simple suggestions.


tS
c
c
3
co
“Earth, thou great footstool of
our God
Who reigns on high; thou fruit-
ful source
Of all our raiment, life and
food,
Our house, our parent, and our
nurse.”
—Watts.
: Tf ARTH ... thou fruitful source of all our raiment , life and food”
With the day’s work nearly done, and the brown earth awakened
from its sleep, the pioneer turns the deep, rich furrows with an
ever-deepening faith that the abundant earth will permit him to triumph
in wisdom and material riches over every difficulty to the peace and
contentment of a life well spent.
Chateau Tanunda Brandy has triumphed and is Nature’s greatest
stimulant and restorative, giving the riches of good health to the people.
by CHATEAU TANUNDA
• • •
P P P r °d uct * ons of the above photograph, Win. x Bin., suitable for framing, may be obtained by forwarding 6d. in stamps to Tucker and Co. Ply., Ltd., 335 Kent Street, Sydney.


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F R EELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written!
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . . You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
loC.S. School oS Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Opening for barber, N.S.W. tourist town.
Season commencing. Apply for information.
—827.
Qualified accountant and secretary (38), S.A.,
comprehensive knowledge dried fruit, returned
soldier, seeks responsible position. Refs. —832.
For bush boy’s collection, Australian bull
ants, with mention of their habits. Will pay
postage.—B4l.
Young man, good office and agricultural ex-
perience, wants position in Islands or Straits
Settlements. Plantation or other outside work
preferred. Go anywhere any time. —859.
To buy Bassett Hull’s Stamps of New South
Wales— 739.
Words of verse one stanza of which runs:
On a lonely western station
Round the flickering glow of a lamp —
In a hut by the mammoth woolshed
There were twenty men in camp.
—823.
Whereabouts of Trevor Stanley Aptid, black-
smith and engineer, who left Tasmania in 1932
and went to Maryborough, Q., where he worked
some years.—Bs3.
Information Sought.
(1) When was helium discovered and by
whom ? (2) A few details concerning this gas ?
(3) Method of preparation? (3) Chief uses? —
782.
(1) Its existence was known as far back as
1868, when Lockyer and Janssen detected an
orange line in the spectrum of the sun’s chromo-
sphere which was not coincident with any
terrestrial element. Hence the name “helium”
(Greek, the sun). Terrestrial helium was dis-
covered by Ramsay in 1895 while searching for
argon. (2) Next to hydrogen it is the lightest of
all gases, its density being two and its molecular
weight four. Liquid helium boils at —268.7 deg.
C. or 4.3 deg. absolute. Like neon, argon,
krypton, xenon and radon it is chemically in-
active. It is present in minute quantities in the
atmosphere and in certain natural waters and
gases. (3) It is obtained from the atmosphere
or from certain natural gases, notably in
Alberta, by fractional distillation, which con-
sists essentially of liquefying out the other
components. (4) It is used for the inflation
of aircraft, being light and non-inflammable.
It is also used extensively in neon street signs,
in low-temperature gas thermometers and for
scientific purposes, as a means of attaining ex-
tremely low temperatures.
* * # *
What are the origin and meaning of the debu-
tante ‘‘coming out’’ and this curtsying busi-
ness ? —786.
The origin of the custom is lost in antiquity;
throughout the ages and races of mankind there
•has been a system of presenting the young
people, especially the girls, to the rest of the
tribe as soon as they are considered to be grown
up and ready to take on the responsibilities and
duties of social and community life. Amongst
our own people the custom takes the form
of making one’s bow to the leader of social
life in the place of one’s abode, and indicates
that the girls can receive “grown-up” invitations
and assist in the social life going on around
them.
* sis *
Would you please tell me the meaning of a
caveat? When does it become necessary to
lodge one and what are the costs? —790.
A caveat is a warning to some person or
authority not to take action without first inform-
ing the person who lodges it of the intended
act. It is directed to the Registrar-General,
the Registrar of Probates and other public
officials. Costs would depend on the form
of caveat you desired to lodge.
* * * *
Is the method of ascertaining true north by
the watch identical both in the Northern and
Southern Hemispheres ? —869.
Not quite; in the Northern Hemisphere the
watch is held, face upwards, and the hour hand
is pointed at the sun. The line bisecting the
angle between it and 12 o’clock will point
roughly north and south. In the Southern Hemi-
sphere the line from the centre of the dial to
the figure XII is pointed towards the sun and
the line bisecting the angle between the hour
hand and 12 o’clock will point roughly north
and south.
* * * *
What is the origin of “Albert the ostrich,”
always shown with Premier Dunstan in Mel-
bourne newspaper cartoons? —79l.
Invented by Armstrong, of the “Argus,” it
was suggested by a comment passed on Premier
Dunstan regarding his attitude to the airport
controversy that he had his head in the sand
of Fishermen’s Bend.
* * * *
(1) Correct speed to run the mower over a
lawn ? (2) Should the grass always be cut in
the same direction ? (3) How should the
machine be treated after use? —870.
(1) At normal walking rate. (2) No; it
should be cut lengthways, crossways and diagon-
ally, otherwise the grass will adapt itself to it
and lie down to the machine. (3) Brush off
the loose grass and soil, then oil the machine at
all the oil holes. Wipe the edges of the cutting
cylinder and bottom blade with an oily rag to
keep the edges sharp and free from rust, and
store in a dry place.
* * * *
Where can I buy a book describing light-
houses on the Australian coast ? —738.
Know of no popular publication, but all the
lights on the Australian coast with full details
as to characteristics, height, etc., are embodied
in the “Admiralty List of Lights, Fog Signals
and Visual Time Signals”—l936 edition, part
Vl—and the 1937 and 1938 Supplements to
same. The publications in question can be
procured from Dymock’s Book Arcade or
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. —both Sydney—for about
255.
* * * *
(1) Does ammunition, in particular .303 rifle
bullets, deteriorate with prolonged storing? (2)
What is the muzzle velocity of pointed and
blunt .303 bullets; also, the approximate
velocity of each at 300 yards? (3) Name of
booklet or pamphlet dealing with .303 rifles and
projectiles, and where obtainable? —751.
(1) Not to any appreciable extent if kept dry.
(2) M.v. of .303 blunt-nose is approximately
2000 foot-seconds, and approximately 1800 at
100yds. Mark VII pointed bullets is 2450 at
muzzle and 2250 at 100yds.; the loss in speed
for 300yds. would be proportionate with the
100yds. (3) Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
should have booklets dealing with .303 ballistics.
* * * *
Are there otters in Australian rivers? —765.
The distribution of otters is confined to the
European, American and African regions, and
there are no authenticated records of their
establishment in Australia. The occasional
appearance of seals in the lower reaches of east-
coastal rivers may account for a supposition
that otters exist in Australia.
* * * *
(1) What prizes are being offered in the
various sections of the M.L. Centennial Literary
Competitions ? (2) Any limitation as to sub-
ject matter and word length ? —B9O.
(1) Novel, first £l5O, second £3O; short story,
£3O and £10; full-length play, £75 and £25; long
essay, £5O and £2O; poem (exceeding 100 lines),
£2O and £5; poem (less than 100 lines), £2O and
£5. (2) Subjects are left entirely to the authors.
The short story should not exceed 5000 words.
The full-length play should be about 20,000
words; that is, three acts of 40 minutes each or
their equivalent. The long essay should be
limited to 50,000 words. It is expected that his-
torical, biographical, critical, literary and
philosophical essays will be offered.
* * * *
(1) What is meant by face-lifting? (2) Is it
only in its experimental stages or is it carried
on successfully in Australia ? (3) What does it
cost, and how long does it take? —754.
(1) “Face-lifting” is the term applied to the
practice of tightening the skin of the face in
order to obliterate wrinkles. (2) The operation
has passed the experimental stage, and the im-
mediate results are often very satisfactory; the
remoter consequences are not so happy, since
the wrinkles tend to reappear in time. The
best results are not to be expected after 50 years
of age, and the unsightly appearances caused by
fat, especially if there be a dewlap, are not
much benefited by face-lifting. Such opera-
tions are rarely performed in Australia. (3)
No idea of the cost. The operation is a short
one.
* * * * -
(1) Qualifications necessary to enable an
analytical chemist to be appointed to N.S.W.
Public Health Dept. ? (2) In what newspaper
are such positions advertised? —602.
Appointments to the staff of the Government
Analyst’s Branch are controlled by the Public
Service Board. Qualifications are prescribed by
Public Service Regulation 112 c. Principal re-
quirements are (a) a B.A. degree after not less
than three years’ study of chemistry, including
inorganic, organic and physical, or (b) an
approved diploma or diplomas at a technical
college or school of mines approved by the
board after four years’ chemistry study. (2)
Sydney “Morning Herald.”
* * * *
How to mend a leak in a cast-iron kettle? —
723.
Use Rawplug plastic metal, sold in powder
form. Directions on tin.
* * * *
What plants would you recommend to grow
on a damp side of the house where the sun
shines only occasionally in the summer? —892.
Arum-lilies will thrive in such conditions.
Other suitable plants (if the position is not too
damp) are iris, ageratum, physostegia and thalic-
trum; and, where the position is not swept with
winds, hydrangeas and azaleas can be grown.
* * * *
I have a quantity of flower-seeds which were
saved two years ago; what is the best way to
test them ? —905,
Cover a shallow dish or plate with sand and
damp it thoroughly; then lay a piece of
dampened flannel or tweed on the sand. Place
a few of the seeds on the flannel and stand the
plate in the greenhouse or in the sun covered
with glass. If the germination is good (at least
60 p.c.) the seed can be given a trial.
*. * * *
Are there regulations in S. Africa which pro-
hibit the entry of stamp magazines containing
colored reproductions of Australasian postage
stamps on the cover? / wish to send an old
copy of the “Australian Stamp Monthly,” the
cover of which bears such reproductions, to
Cape Town. —783.
Australian Post Office officials can find no
trace of such a regulation existing in South
Africa. Place your name .and address on the
outside of the wrapper, and the magazine will
be returned to you in the remote event of its
entry being prohibited.
* * * *
A parrot fed on wheat, maize and sunflower
seeds is losing feathers. Cause and cure? —
740.
This condition is generally looked upon as
dietetic, but once it becomes very bad it is
difficult to cure. If much sunflower seed is
being utilised in the food, it would be as well
to delete it, as this' food is very heating. Substi-
tute a mixture of oats, maize, wheat and a
little of any of the smaller seeds, such as millet,
canary and hemp. In addition, it is necesary to
supply plenty of green- food, such as fruit,
green lucerne and the heads of flowering grasses,
such as trefoil, clover, dandelion, etc. This
can be supplemented by administering a little
lrradol “A,” a preparation procurable from any
chemist; dose is half an eggspoonful with suffi-
cient hot water added to bring it to the con-
sistency of, say, milk. - Place this in a tin and
soak the seed in it, so that as the bird eats the
seed it also gets the lrradol “A.” It is pre-
sumed that the bird is getting a fair amount of
exercise, and if it is in an aviary where it can
fly so much the better for it. These directions
do not apply to parrots of the lory or nectar
species.
* * * *
What is the largest number of wickets taken
by a bowler in Tests —(1) in an innings, (2)
in a match, (3) in a rubber? —710.
(1) Mailey (Australia), 9 for 121 at Mel-
bourne, February, 1921; (2) Rhodes (England),
15 for 124 at Melbourne, January, 1904, and
Verity (England), 15 for 104 at Lord’s (Eng.),
June, 1934; (3) Tate (England), 38 wickets,
averaging 28.18, in Australia in 1924-25.
* * * *
(1) What Australian State team played the
first 11 -a-side cricket match v. England, and the
result ? (2) How many players were in the other
State teams — S.A., Vic. and N.S.W. —during
that tour ? (3) How many matches did
Gregory’s Australian team play in England in
1878 against odds and 11 -a-side teams, and the
results of the tour? —7o3.
(1) A N.S.W. XI, which played a draw
against Lillywhite’s XI at Sydney on July 16-17,
1877, was the first State XI to play against
an English XI. (2) S.A. played 22 (two
matches), Vic. 15 (one match) and N.S.W. 15
(two matches). (3) Gregory’s team played 37
matches (won 18, lost 7, drew 12), 17 against
11 a side and 20 against odds ranging from 12
to 22 a side.
* sc * *
(1) What were Badcock’s scores against Eng-
land in Australia in 1936-37 3 (2) The players
who made ducks in the first Test at Brisbane,
Dec. 4-9, 1936, and second Test at Sydney, Dec.
18-22, 1936 3—668.
(1) With Combined XI at Perth, 167; with
S. Australia, 8 and 23; with Australian XI at
Sydney, 182; first Test at Brisbane, 8 and 0;
second Test at Sydney, 0 (ill) and 2; with
Combined XI at Hobart, 0; with S. Australia
at Adelaide, 13; fifth Test at Melbourne, 118.
(2) In the first Test—Worthington and Ham-
mond (England), Ward, Fingleton, Badcock,
Bradman, O’Reilly and McCormick (Australia);
second Test —Verity (England), O’Brien, Brad-
man, McCabe, Ward, Badcock (ill) and Mc-
Cormick (Australia).
* * * *
What are the rules regarding a follow-on in
(1) Test matches in England, (2) Test matches
in Australia, (3) Sheffield Shield games 3—463.
(1) and (2) In Test cricket the side which
bats first and leads by 150 runs (in Australia
200 runs) in a match of three days or more, or
by 100 runs in a two days’ match, shall have
the option of requiring the other side to follow
its innings (Law 53). (3) In Sheffield Shield
matches the side which bats first and leads by
150 runs shall have the option of requiring the
other side to follow its innings (Law 17).
* * * *
(1) Who was the heaviest Rugby Union foot-
baller to play representative matches in Aus-
tralasia? (2) How many of the 1905 All-
Black team to England were 6ft. or over? —
695.
(1) From records available the palm goes do
Royal Morkel, of South Africa, who was 6ft.
3in. and scaled 17st. 21b. He was in the Spring-
bok team which toured M.L. in 1921. (2) Gillet,
Deans, Gallaher, Newton, Johnson and Seeling
were 6ft., and Nicholson 6ft. 3in.
* * * +
(1) Boxing divisions and respective weights?
(2) World and (3) Australian champions ? (4)
Divisions of wrestling and weights 3 (5) Wrest-
ling champions, world and Australian? —72B.
(1) Flyweight, up to Bst.; bantamweight, up
to Bst. 61b.; featherweight, up to 9st.; light-
weight, up to 9st. 91b.; welterweight, up to
lOst. 71b.; midldeweight, up to list. 61b.; light-
heavyweight, up to 12st. 71b.; and heavyweight,
over 12st. 71b. (2) World champions are: Fly-
weight, vacant; bantamweight, Sixto Escobar
(Puerto Rica); featherweight, Henry Armstrong
(U.S.A.); lightweight, Henry Armstrong; welter-
weight, Henry Armstrong; middleweight, A 1
Hostak (U.S.A.); light-heavyweight, John Henry
Lewis (U.S.A.); and heavyweight, Joe Louis
(U.S.A.). (3) Flyweight, Rollo Hinton; bantam-
weight, Mickey Miller; featherweight, Mickey
Miller; lightyveight, this title has been vacant
since Alf Blatch retired last December; welter-
weight, Hockey Bennell; middleweight, Ron
Richards; light-heavyweight, Ambrose Palmer;
heavyweight, Ambrose Palmer. (4) Welter-
weight, up to lOst. 71b.; middleweight, up to
list. 61b.; light-heavyweight, up to 12st. 71b.;
and heavyweight, over 12st. 71b. (5) World
champions: Bronko Nagurski, heavyweight;
Jack McShain, light-heavyweight; Gus Kallio,
middleweight; and Jack Reynolds, welterweight.
Only two wrestlers claim to be champions of
Australia —Tom Lurich, heavyweight, and Dick
Cameron, middleweight.
Brief Answers.
L. : There is no legal sentence of imprison-
ment “for the term of his natural life.” It is
a formula used by the Executive Council when
commuting a death sentence and means that
the prisoner will never be released. The only
legal life sentence is penal servitude for life.
In practice this sentence is, as a rule, reviewed
after a lapse of 20 years, aijd in the majority
of cases where good conduct during servitude
is shown some remission in the sentence is made.
G.F.: A list of suitable books has been
posted W. 1.: Craffia Arts and Crafts
Materials, Her Majesty’s Arcade, Pitt-street;
W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street; and
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brickfield Hill —
all Sydney G.W.: Adolf Hitler was born at
Branau-on-the-Inn, on the Austro-German
frontier; Catholic... .F. 5.8.: Barcroft Henry
Boake was buried in the churchyard of St.
Thomas’s, West-street, North Sydney, on May
10, 1892. His grave lies near the western
boundary, and is surmounted by a headstone
bearing the dates of his birth and death' —March
26, 1866, and May 2, 1892, together with his
name. Intending visitors to the grave are asked
to first telephone the sexton, X82062....R.F.:
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can supply Hag-
gard’s Ayesha: The Return of She in a cheap
edition at Is. 6d C.H.Y.: Patches can be
applied to malthoid by means of hot bitumen.
T.R.: Figures, too detailed to furnish here,
will be found in latest edition of Official Year-
Book of the Commonwealth of Australia, avail-
able N.S.W. Public Library L.C.: Cannot
undertake an inquiry into such private matters
as the religious beliefs of members of Parlia-
ment C.H.R.: Sorry, cannot reprint Henry
G. Lamond’s “Shooting Star.” It appeared in
The Bulletin of December 9, 1936, and a
copy (price 6d.) is obtainable from our circu-
lation department... .A.M.E.: Submit it to a
book-publisher, such as Angus and Robertson,
89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney V.M.C.: Write
to the Institute of International Education, 2
West 45th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
0.C.8.: N.S.W. Lotteries and Art Unions
Act prohibits publication of information con-
cerning lotteries conducted outside N. S. Wales.
. ...8.M.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3) By making
claim to the accountant, stating column, page
and date of appearance of paragraph and nom
de plume used W.F.: 5040 tickets is the
limit. Formula is 10 x 9 x 8 x 7. Reason
for the drop is that the first place can be filled
up in 10 ways, but whatever number fills it
there are only nine numbers left to fill up the
second place. When first and second places
are filled there are only eight numbers left to
fill up third place. When third place is filled
only seven numbers are 1eft....J.T.F.: (1)
Should be revised before submitting to a pub-
lisher. (2) No. (3) Yes L.K.G.: Write
either Yaffa Syndicate, 15 Hamilton-street, or
Special Press, 32 Jamieson-street —both Sydney.
. ...8.M.R.: Write C.S. and 1.R., 314 Albert-
street, East Melbourne, Vic R.F.T.: Must
see advertisement before expressing an opinion.
... . F.D.: There have appeared in various pub-
lications from time to time suggestions as to
matters on which inventors might direct their
attention. Don’t know of any book dealing
with the subject A.J.M.: After the, appa-
rently, long lapse of time in submitting your
claim there is little chance of recovering the
money. The amount involved would not be
worth the risk of failure in legal proceedings
and consequent expense... .H.S.: The making
of birdlime is forbidden by N.S.W. 1aw....
W.T.: (1) Yes. (2) Place the colfix in a large
container and add as much sawdust as»can be
mixed in with it, then place the mass in position
where required, and smooth it down. Keep
on until an even surface has been attained,
then lightly roll it and sprinkle with sand. An
alternative method is to dress with colfix,
sprinkle heavily with sawdust and roll smooth.
(3) Sawdust might give a more resilient court,
sand might be more durable; it is a matter of
cost and convenience... .F.T.M.: Write Regis-
trar, University of Sydney, for pamphlet on
the “Faculty of Veterinary Science”....
W.M.C.: A married woman who falsely repre-
sents herself to be unmarried by using her
maiden name for legal, business or other pur-
poses commits an offence; and any person
who by a false pretence obtains property with
intent to defraud is liable to penal servitude
F.R.J.: (1) Commonwealth —Where the total
value of the estate (after deducting all debts)
exceeds £2OOO the duty is £l, together with an
additional percentage of one-fifth of a £ for every
£lOOO (or part) in excess of the sum of £2OOO,
but so that the percentage shall not exceed £l5.
Subject to a rebate of one-third where the estate
passes to a widow, children or grandchildren.
N. S. Wales —Where domiciled in the State and
the final balance does not exceed £61,000, 2
per cent., plus i per cent, for every £lOOO (or
part) by which the balance of the estate exceeds
£lOOO. No exemption for widow or children in
estates of a net value exceeding £5OOO. (2)
Probably by insurance. Consult one of the large
and long-established companies S.M.S.: The
usual procedure is to .interview the providores of
the companies trading on the coast. Member-
ship of the Marine Stewards and Pantrymen’s
Association of Australia is essential... .H.R.:
Cannot generalise on such a matter without
knowledge of the patient; the outlook depends
entirely on how well the case responds to treat-
ment. With proper care, it is possible for such
people to live for years. A poor response to
exercise, irregularity of the pulse and altera-
tions in the heart’s action as revealed by electri-
cal methods are indications that constant medi-
cal care is essential. The basic cause is a de-
generative change in the arteries of the heart
and, consequently, of the heart muscle
M. : Write Prime Minister’s Dept., Canberra,
for a copy of Talking Points on Australia
J.L.R.M.: (1) and (3) Striking improvement
follows the giving from animal sources of thy-
roid extract. It is usually taken by mouth in
the form of tablets. (2) The results to the
mother are commonly not serious, but unless
treatment is instituted during pregnancy the
child, after the age of six months, may develop
symptoms owing to the absence of sufficient
thyroid substance in the mother’s milk.


mm
m
m
*
V < V-
\ \
v
#4
later
[all
me
I've just bought a
vnier
i
What a performance, what scenes, some men make
about shaving! When all the time a Valet would
shave them twice as quickly and twice as well. The
Valet self-stropping razor is always ready. No bits and
pieces to put together. The blade’s ready in position.
Just strop it for a second or so and it comes up keen
and sharp for the shave. Each Valet blade will last you
for weeks. You can buy a Valet razor from 4/6d.
OF ALL
DEALERS
•
BRITISH MADE
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
VALET AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re co ~
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. Mb. snouta
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.S.: Mr. Brown is a lightweight J.M.:
No, thanks... .J.R.G.: You’re not getting any
closer... .M.H.: Cut to a third it might stand a
chance... .G.H.H.: You’re going from bad to
worse... .R.H.C.: Not interested in “Gentle-
man Jim”... .D.J.L.: “The fair Rose,” “that
whippersnapper of a third officer,” and the
“tall, rather handsome man, possessed of a
particular leer,” can’t work out their little prob-
lems here D.W.: Neither of them up
J.F.H.: Out... .R.C.G.; Don’t want “Dinkum”
Smith nor “tales of him and the guns he wore,
American fashion, at his hips, which had come
into legends round the droving camps of the
back country”... .P.F.: Nearly, but it’s too
thin J.L.: No V. 0.: No place for “short
sketch of English afternoon-tea parties”
R.G.C.: That’s Con Drew’s paddock
E.V.M.: Couldn’t raise a smile for your
“humorous tale of beer, ears and a Pekinese.”
. ...V.R.: It doesn’t stick... .R.H.P.: You
haven’t made a story of it E.R.1.: Still
misses D.G.: Scarcely a smile J.H.:
The coincidence spoils it....L.C., E.L. and
H.D.A.J.: Try them on a daily L. St. L.:
Stodgy... .E.O’D.: Nothing in that batch....
M. 8.: “On Again, Off Again” out again
R. 1.: Unfunny D.D.: Received one (alleg-
edly) humorous article on war D.L.: “Here-
with a story, ‘Egbert Flies Back,’ together with
the necessary equipment for its return.”
Egbert’s buttoning on his harness now
....J.W.8.: N 0... .M.F.S.: You’re on a well-
trodden path W.O’M.: No berth for Clancy.
S.J.T.: Very nearly... .E. 8.: Much too
exciting... .G.O’H.: Not at that length....
J.S.C.: Doesn’t stick... .C. 8.: Read about the
eel the morning after a jag... .C.E.8.: That
“mystery cracksman” who has been masquerad-
ing as “the well-known clubman and man-about-
town” can’t strut through these pages A. 8.:
“Two of a Kind” is no different from a round
dozen we get each week... .AJ.: No sounds
of rippling mirth... .W.8.J.: It fades away.
. ...K.A.J.: Herbert’s a thoroughly nasty
young man S.P.: All very mechanical
H.G.: Very nearly... .E.F.: Interested to
learn of the “bowls” widow D.F.: No-
thing there... .A.W.R.: Not up... .W.N.H.:
You don’t make a story of it... .R.C.-G.:
Certainly a pretty good dreamer... .R.L.: Try
it on the flappers F.M,L.: Harrowing
A.M.W.: Incomprehensible... .J. 8.: Too thin.
. ...0.5.F.: We always shudder at “the eerie
silence of the bush” M.M.1.: Can’t say
W.F.8.-R.: More flapper fodder C.H : The
Little Snooze, or The Fatal Last Mile reads
like a tract... .G.H.H.: Read the type of
stories we publish; then try... .H.S.: It doesn t
stick C.F.F.: The line was flat prose, as is
“The influence of a flower is great”....
E.L.S.: Outworn L.H.E.: Exclamation
marks don’t make it dramatic... .H.C.8.: Be-
headed bees and ringbarked trees on sight....
C.C.McN.: Both just short U.A., P.H. and
M.O’C.: Likewise... .E.S.: Can’t tell at that
age R.C.8.: Merely a digest of “The Senti-
mental Bloke”. ...K.K.: Gilbert Murray wrote
its best line W.E.D.: You might place the
second somewhere... .K.W.: No hope for
Bertie R.R.: Polish teeth R.W.: Not
asking for complete Limericks P.S.: Very
promising... .C.J.P.: It’s all over the place....
A.J.A.: Prose L.R.: Shine her nails and re-
submit P.K.: No fat in “Pan” G.R.M.:
Can’t introduce Spring’s spouse C.W.McP.:
“Flat” is right 8.5.: Another sunset!
J.J.S.: That’s the first “By gad!” this year
J.C.: Please, Mr. Archibald H.R.: No sym-
pathy for Don Jose Santos Mercenas
Novice: Charming, charming... .M.H.: Yours,
too P.C.: Hackneyed M.E.: Another
murder in the library... .W.T.S.: You should
unload it elsewhere... .H.V.D.: Childish.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
ft
J.M.C.: Stork Derby cartoon didn’t cause
a flutter A. 8.: Have seen that deadbeat.
H.R.: You’ll have to study hard for a few
years N.C.: That gag brought a titter from
the early-Victorians 8.F.: The damsels are
shapely, but their conversation is without humor.
G.N.: Not in the field for postage-stamp
designs A.K.: The religious editor turned it
down... .C.W.: Just missed E.A.: Yes—
you’ve been trying for years but you’re still
as far off as ever B.W:: They’re no longer
funny J.T.: Melbourne office reports that
the caricature is totally unlike its subject
J.M.: There is hope for you if you can get
more action in your pictures D.M.A.:
Cricket picture was bowled out first ball
F.D.: Liked the gag, but the drawing didn’t
fit it H.P.: Use a pen F.L.: Admire your
patriotism, but not your art S.S.: Take your
time and pay more attention to details.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Phildee”: A room in a Darwin
hotel carries a memorial to some of
the great birdmen who have passed
through. Pencilled on the wall are the
words “This is the airmen’s room’ ;
underneath are upwards of 50 names,
including those of Hinkler, Kingsford-
Smith, Scott, Mollison, Allan, Broadbent,
Bertram, Wackett and Hudson Fysh. I
suppose Hinkler and Kingsford-Smith
sometimes dreamed of the time when
six great flying-boats would glide down
on to Darwin harbor every week, and
when four Lockheed Super-Electras, four
Lockheed Electras and four D.H. 86’s
would flash down like long silver fish
out of the blue tropical sky.
* * * *
Comrade King, M.L.C., of the Sydney
T. and L.C., is back from Moscow with
the familiar progress report —“tremen-
dous advance”; “methods of production
and hygienic conditions, marvellous.” But
for once there is something fresh.
If it were not for the pact between
Czechoslovakia, Russia, France and Eng-
land [England last] Hitler’s forces would
have overrun Europe.
There is no such pact; but don’t the
comrades wish they had one!
* * * *
“E.D.”: The Old Boys’ Association of
Brisbane Grammar School, which boasts
10,000 members, has decided to collect
£lO,OOO to add to the memorial build-
ings of the school and also to issue a
book of reminiscences from old boys, who
range from one end of the globe to the
other. Pupils are finding £5OO, spread
over five years.
♦ * * *
“X.T.”: Mareeba, in the enervating
North, is celebrating the birthday of a
centenarian, E. Troughton, who has with-
stood its climate for 46 years. Years ago
he was a teamster on the rough Herberton-
Port Douglas track. In an earlier day he
rode in the first race meeting held at
Cairns. These days he is not so active.
When only 98, he tripped chasing a calf,
and a broken leg kept him a few months
in hospital; so it is necessary for him
to walk with a stick.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: A Sundry Showman anim-
adverts (B. 24/8/’3B) on the fact that
every second film gag is lost in the laugh-
ter succeeding the one before. The diffi-
culty of anticipating an audience’s re-
actions is obvious. To pause in expectation
of a laugh from a crowd in Hollywood
might be safe enough ; but it mightn’t
be so safe in Singapore, Moscow, Rio
or Madrid, there being no such thing as
an international sense of humor. The
mother-in-law joke, for instance, a cer-
tain winner in Australia, would be blas-
phemy in Peiping. It is a wonder the
filmateers haven’t borrowed a device
from the legitimate stage which Alan
Wilkie used with more or less satisfac-
tory results. This was to provide the
laughter himself, ably assisted by those
members of his cast who happened to
be on the stage, and seconded by the
characters clustered in the wings. The
audiences didn’t always join in the out-
bursts of hilarious mirth, especially when
the subject-matter was a gag which may
have tickled the ribs of Elizabethan play-
goers in Shakspeare’s day but is utterly
incomprehensible to modern minds.
Nevertheless, it gave the appearance that
everybody was having a good time, and
it is appearances which count in the
cinema-theatre.
* * * *
A romantic career ended with the
death of Colonel W. G. Probert, of
Beville Hall, Suffolk (Eng.), at 74.
As a youngster he came to Australia
in a windjammer, studied at Melbourne
Uni., became secretary to a Victorian
Premier, and then went home again and
shared the advantages of Lincoln Col-
lege, Oxford, with Oscar Wilde and
Walter Pater. He fought in the Boer
War (also in the Great War), and in 1903
became an equerry and later Comptroller
to Queen Victoria’s daughter Princess
Louise, Duchess of Argyle. In 1925 he
was High Sheriff of Suffolk, and was
known in antiquarian circles as an
authority on the Saxon period.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The professional
cricketer still knows his place in Eng-
land and has the keen appreciation of
social values common to his kind. Hut-
ton was being subjected to one of the
asinine “interviews” with which radio
folk burden the air. He was asked if
he had any tremors when approaching
previous batting records. The youth ad-
mitted that when he was 250 he began
to hope he might pass “Mr.” Foster’s
score, and that when he got to 300 the
possibility of passing “Don” Bradman’s
world’s record dawned on him.
* * * *
Alex. Isaacson, manager of 3KZ,
whose benefactions to Melb. National
Gallery are among the best, has made
a gift which will threaten Phar Lap
as an attraction —replicas of the Corona-
tion crown, jewelled sword of State, royal
sceptre and Queen Bess’s crown, which
were used by the present King and Queen
in the rehearsals for the Coronation
ceremonies. There is a story behind a
previous gift of Isaacson’s. An enthu-
siastic collector of Napoleonic and other
medals, he was visited by a Birmingham
man who had seen the collection on loan
at the Gallery. The stranger offered him
£5OOO for it. For two days Isaacson
walked in and out of the city like a man
distraught. His brother, observing his dis-
tress, suggested making a gift of the
collection to the nation. Alexander
would then be no longer tempted by
Mammon and would still be able to
gloat over his medals. The advice was
taken. * * * *
“0.E.”: When Esmond Kiernan, the
Victorian M.L.C., composes letters to
his family abroad he finds that inspira-
• 3 wQtr-hpc
tion comes more eas)fly:if he watches
the budding rees l . ~
dens through the win
ment House or the Windsor. Thiee w - -
ago Mrs. Kiernan and the children had
a reunion in Italy. In October John is
going to Cambridge to study law. Mar-
jorie is at school in Fribourg, Switzer-
land, Mary at Blumenthal, in Holland,
Peter at Douai, in France, and John at
Reading, in England. The quintet visited
Heidelberg, where they were handsomely
received by the Mayor, who, interested
to meet a whole family from his town s
Australian namesake, escorted his guests
to view the two pictures which the muni-
cipality of the German Heidelberg is
presenting to the Heidelberg of Victoria,
The gift is a reciprocation of the paint-
ing by Murray Griffin, bought by the
civic fathers of our Heidelberg and
already on its way to Germany.
KNFFX WFNT STIFF
IN HIS SLEER
Agony to Move them
When He Awoke.
„ man
three years, wr.tes th, City man
I suffered with pains across the lower part of
my In the m orning, j awoke with knee s
so stiff that it was agony to move them. Special
treatment would make the pain a little easier—
but tbat was a u Then a f r j en d recommended
Kmscherl) which my doctor said I might take,
j began with about an eggspoonful first thing
- n morn j n g To m y surprise I found my
rheumatic aches and pains disappearing. I kept
on wkb Kruschen, and although I am more
than middle-aged, I have been free from pain
f or two y earS; an d a bie to attend my city
office every day.” — A.W.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients of Kruschen Salts have the power
G f dissolving uric acid crystals. Other ingredi-
ents assist Nature to expel the dissolved crystals
through the natural channels. In addition,
there are still other salts in Kruschen which pre-
vent food fermentation in the intestines, and
thereby check the further accumulation of uric
acid.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for this week’s Other Fellow’s Mind Com-
petition has been awarded to a New South Wales writer.
Every week there is a first prize of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be an
additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be earned
over So it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster.
Workers
Well done, “Sandy (B. 31/8/W IPs
classed as “unskilled labor. Unskilled,
be hanged!
turn his hand to anything, li P
try to bricklaymg, from repMrmg har-
ness to repairing machinery from
ing a dinner to cooking the stock : returns
(if he gets Jk e J* an ce)- A th
in addition to being an expert in
particular line of crop- or stock
youth Vluain this desirable proficiency.
get far ; and he must have a keen liking
for the life to offset the hardships, long
hours, hard work and monotony that
will certainly fall to his lot.
During his “apprenticeship” he will
receive 10s. to 20s. per week and keep ,
when a full-blown station- or farmhand,
355. to 455. a week and keep. Some-
times the “keep” means good living con-
ditions. Just as often it means living in
a structure like a large dog-kennel, on
mutton, bread and jam and tea
I’m not snarling at the cockles and
graziers. Most of them could not pay
their hired labor any more without going
broke. But if their running costs were
reduced—substantially—then they could
pay real wages and there would be a
stream of young fellows pouring out of
Sydney to the bush, just as the M.I.A.
attracts them now.—Sago (N.S.W.).
“Sago” is Patrick Rice, of 30 Illiliwa-
street, Cremorne, N.S.W. To him goes
the weekly prize of £3/3/-, together with
space rates —2Jd. a line.
Wool Publicity
Australia must do something about
artificial-fibre competition.
Restricted competition at Australian
sales has resulted mainly from slackened
demand from Japan, Germany and Italy.
In these countries, economically forced
to substitute artificial fibres, the use of
wool is arbitrarily fixed, and advertising
would not increase it by one pound.
It is of national importance that our
wool be made available to them.
The complacent assertion that syn-
thetics aid wool consumption by widen-
ing the field is nonsense. They have
already affected wool, and will affect it
more if something is not done; but pub-
licity must not take precedence over the
more important questions of international
competition and production costs. —
C. V. S. (Tas.).
“Offensively Australian”
I heard a literary man say he was
“offensively Australian.” I contend it is
offensive to be offensively anything.
Tolerance is one of the greatest virtues,
individually or internationally. Freedom
of opinion and speech is true democracy.
Intolerance is the fundamental cause of
industrial upheavals, national and inter-
national distrust, despotism and warfare.
Tolerance is the only curative quality
that will assure international economic
security and world peace. When an indi-
vidual is “offensively” national he is in-
ternationally offensive. — Louise (N.S.W.-).
Water Conservation
Our artesian supply is failing, and
desert is gradually but surely encroaching.
A vast tract of fertile lands is divided
everywhere by rivers, many of which
run only in wet seasons —then to waste.
Reservoirs could be made of them by
building concrete weirs and overshots
across in suitable sites. Raw materials,
labor and brains are all here. Once the
water is conserved, reafforestation with
suitable timbers naturally follows for
shade, then edible feed, and later timber
for fencing and milling. Let us utilise
sensibly our workless army of still-good
Australians! —C3C (Q.).
This last year we have had one of the
worst droughts on record. Probably
millions of sheep could have been saved
by privately-owned irrigation plants.
Following rains, countless millions of
gallons of water run to waste annually,
and shortly afterwards the rivers are too
low to encourage graziers to expend big
money in irrigation plants. The time has
arrived when some serious start should be
made in conserving river-waters so that
reserves of fodder may be put away for
future droughts. —K. (N.S.W.).
Blackboys and White Women
White women in the tropics tend to
regard the native houseboy as a mere
black automaton.
White missus is careless in maintain-
ing in the presence of her houseboys
those feminine barriers which she
always assumes in the presence of her
Caucasian male associates. The native
servant is in most cases removed from his
own tribal womenfolk, and in any case
there are rigid moral codes dictating his
propinquity to these.
At its highest peak of development the
native mentality never goes much past
adolescent intelligence, and the white
woman who comes to regard her house-
boy as a mere piece of ebony furniture
is asking for trouble. — Jemu (Q.).
Empire Unity
Real Empire unity cannot be achieved
while currency and trade inequalities
exist within Empire boundaries. The
Commonwealth of Nations is a moder-
ately happy family, but how much hap-
pier we’d be without tariffs and exchange
rates operating against ourselves!
My idea of an Empire which will set
an example to other Powers is a vast
domain of freetrade and central econo-
mic control, where one pound is as good
as another. Something bigger and more
generous than the Ottawa Pact is badly
needed. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Prospecting
Westralia, with its large auriferous
areas, should scientifically exploit its
gold. At present the country is only
browsed over by individuals and com-
panies, some of which get big areas and
tie them up. The Government has pros-
pecting schemes which are moderately
successful, but they don’t come under
the heading of scientific exploitation.
In the old days the prospector would
chase floaters and try to locate a reef
that way. Alluvial deposits would mostly
be found by specking free gold or by the
dryblower, reefs anywhere, of course,
being dollied.
Of later years much gold has been
found by the loaming system, and pros-
pecting chances are considerably better
with its use.
For the man willing to learn and with
some little capital, there are more oppor-
tunies in prospecting than in any other
business in W.A. that can be entered with
similar equipment.—H. Cheney (W.A.).
Hard-hit Country Institutes
• Every country town in S.A. possesses
a town hall, with which are usually incor-
porated a library, meeting- and supper-
rooms, built for the purpose of entertain-
ment. In most cases it is found impos-
sible to maintain the building on library
subscriptions and entertainment fees be-
cause all libraries have been greatly
affected by the growth of the smaller
lending library, and unless the hall is let
permanently at a fixed rental for talkies,
etc., there is no chance of balancing the
yearly budget.
Naturally, we, living in country towns
and centres, are proud of our public
buildings, but every citizen should sub-
scribe his quota towards the maintenance
costs. Institute halls, soldiers’ memorial
halls, town halls, etc. ; why could- they not
be vested in town property controlled by
the district council? A small addition
to the yearly rates would virtually com-
pel everyone to share the costs of main-
taining buildings which belong to the
town and the people. It would also do
away with the farcical annual meeting,
where the old committee assembles,
presents a report and says “what good
fellows we all are,” and then proceeds
to re-elect itself for a further term of 12
months. This happens because nobody
outside the committee will attend. —
George O’T. (S.A.).
National Assets (?)
Go on the land, young man. It’s
better than starting in business, working
for wages or being on the dole. On
the land you’re a “national asset,” the
Government will stick to you. You can
get financial aid of all kinds, whether
you’re a good farmer or not. You can
have a car, a tractor, a holiday every
year. If your creditors press, the Gov-
ernment will protect you. You can get
stud sires on easy terms. Once you are
on the land the Government will strain
every effort to keep you there. That’s
a fetish now, so profit by it. You’ll
have your own political party, a good
press, public admiration will be created
for you. You don’t need any pioneer-
ing spirit, nor any of that old Australian
fierce independence; you can dispense
with initiative, resource and self-reliance.
Go on the land, drive to town in your
car, write to the papers and ask ’em how
you’re going to carry on without Govern-
ment aid. Blame the speculators, the
secondary industries, the shire taxes, any-
thing so long as you retain the sympathy
of press and politician. Young man,
become a pioneer. Go on the land! —-
B. Cubbin (N.S.W.).
Salt of the Earth
To Australia the Digger is the salt of
the earth! In him is neither racial nor
sectarian bitterness, for he proved a
“cobber” when color, class and creed
had ceased to count and death was every
man’s neighbor.
The Digger fears not for the bonds
of Empire, having known the urge of
the blood and proved in action the spirit
of British brotherhood.
He doesn’t worry about Bolshevism,
Fascism, Nazism nor yet the “Yellow
Peril,” for he went forth on the Great
Crusade a youth untried, and fought
among the nations of the world at war,
returning a man full-grown in strength
and confidence and experienced in the
art of war.
In these days of anxiety and nervous
tension among the nations Australia may
discover afresh that same sturdy and
sunny sense of humor that distinguished
the Digger in every company and stood
to him in every circumstance and under
every condition.—M.D. (N.Q.).
Houses Old and New
The early Australian homes of which
“Gee Willie” writes so disparagingly
(B. 31/8/’3B) are. held in high regard
by architects. And not merely by those
who are old-fashioned ; but by ultra-
modernists like Raymond McGrath, who
praises them warmly in his book Twen-
tieth Century Houses.
When they were built the architectural
style in vogue in England was what is
known to-day as the late-Georgian. It
was a pleasant and dignified style, and
has been a source of inspiration to some
of the best architects of recent years.
Even the modernist school has been in-
fluenced by it. This style was skilfully
adapted to Australian conditions, and a
distinctively Australian type of domestic
architecture would have developed had
not evolution been arrested in the mid-
nineteenth century by' the advent of the
period of revivals.
These early Australian houses were far
superior to most of those built in the
latter half of the nineteenth century,
when house design here suffered a sharp
decline. It has shown a decided im-
provement of late years, and it is sig-
nificant that this advance has been co-
incident with a revival of interest in
late-Georgian architecture.
While preservation of all old houses
is neither possible nor desirable, those
particularly notable architecturally, or
which have especial historic associations,
should be conserved. In England, the
U.S.A. and most European countries,
such houses—though they are far more
numerous than here are valued, and
many have been saved from destruction
through purchase, either by the State
or by public bodies formed for the pur-
pose (the British National Trust, for in-
stance). We should do the same.
Burdekin House —as fine a specimen of
the late-Georgian town house as can be
found i.n England—ought never to have
been pulled down. Elizabeth Bay House
is another early Sydney home that merits
preservation.— Den (N.S.W.).
Industry in Australia and Canada
Canada recently floated a loan near
the 300-million-dollar mark. It was over-
subscribed in an hour or so, entirely by
Canadians, U.S.A. subscriptions being
barred. We in Australia take weeks to
raise £10,000,000. Canada’s happy posi-
tion is due to the fact that its Govern-
ment has not interfered with private
enterprise.
This is why one sees Canadian manu-
factures so constantly in shops in Aus-
tralia.
Another reason is the trade-unions.
On the great bridges that have been built
in Canada there was only one class
of labor—bridgemen—all skilled, though
in varying degrees and receiving varying
rates of pay. The Canadian awards
covering such workers are contained on
one foolscap sheet, which simply states
. the minimum wages. Most of the big firms
(and they are big, even compared with
our own 8.H.P.) pay their good men in
excess of these minimum values.
Come back to our own big jobs. Here
no man who is not a carpenter by trade
can use a saw on any part of the
bridge work proper or drive a nail in
without the possibility of being reported
to his union. Similarly, we have riggers,
boilermakers, riveters; etc., each and
every one covered by a separate award.
—P. (Q-). _____
Present-day Schooling
l am astounded at the change in teach-
ing methods since I was at school.
Children are no longer given an intensive
training in English and mathematics,
which, after all, are the foundation sub-
jects on which we build our general
knowledge. A teacher friend informs
me that more time is given to helping a
child to choose his path in life and to
learn the art of self-expression.
But how can a child of 10 choose
wisely his life’s career? At that age
most of us would have chosen to be
engine-drivers. And what has a child
of 10 to “express”? As I consider all
the youngsters of school age whom 1
know, I feel that they would be better-
children now, and better citizens one
day, if they practised a little less self-
expression' and a little more self-restraint.
—Akarana (M.L.).
The knowledge most youths of my
acquaintance have of the country and
country life comes from listening-in to
“Dad and Dave.” They mostly live in
quiet suburbs, earn small wages and do
“repetition” work. One said that the
country was too quiet for him to think
of going there. Quiet! To my know-
ledge the district he lives in has only
the pleasure of a picture show and an
occasional dance.
Largely quoting The Bulletin man
who stayed at Parkes (N.S.W.), I told
him of the variety that can be had in
country towns in these days of motor-
cars and radio, and the answer 1 re-
ceived was, “And who will be milking
the cows?”
Part of the blame can be laid at the
Education Department’s door. At school
we were carefully taught plenty about
gibber country, sandy wastes and huge
sheep stations, but only the names of
towns on the N.S.W. railway lines. Still,
one can’t hope for too much. Ask any
schoolchild under the age of 13 where
Palestine is. He won’t know. It is one ol
my pet questions. — Joyce M. Skinner
(N.S.W.).
One can judge the public valuation of
anything only by what people are pre-
pared to pay for it. Rarely in subsidised
schools have I as an infant teachei
earned as high as £1 a week and keep.
In private homes (generally the hardest
of tutorial work, for the pupil is always
of the backward variety) the average is
£2 to £3 for at least 25 hours a week—
without meals or fares. Governesses
receive less than housemaids, are given
many housemaid duties, and, since they
follow a “higher calling,” are expected to
be too superior and ladylike to complain-
Many G.P.S. and associated schools
teachers (all graduates) receive a good
deal less than the basic wage. I was
once offered Is. 3d. an hour by a lather
to mess about with the delicate mem-
brane of his son’s brain. Said father
would think it unique to pay under ss-
an hour to a mechanic to mess about
with the steel-and-iron bulk of his car.
J. Allsopp (N.S.W.).


“The key to a man’s Career” — Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D
“The results endure” —Canon Hannay .
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Pelraan Course.
It is impossible to
speak too highly
of it.”
s Ss
m
The Baroness Orczy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women . . . the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
mm
Dr. F. W. Norwood.
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility- It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
m
Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced,- is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly.’'
vfl
1
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.”
COURAGE
and
PURPOSE
defined and affirmed.
COURAGE, firmness of spirit
and swell of soul in the face
of danger and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration to
effort, developing character
and increasing courage by
enlargement of confidence.
The following extracts are from
letters published in “The Efficient
Mind,” copies of which are
posted free:
“I have become much stronger in
Will Power, and I am now not afraid
to say ‘No’ when it is necessary to
do so.”
“My fears are things of the past.
I have gained in mental energy, in-
terest, alertness and concentration.”
“Fear is practically eliminated. The
Course has given me faith in my
abilities and the power of more per-
sistent effort.”
“Childish fear of ridicule has de-
stroyed or marred much of my work
in the past. Now Pelmanism has
shown me how to conquer that fail-
ing.”
“It gives one more self-confidence
and courage in expressing his opinion.”
“I have learnt the value- of plan-
ning ahead, of having a settled pur-
pose, of consecutive thinking.”
“I now have a definite aim; my
powers of concentration, memory and
will have been greatly improved.”
“Occasions often arise when a sud-
den crisis, small or otherwise, is apt
to throw one off one’s balance. I
have found that the Pelman Course
is of the greatest benefit in helping
me to retain my equilibrium in such
cases.”
“My aim is clear and more defined.
My powers of observation are very
much keener all round. I gained very
much from the study of the Lesson oil
Will Power.”
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and defects as:
Depression
Fimidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working-
power of the mind, and in their place it
develops strong, positive, vital qualities such
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue.
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect —it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is for every man. and every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over
40,000 have enrolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing:. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Pane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Plegre - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To the Pelrnan Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
81
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
sdf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
&
&
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two out'stand-
ing pictures in this collection of $
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price i/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
.<* :S
Obtainable , X*'
only
from
\\©
&
• # s ‘
••• A s > 0
••‘ <tf to


TECHNICALITIES WITHOUT TEARS, N| H
T ASM A
sdf
fl
l
W
m
l
c
VI
p
U
f
CCUR^^
.4
' o
\fl ft SPLIT
The builders of Pochard, Standard, Ford,
and Hudson cars "tuned in” INSTAN-
TANEOUSLY to the conviction that the
1938 Tasma Auto Radio should be the
equipment for their new model cars.
YOVR car deserves a Tasma, too!
THE TASNIA "COUNTESS”
(ABOVE)
Flawless in technical design
and giving a standard of
performance never before
achieved.
Model “525”—6-valve dual-
wave A.C. 31 guineas.
Model “580” 5 - valve
broadcast, Battery operated,
31 guineas.
Air Cell operated, 33 gns.
Vibrator powered, 36 gns.
THE TASMA “DEBUTANTE"
(. BELOW)
Meeting the demand for receivers with
full console chassis, yet with a cabinet
compact enough for table use.
Model “525” —6-valve dual-wave
A.C. 27 guineas.
Model “580” —Broadcast 5-valve,
Battery operated 27 guineas
Air Cell operated 29 guineas
Vibrator powered 32 guineas
Model “585” —5-valve dual-wave.
Battery operated 29 guineas
Air Cell operated 31 guineas
Vibrator powered 34 guineas
(Prices slightly higher in West Australia.)
A PRODUCT OF
THOM & SMITH
PTY., LIMITED.
The secret of the one-man band is Instantaneous Tuning.
The gent here portrayed has little to do with the
advertisement except to snare your attention to the fact
that Tasma has the fastest tuning equipment of any radio
yet evolved. One flick of finger and thumb and the Tasma
pointer spins right across the 20-inch floodlit Tasma Dial,
to stop dead on your choice of any one of the 125 broad-
casting stations calibrated. Never before have speed and
hair-line accuracy been combined with such consummate
skill. And that’s just one OTHER reason why Tasma is
the finest radio investment on the market to-day.
In case you are unlucky enough not to know the other reasons for Tasma s leader-
ship . . . here are some of them: —
0 New Octal Valves. • Air Trimmers. 6 Extended
Tuning Range. 6 Oversize Dial with 20 inches
of tuning space. 0 Automatic Volume Control.
• Variable Selectivity. • Dust-proof Speakers.
• Inbuilt Magic Eye.
SOLD BY ALL
PRINCIPAL
RADIO DEALERS.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS.
VICTORIA: HARTLEYS LTD., 270 Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
John Hollway and Sons, 40 Armstrong Street,
North, Ballarat. (Ballarat Distributors.)
SOUTH AUST.: OLIVER J. NILSEN & CO.,
ltdT 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
JaJnia
DETAIL BUILT RADIO
TASMANIA: NOYES BROS. (MELB.) PTY.,
LTD~ 36 Argyle Street, Hobart; and
59 George Street, Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: CARLYLE & CO.,
915-917 Hay Street, Perth.
DARLING DOWNS: ROSENSTENGELS PTY., LTD., Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
QUEENSLAND: G. J. GRICE, LTD., 90 92
Queen Street, Brisbane; Rockhampton,
Townsville, Toowoomba and Cairns.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 197
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane. (Wholesale
Distributors.)
