

Iliiiiliil
m
WS& s
S
tm
mm
Ssss : s« : *w*s:ss
Si
:S S :
mm
is:
;s
SlSlSisisiS
Is It -::
8888
&:&
as sunshine
through the
clouds of
ill-health...
brings welcome LASTING RELIEF to sufferers from
ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATISM, NERVES,
BLOOD PRESSURE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE
• ••••'..
HUTUWAI TONIC contains the
LIVE JUICE OF HERBAL PLANTS...
this is the reason why Hutuwai MUST do you good
Hutuwai helps to drive out the injurious acids and poisons from the system and eradicates
aches and pains . . . new vigour is furnished to the nervous system . . . the brain becomes more
active and clear and the body glows with vitality and vigour.
Hutuwai will give you steady nerves and an excellent appetite, and you will sleep well.
Hutuwai is different ... it is genuine. Headaches disappear. Colour is restored to the cheeks.
Your friends will tell you how well you look, and you will take a renewed interest in life.
GET RID OF YOUR ACHES AND PAINS!
Join the ever-growing army of Australians marching to RADIANT HEALTH with
Large Bottle,
4/6
(Including- Valuable
DIET CHART
FREE.)
Also in 3/- size.
The “Hospital” Bottle
contains five times the
quantity of the 4/6 size,
and costs only 18/-.
SAVE 4/6.
If unobtainable locally, 3/-
and 4/6 per bottle direct
from Hutuwai Distributing
00., Dept. BFP, 210 George
St., Sydney, or Hutuwai,
Dept. BFP, 486 Bourke St.,
Melbourne, C.l. Postage
1/- extra per bottle.
(Pronounce HOO-TOO-WY)
Sold and recommended by Chemists
and Stores throughout Australia.
URAL TO
The Bulletin
: fcif*
VoL 59.—N0. 3054.
Wednesday, August 24, 1938.
Price 6ck
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
for 1938 now ready and will be sent free and post
free to any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE SKITTISH OUIDA.
Genius, howling like a tomcat on the roof of the
world, is all very well if it really is genius. Blake can
point out the angels in the trees ; Shelley can forget
he’s not wearing a bathing costume when he walks
through a crowded room ; Napoleon is entitled to his
fits and Oscar Wilde to his sunflower. But when it’s
not genius but one of those desperately minor talents
that flash and fade out in every literary generation,
the posturings and ravings of eccentricity become
merely comical.
Who is Ouida now that she should have kept
thirty dogs, spent a hundred pounds a week on
flowers, chased her lover round the capitals of Europe,
been rude to Queen Victoria and been as adept at the
deliberate insult as Bernard Shaw is to-day? Her name
sounds like the trade-name of a new garden
implement; vaguely it’s reminiscent of a board of
some sort used by spiritualists ; it might even belong
to a greyhound. The truth is even sadder. “Ouida,”
the name that stood for all that was deliciously
naughty to the Victorian miss and the Victorian
undergraduate, the name that smacked of mashers and
romantic foreign places, is the nickname of a child
who couldn’t pronounce her real name—Louisa.
Yvonne ffrench tells the tragi-comedy of the lady
in Ouida, A Study in Ostentation (Cobden-Sanderson),
following her erratic footsteps from her contemptuous
refusal to let Bury St. Edmunds bury St. Ouida to her
mad, glittering heyday in Florence and Rome and her
death in squalor and misery. From her account it
looks as if Ouida wrote a part for herself in life —
she was the heroine of nearly all her own novels —
and played it with the craziest abandon.
Certainly she wrote herself accurately into her
books, and where she gave herself variations, accord-
ing to Miss ffrench, she immediately lived up to
them. She and a few women she loathed were the
most real characters in her writings. She dealt with
guardsmen and sport, high society and intrigue with
such passionate ignorance that she was the laughing-
stock of London, and yet with such sprightly imagina-
tion that those who laughed still bought her books to
find out how they didn’t live. She made the most
colossal blunders about such serious matters as huntin’
and fishin’ —though Miss ffrench denies that she per-
petrated the famous yarn about Oxford winning the
boatrace by stroke’s rowing twice as fast as the rest
of the crew.
The most priceless example quoted of her elegant
unreality is the conversation of a couple of dashers
at the Crimean War. They endure the unmentionable
hardships of war and winter; the soldiers die ; the
dashers are_ far from Mayfair; but Colonel
Sabretasche is as tough as they make ’em. “How
horrible it is, Arthur,” he sighs, “not to be able to
wash one’s hands!” There’s not much danger of con-
fusing her heroes with Erich Maria Remarque’s!
(Miss ffrench, incidentally, speaks of Ouida’s
“heroology”—a lovely word which, despite its
ecclesiastic flavor, must be “hero-ology.”)
Though she never got to grips with the heroes—
even in real .life they were inclined to flee from her
gorgeously-arrayed unattractions —Ouida did manage
to observe them accurately at times, by asking them to
parties and studying them. Miss ffrench presents her
first at Bury, with a wandering French (not ffrench)
ffather and a devoted mother. Ouida writes in her
diary: “I hope I shall possess Patience, Industry and
Perseverance.” But the Patience, Industry and Per-
severance of Bury gave her the pip, and she went with
mamma to Paris:
I enjoy myself very much here, I went last Wednes-
day to the ball, I danced a great deal, I had five beaux
2 of their names were Victor de Croquenoire and Albert
de Courey and 2 of the Levriers and the other little
boy’s name I don’t know, it was very full.
She began to write for the magazines—novelettes
with the luscious titles Belles and Blackcock, Coaches
and Cousinship, Fleur-de-Lys and the Two Viscounts.
She wrote a three-decker novel, Held in Bondage,
about one Granville de Vigne, and its unspeakable
improprieties won the hearts of all. There was a
gentleman’s dressing-room in it. Under Two Flags
was written. More private apartments:
The hangings of the room were silken and rose-
colored, and a delicious confusion prevailed through
it pellmell—box-spurs, hunting stirrups, cartridge-cases,
curb-chains, muzzle-loaders, hunting-flasks and white
gauntlets being mixed up with Paris novels, pink notes,
point-lace ties, bracelets and bouquets to be delivered
to various destinations. On the softest of sofas,
half-dressed and having half an hour before plashed like
a water-dog out of the bath, was the Hon. Bertie
himself, generally known in the Brigades as “Beauty.”
That is so beautifully Victorian that it’s a chasten-
ing thought to realise it’s exactly the atmosphere of
the talkies in which Hollywood to-day exploits its
glamor-men. That very bathroom-bedroom scene has
been used a hundred times for the Gables and Robert
Taylors. One of these days Hollywood will discover
Ouida ; her impossible heroes having impossible ad-
ventures in impossibly gay foreign parts are the very
characters scenario writers are groping after.
Having arbitrarily decided that people iived like
that, Ouida began to prove the point by running her
own life on the same dashing lines. Submerged in
crinolines by Worth and masses of hothouse flowers,
she ruled with “her raucous voice” gathering after
gathering of guardsmen, cavalrymen, colonels and
generals at the luxurious Langham Hotel. She fell in
love with the singer Mario, of legendary beauty, and
wrote a novel about him. She left England for Flor-
ence, and collected dogs and scandal with impartial
fervor. She fell in love with the Marchese della Stufa
—who was ungallantly devoted to a Mrs. Ross—and
wrote a novel with the appropriate title of Friendship,
dramatising the situation and vilifying Mrs. Ross and
all her works and all her friends. Florence seethed
with indignation ; Ouida went on chasing the Marchese
—until, the story goes, Mrs. Ross horsewhipped her.
It’s probably not true, but it’s in character. It is true,
Miss ffrench asserts, that people who found them-
selves in that and other novels were furious; one of
them threatened to drag her at sight from her car-
riage ; she was attacked by a pkrty of roughs, and shot
at as she drove by in her victoria.
After 14 years in Italy she returned to England
and promptly fell in love with Lord Lytton. She was
a celebrity. Oscar Wilde and Alfred Austin and
Browning came to her parties. But the noble lord
locked himself in his study. She “successfully sat with
him in the garden, in an east wind when there was
snow on the ground,” but the sitting got her nowhere.
She borrowed “some hundreds of pounds” to pay her
hotel bill, called the “Fortnightly Review” a “pasture-
land for prigs and professors,” and shot back to
Florence.
Here her real troubles began. It wasn’t just that
she was “now regarded in the locality as a canine insti-
tution” on whose charity every stray cur in the neigh-
borhood could be foisted; nor was it that her 30
assorted mongs terrified and bit her visitors. She was
insolvent, and she was possessed by a mania for law-
suits that plunged her deeper and deeper into the
morass. She went to law, says Miss ffrench, at the
mere mention of a grievance or fancied insult. She
appealed to justice if her dogs frightened her visitors
or bit their children. She “invariably lost her cases,
was heavily fined, mulcted in damages, and bled white
with costs.” When she fell out with a lawyer, as she
did from time to time, she employed another one to
sue him, and spent a few hundreds more.
She became hopelessly insolvent, and her landlord
tried to eject her from her villa. The pretext was that
she had failed to trim the great hedges of laurel.
Refusing to budge, she asked the proprietor how he
would enjoy having his own arms and legs lopped off.
He replied to this logic by sending a crowd of peasants
to evict her. They found the doors, gates and shutters
barred against them. After a two hours’ siege they
broke in and “heaped insults on the outraged novel-
ist.” She gave in.
A friend gave her £250 to help free her from debt.
She invited him to her new apartment, and decorated
it in his honor with flowers that cost £lOO. She found
pleasure in visiting, and “her visits were interminable
and dreaded.” So it went on until the death of her
mother, who had been at her side through all her wild
career. A friend described Ouida at the time:
in a draggled white nightgown trimmed with lace
and a black cape. Eight dogs kept up an infernal noise
and went on mistaking the lace frill of her nightgown
for a lamp-post. She never attempted to put a stop to
either of those habits. She firmly resists burying her
mother and keeps her in a room upstairs in her villa.
Ouida is now by her own folly denuded of everything.
At 54, Ouida was alone, most of her friends
alienated, Mario, Stufa and Lytton dead, an impover-
ished future before her. “I am weary of everything,”
she said, “except my dogs.” She moved to Lucca and
gave a free meal of bread, meat and milk to every
dog in the place. Social ideas, always interesting to
her, became a passion, and she inveighed with equal
fury against vivisection, the “new woman” and the
machine age: —-
Man has created for himself in the iron beast a
greater tyrant than any Nero or Caligula. And what is
the human child of the iron beast? It is the Cad, rush-
ing on with his shrill scream of laughter as he knocks
down the feeble woman or the yearling child, and
making life and death and all eternity seem ridiculous by
the mere existence of his own intolerable fatuity and
bestiality.
It sounds highly topical, but it wasn’t drunken
motorists she was raging at, but riders of tandems!
After bitterly reproaching the King of Italy for
going in for motor-cars, she tackled Queen Victoria
for not stopping the Boer War. In 1903 she was again
violently turned out of her house for not paying her
rent, and she at once went to law about it. This time
she won the case, but she nearly wrecked everything
by shrieking again and again at the witnesses “Ma che!
Ma che! Ha! Ha! Ma che!” And so forth.
After the riotous extravagance of her prime, she
was forced in her old age to accept a Civil List pen-
sion of £l5O a year, until in 1908, “suffering from
neglect and dying in squalor,” she parted company
with the last three faithful dogs on guard in her bed-
room. Miss ffrench sums it up: “She died as she had
lived; uncompromising and unpractical, half genius
and half crazy, entirely unfitted to wrestle with
realities, yet equipped with an integrity of ideas that
wholly compensated for her wild defects.”
Marie Corelli and a whole host of Edwardian
novelists, even Wilde, learnt a lot from her, and if she
wasn’t a great literary figure she was at least a color-
ful one. Miss ffrench’s book, interesting though it is,
doesn’t really do justice to her flamboyance.
Ronnie Is Murdered.
C. H. B. Kitchen’s Birthday Party (Constable)
comes labelled by the Book Society and plastered with
the vigorous praise of a number of well-known writers.
It really is a good story, not quite in the thriller
class, and saved from being merely ephemeral light
entertainment by the author’s shrewd understanding
of human nature. He hits off his characters to the
life.
Birthday Party is told by four different people,
speaking in turn, so that every event is shown in four
dimensions, and this is done with great neatness and
skill. The story begins with a suicide and ends with
a murder. When Mr. Carlice found that his wife,
Dora, been unfaithful to him with Dr. Rusper,
her father’s partner, he went into the gunroom at
Carlice Abbey and, without any fuss at all, shot
himself.
In his will he left Dora a modest annuity, and
divided the bulk of his property between the two
children, Ronnie and Joan, of his first marriage.
Should both children die before Ronnie reached 21,
the Abbey, which had been in the family from the
days of Henry VIII., was to go to Isabel Carlice, his
sister. His only revenge on Dora was to leave her a
locked box with instructions to give it to Ronnie on
his twenty-first birthday.
Ronnie was 10 years old when his father died.
Over 11 years a crisis worked up that could only be
resolved by Ronnie’s coming of age. Dora, a weak
and shallow creature, dreaded that the reason of her
husband’s death would become known and make her
a social outcast. She was held back by superstition
from destroying the box, which, so she suspected, con-
tained the evidence of it. Joan feared the effect of the
shock upon her brother, from whom the cause of his
father’s death had been kept. Isabel Carlice had
one secret ambition, and that was to get possession of
the Abbey, the core of her pride and affection.
Ronnie, an unhappy and inhibited boy, turned
Communist and determined on his birthday to hand
the Abbey over to the Party. Stephen Payne, Dora’s
brother, a war-wreck, is also drawn into the net of
the story. As Ronnie’s birthday approaches the
reader’s suspense is skilfully whipped up. Joan is
accidentally killed, and gradually the wish that Ronnie
might also be removed takes shape in Isabel Carlice’s
mind. How she brings this about on the eve of
Ronnie’s birthday provides the book with its climax.
The four persons who tell the story are Isabel
Carlice, Dora Carlice, Ronnie Carlice and Stephen
Payne. Each speaks in character and in a kind of
reverie or reminiscence. This has the advantage of
presenting a very natural and lifelike surface —and
the disadvantage of being artificial. It is highly un-
likely that these four people should talk to them-
selves in this manner, and the very natural way they
do it doesn’t get around the difficulty. It won’t stand
delving into, but taken at full speed it is very readable.
Capital Punishment.
Whatever opinions are held about capital punish-
ment, there’s no disputing the excellence of the satire
Charles Duff has written on it in A Handbook on
Hanging, issued in a revised edition by The Bodley
Head.
A journalist, wanting to attack the death penalty,
would describe hangings. A sociologist would amass
evidence on its effect as a deterrent. Ernest Raymond,
in We, the Accused, showed how tremendously power-
ful a statement on it a novelist could make by por-
traying the mind of the condemned man. Duff welds
all three methods into a masterpiece of sustained irony
that treats of hanging as a “fine art.” “The architect
constructs a great building from a significant series of
outlines ; the musician constructs an entire symphony
from a series of tones ; but our hangman by one pull
of the lever achieves far more than either.”
The ironical method, illuminated by flashes of
savage wit, persists throughout the book. He defends
from a charge of incompetence, for instance, the
hangman who failed three times to hang John Lee
(“the man they couldn’t hang”):
There was an exaggeration of terseness in Mr.
Hangman Berry’s style, which was often a great excel-
lence. No flaw or hitch could be discovered in the whole
business. John Lee simply won the game, feet down.
It has been suggested to me that failure to deal ade-
quately with John Lee is proof by Providence of his
innocence. Maybe. I incline rather to attribute it to
immunity from hanging developed by heredity in accord-
ance with Mendel’s theory.
He makes all his points by similar indirect state-
ments: delicate insistence on the details of executions
to suggest that they’re a crude survival from the
Middle Ages ; the story of an English Judge who
awarded damages for slander against a man who said
publicly that the plaintiff was a hangman, to indicate
that, if so much odium attaches to the man who does
the job, it may be the job that’s wrong. As political
writing the book is a tract rather than an argument,
but that doesn’t spoil its brilliance as satire.
"Idiot's Delight."
Robert E. Sherwood’s topical play, Idiot’s Delight,
now published by Heinemann, has had immense suc-
cess in London and New York.
The author iii a foreword tells the story of its
genesis. He was returning, crestfallen, to New York
in 1933 after the failure on the London stage of his
play Acropolis, a long-winded drama set in the Golden
Age of Greece, when he met a friend who had just
completed a world tour: “The most interesting place
I’ve seen,” he told me, “is Harbin, Manchuria. In
the Modern Hotel there you can see the human race
in concentrate form —people of all nationalities, living
in constant terror of the calamity which may come at
any moment. Whenever airplane motors are heard
there is a rush to the windows, for it is believed that
the bombers are here at last.” From this conversation
grew the play Idiot’s Delight.
It is set in a winter sports hotel de luxe of rather
vague geographical situation on the frontiers of
Austria, Germany, Switzerland and Italy, and next
door to a big military aerodrome. Europe is in a
state of acute crisis and the frontier has been closed.
Neither the nature of the crisis nor the territory on
which the hotel stands is disclosed.
An odd assortment of people are cooped up
together in the hotel —an English honeymoon couple,
so wrapped up in themselves that the crisis
o Continued on page 8.)


"THE SENIOR STORE”
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act.
/
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
• LONDON - PARIS • BERLIN • MOSCOW
5 VALVE • NEW DESIGN • DYNAMIC SPEAKER
DUALITE DIAL • PRECISION BUILT
SEE AND HEAR THIS ALL FEATURE RADIO
\ . • • /■; '-o
USUALLY PRICED AT EI7U7 7 - NOW AT
ww
« ss
mmm
wmM
a
•VV.yX '■•'■
m
,•;••• .
♦
4*
».i
m
THE "EUREKA" TOASTER
Give yourself the best in electrical
appliances. Choose the "Eureka" Toaster.
Imported model. Turnover type; heavy
Nickel plating. Complete with flex
and plug. Guaranteed 12 months.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'
19/6
196
S§
22'6 "EUREKA" ELEC. JUG
New shape ’’Eureka" Electric Jug.
Capacity approximately 3| pints. Boils
in approximately 4 minutes. Sturdily
constructed. Best element. Guaranteed
for 12 months. Complete with flex and
plug. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 22/6
SPECIAL PRICE 17/6
176
For perfect enjoyment there is no other choice! A glorious cabinet
enshrines absolute perfection and radio reproduction. Guaranteed
and serviced for 12 months without charge, within the Metropolitan
area. Valves 90 days' guarantee. Installed free within the Metro-
politan area. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £l7/17/-
SPECIAL PRICE £l5/15/-
■/SI/CI3
Easy Terms: Deposit 31/6, 12 Monthly Payments of 24/10
On
33
m
iS i
on
aUumxmic .SuctL
THE ''EUREKA'' CLEANER
£lBlB'
The world renowned Eureka Electric Vacuum
Sweeper is a definite necessity in every home.
Acclaimed 7 times world champion, it is con-
structed to give years and years of faithful
service. Perfectly balanced and powerful.
Complete with full set of attachments. Fully
guaranteed and serviced. Ask for home
demonstration.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £lB/18/-
Easy Terms Available.
..
ELECTRIC TABLE LAMP
An artistically designed Table Lamp,
suitable for almost any room. It's
portable, with a convenient switch
at base. Delightful assortment of
colours. Chrome finish. Complete
with globe, flex and plug. At Anthony Horderns', 15/6
15'6
•X
x *
ec
T
r a
'7.
.1T~—•- — •
Sunbeam Mixmaster
Eliminates kitchen drudgery . .
the Mixmaster does every con-
ceivable mixing, beating, whip-
ping and stirring job electric-
ally and is always ready for
use. The complete machine includes a large and
small mixing bowl, beaters, strainer and juice ex-
tractor. Other attachments, such as food choppers,
pea shellers, potato peeler, knife sharpener, can
opener and coffee grinder, available. Prices on appli-
cation. MIXMASTER PRICE £B/11/6
Easy Terms: Deposit 17/2, 6 Mthly.
Payments of £l/6/4
£Bll6
• Electrical—Ground Floor —Pitt Street. Free delivery within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD., SYDNEY
BOX 2712 C G.P.0., SYDNEY 'PHONE M 2401. DAY AND NIGHT


Stagnant Waters Returns
CLEAR AS MUD
By J. B. Blair
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
a K I ONSENSE,” said the Prime Minister.
“You’ve been seeing too many gangster
I I films.”
“It’s true, sir,” replied his secretary.
“He’s dead! Murdered! I saw the body myself.
Stabbed to death in his own study. It was dreadful,
sir.”
His chief eyed him with considerable concern.
“You’re quite sure of this?” he asked, picking
up his desk ’phone.
“Positive, sir.”
“H’m-m. It’s most inconvenient . . . Give me my
home, please . . . Very awkward . . . That you, dear?
I thought I’d let you know. The Minister for Defence.
Won’t be dining with us after all . . . Yes, I know, but
I’m afraid it can’t be helped . . . Sick? No, not
exactly. He’s been murdered . . . Yes, murdered ! . . .
Course I’m not joking . . . .stone dead. Saw the body
myself . . . Yes, I’ll be home as
usual. Roast pork? Good!
Don’t forget the apple-sauce
. . . Good-bye.”
THE Prime Minister had been
one of the first to hear of
the tragedy which was to shock
the whole Commonwealth, but
it was not long before the ugly
details were known to all Can-
berra.
The Minister for Defence
had been found dead in his
study with his head in the
fender. The body, lying in a
pool of blood, was a mass of
wounds. A large tommy-axe lay
guiltily alongside the corpse, a
sledgehammer lurked in the
corner of the room. On the late
Minister’s desk two open razors
blatantly invited inspection, a
carving-knife and a butcher’s
cleaver skulked in the fireplace,
and on the mantelpiece there
was a curious Eastern dagger of
exquisite workmanship. All
these articles were covered with bloou.
The furniture was hacked to bits, the carpet had
been ripped up and the desk and drawers ransacked.
“Dear me,” said the Prime Minister as he was
ushered into the room. “What a shocking crime.
Look what they’ve done to that lovely maple desk
the citizens of Oodnadatta gave him.”
“There’s the body in the fender,” one of the
detectives remarked.
“Good Heavens! What an uncomfortable
position.”
“Doctor reckons he’s been dead four hours.”
“Oh, well, he’d be getting used to it by now. Poor
old Popgun! You’ll have to find the murderer. I
insist! Leave no stone unturned! I’m going home
to dinner now and I’ll be at the pictures to-night. If
anything turns up meet me outside after the show’s
finished.”
At 10.45 that night the Prime Minister and his
wife emerged from Canberra’s leading talkie theatre.
The detective in charge of the investigation inter-
cepted them. “Excuse me, sir”
“Oh, hullo, Jackson. Enjoy the show? There’s
no doubt about Laurel and Hardy. Perfect screams!
‘. . . What? You haven’t been in. Well, don’t miss it,
Jackson. You go along to-morrow night. You’ll die
laughing. There’s a dummy murder in it and”
He broke off suddenly as he remembered the
reason for the detective’s presence. He turned to his
wife. “Just a moment, dear.”
“What’s the news?” he asked, drawing the detec-
tive aside. “Must keep a brave face in front of the
wife, you know. No need to frighten her.”
“We’ve got hold of the butcher, the man from
the ham-and-beef shop on the corner, the blacksmith,
the odd-jobs man from the Hotel Hansard and two
nigger boxers who arrived here last night from
Sydney. We’re holding ’em for questioning. If you’d
like to come along”
“Thanks, I will. I’ll just get the wife home and
I’ll be right along.”
THE butcher was the first suspect to be questioned.
Yes, the cleaver was his. He’d missed it a
couple of days before, but couldn’t account for it get-
ting out of his possession. No, he had no grudge
against the victim.
“Mind you, he owed me a few quid, but if I
started murdering people for that there’d be mighty
few politicians left in Canberra.”
“Now then, don’t get personal,” warned the
detective.
“Oh, I don’t mean the Prime Minister. Why, it’s
a pleasure to serve him. A man doesn’t mind waiting
a few months”
“That’s enough.”
“Too right it’s enough. Some of ’em keep us
waiting for years.”
“Er —perhaps we should get on with the next
man,” suggested the Prime Minister.
The ham-and-beef man admitted ownership of
the carving-knife. His best one, too. Hadn t seen it
for two days. Suspect anyone? No. The rest of
the examination was on similar lines. The blacksmith
admitted to the hammer and the odd-jobs man to the
tommy-axe. Even the negroes were forced to admit
that the razors discovered in Popgun’s room were
theirs.
“Well, that’s that!” said Jackson as the negroes
were removed to their cells. “We’ve got an open and
shut case against ’em.”
“Against whom?”
“All of ’em. It’s as plain
as yourffacer,e —er, I mean, it’s as
clear as mud. They conspired
together. They went to Mr.
Popgun’s room. When he came
in they went for him. First of
all the blacksmith knocked him
down with that sledgehammer,
the butcher struck him with his
cleaver and the ham-and-beef
man stabbed him with the carv-
ing-knife. Then these two
niggers slashed his throat with
their razors, and the odd-jobs
man finished him off with the
tommy-axe.”
“Why are you so sure they
worked in that order?”
“We’ve got to think of the
records. It simplifies things to
keep it alphabetical.”
“Oh. Which negro slashed
first?”
“Abe first, then Zacky.”
The Prime Minister pon-
dered a moment. “You haven’t
accounted for that little dagger,”
he said.
Jackson smiled. “Oh, I haven’t forgotten that.
That’s the most cunning part of the crime. They
left that behind so we’d think it was suicide.”
((-THE police did a smart job getting that murder
1 gang,” remarked Merchant, the Minister of
Commerce, falling into step with the Prime Minister
as the latter left Parliament House next day.
“Um-mm.”
“You don’t seem very enthusiastic about it.”
“Well, as a matter of fact, there was really nothing
in it. As soon as I saw Popgun’s body I said to Jack-
son: ‘Find out who owns those weapons and you’ve
got your men.’ Jackson saw the point at once, got to
work, and there you are.”
“What do they think was the motive?”
“I don’t know what the police think. They didn’t
mention motives, but to me it’s clear enough.” He
lowered his voice. “It’s an international plot.”
“You dont’ say!”
“I do. That butcher”
“Yes?”
“His mother was half-Italian, and that ham-and-
beef man used to work for a Greek greengrocer in
Melbourne.”
“Well, fancy that! What about the others?”
“The blacksmith was only five years ago fined
forty shillings for being drunk and disorderly in a
Russian restaurant in Sydney, and the odd-jobs man
was at one time a stoker on a British steamer.”
“British! There doesn’t seem to be anything
wrong in that!”
“No, not on the surface. But his ship called
several times at Hong Kong, which is quite close to
Macao, a Portuguese colony. See?”
“Yes. And the negro boxers?”
“We have positive proof that they have both
fought against Max Schmeling. As I said, it’s clearly
an international plot.”
“But why?”
“I wouldn’t say this to anyone else, but you and
I understand each other. It’s the penalty of great-
ness, that’s what it is. It’s all very well for the news-
papers and cartoonists to make fun of us people
overseas know better. And foreign Powers know
better, too. They regard us as people of importance,
and they know we’re to be feared. That’s the reason
for this plot. Poor old Popgun was the victim, but
it might just as easily have been you or me.”
“Aren’t you afraid they may strike again?”
The Prime Minister was nonchalant. “Not at
all. We’ve got the whole gang. There’ll be no more
murders in this city. Good heavens, what is it, Barnes?
You frightened the life out of me.”
The Prime Minister’s secretary had suddenly
overtaken them, running like an elderly hare and
panting like a hart that had not seen a cooling stream
for many a long day. TT ,
“It’s the Minister for Customs, sir. He s been
murdered!”
'T' HERE was no doubt about the Minister for
* Customs being dead. They had found his body
suspended from a hook behind the door of his own
room. His socks and his necktie were knotted tightly
round his neck, but it was doubtful whether these
had caused his death or whether the four fathoms of
sash-cord and the seventy-two feet of red tape that were
also tied around his neck had been responsible. When
the Prime Minister and the Minister for Commerce
arrived at the scene of the crime, Detective Jackson
was already on the job.
“Is he dead?” asked the Prime Minister
“Dead as mutton. I’ve been here ten minutes and
he hasn’t said a word.” 4
“What do you think is the cause?”
“Well, I’m not committing myself till we’ve had
a proper medical examination, but I reckon it’s
strangulation.”
“Why, of course. Those things round his neck.
Yes, I think you’ve struck it. Smart work, Jackson.”
“Oh, we learn to work fast in the force.”
“Any clues, or anything to throw suspicion on
anyone?” asked the Minister for Commerce.
“I’ve looked at those socks. They were bought
in Melbourne; so was the tie.”
“That won’t help you much. They belonged to
Docket himself. See, his feet are bare.”
“Ah. That’s just it. Can we be sure of that?
The murderer may have used his own socks, then
stolen Mr. Docket’s to allay suspicion.”
“By Jove, so he might,” agreed the Prime Minister.
“Then there’s the sash-cord,” continued Jackson.
“I’ll check up and find where that came from.”
“What about the red tape?”
The detective shook his head. “Not much hope
there, sir. It might’ve come from any department
in Canberra, and a little bit like that’d never be
missed. There’s a hole in the heel of one sock, though.
That might help.”
“What do you mean?” asked the Minister for
Commerce.
“Well, it’s an interesting case. Do you know
what? I reckon they’ll call this case the Canberra
Murders! That’s what I reckon they’ll call ’em.
These two killings’ll go in the case-books and”
The arrival of the doctor cut short Jackson’s
prophecies.
“Strangulation, I think, Doctor,” he greeted the
medico. “Just a minute. I’ll yank him down for you.
There you are —all comfy.”
/ ELL, that was simple enough,” said Jackson an
VV hour or so later when he came to report to
the Prime Minister and the Minister for Commerce at
the former’s residence.
“What have you done?”
“We’ve got our man.”
“Good! Who was it?”
“A young student from Sydney University. An
inoffensive-looking lad, but he’s the one all right.”
“How did you get on his trail?”
“Those socks were his downfall. You remember
I suggested he might have strangled Mr. Docket with
his own socks and then stolen Mr. Docket’s to avert
suspicion. Well, I took those socks along to Mr.
Docket’s wife —widow, that is.”
“Yes, and what did she say?”
“She said they were her husband’s. Then she
noticed the hole in the heel of one. She changed
right round. No sock of her husband’s, she said, had
ever had a hole in it. Not since she married him.
The socks were like a pair of his, but they weren’t
his.”
“And then?”
“That was all I wanted. I went along to the
Hotel Waratah and I stood in the front bar. I kept
my eyes glued to the brass rail and I studied every
foot that was placed on it. More than that. I studied
every ankle. At last I got him—the young student.
I took him into a private room and compared the
socks. He had to admit they were identical. I made
him take off his shoes, and sure enough there were
no holes in his socks. I took him along to the station.’
“The evidence seems a bit flimsy,” said the
Minister for Commerce.
“Not at all, sir. A young student, up here for a
few days—wouldn’t you expect him to have holes in
his socks? As a matter of fact, I’ve been to his lodg-
ings and looked over his clothes. Nearly all his socks
are holey.”
“Does he admit anything?”
“Not a thing, but that won’t help him. Claims
he was at the National Library all the afternoon, but
can’t produce a soul to prove it. Now, I ask you, sir.
Do you believe anyone would spend a whole after-
noon at the National Library? He’s tied up, I tell
you. Not a scrap of doubt about him. The socks
round Docket’s neck were his all right, and the ones
he’s wearing now are Docket’s.”
“H’m! Can you link him up with the other sus-
pects?”
“Yes. He admits he bought some sandwiches
from the ham-and-beef man yesterday afternoon. If
that isn’t a clear case”


CANBERRA was still discussing the highlights of
the second murder when the news got abroad that
a third killing had taken place.
“I don’t believe it,” a staunch opponent of the
Government was heard to say in the Hotel Hansard
bar. “It’s only a Government scheme to win sym-
pathy. That crowd’d come at anything.”
“What! Don’t you believe there’s been another
murder?” he was asked.
“Another one? I don’t believe there’s been any
at all! Who’d want to kill that mob? The whole
lot of ’em put together aren’t worth swinging for.”
Despite these doubts, however, the Prime Minis-
ter, the Minister for Commerce and Detective Jack-
son were at that very moment standing beside the
dead body of the late Attorney-General. Like his
unfortunate colleagues, he had been found dead in his
own office. Unlike their cases, however, his body
showed no signs of violence. Nevertheless, his desk
indicated only too clearly that there had been foul
play. A bottle of strychnine stood side by side with
a flask of prussic acid. There were also a can of
phenol, nearly a pint of arsenic, and a jugful of mixed
drugs. The carpet was strewn with powdered glass.
“Do you think perhaps he’s been poisoned?”
suggested the Prime Minister.
“The possibility had entered my mind,” returned
Jackson.
At his reply the two Ministers glanced towards
him, and simultaneously they gasped with amazement.
Instead of the short, stocky figure of Jackson, they
beheld a tall, gaunt man with piercing eyes.
“Who —who are you?” asked the Prime Minister.
“I think it’s time to drop pretences,” replied the
other. “I am Stagnant Waters.”
“What! The Stagnant Waters?”
“I have heard of no other,” was the cold reply.
“Then you’re going to take up this case?”
“I have already taken up the case.”
“And Jackson?”
“Jackson couldn’t solve a crossword puzzle. You
know that.”
The Minister for Commerce came to the absent
one’s defence. “He’s made those arrests.”
“He has not. I made those arrests.”
“But”
“Please listen. Get this straight. I took over
from Jackson from the moment of the first murder.
Never mind how I got here. I just happened to be
here. I disguised myself as Jackson and I’ve been
investigating as Jackson ever since. Now it’s time I
came out into the open.”
“But where’s Jackson?” asked the Prime Minister.
“Oh, he’s here. As a matter of fact, I’ve disguised
him as your secretary, Barnes.”
“Good heavens. But where’s Barnes?”
“You politicians worry too much about details.
If you want to know, Barnes is in Queanbeyan. I dis-
guised him as the local postmaster.”
“Postmaster! Then what about”'
“Never mind about the postmaster! We can’t
go on like this all day. Let’s get on with the job. Now
this is clearly a case of poisoning.”
'“Yes. Those”
“Precisely. Those jugs and things are just a blind.
The post-mortem will probably reveal traces of all
these poisons in him, but not one of them killed him.
He was killed by a rare, almost unknown South
American poison which leaves no trace. The post-
mortem will bear me out in that-—there’ll be no trace
of it.”
“But why should”
“Because he’s a very clever criminal, and he’s
taken care to leave no traces. Think of Docket, for
example. Strangled by the murderer’s bare hands.”
“But the tie and socks and things?”
“Trace-coverers, I call them. Cast your mind back
to the first murder —Popgun. He was obviously killed
with that little Eastern dagger, the only thing among all
those lethal weapons that could not be easily traced.
“We must act at once. This is a plot to wipe out
the whole Ministry one by one. If not nipped in the
bud there won’t be a Minister left in a few days’
time.”
“Awful,” shuddered the Prime Minister.
“Exactly,” agreed Stagnant Waters. “Where
would my reputation be?”
“Do you think it would be advisable for me —
for the rest of Cabinet to leave Canberra for a few
weeks?”
“Not the slightest use. Death would strike you
down wherever you went,” replied the great detective.
“Then what do you advise?”
“You must rely on me.”
The Minister for Commerce spoke up. “Those
fellows you arrested? Do you still think they belong
to the gang?”
“Gang! Of course not. Not one of them knows
a thing about the murders.”
“Then why”
“You forget that I’ve been impersonating Jack-
son. When I disguise myself as someone I don’t
merely alter my face and look like him. I act like)
him. Those deductions I drew were the ones Jack-
son himself would have drawn from the facts, and
the men I arrested were the ones Jackson would ha\K
arrested.”
“Then they’re all innocent?”
“Yes. But leave them there for the time. It’ll be
something for them to boast about afterwards. Mean-
time, we must get to work.”
“Do you suspect anyone?”
“I do. And I feel sure he’ll be making another
attempt before long.”
The Prime Minister went pale.
“Who do you think will be next?” he asked in a
low voice.
“I think you’re safe enough for the time being.
He’ll probably save you for the last.”
He turned to the Minister for Commerce. “I
am afraid you are next on the list, Mr. Merchant.”
“Me!”
“Yes. But you’ll be
all right. All I ask is
that you put yourself
in my hands. I have a
plan.”
The Minister was
doubtful. “What is
it?” he asked.
“Just a little more
impersonation. Allow
me to disguise myself
as you and I’ll wait in
your study for the mur-
derer. If he runs true
to form that’s where
he plans to get you.”
“You’d better do
it,” urged the Prime
Minister : “I have every
faith in Mr. Waters. 38
“It doesn’t seem fair on you, Mr. Waters,” pro-
tested the Minister for Commerce.
“It’s my job. And it’s the only way to catch
our man.”
“Very well then. Though I’ll never forgive myself
if anything happens to you.”
“Good! Then that’s fixed. I’ll disguise myself
as you. To save trouble and complications I’d better
disguise you as me.”
“As you as you, or as you as Jackson?”
“As me as me! Jackson can be himself again.”
“What about Barnes?” asked the Prime Minister.
“Yes, he can come back, too.”
“And I suppose the postmaster at Quean-
bey an” —
“Yes, yes, yes! Do what you like with him.
Come on, Merchant, we’ll go and change.”
“'"THERE! Have a look at yourself,” said Stag-
* nant Waters, taking a mirror from his pocket
and handing it to the Minister for Commerce.
“Marvellous!” exclaimed Merchant. “Why, I
seem to have disappeared altogether and in my place
is your
“It’s not perfect,” criticised the Great Detective,
“but it’ll do. Now for myself.”
He worked swiftly, and Merchant, watching, could
see a replica of his own face rapidly replacing that of
the detective. At last the latter was satisfied.
“How’s that?” he asked.
“Perfect! It’s uncanny. I feel like a disembodied
soul looking at his own body. How long do I have to
stay like this?”
“Not long. I’ve a feeling our man will strike
to-night. Now, all I want you to do is this. Go
out and show yourself here and there about the
city. The murderer knows I’m in Canberra. When
he sees you about disguised as me he’ll think the
coast is clear. He’ll come to your study to murder
you and he’ll find me there disguised as you. The
case is as good as over.”
“It’s frightfully risky for you.”
“Not at all. I am Stagnant Waters. The risk
is all his. Let’s go.”
“Right-oh.”
“Just a minute. I’m not quite satisfied with your
make-up. A little touch here . . . and a slight altera-
tion there. Ah! that’s better.”
They walked out into the night together. At the
next corner they parted. The Great Detective made
his way towards the office of the Minister for Com-
merce and Merchant turned in the direction of the
Hotel Hansard.
THE Prime Minister’s secretary burst into his chief’s
room. He was very distraught. “There’s been
another murder, sir.”
“What? Who?”
“Mr. Merchant. Jackson just rang up. He’s call-
ing to pick you up.”
“Jackson? Then who are you?”
“Barnes, sir.”
“Ah!” A gleam of hope spread over the Prime
Minister’s countenance. “Then the postmaster at
Queanbeyan”
“Hope you’ll excuse me bursting in,” said Jack-
son, interrupting from the door, “but I’ve got a car
outside. I thought you’d like to rush over with me.”
“Thanks. I’m ready right now.”
(Continued on page 7.)
....found dead in his study with his head in the
fender.


About a Pair of Boots
ROPEYARN
BY Alan Hill.
DRAWING BY LOCK.
MR. GIDEON GUDGE, mate of
the tramp steamer Moala, was
a mean man in every sense of
the word. You could tell that
by his piggy, close-set eyes; by the
way he spoke to his men ; by his bulg-
ing jaw and raucous voice. Therefore,
as an old sailor, Tom Swallow should not
have been surprised.
Swallow had been selling gear around
the waterfront for years. A long time ago some-
one left him a legacy of a hundred pounds. Tom
“swallowed the anchor”—he was A.B. in a deep-
water barque at the time —and stocked up a small
shop near the wharves with pipes, tobacco, blankets,
boots, sheath-knives, flannel shirts, dungarees and
sailors’ whatnots.
Every day except Sunday Tom Swallow loaded
a large portmanteau, left his nephew Ted in
charge of the shop, and took his wares aboard the
ships of the port, timing his visits to synchronise
with smoke-ohs or meal hours. In his day he had
sailed aboard many a hard-case packet, and knew
just the right kind of gear for a long, uncomfortable
passage. There was no shoddy in Tom Swallow’s
stock; no “seaman’s outfitter’s” slops. Everyone
was sure of a fair thing from Tom. But Gideon
Gudge was quite a new experience.
“These size eleven?” asked Mr. Gudge, handling
a pair of rubber kneeboots.
“Yessir—elevenses, an’ a good line, too.”
“I’ll take ’em.”
“Right, sir; thanks. That’ll be twenty-five
shillin’s, sir.”
“Eh?” Gudge elevated craggy eyebrows. “Twenty-
five bob nothing! These’ll do for my commission!”
“Commission? ’Fraid I don’t quite catch on,
sir.”
“Listen,” said Gudge impatiently. “You come
aboard my ship to sell your junk, and only with my
permission. Understand?”
Tom Swallow nodded, slowly.
“Well, that means you get the run of the ship to
peddle your stuff. If it wasn’t for me, you couldn’t
sell anything aboard this wagon—savvy? I’m cut-
ting it out with this pair of seaboots. Commission,
see?”
Tom Swallow saw. He stared at the mate of the
Moala, hostility in his keen old eyes. “I’ve been
aboard a few ships in my day, mister, selling my
truck; but this is the first time a chief officer
has stuck me for ‘comshaw’! ”
“Well, count yourself lucky. Anyway, take it or
leave it. And if you don’t like it, you can hoist your
rubbish ashore fast as you can make it. You’re
trespassing ; you’re aboard without leave! ”
For a few seconds Tom studied a five-pointed
star tattooed on the back of his hand. “All right,
mister; you win. Keep the boots. It’s about dinner-
time now, so I s'pose I can go for’ard and see the
crowd?”
Gudge grinned as the ex-seaman hove his hamper
on to his shoulder and headed for the fo’c’sle.
A T turn-lo time, the packman stood behind a big
ventilator near the gangway, adjusting the straps
of his port. Trade had been brisk forward, but
the dead loss of a pair of seaboots cut deeply into
his profits.
“Guess this’ll be the last time I come aboard
this bugtrap,” he muttered —“at least, till you get
pushed out of her,” he added as Gudge came out on
deck from the saloon, accompanied by Captain Small-
page, the rat-faced master of the Moala.
Deep in conversation, neither the skipper nor
the mate could see Swallow behind the ventilator.
Their talk came clearly to his listening ears.
“We’re in a tight corner, Gudge! They told me
at the office this morning that they’re sending some-
one down first thing to-morrow to over-
haul the stores and to take an inventory.
The manager was a bit chilly, too;
must have smelt a rat!”
“A nice mess,” Gudge growled. “I told you last
trip that we made it too hot getting rid of all that
paint. They must have got on to it.”
Captain Smallpage tipped back his cap and wor-
riedly picked his teeth.
“I’m not so scared about the paint,” Gudge went
on ; “I can easily account for forty or fifty gallons,
but it’s the new spare hawser we shipped last trip
that’s got me thinking. You don’t use a coil of seven-
inch manilla every day!”
“You shouldn’t have sold it in Singapore!”
“ ‘We,’ you mean. Anyway, it’s too late to think
of that now; and it fetched a good price! ”
“It’ll fetch the bullet, if the office wakes up,” said
Captain Smallpage gloomily. “Can’t you figure some
way to bamboozle that pencil-wrestling clerk from
the office?”
The mate jerked his head towards the Moala’s
bows, where a party of seamen were dragging a new
mooring line up from the forepeak and coiling it
down on the fo’c’sle-head.
“When we sailed last trip we had three new
hawsers,” said Gudge. “We’ve scrounged one and
sold it in Singapore ; that leaves us two. Well, I’ve
had the old bowline coiled down in the forepeak in
the dark, and I’ve taken the last new hawser and
stowed it on the fo’c’sle-head, along with the new
starboard bowline. That makes two new lines on
deck, and one old one below. It’s pretty dark down
in the locker, and I’ll just have to do my damnedest
to palm it off as the third new line that mangy
clerk’ll be grubbing for.”
“Dark or no dark, he’ll be blind if he doesn’t
notice that it’s as rotten as salt beef,” said the skipper,
making his way to the boat deck accommodation
ladder.
“I’ve had it stowed best end up, and I’ll tip a
can of tdr or something over it. It’s the only way”
Then Gudge saw Swallow as he stepped from
behind the ventilator.
“Here!” he roared. “Beat it ashore, you! The
men are working now!”
Tom Swallow tightened the last strap, adjusted
the final buckle and straightened his back. “Just a
minute, mister. I’d like to have a word with you.”
The mate stared. “Go ahead, and look slippy;
I’m busy,” he grunted.
“I couldn’t help hearin’ you and the Old Man
talkin’,” said Tom. “In a bit of a jam, ain’t you,
mister?”
Mr. Gudge’s face purpled, and he took a threat-
ening pace in the packman’s direction.
“Hold on!” Tom Swallow lifted his hand. “I
can help you out, that’s all!”
Gudge glared at him suspiciously. “How?”
“Well, mister, a cove is cornin’ aboard to-morrow
to overhaul your stores, and you’re a coil of seven-
inch manilla short. You’ve —er —mislaid it.”
“Here, Nosey Parker,” snarled Gudge, “not so
much slack. What’re you driving at?”
“ ’Vast heavin’ a minute, mister. I can supply
you with a new coil of seven-inch manilla haulin’
line —for five pounds!”
The mate’s eyes popped. Five pounds! A new
coil, bought in the legitimate way, would run into
about twenty-five pounds!
“Where’d you get it? Pinch it?”
“No questions please, mister. D’you want it?”
“But five quid! Now if it were, say, two”
“Five or nothin’ doin’, mister. You’ll show a
handsome profit at that. An’ I’m not bargainin’,
mister. Five pounds or the deal’s off!”
“Wait a bit,” growled Gudge. “I’ll see the
skipper; he’ll have to stand his whack in this! ”
Tom Swallow leant against the rail, whistling
softly, until Gudge returned from the boat deck. He
looked inquiringly at the mate.
“All right; I’ll take it,” said Gudge. “When’ll
you bring it aboard?”
“To-night about nine, when it’s good and dark
and the crew’s ashore. I’ll bring it alongside in my
boat. I guess you don’t want all hands to know
about it?”
“No. Nine o’clock then ; that’ll do.”
“Right, mister. Don’t have too many lights
about, and have that fiver ready!”
“Don’t harp on it, blast you! You’ll get your
money! ”
Tom Swallow hoisted his basket and made for
the gangway. Half-way down he paused, and called
up to Gudge. “By the way, mister, there won’t be
any commission on this deal. I’ll just about clear
enough out of it to square off them seaboots!”
N lINE O’CLOCK was chiming from uptown clock
* towers as Tom Swallow climbed the Moala’s
gangway for the second time that day. Save for a
feeble glimmer at the gangway-head, the deserted
ship was in darkness. Gideon Gudge was on deck,
waiting for him.
“All set?” asked Tom.
“Yes ; and get a move on,” said Gudge peev-
ishly. “All hands except me are ashore, so hustle,
before anybody turns up!”
“Have to wait for a bit,” replied Swallow.
“There’s a watchman prowlin’ round on the next
wharf, an’ we don’t want the police launch buttin’
in. I’m goin’ for’ard to keep an eye on him. My
nephew’s standin’ off with the boat until I give him
the office. You’d better keep a lookout here at the
gangway till the boat gets alongside. Just whistle if
you hear anyone cornin’.”
Tom Swallow faded out of the dim circle of
light thrown by the hurricane-lamp, and vanished
into the gloom of the foredeck. In the stillness,
Gudge heard the rattle of a loose iron step as Swallow
ascended the fo’c’sle-head ladder.
Twenty minutes dragged by at the gangway, and
Gudge was on the point of going forward to look
for him when the old shellback reappeared out of the
darkness.
“All Sir Garnet, mister. Ted’s cornin’ alongside
now. Come round to port and give us a hand.”
The two men crossed the Moala’s deck to the
offshore side. Beneath them, gently bumping against
the tramp’s rusty plates, bobbed the dark blob of
a large rowing boat.
“Pass us your painter, Ted,” called Swallow softly,
and a rope whizzed up out of the void, to be deftly
caught and made fast. Then the packman lowered
the end of a handy lifeboat fall. “Here you are,
Ted —hitch on!”
“Coming up—haul in,” a voice called guardedly
from the waterline, and the mate and Swallow pulled
in hand over hand, until the end of a heavy hawser
snaked over the rail. Then Tom Swallow paused,
and took a turn around a cleat with the boat’s fall.
“That fiver, mister!”
Gudge straightened, and released his hold.
“You backchatting old wharf-sweeping! Don’t
you trust me?” he demanded.
“No!” said the packman simply.
Gudge’s hamlike fists clenched, only to unclench
as Swallow whipped something from his hip pocket
and said quietly: “Just in case you can’t see what
this is, mister, it’s a greenheart belayin’ pin I col-
lected from the pinrail for’ard. I thought it might
come in handy.”
Then he called down to the boat. “Under
below! I’m lettin’ the end drop back, Ted. Stand
clear”
“Here,” said Gudge hastily, “hold on —here’s
your five quid! And if this rope isn’t Al, the Lord
help your hide!” He thrust five greasy poundnotes
under Swallow’s nose.
Tom inspected the notes by the light of a pocket
torch and pocketed them. “All right, Ted, pay out


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for “The Bulletin’s” Short Story
Competition are:—
First . £7O
Second £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
They hurried to the scene of the latest Minis-
terial murder. The body of the Minister for Com-
merce was lying on the floor, shot through the head.
Stagnant Waters was reading the Commonwealth
Year-Book.
“I notice there were four hundred and sixty-nine
homicides last year,” he said. “This year’s figures, in-
cluding exhibit A here, already total three hundred and
thirty-seven. It looks as if we’ll have a new high.”
“Poor Merchant ! Is he dead?”
“Quite.”
“Who killed him?”
“The same man that killed the other three.”
“And that was?”
Stagnant Waters pointed to the prostrate body.
The Prime Minister looked bewildered.
“What! You don’t mean”
“Exactly. Merchant was the murderer. Motive:
overweening ambition. A junior member of Cabinet,
his chances of immediate promotion were remote. By
killing off all the senior Ministers he hoped to secure
the Prime Ministership. After that, who knows?
Dictatorship, probably.”
“Good heavens! Are you sure?”
“No possible doubt.”
“It’s right enough, sir,” corroborated Jackson.
“Mr. Waters has given us all the proofs.”
“So he suicided?” asked the Prime Minister.
“Not exactly.”
“You mean you—shot him?”
“Oh, no. He shot himself all right, but it wasn’t
suicide. Call it mistaken identity.”
“I don’t understand.”
“You remember my plan of swapping disguises
with Merchant?”
“Yes.”
“Well, we did. I disguised him as myself and
showed him the job in a mirror. He was quite satis-
fied. Then I disguised myself as him. Again he was
satisfied. Then just as we left my room I made an
excuse for putting some finishing touches to his dis-
guise. He suspected nothing. Although he did not
know it he was himself once more.”
“It seems a pity to have gone to all that trouble
just to disguise him as himself,” said the Prime
Minister.
The Great Detective took no notice of the remark.
“We left my room,” he continued. “Remember, I
was still disguised as the Minister for Commerce.
We parted. I came here. Once in this room I again
resumed my own identity. I sat at that desk quietly
reading. But first I placed that mirror near the door.”
“I had not long to wait. Presently the door
opened and Merchant crept in. I did not look up,
I could see his reflection in my watch-glass. He was
amazed, absolutely bewildered.”
He broke off a moment in his recital.
“Imagine Merchant’s frame of mind, and that the
single-purposed mind of a killer. He had come here
with the fixed intention of killing me, to get rid of
the one man who might prevent his carrying out his
scheme. But he expected to find me disguised as him-
self. Instead of that he saw what was apparently me
at the desk. No wonder he was dumbfounded. Then
he caught sight of his reflection in the mirror. Imagine
his amazement then! Remember, he still thought he
was disguised as me, yet his own eyes had shown him
the living image of me at the desk, and now the mirror
showed a reflection of himself. His confused mind
couldn’t cope with the situation. All he knew was
that he had been disguised as Stagnant Waters and
that he had come there to shoot a man disguised as
himself. The mirror showed him the reflection of
such a man. He shot him. As I said, not exactly
suicide, just mistaken identity. Better get the morgue
gang, Jackson.”
“I’m still a bit hazy about it,” confessed the
Prime Minister. “It all seems incredible to me.”
“Well, that’s my story,” replied Stagnant Waters,
“and the camera can’t lie.”
“I don’t see where the camera comes in.”
“Neither do I. Must’ve been thinking of some
other case.”
“QH, dear,” said the Prime Minister to his wife as
he put the blinds up that night. “I’m afraid
there’s still a lot of points I’m not clear about. That
postmaster, for instance . . . Never mind, I s’pose I’ll
read all about it in the papers to-morrow.”
again. Come on, mister, haul in! This reminds me
of old times,” he chuckled, and started to hum the
refrain of an old deepwater chantey.
An’ we’ll pay Paddy Doyle for his boots!
At last came a soft call of “End-oh.” Tom rubbed
his palms on his trouser-knees, and flashed his torch
over the coil of bright, new, yellow manilla rope.
y “There y’are, mister, a full coil. Ninety fathoms
of first-quality seven-inch manilla. Now I’ll be
shovin’ off. Good night, and I hope them seaboots
won’t pinch your feet and cause you any regrets!”
“Get to hell,” panted Gudge. “A man ought
to”
A T seven o’clock the next morning the bos’n of the
Moala reported to the mate’s cabin for orders for
the day.
“There’s a new coil of manilla stowed on the
port side amidships,” said Gudge from his bunk.
“Chase those loafers of yours along, and get it stowed
below in the forepeak locker.”
The bos’n departed, but soon returned; and
what he told the mate caused Gideon Gudge to spring
from his bunk and fly forward, his heart in his mouth.
And what he saw and found there made him race
up to the master’s quarters on the boat deck.
Captain Smallpage jumped, and turned his lather-
daubed face from the bulkhead mirror as his chief
officer blundered into the cabin. “What’s up? Charg-
ing in here in your pyjamas like a bull in a crockery-
shop! What is it —a fire? Dammit, you’ve made
me cut myself!”
“T-t-that p-pedlar! T-that rope!” stuttered the
mate.
“Pedlar? Rope? Ah, yes—the new spare haul-
ing line! You got it aboard all right?”
*‘Got it aboard? Oh, yes—l got it aboard! I
can see it all now!” gibbered Mr. Gudge. “That
swindling old slop-seller kept me at the gangway for
nearly half an hour last night, looking for a watch-
man that wasn’t there, while he went up on the
fo’c’sle-head” Gudge paused for wind.
“Well, go on,” snapped the skipper, dabbing
his chin with a grimy towel.
“Don’t you see? That old stiff paid out our
brand-new hawser —the one the crew broke out yes-
terday—down into his dam’ nephew’s boat, and had
the boat brought amidships, in the dark. And then I
gave him a hand to haul our own line aboard, and
paid him a fiver for doing it!”
“What?” screamed Captain Smallpage.
“You heard!” moaned Gideon Gudge. “And
while I was breaking my back heaving in, the old
swine sang ‘We’ll Pay Paddy Doyle for His Boots!’”
BITTER SUGAR
BY PHILIP WATERWORTH.
TO most people Gaynor appears a kindly man of
unusual personality and charm, but I saw a
good deal of him at one time, and gradually
formed what I am sure is a more accurate esti-
mate of him. He observes people as you or I would
watch a cageful of apes. Their behavior fascinates
him. He seems to be able to extricate himself from
awkward situations and still leave a good impression.
That is where his cleverness shows most: it is not
easy to persuade people that you are full of human
sympathy when you look upon them as performing
animals.
I say I knew him pretty thoroughly, but I caught
him out only once. That, I could actually nail down ;
the rest I felt to be true. The particular detail was
an important point at the trial; in fact, you might say
that it decided the verdict.
The case caused quite a lot of comment at the
time. His two aunts called on him one afternoon for
tea, quite unexpectedly so he said. They had tea
with him, went home, died and left him a comfortable
fortune. The autopsy revealed large quantities of
arsenic in the bodies, and there was an inquest.
Gaynor attended it, looking tired and distressed.
He gave a quiet, straightforward account of the
tragedy, explaining that his house was infested with
cockroaches and that he was in the kitchen spreading
a mixture of arsenic and sugar for them. The house-
keeper was out buying household supplies, and the
only sugar he could find was in a bowl on the dresser,
so he mixed the packet of arsenic with that. He was
sprinkling it round the skirting boards when the door-
bell rang. Putting the bowl down on the dresser, he
went to the door, found his aunts there and took them
into the sitting-room. An hour or so later, his house-
keeper, who had returned in the interval, brought in
tea. Both women must have taken sugar from the
bowl he had been using in the kitchen.
This was an obvious weak point in his story, and
the coroner questioned him closely: “Will you explain,
Mr. Gaynor, why you did not notice that this was
the sugar-bowl you used earlier?”
“I may have seen it, but it is white like the rest
of the teaset, and quite inconspicuous. In any case,
it made no impression on my mind.”
Then the coroner asked the question that had
been in everyone’s mind since the tragedy: “How
did it come about that you escaped poisoning, Mr.
Gaynor?”
Again the explanation was simple and straight-
forward: “I don’t take sugar. I have never taken it
in tea.” Then, as though it were an afterthought, he
said that this was another reason for his not noticing
the sugar-bowl. His aunt when she poured the tea
neither asked him would he have sugar nor offered
him the bowl, because she knew that he didn’t take it.
I thought when I heard him say it that this was a bit
of speciousness in the best Gaynor manner, particu-
larly putting it in as an apparent afterthought.
He made a good showing at the inquest, and
public opinion seemed definitely in his favor, so that
the town was shocked when they put him on trial
for murder. Feeling ran high, and the whole place
was divided on the subject. The division was mainly
on the point whether or not he took sugar. The
majority of those who knew him thought uncertainly
that he did not take it, a few thought he did, but
strangely enough no one could swear to it.
It was obvious that the police would have diffi-
culty in proving anything, and most of their inquiries
helped Gaynor more than the prosecution. The house-
keeper said she went out entirely of her own accord
that afternoon. Certainly they got her to admit that
this was a habit of hers, and they made something
of a point about Gaynor being able to rely on her
going out. Then she said that it was she who sug-
gested using arsenic and sugar for the cockroaches
—which seemed to influence the jury in Gaynor’s
favor, because the prosecution had built their case
on the assumption that it was Gaynor’s idea.
They tried to trace a letter of invitation to his
aunts and could find none. He may have telephoned,
but a call could not be traced. It seemed that they
had come that day, as Gaynor said, entirely by chance.
L_JE looked much the same as usual in court. His
* ' behavior was perfect: a few carefully-chosen ex-
pressions of sorrow and a frank admission of care-
lessness. He made no attempt at a defence, but he
did say that such extraordinary sequencers of events
must occur occasionally, and pointed out that there is
nothing surprising in any chain of events if the
observer begins at the beginning and takes each event
as it occurs. Taken from the other end —that is,
beginning at the conclusion and tracing the chain
back —the same events may appear tremendous coin-
cidence or deliberate design.
The prosecution asked him was it true that he
found it difficult to live on his' income. Gaynor said
that he never had been well off, but it didn’t worry
him; and then, answering the implied question, said
the inheritance would make him much more com-
fortable.
The Crown Prosecutor was rather offensive at this
stage, and Gaynor showed some signs of anger,
though I am sure he didn’t feel it. He said motives
had become a fetish, and he was certain that the
establishment of an apparently good motive had
hanged many an innocent man. Wherever there was
a chance, he slipped in some little piece like that,
always well done and always short, so that the Judge
wouldn’t stop him, and it appeared to make some
impression on the jury. Anyway they brought in a
verdict of not guilty, with a rider censuring Gaynor’s
carelessness. It was mildly worded, but the Judge
made a short and biting speech at the conclusion of
the trial.
There appeared to be a general impression among
the people in court that Gaynor had been unfairly
treated, and there was quite a rush to congratulate
him. Public opinion had always been in his favor,
and when the fuss blew over, as it did in a few
months, Gaynor went his social round as before, a
little subdued for a while, but with perfect assurance.
A few social leaders asked him to dinner, and after
that he went everywhere.
I said I caught him out only once. Alone it is
proof of nothing at all. I have the one fact, and no
evidence, and / am convinced.
Gaynor came occasionally to my house without
my asking him, and I made no effort to stop him,
not because I had any great liking for him, but
because he was a very entertaining man and he
showed plainly that he liked coming.
On this occasion he came in the afternoon and
I gave him tea, then unthinkingly handed him the
sugar. He refused it without a suspicion of hesitation,
and went smoothly on with what he was saying. I
remember he was talking about the use of color by
Manet. He is an amateur painter and knows a fair
bit about his subject. I suppose at that moment he
was as forgetful of himself as it is possible for such
a man to be.
He was holding forth about Manet, and I was
interested, but my eye wandered about a bit and hap-
pened to fall on his hands. I expect he caught a
change of expression on my face, or sensed that some-
thing was wrong. He glanced at me and then down
at his hands. In a flash he must have understood
exactly what was in my mind, and his composure
dropped from him. Never have I seen any man
look so naked, or experienced such complete under-
standing without the medium of words. You see
he was slowly stirring his tea.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH ADSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
112 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WILL SHARE AND COMMODITY PRICES HOLD?
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING
SURVEY OF METAL MARKETS
MINING DEVELOPMENTS ALL FIELDS
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
paina and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millions of people. Thev give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
comes on them as a complete surprise ; a German
scientist on his way to Switzerland to complete his
researches into the cure for cancer; an idealist rush-
ing home to France to preach a crusade against war ;
a consumptive and his wife; an American, Harry
Van, and his troupe of blond dancing girls ; Achilles
Weber, an armaments manufacturer ; Irene, the beauti-
ful Russian girl who accompanies him ; and the usual
packing of fiery majors, young officers, nondescript
guests and hotel servants.
They are intended as a cross-section of the human
race. Life is interrupted, science and progress are
brought to a standstill, quiet and useful people are
changed into jingoes, friendliness to suspicion, the
very shadow of war spreads misery. The characters
are well chosen and well drawn, posed against a dark-
ening background. The spotlight is focused on two:
Irene, the woman of mystery —Everywoman—and
Harry Van, the sorrowful clown —Man, the heroic
victim. They alone see the true trend of affairs and,
although they will be destroyed, do not consent to their
fate.
War is declared ; the wireless shuts down, cen-
sored ; rumors of air raids and counter raids creep
through ; nerves are kept taut by the hum of ’planes
and the shrieking of sirens at the aerodrome. At last
the hotel is evacuated, but Irene is left behind; her
passport is not in order. Weber has discovered that
she has a heart of pity and has no further use for
her. She is abandoned, but Van comes back to share
her fate. Together they watch the enemy ’planes
swarm up the sky. Van plays the “Valkyrie” music
against. the rising din. The end is pandemonium,
demolition, blackout:
Harry, do you realise the whole world has gone
to war? The whole world!”
“1 realise it, but don’t ask me why. Because I’ve
stopped trying to figure it out.”
“1 know why. It’s just for the purpose of killing
us . . You and me. Because we are the little people—
and tor us the deadliest weapons are the most merciful.”
It is easy to imagine that on the stage this play
would have immense dramatic force. Sherwood works
upon the nerves and imagination of his audience and
manipulates his lights and shadows very skilfully, even
to throwing in a cabaret scene after the tradition of
the cinema. But in cold print Idiot’s Delight shows up
somewhat garishly. It is hard for plays to have the
subtlety of novels ; they must hit, and hit promptly.
Idiot’s Delight —the name is from solitaire, “the
game that never means anything and never ends”—
is an emotional plea against war—any war. It illus-
trates the truism that war is wasteful, that it destroys
and debases innocent and harmless people, that it is
no solution of world problems. It carries the argument
no further, breaks no new ground. All its bogies are
conventional ones. It is growing a little difficult, for
instance, to continue swallowing in fiction and the
drama the armament merchant who says, “But don’t
forget to do honor to Him—up there—who put fear
into man. I am but the humble instrument of this
divine will.”
The Howl in the Howler.
Introducing a selection from his previous books
in the same line, Cecil Hunt suggested that perhaps
imaginative teachers could profit much by studying
the contents of his Hand-picked Howlers. No doubt
they could ; for the great majority of howlers are,
more than anything else, an outcome of mental con-
fusion brought about by bad teaching. Nearly every
howler committed amounts to a criticism. In most
cases the contents of Mr. Hunt’s diverting little tomes
are signposts to knowledge imparted without under-
standing.
There are exceptions, of course. In the volume
here mentioned—put out a little time back by
Methuen, with drawings by Edmund Blampied so
hilariously diverting that they turn every item they
illustrate into a classic—Mr. Hunt states that he has
irrefutable evidence, in the shape of the actual exami-
nation and exercise papers, that many of the howlers
apparently just too good to be true are absolutely
genuine.” That, however, doesn’t negative the thought,
which will occur to many while they are feeling their
ribs for cracks, that a certain amount of the humor
is anything but unintentional. “A demagogue is a
pot-bellied vessel for holding liquor” seems decidedly
open to suspicion, despite its basis in apparent con-
fusion over words which is responsible for some 75 p.c.
of all howlers committed. A few others that may be
genuinely unconscious, but, on the other hand, might
be pointers to exceptional talent rather than to sub-
normal or immature intellects toiling with badly-
imparted knowledge they have failed to grasp:
In the United States people are always put to death
by elocution.
What was Adam’s punishment? He was to keep Eve.
Socrates died from an overdose of wedlock.
Thomas a Becket lived a dissipated life. Three nights
killed him.
Lloyd George saved his country like Joan of Arc
saved France, but they haven’t burned him yet.
The crowning point came when James had a son.
The English people were furious. They thought that
was really too much.
A spa is where people drink bath water.
C.1.D.: Copper in Disguise.
They gave Wellington a glorious funeral. It took
six men to carry the beer.
Who was sorry when the Prodigal Son returned?
The fatted calf.
Of those, the marvel of James’s son might be
genuinely unconscious, for the son motif occurs in
quite half a dozen of the selected items. A further
example of it, this time, it seems, unmistakably un-
conscious :
Opening of play written as exercise: Act One,
Scene One. The Count and Countess are sitting in the
lounge. Enter the butler, who bows very low and says,
Good morning, Countess, a son has been born to you.”
Similarly, “About this time Henry went mad and
bore a son” ; and, as a variant, “An atheist is a man
who calves, or anything in the artist line.” These
seem to be without any question unconscious per-
formances of immature minds suffering from consider-
able mental indigestion. Howlers in this class are
much the same sort of products as ambergris:
What are rabies, and what would you do for them?
Rabies are Jewish priests. I would do nothing for them.
A Protestant is a woman who gets her living
through an immortal life.
Florence Nightingale became a nurse, and at her
own risk attended soldiers.
A lie is an abomination unto the Lord, but a very
present help in trouble.
Joshua met Ruth in a field, but he had to walk
round her seven times.
Faux pas: Bad feet.
No teacher, of course, could fairly be held blame-
able for some of those, nor for the simple misuse of
words or struggles with syntax which produce such
examples as these:
It is nice to go damsel picking in the autumn.
Three shots rang out. Two of the servants fell
dead. The other went through his hat.
That “Cromwell drilled some of his men until
they were invisible” might indicate a teacher who had
himself learned the phrase like a parrot and imparted
it in the same way, but it would be tough on teachers
to hold them wholly responsible for seemingly similar
efforts, e.g. : —
Queen Cleopatra ended a remarkable life rather
curiously. She was bitten by an aspidistra.
Curiously enough, Don Bradman did not seem com-
fortable for the first few minuets.
Critics have put that last differently ; but never more
neatly. The same might be said of another cricket
reference:
Hobbs was a great cricketer who only began to
write when he was too old to play.
Yet another cricketing item:
In Australia the over is longer than it is here be-
cause the light is better and they like to be different.
If they weren’t different we should win more often.
That one can be readily enough classified ; it repre-
sents the young idea venturing on original thought,
and making a pretty fair fist of it, too. Another sort
defies classification. Those belonging to it can’t be
simply blamed on to bungling teaching or explained
away as gropings of immature minds. They might
be either intentional or wholly unconscious, but some
of them are unquestionably rich:
The prevailing religion in England is Hypocrisy.
In the South Sea Bubble thousands of people irre-
trievably burst.
Thomas a Becket met Henry on the altar steps and
said: “What ho, King!” Henry massacred him severely.
Beersheba was the wife of Sodom and Gomorrah.
They did those things' in the old days.
Criticism of teachers themselves or not, the col-
lections of the excellent Mr. Hunt will no doubt be
howled over with special excruciation by those whose
existence is made more endurable by the daily crop
of these things the world over, though the volume
here drawn upon can be guaranteed to fetch a bellow
out of practically anybody. Two more of them, just
to go on with:
What does a bat do in winter? It splits if you
don’t oil it.
There is a divinity which shapes our ends rough,
Hew them as we may.
Russian Students.
There is no dearth of Russian novels, most of
them inordinately long, many of them curiously alien
to the Western European outlook and the style further
removed from the New World. They spring from
minds differently orientated, a life that runs at a dif-
ferent tempo and emotions set in a different key. Now
and again there is one that overlaps these differences
to ground that is common to human nature irrespec-
tive of its type of civilisation.
Such a book is Benjamin Kaverin’s The Larger
View (Cassell; Angus and Robertson ; translated by
E. Leda Swan). It is a large sombre novel of student
life. The author accepts the revolution as part of the
material in whiqh the artist must work, and neither
squeezes it for its news value nor raises the banner
of propaganda.
The nineteen-year-old students know no Other
world. They take the conditions of their life much for
granted and get on with their living. Nor does their
life appear any different to the reader from that of
students anywhere, except that they receive a salary
of 25 roubles a month from the State and that there is
a greater fluidity and less professionalism in the courses
of study.
There is the universal tragi-comedy of the young
first coming to grips with life. Kaverin has drawn a
picture of ferment, of character in the making, of
everlasting battle between life and the individual. To
tell the story of two young men he transcribes a whole
world.
Trubachevsky, the son of a clarinettist to
whom the revolution is immaterial so long as music
exists, is a student of “materialistic history” and
assistant to the academician Bauer, owner of the most
famous private archives in Russia. The boy throws
himself with passion into the study of old documents,
but particularly into the problem of deciphering the
Pushkin letters and poems written in code. Beyond
his preoccupation, the life of Bauer’s household, full
of intrigue and the potentialities of tragedy, works
itself out.
Some of the priceless papers are stolen. Tru-
bachevsky discovers them in the possession of Nevoro-
zhin, a friend of the family, who tells him that Dmitry,
Bauer’s son, has stolen and is selling them. While
7 rubachevsky hesitates to tell the old man, Nevoro-
zhin denounces him. On the threshold of making his
name as a scholar Trubachevsky finds himself an out-
cast, an unprosecuted thief, unable to clear himself.
His distress is increased by Bauer’s jllness. All his
efforts to reach his master and tell him the truth are
thwarted. Bauer’s letter to him assuring him of his
confidence is intercepted.
Bauer dies and Trubachevsky is faced with a
blank wall. He goes away and starts again. With
maturity he sees life in terms that reduce his per-
sonal suffering to insignificance. With Trubachevsky’s
life is interwoven that of his friend Kartashikhin, an-
other student, son of a former army surgeon who
became a Red general and died in action. Kartashi-
khin climbs where Trubachevsky falls, even to win-
ning Bauer’s daughter, Mashenka, whom Trubachev-
sky was beginning to love. Both young men are sym-
pathetically drawn with a kind and humorous under-
standing. The story is often poignant, but its cruelty
is subdued by wisdom.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
Sex and Sense; Canon T. W. Pym (Nicholson and
Watson). Frank ; and the chapters each end with a
recommendation to prayer.
Brush Up Your Health : Dr. Hugh Clegg (Dent).
A commonsense discussion, ranging from “Brown
Bread or White” and “Getting Rid of the Waste” to
“Death in the Bottle.” Illustrated.
A Book of Good Faith (Watts). This addition
to the handy pocket-size Thinker’s Library is a mis-
cellany of passages from Montaigne, chosen and
arranged by Gerald Bullett.
Twisting the Lion’s Tail: B. Attem (Muller). Two-
hundred pages of generalisations about something
called the Englishman, who is good-bad, intelligent-
stupid, artistic-inartistic, tall-short. Simply written,
mildly facetious, and the blurb says “it may irritate
you.”
“Dhas”: G. B. Lancaster walked into profitable
country with Promenade, the recent Bulletin serial.
Since the Red Page published a par. about its being
seventh on the list of best-sellers in America, Angus
and Robertson have unloaded practically the whole
of the first Australian edition, and by the time this
par. is published the second printing will be out.
Harpoons Ahoy! and a new Leichhardt book are
also in demand, and half a dozen other new Aus-
tralian books are getting limelight and sales in Sydney
bookshops.


AS¥:¥:W:¥:¥:::¥: : :
pure
enjoyment
y*
w
**' *
.(fc
: :S
ag ree
k\
■cw
Tivto^
<Jo
they
ce
lebri» es
-v>.
ErW^
■
iH
Hi
■ -
1
m&MM&mm
S:?isSx§®:|;|
■ ' i
ew
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Now in TINS of 20-1/6. Also Laube boxes 10-9C1., flat and round fifties and


FAMOUS
PORT
' '■ lit
*jk
1
Ml
■
(?4
7:
l
■
■
/
m
I
> '
■
.
fv- .
: r .
':W ;
,
■ .• ;• '••;•
m
■m
m
m
•- ■. .c
m
m
\f\
m
m
■
1
siir
",
m
m


THE COLLECTIVE INSECURITY BALLET.
“On a Peace Demonstration programme in Sydney is a Collective Security Ballet.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521BB; ’Phone B7971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (At<s.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, 8s.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
WAR FOR THE CZECHS.
Should the Australian Commonwealth accept war
with Germany for the sake of Czechoslovakia? “Yes,”
says the Sydney “Morning Herald”:
As for the Dominions Czechoslovakia would be
recognised to-day as Belgium was in 1914—the stalking-
horse for German aims against the Empire. And that
certainly includes Australia.
“Yes,” says the Sydney “Daily Telegraph”:
Britain’s security is bound up with the fate of the
Czechoslovakian Republic. Lord Rothermere cannot
or will not see this.
Lord Rothermere had written in a letter to the
voluble Mr. Wickham Steed that “If you or anyone
else believes that the Dominions are foolish enough to
fight for a Moscow-owned Prague, you are laboring
under a strange delusion.”
Australians know Germans as colonists, particu-
larly as farmers, and have a high respect for them.
They know Germans also as enemies—too well.
They don’t know the Czechs. Until 19 or 20
years ago the Czechs were only names to the vast
majority of Australians. That was not singular; they
were only names also to the makers of the peace
which was signed at Versailles. “Where is Teschen?
Who lives there?” Thus the Prime Minister of the
day, now one of the loudest of the interventionists,
and members of the House of Commons —largely
composed, it was noted, of “hard-faced men who
looked as though they had done very well out of the
war”—laughed merrily.
At the head of the Czechs in 1919 were two
shrewd men, Masaryk and Benes. They were first-
class publicity hounds and had a very good press. At
the head of the Allies was a university professor who
imagined that the destinies of nations could be re-
moulded on copybook lines. His country disagreed
with and repudiated him ; nevertheless, the world woke
up one morning and found that there was a Masaryk-
Benes Republic in Central Europe with 7,000,000
Czechs, 3,500,000 Germans, 2,500,000 Slovaks, 700,000
Hungarians, 250,000 Poles (two-thirds Jews) and
600,000 Ruthenians, who are sub-Carpathian Russians.
The Czechs are northern Slavs, racially akin to
the Russians and closely related to the Slovaks. But
most of the Slovaks support an organisation whose
cry is that the Czechs gave them a guarantee of
autonomy and went back on it. These Slovaks hate
them, and so do all the Germans and all the
Hungarians and all the non-Jewish Poles who are not
Communist. Sympathisers assert that this manufac-
tured republic could mobilise an army of 900,000 men,
but it would have some difficulty in mobilising its dis-
satisfied minorities, and still more in keeping them
mobilised.
The Czechs are alleged to be good fighters.
Evidence is lacking, but their defenders claim that dur-
ing the Great War 300,000 or so—“one half of a total
of 600,000 Czechs in the Austrian Army”—marched
over to the Russians and the Serbs. It had been
arranged that their lines and those of the nominal
enemy should be placed out of the battle once the
Czechs began singing national songs.
Masaryk, it seems, first thought of this manoeuvre
and took into his confidence H. G. Wells. It would
be awkward if Germans, Slovaks and Hungarians
“fighting” for the synthetic republic turned it against
the Czechs. In any case this “Whistle-and-I’ll-come-
t’ye-me-lad” sort of warfare can scarcely impress
real soldiers or establish confidence among fighting
races. Nothing of the kind was done -during the
Great War by Germans or British.
Part of Czechoslovakia was known to our fore-
fathers as Bohemia, though not intimately ; Shakspeare
put a sea-coast there. The last king of Bohemia
married the daughter of a British king, James the
First. In 1620 “the Bohemians were defeated after
a struggle of only a few hours,” and the king, who
had lost all courage, lost his throne. Did the father-in-
law call upon the British people to restore him and
appeal to people of the British colonies for aid? He
did not. The first James was called “the wisest fool in
Christendom.” It is a pity there are not “fools” like
him in the British “Liberal” and Labor parties and
in Australian newspaper offices.
The Czechs have an alliance with the Russians,
but the allies are separated by the mass of unfriendly
Poland. Within the lifetime of men who can remem-
ber the Crimean War, the Russians have cracked up
suddenly three times, and it is all too probable that,
in a contest with the best soldiers in Central Europe,
the Czechs, outnumbered and in a decidedly unfavor-
able military position, would crack up even more
suddenly.
If Australia espoused their cause, there would be
no question of sending 300,000 soldiers or even 30,000
abroad to fight for them. Even if it could be done, the
people would permit no Government to expose so
many of their sons to the peril of being scattered and
destroyed in their ships before they could get there.
Australians would have to take the war in their own
country. We don’t know for certain what a war in
which Australia would be a theatre would be like, but
we can guess.
War for Czechoslovakia! War for the U.S.S.R.!
War for Red Spain, for Red China! What sort of
destiny do these people propose for our Pacific
countries? Where do they think they are living?
Penny-ha'penny Jitterings.
To the New Journalism, hawking its “crisis” a day at
a penny-ha’penny a yelp, peace is not news. A wild
story, warranted to set armchair fire-eaters spitting
brimstone, cannot be concocted out of peace. Hence
it is not worth mentioning things such as the French
Premier said last month in the presence of the
President:
The dangerous rocks which were before us have been
weathered, thanks to firmness coupled with moderation.
Even at the most distressing moments I never believed
in the inevitability of war.
London “Daily Herald” made that, with other
signs of sanity, its front-page story for August 1,
under the heading “Hope for Peace Growing in
Europe.” Embodied in the story was a message
from Czechoslovakia —the German Social Democrat
leader’s comment on Lord Runciman’s mission:
This is a time of reflection for those who thought
that Hitler would come in April, then May, June, July,
and now await him in August. Instead of Hitler we
have a British statesman, not bringing war, but showing
the way to peace.
No news value in matters of this kind, so they
will not be found in cable columns.
Then Germany’s army manoeuvres providentially
began. That they were to be held in August-September
was announced two months back. That within easy
memory the Soviet Red Army had paraded its sup-
posed strength, that the no-way-doubtful might of the
British Navy had been assembled, and that most
other countries had been showing off their armaments
as well —none of this was held to be a threat of war.
Even the Italian Army was put through its tricks
without anybody getting unduly apprehensive.
But these German Army manoeuvres were too
good an opportunity to miss. No New Journalist
would be worth his screw who could not take the un-
settled state of affairs in Czechoslovakia in conjunction
with annual military camping in Germany and reel off
a column of guesswork and innuendo, worth anybody’s
penny-ha’penny for the imaginative quality alone.
Anything serves for this sort of fabrication. On
August 11 Australian cable columns served up the
news that ill-health had forced Mr. Chamberlain to
interrupt his holiday in Scotland:
Some observers find it hard to believe that the Prime
Minister returned from Scotland to London merely to
consult a nasal specialist. They suggest that the inter-
national crisis brought him back.
It is not until August 17 that this bit of baseless, not
to say callous, innuendo is corrected. On that date
the King’s physician, Lord Horder,. issues a bulletin
to the effect that Mr. Chamberlain is suffering from
“severe nasal catarrh” and that “symptoms of in-
flammation of the nasal sinuses developed, making
advisable his return to London for special treatment.”
Meantime New Journalists are making the most of
what the German Army manoeuvres, in conjunction
with Czechoslovakia, offer. As the inhabitants of
Christmas Island are aware, there is a pact between
Germany and Italy; so Italy’s Air-Marshal is a visitor
to Germany. There is a journalist on his heels:
Air-Marshal Balbo having proceeded to Germany as
Signor Mussolini’s emissary to obtain elucidation of
German military measures, and to advise restraint and
caution, told Field-Marshal Goring that, despite sym-
pathy with Germany regarding Czechoslovakia, Italy
could not support any conflict that might develop out
of precipitate action in Central Europe.
That would be hard to beat as an example of
flagrant lying. The explanation of it should be as
obvious as its falseness. That Air-Marshal Balbo, on
behalf of Italy, gave any such advice obviously is not
true ; that, if he had given s ) uch advice, he would make
a confidant of a foreign journalist is simply unbeliev-
able. Yet a newspaper of the standing of the “S. M.
Herald” features this rubbish in double-column black
type, and, judged by its leader column, swallows whole
what would be laughed at in a kindergarten.
Such graveyard whistling having disposed of
Italy as a potential ally of Germany, Japan must be
likewise dismissed. So there is an interview with the
Japanese Ambassador to Paris, and his alleged state-
ment :
One cannot collaborate with the Germans, who are
too rigid and uncomprehending. They must rule or be
ruled.
That the Japanese Ambassador to Paris never said
anything of the kind can be written down as certain.
If he were half such a gabbling ass he would be re-
called. But the purpose is served.
There is a dual necessity driving the war-mon-
gering journalist: he has to represent Germany as a
monster threatening the world ; at the same time he
has somehow to suggest that it is really a weak mon-
ster, therefore an easy mark. This leads to some con-
fusion. Thus while Germany is bullying and blus-
tering, with 300,000 men doing this, 600,000 men
doing that and 400,000 men elsewhere disposed, all
in arms, straining at the leash to plunge into war,
Germany is at the same time short of food ; though
the army manoeuvres have scarcely begun, there is a
“shortage of benzol mixture” ; Field-Marshal Goring
in charge of Germany’s economic plan, has sum-
moned industrialists, financiers and economists “to
discuss measures to cope with the question of German
man-power and the shortage of raw materials:
Not only has the Government embarked on vast
capital schemes in Austria and enormous refortification
expenditure, but, simultaneously, Herr Hitler is person-
ally sponsoring the rebuilding of five of Germany’s
largest cities. The shortage of labor is acute. Industry
and agriculture need 700,000 men, and about 17,000
engineers also are needed. Production costs are mount-
ing, and industrial profits appear to have passed their
peak.
Also, there is a fall in share prices, such as New
York experiences every few months. It’s a monster,
but a very weak monster; let us crush it!
Enlivening all this welter of idiots’ joy, the
familiar “special correspondents” were let loose. One
of these discovered the Czech Frontier Vigilance Ser-
vice. Members of this organisation, “disguised as
farmers,” some with their observation posts “up
trees,” were watching the German doings over the
border. In retaliation, no doubt, against the Nazi
stormtroopers sent to the Sudeten area “disguised as
civilians” the previous day.
Then, putting the lid on all this penny-ha’penny
jittering, came the denouement not featured,
but embedded deep in the midst of the scare tosh —
the announcement that General Vuillemin, chief of
the French Air Force, is visiting Germany as the guest
of Field-Marshal Goring, and, as a friendly gesture,
has decorated the pilots of a German ’plane, back
from a double crossing of the Atlantic, with badges
taken from the persons of his own attaches.
Organised Medical Service.
Whilst the Commonwealth Government has been
using the relatively small medical-benefits portion of
the National Incubus Act to draw off attention from
the gigantic pensions-commitments of the measure,
Queensland has taken a notable step towards nationali-
sation of medical services. Four principal metro-
politan hospitals, general (with 820 occupied beds, the
largest single hospital in Australia), infectious, chil-
dren’s and women’s, and four country hospitals, to
which a fifth at Southport will be added soon, have
been combined under the control of the Brisbane and
South Coast Hospital Board.
As a unit of organised medical service, the scheme
takes rank among the world’s largest. In addition to
1245 occupied beds, it will provide outpatient ser-
vices of as yet undetermined extent for nearly half the
State’s population of a million. Last year, 20,615 new
outpatients were treated at Brisbane General, and
33,000 at the Children’s Hospital. There was also a
casualty service which, at Brisbane General, aggre-
gated 51,222 attendances.
Casualty service is the most troublesome and
anxious feature in the work of any large hospital.
Decentralisation of the present system will form an
early and pressing problem, complicated by numerous
uncertainties introduced by the Canberra scheme
without consultation with the authors of the long-
considered State undertaking.
Success or failure will depend of necessity upon
the men who will carry out the actual work for which
the scheme has been designed—protection and repair
of human bodies. The old honorary system has been
replaced by one of full-time medical superintendents,
with part-time paid medical officers, specialist and
other. Salaries are not princely, but are adequate to
attract and retain good men, provided political and
bureaucratic interference is excluded.
One weakness is that the superintendent is not
given full control of the business side, a factor which
has achieved excellent results at the Royal Prince
Alfred and Children’s Hospitals in Sydney.
A highly satisfactory feature is that, of the five
principal executive officers already appointed, all are
Australian graduates, and all are under 40 —the two
eldest 37, the youngest 28. Four, including Dr.
A. D. D. Pye, the General Superintendent, have taken
high post-graduate qualifications overseas, and all have
had extensive Australian hospital experience. Similar
selective attention to youth, ability and Australian
experience is a noticeable feature of the appointments
generally. Apart from other aspects, it is of particular
value in an organisation which will soon provide the
field of clinical teaching for a large medical school.
As an effort towards skilled and responsible public
hospital services for a large metropolitan and rural
population in one State, the scheme is admirably
planned. In scope of essentials and efficiency it is
beyond anything of its kind in the Empire. How it
will fit in with the Federal scheme remains to be seen.
KWAKPRAK.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Poor A.-G.!
A howl has been heard from London that “steps are
necessary to safeguard State rights against encroach-
ments on the activities of the Agents-General.
Exactly what their “activities” are no unbiased
person who has investigated of recent years has been
able to discover. The High Commissioner handles
all the Government finance that concerns London.
Australia House is recognised by the Court as the
social channel for Australians. Passport and travel
difficulties are referred to it; and .there is a huge
Commonwealth marketing organisation with a pub-
licity bureau. There is even an “Australian National
Travel Association” which gets £20,000 a year from
Canberra —heaven knows why.
The six A.-G. jobs used to provide convenient
dustbins into which to cast wornout or inconvenient
politicians. With the growing power of the bureau-
cracy, civil servants now compete with politicians for
these sinecures. In one or two instances a show of
appointing businessmen has been made, but they don’t
stay long.
A Local Member Revolts.
Dr. Clive Shields, who has been M.L.A. for
Castlemaine and Kyneton in three Victorian Parlia-
ments, announces that he will not seek re-election.
When he was six years younger he aspired to “helping
the Government of the State for the general good,’
but “that was not expected of me.”
What was expected of me was to provide some
advantage for my constituents.
And he won’t be a fetch-and-carry poodle any
more.
I am sick of the eternal begging—begging that the tax-
payers’ money should be given to someone or some
organisation or institution just because it is in my electo-
rate.
I am fed-up with oiling the parish pump..
exasperated by the importunities of persons who think
that because I am a member of Parliament I should
open every bazaar and subscribe to every cricket club
and football club in every town I visit.
Many of my constituents regard me simply as an
employment bureau.
Most electors don’t care who represents them so long
as he will do something for them personally. He is a.
good fellow so long as he will find a job for the elector’s
son in the police force or the railway department, or for
the elector’s daughter in some other protected occupa-
tion. It is all to his good if he can induce the Govern-
ment to make a grant of a few thousand pounds in the
municipality or undertake works in the electorate,
whether they are necessary or simply a waste of money.
As for convictions:
I am not supposed to have any. I am supposed not
to hold a view that is contrary to that held by an indi-
vidual elector, irrespective of the views of the majority.
I am supposed not to lead —just to follow: follow the
individual. I have been criticised because, although my
view on some particular subject was acknowledged to
be right, it was not just what the individual elector
wanted.
It is no isolated case. What the Victorian doctor
has revolted against local members put up with in all
the States. The attitude is that the local member
is, in effect, a paid agent whose job depends upon his
being at the beck and call of hunters of jobs, grants
and concessions ; and, as a rule, the local member
is only too willing to accept the ignoble part assigned
to him.
Perhaps it is mainly a result of the number of
members being excessive. If there were one Parlia-
ment with 150 members, instead of seven Parliaments
with 616, electorates might be less importunate and
representatives more independent.
A Bill to Suppress S.P.
Shivering in all its joints, the N. S. Wales Stevens
moke has been flogged along once more to face the
starter for the S.P. Point to Point Steeplechase.
A section of the measure which has been intro-
duced strikes at a fundamental principle of British
justice.
The averment in any information under subsection
one of this section that a person is a bookmaker shall
be prima facie evidence of the fact that that person is
a bookmaker.
It has been proved by more than one shabby
example, concerning s.p. law and administration, that
police can be unscrupulous on occasion. That section
gives any such full opportunity. A policeman has
only to declare that any person is a bookmaker, and
that “shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that
that person is a bookmaker.”
Another purpose of the bill:
To make it an offence for any person to open, keep
or use any house, office, room or other place for the
purpose of making any oral statement giving any infor-
mation or advice of, or the betting odds on, any
intended race.
The mere threat of the implications in that section,
let alone their enactment as law, might have Nemesis
already putting the finishing touches on his blade for
election day.
Suppression of professional tipsters—hawking
and advertising oracles that mostly could be improved
on by a blind stab with a pin—is an attack few will
cavil at. Only half-wits are bled by them, but it is
not the worst legislation that protects fools. The pro-
posed bill also makes it an offence for double charts
to be sent out in advance of races. The fools the bill
seeks to protect are plainly not the only ones at large.
Punishments and penalties proposed for infringe-
ments of the intended law make those for theft and
assault look like forfeits in parlor games. There is a
first penalty of £lOO or about seven months; a second
penalty up to £5OO or three years. That towards sup-
pression, not of such things as drunken driving and
crimes of violence, but of a social misdemeanor to
which expert authority has stated something like 90
p.c. of adults would cheerfully plead guilty.
As for the alleged' purpose of the bill —the stop-
ping of s.p. betting—that hurdle the Stevens moke is
not proposing to face. Full details of horses, handi-
caps, jockeys and so forth will still be available
beforehand in newspapers. Starters, riders and post
positions will still be broadcast before races, and the
races will be described in running.
The bill will merely make s.p. betting a bit more
secretive. Off-the-course betting will still flourish.
Granny “Herald” will still be able to bring out her
new bi-weekly racing supplement, catering specially
for the small each-way punter. The small punter will
still find all the accommodation he can afford. Start-
ing prices may be withheld until after the last race ;
that will not worry the average punter. In any case,
if enough of him wants them, the bill won’t stop the
prices being transmitted to, say, Victoria and freely
broadcast from there.
This Stevens moke is a poorly-bred beast, by
Bureaucracy out of Ignorance. Even the gent, who
picks ’em by the stars could tip it to run a scared and
blundering course.
"Are You in Favor" ....
Skirmishing for votes by the parties concerned in
Victoria’s State-wide No-license poll is going on
briskly, though the poll is not to be taken till October.
The question to be put is: “Are you in favor of
the abolition of licenses?” Chief argument centres in the
probable effect of a Yes majority. Noes say it would
mean prohibition. Ayes assert that it would result
only in “wiser liquor control.” On that legal authorities
aver that Victorian ale, beer, wine, brandy, whisky
and gin might still be sold beyond State borders, but
not within them; and that the average citizen would
be entitled to import fermented and spirituous, but
only for domestic consumption.
Inter-State and overseas sales wouldn’t keep Vic-
torian breweries, distilleries and wineries going, so
a three-fifths majority for abolition of licenses must
mean serious unemployment. Anti-abolitionists reckon
that 23,000 would lose their jobs. Whatever the total
might be, the Dunstan Government protests that it can’t
relieve the present 14,000 without a special tax-collec-
tion exceeding £1,900,000 a year, exclusive of loans.
Victoria has a Licenses Reduction tribunal which
in 30 years (1907-1936) closed 1717 hotels and raised
the standard of the remainder. Those who can remem-
ber what Victorian pubs were like in the decade that
succeeded the bursting of the land boom are the
greatest admirers of its work. To do away with con-
trol by this capable body and substitute a sort of
prohibitionist anarchy would really be rather mad.
The "No Licenses" Folly.
Dear Bulletin, —Thirty-three years ago N.S.W.
politicians decided that N. S. Wales had enough hotels
to last it for all time. In the tents of the Rechabites
the loud timbrel sounded over a teetotal victory. It
sounded still louder when frenzy of the kind that
carried the U.S.A. to prohibition and raised a crop
of millionaire bootleggers went far enough to cut out
the five best drinking hours of the day.
Bung was hit hard and cried angrily in the wilder-
ness of public inertia ; but brewery cos. did not worry.
They had no reason to. The population has about
doubled since the present Licensing Act was passed,
and unless the State was greatly over-pubbed then it
must be ruinously under-pubbed now.
Maybe there was a pothouse here and there too
many in those days. Now the country is quite fam-
ishing for decent hotels. This is one of the most
serious drawbacks to the development of the interior.
But brewery cos. are not troubling. They are doing
better than ever. Output has increased in propor-
tion to the growth of population, and they own most
of the pubs.
Not that the traffic in hotel licenses has ceased.
The procedure is for a neighborhood that needs an
additional pub to get a license transferred from some
other neighborhood, which becomes a pub short.
Even if transfers are made in a spirit of pure
philanthropy parties who receive them must benefit
substantially, but the public exchequer does not share.
Give the Court power to issue new licenses where
circumstances call for them, and a stranglehold on
the development of N.S.W. country towns will be
broken.—Yours etc., Old Scribe.
What About Melville Island?
With the development of flying services and the
coming of Japanese shell-fishers, two scraps of land
off the north coast have become important.
There is talk of millions being spent on develop-
ing Darwin defences. Nothing is said about protection
for Melville and Bathurst islands, although they com-
mand every entrance to Darwin, to Van Diemen’s
Gulf and to the Alligator River. Any foe established
there and on the Wessel Islands would be the master
of all routes to the Indies and through Torres Strait,
Melville Island has an area of about 2250 square
miles, and is separated from Bathurst—much smaller
—by the narrow Apsley Strait. To the point near
this strait where Bishop Gsell has his mission, and
where a lone pioneer Australian used to camp, it is
a day’s trip from Darwin—by lugger.
On Melville Island stood Fort Dundas, first settle-
men and garrison town of Northern Australia. There
the Union Jack was hoisted in 1824.
Melville and Bathurst islands have rich pastoral
lands— cypress-pine forests and jungle soil like that
of the better part of coastal Northern Queensland.
Casuarinas grow along the northern beaches, Game
and wild-fowl abound. Scrub-turkeys with then-
enormous nests are everywhere. After the mainland
round Darwin, with its poor land and depressing
vegetation, these islands are a sight for sore eyes and
a paradise for the sportsman, whether on sea or land.
And the natives are different beings from the man-
grove blacks of Arnhem Land —-well-fed and intelli-
gent beyond any other natives in Australia, except,
perhaps, the pick of the Arunta.
At present, the only signs that these valuable
islands are part of Australia is the Gsell mission. It
controls the greater part of Bathurst Island and odd
migrant pearlfishers and hunters.
Recent reports suggest that for every Australian
seen in the vicinity there are five Japanese.
It is vital that the settlement and defence of
Melville and Bathurst islands should be provided
for if Darwin is to be much use as the R.A.N.’s
northern outpost.
They Never Learn.
It has been reported from time to time that the Vic-
torian Closer Settlement Commission has finished its
job of “revaluing ten thousand properties of closer-
and soldier-settlers,” but it seems that the 10,000'
revaluations kept it going till last week. The job has
taken the best part of six years, and about one-sixth
of the occupied land in the State has been revalued.
With this result, according to a newspaper:
Closer settlement was begun in 1898. It has involved
a capital expenditure of £48,000,000; of that £12,000,000
has been written off. It is estimated that after the
commission’s revaluation the remaining assets will be
worth about £15,000,000.
On the following day it was mentioned in
Sydney that a Government committee was “investi-
gating the plight of the wheat farmers at Beranee.”
For 10 years these men have tried to make a living
growing wheat on arid land. To-day their indebtedness
to the Government is about £BO,OOO. An area ot
250,000 acres of mallee, close to the Murray, near
Euston, is their domain. A railway line was built
through the settlement from Victoria. At a cost ot
£131,000 a pumping plant was put down. A large pro-
portion of the original holders abandoned their blocks,
but for 10 years 40 settlers have carried on. Average
debt to the Crown runs to about £2OOO. The value of
each holding is between £4OO and £450.
Naturally the poor devils are among those demanding
a home-consumption price for wheat at nearly 2s. a
bushel more than the market price.
On the same day the Sydney Legislative Council
approved of the purchase by the Government of “six
estates for closer settlement at a cost of £376,000.”
In these matters State politicians never learn
anything or remember anything. Nor do they ever
try anything different.
Disappearance of Running Streams.
From a Westralian wheatgrower:
Yes, those who produce Australia’s principal article of
food and one of its principal export commodities are entitled to
a “fair trade-union wage” (B. 27/7/’3B), but we Westralians are
not optimistic about getting it. Except for short-lived fluctuations ■
wheat has been below 3s. 2d. a bushel in W.A. since February,
and at the moment of writing is 2s. lOd. and going lower.
Average yield per acre in our district (Nungarin) last year
was seven bushels; further east and north-east it was thiee
bushels. Average in north-eastern districts for the three years
has been round 4.5 bushels; in 1930, the year of two-bob
wheat, it was over 13 bushels.
Many farmers from our arid parts have taken advantage
of the debt-reduction scheme, but as this favors the secured
creditor at the expense of the unsecured creditor (notably the
country storekeeper) it is considered unfair in its application
even by those it has benefited. Our case was put to Mr-
Casey and Mr. Thorby, with the anticipated results. But Mr.
Casey’s reply to a man who mentioned drought is treasured
in these districts. “What,” asked Mr. Casey, “what has hap-
pened to your running streams?”
The Scandinavian Example.
An Australian visitor to Scandinavia has been aston-
ished to discover that the Scandinavian countries, with
their unswerving policy of peace, are armed for
defence. At the Oslo Exhibition he saw a room filled
with rifles, machine-guns, cannon and all the panoply
of modern war.
Norway, Denmark and Sweden among them have
a population about twice that of Australia. Nor-
way’s 2,500,000 tons of shipping was so important to
Britain in 1914-1918, as were the immense quantities
of Danish foodstuffs, that Britain and France would
have taken desperate measures to keep an enemy out
of Norwegian and Danish territories had they been
attacked. From Sweden Germany drew immense
quantities of timber and iron ore. Both sides used
Scandinavia as a channel of communication with
enemy countries.
In Norway, where peace leanings are stronger
than perhaps anywhere in the world, military or
naval service is universal and compulsory from 18
to 55. There is no prouder honor for the young
Norwegian than to wear in his lapel the badge of the
King’s Guard, a privilege reserved for youngsters
doing their early service.
Sweden and Denmark both have compulsory
service. In the latter country infantrymen do 150
days’ continuous training, cavalry 345 days’, engineers
160. Nearly 7000 recruits are called up annually for
training. The population is about 3,750,000.
These countries are an example to Australia that
defence service does not necessarily involve the growth
of an aggressive or warlike spirit.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wynyarder”: If some modern Eugene
Sue were to compile The Mysteries of
Sydney he could make a promising start
with the enigma of what is officially
known as the Wynyard Ramp. This is a
series of underground passages leading
through the foundations of an immense
pub, commenced donkey’s years ago,
which for some obscure reason has never
risen higher than its basement and
ground floor. The passages give access
to the city’s busiest railway station, and
they literally teem with liquor bars and
bottle depots. As there’s no accommoda-
tion for boarders, it would seem these
must rank as railway refreshment-
rooms ; but there are Government
railway refreshment-rooms, too. For
a long while inquiries and protests
were met by a statement that the premises
had been leased to somebody for 60
years. Now it appears that the lease
hasn’t even been signed—at least, the
Anglican Synod, which presumably
knows something, is begging the Govt,
not to sign the lease. Railways Com-
missioner Hartigan, asked some time ago
by a newspaper to explain the position,
is reported to have said that he wouldn’t
even tell Cabinet if it asked, and a ques-
tion in the Leg. Assembly last week
failed to elicit from Transport Minister
Bruxner even the slightest scrap -of in-
formation. Hence the term Wynyard
Ramp.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Interesting to read that a
Maori team of Rugby players is touring
Fiji. In the long ago Fijians and Friendly
Islanders (Tonga) used to exchange
annual sporting visits. Matches were
played with clubs and such muskets as
had been taken from cut-out ships {vide
Mariner’s Tonga), and invariably the
victors ate the vanquished.
**• * *
“Mac Hoots”: Maoriland’s Labor Gov-
ernment is justly celebrated for the money
it’s heaving into .bridges, railways and
drains, but there’s nothing sensational
about the sums it’s offering literary gents
for the centennial competitions. There’s
a total of £440 being squandered, a sum
that I quote with approval against the
£750 that the Commonwealth offered for
its centenary. For a novel it’s offering
£l5O, with a £3O second prize ; Australia
gave £250. Other prizes, with the Aus-
tralian figures squatting in parentheses,
are: Short story, £3O and £lO (£BO and
£20); play, £75 and £25 (£125 and £25);
long essay, £5O and £2O (£lOO and £30);
no short essay (£5O and £10); two £2O
prizes for verse, with second prizes of
a fiver, against Australia’s one verse com-
petition of £5O, with £lO second prize.
It’s an accident that The Bulletin has
£3OO in the kick for the next Prior
Memorial novel, but its current offer of
£7O for a short story and £4O for one
line of a Limerick sets a deplorable ex-
ample of generosity that Mr. Savage was
very wise not to follow. Novelists and
short-story writers do their best work
when undernourished or in gaol, and,
as for poets, the sooner Bob Semple
charges over them with a tractor the
happier the madmen themselves will be.
No use wasting good money, even if
it is only once in a hundred years.
* * * *
“T.”: A recent social crash in Sydney
seems to have been an effect of deciding
to be one of the knuts too late in life.
For 40 years the person in question was
a blameless engineer, and for a good
part of the time he was mayor of an
awf’lly exclusive suburb, member of a
trust which looks after a historic house
and secretary of a cemetery board—an
awf’lly exclusive cemetery. But in his
latter-summer he took to joy-riding, hit-
ting the bottle and calling barmaids by
their pet names ; and he wound up in
the dock. Defalcations, £40,000; three
years.
* * * *
“T.T.R.”: Unlike “Vieux Marcheur”
(B. 17/8/’3B) I never encountered the
slang term “Jimmy O’Goblins” in Eng-
land, but I found it common enough on
"It's no use yellin' , Joe —the ganger's 'ard of 'earin'."
the Westralian goldfields 30 or 40 years
ago. I always took it for a bit of that
Cockney rhyming slang that was sup-
posed to be imported to this country by
mailboat stewards. There is, of course,
no rhyme for “sovereign,” but assonance
might suggest “goblin” as a makeshift,
though how the “Jimmy O’ ” crept in is
beyond me. Anyhow, the curious may
find the unprefixed word in the best
verses on thieves’ patter ever written,
Henley’s “Straight Tip to All Cross
Coves,” the clever paraphrase on Villon’s
Ballade with that haunting refrain of
Tout aux tavernes et aux filles. Here is
the extract:
For nix, for nix the dibs you bag
At any graft, no matter what;
Your merry goblins soon stravag—
Booze and the blowens cop the lot.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: One of the most incom-
petent housewives of these parts explained
to me to-day that the real cause of the
gastro-enteritis which has nearly killed
her four-year-old son was the aluminium
saucepan she bought last week. Exhaus-
tive scientific research in Great Britain,
the U.S.A., Japan and several European
countries has failed to discover any kind
of harmful or injurious effect from alu-
minium utensils on anything cooked in
them, even under deliberately careless
conditions. Enamelware, tinned iron,
copper, brass and even quartz glass ail
carry a modicum of risk, but not alu-
minium. When I told Mrs. Muddle so,
she brightened up. “Well,” she said, “it
must’ve bin something ’e ’ad at me mar-
ried sister’s place when we was there last
week.” Diagnosis probably correct —the
sister is even sluttier than Mrs. M., and
probably got a new germ into Billy’s
sorely-tried interior.
* jjc a|;
“Adelaide”: Do other cities deal with
traffic lights as Adelaide does? We
have quickly got used to and
observe them religiously. Anyone who
crosses against the red, or even amber,
is called back loudly and (at the least)
scolded. But move aside, just a few
yards from the crossing, to any spot
where one theoretically ought not (and
soon, probably, will be legally forbidden)
to cross at all, and one can wander across
a crowded thoroughfare at will. It seems
a new idea in municipal legislation to
allow to the unlicensed a privilege strictly
barred to the licensed, so to speak.
* * *
“Yarra Ben”: “S.T.S.” (B. 10/8/’3B)
need not fear an avalanche of missiles
from the sky. Streamlined and air-
conditioned, all civil ’planes on major
routes have fixed windows, and cock-
pit door and passengers’ door must of
necessity be closed during flight. There
is no opening anywhere large enough for
a pin to squeeze through, bar the ven-
tilators near the ceiling ; and you would
need a gun to project anything through
those. As for the nut dropping in South
Australia, there are no nuts on the out-
side of the machine to come loose and
fall in that way. More than likely the
’plane startled a crow while it was fly-
ing off with a nut lost from a farm
machine.
3*5 * * *
“Isterikus”: It’s just a hundred years
since Paddington (N.S.W.) began with
the building of Victoria Barracks by
transportees who had been sent this way
for their part in the Canadian rebellion
of 1837. The site was a sandhill; the
stone was quarried on the ground, and
the remains of part of the excavations
are still visible. Edgecliff-road was then
one of many cattle tracks which inter-
sected an area of scrub on which now
stand Paddington, Woollahra, Waverley
and Randwick. William-street was a
sandy track, and a small stream at the
foot of Boomerang-street (where now
stands the Blind Asylum) was crossed
by means of two rails taken from the
adjoining dilapidated fence. To the right,
from Boomerang-street, a foot track
led through dense scrub to that part
of Darlinghurst on which the gaol was
built in 1841. The year 1838 also saw
the appearance of the first hackney
carriage-stand in Sydney.
* * * *
“Surviving Pedestrian”: This wrong-
headed notion that motorists who drive
very fast are a menace seems to have
spread even to motoring members of the
Melb. City Council. A councillor rose
up a few days ago and said that on
Death Avenue (it used to be known as
Wellington Parade) there had been five
tragic accidents recently, and the resi-
dents were almost in a state of panic
“because motorists made a speedway of
the thoroughfare.” He had sat in his
car and watched pedestrians running for
their lives. Another councillor said he
would like to have a deep ditch dug
across the road to give the drivers a thun-
dering good bump, but a colleague
favored a double-barrelled shotgun. An
alderman managed two heresies in one
sentence by saying he was satisfied that
it was the pace that killed, and that the
time was ripe for a 30-m.p.h. speed-limit
within a 10-miles radius of the G.P.O.
Perhaps he doesn’t know that Sydney is
simply seething with indignation because
such an ordinance is on the books there,
and because motorists who have dared
to drive at a mere 50 to 60 m.p.h. through
busy small-town streets have been
molested by the police. Is this Russia?
* * * Jjc
• “Hylas”: He drifted down the pub
steps and worded me: “ ’Ow about the
price of a feed, mate?” I told him I
wasn’t mug enough to give him money
to chuck away on booze. “What’s more,”
I said, “I’m stonebroke and don’t know
when I’ll get my next meal.” An expres-
sion of concern broke over his rather
cheerful countenance. “ ’Struth! ” he
exclaimed, “I didn’t know you was that
way, too. I’ve just bust me last bob
on a bottle of beer to drown me sor-
rows ; you come round the corner and
we’ll swig it together.” What could a
man do? Two bob went west.
* * * *
“Kohi”: Early Melbourne reports of
the R.A.A.F. bomber’s crash at Dromana
mentioned that none of its five occupants
was wearing shoes, and that its collap-
sible boat was partially inflated. This
led readers to assume that the pilot, in
the fog, had believed the machine was
over the sea. As R.A.A.F. heads pointed
out, this wasn’t necessarily an accurate
assumption; the crash itself would have
been enough to start the inflation and
to tear off shoes. Actually, victims of
’plane smashes on land are often found
without footwear; the force of the im-
pact is generally sufficient to burst
laces, and when bodies are catapulted
through the wreckage the shoes are
dragged from limp feet.
* * * =r
“Harold Hardupp”: When the gas-
meter man removed the coin-container
from the penny-slot meter he balanced
it for a moment, and then offered to bet
a level sixpence that he could name the
amount it contained to within a penny.
He won my zack ; then he told me he
had made two bob in just that one block
of flats out of similar bets. It was a
constant source of revenue. Once a
sport made the bet ten bob, which of
course the gasman won. Every man to
his own job.
* * * *
“Koura”: Souveniring footballers’
hats it is (B. 3/8/’3B). I heard the bag-
pipes wail and mourn all down London's
Strand one horrid night when Scotland
had played England a Soccer match,
and the streets were full of bony and
bonneted supporters from the north.
Hilarious youths were snatching bonnets
right and left, and slipping away in the
crowds before the victims knew they had
been scalped. It was a lovely pastime.
But the best bit of souveniring I ever saw
was in the quiet streets of Hawera, M.L.,
when a lad walked off from a party with
a clothes-prop, and rode it home.
WHEN IS A DOC. NOT A DOC.?
We have “doctors,” it goes without words,
Of various sorts and conditions
Apart from those numerous birds
Who’re otherwise known as physicians..
Some flutter the prefix because
Their skulls have absorbed an infinity
Of knowledge regarding the laws
Or in the domain of divinity.
But none can effectively fill
The role, in my humble idea,
Unless he’s the requisite skill
To combat an ache or an ill
By dint of the pharmacopoeia.
There are “doctors” supremely equipped
To treat any patient for fallacies
In reading Assyrian script
Or studying psychoanalysis.
There are others adept with a knife
For problems obscure and recondite
Besetting our period of life —
And all that’s without and beyond it.
All such from my list I exclude,
While my thoughts irresistibly linger
On the fellow who rations my food,
Invites me my tongue to protrude
Or fiddles my pulse with his finger.
There are “doctors” well-trained to advise
On the truths, or correct the errata,
In charts of the seas or the skies
Or our globe’s geological strata.
There are “doctors” of Sanskrit, a few,
Though what they impart is a mystery,
Of moral philosophy, too,
And ecclesiastical history.
But, say, will it help you a rap,
The lore in their cerebral attics,
When the doc. you require is a chap
Who your chest with a stetho. can tap
Or give you a cure for rheumatics?
There are “doctors” on every hand,
Wherever we mix or we mingle;
’Tis hard we can’t limit the band
To those with a name on a shingle,
Whose aid on our frames is bestowed,
Ere pain and dejection grow rifer,
In that hieroglyphical code
Industrious chemists decipher.
So herewith I put it to you:
No doctor to label is true,
His title is just hyperbolic,
He’s none of the genuine crew
Unless he can diagnose ’flu
Or find a specific for colic.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“D.E.”: As one who has never been on
the wagon since I was old enough to
vote, let me testify that some of the
sunniest-natured men I have known were
never off it. Witness Canon Ham-
mond, Melbourne footballer and Syd-
ney humanist. The W.C.T.U. has
started anew its campaign against cock-
tail parties, and a publican fatuously in-
vited its members to sample cocktails
of his own decoction, undertaking rather
ambiguously to see that the ladies
came to no harm. The Canon disposed
of Bung by relating the story of the
American Judge who was challenged by
a saloon-keeper to try his whisky, and
who replied that he had just tried two men
who had tried it. On the cocktail issue
I am with Canon Hammond and the
W.C.T.U., for aesthetic reasons among
others. On the vast expanses of newspaper
photographs of women grinning hid-
eously through their make-up, the most
hideous objects are half-sozzled tarts with
their paws round cocktail glasses. If
anyone looks sillier than a young girl
brandishing a cocktail glass it is an old
girl brandishing a cocktail glass. Besides,
the whole cocktail-party business is a
dismal confession of sex inferiority. A
candid “hostess” will tell you the under-
lying reason is that men won’t go to
women’s parties unless they can get
something with a stick in it.
* * * *
“Trammie”: No wonder Sydney tram
system loses a few fares. A conductor is
supposed to examine tickets at each sec-
tion ; if he did he couldn’t keep tab on
who is getting off or coming on. He is
punished for not obeying the regulation,
however, if an examiner finds an uncol-
lected fare. If he does obey the regula-
tion he is punished under another regu-
lation which makes him responsible for
collecting fares as soon as passengers
board the car. There is no co-operation
between wages and salaried staff, hence
most of the trouble. The chap who tears
off the tickets often wonders if the State
is interested in getting revenue or only
in framing regulations.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: Air transport has given
a nasty blow to Australian nurserymen
who import orchids. Now such blooms
are coming by air, freight from Java
being actually the only cost.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: My thumbs are down on the
suggestion of “Wings” (B. 3/8/’3B) that
“a single gallon of nitro-glycerine would
probably take a ’plane right round the
globe.” Nitro-glycerijne is a highly un-
stable chemical mixture, rich in oxygen.
When upset by a blow, friction or a light
being applied, it rearranges its atoms
in a split second and becomes an im-
mense bulk of gas which, in expanding,
disrupts all surrounding objects. It is
useful only because it can liberate all its
energy in a fraction of a second. Released
as slowly as would be necessary in any
form of engine, the total number of
foot-pounds of energy produced would
be very small.
* * * *
“Medico”: “Chemist” (B. 17/8/’3B)
failed to inform you that for a number
of years the old symbols for an ounce
and a drachm have been officially super-
seded by authority of the British Pharma-
copoeia. It is still legal to use the old
symbols, but officially there are now no
drachms. There are grains and ounces,
minims and fluid ounces. These are writ-
ten as abbreviations, gr., oz., m. and
fl. oz. The actual dose should be written
in ordinary and not in Latin numerals,
thus: grs. 10, oz. £, m. 7{, fl. oz. 8,
and so on. The metric system is much
the best for prescription purposes, but
“I thought it would be more humane to administer this before beheading
him , sir!”
it is illegal for a chemist to use it save
in the case of modern drugs, the doses
of which are known only in grammes
or cubic centimetres. For example, no
medico knows the dose of salvarsan or
of antidiphtheria serum in grains or
ounces. The disadvantage of the metric
system, however, is that the misreading
of the position of the decimal point may
allow the administration of 10 times the
desired dose. Such an accident actually
occurred in London not long ago when
thallium acetate was ordered (as usual)
in metric notation. Two or three children
died as a result of the error.
“Blinky Bill”: All right, let’s rob the
medicoes and the chemists of their
mongrel shorthand culled from Latin
and Arabic. But why stop there? Let’s
roam into the business field and abolish
those antiquated Latin symbols £ s. d.
* * * *
“Xo”: Wyndham (W.A.) flying doctor
base, in which Victorians are particularly
interested —they have subscribed £4260 of
the £B2OO capital and maintenance cost
for the last three years —has a new aerial
ambulance. If it does as good a job as
the old Fox Moth, which flew 18,702
miles on 53 medical trips in the three
years, Vic. subscribers will be more than
satisfied. And the new Dragon should ;
it has more speed and a greater range,
and it has been promised a more efficient
type of radio. On three flights in its
first fortnight 1500 miles have already
gone into its logbook.
“Quidnunc”: “Nagheer” (B. 17/8/’3B)
shouldn’t be too hard on those S.Q.
secondary-school youngsters who don’t
know their literary lions. In general-
knowledge tests conducted over the air
of a Sabbath morn in Sydney people
who are supposed to be mentally well-
equipped failed to supply the real names
of Mark Twain and Lewis Carroll, a
very learned lady didn’t know whose
identity Currer Bell concealed, and the
writer of The Tower of London was
unknown to most. Of course, the writers
concerned belong to an older genera-
tion, when there were fewer books and
no such distractions as radio and the
movies.
* * * *
“Kiwit”: How many times, sitting
through wedding feasts and suffering the
usual reading of those more-or-less
frivolous good-luck messages from the
couples’ absent tavern and tea-room pals,
have you sighed for more originality on
the subject. One of the few fresh quips
that I have regarded as sufficient recom-
pense for the flatness of my beer after
this message-reading was cabled from
Australia to a country wedding in Maori-
land ; perhaps cable-rates had something
to do with its pointed brevity. One
schoolteacher was marrying another:
“Happy homework,” chuckled the cable.
“Hoy, Dig., where's th' swimmiri pool on this barge?”
“Shep”: Is “Spare Corp” (B. 17/8/’3B)
correct in asserting that the A.LF. had to
pay for the land on which a huge replica
of the Rising Sun is cut through to the
chalk on Salisbury Plain? Years ago I
read that the owner, annoyed at the talk
that was going through the camps, de-
clared to the Diggers he had levied no
charge for his land, and was proud of
the associations of
the badge. Anyway
the ground wasn't
much use for any-
thing else than
badges ; it was too
steep for stock to
graze on.
* *
“Six enate ”: A
principal news-
agency in my subur-
ban area recently
changed hands for
£6500; a new sub-
agency was sold for
£lOOO. The “block
system” has placed
news-agencies in the
same category as
hotels and wine-
licenses (two a
penny when a per-
mit to sell light
wines could be ob-
tained by any re-
freshment room). Regulation and re-
striction are potent in creating these
new values. That is shown by the
price set on taxi licenses because the
granting of additional licenses has
been refused in Sydney. Because
horse-cab licenses could be trans-
ferred into taxi licenses the few horse-
cabs that remained a year or so ago
have vanished, with one exception, from
Sydney streets. That one Jehu clings
to his hansom as if it were a principle.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: The typist dialled a
number, a voice said “Hallo?” and she
asked sweetly, “Is that the National
Bank?” “Eh?” asked the voice. “Is that
the National Bank?” she repeated.
“Lord! ” was the fervent reply, “I wish
it was!”
* * * *
“Nakh”: A matlow got a fright when
he was told (incorrectly) that his mar-
riage with a 17-year-old N.S.W. girl
aboard H.M.A.S. Canberra was invalid.
It reminds me of my own case. I was
married in a Chinese treaty port with bell,
book and candle, plus a dean and an
Anglican cathedral. That ought to have
been good enough ; but two weeks later
I knocked off work for 20 minutes, got
into a rickshaw and sped to the British
Consulate, where I met my wife (or was
she my girl?) and my best man and was
spliced again. The two weddihgs were
registered at Somerset House, London.
A feud between the lay and clerical pleni-
potentiaries had been raging for a long
time. The Church claimed the right to
solemnise marriages without any residen-
tial qualifications; the State demanded
a fortnight’s residence ; and neither would
abandon its position. I had to fork out
two sets of fees.
* * * *
“King’s Inns”: Has anyone ever heard
of a “common informer” action in Aus-
tralia? There are ample opportunities.
In 1931 in London a lady informer, pro-
ceeding against a cinema co. for opening
on a Sunday, was awarded £5OOO by the
Judge. That seems easier than waiting
for a lottery win.
* H= * *
“T.”. lets himself go:
One thing that makes me despair of democ-
racy at dyspeptic times is its weakness for
setting up aristocracies. In Russia an aristo-
cracy of commissars has succeeded’that of the
grandees they butchered ; in France politicians,
bureaucrats and bankers (including an occa-
sional Stavinsky) lord it in place of the old
noblesse; in the U.S.A.
the Lodges no longer
“speak only to Cabots,
and Cabots speak only
to God”: Lodges,
Cabots and Vanderbilts
have had to make way
for the new aristos of
Hollywood. And what
aristos! On the same
day I read that one of,
the new nobles had died
in an infirmary of alco-
holism, and that an-
other —who is suing for
the recovery of £BOO,OOO,
net profits on making
faces before a camera
in infancy and boy-
hood —was expelled
from a university for
being a chronic tank.
And the acres of slush
written about “stars” —
surely the most inane
ever committed to paper
since the art of writing
was invented —give a
picture of a society
whose manners are as putrid as its morals. Never
has there been an aristocracy which has amassed
so much, wealth with so little effort and re-
ceived so much adoration from millions of
people it never saw. And now a Washington
investigation committee has been informed that
Hollywood is a hotbed of Communism. One
might have expected it.
OFFICIAL.
“Mr. Mares said that the end of winter was in
sight.” —Sydney “Sun.”
He’s not invariably right,
Our wise old weather-warner,
Whose tips, delivered overnight,
Of rainy days or sunshine bright
At times occasion impolite
Expressions from the scorner
Of meteorological sleight.
But here is one, in black and white,
That few will venture to indict:
The end of winter is in sight
And spring is round the corner.
You wouldn’t estimate him quite
As sure as Jacky Horner
On plums in Christmas duff to light.
Rely on him you often might
For fine week-ends with naught to blight,
And find no hope forlorner.
Still, here’s a dictum one may cite
As absolutely watertight:
Old Acris Hierns is in flight,
His dash is done, his end in sight,
And spring is round the corner.
He’s fought his fight and spent his spite;
I doubt he’ll leave a mourner
Or one who wouldn’t expedite
His close to usher in a sprite
With all the grace and charm bedight
Wherewith our bards adorn her.
The end of winter is in sight,
With winds that nip and storms that smite,
And, teste Mares, that wise old wight,
I feel as certain as I write
That spring is round the corner.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


y
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1866
SORE
THROATS
r 0
MADE
SPECIALLY
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
At the beginning of last week Unrest,
Apprehension, Tension, Slump, Crisis,
Grave Concern, Alarming Internal Fac-
tors and other crops sown by the Stunt
Press had shown up in Germany, and
it was feared that Hitler would have to
go to war at once to “mend the damaged
prestige of his regime by a spectacular
political coup.” At the end of the week
the French Air Minister was in Ger-
many, an invitation to the British Air
Minister —“to pave the way for a trian-
gular air pact”—was mooted, and there
was talk of German admirals and generals
being commissioned to seek “an under-
standing with Britain and France.” War-
scare liars differ from other varieties in
this —the more practice they give them-
selves the more unconvincing they grow.
Casey, scolding Curtin, asked him to
“cease his depression talk.”
Depression largely arises from a state of"
mind.
Exactly what Lang said when he was
opposing the first unemployed-relief tax
of threepence in the £, which he raised
to a shilling and wanted to raise to five
bob.
“ ‘Tell us the Truth,’ the ‘News-
Chronicle says.” Precisely ; but when is
the “Cronk-News” going to set the ex-
ample?
“S. M. Herald” sees in “the latest Nazi
manoeuvres” though it attributes the
discovery to “German civilian opinion”—
“not so much a blackmailing threat as
a preparation for war against the whole
Continent” —Britain, of course, included.
Such a war brought Napoleon to ruin.
The decision now lies with Berlin.
Seventy million Germans on the one
side and on the other about 420 millions:
British, French, Russians, Italians, Poles,
Czechs, Rumanians, Bulgarians, Yugo-
slavs, Greeks, Turks, Lithuanians,
Letts, Estonians, Finns, Danes, Swedes,
Norwegians, Dutch, Belgians, Spaniards
and Portuguese ; and another 400 mil-
lions or so in Asian and overseas pos-
sessions. Perhaps this comes of ad-
vising Granny to have another drop of
gin. The old girl must have swallowed
the bottle.
Though Australia has done better than
most countries in looking after its un-
employed, out-of-works must have read
with bitter scorn the report in the war-
scare press that labor shortage is so
acute in Germany, industry and agricul-
ture needing 700,000 men and 17,000
engineers, that the Government has been
reduced to dire straits. Almost to the
extremity of going to war so that the
717,000 vacancies may be filled, or the
necessity for filling them may be avoided
or something.
Once more it is reported that Premier
Dunstan will stand for Federal Bendigo
next election. Bendigo already has a
Country-party member. Perhaps he’s
too keen on the U.A.P.-C.P. alliance at
Canberra, or perhaps the Labor-C.P.
alliance at Melbourne is wearing thin.
N.S.W. coalminers have decided by
ballot that they prefer Tweedledum Hef-
fron to Tweedledee Lang, and it is ex-
pected that Mr. Baddeley, who has been
Tweedledee’s deputy leader for years, will
transfer himself to Tweedledum. Obliging
politician,. Baddeley.
Saying that Australia must advertise
if people are to come here, Stevens has
promised £lOOO to some committee or
other that proposes to advertise Sydney.
People would come to Sydney and other
parts of N.S.W. without any blurb or
blah expenditure if Stevens dropped a
provision from what he calls his Special
Income and Wages Tax (Management)
Act, 1926:
A resident taxpayer is assessable on all
investment income derived from sources
outside Australia, such income being ex-
pressed in terms of Australian currency,
irrespective of whether it is remitted to
Australia or not.
It is surprising how soon a stranger be-
comes a “resident” in Stevens’s State,
though Canberra’s statistics suggest that
he tries to make tracks before Stevens’s
taxgatherers can sting him.
Sydney University is heavily subsidised
by taxpayers. Does the controlling body
ever consider whether it is justified in
letting well-paid professors take the bread
out of other people’s mouths by writing
political stuff for newspapers and jawing
into the microphone? Ten to one they
wouldn’t get these engagements if they
couldn’t be advertised as Sydney Uni-
versity professors.
An affectation of magnanimity dis-
tinguishes the “new” “Labor Daily.” It
tries to please Communists and Catholics,
and the other day it praised “the pro-
Australian attitude of the Minister of
“Over the top, girls, for the Checks —if that’s how they pronounce it!”
External Affairs,” commending it with a
sneer to “Mr. Curtin and Federal Labor
members.”
Adhering, as they do, to a policy of
isolation, they cannot but be pleased that
at least one Minister and probably an un-
expectedly large number of the rank and
file of the coalition are doubtful of the
judgment of Mr. Chamberlain when it
comes to plunging Australia into what
might be a pro-Fascist war.
The real grievance of the paper’s Red
patrons is that Chamberlain won’t
guarantee to plunge the Empire into war
for the defence of their Moscow masters.
“It is understood to have been reliably
stated” is the latest “Cronk-News”
fashion of beginning a war-scare par.
Presumably the idea is that a public
which has swallowed masses of fantastic
lies introduced with “It is believed,” “It
is reliably reported,” “It is learnt on un-
impeachable authority,” “According to
the Diplomatic Correspondent of the
‘Blah,’ ” and “Madame Tabouis, of
TCEuvre,’ states” will stand anything.
Hannen Swaffer, one of the “char-
acters” of Fleet-street, went to Villers-
Bret. for the unveiling. He complains in
the “World’s Press News” that “in com-
parison with the extreme politeness and
thought shown by the British and the
French, the Australians actually made
us, in the middle of a busy day’s work,
go up to their office to give them 10s.,
each of us, for a bus ride, money which
might easily have been paid the next
morning.” But he met Madame Tabouis:
She is a comic little woman who pokes
her nose in everywhere.
“What do you think?” she asks every-
body. She chases the Ministers all day
in a car, and then prints boldly “Caesar
will cross the Alps to-morrow morning at
half-past four.”
Swaffer could have had a great tit-for-tat
with the Australians who extracted his
ten bob if he had known that their Great
Dailies rely upon his “comic little
woman” for heaps of foreign “news.”
A very pro-Czech article in the Ency-
clopedia Britannica, written in 1922,
states that “Russinia,” the district in-
habited by the sub-Carpathian Russians,
has been granted the widest possible
autonomy, and says nothing about the
autonomous rights of the Sudeten Ger-
mans. It mentions, however, that these
Germans actually belonged for the best
part of a year to the Austrian Republic.
They left only when ordered to quit, and
to pass under Czech dominion, by the
peacemakers of Versailles and St. Ger-
mains, who refused them the self-
determination they granted to other 1914-
1918 enemies and more or less gallant
allies.
Hats off to Stewart, the member for
Parramattta!
I see no justification for maintaining
State offices in London; indeed, I see no
reason for maintaining State Governments
in Australia.
On second thoughts The Bulletin re-
turns its hat to its head. Stewart is full
of pious aspirations, but he never does
anything.
Westralian potato-growers are object-
ing to the removal of the embargo on
Maoriland potatoes which from time to
time sends spuds to 3d. a pound retail
in Sydney. Long ago they objected to
admission of potatoes from the effete
East. The Perth Government hit upon
the notion of employing unemployed
to peel all Eastern States murphies, the
peelings being carefully destroyed so
they wouldn’t rise up and walk 120 miles
or so and spread Irish blight. It was
greatly ridiculed, but at the worst the
unemployed got work more useful than
shovelling sand from one gap into an-
other, housekeepers got spuds at some-
thing less than siege prices, and Bunbury
spuds didn’t get Irish blight.
Commercial radio must be much
livelier in Maoriland than it is in Aus-
tralia. From station 2ZB a gentleman
held forth in this strain:
In case you did not hear it, you are an
unmitigated and malicious liar. For the
third time, you and the gang who employ
you to say these things are unmitigated
and malicious liars.
The Government owns 2ZB, and the
broadcaster is a man of God. He handed
in his resignation, but Savage refused to
accept it, in effect telling the holy man
to go and pitch in some more.
Interventionist newspapers used to be
fond of quoting the “Round Table” ; but
not now. Not since a “Round Table”
man wrote in June that “Mr. Eden’s
policy could not have succeeded,” that
“the Prime Minister has won an un-
doubted success with his agreement with
Italy,” and that “Mr. Chamberlain’s
diplomacy logically leads to a cessation
of the competition in armaments and
security against world war.” The “Round
Table” is off the map.
One of the features of the Dunstan
measure empowering Victoria’s new
Housing Commission to deal with slum
abolition and rehousing is a provision
by which much of the control at present
vested in municipalities—by the Health
and Local Government Acts will be
transferred to the commission. Housing
is a job that British councils tackle
resolutely; but Australian Bumbles
shirk it. In Melbourne building regu-
lations relating to health and construction
vary hopelessly from one municipality
to the next.
Resigned to being bored by the latest
prohibition campaign, Victorians have
been treated to one bright interlude.
Posters and full-page ads. declared that
23,000 happy liquor-trade workers would
have to go on the dole if licenses were
abolished; a picture of approximately
23,000 laughing men in overalls was
added. The Drys countered with full-
page ads. carrying (1) a miniature copy
of the other side’s poster, (2) the cover
of an Oxford Group publication from
which, it was alleged, the 23,000-happy-
brewery-workers picture had been lifted,
and (3) the legend “They had to go to
the non-drinkers to find happy people.”
Stevens’s Medical Practitioners Bill has
been roughly handled by Gus Kelly, the
member for Bathurst, and by a lecturer
who said it was “monstrous that eminent
foreign doctors should be prohibited
from practising here.” The lecturer held
forth to the ladies of the United Asso-
ciations, and a newspaper certifies that
he is “chairman of the Practitioners’
Association, skin specialist and dog
expert.”
The “new” “Labor Daily” calls Noel
Monks, described as the Famous War
Correspondent, as a witness that “the
Germans were fiendish enough to wipe
out Guernica,” and the F.W.C. testifies
that he and two other scribes saw ’em
—apparently from “a bombhole into
which we fell headlong” while “making
for Guernica,” and in which “we were
imprisoned for half an hour while
machine-gun bullets flopped all round
us.” And “all three of us were in Abys-
sinia together.” Australia got some in-
vigorating news from that country.
Wasn’t it Mr. Monks who informed it
that he had changed shirts with a flash
coon called the Black Eagle of Harlem,
who left Ethiopia without moulting a
feather?
The U.S.A. expects to have a hundred
.million bushels of wheat for sale cheap
—being subsidised —to foreign countries,
and is going to let Germany have as
much as it can take. This is rather a
come-down after all the virtuous indig-
nation of President Roosevelt and his
Ministers and the crusading zeal of
American particularly Dreiser.
Dreiser can’t understand why the British
Empire refuses to go to war for his Red
politics, and recently delivered himself of
the dark prediction that the British Em-
pire would be “damned sorry.”


A WRONG ’UN.


BRANDAIJERS
wt
m
*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKANDADKE * CO. Ud. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria ,)
2 O'CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 18SS.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
•"Whs/
Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT. .—,
df
T.JONES ECO
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Being on one of his rare visits to his
native N.S.W., James Cornell, who is
Chairman of Committees in the Westra-
lian Leg. Council, met W. M. Hughes
in Sydney the other day. “Billy,” he
said, “you and I are the last of the
Mohicans—the only two Labor conscrip-
tionists still in Parliament.” “Bless my
soul, Jim,” said Billy, “you’re right.”
Billy will be 74 next month. Jimmy is
65, though he doesn’t look it.
The sudden announcement of the re-
tirement of A. H. Stuart from the gen-
eral managership of the “S. M. Herald”
came as a shock to the newspaper world.
He had been with the company for most
of his working life, first on the literary
staff, then as London manager for some
years. He returned as assistant g.m.,
and soon followed “our Mr. Harris”
into the supreme chair. His reign was
marked by a general livening up of the
paper and the introduction of new de-
partments and new young men. A few
weeks ago he left for a holiday on the
first flying-boat, going as far as Malaya,
and the day after he returned his resig-
nation was announced. Stuart is still
in his forties, quiet, tactful, able, and
with a thorough knowledge of all
branches of newspaper technique. He
has been overworking, but scarcely
enough to justify his retirement.
J. J. Poynton, the one Australian rail-
way manager who showed steady profits
during the depression (and afterwards), is
dead in Perth. He was the Midland Rail-
way Co.’s leading man for many years
and Lord Mayor of Perth in 1935-37. His
brother Alec was member for Grey
(S.A.) in the first Commonwealth Parlia-
ment, and one of Hughes’s Ministers for
four years, 1918-1922. The Poyntons
were Victorians from Castlemaine. Alec
made his way into Labor politics via a
trade-union secretaryship—that of the
old Amalgamated Miners’; J.J. was
trained as a railwayman in his native
State and moved west with the building
of the Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta line.
Rowland Cuthbert Robin, who became
Prof, of Engineering at Adelaide Uni.
when knight Robert Chapman resigned
last year, is a native of Adelaide and a
graduate of that city’s Uni., which he
entered on a Government bursary. He
won the Angas Engineering Scholarship,
which took him abroad, in 1920, gained
practical experience working with con-
Prof. R.C. ROBIN.
tractors in England and studied re-
inforced concrete design in Boston,
U.S.A. Returning to his home town in
1926 he landed a berth in the Depart-
ment of Engineering and Water Supply.
A lecturership at the Uni. later came his
way. Now 40, Robin married an Ameri-
can lady. His pet pastime is tennis.
Dropped out at the 84th milestone,
Tohn Wpn™ Qioto,- vr e a u ,
fore hi i L Y Y ’ Wh ° bC ‘
. retirem ent 16 years ago was
rff 8 ' 1 '? ° f firm
Adams and Co. Born in
.gland, he sailed to Maoriland in a
wmd Jammer in 1876, and after a spell
surveying and clerking in an
Auckland bank came to Australia. In
1884 he sett led in Sydney, and with an
Lieut.-General SQUIRES, Inspector-General of
Australian Military Forces.
(Modelled by Frith.)
pld English friend, W. J. Adams, estab-
lish a business which grew and pros-
pered. He drove his own car up till
the age of 80, and a six- or eight-mile
walk never distressed him. His first
illness was his last —a heart attack early
in the year from which he never properly
recovered. Three sons help to keep the
Slater name alive in the Adams firm.
Sir Landon Ronald, principal of the
Guildhall School of Music for the last
28 years, who died a few days ago, had
a link with Australia in that he toured
the U.S.A. with Melba, as conductor,
in 1894. He was one of the best-known
of British orchestral conductors, wrote
copiously for orchestra, piano and solo
voice—his song “Down in the Forest” is
known everywhere—and was for a while
editor of the “Musical News.” He was
musical adviser to and a director of the
Gramophone Co., and in late years edited
some excellent serially-published collec-
tions of pianoforte music.
A link with the coaching days of 80
years ago was snapped when John Joseph
Fagan died at Gosford, N. S. Wales. As
a lad of 14, in 1855, Fagan and his
brother George organised the Sydney-
Gosford mail service, which covered a
100-mile circuit in 17 hours, using relays
of horses. A modern ’plane could skip
round it in 30 minutes. The brothers
were also pioneers in racehorse-breed-
ing, and made money exporting cedar to
the U.S.A.
Frank Fenner, son of the better-known
educationist in Adelaide, Dr. Charles
Fenner, has had atrocious luck over the
Leichhardt-remains expedition from that
city. In spite of his youth, he was selected
as the anthropologist on whom the
chief responsibility must fall of settling
the question—aboriginal bones and teeth
or white men? Three days before the
party started northward he had a knee-
cap fractured in the inter-University
hockey match. Dr. T. D. Campbell, head
of S.A. Dental Hospital and also experi-
enced in Centralian travel, has gone in-
stead.
C. J. A. Moses, who has been the
A.B.C.’s general manager for three years,
received last week a presentation from
the staffs in all States. Moses probably
does more air travelling than any man
in Australia, and by flitting from one
State to another at regular intervals is
able to keep a grip on broadcasting
activities all over the Commonwealth,
On the odd Sundays and holidays when
he is not working in his office he plays
golf, but he has not yet learned to hit
the white pill as hard or as accurately
as he used to hit his opponents in his
climb to amateur boxing championship
honors, first in Ireland and later in Vic.
The resignation of Professor Michael
Scott Fletcher, who guides the philosophy
classes of Queensland University, will
complete an epidemic of re-
tirements in the family. Sid
Fletcher, a solicitor with a
taste for politics, partner of
Charles Morris, formerly
Q.T.C. president, retired some
time ago, and is careful to
note the fact when he signs the
letters which he writes to the
papers. Brunsdon Fletcher,
editor of the “S. M. Herald,”
retired a few months ago, and
is still to be seen hale and
hearty in his late seventies
round Sydney streets. He
originally was a surveyor, and
they’re notoriously long-lived.
Scott Fletcher, schooled at
Newington, took a first-class
M.A. in philosophy in 1902,
was a research student at
Oxford for several years, and
served in the Methodist
Church until he became head
of King’s College, Queensland
Uni., in 1912 and tutor in
Greek and philosophy. After
an interlude at Sydney he be-
came a professor in 1923.
Dead in Melbourne, R. B.
McComas, head of William
Haughton, woolbrokers. Mc-
Comas came into public promi-
nence as a member of the
Central Wool Committee, and
sat on the Commonwealth
Bank Board from its formation in 1925
till 1935, acting as chairman for a year
in 1927. He was 76.
Melbourne Uni.’s next registrar is to
be 35-year-old John Foster, who will
take over from the retiring A. W. Greig
in January. Educated for the Bar, Foster
was articled to knight Arthur Robinson
for three years, and then read with
Russell Martin, now a Judge of Vic.’s
Supreme Court. Foster was doing post-
graduate work at the London School of
Economics when Dr. R. E. Priestley, after
becoming Melbourne Uni.’s Vice-Chan-
cellor in 1935, sent him on a survey of
British universities. He should be an
ideal registrar; he mixes a cheery good-
fellowship with his efficiency.
“El V.” remembers a civic argument:
Brisbane will never again see the small form
of H. F. Doggett, who has passed on in his
seventies. Doggett would have won a prize
for the smallest and neatest alderman of the
pre-war Brisbane Council, in which he was one
of the most useful members by reason of his
knowledge of materials and labor gained as
successful contractor, his - shrewd commonsense
and usually conciliatory manner. In an age
when half the aldermen were large and hefty
persons, Doggett, with his neat dark clothes,
his starched shirtfront set off by a black bow
tie, and his small, trirfl beard, looked diminu-
tive, but he could fight with the best of them.
During one campaign of 30 years ago he and
John McMaster got into holts in council.
John was as rugged and as large as a Highland
Beinn, and he wore an expanse of whiskers for
which all Brigham Young’s wives would have
deserted, but this did not prevent Doggett
edging up to him till his face was within inches
of John s, so that he was seen from the rear
against a waving background of Scottish
whisker. At a moment when hostilities seemed
inevitable, a voice from the rear gave him timely
warning: “Keep out of the scrub, Harrv
You’ll get bushed!”
C. C. Castine, dead in Adelaide after
a long illness, was a Government sur-
veyor till he lost an eye in the Boer
war, and afterwards an expert in both
rifle-shooting and the gunsmith’s art,
also secretary to S.A. Rifle Association.
His father, Col. Castine, survives him at
93.
Harold Wilkinson, now the Victorian
Government’s ceremonial officer, can set
the fussers right on almost any point of
procedure, as he’s been A.D.C. or
secretary to nine State Governors. He
was the second Westralian to be sent to
India by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for military training; his father
settled in the West in the ’seventies after
disposing of a Durham Light Infantry
commission in England. Before he went
soldiering, Wilkinson was in the West-
ralian civil service; after France and
Belgium he went farming in W.A. He
was back on Government House work by
1922, this time as private sec. to Strad-
broke in Melbourne. Argyle started him
on his present job when arrangements
for royal Gloucester’s visit were making
headaches in Yarraside’s State offices. At
the moment he is hon. A.D.C. to acting-
Gov. Fred Mann.
lohn W. Tristram, a leading Sydney
water-colorist, who died at 67 last week,
was an Englishman who arrived in Syd-
ney as a small boy. He took up archi-
tecture and found employment with the
N. S. Wales Education Department,
where he remained for 45 years, super-
vising the erection of many important
school buildings in the State. In late
years he has devoted himself to music
and painting. He exhibited sparingly at
society shows, and had a one-man show
last year. He was also an accomplished
musician and a composer, but published
none of his work in this field.
Leonard Henry Pike, Bananaland’s
Agent-General in London for the last
two years, and acting A.-G. for four
years before that, is the son of a Bris-
bane man, but was born in England 53
years ago, educated there, and served in
the S’African War with the City of Lon-
don Rough Riders. Has had Queensland
L.H. PIKE.
experience as Premier’s private sec. and
director of the tour of the Duke and
Duchess of York, but mostly he has
been attached to the Queensland office
in London. He has acted as adviser to
Australian delegations at many im-
portant conferences, including that at
Ottawa. Fought through the Great War
with the A.I.F.
The vacancy in the Vice-Chancellor-
ship of Queensland University has been
filled by the appointment of J. D. Story,
who, as Under-Sec. for Public Instruction
in 1909, played a leading part in the
foundation of the university and was
an original senator. For 28 years he
has been chairman of the senate finance
and administrative committee.


'I II 11
II 1
m
jr
AT SEA , ON LAND
amd IN THE AIR
A self-contained and highly efficient wireless manufacturing
industry, capable of ready expansion if called upon, is essen-
tial to Australia’s needs.
The manufacture of wireless equipment commenced by
Amalgamated Wireless in 1913 has developed until to-day
at the A.W.A. modern Radio-Electric Works every type of
wireless equipment for use at sea, on land and in the air
is produced. Wireless stations for ships, for Australian
coastal radio and Pacific Island stations, and broadcasting
transmitters for Australian and New Zealand services are
but a few of the many products manufactured.
The 60 k.w. broadcast transmitter of 2YA Wellington, built
for the New Zealand broadcasting services, the 20 k.w.
transmitter used for the Wireless Telephone Service between
Australia and Great Britain, as well as the fourteen other
transmitters at A.W.A. Radio Centre, Pennant Hills, Sydney,
used for various communication services, were manufactured
at the Company’s works.
In the field of aircraft, A.W.A. is installing for the Civil
Aviation Board radio telegraphy and telephony equipment
at all the principal aerodromes in Australia, also a number
of ultra-high frequency radio course beacons.
Twenty-five commercial aircraft of various Australian air-
ways companies carry A.W.A. aircraft equipment.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS
(AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
AVSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
sf


ABORIGINALITIES
“Valencia Creek”: A primitive soul
who had spent all of his 50 years in the
far-back parts of the Victorian hills
tarried awhile with us on the lowlands.
His siphon-like methods of tea-drinking
and his rejection of table cutlery in favor
of fingers soon jarred on the more sensi-
tive members of the family, but it wasn’t
until cherry-plum jam appeared on the
menu that his demerits as a visitor were
fully appreciated. Instead of dealing
with the numerous cherry-stones in the
usual manner, the hill man would wait
until he had collected a mouthful and
then eject them, machine-gun fashion, in
sharp bursts of fire that swept the table
from end to end. Anyone who couldn’t
find reasonably safe cover behind milk-
jugs and the like soon retreated out of
range. We had blackberry jam for the
remainder of his visit.
* * * #
“Bushy Park”: “There ain’t no rabbits
about nowadays— not in no numbers,
anyways,” Old Alf told us, “not like
there useter be a few years back when I
was workin’ on Cowaginabulla Downs.
No, youse wouldn’t know that station —
before your time it was —but anyways
there was a big burrer in one paddick
that had ’em bluffed for years. It must’ve
covered five acres ; but anyways a new
manager come along, an’ he decides to
have a sorta workin’ bee for all the
ferrits in the district. He borrers a
hundred ferrits, puts on a gang of twelve
men to watch the nets, an’ them twelve
blokes was kept busy for a week, doing
day- an’ nightshifts, jist wringin’ rabbits’
necks. Forgit how many they got—it
run into thousands—but the scheme
didn’t pay in the long run. The man-
ager had to keep three men on guard at
the burrer for six weeks afterwards
before he collected all his borrered
ferrits. Yeah, she was a fair-sized burrer
all right.”
* + * *
“David”: I was took orf boundary-
ridin’ last week to muster the beefs. So
when I sees the noo ’and walking round
the paddick fence, which was only a
lousy 10 mile or so, pluckin’ the nettin’
as if ’e were practisin’ ’arp-playin’ fer
the next world, I tells the boss, and we
nearly chokes ourselves larfin’. But
w’en Choom comes back and sez as
’ow two or three coils of strip netting’ll
fix the line good arrd proper the boss
does a different sort of choke. Yair,
’e’d found where the netting was rusted
through on the ground level which I
couldn’t see from me nag’s back. Any
of youse sheep cockies want a bound’ry-
rider? Me swag’s packed.
* * * *
“Fore Royal”: The blue wrens that
“Hanko” (B. 10/8/’3B) has seen may be
models of domestic felicity, but I know
of one case where this gay Lothario
lived up to his reputation as a multiple
lover. In an old pine at our Gosford
(N.S.W.) home Bluey and his lady
friends built a community home, divided
into four compartments. Nocturnal in-
vestigation showed that each of three
compartments contained five eggs, the
fourth being empty. The gent, and two
“Your turn now, Tootles"
companions were occupying the fourth
nest (a kind of penthouse built on top of
the others), while each of the others had
its little brown sitter.
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: I was talking to Long
Bill when he noticed a neighbor’s bull
hoeing into his haystack. “We’ll have a
bit of fun with this bloke,” the long ’un
remarked, and sneaking up behind the
stack he managed to drop a chaffbag over
the bull’s head. Bluey, the cattle-dog,
was then let into the joke, and Bill nearly
went into hysterics as the blindfolded
bull bellowed and galloped aimlessly
round the house paddock with Bluey
nipping his heels. However, when the
visitor barged into the dairy and emerged
through the back wall pushing a collec-
tion of dented separator parts and bat-
tered buckets in front of him, and then
careered down the track with a line of
freshly-washed clothes hanging on his
horns, Bill realised that things had gone
beyond a joke. He spent the remainder
of the day mending the dairy and trying
to patch up a badly-shattered separator
while Mrs. Bill stood by and gave him
a caustic resume of the opinions of a
long-suffering wife who has married a
complete nitwit. As Bill remarked after-
wards, women and bulls have no sense
of humor.
* * • * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: “The fence attached
to the tree slowly climbing up with the
tree.... simply doesn’t happen,” sez
“Tussock” (B. 10/8/’3B). Well, it’s been
happening in my S.Q. garden these years
past, so that I’ve had to return the wires
twice to original level with a wire fence
and a box-tree. Also, it’s happening
wherever a live tree is used as a strain-
ing-post or a rail socket. Why shouldn’t
it? Does “T.” imagine that the trunk
lengthens only above fence-level? But,
though he mayn’t know much about
trees or fences, the grassy-named one is
dead right in the statement that telegony
is pure bullswool.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: To many Australians,
swallows seem mere tourists from
beyond the seas, foreigners really, not
dinkum Aussies at all. But quite a few
species are as dinkum as the abo. or
the dingo—probably ever dinkumer in
point of time. This week a party of
20 or so of the handsomest, the white-
backed swallow, has chosen our cliff-
edge locality for a visit. They will prob-
ably be off soon, strong-winged vagrants
as they are, ranging the whole continent
except the N.T., and allowing no fixed
nesting season to hamper the joy of life.
But when they do take on family cares
they make a proper job of work on the
nursery. Their beaks don’t seem at all
suitable for tunnelling, but they manage
to drive yard-long ones through stiff
clay, and to hollow out a big nest-
chamber at the end of it.
* # * *
“Snake Charmer”: Bagmen dawdling
around the Cabbage Garden or saunter-
ing up the Darling, with a farmhouse at
every mile and a pub at every ten, some-
how seem to get the idea that they’ve
sampled the “outback.” When I men-
tioned walking the rails as a means of
easy progression I had in mind the out-
back of W.A., a little walk or two be-
tween, say, mining camps a hundred
miles or so apart. One follows the rail-
way there —to be sure of water for one
thing. And is there any tougher walk-
ing than alongside a W.A. railway track?
Down on the flat there will be wiregrass,
prickly bush, scrub, sand, stones; and if
there’s any sort of a road it’ll be rutted
so that a turned ankle lurks in every
step. Up on the embankment will be
loose ballast and the uncovered ends of
the sleepers. So the men-who-know-how
walk the metals. And they don’t bust
their insteps as “Driim” (B. 27/7/’3B)
suggests. The foot soon develops a tech-
nique, just as does the bushie’s after a
day on city pavements. I was taught
the game by an ex-railway ganger who
claimed to have walked thousands of
miles on the rails.
* * * *
“Gilligan”: Why did the dog sit on
the tuckerbox on that famous “road to
Gundagai”? Have heard all sorts of
explanations lately—except the right one.
Anyone who enjoyed the privilege of
working for One-spud Jack, Skin-the-
lizard Jones or Starvation Ryan would
have little difficulty in supplying that.
One-spud never failed to impress on the
cook that one potato, boiled in the
jacket, was a sufficient helping for any
man. Skin-the-lizard was reputed to col-
lect the lizards seen on a day’s droving
and then stew them for his own supper:
to save the killed meat, of course. Star-
vation Ryan explains himself. Thus the
dog sat on the tuckerbox to keep off
always-hungry employees. Locks might
be opened or even broken, but the boss’s
tyke could be depended upon to stay
put —preserving the tucker inviolate for
mealtimes. And it wouldn’t be served
out any too liberally then.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Let Joe tell how he did his
alley with the girl from town. “We was
walkin’ in the bottom paddick when me
dorg grabs a rabbit wot’s sittin’ in a
tussock. I takes it orf of him before he
can mess it up, pulls its neck, rips orf
the skin an’ chucks the mong the carcass.
Hearin’ a sort uv garsp, I looks round,
an’, ’struth! there’s me tart out to it on
the ground. I goes to pick her up, but
she pushes me orf an’ runs screamin’ to
the house. Nex’ day she leaves for town
without spieakin’ to me. Blowed if I
know. I serpose she was stinkpots on
me for givin’ the rabbit to me dorg.”
* * * *
“Onam”: I am doing “Sa Tiko” (B.
10/8/’3B) the honor to suppose he is not
certifiable, but when he continues his
praise of taro, which in an earlier par.
he referred to as a combination of
fruit salad with other things, I am
doubtful. To reiterate, taro is a cal-
ladium root containing some 90 p.c. of
starch and quite without flavor of any
kind. When “S.T.” says the Fijians live
on it and nothing else year in and out
he is blithering. No human being could
do such a thing and survive. The taro-
eating peoples with whom I have been
in contact —and I first made the acquaint-
ance of them and the ambrosia of “S.T.”
some 35 years ago in one of the most
God-forsaken and isolated spots in British
New Guinea and not on a luxury liner —
eat plenty of other food, chiefly sago,
coconut and bananas, and in some dis-
tricts sweet potatoes, to say nothing of
fish for shore-dwelling folk. There was
a fair amount of pig also, long and short,
though the former has long vanished
from the menu.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Not only in Westralia
will the date-palm flourish (B. 10/8/’3B).
Dunno if they’re still there, but in my
time in Mildura (Vic.) there was a group
of the splendid palms on Deakin-avenue,
beyond 16th-street. We used to cut the
bunches of dates while the fruit was still
green, pluck them and place them in a
tin, then hang them in the sun for a few
days. They ripened into dates as good
as we could buy in the shops. If memory
serves aright, the palms were then more
than 20ft. high.
>tc * sj: jji
“Western”: How far will a domesti-
cated, but secretly a killer, dog travel
from home to find victims? Shot recently
at Collie (W.A.) was a kangaroo dog
known to have travelled regularly from
there to Noggerup, 20 miles away, to kill
sheep. On the way it passed several pad-
docks in which woollies ran. Once knew
a bull-terrier kept by a poultry-farmer
for the protection of his flocks. A secret
killer, this dog used to pass by several
other farms with quite open roosts in
order to kill at a farm where the fowls
were supposed to be securely penned in.
Its owner would hardly believe it even
when a charge of shot one night brought
it down with a live fowl in its mouth.
Unsuspected of any climbing ability, this
dog could go up and over a 6ft. netting
fence like a cat.
* * * *
“Yuinburra”: “Talkin’ of dampers,”
said Archie, “reminds me of the first
one I ever made. I was a raw young-
ster at the time, and the boss of the
mustering camp had left me behind one
mornin’ to make a damper for the mob.
There was 16 of us, so he told me to
make a good big one; so as soon as
the boys were out of sight I set to.
I emptied a bag of flour on to a sheet
of iron, tipped in a couple of pounds
of cream of tartar, some soda and a
bucket of water, and stirred her with
a shovel. When she was cooked she
looked lovely; you know that big grind-
stone in at the station? Well, that’s her!”
* * * *
“Nagoh”: At an Italian wedding feast
in N.Q. one near-sighted Britisher was
enjoying himself immensely. It was a
five-course affair, with enough liquor to
bathe in. Being in the mood to try any-
thing once he ate whatever was placed
before him. He was just polishing off
the last of a lot of crimson, frilly-looking
and not-too-tender things when his friend
remarked casually, “Do you go the
combs, too?” Fowls’ head may be the
piece de resistance with Giuseppe, but the
near-sighted one still swears he gets a
bilious attack every time he passes a
poultry-yard.
THE BIG FIGHT.
At a shanty on the Bogan, owned and kept
by Andy Brogan,
There were races at the cutout of the Boree-
wilga shed,
And a stranger named Trelawney, tall and
splintery but brawny,
Cast reflections on the menu till he made our
host see red.
“I’ve a fiver here,” said Andy, “for the fellow
who is handy
With his mittens if he’ll give the flash non-
entity a clout.
Were I younger 1 could beat him—surely some-
one’s game to meet him!
I’ll donate an extra fiver if he knocks the
blankard out.”
Then a cha P—they called him Dargan—said
“Old man, this is a bargain,”
And he walked up to the long ’un and got in
a stingin’ right.
Soon a mob had clustered round them, and a
willing pair they found them—
There was nothing in the old days drew an
audience like a fight.
In the seventh, Darg.—perspiring—looked a
beaten man and tiring,
But he pulled himself together in the tenth
or thereabout:
Nicely timed and well directed, with a beauty
he connected—
In a twinkling all was over; he had knocked
the long ’un out.
Well, they banqueted the winner at a mostly-
liquid dinner.
A Trelawney sympathiser rose and passed
around the lid,
Saying, “Don’t forget, you blighters, beaten
men are gallant fighters”;
And, though many backed the loser, the
response was fifteen quid.
Just a month from that great battle I was
with a mob of cattle
In the southern Riverina at a shanty on a
plain:
Stood a ring of pleased spectators round two
whirling gladiators—
They were Dargan and Trelawney putting on
their stunt again.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


“Come on, Chimpie, get a move on. There's the beds to make yet.”
“The 0.D.”: Jock, fresh from Glesgae,
persuaded the cocky he could do farm
work, and was started with a single-
furrow plough. That afternoon the
cocky took one look at furrows that wan-
dered all over the paddock, then went
for Jock. Jock, suddenly aware that
furrows should be straight, grinned
sheepishly, and said: “Aye, yon
were street enoo’ when Ah did ’em;
mayhap the sun’s warped ’em ; tis verra
war-r-rm, ye ken.” It won him for-
giveness.
* * * *
“Fang”: That yarn of the lady tured
of toothache by suggestion (B. 27/7/’3B)
moves me to ask if anyone has experi-
enced the ancient bush cure for tooth-
ache—the placing of a mustard plaster
on the inside of the wrist on the same
side as the aching tooth. In my youth
I had this tried successfully on me
on several occasions, it being explained
that it had been an auld wife’s remedy
for the evil for centuries in Scotland.
* * * *
“J.R.L.”: Queensland’s “dead-finish”
(B. 27/7/’3*B) bears no resemblance to the
Westralian tree of the same name. It
is an acacia growing to a height of 20ft.
and is a valuable fodder tree with a fern-
like leaf and a habit of growing dense
thickets in which cattle often take shelter,
to the exasperation of stockmen in a
round-up. Hence its name.
* * * *
“Rogaduck”: After a luckless day’s
fishing we returned to port after dark.
As we piled into the dinghy to go ashore,
Bill’s torch played momentarily on the
water. At his shout of “Get an eyeful
of this!” we saw that the sea was alive
with big garfish, which were circling
close to the surface. With the dip-net
we soon had all we could use, and still
the gars, moved in a seething mass.
“Don’t stop,” gasped the excited Bill;
“we’ll play a joke on the chap who owns
this old boat over here.” In a few
minutes the fish-well of the other boat
was full. Next morning we saw an old
Greek fisherman, who had been having
poor luck, lugging two heavy baskets
around; the gars, were going off like hot
cakes. On his face was the expression
of one who has just received proof that
the age of miracles is not yet past.
*** - *
“Tom Willie”: I’d like “Billy Bong”
(B. 10/8/’3B) to know that my horse in
the Fitzroy Gardens is not a Shetland
pony. He is a real horse that sends the
weighbridge arm up on the 30cwt. mark,
if you can believe his proud driver,
though he looks more like a two-tonner
to me. And what is Bft. of iron? My
prad would have deformed hooves in
less than 9ft. 6in. I do not apologise for
him in making an eight-hour day of the
shoeing job. Of course, he might be a
little more reasonable and not lean on
the farrier and exhaust him between
nails. Remember, the shoes have to be
formed from the straight iron—no ready-
mades are large enough to be belted
into shape. I wouldn’t mind taking
hours off to watch “Billy Bong” if he
thinks he could make a hind shoe and
get it properly set and nailed on, with
hoof trimmed, in that time.
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: The “bluey” has dis-
appeared from the bush, and the old
swag with towel- or leather-strap is going,
too. Now your “palace” is a knapsack,
a bundle or a suitcase. Bicycles, peram-
bulators and carts are pushed along with
bedding add household effects, but the
professional swagman is only one in a
hundred. As a “whaler” he is no more,
and the “sundowner” died when the
blades went out. The swag with the two
straps was originated to leave the hands
free for “jumping” trains. It caught on
as a good way to carry the “hump,” and
has developed into a general plague. The
old-type one-strap swag was easy to
carry. It snugged across the back and
didn’t drag, and you could amble along
under a 601 b. load without trouble. The
double-strapper is a dead weight. It
doesn’t grip the back but tugs at the
shoulders and strains the neck muscles.
With a 301 b. bundle you gasp for breath
and knock up in half a day. The tucker-
bag balance is lost because it, too, drags
down the back and doesn’t hang over the
shoulder, as it did with the original swag.
Any. old-timer will tell you that once
he had the load on, with the bag lift-
ing the weight off the collarbone, he was
comfortable and unaware of his burden.
He could mooch along in a dream and
almost sleep on his feet.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: That Maorilander who
scaled a train by pretending to lose his
hat with ticket in it (B. 10/8/’3B) should
have studied Mat’s technique. When
that long, slow-voiced, innocent-looking
bushwhacker wanted to go anywhere by
train, and hadn’t the cash for fare, he
simply joined the rattler, found somebody
going to the same place, somehow
“ p u ll u p t driver. At las' We've come to somethin' worth takin' snap of."
wangled a look at the other s ticket, and
recorded the number. At the destina-
tion Mat would wait till last, then charge
through the barrier, and, of course, be
pulled up. “I gave y’ me ticket,” he’d
drawl. The collector would deny it>
Then Mat, announcing that once before
he’d had the same trouble, would pro-
duce his recorded number and challenge
search among the collected tickets. And
a baffled collector would be left staring
thoughtfully after the slab-sided sawny,
still convinced there was something funny
about it.
* * * *
“First Blue”: “Beck” (B. 10/8/’3B)
has got me all wrong. My par. didn’t
imply that the highbrow English gentle
was “spontaneously engendered” from
oatmeal, as I am well aware that science
has long exploded the idea that any such
phenomenon is possible. All I did, from
purely patriotic motives, was to offer
some explanation for our shameful
national neglect of a highly-important in-
dustry. As for “B.’s” claim that trout go
for the brutes in a big way-well, the
trout is an imported fish, isn’t it? But a
day of national mourning comparable
only with Black Tuesday or the day Phar
Lap died will be when our own native.
Murray cod or blackfish go the maggots.
* * * *
“Karri”: So ironbark has been de-
bunked with regard to its presumed dura-
bility (B. 27/7/’38)! Well, jarrah could
do with a bit of the same. Some of it
certainly shows remarkable durability,
but often it falls below even the stand-
ard of softwood. Timber-sorting in a
W.A. yard, I have come upon 4in. by
4in. table leg billets that after only four
or five years’ exposure to normal weather
crumbled to dice at the touch. I have
found 6in. by 6in. posts in the same con-
dition after only a couple of years in
sandy soil. On the other hand, several
W.A. bridges can show beams still
sound after over 70 years of atmospheric
exposure. It really depends on the tree
from which the timber was cut. Old
mellow trees, excellent for cabinet and
joinery work, have little durability; nor
have the very young. As with humans,
it is the sound middle-age that stands up
to prolonged stress and wearing con-
ditions.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A smallish chap with
a trace of Lancashire still on his tongue
happened along last week in an ancient
utility truck. “Got any tins, old wire,
scrap metal to sell, guv’ner? ’ he in-
quired. Having some handiness myself
with snips and soldering-iron, a heap of
such left-overs was in the shed and we
made a small deal for two-thirds of it.
A heavy, rusty old stirrup-iron hanging
on the wall plate caught his roving eye.
“Give you a thrum for that, guv’ner.”
I told him he could have it for nothing
if he’d tell me how he could make a
profit out of it in this horseless age. He
grinned. “I work the west. Clean and
smooth it up and it’s the best kind of
trouser-presser you can offer a drover
cornin’ in from the beyond. Theirs are
all rusty by then, and they want to
smarten up their town pants so the girls
can see what flash chaps drovers are.
Besides, it’s handy for a spare. I’ll get
’arf a dollar for it, so take yer thrum,
guv’ner.”
* * * *
“Hanko”: Mostly a few whites of the
species are attached to every black-ibis
flock, and the white birds forage and
cruise day-long with their sombre
brethren, but at roosting-time the whites
always remain feeding for some time
after the blacks have sailed to shut-eye.
I can’t see any reason for it, other than
that blondes always seem to get any
spare latitude that’s kicking around.
“C.C.”: Hori was putting the yokes
on his team when I rode up. “What’s
that on Bluey’s bell-strap?” I asked.
“Oh, t’at bullock t’e cunnin’ cow,” Hori
replied. “He know to stand still in t’e
manuka and not ring his bell in t’e
mornin’ when I look for him, so I tie
t’e stinkin’ meat to t’e bell-strap. Soon
t’e flies make him ring his bell all t’e
time. I find t’e cow pretty quick now.”
THE BOOBS.
“These poets,” said Steve, “do nothin' but mag
of things that are past an' gorn;
They’ll drool by the yard of the old bush ’ut
where they all, so it seems, was born.
1 been lookin’ for years for some long-’aired
coot to admit in a blasted pome
That ’e first saw light in a clink, or at sea,
or in some maternity ’ome.
“But, no! they dish up the same old stuff: a
’ut, not of common wood,
But it must be ‘wattle-an’-daub,’ an’ one, o’
course, that ’as ‘long withstood
The storms o’ years.’ That’s the tripe they
write, but—this is what gits me goat —
it’s the roses that climbed o'er the flamin' place
over which they will mostly gloat.
“They never git goofy an’ spread ’emselves
on useful climbers like ’ops
Or terbaccer plants growin’ round —not them!
that’s why their verses are flops.
An’ tracks —bush tracks! they go mushy on
them, although, if the truth was known,
When they flogged the pad—if ever they did! '
they did nothin’ else but moan.
“These are bad enough, but the worst of all
(an’ of this they give us a fill)
Is when they yap of the old red road that
winds back over the ’ill.
They’d go lousy a treat, an’ you bet y’r file
they wouldn’t travel it far,
If y’ put the boobs on the red road now an
didn’t provide a car.
“Ar, they’d give y’ the dingbats with all their
guff; it’s the past that they always blow.
Now, why can’t they ’arp on a diff’rent tune an"
give the future a go?
Why, ’strewth! if they ’ad the nous to tip a
winner or two in rhyme .
Or give us the oil about Deadleg’s form their
pomes’d sell ev’ry lime!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1938.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
h= * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (8 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgabj” Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
t Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
62 398
1928.. 52.030 2,250 12} p.c. a 34,792 14,988 47,410
Net premiums on new shares, £27,426.. 19,984
Reserves.
1929.. 74.996 6,193 12} p.c. =. 45,800 23,003 3,019
Premiums on new shares, etc., £23,024.. 26,043
1930. .78,057 12,000 12* p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „„ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new stores, £4500 .. 54,754
1932. .80,535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 ... 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO .. .. .. . . 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 12* p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 ( £54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 12} p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 .. .. 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 17} p.e.=188,347 61,061 454,705
In 1921 the Coles brothers formed a
proprietary co. in Melbourne, and set
to work to build up a chain of stores
on lines which had proved successful in
America and elsewhere, and in which
the top price of any article would be
2s. 6d. Three years later there were
three stores, paid capital was £32,416,
and turnover £190,982. Now there are
66 stores in the chain—lo more are to
go up before long which extends
throughout the Commonwealth, and
paid capital is £1,226,265. Appearances
are that turnover, not published since
1933. when it was £2,715,000, is now in
the neighbprhood of £4,000,000 p.a.
During the last term £97,840 of bonus
scrip was scattered (one for 10), making
total gift issues over the last 11 years
£278,410. Also, eight new stores (one
each in S. Aus., Westralia and Queens-
land, two in N. S. Wales and three in
Vic.) were added to the chain, and their
full earning power had not been de-
veloped when the books closed. Gross
earnings sprang £128,620, reaching
£1,329,131, a record. Exes. (£1,085,754)
were up £109,643, because of the
additions just referred to, the lift in wages
and heavier provision for taxation
(£57,000, up £13,000). Including an un-
explained addition of £19,031 (£2403
more than in the previous term) to free-
hold depreciation reserve (£109,733), the
net result was £21,380 better at £261,408.
This was enough to pay the prefs. their
£12,000 and show 21.4 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands. For the pre-
vious term, the return on average ord.
capital was 24.9 p.c. as against 19.6,
18.7, 13.8, 16.3, 14.1, 11.5 and 16.8 p.c.
back to 1930. Though the div., etc.
(the etcetera is a 6d. bonus), was lowered
from 18f p.c. to \l\ p.c., the gift scrip
issue already mentioned makes p.c.
equal to 19.2 p.c.
The negotiations for a merger with
Woolworths were abandoned toward
the close of 1937 because the boards of
the respective cos. could not agree as to
the basis of amalgamation—Coles wanted
to put the deal through on an earning-
capacity-cwm-tangible-asset basis, while
Woolworths insisted that it should be
on earning capacity only. Expectations
in connection with this deal had sent
the market price of the pound ords. to
£5 2s. in August, 1937. Three months
later the figure had dropped to 895., and
has since fluctuated between that point
and 795. 3d., which was the price last
week end. Allowing for the final div.
and bonus (together 25.), the return at
795. 3d. is 4.5 p.c. on a 17| p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 355. 9d. also yield
4.5 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£ll 4s. Id. prefs. and 28s. sd. ords.
With things as they are, the market
values goodwill, which appears in the
books at £54,000, at over two-and-half
million pounds.
The co. is soundly financed on estab-
lished chain-store principles. Balance-
sheet figures reflect further all-round
expansion of the business:
1931. 1936. 1937 1938.
Ord. capital £480,000 £800,775 £978,425 £1,076,265
Pref. capital 150,000 150,000 1 50,000 150,000
Overdraft .. 62,730
Sundry-
creditors 37,146* 106,650* 66,608* 67,392*
Freeholds . . 331,817* 572,181* 627,162* 660,707*
Leaseholds . 61,214 174,919 200,170 217,757
Fittings, etc. 94.087 251.251 283,640 321,832
Stock .. 224,345 484,645 470,507 516,295
Debtors .. 1,448 3,603 9,673 13,072
Cash, etc... 40,489 8,467 264,718 234,810
* Not including balance of unpaid purchase monev
on freeholds: 1931-34, £130,000 ; 1936, £144,130;
1937, £134,000; 1938, £130,000.
The growth of £33,545 in freeholds
mostly reflects additions to the co.’s Pyr-
mont warehouse and erection of a new
store at Cessnock, both in N. S. Wales.
The increase in leaseholds was £17,587,
fittings, etc., £38,192, stock £45,788,
debtors £3399. Cash was drawn upon
for £29,908 ; surplus earnings, including
allowances for depreciation and taxation,
provided the balance. Taking the balance
of unpaid purchase money on freeholds
into the reckoning, the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£566,785) was £22,495, despite the
growth of £89,324 in fixed assets.
The addition to No. 12 store, Bourke-
street, Melbourne, is expected to be com-
pleted within a few weeks, and later in
the current term it is proposed to open
five new stores in N. S. Wales, four in
Vic., and one in Tas.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 59,849 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,849 196,678
1929.. 62,428 10 „ „ 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 62.657 9 „ „ 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66.195 9 „ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6 „ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 „ ~ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 „ „ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72.364 9 „ „ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 „ ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938.. 59,437 11 ~ „ 55,000 4,437 329,243
The bigger distribution surprised the
market, which lengthened its bid for the
pound shares, covered by 335. 2d. in net
tangibles, from 38s. to 40s. following
publication of the accounts. Allowing
for the final div. and bonus (together
Is. 7d. per share), the return at 40s. is 5.8
p.c. on an 11 p.c. distribution. At the
moment prospects of the 11 p.c. being
repeated during the current term are en-
couraging. An interim 3 p.c. (same as
for the previous term) was followed by a
final 4 p.c. (up 1 p.c.) and special bonus
of 4 p.c. (up 1 p.c.), making 11 p.c. in
all, or 2 p.c. more than for the previous
term. The special bonus (£20,000) was
on account of returns from investments,
which figure in the books at £431,762 (up
£5000), and are worth more.
Although last season’s Australian sugar
crop was heavier, the quantity of cane
harvested from the co.’s own plantations
and the tonnage put through its mill were
less; this because of a dry spell in the
Bundaberg district early in the term.
More sugar was exported, too ; but over-
seas prices were a bit better and the
average return for the whole crop to the
miller and grower was £l7 11s. per ton as
against £l7 Is. 4d. for the preceding
season. After allowing £18,575 (up £795)
for depreciation, the declared net result
was £lB6B better at 11.8 p.c. on capital
as against 11.5, 14.4, 13, 12.6, a loss,
13.2, 13 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1930.
The co. is well equipped to get what-
ever profits are to be won from the
industry. Besides returns from the grow-
ing and milling side of the business, and
the yield from a fine wad of investments,
there is a moderate picking from refining
about 12,500 tons p.a. under contract
.with the Government. The next table
shows how snug the financial position is:
1933. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors .. 95,327 102,814 95,962
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 335,578 333,580 327,508
Plantation, etc 63,302 58,036 58,248
Railways and tramways 37,654 33,213 34,611
Stocks . . . . . 86,826 88,541 91.653
Book debts . . .. 12,929 9,909 9,379
Investments .. . . 258,717 426,762 431,762
Cash 46,905 7,579 12,044
Investments include £319,588 in Austra-
lian Consols and £45,000 on fixed deposit,
as well as a holding (in at £64,951, or 60
p.c. of face value) in the Bundaberg Dis-
tillery Co. The more or less liquid sur-
plus improved £18,899, reaching £448,876,
equal to approximately 18s. per share.
Plant is in good order and thoroughly
efficient; and that means much so far as
costs are concerned.
For the 12 months of 1937 the Dis-
tillery Co. (paid capital £150,000) re-
corded a profit of £27,056. That was
after allowing £32,500 for taxation, and
included surplus on insurance settlements
on stocks destroyed by the fire of
November, 1936, and loss of profits in-
surance —premises were rebuilt and plant
at work again by the end of August,
1937. For 1936 and 1935 declared
profits were £14,398 and £13,755 respec-
tively. The div. was kept at 8 p.c., which
called for £12,800, of which Millaquin’s
share was approximately £8660.
What the future holds for the
sugar business it is difficult to say. The
industry is faced with the problem of
overproduction. However, the Queens-
land Government, which buys all the
raws, has decided to purchase the com-
ing season’s output on the same basis as
last season’s, and prospects in the Bunda-
berg district are for a better crop, and
therefore heavier crushing. Under the
international sugar agreement, Australian
export of raws is fixed at not less'than
400,000 tons p.a. The quantity purchased
for export by the Queensland Sugar
Board last year was 448,000 tons.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
VVrit-
. _ . ton Towards Re-
Apnl, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves.
1928.. 21,625 10 p.c. = 16,561 3703 1,361 19,840
\lll~ ■ 17.641 8 „ ~13,250 3683 708 20,548
Inf?" If’ll 5 7 ” ” n > 594 3290 261 20,809
1931.. 10,642 4 „ „ 6,625 3023 994 21,803
Loss.
1932.. 549 Nil 3056 18,198
1933.. 6,304 ■ Nil 3002 8 892
Profit.
1934.. 3,060 Nil 2727 333 9 225
1935.. 13,504 4 p.c. = 6,625 3031 3,848 13 073'
Iff?" U’ 613 5 » 8,281 3365 3,967 17,040
1937.. 18,903 6 „ „ 9,938 3714 5,251 22,291
1938.. 19,704 71 „ „ 12,422 3752 3,530 25,821
Though competition in all the co.’s
lines is very keen, which means narrow
profit margins, the business is now in a
better position to earn satisfactory
profits than at any time since the boom
burst nearly nine years ago. The co. is
Sydney’s biggest vendor of sporting
goods, tobacco, haircuts, etc., and has
strong connections among suburban re-
tailers and sporting bodies. For 11 years
to the close of accounts in 1922, a steady
10 p.c. div. was paid, sugared with
£40,625 of bonus scrip. Then price-cut-
ting became endemic, slump and with-
drawal of the bus services followed and
shareholders were passed by for the three
years to the close of accounts in 1934.
Meanwhile, new premises adjoining the
Haymarket (headquarters) depot were
built and paid for out of compensation
received from the City Council, the Bris-
bane branch, which had become a drag,
was closed, there has been partial restora-
tion of the bus services, and earnings and
divs. have continued to climb with the
improvement in conditions generally,
which now appears to have reached its
peak.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, turnover further ex-
panded, the growth in gross earnings
(£148,636) being £11,276. Because of the
lift in wages, exes. (£132,684, including
the allowance for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table) took all but £763
of the increase, leaving the net result
(£15,954) at 9.6 p.c. on capital as against
9.4, 7.3 and 6.3 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms. The div. was lifted 1| p.c.,
making 7| p.c. for the year, the final
being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
As for the current term, the board con-
siders the outlook favorable, though it is
doubtful whether much, if any, further
improvement in turnover need be looked
lor, and the full effect of the recent rise
in wages was not felt in the last accounts.
Still, prospects of the co. earning enough
to repeat the 1\ p.c. div. are encouraging.
The market, doubtful of the future,
notes the amount of outside money in
the business, and prices the fully-paid
pound shares at 19s. as against 17s. 9d.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
return is 7.9 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis, the lOs.-paid contribs.
at Bs. give an immediate yield of 9.4 p.c.,
or 8.3 p.c. should the other 10s. be called.
The net tangible cover is 235. Id. per
pound of paid capital.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1930. 1930. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £166,008 £166,008 £166,008 £166,008
Mortgage . . 133,978 131,211 130,709 130,207
Other liabilities 118,158 115,306 100,659 102,981
Freeholds .. 216,397 212,183 212,183 212,915
Plant, etc. . . 21,859 19,286 20,643 19,288
Stocks., .. 144,980 99,383 94,703 102,433
Book debts .. 60,081 103,194 102,431 105,517
Cash, etc. . . 602 487 683 543
Including the mortgage, the amount of
outside money in the business exceeded
more or less liquids by £24,695 when the
books closed, an improvement of £8856
over the twelvemonth. The floating debt
was well covered.
Robur Tea Co., Ltd. (Melbourne)
r~ Dividends
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 74 p.c. Ord. serves. Deflcit.t
1929.. 26,211 9375 8 J p.c. = 10,625 5211 60,^74
1930.. 14.436 9375 Nil 5061 55,813
Added reserves, £11,877 .. .. 43,936
1931.. 13.106 9375 Nil 3731 40,205
Added reserves, £12,938 . .. 27 267
1932.. 6,166 9375 Nil 30,476
Added reserves, £11,087 .. .. 19,389
1933.. 4,100 4688* Nil 19,977
Reserves disappear, £15,592 ... 35,569
1934.. 2,405 4688* Nil 37,852
Depreciation reserve disappears, £28,280.. 66,132
1935.. 5,606 4688* Nil 918 65,214
1936.. 10.640 9375 Nil 1265 63,949
1937.. 11,336 9375 Nil 1961 61,988
Loss.
1938. .17,360 Nil Nil 79,348
*Half year, 3J p.c.
f Goodwill ( £75,000) not treated as an asset.
In Australia keen competition has kept
tea prices down, while exchange and
duty have added dbout 7d. per pound
to costs, and consumption has fallen
from around 81b. per head in 1926 to
approximately 71b. of recent years. Also,
since March, 1933, world production of
tea has been restricted under international
agreement, and the price to the grower
has strengthened. Under these conditions
tea merchants generally have been un-
able to squeeze much profit out of the
trade.
Last term Robur recorded a loss of
£17,360—-the first thing of its kind since
the public became interested in 1928 —of
which £10,439 was on account of the
operations of a subsidiary, Oriental Tea
Co., Sydney and Brisbane. The tea-room
and coffee sections of the business earned
a small profit, while the electroplating
(Continued on page 24.)


m
*».£&>■
ft
toir/
0
>
“Call me
fussy if
you like
Some people may
be content to take
their whisky as it
comes. Frankly, I
prefer to be more par-
ticular .. I don’t believe
in this idea that one
Scotch whisky is just
as good as another.
MS
i
m
Some people may not know the
difference : I always insist on
.White Horse. Surely you’ll agree
with me that while you
can get White Horse
soft and smooth as a
fine liqueur, it’s wiser to
ask for it by name.”
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Screw cap flasks of convenient sizes on sale everywhere at popular prices


v»
m
mm
mm
m
1
i
\
Whatsoever a Man
SOWETH
IT is with a man’s finances as it is with wheat: Whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also reap. Money sown in A.M.P. policies
bears fruit abundantly.
Last month, the widow of a certain suburban shopkeeper drew
£lOBB, the proceeds of an A.M.P. policy for £5OO that her husband
had taken out in 1901. Up to the time of his death he had paid to the
Society £355 at the rate of £9/12/1 a year. Where is the man in
work who couldn’t afford sixteen shililngs a month for such comfort
as this policy has given?
From the moment that policy was taken out the couple knew that, if any-
thing should happen to the husband, the money would be available to pay off
the balance owing on the little shop, and what might be owing on the stock.
Nothing happened to him for 37 years, so the value of the policy grew with
bonuses, coming, at length, to be doubled. Debts had been paid, children had
been educated, all had been made secure under the protection of the A.M.P.,
and now there is £lOBB to make easy the evening of the widow’s life.
That was good sowing. What are you doing in this way, reader? Get in
touch with the nearest A.M.P. office and ask that an experienced representative
be sent to explain how the Society can help you. Do it to-day. Even to-morrow
may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
D. E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
SHIELD YOUR FAMILY
Widows without financial experience are often easy prey for those who come to
them with glowing promises of high interest yields. The story is always the same:
Ihe promises are followed by bitter disillusionment and loss of capital. It is tragedy
that can be avoided. For your family’s protection appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Executor and Trustee under your Will. That will free them from investment
worries and shield them from the traps set for the unwary.
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day ; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W, H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
QN
BANK
department made a slight contribution to
the loss. The board says: “The continued
high landed cost of tea, consistent with
the policy of keeping the standard of
the co.’s blends high, made it impossible
to obtain an adequate margin to cover
packing and distribution costs.”
The co., which took over the tea busi-
ness of James Service and Co. in 1928,
has £250,000 of capital to feed, one
half prefs. and the other half ords. The
ords., which are held privately, got 8i
p.c. for the first year, but nothing since.
Public interest is confined to the 1\ p.c.
cum. prefs., which also enjoy priority as
to capital. They received only half a
meal for the three years to the close of
accounts in 1935, and then their full
contract rate for the next two years, but
were passed by last term, making arrears
of divs. 18| p.c., or 3s. 9d. per share.
As for the current term, the inter-
national situation obscures the outlook
in the world’s tea and other markets at
the moment. Much also depends upon
how soon the Oriental Co. can be got
on to a profit-earning basis —the board
is giving “serious consideration” to wind-
ing up this offshoot, which was taken
over in 1930.
The market prices the fully-paid pound
prefs., covered by 275. 4d. in net tan-
gibles, at 14s. as against par. a year
ago. On a 7 i p.c. div. basis the return
at 14s. would be 10.7 p.c., plus arrears.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities* .. 94,438 29',047 25,447 107,544
Property and
plant .. 48,902 47,808 43,685 41,869
Investments .. 68,901 64,624 64,244 53,805
Stocks .. 65,844 69,043 68,258’ 70,808
Book debts .. 25,866 . 23,586 26,512 26,494
Cash .. .. 74,399 14,723 15,447 85,219
* Including provision for taxation.
The reduction of £10,439 in investments,
which consists of shares in the Oriental
Co., reflects the loss already referred to.
Liabilities were up £82,097, and the cash
holding strengthened by £69,772. The
year’s slip in the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£74,977) was £9793.
North Broken Hill (paid capital
£700,000) will send out a final 6d. on
each ss. share on Sept. 28, making total
distributions for the year to June 30 3s.
per share (60 p.c.) as against 6s. (120 p.c.)
and 3s. 6d. (70 p.c.) for each of the two
preceding terms. The co.’s production
figures over the last three years compare
as follows:
Lead,* Silver,* Zinc,*
Tons. Oz. Tons.
1936 (52 weeks) .. 58,412 3,254,214 40,873
1937 (52 weeks) .. 59,380 3,312,534 39,125
1938 (52 weeks) .. 64,092 3,546,765 42,870
* Excluding zinc in lead concentrates and lead and
silver in zinc concentrates.
But it is mainly upon the price of metals,
average sterling quotes for which follow,
that profits and divs. depend:—•
Year to Lead', Silver, Zinc,
June 30, Ton. Oz. Ton. Profit.*
1936 .. £l6/4/5 2/2.4 £l5/3/11 £664,940
1937 .. £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1 940,628
1938 .. £l7/9/6 1/9.1 £l6/13/4
* Includes allowance for depreciation, £30,000 in
1936 and 1937.
Last term’s profit has not yet been dis-
closed. The figure will depend mainly
upon when the metals were sold. For the
first quarter lead averaged £22 10s. as
against £l4 11s. Bd. for the last quarter;
the spot price last week-end was £l4
6s. lOd. If metals were sold at average
prices for the year, the drop in revenue
on mine account would be something in
the neighborhood of £400,000 ; but a lot
of other factors come into the final ad-
justment. Appearances are, however,
that there will be a wide margin between
net earnings and the 3s. div., which will
call for £420,000. Because the price of
lead and zinc refused to harden, fol-
lowing the strengthening of share prices
in New York, Australian investors short-
ened their bid for North’s shares from
51s. 9d. at the end of July to 425. 6d.
last week-end. The return at 425. 6d.
would be 4.6 p.c. on -the basis of the last
quarterly div. (2s. per share p.a.), or
7 p.c. on a 3s. distribution. Prospects of
a substantial lift in metal prices depend
largely upon consumer demand in the
U.S.A., where there is ample room for
expansion, especially in the cable in-
dustry, when political and other condi-
tions settle sufficiently for manufacturers
to see more definitely where they stand.
* * * *
Accounts of the Zinc Corporation
contain the following list of the co.’s
principal holdings in associated com-
panies:—
Capital Held By
Issued. Zinc Corp.
B.H. Associated Smelters .. £1,330,000 £337,055
Electrolytic Refining & Smelting 223,572 64,072
Metal Manufactures, Ltd., ord. 812,500 27,321
7 p.c. prefs. .. .. .. 187,500 6,335
Western N.S/YV. Electric Power 500,000 *
Globe Pty , 50,000 10,000
British Australian Lead Manufac. 450,000 27,473
Commonwealth Aircraft Corp... 700,000 50,000
New B.H. Consolidated .. 506,727 150,863
Imperial Smelting Corp., ord. 2,537,457 96,500
6i p.c. prefs. .. .. .. 2,069,809 7,500
* 160,000 ords. paid to 4s.
That lot accounts for around £400,000 of
the conservative book value of £484,902
placed upon holdings in associated enter-
prises at Dec. 31. Revenue from this
source last term turned in 16f p.c. on
book values. In addition the co. had
£41,848 invested in other industrial and
general holdings. Then there were gilt-
edged securities of £110,003, cash
£484,939, metal stocks (valued on a more
conservative basis than usual) £161,590,
and debtors, etc., £276,551,' this lot total-
ling £1,033,083. Outside liabilities, in-
cluding final divs. (£406,573) and tax, etc.,
provisions (£285,472), ran to £804,564.
To handle outside properties Australian
Mining and Smelting Co. has been
formed. At the old Sunny Corner mine,
near Lithgow (N.S.W.), before Broken
Hill the Commonwealth’s leading silver-
lead producer, a drilling programme has
been put in hand. Whether the silver-
lead deposits existing here will prove big
enough for the Corp. remains to be seen.
* * 4! *
On Hill End Alluvials’ property, Hill
End (N.S.W.), P. A. Yeomans has check-
sampled 62 bores, aggregate depth 420 ft.,
on various lines throughout the whole
of the selected area. Values averaged
lid. per cubic yard, and the average
depth was 6.Bft. Original valuation of
these bores, on which Oriomo Explora-
tions exercised its option over the prop-
erty, showed an average value of 98d. per
cubic yard and an average depth of 7.2 ft.
All-in costs were not expected to exceed
Is. Bd. per yard. Mr. Yeomans says his
check-sampling is a close approximation
of the general average value on the area
concerned. The directors of Hill End
Alluvials are investigating the cause of
the great disparity in values, and are also
examining “every possibility of salvaging
something from the co.’s interests at Hill
End.” When they have come to a de-
cision, shareholders in Oriomo will be
called together. Oriomo took over the
property from Mineral Explorations, and
the pair formed Hill End Alluvials to
work it. The estimated cost of equipping
the venture was £28,000.
* * * *
At Southern Cross Development’s
annual roll-up in London recently, the
Chairman (Claude de Bernales) said:
“Although we have, apparently, lost our
money, we have had an honest gamble.”
Formed in 1934 the co. took over from
Great Boulder Prop, the Southern Cross
United Mines, which was a fusion of the
Fraser group at Southern Cross (W.A.).
The consideration was £101,500, payable
£26,500 cash and the balance in fully-
paid ss. shares. Of the cash, £24,000 was
payable to Australian Machinery and
Investment Co., another of the De Ber-
nales group registered in Melbourne. At
the end of March last, the Development
co. had a paid capital of £241,638 ; there
was £78,788 (secured by a charge over
shares in the United Mines) coming to
note-holders, and £1378 to sundry credi-
tors. Assets consisted of shares in and
advances to United Mines aggregating
£273,021, and cash £lB9B. Preliminary
exes., brokerage, etc., had run away
with £23,767, and the p. and 1. debit was
£23,118. In November, 1936, a trial
crushing of 263 short tons gave an aver-
age head value of s.7ldwt. From Sep-
tember, 1937, to January, 1938, 12,900
tons were put through, average head
value 3.49dwt. Resampling of the mine
disclosed that, after abandoning all blocks
of ore under 4dwt., the remaining blocks
showed an average head value of only
4.4dwt., thus demonstrating that the ore
would not bulk up to its estimated value
(s.Bdwt.) and was consequently unpay-
able. Operations ceased in February
last. Dr. Moss is now overhauling the
property. From the practical point of
view, his report can provide only two
points for discussion —(1) further pros-
pecting and development of the property
or (2) abandonment. Apart from gold-
mining concerns, cos. in which De
Bernales is interested are Australian
Machinery and Investment Co., Austra-
lian Mines Management and Secretariate,
Westralian Machinery Corp., Western
Machinery Co., Kalgoorlie Foundry and
Hoskins and Co.
* * * *
Freney Oil (W.A.) has postponed the
sale of its forfeited shares. The board
urges fed-up shareholders to redeem
their scrip, and says the Federal and
State Governments will provide £20,000
apiece for further prospecting, condition-
ally on the co. raising £20,000 as well.
* * * *
Malim Nawar, tin-sluicing south of
Ipoh (F.M.S.), has placed its plant on a
care-and-maintenance basis until tin
prices and quotas improve. Meantime
quotas will be transferred to subsidiary
companies in the Anglo-Oriental group,
while 32£ acres have been sub-leased
to tributors. The plant worked nine
months of the year to March 31 last,
producing 144.7 tons t.o. from 769,000
c.y., an average recovery of 0.421 b.; costs
averaged 6.32 d. Corresponding figures
for the previous period were 233.9 tons,
1,039,000 c.y., 0.51 b. and 5.4 d. Profit
of £684 (which has been written off
equipment, etc.) compares with £6161
net for 1936-37. No divs. have yet been
paid. A disappointing trot at the begin-
ning for shareholders culminated in
1928 with the capsizing of the dredge,
to convert which to a sluicing unit the
co. went into debt. The £9350 still
owing at March 31 has since been re-
duced by £4OOO, the board reports.
Sluicing reserves amount to around
27,000,000 c.y. of 0.451 b. wash, portions
of which lie in fairly deep ground, con-
taining patches of cemented peat and
clay and buried timber. Paid capital is
£lOO,OOO in £1 shares, worth 4s. 9d.
apiece in the market. Co.’s assessment
is 357 tons t.o. annually.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
F.W.: It is a long-term speculation, and
guesses as to what the return is likely to be
aren’t worth much at the moment. If you
cannot afford to lose, keep out... .A.0.J.:
(1) Hold. (2) Sell. Morris, Hedstrom or New
Zealand Insurance look like good holding
propositions A.E.8.: If safety of capital is
important, neither recommended G.P.:
Neither stock has an open market. Get in
touch with your broker and ask him to obtain
quotes... .C.W.: Shares not listed. Write
secretary and ask him to find a seller for you.
Figure mentioned was offered by a co. which
has since put up the shutters.


tfJV
=5. \
/4f'
h
s:
o
1
rv
s 1 .v
0* >
0 ’ V
?
O' V
Mir
When a MAN
tells you
that it is years since he had
his last dental trouble,
that his dentist recom-
mended a good tooth
powder and that he has
used Calvert’s ever since
that as a result he has, at
46, sound white teeta
which are the envy of
his friends
Well, don’t you think it is
worth trying for your teeth!
p.c.
calvb^
C<J-> U
Coun
J an
d teeth t^j
eJBXS
VS
Cj
r
SMOKE-OH!
Advantage.
“Which is the better—a wife or a radio?
—Magazine article.
In choosing here, it seems to me,
The radio should win,
For when it grows unpleasant we
Can trade the old one in.
T. W. N.
4 1
“Their Majesties’ escort consists of a half-
squadron in front and a half-squadron behind
the carriage, with the officer commanding riding
on each side.” — “Truth.”
Evidently loyal enough to be cut in
twain for his sovereigns.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average prisoner only works on com-
pulsion.”—Prison report.
Preferring to idle his “time” away.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“Billy Hughes bemoans people’s preference
for cars instead of babies.”
Tots instead of toots should be the
slogan.
«i» 'i 4* *i*
“Members of the Telephone Club were not
available for selection.” — Sporting note.
Couldn’t raise the required number,
no doubt.
4* 4« 4* 4*
Our daily papers dish up so much
Hollywood mush and so many syndicated
comics that we are beginning to think
of America as the land of the stars and
strips.
•j» •£•
“Dreams, What Do They Mean?”
— Woman’s paper.
The sack, if the boss happens to come
along.
4< 4*
“Judge in divorce says that some married
people can make a quarrel about anything."
Why, some can do it about nothing.
4 4 4
“Heavyweight cattle are sometimes knocked
down for large sums.” — News item.
So are heavyweight boxers.
4* 4 1
Trifling Oversight.
The editor of the Great Daily had
gathered his staff around him. On the
desk a copy of the early edition was
spread out.
“There’s something wrong,” snapped
the great man. “Something is missing ;
I’ve checked it over myself—now we’ll
go through it together. All the ads. are
here, the track gallops, centenarian in-
terview, Hollywood news, comic strips,
serial, gossip column, crossword and
brain-teasers —everything, and yet I feel
there is some omission. Now, what is it?”
Everybody pored intently over the
offending sheet.
“I know, sir,” piped the copy-boy sud-
denly ; “there’s no news in it.”
Leon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Paradoxically, cheese is at its liveliest
when it looks thoroughly bored.
4* 4* 4- 4*
“Woman Governs Washington.”
— Women’s paper.
And if such was the case
In the years gone by,
It’s no wonder that George
Didn’t dare tell a lie.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If you can retouch an old joke you will win
success.” — Literary school’s advice.
But what if he refuses to cough up
again?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The Australian railways and curiosities of
all kinds are fully illustrated.”
— Melb. “Age.”
There is no foundation for the state-
ment that Richard Tauber is wildly en-
thusiastic over some of the curiosities.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mussolini orders civil servants to wear uni-
forms.”
Sleeping suits? /
4* 4* 4* 4<
“There is no self-consciousness among
animals,” declares zoo official.
On the contrary, most of them have
a great deal of hide.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Words in the singular shall be refid to in-
clude words in the plural, and vice-versa ”
—Local Government Act definition.
Still, there’s a difference between get-
ting out of debt and getting out of debts.
“Glamor Knows No Age.” —“Sunday Sun.
But, considering the number of ice-
packs used, glamor seems to date from
cold-storage.
•J* 4* ■i*
“Some men marry with the idea that they can
come home at whatever hour they choose.
That idea is soon knocked on the head.”
— Woman’s paper.
So, frequently, is the husband.
Paradoxically, the woman who is
always demanding furs is the one who
is wrapped up in herself.
•5* 4- 4* ,4*
“In Istanbul car-drivers must have strong
biceps, physical endurance, good height and
weight.” —News item.
Turkish cars must be as awkward as
ours are to push home.
“I’m ready for that Waltzing lesson, instructor!”
“Lightning entered the house along a radio
aerial and set fire to a bed.” —News item.
Sheet-lightning!
•h *l*
“Why, each morning, do able-bodied men
wait for moving-picture theatres to open?”
— Correspondent.
It’s only able-bodied men can keep
their place in the queue.
4* + 4* t
Obvious.
“A music-hall artist claims to be able to
sing under water.” —News item.
Let crooners croon beneath the waves
I have no hard words for 'em.
The ones to which I do object
Are those who warble o’er ’em!
Dougal.
Be Your Own Mechanic!
VIII. — Tyre Troubles.
It is axiomatic that one never gets a
puncture within easy distance of a gar-
age. It therefore behoves every owner-
driver to know how to deal with any
tyre troubles.
Some drivers have asked me how they
would become aware of a puncture or a
blowout, and how they would distinguish
between them. This is perfectly simple.
Should you be doing a steady 55 and
you hear a loud report as if you had. run
over a detonator, and then your car
suddenly swerves violently, turns a few
somersaults and then piles up against a
tree, you need have no fear that it is
a puncture: it is merely a blowout.
If, on the other hand, the car develops
a drag and doesn’t respond to the steer-
ing-wheel as it should, and you also hear
a succession of bumps, tone it down (if
you are in a built-up area) to about 35
and jog along at that speed for a few
miles. If the bumping and dragging still
persist you may reasonably assume that
it is a puncture.
Some lazy drivers prefer to slap the
spare wheel on and continue their jour-
ney, being content to mend the puncture
some time in the future. This procras-
tination, however, is to be condemned.
Always make it a point to mend it on
the spot.
Select the inside of a nasty bend on
the crown of a steep hill to park your
car. Desirable as this position is (passing
cars will be compelled either to crawl
past you or to stop altogether, and
you will thus be in a strategic position
to bite them for the loan of various
tools), should you get the puncture while
on flat country it would be inadvisable
to travel more than 10 miles on a flat
tyre to seek it.
Having put the brake on and jacked
the car up, take off the affected wheel.
Lay it down flat and insert a tyre-lever
or a stout screwdriver between the tyre
edge and the rim. If you have neither
of these tools a strip of lin. hoop-iron
snipped from a convenient fence and
bent over a few times will serve the pur-
pose.
As you gradually work your implement
along the rim under the tyre you will
find that the resiliency of the cover will
cause it to keep springing back. To
prevent this, as soon as you succeed in
prising the cover a fraction of an inch
off the rim slip your finger in to act as
a wedge while you warp the tool further
around the rim. After you have got the
tyre off don’t forget to prise your numbed
finger from the inside of the rim. A
brisk 20-minute massage should restore
it to its original shape.
Should the puncture be only a small
one a considerable quantity of air will
remain in the inner tube. By lifting the
cover and slitting the inner tube with
a sharp knife you will facilitate the
escape of the remaining air, thus making
your task of removing the cover much
easier. After all, you already have one
puncture to mend, so another won’t
make that much difference.
Having got the cover off, take the
tube from the rim and search for the
puncture. As this i9 often hard to see,
blow the tube up and listen for a hissing
sound. If it is too faint to pick up,
strip to the waist, and, holding the inflated
tube close to your chest, revolve it slowly.
The puncture can thus easily be detected,
as the hairs on your chest will wave
about in the breeze thus created by the
escaping air. Should you possess several
chins and be unable to see your own
chest, the rear-vision mirror, rearranged
in a convenient position, will solve this
difficulty.
For those who can’t boast of hair on
the chest only one method remains: to
hold the tube under water and watch
for the bubbles.
The odds are that neither water nor
utensil will be available near by, and here
is an instance of the advantage of being
able to improvise in an emergency. Just
hold your hat under the outlet pipe of
the radiator, turn the cock on, and there
you are! As felt hats are inclined to
“give,” amateur mechanics are advised
always to wear egg-boilers whilst motor-
ing. Not only are they rigid and better
balanced, but they hold more. Remem-
ber, however, to solder up all the air-
holes before filling with water. More-
over, if the water in the radiator is at
boiling point, wait until it is only hot
before testing the tube.
Having located the puncture, the next
thing is to mend it. You have alternatives
here: the old method of sticking on a
patch by the use of a sticky substance
or vulcanising it.
If you have a vulcanising outfit use
it. Just clean around the puncture with
soap and water and give it a nice polish
with beeswax, rubbed vigorously. Now
strip the canvas off the vulcanised patch,
clamp it on firmly over the hole and
apply a match. If you consider that it
hasn’t had sufficient heat to vulcanise
it thoroughly, soak a rag in petrol and
add this. As you might incur the risk
of burns by placing it on the red-hot
patch, fling it as accurately as you can
from a distance. But have your hatful
of water (it will need, of course, to be
cold water) ready should your aim be
inaccurate and the whole tube ignite.
S.W.K.


Amalgamated Wireless
Contribs.
Paid to 175., with a further Is.
call announced, Amalgamated
Wireless contribs. at 565. represent
better buying than the fully-paids.
On the existing 11 p.c. basis, which
the market expects to be improved
upon when accounts come to hand
in October, effective yield is the
same on both issues, but if the
other 2s. a share is wanted —and
activities continue to expand at a
fast rate —buyers of the contribs.
at present prices would have fully-
paid scrip costing 595., as against
the 665. last given for the old
f.-ps.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012 10 0
DIRECTORS*
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX; OWEN E. FRIEND;
SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.; ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Limited;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia, and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
RUBEROID AGENTS
are equipped to give you a complete roofing
and flooring service—to quote you for any
type of Ruberoid Roof and to undertake the
work promptly and efficiently.
RUBEROID ROOFING
St'i EVERWEAR FLOOR IN C
EVERWEAR
FLOORING
Permanent floor covering in
three finishes: Red, Grey,
Mica. Guaranteed waterproof
and unaffected by white ants.
Can be laid on any floor
surface, and is specially suit-
able for verandahs, bath-
rooms and passages.
Representative :
Mr. G. L. Wilms, Box 368755, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents :
BRISBANE: Asphaltes & Allied Products. Ltd., P.O. Box
I 139 p. John Reid & Nephews, P.O. Box 198 c.
TOWNSVILLE: Burns, Philp 8c Co., Ltd,
PERTH : Harris, Scarfe 8c Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE: A. W. Sandford 8c Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 418 c.
MELBOURNE: E. L. Yencken 8c Co., Pty., Ltd., 384-96,
Little Collins Street.
SYDNEY: E. L. Yencken 8c Co., Pty., Ltd., Box 3302 pp.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Great Boulder
Treatment in July of a record 30,062
tons of ore constitutes a new milestone in
the development of Great Boulder. Out-
standing progress, both on the surface
and underground, has been made over
the last two years. Not only has through-
put been more than doubled in that time,
but ore reserves, conservatively put at
1,062,200 tons averaging 6.9dwt. at Dec.
31, after eliminating ore of doubtful ac-
cessibility, have never been higher ; they
have .actually been trebled since 1934,
with loss of only o.7dwt. in average
grade. These and other developments
make the outlook brighter than at any
time in the last 15 years. By Octobei
the present management will have spent
some £341,000 on plant and development
in two years, all without going to exist-
ing shareholders for a penny or curtail-
ing div. distributions, which have been
steady at 25 p.c. since 1933.
The property, embracing 85 acres on
the Kalgoorlie Golden Mile, lies between
the Lake View and Star and Boulder Per-
severance blocks. Floated in 1894, and
early labelled a “wild cat,” the mine has
produced 5,192,200 tons of ore and paid
£6,500,000 in dividends, flow of which
was interrupted only in 1924-28, when
tributors were at work. Just when it
appeared a case for the undertaker, the
gold bounty and rise in the sterling price
of the metal gave the co. a new lease
of life, and vigorous management has
done the rest.
In 1936 two huge piles of old dumps
were passed over to the Golden Horse
Shoe for re-treatment for a cash and
profit-sharing consideration. Returns
from this source (£20,787 last year) have
been applied to meeting cost of develop-
ing the Boulder leases. The co. also has
a 414,000 ss. shareholding, valued in its
books at the nominal figure of £l, in
Great Boulder Mining and Finance.
At Great Boulder deepest level is at
2650 ft., which is to be connected with the
1800 ft. horizon with a new internal shaft,
while a new haulage drive of 2400 ft. is
also being put in. Diamond-drilling has
resulted in the discovery of new lodes
and the proving of the extension of old
ones; 11,816 ft. was done last year, most
encouraging developments occurring in
the old Boulder North block. Major new
finds were the digging-up of the “Nine”
lode, which is showing every indication
of living down, in virgin ground on the
1650 ft. and 1800 ft. levels of the Hamil-
ton section, and the intersection of a
new lode by the main haulage drive at
2650 ft. Both ore-bodies are of good
size and grade, particularly the deeper
discovery. It is a happy augury for the
further downward persistence of the ore-
carriers. In addition, two caunter lodes,
narrow but high-grade and of consider-
able length, were cut close to the old
Boulder main lode. Little of these dis-
coveries has yet been taken into ore
estimates. Immediate development
plans include drilling of ground west of
the Hamilton shaft, to get at which per-
mission has been secured to extend Lake
View’s 1400 ft. level into Boulder
property.
Too much notice, therefore, need not
be taken of the slip of £13,513 in last
term’s net earnings, struck after allow-
ing £30,720 for depreciation, but before
charging taxation (£14,831):
Treated, Grade,
Short Dwt. Costs,.
Dec., Tons. Ton. Ton. Profit.*
1935 .. 147,987 31/11.5 £70,637
1936 .. 192,591 9.1 31/11.5 87,066
1937 ..218,224 8.3 29/6.6 73,553
* Subject to taxation.
The reduced profit reflects extraordinary
outgo in preparing the mine for greater
output and the charging of depreciation
on plant that had not yet come into pro-
duction. Average grade of millings also
“Beat that, y' cow!"
dropped, following the decision to reduce
to a minimum operations of tributors,
who contributed 35,624 tons averaging
18dwt. to last term’s- crushings. The
company’s own ore averaged 6.4dwt,
fully half of which came from sources
other than stoping. In view of this, the
chipping of 2s. sd. a ton off costs is
highly satisfactory, and, with the mine
now fully prepared to supply the in-
creased tonnages going through the mill,
further reduction can be expected here,
According to published monthly re-
turns, the surplus on mine account for
1937 was £169,522 Australian, after
charging regular development. For the
first half of the current term, on milling
of 123,601 short tons, the figure sprang
to £138,053, thanks largely to better re-
coveries. That for July was £25,012,
which, if maintained, should produce a
total surplus of around £A288,000 for
the current year. Official hopes of a 37£
p.c. distribution for 1938, with the possi-
bility of a bit better later on, don’t,
therefore, appear unduly optimistic, par-
ticularly as capital expenditure, which
has been somewhat heavier this year,
should shortly commence to lighten a
bit.
At 9s. 4d. per share, the market places
a value of £1,166,000 on the mine. Close
of the year should see ore reserves
further ahead of mill, and indications
are that the grade will be well main-
tained. The mine appears to have many
years’ life ahead, and increased crushings
and improvement in metallurgical prac-
tice, which has lifted extraction to 90
p.c., should add to that life by bringing
lower-grade ore within the scope of
profitable milling.
Taxation departments in some States
show a fine disregard for the beast of
burden that carries them and other
branches of the “service.” A Sydney
firm with inter-State distributing branches
was told by a Queensland taxation officer
that his department would not be at all
concerned if, in order to escape double
taxation, the firm closed down its Bris-
bane branch and sacked the staff. And
it was an obviously unfair case where
tax had been paid to the N. S. Wales
body on all Australian income, and the
N. S. Wales and Queensland departments
weren’t prepared to settle the matter
between themselves. Since the so-called
“unification” of tax laws the position
has got a bit better; but a bureaucratic
attitude still often exists, especially in
Queensland and N. S. Wales. So much
so that it sometimes appears as if each
State Premier should also carry a port-
folio entitled “Minister for Taxation.”
As it is, taxation commissioners can
stonewall behind the statement that they
are merely administering the law, how-
ever harsh or unfair their administra-
tion may be in the taxpayer’s eyes. A
Minister for Taxation would have the
spotlight turned right on him, and
criticism might get us somewhere. What
is wanted is something that can be shot
at.
From 1931-37 inclusive, Bloch and
Gerber, Sydney, manufacturers and dis-
tributors of electrical goods, paid a regu-
lar 10 p.c., with the exception of 1932,
when the rate was halved. For 1937-38
15 p.c. went out from net earnings of
26 p.c. on capital. The newly-issued
7-9 p.c. cum. prefs. are available around
225. 6d. On a 9 p.c. distribution, which
seems indicated for the current term —
the interim ord. div. was of 10 p.c. p.a.
—the yield at 225. 6d. would be 8 p.c.
The business is in keen and enterprising
hands, and pref.-holders have full say
with the ords. in the control of things—
an unusual privilege.


“You want a good yield
but—Y O U C A N’T
AFFORD TO RISK
YOUR CAPITAL.”
1
I always recommend clients with
large funds to spread them over as
wide a range of enterprises as pos-
sible. This is difficult for people like
you with only £22, or a few hun-
dred pounds at' the most. However,
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
will solve your problem as it has
done that of other small investors.
It gives you an interest in 20 lead-
ing Australian companies and your
funds are safeguarded by Custodian
Trustees,
Union Insurance Society of Canton,
Ltd.
Free Booklet No. 1 is yours on
request to the Managers:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS
PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85294. Box 4028V.V., G.P.O.
QUALCAST”
Australian made
MOTOR
MOWER.
fds
16 in. cut,
and it
drives as
it cuts.
Price £34/13/-
ln Seaport Capital Cities.
Australian made “Qualcast” hand mowers
have captured and now hold the Aus-
tralian market hy their efficiency, dura-
bility and cheapness. History is repeat-
ing itself now in regard to the lGin.
“Qualcast” Australian made Motor Mower.
Write for particulars to any leading
Hardware Store or direct to the Manu-
facturers :
QUALCAST (AUST.) PTY., LTD.,
Sunshine Road, AVest Footscray,
Melbourne, AV.I2, Victoria.
Don't lust
90^
Sut>
ER
Plu
Et hh,
m
SUPER PLUS ETHYL
(colored red)
Gives more power,
faster pick-up.
Stops “pinking”—
sweetens your engine. The easiest
starting motor spirit in the world!
Also contains benzol.
m
fmmrn
PLUS BENZOL
(tinted blue)
Gives smoother
running. The only
petrol-benzol blend
and sold at the standard grade price.
Assures easy starting and increased
mileage at no extra cost.
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Co. Ltd.). Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at
w
(Commonwealth Government and Anglo - Iranian Oil
Melbourne » Sydney « Brisbane » Adelaide - Perth
C127/27SP
BRITISH-AUSTRALIAN PETROLS
Progressive returns of the three main
Fijian producers, covering production to
Aug. 10 in each instance:
Treated, Gold, Aver.,
Tons. Oz. Dwt.
Emperor (58 weeks) .. 118,944 36,724 6.2
Loloma (45 weeks) .. 19,876 24,552 24.7
Mt. Kasi (32 weeks) .. 23,389 5,050 4.3
* 60750 z. silver also produced.
Subject to heavy capital or development
expenditure, a div. from Emperor, now
treating in excess of 14,500 tons monthly,
appears overdue. If costs average, say, £1
a ton—T. R. Victor suggested a figure
of 17s. 6d. once the plant was in full
swing—and with gold at £8 an ounce, mill
profit to date should be in the vicinity
of £175,000. A Is. div. would call for
£BB,OOO on the existing 1,760,000 share
issue ; a further 140,000 shares are under
option to the vendors until Oct. 18 at
par. Average recoveries at Loloma, which
is sinking a new main shaft to lift out-
put, have lately been consistent around
26dwt. gold, while at Mt. Kasi reduction
of costs has come with the lifting
of rate of mill treatment some 6000 tons
annually above last year’s level. Loloma
will make its second ls.-a-share handout
at the end of the month.
* * * *
One of the thirty or more forestry
ventures in Maoriland, Whakatane Paper
Mills, owner of some 60,000 acres of
softwoods plantations in the Bay of
Plenty district, is after £200,000 of 5j p.c.
debenture money, partly to redeem the
old £70,000 debenture debt, partly to pro-
vide working capital. The new board and
pulp mills (annual capacity 20,000 tons
of paper board and 12,000 tons of
groundwood pulp), costing half-a-million,
are scheduled to commence production in
December. Production of chemical pulp
and newsprint is later contemplated—•
at what cost remains to be seen. The
co. has nearly 2\ millions of share and
debenture capital to feed, a formidable
total. The efficient Australian Paper
Manufacturers is at present supplying all
but a fraction of the Commonwealth’s
requirements. of wrapping paper and
board on very little less. Market opinion
of prospects is expressed in unofficial
dealings in Whakatane fully-paid ords.
around ss. on the other side of the
Tasman.
* * * *
W. T. Carmichael and Son, an old-
established Sydney concern manufactur-
ing “Success” stoves and other hardware
lines, is coming on to the market for
£20,000 of 6-10 p.c. cumulative prefer-
ence capital at par to finance expansion
—more particularly to enter the electrical
stove field. Helped by prosperous con-
ditions in the building trade, the co.
showed 17.8 p.c. on its ord. capital in
1937. The participating rights give
attractions to the issue, which has been
underwritten and taken firm by newly-
formed National Underwriters, Ltd.
* * * *
Cost of national insurance to indivi-
dual companies? Here you are, with
details of the margin between latest net
earnings and div. distributions of a
dozen or so: —■
Hands Cos.’
At- Contri- Last Div.,
fected. bution. Profit. Amt.
A. G. Healing 720 £2,652 £32,331 £27,146
Australian Glass 3320 12,532 287,628 155,322
B. 8000 30,940 1,300,461 670,362
B.H. South .. 930 3,588 803,278 560,000
Buckley & Nunn 560 1,664 34,825 18,601
David Jones .. 4500 13,650 165,049 92,914
Electrolytic Zinc 1530 5,928 536,823 455,000
G. J. Coles .. 2800 8,190 261,408 200,346
Holeproof .. 1000 3,185 25,150 14,376
Metrop. Gas .. 1920 7,332 210,564 178,750
Myer Emporium 6450 22,355 321,011 214,240
S aS , and 550 1,787 20,398 16,000
Yellow Cabs .. 650 2,509 27,525 18,943
In some industries the keen edge of com-
petition is likely to prevent the cost being
passed on to consumers, in which case
shareholders will have to bear the bur-
den. The question of whether the em-
ployee’s contribution is to be taken into
account when fixing wage awards is
going to crop up, too.
From 1923 until the beginning of the
depression ~cos. formed to grow pine-
trees in Maoriland and elsewhere had
little difficulty in raising millions of
pounds of capital. Generally investors
paid through the nose for a right to par-
ticipate in the profits which were going
to show up when the “world timber
famine” arrived. It hasn’t come yet. If
it does come pine-trees may or may not
turn out to be a valuable commodity,
BuTthe optimistic spirits tvho were pre-
pared to put their money into embryo
nine forests have the opportunity now
of having a “long-shot” investment in a
differed kind of trees at a much lower
price. These trees are thousands of
years" old and carbonised; they form the
Newcastle and. Maitland (N.S.W.) coal-
field. Shares in cos. working some o
the world s finest coal seams _ can e
picked up at half-price and less , Hetton
Bellbird is a case where £1 shares are
going at 4s. 3d. or thereabouts and
though the co. has lost much^m y
than it has made over the past five years
it undoubtedly owns a fine mine. J. and
A. Brown-Abermain Seaham usually
shows a profit and periodically pays a
small div.; its £1 shares can be got at
9s. Caledonian Collieries, once a money-
Cessnock Collteies’™l ords., paying
p.c., are priced at 14s. 3d.; Wallsend s
£lO issue, div. 4 p.c., are going at 965.
Long shots, all of them ; but a parcel
Enncrht and nut out of sight may be
b °ugw an O put ou g y
useful for someone s children.
* * * *
Cox Bros.’ preliminary statement of
1938 results came to hand just 12 days
after the books closed—smart going for
a co that operates in six States through
some 40 or more stores. The year’s
profit advanced £2037 to £65,59/ ; the
pref. div. and 15 p.C. to the ords. left
T7R QB7 (7ft n c on existing ord capital)
£28,98/(2(1 P’ C -
in the business. Further benefits in the
form of a one-for-two issue at par are
coming to ord.-holders. With the old
scrip at 18s. cum rights, a net yield
of 5.5 p.c. is obtainable on present
div. payments. Trading on a t-p. basis in
furniture, clothing and drapery, the co.
got into deep water during slump, but
vigorous management has produced
impressive progress since 1935.
* * * ft nn ron
Announcement of a new £200,000 con
tract from Standard Motors (Eng.) failed
to put any ginger into the market tor the
scrip of Richards the Adelatfc mo to -
body builders. The co paid 15 p. .
term from earnings of 43 p.c. on ord.
capital, but the market isn t expec ing
10 p.c., the rate of the interim distn-
bution, to be exceeded for the curren
term. # * * *
« Turon River ”. pitt-street miners
. bt save themselves much singeing of
fing£rs by first pro bi n g a field’s pedigree,
Hi g £n( J (N.S.W.), for example, has
comb ' ed timc ! apd again by old
hands sinC£ the early days of the field,
duri the slump a small army G f
Di kept body and sou l together
wbee i: ne ls-a-vard dirt to a ground
What would rtcy have® done
ith oyer a miUion c y Q f g g s> was h
ex j sted 9 Such stuff would pay
handsomely by dish-washing, and yield
quite a small fortune carting to a sluice.
Jn Melbourne last week:
“Orders on hand well up to the standard of
past years,” with prospects of “business for the
next year being maintained,” were forecast at
Beau Monde’s annual meeting. Profit-margins,
however, seem to be narrowing. Holeproof
has reduced its interim announcement to 8 p.c.
P- a -i 1° P- c * went out * ast y ear two equal
Div of H B d ICKIEj towelmakers, etc., goes
up to 8 p.c., compared with 7 p.c. in 1937-38.
Profit at £13,135 was £3456 higher, and 13.1 p.c.
on M °™^“ R p N l * al and Metropolitan Board of
Works conversion loan, to redeem £821,890 of
6 p.c. debenture and inscribed stock, carries
interest of 4 p.c., the rate at which Metropolitan
Gas got in £300,000 of new money last month,
Responses to these loans are interesting, con-
sjdering the big Commonwealth conversions
down for later in the year.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Palestine’s City of Jews.
('Condensed from an August “National Review” article
by Troy McCormick .)
Tel Aviv runs back from the Mediterranean,
stretching out across the sand-dunes —the only city
in the world in which all the inhabitants are Jews. It
has grown in a few years to a population of 140,000.
There are no public gardens, no parks in Tel Aviv.
Trees are being planted along some streets, but they
grow slowly in the sand. In Tel Aviv one walks
between cement walls. It is difficult to realise that
beyond the town lie the beautiful orange groves and
the blue hills.
If an immigrant has a little capital he opens a
shop. Tel Aviv has more barber-shops, more green-
grocers, more shops of every kind than any other
town of its size and population.
The official languages of Palestine are English,
Arabic and Hebrew. The money, the stamps, the
names of the streets are printed in these three lan-
guages. The Jews who were born here, the “real
Palestinians,” speak six, or seven languages. Those
from Egypt seem to speak all languages. Thousands
of Jewish immigrants have come into Palestine from
Europe and America ; each speaks the language of
the country from which he comes. Some of them
also speak Yiddish. On the streets of Tel Aviv the
Jews talk together in Polish, Russian, German;
Spanish, French, German; American, Italian, Ger-
man. This is another Babel. But already Hebrew is
the language the children speak together. It will be
the language of the future in Palestine for the Jews.
An Englishman arriving in Palestine asks diffi-
dently, “Do you speak English?” In three weeks he
finds that question unnecessary. He discovers that it
is possible to tell by the look of a person whether he
speaks English or not. A Jew may look like a Jew
in England, but when an English Jew comes to Tel
Aviv he looks decidedly British. The English climate
and language have stiffened his features, chilled his
eye, restrained his gestures. He, too, knows that
others are to be pitied for not being born British.
When a Palestinian salesman begins in the usual fero-
cious Palestinian fashion, “You must” he does not
crumple up submissively. In short, he is the master
of his fate, the captain of his soul. So in Tel Aviv
a Jew is not a Jew: he is a German, a Russian, a
Pole, an American.
A German Jew looks German ; he has assumed
the German head ; his proud nose has shrunk ; his
eyes are often blue. He has German manners. His
politenesses to his superiors are very complicated. He
shouts at his subordinates.
A Russian Jew is very Russian. He often wears
a smock. He has the air of having come striding
across the steppes ; doubtless the snow on his boots
has melted away under the Palestinian sun. He spends
hours in a cafe, drinking Russian tea and playing
chess. He reads Russian papers. He is made cheer-
ful by suicidal Russian films. American Jews know
all the latest American slang. Jews from Egypt have
long Egyptian eyes. Italian Jews speak reverently of
Mussolini.
The native Palestinian Jews have darker skins,
curlier hair than other Jews. They are, in times of
peace, able to see an Arab without turning purple
with rage. When others, in periods of rioting, tell
tales of murder and destruction, they can still speak
kindly of Arab friends who have offered them food
and shelter. Those who remember the old wild days
when Turkey was master in Palestine do not speak of
the British as bullies, tyrants, oppressors. So it is pos-
sible in Tel Aviv to decide to what nation each person
belongs without waiting to hear what language he
speaks. Generations spent in other lands have modi-
fied the Jewish characteristics.
These different Jewish nationalities make life in
Tel Aviv difficult. Russian Jews resent German Jews,
German Jews call Polish Jews peasants, American
Jews are looked on as foreigners. In a German busi-
ness only Germans need apply for positions. In a
Russian bank only Russians can hope to advance. But
the change of finding all men brothers would be too
sudden and too severe. So business instincts may still
be sharpened against those from another country. If
ever the different Jews of Palestine become so united
that every man is a Jew and not a Russian, an Aus-
trian, an American it will be the ruin of beez'mess,
and perhaps the evolution of a new Jewish type, the
dawn of a new Jewish day.
Since Tel Aviv has a Jewish municipality its
Sunday is Saturday. The Shabbath begins not Satur-
day morning but Friday at sundown and lasts until
sundown Saturday. Half an hour before sunset on
Friday the warning that Shabbath is at hand is
announced by the blowing of a horn.
After that, no shop or cinema must be open, no
bus be on the road, no food cooked, no electric light
put on, no umbrella raised (for that would be building
a house), no cigarette smoked. Since turning on the
electric light is equivalent to lighting a fire one may
turn on the lights when the horn blows and leave
them on ; but that is extravagant, so that in orthodox
houses candles are lighted and left burning. (Thus
Friday is also a night of fires, which keep the fire-
brigade, happily unorthodox, busy.) These are the
observances of the orthodox Jew. Some of the young
people, unorthodox like the young people of other
races in rebellion against their elders, have protested
against these restrictions. They have even driven up
and down on the Shabbath past the synagogue in
lorries, an outrageous thing to do in Tel Aviv. They
have not won the contest, but there has been a slight
weakening in the rigidly orthodox attitude.
Once the streets were almost deserted on Friday
evening. There were no cars, no taxis; even the
Arab gharry-drivers, who expected to make their for-
tunes on the Shabbath, slunk down side streets. (Since
“The Trouble” the gharries are not allowed to enter
Tel Aviv, so that one no longer sees the handsome
Arab drivers, resplendent in red tarboosh and lapped
in wool lest the wind of their going give them a chill.
The streets of Tel Aviv are less picturesque without
them.) Once orthodox patriarchs, with beards and
side curls, had the habit of flinging stones at any car
daring to enter Tel Aviv on the Shabbath. An unsym-
pathetic attitude on the part of the police has checked
this Palestinian demonstration of disapproval.
They did indeed once turn back by the threat of
stones a British official. He retreated indignantly
before the patriarchs, but later returned with the
police, who, entering the synagogue, snapped up the
bearded ones, flung them into police vans and carried
them off to the police station. The fury of these
orthodox Jews was terrible to see, not because they
were arrested but because they were compelled to
break the Shabbath themselves by riding in wheeled
vehicles. In those days the sinful smoker of a cigar-
ette was apt to have it snatched from him by an irate
patriarch. Then also they were tempted to take their
sticks to wicked little boys on scooters.
That has-all changed now. Taxis ply freely, and
there is no throwing of stones. There are even foot-
ball games on Saturday afternoon in winter. The
defiant smoker of a cigarette is generally unmolested.
The orthodox glare and mutter Shabbath, but they do
not attack. So these pleasures lose their diabolical
flavor, and life is less exciting than it used to be.
Nearly all the Jewish immigrants are young
people. They come, full of enthusiasm for the won-
derful new freedom they have heard so much about.
As the steamer draws near, and they have their first
sight of Palestine, lying exposed and barren in the
brilliant sunshine, they begin to shout and sing. They
feel that they have come home again, even though
their ancestors may have settled in Europe or America
hundreds of years ago. And so they come, eager, con-
fident, ready to pick up the gold which is supposed to
be lying about in the streets of Tel Aviv.
Starvation in Catalonia.
[Even at this date Australian cable columns *go on
serving up as authentic news the bombast propaganda
issued by the Valencia Government side in Spain’s civil
war. In the article here condensed London “Times”
Barcelona correspondent gives the actual state of affairs
—a pathetic and appalling picture.]
In its third year in this beautiful but tragic land
civil war is bringing increasing suffering to civilians.
To the risk of bombardment and hardships imposed
by a constant migration of populations from the war-
stricken zones to the back areas is now added the
spectre of malnutrition.
The drain of undernourishment goes on day after
day insidiously. The primary cause of this state of
affairs lies in the fact that Republican Spain is not
self-supporting.
Hostilities have accentuated a hundredfold the
problems of transport and distribution. Here rail-
ways have ceased to function, there roads have been
cut. Bombed harbors grow less frequented as freight-
rates soar. Inland purveyors’ stocks have long since
been exhausted. For financial reasons foreign trade
has had to be controlled. War supplies come first, so
that there is only a trickle of those commodities once
deemed necessities.
Local manufacture cannot supply enough soap
and disinfectants, of which there is a great shortage.
Milk, cheese, butter and sometimes eggs are unprocur-
able. The bread ration for civilians in some districts
has had to be reduced to 50 grams (less than two
ounces) a day. As restrictions advance, human con-
stitutions are undermined. The old and infirm die.
Doctors are instructed to look out for and ward off
the effects of avitaminosis. Special rations are reserved
for those provided with medical certificates, but they
cannot always be obtained.
Spanish parents are loath to be separated from their
children, even to the mild extent which a nursery
system imposes. The young share their parents’ lives
far more than in northern countries. Yet parents are
now giving them up to England, France, Algeria,
Mexico and Russia.
An international committee formed at Geneva
has been instrumental in interesting several foreign
Governments in the work of feeding the children of
Spain. The British Government is contributing £IO,OOO
to this fund. The Commissioner, a Swede, Hr. Mal-
colm de Lilliehook, on his return from a long journey
throughout Governmental Spain, has submitted a
report in which he estimates that most of the 2,400,000
children under 14 years in Governmental Spain, in
a population of 12,000,000, are undernourished.
With the limited funds at the disposal of the
International Committee, however, attention to
refugee children only can be attempted. Of these
Hr. Lilliehook estimates that there are 400,000, of
whom a half are suffering from undernourishment
and a quarter are actually starving or in a state of
pre-starvation. The report also states that “in some
districts observed 80 p.c. of the children suffer from
skin troubles, scabies and eczema, resulting in
demoralisation and discomfort.” This is due to the
dire lack of soap. Fuel is so scarce in some regions
that helpers are recommended to send condensed milk
instead of the powdered variety which requires heat-
ing with water.
The International Committee has got to work
promptly, and is supplying numerous canteens with
food which provides 14,000 children with a hot meal
of milk, oatmeal and sugar. The Commissioner was
so impressed by the distress he witnessed that he does
not hesitate to declare the problem to be of a magni-
tude which the International Committee alone cannot
hope* to meet.
Balkan Justice for Minorities.
[On August 1 Australian cable columns microscopi-
cally published news of an important peace settlement
in the Balkans. English papers featured it. By a treaty
of friendship signed at Salonika Bulgaria had settled
peacefully the long-standing dispute with the nations of
the Balkan Entente (Greece, Turkey, Yugoslavia and
Rumania). London “Daily Herald” hailed it as “a
success for the peaceful means of settling grievances”;
it was simply an attempt to deal reasonably with
minorities. In the article here condensed London “Daily
Mail” also welcomed it, under the heading “Rumania’s
Lesson.”]
Rumania, by granting rights to her minorities
which should never have been withheld, has taken
a wise step towards repairing some of the blunders
cf the peace treaties, and has shown that spirit of
concession which the world hopes to see exercised
in other countries in regard to other minorities.
Hungarians, Germans, Ukrainians, Bulgars—the
people of a dozen different nationalities who were
thrust at the end of the war into an artificially-created
State —have now, exactly 24 years after the conflict
started, tardily regained certain elementary liberties.
Rumania’s minorities, which comprise nearly a
third of her population, may henceforward use their
own language, show their own flag, control their own
schools and churches, claim exactly the same rights
and privileges as Rumanians born, and enjoy equal
opportunities in the State’s civil services. A Commis-
sioner for Minorities, with Ministerial rank, is to
supervise the changes.
Enormous injustices were done by the peace
treaties to those groups which were forcibly incor-
porated, without any hearing, into Rumania. That
small country of the pre-war era succeeded in doub-
ling its territory. Nearly 2,000,000 Magyars of a
profoundly differing thought and culture were placed
under foreign domination when the Hungarian king-
dom was mutilated by tacking Transylvania on to
Rumania.
From the day that the unjust Treaty was signed
there has been never-ending resentment felt by the
Hungarians. They, of all the minorities in Rumania,
will most fervently rejoice at the concessions at length
announced—although these, of course, do nothing to
rectify the indefensible boundaries drawn nearly 20
years ago. Transylvania was handed over on the con-
dition that “full and complete” protection of minori-
ties should be assured by the authority of the League.
That guarantee proved as worthless as other declara-
tions from Geneva, and the League’s authority was
from the first floated, as has always happened every-
where.
During the last few years some of the outstand-
ing absurdities of the peace treaties have been swept
away by the irresistible determination of peoples to
put up with them no longer.
In Czechoslovakia, where the same promises of
autonomy and of safeguards for minorities have
proved just as worthless, justice demanded 20 years
ago such concessions as have been made in Rumania.
It will be realised both in Rumania and in Czecho-
slovakia that merely to proclaim revision of the Con-
stitution is not enough—the changes determined on
Shaw on Dictators.
In “Reynolds’s Weekly” Hamilton Fyfe com-
mented that “Shaw has shown signs of weakness
towards the idea of dictatorship.”
Bernard Shaw in reply:—
1 think Hamilton Fyfe forgets that I have to be
civil to heads of States.
If I begin by dismissing Messrs. Hitler, Musso-
lini, Kemal, Riza Shah, Franklin Roosevelt, and,
historically, the two Napoleons as scoundrels because
they did without British Parliamentary procedure,
nobody with any sense would read a line further.
It is nearly a century since Charles Dickens, an
experienced Parliamentary reporter, described our
Parliamentary system in “Little Dorrit.” People
laughed; but since then the evidence for Dickens’s
view has been completed by events of which he never
dreamed.
The vote has been given to every adult, male or
female. The result has been the career of Ramsay
MacDonald.
Before that, male adult suffrage produced the
history of Home Rule for Ireland and the World War
of 1914. Meanwhile, we have been trying vainly for
50 years to have another bridge built across the
Severn, and are still getting along as best we can with
the bridges left us by the Romans.
This is the sort of thing we call liberty and
democracy. Was Mussolini so far wrong when he
called such liberty a stinking corpse, and carried all
Italy with him? “We must clean out this stable,”
he said. When are we going to clean out ours?
Dickens warned us in 1857. Sir Oswald Mosley
attracts quite a respectable following by bringing
Dickens up to date.
'Am 1 to be denounced as an idolator of tyrants
because I, who have spent my political life in con-
verting the British people to Socialism, only to see
it reduced to absurdity in and by Parliament, have
said—and now repeat for perhaps the fiftieth time—
that Parliament takes 30 years to do half an hour’s
work, and, as in the Irish case, will some day have
to do 30 years’ work in half an hour, which, as the
Dictators have found, is apt to be rather a bloody
business.
I am sorry to disappoint my friend Hamilton
Fyfe, whose personal feelings towards me I fully
reciprocate; but I am afraid I must go on saying
this all the same. The old trick of turning the people’s
eyes to the ends of the earth when their attention is
urgently needed at home does not impose on me.


must be strictly and faithfully carried out. Autonomy,
when granted, must be a reality in the sense that
Britain has made it real in Southern Ireland.
“There Will Be No War.”
[With a situation such as exists in Czechoslovakia,
to say nothing of the feverish working of those who
want another world .conflict, prophecy runs the nsK ol
being upset. But the article by George Malcolm Thom-
son here condensed from London “Evening Standard
is at least a refreshing change from the hopeless hysteria
which last week had Sydney “Daily Telegraph” telling its
readers that Czechoslovakia was another case ot poor
little Belgium” and Granny “Herald” making its leader
column laughable with “German civilian opinion must
be taken to read the Nazis’ manoeuvres not so much
as a blackmailing threat as a preparation for war
against the whole Continent.”]
People are afraid of war. Fortunately they can-
not create war simply by dwelling in dread of it.
But this fear prevents them from taking a cool and
balanced view of events. It is not based upon any
reasonable version of the facts that exist to-day. It
springs from a belief about events that are supposed
to lie in the future. And it will not stand one
moment’s steady inspection.
What is the source of this war-panic?
The knowledge that certain countries possess am-
bitions. But there always have been ambitions in the
world. And only rarely have they led to war.
The fact that nations are arming. But nations
always have been armed. It is a natural impulse for
a community to make its defences strong. At this
moment we are witnessing simply a return to the
usual state of things after the abnormal degree of
disarmament that followed the war.
The confused notion that because there is one
war in Spain and another in China, we ourselves
are about to be plunged into conflict. The horrible
spectacle will more likely be a deterrent upon the
war-impulse.
Who is going to make war? Italy? Nothing
could be more improbable. In Abyssinia the Italians
have colonial development that will call for all their
resources.
Where does Germany stand? People have an
entirely mistaken notion about German strength and
readiness for war. They pay too much attention to the
speeches of German politicians and too little to the
equipment of German soldiers. The German division
that marched into Austria may have impressed the
Austrians, but they did not have much effect on the
trained observers of foreign Powers, including the
Americans and the Poles.
Still, it may be said the claim of the Sudeten
Germans to be united to the Reich may precipitate
war. The Sudeten Germans will make a settlement
with the Czechs accepting a measure of autonomy
within Czechoslovakia. While they remain in that
country they serve as an instrument of Hitler’s
policy within the Czech State. They can exert pres-
sure upon the direction of Czech policy useful to
Germany. Besides, the Sudeten Germans dwell in one
of the depressed areas of Europe. If he added them
to his subjects Hitler would be taking over a people
whose standard of life is lower than that of his own
people and who are afflicted with a severe degree of
unemployment.
What of the other supposed danger spot? What
of Spain? Franco cannot clean up that country for
a long time. The moment he has finished with
Barcelona and Valencia disaffection among his
followers will find its opportunity. Franco has taken
too much foreign assistance to be a satisfactory leader
for a Nationalist Spain. He appeals to national pride
—from behind a hedge of foreign bayonets. So his
appeal is not impressive.
In the Far East the Japanese will follow a
more conciliatory policy towards Britain. They will
do so because they realise that it pays them better
to share the China market with us than to shut us
out of it altogether. If they were proposing to close
the market to us they would require to conquer and
hold down all China.- The job is too big.
The Germans are just as anxious to use their
influence with the Japanese to prevent a complete
conquest of China and a complete closure of the
market to us. For if we were shut out they would be
shut out too. And the Germans sell half as much
again to the Chinese as we do. Nor would the
Germans be pleased to see the Japanese, their allies,
exhausting themselves in an endless war and military
occupation of China. Germany will prefer the
Japanese to keep their hands free and their strength
undamaged so that some day, if need arise, they
may march against Russia.
Apart from such considerations, there are lasting
principles which make war much more of a gamble
than some foolish people seem to think. Most im-
portant is that the defence will always beat the
attack. Other things being equal, the men who
advance to the assault are beaten by brave and well-
equipped defenders. If there are new instruments at
the disposal of the aggressor now, be sure that they
will be countered. To-day defence is stronger than
ever.
Future of Anglo-German Relations.
[The writer of this statement of the German viewpoint
on how Anglo-German friendship might be brought
about is Freiherr von Rheinbaben, former Secretary of
State in Germany. The extract is from a remarkable
book published in London by Thornton Butterworth
under the title Germany Speaks.]
Nothing definite has as yet been decided as to
the future of Anglo-German relations. We are living
now in a period of waiting, of considering and of
examining. The momentous problem of mutual needs,
interests, and demands is still an open one. And
precisely because we have not yet finished defining
the line of demarcation between State and State,
nation and nation, we see no sign of real co-operation.
To start with, each must show full appreciation
of the other’s natural sphere of activity. Such appre-
ciation must become a reality. On the one hand
stands the World Power England ; on the other, the
great Continental Power Germany with perfectly defi-
nite conditions of life, necessities and aims. On the
one hand, the “having and possessing” ; on the other,
the “not having enough and demanding.” On the
one hand the “being,” on the other the “becoming.”
In England, provided nothing remarkable occurs,
one may probably count on a majority desirous of
agreement and friendship with Germany. If that
is so, then let all concerned bear in mind that many
a criticism, many an arrogant and frequently dis-
paraging judgment passed on our mode of life, our
acts and, above all, on our system of government, are
a considerable hindrance to the fulfilment of their
wish. We cannot and will not listen any longer to
such phrases as “I love Germany but I dislike the
Nazis.” Germany and “Nazis” are identical —this
fact ought at last to be grasped by everyone.
We also object to many English speakers’
measurement of Germany by two different standards.
Everything is in perfect order in England, but there
is much open to serve criticism in Germany. To be
perfectly honest, we are often roused to indignation
on noticing that the Fiihrer’s solemn declara-
tions made in the name of the Reich Government
are distrusted, and German policy is accredited with
irresponsible decisions signifying a menace to Euro-
pean peace by the use of aggressive measures.
But whatever has happened in the past, recent
events now point to a certain self-examination on
both sides. At any rate, we are now waiting to see
what policy England will adopt with regard to Ger-
many. And since we do not belong to those who
look for the mote in the other’s eye and neglect the
beam in their own, we ask ourselves whether or not
certain things and certain ideas of ours ought to be
changed, if mutual friendship is to prevail.
Besides the German claim to colonies there is no
actual divergence between Germany and England
which would first have to be made the subject of
negotiations, and on the satisfactory settlement of
which we should, like England and France in 1904,
fall into each other’s arms, overcome with emotion.
There is no third State against which an Anglo-
German alliance could be formed, as was the case in
the past, when Frederick the Great helped to win
Canada for England on the battlefields of Europe
or when Bliicher and Wellington defeated Napoleon
at Waterloo.
Two great and proud nations face each other.
Neither of them wishes a second war with the other,
but each has a special task in Europe and the world,
and each has to contribute in her own way to make
peace a reality. What then ought to be the basis of
Anglo-German friendship? I see three foundation-
stones on which we might build that friendship.
The first is respect on the part of each for the
dignity, strength and efficiency of the other. Inevit-
ably after what has happened, and we being as we
are, for a long time to come we shall frankly criticise
each other. This, however, must be done without
malice and paltry polemics that hurt. Let the guiding
principle here be fair play and an effort to under-
stand the other’s point of view.
The second foundation-stone is the clear, firm
determination on the part of both Governments to
promote mutual understanding. Pacts, agreements or
even alliances are not required for this. The policy
of the Governments, however, ought to be publicly
defined so clearly as to prevent its ever being con-
cealed by passing moods, obscure press campaigns
or even by the intrigues of outsiders.
The third foundation-stone consists of a common
adjustment of the views concerning the future of
Europe. Germany is aware that England is bound
first and foremost by friendship to France, secondly
to the United States of America. Germany, on the
other hand, has friendship with Italy and other coun-
tries. A permanent guarantee of the peace of Europe
would thus appear impossible without a certain
balance of interests, a minimum of mutual adaptation
in the policy of the four great Powers mentioned
here. No hegemony of any of the great Powers
would ever be tolerated by the rest of Europe. They
are bound to come to final agreement or keep up a
dangerous tension.
King’s Physician on Quack Remedies.
i [Among the several remarkable speeches made just
before the British Parliament went into recess was that
of the King’s Physician, Lord Horder, attacking quacks,
their methods and their alleged remedies. It is here con-
densed from London “Times” report. The ramp is, of
course, not restricted to Britain: in Australia it is most
blatantly carried on in certain radio advertising.]
The amount spent annually on quack medicines,
declared Lord Horder, was almost the same as was
required to maintain all the voluntary and municipal
hospitals in the country. It bled the public to the tune
of between £25,000,000 and £30,000,000 a year.
He was seeking to break up a formidable and
largely unscrupulous monopoly which battened chiefly
upon that part of the public which could least afford
to feed that parasite. If the doctor thought only in
terms of hard cash he would actually benefit from
that unprincipled trade. He had eventually more
patients because of it.
There was now available to the poorest every-
where the network of the finest health services in the
world. Those were what the Government could and
must encourage people to put in place of a medieval,
costly and perilous witch-doctoring.
On the one hand the Government had launched
a campaign to improve the national physique. On
the other hand, there was the campaign of quack
medicines and foods, led by subtle and skilled generals
who were bent on maintaining national ill-health,
moral and physical, so that they might have a ready
market for their goods.
For every £lOO which the Government spent on
making the people health-conscious, the quack medi-
cine mongers paid £lOOO in making them disease con-
scious. A famous group which purveyed medicines
mainly for nervous and digestive disorders had bud-
geted for a sum of nearly £1,000,000 for press adver-
tisement alone during the coming year. The profits
on the deferred shares had risen from £40,000 to
£280,000 in the past six years. In 1931 the ss. shares '
stood at ss. 7d. ; in each of the past three years they
rose to above £3. It was no wonder that the board
thought it a wise thing to make a large donation to
one of the London hospitals. He could not say
whether it was earmarked for the patients who had
doctored themselves with the company’s medicines.
A few patented and proprietary things were good
things and the claims made for them were reasonable
as claims went. A great many things that did little
good or little harm were sold at fantastic prices. Now
and again something was sold that did do definite
harm. There was nothing in law to prevent a vendor
from trading in some new drug which was not on the
poison schedule and concerning which experience of
its action alone discovered its danger. In that case
the public was made the guinea-pig of the unscru-
pulous get-rich-quick merchant.
There were an enormous number of preparations
which were fraudulent in the claims they made and
in the way in which those claims changed with no
change in the nature of the “specific.” The public was
slowly becoming aware that cancer and hernia were
not cured by drugs. The advertiser was quick to
realise this. A number of preparations that were
formerly advertised as securing quite different condi-
tions were now vaunted as cures for malnutrition.
Some people had recently become anxious about the
prevalence of rheumatic diseases. Straightway the
quack medicine vendors orientated their advertise-
ments in that direction.
When they remembered the enormous increase
during the past few years of the media through which
advertisement operated—newspapers, hoardings, omni-
buses, cinemas, wireless, post-box and aeroplanes—
they realised the appalling results which that mass-
suggestion eventually must have upon the country’s
health and morale. Those advertisements had become
a much graver danger than the medicines they served
so well to sell. Fear was the chief emotion they played
upon, so that much of the trade was in effect a huge
form of blackmail.
Lord Horder displayed certain advertisements
from journals and said that it might well be that some
of our Continental friends had based their theory of
a decadent Britain on reading the advertisement pages
of our more popular press. It was a cruel ramp. It
not only demanded money with menaces; it coined
money out of the fears of the people. It was not
only the sick who were swindled, the well were
swindled also, for by what other word could they
rightly stigmatise the deliberate promotion of credulity
for the purpose of gain?
How Dare They Fib!
On August 2 London “Evening Standard” reared
furiously up on its hind legs. The cause was a
report in an American magazine called “Newsweek”:
British authorities plan to erect an iron grille
across the front of House of Commons public
gallery to shield members of Parliament from
angry demonstrators who have been pelting them
with pamphlets or even occasional bags of flour.
By “this remarkable news of contemporary
British history,” shouted the “Standard,” “the im-
pression is conveyed that the House of Commons is
subject to invasion by angry demonstrators. It is
without a shadow of justification. Incidents of the
kind described are less frequent than at any period
in our history—and less frequent in the House of
Commons than in any other legislature in the world.”
The “Standard” added that “it would be hard to
imagine a more dizzy compound of inaccuracy and
misunderstanding” than was contained in the “News-
week” report as a whole and demanded: “What do
they mean by publishing stories so damaging to
Britain and her institutions, so remote from the
realities of the situation?”
The “Standard” had just acknowledged its
appreciation of Haile Silassie’s generosity in not
pressing for damages over an evidently wholly in-
accurate report, so it may have been feeling out of
sorts. Otherwise the matter of news distortion
should not have upset it. On all sides it should be
able to see that misrepresentation of foreign nations
and their leaders has become a common practice in
the English press.
Cables for Australia are largely drawn from such
sources, with the result that by now only the incur-
ably credulous swallow cables whole.
Others approach their “reporting” with an eye
skinned for all such signposts to distortion and
guesswork as the familiar “it is understood,” “it is
stated in official circles,” “an official spokesman has
stated,” “it is believed.”
All hitherto known examples of this kind w r ere
outdone in a cable last week from that “reliable and
authoritative newspaper” the “News-Chronicle”: “It
is understood to have been reliably stated.”
What so peeved the “Evening Standard” has long
been accepted in Australia as f.a.q. cable reporting.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney racecourse attendances keep
improving; the Victoria Park meeting
on Saturday drew the biggest crowd seen
there for a long time. Yet the weather
was not exhilarating, nor was the prize-
money. The “important” race at Vic-
toria Park was worth £250; at Moonee
Valley the Glenara Handicap was worth
£5OO and the other events £4OO apiece.
The outstanding performance was that
of the Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup
candidate Bristol, who romped home in
a division of the Flying Handicap. He
was having his first race since the
autumn;. in any case, the distance, 6i
furlongs, was thought to be much too
short. Last early, he made up his ground
so fast, in the long straight especially,
that he had the race won a furlong from
home. Miss Commond and Aureus filled
the places—it was a pretty good field
of sprinters.
William Kelso hadn’t a shilling on
Bristol. One bookmaker offered 100 to
1 ; the rest called 25 to 1, but they
were not troubled.
The other division of the Flying went
to Brown Baroness (9 to 2). Stretto, a
winner at weight-for-age in Maoriland,
was favorite, and on a dry track she may
have won. Her 9st. 31b. bothered her
over the last bit, but she struggled on
gamely, and was beaten by a head only.
Tantalizer, one of Ezra Norton’s impor-
tations, was third.
Bachelor King looks an improved
horse. Nicely ridden by an apprentice,
Lewis, he had an easy task in the first
division of the Encourage Handicap, for
which he was always favorite at 2 to 1.
Young Lewis has ridden the horse on
five occasions for three wins. Braidwood
Boy (evens) had to be ridden out to beat
Ken Wooldridge’s Clarion in the second
division, but may have been loafing.
Clarion appeared to be scared of his
contract or something in the early stages.
When pulled to the outside he galloped
much better.
Different tactics were tried with
Arabia in the first division of the Welter.
Instead of being rushed to the front
right away, the grey was not asked to
gallop until the home turn was reached.
At that point Darby Munro shot him
away. Herarde and Rosmead chased
him in vain. Arabia was a 5-to-4 favor-
ite. Turbine (10 to 1) got a lucky break
at the start of the second division and
led throughout, beating Coolspell by a
head, with Black Fern a close third.
Many backers of Coolspell (5 to 4)
thought he had won, and hooted the
judge, Mat Waters, but the decision in
favor of Turbine, who was on the rails,
appeared correct. Coolspell stood flat-
footed at the barrier and lost lengths ;
otherwise there would have been no
doubt about the result.
Violon Emma (7 to 2), a midget
daughter of the Caulfield Cup winner
Violoncello and Fort Emma, led all the
way in the 14.1 Handicap. Stablemates
Edie’s Choice and Blue Devon were
second and third respectively; Blue
Devon was favorite, Edie’s Choice a
rank outsider.
Andy Knox rode Violop Emma, and
he also scored on Fountain (5 to 1) in
the Victoria Park Handicap. Trained
at Warwick Farm, Fountain is by Tre-
clare-Sparkling Cascade, and can stay a
bit. Five furlongs from home Sidcup
dashed away with a good lead, but his
apprentice rider failed to take advantage
of it, and at the Leger Fountain came
fast on the outside to beat Own Folk
and Fugitive. The favorite, Vaalmore,
got a bad run, and may do better at
Warwick Farm.
Victoria Park had both Sydney dates
last week. On Wednesday the French
horse Actor, who is reckoned by the
V.R.C. and A.J.C. handicappers superior
to any of our stayers, and by the V.A.T.C.
man equal to Ajax over the Caulfield
distance, was the attraction. He was
down to meet a few old-stagers in the
Flying Handicap, and there was a little
money for him at sevens. Actor is a big
bay, and would have looked magnificent
in a charge led by Murat. There is no
heavier horse in training at Randwick.
He swerved away from the barrier, and
when Bartle straightened him he gained
little ground, finishing sixth in a strung-
out field of eight—Diatter (4 to 1) was
the winner. Actor must have been a
good horse in France, but he seems un-
likely to reproduce his French form in
Australia this year.
Fountain’s form on Saturday makes
Tuckerbox look rather decent. In the
V.P. Handicap on Wednesday Tucker-
box gave Fountain 121 b. and a good
beating ; distance, a mile and a quarter
and 121 yards. Tuckerbox, now a five-
year-old, is by Constant Son-Chatterbox,
and is thus a half-brother to Avenger.
He is owned by “Miss Lorna Doone.”
That lady, a Macquarie-street doctor’s
wife, has another useful horse in the
three-year-old Strathroy (Veilmond-Free-
body), who won the Maiden Handicap
in rather taking style. Both are trained
by Lawson and were ridden by Ryan.
% 4‘ * *
Bristol is now favorite for the Mel-
bourne Cup, and the slightest sign of a
stable move would make him favorite
for the Metrop. This Page tipped him
for the last Melbourne Cup, and had to
put up with reproaches and ridicule after-
wards—“sausage-meat horse,” wrote one
indignant punter; “must have picked
him out of a hat.” Now the general
verdict is that the “sausage-meat horse”
is likely to prove himself one of the best
stayer r in Aus^lia.
* it -J,: *
Hua nas a groggy pin. After a sprint
at Flemington on Saturday the Victoria
Derby winner was favoring it so much
that his veteran trainer was doubtful
about the future. It had been intended
to reserve Hua for weight-for-age races.
“0.H.”: Hua has strained his near
fore fetlock joint. That means that he
won’t appear at the spring meetings,
and may never race again. Scobie re-
garded the son of Heroic as the best
horse that he ever handled, but this praise
may be somewhat extravagant.
* * Hs *
Ascot (Vic.) races on August 17 pos-
sessed several remarkable features. Five
of eight events on the card were won
by horses bearing No. 1 saddlecloth, four
of these being in succession at the begin-
ning of the afternoon. J. O’Brien had
four mounts in a row for as many wins,
and he straddled the favorite each time.
O’Brien served his apprenticeship with
the late James Truskett, who landed the
Cantala Stakes of 1921 and a fortune in
bets with Beeline. Through having frac-
tured one of his thighs in a fall at
Moonee Valley several seasons ago
O’Brien was in danger of permanent in-
capacitation, but he made a remarkable
recovery, and is in the first flight of
Melbourne jockeys.
Ascot punters began a run of excep-
tional good fortune by making Jangler
(Bucklaw-Janet Foster) equal favorite
with Lord Jevington for the Abercorn
Maiden Hurdle. Jangler, a recruit to the
jumping game, took charge before the
journey was half over, and scored at
his ease from Close Call and Pitjuri.
After making much of the running Lord
Jevington tired and fell at the last
obstacle. Lord Jevington was ridden by
Sholl, who had been successful on Jolly
Boy, a stablemate of Lord Jevington, in
the V.A.T.C. Knowsley Steeple on the
previous Saturday. Sholl escaped injury,
as also did the horse, though both lay
stunned for a while. Sholl is highly
regarded in Melbourne.
Steve Murphy misfired with Lord
Jevington, but annexed the Yarborough
Handicap for three-year-olds with Con-
way, a Cimbrian colt he trains for Eddie
O’Brien the bookmaker. Odds (6 to 4)
were cramped, but it was a case of any
price being a good one, as Conway, after
following the pace set by Hotspur, left
that rival standing at the furlong post
and won pulling up.
Companion, third to Conway and Hot-
spur, is in the same' stable as Regular
Bachelor and is a son of Night Raid.
R. P. Trihey left him in the Adelaide
Guineas by mistake, believing that the
race wasn’t to be run until September.
Trihey considers that there are possibili-
ties in Companion, and had intended to
give him a few more runs before decid-
ing whether to take on the trip to S.A. or
not.
Conway was the first of Jack O’Brien’s
short-priced winners. He weighed-out
for Owen Roe in the first division of the
Essex Maiden Handicap, and the Gee-
long-owned stallion was backed down to
5 to 4. Here again the issue never was
in doubt over the final furlong. Aero-
stat ran second, and Maewina —ridden by
“Tich” Wilson, who was associated with
the Melbourne Cup victories of King
Ingoda and Bitalli —filled third place.
Wilson hasn’t been much in the limelight
since he severed connection with the
stable of Jim Scobie.
O’Brien’s other winning mounts were
on Carabou (Son o’ Mine-Goa) in the
second division of the Maiden Handicap
and Kagawa (Eastern Monarch-Ruby
Agnes) in the Queensbury Handicap.
Carabou (5 to 2) was followed home by
Pani Pan, a Night Raid gelding that Lou
Robertson owns and trains. This fellow
finished so strongly for Keith Voitre that
he ought soon to emerge from the maiden
class.
Kagawa races in the same interests as
Conway, who scored earlier in the after-
noon, but is in a different stable. He has
proved a goldmine to Eddie O’Brien —
who, by the way, is not related to O’Brien
the jockey. Kagawa (5 to 2) comfortably
beat that very consistent mare Miss
Burn. Keelie, an imported stallion by
the English Derby winner, Cameronian,
was close to the place-getters and is a
coming winner. Owned by “Vernon
Winn,” who races Night Gang, he was
well supported.
Monkshead, a Friarsdale gelding that
Bill Burke bought in Sydney, won the
Macauley Novice from end to end at
fives, with Trozene and the favorite,
Impersonator, in minor places.
Harold Badger, pilot of Ajax in his
big races, took the first division of the
Rosslyn Welter on Lalmoni (sixes) and
the second division on Benedict (sevens).
This helped to reduce the losses of ring-
men. Poldean and Dazzling Star,
favorites for these divisions, couldn’t
gain a situation after having had every
chance in running.
* He jje *
Potential spring stars are coming into
prominence on Melbourne courses. Jack
Holt produced Young Idea for the Mala-
koff Stakes at Caulfield on August 13,
and after the lapse of a week he gave
Avenger an outing in the Glenara Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley. He was rather
more optimistic regarding Avenger than
he had been in the case of Young Idea,
and the Pantheon stallion firmed from
fives to threes, going out in half a point
better demand than Desert Chief.
Taking one consideration with another
Avenger performed with high credit. Cut
out at the start from a position near the
inner rails, he was last to leave the
straight. Riding without spurs and re-
fraining from putting too much pressure
on a horse backward in condition, Badger
didn’t ask Avenger for a serious effort
until three furlongs from home.
Covering considerably more ground
than the other place-getters, and ham-
pered by having to wait for an opening
at the furlong pole, Avenger finished a
“long head” behind Barapic (tens), who
lost to Desert Chief by half a head. Over
a longer straight Avenger must have won.
He pulled up sound. Holt felt no con-
cern about blood showing on the near
hind heel, which had been galloped on.
Desert Chief carried 161 b. more than
his Caulfield Cup impost, whereas
Avenger was up only 21b. On figures the
M.L. stallion would seem to be a better
Cup proposition, but Avenger isn’t nearly
cherry-ripe. On the other hand, Desert
Chief has done a lot of racing since the
autumn.
This Page selected Manrico or Night-
guard to win the Kiata Handicap ; they
dead-heated for first after a really
memorable tussle. Manrico (twos) was
in twice as much demand as Andy
Morrow’s stallion. J. M. Niall, who bred
Manrico, watched his running with par-
donable pride.
As usual, Manrico set the pace. This
time he wasted a fraction of a second in
finding his legs, but the three lengths’
gap that was opened up at the half-way
stage gave promise of victory. Nightguard
overtook him in the straight, but Man-
rico put in a second run and was doing
better than his rival on the post.
Tactical (twelves) made a tardy emer-
gence from the ruck to finish third, a
couple of lengths behind the dead-
heaters. Winner of the Ascot Vale
Stakes in the autumn, this Simeon’s Fort
colt looks to be progressing well in his
preparation.
Voitre, who rode Tactical, was third
also on Kingdom (Thracian-Queen Con-
sort) in the Laluma Handicap, for three-
year-olds. Both horses are trained by
Lou Robertson. If anything, Kingdom
was more impressive than Tactical, who
has 41b. beyond his stable companion’s
impost in the Caulfield Cup.
Laluma Handicap result pleased the
bookies, Ruck Man (Devonshire-Mer-
cian Queen) winning at 20 to 1 from
Caption (sixes) and Kingdom (tens). Con-
way, hot favorite, raised 51b. for his
Ascot win three days before, galloped
ungenerously. Ruck Man is trained by
“Snowy” Wolters for W. Balloch, the
master baker who raced Lochlee suc-
cessfully as a juvenile in conjunction
with W., G. Hughes, a sporting scribe.
North Cape, sharing 3-to-l favoritism
with Dornford for the Plenty Hurdle,
registered his fourth victory on end in
that race. Dornford tired badly after
leading and Shere Khan deprived him of
second money. Jolly Boy (10 to 9) also
completed a sequence of four wins by
taking the Melrose Steeple. He gave G.
Sholl a very comfortable ride.
Public form was further borne out
when Carrarice (threes) landed the Argyle
Welter. He displayed great gameness in
stalling off Elmdale (twelves) by half a
neck after Bill Burke’s gelding had
looked to be sure of success. This Page
selected Nightguard or Carrarice.
“Aigburth”: Stated that Larwood will
play no more big cricket. He has a bad
knee, and he blames the hard Austra-
lian wickets. In any case, he is well on
for a fast bowler, having played in 15
Tests, more than his great predecessors,
Tom Richardson and Lockwood. Jones,
of S.A., with 18 Tests, holds the record
for a speedster. Richardson took 88
Test wickets, Larwood 64, Jones 60 and
Lockwood 43.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Q.C.A. jubilantly
announces it has again prevented the
kidnapping of Tallon, who was greatly
desired by the Prahran (Vic.) club.
Tallon is not now likely to supplant
Barnett as first ’keeper, but he should be
a certainty for the second ’keeper’s job
in the next Australian team.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: A neat point in golfing
law cropped up during the British open
championship at Sandwich. The Welsh
professional Hill opened a gate to give
him more room to play his shot, and
was stuck two strokes. Yet one may
shift a movable object without penalty.
What is a gate if it isn’t that?
* * * *
“Hotham”: The volatile A.L.T.A. has
&gain decided it won't have the Yugs
here, and is asking a team of Americans,
headed by Budge, to come. By all ac-
counts, there is as much chance of get-
ting Budge here again, even if he does
not turn professional, as there is of get-
ting Mr. Louis on a £lOO-a-fight guar-
antee.
*.* * *
“Hotham”: So marked has been the
revival of the Victorian Football Asso-
ciation that this body is talking of adding
two new senior clubs and thus making
a North v. South .Yarra clash an added
attraction. The clubs are Moorabbin and
Caulfield City, and if they join up the
number of Association clubs will be 14.
o Continued, on page 32.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Campbelltown Handicap:
Brazandt; next, Bonnie Legion or
Mohican.
Hobartville Stakes: Pandava;
next, Petruchio.
Warwick Stakes: Gold Rod;
next, Bristol or Mohican.
Spring Handicap: Bristol or
Vaalmore ; next, Bachelor King.
Glenlee Handicap: Perimond;
next, Herarde.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Underwood Stakes: Ajax ; next,
The Trump.
August Handicap: Avenger;
next, Manolive.
Three-year-old Handicap: Des-
tiny Bay ; next, Veiled Prophet.
Truganina Handicap: Manrico ;
next, El Golea.
Manor Welter: Campaspe ; next,
The Egotist.


Holiday in
NEUJ
ZEALAND
What is the ideal holiday land ... to some
a wilderness of ancient mountains that rear
their snow capped heads above the clouds
. . . or a land of primeval forest edging
placid lake and tumbling river ... or a
place to fish for the leaping trout or the
mighty swordfish. Some may prefer the
fascination of thermal springs . . . bubbling,
boiling, hissing in their revolt against nature
—a land of fresh invigorating climate that
renews vitality.
Any of these might be ideal. The com-
bination of them all creates a paradise—
NEW ZEALAND. Go there this Summer!
Sight-seeing is made easy and inexpensive
by courteous help from Government officials
and you will return from a New Zealand
holiday in love with the land so generously
endowed by nature and with its friendly
hospitable people.
4m
m
w
i
m
m.
wm
■
I
ra
/-3
*
<<;
-f#
❖
V
\IV
N^>
<9.
V
-5 DAYS
HELP IN PLANNING YOUR HOLIDAY
The New Zealand Government offices in Australia are always
ready to help you plan a memorable vacation which will be
more complete and cost much less than you have probably
anticipated. Do not hesitate to make enquiries. The service
rendered you will be unstinted and without charge.
A WORLD#' IN MINIATURE
Ash your Travel Agent for free literature and full details or write, call or ’phone.
New Zealand Government Tourist Bureau
U Martin Place, Sydney. ’Phone: 870!,3. {Directly opposite G.P.O )
Colonial Mutual Buildings, 318-320 Collins Street, Melbourne. ’Plwne: Cent. Juu.
King House. 79 Queen Street. Brisbane. (And all Travel Agents.')
Wm
vi :;


LUCAS
“KING t° m f e ROAD”
■JUTIeR
you can depend on
CHAMPION SS
for ECONOMY
A tankful of fuel carries you
much farther when your engine
is getting the benefit of strong
hot sparks. Install a set of
new Champions. Enjoy this
saving—and getmore speed,
power and acceleration too.
An Empireproduct —made
inWindsor.Can. i
iiM
I
xBS» ! X
43
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU_CJHA_NGE_On :
M.Q. and Rafferty
Matthews Outs Purcell
After his successful stoushing tour of
Britain, Jimmy Purcell at Sydney
Stadium took on an evidently tougher
contract than anything he struck in the
Old Dart, in the shape of the tall, fine-
hitting cullud boxer Allen Matthews.
Purcell gave away weight, height and
reach, much more of the latter two than
of weight: Matthews, list. 4ilb. ; Pur-
cell, lib. lighter. Also, Purcell gave
away a possible winning chance in the
second round, failing to follow up the
advantage of a heavy right jolt to the
jaw which shook Matthews to the keel.
This was Purcell’s one good round ; for
the rest it was Matthews all the way.
By the end of the fourth he had Purcell
feeble and pretty well defenceless against
the continuous battery of punches that
took the local lad in all quarters. Pur-
cell stood the punishment gamely, but
was down and out in the sixth to a
right swing to the jaw.
A better item of the evening, from
the viewpoint of local stoush, was yet
another dandy showing by A 1 Walker.
Fighting a shade over list., A 1 looks
one of the very= best picks among the
coming bunch. He carries a knockout,
and has won most of his fights that
way, usually in the second round. On
this occasion he had Clyde Patterson
down three times in the second, being
then declared the winner. That is un-
usual with him; when they go down
to his short jolted right they usually
stay there. Walker looks to have more
than an outside chance of fighting him-
self into championship class.
Ins and Outs
When the Australians (8 for 450) con-
tinued against Kent the sun shone and
the fowls of the air shuddered if you
offered them another cherry. Those of
the nobility and gentry of London who
had not gone north for the grouse were
thronging into Kent and Sussex for the
equally-important national sport of
grousing an’ ’opping.
In this pleasant atmosphere White and
Ward resumed. Both batted confidently,
and with the help of F.-Smith (0 n. 0.)
raised the total to 479, of which White
contributed 52 (his best in England) and
Ward 16, Wright getting both wickets.
Watt, with 4-102, Todd (3-145) and
Wright (2-77) were the wicket-takers.
Kent's opening knock began on a
comic-opera note. Woolley tapped a ball
down the pitch, called Fagg and ran.
Walker ran after Woolley, gathered the
ball and threw down the veteran’s
wicket before he got home, scoreless.
An old bird like Frank should have
known better, just as Walker should have-
understood that these things simply aren’t
done in England, especially .during the
Canterbury festival.
The happening threw a gloom over
proceedings. The Kent team, like the
character in The Hunting of the Snark,
“slowly and silently vanished away,” no
one offering any serious opposition to
Waite and White, though Ames (stumped
by Walker off White) made 30, while
Wright and Levett went through the
motions of batting for 21 n.o. and 15
respectively. The innings ended at 108,
two of these being sundries.
The wicket had been dew-affected, but
there was nothing to account for such a
collapse; White took 3-35, Waite 4-43.
F.-Smith and Ward had one scalp each.
Kent’s follow-on was another story.
Woolley this time showed some of his
opponents—one or two of them had not
been bom when he was in his prime—■
what grace and style in batting meant.
Driving and cutting faultlessly, he ran
to 81 before Bradman got him off Ward.
The old champion, playing his last season
in big cricket, made his first 50 in 35
minutes.
Walker and Ward had sent back Fagg
for a feeble 11 early in the piece, but
Ames soon convinced the crowd that he
and Woolley were going to make a day
of it while they were at it.
While the two were driving the fact
home, runs mounted rapidly until the
left-hander departed with the score at
2-109 —it had been 1-76 when Fagg, who
opened with him, left. Valentine joined
the England ’keeper, and hit well and
vigorously until at 36 he went, 1.b.w.,
to Waite. Chalk took his place, but
faded out for 7 when F.-Smith caught
him l.b.w.
Meanwhile Ames, now in the best of
fettle, had moved along briskly, his driv-
ing being very hard—he hit three sixes
and 11 fours in his innings—until he had
reached 108 n.o. Todd was n.o. 3 and
the total, with 19 sundries, 265 for four
wickets.
The Australians went to bed on Mon-
day night wondering if someone could
be got to stay with Ames. If not, they
were still 106 runs ahead, though Kent
had six batsmen of sorts to go.
In the morning Four Just Men were
found they stayed with Ames and
helped him to stave off the ignominy
of an innings defeat.
Ames and Todd raised the score to
315 for the fifth wicket, Todd amassing
26 before Waite got a curly one past
him. Knott helped with 17 n. 0., and the
others brought the total to 377 —sundries
30 —leaving Australia 7 runs to win.
Waite took the bowling honors with
5-85 —9-128. Ward snared 3-92 and
F.-Smith 2-92.
It was raining when White and
F.-Smith opened for Australia. There
was the customary clowning climax for
matches of this sort; ’keeper Levett
opened the bowling with an apple. This
cost his side a no-ball, and that sterling
batsman F.-Smith, who has been a win-
ning' factor in more than one match,
quickly got the necessary runs, White
being wisely content to keep his end up.
The day is not far distant when the
spirit of the circus ring, so evident in
some matches of this tour, will be ex-
tended until it will be the regular thing
for teams to dance their war dance and
chant their war cry in front of the
pavilion before settling down to any seri-
ous business that may be left in the game.
Australia’s game with the Army is
really one with the Aldershot Officers’
Club, and is usually one of the pleasant-
est cricket items on the tourists’ pro-
gramme. Army, which in pre-war days
could muster some very fine amateur
batsmen, has little time to spare these
days for regular cricket. About the
only man in the side known by name
here is fast-bowler Stephenson, who has
once or twice been considered for Eng-
land and has done well with the‘Gentle-
men. He is a garrison gunner and plays
for Essex.
Bradman did not play; McCabe took
his place. Army batted first and scored
113, top scorer being C. P. Hamilton,
said to be a South Australian, who ran
to 33 before F.-Smith hit him on the
leg. Smith took 4-62, McCormick 3-16
and McCabe 2-6.
At stumps Australia had five down
for 211. The batting was not serious
in its way, the bowling making no de-
mands on it. Brow.n (31), Fingleton
(64), Barnes (41 n. 0.) and Badcock (22),
with Barnett 12 n. 0., were the outstanding
items. Osborne-Smith took two wickets,
Brown’s and Hassett’s.
Continuing the Australian innings on
Thursday, the five remaining batsmen
hoisted the score to 299. Barnett raised
his overnight innings of 12 to 58, hitting
in his most attractive form, but Barnes
added only 5 to his tally before Stephen-
son got him l.b.w. None of the others
did much ; sundries contributed 22. The
best English bowling was Osborne-Smith’s
4-64. Knapp took 3 for 52, but Stephen-
son could manage only 1-79.
The Army did no better in the second
innings than in the first. The first two
wickets fell for 69 (Harbottle 28, Hamil-
ton 18), and the only other scorer worth
noting was Stephenson, who smote hard
for 25 n.o. O’Reilly proved a pain in
the neck to the men-o’-war, taking 7-33 ;
F.-Smith 2-59. Australia, by an innings
and 67 runs.
* * * *
Saturday dawned fine and clear for
the last Test match, and before play
started Kennington Oval was filling
rapidly. By lunch some 35,000 were in
the ground and another 10,000 at the
windows of the flats which overlook it.
These were quickly raided by Inland
Revenue officers chasing entertainment
tax, but thousands more on the tops
of passing buses, whose drivers staged
a tortoise marathon while passing the
ground, got off with their fares.
McCormick had to drop out through
an attack of neuritis. This gave Barnes
his chance, but as things turned out Mc-
Cormick would have been the better bet
if anything like fit. As it was, Bradman
had to tackle the strongest English bat-
ting team to date with only O’Reilly and
the in-and-out F.-Smith. The pitch was
a batsman’s dream, though the outfield
could have done with a little more grass.
Having lost the toss as usual, Bradman
opened with McCabe and Waite against
Edrich and Hutton. There was no help
for the bowlers in the wicket, and though
both batsmen were careful runs came
steadily, Hutton showing unusual enter-
prise in leaving his crease to punch an
occasional pitched-up one. The pair
had reached 29 when Edrich got his leg
in the way of one of O’Reilly’s off-
spinners—O’Reilly’s 100th wicket in 18
Tests.
Hutton was joined by Leyland, and
the pair, conscious that the remainder
of the summer was at their disposal,
jogged along, scoring singles alternately
and an occasional boundary hit from a
loose one. Most of these last came
from F.-Smith, who thus early in the
piece gave evidence it was to be one of
his long-hop, full-toss days.
There was little exciting about the
batting, which went as if according to
schedule, first one batsman and then
the other forging ahead. In spite of first-
class fielding, there were many singles,
the running of the Tykes between wic-
kets being excellently judged. At lunch
the pair were well set.
The story of the play after lunch was
a repetition of the period before it, save
that as the bowlers tired the batsmen
became more aggressive. Hutton cut and
drove delightfully, while Leyland laid
on the wood in the square drives in
regular left-hander fashion. A splash
from a passing thunderstorm about tea-
time hung up play for a little. It did
not affect the pitch, though the outfield
was wetted enough to trouble the
bowlers a bit with the wet ball.
Thereafter both batsmen set them-
selves to stay in until stumps, ready for
a fresh start on Monday morning. This
they managed to do without bothering
about going for the now-fagged-out
bowling, and when time was called they
had 347 up for the one wicket: Hutton
160, and Leyland 156 —his highest score
in a Test to date. Hutton gave one
difficult chance of stumping, and Ley-
land narrowly escaped being run out.
Otherwise neither batsman could be
called lucky.
O’Reilly was responsible for a series
of curious happenings. Four times he
bowled a no-ball, and on three occasions
the batsman, lashing out, was caught.
On the third occasion the catch was pur-
posely dropped and a run-out nearly re-
sulted.
Of the bowling, the less said the
better, though O’Reilly’s 1 for 79 in the
big total is eloquent. Once or twice
F.-Smith narrowly missed a wicket, but
he ended the day with 123 runs scored
off him. Waite’s figures were 0-62, Mc-
Cabe’s 0-45 and Barnes’s 0-21.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The passing of Fred Jarvis
suddenly, at 70, was overshadowed by
that of Kelly and Hugh Trumble ; but
Fred was a good cricketer in his day, and
that day lasted for the best part of 20
years. A younger brother of “Affie”
Jarvis, the wicketkeeper who had the
misfortune to run up against Blackham
all through his long career, Fred started
in the S.A. XI at 21 ; next year, 1890,
he was in S.A.’s first match against
N.S.W. With Reedman, also young, he
helped Lyons, the two Giffens and his
brother to make S.A. just about the lead-
ing cricket State at the time when the
Sheffield was founded; and he lasted
through the Hill, Darling and Jones era.
Fast bowler and free bat, he was one of
the S.A. men who have made 1000 runs
and taken 100 wickets in Shield games.
Others: George Giffen, Reedman, Craw-
ford, Arthur Richardson and Grimmett.


l/-k )
HAND
PUITED
kangaroo
f w BE «
fyjHh new
ringfadener
PRICE-
mm HMtHBBSnft
Queen Si Brisbane
HOW OLD IS AN
OLD BLADE . . ?
Once over the face and most blades think of
retirement, and in a week they’re sharp
enough for almost anything but shaving.
The Wilkinson Blade keeps going for 2 to
3 months even when the going’s rough be-
cause it is a full hollow ground blade—a blade
that has enough good steel in it to permit
of constant stropping—and the mekanized
self-stropping it gets in the Wilkinson
Razor is just right to renew that perfect edge
and give you a unique shaving comfort.
RAIOR In
Oak Case
with two
Ho/ / o w
Cround
Blades
sys/e
In Nickel-
plated Cate 19/ef
InCbromeCase.
three Blades
and Strop. 27 16
■7-D /I T set
with a blade /or
every day ol the
week - - 37/6
[hollow ground blade
/A
WILKINSON
M 4
Made in England by
The Wilkinson Cutlery Co. Ltd.
★ Obtainable from all Stores ★
?•>
ma
M
THATS FORD U 8
Z 2
m
-v»C^
De Luxe Sedan
FOR £325
six passengers, all inside the car
FOR £347
•A smart, all-steel Club
Coupe seating five or
modern Sedan for the family.
■A big, roomy, comfort-
able and thoroughly
FORD V-8 IS A GOOD CAR TO DRIVE
Responsive V-8 power, easy-action
brakes that bring you from 30 m.p.h.
to a stop in 22 feet; easy steering;
finger-tip gear change; adjustable
driving seat —features like these make
Ford V-8 a pleasure to drive.
A GOOD SAFE CAR TO RIDE IN
Ford gives you Centre-poise suspen-
sion between the springs, and four
hydraulic shock absorbers to smooth the roughest road;
inches of extra room, wherever you sit; deep-cushioned
seats and every appointment for luxurious motoring.
Ford gives you all-steel bodies; safety glass all round.
DRIVE AND COMPARE FORD V-8
Let your nearby Ford Dealer place a V-8 at your disposal
to test. Check over the extra values, test the
brilliant V-8 perform-
ance, compare the price!
Prove for yourself that
—Ford V-8 gives you
more good car for far
less money!
{All prices F. 0.8. Fori
Plant, Plus Sales Tax.
Optional at £24 extra is
Ford-Tasma car radio. Price
includes aerial and instal-
lation at Factory).
n
m
'AI
LOWEST-PRICED FULL-SIZE SEDAN AVAIL-
ABLE— the Ford V-8. So completely equipped
that it is of de luxe type in its class, this big
family sedan has brought a new conception of
luxurious, V-8 motoring to thousands.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL FORD DEALER
IOKDYtt
. ft BRITISH EMPIRE PRODUCT
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (I INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA] F 285. 27V.
Footbrawl
There were surprises all round in
Saturday’s V.F.L. matches. Carlton and
Footscray, first and second on the list,
were both beaten, and Collingwood ran
rings round North, forcing its way back
into “the four.”
Carlton is still on top, though it has
been beaten in its two most recent games
—bn Saturday 14-12 to 11-13 by Mel-
bourne. ’Scray, trounced 17-17 to 12-9
by the lowly St. Kilda, has slipped back
a place behind Geelong. Geelong made
some positional alterations, and the
changes proved so advantageous that it
defeated Richmond 20-17 to 12-12.
’Wood came home on the bit, 22-18
to 14-12, against North, but holds
its fourth position only on percentages.
Essendon accounted for Fitzroy 15-17 to
15-6, and Hawthorn (17-15) was too
strong for “Sowth” (9-20).
Brunswick was too fast and too steady
for Brighton in the Association grand
final—l 9-17 to 14-14.
Westralia is still celebrating a victory
over South Aus., 29-23 to 10-14.
* * * *
Randwick has gone well into the lead
in Sydney’s Rugby Union competition. A
win over St. George, 26-17 (five tries to
two), put it five points ahead of Manly
and Northern Suburbs, which now share
second position. North accounted for
West 12-5, though tries were even (one
each), and Manly, helped by Hodgson’s
boot, managed a 17-15 win over Uni. —
the Students notched four tries to the
Villagers’ two. In third place on the
table is West, followed by St. George
and Drummoyne. Drummoyne galloped
away from Parramatta, 16-3, and Gordon
trounced East, 20-12.
Saturday’s most interesting game was
combined G.P.S. v. Military College.
The Schools generally field a speedy back
line, drawn mainly from St. Joseph’s,
and this year the forwards were a heavier
and better-balanced lot than ordinarily.
G.P.S. was 21-nil at “lemons,” and it was
24-16 at the final bell.
* * * *
South Australia has had its first Rugby
Union win in inter-State matches, a one-
point, 19-18, triumph over Victoria. Tries
were even, four each.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Polite though they were,
the departing managers of the All-Blacks
could not conceal the fact that their
opinion of Australian football, except
for a few individuals, was poor. They
could have pointed out, but did not, that
this was due to the slavish adherence of
N.S.W. and Queensland to the League
rules which M.L. jettisoned after it
had seen, at the hands and feet of the
Springboks, what evil effects League rules
had on its game.
* * * *
The Indian Soccer players, just off the
boat, opened their tour in Adelaide by
beating South Australia 6-1. Many of
them played without boots, though their
star forward, Lumsden, who bears a
name famous in Anglo-Indian history,
affected the hoof coverings.
* * * *
“Outside Right”: Already trouble has
risen in connection with the Indian foot-
ball team. The visitors, on being in-
formed they were expected to play 45
minutes each way, objected, the custom
in Hind being half an hour each way.
This should have been understood on
this side and settled before the team
left India, but Australian Soccer authori-
ties seem to be the limit in casual
organisation—if their methods can be
called that. Forty minutes has been
agreed on. but even this is an imposition
on the visitors.
Nineteenth Hole
Jim Ferrier, of N.S.W., bolted with the
Australian open golf championship at
Adelaide. He returned a card of 283,
JIM FERRIER, the open champion.
14 strokes better than that of the second
player, Von Nida. George Naismith, of
Victoria, was third, with 298.
* * * *
“Marino”: Honors/-were easy in the
inter-State golf tourpey at Adelaide,
N.S.W. winning the professional event
and South Australia the amateur. The
defeat of Von Nida in his match with the
South Australian Harvey was a boilover,
but the ex-Queenslander outed George
Naismith. Among the amateurs W. S.
Rymill acquired further merit by down-
ing H. L. Williams. Queensland had to
take the knock in both sections of the
meeting.
* * '* *
“Marino”: The Australian foursomes
championship in Adelaide was won this
year by W. S. Rymill and W. Ackland
Horman, both locals of high renown,
with a card of 153. Williams and
Payne, the Victorians, tied for second
place with Barkell and Tanner, a Syd-
ney pair, with scores of 158.
* * * *
The M.L. women golfers kept their
hold on the Tasman Cup, winning by
four matches to two at the Australian
club’s Kensington course. This makes
their third win since the competition was
begun. The teams pegged level in the
foursomes, but the visitors won three of
the four singles.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: More freak golf—this
time in the U.S.A. One Ferrabee backed
himself to do 144 holes in 905 minutes,
starting at 4.5 a.m. He scraped home,
holing out on the last green with his 687th
stroke at 7.10 p.m.
Racquet and Bawl
The Australians had an easier job with
the Germans in their Davis Cup round
than most hoped for. Bromwich recov-
ered something of his form, and, with
Quist at his best, the winners of the Euro-
pean zone were soon put out of their
misery. Bromwich beat Henkel 6-2, 6-3,
6-3, and Quist polished off Metaxa 6-3,
6-2, 6-1. The Australian pair took the
doubles 6-2, 6-1, 6-1, Quist playing in
superlative form and Bromwich combin-
ing perfectly. In the second singles
Bromwich beat Metaxa 6-3, 6-2, 6-1, and
Quist downed Henkel 6-1, 6-0, 8-6.
Australia now meets the U.S.A. in the
challenge round, beginning September 3.
Play will be on the grass courts of Ger-
manton cricket club at Philadelphia, and
if our fellows can win the doubles they
should take the pot.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Romance for Three”
Frank Morgan, Robert Young, Edna May
Oliver.
Speaking without the book, this divert-
ing comedy is based on a novel by a
German author hailed as good on the
Red Page a year or two back. With the
brisk doings of the Arsene Lupin opus
at the same address, it makes Sydney
Liberty’s current bill very cheery fare.
The set-up provided by the novel, to-
gether with the people M.-G.-M. chose
to play it, made a good entertainer cer-
tain. A young chap with a penchant for
winning trade competitions, but always
knocked back when he tried to reach the
heads of the firms and get himself a job,
wins in a soap-maker’s slogan competi-
tion the right of a fortnight’s holiday at
a posh Alpine pubbery, and, though
broke, decides to take it, in the hope of
striking some sort of work through the
people he’ll meet there.
A similar prize has been won by the
soap magnate himself, he having put in a
slogan under another name, and he also
decides to take the holiday, just to see
how people who win his competitions
are treated, and as a means of escape
from his sort of existence, which includes
being bossed about by Miss Oliver in the
role of his housekeeper.
He also, of course, has a daughter.
One of these days the filmsmiths may
wake up to the possibility that a film
might be made on lines that won’t neces-
sitate a film-taster writing “of course he
has a daughter.” They ruined excellent
material in the current “Yellow Jack”
by dragging the eternal feminine interest
into it, and thereby converting what
could have been heroic drama into a
mere time-killer.
That, however, by the way. Films of
the kind here under review are all the
better for a parade of the skirted sex —
the more the merrier.
So, of course, the magnate has a
daughter. He also has a valet, and, as
he’s never moved 100 yards abroad with-
out his valet for 30 years, he must have
the man along, too. Valet goes in the
masquerade of a shipping magnate ; but
before they depart housekeeper brow-
beats valet into spilling the beans, and
while they’re on the way rings the
manager of the pubbery to tell him that
the competition-winner he’s expecting is,
in fact, a millionaire.
By the time this real millionaire arrives
the penniless young chap has got there,
has been accepted as masquerading mil-
lionaire, and fitted up with the best of
everything the pubbery has to offer. Real
millionaire gets a cold and draughty
attic, and extremely cold shoulder all
round. Designing female, however, takes
a tumble to the true state of affairs and
fastens to the authentic man of millions,
and, she being extra easy on the eyes,
millionaire is in process of falling heavily
for her when valet, getting alarmed at
this development, sends word back to
housekeeper, who shortly arrives, plus
daughter.
Then everybody is on the masquerade:
millionaire as penniless competition-
winner, penniless competition-winner
(unintentionally) as millionaire, million-
aire’s daughter (in order to have penni-
less young chap’s company) as poor
working lass treating herself to a luxury
holiday, valet as magnate, housekeeper
as ordinary guest.
The sort of fun this bunch of players
can make out of a set-up of that kind
needs no describing. The situations
simply make themselves, and the whole
affair races along in pleasant light-
comedy vein. Morgan could not have a
part that suited him better, and the part
could hardly have a player that suited
it better. Young is one of the very few
handsome romantics possessed of an
agreeable character, and Miss Oliver and
half a dozen others perform in great
fettle.
“Arsene Lupin Returns ”
Melvyn Douglas, Warren William, Virginia
Bruce.
This Sydney Liberty support shows
Hollywood still exploiting the old fiction
dodge of having a reformed crook for
hero. It’s also in the tradition that the
ex-crook should have been an inter-
national jewel thief.
All it needs is a “Crime Does Not
Pay” on the same bill and Hollywood
would be doing its bit 50-50 in present-
ing crime as something to avoid and
romanticising it as a glorious career, en-
abling the former crook to retire, take an
interest in piglets and win the girl of
the neighboring chateau, the setting being
mostly in France. It puts ex-crooks into
the same class of respectability as, at
least, retired pork-sausage magnates and
war profiteers.
Ex-crook in this case is the famous
Arsene, who always used to leave his
moniker scrawled up somewhere round
about any big job he pulled off. The
dodge Conan Doyle used for having Sher-
lock Holmes cast into the chasm and
brought back for another book or two is
plagiarised by the author of this opus.
Arsene was last sighted when he dropped
into a river, with a French detective
shooting at him. It was a foggy night
and there was never any body, but the
Victor McLaglen and Gracie Fields v. the Cape Town Killer, in “We’re Going
to Be Rich,” at Sydney Mayfair.
French police were nevertheless satisfied
that that was the end of the illustrious
jewel-nabber.
As a matter of cold fact, Arsene is still
alive and well, surrounded by little piggies
on his farm in France, and declining ab-
solutely to listen to the urging of his»
former colleagues to get back into the
gem industry.
It is, however, in U.S.A. that the big
jewel theft is committed. Solution of
the affair is entrusted to a United States
detective whom the authorities have had
the incredible good sense to sack because
he has been getting too much press pub-
licity.
There is, of course, a paste replica of
the priceless bauble, and when the scene
shifts back to France, as it does imme-
diately, there’s plenty confusion oyer
paste and genuine article, each being
stolen, returned, re-stolen and so on for
the allotted span of a support film. There
is also rivalry between ex-crook and
detective for the daughter of the bauble’s
owner, the more handsome —according
to Hollywooden standards —duly carry-
ing off that fair maid.
Altogether a story with whiskers a
fathom long, but still very much above
average support-film entertainment.
Principals are agreeable people, the rest
back them up very well, and the produc-
tion, being an M.-G.-M. job, is admir-
ably done.
A “Crime Does Not Pay ”
In his book lately reviewed on the Red
Page the chief of Uncle Sam’s G-Men
laid a heavy swag of blame for U.S.A.’s
huge crime figures on parental shoulders
—neglect and indulgence.
That is evidently widely accepted in
U.S.A. Crime films galore—and especi-
ally the “Crime Does Not Pay” moral
opuses —could be cited in which the buck
for juvenile misdoings is passed on to the
parents. Latest “Crime Does Not Pay,”
witnessed at Sydney St. James, is wholly
devoted to showing up a group of pas
and mas out of whose homes a gang of
desperate youths starts running loose.
The issue posed is neglect. Four homes
are depicted. In each there’s an adoles-
cent youth largely left by his parents to
shift for himself. Father and mother may
be social gadders, father may be over-
working, and so forth.
The boys gang up, and three of them
go through the usual peccadilloes to
serious crime. In one of their outings
they find a revolver, which is fired on a
subsequent job, one of their number and
a chap they’ve robbed being killed. The
third boy, for the purposes of the moral,
doesn’t go right into the mire. His father
promises to take him on a fishing trip,
and that little attention, with a few words
of fatherly advice, keeps him out of
trouble.
The criminal youths are eventually
bagged, and are sent along to a reforma-
tory for four years —till they’re 21 —with
25 years' gaol to follow.
The film seems of doubtful merit as a
contribution towards the elimination or
the understanding of crime.
The parties of adults and their young-
sters, as represented, are subnormal
enough to be classed as nitwits. The
adults —with the exception of the pisca-
torial pop, who comes out as the only
intelligent person in the film —are a col-
lection of dolts. As they are made to
appear and talk they’re just the sort
of people who’d be likely to produce
sub-normal, and therefore potentially
criminal, offspring. The youngsters, as
represented, are just a bunch of loung-
ing lowbrows, typical of the pushes that
harried Sydney till the police—not moral-
istic films or other works of sentimental-
ists —broke them up and taught them
that crime didn’t pay.
Police in Sydney will tell you how
that was done, also how the recent Con-
sorting Act has worked, and still works,
in cleaning up the more modern gangs
and pushes.
A finding might well be reached on
this film to the effect that it might be
before birth, as much as after birth, that
criminals are made. A matter of
eugenics. In this view there’ll always be
masses of criminals as long as people with
the lowest sort of intelligence go on being
parents, which will no doubt be for ever.
Also, this telling youngsters —as this
film and many others of the kind do tell
them —that, when the worst comes to the
worst, they can fall back on passing the
buck to their parents seems about as poor
an attack for eliminating juvenile crime
as .could very well be conceived.
In this film the boys get it in the neck.
The punishment is punitive out of all
proportion to the case, and what with
that, and the way the blame is passed to
the fathers and mothers, the natural
human response is one of sympathy for
the lads. That could hardly be improved
on as an inducement to muddle-minded
youngsters to take to crime.
These “Crime Does Not Pay” films are
represented as factual. They are put
forward as being the filmed representa-
tions of actual cases. That being so, it
ceases to be surprising that U.S.A. pro-
duces such a crop of extremely desperate
criminals. If youngsters there run into
this measure of punishment for what is
put forward through court evidence as
having been a largely-accidental crime,
it’s not much wonder there’s a lot of
shooting for the purpose of silencing evi-
dence, or in making a last stand rather
than be caught and thrown on such
mercy.
Joys Twice Over.
If there’s one thing for which filmdom
is more notorious than for anything else,
it’s for doing it twice over. This is not
only a matter of similarity in films from
different houses, as in the still-raging
fashion of picturing beds with clingingly-
clad young females inhabiting them.
That sort of thing certainly is com-
mon enough. It happens so regularly
that, if any scene is made effective in one
film, it will be made to do service in an-
other, as to suggest that, if the great per-
doocers don’t freely get together and
swap ideas, each of them must employ
a secret-service agency to spy on what
the other fellow is doing at any given
moment.
If an American Civil War film comes
along the addict can depend on having
to view two or maybe three American
Civil War films; ditto with films depend-
ing on “colossal spectacle,” backstage
films, wisecrack comedies. About the
only film of recent memory for which a
probably deliberately concocted rival in
the same genre cannot be named is the
Disney opus “Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs,” which, by the way, has been
at Sydney Plaza so long that it’s like an
established institution.
The kind of doubling so far glanced
at can no doubt be readily explained as
due to ordinary trade rivalry. It may
be just as easy to explain the even more
remarkable doing it in twos that can be
witnessed in dvery film made. Repeti-
tion of jokes, for instance. The talkie
comedian can’t pause indefinitely like his
stage brother till the roar (if any) dies
down. Hence in a packed house about
half the gags are drowned in laughs at
the ones before them. A bit of repeti-
tion in these circumstances is fair license.
But then there’s the same sort of repe-
tition of the very dullest proceedings.
Carried to extremes, as in a current
masterpiece called “My Bill,” this can be
a fearful pain in the neck. In this film
Kay Francis has the part of a formerly
well-to-do mother of three incredibly
priggish adolescents and a younger fourth
who’s a “regular guy,” gold all the way.
“Cheque will oblige” has poor mother
distracted, with No. 1 Prig concerned
with a new tie and cahlege, No. 2 want-
ing a new dress and No. 3 some geegaw
or other. Dear mother tries to keep the
news of impending rooen from them.
But the cat gets out of the bag.
So then the gazer on this masterpiece
is treated to No. 1 standing in front of
poor distracted mother and ticking her
off, ditto, then, No. 2, then No. 3, with
little Bill concluding the scene by bel-
lowing after the last of them that they’re
a lot of saps, and standing in front of
poor distracted mother and calling her
Sweetheart.
The very hardy might be able to suffer
that scene once. It occurs in all seven or
eight times, with very slight variations.
Admittedly this is an extreme case-
one of the worst films ever made —but
the same business of doing everything
twice over can be seen in every film
made, even the best of them. Well done
—as it occasionally is—there’s a certain
dramatic force to be got thereby, but
most of the items repeated are of the
most piffling variety. It is such items
that are by far the most commonly re-
peated, and the only conclusion present
sufferer can arrive at is that all of this
repetition is the measure of the great
perdoocers’ estimate of average film-
addict intelligence. If you don’t show
’em the plainest thing twice over, their
nimble wits might miss its subtle point.
Yet this estimate seems at least a trifle
overdone —applied to audiences in these
parts of the world, anyway. Very few
really good pictures suffer a poor run.
Witness at present in Sydney the success
of “Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.”
Also the English film “The Divorce of
Lady X” had had a good run to time
of writing; so had “I See Ice,” though
other English products with alleged stars
in them had meanwhile been terrible
flops. A further instance was to be wit-
nessed in Sydney last week —queues a
hundred yards and more long outside
the Mayfair for the honest films “Owd
Bob” and Gracie Fields in “We’re Going
to Be Rich,” while audiences at places
with much more lavishly advertised and
more pretentious wares of the “give ’em
muck” variety could have been fitted into
a few rows of stalls.
Tauber Ballet.
Tauber has points as a conductor all
right. Every time he speared umpteenth
violin it sent a quiver through the whole
audience. Before he started to conduct
his own composition, “The Singing
Dream,” he cracked his baton like a whip
and audience was as wildly alarmed as
orchestra. Half-way through the item
a telephone shrilled out and people paled


CROSS AUSTRALIA BY TRAIN*
SYDNEY TO PERTH
IN 3£ DAYS
LEAVING SYDNEY ARRIVING PERTH
8 p.m. and 8.50 p.m.
Tuesday
Thursday
Saturday
9.45 a.m.
Saturday
Monday
Wednesday
1\ hours in Melbourne on direct journey.
Stopover in Melbourne and Adelaide allowed.
FARES FROM SYDNEY
(and intermediate N.S.W. stationsl
TO PERTH
SINGLE.
RETURN
Adults.
Ist Class £lB/18/6
2nd Class £ll/9/3
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£ll/16/6
£6/12/9
Adults.
£33/9/-
£2O
Children
Four and
Under 14.
£2l/9/-
£ll/16/3
Including reserved seats, sleeping berths (where provided) for
the through journey (Sydney-Perth), and meals on the Trans-
continental and West Australian Railways.
Seats and sleeping berths may be
booked four weeks in advance.
Apply to the Chief Traffic Manager, Sydney Station, for any
further information, or call at the Railway Inquiry Office,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
W. H. Newman,
Secretary for Railways, N.S.W. (15)
Jstufleti'a
LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
First Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £4O
Ten Other Prizes £1
Closing Date September 2.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space provided
for the purpose, cut out the whole coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 1,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 2.
Results of this First Limerick Competition will be
announced in "The Bulletin” of September 7.
Any competitor may send in as many entries as he or
she wishes for this or succeeding competitions, but each entry
must be filled in on a Limerick Coupon.
‘‘The Bulletin” wants to publish the prize-winning lines,
so competitors are warned that it will be the best publishable
entries that will collect the cash.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.,
Ltd., is eligible to compete. Otherwise these competitions are
open to all, free of any entrance charge.
FIRST LIMERICK COMPETITION COUPON
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A new Father William named Hughes
Is apt with great vim to enthuse:
“Let us populate quickly
And, if possible, thickly
Second Competition:—
£5O PRIZES
Prize-money for the Second Limerick Competition is the
same as for the First: £4O First Prize and ten other Prizes
of £1 each. It will close on September 16, and results will
be announced in “The Bulletin” of September 21. Conditions
are the same as stated above for the First Competition.
This announcement will be repeated in “The Bulletin”
of August 31 and September 7, and coupons may be filled
in from those issues or from the present one. It is announced
this much in advance of the closing date in order to give
readers in distant parts every chance.
For the Second Competition, add a last line to the
Limerick in the coupon below, cut out the whole coupon and
post to reach
"Limericks No. 2,”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than September 16.
SECOND LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME ..
ADDRESS
'ln block letters)
Said a housewife residing at Clare:
“This is more than I really can bear!
Again, you black sinner,
You re late home to dinner
again. That’s what it sounded like, any-
how.
This was at Sydney Town Hall on
Friday night. After Percy Code had
put the A.B.C. Orchestra through
Dvorak’s “Carnival” overture and Liszt s
“Les Preludes,” Tauber took the baton.
Weber’s well-worn “Der Freischutz was
done with that clever mingling of vigor
and delicacy that is peculiarly Viennese.
The style suited also Bizet’s “L’Arlesi-
enne” suite and the arrangement of airs
from Tauber’s own operetta.
When he wasn’t flounder-spearing
Tauber was either sinister as a bat or
graceful as a swan. The music ripples
through him, and present commentator
enjoyed him as a bit of ballet. Liked, too,
the way everybody shook hands with
everybody. Tauber with Code, Tauber
with first violin, and finally Tauber with
Tauber. It was all so pleasant that even
the hand of the duchess in the row just
in front could have been pressed with
fervor if she hadn’t turned round in the
middle of a lovely Grieg song (the brute)
and complained that Clarice was kicking
her.
“Man Proposes.”
If short-story writers and novelists
concentrated on the triangle theme as
remorselessly as playwrights do, there’d
be no need at all to read the Sunday
papers.
That, no doubt, would be all to the
good, but in the present state of things
it’s just a bit wearying to see on Saturday
night a play that’s merely a preview of
the next day’s reading. “Man Proposes,”
put on by Sydney Players, was the ordi-
nary triangle, and it seemed all the more
ordinary after the two really outstand-
ing amateur plays Sydney has recently
seen —the Players’ “Merchant of Venice”
and the Independents’ “Winterset.”
Until the very end there was only one
situation: Would the interfering friend
(excellently portrayed by Patricia Gil-
logley) spill the beans to wife? Then
about two-thirds of the cast was liqui-
dated in an air-crash, and the play tried,
and failed, to become a Problem affair.
Presumably the moral was that everyone
who is smashed up in a ’plane is a bad
egg-
In spite of these limitations, it was very
well done. Interfering friend was good,
wife (Trixie Gore) and Other Woman
were completely convincing. John
Howard, as the incredibly understanding
friend, made the part almost credible.
The player who was the young cub just
down from Oxford got his laughs, but
surely he should have been furnished with
something faintly like an Oxford accent.
Sargent in Melbourne.
Business of the evening at Melb.
Town Hall on Saturday was Mozart’s
overture from “II Seraglio,” the Brahms
concerto for violin and orchestra, and
the magnificent Tschaikowsky symphony
No. 4.
Haydn Beck was in Sargent’s vicinity,
and anybody in the vicinity of that inky-
headed dynamo takes fire, even the
humble usher. Beck was in such admir-
able agreement with the orchestra and
the orchestra was in such admirable
agreement with the conductor that the
soloist got an ovation which would have
satisfied a Heifetz.
The performance of the symphony
crowned a remarkable evening. There
was nobody who didn’t feel that the
instrumentalists were keyed to the highest
pitch and had been trained to the same
pitch of efficiency. Applause that rolled
through the hall for several minutes was
no tribute to showmanship, for what
Sargent has is not showmanship. Alertly
bowing, conductor disappeared from and
reappeared on the rostrum like a stage
devil. Applause lasted almost as long
as the last movement of the symphony.
Hat Shops—from Inside.
Adelaide Repertory has tried an ex-
periment for three nights in “Nine to
Six,” by Philip and Aimde Stuart.
The scene is a high-class London mil-
linery shop, viewed entirely from back-
stage, so to speak, and with an all-
women cast —16 of them.
The internal naggings and humors,
with an occasional mild theft (or un-
authorised borrowing) of some specially
attractive were presented by a
remarkably even all-round cast. The
best chances in the womanly welter go
to Beryl Kook (broadminded boss), Ruby
Skinner (her stern daughter), Margaret
Fay (novice apprentice), Joan Sandford
(aristocrat ditto), Jean Thurston, Thelma
Seaman and Lorna Field (somewhere
on the staff).
George Shaw, as producer, managed
his 16-in-hand team of girls with success.


Corns Sentenced to Death .
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person who can give information,
regarding the missionary society known as “The
South African Mission, with its head office in
SYdney,” please forward particulars to the
BALLARAT TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &
AGENCY COMPANY, LIMITED, 50 Market-
street, Melbourne?
Plan Now
For
Comfort
in London.
100 bedrooms, with bathroom
and ’phone. Fully licensed
restaurant open till midnight.
Special rates for Overseas
visitors.
Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
AMAZING CLIMBING TOMATO!
CLIMBING TOMATO (Imported). Amaz-
ing introduction. Climbs to 20ft. on trellis,
fence, netting. BEARS THROUGHOUT THE
YEAR. Yields TWO BUSHELS large (3£in. x
2jin.) red, meaty Tomatoes per plant. AMAZ-
INGLY PRODUCTIVE. SOW NOW. Govern-
ment-tested seed (93 per cent, germination in
7 days), 2/6 per packet, posted.
Exclusive Distributors for Southern Hemisphere:
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 2540 of 1938.
BETWEEN LILLIAN LEONE MAY ADAM-
SON Judgment Creditor
JAMES ADAMSON Judgment Debtor
ENGLISH, SCOTTTISH & AUSTRALIAN
BANK LIMITED Garnishee.
TAKE NOTICE that on the twelfth day of
August instant an order was made attaching
all debts save and except wages or salary not
exceeding two pounds per week due and owing
or accruing due from the abovenamed Garnishee
to you to an amount not exceeding four hun-
dred and fourteen pounds eighteen shillings
and elevenpence to answer a judgment recovered
against you by the abovenamed Judgment
Creditor in this Honorable Court on the
twelfth day of August instant and that by the
said order the abovenamed Garnishee was sum-
moned to appear before the Prothonotary in
Chambers at the Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney on Monday the twelfth day of
September next at 9.30 of the clock in the fore-
noon to show cause why the said Garnishee
should not pay to the abovenamed Judgment
Creditor the debt due from the said Garnishee
to you or so much thereof as may be sufficient
to satisfy the said judgment debt. A true
copy of this order may be obtained by you
free of cost on application for the same at
the office of the undersigned.
DATED this Eighteenth day of August, 1938.
E. ALLAN UTHER,
Attorney for the Judgment Creditor,
350 George Street, Sydney.
TO JAMES ADAMSON, the abovenamed
Judgment Debtor,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
How modestly the Rachel Forster
hospital for women and children came
into being! The women doctors and
their friends who started it decided never
to weigh themselves down with debt.
Theirs have always been “cash and carry
on” transactions. This year the com-
mittee almost blushed over the infinitesi-
mal deficit of £4OO. But Minister for
Health FitzSimons at the annual meeting
in the Women’s College was all compli-
ments, and announced that the Govern-
ment was about to supply £lOO,OOO to-
wards building a new Rachel Forster.
This Redfern hospital is entirely staffed
by women doctors. Its outpatients’ de-
partment is one of the largest in Sydney.
The meeting was very blithe at thought
of the new building with its beds for
200 patients, a nurses’ home, X-ray and
pathological departments. Mrs. W. H.
Read, the hospital’s president, Dame
Constance D’Arcy and Mrs. Linda
Littlejohn were among the afternoon’s
speakers.
The most popular ball of the year as
far as the girls are concerned is the
Masonic. It is now ten years old, and
for each year of the decade brother
Masons have thought up new gifts for
their women guests. In the small hours
of last Friday morning every woman
went home clutching a large bottle of
French perfume. Lady Wakehurst, who
was there with the Governor, was simply
loaded with treasure violets and
hyacinths in varied tones of purple. That
was her presentation posy, and it chimed
in with her rose and silver lame frock.
Green tulle sashed in emerald satin
swirled around Morna Mackenzie. She
and Blake Pelly, A.D.C., were in attend-
ance on the vice-regals.
As usual the ball was brilliant with
flowers. Daffodils, hyacinths and sweet-
peas simply carolled of spring, and as for
the pots of specially-grown lijy-of-the-
valley on the supper tables, they suggested
millionaires on the horizon. There was
a garland of debs., whose frocking would
have done a mannequin parade proud. It
really was a good party. Silver tissue
bright with flowers was worn by Mrs.
H. L. Askey, wife of the club’s president.
Flower-patterned, too, were Mrs. Dyson
Austen’s black satins. Enid Halloran’s
green chiffons had large white spots scat-
tered on them. Turquoise and silver
shone on Mrs. G. C. Gollan, who came
with her Chief Secretary.
There was a queue almost equal to a
Ruth Draper rush panting to book seats
for the “Swiss Chalet” night at the Glassy
on the morning the plan opened. Eager
ice addicts who dawdled over hobbling
their seats had difficulty in getting into
the chilled atmosphere. The Swiss Chalet
(somebody said it was a bit of “Music
in the Air” scenery) arose on a glittering
field of ice, and in and out and round
about people in Swiss costumes and all
sorts of fantastic wear circled, swooped
and pirouetted in the most daring and
graceful way. There was one little girl
of four years, Rae Holderness, in the
junior ballet. Rona and Cliff Thaell,
who had spent weeks training the ballet!
left onlookers breathless with their
“Dream Waltz” number. The veiling of
the sun ballet charmed with its grace.
First of all a sun maiden in floating
classic robes skated out tossing a great
golden ball. After her, in gay pursuit,
came four other classic-looking girls,
each holding the corner of a diaphanous
lilac veil. This they bent and spread
above the ice, then let it careen into the
air. Finally they captured the sun maid
with their mistlike gauze.
Marie Bremner and Mrs. Sterling Levis
carried bright smiles and a parcel under
the arm away from the Town Hall last
Wednesday. The parcel contained a life-
governor certificate of the Anti-t.b. Asso-
ciation. Between the two of them last year
they raised over £lOO for the anti-t.b.
work. Other ladies who were honored in
the same way were Mrs. Frank Golsby
and Mrs. Stan Wilson. Edwin Geach also
collected a certificate. It was a smoothly-
running meeting, this 25th one of the
association, and it was like old times at
the civic headquarters to have former
Town Clerk Layton presiding, with his
well-tailored English and his well-tailored
clothes. What is meant by a spot on
the lung and other symptom's, their pro-
gress and sometimes their arrest, were
shown in X-ray slides. After this slightly
macabre touch, the meeting ended with
tea for all.
Elioth Gruner, just returned to city
life, brings with him some characteristic
paintings 7 of the Bellinger River district.
With the help of friend Brian Cannell he
again had a show in a garage—it was to
help the local hospital. This year it netted
over £l2. Last year’s takings were over
£l4. With the Government pound for
pound that makes a neat sum. Gruner
nearly met his Waterloo in the criticism
of a small realist of the district. He
looked long at a Gruner landscape, and
then he whispered: “Mr. Gruner, I have
never seen a cow in a paddock and no
manure.” The artist looked from the
critic to the picture: “You are quite
right,” he said, “but,” he pointed out in
triumph, “the grass in that paddock
is very long.” The very beginning
critic was thereupon quite placated. When
Elioth and Brian got back to town they
found that some seeker for love had
annexed the old Italian bronze Cupid that
was their door-knocker. Brian at the
present moment is in St. Vincent’s private
hospital, being separated from his tonsils.
Over at Kirribilli the Memorial Col-
lege of Household Arts and Science is
doing a fine work towards building up
better and brighter Australians. Diet
and nutrition are very important sub-
jects in the lectures of the college prin-
cipal, Ruby Simpson, M.Sc. of Columbia
University. Ruby, who came recently
to the Kirribilli college direct from the
staff of the lowa Uni., has 24 resident
girl students and the dietitian students
of R.P.A. to listen to her lectures on' the
engineering of the alimentary canal. The
college is one of the many achievements
of Dr. Mary Booth.
Sydney’s old friends Lord Beauchamp
and David Smyth have been drinking
large draughts of the Malvern Festival.
Madresfield Court is in Malvern. They
were at the new Shaw play “Geneva,”
and found it good, but, in the Shaw
style, rather wordy. The last act takes
an hour and a half. David, who was off
for a fortnight’s motoring in Italy, had
just returned from a short visit to Paris.
He found the city on the Seine still ex-
cited over the royal visit. The Queen
is now known as “La Reine Blanche,”
and a nickname is sure sign of popularity
in France.
A Sydney woman goes to Villers-Bret.:
We spent the night in Lille, doing a round
of the boulevards, where the warm-hearted
enthusiasm of the French people, especially the
ex-servicemen, was overwhelming: it was no-
thing to see our men being heartily kissed on
both cheeks by some badly-wounded brother-
in-arms. We left for Villers-Bretonneux via
Foullouley-Corbie through the Somme Valley.
In the distance we saw Vimy Ridge, with its
beautiful Canadian Memorial. The route was
lined with soldiers and gendarmes, and waving
peasants shouting “Vive les Australiens.” The
memorial itself stands on the rounded summit
of a green mound. The sovereigns marched
between two lines of tombstones that lie on the
hill below the tower. There wasn’t a man in the
guard of honor who wasn’t vying for the
opportunity of getting a personal smile, if not
a shake of the hand, from the Queen.
Next in popularity came General Birdwood,
who looked as if he would never get through
the crowds. Earle Page, Deputy Prime Minister
of Australia, brought a breath of the North
Coast with him and was hailed as “good old
doctor.” An Australian soldier, C. S. Atkin,
of the 3rd Light Horse, has been made cus-
todian of the memorial. Some of the most
interesting spectators were the War Grave Com-
missioners, with their wives and children. Theirs
is a lonely life, but, judging from the beauty
of the 2000 tombs that lie, encircled by blue-
gums, on the hill below the tower and the
way they are kept, there must be a tremendous
amount of love and memories poured into the
work.
By last airmail this photograph of
Lady Dorothy Lygon came to The
Bulletin. Lady Dorothy is the youngest
daughter of Earl Beauchamp, and is
coming to Australia with him at the end
of Noyember. She and her three sisters
have typical English rose-leaf com-
plexions. The sisters, like their father,
are interested in the arts, and at their
parties there are always many young
writers and artists.
Ella Shields in impeccable tailorings
and silk hat at a jaunty angle as the
gay young man about town, Ella as her
incomparable Burlington Bertie, Ella in
sweeping rich black silks and floating
tulle singing “Old Waltz Tune” was
the belle of the party for the War
Veterans’ Home. This was an evening
affair, staged at the Australia. For the
first part the ballroom was the centre
of activity, and when suppertime came
the two adjoining rooms were just large
enough to hold the guests. Among these
were Richard Tauber and his wife. They
were impartial and applauded all the
numbers; perhaps they were a trifle
warmer when Heather Kinnaird sang
songs by Percy Kahn to the composer’s
own accompaniment. And, of course,
you want to know what Diana wore.
Her frock was long and full and was of
black marquisette. Her short coat was
of silver fox, and on her red head she
wore a little flat black velvet hat from
which a perky veil flared.
There was a one-act comedy by players
from Bryant’s Playhouse, an ex-husband
and his four divorced wives the charac-
ters. The four girls were extremely
attractive. Charles Nicis sang Russian
songs standing up very straight in Rus-
sian boots, his suit a dashing Cossack one.
Raymond Beatty and Fraser Coss raised
their voices, and Fred Hyde supplied
accompaniments. “Joe” Collins intro-
duced the performers, sometimes with
a dash of strawberry jam, sometimes
with a mustard pickle.
There was quite a Consular touch
about the Ladies of Lebanon Ball. The
Republic of Lebanon had sent six
saplings of the famous cedars of Lebanon
as a gift to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. These had their roots in the
ranges near R’Gherrie, and it is said that
some of the original cedars growing in
them thar parts are thousands of years
old. It was of such that Solomon’s
temple was built, and the ships of the
Phoenicians. Priminister Lyons had for
deputy E. J. Harrison, and he received
the young trees doomed to grow in
Canberra from A. Alam, M.L.C.
The ball was at the Wentworth Hotel.
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet was
there, and during the evening presented
with the right French air the purple
ribbon of l’Officier de l’Academie to Mrs.
Alam. France’s Vice-Consul Puaux and
Mrs. Puaux, Latvia’s Consul Norman
Macleod and Mrs. Norman, China’s
Consul-General and his wife and the
Bertie Kellys were in the official group.
Mrs. Alam, who was president of the
committee, wore berry-red laces. Mrs.
Norman Macleod’s new hairdressing was
gaze-attracting. Her black hair was
brushed straight up from the back and
fastened in a roll at the top of the head.
On top of the roll was fastened a knot
of that delicate little orchid flower that
is known as Christmas rose. Frock worn
with this was of lacquered lobelia-blue
satin, patterned in pink roses.
First and Second Anti-Aircraft Bat-
teries are holding their sixth annual ball
at Mark Foy’s Empress ballroom on
September 2. Presentation of trophies
won during the year by various members
of the battery will take place during the
evening. The band of the Royal Aus-
tralian Artillery will be in attendance.
Tickets have been limited to 1000. The
uniform of the unit will be worn and
will add color to the ball.
Hopewood House had two parties last
week. The first was the fifth musicale of
the winter season, a feature of which was
the singing of the Hopewood House glee
club. The second time the electrics
blazed was for the debut of Florence
O’Brien, a clever young dancer, of Double
Bay, and for Sonia Kingsley Newell.
Sonia is a pianist of decided charm. She
was all white taffeta and tulle. Florence
wore in her dance numbers alternately
a chiffon dress of pink, a frock of lilac
and primrose organza, a crinoline frock
of white, and classic ballet outfit for her
dying-swan number. Margaret Chalmers,
who played for her, wore gleaming gold
in contrast to her brunette coloring. Mrs.
O’Brien, who is tall and fair, trailed silver
lame. Black threaded in silver increased
the quiet dignity of the school’s principal,
Nancy Jobson. Shoulder scarves of tur-
quoise floated from Mrs. Kingsley
Newell’s black sheers. Supper was one
of the most luscious met this season.
Last Friday evening at the Sydney
Grammar’s Assembly Hall, nine repre-
sentatives from the G.P. and Associated
Grammar Schools vigorously contested
the Lawrence Campbell trophy for ora-
tory. They had 15 minutes to prepare
a ten-minute speech on one of three
subjects—previously unknown —“Stage v.
Screen,” “Personality and Character” and
“The Advantages of Travel.” Lawrence,
at the end of the outbursts, said
these youthful word-pounders provided
the keenest contest since its inception.
Shore (W. B. Pritchett) won for the third
year in succession from High (Gordon
Campbell) through terse, brilliant diction,
though Campbell’s vocal and platform
training were very telling. Garrett (Scots)
narrated personal experiences on a
world’s tour, and in a scathing attack
on modern cocktail-drinking flappers
aroused uproarious response from the
audience of boys and supporters. Gram-
mar prefects later entertained the few
hundred present at supper, concluding
an interesting evening. The trophy is a
bronze figure revolving on a dark-green
pedestal.
Gundagai and Cootamundra still have
warm memories of the late P. J.
O’Donnell, of Mingay station, and his six
good-looking daughters. The youngest,
now the wife of Commander Francis
Shaw, of the R.N., has just sent an air-
mail letter to sisters Mrs. Brennan, Mrs.
George Flannery and Mrs. Warwick
Armstrong telling that her son Pat, who
has been going to the Benedictine College
at Ampleforth, England, has, to father
and mother’s delight, passed his entrance
exam, to the navy training school at
Woolwich. Mingay, by the way, is the
name of the pleasant Shaw home in
England.


x
-jr
m
i /■) }
-ffi
V?
n
□_l
y !
1
n
111
El
mrz
ram
~1
St
==V
8*
i ini'
3)
ss?
-*«*.
V
Hot “Schnapps”
for Cold Snaps
Hot, aromatic and palatable, a Wolfe’s
Schnapps toddy is an unfailing friend when
you’re chilled to the bone. You’re most
susceptible to colds and Winter ailments in
changeable weather —when the bloodstream
is sluggish, when the kidneys alone bear the
strain of eliminating impurities. Then is the
time to rely on Wolfe’s Schnapps ; then is the
time that your system needs the assistance,
the purifying action of this splendid medicinal
beverage. Keep a bottle at home, for no
other spirit can truthfully claim the same
medicinal virtues.
’S
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
WOLFE
TAKE IT HOT
WITH LEMON
AT BEDTIME
#.*2
OLFE
DUCT OF HOLLAND.
~——- THIS
ggBSATIC ALCOHOLIC
Fmfmataclured %Kclu»l*elf 1
gmt-juuptrty and injjredjot. **
Efot possible
tm=Xtst attention of Ar»»U.s>
ssisASrar#
EEfc-CutiM. cmbofcdTta
»a
fcotTEfl
==“~flET: 1 PINT 8 FL 01
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtainable
at all hotels in large, half and
quarter size bottles.


ORANGE JUICE
HEALTH TALK No. 4.
After Fevers and Colds.
A diet may provide sufficient carbo-
hydrates, proteins and fats and yet may
be deficient in a vital health requirement
—vitamin C. This necessary vitamin may
be insufficient even when the diet includes
fruit and vegetables. The full vitamin C
dosage required is ensured by taking a
daily glass of orange juice—the richest and
most convenient source of vitamin C.
The human system’s requirement of
vitamin C varies with the individual’s
state of health. The quantity of vitamin
C contained in 3oz. of orange juice is
needed to prevent the development of
scurvy, but for some people the equiva-
lent of 6-Boz. is required. Medical authori-
ties say that the system’s need for vitamin
C is greater following fever and colds, or
during periods of anxiety or depression.
Some drugs in common use also destroy
the vitamin C content of an otherwise
adequate diet.
The pleasant acid-sugar flavor of orange
juice stimulates the sluggish appetite, and
its mineral salts aid the digestion and
enable the full benefit to be obtained from
other necessary foods.
New Recipe Books, Post Free, From
Victorian Central Citrus Association,
422 Collins St., Melb. Central, 8895.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1232 of 1938.
BETWEEN LILIAN DIMOND (formerly
Lilian Hoad) Petitioner
And JAMES MAJOR DIMOND Respon-
dent.
TO JAMES MAJOR DIMOND late of
Wingham in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILIAN
DIMOND has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Second day
of November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Fifth day of August, 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) N. J. PHILLIPS,
Clerk in Divorce.
E. R. STACK, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wingham; by N. W. Caldwell, Solicitor, E.,
S. and A. Bank Building, Cnr. King and George
Streets, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1140 of 1938.
BETWEEN AMY ELEANOR HAYES Peti-
tioner
And THOMAS TRELOAR HAYES Re-
spondent.
TO THOMAS TRELOAR HAYES.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AMY
ELEANOR HAYES has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Fifteenth
day of November One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-eight and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of August,
a.d. 1938.
For the Registrar,
(L.s.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 670 of 1938.
BETWEEN BERT HERBERT WHITLOCK
Petitioner
And VALENTINE MYRA WHITLOCK
Respondent.
TO VALENTINE MYRA WHITLOCK (for-
merly Valentine Myra Bean) late of Forbes
in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed BERT
HERBERT WHITLOCK has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds that you have been guilty of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Fifteenth day of
November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-eight and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned Solicitors
free of charge.
DATED this sixteenth day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. F. LENNON,
Clerk in Divorce.
RAYMOND MEILLON, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Forbes; by BARRY, NORRIS &
WTLDES. 62 Hunter Street. Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF WESTERN
AUSTRALIA — Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes— No. 98 of 1938 BETWEEN DAPHNE
GRACE MILLICENT TEEDE Petitioner and
FREDERICK WILLTAM TEEDE Respondent
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM TEEDE formerly
of Perth and Kalgoorlie in the State of
Western Australia TAKE NOTICE that a
citation has been issued in this Honorable
Court citing you to appear and answer the
petition of DAPHNE GRACE MILLICENT
TEEDE of 34 St. George’s Terrace Perth in
the State of Western Australia praying for a
dissolution of her marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion In- default of you so
appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the
said petition proved and pronounce sentence
in respect thereto And TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within 45 days after the date of this publi-
cation to attend in person or by yQur Solicitor at
the Central Office of the said Court at Perth
and there enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose DATED this 12th day
of August 1938.—T. F. DAVIES, Registrar.
DWYER, DURACK & DUNPHY, of Samson’s
Buildings, 33 Barrack Street, Perth, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
Melbourne
Chatter
Frost on the grass and the taste of
mountain snow in the wind don’t seem
to matter so much by the end of August,
for the time of year is turning everyone’s
heads away from tweeds to lighter, softer
materials for balmier days. Hicks Atkin-
son introduced the new season with an
interesting showroom display, and
Myers are running a week of mannequin
parades in the Mural Hall. Spring pleats
are something to contend with, so much
so that the young woman who has to
measure every half-yard in ratio to the
size of her pay envelope is wondering
how she’s going to get around the hem
problem. For materials don’t get any
cheaper, but more and more exclusive
and expensive. Prints are an orgy of
gaiety and riotous living, and color
schemes are exhilarating contrasts, with
all the cylamens on the highest crest of
popular fancy and “shocking” pink and
“shy” blue out together for a good time.
A worth-while ensemble that doesn’t
show pleats is in navy-and-white striped
silk, with the stripes meeting in a diagonal
bang at the seams of the skirt. The
accompanying bolero’s stripes are
arranged horizontally and perpendicu-
larly, and the outfit is worn with a royal-
blue hat, belt and tucked-in scarf. Hats
like Don Quixote’s windmill are quite
sure of their welcome, even though they
go out on the wearers’ curls and come
home over the wrist, the breeze
triumphant. Many hats are attached to
wide ribbon bands and bows around the
back of the head, and some giddy little
Tonkinese shapes grow tall, fat roses on
each side. For tailored suits there are
still tall crowns and saucer brims. For
beach wear slacks are back in favor to
make ensembles with blouses of similar
material. Among wraps to slip over
swimming-suits are attractive Dirndl
coats in all sorts of saucy patterns. They
are knee-length with flared skirts, nipped-
in waists and square-cut shoulders.
The “Crescent Moon” bridge party for
the Children’s Hospital overflowed the
Gowrie Room at Menzies, so that several
tables played in the exclusive quiet of an
extra room down an adjoining corridor.
The organisers were Mrs. C. S. Cunning-
ham, who brought her own four and
played with them, and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell and Mrs. Barry Thomson (non-
bridge players). Phyllis Fuller hadn’t
had a game of bridge for a year, but
found herself getting back into her stride
with Mrs. Laurie Tewkesbury, Mrs lan
McNeil and Bunty Govett. Mrs. R. A.
Staughton was among those seriously
engaged with bids and declarations. Mrs.
Horace Spry called in for tea and a talk
about her trip to Queensland, from which
warmer climate she has just returned
after three months’ holiday. Jean Wal-
lace Mitchell and Joan Clark carried
baskets of flowers and trays of sweets
from table to table throughout the after-
noon.
The committee which organised the
harpsichord and voice recital last week
at Grong Grong (the ballroom of which
was lent for the occasion by the Tom
Smiths) chose green leaves and daffodils
as the mainstay of their decorations.
Modems of questionable lineage such
as Iceland poppies were not in the run-
ning, being unknown in the sixteenth
century. The artists’ gowns were also in
keeping with period. Mrs. Reg. Ellery
(Mancell Kirby), who played harpsichord
accompaniments and solos (one group
of solos was especially written for this
instrument by Margaret Sutherland), was
in a picture gown of shot-green taffeta
with fitting bodice, square neck, full
skirt and sleeves. Kathleen Castles’s
frock was of honey-colored velvet orna-
mented with a spray of creamy flowers
pinned to the corsage, a gift from Doris
Bradford.
The recital was in aid of the Kath-
leen Castles Fund, which is sending this
promising young soprano overseas early
in September. The intimate setting
of the room was particularly suitable
for such an occasion. The lights
were lowered during each number, so
that the harpsichord on its low plat-
form was only softly illuminated, as if
by candles augmented with the flicker-
ing glow of a fire. The Lady Mayoress,
accompanied by Mrs. Ward Ambler and
Mrs. C. R. Merrillees, was welcomed
by Mrs. Eric Pyke, who is the hon. sec.
of the Kathleen Castles Fund committee.
Others present included the chatelaine
of Grong Grong (Mrs. Tom Smith),
Edward Goll, James Berry, C. E.
Monteath, Howard Elvins and the John
Scarboroughs. Mrs. Scarborough is
musical and particularly interested in the
harpsichord.
A member of a clever, versatile
family is Ethel Barber (photograph by
Broothorn), who is holding an exhibition
at Riddell’s Galleries. Miss Barber
studied at the Slade School in London
for 4i years, and holds the Slade
Diploma for Fine Arts, which entitles
her to teach. Her favorite subject is
sculpture, and she is particularly in-
terested in stone as a medium. Her
work is influenced by her fondness for
Indian, Egyptian and Assyrian art, for
she lived in India for several years, saw
Ceylon under the guidance of her father
and was in Egypt during 1937.
Ethel’s father is Lorraine Barber, who
held an exhibition of photography at
Margaret McLean’s Gallery a couple
of years ago. His profession is engineer-
ing, but he is also a missionary, and is
now back in Bengal running an indus-
trial school. Her mother is Dr. Alice
Barber, who did her medical course here,
more recently went to London to
study psychiatry, and a few months
ago returned to Melbourne a medical
psychologist. Ethel’s twin brother Alan
is an arts graduate now teaching in
Sydney. Her sister Margaret completed
a kindergarten course in England, and
is so interested in education for young
minds that she is now at the Kinder-
garten College doing a nursery schools
course. Among some of Ethel’s friends
in Melbourne are past pupils of Lauris-
ton and of Swinburne Technical College,
where she was an arts student.
An old English garden scented with
pink-and-white fruit blossom and more
blossom inside the house (some of the
almond was a gift from Government
House) were among impressions gathered
at Vaire Wilkinson’s cocktail-party. It
was Vaire’s nineteenth birthday, but few
guests knew of the event in her young
life. Mrs. Wilkinson’s beige fox-fur was
in perfect harmony with the blonde
figurings upon her satin frock. Her sister,
Mrs. Frank Murray, was present, and
there was a full muster of the rest of
the family —Major Wilkinson and
Dudley, Mrs. Wilkinson’s son Kin Degen-
hardt and his fiancee, Margaret Rigby
who are planning to be married early in
the new year.
Among other guests were Mollie
Clapham in a little fur cape, Ann Mack-
intosh, boronia mpon her lapel and
layers of black and pastel-pink veiling
around her Edwardian hat, the Vincent
Wheatleys’ tall and attractive daughter
Pat, and vivacious Diana Davey, of
Perth, who is staying with her aunt,
Mrs. Bob Schlesinger. A group of
Scottish persuasion included Captain
Moffat-Pender, Cumbrae Stewart and
Tom Lindsay. Meridith Longmore’s rust-
colored head was also noticed. He’s
well known for his uncanny compati-
bility with the piano, playing from ear,
watching the notes worked by a pianola
and copying them with his own fingers.
The Old Lauristonians’ Dramatic
Society gave remarkably good entertain-
ment in the University Union during their
season of Robert Morley’s “Short Story,”
produced by George Faulkner. Douglas
Mcßride and Edna Lowe got right into
the character shells of droll couple Lord
and Lady Bucktrout. Lord B. has an
undeveloped brain, stiff joints and an
unquenchable thirst. Lady B. gesticu-
lates and is pleasantly eccentric. Leura
Andrews as Georgina had poise and as-
surance (in spite of the handicap of a
very bad cold). Not long ago Mrs.
Andrews returned from abroad with use-
ful experiences, particularly on the pro-
duction side, gathered from her work
with the British Drama League.
Margaret Black moved gracefully
across the stage as egoist Penelope, Jean
Picken was the maid Peacock, and Sybil
Irving had her share of the laughs as Miss
Flower, in woollen stockings and
gossamer veil. Murray Jepson was the
American impresario, and Douglas Peart
played Simon, the husband who managed
the impossible, a sinful love affair while
on a cruise. The men in the cast were all
from banks and belong to the Combined
Banks’ Dramatic Society, which put on
a season recently. Among those who
helped the Old Lauristonians were Mrs.
J. P. Major, Mrs. G. C. Scantlebury, Mrs.
A. R. Stewart and Mrs. Geoff Docker.
Special guests welcomed on the first
night included Mrs. W. Castle (wife of
the American medical man who was in
Melbourne giving post-graduate lectures),
Dr. and Mrs. B. T. Zwar, Mrs. G. G.
Henderson, Mrs. Konrad Hiller and
Mrs. Constance Hughes.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Mrs. Reg Ellery (Mancell Kirby when
she turns back the manuscripts of history
upon the two keyboards and eight pedals
of her harpsichord). She studied the
harpsichord (which shouldn’t be con-
founded with the spinet) in Munich,
and when she returned home last year
brought her instrument with her. It has
delicate inner adjustments which quite
often get out of order, but Mrs. Ellery’s
studies included mechanics, and she can
always rectify the fault. She says that
most harpsichords one sees outside Ger-
many are in museums, and even if they
could produce any sounds it would be
dangerous to touch them in case they
fell to pieces. They are quaint relics of
another age, redolent of a feminine
boudoir, their keys inlaid with mother-
of-pearl, with panels of plump Cupids
and fittings made for scent-bottles and
powder- and sewing-boxes, but with little
firmness left in the quills or leather pieces
that pluck the notes and so bring forth
the music. Mrs. Ellery is very interested
in the art of her harpsichord, and so en-
joyed playing at a recent Malcolm Sar-
gent orchestral concert that she didn’t
even think about being nervous.
Speaking in idealistic vein the head-
master of Geelong Grammar School,
J. R. Darling, opened Arnold Shore’s ex-
hibition of pictures at the Athenaeum.
Mr. Darling believes that the world
would be a grim or at least a negative
place without the arts. He mentioned
that the object of living is often sub-
merged in the struggle to live, and as a
last word ventured to hope that Mr.
Shore’s pictures would be seen and en-
joyed “in silence and humility.” The
artist was present with a four-leafed
clover in his buttonhole, given him for
luck by a well-wisher. Mrs. Darling, who
came up from Geelong with her hus-
band, wore a fur coat with a brown frock
and hat. During the week several
Macedon people called up to see the
show, for the paintings included many
scenic aspects of the mountain and
glimpses of well-known gardens, includ-
ing Willowmount and Dreamthorpe. and
another picture from behind Darriweit.
Mrs. David Hunter, whose portrait
was studied with interest by her friends
looked in one afternoon. She is very
busy at present, for during the first week
in September her daughter Jean is to
be married to Archie Scott, of Christ-
church (M.L.). The couple are flying to
England for their honeymoon, but not
by a speedy and tiring 10 days’ hop. They
will stay in Java long enough to see
something of that tropic isle’s monu-
mental ruins of former civilisations, and
are planning a week in Rome.


Take the Nightmare
out of
Night Driving
with
BOSCH
headlight inserts
Sole Agents: PYROX PTY., LTD.,
97 Palmer Street, East Sydney.
0h h (rttunbtuib
m
1
m
I
i
i
FREE.'
WOULD you like to hold a responsible, highly-paid Engineering
Post, directing other men? Employers are asking for men
with recognised Technical qualifications. There really are thousands
of opportunities around you, but unless you know just where they
are and how to prepare for them, the chances are that your
opportunity will pass by unheeded.
“ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES,” a 22? page book of authori-
tative reference to Engineering careers, will show you many ways
in which a successful career may be planned and followed. An
intelligent study of this guide will alter your entire outlook and
earning power.
Among many other interesting things, the book outlines Home Study
Courses In all branches of Mechanical, Civil and Constructional,
Electrical, Aeronautical, Automobile, High Speed Diesel, Refrigera-
tion, Welding, Air Conditioning, Geology and Mineralogy, Machine
Construction Drawing and Design, Television and Radio Engineering;
and gives details of A.M.I.Mech.E , A.M.1.C.E., A.M.1.E.E., A.M.1.A.E.,
A.M.I.Ae.E., A.M.l.E.fAust.), A.M.I.A.E.(Aust.), and other import-
ant Engineering Examinations.
In all sincerity, we urge you to sit down and plan your Career,
whilst the chance is in your hands. Write for your copy of this
book to-day; it is sent FREE AND POST FREE. We have no
outdoor representatives. You make your own decision and then
we help you win success quickly and surely.
The British Institute Of Engineering Technology
Head Office; London (Centres throughout the World).
Australasian Offices: Kembla Building, Margaret St., Sydney, JN.JS.W,
COURSES INCLUDE
DIESEL ENGINEERING
AERO ENGINEERING
RADIO ENGINEERING
PRACTICAL TELEVISION
And every branch of
Engineering.
POST THIS
FREE COUPON
NOW
THE BRITISH INSTITUTE OF EN-
GINEERING TECHNOLOGY, Kembla
Bldg., Margaret St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Please forward FREE OF COST OR
OBLIGATION of any kind your 227
page handbook, “ENGINEERING
OPPORTUNITIES,”
NAME .....
ADDRESS
8.1.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EGHT
Where Old Bones Grow Young
“Dungeness”: Ten years ago I per-
suaded a Victorian friend, retired on pen-
sion, to try what the N.Q. sun could do
for his rheumatism. Old friend believed
firmly that tropics were only fit for black-
fellows (he’d never been north of Syd-
ney), and fervently disapproved of
Queensland’s Labor politics. Much
against their better judgment, he and his
wife, also sixtyish, rheumatic and dis-
approving, were installed in a cottage on
Magnetic Island, off Townsville, early in
June, 1928, with a promise to stick it out
for three months if their constitutions
could stand it.
By August his wife was telling my
missus that one didn’t need to get sun-
burned in order to attain a really good
skin-bronze. Lord and lady had some
quite excited yarns about local fishing,
but nothing at all about the rheumatiz.
In October, inquiries as to the rheu-
matics were received without interest.
What was troubling them, then, was that
Awful Summer or Wet Season which
would, from November on, make local
living impossible. They’d been getting
about a bit—Cairns, the Atherton Table-
land, and so on. The scenery amazed
them, and they liked the people. “You’d
be surprised how many of them have
come here from the South,” she wrote
us. But —the Awful Summer!
Again, with grave misgivings, they de-
cided to take my advice and try an Awful
Summer once. They picked the Table-
land, half a mile aloft in the Dreadful
Tropics. Their family got quite worried
over a letter complaining of the chilliness
of Christmas Eve at Herberton. This
unheard-of tropic phenomenon the
family ascribed to thinning of the blood
or sunstroke. Tactful suggestion of early
return evoked a tart reply that the family
would have been a lot easier to bring up
if their parents had discovered the North
40 years before, and not to talk non-
sense. By May those deluded old persons
had decided to live in the North for good.
They bought a car with a camping body,
and took a honeymoon trip out west as
a start in the new life, begun at 63.
Depression startled them in 1930 as it,
did all of us, but they found Queensland
as sane as the rest of Australia. Also,
they found that clothes, food, housing
and the rest of essential living needs cost
less in warm climates. You could grow
the most surprising things in the veg.,
flower, fruit line in the garden of a rented
cottage. A wireless set kept them
amused and in touch with the rest of
Australia and further. An annual tenner
in newspaper and library subs, kept them
extravagantly supplied with reading
matter. After two years’ experimenting
as to locality they made their selection of
a bought cottage, with garden, mail and
trade deliveries, handy fishing and beach-
bathing all complete. By 1935 they were
inviting me to come and see the Real
Australia.
Me! There’s worse to be told. I live
200 miles south of them, and we cer-
tainly did get a spot of that cold snap
in July, down to 50-odd on the ther-
mometer. They wrote commiseratingly.
“Come up here, D.,” he said, “and get
a bit of sunshine.”
Me, after nearly 50 years’ acquaint-
ance with the best place for keeping one’s
bones, old or young, properly warm!
These transplanted southerners! But
that’s the way they get when the cold
and fog and chills and rheumatiz are
warmed out of them. And —well, we’re
wondering whether, after all, we’re quite
enough North of 28 to get the very best
place for the faithful old lungs and kid-
neys and livers and other essential small-
goods, not to speak of all these new
ductless glands, to do their best for
themselves and us with the least possible
trouble to any of the combine.
Brisbane Show
Brisbane Show this year was the biggest
ever held. Attendances rose to 42,000 on
“ Yairs , I kin remember the time when all this country Was as bare as yr ’ and .”
the second day and to 100,000 on the
people’s day, and were greater than those
which Sydney Royal used to achieve in
the years immediately after the war.
Animals exhibited are valued at
£500,000. The ring events, the dog classes
and the sideshows were much improved
from last year.
The cattle exhibit was a sound one, but
sales certainly did not reflect the apparent
prosperity of the State or augur well
for the development of the cattle indus-
try. One auctioneer remarked that the
bull auctions were the “most depressing
for 10 years.” One bull was sold pri-
vately for 200 guineas, and one at auction
for 180 guineas. But, generally speaking,
the average prices for stud animals were
below those paid for herd bulls a couple
of decades ago.
It seems like a good chance for
northern breeders to get rid of their
scrubs cheaply and replace them with
good sires.
The Royal National Association feels
no gloom. It proposes to increase its
seating accommodation by building a new
3|-acre stand before the 1939 exhibition.
“S. Gumm”: Kalgoorlie is celebrat-
ing its birthday—the 45th. Actually the
celebrations —they will last for weeks —
are a bit belated, since it was on June 17,
1893, that Paddy Hannan applied for his
Reward claim —and the application was
made at Coolgardie—but what’s a few
months when the Lake View and Star
and the Great Boulder are yielding
mighty outputs and spring is on the way
and the Hannans Handicap and the Kal-
goorlie and Boulder Cups are in pros-
pect? Hoover knew Kalgoorlie when
he was young, and I am sure that, with
all his surviving contemporaries of
the Roaring Days, he is glad the old
place has had a second innings. It was
a romantic town, and it had its singing
birds who nested in the “Sun” office —-
editor Andree Hayward (The Bulletin’s
“T. the R.’O, “Dryblower” Murphy,
“Bluebush” Bourke, “Crosscut” Wilson
and “Prospect Good.” Is verse ever
written on the goldfields now?
* * * *
“J. Want”: The city fathers of Mary-
borough (Q.), an earnest place which
builds railway engines and aspires to
build ships, have decided to prevent the
excessive use of alcohol at dances and
the “degrading of our young women”
by “prohibiting the construction and use
of alcoves in halls.” It seems a simple
remedy, if carried to its logical con-
clusion. There are dozens of towns
where the same objective may be achieved
by abolishing cars. In Townsville, where
there is a pub every ten yards, the thing
could be done by abolishing pubs.
* * * *
“Culldoo”: Announced that Mr. Mc-
Ewen has in mind the granting of the
vote to selected abos. No word about
who will select them or what qualification
will be demanded. Possibly it will be
possession of two quid with which to
pay the fine if they fail to vote.
* H= * *
“Zedo”: Brisbane country hospitals
are receiving a nice windfall of £400,000-
odd from the Government, mostly dis-
tributed among small centres. Charle-
ville gets £42,000, Ingham £40,000, Kin-
garoy £33,800, Boonah £31,000, Mareeba
£22,000 and Blackall £lB,BOO, while new
nurses’ quarters and private wards are to
be added to many of the larger hospitals.
It is sound investment.


f
C RAFT A CREED
TRANSMITTING AERIAL
INSULATORS.
These insulators are 12in.
long and are manufactured
from highly-glazed English
porcelain.
They give an exceptionally
long leakage path, and capa-
city is reduced to the
minimum.
TYPE AX, LIST PRICE 4/6
You cannot ao better than get your equip-
ment from John Martin . . . “The Friendly
Wholesale House,”
Everything radio and electrical at the
LOWEST PRICES IN THE STATE.
1
RADIO £ ELECTRICAL
SUPPLIES
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
Telegrams: “Jonmar” Sydney.
Length
1
Length
of Acriu 1
1
of Aerial
Kc.
Metres,
in Feet-
K>. |
Metres.
in Fret.
3,501)
85.714
133.714
28,000
10.714
16.714
3,550
84.508
131.832
28,100
10.676
16.655
3,600
83.333
129.999
28,200
10.638
16.595
3,650
82.191
128.218
28,300
10.600
16,536
3,700
81.081
126.486
28,400
10.563
16.478
3,750
80.000
124.800
28,500
10.526
16.421
3,800
78.947
123.157
28,600
10.489
16.363
3,850
77,922
122.025
28,700
10.452
16.305
3,900
76.923
120.461
28,800
10.416
16.249
3,950
75.949
118.480
28,900
10.381
16.194
4,000
75.000
117.000
29,000
10.345
16.138
29,100
10.309
16.082
7,000
42.857
66.857
29,200
10.274
16.027
7,050
42.553
66.383
29,300
10.239
15.973
7,100
42.253
65.915
29,400
10.204
15.918
7,150
41.958
65.454
29,500
10.169
15.864
7,200
41.666
64.999
29,600
10.135
15.811
7,250
41.379
64.551
29,700
10.101
15.758
7,300
41.096
64.110
29,800
10.067
15.705
29,900
10.033
15.651
14,000
21.428
33.428
30,000
10.000
15.600
33 30^
14,100
w 1 ij
21.276
33.191
56,000
5.357
8.357
14.150
21,201
33.074
56,500
5.309
8.282
14,200
21.126
1 32.957
57,000
5.263
8.210
14,250
21.052
| 32.841
57,500
5.218
8.140
14,300
20.979
| 32.727
58,000
5.172
8.068
14,350
20.905
[ 32.612
58,500
5.128
8.000
14,400
20.833
32.499
59,000
5.084
7.931
59,500
5.042
7.865
60,000
5.000
7.800
EMPIRES MILLIONS
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Aerial Medical Service and
Radio.
The newest flying-doctor base for the
Australian Aerial Medical Services is at
Broken Hill (N.S.W.). The radio equip-
ment, designed and built in Sydney by
The transmitter for the new Broken Hill base of A.M.S.
Built and designed in Sydney by Colville Wireless Equipment Co.,
this station will sign BSK.
Colville Wireless Equipment Co., has
many interesting features. Provision had
to be made for operation on three widely-
separated frequencies, and the specifica-
tions called for rapid changing of
these frequencies, as may be desirable
for effective communication in emer-
gencies. No manual attention is neces-
Aerial ambulance ’plane used by A.M.S.
sary to the transmitter or aerial-
coupling arrangements. The operator
sits at a control table with receiver,
monitor and mixer controls and a panel
carrying indicator lights and press-
buttons. The buttons automatically
select the appropriate frequency. Simi-
larly, from the operating position, the
operator can change from pure C.W. to
I.C.W. or telephone transmission at a
second’s notice.
Philips valves are used in the design,
and the output stage uses two high-
power pentodes with suppressor-grid
modulation, giving 100 p.c. modulation
with excellent frequency response. The
station will sign BSK, and on the 44-
metre wave-length should be heard by
short-wave listeners quite frequently.
Operator is to be Harry Blue, formerly
known as amateur VK2YI.
Development of the flying-doctor ser-
vice is the outcome of 20 years of
pioneering work by Rev. John Flynn, of
the Australian Inland Mission. The first
medical base was established at Clon-
curry, and from the inception has ren-
dered remarkable service and been in-
strumental in saving many lives. The
Cloncurry area extends some 800 miles,
and the job was to provide speedy com-
munication for the men and women scat-
tered in the bush country. Radio, in
conjunction with aviation, solved the
problem. Experience resulted in the de-
velopment of the pedal “transceiver”
type of equipment. An Australian ama-
teur, Alf Traegar, of Adelaide, was re-
sponsible for this work, and in 1928,
after years of experimenting, the first
pedal set was installed in the Cloncurry
area. The next few years saw more than
50 of these pedal installations in service
in the territory.
Chief difficulty in con-
nection with the operation
was that most people
could not read and send
the Morse code, but
Traegar worked out an in-
genious Morse “typewriter.”
Anybody could handle this,
but Traegar was not satis-
fied, and went ahead with
the designing of suitably
economical radio equipment
for telephony purposes. A
child can operate the
present-day transceivers, all
that is necessary being to
pick up the microphone,
pedal the generator and
speak. The flying-doctor services, of
which there are two, to-day cover very
effectively the outback areas all over
Australia. Recently bases were estab-
lished at Wyndham, Port Hedland and
Kalgoorlie in the West. The new Broken
Hill station is established to serve the
western portion of N.S.W.
In the course of a year the average
distance covered by the various flying
medicoes is about 50,000 miles. The
A.M.S. can be reached through the hon.
treasurer, Perpetual Trustee Co., Ltd.,
33 Hunter-street, Sydney.
D.B.K.
Long-distance Television.
Consistent reception of television pro-
grammes from the Alexandra Palace
station in London is reported at Middles-
brough, 220 miles distant. The instal-
lation, at Ormesby, on the edge of the
Cleveland Moors, was made by a
Middlesbrough firm of radio engineers.
The situation is at a high altitude, away
from trees and buildings, and with no
hills intervening over the direct line to
Alexandra Palace. A standard receiver
is used with a special aerial.
The Derby was viewed in Pear Tree-
lane, Little Common, Bexhill, a distance
of about 70 miles from Alexandra Palace,
and an East Anglian experimenter, S.
West, who made up a receiver from a
description in “Television and Short-wave
World,” photographed • the transmission.
He is able to receive the programmes
at all times, and holds the record for
really consistent reception at distances
exceeding 100 miles. Other distant places
from which reception is reported are
Brighton, Southend, Worthing, Chelten-
ham, Letchworth, Eastbourne and
Malvern.
Such reports prove amply that long-
distance reception is by no means a
fluke, and that if attention is paid to
beam aerials for reception consistent
reception to approximately 200 miles
is possible. Such reception is distinct
from the ultra-DX conditions occasion-
ally affecting wave-lengths below 10
metres, when signals appear for brief
periods at 1600 miles or more.
D.B.K.
What's What in Radio.
A South African radio amateur,
Henry Reider, ZSIP, of Cape Town, has
developed a system of duplex radio com-
munication for ultra-short waves in
which stations may work on closely
adjacent frequencies without interference.
Reider began his experimenting in the
north of England in 1920 as a colleague
of The Bulletin’s radio editor, Don
B. Knock.
* * * *
The special Australian session pre-
sented each Tuesday afternoon by Philips
Radio, PCJ, Hilversum, Holland, will
in future be received in Australia half
an hour later than hitherto. Trans-
mission time is now 4 p.m. to 5.30 p.m.
E.S.T. on 19.71 metres.
* * * #
Latest P.M.G. radio license figures
place the total at 1,063,939. Experimen-
ters now number 1887.
Aerial Lengths for Amateur
Bands.
This table makes a handy and accurate
reference guide for quick determination
of aerial length for use at any frequency
in the 3.5, 7, 14, 28 and 56 me. bands.
These lengths are for a half-wave
radiator in free space, and do not take into
Alf Traegar, originator of the “pedal
transceiver" systems for A.M.S., at the
microphone of one of the latest types of
installation.
account end effects caused by near-by
objects such as houses, etc. It will be
seen that the popularly assumed length
of “eight feet” for a half-wave five-metre
radiator is resonant in approximately the
centre of the band, so that, for operation
at the lower frequency extremity, a
of 8.357 feet is necessary. With folded
aerial systems such as the Bruce, at least
5 p.c. of each quarter section must be
added.
D.B.K.
Amateur Chatter.
Conditions on the 14mc. band during
the afternoons in Eastern Australia are
at present extremely favorable for ’phone
contacts with Great Britain. From as
early as 3 p.m. Sydney time, G6DT,
located near Bournemouth, is putting an
R 9 plus signal into Sydney, holding up
until 5 p.m. A visitor at this English sta-
tion just now is Gilbert Pollock (VK2XU,
of the Blue Mountains), and contacts
predominate with VK2YQ. G6DT is by
far the strongest Englishman ever logged
on ’phone on any band in the writer’s
experience, reason for this evidently
being the special beam array directed to
Australia. Another workable English sta-
tion at the present time is that of G6PC,
of Staffordshire. G6PC is no stranger
to Australia, being prominent in 56mc.
experiments with VKs 2NO, 2WD,
2CG, 2BP and 2MW during a brief
visit here three years ago. Europeans
can be worked only with difficulty on
this band at present in the early morn-
ings ; signals being weak until sun-up,
then lasting for a burst of only 20
minutes or so. Even with a good peak,
trouble is to get through the bedlam at
the European end. It is unfortunate that
both American, and European signals
peak together on 14mc. during the late
afternoons. One could very well do
without the “California Kilowatts” on
C.W. when trying to sort the Old Coun-
try out of the din.
Listener Morrison, of Wellington,
M.L., who logged VK2NO on 56mc. a
year ago, has been awarded a silver cup
by the Lakemba Radio Club of N.S.W.
in recognition of his achievement. Mr.
Morrison tells his story in the current
issue of “Australasian Radio World”
(Sydney), and gives some sound advice
to u.h.f. listeners on the need for per-
severance.
G. Major, of Manjimup, W.A., sends
in a report of fragments of transmissions
heard during the 24-hour 56mc., 28mc.
and 14mc. DX test organised by the Vic-
torian Division of W.I.A. last May, but
it is not stated whether the reception was
on the lower or ultra-high frequencies.
During the test period adverse DX con-
ditions were noted on 14mc. and 28mc.,
but it is not beyond the bounds of pos-
sibility that 56mc. transmissions may
have got through.
PK6XX, the station of the Archbold
Expedition in Hollandia, is heard very
strongly nightly at the low-frequency end
of 14mc., working with U.S.A. Evidently
the operators confine listening to the
American ’phone band, for very few VKs
appear to have attracted their attention.
Heard PK6XX discussing the merits of
the rotary beam at W4DLH. It is inter-
esting to note that W4DLH uses a small
rotary with close-spaced elements, cap-
able of being tilted as well as rotated. A
meter is used to indicate the amount of
tilt in a plus or minus indication. So
effective is this small beam array that
W4DLH claims superiority over a mas-
sive V type beam which has a gain of
9db. There is evidently more to the
effective operation of a compact beam
than seems probable, so that, if 14mc. is
the main consideration, the small rotary
seems a good solution of the DX prob-
lem. The idea is worth adoption by keen
S.W.Ls.
At H.Q. of the VK6 Division of W.I.A.
in Perth, W.A., a new “Transmitter
Development Section” was introduced on
9/8/’3B. The committee of five consists
of VKs 6LW, 6NL, 6CP, 688 and 6WZ.
Visitors at this meeting included G. H.
Grey, ZSICU, who gave a talk on his
travels as a marine operator. VK6WS
described, with illustrations, his method
of using a map to record QSOsj, and
VK6BW dealt with the inner workings
of motion-picture equipment. Two new
amateurs, VK6BE and VK6YB, were in-
troduced. Next meeting is scheduled for
13 /9 / ’3B. Country Westralians who have
been or at present are active on 56mc.


Business Going West!
Yes to 6AM
Tlie station that no busi-
ness man should ignore.
It’s the station with a pull
in the country districts
of W.A. . . . the station
that will buck up your
sales.
6AM
Prince’s Chambers,
William Street,
P-rth.
Western Australia.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Kadio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Bead “Kadio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
«s
mm
&
m
m
m
rfi
IP
m
m
wF
w
The same valves that bring speedy help by
ambulance are the best tonic for your radio
set. A regular overhaul of your radio will
give better and brighter programmes. See
your local supplier and . . .
be sure to Re-valve with new m icro-sensit ive
RADIOTRONS
The World's Standard Radio Val
v e s
(Advertisement of Amalgamated Wireless Valve Co. Pty. Ltd.)
experiments are VKs 6RW, 6WG, 6HT
and 6HR. The latter is a P.M.G. man
and moves about a great deal. He ex-
pects to be on the air shortly with C.C.
and push-pull 807’s. VKSZU, of Pros-
pect, S.A., reports short skip on 28mc.,
indicating that 56mc. should be open for
1000-mile DX at these periods. He re-
cently logged VK3CP calling “CQ DX
Ten” —the first time VK3 28mc. signals
have been heard in VKS.
A few evenings have been spent on
3.5mc. at VK2NO recently, and this band
has lost none of the old-time attraction.
It is the obvious medium for reliable
winter communication with ZLs, who
boom in nightly at maximum strength on
’phone and CW. Reason for this rever-
sion to the other extreme from the ultra-
highs was the necessity for testing a
portable transmitter. Later the 14mc.
rig was tuned to the band and contacts
made up and down VK and across the
Tasman. On the night of 14/8/’3B a
powerful C.W. signal on 3500 kc. was
heard signing VK2HC. Contact revealed
that this was Ray Carter, of Quirindi,
N.S.W., who made history on this band
many years ago. By a coincidence, it
was his first time on the air for a few
years. If was also the writer’s first time
on the band for three or four years. An-
other old hand heard on telephony is
VK4GG, of Chinchilla, Q.
Many of the ZLs are so powerful as
to overshadow completely relatively local
signals, and the familiar “ZL2BE of
Hastings” can be heard working U.S.A.
on this band. ZLs no doubt get to a
stage of high efficiency on “80 metres”
since in M.L. this band must be used
exclusively by newcomers before gradua-
tion to higher frequencies. The average
VK antenna is an afterthought on the
band, and many resort to 20- or 40-metre
doublets against ground as Marconi sys-
tems. Only trouble with the band is that
it is practically useless in the summer
because of static.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Location: Thargomindah, Queens-
land. Receiver: Ideal Battery T.R.F.
All-waver, described B. 28/4/’37.
The two German stations on 19 metres
are improving at night and the news ses-
sion from DJB is fully understandable.
This station is rapidly approaching its
best summer period. GSG is still better
than W3XAL, and is much stronger than
GSI in transmission 1, but not so good
as DJE. One night recently before 10
p.m. GSJ was putting over the loudest
signal I have yet heard on short waves.
The pre-selector unit (B. 10/8/’3B) has
now been hitched to the receiver for
broadcast reception. There is a great
improvement on the higher frequencies.
3WV and 2CR are very strong at night,
and can be heard clearly without inter-
ference. The same with 4QN and SCK,
and I can now get 4VL between 3WV
and 2CR at 8 a.m. The pre-selector is
left in position when listening on short
waves, as it- introduces no loss.
Short-wave reception has been good
since early in the month. Both the 16-
and 19-metre bands have been very lively
through the day, and 25 metres good for
lunch-time sessions.
A quick tour of the dials the other day
logged ZRH, DJC, GSB, Paris (31m.),
DJN, CSW (on 30.77 m. at 8 a.m.), CSW
(on 27.17 m. earlier), DJD, OLR (between
DJD and 2RO this time), 2RO, EAQ,
TP A 3, RNE, GSO, GSP, DJR, DJB and
DJE, all at good volume. WIXK,
W2XAF, GSF, GSG, DJB, DJL, XTJ,
WIXAL and WBXK not so strongly.
Also a few South Americans on 49 and
31 metres.
GSO is very fine throughout the morn-
ings, and VLR opened very strongly at
8 a.m., remaining good right through
the day. VK2ME is also a very fine
station now between 3 and 5 p.m.
Canada, on 25.6 and 48.6, also WBXAL,
can be logged before 5 p.m. CRJX is
the strongest on 25 metres, and CRJO
the noisiest. JZL, Tokio, was heard on
16.87 metres, just above GSG, and has
been calling IQA, Rome, at 9 p.m. with
good strength. IQA cannot be located,
although the wave-length is given as 20.37
metres. Evidently Tokio receives the
station well.
Aerials now in use here consist of (1)
the original to the garage roof, (2) one
60ft. long and 12ft. high, (3) an indoor
aerial of 30ft., (4) 15in. of wire from
an aerial selector switch to the receiver,
(5) Ift. of wire to A 2 of the pre-selector
and 2ft. of wire from pre-selector to
receiver, (6) Ift. of wire to A 1 of the
pre-selector and 2ft. from pre-selector
to receiver. Any reasonable signal will,
come through on any of these arrange-
ments.
K.B.G.
Trade Notes.
Despite the use of loudspeakers with
nine out of ten radio receivers, there is
still the need for good headphones for
various purposes. The short-wave lis-
tener who uses a small regenerative type
of receiver looks to headphones for his
results, and there are numerous appli-
cations in connection with test equip-
ment with dual-wave receivers. Reliable
headphones have been scarce in recent
years in Australia, but those of TEFAG
(German) manufacture are now available
from John Martin Pty., Ltd., 116 Clar-
ence-street, Sydney. They are light in
weight, comfortable and sensitive. Price
is 225. 6d. per pair.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
(Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section .)
Two New Airzone Models.
Latest products of the Australian radio
engineer to be submitted for examination
and test are two mantel-type receivers
MODEL 588.
by Airzone, 588 and 5056. Fundamen-
tally, the two receivers are similar in
circuit design, but the 588 type features
the Airzone automatic “teletune” dial.
The “teletune” method of automatic
tuning is distinct from the various types
of push-button tuned receivers now on
the market. It is operated much the
same way as an automatic telephone dial.
The principal local stations are clearly
marked on the buttons, and provision is
made for changing these indicators, with
instructions for adjusting the dial for
other stations in a different locality. To
tune quickly to a station, the correct
button is pressed in with the finger, and
the dial rotated until the button is at
6 o’clock, an internal catch bringing the
dial accurately to the tuned position. The
588 model receiver is also fitted with
the usual tuning knob, so that stations
not arranged for automatic tuning may
be handled in the usual manner.
Both receivers are designed to cover
the broadcast range from 1500 kc. to
500 kc. In both chassis the valves are:
6ABG, converter ; 6U7G, i.f. amplifier at
456 kc. ; 686 G, detector ; A.V.C. and first
audio stage ; 6F6, output pentode ; and
5Y3, rectifier. Mica trimmers have been
completely dispensed with, small fixed
condensers being substituted. This means
greater stability of operation under vary-
ing temperature and humidity conditions,
with retention of calibration over a long
period.
Model 588 has four operating con-
trols located on the front panel of the
cabinet teletune switch, volume con-
MODEL 5056.
trol, combined tone control and muting
switch, and tuning control. In both
models the dials are illuminated by a
concealed central light. There is sen-
sitivity to spare and more than sufficient
volume, with excellent reproduction.
Each receiver has a length of aerial wire
ready for use, sufficient for all normal
purposes. Operation in both these models
is from the 240-volt A.C. power supply.
Further particulars can be obtained from
the manufacturers, Airzone (1931) Ltd.,
16 Australia-street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
I want to buy a reliable receiver in the
£2O-£3O class. Power is not available, and I
would want to transport the receiver easily from
my residence to a school. I understand some
of the latest sets have eliminated the need for
battery-charging by using a valve which is re-
newed at yearly intervals. I would appreciate
details. —709
There is no battery receiver in which the
source of power supply is a form of valve.
The Eveready air-cell takes the place of two-
volt accumulators with suitably-designed two-
volt battery sets, but this is not particularly
transportable. The vibrator power receiver is
more or less in the same category as a six-
volt accumulator of reasonable capacity. Your
best type of receiver is a two-volt battery-
powered receiver with two-volt accumulator,
but if transportation is by car, then prob-
ably the vibrator-powered mantel type with six-
volt accumulator will best suit your require-
ments. Several good vibrator models are adver-
tised from time to time by leading manufacturers
in Thf, Bulletin, and these makes should be
obtainable through agents in your locality.
* * * *
(1) What material can be used in making the
diaphragm of the Veletron microphone (B.
6/4/’38)? (2) If the ribbons are clamped only
at the top and in an upright position, will
there be a tendency to curl away from the
bottom of the plate? (3) What is a suitable
insulating varnish ? (4) Values of resistances
and capacities in the pre-amplifier ? (5) Is
the battery voltage 50 to 400 volts ? (6) I have
the Junior Universal P.A. amplifier (B.
26/2/’36). Would the Veletron microphone
drive this "flat out” ? (7) In the construction
of this amplifier I have used a Class AB2
driver transformer. Would the transformer
specified by you give better tone? Speaker
is a 10 in. per mag. Magnavox. (8) / find
that l cannot get much volume when connect-
ing pickup to input, as in the first of the
enclosed sketches. In the second arrangement
there is ample volume. Why is this? —710.
(1) A good material for the back plate is
14-gauge zinc. (2) The polarising voltage
generates a static charge on the surface of the
ribbons and they adhere to the plate. (3) Bake-
lite varnish, obtainable from Price’s Radio,
Angel-place, Sydney. Use several coats. This
varnish dries in a few minutes. (4) Shown
clearly in the diagram of Fig. 1. Some ex-
periment will be necessary with different micro-
phones of varying construction. (5) Yes. (6)
Another stage of pre-amplification will be
needed. (7) Yes, the 6A6 is a zero bias tube,
and is not operating correctly with your trans-
former. (8) Your fader potentiometer is evi-
dently faulty. Look for non-linear action by
observing the variation on an ohmmeter.
(1) I am considering building the two-valve
receiver described in B. 26/5/’3B, but would
prefer speaker reception for the broadcast band.
Is this possible? (2) Enclosed is a circuit
diagram of a power audio amplifier using a
single 45 valve. Is this suitable, and will 135
volts be sufficient for plate voltage? —711.
(1) Yes. (2) No. This valve is intended for
use with a filament supply of 2.5 volts at 1.5
amperes, which is unsuitable with a small bat-
tery receiver of this type. The correct type of
valve is a ID4 pentode, which takes only two
volts at .24 ampere, and will be satisfactory
with 135 volts on the plate.
* * * *
(1) What are the possibilities of designing a
set one could carry when hiking, with batteries
in a pocket and reception by headphones ?
(2) Would fixed tuning, for stations such as
2 FC or 2 UW be an advantage? —7l2.
(1) Several small receivers suitable for such
work have been described in previous issues.
The Companion Portable (B. 5/ 8 / ’36) or the
Little Twin (B. 29/1/’36) would be suitable
The latter receiver could be redesigned in much
more compact form than shown in the descrip-
tive article. (2) No, as the receiver may be used
in places where screening may render reception
of particularly selected stations difficult when
other stations may come in without trouble.
* * * *•
Is the "Australian Radio Service Manual”
for servicemen only, or is it of use to the
average radio dealer? —713.
It is useful for dealers as well as service-
men. In addition to a number of tables it
contains circuit diagrams and data of receivers
marketed by leading manufacturers through-
out Australia during last season.


YOU CAN EARN
BIG MONEY in RADK
y;
f
/
I want to take you in hand, train you for a good pay Radio job. How
would you like to be a Design Engineer, Television Engineer, Sales-
Service Engineer, Broadcast Engineer? Let me train YOU for one of
these good jobs.
Just think for a moment what this can mean to you. Home of your
own, good bank account, your own car, money to spend on all those
little extra things you’ve wanted.
SERVICE ENGINEER
OUTSIDE TELEVISION
TRAINED MEN WANTED
There’s a shortage of trained men
in Radio. Employers on all sides
are looking for them. Trained men
earn good money executive
engineers up to £l5OO a year;
managers, laboratory engineers,
etc., up to £BOO a year; and sales-
service engineers up to £ 1 0 a week.
With A-RC. training these jobs are
within YOUR reach.
JOBS FOUND
Once you are prepared with the
necessary training, the A.R.C. Free
Employment Service will help you
find a job. Do you know, at times
the demand for A.R.C. trained men
is so great we have to refuse offers
of good positions.
BROADCAST ENGINEER
COSTS LITTLE
Think of this—for a few pence
each day, actually less than
many fellows spend on tobacco,
you can prepare yourself for a
good pay position in Radio-
Television. Have you the
ambition to bring yourself into
line with one of these openings?
MAKE MONEY IN
YOUR SPARE TIME
WHILST LEARNING
Take advantage of thousands of fine oppor-
tunities to earn good spare-time money.
Many A.R.C. students earn £3, £4, £5 and
£6 per week over and above their usual weekly
salaries.
Read what student G. Davis, of Bexley, says:
“I sold six sets last week, employ two men,
and have just bought a new delivery van, all
in my spare time whilst training and after.”
And Perce Young, of St. Peters, says:
“Thanks to my spare-time radio work I have
now been able to buy a car.”
P.A., of Darlinghurst, says: “It is just a
year ago since I enrolled and have not yet
finished my studies. In that short time I
have earned £59 in my spare time.” And
Cycril Merckenschlager, of Baradine: “I have
been making exceptionally good progress with
my spare-time wireless business —I put through
eight radio sales last month.” A.R.C. training
methods show you how to start earning from
the day you start learning.
TELEVISION
This wonderful new branch of Radio
is already established overseas—soon
it will be here. Think of the thou-
sands of openings Television will
bring for trained men. There’s time
for YOU to prepare for one of these;
get started training now—prepare
yourself for a future as big as you
like to make it.
Don’t hold
yourself back
from the good
things cf life
£
r
RADIO can
give you
everything
you really want
READ WHAT THESE STUDENTS SAY
From C.G. of Oatley.
"....Before turning to Radio profession-
ally I had (during the depression) found it
impossible to obtain employment in the
line for which I was qualified. Thanks to
your aid, I was placed within two weeks
of my examination...."
From W.J.M. of Gippsland.
**•••• There must be a shortage of
trained men all right. I get offers
every so often.... one was the
promise of a branch managership.”
From N.M., who now holds an
executive position in radio.
“I have made great headway
since taking the course.”
SEND FOR
FREE BOOK
A book every ambitious man and young man should read. Every lad just left school should read
it, all parents of sons above the age of 14 years owe it to their children to read it, every person
employed in the radio electrical industry should read it. Thickly illustrated with photos of
radio-television equipment and engineers at work, this book will tell you definite steps you
can take for a better job—how you can succeed in life. Post the passport NOW!
THE AUSTRALIAN
RADIO COLLEGE PTY. LTD.
BROADWAY (opp. Grace Bros.), SYDNEY.
S
sill
POST PASSPORT NOW!
POST PASSPORT NOW!
POST PASSPORT NOW!
POST PASSPORT NOW!
PASSPORT TO PROSPERITY FOR ONE.
To Mr. L. B. Graham,
Principal,
AUSTRALIAN RADIO COLLEGE PTY., LTD.,
Broadway (opp. Grace Bros.), SYDNEY.
Dear Sir,
lam interested in getting ahead. Please send me without obligation on my part
the free book ‘‘Careers in Radio and Television.”
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 1 14.
dsf
POST PASSPORT NOW!
POST PASSPORT NOW!
POST PASSPORT NOW!


LYSAG HIT'S
A-X3&.
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■gm.
***!
mm $
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty, Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING,
.
ETC
THE WAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
Rugging—the Other Side.
“Valerin”: Advocates of rugging
stress increased returns too much and
disregard costs.
Present N.S.W. cost of worth-while
rugs is 3s. 6d. each delivered on station,
and their life about three years. Rugging,
removals, periodic adjustments and
general attention mean extra labor.
Take 5000 sheep, which, under normal
conditions, I can look after myself.
Should I rug them the initial outlay is
£875. Annual cost works out:
Depreciation £292
5 p.c. interest and replacement .. 45
Extra labor .. .. .. 150
£487
With wool averaging Is. per lb., I
would have to get 21b. extra to meet
annual expenditure.
Here is a rugging trial carried out at
Trangie Experiment Farm in 1937 with
200 merino ewes —100 rugged and 100
as controls. Returns were as follows:
Rugged, 91 ewes, £5O 14s. 9d. Average
value, 11s. lfd.
Unrugged, 96 ewes, £46 16s. sd. Average-
value, 9s. 9d.
The total value of wool per head was
only Is. 4|d. in favor of rugged ewes,
which on my previous figures would
show a loss.
Early-maturing Lambs.
“Hortus”: You can’t beat the suckers
by Dorset Horn rams out of Dorset-
merino crossbred ewes. Fourteen ten-
week-olds were killed at the abattoirs
(S.A.) as the first entry for the all-Aus-
tralian export competition (1938-39).
The first pen scaled 701 b. liveweight.
The export dressed weight (average) was
381 b. The second pen reached 641 b. live-
weight. Dressed for export they aver-
aged 351 b. There is a top limit of 371 b.
export weight in the competition, so the
first pen proved too heavy. But they will
be sent to Smithfield for exhibition and
sale.
The whole draft displayed remarkable
conformity. Depth of flesh was out-
standing.
They should prove popular at Smith-
field, as they are of the true Downs type.
The lambs received no hard feed in
the way of corn or chaff. Before a
green shoot appeared their dams were
fed on silage from a rank crop of
“slender thistles” pitted last spring.
Fishmeal Diet for Sheep.
“Kyeamba”: An Adelaide sheep-
breeder is trying fishmeal in his flock diet.
The first shipment arrived from Canada
a few weeks ago.
The British Agricultural Ministry says
that the British farmer first used fish-
meal on a large scale in 1916, and found
it successful. Its beneficial effects on
growth are attributed to its mineral con-
tent. The small carbohydrate content is
no drawback, since the special function
of fishmeal is not fattening but the sup-
ply of protein and minerals for con-
structive purposes.
Trials have proved that meal from the
heads, bones and flesh of white fish
produces no taint in pork, bacon, chicken
flesh, milk or eggs.
Losses After Shearing and Marking.
“Corriedale”: Gas-gangrene and
tetanus, which sometimes kill sheep
rapidly after shearing or marking, can
be prevented fairly easily.
Gas-gangrene starts as a swelling be-
neath a comb-tear or tail-stump. This
grows rapidly and forms gas which makes
the lump “crackle” on touching, distin-
guishing it from blackleg. Sheep or
lambs die two days after being wounded.
Tetanus deaths happen four to ten days
after injury. There are no swellings at
all. Sheep or lambs merely go into
severe convulsive stiffenings some hours
before death.
Gas-gangrene can be prevented only
by avoiding injury by careful shearing
“I've bin dead against these noof angled contraptions these last twenty
years.”
and cleanliness. There is no known cure.
Tetanus can be prevented by inoculating
sheep as they enter the shed with anti-
tetanus serum at a cost of 2d. a head,
or else by immunising them for life with
the new tetanus toxoid at a cost of some-
thing under Is. a head.
Germs of both diseases form spores
that remain alive in shearing-shed dirt,
sheepyards or stables. Infection occurs
when cut sheep touch dirty fences, hand-
pieces, instruments or merely sheepyard
dust.
If sheds are cleaned and disinfected
with soda or phenol before shearing and
old dirt removed with a scoop to a depth
of 4in. in the yards and replaced by clean
gravel or concrete, losses will stop. Hand-
pieces should be sterilised before the new
season starts.
Each time you mark make a new yard
on clean grass and disinfect instruments
continuously. If these points are looked
to losses should fade to almost nothing.
Arsenical Poisoning from Jetted
Sheep.
“Bogeye”: In Queensland there are
stringent regulations about the jetting of
sheep with an arsenical mixture prior to
crutching and shearing. It is claimed
that the arsenic in the wool is liable to
be absorbed by the shearer. It is illegal
to use a jetting mixture containing more
than 0.8 p.c. arsenic ; to use, within eight
months of shearing, a mixture of arsenic
in suspension, or to use within six weeks
of shearing a mixture containing more
than 0.2 p.c. arsenic.
These limits are much below the jet-
ting mixture recommended by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, and experi-
ments have recently been made to deter-
mine to what extent the arsenic affects
the air which the shearer breathes during
crutching. Crutching was carried out on
sheep which had been jetted at various
periods ranging from 19 to five weeks
before crutching. Air samples were taken
at the crutching board, on a level with
the shearer’s mouth, qnd also at the
sorting table.
The result showed that arsenic present
in air above jetted sheep at crutching
time was so small that there was no
danger to shearers. Even under the ex-
treme conditions of the experiment a
man would have to crutch five days a
week for at least six months at a stretch
to absorb an amount of arsenic equiva-
lent to the maximum single medicinal
dose of 1- 12th of a grain arsenious oxide.
Another New Sheep Disease?
“J.R.D.”: A puzzling new disease,
hitherto unknown among sheep in Aus-
tralia, is reported from north-western
N. S. Wales. The symptoms are iden-
tical with those of milk fever in cattle
and, as the sheep affected are crossbred
ewes with lambs at foot, the diagnosis is
probably correct. So far there have
been no reported instances of merinos
becoming affected—the ewes in question
were, as a type, much higher milk-
producers than merinos.
Affected sheep are usually found lying
down and unable to rise. Treatment is
similar to that applied to cows. The
udder should be inflated by means of a
bicycle or motor-tyre pump, by inserting
a hypodermic needle in the teat. Inocu-
lations with calcium gluconate should be
resorted to in cases which dd not yield
to inflation.
“Stabilising.”
“S.H.C.”: Writer has been touring the
N.S.W. wheat belt intermittently for
years. He knows plenty of men who are
doing all right at wheatgrowing and who
never sought a bob from anybody. He
knows as many others who would be
liabilities if wheat went to 10s. a bushel
and stayed there.
If the nation has to find the money to
keep them growing wheat, the nation
should insist that they farm well, i.e„
that rotation of crops is practised, that
single-crop farming is abolished, that
erosion is being checked and its ravages
repaired, that soil fertility is not being
squandered, that the correct wheat vari-
eties are being grown. If the country
must pay, then the country must protect
its asset, the land, and see to it that
every man who flogs his soil to death,
and who fails to take the necessary steps
to nurse the land, be called to account
for it.
Further, the nation must be assured
that the farmer is exploiting all possible
sidelines such as poultry, pigs, wool,
fat-lambs. There are far too many
wheatgrowers on the blocks, and not
enough farmers.
And the nation also must be assured
that, if a fixed home price of (say) 4s. a
bushel is established, that price remains,
irrespective of whether world prices go
to double that.
Working on statisticians’ figures over
the past 10 years, let me cite an example.
A man on even a small area like 500
acres should have averaged, over that
period, 12 bushels an acre from 200
acres annually at 3s. a bushel —£360;
he should carry 300 ewes cutting 81b. of
wool a head at Is. per lb. —£120; he
should average 200 lambs at £1 a head
—£2oo ; a total of £6BO a year. If that
isn’t better than the basic wage I’ll buy
the drinks.
Certainly, he has interest to pay,
machinery to buy, and depreciation to
allow for. But, unlike
his counterpart on £ 13-
odd a week in the city,
he hasn’t to pay rent,
buy meat, milk, eggs
or vegetables, pay fares,
union dues, etc.
If you want a con-
crete example, consider
one of many, David
Edis, of Ariah Park.
On something over 800
acres in a district far
from “safe,” this man
grows wheat, sheep,
poultry (and turkeys),
and pigs. He conserves
fodder, grows peas and
lucerne for pigs and
poultry and sheep feed,
rotates his crops. He
has confessed that, even
if he didn’t get a bag of wheat in any
one season, he would still show a profit
from his other lines.
Wheat Crop Prospects.
“A.A.D.”: Spring comes with promis-
ing wheat crops which have made full
use of July rains over 85 to 90 p.c. of
the N.S.W. sown area. The others —
probably half a million acres —are in
the outer south-west, in the belt from
Cargelligo, through Weethalle, Rankin
Springs, Binya and out to Hillston, where
the growth is thin and backward. This
zone missed the best of the germinating
and follow-on rains.
Crop prospects are better at this period
than since 1935. Nevertheless, there have
been no general summer-autumn sub-
soil rains in the last three seasons. With
scant moisture reserves crops in the main
areas can hardly be regarded as secure
without generous rainfall during the next
couple of months.
The increase in area sown is only
140,000 acres compared with last year,
but, all going well, the 1937-38 harvest
of 56,000,000 bushels may be exceeded.
{Continued on next page .)


s>
1.
’ ’ "
pNW\
4408.
For Exceptional Comfort It’s Wallaby Skin.
Light, soft and extremely pliable, Wallaby Skin is the ideal leather for
lasting comfort. Especially when it is moulded on an Abbey Last by
Abbey workmen, and the Boot is made in full and half sizes, with wide
and extra-wide fittings. Black. Price 37/6
“IF IT’S AN ABBEY SHOE IT’S A GOOD SHOE.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
53 Castlereagh Street,
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY."
STRAIGHT FROM THE SHEEP’S MOUTH
■
I
muz
-
' .
s
UK
m
IP
r-j
■
■
■
m
WOOLGROWERS!
LISTEN IN
for
THE
“Farmers & Graziers”
WOOL SALE RESULTS
Opening Sale on 30th August, 1938.
:
a
Again Paying 20%
Rebate of Wool Commission.
mmm
I n
•f
m
Consign Your Clip To
FARMERS & GRAZIERS, ”
SYDNEY.
kJ
(v-^
SATISFIED!
We should say he was!
You will also be agreeably satisfied by the
smooth smoking and aromatic flavour these
Empire Tobaccos give. But more satisfying still
are the ridiculous prices at which we are able
to supply the public. These Empire-grown
tobaccos are manufactured at our own factory
and come direct to you—no middle profits.
A Briar or Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch,
Cigarette Lighter or Holder is included with all
orders over £l. ALL LINES BOTH IN PIPE
AND CIGARETTE BLENDS.
POST FREE IN QUEENSLAND ONLY.
Add 6d. per lb. Postage in N.S.W.
Add 1/- per lb. Postage in other States.
COMBINED GROWERS
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
COMMERCIAL ROAD, VALLEY, BRISBANE
mfni"to ™, S ’h th lf e W ‘ U b f C a 2 ‘ ndUCe '
ment to cut bulky crops for hay on a
larger scale than in recent years. Drought
has eaten up all hay reserves.
-
jj- , \t/i . ~ ...
Wheat Qualtty
nt o sir ' \ standard Quality of
JN.b.W. wheat has steadily improved in
recent years. The official f.a.q. sample
of last season was slightly above that
of the previous year in all factors. Millers
want the pace quickened, even to the
elimination of such of the ““com
mended” hard wheats as Dundee and
Baringa, to secure greater uniformity. It
would be possible only at the sacrifice of
baking quality of flour.
The last f.a.q. sample contained 20 p.c.
of hard to 80 p.c. of soft types, the
former being comprised almost entirely
of Dundee and Baringa. Milling test
gave 10.7 p.c. dry gluten in the f.a.q.,
10.3 in the soft and 12.8 in the hard.
More important were the superior baking
if 31 !!' 6 ? °* * e whicl l raised the
bread standard of the general sample.
, Segregating hard Wh f ts at the
try silos would upset the balance of the
f.a.q.
The local flour trade is no. the only
consideration. Two-thirds of the Aus-
tralian harvest is exported, and the re-
quirements of the United Kingdom and
other European markets are vital
factors. H. Wenholz, Director of Plant
Breeding, says that our place in over-
seas markets cannot be held with soft
or weak-flour wheats. Hard types must
be bred and grown to produce wheat of
the required wheats
that are intermediate between, say, the
high-grade Manitoba and the soft white,
in which group Australian is included,
In N.S.W. a large section of the wheat
belt including the western plains and
the drier areas of the western slopes, is
capable of producing hard wheats of e
desired flour strength for export.
Since Dr. G. H. Sutton succeeded
Farrer he has been a consistent advo-
cate of an “Australian strong white”
grade. He writes:
As a result of Farrer’s work the strength
of Australian wheat has been lifted from the
bottom of the scale and its association with
ordinary English wheats to just below the
“filler” class. If this improvement can be
carried just a little further, to reach the
filler class, then it will rank as ideal millers’
wheat, easy milling and producing a good
yield of high-grade flour equal in quality to
the requirements of the British standard
grist.
St. John’s Wort.
“K.Mc.”: The Eastern Riverina (N.S.W.)
County Council is getting the upper hand
of St. John’s wort in that area. Funds
are provided by the five shires which
comprise the council, with a subsidy
from the State Government to cover the
cost of treating Crown lands.
For isolated plants salt has been applied
around the roots, while thicker patches
on roadsides and watercourses, etc., were
sprayed with sodium chlorate. It has
been found that fallowing, then sowing
with sub. clover and perennial rye and
applying super., and later following with
systematic grazing, will control established
beds of St. John’s in fields. Similar ex-
periments—with the grazing omitted —
carried out on a field of St. John’s at
Mudgee (N.S.W.) failed. Mudgee coun-
try does not respond so readily to pasture
improvement as does Tumbarumba,
where most of the work has been done.
Grazing is essential for success.
The progeny of Suffolk rams have
proved sufficiently dark in the skin to re-
sist the toxic effect of St. John’s, and are
turned off the plots as prime suckers.
Lucerne and Erosion.
“C.N.S.”: Much money, time and
soil would be lost if mid-west land-
owners followed “Lion’s” advice that
“lucerne is about the best means of sav-
ing an eroding paddock” (B. 29/6/’3B).
Here in Narromine (N.S.W.) a few
years ago we sowed lucerne, plus rye, in
three paddocks, two gently sloping hill-
sides, the third, almost flat. The lucerne
grew well, but after the first winter,
allowed nothing else to grow. The
ground became bare between the plants.
In spring, the surface dried out and the
winds began to carry soil away.
Summer storms washed off half an
inch of soil. Small gutters formed in
the hollows. The lucerne crowns were
left sticking out of bare scoured ground.
With no mulch nor covering of dry
grass, the soil refused to hold the little
moisture that didn’t run off, with the
result that the lucerne began to die.
After the second summer, the pad-
docks were bare. Most of the grass and
clover seed was washed away with the
soil. Of one paddock we sowed only
half with lucerne. That half was bare,
scalded and riddled with small gutters.
The other half (unsown), which, inci-
dentally, was steeper, had eroded no
more than before, and in winter retained
its thick coat of herbage.
The only vegetation (bar trees) that
can stop erosion is a close thick cover-
ing on the surface, not roots underneath.
Lucerne might stop gully erosion in a
wet climate, but I doubt it. The roots
admittedly go deep, but don’t bind the
soil as grass roots do, nor do the crowns
prevent soil washing away between them.
Hints for the Farm.
“Dimon”: A mixture of fresh tallow
and kerosene, boiled together and allowed
to set, is a good substitute for axle grease.
Kerosene and lard make an ointment for
girth galls and sore backs —it not only
cures but keeps the flies off.
“Booraby”: Surplus apples are usually
fed to pigs, but some dairymen have got
splendid results from feeding cows with
them. The apples are put through a
turnip slicer, and given immediately after
milking.
“Bundalinga”: Chewing of bark by
horses is a sign of mineral deficiency.
Give each horse daily two ounces each
of sterilised bonemeal and salt in a feed
of chaff, bran and oats. If pastures are
topdressed with super, there will be no
bark-chewing.
“Jayem”: Care will prevent bloat when
cattle are turned on to green lucerne.
Put the stock on the lucerne when they
are not hungry, and keep them on for
a short time only. Gradually increase
the period until they become used to the
feed.
“Observer”: Skeleton weed is still
worrying N.S.W. wheatgrowers. The
-control campaign, with headquarters at
Wagga, is not meeting with much suc-
cess in cultivation areas, and more wheat
lands will have to go over to lucerne
and grazing. S.w. is to be proclaimed
a noxious plant throughout the State
next month. Landholders, however, will
not be called upon to eradicate it. The
Minister will prescribe mixed-farming
control measures. The Government will
help in buying stock, if necessary.
“Yarrunga”: Wakool (N.S.W.) irri-
gation .district, which embraces 542,000
acres in s.-w. Riverina, expects to be
first in the market with early lambs this
season. Without water from the Murray
this would not have been possible. Land-
holders in the area have for two years
had regulated water supplies, including
enough to irrigate 10 p.c. of their land
for pasture or fodder crops. Last year
(to June 30) 30,000 acres were irri-
gated with excellent results in improved
and natural pastures, green crops and
conserved fodder. Those Wakool graziers
who used the water carried more stock
under better than good-season condi-
tions.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Could a horse eat broken glass with its
chaff and live four days? (2) Would the body
swell immediately after death and turn black?
Would pneumonia show similar symptoms? —
5549.
(1) The horse may not show any apparent
ill effects, the broken pieces being passed
through the bowel. If much glass were swal-
lowed laceration and inflammation of the bowels
would occur ; then severe colic. (2) If there
were much inflammation the body would de-
compose fairly rapidly, as in pneumonia. How-
ever, an animal sick from the latter would show
labored breathing, heaving of the flanks, etc.,
whereas an animal with internal inflammation
would merely strain.
s * * * *
My young fowls are all drooping, will not
eat, and several have died. They are late leav-
ing the perch. Can find no trace of tick, and
the throat is clean. How to prevent disease
spreading ? —S42B.
Trouble sounds like salt poisoning. Feeding
excess salt or using brine or corned-meat water
often brings it about. If it is not salt, look
for some other cause of possible poisoning.
* * * *
Preparation used for rotting stumps of old
trees in the ground {green) ? —5559.
No chemical is of value in burning stumps.
The best way to deal with a stump that burns
badly is to build a good pile of logs and brush
around it, fire in the ordinary way, and cover
the burning material, when well alight, with
clay. Such a fire will smoulder for weeks, and
gradually destroy the stump.


“THE TIME
HAS COME
99
A
ND like our honored friend the walrus,
we too think it is time to speak —of tailoring
matters. Of the dash and confidence that only
well-cut clothes can give. Of the ease and
the elegance the individuality and personality
built into every suit by Fuller.
Whether it be formal or informal attire,
whether its wearer be alone or in a crowd, a
Fuller-created suit stands out as an example of
correct Style and Quality —for only artists in tailor-
ing know how to form clothes with Character.
The House of Fuller with its gifted craftsmen
is at your service.
Tailors and Exclusive Cutters
84 PUT STREET, S?DNE?
BW 300-12


• SHORT STORY
WRITING
• F REELANCE
JOURNALISM
• RADIO PLAY-
WRITING
Learn and Earn The most thorough and practical
in Spare Time ! Course of Training ever written l
Instruction and Constructive Criticism by Practical
Journalists and Short Story Writers . . .You learn
how to write and how to sell your stories and articles.
Full details sent on application to
I.C. S. School oE Journalism
140 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
The BENGALL Hand Forged Blue Steel RAZOR
1937
Hand Forged
by craftsmen
with a lifetime’s ex-
perience in the art of
Razor forging.
Bengali Razors have Correct Heat Treatment, the
most important process in the manufacture of a Razor.
Try a BENGALI. BLUE STEEL RAZOR.
Sizes, Jin., fin., Sin., Black Handle .... 12/6
„ „ „ „ Xylo. Handle 15/-
Obtainable from all Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. “Wanted
to Sell ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
used to typing authors’ manuscripts, neat and
accurate, seeks work. —650.
Young man (22), holds Mines Dept, tickets,
suction gas, oil and Diesel engines, expert
motor driver, some sales experience, qualified
to instruct in physical culture, seeks employ-
ment. —601.
Copy of Mowbray Morris’s poem “The Voice
from the Bush.”—6l9.
Words of poem beginning “The roof that
long sheltered my brother and me was cut from
the bark of the stringybark tree.” —623.
Words of songs “Blue-bird of Happiness”
and “The Girl Next Door.” —662.
To buy 18 natural fox skins, uniform size.—
621.
Information Sought.
(1) Who brought the first steam-engine into
Sydney? (2) When did this engine arrive?
(3) Where was it situated? —676.
(1) John Dickson, an English engineer. (2)
It arrived in Port Jackson by the ship Earl
Spencer on Oct. 9, 1813, and on May 29, 1815,
in the presence of Governor Macquarie, it was
first set in motion. (3) Somewhere on Dick-
son’s grant of 15 acres 3 roods and 4 perches,
which included nearly all the land bounded by
Hay, George and Goulburn streets to Sussex-
street, thence along that street to Liverpool-
street, and down to the waters of Darling
Harbor. The present Dixon-street, in that area,
although wrongly spelt, was named after Dick-
son.
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning
“Banjo” Paterson ? —665.
Son of Andrew Boyle Paterson, grazier, he
was born at Narrambla, near Molong (N.S.W.),
on February 17, 1864, and educated at the
Sydney Grammar School. He studied for the
law, and was admitted as a solicitor in N.S.W.
He practised law until 1900, went to the S.
African War as correspondent for the “Sydney
Morning Herald” and was on the staff of
Reuter’s Agency. He was correspondent for
the “Sydney Morning Herald” in the Philip-
pines during the Spanish-American war, -in
China during the Boxer Rebellion, and for the
same paper during the first year of the Great
War. During the Great War he served as an
ambulance driver in France and with the Aust.
Remount Service in Egypt. He edited at
various times the “Town and Country Journal,”
“Evening News” and “Sportsman” in Sydney.
* * * *
(1) Information concerning the solitary grave
situated on the eastern side of the Carlingford
(N.S.W.) railway line, to the immediate south
of the Parramatta River? (2) What is the
inscription on the stone? —63B.
(1) It contains the remains of Elinor McGee
and her child lan. In Jan., 1793, they were
proceeding up the river from Sydney in a small
boat when the craft upset and the pair were
drowned. The grave, which was renovated in
1929, is one of the oldest in Australia. (2)
“Here lyeth the body of the much-lamented
Elinor McGee and her beloved infant lan
McGee, who were unfortunately drowned in re-
turning from Sydney, January, 1793. The un-
happy offspring of an affectionate father was
two years old, and its mother in the 32nd year
of her age.” Then follows a verse expressing
the grief of the husband and father, “Criss
McGee.”
* * * *
(1) How and (2) when did Japan acquire For-
mosa? Its area, population and chief towns?
What language is spoken there? —66l.
(1) and (2) By conquest. Formosa, or Tai-
wan, was ceded to Japan by China by the treaty
which was ratified on May 8, 1895, and Japan
took formal possession on June 2 of the same
year. Japanese civil government in the island
began on March 31, 1896. The island has an
area of 13,890 square miles, with a population,
according to the census of October 1, 1935, of
5,212,719, of which 269,798 were Japanese. The
chief towns are Taihoku, Tainan, Kiirum and
Taichu. The official language is Japanese, but
Chinese (Amoy dialect) is the most used.
* * * *
When water is frozen to form ice, does the
substance pass through an intermediate state
when changing from liquid to solid? —603.
Many substances when at a temperature be-
low melting point have a lower limit of elas-
ticity and become plastic. For example, iron,
when just below melting point, is of the con-
sistency of putty, but in the case of water there
is no perceptible plastic interval. Water ex-
pands about 9 p.c. in freezing and then con-
tracts if cooling proceeds further.
* * * *
(1) What is color music? (2) Has it been
taken up by modern composers ? —684.
(1) It is music whose sounds are simultane-
ously translated into equivalent color tones.
An analogy between color and sound has been
frequently observed by musicians and scientists,
and as far back as the eighteenth century Castel
(1688-1757) developed a system. In modern
times A. B. Hector, of Sydney, has devoted
much research to the subject. (2) In recent
times the most notable advocate of the theory
has been the Russian composer Scriabin, who
composed for his orchestral work “Prometheus”
a color accompaniment demonstrated by a
special mechanism when the work was per-
formed in New York in 1915.
* * * *
What is an anemometer ? —636.
An instrument for measuring the velocity of
air or other gas. The most familiar type is the
cup anemometer, usually a vertical rotating
shaft geared to the recording mechanism and
carrying at its upper end four equal horizontal
rods to which are attached hemispherical cups.
These oppose a greater resistance to the air
current when their open ends face it than when
it blows on the rounded surface, and hence the
cups revolve at a speed roughly proportional
to the wind speed. The instrument usually
drives an electric generator, and the voltage
produced may be utilised to indicate the speed
of the wind. This type of anemometer has
the advantage that its indication is independent
of the direction of the wind.
* * * *
How to determine the speed of a car, know-
ing the engine speed? —67o.
Multiply the engine r.p.m. by the diameter,
in inches, of the rear wheel, and multiply this
by '.002975. Divide the product by the drive
ratio and the answer is the car speed in m.p.h.
For example, if the engine r.p.m. is 1000,
the diameter of the rear wheel 30in. and the
ratio of the drive (speed of- engine crank to
speed of the rear axle) is 4 to 1, then 1000
X 30 X .002975 equals 89.25, which divided
by 4 gives 22.31 m.p.h.
* * * *
Fastest runs by regular passenger trains on
ordinary routes in (1) Great Britain, (2) Ger-
many, (3) U.S.A. and (4) France? —694.
(1) “Coronation” streamlined steam express,
King’s Cross and Edinburgh, 392 J miles, in
six hours, including 188 miles from King’s
Cross to York in 157 minutes, average 71.9
m.p.h. (the fastest train in Britain and the
British Empire); “Flying Scotsman,” steam ex-
press, King’s Cross and Edinburgh, 392 f miles,
in seven hours without a stop (the longest non-
stop run in the world). (2) “Fliegende Kolner,”
Diesel-electric, Berlin to Hanover, 157.8 miles,
in 115 minutes, 82.3 m.p.h.; Hanover to Ham-
burg, 109.6 miles, in 80min., 82.2 m.p.h.; Berlin
to Hamburg, steam, 178.1 miles, in 144 min., 74.2
m.p.h (world’s record for start-to-stop steam
train). (3) “City of Denver,” Diesel-electric,
Grand Island to Columbus, 62.4 miles, in 46min.,
81.4 m.p.h.; North Platte to Kearnsey, 95
miles, in 71min., 80.3 m.p.h.; “Hiawatha,”
steam, New Lisbon to Portage, 43.1 miles, in
35min., 73.9 m.p.h.; “Detroit Arrow,” steam,
Englewood to Fort Wayne, 141 miles, in 115 min.,
73.6 m.p.h. (4) Dijon and Laroche, Diesel-
electric, 99.1 miles, in 81min., 73.3 m.p.h.;
Laroche and Dijon, Diesel-electric, 99.1 miles,
in 82min., 72.4 m.p.h.; Paris and Longueau,
Diesel-electric, 78.3 miles, in 65min., 72.3 m.p.h.
* * * *
(1) A girl wishes to study for law. She holds
a merit certificate, and is working in an office.
She proposes to study at night, with a term at a
coaching college, and matriculate for the purpose
of going to university. Is this possible or does
she require other certificates? (2) What sub-
jects would have to be studied? (3) Would
three years’ study be sufficient ? (4) Fees ?
(5) Are there opportunities for women bar-
risters ? —598.
(1) She would have to matriculate in law
at the Sydney University and pass four examina-
tions in law taken at intervals of not less than
six months. (2) Constitutional law, contracts,
property, torts and crimes, equity, bankruptcy,
probate, divorce, conveyancing pleading and
evidence, etc. A full list, together with other
essential information, is contained in the Law
Almanac (price 3s. 6d., Govt. Printer). (3)
Assuming all examinations to have been passed
at first attempt, approximately three years
would be required. (4) At least 50 guineas
irrespective of private coaching, cost of text-
books, etc. (5) The answer is not encouraging.
* * * *
Recipe for french polish ? —452.
The best polish is made from 31b. pale
orange shellac dissolved in one gallon spirit
63deg. to 64deg. overproof; methylated spirit
is commonly used for work in the home, and
a small quantity may be made by using one-
half or one-quarter quantities of materials. The
polish is applied by soaking a cotton-wool pad
in the polish, rolling it in one thickness of old
cotton-rag, and applying it with a circular
motion, using a drop or two of linseed oil for
smooth working. When dry, it is sandpapered
to a smooth surface and polished again re-
peatedly.
* * * *
To whom and at what address should entries
for the three-act play competition being con-
ducted by the National Theatre Movement
(Victoria) be sent? When is the closing date?
—5Bl.
Entries should be addressed to Miss Daphne
Munro, hon. sec.. National Theatre Move-
ment, 2nd floor, Nicholas Building, Melbourne,
until September 1, after which the address will
be St. Peter’s Hall, Eastern Hill. Closing date
is % September 30.
* * * *
Are postage stamps perforated with letters of
any greater philatelic interest than similar stamps
not so perforated ? —560.
This depends upon the letters. Some busi-
ness firms, notably those in England, perforate
their stamps with their initials. Stamps so per-
forated have neither value nor interest. Aus-
tralian stamps perforated “O S” and State
stamps perforated “OS NSW,” for example,
although not listed in all stamp catalogues, are
of definite interest, and are, at least, as valuable
as the same stamps not so perforated.
* * * »
Meaning of the following terms as applied
to sailing vessels: (1) Centre of effort ? (2)
Centre of lateral resistance ? (3) Centre of buoy-
ancy? —532.
(1) That point at which the whole propelling
force of the wind might be applied to produce
the same effect as when distributed. (2) The
centre of gravity of the longitudinal middle
plane of the immersed part of a ship which
offers resistance to the leeway when under sail.
(3) The centre of gravity of the volume for-
merly occupied by the water which was dis-
placed by the ship.
H 6 H*
(1) White population of Port Moresby,
Papua ? (2) What industries have been de-
veloped by whites? (3) Food used by natives,
and how do they obtain it? —455.
(1) Approximately 600. (2) Planting and
trading are the two principal industries engaged
in by Europeans in Papua—coconuts, Para
rubber and sisal hemp being the main crops
cultivated. Small crops of coffee, cocoa, millet,
castor oil, soya bean and rice are also grown
in certain districts. Goldmining activities are
being carried out on a small scale throughout
the Territory. (3) Food of the natives consists
principally of the fruit of the coconut and
sago palms, which grow extensively in most
parts of the Territory. The natives are
compelled by an ordinance to plant coco-
nuts for food supply. In addition to the coco-
nuts in these plantations, many more are planted
over small and widely-scattered areas by the
older natives in accordance with custom. Under
the terms of the Native Labor Ordinance em-
ployers are required to provide each laborer
with a daily minimum ration comprising any
one or some combination of two or more of
the following commodities: Rice, dried sago,
white flour, white bread, biscuits and maize-
meal (lib.), peas or beans, pea flour, wheatmeal
Ulb.). Four times the quantity of fresh edible
roots or bananas may, however, be supplied in
lieu of the foregoing. The issue of a weekly ration
of meat or fish, fresh coconut kernel, desic-
cated coconut and sugar (lib.) and a monthly
ration of onions, pawpaws, bananas, sprouted
peas, oranges, lemons or limes is also provided
for by the Ordinance. On some plantations,
where conditions are favorable, certain of the
foodstuffs are grown or produced locally. In
most cases, however, all articles of food are
obtained through outlying branches of large
trading firms which operate in the Territory.
* * * *
How should greenhide be treated to make it
pliable and soft for straps, plough reins, etc. ?
—490.
If very stiff and dry soak for a day or two
in warm water and hang up to drain; when
nearly dry work it as much as possible in the
hands. Let dry thoroughly, lay out on a table,
and rub in as much neatsfoot oil as it will
take up. If the straps and reins have already
been cut, immerse them in a tin of neatsfoot
oil, drain and wipe down well. If neatsfoot is
unprocurable, raw linseed oil will make a very
good job.
* * * *
How is watchmaker’s oil prepared? —69l.
Expose the best olive oil to a temperature a
few degrees below freezing-point, which will
cause all foreign substances to separate. Pour
off carefully the supernatant clear oil, and
filter through a cup of linden wood or pith of
elder wood. By this process an oil is obtained
which will remain liquid for several years, and
does not attack the delicate machinery.
* * * *
How to ascertain the h.p. developed by a fall
of water, knowing the height of the fall and
the discharge? —6BB.
Multiply the quantity of water, in cub. ft.
per minute, by the fall, in feet, and divide the
product by 660. This formula is based on an
efficiency of 80 p.c.
* * * *
(1) Members of the Q’land State Ministry
and (2) Speaker of the Q’land Legislative
Assembly ? —664.
(1) W. Forgan Smith (Premier and Chief
Secretary), P. Pease (Lands), M. P. Hynes
(Labor and Industry), John Mullan (Attorney-
General), F. W. Bulcock (Agriculture), F. A.
Cooper (Treasurer), E. M. Hanlon (Health and
Home Affairs), T. A. Foley (Mines), H. A.
Bruce (Public Works and Instruction), John
Dash (Transport). (2) George Pollock.
* * * *
Translation of following quotation: “Grceci
N literam jucundam in fine prcecipue quasi
tinnientem ponunt” ? —471.
The quotation is incomplete and should run:
Grceci N literam jucundam et in fine prcecipue
quasi tinnientem illius loco ponunt. Quintilian,
in his history of Greek and Roman literature,
is pointing out how the Greeks preferred the
letter “n” at the end of certain words, while
the Romans were inclined to soften and even
elide the corresponding concluding “m.” For
example, the word “sailor” (accus.)—Gk.
nauten, Lat. nautam. The translation runs
something like this: “The Greeks found the
letter ‘n’ pleasant and, as it were, ringing,
especially at the end, and they put it in that
place” (i.e., instead of “m”).
* * * *
Translation of the Latin phrase “Promiscuam
habere et vulgarem clementiam non decet; et
tarn ignoscere omnibus crudelitas est quam
nulli” ?— 658.
“It is not right to show promiscuous and
general clemency; and to forgive everyone is as
much cruelty as to forgive no one.”
# * * *
Did Snowy Sturgeon and George Johns ever
fight each other at the National Sporting Club,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney ? If so, in what
year, how long did their contest last, and what
was the result ?— 456.
They fought, not at the National Sporting
Club, but at the Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, late in 1901. Sturgeon under-
took to stop Johns in 10 rounds for £lOO aside,
but failed to do so, and Johns won on points.
Brief Answers.
J.D.: The line “Sound the loud timbrel o’er
Egypt’s dark sea” is the opening one of Thomas
Moore’s poem “Miriam’s Song” 8.G.G.M.:
An infant-in-law, that is, a person under 21,
may in certain cases void the contracts made
by him before attaining that age, but not con-
tracts for necessaries. If he contracts personally
for necessaries such as food and clothing, and
also, it may be, for books of an educational char-
acter, he is bound by his contract. Not so with
regard to luxuries, such as cigarettes. The
tradesmen may proceed against him in the Small
Debts Court with regard to the necessaries
J.C.: Fred Brown, 113 Pitt-street, Sydney
R. : The Aust. Broadcasting Commis-
sion states that as the experiment is not yet
complete it has not published any report. Sug-
gest you get into direct touch with the Com-
mission... .C.D.: Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney, could possibly procure
seed from South Australia for you at 3s. to
3s. 6d. per pound, carriage extra L.C.: Con-
sult any of the patent attorneys advertising in
the “Wild Cat” pages of The Bulletin
8.T.P.: Can trace no reference to the sup-
posed offer in any of the standard histories.
Write to the paper which printed the letter
asking that the writer produce authorities for
the statement R.W.: Know of no special
preparation which would be beneficial, and can
only suggest a periodical washing with warm
water A.R.: (1) If the car is used for private
purposes, cost of registration, driver’s license
and third-party insurance would not be allowed
as deductions for State income tax purposes.
(2) The statutory exemption of £l5O is allowed
to resident and absentee taxpayers, but not to
companies or any person domiciled in the
territory for the seat of government or in a
State of the Commonwealth other than Queens-
land, and is reduced by £1 for every £4 by
which the net income exceeds £250, disappearing
altogether at £B5O. The amount allowable is
calculated by dividing the amount by which the
net income exceeds £250 by four and deducting
the result from £150... .Wager: 1008 cub. yds.
S.B.: (1) If, as you say, “B converted the
land into a freehold,” then the trees upon it
became part of the freehold, and only he,
the freeholder, might cut them down or give
permission to others to do so. (2) As free-
holder of the land he might do so W.F.:
(1) The information is not readily ascertain-
able from statistical and like sources, but 136,922
centals, valued at £A64,883, were imported into
M.L. during the year ended June 30, 1937, from
Australia. (2) The great bulk of this was first-
grade wheat for gristing purposes. (3) Not
known. Exact information on all points could
be obtained on application to the Department
of Industries and Commerce, Wellington, M.L.
. ...J.8.8.: Both volumes obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 2s. 9d. each..
M. : Brushmakers usually import their
own fibre without the intervention of agents or
warehouses. Fibre suitable for manufacture
of scrubbing-brushes is produced in S.A. from
local grasses under the name of Darwin fibre.
S. L. Prince and Co. and the South Australian
Brush Co. of Adelaide are possible sources of
supply. In W.A. another local fibre called
Kingia is fairly extensively used, and the
source of supply is the West Australian Brush
Co., of East Fremantle D.E.L.: The cor-
rect time to ringbark coolabah trees is gener-
ally during May, this depending on the season,
which may make the more suitable period a
month either way. At this period the sap is
regarded as practically dormant. During the
spring or after good summer rains the sap is
most active and travelling at its highest rate.
L.M.: (1) 1822. (2) Yes—(o) Jane Jarvis,
( b ) Elizabeth Henrietta Campbell. (3) One
son, Lachlan. (4) This son did not have a
family, therefore there are no descendants in
Australia or elsewhere... .M.H.0.: Lottery
prize-money is exempt from both Federal and
N. State taxation F.W.R.G.: A comet
was visible during April and May, 1901. It
had two prominent tails and two fainter ones.
T.W.F.: Origin of superstition is lost in
the mists of time P.H.: Suggest that you
send the material to a literary agent such as
Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-street, Covent
Garden, London... .T.S.: Plant’s Japanese
Conversation Grammar, Rose-Innes’s Conver-
sational Japanese for Beginners, Chamberlain's
Moji-no-Shirube, and Isemonger’s Japanese
Written Language M.W.: “Set me as a seal
upon thine heart” will be found in Song of
Solomon, chap, viii, verse 6 N.J.L.: The prin-
cipal use of resin is as an ingredient in various
varnishes. Dissolved in alkali it is used in the
manufacture of some of the cheaper grades
of soap. It is also used as a caulking for
ships, for cement and as a flux in the soldering
of metals. In pharmacy it enters into many
ointments and plasters, particularly for veteri-
nary use. Soluble compounds are used for
sizing paper J.A.: Captain G. U. (“Scotty”)
Allen was born in Scotland GJ.T.: The
Fair Rents Act of 1920 (Q.) applies within
the localities appointed from time to time by
the Governor-in-Council. Apply to the Regis-
trar of the Fair Rents Court within the Petty
Sessions district where the dwelling is situated.
No costs are allowed in any proceeding under
the Act. See or write to the local Clerk of
Petty Sessions for forms, etc.... .J.M.: Any
person who carries on the business of dealing
in or buying or selling old wares of any
kind has to obtain a license. “Old wares"
includes bottles... .G.S.: The secretary,
Bribery and Secret Commissions Prevention
League, 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney
M.H.G.: In the circumstances described, as
the act was not one of malice, but done in
the effort to save the life of your own bull
against the attack of a trespassing opponent, it
would probably be held to be justifiable
D.V.: Write to the Under-Secretary, Works
and Local Government Department, Sydney,
stating the facts and asking for advice as to
the validity of the action of the council, and
the steps to be taken to secure the interests of
ratepayers J.W.W.: The fact of an error
having been made would not in itself invalidate
the will, but evidence of identity would have
to be produced when probate of the will is
applied for.


EXPLORERS OF AUSTRALIA
a
LE
l.
»r
\A
r
Leichhardt, a Prussian scientist, is remembered for his long journey in
1844-5 from Brisbane to Port Essington, an early settlement in the far
north of the Northern Territory. He proceeded up the Burdekin Valley,
crossed the Dividing Range, and discovered the Lynd and Mitchell
Rivers. Following the Mitchell until he found it taking him too far
north, he struck westward, reaching the shores of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria in July, 1845. From there he continued on to Port Essington,
which he reached five months later. He made the return journey by
sea.
In 1846-7 Leichhardt was forced by heat and drought to turn back
from an attempt to traverse Australia from east to west, but shortly
afterwards again set out on an overland journey to Perth. From this
expedition he did not return, and nothing is yet definitely known of his
fate.
The Bank of New South Wales, the pioneer bank in
Australia, acknowledges with gratitude the debt we owe
to Leichhardt and other great explorers.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
C ST.
inf
318. C. 1938
■7
JEW
! H ■
fi
w
V-1
tfS^
(P
A
SCP
jm
'ame is -
rjL /?<.
(TFGallums
‘~yiie(llhiskyis■
38—4
Distributors for the House of McCollum:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Lionel Samson & Son - -
Melbourne and Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co. Adelaide Macfarlane Bros. & Co. -
- Fremantle
- - - Hobart
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.C.: Try it elsewhere... .G.M.: Cut the last
paragraph and send it to a women's magazine.
S.B.: Off your beat, and ours J.K.E.:
Not here W.J.: No, it can’t happen here.
... .E.D.: Hackneyed.... A.V.H.: No berth
for the sailor A.W.R.: We shivered in sym-
pathy with the chap who, being chased from
the depths by a sea-serpent, felt its hot breath
on his back... .V.H.C.: Started “The Immov-
able Object” homeward... .L.M.: “He rushed
frenziedly into his bedroom, tore open the
drawers . . . rushed into the kitchen . . . tore
into the front room . . . rushed to the bath-
room”—it’s all too exciting D.E.: Beller-
drammer.... J.W.: Scarcely a smile E.M.H.:
Weak....J.E.: Ghost yarns need to be very,
very good M.X.: Noted that “it’s none too
’ealthy ter be wealthy”... .G.G.: The usual
“Rover” H.A.8.: It’s an anthology
Isobel: Slaughter the “dids” and try a
woman’s paper; the last sonnet should score.
A.W.R.: Muddled....E.R.M.: Try it on
the donk E.M.: Shaw Neilson* owns that
orange-tree... .D.8.0’C.: Spidery... .M.H.A.:
A prosy “Interlude”... .X.Y.Z.: It does
mooch on C.F.F.: Yes, “willing to com-
ment” ; but nothing to say to lines such as
“With the influence of color I am impressed.”
M.T.D.: Beware of faces that come “a-
haunting” R.W.S.: Sometimes it’s dramatic;
sometimes melodramatic... .R.A.8.: A pleas-
ing catalogue... .T.R.: Forced rhymes spoil
them 0.M.K.: Too young D.D.: Not a
bad picture... .F.F.R. and J.G.: Worn
wickets... .8.M.: Kids’ page of a daily....
H.C.8.: Brooding about it A.S.M.:
“Hungry” is nearest yet, but it’s labored....
M.L.: Try elsewhere....P.C.: It creaks
F.McC.: Sparring only 8.R.: An inter-
esting confession J.S.: It might go well with
the bagpipes, but it’s too bony for print
8.L.Q.: A good anthem for the Housewives’
Association....V.M.J.: Far from “twaddle”;
but Fardle’s not the only one who’d fuss over
it D.J.F.: Sprightly, anyhow....G.T.: It’s
all right, except that it’s said 50 times a day.
K.P.: “Sharp little song” sounds like a
lawnmower L.R.L.: Now it comes “Hippety-
Hoppety” back... .S.McT.: No bugs, please.
J.N.: We don’t republish H.G.: You
forgot the koala and poets up every gum-tree.
K.R.: Laid the corpse to rest R.C.8.:
More suitable for an English magazine
M. 1.: Not to our taste... .R.M.: That ground
has been worked too often by better writers.
E.M.F.: Might make a paragraph J.P.:
One of the oldest tricks in suicide stories
W.O’N.: Dead.,... R.H.: A muddled piece of
sentimentalism L.V.A.: Gavin Casey can
run rings around you in that particular field
8.L.L.: Twist at the end too frail... .E.W.:
Doesn’t come to life... .C.G.S.: Your lost city
will not appear on The Bulletin map....
U.C.C.: As old as Kosciusko E.W.: Weak-
ling C.W.8.: “Change and Decay”—a too-
obvious transition F.E.D.: Dreary....
F.D.R.: Escaped-monkeys yarn could have
been 10 times funnier... .D.H.C.: Idea there,
but tale is not as self-contained as it might
have been....J.N.H.: The old boy is making
another return journey P.Q.: Humor very
amateurish... .E.R.1.: Started off promisingly,
but ended tamely... .R.J.C.: Moralising palls.
J.M.R.: The surprise ending doesn’t come
off 0.H.: Worth trying elsewhere
J.D.0.N.: Absence of a plot killed its chances.
. ...A.F.: Has promise, but we prefer them
more direct 8.W.: Can’t get used to your
labored phraseology... .T.H.: Went well until
the last three pages K.L.S.: End wasn’t
worth drawn-out introduction.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G. 8.: Beaver! R.N.: Which is the light-
house and which the lighthouse-keeper?....
N.L.: Letting you off with a caution... .K.J.:
Gent, bulges in wrong places... .P.H.: It’s
a moth-eaten wheeze, and sketch' is
without merit T.S.: There’s a slickness
about that job, but the joke would
handicap any drawing P.R.J.: Ugly cross-
hatching spoils it R.K.A.: Croquet lawn
looks more like a battlefield, and the players
like street-sweepers G.G.: Jests covered
with cobwebs, and the sketch was born without
a chance in life A. 8.: Needs more action.
J.G.: We trained the office artillery on to
that boatload of pawnbrokers... .S.F.: The
couple on the tree-stump are very dull H.C.:
A collection of misplaced scratches... .N.8.A.:
The youngster shows promise; take him to an
art teacher T.M.: Cricket drawing bowled
out first ball M.G.: There’s not a kind word
to be said about any of them W.D.D.:
If you pose the figures better you should soon
see print K. 8.: Don’t draw from photo-
graphs S.W.: You can draw a face, but
the rest of the body has you baffled M.R.:
Caricatures need to be of persons of some im-
portance; also, you haven’t mastered the art.
F.H.T.: Work has improved a lot, but you
still have a long way to g0....D.D.: Don’t
overcrowd your sketches, and scrap nine-tenths
of the signposts... .F.C.: It haunted us for
nights.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
When Winston Churchill was denied
the opportunity of leading the Allies and
the Germans against the Russians, he
wrote a book on Marlborough. In that
he mentioned that Charles XII. of
Sweden sighed that his victories over
Muscovites could bring him no glory,
since it was so easy to beat them Mus-
covites don’t seem to have changed
much ; but Churchill changes all the time.
Now he seems willing to lead the Musco-
vites against the Germans, and he has
kindly invited 10 small nations to assist
by encircling Germany. Still remember-
ing 1916, when the Germans, while fight-
mg at Verdun and on the Somme and
completing their conquest of Russia,
assembled a few divisions which smashed
Rumania in two or three weeks, each of
the 10 small countries refuses to be the
mUg ' * * •< *
Maoriland Andicam * who as*a nilp
• M d Anglicans, who as a rule
import their bishops from Blighty,
made an exception in the case of the
muscular Christian who becomes Bishop
Gerard of Waiapu. G. V. Gerard
is Maoriland-born, though he graduated
at Oxford, where he acquired a rowing
cap. He fought through the Great War
as officer in an English regiment, earn-
ing the Military Cross. Returning to
M.L. he took up Rugby football, and
was soon in rep. teams—South Canter-
bury, Canterbury and South Island.
Back in England again he toured France
with a Blackheath team. He finally
settled down in his native land in 1930
as Vicar of Pahiatua, and in that year
played Rugby against the visiting English
team. s 38-—young foi a bishop.
*„. * * *
Esters : The U.S.A. Government has,
laid a ban on the word “Cognac” being
used to denote anything but French
brandy. That’s fair enough, for Cognac
is the name of a small district to the
north of the Gironde, and to give the
name to brandy distilled in other coun-
tries is an absurdity. Nevertheless, a
French Government report some years
ago stated that more brandy purporting
to be Cognac was sold in France alone
than the Cognac district was capable of
producing. * * +
“Bulldog Breed”: Last football season
The Bulletin commented on the fact
that a Georgian prince named Obolensky
or something like that had been given
an Oxford blue and an England cap for
Rugby, although the young gentleman
was no t a naturalised Briton. The royal
personage got another ad. recently when
an m.P. asked War Minister Hore-
Belisha how it was that Ob-etc. had re-
ceived a commission in the Royal Air
Force without the formality of being
as ked to go through the usual instruc-
tional course. Also, the stickybeak
wanted to know if Ob-etc. had yet been
naturalised. The Minister explained that
young gentleman had been given the
commission under a rule which makes
special appointments of the kind possible.
He was foggy about the naturalisation,
and promised to inquire. The appoint-
ment should come in handy any time
Ob-etc. feels like calling on fellow-
Georgian Stalin.
* * » t-l* i_ u *, ~
„ I T* a^ ur ro : * kod *he J 3
English Soccer clubs exercise over their
he J ots , 1S £ se L en J, n <™*eter Comptons
refusal of the Marylebone invitation to
tour Soath Af J? ca dun ?S . th , e cncke *
season there. Compton is tied up with
Arsenal, one of the wealthiest clubs in
England and one which can afford to
* ake . ? Sl g“t even at the mighty
Maryleboners. Arsenal declines to let its
m . imon ’ required for football, make the
tn P’ * „ * „
“Philabeg”: Barnett’s appearance in a
kilt when he rejoined his comrades after
a brief stay in Scotland reminds me that
this is not the first time our cricketers
have worn the garb of Old Gaul. Noble’s
team of 1909 was in Edinburgh when
Walter Bentley, who had been years in
Australia, asked them to give him a lift
by appearing as wild Hielanmen in “Rob
Roy,” which he was staging. This they
did, with the most beneficial effect on
the box-office.


What is a
■%
Good Investment?
TWO things, states the man of experience,
should be demanded of a good investment
•—"Undoubted security, combined with a reason-
able and assured regular return on capital
invested."
Wise investors, large or small, appreciate .that
these essentials apply to fixed deposits with the
Rural Bank.
It is simple and convenient to invest money on
fixed deposit with the Rural Bank in amounts
from £5 and upwards and thereby earn interest
at current banking rates.
All inquiries concerning fixed deposits or the
opening of cheque accounts are attended to
personally by experienced officers of the Bank.
RwuJOank
OF ♦ NEW *filTH ♦ WALE S
The Rural Bank is YOUR bank—
Serving you—Serving the State.
“AWfITEA”
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
mnm
mm
Wanted: an Australian History
BY E.H.M.
M R. DRUMMOND, the N.S.W.
Minister of Education, is con-
cerned about methods of teach-
ing history in Australia.
There is no uniform course in Aus-
tralian history. Education Departments
agree only in lending an undue impor-
tance to the story of European and
American development. Admittedly of
late years most of them have developed
a secondary, if somewhat sketchy, course
in Australian history, based on the “1066-
and-all-that” method, and on textbooks
framed on British models.
Not that it is easy to teach Australian
history. Early historians were influenced
by the fact that there were so many
family corns to be trodden on. When
they wrote even the most remote events
in the development of constitutional gov-
ernment were subject to party feeling.
At the end of the Great War there
were still living men who had known
Anthony Fenn Kemp, military leader of
the Trial Court which sat in 1808 on
the day preceding the Bligh rebellion.
Some of the figures of the Macquarie
era were familiar to Australians still
among us. A son of the Lockyer who
established the first settlement in West-
ralia died only four years ago. Thou-
sands still live who knew the leader of
the first expedition to cross the Northern
Territory—A. C. Gregory died as late
as 1904.
Because the present is so intimately
related to the past, it has been difficult
to secure a proper perspective and full
frankness; but this association has also
an advantage. For Australia is the only
country which had its beginnings in an
almost fully literate and organised age.
From the origins of recorded settlement
no land on earth has been so rich in
the material of accurate description of
progress.
It is unfortunate, however, that, except
for some desultory efforts by Govern-
ments to collect dispatches and private
papers and to illustrate developments of
a few phases of Australian, freedom, the
bulk of basic Australian history remains
unprinted.
The Mitchell Library in Sydney and
the National Library at Canberra are
rich stores. But delving in them is like
groping in a vast darkness full of sad
disillusion about the impartiality of his-
torians. Indexing has not kept pace
with the flow of original manuscripts.
Research has, until lately, been imper-
fect because of the new light shed on
incidents and policies through the acqui-
sition of fresh documents, such as
Bourke’s papers. That goldmine has
provided historians with an intimate
picture of Sydney as it was when the
first Governor to acquire a statue reigned.
But the mass of detail is already great
enough to call for thorough collating and
systematising.
We know who were in the first ships.
Of those who were convicts we know
their crimes, which often were not
crimes at all. The story of Australia in
the Napoleonic period and immediately
afterwards is illuminated by such inci-
dents as that of the naval craft, well
equipped for the time, commanded by
the man who flew Nelson’s “England
Expects” signal at Trafalgar, and carry-
ing a Lieutenant-Governor, which ran so
short of fuel that passengers’ trunks had
to be commandeered to cook the meals.
On every phase of town life we have
masses of documents. Almost every
pastoral pioneer—Macarthur, the Blax-
lands, the Wentworths, Coxes, Lowes —
have set down evidence of the condition
of the country, the measures taken to
promote pasture improvement, plants
and grasses imported, the first coming
of a purebred bull, the earliest
Australian plough. We have a full set
of opinions and a full story of the first
efforts to build a wool industry. It is
possible in the pages of neatly-written
private letters to hear the words of praise
of Macarthur and others, including all
the medical men in his day, of the sturdy,
sober first generation of Australian
youngsters, whose energy, steadiness and
intelligence astonished those who saw
them.
Nowhere in any history-book does it
seem to be recorded that the majority
of the first settlers on grants outside the
County of Cumberland when the
Bathurst Plains were opened were Aus-
tralian-born. Nowhere are the facts
satisfactorily collated in print that sons
of John Macarthur, the prideful hater of
everything convict and everything which
tended towards self-government, acted
as the commissioners to bring into exist-
ence the N. S. Wales and Victorian Par-
liaments, in which sons of convicts sat
in high places. In N. S. Wales one of
“ Don't move , lady!”
the first Ministers was the son of a
transported man whom Macarthur had
sought to have sentenced to further
punishment. And the second Premier,
Cowper, a child of the rectory, was a
protege of Macquarie, who hated democ-
racy as “infernal.”
Such facts, collected on a scientific
plan, would bring to Australians an un-
derstanding of the class-welding and
-healing processes which operated in the
first few years of Australian settlement.
If the materials for history were made
available to students and writers the
story of the transformation of a starving
settlement, in so desperate a situation in
1806 that John Macarthur could say
that “its existence as a colony was threat-
ened,” into a rich country, able, during
the Great War, to send abroad an army
equal in numbers to 40 times the whole
population at the time of the famine,
would no longer present strange and
perplexing gaps.
Mr. Drummond is not concerned so
much with Australian history. What
he does desire is to “sub-edit and broaden
history textbooks” in general so as to
“bring nearer the reign of the Golden
Rule or, if you will, international peace.”
It cannot be said that Australian authori-
ties on history have done much towards
that end. Indeed, one of the moderns
whose books are used as standards has
become less conspicuous as a sober his-
torian than as a newspaper writer with
a strong political bias against certain
foreign Governments.
Only one piece of Australian history
has been written fully and meticulously.
For some reason or other the story of
the Anzacs has been kept out of school
textbooks, but it can’t be kept out for
all time. When an abridged history of
the A.I.F. is taught in schools it will have
more effect in moulding Australian char-
acter and national pride and confidence
than all the hackneyed dates and scraps
of Roman and early English history that
have been drummed into Australian
heads in the last century.
Now that most of the texts are avail-
able for collation, it would be a sound
idea for the Commonwealth to extend
the work done on the war to the rest
of Australian history. Such a job would
lay a lot of historic ghosts and destroy
a lot of fiction which is at present taught
as history. It would make Australia,
the one continent whose history is
known, the one continent with a con-
secutive record of it. Such a work would
be of immense value in developing a
sound national outlook.


PENSIONED OFF A FIT
MAN
Rigours of Police Life Did Not
Harm Him.
At 50 years of age he was presumed to be
beyond the arduous demands of police duties.
But was he? Read what he says now—five years
after he was pensioned:—
“I am a man of 55 years. It is now five
years since I was pensioned off from the
Police. I went through thick and thin, day and
night in all weathers, while I was in the Force,
and am to-day as fit as any man still serving
in the Force. People often ask me ‘Why are
you remaining so young?’ and my answer is
‘Kruschen Salts.’ I have used Kruschen now
for the last 13 years, and I will certainly use
these Salts until I am leaving this world.” —
W.J.
The six salts in Kruschen provide just that
gentle daily aid your internal organs require
to enable them to perform their work properly.
These vital salts keep your liver and kidneys
in a top-notch of efficiency, so that they free
your system of all poisonous waste matter and,
consequently, cleanse and refresh your blood.
The result is a feeling of youthful health and
vigour—“that Kruschen feeling!”
m
THE
No. 162
"TUMBA"
STOCK
DROVER
SADDLE
£9/10/-
(Mounted).
The flaps are sewn
direct to the seat,
giving a narrow grip,
and are of kip leather. The pads are
high.
N.S.W. rail freight on saddles paid for
cash with order.
WALTHER * STEVENSON
39S CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
PTY.
LTD.
m
&
■
:S:sx
i m \
1
%
The Gillette Razor
is very good.
The Gillette Blade
is very good.
Use them together
—and they’re
perfect
As a key fits its particular lock, or as a piston pre-
cisely fits the cylinder for which it was made —so
the Gillette blade fits the Gillette razor. These two
are made for one another side by side in the same
great Gillette factory. The same strict supervision
ensures the accuracy of each. That is why razor
and blade, used together, form the finest shaving
system the world has seen.
OF ALL DEALERS
MADE IN ENGLAND
,LUE GILLETTES : ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED BLADES 1/6 FOR S'
THE HUNTER AND THE
SOPHIA JANE
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
THE recent sale to Chinese ship-
owners of the steamer Hunter —built
about 30 years ago for the Sydney-
Newcastle-Morpeth passenger and
cargo trade —recalls the facts that the
Newcastle and Hunter River Co.’§ run is
the. oldest sea-route in Australasia to be
served by steam and that the company’s
fleet are lineal descendants of the Sophia
Jane, the little steam-packet that inaugu-
rated the service in 1831.
Yes, that sixty miles of sea-way
between the North Head and the mouth
"Leave ’er at that, ’Arry. Thai's just nice an cool!”
of the Hunter River is very historic. For
15 years, between Phillip’s arrival in 1788
and Collins’s settlement on the Derwent
in 1803, it carried all the local sea-trade
Australia had.
In those years, with the exception
of spasmodic whaling and sealing ven-
tures, the Hawkesbury and Hunter ship-
ping was the only regular domestic
maritime interest in these parts. Imme-
diately before the coming of steam, pas-
sengers and cargo were carried between
Sydney and Newcastle in a sailing cutter,
the Lord Liverpool, which sometimes
took two or three days to make the
voyage, but the new steamer ended that
sort of thing. A list of vessels runs down
the century and connects the present ser-
vice, through several proprietaries, with
the little pioneer packet.
The Sophia Jane was built in 1826,
and had been used principally in the cross-
Channel trade before coming here. She
had a flush deck 126 ft. long, a breadth
of 20ft., was paddle-driven by a 50-h.p.
engine, and her burthen was 256 tons.
There was a “gentleman’s cabin” with
16 berths, and one for ladies with 11,
besides accommodation for 20 passen-
gers in the steerage. Her value in 1831
is recorded as being £7500. It is prob-
able that she was one of the fastest
steamers of her day, since she was able
to do the 60 miles between Port Jackson
and the Hunter in 7 2-3 hours. The
maximum speed of ocean-going steamers
in 1840 was only knots.
On a trial trip the Sophia Jane steamed
from the Heads to Fort Macquarie, five
miles, in 35 minutes 42 seconds. On
her first voyage to Newcastle she
left Sydney at 7.13 a.m. and arrived
at 3.13 p.m., but had been detained
by towing another ship to sea. She
occupied 3| hours in the run of about
26 miles up the river to the Green Hills
(Morpeth), and came down next day in
three hours. The voyage back to Syd-
ney took seven hours and 40 minutes.
This rate of speed was kept up for many
years, and she continued to trade on the*
coast until 1846, when she was broken
up and her engines transferred to the
newly-built Phoenix. Her successor was
wrecked on the north head of the
Clarence River in 1850. The engines of
the pioneer steamer in Australian waters
are still covered by the sands where the
Phoenix came to grief, and were visible
for a while about 40 years ago, after a
heavy storm. Should it ever be desired
to salvage them as relics of Australia’s
maritime beginnings in steam, there
wouldn’t be much difficulty in digging
them out of the beach, but maybe they
are best left in their grave.
“Rachel”: The pipeline frequently in
the Palestine news as being attacked and
broken (B. 20/7/’3B) is not that of the
Anglo-Iranian Co. It runs from the oil-
field at Kirkuk in northern Iraq and
belongs to the Iraq Petroleum Co. It
was completed only four years ago. Near
the Iraq border the single cross-desert
line bifurcates, one branch going through
Syria to the French port of Tripoli, and
the other branch through Transjordania
and Palestine to Haifa. Through this
line Iraq oil travels 700 miles from the
wells to points of debouchment on the
Mediterranean. The Anglo-Iranian Co.
has a 120-mile pipeline from its major
field at Masjid-i-Suilaiman to the co.’s
refinery at Abadan, situated at the top
of the Persian Gulf. This line was laid
in pre-war days, and one of the objec-
tives of the original Mesopotamian Ex-
peditionary Force dispatched from India
to Basra was “the protection of the oil
works and pipelines in Persia.”
* * * *
“Shiny Night”: A Sydney paper tells
how “an arrival from England” attempted
the “hopeless task” of catching a hare
in the open with his hands. When I was
a lad in Eastern Yorkshire apprentices
to the poaching profession did this as a
matter of course. “Wires” could not be
always laid, and, if they were, were prob-
ably watched. Strolling along a right-of-
way over the fields the expert spotted a
hare in her “form.” If no one was
about he circled slowly round and round
her, reducing the circumference of each
circle; then, with a sweep of the arm,
puss was grabbed across the loins and
transferred to the huge tail pockets of
his coat, with a broken neck.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
The First Prize of £3/3/- offered for the first of The Other Fellow’s Mind
Competitions goes to Charters Towers for the contribution printed first.
The winner, a limbless soldier, will also be paid at fair trade-union —i.e.,
Australian Journalists’ Association—rates, and so will every other contributor whose
matter appears on this page.
The competitions will run for six months. Every week there will be a first prize
of £3/3/-, in addition to A.J.A. rates —paid also to all competitors whose paragraphs
appear—and every three months there will be an additional prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
Only persons permanently employed by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. are
ineligible; and this will be taken to include members of their families presumably
dependent upon them.
The Editor will be the sole and final judge. These are the only hard-and-fast
rules.
It is possible that the awards of quarterly prizes will not be made to winners of
weekly prizes. In such matters a wide discretion will be exercised.
This applies also to the choice of matter which will appear on this page every
week. There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted for the first week may be carried
over.
This has actually been done, the paragraphs selected for printing this week having
greatly exceeded the compass of the page.
The writers of the held-over matter will have other opportunities of winning;
indeed, it will be possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize—or at least be paid at A.J.A. rates
—next month or even subsequently.
“The Bulletin” is gratified at the very fine response it has already received,
and is grateful for the appreciative letters that advance notices of The Other Fellow’s
Mind, Short Story and Limerick Competitions have evoked. It is not a matter of
philanthropy; “The Bulletin” wants to develop writers by giving them the feeling
that, if they satisfy requirements, writing is worth their while.
“The Bulletin” has to compete with concerns which, although well able to
encourage Australian and Maoriland writers, prefer syndicated stuff, which can be
got cheap. “The Bulletin” is not going to publish syndicated stuff, but it wants more
and better Australian and Maoriland writers to demonstrate to the public that the
vogue of syndicated stuff, menacing as it is to native literature, is not justified.
Now, as in J. F. Archibald’s time, “The Bulletin” aims at having a chicken
in the pot for the Australian and Maoriland writer.
It is hoped that young men will take an interest in these competitions. As an
additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff cadetship as a
prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. But it must be understood that this
is conditional, whereas the weekly and quarterly prizes and the undertaking of
payment for every line printed are in the nature of express and binding contracts.
Everything submitted as a competition piece will be subject to the sub-editor’s
blue pencil; but “The Bulletin” doesn’t want to “sub.” heavily. Make the stuff as
pithy as you can; “boil it down until it simmers.” Five hundred words is a fair
limit. The office would prefer less and doesn’t want more.
Naturally, names of prize-winners must be given. If no pen-name appears on the
MS. it will be taken for granted that the writer has no objection to disclosure of
authorship. But pen-names will be printed if sent.
Train the “Unemployable”
The Queensland Government is
taking a census of the unemployed with
a view to ascertaining their capabilities
and possibilities as wage-earners.
Could not this be extended to those
classed as “unemployable” and receiv-
ing pensions?
Many alleged “unemployables
would be able to earn a livelihood if
trained. As one who was totally and
permanently incapacitated, I write from
experience.
Hundreds of Diggers were trained
for callings they otherwise would not
bave been able to fill because of war
disabilities or previous lack of educa-
tion, and to-day we find many limbless
soldiers who had had no clerical ex-
perience in pre-war , days holding
responsible positions in the public ser-
vices of States and Commonwealth.
A man in his late twenties was
granted a full course of instruction in
bookkeeping and commercial subjects
at a Queensland Technical College. One
of the “physically unemployable,” he has
been granted an invalid pension for the
period of the course, and he is hopeful
that when he shall have qualified he
will be able to get a job and so win
back his dignity—the dignity of personal
independence due to being able to earn
his own living. Already an improve-
ment is evident in his physical condi-
tion, and his outlook is cheery.
Days are very long for those who
have nothing but their thoughts to
occupy their minds. Again I write
from experience. But I have found
useful work to do, work for others as
well as for myself, and when one is
totally and permanently incapacitated
there is a great deal of satisfaction in
being able to do something useful for
others. —ASQ.
“ASQ” is Mr. W. J. Byrne, of
Moree, Ann-street, Charters Towers,
N.Q.
Mr. Byrne gets a “Bulletin” cheque for
£3 13s. 3d., and has a chance of winning
one of the quarterly prizes of £lO.
Wool v. Fibre
Long screeds advise woolgrowers to get
together in an effort to force up wool
prices against a ring of unwilling buyers.
This is not the way to solve our wool
problem. By bringing down the cost of
production we may put the wool industry
on a more solid basis, but forcing up
prices would be suicide.
The grower has to get a reasonable
return for his efforts, but there are other
ways. An organisation to seek out new
markets, to consolidate gains already-
won, and to make the whole world “wool
conscious” has done a lot to help the
industry, and can do much more than the
bleating of a few hotheads who see an
“easy” way to wealth.
The forcing up of prices to overseas
buyers would be playing right into the
hands of the other woolgrowing coun-
tries, and also the staple-fibre manufac-
turers.
Germany, for instance, has a staple
fibre that can be creased about 10,000
times before it disintegrates and, when
mixed with about 70 p.c. of wool, makes
an excellent material. The cloth is not
up to the standard of the pure woollen
article, but when the cost at mills, plus
the bounty allowed by the Government,
is taken into consideration, that cloth is
an attractive proposition for the buyer,
in the country of its origin at least. And
every pound of staple fibre used is a
direct blow at the wool industry of Aus-
tralia.
But keep artificial prices out, and we
will keep artificial fibres in their place.—
O. T. Witts (N.S.W.).
More Scandinavians, Please!
Why not encourage more Scandi-
navians to come here?
The Scandinavian contribution to the
A.I.F. was at least one thousand, approxi-
mately 6 p.c. of all Danes, Norwegians
and Swedes in Australia. Fifty-two mem-
bers of the Danish Club in Melbourne
joined the A.1.F., and 37 of them were
natives of Denmark. One Dane in Mel-
bourne had five sons and a grandson
serving in Gallipoli and France, three of
whom were killed. Two Danes won the
V.C., Corporal Jensen in France, and
Oluf Andersen, after the Armistice, in
Archangel.
There are about 5000 native-born Aus-
tralians whose parents were both Scan-
dinavians, About 40,000 Australians had
a Scandinavian father, and 6000 Austra-
lians had a Scandinavian mother. Of
well-known Australians who, on their
father’s side, were of Scandinavian origin
we have had Henry Lawson, Oscar
Asche, Adrian Knox and Charles Rosen-
thal. We could do with more of them.—
Visigoth (N.S.W.).
Prosperity Loading Hits the Farmer
While prices of wool and wheat are
slipping back, costs of production are
steadily mounting. Prices of shearing and
agricultural machinery rose in sympathy
with the increase in iron and steel. Then
Mr. Reddaway’s prosperity wage-
increase— to “damp down a boom” —
was the reason given for a further rise.
It also gave bureaucrats an excuse to in-
crease rail freights.
Now woolbrokers, “on account of in-
creased wages,” are putting up ware-
house charges 15 per cent. Indirectly,
wool- and wheatgrowers pay prosperity
wages out of depression incomes. Many
growers have endured a long period of
drought intensified by invasions of
’hoppers whenever a stray fall of rain
brought up some green feed. Farmers
and their employees stint themselves so
that others may enjoy prosperity wages.
Secondary industries and distributing
services have passed on the “prosperity”
increase and, therefore, have not felt the
impost badly. But farmers and wool-
growers are like a mob of drought-
stricken stock. Some are strong enough,
'but many are weak and groggy and
haven’t much left for the crows to pick.
Our economic barometer rises and
falls with the price of wool and wheat
—our two chief export commodities —
and unless production and distribution
costs are reduced so as to give growers
sufficient profit to purchase new materials,
a recession in secondary industries is in-
evitable. Should this occur, the pro-
sperity loading will go by the board —
and more with it. One Who Pays
(N.S.W.).
The National Insurance Scheme
One of the more flagrant injustices
of the National Health and Pensions
Bill is the principle of no sur-
render value for the contributions of
those who pass out of its scope. Those
office workers whose salaries increase
with their years of employment stand
to lose when their salaries reach £365
per annum such of their contributions as
have not been redeemed as sickness
benefits. For instance, bank clerks (of
whom about 10,000 are affected) pass
out of the scheme at about 32 years of
age. Unless they are prepared to pay
their employers’ as well as their own
shares of the contributions for another
30-odd years (until they reach 65), they
can kiss their money good-bye.
Moreover, many firms have provident
funds which provide much more sub-
stantial pensions than those available
under the national scheme, while the
banks at any rate are very generous in
regard to sick pay. Office workers are
a pretty healthy crowd, anyhow, and
accidents among them are rare. —A. J.
Wyndham (N.S.W.).
As the first storm of National Insur-
ance opposition subsides into more
rational criticism of the proposals, one
of the most serious defects, to my mind,
is the disability imposed upon women
who lose their equity on marriage. Mar-
ried women are not covered by their
husbands’ contributions under the Act,
and many families where the husband
is contributing will find it hard, if not
impossible, to continue the wife’s con-
tributions, which have to be either
doubled or dropped. A woman’s con-
tributions of five or 10 years may be
thus lost upon marriage, with a con-
sequent considerable benefit to the fund.
Why not use this money to make
available a maternity allowance to all
previously insured wives of insured hus-
bands? If the statists fear too big a hole
in their funds, what about a sliding
scale, increasing with each child? The
children would be cheap at any cost.—
Kyamba (S.A.).
“Dago” Must Go
It’s time Australians eliminated “dago”
from their vocabulary.
It’s a dirty name. The Italian is a worker
and a settler. Ingham (Q.), for instance,
proves that; and the apprehension that
he will create isolated communities of
foreign interest and sentiment is yet with-
out substance. Certainly a name from
which he recoils does .not encourage him
to meet us in commercial or social inter-
course without bias. Even foreigner
is treated with suspicion by Scandinavian,
Teuton or Latin, lest it be a name, not
a word. — Stephen H. Nicol (N.Q.).
An Empire Parliament?
Why not? In time or accessibility
the capital cities of the Empire are not
as distant from a centre or from each
other as were the parts of Australia at
the time of Federation. And few will
gainsay the advantages of Federation.
Present Governments might still
function for minor administrative pro-
cesses. The members of an Empire Par-
liament could easily maintain contact
with their constituents; a few days’
travel would place them in any part of
their electorates. A Government backed
by the united resources of the Empire
could dispense with much of the secrecy
and underhand intrigues necessary to
present politics, and by openness and
honesty gain the confidence of the rest
of the world. It’s a short step from such
a Parliament to a World Federation along
similar lines. — Salmon Gums (W.A.).
Tree Destruction
Victoria is the greatest of the ash-
growing States. Sawmillers declare that
for every tree felled another is planted.
That is not so. I have been through all
the big timber country. The forests are
wrecked in many places. Enormous logs,
found to be defective, are rotting on the
ground, and standing trees are smashed
and torn of their limbs. An ash of
200 ft. or more will destroy as many as
20 other trees in falling.
Ash requires from 50 to 100 years to
grow to useful proportions. What in-
terest has a sawmiller in posterity? Why
are there no young trees now growing
on the old sawmill grounds? I have
seen thousands of acres of bare hills in
Alexandra, Mansfield, Yea, along the
ranges from the Blacks’ Spur, up on
the Otways and patches down even in
the Acheron Pass. Enough evidence,
surely, to prove that tree for tree is not
given back to the earth..
Victoria, a small State, is a small
offender. What of N. S. Wales, Queens-
land, Westralia? Drive from Sydney to
Brisbane and look for two or three days
upon the appalling vista of dead forests.
Go anywhere along the roads of the
three States of tremendous territories and
you will see how Nature has been robbed
by axe and saw.
Along the Great Ocean Road (Vic.),
from Torquay to Portland and on to
Murray Bridge, there are uncultivated
vast areas without a single tree. From
Port Fairy I have frozen on a 45-mile
drive where no growth at all remains
on the denuded forest to break the biting
wind. The most pathetic sight is the
attempt to reforest —a few areas of pines.
Not in any State have I ever seen hard-
wood reforested. — Traveller (Vic.)
“Kill Something!”
There are still gangsters who think it
is sport to wantonly destroy our bush
birds and animals; they are usually raw
city youths who ought to have been
taught better in the kindergarten. In
second-hand cars, armed with second-
hand guns, they make long-distance
week-epd trips into parts where our wild
life has been pushed by civilisation. Then
comes destruction of which no black
man would be guilty, and which future
generations will rue. —T. M. C. (Tas.).
YOU, Too!
These war scares, these armament
races, these “incidents” —aren’t we all
responsible? Don’t get indignant and
stutter about isolation, effete Europe,
the capitalist system and the other
alibis. Give some thought as to
whether world conditions are not the
mass effect of universal individual dis-
ease. If you can afford it, take a trip
and visit the Spaniard, Italian, German,
Frenchman or Jap on his home ground.
Have a meal with him, pass the salt, roll
your own and yarn (if you can talk his
language) while the missus washes up.
It turns out that he is just an ordinary
average bloke like yourself, wondering
what job he can put his boy to, inter-
ested in anything to keep the slugs off
his annuals, hoping to sneak away for
a day’s fishing next time the wife goes
to visit her mother.
Perhaps you are a “sport.” Do you
want to win your bet at all costs by in-
formation on the “crookies”? Do you
laugh when the danger to your fancy-is
bumped on the rails? Are you one of
the Stadium mob which howls with de-
light when some wrestler invents a new
way of cheating, biting or gouging? Do
you applaud the foul punch which dis-
ables the star player against your team?
Are you greedy to win everything, all
the time?
Think it over, brother. Wouldn’t a
little more fair dealing all round, at
home and abroad, improve things?—
V. C. (Vic.).


m
'f't'
M! i
»
j?!k)
; f':
m
'iS
sc
o
;:-n
s*
Os -
V
% FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious.
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties/’ and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They are made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or*
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs, and assist your system in getting back to ncmal.
Dr.MORSES
'!.• i ' "v:^
A\AD£ IN AUSTRALIA
PILLS
For Simple Constipation and Attendant Ills .
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried Mirpil rubbed well into the
skin, repeating the operation two or
three times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, After Shaving, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Try rubbing on soles of sore, tired
feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 11/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
dsf
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(i Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“ZOO PEOPLE”
TWENTY-FOUR DELIGHTFUL PAGES
The full-page studies of the Kangaroo and
the fascinating Koala are two outstand-
ing pictures in this collection of
animal and bird studies beauti-
fully printed in sepia-tone.
Price 1/6
(Postage 2d. extra)
ObtainabL
only
from
(ft
o°'
/
*y.jp j'
./ A\e
S ‘
0 11
\$ $
.•* . • ■
.•** t </se< y*
’ \° •V^S'ry
•*' c^;V>wv


YOU CAN NOW AFFORD
TO HAVE A HIGH QUALITY REFRIGERATOR
IN YOUR HOME
-
■■
■ ?: » .
jlfci
.
PRESTCOLD REFRIGERATORS
The Products of Years of Research
Week by week, month by month, year by year, highly-
skilled research engineers, chemists, metallurgists and
electrical engineers have been experimenting in the exten-
sively equipped Pressed Steel Company’s Laboratories at
Cowley, Oxford. And after years of patient research
work they are satisfied that the new range of gleaming
white, modernly streamlined, silent and economical Prest-
cold Refrigerators for 1938 are as near perfection as it
is humanly possible to attain.
Yet , in spite of the high standard in design and construc-
tion, every Prestcold model gives more storage space per
£l of its initial cost than any other refrigerator made.
Equipped with every modern device with which a
refrigerator can be genuinely improved, Prestcold
Refrigerators also give more space for less money, r Every
model is fully guaranteed,' and easy terms are available
on all models.
MODEL 371.
MODEL 46j1.
MODEL 681.
MODEL 911.
Capacity 3.5 cub. ft. .. £57/10/-
„ 4.5 „ „ .. 66/10/-
„ 6.7 „ „ .. 89/10/-
» 9 110/10/-
HOUSEHOLD
REFRIGERATION IS NO
LONGER A LUXURY
You can now afford to have a high
quality Refrigerator in your home.
Household refrigeration is no longer a
luxury, but an inexpensive and
modern household necessity.
Prestcold and Moffat Electric Re-
frigerators offer value for money un-
precedented in the Refrigerator world.
Prepare for the long hot summer
months now! Just think what a
Refrigerator will do for you! No
more oily butter, no spoilt milk, meat
or other foodstuffs, no annoying
dripping old-fashioned ice chest.
Instead, crisp, cool, summer dishes;
ice-blocks galore, cool drinks for the
whole family. Food stuffs kept per-
fectly for as long as you wish!
All this can be yours this summer, and
the cost of operation of these modern
refrigerators is only a fraction of your
present ice bill; in fact, you will pay
the running expenses from your sav-
ings in your food bill.
Study the following Prestcold and
Moffat ranges! There is one to suit
your requirements. Make up your
mind now to invest in one of these
beautiful, streamlined Refrigerators!
EASY TERMS ARE
AVAILABLE.
m
MOFFAT REFRIGERATORS
Thousands of Moffat Electric Refrigerators are giving
dependable, uninterrupted service all over the world.
The compressor unit, condenser and evaporator are all
built to Moffat’s own specifications, and satisfactory
operation is positively assured.
When you buy a Moffat you are selecting a home re-
frigeration unit designed and manufactured by an
organisation of wide experience and unquestioned
integrity. Famous the world over, Moffat Refrigerators
are the choice of fine hollies everywhere.
They offer you a wonderful array of modern Refrigera-
tors, including the new horizontal Speed-o-rator freez <-
ing unit. Tills unit is fast, and is controlled by a
thermostat offering every required freezing speed. You
may make frozen desserts and freeze them in the very
dishes in which they are to be served because the
dessert and ice cube trays may be removed, leaving
ample space for your compote dishes,
Moffat Refrigerators accommodate a surprising amount
of food. Such features as the swinging basket shelf,
door rack and others all contribute to larger capacity.
The following models are all fully guaranteed:—
m >
&
Weldon
Radio Clock.
(Patent appl. in all principal countries.)
DO YOU WANT A RADIO?
DO YOU WANT A
SMART NEW CLOCK?
Of course you do! Did you know
that you can purchase both for the
price of one?
It is true! The Weldon Radio Clock is
a combined 5-valve Superliet. Radio
iieceiver and Mantel Clock, and the list
price tor the Broadcast Model is only
17 guineas.
The Radio Set gives excellent perform-
ance, beautiful tone, etc., and the Clock
is an equally reliable 8-day timepiece,
it is housed in an exceptionally hand-
some mantel cabinet which will enhance
any home. Crandfather clock models
are also available.
MODEL 2/38A, Broadcast Model, 240 v. A.C. operation 17 Guineas
MODEL 2/38D, Dual-wave Model, 240 v. A.C. operation 20 Guineas
MODEL 2/38V, Vibrator Model, 6v. accumulator operation .... 25 Guineas
MODEL 2/38G, Broadcast Grandfather, 240 v. A.C. operation .... 25 Guineas
MODEL 2/38DG, Dual-wave Grandfather, 240 v. A.C. operation. ... 28 Guineas
MODEL 2/38VG, Vibrator Grandfather, 6v. accumulator operation 31 Guineas
(Vibrator Models are for Broadcast Reception .)
Do not fail to inspect the Weldon Radio Clock at your earliest opportunity! Easy terms available.
WELDON RADIO CLOCK DISTRIBUTORS!
N.S.W.: BEOCH & GERBER, LIMITED.
VICTORIA: WM. L. BUCKLAND PTY., LTD., 239-241 Franklin Street, MELBOURNE.
TASMANIA: WM. L. BUCKLAND PTY., LTD., HOBART AND LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND: RADIO & TELEVISION PTY., LTD., Perry House, Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE.
WEST AUST.: W. J. LUCAS, LTD., 543-545 and 601 Hay Street, PERTH.
BLOCH & GERBER LTD.
With which is associated the WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
40-48 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: MA6291 (9 lines) P.O. Box 2282 M, G.P.0.. Sydney
